
Crawford proposes volunteer army 
House committees are consid-during a war.
by Cliff Wintrode 
"To train a man to kill during 
Observer Associate Editor ering changes in the selective peacetime is forcing him to
Jack Crawford, chairman of service system. 
adapt to a mode of action tothe Indiana Youth Advisory The state advisory committees which he morally disagrees forCommittee to the Selective were formed last year upon no worthwhile purpose.
Service System, announced that request by President Nixon to his committee has presented a study the draft and to give col­"During wartime, you are still 
training a to
proposal for a volunteer army to lege students a chance to express man perform an 
action which is contrary to histhe Director of the St'lective their opinions on the selective personal morality, but aware ofService System. service system: the most
lie also warned that the pre­With the exception of facts of wartime men 
will accomodate their moralitysent lottery system is "ineffic­Congressman Bray of Indiana, to the accomodation of theirient and unworkable," due to no official of the Nixon country.
the lack of coordination be­A d m i n is t r a t i o n or member "One of the obligations of
tween the federal government of the Senate and II0use living in the country is that ofand the states concerning the committees had replied to the defending the other people in
number of eligible draftees. proposal reported Crawford. He the country. It is an essential
Under the proposed volunteer said he expects Senator Kennedy obligation.
army system, an act of Congress to acknowledge the volunteer "In wartime, you are notdeclaring a situation of "national army proposal. 
The advisory committee merely responsible for your ownemergency" would be necessary advocated a volunteer army safety and well being. You have
to reinstate I hl' draft. If such an act was passed, the present sys­because it felt that any system a responsibility to the people tem would he in effect except of peacet irne conscription is around you," said Crawford. for two modifications. "basically unfair." Their report He added that in times of war, The system of random selec­stated that it is "morally the question of morality is declining to draft and to teach resolved into a conflict over the
tion of draft numbers by birth 
dates would be coordinated on a men to kill during peacetime primacy of either personal national level and the local when there is not reason for morality or the morality of the hoards would continue to handle such training." state. appeals, classifications, etc. The committee differentiated "There are times when you 
The advisory committee's between drafting and teaching have to adjust individual report was also sent to the other men to kill during peacetime and morality to responsibilities state advisory committees and to doing the same thing during toward others," he said. He 
members of the Senate and 
wartime. Crawford said the added that there are times when House Armed Services Commit­difference in feeling was due to tees. Presently these Senate and the emergency a country faces continued on page 6 
Dr. WiII is Nutting: critic and friend of the student 
movement to nave him named Of Notre Dame today and its by Rick Smith successor to President Hesburgh. goals, he says, "It would be dis­Dr. Nutting receive his under­astrous for Notre Dame to try to
After beeing "conspicuously graduate degree from the Univer­copy the other universities. It isoverlooked" in a recent report sity of Iowa. After further matri­very serious for us now to try toon possible successors to Univer­culation as a Rhodes Scholar at be a great University, becausesity President Theodore M. l-Ies­Ox ford University, he was or­we're just getting there when allburgh, according to his backers dained as a minister of the Angli­the great Universities are in trou­Dr. WillisD. Nutting, Associate can Church. ble. It is not so pretty since it is Professor Emeritus, in the Gen­As a minister, Reverend Nut­so impersonal with its big com­eral Program, has suddenly been 
ting served in the West Indies,
thrust into the limelight by a puters, for the individual student
but had to leave due to poor 
and teacher."
student-initialed and student-run 
health. He returned to Iowa and 
Concerning the present stu­
earned his doctorate in philoso­
dent activism and protest, Dr.
phy. In the meantime, he had 
Nutting again stands apart from
been converted to Catholicism 
many of his fellow professors.
and came to Notre Dame in 
He makes no secret of the fact 
1936. 
that he is a friend of the dissent­
After thirty-five years of 
er and reformer. He has said that 
teaching here, Dr. Nutting has 
he is glad to see that the 1970 
many very strong and unique 
Notre Dame student has arrived 
ideas about the University com­
at what he considers meaningfulmunity. 
protest, as opposed to students 
"I respect the students and 
back in the days of what he has 
their opinions very much and 
called "conformist Notre 
consider myself as a fellow stu­
Dame." 
dent. I don't believe in all the 
"I think that it is fun to see 
academic trappings of trying to 
continued on page 7
catch people with tests." 
Arts Center needs Workers refurbishing campaign begins 
house in work clot.hes on cit her Center. The Arts Center offices
by IJan O'Donnell 
Friday or Saturday between the will be located ir; the northwest 
Pat Dowdall, Chairman of the hours of I and 6 in the evening. corner of the Center where the Art Development Commission, Work facing the Commission in­Amateur Radio Club was for­announced dates yesterday for cludes carpenter work, cleaning, merly located. 
initiation of work of the new moving and painting. Along with this, there will be 
Arts Center. In a statement, By Monday there will be an a Student Art Studio and Art Dowdall asked for volunteers to office set up in the Arts Center Gallery for the benefit of begin­help in this task since "it is ne­for the Commission to operate ners, professionals and "experi­
cessary to complete this for the its campaign to raise $1.8 menters" in art. real work of the Arts Center to million to refurbish the Center. Dowdall stressed the "com­begin." This office will also serve as a mmunity effort" idea that has 
center for people who wish to been keynoted in all past Arts
Dowllal·i asked anyone inter­ested to report to the Old Field-donate their services to the Arts continued on page 10 


Rectors receive gifts 
by Mark Walbran Bob Lake is a Notre Dame grad who earned a certain notor­Ordinarily you expect that 
iety during his years in Zahm. 
your greying, spectacled rector His former rector, Fr. Bill or assistant rector, being of McAuliffe, recalls rapping Lake's scholarly mien, reads erudite knuckles more than occasion­
quarterlies which rehash the fun­ally.
damental verities for the zil­Now Lake is getting back in lipnth time. Or you might perhaps the most ingenious ploy expect that Ave Maria, The ever designed to undermine the Alumnus, or something like cloth at du Lac. He is forcing the Dormitory Life, comprise his rectors to be free! 
reading fare. 
Lake donated 22 subscrip­But in this post-Vatican II age tions to 33 magazines for Notre it is not unusual to hear your Dame's 42 rectors and assistant 
rector n:fer to recent articles in 
rectors. That means that each such secular periodicals as Lzfe 
month each rector and his assis­
or Playboy-and no one raises an 
tant is going to receive at least eyebrow. 
17 magazines for the next four But who ever heard of a 
years.
C.S.C. with a copy of Popular Aside from such notables as 
Dogs tucked beneath his arm? 
Look, Sport and Esquire, these Or Organic Gardening? 
subscriptions include Modern Securlarization has gone too 
Photography, Gun World, In­
far! The line must be drawn! 
come 0 p portunities, Stereo 
Who's responsible for this? I'll 
Review, True, Argosy, and Wall 
tell you--Mr. Robert Lake of 
St. and U.S. Business. 
Publishers' Continental Sales Corporation. continued on page 8 

Nixon visits Midwest 
INDIANAPOLIS, (UPI) the 1968 election, offered him a 
President Nixon and his warm Hoosier welcome. But a 
"flying White House" toured the discordant note was added by 
Midwest Thursday so that he several hundred war protesters 
and his cabinet can learn "what who bunched together in front 
the people in the heartland of city hall under the watchful 
think." eyes of police and Secret Service 
In what Nixon ca"ed a series men. 
of "historic, unprecedented Chanting, apparently intended 
meetings," the President to drown out Nixon's words, 
conferred with mayors of middle broke out as the President spoke 
sized cities throughout the of his dedication to "bringing 
nation in Indianapolis. Next on our men home from Vietnam 
his schedule was more instead of sending them to 
conferences with Midwest Vietnam." 
governors in Chicago. "One, two, three, four," the 
His purpose, the President protesters yelled, "We don't 
told a crowd of 4,000 in front of want your. ... war." As the 
lnd ianapolis City Hall, was to chanting continued, some of the 
"discuss problems of the cities protesters were seen being 
and problems of crime and the ushered into police vans. The 
divisions that plague the President continued as if he had 
nation." not noticed. 
"Today, we are bringing Nixon's Midwest visit was Washington to Indianapolis," billed as nonpolitical, but his Nixon said, and in fact he had buoyant receptions as Weir Cook brought 21 cabinet members and Municipal Airport, where 3,000 top level advisers, along with his turned out in gray, chilly 
wife, who had a busy schedule weather, and in downtown 
of her own over the two day Indianapolis were markedly 
tour. reminiscent of his campaign 
Indianans, who gave Nixon his tours through Indiana two years largest plurality of any state in ago. 

THE OBSE.RIIM 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970
PAGE 2 

SMC freshmen to vote on class government 
SMC freshmen will vote Mon­day afternoon on the amount of power they wish to delegate to their newly-formed Senate. 
According to the proposal drafted Tuesday by freshman senators, the Senate's power would be concentrated in three standing coramittees -agenda, publicity, and sociaL 
Another section of the pro­posal to be voted on at the l: 15 
p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium class meeting deals with voting procedures. 
University 
The University Forum will 

meet officially for the first time 
this afternoon in room 202 of 
the Center for Continuing Edu­
cation. The first session of the 
meeting, which is scheduled to 
begin at 3 p.m., will be devoted 
to organizational matters. After 
this part of the meeting is over, 
the representatives will hold a 
discussion period among them­
selves. 
The forum was established to 

improve communications be­
tween the six communities in-
Each senator would be allow­than the over-representation ol 
ed one vote on minor issues. On the smaller districts." major issues, however, they Stankus, Annie P. Ryan, vice­would cast a vote for each con­president; and Gere Chapman, 
stituent reflecting her decision secretary-treasurer, would act as obtained through district voting. advisors with senators chairing "In reality every girl votes the committees. even if she can't attend class According to the proposed 
meetings," said Lola Stankus, resolution, students could also Freshman Class president. override any Senate decision "Taking an exact vote on major 
with a petition signed by I00 issues forces each senator to be 
freshmen. informed of her constituent's Although membership on wishes. It also forces equal repre­
standing committees would be sentation for every girl rather confined to the 25 senators, any 



Forum to meet today 
valved with Notre Dame, prove it. (students, faculty, administra­
An open session will begin tion, alumni, graduate students 
around 5 p.m. in the auditorium and the trustees). Each group 
of the center. Student Bodywill have four representatives to 
President Phil McKenna has present their positions. 
asked all students who can pos­
The forum members will be sibly attend to do so, because, discussing topics that affect the according to the SBP, the issues community on an individual discussed will have a strong basis and as a whole. The basic influence on the future of Notre questions to be discussed by the Dame. At the open session, forum are whether Notre Dame opmtons from the audience has an atmosphere that can along with questions will be foster a Christian community welcomed by the forum mem­and what can be done to im-bers. 

STUDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION 
notes the tenth anniversary of Camus' death with ... 
ALBERT CAMUS MEMORIAL CONFERENCE 
remainder of the academic year, Official calendar while in the future three persons 
change announced
will be elected annually for two­Three changes have beenyear terms. The Notre Dame 


made in the recently announced joint 1970-71 academic calendar for the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
February 8 Lecture by John S. Dunne, C.S.C., on "The One change moves commence­Absurd Man and the Absurd God" ment exercises to ~aturday, May8:00 PM Memorial Library Auditorium 22, for Saijlt Mary:s and Sunday, May 23, for Notre Dame, a week February 9 Lecture by Professor Edward T. Gargan on later than originally announced.
"The Innocence of Albert Camus" The other changes lengthen both8:00 PM Memorial Library Auditorium the vacation between semesters, which will now begin on Decem­February I0 Lecture by Professor Germaine Bree on ber 19 and end with the start of"The Art of Albert Camus" 
"Bob and Carol 

the spring term on January 20,2:00 PM Washington Hall 1971, and the spring mid­



ledOrAlice 
and Ted and Alice" 
semester break, which now willFebruary I0 Symposium start on March 13 and end onCamus' Contribution to an Understanding of March 24. 

the Human Condition Classes at institutions will3:30 PM Washington Hall 
2nd Semester Movie Lottery 
start on September 9 and end May II, 1971, with examsFebruary 8-11 Showing of the "Albert Camus Exhibit" scheduled through May 19.

from the French Cultural Agency Memorial Library Display Case 
all registered organizations must be 
The Observer is published daily

represented 7:30pm Thursday, February 12, 
during the college semester except

February 18 Documentary Film on Camus 
vacations by students of the

Room 4-E, LaFortune
"The Unanswering Arrow: A Tribute to 
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The 

Albert Camus" A film hased on Camus' 
novel The Stranger 
Student Services Commission 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

7:00 and 9:00 PM Engineering Auditorium 
student could sit on the subcom­man Class. 
mittees. "With smaller groups of peo­
The Agenda committee would ple, we hope to get more accom­
decide which items merit discus­plished. Class meetings are too 
sion at Senate and class meet­cumbersome," Stankus said. 
ings. "This way the class will be doing 
The Publicity committee what it wants to do and not 
would mimeograph and distri­exclusively what the class offi­
bute the agendas of upcoming cers want to do." 
Senate meetings and monthly 
newsletters to all 500 freshmen. Originally a part of Lola's They would also handle all pub­campaign platform, the Senate, licity for class projects. organized to "promote student 
The social committee would interest, organize activities for plan social events. Among the students, and provide an tentative events are the prom, a effective and efficient class scavenger hunt, and mini-mixers. government" was voted into Besides concerning itself with existence in January. It will be SMC social affairs, the commit­comprised of 25 senators, each tee also anticipates joint func­representing approximately 20 tions with Notre Dame's Fresh-' students. 
SMC students discuss 

registration problems 
Few objected to having to goOn Monday and Tuesday, St. 

across the road to register. Soph­Mary's student registered for the omore Diane Fortress comment­second semester at Brownson ed "Registration was fine. IHall. 

didn't mind going across theIn a small survey, student road as long as the shuttle wasreaction to this move across the running."

road was found to be varied. 
Freshman Kelly Donovan said 

Sophomores and freshmen com­about registration, "Walk in,
mented last night on their ap­walk out. It took less than two
praisal of the situation. minutes. I didn't really mind
Sophomore An Meuleman said "It wasn't that bad, but I 
having to take the bus over to can't think of one good reason ND. There were no problems why we had to register there." 
with my schedule:· 

In agreement was freshman One unfavorably impressed 
Kathy McDonnell who said "Re­senior was Kathy Burns, who 
gistration was much better this commented, "It was a mess. I 
time than for the fall semester. was given no schedule. It took 
It took much less time." me three days to register." 
Elect faculty members 
The University of Notre Dame Board of Trustees at its fall 
Faculty Senate has elected six meeting invited faculty represen­
faculty members to sit on the tatives to voting membership on 
faculty affairs committee of the its faculty affairs committee, 
University's Board of Trustees. which contains eight trustees. 
Trustees on the committee are 

The six are LeClair H. Eells, the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., 
professor of finance and business Howard V. Phalin, George N.
economics; Dr. John J. Fitz­Shuster, Alfred C'. Stepan, Jr.,
Gerald, professor of philosophy; Edmund A. Stephan, the Rev.
Dr. Morton S. Fuchs, associate Paul E. Waldschmidt, C.S.C., theprofessor of biology; Dr. 0. 
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., andTimothy O'Meara, professor of Dr. 0. Meredith Wilson. Dr.

mathematics; Arthur J. Quigley, Frederick R. Rossini, vice presi­associate professor of electrical dent for research and sponsoredengineering, and Dr. James E. 
programs, will serve on the com­

Robinson, professor of English. 
mittee on an ex-officio basis. The six will serve out the 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970 PAGE 3 


Five changes to go into effect in shuttle bus service 
WM4Y£R! NIGHTL¥.-.AT 7&9:05

A total of five changes were new route will add SloP~ at SMC return to Notre Dame. announced yesterday by Tim in the parking area, McCandless A second bus will be added Collins, Student Union Trans­Hall and at Madeleva. The bus between 6:45 and 8:45 and also 
Not that it matters. but most of It is true.

portation Manager, regarding the will continue through the park­between II :45 and I :45 on fares, route, and schedules of the ing lot and run behind McCand­both Friday and Saturday even­
20th CENTURY·FOX PRESENTS shuttle bus service between less, past the sports fields and ings. This change, according to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. the science hall. From there it Collins, will be effective on PAUL NEWMAN 
Effective on February ninth, a will travel to Madeleva and then February thirteenth. Starting this Saturday and Sunday, fares ROBERT REDFORD will be collected on the after­
KAntARINE ROSSft 

noon buses that are running be­



Msgr. McGrath chosen BUTCH ~SSIDYAND
tween I :00 and 6:00p.m. A special fifteen minute 
THE SUNDANCE KID

schedule will be instituted this


for committee position 
evening for the benefit of those students who plan to attend the 
The Rt. Rev. Msgr. John J. taining to the selection, reten­
Mardi Gras. The schedule will be 
McGrath, president of Saint tion, and professional develop­in effect through February Mary's College, Notre Dame, In­ment of faculty members and tenth. Anyone who has ques­diana, has been elected to mem­deals with matters of faculty tions concerning the new 


organization and participation in Easy to reach. Drive South on Eddy to Mish. Ave. Clover
bership on the American Associ­scheduling can reach Collins by 
leaf-Take Clover teat and continue East on Mish. Ave. to
ation of College's Commission the formulation and execution dialing 283-IOH5. 
Theatre.
of institutional policies.
on Students and Faculty. 
Founded in 1915, the Commis­
sion is a 900 member national 
organization of undergraduate 
colleges of liberal arts and 
sciences. 
The Commission on Students 
and Faculty concerns itself with 
the life and welfare of the indivi­
dual student at the liberal arts 
college, giving consideration to 
the rights, freedoms and respon­sibilities of students and student organizations, and the relation­ship of such organizations to the faculty and administration. It also studies policies relating to recruiting, admissions, financial aid, discipline, and other facets 
•>f student life. 
In addition, the Com mission is concerned with policies per-
Mardi Gras has 

concert tonight 
Tonight's highlight of the 
1970 Mardi Gras will be a con­
cert given by the Grand Funk in 
conjunction with David Frye 
and his impressions of the better 
known politicians and intellec­
tuals of today. The concert is 
scheduled to begin at H p.m. in 
the Athletic and Convocation 
Center. 
The Mardi Gras Carnival, 
which opened last night in Step­
pan Center, will continue on 
Saturday afternoon. It is sche­
duled to run from 2 p.m. until I 
a.m.. On February H, 9 and 10, the carnival will open at seven in the evening and conclude at mid­night. 

As in the past, all profits from the carnival will go to the Notre Dame Charities. This year the fund will receive an extra boost because of a special arrangement with Father Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., Executive Vice-president and director of the Convocation Center, that will allow the pro­fits from the concert to be do­nated to the charity. 
Prof. Niemeyer appointed editor 
Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, pro­fessor of government and inter­national studies at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed associate editor of "Modern Age," a quarterly pub­lished in Chicago by the Founda­tion for Foreign Affairs, Inc. 
Established in 1957, "Modern Age' covers political science, economics, philosophy and the social sciences and has a circula­tion of about 7 ,200. Niemeyer, a political theorist, has been on the Notre Dame faculty since 1955. 

Do you want to start out your career doing something important? 


Then you're the kind of person we're looking for. 
If you want a job that involves important responsibility now-not ten years from now-Ford Motor Company could be the place for you. We encourage initiative, wei­come new ideas, and give you every opportunity to get ahead. 
The proof? Read what a few of our outstanding recent college graduates have to say. 
One young engineer from Michigan Tech tells us, "It's the challenges, the important respon­sibilities that make this job so exciting." A Harvard Business School graduate who made De­partment Manager in less than five years, claims his experience in our Finance Department has been like getting an extra post­graduate degree. And a young, black Financial Analyst from the University of Chicago says, "If you want to make it, this is the place." 
We hear comments like this everyday from graduates with every kind of educational back­ground. People who found the challenges and opportunities at Ford Motor Company even greater than they expected. 
If you want to take the first step towards a fulfilling career, look into a future with Ford Motor Company. See our recruiter when 
Ford Interviewer Will Be On Campus February 11, 12, 1970 
he visits your campus ... or con­tact Mr. Richard Rosensteel, Col­lege Recruiting Department, Ford Motor Company, American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 48121. An equal opportunity employer. 

•.. has a better idea 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO  Editor-in-Chief  
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966  NOTRE DAME, INDIANA  
Editorial  

NixGn1s pollution push 
President Nixon's venture into the murky midwest ends today and the prospects for increased efforts toward pollution abatement look good if the President's words are to be believed. 
Wednesday the President ordered all Federal facilities to start work on eliminating air and water pollution. The costs for the program­$359,000,000, a tidy sum for cleaning up part, but only part, of the mess that has been perpetrated on our environment. 
Federal facilities are responsible for a lot of the pollution problems that the country is facing. Estimates of the cost of improving the sewage treatment system at the West Point Academy in New York on the Hudson range as high as $3,100,000 alone. Other defense installations are of equal concern. According to Russel Train, Undersecretary of the Interior and Chairman Designate of the President's Environment Quality Council, "almost all" defense installations have "serious pollution problems." Signs of the earnestness of the President's effort lies in the fact that for the first time all government and armed-services aircraft and other vehicles are covered in his order. 
The President has put a three year limitation on the amount of time that the various government agencies have to make strides toward abatement. The real test will come when the President is faced with enforcing his executive order. The order states that installation of pollution abatement equipment that may endanger national security can be exempted in special circum­stances. It will be up to the President to make sure that the Defense Department is required to live up to the same standards as other government agencies. A country ravaged by pollution to the brink of natural disaster leaves little worth defending. 
Sometime today the President will be meeting with top level Cabinet members, the Governors of Indiana, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Illinois and with the members of his Environmental Quality Council in Chicago to discuss the problems in the four state area. Quite appropriately the meeting is being held in the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago. Meanwhile, the industries in Gary and the Chicago area are destroying nature. At the rate we are going there will be little natural history to record. 
The President's message in his State of the Union Address suggested that we are now at an historical juncture. Either we exert every effort to stop polluting our environment or we will destroy it. 
We hope that today's meeting will result in bringing about an historical effort toward pollution abatement. 

SOOO MORE PEOPLE DIED IN BIAFRA TODAY 
T. C. Treanor 


Are sign-ins needed? 
Some time ago -almost a year, as a matter of fact, Chris Wolfe wrote a polemic against Parietal Hours in which he expressed fear that fornication would become manifest on campus. Now, as we all know, one does not fear fornication at Notre Dame. Rather, one welcomes it, if one is to remain a political force here. Fornication is without a doubt the school's most popular participant sport. One might as well come out against the Pope in Ireland, or against Milhous in Middle America, or against Geroge Wallace in the heart of Ku Kluxery, as come out against fornication at Notre Dame. 
So the move was a political disaster. The student body rose up as one to damn Dr. Wolfe, and even the school's most pious and pure group -the theology majors -found time away from their prayers and meditations to cluck disprovingly in poor Chris' direction. Chris Wolfe thence silenced himeself, parietal hours were passed, and the world was made safe for fornication. 
But the issue has come up again this year. Only this time, the Student Poobahs, spearheaded by the HPC, are hot after unlimited parietal hours and the end of sign-ins. It is now the Board of Trustees which are booming the sign-in system. 
Likewise, the moral issue has left fornication and has moved on to something else. Fornication has happily joined Emil T. Hoffman, Saturday football games, and Sunday Mass as Notre Dame I nstit u tio ns. 
The new moral issue is, specifically, rape. Now, while rape probably isn't quite as popular as fornication, it is at least as popular as chess. So there will be no attempt from the source to morallize on rape. Only to point out a few points of law. 
In Indiana, as in most places here in the USA, rape is not considered culturally a great leap forward. In spite of that it is illegal. It is also quite difficult to prove. Subsequently, the Courts, in an effort to preserve both the laws and the chastity of the maidens of the Indiana Free State, tend to listen with only one ear -and that a tin one -to the protestations of the accused, particularly if the accused is a college student. 
Concurrently, an impressively large number of the maidens of the 
Indiana Free State -largely under eighteen -get their kicks by 
accusing Notre Dame students of rape, statutory rape, ad nauseum. 
Two years back, when the Observer wasn't old enough or ambitious 
enough to run an investigation -one of these maidens charged that 
a hall was running a "ring of prostitution." No one seems to know 
what happened to the case, but whatever the outcome, the whole 
process would have been dismissed a lot more smoothly had the 
sign-in desk been properly manned. 
For where does rape, statutory rape, prostitution, etc., happen, if 
it happens? Not at the Rockne Center. Not in Sacred Heart Church. 
Not in Chris Wolfe's imagination. No, it happens in rooms. And if a 
girl wants to pretend she was raped in a room that the sign-in sheet 
says she wasn't even in, she stands little chance of winning her case, 
even in Indiana. 
Hall Presidential elections loom, and there will surely be a 
spectacular number of candidates ready to drop parietal hours and 
burn the sign-in desk. Parietal Hours, predicated on the subliminally 
ridiculous belief that something will happen between 2 to 7 a.m. 
that hasn't happened 8 p.m. to 2 a.m., should go. But the sign-in 
desks guard us against Indiana justice, and should stay. 

Letter 
Editor: ignorant children, cry unto youIt was with ecstasies of joy for guidance! Which groupsthat I read the statement re­
leased recently by The Engineer­should we align ourselves with? 
ing College Council on the Dow How can . we choose the correct 
demonstration and such related 
moral stance? Shall we cut our incidents. 
hair behind? Do we dare to eat a grape?
In truth, I had feared that Speak up, oh Silent Ones, erenone of the scholars here were we perish in this, the winter of

ever going to speak up and take our discontent, blinded by the
a stance. I feared that our idols Golden Calf of self determina­indeed had feet of clay, clay not tion! We, your pitiful children,unlike the form in which we, the await guidance from your hal­students, present ourselves at lowed heights.
their feet for moulding and de­
veloping. 
When will our other benevo­

lent fathers speak up and deliver remain your prostrate sup­
us from this Gnostic slough of plicant, 
despair and indecision? We, your Pete Peterson 
Layout Editor: Mary BethJoseph Wemhoff, Business Mgr. 
Crimmons 
T1mothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. 
Proofreaders: Jim Hayes, John Shreves 
News Editor: Glen Corso Headlines: Randy Young, Rick Smith Asst. News Editor: Don Ruane Layout: Dan Koppenhafer, Mike 
Bridgeman, Cliff WintrodeSMC News Editor: Prue Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 
The opinions in the editorials,Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney news analyses, and columns of 
Photo Editor: Mike Murphy THE OBSERVER are solely those of the authors and editors of THESports Editor: Mike Pavlin 

OBSERVER and do not neces­Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer sarily reflect the views of St. Night Editor: T.C. Treanor Mary's College, the University of 
Notre Dame, their administra­Layout Design: Buz Craven tions, faculty or student bodies. 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970 PAGE 5
7/IE OBSERriER. 

Mardi Gras '70 --the gambling begins 

Auditions held 
Auditions for those desiring to perform their original compositions in the UAC's Student Arts Festival on March 1-7 should contact 283-8600, 1739 or 8270 for further information and audition schcdul ing. 
SMC coffeehouse 
Saturday evening from 9-12 p.m. the SMC Coffeehouse will feature Authenti­cally Mcrrywhcthre, Pal Clinton, Rory llolshcr, John Fonseca, and John Brady. Admission charge will be 25 cents. 
Mardi Gras photo essay 
by John Kissel 



VALENTINE'S DAY 
Crawford reports on draft 
CARDS AND GIFTS 
continued from page 1 
the individual should go against the state.

AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE If the proposed volunteer army goes in effect, people would be inducted for five to ten years on a voluntary basis. The military would then provide a choice of technical education for the enlistees. 
Crawford's committee de­Cided that if the military did provide an education for the soldiers, the G.I. bill would no longer be necessary since the men would be earning a salary after they were out of the service. 
This idea was based on the assumption that all the men in the service would not be oriented toward nor would desire a college education after they were discharged. 
Theadvisory committee also felt that the number of Selective Service personnel could be reduced to save costs if a volunteer army were instituted. 
Crawford contended that the 


alleged unworkability of the 
present lottery system was the 
result of the government fixing 
state draft quotas according to 
the number of men between I 9 
and 25, while the states have 
available only those men who 
have not been deferred in the 
same age group. 
Crawford saicl that each state 
determines its own deferment 
policies and local draft boards 
also determine to some degree 
who and how many people get 
deferments. In some states 
nearly 50% of the men between 
19 and 25 are deferred. 
As a result, approximately 75% of the states are going to have trouble not exceeding the theoretical number of 240 in the draft to fill this year's quotas, explained Crawford. 

At the time of the lottery drawing, government officials speculated that it was very unlikely that men who got numbers over 240 would be drafted this year. 
The draft advisory committee is also considering proposing that all student deferments be ended. Crawford believes that a proposal advocating this will be passed and released next fall. 
Crawford said that the 
YOGA

Two hours of award winning experimental films Two nights only! Feb. 5 & 6 
Class Monday~Friday

Thursday & Friday 7:00 & 9:30PM 
6:00-7:30p.m.

Engineering Auditorium $1.00 Students $1-50 General 
825 Notre Dame Ave. Sponsored by C.A.F. Patrons 
287-3744 


HAS THEM 
elimination of local boards in but such a change would simply order to remove local variances open too many escape ways f?r in draft policies is being pushed someone who is not sincere m by some congressmen and there his beliefs and who simply wants is a 50-50 chance that local to get out of the draft. boards will be eliminated. 
The advisory committee ''A conscientious objector rejected the idea of a selective requires a rather stringent degree conscientious objector law, of sincerity," said Crawford. stating that it would open too If the selective conscientious many loopholes for escaping the objector law proposed by Notre draft to the insincere claimant. Dame professor Charles 
"It would be a wonderful idea McCarthy was passed, a person if we could depend on the would be able to declare his sincerity of the individual moral repugnance of a particular requesting a selective war rather than condemning all conscientious objector status, wars. 
•

More uproar 1n trial 
CHICAGO (UPI) 
Defendants in the riot conspiracy trial shouted angry insults at the judge and obscenities at a prosecutor Thursday, when the judge refused to free one of them from custody. 
U.S. District Court Judge Julius J. Hoffman listened in stony silence as Yippie leader Abbie Hoffman called him a "schtunk" and walked out of the courtroom for a recess with Yippie Jerry Rubin's cries of "tyrant, tyrant" ringing in his ears. 
The judge did not act immediately to revoke bail of the offenders. He had ordered one of the "Chicago Seven," David Dellinger, jailed Wednesday for repeatedly disrupting trial proceedings. 
The seven antiwar demonstration leaders are on trial before Hoffman on charges of conspiring to incite the riots that erupted in Chicago during the I968 Democratic National Convention. 
The first storm of Thursday's trial sessions boiled up when Judge Hoffman denied a defense motion to restore Dellinger's bail and release him from the custody of U.S. marshals. 
"I'll hear no more 

arguments," Hoffman finally 
said. "I deny the motion." 
"You schtunk, a Jewish idiomatic insult,-your idea of justice is the only obscenity in the room," Abbie Hoffman yelled. "Julie, how's your war stock?" 
Rubin joined in the abuse. 

"You're the laughing stock of the world," he shouted at the judge. "Every kid in the world hates you. You're synonymous 
with  the  name  Adolf  Hitler.  
Adolf  Hitler  equals  Julius  
Hitler."  

Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard G. Schultz asked the judge not to tell the jury-which had not yet been called in-what had happened. Defendant Hoffman shouted at Schultz: "You know you ain't got no case." 
See uses for space shuffle 
(UP() Space Writer CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
A space agency official said Thursday the day may come when America will loan its pro­posed space shuttle to foreign nations. 
"A great involvement is ex­pected internationally because of the flexibility and utility of the space shuttle," said Charles 
W. Mathews, deputy associate administrator for manned space­flight of the National Aeronau­tics and Space Administration. 
"Other nations might utilize the United States' space shuttle to carry and deploy their own payloads, or to carry personnel. . .up to a space station," said Mathews. "Ultimately, w en­vision that some nations, or a consortium of nations, might ac­tually operate their own shut­tles, very much like foreign na­tions now operate U.S. devel­oped commercial aircraft." 
If you gotta go, why not go 
co 


If you have two years or one year or no years of Catholic College left and are high on the "fishbowl list", you can still go as a first class Christian ... as a conscientious objector (or selective C.O;I· 
c.o. 
has a two-year program that will pay you not only while you re still In school but for the rest of your life (mortal and Immortal), but unfortunately does not offer free flying lessons. Find out what 

c.o. 
has to offer-Life, for you and your neighbor.


COLUMBIA 
Be a man. Be a C.O. You're free. Say no (legally). Call Notre Counseling, 7574. 


CHICAGO 
r,.41ro14NISOMEDR~S 
Mardi Gross Party 
"""""" 
USRN/UIRATlON 
Sat.-at "Cantina Party Palace" $5.00 a couple-includes refreshments 
G,.I/HC 1203•/HC1:204"• lll00721tlltJ007lllt 
Chic.ao i~> • bil rock b•odwitl'l ~ronics. Their debut •lbum n bl& ntheirsounct--.tpec•ally 
p.lce<l two.rKOrd &at. 

··~·~··--­

Buses: 7:45, 8:15, 8:45 (Bus from Stepan at 10:301 
~ \\'EDNESI»\Y MORNING.:4•\M SIMON,\
l'»\RFUNI<EL 
1 




BOOKSTORE 



THE OBS£Rfi£R,

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970 PAGE 7 
Prof. Massey develops space code for NASA 
Information about the sun, 
the planets, and the strange 
phenomena of outer space may 
soon he speeding its way hack to 
earth in the form of a new code 
developed at the University of 
Notre Dame. The first probe 
slated by the National Aero­
nautics and Space Administra­
tion (NASA) officials to use the 
new code is the IMP, or Inter­
planetary Monitoring Platform, 
scheduled for a I<J7 I Ia unch. 
IMP will he launched into an 
orbit about half-way between 
earth and the moon, .;nd will 
send hack information about 
energetic particles coming from 
the sun, in the form of the new 
"non-systematic, convo lu tiona! 
code" developl~d by Dr. James 
L. Massey, professor of electrical engineering, with the support of NASA. llis code is also appro­priate for probes like Mariner, which photographed Mars, and 1'10neer, which will survey the sun. 
Massey's code is not designed to keep the information secret, hut rather to be highly accurate 

Nutting: a critic 
continued from page 1 
something different, some oppo­
sition." Besides academics in 
gem~ral and the University in 
particular, Dr. Nutting has been 
a strong critic of Ihe Church and 
college foot hall. lie has partici­
pated in a televised debate with 
Ara l'arseghian on the value of 
football at Notre Dame and has 
written a book advocating a 
"free university city." 
In Ihis, his final semester at Notre Dame (barring unantici­pated service as University Presi­dent), Dr. Nutting is teaching students in Christian Origins, an Essay Tutorial, ami in Seminar 
VI. lie calls the movement to 
have him named President "com­pletely outlandish." 

ND Professor co-authors book 
continued [rum page 9 
~'l>ciology, and Dr. William V. D'Antonio, professor of sociology. 
The authors conclude with the acknowledgement that it is difficult to predict the direction of the change they see ahead for the American Catholic Church. "Still," they write, "on the basis of the perspectives of the be­havioral sciences on social change in the American Catholic community, "certain telling questions emerge: After the papal position on birth control is either retracted by Rome or disavowed by the American hierarchy, after church proper­tics have been added to civic tax rolls, and after priestly celibacy is dead --what next?" 
CORRECTION 
The (h server misinterpreted 
remarks made by Mr. Philip 
Faccenda, Special Assistant to 
the President, in an article writ­
ten in Wednesday's paper about 
the injunction that the univer­
sity obtained in reference to the 
Placement bureau. 
The (1J server reported that 
Mr. Faccenda had stated that he 
felt that the injunction was the 
best method to deal with illegal 
d6monstrations and a viable al­
ternative to bringing police on 
campus. 
What Mr. Faccenda did say was that obtaining an injunction was only one of the methods of dealing with demonstrations and a viable alternative to bringing 
under the difficult conditions of deep space. In addition, it re­quires a minimum of computer hardware, and allows engineers to scan information from the complex code before it enters the lengthy decoding process. 
Messages traveling across the vast expanse of space can be­come garbled by the background radiation, or "noise," Massey ex­plained. This noise produces the familiar static in sound trans­mission and blur in pictures re­ceived from deep space probes, and can so garble messages that they become useless. 
The technique of coding helps spread the burden of informa­tion, allowing a computer to salvage much data that is lost through noise, Massey said. In 
Law students study police in squad cars 
Law students at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame are getting a look into the life and problems of the police officer from an unusual vantage point -the front seat of a squad car. 
About 50 second-year stu­dents at Notre Dame's Law School have spent about eight hours observing South Bend police officers patroling their motorized beats as part of a four-week program begun last year and designed to acquaint prospective attorneys with police procedure. The four-week program, which has the endorse­ment of both law professors and police officials, includes a familiarization tour of the South Bend police department, follow­ed by two 8 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. observation stints in patrol cars and one night spent with a detective. 
it's time to talk stock 
Monday, February 16 

THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE 

will be on campus to interview for openings in its 
MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAM 
Positions are available in:  
DEPARTMENT OF MEMBER FIRMS  EXAMINERS DIVISION OF MEMBER  
-responsible for self-regulation of  FIRMS-responsible for surveil­ 
and services to approximately 650  lance of the financial condition of  
brokerage firms and their 90,000  member brokerage firms. Account­ 
employees.  Business  Majors  ing Majors preferred.  
preferred.  

Contact your Placement Director now or write to Mr. D. E. Anderson 
...................... 
............................ ............... 

······ ······ ...
... ······ ...... '"
.......................
.....................
... ... ... ..... 
ooo ou ooo uo ,,,
... ... ... ......
.....................
... ... ... ..... ...... 

NewYork Stock·Exchange 
11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005 
systematic codes, radio pulses representing a bit of information arc accompanied by "parity 
hits," or pulses which give infor­mation about wide sections of the code. A computer decoding the message can often piece lost sections of information together, using the parity bits. 
Massey's new non-systematic code spreads the burden of in­formation even more thinly, re­ducing the importance of each pulse and improving accuracy. The code consists only of parity bits, and contains no pulses re­presenting the information itself. The philosophy behind the code's improved performance might be compared to tiw problem of solving a picture puzzle with 10 percent of the 
Steve Kurowski, a second-year law students from Gary, Ind., who runs the program, said it grew out of a realization that "a criminal law course tends to give a one-sided view of law enforce­ment, concentrating as it does on court decisions affecting police practice. We thought if we could somehow get a 'feel' for what the policeman's problems were, we would make better attorneys." 
Glenn L. Terry, services divi­sion chief for the South Bend Police Department, agrees. "We felt there was real value in ex­posing prospective lawyers to the way in which a policeman has to handle problems growing out ,..,f a concrete situation," he explained, "compared with the way they appear later on paper." 

cardboard m1ssmg. Obviously it 
would be easier to figure out 
what the picture must be if a 
nick were missing from each 
piece, than if an entire section of 
the puzzled were gone. 
In fact, Massey's code out­performs the best systematic codes known. In I000 trials, the code performed perfectly over simulated noise conditions, while the best systematic code produced 87 decoding errors. Massey expects such trials to win many doubting scientists to his side. "Some are quite uneasy about entrusting valuable data to a code with no hard informa­tion," he explained. 
Information theory, the new science of communicating with computers, had long predicted 
Terry said the impressive and 

serious demeanor of the law students has alleviated any police apprehension that they 
were fledgling defense attorneys 
out for ammunition they 
thought they could use later on. 
As for the law students, Kurowski reports a grow.ing sympathy with the policeman's 
lot in a tedious world of petty crime, domestic quarrels, public drunkness, and high school stu­dent fights. "There have been no observations of violations of civil liberites," Kurowski said. "In 
fact, most students are surp ." 
to see how closely police f court guidelines in arrests, example." 
The program is being enlarged for the second semester, with a estimated 60 that a non-systematic code like Massey's would be more accurate than the systematic codes now used. However, most researchers had assumed that such complicated codes would require complex computer equipment, and would be incom­prehensible to scanning engi­
neers  without  complete  decod­ 
ing.  
The  resulting  system  

proved far superior to the best systematic codes known and allowed engineers to moniior in-. 
formation without complete de­coding. Surprisingly, Massey found that the new code could also be transmitted with con­siderably less equipment than conventional codes. 
year law st•tdents expected to take part.



Saturday Mass begins at SHC 
On Saturday, February 7 and every week during the spring semester a Sunday Vigil Mass will be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church at 5:00P.M. This will be for the convenience of the students. Holy Communion may he received at the Saturday Evening Mass of Obligation, even though one received at the Saturday Morning Mass. 

'Which One 
is the 


Gfilulist? 
It's easy to tell a Paulist. Just 
talk with him. The first thing you nolice is that he's conlemporary. He lives today, but plans lomorrow with the experience and know!· edge of yesterday. That's a Paulist characteristic: the abil­ity to move with lhe times and to meet the challenges of each era. 
A Paulist is also the media/or of his age: he tries to bring to­gclhcr the extremes in today\ world and the Church, the lib­erals and lhc moderates, the eternal and the lemporal. 
Next, he is very much an indi­\•idual. It sets him apart imme­diately. He has his own partic­ular talents and abilities -and he is given freedom to use them. 
If you are interested in finding out more about the Paulist dif­ference in the priesthood, ask for our brochure and a copy of our recent Renewal Chapter Guidelines. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 

CJ>aulistth
Pa ·erG 

Room 300 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 
••. where business begins 

police on campus. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6,1970
PAGE 8 



Senate liberals force Carswell hearing delay 
land, he also predicted Senate Eastland and Sen. Roman L. Edward M. Kennedy, (D. Mass.), 
be clear sailing for a definite 
confirmation, probably the week and Philip A. Hart, (D. Mich.),
(UPI)-Senate liberals forced a Hruska, (R. Neb.), both Carswell decision Thrusday on Carswell. delay in Judiciary Committee of Feb. 24. backers, calculated that with But their calculations went sought more information from 
This was a critical date, Scott
consideration of the Supreme Thurmond convinced, it would awry when Tydings and Sens. Carswell. 
said, because Supreme CourtCourt nominee G. Harrold Cars­authorities have told him therewell Thursday, hoping to use the are a number of pending casestime to dig out more critical which should be decided by ninematerial against him. us hits anti -aircraft sites 
justices. The new court termSen. Joseph D. Tydings, (D. 
begins Feb. 24.
Md.), invoked a rule which auto­troops were observing a shorter, northwest of the I ~militarizedBut even when the committee SAIGON (UPI)­matically. permitted a one time, Zone. None of the u.S. aircraft24 hour cease fire for the holi­reconvenes, it still will have to Communist forces violating theirBut since the
one week delay. was hit and the antiaircraft posi­
own lunar new year Tet cease day and its terms called forSenate will be in its Lincoln Day deal with a constitutional tions were "silenced" by thecontinuing aerial reconnaissanceamendment calling for direct fire shot down a U.S. helicopter
recess next week, Chairman James 0. Eastland, (D. Miss.), election of presidents. and shelled at least two Ameri­and ground patrols to keep tabs American planes, the U.S. com­mand said.
on Communist movements. TheThe formal business before can outposts Thursday, U.S.
said the next meeting would be Viet Cong launched the war'sthe committee was a motion by headquarters reported. A neweither Feb. 16 or I 7. He pre­biggest offensive during Tet two · It was the second such inci­Sen. Birch Bayh, (D. Ind.), to set U.S. air raid on anti-aircraft sites dicted easy approval of Carswell. 
a certain date for a vote on both in North Vietnam was disclosed. years ago_ dent in a week. On Jan. 28, aSen. Hugh Scott, (R. Pa.), 
"Commanders will take those

the Carswell nomination and the Despite the Tet violations, U.S. Air Force FlOS Thunder­Rtl-'ublican floor leader, said he amendment. allied communiques described security measures necessary to chief jet was shot down when itthought the delay was "almost Sen. Strom Thurmond, (R. the overall situation across insure the protection of their attacked North Vietnamese anti­solely" for the purpose of personnel and installations," a
S.C.), a foe of electoral reform, South Vietnam as "relatively aircraft sites near the MU Gia
generating further questions threatened to filibuster against quiet." Official U.S. sources said spokesman at the U.S. high Pass. A Communist MIG fighter
about Carswell's fitness. "It's all command announced_
letting the amendment come to no Communist offensive was ex­bomber shot down an American
political," he said. a vote. But since his filibuster pected during the four day Tet The report on the American helicopter trying to pickup the
Scott predicted there would also would have prevented a vote cease fire proclaimed by the Viet air raid against North Viet­two F lOS crewmen, and at least
be less than five members of the 17 member committee, who will on Carswell, he was persuaded to Cong. namese territory said the mission six Americans were listed as was flown last Monday after missing in the action.
drop his opposition. U.S. and South Vietnamesevote against Carswell. Like East-
Communist gunners opened up The helicopter lost in South on unarmed RF4C Phantom Vietnam Thursday was a U.S. photo reconnaissance planes. Marine CH46 Seaknight which 
U.S. spokesmen said heavily was hit by Communist ground armed Phantom jet fighter fire I 0 miles west of Da Nang at bombers retaliated by attacking 2:25 p.m., seven hours and 25



Someoffice jobs 
North Vietnamese antiaircraft minutes after the Viet Cong be­batteries and surface to air gan their Tet cease fire. One missile SAM sites in the Ban American crewman was seriously Karai Pass region about 30 miles wounded.

are more interesting 
Paris talks fail again


than others. 
PARIS (UPI)-The chief U.S. acts." peace negotiator accused the Philip C. Habib, the American Communists Tuesday of execut­delegation chief, said Com­
In the old days if a man wanted to be an executive or roll at 1,400+ mph, try for Officer Training 
ing defenseless prisoners of war munist forces had recently ex­
and craved adventure too, he could skipper a School after you graduate from college. Also, re' 
and charge by implication, that ecuted two defenseless American 
clipper ship. member the nice idea of yourself, an Air Force pilot, 
North Vietnam did not measure prisoners in South Vietnam.
captain of all you command, getting to visit foreignToday ... the clippers are gone ... 
up to the standards of a civilized Habib did not reveal details of
ports like the clipper captain of yore. 
but the supersonics are here. And 
nation. the executions, but cited them 
swashbuckling executives still get An Air Force officer's life is a great life! 
The charges were made in a as "new shocking evidence that 
their chance. 
bitter exchange at the Vietnam prisoners of war whom you, the
Why just be skipper of a desk? 
peace conference that heard Communists hold are subject to
That's maybe a million bucks ~------------------­
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE I 
Hanoi's negotiator accuse the inhumane treatment."
worth of plane. And when 
Box A, Dept. SCN 72 
United States of violating the
you fly it the responsibil­
Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148 
bombing halt with air attacks
ity's all yours. 
The U.S. delegate remindedinside North Vietnam.
NAME AGE 
the Communists that the 1949
If you'd like to mull 
PLEASE PRINT 
North Vietnam's Col. Ha Van Geneva Convention on war pri­

that aver every 
Lau, said U.S. planes had twice
COLLEGE 
soners requires immediate i­
time you bank 
bombed North Vietnam in the dentification of captives, free­
GRADUATION DATE PHONE 
past week and declared: "The dom for them to correspondU.S. government must bear full with their families, impartial in­
ADDRESS 
responsibility for whatever ser­spections of prison camps and ious consequences are brought
CITY STATE ZIP 
repatriation of the seriously ill about by its above mentioned
I UNDERSTAND THERE IS NO OBLIGATION. 
and wounded.
I 

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 1 
_______________J 
Magazines are donated 
continued from page 1 
One mag known as Fitness for High Fidelity will it take until Living features a special this your rector dreams of owning a month entitled "Know Your Scott amplifier or a Garrad turn­Body and What It Can Do." table? 
Flying, Golf Digest, Car Life, One of the responsibilities of 
Boating, Rudder, Skipper, and journalism is to objectively ex­Venture are more of the period­pose such plots and bring the icals streaming into your rector's issues to the fore. It is your mailbox. responsibility to act. 
Who knows what influence Don't you see the deletrious these publications are going to effect Mobile Life is going to have on those men vowed to have on a religious com­
poverty? How many issues of munity? 
Give equal rights to female grads 
At a Vice Presidents' meeting 

dents registered at Saint Mary's
on Wednesday, January 21, College or any special women1970, it was decided that all students at the University.
women registered as full time The rights to the golf coursestudents in the Graduate or Law are effective as soon as theSchools would have rights equal course opens, and the Rockne
to those of the Notre Dame male Memorial and Athletic and Con­
students on the Notre Dame golf vocation Center will be available 
course, the Rockne Memorial and the Athletic and Covocatio~ 
as soon as extensive renovation Center. · is completed. The date will be This does not apply to stu-announced in the near future. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970 THE OBSERVER PAGE 9 
----------------------------·-----------------.-------------------------------------------, 
Civil Engineering


Sociology professor co-authors 
Seniors! Your future can be in transportation! 
Our expandinK transportation enKinecring program includes an annual ~ billion dollars in high way construction.
s~,~,!!l p.~I,n~.~~mr..~.f an c~h~,h,C?.1 i£~on~"­
evidenl in the American Catholic Among the conclusions of alive political ideology, liberal Church since the Second Vatican these studies are the following: political attilueds seem to be 
No Exam -Tuition rejimds for Graduage Study Council will continue, according --By the mid-1960's Catholics associated with social class sta­to the editors of a new book tended to rank above Protestants tus, not with religion. 
See our recruiter on Monday. Fehruary 1fJ_ Visit your
detailing recent sociological and on most indicatiors of socio---While dogmatism decreases 
Placement Office Now for brochures and Sign Up to hear
psychological research on the economic status, but the drama-as a Catholic college education 
the full story, or write to:
Church in America. tic strides are attributable not to increases, both the open and Dr. William T. Liu, professor elements of religious belief or closedminded can find satisfac­of sociology at the University of behavior but to opportunities lion witnin the social structures 
Personnel Bureau 
1
Notre Dame, and Dr. Nathania! presented in communities where of the Church. 
New York State Department of Transportation
J_ Pallone, chairman of the de-Catholic population is dense. --Persons with a high degree of 
State Campus Building 5, Albany, New York 12226
parlment of counselor education ··As Catholics have become involvement in Church affairs at New York University, write in more Americanized, the need for also display a high involvement ''Catholics/U.S.A.: Perspecives an educationally separate, cui-in community affairs. 
If you gotta go, 
on Social Change" that "social turally distinct schr'JI system In addition to Liu, other change will indeed continue, at a has gradually diminished. Notre Dame faculty members 
why not go
pace never before known, both -The fertility behavior of the who contributed to the book are in American society and in the Catholic family changed marked-Reginald A. Neuwein, director American Catholic community." ly between 195 5 and 1965, and of elementary and secondary 
Air Force?
"Catholics/U.S.A.," published at the end of that decade "more education for the Office of hy John Wiley & Sons, contains than 50 percent of American Educational Research; Dr. · J f T 1 R b t I' · t t
21 separate studies of facets of conjuga amt les no onger con-o er .assenger, assts an pro-American Catholicism, ranging formed to Church positions on fessor of sociology; Dr. John R. 
Force officer. Air Force ROTC has a two-year program that will pay from an investigation of social birth control". Maiolo, assistant professor of 
you while you're still In school, and even offers free flying lessons (It 
you qualify). Find out what Air Force ROTC has to offer. Inquire
mobility of Catholic Americans -While modern Catholic social t" d about the two-year program today. see the Professor of Aeospace
con mue on paue 7

to an analysis of change in reli-teachings are more congruent 0 5tudtes on campus, or call 283-6635. 
Venture: Purify water with the fiber that made 


men whistle. 
Nylon. Reverse osmosis. A fiber that started making girls' legs more beauti­
ful some 30 years ago. And a process that's been around a lot Ienger. But when Du Pont scientists and engineers look 
at them in a new way, they combine into an idea that can change the world. 
Reverse osmosis is a purification process that requires no phase change. It's potentially the cheap­est way to desalinate water. 
Du Pont's innovation? Hollow, semipermeable ny­lon fibers much finer than human hair. Symmetrical, with an outer diameter of .002 inch and a wall thick­ness of .0005 inch, with an accuracy of manufacture maintained at close to 100%. Twenty-five to 30 million of them encased in a precisely engineered unit 14 inches in diameter by 7 feet long. ' 
The result: a semipermeable surface area of about 85,000 square feet-the size of a 2-acre lot-and up to 10,000 gallons of desalted water per day. 
So far "Permasep"® permeators have been used experimentally to purify brackish and polluted water, and in various industrial separations. But the po­tential to desalt seawater, too, is there. 
Please send me the booklets checked below.
So Du Pont scientists and engineers are even now 
0 Chemical Engineers at Du Pont
working toward improved fibers, units and plant 
0 Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont
designs that should make it possible to get fresh 
0 Engineers at Du Pont 
water from salt at a price that any town or nation 
0 Accounting, Data Systems, Marketing, Production 
can afford. Name------------------------------------­
Innovation-applying the known to discover the unknown, inventing new materials and putting them UniversitY--------------------------------­to work, using research and engineering to create 
Degree--------Graduation Date•----------­
the ideas and products of the future-this is the ~ venture Du Pont people are now engaged in. Address'----------------------------
lla.u.a.Mr.Ofl 
For a variety of career opportunities, and a chance Ventures for better living. 
Citv·------------State•------------Zip----­
to advance through many fields, talk to your Du Pont 
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F) 
Recruiter. Or send us the coupon. 
L------------------------------------­



Send a LoveBundle for Valentine'sWeek. 
Why squeeze a lot of Love into just one day? 
Order a LoveBundle to arrive early. It's a unique arrangement designed to stretch Valentine's Day into a week. Because the flowers will last. 
A special Valentine. Only at FTD florists. At a special price. 
Usually available at SJ2 SO* 
less than • 

•As an independent businessman, each FTD Member florist sets his 
own prices. 
The Community Relations commission of St. Mary's College is announcing a Volunteer Services Night to be held Wed­nesday, Feb. 11, from 7:00pm to 10:00 pm in the St. Mary's Dining Hall. The purpose of the 
event  was  explained  by  SMC  
V o 1 u nteer  Services  Director,  
Maureen  Considine,  and  ND  

Community Relations Commis­sioner, Peter Kelly, in a joint letter sent to forty institutions and service organizations in the South Bend-Mishawaka area. The importance of promoting student participation in the life of the rest of the community was emphasized: 
"We want to impress upon students that for the four year period while they are attending school here, South Bend is their home, much more than Chicago, or Cleveland or Indianapolis or wherever." 
We also feel that if a Univer­sity is to develop educated, 
Plan Volunteer Services Night 
understanding, concerned human beings, it is not fulfilling itself if it is a shady glen of re­treat. True, it is very easy to become involved in campus activities all of which are impor­tant. However it is just as easy to become so campus-oriented that the student can completely lose touch with the community of which he should be a part." 
Besides about fifteen local groups, all campus-located service organizations will be recruiting help Wednesday. Representatives from The Reformer, Northern Indiana Children's Hospital, Family and Children Center, Christian Democratic Movement (which is working to reform the Depart­ment of Correction of the State of Indiana), Model Cities-Model Neighborhood Program, St. Jose ph County Tuberculosis League, and the Mental Health Ass. of St. Joseph County. The 
volunteer jobs available range 
from nurses aids, working with retarded children, and tutoring to publicity work, public rela­tions and fund raising and many more. 
Maureen explained that the Kennedy Institute held a similar "Social Action" night during the first semester hut that no South Bend service organizations were represented, and only a smat­tering of campus organizations attended. It is hoped that Vol­unteer Services Night will more completely represent volunteer opportunities available to stu­dents. 
There are many students who are genuinely interested in volunteer work of some kind, but who do not know where to go for information. At the same time, there are organizations; both community and campus who are desperate for volunteer help, but do not know where to turn for this help. Both Maureen and Peter feel that Volunteer Services Night presents a golden opportunity for the two parties to get together. 
Need volunteers for Arts Center 
continued from page 1 
Center efforts. 
Dowdall sa!d, "The Center will benefit and will try to in­volve the entire community. The effort asks people who are not 'artists' as such to donate their talents to help improve cultural life for all here on campus." 
He continued, "Financial pro­gress went slowly during January due to exams, but we are in the process of submitting, now, sev­eral proposals to various persons who are known to be patrons of the arts. If these people like the plans we may be well on the road to our quota." 
Dowdall disclosed that one of the proposals would have one particularly avid appreciator of the arts donate almost th~ entire $1.8 million. He was pleased with response so far and stated, "We are now in the formation stage of a finalized committee to start channeling the money." 
The Commission has already secured adequate funds to main­tain administrative costs for the next few months. Other contri­butions for this purpose are ex­pected to be forthcoming. 
The Commission will soon re­lease a letter to the community reiterating its goals and suggest­ing some procedures to achieve these goals. 
"This letter will show our pro­gress and give people another chance to see the unique and in­novative efforts of our group," Dowdall said. 
In support of this need for a Center, Dowdall cited the fact that Dartmouth, a school often cited as similar to Notre Dame in enrollment and ideals, now has a new I 0 million dollar Arts Cen­ter. 
Dowdall was quick to cite what he called a "very coopera­
tive  and  positive approach"  to  
the  idea  from  the  administra­ 
tion. He  emphasized  the Com­ 

mission is working very closely with him in the campaign. 

Once there were only monster computers that did big batch jobs like payrolls. Then came the whirling dervishes of time sharing that Jet a Jot of people work at once. Now there's a new kind of creature that does time sharing and batch work together. So lots of people can use it­efficientIy. It's the Spectra 70/46.The Octoputer.There's nothing else quite like it on earth or under the sea. The Octoputer's arms are long and strong. It sits in the middle of your company and reaches helping hands out in all directions. Suddenly, your company works harder. More of your people use the com­puter-solving more problems, finding more facts, writing more programs. And it does your big batch jobs in its spare time. The Octoputer does a real armload of work for a hand­ful of change. Check the bills from your time­sharing services. 
See if it's not more efficient to because communications is what do the same work on your own ,. .. RCA is famous for. It'll keep us Octoputer. And get batch ,.--·· ....--·····::. ahead of our competition. processing, too. One It can keep you ahead more thing.The Octo-l! of yours. Step up to the puter concentrates Octoputer and shake on remote computing hands hands hands because that's what hands hands hands ... 




FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970 PAGE 11
711E OBSERrJER. 

Letters to the Editor 
costs. And to accuse the Pope of Reverend Billy Graham to cam­
Letters to the Hditor will be accepted for publication being boot-licked! Come on pus and offer instead a challenge 
pro11ided that they are no longer now, boys! We could offer onlv to a master debate in the best than two double spaced type our prayers for the SLERT Notre Dame tradition betw~en member's meandering mentality
written pages. The Hditor CYO and SLERT. 
obviously in search of the Pure
reser11es the right to edit any 2) We fully intend to counter 
Truth somewhere lost in mani­
part of a letter which he deems any attempts to remove the 
fest incoherency! 
."death machines" from the Hud­
libelous, or to withhold an entire 
But alas, the more we read the
letter from publication. Letters dle unless a full shooting gallery 
more amused we were. To pro­
may be addressed to: The is constructed in its stead. One 
pose removal of the "death ma­
can never be too careful.
Observer, Letters to the Hditor, 
chines" from the Huddle in one 
We close in reminding our

Box I I, 
moment of misguided mental 
SLERT rivals that it is CYO's 
belching and in the next mo­
intention to "burn UP" Notre
Cry, the beloved CYO ment to appoint a Defense Min­
Dame to the refulgent level of The following Is another part of ister seems either to indicate a 
the "Great Catholic Univer­
the continuing feud between the 
lack of sincerely or a lack of 
campus CYO (Campus Youth sity-Beacon" and that if consis­Organization) and SLERT (Student imagination in dreaming up a tency is your aim you should League for Enlightened Religious 
title for your third executive 
characteristically advocate
Thought). For those unsuspecting readers who are taking all this staff member--both of which "burning DOWN" Our Lady's seriously we feel It Is our obligation 
seem characteristic of noted stu­cherished university.
to let you know that although the two groups do exist neither seriously dent "liberals". profess the beliefs that they purport We found agreement with the The Executive Staff of the to. II Is all a good natured feud 
group on their final declaration.
between some campus 11 tiberats" and C.Y.O some campus "conservatives" which It was refreshing at least to hear each side laking the other's point of 
that the "liberals" have finally
view-we Imagine In a sort of learning experience. realized that the slogan "Power 
Nixon policy static? 

to the People" is really nothing 
My Distinguished Editor: We of the executive staff of 
Editor, the CYO were both disheartened 
Over the vacation I noticed to and amused at the announce­
my dissatisfaction that the ment of the formation of yet 
"great silent majority" of the another "liberal" campus 
people in the U.S. have conclud­group-SLERT. Our immediate 
ed that the Vietnam war is over. react ion was that the group was 
Pollution and Inflation have yet another front for subversive taken over the spotlights of the activities obviously promoted nation. Because Nixon is "gradu­
from the Outside. It seems al­ally withdrawing" troops from most superfluous to remind such Vietnam, the war is no longer of a typically inconsistent and woe­major concern to the American 
fully misguided group that they more than consummate propa­people. arc laboring under a misnomer ganda used in the past as a salve But if the war is escalated by and should be more appropriate­to disguise the devious machina­the North Vietnamese, guess ly lahckd S/atterlly Uhidinous tions of the "liberal" elite. what Nixon is planning? "Strong hjj(•tc Uadical Traitors! To ad­Assuming that there is some and effective measures" will be 
vocate, to merely suggest, that integrity in the group's inten­taken, says Mr. Nixon, in fact !;ather Duck he restraim·d from tions, we offer the following they will he "stronger than he­feeding his charges is to belittle a response: fore", This is not the way to end tinll'-tcsted Notre Dame tradi­I) CYO will gladly spare the Vietnam war. The policy is tion that must he presnved at all SLI-:RT the cost of bringing the remaining static. 
SMC instructor recieves award 
Miss Susan Stevens, soprano receive a contract to perform which she was assistant to the and instructor in music at Saint with the Metropolitan Opera director. In addition to teaching Mary's, has won first place and a Company. Representatives of all and performing, she has been a $300 award in the Metropolitan major opera companies attend contributing music critic for the Opera Central Region Auditions the regional and final auditions Boston Globe. held at the Lyric Opera of and form judgments which, in Miss Stevens is a student of Chicago. many instances, lead to profes­Margaret llarshaw and has re­
sional contracts for the indi­corded for Vox Records.
As winner of this regional vidual auditioncr. Miss Stevens received herautition, Miss Stevens will vic Deanna Bacon, a 19-year-old Bachelor of Music degree fromwith winners of the other four­soprano and a junior at SMC also Washington State University in teen regions throughout the participated in the regional 1966 and her Master of MusicUnited States at preliminary competition hy virtue of her degree from the New Englandfinals to be held hy Rudolph second place win in the district Conservatory of Music inBing, general manager of the auditions. Boston, Massachusetts, whereMetropolitan Opera. 
For three years Miss Stevens she also served as a faculty 
In New York City in early was soprano soloist with the member. While in Boston, she April 1970, winners of the pre­Kings Chapel Choir in Boston. sang solo performances with the liminary finals will b_c given cash She has also sung with the Lake Cambridge Society for Early awards for study during the George Opera Festival, the Uni­Music, Brandeis University, the summer months and will audi­versity of Washington Opera Goethe Society of New England tion for Mr. Bing again in the Theater, and the New England ans was soloist with the New fall. The ult imatc finalists may Conservatory Oper1 Theater, for England Conservatory Orchestra. 
Need a part time job second semester? 


THE OBSERVER 
needs 
Assistant Business Manager Advertising Salesmen Earn 15% commissions Circulation Personnel Earn$$ 
Interested? Questions? Stop by the Observer office 
or call 7471, 8661 or 1557 
Nixon is playing his best Mary's girl. 
game-politics. By substituting By now, if you've guessed thispollution and inflation as his letter to be a poignant lampoon"priorities", Nixon has effective­against Mr. Gilmartin's enter­ly quieted the country. How­taining letter, you're right!
ever, this policy won't work I suppose girls can distract us,luckily for us, because with this .'!nd we can become "seriouslytype policy by Nixon we will handicapped in the perfor­soon have another Vietnam. 
mances of our other more im­Won't we be lucky to see how portant duties" if we are verywrong Nixon has been just as it weak and/or sex crazy (whichhas been a pleasure to see Ken­could possibly result from annedy's and Johnson's mistakes? 
unnatural all-boys environment).
Larry Overlan Mr. Gilmartin implies that it is1267 N. Lafayette 
sinful, or at least impractical, to have a friend of the oppositeMissive from Father Bill sex. Oh come on now! I didn't Editor: realize there was a moral ques­
That letter (Feb. 4) by Skip tion regarding intersex friend­Gilmartin concerning coeduca­ship. tion at N.D. must have been a "This might sound absurd and joke. ridiculous ..." is a good sum­
Golly gee whiz, I hope Skippy . mary of his letter. realizes that women are an in­In conclusion, let us re­tegral part of our human society. member that our bodies are so­
Mr. Gilmartin seems to look cial vehicles, and that means at girls as dangerous creatures; associating with the opposite well, in a way, they are. Just sex. Remember what Father because most St. Mary's girls are Caine tells us: "He that looks at "out to get" a Notre Dame man girls as strictly taboo is crazy." is no reason to fear them. Dear 
Yours in Christ too, me, it's not natural for a boy 
Bill (alias Father) Caine to fear a girl, especially a St. 
149 Morrissey 
Smoking causes cancer 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Two smoked unfiltered cigarettes at scientists produced Thursday half the "heavy" rate. None of what they said was the long these developed lung cancers. sought direct cause and effect But they did develop other proof that cigarette smoking I u ng d ieases-emphyseme, causes lung cancer. fibrosis and non-malignant 
They got it from 62 dogs who tumors and m almost all were required to "smoke" nine instances in percentages unfiltered cigarettes daily for up dove-tailing with the number of to 875 days or two years and cigarettes smoked. more than four months. The reporting scientists were Fourteen of them developed Dr. E. Cuyler llammond, lung cancers. vice-president of the American 
Cancer Society, and Dr. OscarThese dogs were the "heavy" A uerhach of the Veterans'smokers among 86 male beagles Administration Hospital, Easttrained to smoke through tubes Orange, N.J., both long engaged inserted in their windpipes. Two in scientific efforts to prove thesmoked nine filtered cigarettes harmful effects of cigarette smo­daily for the same period and 12 
king. 


~.Uusc o{ U'$tOJ._~-­
Crt>ttsmen in Optics
I 

I FOR THE FINEST l~YEGLASSES 
• 

AND CONTACT LEI\i<;ES --
TilE Sl/ERLAND BLnG.
•
1. I 

132 S. MICHIGAN ST. Centra/2-1468 
~IIUSe oJ'VaiOJt Jr». 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.-· Chicago 

See both as late as 8:50 Wk. Nites /0 PM f'riday and Sat. 
THE FIRST ADULT FILM ABOUT THE ADULT FILM INDUSTRY ITSELFI 
EXPLICIT LOVE LIFE OF 
THE 





DIVORCEE 
EASTMAN r.OJ.OR 



FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970
PAGE 12 
THE OBSERUER. 
Weather helpedin Peacock debacle 
At South Bend, a ·neet of boarded the taxis and the dis­The rout of the St. Peter's 
taxicabs was ready for the run to gruntled drivers proceeded to Peacock's was not• totally d.ue to the Morris Inn, but confusion 
outrageously overcharge by sev-·
the skill of the Fighting Irish. 
reigned when no one could fig­era! dollars. 
Delays in travel which verge on ure out whether to take the cabs 
the farcical combined to weary (provided by the airline) or a The weary caravan arrived at the Peacocks and deny them the Morris In arbund 6:50,just
mysterious Notre Dame bus. The 
valuable practice time. in time to hurry to the Convo
bus turned out to be for the ND 
The details of the odyssey where they warmed-up briefly
Ice Hockey team, returning from 
come from Mr. Eugene Farrell, and played-having had virtually
points west, but this wasn't dis­covered until all luggage had
an ND alumnus (1928) and the nothmg to eat the whole day Editor of the Jersey Journal who been moved to the bus. A phone outside of a few small sand­accompanied the team to South wiches on the flight from New­
call to Edward "Moose" Krause Bend. All team members matters. ark.
were 'cleared up Everyone · supposed to meet at the St. Peter's gym at 7:30 Wednesday morning, but not everyone 
Matmen hosttourney
showed up. When the entourage After opening the "second schedule now," Coach Matherarrived at Newark airport for the 
9:00 flight, snow had limited the half" of their schedule with a said. The difficult competition 
convincing 29-13 victory over we faced before Christmas im­e~t" blishment to one usable run­Wabash last Tuesday the Notre proved us individually but nowway, and that had been tempor­Dame wrestlers will entertain we've got to get to work onarily blocked by a skidded plane. 
Drake, John Carroll, and Cincin­improving our record." nati in a triple dual tournament
After spending an agonizing this Saturday at the Convocationfive hours in the terminal, the 

Crew

Center. The matches begin at 9Peacocks took off at 2:00 and a.m. and will continue until 3headed for Chicago's O'Hare Air­
Crew Club President Paul
p.m.
port. En route, they weren't Coach Terry Mather felt that Weathersby has announced thecomforted by the news from the this engagement would be of practice schedule for the Row­• captain that there was no plane great importance to the Irish ers. On Monday, Wednesday,for them at O'Hare going to grapplers as they have a chance and Friday, work-outs will beSouth Bend. If one couldn't be to add three victories to their held in the Heavy Apparatuschartered in time, the Peacocks dual meet record. The Irish Room of the Rockne Memorial.
would have to travel by bus. The wrestlers will face an opponent Tuesday and Thursday (andgroup was intensely relieved from each of the other three Saturday later on) the practicewhen a chartered plane awaited teams present and the scoring will shift to the Wrestling Roomthem at 4:45, but since someone will be kept as though Notre of the Convo. The Rowers openhad misplaced the logbook, the Dame were facing each team in a ·on March 30, against Virginiaplane couldn't take off until it dual meet. Commonwealth at Richmond,was found-45 minutes later. 
"We're facing the bulk of our Virginia. 
Buy now ... pay next June, July and August 
That's simply the Campus Shop' Way to buy...you wear your apparel now, pay next summer when it's more convenient, with no service charge or interest added. 
THE GREAT IS IN PROGRESS 
• 
SUITS/SPORTSCOATS/TOPCOATS 
at savings of 

1/4 
1/3 
The styles you want! The fabrics you want! The colors you want! It's all here ... now ... and you save big in the bargain! 
Your Store in Style, Price and Terms 

WI ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
---------------------------,~---------------­
Changes •


1n shuttle bus 
STORY ON PAGE 3 





