~----~------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------­
.. 


VOLUME v. NO. 1 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt M_ary's College Communi~!' FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1970 
Burtchaell, Faccenda, Blantz, Shilts named 
Administrative structure revised 
In the University of Notre reassigned as director of finan­ceived his bachelor's degree and Currently an associate professor, fessors. He was appointed chair­Dame's first major administra­cial aid and scholarships, with licentiate in Sacred Scripture Father Burtchaell has held man of the theology department tive revisi0n in 18 years, the the Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C., from the Pontifical Biblical numerous campus positions, in­in 1968. Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., succeeding him as vice-president Commission following research cluding director of graduate Bib­In other administrative 
chairman of the department of for student affairs. at the Ecole Bibliqe et Archeoli­lical studies; chairman of the changes, the Rev. James L. theology, was"named to the new­The new office of provost, gique Francaise in Jerusalem. faculty library committee; mem­Shil'ts, C.S.C., assistant professor ly created post of provost. created during the June 22 meet­From 1963 to 1966, he studied ber of the Academic Council, pf physics, named assistant
was Several other top administra­ing of the University's trustees, at Cambridge University in Eng­the Faculty Senate and Student vice president for student affairs, 
tors were reassigned. replaced the vice-presidency of land, earning a Ph.D. in Divinity. and the Rev. Thomas E. Cham­
Life Council; and member of the 
In the reshuffling, Phillip Fac­He joined the Notre Dame
academic affairs. executive committee of the cam­bers, C.S.C., rector of Morrisseycenda, a special assistant to the In a letter to Notre Dame's faculty in 1966 and his advance­pus chapter of the American Hall, is the new director of 
President, was elevated to the faculty and administration, the ment since then has been rapid. Association of University Pro-(Continued on Page 7)newly created post of vice-presi-Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. president of the Univer­

dent and general counsel. SMC's First Male Pres.
sity, said that the new adminis­

The Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., rt:signed as vice-president trative arrangement reduces to two the number of persons re­
for student affairs and was later 
porting directly to him: the pro­vost and the executive vice presi­


Msgr. McGrath dies June 9 
dent. The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., will con•inue as executive vice president, a post progr.tms giving their campus an exchange program in which stu­he has held for 18 years. 
Msgr. John J. McGrath, presi­increasingly co-educational dents from both schools took Hesburgh, in his letter, said 
dent of Saint Mary's College character. classes on the other campus wasthat the Provost "is directly in (Notre Dame, Indiana) died St. Mary's thus began to seek a greatly expanded. Coupled with . charge of the total academic en~ Tuesday morning, June 9 at closer men-to-women ratio of 3 the sharing of many classes was terprise and indirectly supervises 6:30 a.m. in Saint Joseph's Hos­to 1 by expanding its freshmen the opportunity for greater ex-student affairs. He is Acting pital, South Bend, Indiana. Msgr classes of '70 and '71. The co-
Presidnet in the absence of the (Continued on Page 7)
McGrath had suffered a severe 
President, a Fellow and Trustee 

heart attack in Reidinger House 
of the University." 

his campus residence, on Sunday
"The Executive Vice Presi­

afternoon and was rushed to 
dent," Hesburgh said, "will 

Saint Joseph's where he had 
supervise everything else and

ReY. James T. BurtchaeD remained on the critical list until 
will, as Treasurer of the Univer­

his death. He was 4 7 years old. 
sity, give special attention to all 
A funeral Mass was celebrated 
financial affairs. He will con 

at 1:00 p.m. Saturday, June 13,
tinue to be a Fellow and Trus­
in the Church of Our Lady of
1700 Freshmen 
tee, Chairman of the Budget 
Loretto and burial was in the 
Committee, the Building Com­
Lady Queen of Peace Cemetery
converge on NO mittee, the Board in Control of on the campus. Athletics, and myriad other 
Msgr. McGrath was named act­

committees . . . He will be
· Over 17 SO freshmen are ex­ing president in November 1967 
Acting President in the absence
pected to arrive at Notre Dame and took office in January,
of the President and Provost." 
this weekend for orientation ac­1968. He was installed as the Father Burtchaell, 36, is a na­
tivities. The largest class in Notre sixth president of Saint Mary's
tive of Portland, Oregon, where
Dame's history wili immediately on September 29, 1968, the first 
he attended Columbia Prepara­
face an overcrowding pro­man to lead the women's college 
tory School. Ordained a priest in 
blem. Ten students will be in its 124-year history. 
the Congregation of the Holy
housed in the infirmary, and all Although his stay at St. Mary's 
Cross in 1960, he did his under­
frosh from tht. South Bend, are_a was short many changes did oc­
graduate work at Notre Dame in 
will live at home. Sixteen resi­cur during his presidency. In 
philosophy. He _h_Q.lds.the.ology
dence hall rooms will temporari­May 1969 he and Father Res­
degrees from Rome's Gregorian
ly be converted to triples. burgh, president of Notre Dame 
University and the Catholic Uni­
Several changes will appear made their announcement of versity of America, and he re-
this year in the freshman course plans for expanded co-operative requirements. The major one is the elimination of the calculus requirement for Arts and Letters 

Freshman Year program instills confidence 
and Business Administration in­tents. Jt will be replaced by 
Notre Dame's Freshman Year -The dropout rate is avaraging versity welcome in the Athletic grams as sophomores.three alternatives in mathe­
of Studies begins its ninth year less than 2 per cent of the and Convocation Center Arena In addition to the traditional matics. The freshman year office 
this month with its faculty-coun­student body at Notre Dame at 8 p.m. administration reception for courses
will also offer remedial selors more convinced than ever over the last eight years. One goal of these welcoming parents in the Center for Con­in English and mathematics, as 
of the program's value. -Freshman students achieving sessions is instilling confidence. tinuing Education, there will be well as tutoring for studentS' 
Much of the work of the office a grade-point average of 3.00 or Students are reminded they are a special welcome for the par­with weak backgrounds in speci­
is ge:tred to its motto, "We can higher (out of a possible 4.00) expected to graduate because of ents of a record number of black fic areas of study. 
save all those willing to work," increased from 12 per cent prior their predictable success, based freshmen. Co-hosts at this re­The Black Studies Program and involves personal interviews to the formation of the office to on admission requirements. ception in LaFortune Student will go into effect this fall, 
with first-year students suffering 42 per cent in the last school Burke still winces when he re­Center will be several couplesheaded by sociologist Dr. from a range of problems, in­year. members one orientation meet­from the South Bend area who Joseph W. Scott. There will cluding academic woes, broken Dean Burke is quick to point ing he attended at a major east­wimt to establish new friend­
approximately sixty black fresh­
romances, empty pocketbooks out that other factors -"a li­em university. The speaker told ships and offer their homes as a man at Notre Dame this fall. 
and just plain homesickness. brary with superb study facilities the new students to look at the meeting place on the occasion of In addition to the orientation 
Heading the nine-man staff of and a constantly improving man sitting on his right and the 
future visits by the parents. 

program scheduled by the uni­this campus life-saving operation counselling program in the Ad­one on the left and observed, versity, many residence halls will 
is Dean William M. Burke, a mission office"-share credit for "One of you will be gone by the offer orientation programs in former professor of English. Re­these improvements. end of the year." "That's not The orientation program will 
conjunction with Notre Dame continue through September 7
ferrals to his office come from The l 970 orientation program my idea of building confidence," 
Student Government. Jack Can­and 8 and classes will begin at
the 158 professors who teach of the department will bt:gin Burke comments. 
8:30 September 9.

don, director of the orientation Notre Dame freshmen, hall re­September 5. New students, Mass and a review of campus program, explained that the 
. cotrs and resident assistants, and many of whom have 'survived a religious opportunities are During the first weeks of the orientation on a hall and section others on campus who come in battery of interviews and tests scheduled for September 6 be­semester Dean Burke joins with basis will bring the freshman contact with students having ob­administered by the Admissions fore parents join their sons for Robert . J. Waddick, associate 
year activities to a more personal vious difficulties adjusting to and Freshman Year offices, will lunch. The afternoon will be dean of the College of Liberal level. collegiate life. arrive on campus with their filled with tests for interantional Arts, to present a series of "How The main objective of the pro­All told, the staff averages 52 parents. Room assignments, pro­students, student activities, more to'"study" programs in the audi­gram is to bring professor and to 57 interviews per day cessing, and tours fill the day tours and meetings with parents torium of Memorial Libnuy.members of student government throughout the calendar year, before Notre Dame's Provost, and students who will be partici­More than 300 freshmen will and a measure of their value is the Rev. James T. Burtchaell, pating in the Tokyo-lnnsbruck­attend each of these week-long
(Continued on Page 3) 

reflected in two statistics: C.S.C., extends the official Uni-Angers-Mexico City-Rome pro-sessions. 



F" 

PAGE 2 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1970
TilE O&Wlflllt 


Law School receives grant to speed up iustice 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $191 ,91 7 grant from the U.S. Department of Justice to study ways of speed­ing up the administration of criminal justice without sacrific­ing Constitutional rights. 
Announcement of the grant was made by Third District Con­gressman John Brademas (D., Ind.) who hailed it as "a signifi­cant and encouraging step to­ward remedying judicial delay and inefficiency which has caus­ed postponement of rehabilita­tion of offenders and permitted suspects to commit additonal crimes while awating trial." 
The proposal funded by the Justice Department's National Institute of Law Endorcement and Criminal Justice was prepar­ed jointly by Notre Dame's Law School, headed by Dean William 
B. Lawless, and its College of Engineering under Dean Jose ph 
C. Hogan. 
Lawless, a former judge on the New York State Supreme Court, said that the study flowed from a remark by Chief Justice War­ren Burger that "justice delayed is justice denied" and from a suggestion in a report to former President Lyndon Johnson that systems analysis be employed to make the courts more effective. He stressed that the rights of the defendent would not be abridged in the effort, but only delays caused by court structure, clerical procedures, specialized state laws and court rules would be altered. 
Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean of the College of Engineering, ex­plained that systems analysis had been used successfully in helping · businesses, hospitals and other 
organizations streamline their operations. A pilot study of court and police procedures in South Bend made by seniors in Notre Dame's industrial engin­eering program indicated the same techniques could be used in improving the administration of justice. 
The cooperative effort, now funded for one year, will com­


pare delays in non-federal court trials in two nearby Indiana cities -South Bend and indiana­polis. These cities were chosen for their convenient location Lawless and Hogan said, and because they represent average cities in the medium and large popu I ation bracket. Lawless plans to study eight other Amer­ican cities in future years, com­paring the sources of delay across the country. 
He is also consulting with ex­perts at the University of Bir­mingham in England, who will launch a similar study of the English system. Lawless expects the comparison of the English and American systems to yield exceptionally fruitful results, as the British courts handle cases in about a third of the time of American courts. 
The director of the Criminal Justice Research operation is Leslie G. Foschio, assistant pro­fessor and assistant dean of the Law School. A former assistant district attorney in Erie County 
Reflections. 
A new album from The Lettermen. ContainS~ generous helpings ofpast, present, future; well mixed and gently stirring. 
Ingredients: 
Reflections My Girl Close To You Touch Me Up on the Roof A Natural Man Since You've Been Gone Make ItWithYou The Sun Ain't Gonna Shine Any More Hey, Girl love 
JOY 
happiness. 
C THE LETTERMEN REfi_ECTIONS 

0 


CapitoL 
dents will collect a sampling of various felonies and misde­(Buffalo) N.Y., Foschio is an 
expert in criminal justice ad­meanors concerning cases of a
ministration. Dr. James 
particular type (for instance,Daschbach, associate professor robbery, gambling) noting the
of aerospace and mechanical en­gineering, will develop the sys­

time span between each of the tems analysis and computer 20 or more steps in the legal modeling for the project. 
pmcess. The data will be evalu­Daschbach has supervised many 
ated by legal experts and sent to studies of hospitals and local 
the systems engineers. businesses, using systems an­--Making a computer model of alysis to suggest more effective the court system. The engineers prodecures. will also assess the structural flow of court cases. On receiving 
David T. Link, Professor of the data from the law students,
law, will oversee the legal they will make a flow chartanalysis of the computer model. 
showing the delays at each step.
He is interested in computer Finally, they will make a com­applications to the legal process puter model of the court system,and is the chairman of the Stan­so that real or theoretical courtding Committee on Law and cases can be simulated. 
Technology of the American Bar --Finding the legal reasons forAssociation. 
the delay. The computer modelDr. John J. Uhran, associate will go back to the lawyers, who
Professor of electrical engineer­will analyze the legal reasons for

ing and a specialist in statistical delay at crucial points. The
communication theory will supervise the engineering analy­panel of law faculty and its sis of the computer model. Dr. 
consultants will suggest changesRaymon M. Brach, associate pro­
in laws, procedures, structure fessor of aer.ospace and mechani­and court rules which mightcal engineering, will head the 

reduce delay. data acquisition and reduction 
--Evaluating suggested changes team of the project. 
in the court model. These sug­The steps involved in analyzing 
gestions will be programmed in­the legal process from arrest to 
to the computer model, which final judgment of the case and in 
will then find how· much time 

suggesting new prodecures to re­
the new rules might save. Those duce delay are: 
changes which look promising -Assessing the flow of crimin­
will be offered to the Justice 

al cases from arrest, through Department as possible altera­police offices to the courts, and tions in the local criminal codes through final appeals. Law stu-and court procedures. 
Sought in Madison 


Fugitives passed block 

Madison, Wis. (UPI) -Four County said two officers im­fugitives who are wanted for mediately set up an "observa­the August 24 bombing at tion post" on U.S. 12, a the University of 'Wiscnns.in main highway between Mad­were held by .authorities for ison and Baraboo. 
more than an hour shortly At 6:06 a.m., Bray said, a after the blast but were let 
car similar to that described go, it was learned Thursday. 
in the bulletin was seen on Reynolds R. Abrahams, 
U.S. 12. The Sauk Countychief Dane County sheriffs 

officers ran a license check, deputy, said recent decisions 
found the car was registered by the U.S. Supreme Court in Madison and stopped it. led police to release the four 
The four were in custody men. They have since gone 
for about an hour and fifteen underground. minutes. Named in federal warrants charging sabotage, conspiracy and destruction of government 
Summa hits 97%

property were two Madison brothers and two former staff "Summa" the University ofmembers of the university stu­Notre Dame's $52 million de­dent newspaper, the Daily velopment program, has reach­Cardinal. 
ed $50.4 million or 97 perThe FBI identified the four cent of its goal, it has been as Karlston Lewis Armstrong, announced by Dr. 0. C. Car­22, a former UW student; his 

michael, chairman of the

brother Dwight Allen Arm­board of the Associates Cor­strong, 19, a high school poration of North America indropout; David Sylvan Fine, South Bend, Ind., and general18, a UW student from Wil­chairman of the campaign.
mington, Del., and former The "Summa" program, call­night editor of the Cardinal; ed a "blueprint for Notreand Leo Frederick Burt, 22, a Dame's future" when it wasUW student and former writer launched in the fall of 1967for the newspaper. 
seeks $20 million for facult;Dane county authorities 
development, $13.9 million

were expected to file murder for graduate education, $4.5
charges. The blast, which de­m i Ilion for special researchstroyed the U.S. Army Math­programs, and $13.5 millionematics Research Center and for general University develop­caused up to $6 million dam­
ment.

age, killed physicist Robert E. 
Carmichael said 38 metro­Fassnacht, 33, the father of politan areas across the nationthree, and injured four 'other have met or exceeded theirpersons. 

goals and almost 26,000 per­The explosion came at 3:42 sons have contributed. Thea.m. The FBI said two Dane average alumnus pledge to theCounty Officers saw a "light campaign, Carmichael reported,colored, late model Chevrolet is $918. "It would be a re­Corvair" speeding from the markable feat were we toexplosion area and a bulletin 

reach our goal in three

was aired on police radio. 
years," the national chairman
James Bray of the sheriffs commented.

department in adjacent Sauk 


FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 4, 1970 
PAGE 3 
Co-ex program expanded 
(Continued from Page 1) 
10 
The University of Notre Dame Sunday (Sept. 13) with a redted into individual halls to talk in­expects a record high enrollment concelebrated Mass in Sacred formally with students. The hall of 8,200 this fall, according to Heart Church. The Rev. Theo­speaking engagements are Leo M. Corbaci, registrar and dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre scheduled to begin on Monday assistant provost. The 1970-71 Dame's president, will be the and last through the week. Can­fall semester enrollment was principal celebrant, and the don expressed hopes of continu­7,924. homily will be preached by the 
ing the speeches during the re­Some l ,750 freshmen will join Rev. William A. Toohey, C.S.C., mainder . of the -school year. 150 transfer students and 4,500 director of campus ministry. 
Coordinate coeducation with returnees to form an undergrad­An academic procession of the neighboring Saint Mary's College uate student body of 6,400 for faculty will precede the Mass. will continue, with several fresh­
the opening of classes September 
9. On the graduate and profes­

man classes taught to mixed groups on both campuses. Under 
sional level, registmms mclude an exchange plan started in 150 in the business administra­
We live in friendship, in warm community •••
tion master's degree program,
1964, a total of 1,100 Notre 
we are a happy family. 
500 in the Law School and

Dame students took 1,447 
We experience fulfillment 
1,150 in the regular Graduate

classes at Saint Mary's last se­
in living totally 
School.

mester and 758 Saint Mary's 
for God's children.
All divisions of the University

women took 1 ,229 classes at 
Join us as a Priest
reported higher enrollment ex­

Notre Dame. The trustees of both schools have appointed a 
cept for the Graduate School, which is down about 1 00. 

consultant team to study the relationship between the two in­
The formal opening of the stitutions and present recom­academic year will take place mendations next December. 
Frosh have 7 options 

Father Joseph



Required Math courses changed 
1
The Trinitarians Grey Rock 1

To increase th~ tance of mathematics might dent to add electives, or a countered. Garrison, Maryland 21055 I "mathematical literacy" of the prefer geometry or algebra, he second concentration in anoth­Another new course will be I average student, the dpartment said. Business majors who will er field. the freshman colloquim. This : of mathemati's at the need to use computers would one credit course will be a 1 University of Notr.! Dame has profict from the course in The Freshman Year of seminar class which will ex-Name Ag<> 1 launched seven new courses finite mathematics. Engineers Studies will also offer two plore the aims, methods, I for freshmen of all disciplines and scientists would still be remedial courses-in English scope, and possibilities of col-: beginning this fall. required to take calculus, and Mathematics. The English lege education. The seminar Address 
1

According to Dr. Timothy while math majors will still course will concentrate on sections will meet once a 1 1 O'Meara, chairman of the de­enroll in honors calculus. studies for international stu­week in groups of ten to fif-I I partment, the new courses are ''Mathematics has become dents. The remedial program teen freshmen. Each group : Zip I designed to meet the mathe­an international language," will be taught from the begin­will be led by two ND or I
1 
1

matical needs of students who 0'Meara explained, "a lan­ning of the school year, SMC seniors enrolled in the 1 will not major in guage of computers, business rather than after individual Senior Seminar on Humanistic I School Now Attendtng Year I mathematics, and increase men, scientists, psychologists, academic difficulties are en-Education. L--------------~ 
their awareness of its cultural, and social scientists. We want artistic and philosophic dimen­to provide courses to meet sions, as well as its scientific the need of students inter­value. ested in these areas." 
In the past, O'Meara ex­l n addition to providingplained, freshmen were re­more flexible alternatives forquired to take calculus-a freshmen, the department is course of limited interest to exploring the needs of stu­many arts and letters stu­dents majoring in business, en­dents. Beginning in September, gineering and the social sci­he added, arts and letters ences. As part of the Collegefreshmen will be able to of Science's new Concentra­choose two courses from tion Program, the departmentnin-basic mathematics, finite of mathematics is developingmathematics (programming), groups of courses to aid stu­calculus I and II, nonors cal­dents who wish to "concen­culus, modern geometry, mod­trate" on two subjects-per­ern logic, modern algebra, and haps mathematics and biology,enriched caluculus. 

mathematics and business, or 

O'Meara expects that philo­mathematics and education. 
sophy majors might be most The concentration program re­
interested in taking logic. Tea­duces the required number of 
chers or history majors who credits required in the "maj­

appreciate the cultural · the stu-
G R E A.T STAT EST H EAT R E S "~rsrNrs j 
-~. 
FEATURE at 1:45-3:45 5:45-8: -9:45 
THE MIRISCH PRODUCTION COMPANY presents 

SIDNEY POITIER MARTIN LANDAU 

This is thewayitis. We're intoit. 
0~-=· .. ~·:. 
D ,.J 0 .. /~<).. J'~~~ -·:. ~) 
.;:;.' -~~' 
··...._, 
,. 






Wrangter
Jeansand 
Mr.Wrangter Sportswear. 
Wremember the "W" is silent. 
WITH CI.ELANESE® IPaRTREl POLYESTER 
GILBERT'S DEPT. STORE 
Mishawaka, Indiana 

ROBERTSON'S DEPT. STORE 
South Bend, Indiana 

rOIURfLZ l:i ... TR... O(M.<,H" nr riRfA INOW·fAif • I'II~.~[LANf'>F't @ 1-.70 Rl11F' Rrl 1, INr. 
PAGE 4 711B OB.rEilfla FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1970 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper DAVID C'. BACH, -Editor GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Dave Bach 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
This ain't no high school 
:::::::::::~:::~:~:~:~:~:~:::::::~:::::~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Your life will be different at Notre Dame. This ain't no high school. There will be more people, from more places, wanting more things -from you! And you'll really get sick of it. I reach that point about once a week. 
But I haven't quit yet because there is somehow always something about the people at Notre Dame that draws you back. 
I'm not going to preach Notre Dame to you. Nothing about a Christian Community. And I'm not going to go the other way and slander St. Mary's in order to appear sophisticated. 
There is a Notre Dame ideal. But it's something everyone here has to find for himself. For me it has been the people I have met at Notre Dame. They're the reason I drag myself out of bed each morning to put out this 
paper. 
I've made many close friends (and, I pray, very few enemies) at the Observer. For me it has been one of the best opportunities to express myself, meet people, and have a good time. This is something I hope you all will find, whatever you do at Notre Dame. You are at Notre Dame, of course, to get an education, but you will see, as I have, that the real education comes in your contact with people ahd involvement within the Uni-versity. 
I'm sure you've all been told, at your graduation address, or by parents, friends, etc., that you should "broaden your horizons." I admit that it is a well worn clice. However, I will also admit that it is a pertinent one. It doesn't take long at Notre Dame to realize how narrow your sphere of experience has been up to now. It is at this point that you realize that you either sink or swim. Some choose to swim, most choose just to tread water, some sink. Believe me, it's easier in the long run to swim. Getting involved may mean the difference between four years of merely at­tending classes and four year "happening'; to fill the giant void between high school and the much-dreaded life after senior year. 
So get out and go to Student Government's Activities Night and find out for yourself what Notre Dame's organizations have to offer you. Come up to their open house Wednesday and find out about Student Government. (Now is the time for my pitch.) While you're there, visit the Observer office. See what makes it tick. Meet a few of my friends. 
Don't forget to talk to your teachers. They don't bite. And, as a wise poet once said, "This ain't no high school." So don't worry about your image. Be yourself and be open and honest. Nothing is more characteristic of Notre Dame men than their honesty. 

Welcome Freshmen 
Welcome to Notre Dame. You are entering a complex community, one that will offer you moments of both pleasure and frustration in the next fo•1r years. We in student government hope to meet you in the next few weeks and discuss with you our plans for this university. At the same time, we hope to sense what you want and expect from Notre Dame, both academically and socially. This information will help guide us as we mold Notre Dame into a university more preoccupied with its Students. 
Let me briefly familiarize you with student government's primary goal for the coming year. We hope to replace the overly competitive spirit at Notre Dame with a more relaxed social and academic atmosphere. Part of this comes through the revitalization of our physical plant. This year the student center will become a much more complete place for relaxation and education. 
Another part of the program is in our push for co-education. Notre Dame must move in this area if it will continue to be a place for meaningful education. We will also •~ a continued loosening of the academic structure, with a re-emphasis of personal growth rather than grades. 
I hope you will all become involved in the goals of your student government either by participating in one of our projects, or by simply refusing to observe the silly, antiquated social norms of the past. The first step here might come by treating the St. Mary's girls you meet as individual, human beings rather than some sort of object. 
All of us in student government invite you to an open house Wednesday night in your student center. We hope to meet as many of you as possible on a personal basis. Again, welcome to the Notre Dame student body. 

Campus Opinion ==============================================:=:;;=:===============================:=: 

ND: WINE, WOMEN, AND SONG 
We, your friendly Observer Editors, have magnaminously de­
cided to bestow upon you freshmen our collective wisdom in 
the form of this short primer in order to make your first few 
months here at Notre Dame as enjoyable and comfortable as 
possible. 

Now being normal healthy Christian gentlemen, there will be 
two things on your devious minds after mommy and daddy 
depart for the homefront: sex and booze. You will soon find, 
much to your dismay, that both are in short supply if you 
resort to conventional methods to obtain them. However, if 
you follow these handy little hints ample supplies of both will 
flow your way. 

BOOZE -you will soon find that enormous quantities of 
alcoholic beverages are brought on campus every weekend, 
mostly by persons under 21. Now the vexing p::-oblem is of 
course, how do they get it? There are several methods. The 
first is to run to the photostat machine in the library and stat 
your draft card. Then you take the stat and change the date 
of your birth and then stat it again. After that you paste it 
on cardboard, laminate it and stil.k it in a plastic window in 
your wallet. This form of proof does not work too well 
because persons who use it find themselves blushing, stuttering 
and bug-eyed when asked if they have anything else for 
identification. It is also difficult to make it work if the last 
time you shaved was for graduation and you haven't found 
the need to do so since. 

The most tried and true method is to acquire several airline 
flight bags and head for the nearest establishment heavily 
frequented by Notre Dame men. After arriving you stand 
outside looking casual as hell and promptly pounce on each 
and every person who _is about to enter the place and 
piteously beg him to buy you four or five cases of Schlitz, or 
whatever. After your sucker comes staggering out with your 
brew you promptly stuff it in the flight bags all the while 
keeping a sharp look out for the local constabulary. Then you 
run over to the stop sign and hitch a ride back to campus, 
smiling nervously when an 80 year old lady in a 57 Rambler 
picks you up. If you are not lucky enough to own a 
refrigerator, the next best thing is to take a trip over to the 
Science hall with a garbage can and fill it with ice from their 
machine. Ask any upperclassman where it is and they'll be 
glad to tell you, or send a stamped self-addressed envelope to 
the Observer office for directions. 
SEX -this you will Jearn, is the prime topic of discussion 
at ND. Everyone talks about what great fantastic girlfriends 
they have back home, yet when you ask about St. Mary's 
girls, they will fall silent, look away, and mutter something 
along the lines of "those prudes?" 
This however, is a deliberate misstatement. SMC ghls are 
sweet delicate young maidens who love Notre Dame men. Now 
there are several ways to meet these girls. One method is to 
don green shorts, a white t-shirt, black· socks, high top black 
sneakers, a raincoat and a Budweiser hat and ride a bicycle all 
over the SMC campus asking girls if they would like to go to 
the next concert with you. If you are the shy type, it is 
permissible to wear a halloween mask that glbws-in the dark. 
That method may strike you as a bit bizarre, so there is another one that can be followed with equal success. This modus operandi is best used to meet girls from town who own automobiles. The first step is to get some beer, preferably enough to get you really drunk. After you consume it as quickly as possible (one good way, is you have pop top cans, is to punch a hole in the side near the bottom, hold it to your mouth and rip off the pop top and suck the beer 
down.) Then you stagger down to the circle and attempt to hitch a ride. Since you are looking for girls you should refuse all rides from any males which stop for you. If no girls stop after a 
while you can grab one of your friends and force him to Jay down in the path of an oncoming car. When it stops you and t~e rest .of your friends should swarm all over it demanding a 
nde. This usually results in entrance or a broken collar bone as the car accelemtes. Since there will be many persons down there competing in this sport, it is advisable to have an added inducement for the girls that cruise by. Waving several cans of beer or smiling invitingly usually works. 
We hope that these tips will help you frosh to get the most ou of your first year ND socially and otherwise. 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1970 THE OBSERJJER 
PAGE 5 


Chivalry flowers with influx of SMC damsels 

For those few gallants at Notre Dame, many a freshman.'s father is unduly suspicious freshman orientation offers a rare chance to of a young man so selflessly offering his show that charm and chivalry that has won assistance to his daughter. them world wide fame. 
All this chivalry is not without reward, however, for these men do receive just
For those man enough to traverse the long, 
compensation. They not only receive a head
winding road to S.M.C. (pictured below) 
start on the freshman, prize objects of
unique opportunity awaits. The trail is not 
Saturday night's "rush", but they also have
easy, however, for the steps of Holy Cross 
the opportunity to endear themselves to the
and Le Mans are foreboding to all who 
many returning upperclassmen.
attempt to scale them, expecially when burdened with the three hundred pound bags 
Chivalry, long may it live!
that have made St. Mary's girls famous. And 
"Asking about the cultural like the scheduled events for this at Notre Dame is a rather unfair year's festival include: a Blues question. 'Cultural life' is a Festival, September 11 and 12 in phrase that may be rich with Stepan Center, that will be connotations in some filmed by the National Educa­places ... but at Notre Dame it is tion Television Network as a essentially meaningless idiom .. " documentary on Lightning Hop-1 kins and the Blues; the San 
The above quotation from the Francisco Mime Troupe, per­1969 Notre Dame yearbook forming experimental theatre; aptly describes the cultural at-the Lyric Theatre experimenting mosphere at Notre Dame before in drama, dance, poetry, and the inception of Cinema '71, the music; the National Players per­Sophomore Literary Festival, forming a festival of comedy, and the Contemporary Arts Fes-George Bernard Shaw's Arms tival. Of these three organiza-and the Man and William Shakes­tions, CAF bears the greatest peare's The Twelfth Night; and responsibility for developing and other artistic events such as a sustaining cultural awareness at Folk Festival, the American Notre Dame, in that its scope is Ballet Theatre Players, the Gary the broadest. The Contemporary Burton Quartet, and many other Arts Festival is an independent, surprises. non-profit, student operated or-The scope of the festival de­ganization designed to bring out-pends largely on the finances at standing contemporary artistic the disposal of CAF. Because of events to the Notre Dame-St. , serious financial difficulties, the Mary's community. Following university again cannot allocate the tradition established by last any funds to the festival. year's festival, CAF will again Michael Cervas, chairman of present a year long performing CAF, said, "The CAF desparate­arts series providing the students ly needs support from the stu­and faculty of Notre Dame and dents; and one way that a stu­St. Mary's Colle11;e with a con-dent can greatly aid CAF and at centrated look into what is hap-the same time save himself be­pening in the arts today. tween $20 and $30 is to buy a 
CAF was born five years ago as student patron card. The card is 
a small two week Spring festival available for $8.00 and entitles 
of the arts. For 3 years it gener-the student to free admission to 
ated little enthusism among the most of the festival's events." 

student body. Then under the capable leadership of Richard Roddewig, the CAF expanded last year to span the entire aca­demic year. Roddewig's festival brought a wide variety of artistic events to the campus represent­ing the best in contemporary drama, dance, poetry, music, and films. Some of the outstand­ing events of past festivals in­clude the Minneapolis Firehouse Theatre's presentation of Faust,· the Chicago Symphony in con­cert, Lucas Foss and the Creative Associates, the Murray Louis Dance Company, Son House, the 
Lucas Hoving Dance Company, the Luther Allison Blues Band, Tommy Flanders, Tom Paine an experimental play, the American Brass Quintet, and J. B. Hutte and his Blues Band. This year CAF under the direction of Michael Cervas will continue many of the traditions 
established by Rodde wig 
including the presentations of 
various film festivals, drama and 
dance performances, and folk, 
jazz, blues, and chamber music 
concerts. 
In addition, the CAF this yea.J. will branch off into exciting new artistic experiences, including American mime, ballet, and im­provizational drama. Some of 
Keep daily tabs on what's happening at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Colleges and universities have been in the news lately. Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
Subscribe
is no exception. 
The Observer will bring you the latest every day. The latest news, sports, features and editorial opinion. 
Just $5 for the first seme~;ter $8 for the whole year. 
Just clip and mail this ad to: The Observer 
Box 11 
The 0bserver never forgets to Notre Dame, Ind.
write home. 46556 
PAGE 6 msaar,., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1970 
Rev. Toohey named director of campus ministry 
The Rev. William A. Toohey, C.S.C., previously an assistant professor in Notre Dame's Theo­logy department, has bee ap­pointed the director of campus ministry by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the Uni­versity. 
The change in title from "Uni­versity chaplain" to "director of campus ministry" is meant to illustrate the fact that the whole Notre Dame community is in­volved in ministry, not just its clerical and religious members, Fr. Toohey explained. 
"We have got to expand the concept of 'ministry' beyond the notion that it is ' what priests do on campus,' " he commented. 
"We hope to develop a Univer­sity-wide involvement marked by an experience of concern for one another." 
Fr. Toohey was adamant in his proposal to explode the "pro­vincial concept of campus minis­try beyond merely a few priests." 
"We feel it very important to promote a sense of conern for one another to involve all elements of the University com­munity, including students, faculty, religious, and adminis­tration." 
As a means of implementing his progr&m 1 effectively, Fr. Toohey plans to work with rec­tors and the resident assistants within the individual halls. 
"By working more closely with the rectors and resident assistants, we will attempt to effect their closer contact with students, to the degree that stu­dents will come to recognize them as sources of advice and assistance regarding individual problems and needs," he re­marked. 
He added that a bi-weekly training program for rectors. will be established, designed to improve the counseling and preaching expertise of the rec­tors. 
Fr. Toohey holds an M.A. in public speaking from Northwes­tern University, and his specialty has been homiletics, which he has taught both at Notre Dame and Moreau Seminary. 
Fr. Toohey also revealed his intention to ·revamp the liturgy of the Mass, particularly in re­gard to Sacred Heart Church. 
"We hope to introduce varie­gated liturgies featuring different styles and music, all to be done tastefully and creatively,'' he stated. 
While enthusiastic about the prospects of his program, Fr. Toohey admitted that it would take time to formulate solutions to various problems. 
"I feel, realistically, that it will probably take a year for me to involve myself with the students before I can acutely appreciate their feelings and needs,'' he said. 
Regarding his availability to students, Fr. Toohey observed that he would be "forced by events" to be wherever students concerns are involved, citing 

Nee A 
CHEST OF DRAWERS? BOOKCASE OR RECORD CABINET? Buy it unpainted-Save 1/2 or More!!! RUGS! ROOM SIZE· AT BIG SAVINGS!! 
HUGE Stock of furniture and rugs right in 
OLD FIELD HOUSE
NOW! 
Across from the Huddle SAVING $$ for N.D. Students since 1948 
WILLIAM'S 
UNPAINTED FURNITURE And N.D. Student Union 
room 103 in the Memorial Lib­rary, occupying quarters former­masses for peace as an example 
of such events. 
ly used by the Urban Studies 
At all other times, he will be Institute. He also has a room on available in his office duri~g the first floor of the Presbytery, most of the day and in the the building adjacent to Sacred evenings. Heart, to meet with students 
Fr. Toohey can be located in during weekends. 
Dining hall tightens security 
second helpings allowed 
In order to p'rovide Notre Dame students with a finer quality of food service, Edward 
T. Price, Director of Food Ser­vices, has assumed several new dining hall procedures to be in­augurated this semester. 
Mr. Price revealed these pro­cedures in a recent letter to each student. 
According to Mr. Price, the outstanding change in the pro­gram will permit students to return for "seconds" on all items, with the exception of high-cost entrees, such as steak and choice ribs. 
Illustrating his intention to exert "absolute control of all students entering the dining halls," Mr. Price disclosed that each student will be provided with a Student Dining Hall I den­utensels nor food may be re­moved from the dining rooms. Further, as was customacy hist year, each _:;tudent, upon finis!:­
ing his meal, will be required to place his tray upon one of the racks pr'ovi~ed. 
Concerning serice hours two slight changes have been enact­ed. These changes apply to lunch and dinner from Monday through Saturday. Fifteen extra minutes have been alloted ser­vice hours for these meals, now beginning at ll: 15 a.m. and 5:15p.m., respectively. 
Complete service hours are as follows: Monday through Satur­day: Breakfast -7:00-8: 15; Con­tinental Breakfast-8:30-10:10; Lunch -II: 15-1:00; Dinner ­
tification Card, complete with a· 5:15-6:30; Sundays and holi­
color photograph of each authorizedstudent. 
These LD. cards will be pre­pared on Tuesday and Wednes­day of this coming week. 
In addition, Mr. Price noted that each student will be assign­ed a specific dining halL No one will be allowed inside the dining hall unless properly authorized by a valid LD. card, or by a purchased meal ticket. 
Meal tickets for guests are available, and may be purchased from the Dining Hall office at the rate of one dollar for break­fast, nne dollar and a half for lunch and two dollars tor dinner. Reaffirming his desire to pro­vide students with "the best possible food service," Mr. Price added that neither dining hall 
days: Breakfast -9:00-9:45; Lunch-12:00-1:15; Dinner­5:00-6:30. 
Mr. Price stressed that, in or­der for the program to be suc­cessful, "the cooperation of everyone is necessary," and wel­comed any suggestions for the improvement of Notre Dame food service. 
Wle Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vac:atlons by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. M.ry's College. Subscriptions m•y be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre D1me Ind., 46556. Second clus postage !Nid, Notre D•me Ind. 46556. 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Located on the Campus is Ready To Serve You 
"Dependable Quality At Students' Prices" 
Text Books -New & Used Paperback Books School Supplies Drawing Instruments Drawing Supplies Stationery Typewriters Expert Radio & Typewriter repair Cameras & Film Notre Dame Jackets Sportswear Monogram Blankets Toilet Articles Desk Lamps Religious Articles Jewelry & Class Rings Radios & Records 
Typewriters For Rent ­Rental May Apply Toward the Purchase of Your Own Machine 

--~---------------------­
--~-­

PAGE 7 

Msgr. McGrath 
University. He was ordained a (Continued from Page 1) priest for the Diocese of Steu­benville, Ohio, in 1954 and was
tra-curricular associations, re­elevated to domestic prelate
sulted in an increasingly co-edu­with the title of Right Reverend
cational character for the two schools. 
Monsignor in 1968. Also during Father McGrath's The first priest admitted to practice before the U.S. Su­
presidency the students were preme Court and the Courts of
given voting positions on all col­the State of Pennsylvania, he
lege committees concerned with was an expert on the relation­
academic matters, including the Academic Affairs Council. ships of Civil and Canon Law. 
Msgr. McGrath was a native of He was the author of a study, Pittsburg, and received his B.A. Catholic Institutions in the and LL.B. from Duquesne Uni­United States: Their Canonical 
versity and earned his doctorate and Civil Law Status and Church in Canon Law from the Catholic and State in the United States. 
•

Student Union to offer new serv1ces 
Student Union Director Pohl yesterday announced  Bob sev­ tor approximately an hour every afternoon, will also sell tickets for all events at the Athletic and Convocation Center. Pohl said  sold books will be left out for pickup by the owners for several days following the sale. Pohl added that the Union was  take care of the rides, Pohl claimed. A spring auction is also being considered Pohl said. The Union  book." He planned to discuss the matter with Fr. Thomas Blantz, newly appointed Vice­President in charge of student  
eral new services that are to be offered this year. A central tic­ket booth located in what was previously the Fiesta Lounge, a co-operative book sale to be held sometime next week, the pos­sibility of a coffee shop in the Rathskellar, a winter and spring carnival and a spring auction are among those services to be of­fered. The ticket office, built at the cost of $900, will sell tickets for all Social Commission events, Cultural Arts commission events, Academic Commission events, Saint Mary's events, Morris Civic Auditorium affairs, and possibly tickets for plays and concerts in Chicago through use of a Cen­trex system. The office, which will be open  he hopes to have the Centrex system for Chicago ticket sales open sometime after the fall. These tickets are the only ones that would not be sold at cost. The money for construction came from the LaFortune Stu­dent Center building improve­ment fund. A flyer will be sent out to students next week, Pohl com­mented, advising them to bring their books down to the Fiesta Lounge where they will be put on sale for several days, as part of the Student Union's book co-op. The books, he explained, will be offered at whatever price the seller wishes, with the stipula­tion that I0% of the selling price be given to the co-op. Any un­ investigating the possibility of asking professors to order books for their courses through the co-op so that they could be offered at the lowest prices pos­sible to the students. He also mentioned the possibi­lity of having a winter carnival around the end of February to "take up the slack after Mardi Gras." Pohl said Social Commis­sion people would be "writing to other Mid-Western schools to find out how they improvised for ski slopes and such when they held carnivals." The Union is also looking into the possibility of combining Grand Prix and An Tostal into a type of spring carnival where the halls would set up various booths and the Union would  plans to ask a local charity to co-sponsor the affair with them. Students and townspeople will be asked to contribute articles to be sold, with the profit split between the Union and the charity. Pohl felt that the auc-· tion would probably "appeal more to people downtown, rather than students" but felt if the auction was a success it would serve as a good base for an expanded event next year. Pohl also said that he felt the indnsinn of a local charitv might make merchants more suscep­tible to donating merchandise Pohl hopes to start a coffee shop in the Rathskellar as a place for students to stop by during the day and "have a cup of coffe, relax, and read a  affairs as soon as possible. Father Brown assoc. Provost (Continued from Page J) student residence, replacing the Rev. Edgar J. Whelan, C.S.C. The new assignment of the Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., vice Presient for academic affairs since 1965, will be announced later. The Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, C.S.C., who has been. serving as acting vice president for academic affairs while Father Walsh is in residence at the University of Hawaii's East-West Center on a Danforth Founda­tion grant, will become associate provost.  

HELP FIGHT AIR POLLUTION 
Fill the air with good things 
WSND AM 640 KHZ· 
Clean Radio 
., 
FRIDAY., SEPTEMBER 4, 1970
PAGE R 
711B OBSEilfiM 
© 1970, Los Angeles Times

JIM MURRAY
Vince Lombardi dies of cancer Protecting Ram Resources
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Vince north of Red Bank, N.J. 
Lombardi, the gruff and 
demanding but compassionate 
master football coach who dedi­
cated his life to winning, lose a 
10 week fight against cancer 
Thursday. 
The 57 year old Brooklyn 
born son of an Italian immigrant · 
butcher died at 7: 12 a.m. EDT 
at Georgetown University Hos­
pital with Marie, his wife of 30 
years, at his bedside. 
Lombardi, who became profes­
sional football's most successful 
coach while heading the Green 
Bay Packers, was in his second 
year as head coach and general 
manager of the Washington Red­
skins when he succumbed to fast 
spreading cancer that started in 
his intestines. 
Although Lombardi's family and his doctors had declined to discuss the gravity of his illness up until Wednesday, it was gen­erally know in pro football circles that death was near. And when it came, expressions of sorrow poured in from across the land, praising Lombardi as an inspiration first, and a winner second. 
In Tampa, Fla., where the Redskins are practicing for an exhibition game with Miami Saturday night, veteran flanker Bob Long, who also played for Lombardi at Green Bay said the preseason game would be played on schedule because "that's the way he would want it." 
Lombardi's funeral is scheduled for 11:00 a.m. Mon­day at St. Patrick's Cathedral in 
New Yark City. Burial will be in 
Mount Olivet Cemetery in Mid­
dletown Township, two miles Funeral Mass will be con­
ducted by Cardinal Terence 
Cooke, Roman Catholic arch­
bishop of New York, described 
as an old friend and "great per­
sonal admirer" of Lombardi's. 
Lorn bardi, who believed "There is only one place...first place ... all second place is hinky dink," rose from an obscure assistant coach of the New York Giants in 1959 tQ build, within eight years, a football dynasty at Green Bay, where admiring citi­zens named a street after him. 
Lombardi quit his head coach­ing post at Green Bay in 1968, remaining as general manager only, then came to Washington for the 1969 season, where he guided the Rcdskins to their first winning season 7-5-2 in 14 years. 
Edward Bennett Williams, noted criminal lawyer and presi­dent of the Redskins, said he considered it "the proudest moment" of his life when he announced Lombardi had agreed to come to WasJ"!ington as head coach, general manager and 5 per cent owner. 
Lombardi was known mostl¥ as a demanding taskmaster who would accept nothing less than 100 per cent dedication from his players. It was aid that some men could play for him and some could not, but those that 
could were winners. 
A man of driving determina­tion, Lombardi never asked more than he was willing to give himself, and he conceded he was addicted to victory. 
"Once you have sampled it, you are hooked, " he once wrote. 
The Los Angeles Rams are less a team than a cabinet. , 
First, there was "Secretary of Defense ­Deacon David Jones, appointed in the second year of the Administration of George Allen. 
Then Roman Gabriel became "Secretary for Air." J~ck Pardee was coaxed out of retirement by the Chief Executive to become "Attorney General" in charge of maintaining law and order on the line of scrimmage. . 
Merlin Olsen became Secretary of HEW -Hit 
Elimination and Wipeout. 
But, as any Washington pundit knows·, these_ are 
headline positions. The drudgery posts are filled 
with guys who would stump a quiz show: "Name 
the Secretary of Commerce." "I dunno but I can 
give you the Secretary of State, Labor, Agriculture 
and the Postmaster." 
This is to inform you that the "Secretary of the 
Interior" of the Rams is the right honorable Charles Cown, No. 73. This was no appointment to a political hack because everybod~ realizes by now that Interior is one of the major problems confronting any administration. It is up to Charlie Cowan to keep the environment clean around the 
quarterback, to be sure the pass patterns aren't 
polluted at the source, that there are no dangerous 
leaks or slicks destroying the quality of life in the 
backfield. 
Secretary Cowan is the kind of an aide a 
President prizes. No controversy, long hours, no 
political ambitions -the perfect public servant. He 
has been protecting the natural resource~ of the 
Rams for 10 years. He is totally committed to 
conservation (especially if the Rams are ahead), an 
uncompromising foe of contamination, and a firm 
believer in clear atmosphere. 

Charlie has been doing this for a decade, and the 
natural resources of the Rams are among the most undepicted of any team in football. The Ram quarterback has the cleanest back in football. So has the Ram left tackle, the Secretary of the Interior. A quarterback can't stand on his feet if his tackle doesn't. Charlie has kept the Ram backfield a wilderness area with no parking or skiing or, campr.ites permitted. A deer, partridge or 
other small animal would be as safe as a fullback in 
this game reserve. He should be the Sierra Club's 
favorite player. 

Charlie did this from an original post as Under 
Secretary for right guard and then for right tackle. 
When the Rams traded for Bob Brown last year, 
sources close to the Administration predicted 
trouble in the Cabinet. Brown prefers to discharge 
his duties (and linebackers) from the right tackle 
position, where Cowan already was. "Split in the 
Cabinet" stories were being prepared by the Walter 
Lippmanns of the football press gallery. An 
emergency session was called. It was feared Cowan 
would rather right than switch. 
But Cowan proved a loyal Administration man 
to the last, a veritable Stephen Decatur -"My 
team, right or LEFT." He shifted to left tackle 
gracefully. Defensive right ends around the 
country groaned. 

I checked this dedicated civil servant as he sat 
massively in the sweat box that was the San Diego 
locker room last Saturday. The secretary had put 
in a tough day at the office (even though Under 
Secretary Mitch Johnson took care of the in-put 
for the fourth quarter). 
"How goes the environment?" I asked this 
ranking Cabinet officer. "I ache from the waist up," he sighed. "My ears ring a bit. But I notice the quarterback ain't bleedin~ and ~ot no grass stains on him. l notice we had the ball 78 plays, 
and they had it 38." 
Like any good Administration servant, he 
couldn't resist pointing with pride, standing on the 
record, for resisting special interests. His next floor 
fight will be Saturday night against the powerful 
Houston Oilers, that is, who would like to set up 
drilling rights in the Ram Government preserves. 
No Tea Pot Dome affair is exptected from this 
Department of the Interior. Sources close to the 
Secretary predict headlines like "Interior Vetoes 
Oiler Lobby, Blocks Submarine Drilling Attempts. 'Our Department and Our Resources Untouchable,' Secretary Warns." Maybe we should get him up the Santa Barbara Channel. 

We're all new 
We have a new look i~:.::" ... we have our store stocked with the·greatest variety of colors, styles and sizes in our history! Suits? ... choose from blazers, ivy styles, traditionals, Edwardians, Norfolks, ves~ and more. Select your sportcoat 
from an exciting and very impressive collection... . slacks, outercoats, shoes, ties, shirts, belts, sweaters, etc, etc.; we call it a Campus Shop and we mean it .•. come see what we mean! 
• • • • almost! 
Some things we can't improve on. Try as we might, we couldn't find a finer group of salespeople to serve you, so you'll find many of the same dependable faces back again to help you. We are also offering the same unbelievable Campus Shop Way to Buy ... Iread carefully Freshmen)... . you can buy and enjoy your apparel now and pay in June, July, and Au~st of 1971 with no service or carrying charges of any kind! Think about it •.. 
We're YOUR store in style, price and terms 
0 o 0 0 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 



