

ERRY CHRIST ppy 






;'l 
• 

Unruh lecture --see page 3 
Page 2 SMC Search Committee EDITORIALS: Pages 8,9 
Page 3 Jesse Unruh lecture FEATURES: Pages 10,11
Sec. Of State Rogers on Cambodia Lorimer and Krashna on Computer Science SPORTS: Pages 12,13,14,15Constitution 
Page 6 Hinkemeyer: Dismissal Statement 
:.II.­

Pa 2 
Wednesday, December 9, 1970 

Pre-Law Society -Valpariso University School of Law, 
Cleveland Club -Christmas

Valpariso, Indiana Prof. Seymour Moskowitz, Professor of 
Bus Sign-ups Thursday 7:00 PM 

Law is scheduling interviews for 
(Payment duel -Basement of 

prospective students on Thursday, 
Lafortune -Buses leave Dec. 18 

Dec. 10, 1g7o -Check outside 
Pres. review tomorrow
and 19.

205 B.A. Bldg. for location. Sign-ups outside 101 O'Sha_g_~ 
view with faculty members at phicum with an S.T.D. degree. Tomorrow the St. Mary's 4:00 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge After receiving his doctorate 
Presidential Search Committee (Le Mans Hall). At 7: 15 p.m. from the University of Minne­will interview Rev. Berard Mar­Ann Marie Tracey, student body sota, he taught theology at Bei­thaler, O.F.M. for the position ; president and student represent­larmine r.ollcge, Louisviile, Ken­of president. This move by the ative on the search committee, tucky; Ursuline College, Louis­committee has surprised many will interview him. ville, Kentucky; and Catholic of the students after weeks of Friday morning the Francis­University of America, Washing­rumors that the committee can presidential candidate will ton, D.C. would disband and declare the meet at II :00 a.m. with the He is a member of the Ameri­
search unsuccessful because of administration and at 3:00 p.m. can Association of University its rejection of two previous with the executive committee. Professors, American Historical candidates. This committee includes Srs. Association, American Society 
In making the announcement, Miriam Patrick (chairman), of Church History, Catholic the Presidential Search Commit­Alma, Verda Clare (trustee); Theological Society of America, 
WITH MAX SHULMAN 
<Br tloe a•tlu>r of Rallr R•••d th< Flag, Bar• . .. Dobie Gilli• . .. tlt.l 
Why the Barber Moved to Seville 

The second loneliest man on the American campus today is the university treasurer. (The first loneliest man of course is the campus barber. And small wonder. The last time any undergrad got his hair cut was during the tragic dandruff epidemic of 1963. Since then campus barbers have had nothing to do except sit around the shop and wait for the new Playboy. Many of them, in fact, are giving up barberin:g to go into the teaching game. Take, for instance, Champert L. Sigafoos, former owner of a three-chair shop at Ohio Wesleyan, who is now an associate professor of linguistics and pomade.) 
But I digress. Why, you ask, is the university treasurer such a lonely figure? Because everyone on campus is so mad at him they won't even sayhello. And why are they so mad? Because every time they ask him for something-more equipment, more staff, more anything­he always gives them the same answer: No. 
Mind you, he doesn't want to say no. In fact, your average treas­urer is the sweetest, kindest guy in the world when he's off-campus­all the time tossing large bills to beggars, worming stray dogs, umpir­ing quilting bees for senior citizens, donating kidneys. 
And he's more than just generous; he's jolly and merry and fun­loving too. Just suggest anything gay and mad-a party, a weenie roast, a fish fry, a spelldown, a glass of Miller High Life Beer-and there he is with bells on! Because he knows, just as you know, that no beer is sunnier and zestier than Miller. No beer is pleasinger to the palate, tinglier to the taste, fulfillinger to the psyche. Oh sure, other beers try to imitate Miller, but they haven't got a chance because Miller's marvelous brewing formula has been a closely guarded secret for over 115 years. In fact, the formula is known today to only one man on earth-Miller's chief brewmaster-and he has been pro­grammed to self-destruct in five seconds if ever taken alive. 
But I digress. Let us, I say, stop cussing the university treasurer and painting "Establishment Lackey" on his vest. Instead, let us try to see things from his point of view. Take, for example, the typical case of 
D.O.A. Tremblatt, treasurer of a prominent Midwestern university (Princeton) who recently turned down a request from the faculty to increase enrollment by 100 students. 
Now, this might not seem like a lot to you, just a lousy 100 stu­dents, but do you have any idea what it would cost? First of all, you've got to provide additional sleeping quarters for the kids. Then of course you've got to provide additional teachers. And of course you've got to provide sleeping quarters for the teachers too. But remember, unlike students, teachers get beds. This is called "tenure." 

But wait; there's lots more. For every teacher of course you'll need two graduate students to do the actual teaching. And of course every grad student has at least one pregnant wife, so you'll need a kettle of boiling water for each, plus a Slinky toy for each kid after it's born. But wait. After the kids are born is when the real trouble begins because naturally everybody is going to claim they got the wrong kid. So goodness knows how many lawyers and judges you'll need to straighten it out, not to speak of gavels. 
Well sir, you total up all these added expenses and it comes to at least 90 billion dollars, no mean sum even for Princeton. And that's why Mr. Tremblatt had to say no to the faculty. 
They lynched him of course, even after he offered them each an extra box of chalk, but I, for one, believe they overreacted. 
I hope you feel the same. 
* * * 

We, the brewers of Miller High Life Beer and the sponsors of this column, offer condolences to Mr. TremblaU's grieving family. And to the rest of you, we offer the Champagne of Beers-Miller High Life, delicious in cans, botUes or keg. 
tee  disclosed  that  for  his  two­ Messrs.  John  Best (trustee), P.  College Theology  Society,  and  
day visit, Fr. Marthaler, head of  Jordan  Hamel  (trustee);  Drs.  Religious Education Society.  
the religious studies department  Bruno  Schlesinger,  Dorothy  Nationally  Fr.  Marthaler  is  
at Catholic University of Ameri­ Feigl;  Mrs.  Karen  Galvin  currently vice-president  for  the  
ca  in  Washington,  D.C.,  would  (alumnae  president);  and  Ann  College Theology Society and a  
be  the subject of several inter­ Marie Tracey.  member of the steering commit­ 
views.  Students  wishing  to  speak  tee of the Catechetical Forum, a  
When  he arrives  from  Wash­ with  Father Marthaler while p.e  national  society  of  Religious  
ington, D.C., having recently re­ is on campus may reach him in  educators,  by  invitation.  The  
turned  from  the  International  Room  112 (Dominican Study)  Forum  has  no  officers  other  
Congress on "The Future of the  Le Mans Hall.  than the six-man Steering Com­ 
Church" in Brussels, Belgium, he  Born in Chicago Heights, llli­ mittee  which  plans  the annual  
will  be driven from  the airport  nois, the 47 year-old priest  was  meeting  and  carries  on  other  
to  his first encounter, an inter- ordained in  Rome  at  the Sera­ business of the organization.  

Before: 



During: 

Student Billing Service 
makes Sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your dorm room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm residents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Business Office. Talk it up. 
@ 

Indiana Bell 


• -!--. 
•

Unruh raps politics 1n education 
By Ann Therese Darin faculty. He claimed that the political "The university has to learn involvement negatively effected to adapt to politics," claimed the university community. former California speaker of the "The faculty is disheartened, House Jesse Unruh, who spoke and discouraged," he said. last night in the library In the last state legislature, he auditorium on legislative control cited an act which passed which and its effects on education. denied the faculty a raise. In his maiden speech since his "With actions like these, you 
"misadventure in California can't recruit the same kind of politics," Unruh contrasted the faculty you have now," he days when "California had the 'stated. 
best educational system in the Political intrusion also results country maybe even the world in a "generally· disinterested before the free sp!fCch student body which is only movement and the filthy speech aggravated by big issues," he movement" with the "political commented. ''California intrusion prevalent in today's students are generally less universities." interested in politics andin how 
In his own state of California the political process works." stated Unruh, Gov. Ronald He also felt that the Board of Reagan propagated this political Regents as a result of political intrusion. As examples he maneuverings has greater power. pointed to the firing of "It used to be moderate," he University of California recalled. With the present Chancellor Clark Kerr, massive tendency to extremism in cuts in the state's budget for liberalism and conservatism, education "above and beyond "the governing board has no what the other departments I ability to lead becauy~ it is got", pressure for tuition in the. difficult for it· to reach·l a p rev i o us1 y tuition -1 e s s-' consensus," he said. educational system, and the "Its decisions are not government's criticism of the accepted by the academic university's administration and communit and is almost 
E 

powerless to enforce its 
decisions," he continued. 
Having worked with this 
system for 16 years in the 
California House of 
Representatives and as an 
ex-officio member of the 
University of California Board of 
Regents for 8 years, Unruh 
stated that a drastic overhaul in . public and higher education is 
necessary. 
"The classical concept of the 
university as the Ivory Tower is 
no longer possible," he stated. 
"The university is part of a larger community. The produ.;ts of the university can't wait for ripening as could have been done a few years ago. The actions and understandings must be translated immediately." 
He advocated a strengthening of university-community relations. He commented that one way in which this may be done is for the university to alter its planning in response to the community's needs. 
He cited an example sayinJ!. 
"In California, we are spending a large amount of money to educate engineers, but there is a high unemployment rate among them." 
To solve this and other problems, he remarked that the role of the legislature and the executive should be clearly defined. 
"The legislature and the executive should determine the allovation of public resourc~," he stated. He said that the_ 
(Continued on page 5). 


Senate blocks troop movement, passes $255 million to Indochina 
WASHINGTON (UPI) For the second time this year the Senate voted yesterday to bar the intro­duction of U.S. ground combat troops into Cambodia after the administration appealed at least for money to save Vietnam's embattled neighbor state. 
The restriction cleared the Se­nate swiftly and without op_p_osi-



OBSERVER 
Serl'ing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Wednesdav. December 9, 1970 SECOND FRONT PAGE Page 3 
GSC probes dept. abolishment 
By Ed Ellis 
Bill Lorimer, head of the Graduate Student Union, an­nounced yesterday his deep res­ervations concerning the rumor­ed abolition of the Computer Science Department at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. After a lengthly meeting with under­graduate Strudent Body Presi­dent Dave Krashna, Lorimer re­leased the following resolution passed by the Graduate Student Council, the active represen­tative body of the GSU: 
BE IT RESOLVED THAT: The graduate Student Council hereby expresses its concern about the current problem invol­ving the Computing Science De­partment. We feel that the aboli­tion of any department at the University of Notre Dame is a serious step and should therefore be taken only after much study of the problems and potential.s 
~ q 


of that department, after a thor­ough review and wide publica­tion of the reasons for abolition, and after consultations with all persons involved either directly or indirectly: students, T.A.'s faculty, staff and administrators. 
We further advise that an open meeting be held to discuss this important decision and its many ramifications before the matter is decided by the Aca­demic Council. 
SBP Krashna gave his strong 

personal endorsement to the 
GS U statement, saying, "I think 
it's necessary that I join with the 
Graduate Student Union in 
asking that an in-depth study of 
the entire situation with the 
Computing Science Department 
be undertaken before any action­
is taken on the Academic Coun­
cil. I join with Gill Lorimer in supporting the resolution asking that no action be taken on the abolishment of any dpeartment at the Univerisy of Notre Dame before a sutdy of the problems and potentials of those depart­ment be undertaken. I agree with them further that an open meeting be held to consider this very improtant decision and to consider all the ramifications 
before the Academic Council considers the problem." 
The Academic Council will 

review proposals to terminate 
the department at its mee~ing on 
Thursday. 
Lorimer also noted that is the 

meeting did not come off Wed­nesday night, it would be useless to have it at all, since the Aca­demic council decides that fate of the department on Thursday. 
Other results of the meeting between Lorimer and Krashna were agreements to develop un­dergraduate interest and c·ontrol in the Library, and an agreement to run joint investigation of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore in the second semester. Philip Faccenda, vice president and general counsel of the Univer­sity, said at the Student Life Council meeting Monday that the University, acting through the SLC, would be willing to stage an investigation of the bookstore next week. This was nixed by both Lorimer and Krashna because exams would interfere with work done by the students. 
Also, cooperation in the area of co-op bookstores on the cam­pus was agreed to by the two campus leaders, and they agreed to discuss the issue· ·of Sopho­more Cars as they affected the off-camP.US parking of Grad students. 
Finally. they agreed that a reformation of the SLC in both size and representation was ne­cessary to facilitate the represen­tation of the grads. Lorimer said that Faccenda still had not told him whether the GSU would be represented at all on the SLC. He will meet with Faccenda on Friday to discuss this matter. 
tion as part of a $66.4 billiOn appropriations bill for the De­fense Department. It still must pass the House which has ap­proved a $66.8 billion defense bill without similar language. The two bills now go to a Senate House conference to iron out all differences. 
The action came shortly after Secretary of State William P. Rogers told a Senate Appropria­tions Subcommittee the adminis­tration had no intention of send­ing U.S. troops into Cambodia again. 
Instead Rogers appealed for $255 million in foreign aid to bolster Cambodia's army-a step which he acknowledged would be only the first installment in a long term aid program for Indo­
( U PI)-Arab guerrillas am­bushed a Jordanian army patrol north of Amman yesterday with heavy n;~.achinegun fire mortars and Chinese made rockets a J or­danian official spokesman said. Other guerrillas wounded seven persons in the grenade explosion in the Israeli occupied Gasa Strip. 
The ambush reported over Amman radio came less than 24 hours after the Arab truce com­mittee talked the guerrillas and government forces into laying down their arms after five days of sporadic fighting. 
The guerrillas countered with 
· claims that Jordanian govern­ment forces shelled a Palestinian refugee camp on the outskirts of Amman for more than five hours Tuesday. 
The government spokesman said the patrol rolled into the trap near Jerash 24 miles north of Amman at a crossroads on the main highway leading from Am­
man tothe Syrian border. During the ensuing battle whic-h lasted about 40 minutes 
china. 
The restriction-hailed as a vic­tory by critics of the war-would add Cambodia to a prohibition enacted last year against the use of U.S. ground combat troops in Laos and Thailand. 
It was similar in its effect to a controversial measure that dead­locked the Senate for two months earlier this year when t•.~ . .... administration fought it as a constitutional abridge­ment of the President's powers to protect his troops. That mea­sure finally passed in July but is stalled in another Senate House conference. Now that U.S. troops are out of Cambodia the White House decided not to fight the restriction although the President still opposes it. 
the spokesman said the guerrillas used Chinese supplied rockets in violation of the Cairo and Am­man accords that ended previous outbursts of civil conflict in J or­dan. 
The spokesman said one Jor­danian army vehicle was des­troyed in the ambush but there were 'no army casualties. An Israeli military spokesman said that an Arab guerrilla grenade exploded Tuesday among Gaza Arabs waiting for a bus to take them to jobs in Israel wounding seven of them one critically. The grenade thrower fled into the maze of streets behind Gaza City's Medina S. 
An Israeli military spokesman said that an Arab guerrilla gren­ade exploded Tuesday among Gaza Arabs waiting for a bus to take them to jobs in Israel wounding seven of them one critically. The grenade thrower Bed into the maze of streets behind Gaza City's Medina Squa r c with Israeli troops swarming in pursuit. 

Page 4 

TACO BELL IS A NICE PLACE TO EAT 
625 W. McKinley; across frr ' Gales; Mishawaka 
WHAT THEY'RE 


December 9, 1970 
West charged with East conflict 
by Kevin MeG ill Mrs. Claire Bishop spoke last 

evening  in  the  Library  
Auditorium  about  the  
responsibility of the  Christian  

Church in the present Middle East situation. Known for her interfaith work among Christians and Jews, Mrs. Bishop accused both the Church and the western nations of anti-semitism, and hoped that the big powers would allow the Jews and Palestinians to solve their problems without intervening. About fifteen people attended the lecture. 
Mrs. Bishop first traced the historic events which brought about the present tension on the Middle East. Although the granting of citizenship to Jews begun by French Revolutionaries sp.read through much of Europe, Jews "lived always in a state of extreme terror" in Poland and Russia. Even in the twentieth century there are pogroms, or persecutions of Jewish people, in these countries. In 1894 the accusation of Alfred Dreyfus, a high ranking French officer who was also a Jew, of giving state plans to Germany opened a great breach between the Catholic majority and the Protestants, Jews, and Atheists. "France," Mrs. Bishop said, "nearly succumbed to the violence of hatred because of its anti-semitism," and the Jews then realized that they were safe no where in Europe. In 1897 they began the Zionist movement whose object was the resettlement of their ancient 
homeland. The United States is also anti-semitic. Mrs. Bishop 
rem em be red signs in the 1930's which said "no dogs, no Jews." She spoke of the immigrant .quota laws with whi~h the United States refused refuge to Jews of Hitler's Germany, and mentioned that the United 
States  never  bombed  a  railroad  
track  leading  to  an  
extermination camp.  

Amerka's, and the West's, anti-semitism comes in great part from the indoctrination of the people by the Church. Folktales and common interpretations of the Bible teach contempt for the Jewish people, even now the Crucifixion is sighted as the cause of the dispersion of the Hebrew race, and in spite of the second Vatican Council, the Jews are still officially condemned by the Church. Mrs. Bishop quoted many sources, from an old Eastern Orthodox hymn to the I 967 statement of the S-outhern Baptist 
Convention, to illustrate · the constant "brain-washing" of the west. "Myths are ways," she said, "through which anti-semitism infiltrates into people's minds." She also said that ignorance is as great an evil as predjudice. Few Americans realize the "passionate attachment of the Jewish people to their ancestral homeland, an attachment unique 
in history. But, because no one arrose against Hitler in a Christian sense, the Jews had no where to go but to Israel. And because they went en masse, in despair and in terror, they upset the balance of that country. So the present conflict is greatly due to the failure of the Christian Church." 
Mrs. Bishop spoke of the non-Jewish Palestinians who have lived for centuries in Israel. She hopes that since both the Jews and the Palestinians I ovc their land, they can, by "peoplehood," achieve a unity through their "common past, common destiny, and through the land; and the land does not mean the state. Since Constantine we have forgotten that the state is not an idol. We have served the state and not recognized peoplehood." 
As a start at the solution of the problems of the Middle East, Mrs. Bishop advocated first of all better knowledge of the meaning of land and state for the Jews, and for the Palestinians. But she warned that Americans must always favor Israel in order to offset the unconscious pressures society has implanted in them. "Just as the extermination camps were the judges of our parents," she concluded, "the state of Israel will be our judge." 
New Huddle hours for exams 
At last there is a place on campus to get something to eat after the Library closes. Thanks to a policy adopted just this year, the Huddle now stays open until 12:30 every night. This policy was instituted on a trial 
JuniorYear 
inNewYork 
Washington Square College of Arts and Science 
of New York University sponsors a 
Junior Year in New York. 

The College, located in the heart of the city, is an integral part of the exciting metropolitan community 
of New York City-the business, cultural, artistic, and financial center of the nation. The city's extraordi­nary resources greatly enrich both the academic program and the experience of living at New York 
University with the most cosmopolitan student body 
in the world. 

This program is open to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to which they will return for their degrees. 
There are strong and varied offerings in many areas, such as fine arts, urban studies, languages including non-European, mathematics in the College and at the Courant Institute, psychology, and others. 
A qualified student may register for courses in all other schools of the University, including the specializations in Commerce and Education. 
The University sponsors programs in Spain and France. 
Write for brochure to Director, Junior Year in New York 


New York University New York, N.Y. 10003 
basis to determine the number of people who would use the service. So far, the extended Huddle hours have been very well patronized by the students and "as long as the trend contin­
ues in the present direction there should be no reason for de­creasing the hours," according to Notre Dame Food Services Di­rector Edmund Price. The Ad­ministration has been pleased with the response; "we hope to provide a service and obviously we are," added Price. 
In cont_inuing their policy of service the Huddle will stay open around the clock during exam week. From Sunday morning at seven o'clock the Huddle will be open continuously until 12:30 
a.m. Friday. 
Student Union 
Crypt 
Do your Christmas Shopping Early 

~Jaw on Stock Zap!Ja · C:wnga's Revenge Steve Stills :Vorst of the Jefferson Airplan Sly's Greatest Hits Led Zepplin Ill Carrenters' Close to You 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, December 9. 1970 Page 5 

Unruh stresses action 

(Continued from page 3) 
legislature has the duty to determine who will receive this education in an arbitrary fashion. He claimed they should also determine the end product (how many graduates, how many fields, what direction the educalion should be taking.) In return, he commented, the university should expect from the legislature and the executive insulation for the cessitudes of the moment. Unruh said that when he was speaker of the House, conflicts were settled peacefully using this principle. 
On the otherhand, Unruh contended, that the university must fulfill the function of the legislature. According to Unruh, the role of the university is not an obligation to effect change in the society, but to teach people how to utilize the system to effect change. 
Some of the changes that he would institute to improve education today are: those corporations who benefi( ought to pay a great deal towards student fees; there should be a mo.re representative board of regents; "now it is more like a country club with 16 
~~~~~~~~~-~~~~.._...__.~ .. 
millionaires and 8 politicians -­l hey rna y be liberals or conservatives but they are still in country clubs -neither wealth nor education makes one a better member of the board of regents"; more community support for the university and abandonment of the rigidity of the structure, "you can't teach people how to bring about change if you can't even do it within your own system". 
Because Unruh foresees more political intrusion as inevitable the university must learn t~ function within this atmospher<!. 
When asked whether there was a national trend of political dismissals from university faculties, Unruh replied that at Fresno State, the head of the English department and assistant were locked out of their offices recently. It should concern the whole university community, Unruh maintained, when the administration weeds out its faculty by politial attitudes. 
"The failure to renew a faculty member's contract for anything short of violence is disastrous for the entire university and the country," he stated. 
' Hair Styling
f j(Jr ND men the Continental Way
f Razor Cutting & Stylef European Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
' Have Long flair & Let Miss Treva & The ' Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper You 
f 306 S'ler!and Bldg.f South Bend, Ind. 
' 
f 
f
f 
Baron f

I 
.t 234-0811 Sti«lerlt Rates f By Appt. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
BEER 
TALK 
In which the candid connoisseur answers questions about Beer, and the drinking of same. 
DEAR ED: I'm burned up because after a weekend romp in the woods, I forgot to put a leftover 6-pak of Budweiser in the refrigerator. Everybody says you can't chill beer twice, so what should I do? 
FUMING 
DEAR FUMING: First, cool off, pal. Then cool off that Bud® to your heart's content (or about 40°). 
· There's no problem, because a really good beer like Budweiser is just as good when you ice it twice. 

But I can't resist mentioning that there is an easy way to avoid the situation altogether. 
Just make sure there's no Bud left over! 
Budweiser. 
KING OF BEERS e 

ARMY ROTC TWO YEAR PROGRAM 
Applications are now being accepted for the Army ROTC two year program 
The Program is open to both undergraduate and graduate students who have a minimum of two years academic work remaining at the time of enrollment. Accepted applicants must successfully complete a six weeks summer camp in lieu of the Basic ROTC course normally taken as a freshman and sophomore. 
Notre Dame Seniors intending to attend graduate or law school at another University may apply here for the program. The school they plan to attend must either offer Army ROTC of have a cross-enrollment agreement with another school in its locale. 
Two-Year Program participants receive a tax-free subsistence allowance of $50 per month during their two years of ROTC training. They are deferred from induction under Selective Service laws. 
If you are sincerely interested in serving your country and fulfilling your military obligation as a commissioned officer in the United States Army, you are invited to apply for the Army ROTC Two-Year Program. 
Applications will be accepted through February 15, I~71 
Further information may be obtained by vlsltin& the Army ROTC office 
or by calllna Seraeant MaJor Rina at 283-6264. 
Page 6 7118 OBSERVDt Wednesday, December 9, 1970 
Dismissal statement issued by Hinkemeyer 
"We now know who was in­volved in the decision to termi­nate Father Runde and me, and we are attempting to nail down the contradictory, baseless reasons, privately cirulating for t:1at action." So stated Protessor 
Michael T. Hinkemeyer yester­
day. He was n;ferring to his 
contract termination of Novem-. 

her ~5. The only reason that he has been givrn to date is that he was "too closely identified with Father ~aymond Runde," who 
ministrator. That sort of thing 1970. a "Who's Who" of Ameri­must be challenged." · can educators. 
Among other actions, Profes­Aftt• completing the 1970-71 sor Hinkemeyer expects to in­academic year at St. Mary's, Pro­voke the faculty grievance pro­fessor Hinkemeyer intends to cedure outlined in the remain in the South Bend area Goverance of the College manu­for "at least another year" in al. " I always wondered if it order to pursue certain actions would work," he said. "Now I'm that have had to be initiated in a position to provide the "due to the unfortunate action community with an object Jes­taken against me." He intends to son. It's going to be very inter­serve as a cunsultan1 to a Chi­esting." cago-based education firm and 
Last week Professor Hinke­to complete a book tentatively meyer was notified that his titled The Crooked Cross. latest article "The Diffusion of The contract terminations, Innovation~ in American Educa­
which remain shrouded in con­

tion" had been accepted by The tra dictions, Professor Hinke­Clearing House, an education meyer believes, must necessarily journal of Dickinson University. 
have an unfortunate effect on 

He has authored or co-authored the college. "It is much more than an
over a half-dozen works since action against the two of us", hejoining the St. Mary's faculty in said, "If we at St. Mary's College September, 1969. "It's ironic are indeed a community-whetherthat the article would be ac­a 'Christian College Community'

cepted right at this time," he in Sister Alma's words or an
said. "My th...~js is that the gap between the -;_,lse rhetoric of 

academic community-then the educational change and the ac­
dimunition of our community, whether by choice or by force, is

tual intention to innovate is a deliberate one, cultivated by a dimunition uf us all; and any those whose cynicism and fear injustice practiced against any render them dangerous." Profes­member of the community is aQ 
injustice against the entire com­

sor Hinkemeyer has also been rn unity.
cited in Leaders in Education, 

·Dept. refutes charges 
The Cultural Arts Commission 
presents 
BLOW UP 
'lee. 9 7:30, 9:30 Engineering Auditorium ':ieneral Admission: $1.00 
\ 

Special Showing at 11:30 tonight 


which remain shrouded in con­tradiction, must necessarily have an unfortunate effect on the college, Professor Hinkemeyer believes. "It is much more than an action against the two of us," he said. "If we at St. Mary's College are indeed a community -whether a "Christian College Community," in Sister Alma's words, or an academic commu­nity -then the dimunition of 

'lour community, whether by choice or by force, is a dimuni­tion of us all; and any injustice practiced against any member of the community is an injustice against the entire community.", Professor Hinkemeyer believes that one of the basic problems at St. Mary's College is an "unfor­tunate lack of openness" which has led to a great deal of fear­. ,"particularly among the faculty. Why, you can walk across camp­us and see many of them hiding behind the bushes," he said. "It would be amusing if it did not have such serious implications for the welfare of the college." A sign of this "lack of open­ness," Hinkemeyer feels, was the manner in which the termina­tions were handled. "It hap­pened suddenly, as though the result of a malevolent, capricious whim. There is no indication 
that \~ny criteria were used to make\ the judgment, which ap­pears !to sh~w an utter disregard for the community. And no ex­planation or voice of reason has been forthcomi1111: from anv ad-

By Glenn Sorge 
Senior Lou Henefeld rebu.ked complaints that the Computer Science Department was a vocational school, inferior academically and costly. 

"As far as this being a vocational school," says Henefeld, "that can only be the statements of people who are ignorant of the program." 
Henefeld indicated that this is "the last thing from the truth." The Department is theoretical in makeup and does not even approach the technical make up of a vocational school, he remarked. 
As an example, Henefeld pointed to the Intelligent Automaton, which is being used to attempt to simulate the workings of the human mind. This, he remarked, was an effort to use computers to find "better ways to train the human mind." 
At their meeting the group CO!lsidered and disputed the money issue. Henefeld said that th;: cost of credit hours could be reduced from the present $11 0-$140 to $80-$90. This, he commented, would be less expensive than the present cost of the Engineering Department, which is now $90 a credit. Furthermore, the cost would continue to decrease as more students were picked up, 1-fenefeld said. 
Henefeld was acting as a spokesman for a meeting of students and faculty which sprung up because of rumors of the department's abolition. 
i 
STREiSANao 
ACADEMY 
ll!~l~~~~if 
..<; OOI.UMSlA PICTURES ..RASTAR Pf!OOUCTIJN~ -~ i ,_ lH£ WILLIAM WYLER 
~11i!Ni 
. ·-:·<~::~J.i G•a&. 
··-;;:··-:.· TECHNICOCOR" PA""'"'"~ 
Call 288-8488 for Show Times and Directions 

filmed in Re-released thru 
Undad ArhBI1I 
FEATUR'E TIMES :15 4:40 7:05 9:30 


is also a professor of education. "Obviously, this whole thing is just beginning," Professor Hin­keyer said. "We would expect to initiate several courses of action after the holidays." 
The contract terminations, 


STARTS FRIDAY, DEC. 11 OPEN 6:15 

THE NIOST ACCLAIMED II/lOTlON PICTURE OF OUR TIME/ 
"BEST PICTURE I" 1 
Winner of tO 

Academy A••rdsl :-·ri.ii. 
Plus Co-Feature 

Wishes You A Very Merry Holiday
A Cinema Center Films Presentation A National General Pictures Release Panavision" Technicolor" ~ ~ 
Wednesday, December 9, 1970 711B OBSEilfla Page 7 

Tenure system defined 
By Greg Rowinski faculty members, though each university has its own Tenure, according to Randon conditions. One-year contracts House Dictionary, is "the status can be given, with mutual assuring an employee of" agreement-At the end of the­
permanence in his position of employment." The professors here at Notre Dame and, other universities around the country, the issue of tenure is vital._ 
The purpose of tenure 1s to 

protect professors from dismissal for other than "scandalous activities". This proviso, 
according to Professor George Brinkley, Chairman of the Department of Government and International Studies, provides protection of the "academic freedom" of the faculty: the professors are free from removal for "extraneous reasons." 
Observer Insight 

The  tenure  procedure  was  
deveioped  by  the  American  
Association  of  University  

Professors, of which most professors are members. According to the AAUP, a full-time, regular fac1Jlty professor with Ph.D. receives tenure if his contract is renewed after six consecutive years of service at one school. 
If a professor who has taught elsewhere is hired, he will be placed on a !-year probation, to determine if the university will give him tenure. According to Professor William D'Antonio, President of the local chapter of the AAUP, the professor agrees to a 'year's employment, knowing that the decision will be made at the end of the year. If the university approves, tenure is then given.• If the university refuses, the professor" will continue one year's employment. Notre Dame has, in the past, recognized the tenure of some transferring professors, althought this is not common practice. 
Notre Dame generally gives three-year contracts to new 
SENIORS! 

three-year period Notre Dame 
will either contin~e employment . 
or not rehire. Before the sixth 
year, tenure notice is given. This , is an AAUP rule, related 
D • Antonio though t 
universities ~ve  notice aft:~~  
years  
·  
The  AAUP  cannot  make  

binding contracts"' to force universities to adhere tci tenure announcement and recognition, according to its local chapter's president. Though some chapters have obtained bargaining power, the AAUP as a whole is not a 
bargainer. 
The group is not entirely powerless, in the professor's mind. It can recommend cen­sure, "a moral force", even at non-chapter universities. Com­plaints can be made at the Na­tional Office. Representatives are then sent to the offender to check the facts. If this commit­tee recommends action, notice of censure will be published in the Bulletin of the AAUP. 
The hearty debate, at the heart of which is tenure, has prompted D'Antonio to call it "a tricky business". D'Antonio 
after some-soul searching has lost some ot his former certainty in the sancitity of the tenure system. Even as it protects young teachers, it also 
KEPLER 

MOTOR SALES 
C•rs$H to$3885 ' 
All cars sold with 

lifetime warrenty .... Top prices paid for used cars 
2306 Western Ave. Ph. -288-3250 

Going home to New Jersey for c:nistmas? 'JIIhy not find out about a career in ~Jew Jersey State Government? 
Call 

State House, Trenton, N.J.. 609-292-4197 
517 Market St. Camden, N.J. -609-966-3556 
80 Mulberry St. Rm. 104 r~ewark, N.J. 
. f! 201-648-3718 
Openings exist in Accounting, Engineering, Personnel, Public Health, Social Work and numerous other professional fields. _
13 80 

The Cultural Arts Commission Cinema '71 Presents 
Duet for Cannibals 
'Jecember 12 and 13 2:00 and 8:00 Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00, Cinema '71 Patrons Free 
protects "some tired old men," he contended. Still, he felt a need in "semi-repressive per­iods" to prevent some of the younger educators from being "wiped out." 
His final point was that tenure should not be misconstrued to be a type of reward. He felt that tenure is not due a professor just because he is a "good teacher." The faculty, he suggests, should look at each applicant as a pro­spective permanent member of its academic community. The university could "lock itself in" with the addition of "good teachers" by filling all positions, possibly for 10-20 years. In no way should one consider that the non-renewal of "good young teachers" is a sign that a university is going "downhill." 
.1eatre presents an llliSH e.ltertaimnent 
THl 
~~yBRENDAN

HOSTAGE BEHAN 

on !Jecember 10, 11, 12 at 8:30 in ''Vas!tington Hall. Tickets $1.50. Info: 284-4176 
WASH IN GTO N-MARYLANO-VIRGINIA CLUB SPONSORED TRIP TO D.C. FOR HOLIDAYS. 
FOR INFORMATION CALL BOB MAESTRO 1681 BY FRIDAY NOON-PLANE OR BUS. 
Student Union Book Exch•nae 
Book Turn-in: From Thursday, Dec. 10-Fri., Dec. 18 · 7-10 PM­Fiesta Lounge, Lafortune Center (3rd Floor) 
1. 
Student Sets Sale Price 

2. 
Student Union gets 10% of price 

3. 
Books will be sold at beginning of 2nd Semester 


STUDENT UNION Presents 
·FREEPORT, BAHAMAS $194 
DEPARTS: March 15, 1971 RETURNS: March 21, 1971 tax and
gratuitiesRound Trip: Detroit to Freeport included 7 nights accomodations at the Freeport Inn -gournd transfers between hotel and airport = happy hour every night 5-7 PM -unlimited free drinks, live music. 
During this vacation period your hotel will be completely occupied by students. 
Dancing and drinks are provided every evening with live music during the two hour long 
Happy Hour. Relax and enjoy yourself among people ofyour own age group. 
Open only to ND-SMC students, faculty, staff, alumni and their immediate families. 
Arrangements by: ' Contact: 
Students International First Sank Campus 
Ann Arbor, Michigan Travel Bureau 
283-7080 

Pizza Hut Pete Presents 
ND & SMC 
"Holiday Special" 
Y2 price on any pizza or soft drink 
With School J.D. 
Monday thru Thursday Good only at tile Edison ~d. HUT-% 
EAT IN OR CARRY OUT 
TRY OUR NEW SUBMARINESANDWICH 
• 

2 LOCAUONS-CALL AHEAD 288-6060 SO. BEND #1 ACROSS FROM I.U. 233~3827 SO. BEND #2 IDLE EAST OF N.D. 
We Are the Nations Largest! 
Wednesday, December 9, 1970

Page 8 THE O.&rERVU. 
I.eHers
I I 
Editor: 
My collegue, Professor Nor­ling, says that he is "puzzled" by a review of mine which you reprinted some weeks ago (The Latter-Day Leviathan, Observer, 
Friday, 13 November, 1970; Norling's reply Observer Friday, 20 November, 1970). May I say that I am at least as puzzled by his response. If I understand him correctly, his argument seems to reduce to "They (the Russians) are as bad as we are, so we may do what we wish." A more reasonable reply, I would sug­gest, would be "A pox (pax?) on both your houses!" Further, that military-industrial complex which we supposedly have some effect on (and responsibility for) is based in Washington, not in Moscow. 
In regard to America's heroic and self-sacrificing resistance against the projected world em­pire of the Soviet's after World War II, Professor Norling is cer­tainly aware that there is a signi­ficant and growing number of American historians--the so­called "revisionists"-who are suggesting that there is more than enough guilt for the origins of the Cold War--especially in the crutial years 1944-4 7--for both the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. to have their shares. For exam­ple, it is shocking how many historians now agree that we incinerated Japanese at Hiro­shima and Nagasaki only in or­der to demonstrate our technical and military muscle to the Rus­
-sians! 
Finally, it seems to me that we as Americans should be most concerned about the betrayal-­for economic and military reasons""f the best impulses of our own revolution. Corruptio optimi pessima, the medievals said. 
Fraternally, Carl Estabrook, Jr. 

Why is. Don Mooney Smiling? 
Editor: 
With delight I read Fred Giu­frida's fantastic plan for student government: Only a sophomore and what a sense of humor. I chuckled as he endearingly refer­
-red to those "few men" in La­Fortune as "Poobahs." I guf­
-fawed as he proposed a parlia­mentary plan for governing all 6500 of us undergrads. I rolled from my chair as -he suggested that the august student senate choose the SBP, his VP and the student union director. After all, the students have so much confi­dence in the Stay Senators cho­sen by the Senate: certainly they would be happy with the Sen­ate's choice for important of­fices. 
As someone involved in the 

"executive branch" of student government, I can certainly ap­preciate Fred's friendly humor. We. "in LaFortune" certainly ap­preGiate the hard, constructive 
work the various senators do for the students. They are always willing to sit down and talk about it when there's something to be done. 
And then we come to old Fred's most hilarious proposal. In jest of course, he suggests that the Senate approve concerts, speakers, movies, and just about every other program run by the student union. I just had to smile when I thought back to 
before the days of an indepen­dent union, when the Senate had­Prom committees, concert com­mittees, and a special group to , run the Mil-Ball. It was great: a couple of concerts a year, and if you were lucky, a lecture series on the mosquito's reproductive system. Just think, with the Sen­ate in charge of concerts, Fred 
could run on a platform to bring the Beach Boys. 
So thank you Fred, Mr. Treanor, and all you other swell people at The Observer. You gave us something to smile about at lunch today. 
Yours in "Fun" Journalism, 
Don Mooney 

Academic Freedom 1 Dear Editor: If indeed it is true that the contract of Assistant Professor Carl Estabrook was terminated by the tenured members of the Dept. of History then I think that the members of this univer­sity community must ask them­selves some improtant questions. Does the university have the right to dismiss a faculty mem­ber because it disagrees with his particular political views? It would seem that if in reality the university is a place where all ideas and theories may be dis­cussed in a rational and intelli­gent manner then the removal of one of its members· out of mere disagreement with his ideas be­comes a betrayal of what we claim the university should be. Last year during the student strike I found myself compelled to continue attending my classes. My reasoning was that in shutting down the university we were closing the one place in our society where any and all ideas can be explored in a reasonable manner. It is out of this senti­ment that I decry the firing of a member of the faculty because he held such and such political ideas. If we take such an action then let us freely admit that we are not open to all ideas and that only certain things can be discus­sed openly on this campus. At least then we will be honest. I am certainly not challenging 
the right of the university to 
dismiss any member of this com­
munity on the grounds of aca­
demic incompetence. However, I 
feel that the dismissal of Dr. 
Estabrook was not based on his 
competence to teach History 
here at Notre Dame. Anyone 
who has taken one of his courses 
will surely attest to his ability to 
teach, and to his thorough 
knowledge of his subject. I also 
am certain that his students 
would support me in saying that 
while in class he concentrates on 
the subject matter of his course 
and not on modem politics. 
The tragedy of this whole matter is that other members of the faculty, who are in the posi­tion of having their contracts reviewed in the next few years may now feel constrained to just keep quiet for fear of losing their jobs. 
In his letter to Bishop Pursley Father Hesburgh defended the open speakers policy which we have here at Notre Dame, and rightly so. Now, I think it is time to worry about the freedom that our own faculty members have to express their ideas. -­
Ed Beck 364 Dillon 

THE OBSERVER 
,An Independent Student Newspaper 
GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Chief JOHN E. KNORR, Executive Editor BRUCE RIECK, Business Manager 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
FOUNOED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
The campus is too quiet 
1111s last has been a most silent semester. 
Student activism has been nil. Soundless thoughts have mingled momentarily with thoughtless sounds before dissipating in the wet fall air. Charges and countercharges have been sounded, and, once sounded, have thudded echolessly on the frozen ground. The rrutant remainders of the Coalition for Political Action have risen up from their lassitude only to demonstrate on behalf of striking workers whose attitudes towards them ranged from indifference to indifference. 
Students have grown even more apathetic; frightfully and frighteningly rightfully apathetic. Gloom and its flip side, despair, has set up housekeeping in every hall on campus. Students have turned away from Student Government, away from Hall Government, and to themselves. Drunks are more numerous and more obvious. Pot and the harder drugs are here to stay. Everybody's up high and out of it. Arguments have been phased out in favor of inarticulate wails. The search for truth has been replaced by the search for sleep. 
Student Government has been invisible. Their inept showing in behalf of the proposed new constitution has been but the latest chapter in a thick book of stasis. Two years ago. Student Government was a voluhle :mel vi~~ hlP bazooka for student power; this year's student government is not only unable to make waves, but has been upset more than once by its own ripples. 
There has been another side to this inactivity; an ominous side. The Administration's secrecy on the dismissal of three professors 'and the phasing-out of the computer science program is not symptomatic simply of a University feeling the growing pains of inflation. There is a deeper ailment here, one that makes the University strive not to teach the truth but to conceal it from its students. And nobody is stopping them! 
One reporter, looking for a story, can't make the University tell the truth. One student, sitting outside the Provost's door, can't make the 'University tell the truth. One Student Body President, questioning after answers, can't make the University tell the truth. 
But if there were a thousand people, or three thousand people, or six thousand people; organized and ceaselessly questioning, banging up against these wrongs at every turn, demanding answers, demanding explanations, then, that would make the University tell the truth. For if in April three thousand students could rally behind the cause of peace in Cambodia, then surely they could rally behind a cause far more immediate. 
But we are those three thousand students. And we have set an unenviahle record for silence. And the academic year is now almost half over. The campus will be empty pretty soon. When we come back, the all-important. Park-Mayhew report on coeducation will be in. The ramifications of the report and the subsequent actions by the Board of Trustees will be felt for the next two decades. Student opinions should be represented. Student voices should be heard. But that will mean that we will all have to stir ourselves. Jt will mean we will have to organize, and publicize, and work. It will mean we will have to wake up. 

Wednesday, December 9, 1970 
TNB O&fi'JlfiDt Page 9 
The Inside Stroig ht .,...,.,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,.,,H,.,.,.,H,.,.,.,.,,.,.,,,.,.,.,.,,.,,,.HHHH###H#######c#########,.,,,,.,,.,. 
Woes of on Expansion Publication Letters 
,..,.,.,.,,H,.,,.H,.,,.,,,,,.,,,.,.,,,,.,.,,,.,.,,,,,,.,,.,.,,.,.,.,.,.,.,.H,,...,.,,.,.,... John Knorr ond BiII Corter Notre from the Underground 
A new dawn on the horizon ofcampus journalisn is seemingly just around the corner. This is the impression, at least, thay one gets when reading the Scholastic interview (Nov. 20, pages 32-34) held with those. denizens of the journalistic field, Chuck Ryan and Jim Holsinger. 
This column is not written in the spirit of adversity towards the New Voice. We welcome competition, although we do not feel that this is really competition. If it is to be competitive with anything, it will be the Scholastic. However, what we would like to do is to clear up what we feel were a few misleading statements made in that interview. 
Firsf, Mr. Holsinger said that the Ob­server has impure objectives; that it is a dead end. He further attacks the paper as being uncreative, with little or nothing to say. We would like to debate this point with Mr. Holsinger face to face, and not in print, as we feel that this is a case of sour grapes on his part. It is a fact that Mr. Holsinger worked for the Observer in various capacities and for varying legnths of time. At no time did it seem that his prescence did much to stimulate others to any creative ~fforts, nor did it seem to help straighten out the "impure objec­tives" of the Observer. Yet, for some reason, the New Voice will be creative and take up the slack the Observer doscn't fill. 
Mr. Ryan then says his reasons for the new publications founding stem from faulty reporting of the budget require­ment asked for by the Afro-American Society. Admittedly a mistake was made, 
· 

and an apology was given to Mr. Ryan · both in person and in print. Mr. Ryan evidently overlooks the fact that we are students, not journalism major-type stu­dents, just students gaining experience in providing what we feel to be a worth­while campus service. The Observer is a learning experience for all involved. For that reason our top rrporters and most experienced start cannot do all. People want to learn and we afford them the opportunity. Inexperience is a factor we hope to correct.. A mistake was made due to his inexperience, but Mr. Ryan evi­dently feels that this is inexcusable, so he 
took his ball and went home, and formed 
the New Voice. Mr. Ryan evidently is 
exceedingly brilliant in that he can in­
stantly grab what is the wider sense of the 
issue all the while retaining the specifics 
involved. He therefore expects this of all, 
and is sure that the New Voice will be 
able to add the "in depth" coverage other 
publications lack. 

Here we would like especially to take a point. We question that if Mr. Ryan and Mr. Holsinger are to get the in depth coverage they desire, what happens to the time element of the news? It would be a fine thing to dig as deep into an issue on campus as can be done and express the real insides of a situation, if it could be done in a reasonable rate of time. This we feel, is impracticle, and representative of the knowledge of these journalists as to the responsiveness and whole-hearted re­ception reporters so often get at ND when attempting to uncover what is really behind an issue, such as the recent contract terminations. By the time any real reasons etc. are uncovered, it is highly probable that the issue and there­fore the news would be passe, and of little interest to anyone. What impact would there be now if the Observer printed with documentation that outside communist agitators were responsible for the Dow..CIA demonstrations in 1968? 
The financial aspect they talked about in the interview is a true gem of fantasy. We publish every day of the school year (except vacations and finals) with edi­tions ranging from 4 to 16 pages. We publish everyday, and yet we have mone­tary problems. We hope to get money from the University for long range capital expenditures, but this is just speculation. Our advertising revenue is barely able to cover costs _most of the time, and our costs are less since they are costs of scale 
·due to our press run size of l 0,000 copies, and our regularity. Except for a fairy godmother (an outside benefactor who likes to take great risks, like betting on the Philadelphia Eagles to win the Super Bowl) we don't see how tht;Y can get any money to finance this publica­tion. Mr. Ryan later on in the interview, accuses the Observer of having a slant. If any'thing this is not true under Glen Corso. In past years this may have been noticeable, but not now. The editorial board is set up such that any major issue 
which comes up is debated by all, with the end .result being a combination of ide~s and ideologies. Because of this a balancing effect occurs and we feel the Observer is as objective as is possible. Further, Ryan feels that the Observer is slanted against David Krashna. This is not so. Last year the Observer narrowly en­dorsed Tom Thrasher. All those voting on this matter (except for -the ex-publisher and Mr. Holsinger) are back. One of the writers of this column served a brief period as an assistant commissioner in Mr. Krashna's cabinet, leaving because of lack of time to do justice to both the cabinet and the Observer. If anything, the Obser­ver is very objective towards Mr. Krashna. 
There are other points we would like to take issue with but space precludes this. However, we just would like to make the point that the reasons and facts cited in the interview are not as plain as they seem. 
We wish the New Voice success, and we also wish Mr. Ryan and Mr. Holsinger a longer tenure and a more profitable one then they experienced with the S_G cabi­net and the Observer respectively. 
However, we have grave misgivings as to the fact that this will ever become more than a fantasy. 

A Christmas Carol 
"Here the sledges with the bells I silver bells I What a world of merriment their melody foretells." 
"Hark the Herald angels sing, I Glory to the new born King." "Joy to the world, the Lord is come; I Let earth receive her King." "0 come all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant." "Silent Night, Holy Night, All is calm, all is bright.'' 
These are the sounds, the songs, the joys, and above all, the hopes of the Christmas season. The sounds are heard by happy men. The songs are sung by happy men. The joys, the hopes, and the happiness that result from the joy and 
hope are felt by men who are enjoying a brief respite from the lot of humanity, and who perhaps fancy a. more prosperous New Year. They are 
comfortable at least for a while. They lose old .hatreds and love with gusto -at least for a while. · 
But while everyone is temporarily happy, or maybe just plain drunk, mankind's grim and hopeless footrace with annihilation continues, and is coming closer and closer to the finish line .. In Europe, two massive land armies face each other across a barbed-wire, mined and guarded line known as the Berlin Wall. Like two sixth-graders, they dare each other to cross the line, each in mortal fear that the other will do so. 
In the Middle East, a nation (in every political sense of the word) fighting for its very life is betrayed by its friends. This nation is the scene of the original Silent and Holy Night. 
In the Far East, one of the most unpopular wars in worli:l history grinds to a stalemate. Its victims are hardly dead, who have escaped the photo finish but the living who must inhabit a geography which resembles more a city dump than fertile rice farmland. 
At home -yes, even here in these United States -man's fight with himself goes on. Not "one nation, under God," 
but a wretched political collection of stinking, restering vested interests. 
The picture looks dark, and well it might. This is no lamentation,no plea for peace and love and existential truth. For lamentation is futile, peace and love the foolish dream of foolish men, and if there exists any truth of any kind it is doubtful whether humanity would recognize it if its life depended on it. Sadly, it does. 
The herald angels will sing this Christmas. The faithful -what is left of them -will come together in peace this Christmas. There will probably be joy to some of thts planet on Christmas Day. The night will and probably ought to be "silent" and "holy" this Christmas season in the year of Our Lord 1970. But sadly again, the New Year will be no be~ter. . 
So when you're sitting qmetly m church this year on Christmas Eve waiting for Midnight Mass; or maybe when you're "drunk with the guys;" or maybe just alone in a big quiet house, think of the meaning of Christmas. And say your prayers. "God r~st ye merry Gentlemen." Yes, rest in peace. 
Night Editresses: Ann Conway Headlines: Jim Roe, Jim Bullock Managing Editor: Bill Carter Sports Editor: Terry Shields Mary Chris Morrison Ad Manager: Bruce Barker News Editor: Ed Ellis SMC News Ed1tor: Jeanne Sweeney Layout: John Abowd, Dan Kopenhaver, Ad Layout: Steve Dollinger, Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor Associate Editors: Dave Stauffer, Dave Bach, Jim Graif, Don Ruane Jim Flanagan Features Editor: Dave Lammers Sue Bury 
Note No. I 

Editor: 
For years the western press has arbitrarily and unfairly dis­torted and exagerated the facts about the Arabs. Unfortunately, the Observer has and continues to be no different. At a time when a better understanding is being sought by all sides, the irrelevance of your political car­toon (Dec. 3rd), and its poor sense of timing, leave a great deal to be desired. 
PaulY. Said 
Note No.2 

l!.ditor: 
In your note in the preface to 
Mr. Carl Estabrook's essay "The 
Latter Day Leviathan" in the 
Observer of November 13,1970, 
you list Mr. Estabrook as a 
Professor and as having received 
his doctorate from Harvard. 
For the sake of accuracy only, 
may I point out that Mr. Esta­
brook has the rank of Instructor 
in the Department of History 
and has not yet received his 
doctorate. As newspaper editors 
and writers you should be es-' 
pecially concerned and careful 
about the accuracy of informa­
tion that you print. 
Vincent P. DeSantis Chairman 
Note no. 3 

Editor: 
I was quite relieved upon reading the editorial, "To Chris Wolfe" by Walter G. Secada, to discover that there is at least one rational human being on this campus. Recently the Observer (the voice of the student body) has been so dripping with emo­tional rhetoric and sentimental­ity that it was beginning to sotu'ld more like a gurgle than a voice. 
No one will deny that abor­
tion is an unpleasant topic -but 
so are the problems of overpop­
ulation, large scale world starva­
tion (which, by the way, author­
ities predict en masse within the 
next decade), death due to 
quack abortionists, unwanted 
pregnancies, etc. You have taken 
the side of the unborn, now hwo 
about a word from the living. 
But then, perhaps the topic 
"abortion" is a bit too heavy for 
our ND-S.MC community to di­
gest. Maybe the Observer should 
limit itself to pressing problems 
which are more within the realm 
of the student, such as, "Will 
Notre Dame win the next foot­
ball game?" or "What is happen­
ing in Student Senate?" 
Sincerely, 
Jeanne Mortimer 
322 Regina North 
Note No.4 Editor: 
I am the mother of a 1968 engineering graduate of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and of a present St. Mary's freshman and I wish to add my protest and disgust for all associated. with the publication of the abortion ad printed on Oct. 26, 1970. Don't you realize what you are doing to your school? 
Mrs. Katherine May 
(Mrs. Ralph May) 

----------~----------------------------. 
Wednesday, December 9, 1970
7118 OBS.EIHI£R

Page 10 
South Bend Project battles unemployment 
Last Thursday night, Dorothy Day was and businessman. and despair -fear for one's own In a call sent out in the Midwest , the The people in Seattle claim that the existence and the existence of family; and Project stated "South Bend, because it is
here. She is one of the founders of the 
situation is different now. With Boeing apathy and despair at one's own an advanced example of the policies of
Cathoic Worker movement, and she spoke 
of the need to do something about the half closed down, those out of work impotence in the area of human survival. the Nixon administration and the numbered not only production workers,
hunger and poverty and disease of South Bend's economy, since it is corporate. owners, has been selected as 
but engineers and technicians, foremen
Americans. After her speech, Chuck heavily concentrated in manufacturing is the target city for a mass demonstration and managers. Those for whom there had
Leone, one ofthe organizers ofthe South particularly vulnerable to Nison's to dramatize the governmetn's Bend Project gave a short description of always been a demand, found that the. anti-inflationary strategy. Nixon, wqo responsibility for high unemployment."
laws of capitalism acted as they were
the goals of the project's planned march inherited the. current inflation from There will be a two day action in 
supposed to; they are experiencing the
and symposium for this weekend. He Kennedy and Johnson's Vietnamese South Bend on December 12 and 13 to 
way capitalism has always affected the
called for volunteers. All the hip, groovy, adventures, has chosen to use the emphasize the problem of unemployment
production worker.

non-violent students and faculty were "classic" prescription to combat to pass solutions. 
The workers of South Bend feel the
there. Four people volunteered to work inflation. The theory is that prices rise The call goes on to state "There will be 
squeeze, especially, as they were
on the project. Rap on, write on, read on, due to an excess demand, so inflation can a march and rally in South Bend on
supposed to; they are experiencing the
dream on, non-violent peace freaks. Try be fought simply by policies which 1 Saturday, December 12, 1970, 
wya capitalism has always affected the
doing something this weekend. The restrict demand -tax increases, decreases emphasizing the issue of unemployment
production worker.

following is a statement from the South in government "expenditures (which have and its relation to the war, racism and
The workers of South Bend feel the
Bend Project. hit South Bend's manufacturing firms and poverty. On Sunday, December 13, a 
squeeze, too. Unemployment reached employees particularly hard), and conference will be held to discuss 6.1% in October (seasonally adjusted to
ln the recent past, unemployment has restricted credit policies (which make it unemployment and what can be done 
7 .2%), it has been oficially 5% or higher
had little meaning for the white collar tough for students to get loans). about it on local and national levels. 
since February. Bendix, the largest
and professional man. College graduates From South Bend's economic plight, a The problems of the war, poverty,
employer in the area is in the process of
were in demand, salaries were high, times new group has formed. The South Bend racism, and unempoployment exist now were good. There was little empathy with closing down: machinery is being moved Project, sponsored by the Midwest and they will continue to exist unless 
out, jobs are slowly disappearing. 
the blue collar worker. The man in the Region of the National Coalition to action is taken. March on South Bend on 
Unemployment compensation, welfare
plant had to gear his existence to the Combat War: Racism, and Repression, is Saturday, December 12 (2:00 p.m. at 
payments, and direct relief are all
availability of government contracts. The attempting to recognize the problems Howard Park) and share your ideas on 
inadequate, and the requirements are
supply and demand of the labor market both in South Bend and nationally and Sunday, December 13 at the conference -often dehumanizing. 
has skills and energy treated as another attempting to seek solutions, both on a South Bend Project Office is at 526 N. The situation is one of fear, apathy,
commodity in the hands of the politicians political level and on an indiividual levll. Hill St. 232-3275. 
Jim Le•rv ;:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::«­
• , ··-·----------------------. .r. 
• 

Time to lose :~~~\ Universities 1n trouble 
·=·=· 

privately endowed universities, its tuition
Brothers and Sisters,the unemploymen; ( UPI) -A financial slump tied in with many state schools are beginning to hurt 
is ahout all traffic will bear. Its alumni
in South Bend is now-more than 6%. the general economic recession has too as hard pressed state legislatures have 
have followed a pattern reported by other
Nationally it is a bit less, but rising. The superceded students unrest as one of the taken healthy whacks out of their annual 
· major problems facing most American universities in increasing its donations.
unemployment Internationally and its bu-dget requests. 
But corporate and fo_!.lndation gifts are
concomitant implications are practically colleges and universities. The University of Pennsylvania 
incalculabe. On December 12th and 13th, The afflicted institutions are resorting falling off in general. suffered a 50 per cent reduction in state 
the South Bend Project will sponsor a to stopgap measures such as faculty salary Halford explained that belt-tightening funds ~-$6 million this year instead of 
demonstration and conference. I don't freezes, reduction of courses offered, and on American campuses is chiefly due to last year's $12 million -but its alumni 
wish to sound doctrinaire and didactic by even cuts in janitorial service as the result inflation. The trouble is compounded at glVlng spurted. The Pennsylvania 
saying it sesrves your support. But, of a financial crisis on the campuses that highly endowed Columbia by the fact Assembly approved only stopgap 
dammit, it deserves your support. has made deficit budgeting a common that of the $151 million budgeted for appropriations· for the University of 
Life is hard by the yard. But you don't practice. expenditure this year some $81 million is Pittsburgh ending next February instead 
have to do it by the yard. By the inch it's "We literally don't have the cash to endowment money restricted to specific of giving outright approval to a requested 
a cinch. Any money can't buy every­sweep the floors" said Ralph Halford, purposes. 1970-71 budget. 
thing. For example: Poverty. vice president for special proJects at "We have endowment money we c.an Michigan lawmakers have ordered a 
Columbia University where a $15 million spend fully on these purposes but we one per cent across the board cut totaling 
deficit is expected to accumulate by can't spend it on anything else" Halford $2.8 million in operating funds alloted Nelson Algren speaks from the Wild 
June. Columbia is paring its faculty at the complained. four year colleges and universities forcing 
Side: "In the mixed-up April of '32 the and undergraduate on fa cui ty and
graduate advanced Privately endowed institutions such as freezes hiring travel numbers of jobless rose to eight million, 
level, leaving staff vacancies unfilled and Columbia have seen the handwriting on expenditures. State run colleges in West two hundred thousand steelworkers took 
eliminating courses with small the ivied walls for years as more and more Virginia were included in a six per cent a fifteen percent wage cut and it took a 
registrations. public money has been invested in state reduction in state spending imposed on Cardinal to perceive that the country's 
Some colleges report a dwindling universities with their lower tuition and
economic collapse was actually a all state agencies.
student body but Columbia's enrollment unually lower entrance standards. Butwonderful peice of luck, for every day it is up slightly to 24,000. Like most other 
brought thousands closer to the poverty of Christ, who had been nowhere near before. For thousands it was the chance of a lifetime to bring Jesus' simplicity, 
Rory Holscher reviews Juggler
the Cardinal said, right into the home. All 
over the country men and women and Notre Dame audience: the moral of even small children began to take advan­If anyone read the Juggler of the' Vacation rumors circulate whieh is, I suppose, that the excitement tage of this spiritual opportunity. All winter. of two years ago, they found blousless black girl of writing for that larger world increases 
manner of little goodies like that were writing that was good, with the sparkle of dancing in the fenced backyard the number of poets just as it does thelying about in the mixed-up April of '32. promise in places, but generally watching the black wading pool scope of individual poems. 
disappointing. Looking back now, I think grass clogging the surface Juggler is now on sale in the Bookstore
**** that the reason for the disappointment dead hees floating 
"I feel like I been everywhere God got and at the magazine counter of the 
was fairly simple -Juggler at that time slightly heneath the grass like 
Huddle. Also, manuscripts are beingland," Dove thought, "yet all I found was was comprised of the work of artists who a silent worm accepted for the next issue. So read it,people with hard ways to go. All I found regarded their art as a most personal, beneath the strewn yard
was troubles 'n degradation. All I found and write for it. Make it big.
diary-like exercise intended only for their one inch was that those with the hardest ways to own pleasure or perhaps that of a few trembling slightly from fear go were quicker to help than those with 
friends. Now, there's nothing at all wrong _Into the pool the girl dives hair first
the easiest ways. All I found was two with writing for one sfself and a couple of hidden the private dark kinds of people. Them that would rather others -what is thus written can get leap the earth boundlive on the loser's side of the street with along very well inside its tiny world. But depths the sun carvedother losers than to win off by their­when the world is so small, and the vision ceiling the crypt the mindselves; and them who want to be one of so restricted, there is much of importance the useless free thoughtsthe winners even though the only way that can never be said, and whole ranges While the black girl left for them to win was over them who of feeling and experience that will never swam in the anonymous yardhave already been whipped. 
be expressed. The artist becomes a sad in the ignorant shallow pool All I found was men and women, and modern parody of the rustics in Grey's three humid dreamless tenantsall the women were fallen. Sports of the 
country churchyard. ransacked her roomworld, poor dummies, poor tarts, all they Things are much different, and inuch condemned her to deathwere good for was to draw flies ( was 
told. You always one too better, now. The current Fall issue of stole the wrinkled travel pictures
could treat Juggler is out, in the world and ready togood, it was said, but you could never be there. In it you can read poets andthreat one too bad. Yet I wouldn't trade others who have the nerve and publicoff the worst of the lot for the best of. the awareness to use ambitious forms and

other kind. I think they were the real salt There is no dirth of writing of this 
engage important issues, and what is 
of the earth." quality. Michael Patrick O'Connor's 
more, artists who have the saavy to work, and John Stupp ~s, are too long forhandle these forms and issues properly,
**** me to exerpt from them effectively, but I
often beautifully. Consider the social 
Brothers and Sisters, it is no good to only wish that I could show you part of Jame~ Boland, and Bob Rossi, actors in
criticism that appears when a poet moves these writings: they are that good. "Th H t , Th d F "d y and
win anymore. It is no good · to rise with his subject, as in Richard . e os age. urs ay, n a , 
anymore, 'cause that can only be done by -It should . be pomted out too that this Saturday at 8:30 wash" t Ha11
Fitzgerald's VACATION mg on . 
tssue contams the work of five poets who ' 
stepping on the necks of others. Finally, are appearing for the first time to theit is time to lose. 
• • 



Wednesday, December 9, 1970 
THB OBSERUER. 
Pa 11 

Rev. Robert Griffin 
Charlie Brown urchins moss 
For me, the most unforgettable forty-five minutes of the week, this semester, has been the eleven o'clock hour on Sunday mornings, when I offer the Urchins' Mass in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. During thestl brief moments of Liturgy, the tensions of the weekend, and of the inner self, drop away; and I can feel the wrinkles of age disappearing, as though my face were the spo.­where cares have just folded their tents like Arabs. 
on One Another. I'm not sure how orthodox that was, hut it certainly was as valid as the prayers of one little boy who told me, after Mass, that he had commended Jesus to the safe-keeping ofThidwick, the Big-Hearted Moose. 
The chief and continuing delight of the Mass is the children themselves,. As they gather close to the altar, I look around to see the fair Eileen, whom I reverence as a semi-mystic of the Eucharist; or little Carl, tha tow-headed child who 
I.D. cards will not be checked tor age; and if you are a septuagenarian wis.liing you were a tiny tot just for the Christmas season, slip on your mittens, bundle up tight and come with your teddy bear to this Sunday's Liturgy, when the Principal Guest will be honored as the Lord of all childhood Who shared His infancy with shepherds and with kings. 
A final word: Master Darby O'Gill, the Keenan cocker spaniel who doesn't know he is a D.O.G., 
I am faced only with the beauty of children singing, dancing and clapping their hands to celebrate the unseen mysteries of a Reality Whose own best Incarnation, in every generation but Christ's, is themselves. 
The Urchins' Mass ... attended also, of course, by moppets, and even sometimes by gamins, though the gamimin count is pretty low on the Notre Dame campus. Perhaps that is just as well, because gamins sometimes have runny noses, and pinch. Illustrative of gamins, I remember a set of them, twin boys aged five, from the Puerto Rican ghetto of New York City. Both of them would come up to you in the streets and wrap themselves lovingly around your legs. But one was a gentle child, and the other a pincher, and physically, you couldn't tell them apart. You would think you were being caressed by the decent little chap, when all of a sudden he would begin twisting your flesh between his fingernails until you were ready to faint, and you would know you had been foiled again by the little hypocrisies of love. As a result, I am always a little pinch-shy around the gamin-type of kid, which goes to show I think that even among us sentimentalists, Golding's novel, The Lord of the Flies was not needed to clue us to the darker side of childhood. 
Fortunately, our Notre Dame children are not gamins, and do not pinch, at least, not during Mass. They may disease you with mumps or spill wax on the altar linens when they blow out candles at the Offertory; and on one recent Sunday, a child even tossed up his cookjes on the rug. But that happened at Sacred Heart Church, where most anyone can suffer from troubled cookies. The child had been invited, along with other youngsters, to stand in the sanctuary for the Canon, and I suppose the little tyke got nervous from being stared at by the advocates of Family Planning. But the urchin-and-moppet set never gets nervous (l hope) in the Keenan-Stanford chapel, because they know (please God, they do) that it is their ball park, and that parents who object to fidgeting in the holy places had better watch themselves, or they'll be sent to the rear of the chapel, where a nun can keep her grim eyes on them. 
There are always surprises at the romper room version of the Eucharistic celebration. Last Sunday, for example, I was very much surprised to find myself praying for the good health of the Holy Spirit. It happened at that time of the Mass 
when we were remembering grandparents and families and school chums who were sick; suddenly, someone offered a petition for God. Then it was suggested that we pray for the world, followed by two prayer requests on behalf of Je:.us, and finally the Holy :'1>itit was mentioned as Someone definitely in need of our help. I hadn't realized that the Trinity was in need of outside assistance; but remembering the insight from the Green Pastures that says that even bein' Gawd ain't no bed of roses, I silently prayed that the Divine Persons might keep a watchful, loving eye 
Christmas operas on 
chases away the shadows on the dimmest mornings; or tiny Christina, who dances around the sanctuary as though she were modeling as a sunbeam. It was Christina, at Thanksgiving, who gave me the pine-cone turkey with the paper feathers and gobbler's head. 
I said to her, "I think it is the nicest turkey I have ever seen." 
"Yes," she said, "I know it is." It was obvious, as a maker of turkeys, she was not troubled by any false modesty stemming from her amateur status as a bird artist. 
Then there are the other children with whom I carry on a running dialogue during the entire service. They check the weight and size of the Eucharist loaf like a delagation from the Liturgical Commission. They peep into the chalice before the Consecration, as though to make sure that the wine awaits the Lord's coming; and they peek into it afterwards, as though hoping that His glory might shine through. 
The Canon is a continuing catechesis; and if we find ourselves getting restive a hymn, preferably with our eyes closed, to shut out the distractions that lure us into mischief. Sometimes, we just turn around slowly in circles, in a kind of dance step, or during the Our Father we join hands and move clock-wise around the altar, as a way of converting our excess energies into the worship of our God. But always, at the Sign of Peace, we become merry, boisterous, uninhibited, and noisy, as though urchinry were racing rampant and moppetry were runnig amok, until finally the priest has to say, "Enough!.Enough!"so that Jesus can come on our tongues to share the gladness that 
.is inside us all. 
Off in the corner, there are the music makers: Seamus, self-styled as "the kid with the steel hip," and Wayne, the tenor, looking like a toymaker's version of a surprised beanstalk, who complains every Sunday of the blasphemy of children plucking, during the hymns, at his guitar strings, until he is finally rescued by Johanna, girl sacristan and trouble shooter from Regina Hall. But Wayne knows he gets more attention at the Urchins' Mass than the Celebrant himself, and this paragraph is written to remind him that when tenors get too popular, they can be replaced by tape recorders. 
On Sunday, December 13th, at eleven o'clock, a Charlie Brown Christmas Mass will be celebrated for the urchins, moppets, gamins (pinchless, or otherwise), and their parents and friends of the Campus community. (This Mass should not be confused with the regular five o'clock Mass, which will begin, this week, at quarter of five, since the Glee Club is singing, when the Charlie Brown Christmas tree will also put in an appearance.) 
For the people that will be in South Bend for the next month or so 
·introduced many innovations in (our sympathies) WNDU-FM (88.9 on your di~l) will present the 
an effort to improve The 1970-71 season of the Metropolitan Opera_ Beginning on 
System. These included wiringDecember 5, Don Pasquale, by Denizetti will be aired at 2:00. 
two of the blockades with alarms Tosca by P~ccini will be broadcasted the following Saturday at and intensifying patrol of their the . s~me. time. Successive Saturdays will feature Nerma by 
halls. The effectiveness of these Belhm, Atda by Verdi, Fidolio by Beethoven, Ofreo Ed Euridice 2hanges will be evaluated at a
br Gluck, and Die Frau Ohne Schatten by Strauss. The operas, at 
meeting of administrative and 2 00 on every Saturday from Dec. 5 to January 16, are sponsored security representatives Dec. 18. by Texaco, Inc. 
For the meeting, each of the 
directors, security guards and 
the head warden prepared 
reports evaluating the present

Free U. courses desired policies. Although these reports 
are confidential, interviews with 

several members of the panelThe Free University is attemptingto getunderway at the beginningof 
indicate that they are ·generally next semester, and is therefore trying to compile the pleased with the changes.course-listing during break. Could people interested in leading The Regina Blockade, courses • for the spring semester please send one-naragraph course 
primarily for inmates confined descriptions to FREE UNIVERSITY, Box 522, Notre Dame; 
(to) isolation cells, has either before you leave for Christmas or at least by January 9, 
concentrated on solving the 1971. Thank you, Mike Shaughnesey. 
problem of excessive "bolting." 

Saint Mary's a prison? 
by Karen Denny In an effort to bolster their occasionally shaky security system, St. Mary's Prison for Women has introduced three
WNDU 

major innovations for this year's security. At the beginning of the prison term, the head warden has asked me to hint that he is expecting bones in his Christmas stocking. He says, "God bless you, every one!" to which I add, "And a very merry Christmas!" 
'First Circle' 
By Dave Lammers 

Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's The First Circle his last novel about prison life in Stalinist Russia 'was published over two years ago, and so this' can hardly be called a review. Since this is the last Observer before the four week Christmas vacation this is more of a suggested reading plug tha~ anything. 
In case exam week doesn't destroy your ability to read, The First Circle is a must for over the vacation. 
The story is set in a Stalinist sharaska, a prison camp for scientists and engineers. The camp director has been given an order from Stalin to develop a telophonic decoding device, to be used in Stalin's arsenal of informers, spies and secret police. 
The plot revolves around the theme of resistance to the complicity within the prison camp, as some of the scientists and engineers obstruct and abort the decoding project. The men in the sharaska search for a purpose to their suffering, and paradoxically they find their greatest freedom in resisting the state, at the cost of their physical freedom. The scientists sense an importance and a dignity that contrasts with Life "on the outside." "The stupefying purposelessness of every act and every day! Nothing sweet, nothing sharp, nothing bitter, life like grey cotton!" One scientist illegally makes notes on the Stalinist government, risking everything for an attempt to retain a mental integrity. 
The book is worth reading, if only to find out what went on in Solzhenitsyn's mind during the eleven years that he spent in prison. The Russian poet Yevtushenko called Solzhenitsyn "our only living Russian classic." In 1967 the novelist compPained of "the oppression, no longer tolerable, that our literature has been enduring 
from censorship for decades ... No one can bar the road to truth, and to advance its -cause I-am prepared to accept even death." Over Christmas, friends, brothers, sisters, leave 
America behind for the tragic but courageous 
Russia of the Stalinist prison camps. 
(Bolting is leaving or entering . . the blockade after its clo · room. Thts meant that pnsoners without permission.) smg ha~ to walk around the buil~ing The blockade sp d' whtch was also hazardous smce 
ona tca. 11y k d ,
usesitsnewalarmwhichiswired one. got attac e , she 
for every door except the main co~,t~nued. . 
one as a check on its inmates. So the Head Warden said 
To stymie the problem, the that we could keep the door 
council is also conducting open as Ion~, as we had a guard 
unannounced bed checks. at the_ door. s.he reported that 
"Prisoners n t in th · ill every mmate will have a turn at 
o eu ce11s w th d k be brought before the prison ew .es.. judiciary," commented the Hing .the McCandless 
Director of Se. ·t Blockade wtth an alarm system
0

cun y. ne h ·1 d h · d"ffi I · 
member of the council expressed ,,as curtat e t etr I tcu ties. satisfaction with the highly We have recently start~d effective s y s t em. She l~ckmg .the two ~oors at s1x emphasized its success especially o clock 111 the evemng. Inmates during the weekend ec e t' used to use them and then leave 
r r a JOn th h' h . k ,
periods with as many as six em open w tc was ns ~, inmates being apprehended. commented another SecuntyDirector.
The L.eMans blockade has also attempted to solve its security problems with the aid of In the Holy Cross Blockade, co-operative inmates. "security is pretty good," said 
"At the beginning of the its director. In September, prison term there were some complaints promted the firing of incidents where people walked one guard for sleeping and upstairs into the rooms," admitting inmates after closing recounted the Security Director. without their indentification "We were forced to lock the cards. door leading to the reading 
f 
Notre Dame 29 Michigan State 0 


Notre Dame 48 Purdue 0 

Notre Dame 51 Army 10 
Notre Dame 24 Missouri 7 


Notre Dame 56 Navy 7 


Notre Dame 46 Pitt 14 


Notre Dame 3 LSU 0 Southern Cal 38 Notre Dame 28 
Page 14 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday, December 9. 1970 
The N.J. Jocks had (W) right idea 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
I remember back to sopho­more year (I 968) when these new guys from Jersey moved into Zahm Hall Section 2-D. They used to give everybody a hard time, eve" Anna the Maid. They ~ailed : 'temselves "the New Jersey jocks" and every­time you mentioned anything about Notre Dame football, or any sport for that matter, they could rattle off a list of athletes from the Garden State that could impress anyone. One of the guys they always mentioned was Jim Wright. 
I had been a close observer of spring football practice in 1968 and I remembered a little bit about Wright. He was 6' 1" and about 220 lb. and he seemed to be where the play was going a lot of the time. I figured he just was there because linebackers were supposed to be at that spot. I wasn't overly impressed but when we returned to school in the fall of '68 I heard that Jim Wright won a starting position on the defense. The "jocks" let me know about it too. 
Right before the season started Jim Wright was injured and I figured that he, like so many other athletes in the past, was just a name thatwould soon be forgotten. 
Then came that awful, gray, cold, windy day in East Lansing when the Spartans of MSU were busy upsetting Terry Hanratty, Jim Seymour and all of those All-Americas. During the course of that game I noticed a white­shirted ND man who was in on almost as many tackels as co-captain Bob Olson. Quickly checking my game program I <:,-,anned for N. 40. It said "Jim Wright, sophomore linebacker, Sparta, N.D." 
From that day on I started to listen to the New J crsey boys with a litte more attentiveness. They knew what they were talk­ing about. This guy Wright was okay. 
A lot has happened to Jim Wright since that day in Spartan Stadium. In the spring of his sophomore year Jim played baseball and bc~:ause of this he missed out on the all important spring workouts. "I think baseball may have hurt me some because spring is the time to really more up. When you come back in the fall the coaches usually have their team picked." Jim commented on this yester­day in Roger Valdiserri's office at the Convo. 
We kept talking about a lot of the things that have happened over the few years that we have been here. For most of the questions I asked him, his face alone gave the answer. He has that East coast, down to earth attitude about most things and his facial expressions mirror this. For example, was it rough play­ing behind Bobo Olson in your junior year? Jim's eyes opened wide. "Are you kidding, (a slight chuckle fbllowed) He was unbe­lievable. Geez, his wrists were about as big as my biceps,(and Jim is no 97 lb weakling) he didn't have any ankles, his calves went all the way down to his feet. I didn't mind playing be­hind a guy that makes 143 tack­les in a season." 
Actually Jim was a little high­er than second team in his junior year. He was sent in to play as a fifth linebacker when it was an 
Everybody skis Caberfae and Big "M", even Super Skier. Whether your a pro or just trying, we have what you want and much, much more. For instance, our new aerial snowmaking machine that creates next-to-nature speed powder snow, excellent uphill transportation and 50 .~lopes to pick from, "Yes, Martha, there are beginner slopes . For the indoor sportsmen, let Edelweiss Lodge wink its eye for you. Four floors devoted to excellent food, cocktails, entertainment and just good sleeping. Jingle our hot line for lodge reservations or just a snow report.. Phone 616-775-9984. In the heart of the Manistee National Forest. 
~~iiRFAi 
CADILLAC, MICHIGAN 
obvious passing situation. 1-lis quit:kness and speed made him 

more able than even Bobo to cover on pass plays. This season he mi.lde two interceptions to back this point up. Both of these were of the spectacular variety. Jim also has what it takes men­tally to play a position like linebi.Jckcr. At this spot you hve to think i.lnd react quickly, Wright does this. More than once has he had the chance to pick off an inter~:eption but, knowing that it was fourth down he would drop the ball on purpose enabling the offense to get bet­ter field position. It's the little things like this that makes a coach appreciate a ballplayer. 
Wright was paging though this year's football review as I kept interrogating -him. Ik came to the center-fold and the picture' of Joe Theismann standing, arms out-stretched on the floor of the muddy Coliseum. "Look at that. 
6 PRONG DIA· 
$495 
MOND SET... --· 

Boy what a shame. We should have won that one. Jones just h1d his day and the 'D' couldn't adjust quickly enough." 
I asked Jim if this defeat left the team in a bad psychological state for the Cotton Bowl. He looked pensive. "Naw, I don't really think so. Of course we were down right after the game. We were shocked. Well, now it's overwith and we have Texas to worry about." 
Next question Jim, will we be up for Texas? He laughed. "l guess we better be, huh? Did you see them against Arkansas? Man, they're dynamite. If we want to beat themwe gotta score. The defense has to force them to pass. It'll be tough but I think we have the personnel to stop them. We've · been practicing against the Wishbone-Tall season. Maybe the coaches were looking ahead to this game." 

DIAMOND IMPORT SAVINGS 

AT FOX'S YOU GET ABIGGER. BETTER QUALITY DIAMOND LESS MONEY! 
*SOUTH BEND *MISHAWAKA 
BUDGET TERMS 

NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTS 


This of course brought up the question about the bowls. Come on Jim, level with us, did the team want tu go to the Cotton Bowl? He looked sort of sur­prised. "Yeah, I think everybody wants to go. When we took that first straw ballot nobody really thought much about the whole situation. When we voted for real, all things were taken into consideration. We took a chance and now the loss changes things, too. Nebraska even started call­ing us chicken for not going to the Orange Bowl. What are you going to do? Ya know'!" 
Finally, Jim Wright, are you 
satisfied with your four years at 
Notre Dame? He hesitated a 

second, lookded n1al sincere and said, "Well it's not the pure and simple place you heard about when you were a kid. You find out that some guys don't go to church every Sunday (a big grin). You know it's not perfect but I'm glad I came here. Some of the guys on the team were talking about this. We all realize that we've made some good friends, and they're not all foot­ball players either. My brother came here but I didn't talk him into coming. I explained the situation to him you know, social life and all that. He still wanted to come. I'm not sorry I came and I don't think he is." 
Jim looked at his watch. He had to workout downstairs for .there is still one game left for him to play at ND. Then of course, he plans on a career with the pros. He's realistic about the situation. "I think I should be big enough to make it. If I can, I'd like to stay in the East, but I'll go anywhere to play." 
Jim got up then, asked if the defensive statictics were handy. He looked at the part under tackles made. At the top of the list was J. Wright I 03 tackles . "They probably padded that." He grinned again and headed for the locker room. 
l think when I go back to The Zoo tonight I'll stop up and see if ''the New Jersey jocks" have any more hot tips. They sure were right about Jim. Like one of them said, "He's dynamite!" 
WSND wins Media Bowl 
On a cold, windy day in 
November, the first annual 
Media Bowl was won by the 
Wonderful WSND (Wiz-nid) over 
a stubborn Observer team. The 
game was a bitter defensive 
struggle between two ancient(?) 
rivals. 
WSND's Mike Murphy 
intercepted a pass in the early 
part of the fourth quarter and 
ram bled about sixty yards for 
the day's only score. Murphy 
played a standout game on both 
offense and defense. 
Weather conditions kept 
either team from mounting an 
offense. The gusty wind blew up 
to 30 mph at times and 
neutralized any passing attack 
that either team might possess. 
The Observer squad tried to 
come back in the late going but 
the drive stalled on WSND'S I 5. 
With this game goes the 
coveted Old Oaken Little Brown 
Typewriter to the winners and a 
bushel full of sour apples for the 
losers. Just wait until the Media 
Playoffs in roundball WSND! 
~-----­

Wednesday, December 9, 1970 
Page 15 
Terry Shields::=============================~~;:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:= 
UCLA on top (of course) 
The Irish Eye 
NEW YORK (UPI) -UCLA, UCLA put on an awesome with five minutes remaining in 
.=============~=============:::::::=:====================================~====================:·Merry Christmas 
Over the course of the football season THE OBSERVER Sports· Department profiled many of the starting performers for the 1970 Fighting Irish. Each one of these men deserved at least that much individual coverage for the great performance that they have displayed week after week on the gridiron. The only thing that this department reg~ets is. that it could not do a special story on each and every member of the squard, for each man puts forth a comparable effort but some are fortunate enough (or should it be talented enough) to come up with the big play at the right time. At this time the Sports Department would like to take the opportunity to mention even more of the athletes that produced so well in this highly successful season. 
Surely it would be fair to start with the first team players that were not featured during the season. Offensive tackles John Dampeer and Mike Martin were solid performers in every game. It takes more than a great quarterback and hard-running halfbacks to make the offense go. These two junior linemen are that something and more. It wasn't just lady luck who made the holes for Denny Allan, Ed Gulyas, Bill Barz et al. More than one defensive end would have loved to dismember Joe Theismann every time he attempted a pass. These two giants did their job well, Joe's still in one piece. 
Perhaps the most under-rated and under-publicized member of the team is center Dan Novakov. Novakov received a perfect rating by the coaching staff after they viewed the game films each week for the majority of the season. When the tough yardage was needed the play was always kept near the center of the line. 
Mike Kadish and Mike Zikas were stellar defensive tackles for Joe Yonto. Zikas filled the gap left by the injured Kadish at the beginning of the season and when Kadish did return he bolstered one of the leading rushing defenses in the nation. Both are juniors, both will be headaches for opposing backs next year. 
Remember the LSU game? Remember the attempted field goal by Mark Lumpkin? Do you remember who blocked it? No. 88 was the man and that play alone is enough to say what kind of job Bob Neidert turned in this season. 
Rich Thomann and Eric Patton are only juniors. Just mention that to Ara and watch the smile crack his face. These two linebackers are both quick agressive hitters who will cornerstone next year's defensive unit. 
Mike Crotty played a lot of free safety for Paul Shoults this season and he played it well. Crotty gave up a lot of size to some of the men he covered this year but that never stopped him from tackling hard enough that one could here the contact in the press box. 
Scott Hempel has been a reliable place-kicker for three seasons at Notre Dame and he is the holder of an NCAA record for PAT's in a career. It was Scott's educated toe that provided' the margin of victory in this year's LSU game. Another Scott (Smith) also came through with a big field goal, this coming in the Georgia Tech game. Smith will return, Hempel graduates. 
Larry Parker was one. of the pleasant surprises of the football year. He showed signs of becoming what NFL Fli.ms call "a gamebreaker." Larry doesn't possess blinding speed but he is hard to pull down and he has an excellent instinct for broken field running. He could weli be heard from before he wraps up his collegiate career. 
Bob Minnix was another in the long list of dependable Irish backs. It seemed that he was always able to "turn the corner" on end sweeps and when he go~ a pass it usually went for a big gainer. 
The list keeps growing as the season passes through one's mind. Jim Musaraca smashing a Purdue runner. Jim Yoder hailing the lid on the coffin against LSY, Pat Steenberge leading the triple-option (Notre Dame style) with John "Cisco" C'ieszkowski pounding through, and who can forget the kickoff against Purdue when Jim Witchger nearly ripped Stan Brown's head off, all of these were great moments of the season. This department would merely like to give a p~t on the back to the entire team for a job well-done. 
No Christmas issue would be complete without a list of some gifts that we would like to see Santa bring so here goes: 
To Jim Plunkett, a field day against Ohio State and prove once again his ability as a Heisman candidate (And a win' wouldn't be a bad idea either.) 
To the LSU defense, a New Year's Day comparable to the one they had on November 21. , 
To Muhammad Ali, the title which he rightfully deserves. 
To Rich Hunter, A new whistle to replace the one he wore out in the Interhall football season. To Don Kennedy, a muzzle for use in the press box in order to 
avoid conflicts with visiting reporters. 
To Steve Worste{, a day in the arms of Walt Patulski. 
To the Arkansas Razorbacks, a schedule with a few more Wichita States. 
To the Pittsburgh Pirates, for "next year" to come already. 
To the Oakland Raiders, a free heart examination at the end of the season for their fans and medicare for their second string quarterback. 
To Army and Navy, each other. 

To WSND, a basketball game against THE OBSERVER. 
To Jacksonville, a few less Biscayne Colleges and a few more South Carolina's. 
To Howard Cosell, a move to later Monday night, say about 4:00 
a.m. (Tuesday). To Lance Rentzell, a good lawyer and an understanding Joey. To a guy named Joe, a Theismann Trophy. To Ara, a set of Longhorns for his mantle. To Austin Carr, just the ball, he'll take care of the rest of the 
presents. To Adolf Rupp, the ability to understand that Louisville isn't a neutral site. To the Fighting Irish, a perfect game in the Cotton Bowl. 
with four straight NCAA titles in hand, is off to a good start in its quest for No. 5. 
The Bruins walked off with the No. I ranking today in the first week's balloting by the 35 member United Press International Board of Coaches. UCLA received 31 of the 3 2 first place votes cast and 31 9 points in the balloting for games played through Sunday Dec. 6. 
South Carolina which received the lone first place ballot not cast for UCLA was ranked second with Kentucky, Jacksonville, and Marquette following in that order. 
Notre Dame was sixth followed by Southern California, Western Kentucky, Kansas and Pennsylvania to complete the top 10. 
NEW YORK (UPI) -The United Press International top 20 major college basketball teams with first place votes in parentheses. First week. 
Team Points 
1. UCLA (31) 2-0  319  
2. South Car. ( 11 2-0  276  
3. Kentucky 2·0  215  
4. Jacksonville 2·0  204  
5. Marquette 2-0  139  
6. Notre Dame 1-1  85  
7. Sou. Cal. 2-0  70  
8. Western Ky. 2-0  67  
9. Kansas 2-0  54  
1 0. Pennsylvania 2-0  52  
11. Indiana 2-0  51  
12. Villanova 2-0  42  
1aUtah~.2~  ~  
14. Drake 2-0  29  
15. Louisville 2-0  26  
16. Florida St. 3-0  . 23  
17. LongBeachSt.1-1  11  
18. Tie New Mex. 2-0  10  
Tie Tenn. 2-0  10  
20. North Carolina 2·0  9  


offensive show during the the first half. The following weekend to walk off with top night UCLA destroyed Rice the honors. The Bruins crushed defending Southwest Conference Baylor 108-77 Friday night with champion 124-78. their five starters being pulled 
Texas repeats No. I 
NEW YORK (UPI) -The national football championship will remain in Texas for another year. 
The United Press International Board of Coaches assured that Monday when it overwhelmingly voted Texas the national champion for 1970. 
NEW YORK (UPII -The United Press International top 20 teams for 1970 with first place votes in parentheses. Final week. 
Team Points 1. Texas (25) 10-0 321 2. Ohio State (6) 9-0 284 


/Vorelco·
CASSEl IE 
RECORDER 
3. Nebraska (2) 1 ().().1 4. Tennessee 10-1 
5. 
Notre Dame 9-1 

6. 
Louisiana St. 9-2 7. Michigan 9-1 


8. 
Arizona St. 10-0 

9. 
Auburn 8-2 ' 10. Stanford 8-3 


11. Air Force 9-2 12. Arkansas 9-2 13. Houston 7-3 14. Dartmouth 9-0 15. Oklahoma 7-4 16. Colorado 6-4 
17. Tie Ga. Tech 8-3 Tie Toledo 11-0 
19. Tie Penn St. 7-3 Tie Sou. Cal. 6-4-1 
* 
Dual Motor System 

* 
Dynamic Microphone 

* 
Inputs for auxiliary (radio & phono etc.) sockets for remote start stop/AC adapter

* 
Outputs for external speaker & earphones 


$39.95 
1320 (LA-9) 
AL SMITH'S 
RECORD BAR 
128 W. Washington Ave. Phone: 232-3344 FOR THE LATEST PRE-RECORDED TAPES AND RECORDS 

274 1d4 177 173 107 85 
71 
30 20 17 16 12 11 4 3 3 1 1 
Wednesday, December 9, 197C
711E OBSERVER 
WE WIRH FLOWERS 
FTD FLORIST 232-3354 

ND crooners accused of sour notes 
WYGANT FLORAL CO. 327 L.W.W. 
The domicile in question was
Last night about midnight, 
the convent adjacent to Holy
Austin -Healy 
the Fourth Floor Keenan Hall 
Cross Hall, where the carollers
FOR SALE 
carollers were summarily evicted 
had been serenading the S'.
from the St. Mary's campus
F/;r information call 
Mary's belles for over 20
because "there are 80 to 90 nuns 
minutes. The nun~ in question,
255-024 7 Best 
living in that hall and they are 
obviously oblivious to the
irate."
o ·er 
Clip and Save 

A list of the Times of Scheduled Masses at Notre Dame 
SUNDAYS: 5:15 P.M. Saturday (Sacred Heart Church); Saturday Midnight (Alumni, Badin, Breen-Phillips, Flanner, Grace, Holy Cross, Howard, Keenan-Stanford, Lyons, Morrissey, Sorin, Zahm); 8:30A.M. (Sacred Heart Church); 9:45A.M. (Sacred Heart Church); 10:00 A.M. (Carroll); 11:00 A.M. (Sacred Heart Church, Walsh, Keenan-Stanford, Grace, Farley, Dillon, Cavanaugh); 11:15 A.M. (Pangborn, Holy Cross); 11:30 A.M. (Lyons, Fisher); 12:15 P.M. (Sacred Heart Church); 5:00P.M. (Walsh, Keenan-Stanford, Alumni!; 11:00 P.M. (St. Edward). 
WEEKDAYS: 8:00A.M. (Dillon, Sorin); 11:30 A.M. (Sacred Heart Church, Walsh, Fisher); 5:00 
P.M. (Farley, Breen-Phillips, Grace, Howard, Walsh); 5:10P.M. (Keenan-Stanford); 
5:15 .P.M. (Sacred Heart Church, Zahm, Fisher, Cavanaugh, Carroll); 10:00 P.M., M-Th (Holy Cross); 11:00 P.M. (Pangborn, Morrissey, Flanner, Keenan-Stanford, Dillon, Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips, Alumni); 12:00 Midnight (Badin!. Saturday only, 
11:00 A.M. (Cavanaugh); Saturday only, 11:30 A.M. (Keenan-Stanford). 
Clip and Save 
impending Yuletide season, were disturbed by the unrefined singing of the young men, and summoned their local constables (both of them) who promptly told the "boys" to cease and desist. . 
This was accomplished with all deliberate speed. 
After they returned to Notre Dame, choir directors Mike Lally, Dan Roche, Jim McDermott, and Jim Leroy released the following statement to the campus media: "We believe these actions constitute a tlagrant infringement of our God-given rights to freedom of assembly, freedom of speech, and freedom of religion. The good sisters apparently have no conception of the Christmas 
Spirit, and even less appreciation of good music." 


STUDENT UNION Presents 
EUROPE $219 
DEPARTS: JUNE 26, 1971 RETURNS: August 26, 1971 DETROIT -AMSTERDAYM ··-DETROIT 
Open only to ND SMC students, faczdty, staff: alumni and their immediate families. 
All other travel arrangements can also he serJJiced 
Contact:  
Arrangements by:  tax and gratuities  First Bank Campus  
World Wide Charter  Travel Bureau  
Ann Arbor, Michigan  283-7080  

GOOD NEWS! THEY'RE IN! A NEW SHIPMENT ' 

The one ... the only 
LEVI'S BELL BOTTOM BLUE JEANS 
Nobody, but nobody, makes them like Levis! We haJJe just receiJJed a new 
shipment of these indispensable stand-bys. While you're at it, take a look at our other famous LeJJi slacks and .flares. 
GlniNG A DAD ... A BROTHER ... AN UNCLE, ETC.? 
Solve your problems ... a quick browse through our shop 
will uncover many fine gift ideas ... shirts, ties, belts and 
many, many more. Come! See! 
Use your account... --~ 
PAY ONE-THIRD 
In January 
PAYON£-TH_, 
In February 
PAYON£-THIIID 
In March 

NO CAMYIIC CHAIIGE 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

VALUE ••• 
14k White 
or Yellow $I QO
Gold. • 

FIRST LOVE DIAMOND RING • SOUTH BEND 

• MISHAWAKA

s19. 
Notre Dame Accounts f'.ielcome 
NO & SMC students, 

We know that right now you've all got many different things on 
your mind with Registration and then exams. But we'd like you to 
stop and think about Mardi Gras & theN D Charities for a minute. A 
good time is guaranteed for all. 

However, everyone's help is needed if everyone is to have fun. 
What we'd like you to do is sell ONE raffle book (we're not 
discoura_qinq the ambitious ones who want to sell more). Do you 
realize that if every student sold ONE raffle book we'd be in the 
neighborhood of $56.000. THIS IS OUR GOAL. Your help is very 
important to us. 

Please, when the vacation finally comes try to remember to take . home your raffle books and try to remember to sell ONE BOOK, at least. We think you know it's for a very worthwhile cause. Thanks for your time. 
M"'' ""' Comm'""· "~ 
<=; ~ 
[__/U'JoJe dame 
Junior Joe Cassini, President of Flanner, presents a check on behalf of his father, Mr. Joseph C. Cassini II, as a donation to the Observer. The money was used to buy a new camera to shoot halftones for the paper. 
FOX'S 
DIRECT DIAMOND 
IMPORTERS 
At Fox's you get a bigger 

better quality  diamond  for  
less  money!  
A OUTSTANDING  




