

VOL. IV, No. 97 Scn•it!f_llir: .Yom-;-f)alllc a/l(f,\:~iii;i-Mari~Jiir.~~"'CT0inmunitt• WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 1970 
•
University Foruf"ll discusse-'--smajor ISSUeS 
Student life, govt issues and priorities talked on
' 
Representatives exchange ideas in Forum 
by GlenS. Corso The University Forum meet­Ing yesterday for its second sess­ion of lhe Yt'<H spt•nl nearly four hours discussing four major areas of t·uncern to the Notre Dame community. Tht• four areas discussed were "Student Cuvernnlt'nt", "Cur­rent Issues on Campus," "llni­versllY l'rionties," and "Campus Life." The first three were allot­et4 forty minutes of discussion lime each, wh11l' the last topic was allowed an hour. The event was covered by four Ohscrvcr n:porters whose detailed accounts of the pro­ceedings follow. First to speak was Student Body President David Krashna, who spoke on what he fell wen~ the prohkms of student lift·. Krashna stressed !hal he fell too 
much emphasis was on the acild­cmic life at Notre Dame. He also Continued on pa[.!e 7 

Present views on campaigns 
by Rich Smith The University Arts Council's fieldhousc renovation drive and the Nutting-for-President campaign were the two issues which concerned the Current Issues on Campus program of the University Forum, which was attended by at least one 
Continued on TJaJ<e 6 


• ·-.:!>' • 

The little people decked out Regina Hall yesterday in prepa­ration for the Fighting Irish. 
Campus Life dominated the students believe that the only 
discussions of the final hour of power they have is the power to 
the open session of yesterday's disrupt. 
forum meeting. However, it was Mr. Lenon's 
Delcga te Joc Kelly opened the contention that the alumni do 
session with an appreciation of care about the students and not 
the many alumni who took time in a paternalistic way but rather 
off to he present and perhaps in a sense of fraternity. In rei a-
none of them deserved this as ling to previous issues, he said 
much as the first speaker Charles that he worries about the over-
Lenon whose wife was due to use of alcohol by many members deliver her fifth child as he of the Notre Dame community 
spoke. not because of Indiana law or 
In his presentation, Lenon University regulations, but be-
opened by quoting one of the cause of his concern for the 
many letters that appeared in students and why they feel they the Alumnus regarding the Octo­need this artificial means to es-her moratorium observance on cape campus. The author of the par­To Lenon, hall life is very ticul<1r letter gave his opinion important in the total educa­
that the student who look part tiona! picture but is being over-
in the mass after formally re­looked. By and large he claimed nouncing his faith in order to that the faculty is not at all avoid a required theology course aware of the problems and po­was guilty of a greater sin than tentialities of the halls. 
500,000 deaths. Last spring, he said, the Uni­
Lenon thought that such a versity began experiments in view showed more concern openness, trusting students, etc., about what others arc thinking and although there arc certainly than about individuals. lie fell problems which must he solved, that the author should have been he feels that hall lift.; has been concerned about the particular greatly improved. student as an individual and why He sees the purpose of the hl' renounced his religion. hall to he study and he feels that 
Seeing in this" stereotype of the University must lake a look how some students view the into the staffing. According to alumni those whose only inter­Lenon, "We show what we value est is the "Notre Dame image" by what we're willing to pay and whose only purpose is to fur." He suggested full time rec­don<~te money, the speaker tors to counsel students as a 


Leprechauns pay visit to LeMans bell tower 
by Cliff Wintrode job !tad help from the inside <ll'·l Observer Associate Editor 
was do1w with clockwork prc­A hand of mis..:hievious lcprt• 

c·ision that the Mission Impos­chauns brought St. Patrick's day 
sible Force would have been cheer to the colleens of Le Man~ 
proud of. early yesterday when they Our investigation has also dis­posted u sign reading "llappy St. 
covered the names of the three 

Pat's Day !-'rom Notre Dame Kudos agents involved. The Kudos" in the Lc Mans hell name of the colleen, howt·vcr, is 
tower. 
unknown, except that she is 
Intensive invesligat ion by the called Agcnt 49, (trust a women

Observer staff (anything for a 
(Continued on page 2)

pot of gold) revealed that the 

SBP opens talks; 
First hour deals 

with student life 
by Mike Ruffer 
The All-Unive.rsily Forum met 

,'tor the second lime I his year yesterday at 2:00 pm. in the Haycs-llealy Center. The first area of discussion was Student Govern men!. 
David K rash na, SBl'-cIcc!, was the first speaker. lie first addrt•s­scd himself towards the prob­lems of student life. lie empha­sized the fact that the focus of studt•nt life here at Notre Dame 

•is academics and that there is too much emphasis on this part of student life. 
"The student is much more than an academic being, he should be a social <Jilll moral being too," Krashna said. He stressed the idea that there is a competitive air which lingers over the campus, involvingthe dorms. 
sports as well as studies. Krashna
Student representation came 
believes students arc out for
from sophomore John Barkett grades and only grades, so thatpresident of Morrissey Hall. I~ the knowlcdge is no longerhis opening remarks he pointed important.
out that he shared most of Mr. 
"Competition is very fine, butLenon's ideas and that he didn't 
it becomes an evil when you
think the more than 5000 stu­become entrenched in it. Guys
dents living the the 21 dorms are 
arc trying to get A's becausebeing given a proportional they're A's, the learning exper­

amount of attention. ience is second in importance,"
To Barkett, most considera­he said.
tions of the halls has centered Krashna then begun to talk on
around surface problems like the concept of the University
drinking and parietal hours and Forum. "We need a body to set

not such questions as the "why" priorities in the direction that
of the drinking. He cited the the University is going towards.
need for much more counseling The University should be morein the dorms and cited the excel-than it is now. It should he alent work that is being done body that makes plans for thecurrently be a few people who years to come so there can he no
Continued on paf.!e 6 Continued on page 7 



Cronin speaks on ND 
By Ed Ellis 
In the third session of sity...we're just a small Purdue 
yesterday's University Forum with a Golden Dome." meeting, that dealing with Cronin also argued that the University Priorities, Dr. Edward faculty of a Catholic University 
J. Cronin, of the General ought to be Catholic, since they Program of Liberal Studies, arc supposed to he teaching the expressed his "anger and sor­Catholic viewpoint on things, row'. at the decline of Catholi­and while he favored the accept­cism at Notre Dame, and Dr. ance of non-Catholics at duLac, Dugan of the Economics Depart­he felt they should bt• at·ceptcd ment criticized the current sy­with the understanding that stem of allocation of funds Notre Dame is a Catholic univer­among the colleges and depart­sity. ments of the University. In addition to his unhappiness 
Dr. Cronin, who spoke first, over the loss of rl'ligion at the told of his experience at Notre University, Professor <'ronin also Dame, beginning as a student in decried the lack of rcspt•cl for tht: llJ30's and culminating as a authority among students today. Proft·ssor in the (;cneral Pro­"I think teachers know more gram, snving on the Curriculum than students; evt·n administra­Revision Committee last year. tors know more than students. !lc lamented the loss of the The trustees know more than Catholic spirit ut Notre Dame. studt·nts," he said. lie comparl'd 
"This University is trying to student participation in Univer­look just like everybody else," sity affairs to a patient l'Oill­Cronin said. Colltrasting the menting on the surgeon's work modern Univnsity with that of during an operation. In this, an 
the 1930's and '40's, Cronin alumni representative agreed said, "Now Notre Dame is no rather strongly. longer a Catholic University. We Summarizing his t<~lk, l'rofess­have finally a~:hievcd the state of 
Ccmtinued on page 7
the non-denominational univcr­
THE OBrE/WER.
PAGE 2 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18. 1970 


Krashna discusses student government plans 
Student Body President-Elect David Krashna discussed the pos­sible structure of future student government in an interview yes­terday with the Observer. 
When asked when he was going to ask for applications for the positions on his cabinet, Krashna replied that applications for Student Union Director came out today. "[ am going to do it within the week for all cabinet positions. We are going to iron out what we want in our cabinet and announce for appli­
cations  this  week.  It is  being  
done now."  
Krashna  also  discussed  some  

new positions that might be created. The Human Affairs Commission would possibly be divided into three areas. First, the Human Affairs Commis­sioner would take care of on-campus activities. Second, the Recruitment Action Program (RAP) Commission would he established and a chairman appointed. Last, two chairmen for Students Against Racism, one black and one white, would possibly be appointed. 
"The Hall Life Commissioner would be in contact with the Student Forum," Krashna added. 

Will focus on state government 
Is Indiana state government ­like those of so many states ­using 19th Century methods to cope with 20th Century prob­lems? 
This is the central question to be examined Friday (March 20) in a "Conference on Moderni­zing Our State Government," scheduled for Notre Dame's Cen­ter for Continuing Education and sponsored by the Indiana State Division of the American Association of University Women (AAUW) and Notre Dame. 
"Unlike business, which has moved with the times, state government today is dealing with political, social, and' eco­nomic questions with ap­proaches fashioned in the late 19th and early 20th Centuries," commented Dr. Herbert E. Sim, conference co-chairman and as­sociate professor of finance and business economics at Notre Dame. 
Mrs. John F. Megee of South Bend, chairman of the AAUW's Indiana state constitutional re­vision study-action committee, said that the conference "is in­tended to stimulate thinking and action on governmental reorgani­zation." Mrs. Megee has repre sented the AAUW in conference planning. 
Matthew E. Welsh, governor of Indiana from 1961 to 1965 and a supporter of a strengthen­ed executive branch in state 
government, will give the key­Branch of Indiana State Govern­note address at I 0 a.m. in the ment"; Marshall F. Kizer, state auditorium of the Center. Welsh senator, "Financing Indiana has argued in the past that the State Government"; Lloyd M. office of governor must be given Allen, mayor of South Bend, broader discretionary power and "Local Government in Indiana,'' authority if that executive is to and Samuel Mercantini, Misha­fulfill a leadership role in meet­waka Democratic chairman, ing contemporary problems. "Party Organization and Politics Following Welsh's address, in Indiana." 
five other speakers will discuss These same five speakers will briefly some of the key issues in lead separate afternoon panel state government reform. These discussions on their topics, and 
speakers and their topics are at a 4 p.m. session they will pre­Richard C. Bodine, former sent concluding statements. speaker of the Indiana House, The conference is open to the "The Indiana Legislature"; public, and registration starts at Harold W. Handley, former 8:45 a.m. in the Center. The governor, "The Executive registration fee is $10. 
leave sign at SMC 
(Continued from page I) 
to be the constan.t unknown, but ."then, they have a bigger pot of 
gold). 
Leprechauns Enzo F. 
Palmieri, Sterling J. Tufts III, 
and Buzzard Fontinini are the 
known culprits in the case. 
The job had been in the plan­
ning for a week and a half, 
during that time the Kudos and 
secret agent 49 cased Le Man~, 
hall. They discovered security 
had given them exactly fifteen 
minutes in which to rise to the 
top and plant the flag of Notre 
Dame spirit. 
Security proved as futile in 
stopping the little 
I • I • 
BENEFIT Unil'ersitr ·:,tns Council 
Roger Vadim directs Jane Fonda "The Game is Over" Wednesday March l X ( Washin~ton Hall . 7 & 9:30 ' $.75 
. Hair Styling
for N.D. Men the Continental Way 
Razor Cutting & Style European Layer Shaping for Long Hair Have Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed serve & pamper you. 
Continental Hair Styling
306 Sherland Bldg . South Bend, Ind. 234 0811 STUDENT RATES 
By Appt. 
This Friday AMERICA 
has been in stopping the big people, and even though the job took more than fifteen minutes, the little hand marched un­busted out of the Le Mans lobby singing the Mission Impossible therne song and climbed into the getaway car. 
The little people would say only that the sign was a "con­structive, concrete gift" to the St. Mary's colleens, and that it was a "lot of fun". 
The leprechauns felt the sign would "brighten up the day by the fact that some Notre Dame leprechauns got up there to do it." 
"We wanted to add a little excitement and do something different and suspenseful for Saint Patrick's day," added the leprechauns. 
BULLETIN ... BULLETIN ... 
UNITED NATIONS (UPI) The United States cast its first veto in United Nations history Tuesday night to kill an African resolution calling on Britain to use force to overthrow the white supremacy regime of Southern Rhodesia. 
WEATHER 
Wednesday and Thursday partly sunny and warmer. Wed­nesday highs in the 40s. 

Goes Classical 
Dee Bacon, Voice (accompanied-Margaret Korschmar): Debussey, Benjamin Britten, Daniel Pinkham, Schonberg. Ruth Fisher, Piano: Chopin, Debussey, and her original compositions. Kay Kunzler, voice (accompanied-Ruth Fisher): Ponlene, Fanre and Mozart Aria Janet Schindler, Piano: Beethoven-Pathetique Sonata Tche repnin -Bagatelles. Wally Longo, Guitar: Minuet in C by Fernando Sors, & others Kevin McKusker, Guitar: Malaguena, & others 
Flann~_B!lsement______9:_:::..=.00 _.p_m____Admission -$1 
"I would like the Ombudsman people working with the faculty Ombudsman which I think is going to be created." An execu­tive coordinator of the cabinet will also be established. This could be the Vice-President, Krashna explained. 
There will be a proposal put in Tuesday night's Student Sen­ate meeting to abolish itself, Krashna said. This would make way for the Student Forum, which will be designed to get around the bureaucracy, he com­mented. The Student Forum "will coordinate hall activities and find out what student opin­ion is behind particular issues." 
According to Krashna, the Stu­dent forum will be made up of the Student Body President and 
Vice-President,  Hall  Presidents,  
and  representatives  from  off­ 
campus.  

"One recommendation we are going to make is to have each 
hall  re-examine  their  leaders  
right  now.  See if the hall presi­ 
dent  is  amenable  toward  the  

position which he will have to hold within the Student forum. If he is not, possibly the hall should call for new hall elec­tions, which can be held right after Easter break." 
Krashna mentioned that Sena­tor Don Mooney and others were working on the proposal for the Senate's abolishment. He noted, however, that a commit­tee would have to be set up for the purpose of revamping the constitution. Krashna said that any interested students, sena­tors, himself and the Vice­President would make up the committee. 
Krashna emphasized the need for awareness to expose prob­lems. "Exposure is the basis of anything that we are going to get done here." 


The doldrums of February and March are nearing an end, and Notre Dame students take to the lake. 
To plan for Teach -In 
A meeting tor all members and students will he asked to and students interested in par­contribute their services to areas ticipating in the Notre that interest them. Ideas that Dame-St. Mary's program for have already been discussed in­
the National Environmental Teach--In will be held in room 212 of the Engineering Building pn Thursday, March 19 from 7:30-8:00 p.m.. 
Thoughts and plans for the Teach-In are to be discussed, 

MAD-FUNNY-SAD LETTERS? 
Have you received a 11Ciassic" letter from home (Parental anxiety, wisdom, advice about sex, politics, lifestyle, etc)? We'd like it for a sociay-psych project. Anonymity guaranteed! Send to Letters, 1125 Mcintyre, Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
.e-"..?: 
'.?.e-.e-.e-Friday
.e­
clude conservation, overpopula­tion, pollution, recycling, a no-growth economy, the urban blight, capitalism and the envir­onment, the new naturalism, and a spring celebration. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


ln the office 
phew 
------------------' 

~ 
~ ~ 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 1970 711E OBSERUER. 
PAGE 3 ~ 
I I I I I I I 



CONGRATULATES 

Winner of Regional Budweiser Inter-Collegiate Music Festival 
THE OBSERJJER.
PAGE 4 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor·in·Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
SLC on drugs 

The Student Life Council's action on Monday estab­lishing a committee to study the drug problem on campus is a long awaited step. 
The use of drugs has been growing around the nation at a phenomenal rate. The country as a whole has little or no knowledge about some of the drugs that are being used and their effects on people. 
As the SLC envisions it the committee would begin to gather as much information as possible on drugs, the effects of their usage, and treatment in case of ill effects, in order to disseminate that information to students who are currently using or who are contemplating using drugs. 
A need which the committee hopefully can try to fulfill is that of seeing that competent personnel are hired so that the infirmary can offer assistance to students who are on a "bad trip" or are experiencing other physical or mental problems. 
The main concern of the committee should be to see, however, that students have a place to go to obtain reliable information on drugs and their effect. 
At the same time the committee should consider what the University's policy will be in regard to students who use drugs on campus. 
The SLC must not involve itself in problems beyond its capability. The relative merits of the present drug law and whether or not it should be changed is not the present concern. Its primary concern must be the drug situation as it exists on campus. The SLC can do little to change national laws or attitudes. It can help Notre Dame students who are looking for aid in coping with the drug issue. 

Initiative needed 
Workmen began last week installin:~ a fence arou 1d Dl 
parking lot as a step toward providing better protection 
against the vandalism that has been occurring throughout 
the year. 

The fact that the administration is making the move i:; a 
sign that they are beginning to wake up to the fact tl'at 
there is a need to redirect some of Notre Dame's priorities 
to take care of immediate problems such as security. The 
tragedy of the situation is that the administration was not 
far-sighted enough to initiate the changes on its own. The 
fence is going up only after continued pressure by the 
Student Life Council, the Faculty Senate, The Observer, 
and other campus organizations. 
The Vice-President's Council which makes most of the 
major policy decisions, subject of course to the Board of 
Trustees, has established a reputation of a "let's wait and 
see attitude" before acting. If Notre Dame is to grow and 
handle its problems efficiently and effectively the Vice­
Presidents and other administrators must begin to move 
forward on their own initiative when something has to be 
done. If some of the current members of the Council don't 
begin to admit that fact and to act accordingly they should 
be replaced with men that are more farsighted and 
energetic. 

Business Mrg.: Bruce Rieck  Photography  Editor:  Mike  The opinions expressed in the  
Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker  Murphy  editorials,  news  analyses,  and  
News Editor: GlenS. Corso  Night Editor: Jim Holsinger  columns  of  The  Observer  are  
Asst. News Editor: Don Ruane  Layout  Design:  Marty  Tieber  solely the opinions of the authors  
SMC  News  Editor:  Prue Wear  Layout:  Mike Bridgeman, Dan  and editors of The Observer and  
Associate  Editors:  Cliff  Shaw, Ann Therese Darin  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  
Wintrode,  Ann  Conway,  Jeanne  Marilyn Stark  views of St.  Mary's College, the  
Sweeney  Headlines:  Phil  !:ichatz,  Rich  University  of  Notre  Dame, their  
Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin  Smith  administrations,  faculty,  or  

.__...:F...:ec::at.::u:.:.re::.:s:_E::.d:::.:i~to::.:r_:_:...::D:..::a:.:.ve::.._:::S~ta::;:.u_:_ff:.::e.:_r ___P:.._ro::.:o::.:f.:..:re:.::a.::.de::.:r:.._:.::B.::.o.::.b..:.F.::u.:..:lt.::o:.:.n----~stucten t b~ct_i_es_.___________, 
Windows cleared 

Editor: 
We read with great interest your article on campus van­dalism in Tuesday's edition of· The Observer. (3/3/70) Much to our surprise, we learned that "Window panes were obliterated in Morrissey Hall," and that a student from Morrissey Hall was apprehended in Dillon Hall after "going through the hall on a destructive spree, ripping off fix­tures and ashtrays." Since both 
statements are false, we would like to clarify what happened. In the first case, one window ( 8 inches by 13 inches) was broken. In the second case,there was--as regards the particular student mentioned -only one ash tray in­volved and the student apprehended was not even the one who actually damaged it. 
Granted, both these events are deplorable; however, as sad as it is to say, so is your reporting of the events. May we suggest that in the future you get your facts straight so as not to further jeopardize your credibility as a responsible reporter of news events. 
Most sincerely, 
John Barkett, President 
Morrissey Hall 
Orlando Rodriguez, Vice-Pres­
ident 
Morrissey Hall 
Hditor s note: The incidents as related in THE OESER VER were given directly to an OB­St:R VER reporter by Director of Security Arthur Pears. Check­ing the security reports of the hall guard it was found that Mr. Pears did not specify clearly the actual nature of the incidences. We apologize for the mfstake. 
critism to critic 
Editor: 
The duty of the critic is not 
merely just to criticize. Any fool 
can do that. Rather he should 
also give praise where praise is 
due, and it was nice to see that 
Mr. Brogan finally had a few 
good words to say. 
But, of course, in the light 
that Mr. Brogan announced sev­
eral days in advance (as usual) 
that the review of the Fifth 
Dimension Concert would be 
favorable, we can not fully ap­
plaud this new height of artistic 
achievement that he has at­
Llined. No doubt his early favor 



was won by the fact that the concert was not co-sponsored by the Student Union Social Com­mission. His personal hatred of this organization has been amply displayed in the pages of this newspaper. It is pitiful that dur­ing the fall concert season and in the concerts so far this semester that Mr. Brogan could not open up his mind just a little. 
What we regret most-more than the poor journalism-is the vendetta that Mr. Brogan has chosen to take up against Steve Saeugling, our concert chairman. His attacks are certainly uncalled for-particularly so in a review of a concert in which Steve was not even a participant. It is 
highly regretable that this news­paper can be so easily used to attack others. 
We, of the Student Union Social Commission, have tried throughout the year to bring quality entertainment to this University. We have had some very good professional acts and a few that were not up to par. We can understand and appreciate some of the criticism that has been leveled against these acts. All that we ask is a fair hear­ing-not a priori judgement. 
Sincerely, 
David A. Vecchi 
Joseph C. Fry 
James G. Porst 
Patrick J. Mullin 
David M. Dewan 
Ann Heinrichs 
Thomas M. Taylor 
Michael G. Giannone 
the supermaid 
Editor: In light of the fact that the 
maids employed by the Univer­sity are often ridiculed and criti­cized I am wri <ing :rot: this 
letter. 
Aboui one month ago the fourth floor south of Fisher Hall lost one of it's most respected inhabitants, Helen our 1T''~id. Helen was placed in the hospital and was not around for four weeks. During this perioci we.on the fourth floor wci"e subjectecl 
to third-class, inferior maid ser­vices. l do not mean to cnnctze the maids who filled in for Helen but we ffil~re!y want to wish Helen a very warm welcome home and place her name in competition for "Maid of the Year." 
Welcome back Helen and wel­come back clean rooms and sheets. 
Sincerely, 
The Phantom Five Inc. 
4th Floor Fisher Hall 

Rats 
Reflections after being profoundly disappointed by the absence of poltergeists or, indeed, any supernatural phenomenon in Washington Hall. 
Second of what hecame a two part series. 
hy T. C. Treanor 
Monday was a bad night. 

Wh<Jt docs one expect from a ghost'! 
Brass hand'l Rubber b<Jnd? Pi<Jno pl<~ying'! 
Blood -curdling screams? llow <Jbout a 
little glow-in the-dark action? 
Certainly not silence: Not from the 
Gippcr, anyway.. The Gipper wouldn't 
leave me alone. 
The hum<Jn imagination is capable of 
strange and powerful .things, and, if Mike 
Kelly is to he believed, W<~shington Hall 
h<Js precisely the correct atmosphere to 
induce those strange <Jnd powerful 
imaginings. Personally, I suggest he not be 
believed. Washington 11<~11 has no 
atmosphere at all, save perhaps the 
occasional cold drafts that course through 
the spacious auditorium. 
I didn'I get to Washington Hall Jntil 
dose to twelve thirty, and then only <Jfter 
stumbling through all of security's proper 
channels. Wizened Charlie Stewart, finally 
dimped up the necessary stairs before the 
outside door. We introduced ourselves. 
"Before I let you in, I'11 have to see 
your J.D." 
"Will my v<~lidation card do'!" 

"Before I let you in, I'll have to see 
your I.D.," he repeated patiently. 
I hadn't had an I.D. since January. I 
think I lost it on an airplane. In its place, 
I had a temporary I D signed by Father 
Reihlc. It was slightly dog-eared. It was 
more than slightly dog-cared. 
Mr. Steward looked at it for some 
I ime. lie eyed me suspiciously. Then he 
lookl'd at the card again. He gave it back 
to me. "Just a formality," he muttered. I 
W<JS in lroublt:. 
lie had one hundred and five keys, but 
none of them seemed to work for that 
door, so we climbed down the stairs and 
tried another door. As key after key 
failed, the impression that the Gipper was 
on the other side of the door fooling 
around with the lock persisted and grew. 
But this, too, passed, and finally we 
were in Washington Hall. Once inside, Mr. 
Stewart was extremely helpful. I was glad 
of that, because I heard music. 
Legend has it that the Gipper twinkles 
the ivories every night before retiring. I 
was close. I heard a tuba. · 
As far as can he ascertained, the Gipper 
never played the tuba, either in this life 
or the other world. But I heard the tuba. 
And so did Mr. Steward. 
So for twenty minutes a registered 
student 'in the University of Notre Dame 
du lac and a member of the Notre Dame 
Security Force tried without success to 
track down tuba music. It was a glorious 
sight. 
We eventually ran into Joe Doyle, a scnwr from Lynchburg, Virginia. Joe is the student custodian at Washington Hall. lie and he alone lives there. Every night, ghost or no ghost, c;ipper or no Gipper, Washington Hall is where he must lay his head. 
"That's not the Gipper," he said. "That's the people from the Band Annex." 
At I:00 in the morning'? 

Mr. Stewart left us. He had had 
enough, I guess and I couldn't blame him. 
He had thought I lived in the place, 
anyway. But he kept his good humour. 
lie had to check doors until four, and he 
had a heavy cold, but he kept his good 
humor. Arthur Pears may know more 
about drugs than he lets on. 
Joe showed me around the hall; 
showed me the Green Room, where the 
(;ipper was reputed to play the piano; 
showed me how to get to the stage and 
beyond; showed me all the little offices 
and meeting-rooms. He didn't show me 
the ghost, and he didn't show me the 
silence. 

We set out for the third floor, he for 
his room, I for the Green Room, where l 
would post my first watch until 2:30. 
Before he left, I had a question for him. 
"What about the ghost, Joe? Have you 
seen or heard him at all?" 

"I have nothing to say about that." 
"No statement for the press'?" 
"None." 

"How about off the record?" 
"Nope. Sorry." 

We got to his door. "Are you going to 
be here all night?" he asked skeptically. 
"Well -yeah, I intend to... " 
"Good -wake me up at seven. One 
other thing. If you decide to leave during 
the night, be sure to close the outside 
door after you. I don't want people to get 
in here." 

Read good. Joe, if l decide to leave 
during the night, I am neither going to 
take the time to open the door before me 
or close it after me. 

Thus comforted by Mr. Doyle's verbal 
parsimony, I staked my watch in the 
Green room, alert for noises. The first 
few were highly auda hie. It was the 
building settling. The building had been 
settling for a hundred and fifty years, but 
sure, it was still settling. 

At about two, a strange feeling began 
to creep over me. Ennui. 

By two -thirty, I was sitting on the 
stage, waiting for the Gipper or whoever 
would sub for the star that night. I sat 
there for an hour. For an hour, I stared 
out at the great auditorium, and it stared 
back at me. 

I moved at three thirty into the audience section. Nothing. No ghosts, no noises, no pianos, no lights, no tubas, nothing. 
Four -thirty was the balcony watch. I 
quitted that after half an hour. The balcony was as quiet as everything else. No phantom of the opera there. Not even a galloping ghost. 
At five, I stumbled around the place, desperate at this point for even a faint trace of apparition. No luck. 
I ran across a maid and a janitor around six, though. They both assured me that they had never seen any evidence of a ghost at Washington Hall. They had seen a lot of people looking for them, though. I told them the story of the guy who had been on the rafters high above the auditorium and felt a ghostly finger gently rapping his shoulder. They both thought that was pretty funnv. The 
Extract of editor 
Dave Stauffer, most recent in the long line of Ohserver features editors, died suddenly last week. Due to the lack of difference between his natural condition and rigor mortis authorities failed to discover the death until yesterday morn­ing. ('auses were believed to have been a terminal case of insanity and a severe heating administered by the thousands of victims of his insane ravin)!J. 
Rob Richer, head of the Commerciali­zation of Stauffer Committee, says his group is waiting for official word before bottling and marketing the remains of the alleged crackpot. Market retail value is estimated to he in the area of two (2) cents per ounce. 
When questioned as to the possible uses of Essence of Stauffer, Richer was quoted as saying, "For God's sake, all anybody did when he was arounu was suffer. It's like the old story about wearing a pair of shoes that are too tight. The only difference is that Stauffer in a bottle will he one helluva lot cheaper than a pair of shoes. I myself have already reached an unheard degree of ecstasy by simply looking at him and knowing that I can rid myself of his presence if I really want. 
"Think of what you can do and feel when you pour the old fellow down the drain. I've even heard that the Pentagon is bidding against us for rights to his re­mains. Seems as though they figure that by the time that the North Vietnamese find an antidote the war will be over. We really don't expect too much trouble though, Stauffer was a CO." 
janitor offered to take me up to the 
rafters next time to see "skeletons of 
pigeons, and hats, and the place where 
two painters fell off." r thanked him and left. It was gettin!! close to seven, and I 
knocked on Joe Doyle's door. lfe thanked me for wakmg h1m up and wished me a happy St. Patrick's day. I thanked him for letting me have the run of the place and wished him the same. 
Then I went to breakfast. 
To what degree will stupidity continue to glorify itself? Nobody really believes in ghosts -at least no one except marginal illiterates. But people want to believe in ghosts -want desperately to believe in ghosts; poltergeists, witches, evil spirits, distilled or otherwise; demons incarnate· evil possession. People want to believe it because they want an escape from reality; they want an escape from the rational; the categorized; the systemitized. They want ghosts because they want to be afraid, and they want to be afraid because fear is the strongest emotion. 
Or maybe they're all stupid. 
In any event, it's not true. There are no 
ghosts in Washington Hall. 
There never have been ghosts in 
Washington Hall. 
There never will be ghosts in 
Washington Hall. Because there is no such 
thing as a ghost. There is no compromise 
between life and death. A man dead is 
permanently dead. 
The old priest who was supposed to 
haunt the place, if he ever existed, is 
dead. The vain, glorious actor who 
idolized and imitated Gipp -he's dead. 
The young swain who wept as his loved 
one left him -he's dead. 
And the Gipper's dead, too. lie's really dead. He doesn't play the piano any more. He doesn't fool with the lights any more. He doesn't even drink any more. That's 'cause he's dead. 
And he died just like they said he did. The rakish George Gipp really caught pneumonia, and pneumonia caught up to him. That's why he died young. No other reason. 
Rest in peace, Gipper. Sorry for having bothered you. 

The Gipper, as he didn't appear in Washington Hall. 

Pornographic, pristine, male chauvinist, feminist, passionate, objective, psycho­logical, exploitive-Vadim's The Game is Over is none of these things, but rather cultivates a parody of forbidden. love which rides the precarious short moments of life which we can only call absurd. 
Jane Fonda portrays the youthful mar­ried woman whose rebellion against the indifference of her middleaging spouse culminates in a seduction sequence which launched Vadim's career (and Jane's too). 
The conclusion you reach inevitably after viewing The Game is Over is that Vadim is definitely not intellectual and Jane Fonda is definitely not redskinned. Film screenings at 7:00 and 9:30, Wash­ington Hall. 
Considers coeducation, clergy 
Continued from page 1 
are qualified to work in psycho­
logy. 
He sees the problem not being 

solely that of the rector, but the whole hall staff. In particular, he said that the resident assis­tants had previously been police­men and are now supposed to function as counselors but in his opinion in the transition, they have lapsed into a state of per­
forming little or no service. 
On the part of the students, Barkett called for more responsi­bility and charity. "What counts," he stated, " is the number of scars. It is difficult to be charitable without getting hurt." But this charity and sensi­tivity are what he called for if hall life is to advance beyond the present "embryonic" stages. 
In the final prepared address, 

James Cooney, Executive Secre­
tary of the Alumni Association 
spoke abeut campus ministry. 
Beginning with a statement 

that if an outsider wandered in, 
he would be firmly convinced 
that the place is going down the 
drain, Cooney also claimed that 
a tape of the session would 
sound like a "bunch of Gethse­
mane monks given a moratorium 
on silence" because of the stress 
on Christian principles. 
It was this ability to openly 

discuss such issues as these 
which he said is as natural as 
breathing at Notre Dame which 
is one of the university's distin­
guishing characteristics. He saw 
the Forum as speaking more of 
Notre Dame as Catholic or Chris­
tine than as university. 
Mr. Cooney cited the critical 

role played by the Holy Cross 
priests in the history of the 
University and the effect of Va­
tican II not only on the univer­
sity but also on the priests. 
In fact, he said "It's a hell of a 

lot easier to be a relevant profes­
sor of finance, alumni secretary, 
or cement mixer, than a priest." 
Claiming that the university 

"grew like Topsy," he charged 
that the effect was piling work 
upon work and function upon 
Why should atraditional club tie have the new full fashion shape? 

Only the new more luxurious full fashion shape (fuller under-the­knot, wider throughout) is right wi today's longer shirt collars, wider jacket lapels. What's more, this new full fashion shape is best cal­culated to show off the luxurious imported silks and dramatic pat­terns of Resilio's new giant clubs. 
P.S. All Resilio ties have the full fn:IJion shape. 

Gilbert's Campus Shop 
Notre Dame University South Bend 
function on the priests. The re­sult is that a number of the · priest's whose pure role is spiri­tual have been forced to serve as "accountants, traffic cops, jan­
itors,  and  rectors  (which  is  a  
combination  of  the  other  
three)."  

This he says has caused much concern among the alumni. They are very worried about what has happened to this core group of men whose number tend to grow proportionally smaller. 
Cooney called for the univer­sity to take a close look at its role as Christian and to set new priorities. Specifically he asks that men be brought to the university whose commitment ', is to the people of the place. He 1envisions each of these men in a 
truly pastoral role and even said1that he should be "a priest's priest." This he feels is very necessary if the people are to be 
the first priority on campus. 
As the floor was thrown open for discussion, Mr. Philip Fac­cenda, Special Assistant to the President, pointed out that he was specifically refraining from "answering" some of the ques­tions which he felt inclined to" do because of the fact that the steering committee requested that the forum not be set up as a question and answer session, but rather as a vehical for getting as many ideas on the floor as pos­sible. 
Graduate Student Union Pre­sident Jim King then related some of his experiences as a resident assistant over the past two years. He said that he meets the freshmen when they first arrive before the other students get to the campus and finds them full of idealism and then two years later there is a com­plete change. 

King said that he cannot see this as fully the fault of the administration. It is his conten­tion that the students are not taking full advantage of the pre­
sent  system  of  resident  assis­ 
tants.  
Co-education  got  a  boost  

from Dan O'Donnell who said it might be a good alternative to the preseni where he finds women are too objectified on campus. In a not unrelated novel idea, Mark Mahoney proposed not only co-ed dorms, but also bringing in married people and their families to live in them. He felt this would be a big help both because of the effect of children on the environment and because the vast majority of students will eventually be mar­ried. 
"A plea for irrelevance" by Professor John Lyon of the Gen­eral Program closed the session. He said that if some sort of vital Christian educational adventure is possible, it will be possible only from something similar to the monastic vision of the medi­eval monk. 
The professor complained that contemplation has been eliminated from the western Christian tradition and that people are going to Meher Baba and LSD from which they can derive maxims on how to live. 
Somewhere in our western Roman Catholic tradition, Lyon claimed, we must find what we have lost and bring it back to our campus. 
Grand Prix slates Sly 
presentation of awards for theThe second annual Grand Prix day's race.
Festival will be presented by the On Thursday, April 30th aNotre Dame Student Union race driver from the Indy "500"Social Commission on May 2nd. 

will present the Champion Spark The Festival is the culmination Plug Highway Safety Program.
of Grand Prix Week which will Time trials will be held onrun from April 26th to May 2nd. 

Tuesday, April 28th at 4:00On May 2nd the go-cart race P.M. on the A.C.C. track with 

will begin at I :30 P.M. with activities starting at 

the public invited to watch. The tri-class prom will be held 
I:00 P.M. The 100-lap race will on the .45 mile A.C.C. 

on Friday, May l st and the Then at 8:00 P.M. Sly Grand Prix queen will be the Family Stone will crowned at it. appear in concert following the Teams entered so far are: Dillon, Farley, Fisher, Alumni, 
Grace, Keenan, Stanford, Cava­
JOBS! and more JOBS! 
Teachers. Stateside and 

naugh, Lyons, Howard, Pang­
international Jobs. Recreational Jobs. 
born, and St. Ed's halls, and the
Jobs; Summer Jobs. All and trades. Enjoy a 

Sport's Car Club and the 
while you earn. Hurry! The 

"Vikings·". Anyone interested in 
are taken early. Write: 

forming a team can contact Mike
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 

163-1, Lodi, Calif. 95240 
Gianone, phone number 1408. 
-----~---­

ATTENTION U.N. DELEGATES 
Bloc Meetings-Wednesday at 7:30pm 
Latin America-Room 102 0 'Shaughnessy Western Nations-Room I 03 0 'Shaughnessy Communist Nations-104 0 'Shaughnessy Asian Nations-Room 105 O'Shaughnessy African Nations-Room II 0 0 'Shaughnessy Arabian Nations-Room 120 O'Shaughnessy 
I 

Committee Meetings-Thursday at 7:30p.m. 
Political Security-Room 103 O'Shaughnessy 
Trusteeship Committee-Room 102 0 'Shaughnessy 
Cultural and Humanitarian Affairs ­
Room 105 0 'Shaughnessy 
Each nation has one delegate vote in each committee. 
For information call Mike Kelly at 8813, Mike Kendall at 7983 or Tom McGowan at 1320
___________L________________________________ 
Continued from page 1 
hundred students, faculty mem­bers, and administrators. 
Dan O'Donnell began the pro­gram with a talk on the role of the artist at Notre Dame. Citing the growing demands on a stu­dent seeking as integrated educa­tion and the lack of electives in the engineering fields, O'Donnell continued that the students needed more exposure to the arts. 
"This will be a significant step if Notre Dame is to educate the total man" O'Donnell said. O'Donnell stated that the recent Student Arts Festival proved that there was an interest in the arts at Notre Dame and stimulat­ed creativity on the campus. 
"The thing placed no undue 
pressure on the engineering or 
pre-med students while fostering 
interaction between the scientist 
and the artist. And it introduced 
fresh points of view." 
Next, Pat Bridenstein talked 
on the feasibility of the propos­
ed University Arts Center. Brid­
enstein stated that there were 
four reasons why the Arts Coun­
cil felt that the fieldhouse would 
serve as an Arts Center. Included 
in the rationale was the fact that 
the fieldhouse would be the type 
of complex which would meet 
the needs of the Art Council, 
since it had sufficient unobstruc­
ted area. 
Also, Bridenstein said that 
three studies over the past year 
had determined that the building 
was structurally sound. Finally, 
the cost of a separate structure 
housing the Arts Center coupled 
with the cost of razing the field­
house and building the mall 
would be prohibitive. 
According to Bridenstein, the total cost of the remodeling would be $1.5 million with $70,000 going to demolition, $ 135,000 to renovation and $I ,295,000 needed to pay for new construction and studios. 
Bridenstein said that the two-

Opens Tomorrow 
THE SERVANT 
OF TWO MASTERS 
by Carlo Goldoni 
an italian comedy 
Little Theatre at StMary's 
month-old fund drive had been "slow and often frustrating with no large commitments yet recei­ved." He concluded by saying that the Arts Council was not giving up, but would ask for an extension of the moratorium on razmg the building, which cur·· rently is set to expire on June 1. 
Next, Kenneth Guentert spoke for the Nutting-for-Presi­dent campaign. Citing the "spo­ntaneous crises" such as last year's pornography conference and "the perennial Dow-CIA confrontation," Guentert em­phasized the need for having a President who would be present on the campus. 
"Is it too much to ask that there be someone around from the administrative sector with 

. whom we can have some kind of continuous dialogue on common problems?" Guentert then said that the campaign should not be construed as an attempt to get rid of Father Hesburgh. "In terms of the larger community, we have no desire to put the light of this university under a bushel-basket." 
Guentert asked the Forum members to consider the defi­ciencies of the present system and the feasibility of the propos­ed Chancellor-President svstem, the theoretical roles of the Chan­cellor and President, the qualifi­cations of Hesburgh and Nut­ting, and "an estimation of whether a working relationship between Father Hesburgh and Dr. Nutting ...is possible." 
Guentert concluded by saying that "if in time, this body de­cides that our proposal is un­desirable or impractical, let your reasons be more concrete and more seriously considered than the resistance of fear and pessi­mism we have encountered so far, for that kind of resistance is the hallmaker of a dying institu­tion." 
A lively discussion of the issues and ideas presented fol­lowed the talks, with most of the talk concerning the Nutting campaign. 
In reply to a suggestion that Dr. Nutting would function best in an experimental college set up, Bill Mitchell suggested that "we make the best teacher the leader of the community." 
Student Body President-elect Dave Krashna proposed an exa­mination of Father Hesburgh 's capabilities, to "see if he could function as President." Also, Krashna proposed a further study to determine "who should have the power in a university­the trustees, the administration, the faculty or the students." 

PAGE 7

THE OBSERWR. 
Cronin stresses need for Catholic atmosphere 
Continued [rum page 1 
or Cronin said that for all their attempts to emulate other great universities by their de-emphasis on Catholidsm, the administra­tors and trustees of Notre Dame had only succeeded in destroy­ing whatever other universities had envied in Notre Dame. "Esau got something for selling his birthright. What did Notre Dame get''" Cronin askt:d. 
Dr. Dugan of the Economics Department who spoke for the unavailable Fr. Bartell, Chairman of the department, criticized the ..:urrl'n t system (or lack of system) of assigning financial priorities in the University budget to those fact that all colleges are given a 4.5% increase in next year's bud­get, despite the fact that there is currently a great influx of stu­dents into the College of Arts and Letters from the "hard sci­ences," thus making Arts and Letters a College with a very high priority for the students. 
"We talk about priorities, yet we have increases across the board !hat. are the same. There is no change in the relative posi­tions of the programs," Dugan said. 
Dr. Dugan also critkized the faculty salary policy of the ad­ministration. He noted that Notre Dame is in. While faculty should always reflect the long­two speakers how they would salaries are due to rises by 7% run priorities." set the budget priorities, and next year, the .mly way this can In the dis<.:ussion following also referred to the Faculty Man­be done is by ac<.:epting more the two presentations, Dr. Cron­ual in his question. Dugan re­freshmen, thus ruining the <.:ur­in's stand was attacked on the plied that priorities must be set rently low facultv-student ratio grounds that, "A Catholic Uni­by students themselves, as in the 
of which the University is quite versity is too exclusive to be a case of the current boon in the proud. 
great University." Also, Mark College of Arts and Letters, or 
Dugan's answer to this prob­Mahoney, one of the Notre else the faculty must set priori­lem would be to budget depart­Dame Ten, argued that there is ties. ments according to the priorities "an extreme lack of authority" "I think both the budget and set on them by the University when a legal answer is given to a the Faculty Manual came from wmmunity. He summarized his moral question, as was allegedly the department of aeative writ­approa<.:h to the financial prob­done in the Dow-CIA demon­ing. They're really not very int­lems of the University by saying stration case. eresting reading," Cronin con­that "the short-run budget Dr. John Houck asked the cluded. 
Krashna talks about student life 
colleges and departments who while the cost of living rose 6% 
arc assigned a moral or actual in 1969, the faculty salaries rose priority by the students or facul­somewhat less than this. He ty. lie gave as an example the 
pointed out the current dilemma 
Forum--idea exchange 
Continued from page I 
spoke on University pnorities, 
and he <.:ailed for a concentrated 
drive at the University-level for 
Biafran relief. 
Ed Isley speaking for the Gra­
duate Student Union followed 
Krashna and spoke about the 
plight of the Grad student at the 
University. Terming the grad stu­
dent the "University's forgotten 
man" I slcy spoke about !he grie­
vances the grad students have. 
The second session of the 
forum concerned itself with the 
issues of the University Arts 
Council and its efforts to reno­
vale the ficldhuuse, and the Nut­
ting-for-President <.:ampaign. 
Dan O'Donnell spoke first and talked about the role of the artist at the University. lie <.:ailed for more student exposure to the arts, citing this as part of the process of edu<.:ating "the total 
man." 
Pat Bridcnsteing also spoke for the U AC, <.:oncerning the feasibility of the renovation of the fieldhouse. lie spoke on the reasons the UAC de<.:ided upon the ficldhouse as the Arts Center, and the amount of money needed for the renova­tion. 
Ken (;ucntert spoke next about the Nutting-for-President c;.unpaign. lie spoke about the need for the chancellor-president <.:on<.:ept and about Prof. Nut­
ling's qualifications for the post. 
Dr. Edward Croning, of the 
(;cncral Program, and Dr. Dugan 
of the E<.:onomks department 
spoke during the third session. 
Dr. Cronin's talk was concern­
ed with the decline of the 
Catholic spirit at Notre Dame. 
He scored the university for "trying to look just like every­one else." 
Criticizing the lack of system with regards to University finan­cial priorities, Dr. Edgan of economics outlined what he felt were inequities in the distribu­tion of funds to the various colleges. 
The fourth and final session 
. tl 1· d ·t If

0 I 
1e orum con<.:erne 1 se 

with the rather broad topic of <.:ampus life. The first speaker, Charles Leonon addressed himself to the problem of the relationship between students and alumnus. He spoke on hall life, and the beginnings of what he termed experiments between the admin­istration and students in open­ness and trust. Sophomore John Barkett also spoke on campus life. lie felt the on-campus students were not getting "a proportional amount of attention." He called for more counseling in the dorms and mentioned the work being done by the few qualified people on campus. James Cooney, Executive Secretary of the Alumni Asso<.:ia­tion was the final speaker. lie spoke about <.:am pus ministry, and the problems affecting it. He felt that there was a need for more men who would fill a truly pastoral role. The priests pre­sently at the University, if not engaged in teaching, are over­burdened with the mechanical functions of the redor. The meeting closed with the floor being thrown open to discussion. 
Biafra collection today 
Students for Biafran Relief plan to take up colledions in the halls of St. Mary's tonight and Notre Dame tomt'lrrow night. Dan Sherry, a spokesman for the group, said that hall captains arc still needed to head the drive in Pangborn, Lyons, Howard, and Sorin Halls. 
Sherry said if anyone is inter­ested in being a hall capJain or in helping to canvass in South Bend this weekend, they should con­tact him at headquarters, Room 2-A, LaFortune, or at 283-1996 
or 283-2141. 
Annual Basketball Banquet 
Tuesday the 24th 
ACC Monogram Room 
Refreshments at 6 p.m. Dinner at 7 p.m. Open to the public---Students welcome Tickets on sale at the Basketball Office in the A.C.C. 
Guest Speaker: AI McGuire-Head Basketball Coach at Marquette University 
Price •to 
Continued from page 1 
slipshod decisions made in the future." 
He said that during the next year he will address himself towards university priorities and he hopes the faculty and students will do so also. 
In the discussion that follow­ed, Mr. Joseph Kelly, one of the program coordinators, asked Krashna about his proposed stu­dent forum. "The student forum will diverge from the senate," he said. "There is no longer a need for the senate because the SLC handles the problems of student life." He added that a student 
forum will not work directly with the All-University forum.
Th d k f th' 
0

-e secon spea er ts segment of the program was Mr. Edward Isley, from the Graduate Student Union. Mr. Isley began his talk say­ing, "The University's graduate student is the University's for­gotten man." He stated that graduate students have many grievances. In the area of acade­mics he commented that the quality of edu<.:ation is declining to that of other schools. Referring to the environment he said the religious community here doesn't really include the 
idea that Notre Dame, while being primarily an undergradu­ate school, doesn't really want the graduate student here; he is only here so that Notre Dame can be called a "University." 
Isley went on to say Notre Dame was "unliveable" for two reasons: l) The sexual segrega­tion of women on campus; and 
2) Geographical and sociological isolation. "Notre Dame is just like an Army post on a Saturday night." 
Isley also stated that leader­ship was lacking. "Although Notre Dame is changing, the world is changing faster, Notre Dame should anticipate the fu­ture. Does N.D. want graduate eduation and where exactly does it fit in." 
' In the discussion that follow­ed, Jack King, Graduate Student Union President, strengthened Isley's stand. He mentioned that the SLC offered 4 non-voting seats to graduate students and that he would like to go on record as saying, "Thanks, but no thanks." 
Mr. Nicholas Huie, a graduate student, discussed the idea that there is a la<.:k of dialogue bet­ween graduate and undergradu­ate students because graduate students don't live on <.:amp us. 
"We want to mingle with the undergraduates and get to know them both academically and so­cially," he concluded. 
"r11111:.~• .... ~rEREo• 
TEA C. A LTEC, 
LANSING, JVC Color TV sets ~ JVC 
OSS PRODUCTIO Call 232.-2Di__ 

SOPHOMORES Meet Your MaJor Night 
In 

ECONOMICS 
THURSDAY 7:00 MARCH 1,9 
204 O'SHAG 
graduate student. He stressed th:.:.e=-----------------------------..··-1 

Friday and Saturday, March 20 & 21 
1:30 and 7:30PM.-Stepan Center Hear jazz by some of the nations nation's top coJiegiate musicians. 
COMBOS 
Indiana U. 
U. of Illinois M.I.T. 
U. of Missouri 
U. of Notre Oame 
U. of Pittsburgh Ball State Michigan State 
BANDS 
U. of Illinois Indiana U. Case Western Res!lrve 
U. of Northern Iowa Memphis State Towson State M.I.T. Shenandoah Conservatory Indiana U. (Pennsylvania) 
L_____________:~~~~~----------------~------------~~~~~~~~~~m=~~------------~ 
Tickets: $!-Afternoon Session, $3-Evening, $4.50-All Sessions available at the door, at Gilbert's, and the Bookstore 
.4 Service 
• 


"AGE 8 WEDNESDAY. MARCH 18. 1970
THE OBSERJJ£1l \ 
r·'*"·.M'•"•'"'''''"'''·'--;;;·:~;~~;""*""''''•"1 Mar a vic h given Naismith trophy i!ji ~~~~easy winner in press balloting 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Pete Maravich, a guy who plays basketball as though he invented the game, is the proud possessor
I 
!:;~tin' Iof a giarlt trophy, named after 
<e 1970, Los Angeles Times 
In France, they called him "Le Sucre." In Germany, he was "Der Zucker." 
Sugar Ray Robinson went through life like syrup over a waffle. The world looked to him like a two-round palooka with a glass chin. Nobody ever saw him frown. He went through $4 million with a 
wave of his hand. He filled the Polo Grounds, the Garden, the Earl's Court in London, and the Palais Des Sports in Paris. He browbeat promoters for top dollar, then left it to the world as a kind of complicated tip. 
He loved crowds. And colors. He drove a fuchsia Cadillac and he wore clothes you could read by in a cave. 
He came out of the street of Black Bottom in Detriot dancin. He was a street kid. He knew more gangsters than J. Edgar Hoover, hut nobody ever questioned a Sugar Ray fight. It would be like doubting a Rembrandt. Sugar Ray raised boxing to a high and holy art. 
It was hard to hate him. He could charm a shark. When you saw him fight, you could forgive him everything. Often, there was a good deal to forgive. 
One day, he came home to find the music had stopped. A quarter of a million had disappeared from the restaurant till, Ray didn't know where. He never was any good at tracking down small change. His dry cleaning establishment had dry-cleaned him. 
Life began to crowd him. And a crowding fighter always gave Sugar Ray trouble. Sugar Ray, who had once gone to Europe with such a large retinue, it looked more like an immigration than a tour, was suddt;nly down to last year's clothes and yesterday's suit. He owed the government more money than France, and, he tells in his book, "Sugar Ray," which he wrote with Dave Anderson, of the night he came home from his testimonial with the trophy inscribed "To The World's Greatest Fighter"-and had no furniture in the apartment to put it on. 
He Wouldn't Give Up 
They say you can never tell about the great ones until they hit the
.. 
floor. It's how you make your fight with your eyes cut, your head spinning, your stomach aching and your nose bleeding that tells a champ. 
Pound-for-pound Ray had been the world's greatest boxer, but dollar-for-dollar he was its gaudiest pauper. Still, the towel didn't come fluttering in. The toast of Paris, the lion of London, the rage of Rome was suddenly fighting in Steubenville, Ohio for $790 against kids who stammered, "I can't tell you what a thrill it is to meet you"-even after they beat him up. "It's a new experience for me, too," Sugar Ray told them sadly, pocketing money that wouldn't have paid his tailor" in the old days. 
As a kid, Ray danced for pennies and played craps for dollars in the streets of Harlem. He wasn't a high school dropout because he never made it to high school. He Jed the neighborhood in hocked watches he won in "amateur" fights all over New York and New England. But he never made a police line up or a hot list. He never drank, he came full of the wine of life. He was raised by his mother and two adoring sisters, and it was a reverand who first jerked him off his knees in the ghetto where he was crouched over a pair of dice and marched him to the gym and told him to make life his punching bag. 
The Sugar Ray Robinsons bring out the cynicism in the graceless, the frustrated, the hitter, the losers. Ray's mistakes were, by and large, joyous mistakes. His victim, after all, was Ray Robinson. When he fought charity fights, they said, "What's his angle?" The only thing he ever did alone was fight and pray. He would duck into any church that was open, he was as ecumenical as the Bible, but when he would profess faith from the ring, the press row winked broadly and sneered, "Sugar Ray Religion." Lots of people disbelieve because they think a person that believes in God has to look gloomy. 
Sugar Ray is making a comeback. I don't mean the ballroom four-rounder he was with middleweight champ Nino Benvenuti of Italy at the Beverly Hilton March 23. That's only an exhibition. His winner-take-all fight is with the corrupters of our youth. 
The "Sugar Ray Youth Foundation" (For which benefit the Benvenuti fight is being staged) may indeed by a match for that champ. It has a good left, a wicked right. It is 49 years old, but it can still make the weight, its stomach is flat, its face unmarked, its teeth white and smiling. Lord knows, it has style. It already has 175 lifetime victories and has never been knocked out. 
"It looks to me as if the count has reached nine for this country when kids are dying on the street from dope. It is time somebody took a few punches at this thing," says Sugar Ray, boxing shadows, skipping rope to get in shape. 
As a foe, it looks as tough as La Motta, as dirty as Zivic, as slick as Gavilan, as indefatigable as. Basilio. Let's just hope it's clumsy, or open to a left. If it is, it will lose its title. 
the originator of the sport, designating the Louisiana State University star the college Player of the Year. 
S-Bowl bids 
HONOLULU (UPI) -The 26 pro football clubs, in their first joint meeting since the merger of the AFL and NFL, gathered today to listen to bids for the 1971 Super Bowl. 
The members of the merged National Football League estab­lished some playing procedures Monday for this fall's regular season schedule. 
The battle for the Super Bowl was expected to be between New Orleans and Miami. Hous­ton has pulled out and Southern California is considered by tele­vision interests to be a poor choice. 
New Orleans, with Tulane Stadium's near 83,000 seats and a net income of more than $4 million for pro football from the 1970 championship game, was considered the favorite. 
Miami, host of two Super Bowl contests, was expected to make strong offers to land the title game for the third time. But it was the general feeling that if Miami's 70,000 seat Orange Bowl is selected, cries would rise over the Super Bowl being "locked in" at one city. 
The clubs Monday adopted the NFL's one point conversion rule and game ball. Also adopted were the procedure of names printed on the backs of the playing jerseys and the league office appointing a timekeeper to run the score board clock as the official timepiece, which were two AFL standards. 
Extends draft for one week 
CHICAGO (UPl) -National Basketball Association owners Monday advanced their draft of college players by one week, and settled upon realignment of the league for the 1970 season but failed to come to a decision on a 
proposed  merger  with  the  
American  Basketball Associa­ 
tion.  

Commissioner Walter Ken­nedy would not speculate whether the two leagues were close to a merger. He said the NBA Merger Committee was ordered to resume negotiations with ABA representatives. 
The owners, in a move to counter ABA signing of top col­lege players, moved the college draft from March 30 to March 23. 
The owners also settled upon realignment of the league to include four new teams -Buf­falo, Portland, Cleveland, and Houston. 
Assigned to the Atlantic Division were Boston, Buffalo, New York, and Philadelphia. The Central Division will include Chicago, Milwaukee, Detroit, Cincinnati and Cle\eland. 
Teams named to the Southern Division were Baltimore, Allanta, Phoeniz, and Houston, while the Pacific Division will include San Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland, and Seattle. 
Maravich, the scorer play­maker whose list of accomplish­ments include 11 NCAA scoring records and 34 Southeastern Conference offensive marks, was named winner of the second annual James A. Naismith Award Monday. 
The slender, 6 foot, 5 inch Maravich, college basketball's greatest scorer in history, was an easy winner in the balloting for the Naismith Award conducted by United Press International. 
The young man with the tousled hair and floppy socks was named the top player in the country by 467 of the 566 sports writers and sportscasters participating in the balloting. 
Announcement of the award, presented by the Atlanta, Ga. Tipoff Club, was made jointly in New York and Atlanta. Lew Alcindor of UCLA was the win­ner of the first Naismith A ward a year ago. 

Bob Lanier, the giant center for St. Bonaventure who was considered the best big man in the college ranks this season, was second in the voting, while Rick Mount of Purdue was third with 
13 votes, followed by Dan Issei of Kentucky with 12 and A us tin Carr of Notre Dame with II. 
The award winner and his father coach, press Maravich were both present for the announcement in New York. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Bruins bid for title 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. (UPl) 
The defending champion UCLA Bruins, bidding for an unprecedented fourth straight title, checked in today as early bird arrivals for the NCAA basketball finals -the big target of three upset minded rivals. 
Coach John Wooden brought his Bruins into town a day ahead of the other three show­down competitors-]acksonville, St. Bonaventure and New Mexi­co State. He arranged for a quick evening practice session for his squad in advance of a semifinal contest against the New Mexico State's Aggies on Thursday. 
The other Thursday contest to decide the championship finalist on Saturday pits Jack­sonville's scoring machine Dol­phins against St. Bonaventure, rendered underdog by the loss of All America Bob Lanier with knee surgery. 
UCLA, winner of five NCAA crowns in the last six years, has been knocked off twice in late season games. 
Nut the Bruins, 26-2, have a record streak of 2 2 straight tournament victories going for them and the history of having knocked over Nex Mexico State (26-2) by comfortable margins in NCAA play the last two years. 
The New Mexico State "Amazin Aggies" will arrive only a little more than 24 hours before the_ battle. They were viewed as the underdog. 
Jacksonville, having dumped No. l ranked Kentucky and Big Ten champ Iowa for the Mideast title last weekend, was given a heavy edge over St. Bona­venture, 25-1. The advantage was made more so by the loss of Lanier who suffered a ligament injury while leading his team to victory over Villanova. 

Basketball Standings 
ABA NBA 
East 

East w L Pet. GB x-NewYork 59 18 .766
w L Pet. GB Milwaukee 54 25 .684 6x-lndiana 52 17 .754 
Baltimore 48 31 .608 12

Kentucky 35 33 .515 16Y, Philadelphia 40 28 .513 19Y>
Carolina 34 34 .500 17Y, Cincinnati 35 45 .438 25Y,
New York 35 38 .479 19 Boston 32 45 .416 27
Pittsburgh 23 45 .338 28Y, Detriot 31 47 .397 28Y,
Miami 19 52 .268 34 WestWest 

w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
Atlanta 45 34 .570 Dallas 37 33 .529 3Y, 
Los Angeles 44 35 .557 1 New Orleans 34 33 .507 5 
Chicago 38 41 .481 7 Los Angeles 34 36 .486 6Y, gy,
Phoenix 35 43 .449 
Seattle 34 45 .449 11 San Francisco 29 49 .372 15)1, San Diego 25 53 .321 19 

Monday's Results x-clinched division title New Orleans 111 Dallas 95 Only Game scheduled Monday's Hesults 
Tuesday's Games Chicago 142 Cinci 140 Pittsburgh vs. Los Angeles Tuesday's Games at Fresno, Calif. Atlanta at Philadelphia New Orleans vs. Washington Seattle at Chicago 
at Fresno, Calif. Boston at San Diego Denver at Kentucky New Yark at Detriot Only games scheduled. Only games scheduled. 



