SMC Faculty givesuprise co-ed plan 
the status quo will be mainConcerning the proposals,
by .Anne Therese Darin 
tained. It does believe that that Bohan said, "It involves some Last night an independent retrenchment for SMC would be change not only in the relationgroup of St. Mary's faculty 
death." ships between the schools, but members surprised the AdHoc "We feel that the spirit of within each of the schools." 
Committee on Coeducation with cooperation between SMC and 
One member of the adminiswhat was described as a "highly N D is beginning to rnaterialize. tration reached for comment,
promising" proposal for the The situation is beginning to said that "it has a lot of possi
future of the college, but the crystallize because of the con
bilities and shows some strong
exact details of the new program cepts and comments postulated 
assets of SMC" Dr. Glen Frank, aeoloiY profeaor at K.t State UniYenity (at 
were not released." by Drs. Rosemary Parks and Another faculty member dis-left) accompanied by James Bruss, .KSU News Service chief,The new proposal was drawn Louis Mayhew," he continued. closed that a meeting between surrendering at Portage County Court House to contempt ofup by Fr. Raymond Runde, and In analyzing the SMC situa
(Continued on page 2) 

court citation. Frank, 42, Saturday criticized "the naive andDrs. Richard Bohan, Michael tion, Hinckemeyer stated, "The stupid conclusions of the state grand jury" that absolved theHinckemeyer, and Richard young faculty and their families National Guard from blame in the May 4 shootings.. ' UPI.
Detlef. who have come here expecting a Kent State In describing the attitude of voice in the future of the school the new plan, Fr. Runde said, that led them to believe there "The plan does not believe that was a future here." 
Two cited for contempt
KENT, Ohio (UPI) -A speconnection with violence that which prohibited any persons incial country prosecutor and a ended last May 4 when four stuvolved in the grand jury investi
New budget released 
professor were cited for com-dents were shot to death by gation from making public state
repay "about nine thousand" of tempt of court yesterday for National Guardsmen. ments or from criticizing the
by T.C. Treanrtr 
the twenty-six thousand dollars publicly discussing a grand jury Seabury H. Ford, a special grand jury's report of its month
Student Government 
Student Government owes severreport on violence last spring at Portage County prosecutor who long investigation. Treasurer Dennis Conroy anal institutions, primarily the UniKent State University. aided in the grand jury investiga
nounced early last evening that tion, and Glenn, Frank, a An article during the weekend
versity. The debt was originally At the same time, four more geology professor at Kent, were
the Student Government Fiin the Akron Beacon-Journal in
incurred two years ago. persons were arrested on indict
nance Committee is "shooting cited for contempt. cluded statements attributed to
The Committee, which is 

for a budget between sixty-five ments handed down by the Ford and Kent geology professor 
composed of Student Body Pres

and seventy thousand dollars" to Frank pleaded guilty to the Glenn Frank. The bar associa
ident Dave Krashna, SBVP Mark grand jury. Only six of the 25 contempt charge. He was re

be presented to the Senate at its tion's executive committee said, 
second meeting. Winings, Student Union Director persons charged had not been arleased on a $500 personal recogif the statements were true,
Robert Pohl, Assistant Student 

rested. nizance bond. He asked all perFrank could be jailed. 
The budget, which according Union Director Tom Oliveri, Arrested were Jeffery Hartzsons on campus to "remainto Conroy will not be ready Stay Senators Tom Thrasher and 
ler 21 of Smithville, Ohio, a Although Ford said he had
until Thursday, dealt with sepercalm, and above all do not react
Pat Weber, Vice-President of 

fo;mer 'student at Kent's Orville been "misquoted," he pleadedate requests from sixteen differ
Student Affairs Fr.Thomas in any way that will be detri
Academic Center; John Gerbetz, guilty to the contempt chargeent organizations, including two 
Blantz, and Business Professor mental to the welfare of Kent
19, of Barberton, Ohio, and Monday and was freed underhalls. In addition, Conroy anti
John Houck, is scheduled to State University. 
Michael S. Erwin, 20, of Hud$500 bond, pending the outcipates a request of undisclosed 
meet once more this afternoon The contempt of court cita
son, Ohio, both current stucome of two separate suitsdimensions from the Notre 
and once next Thursday. dents, and Thomas D. Miller, 21, tion was filed against Seabury H. which have been filed questionDame Leadership Conference. 
of Smithville, a former winter Ford, by the Portage County Bar ing the constitutionality of theConroy revealed that Student Budget Requests quarter student. They were held Association. The charge court's "gag'' rules.
Government had requested that Student Union ~:41,000 on second degree riot charges in stemmed from a court order
the University administration Student Government 13,100 pay for minority recruitment Afro-American Society 6,300 and black orientation out of its International Student 
SUAC ....... 
own funds. Agreement on the Organization 5.400 WSND 4,025 
part of the University would Academic Affairs Office 
3,580 cause a downward revision of Hall President's Council 
Metzger denies bias charge
2,000 Afro-American Society and Mexican-American Society 1,325 Mexican-American Society Stanford Hall 1,085 
Student Union Academic Bra demas' opponent Donald Newman too." requests (see .. box below) he St. Edward's Hall 810. 
Commissioner Jim Metzger Newman. Metzger said a phone Metzger confirmed that. an 
Research and Development 

denied yesterday a charge that call invitation had been made to invitation had been made late his office had been biased in the Newman office at least a yesterday afternoon by Ass'tpredicted. As of now the Commission 635 
University has made no official National Student Association 600 extending a speaking invitation week before the Brademas Commissioner Missy Underman
reply to the request, Conroy Latin-American Circle 485 said. Ombudsman 275 
to Congressional candidate John speech but that no res.ponse was but contended that Miss Included in the budget, Con-Community Relations 217 
Brademas while refusing to exever received from Newman Underman had called to make roy said, would be a provision to UJO!,Lff~::C~:ai!!'m!!'!.!Co'uy_;Js!.-''~><!.!!nm.i!'.llll'm:i<t~~iio!!.n!..-___,_1-'-7><-~0 tend a similar invitation to headquarters. the original invitation at the Metzger denied an allegation time of Brademas' invitation to by Ann Therese Darin, vicespeak. chairman of the Notre Dame 
"We called to make the invita

Hesburgh OK's new Judicial Code 
Young Republican organization, tion much earlier but it was that the commission had delinever followed up," Metzger berately refused to bring said. "We wanted to getLife Council has taken a bold cil, Mr. Phillip Faccenda, vice
by Tom Degnan Newman to speak here the same
step in the direction of student President of the University Newman to campus, and thus extrawas not presenting a balanced day he appeared at St. Mary's."
In a letter circulated responsibility. If despite moved for the implementation Metzger added that his office
ordinary dedication on the part speakers' program. Miss Darin
yesterday afternoon to the of the Code and recommended had later learned that Newman
members of the Student Life of many, as has been the case on said Metzger had told her last
that a nominating committee be 
week that Newman had been had actually already spoken atCouncil, University President, occasion in the past; the admini
appointed to discuss nominees 
invited but subsequent inquiry Notre Dame early in October, inRev. Theodore Hesburgh stration of justice proves im
for positions on the Appeals 
room 127 of Nieu wland Scienceendorsed the revised University possible, I shall have no alterBoard. Under the new Judicial at the Newman office had Hall in response to an invitation
native but to intervene and seek revealled that no one knew of
Judicial Code. Code the SLC has jurisdiction made by the Notre Dame
another solution." any invitation. 
over the tripartite board which
"I am pleased,'' wrote HesNewman's manager of camRepublican Club, and thus felt
Hesburgh's approval is the 

will meet to consider disputed
burgh, "to extend my approval paign headquarters, Mrs. Jane relieved of any obligation to
final step in the implementation 

decisions of the University
to this Code pending a final Lamb acknowledged that an balance Brademas' speech with
of the new code and climaxes Board. 

another by Newman. However,
evaluation by the Executive three years of work by the SLC invitation had been issued by
After tabling a motion to dis

Metzger asserted that an invita
Committee of the Board of to revise the former code. The SUAC at 6 o'clock last night,
cuss the topic of drugs on cam
tion had genuinely been
Trustees at their December Board of Trustees !tad previously pus, the Council next considered but that she had heard of no addressed to the Newman head
meeting. I am extending this rejected the former code, citing the sophomore car issue. Gary invitation before that time. qualified approval at this time in that it did not permit the Dean Caruso, executive Coordinator "A young girl called and said quarters in the form of Miss Underman's phone call. 
order that the Code can be in of Students the right to appeal of the Sophomore Class addressthat they had had some comfull force and effect during the decisions. The present Judicial ed the SLC on the financial and plaints that SUAC had "As soon as we had secured 
Brademas for the speech, it
intervening period." Code, submitted to Fr. Hesburgh practical feasibility of sophosponsored only Cong. Brademas after the SLC's October 19 to speak," Mrs. Lamb said. "She immediately came into my mind 
mores having cars. The meeting
The letter, addressed to SLC meeting gives the Dean of Stuadjourned before any action said they didn't want us to think that we'd have to give Newman a Chairman, William F. Eagan also that they were biased and that chance to speak on campus as
dents this right. could be taken on Caruso's pro
cautioned that, "The Student In further action by the Coun-posals. was why she was inviting (Continued on page 4) 
Tuesday, Octo~ 27, 1970

Page 2 7:11_ OBSE/lf/M _-------------


Price outlines new loo" in Dining Hall 
innovations  to  provide  better  
service,  such  as  jet  spray  
machines  in  the South  Dining  



According to Mr. Edmund Price, director of Food Services the major interest of his office i~ to provide the best possible service to the individual student as well as the student as a group. He is experimenting with many 
Hall and more ice cream and sundae trimmings in the North. 
One revision which may have the most lasting and beneficial effect is the proposed committee 
Look Wht 
$295 Buys t 


RMS Audio 

A very good component stereo system 

SONY STR222 FM STEREO I AM RECEIVER 
16 watts continous List Price $149.50 

2 MK Ill ACOUSTIC S U S P E N S I 0 N L 0 U 0SPEAKERS 
10" woofer, 3" tweeter oiled walnut cabinets List Price $120.00 


c;~ 

GARRAD 40B AUTOMATIC TURNTABLE 
with Shure cartridge, base, and dust cover List Price $90.00 
tal Price of component separately-$359.50 
SYSTEI\1 PRICE $295.00 


1307 E. CALVERT Phon~ 288-1681 
OPEN 3-8 M-TH 1-4:30 SUNandFRI CLOSED SATURDAY 

to represent the views of the student body as a whole with regard to food service. Mr. Price explained the idea behind this committee. "It is more sensible to respond to the opinions of a majority of those involved than to attempt to cater to the whims of each student." 
There are already three students from North Dining Hall who have volunteered for the committee, but there has been no response from the South Dining Hall area. Price hopes to get the committee functioning as soon as possible. He said there is a possibility that this board could replace the food subcommittee of the SLC if the students wish it to do so. 
According to Price, Mr _ Bernard Meahall is managing the North Hall now. He is replacing former manager George Mihau. 
Price's assistant, Mr. Harold Smith, said that there will be more "special nights" in the future. "Saturday, October 31 there will be a Halloween night, which will feature among other things, taffy apples, halloween candy and decorations. There will be a 'Western Night' Wednesday, Nov. 4, which will include steamboat roast beef rounds carved for each student 
while in line, and salad and dessert buffets. Nov. I 9 will feature a Thanksgiving Dinner of turkey and dressing, baked ham and all the trimmings," according to Mr. Smith. 
With regard to feedback Prict: and Smith both said that there 

Hair Styling 
_ forND men the Continental Way Razor Cutting t:Style  
Ettr~pcan Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
Have Long Hazr <lC Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed Serv.e & Pamper You 
Continental Hair Styling 
306 Sherland Bldg. 
Student Rates 
South Bend, Ind. 234-0811 By Appt. 



ACCOUNTANTS 
... the fun and excitement of living and working in a foreign country ... seeing places you've always heard about ... this may be yours as an accountant for Amoco International Oil Company, the wholly owned subsidiary responsible for foreign operations of Standard Oil Company (Indiana). Our representative will be on campus November 16, 1970 to interview accountants for an on-thejob training program in our Chicago General Office. These are challenging, interesting positions offering you real professional growth that can lead to unlimited advancement opportunities in the United States and abroad. We offer an exceptional starting salary and a superior benefit program. 
.Contact your placement office to arrange for an interview. 
was substantial response, both pro and con, but that the complaints were not specifit: enough. They also said that students should bring up complaints on the spot to one of the super visors or managers so that immediate action t:an be taken. 

"We can't possibly act on heresay nor on things that occurred in the past so we'd like to have the wmplaint if there is one, brought up at that particular meal," Smith said. Edmund Pri~e 

SMC reacts to ND co-ed rumor 
(Continued from page 1) 

representatives of both fawlties to discuss the new proposal would be held sometime after next Tuesday's Congressional election. At this time, they will release the specific proposals to the public. Until then, all information will be withheld. 
Rumors that Notre Dame plans to become a coeducational institution in the near futurf student attitude. Response at prompted the rash of t:onferenthe forum was overwhelmingly ces to determine St. Mary's in favor of a continuation of the future. Last week, The AdHoc coex program with eventual committee met to discuss other coeducation. proposals. As a result of. their Reflecting on the proceedings meeting, Ann Marie Tracey, of the past week, Miss Tracey student body president, and commented, "I hope that the Carol Henninger, academk threat of coeducation is not the affairs t:ommissioner, scheduled only issue that its promoting the a student forum to determine drive to define ourselves.'' 

No revised Princeton plan: Students,profs to make 
ments, notes, and tests. 
by Art Ferranti 

A reviewing board would be set up to see if the student hadBill Wilka, head of the Acakept his agreement and had donedemic Affairs Commission, last week discussed with Fr. James work for a candidate. 
Burtchaell and Prof. John Notre Dame, a revisl!d provision T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost of 
Oesterle, chairman of the faculty of the Princeton Plan allowing 
senate, decided that no official individual students to leave the 
university revision was necessary campus to work on the cam
due to the already liberal open paigns of various politkal candicut policy. dates. The individual student should 
Wilka had requested that writmake the necessary arrangeten agreements be made among ments with his professors if he the students and their professors wishes to participate in the permitting the students to be excoming elections. cused from class without being If the student leaves without penalized and working out with completing the official procetheir professors a plan for the 
dures, he would be penalized acmaking up of missed assign-~ 
cordingly, they said. 

Security report: minor incidents 
In a weekend marked by a influx of girls from out of t~wn, there were few major items for the security force to report. 
Two students hitch-hiking along Notre Dame Avenue on the twenty-third were attacked by eight white youths. A friend 
of  the  victims  at  Notre  Dame  
Apartments  took  them  to  St.  
Joseph  Hospital,  where  they  
were  treated  for  bruises  and  

cuts. One of the youths got six stitches. South Bend police are investigating. ' 
A 1964 Impala belonging to 
First Student Sente Meetln& Tonight 


7:00 
Lafortune Ampitheatre 
Doug and Judy Peace, Joy and Happiness Always 

THE TEAM 

John Johnson of Patty Lane was stolen Sunday evening. 
Two students were arrested by South Bend police for shoplifting from the thrifty Market on South Bend Avenue; two others were caught by SMC police after taking a signout book from Regina Hall. 
Someone entered the officials' room during the frosh football game Saturday, stealing clothing and a wallet containing $22. 
Students at Alumni Hall reported that several black youths smashed the glass out of a cigarrette machine, then fled the building. 
Upon being questioned about possible extra security measures for Halloween, Chief of Campus Security Arthur Pears commented, "I wouldn't tell you if did." He added, "Halloween's for kids, not hardly for college students." 
Du Your Christmas Shopping Now! 
$30 SCHIC~< COR}} LESS ELECTRIC RETRACTABLE RAZORS FOR ONLY s19.95!! 
THECHEERLEADE~SARE STILL TRYING TO GET TO SOUTHERN CAL' CALL 
li.ll.:1., . 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by tile students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


Tu~sday, October 27, 1970 THE OBSERVER. Page 3 





Knox no challenge for N D stick men 
by Joe Passiatore Observer Sportswriter 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team laughed their way to a 15-0 win over Knox College of Illinois, Saturday, October 24. The game amounted to little more than a scrimmage for the Irish as Knox was an obviously outmanned and outclassed team. 
Knox lacrosse players had voiced pre-game sentiments to the effect that a win over Notre Dame would greatly enhance the prestiege of Knox College and that they relished the opportunity to upset the Irish. Any thoughts of a Knox victory died q uil:kly, however, as Notre Dame assumed immediate control of the game and kept constant pressure on the Knox defense. Notre Dame scored at wiil in piling up a I 0-0 lead by halftime. 
More In Second Half 
Five more scores were added in the second half to increase the margin of victory to 15-0. The second team defense was inserted in the entire second half, in the hopes of gaining some playing experience. The defenders were given little chance to 

Races scram bled 
by Bruce Kennedy 
Observer Sportswriter 
Dillon swamped Walsh 28-0 and B-P trounced St. Joe's 40-0 to highlight Sunday's interhall football activity. 
Dillon shictory paves the way for a showdown with Alumni r;ext Sunday for the League Two championship. In other League Two action, Sorin managed its first first down of the season (not counting one received by a penalty) but fell to Off-campus 6--0. 
B-P became the first team to 
score 40 points in modern inter
hall history, but still needs a vic
tory over Cavanaugh Sunday to 
clinch the League Three crown. 
Cavanaugh defeated Zahm by 
forfeit. 
Grace tied Stanford 8-8 but 
still has a chance to top League 
Four. They meet Flanner while 
contender Keenan plays St. Ed's. 
Morrissey topped Badin 18-0 
and must avoid losing Sunday 
against Lyons in order to clinch 
the League One title. Pangborn, 
who will tie for top honors 
should Morrissey lose, edged 
Holy Cross I0-6. 
Other games next week in
clude Walsh versus Sorin and 
Badin versus Holy Cross. 
LEAGUE I 
Morrissey Pangborn Holy Cross Badin Lyons 
LEAGUE II 
Alumni Dillon Off Campus Walsh Sorin 
LEAGUE III 
Breen-Phillips Cavanaugh St. Joseph Farley *Zahm 
w  L  T  
2  0  I  
2  I  
I  2  0  
2  0  
2  0  
w  L  T  
2  0  I  
2  0  
I  0  3  
0  2  
0  3  0  
w  L  T  
3  0  0  
2  0  I  
2  2  0  
0  2  I  
0  3  0  

*Zahm has dropped from the 
league.  
LEAGUE IV Grace Keenan Stanford Flanner St. Edward  W 2 0  L 0 0 3  T 2 2 0  


prove themselves, however, as the Irish so completely dominated the game the Knox penetrated the Notre Dame defense on but two occasions. 
Seven Men Score 

Leading the onslaught were co-captain Kenny Lund; 5 goals, Peter Murray: 2, Dave Jurusik; 2, B.J. Bingle; 2, Jim Laffey; 1, Vic Lupo; I, and Bob Perry; 1. 
Good Scrambling 

Team captain and goalie, Jerry Kamer expressed a pleased reaction to the team's performance Saturday. Kammer admitted he was surprised at the ineptness of Knox as he said, "We didn't know anything about them so we weren't expecting to beat them as easily as we did." Kammer conceded that Knox was "not much of a test," but he went on to compliment the Irish team on their overall spirit, their display of ball control, and some exceptional scrambling for loose balls. 
Kamer lauded the scrapping ability of Jim Lepley and Jim Laffey as they dominated th~ face-offs throughout the game. 
B.J. Bingle was also impressive in his debut as an Irish attackman. 

Michigan Next 

After the Knox debacle, Kamer said one of the team's biggest challenges will be forthcoming this Saturday when the team faces the University of Mic.higan. "The Michigan lacrosse team is made up of graduate students who have been playing together throughout college," said Kamer. "They are a very experienced team, excellent stickhandlers, and have an exceptional passing game." 
Kamer noted that while t11e defense didn't get much of a workout against Knox, tb  opportunity will definitely 

Irish take 2 of 3 booters 
Jim  Schweitzer's goal late in  expired in the third stanza and  Fullbacks Carl Straub, Bruce  
the  third  quarter  broke  a  drilled  a  shot past  the Toledo  Graves  and  Jim  Patton  and  
scoreless tie and provided all the  netmindcr from 45 feet  out on  center-half  Dan  Burke chipped  
offensive punch the Notre Dame  the right side.  in solid defensive efforts in con 

soccer club needed as the Irish Freshman goalie John Wirth, handed Toledo U., a 1-0 setmaking his first start in the net back last Tuesday afternoon in for the Irish turned in a fine perToledo. formance, withstanding a tena
Schweitzer gained possession cious Toledo attack, especially in of a loose ball just before time the fourth quarter. 
Sailing Club impressive 
The NO sailing club had a successful weekend winning one regatta and placing fourth in a field of IS teams at another. The Iowa Regatta at Iowa City was  captured by the Irish sailors. Tom Willison skippered the A boat impressively and Neil Barth sailed his B boat with a crew of Bill Donovon to a second place showing and the combined performance was good enough to 
,....,...HandiJall 
The Interhall Office has announced a double elimination handball tournament. There will be three divisions: open, intermediate, and novice. Further information may be gained by calling the Interhall Office (Tele: 6100 or 8975). Deadline for entries is November 3. 
take top honors for du Lac. Barth and Donovon are both freshmen. There were eight teams entered and Oshkosh State placed second. 
The other half of the Sailing Club traveled to Columbus, Ohio for the Ohio State regatta. Here ND managed the fourth place finish among 14 other crews. George Gaw sailed well in the A boat but he was plagued with numerous foul cdls. Jerry Mehm acted as the crew in \1elping Gaw to a 5th place finish. Kevin Hoyt skippered the B boat and managed a third spot in the racing. Tim Flood and John Hildebrant crewed for Hoyt. In all there were 22 races in the two days and the light wind conditions caused considerable difficulty for the skippers, requiring patience to get results. 

tributing to the second Irish 
shutout of the season. 
Tom Shriver scored a pair of first quarter goals to lead the Notre Dame soccer club to a 2-1 victory over the U. of Chicago Sunday behind Stepan Center. The win enabled the Irish to gain a split in weekend action. The Irish hooters were handed a 2-0 shutout by Indiana University Friday afternoon in Bloomington. 
Shriver scored both his tallies against Chicago from short range, after working free for clear shots. Shriver's first score was unassisted but Jim Schweitzer was credited with an assist on Shriver's second marker. 
Chicago scored its only goal in the fourth quarter. 
The Irish were unable to mount an offensive against Indian a. The Hoosiers notched scores in the second and fourth quarters in besting the Irish. 
The Irish will carry a 4-3-2 mark with them to Carlinville, Ill., this Saturday as they face a tough squad from Blackburn College in what could prove to be Notre Dame's biggest challenge this season. 
present itself this Saturday at ;, tend to degenerate to their style 
P.M. behind Stepan Center. He of play; hopefully against Michisummed up by saying, "When gan we will rise to meet the you play a team like Knox, you challenge." 
Jim Donaldson :=======================:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

Sports Shorts 
Freshman coach Denny Murphy unveiled the 1970 Irish yearlings Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium but it was an unimpressive debut for most of the lads wearing the blue and gold for the first time. The young Spartans of Michigan State, completely dominating the first half of play, hung a convincing 24-14 defeat on the Irish frosh. 
Despite the score, the play of several of the young Irish sent many of the 4000 fans in attendance home with smiles on their faces. 
Cliff Brown played the entire game at quarterback for Notre 
Dame and, after a slow start, showed a fine arm in the second half. 
Brown hit on just 4 of 11 pass attempts in the first half but bounced 
back in the final two quarters and hit on 13 of 20 tosses. Several 
passes were dropped by overanxious receivers. 
In addition to capably handling his field general duties, Brown also kicks off and takes care of the place kicking chores. He easily put two extra point attempts through the uprights and sailed his kickoffs down to the Spartan goal line. 
With continued improvement this fall and a good spring practice, Brown could give Pat Steenberge a stiff battle for the No. 1 "QB" spot on the '71 squad. 
Brown's favorite receiver Saturday seemed to be 5'9' ', 170-pound Gary Diminick, a halfback from Mt. Carmel, Pa. Diminick grabbed six tosses good for 62 yards. He also ran for 25 yards in six carries and scored the first touchdown of the game for the Irish frosh on a 4-yard jaunt. 
Halfback_ Greg Hill, although he gained but 29 yards in ten carries, showed good potential as a runner. If he can get a hole it won't take him long to scoot through. 
Standing out on a mediocre defensive unit was 246-pound tackle Larry ~sko who brought down a number of Spartan runners. 
Elsewhere on the sports scene.... 
Three of Notre Dame's five "second half" opponents won Saturday as Pitt, Georgia Tech, and LSU all racked up victories. The Bayou Tigers topped fifth-ranked Auburn in Auburn, Ala., and it looks like they could really give the Irish a battle on Nov. 21. 
Tom Shriver booted a pair of goals in pacing the Notre Dame soccer club's victory over the U. of Chicago, Sunday. The pair of tallies tied him with Hugh Schoemaker for the team goal scoring leadership. Each has put 4 shots past opposing netminders. 
Charley Blum and Mark "Savage" Rubinelli arc leading the Irish ruggers through another bruising schedule. The rugby club has a 4-l slate this fall. 
It's unfortunate that the Irish football schedule has. to be drawn up ~o far in advance. Saturday's "clash" with the Naval Academy in Philly promises to be nothing more than a tuneup for the Pitt game. The first team will play just long enough to build up a satisfactory lead, and if that takes more than 20 minutes the Middies will be playing their best game of the season. At least the reserves will get to see plenty of action and can pick up some valuable game experience. Despite the vast gap in strength between the two clubs, Navy appears on the Irish schedule through at least 1976. It's always nice to have a breather, I guess. 
Finally, I must extend a tip of my cap to the players of the U. of Illinois football squad who stood behind their coach, Jim Valek, after he was informed by school officials that his coaching duties would terminate at the conclusion of the Illini-Ohio State game last Saturday. His outraged players gave the Buckeyes a scare before bowing and then said that they would quit if Valek was not retained. Although it is almost certain that Valek will be fired at the end of the season anyway, he should be proud that his squad is so loyal to him. The action of the Illini officials who fired or attempted to fire, Valek is disgraceful. Illinois does not have a professional team, it is made up of college men who seem to be pleased with their coach. Winning can't be so important that a coach should be treated so shamefully. 
Tribute paid Wichita 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (UPI) -Coach Frank Broyles said SunThe official's final gun sounded day. "It was the first time we and the benches emptied. But ever did anything like it." 
the Arkansas Razorbacks And in the stands, 40,000 weren't heading for the dressing Razorback enthusiasts roared room. their admiration for the visiting 
They raced to meet the team. Wichita State Wheatshockers at Broyles had his second and midfield. The scoreboard third team units in midway in 
showed a 6 2-0 Arkansas victory, the opening period as Arkansas a devastating defeat for the jumped to a . 20-0 lead within young men from Kansas. But 
minutes. Wichita halfback John Arkansas showed only respect Yeros couldnt forget those and admiration for the tragedy cheers.. scarred Wheatshockers, a team "There were tears in my eyes of more than 40 freshmen and when they gave us that ovation. sophomores. After everything that happened "They spontaneously wanted it was a little scary, but those to go over and talk with the people made us feel great." Wichita players," Arkansas 
-
Page 4 
Tuesday, October 27, 1970 
The Student Union 





Ali TKO's Quarry 
by T.C. Treanor the defensive for most of the
his unprotected midriff, shook

Ticket Office 
Third Floor La Fortune 
Announces its new hours 
11:30-12:30 nd  .,.... Mondy thru Frldy
Tickets now on sale.; Sergio Mendes Nov. 7 (On Sale Wed.) Bob Hope Nov. 14 Cinema '71 cards "You're a Good Man Charlie Brown"
Nov. 20 and 21 (Morris Civic 

HELP KEEP HARTKE-BRADEMAS 
VOLUNTEER FOR ELECTION DAY WORK AT N.D. CAMPUS 
Cal/233-1719 or 234-1539 after midnight 

Election TueL Nov. 3 

Wh not? 

Georgia Governor Lester Mad
dox declared Monday a day of 
mourning in his state, but by 
eleven o'clock the only man in 
mourning was a forlorn Jerry 
Quarry. Mohammed Ali had 
made his comeback. 

Ali, a 7-2 favorite going into the match, scored a technical knockout of Quarry when the California challenger was unable to answer the bell for the fourth round. 
Quarry's eye was severely cut and the ring doctor eliminated him from the fight. A frustrated 

Quarry, when told of the decision, broke lose of his corner's hold and ran back into the center of the ring, but the referree quickly called the fight. 
Ali dominated every part of the fight, except for a brief flurry by Quarry near the end of the second round, in which the challenger landed a few blows to the body. Ali, who is alleged to train by allowing three sparring partners to swing unhindered at 



*Student Billing Card 
With this card, a dorm resi
dent may make long distance calls 
with the privacy of the dorm room 
phone and get an individual bill 
once a month. 
llnd even take advantage of 
Direct Distance Dialing . . . the 
faster, easier way to call long 
distance. 

Your Student Billing Card 
is waiting (if you haven't already 
picked it up) at the Indiana Bell 
Business Office. Just ask. 


@ Indiana Bell 
off the blows without visible damage. 
After staring Quarry down at center ring, Ali took the attack almost immediately at the first bell. He scored repeatedly to the head in the first, firing long-range bombs almost at will. Quarry clinnched after an early combination, and was clearly on the defensive throughout. 
Quarry recovered some of his composure in the second round, scoring well on left-handed hooks that almost became roundhouses later in the round. Ali used his, superior reach, however, to keep the challenger on round. 
Ali scored heavily on left jabs to the face and head as the third round began, however, and after about a minute of th thitd, had opened a small cut over Quarry's left eye. Deadly accurate with either hand, Ali may have ended the fight, for all intents and purposes, when he followed a left hook to the face with a right cross that apparently exacerbated the wound greviously. Quarry counterpunched well -indeed he counterpunched well throughout the fight-but at that point it was all over. 

Newman controversy discussed 
(Continued from page 1) 
well," Metzger said. "I've beqn in this business a long time and I know how necessary it is to present both sides of opinion in a series of speakers." 
"Originally we had thought about inviting Sen. Hartke to come to deliver a speech on campus but we knew we'd have to also invite Mr. Roudebush so we didn't want to get involved with the difficulties of presenting them both. But a representative of the Brademas campaign came to us and asked us if we'd like to have the congressman speak. It isn't often we get an offer for a speaker so we just said we'll take him right off the bat. And I decided right then that we'd have to send an 
It~: Bill't; Pick-up Ser.. vice fbr used furniture, appliances and ;u~k buying and selling -Call 233-2646. 
invitation to Newman too. So I 
told  Missy  Underman  to  make  
the call to his office."  
Metzger speculated  that  the  

denial of the invitation by the Newman people might indicate that the message didn't get through or else wasn't passed along to officials to the Newman campaign. He felt it might have been lost due to mishandling in the confusion of a campaign headquarters but said his office had probably been somewhat to 
blame for not sufficiently following up the initial call. 
"The first call we made probably didn't do the job," Metzger said. "It is our fault that we didn't pursue it all the way, but we did make an effort to see that Newman got the same invitation to speak that Brademas did. We should have kept in touch with them and we should have called back the next week. But there are a lot of things we should do that we never get around to." 

~.::.r...=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::::::::::~:~:::!:!:~=~=~=~=!~:!:::::::~:!:::::::::!:::::::::~:::::::::~:~::::::::~-.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::~ 
;:::: STUDENT UNION COrHE11.1PORARY ARTS FESTIVAL :i:i




I Second ci~Y" Players I 
;::: '' :;::: 
~;;~ "It's Cooler Near the lake :~~~: 




L:,:~::::::~~;:~~:::,I:~;~~:;.~:~,::::~:.#-J 
OBSERVER NEWS MEETING 
For Notre Dame Staff 
6:30 -WEDNESDAY -October 28 
EVERYBODY BE THERE 



