
VOL. tV, NO. 122 Serving the Notre Dame and SaiJllMafj'.~JiTC.~(:7';/iliimlllill' TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1970 
KRASHNA= STRIKE NOW 
by Dave McCarthy 
Father Hesburgh said that he time in life when "moral creased activiti' and favor our History professor John Wil­
At yesterday afternoon's 
was aware of the "sincerity and righteousness is more important withdrawal from Southeast Asia. liams, who followed llesburghanti-war rally on the main quad 
courage" of President Nixon but than empty victory," Father Regarding this, he noted that said, ''I'd be happy to sign the SBP Dave Krashna called for a 
that he could not condone his Hesburgh said that he would be it was now time for the nations. statement that the President general boycott of classes. Dir­
decision to expand the war, willing to sign a statement of Southeast Asia: Laos, Cam­(Hesburgh) read." But he also ecting his attack not only against 
terming it "a mistake." addressed to President Nixon bodia, Viet Nam, to develop and noted the presence of alternative the war but also against racism, 
Stating that there comes a that would denounce our in-govern themselves, which is action. sexism, and militarism, Krashna 
Williams attacked the dupli­cited the Cambodian exransion 
city of the Nixon administra­as the "catalyst" prompting him 
t~n,onethatvowed to end the to propose the boycott. He 
war and recently expanded it. implored the people of Notre 
He questioned Nixon's claim Dame to "stop, look, and listen 
that "the United States will not and absolutely say stop to the 
be defeated or humiliated," l'ducation we're getting at this 
contending that, "We have been time." 
defeated and humiliated." The fourth of a number of 
Speaking in an "intermediate" speakers, Krashna avowed his 
position between llesburgh's 
desire to "enhance" education at generation and youth, Williams Notre Dame emphasizing that advocated more positive action "the new education has to than the moratoriums or "poli­begin." tical Woodstocks" of October. 
For his own part, Krashna Citing the need to "do some­admitted to co-signing, with 
thing to halt the war machine approximately fifty other SBPs, 
where we're at," he prescribed a petition to impeach President 
eliminating "Nixon's sanctuaries Nixon. on our campuses." Father llesburgh, president of 
Unlike Father llesburgh who Notre Dame, commenced the 
saw Indochina involvement as a rally by stressing that, "no 
"mistake" Williams deemed it moment in the modern history 
the inevitable end of many yearsof this country has been more 
of American policy, referring to divided regarding priorities." lie 
it as the "technological machine recognized "the need for unity 
raging out of control." of purpose and clear priority of 
He sanctioned joining with values." SBP Dave Krashna speaks at yesterday's strike activities. other universities as Stanford, 
something "no force of arms Rutgers, Maryland, and especi­
For Cam bodla action 
from North, East, West, or ally Yale to form a "communi­South can create." He voiced a versity" dedicated in search for desire to "commit our persons people's education and people's and our future to a better democracy." He considered that

Hesburgh condemns Nixon 
America and a better world." 
it "would not be at all inappro­flesburgh cutting off your education, is present. . h . t St priate for Notre Dame to join
Regarding a potential classRev Theodore 
· ' h' d But a s ort ttme 1a er, u-boycott Father Hesburgh
Presl'dent of the University of the worst t mg you could o at d p .d t D 'd with them." 
· h' · · · dent Bo y res1 en av1 appeared against the idea. He
Notre Dame yesterday con-t IS tunc, smce your educatiOn II d f a eneral According to Williams the 
, . . and your growth in competence Krashna . ca e or g accentuated the importance of 
objective of such action woulddemned U.S. mvolvement m strike of students and faculty education and the need for
Cambodia but warned that are what the world needs most, . b ' be "to create education mean­if the leadership of the future is not as a~ e~d to educat10_n, ut leadership saying, "We are living 
ingful and relevant to the prob­
"Striking classes as some univer-going to be better than the as a begmn_mg of educa_ho~ of in an age of midgets, I want you lems of our time." Such a
sities arc doing, in the sense of h k d on 1t
leadership of the past and anot er m ml I ansm, to prepare to be ~iants." 
fContinued on 6)
..-----------------:---: 
Statement text 
Father Hesburgh said yesterday that he would sign and would urge others to sign the j(>llowing statement and transmit it to President Nixon. TilE OBStl? VFR has reprinted it in its entirety 
As Americans, proud of our national traditions and committed to the best ideals of our country, we declare that we see these traditions and ideals best realized by not continuing our military operations in Vietnam, Canbodia, and Laos. 
1. 
We favor the withdrawal of our military forces at the earliest moment and the designation by the Congress of an ultimate date for complete withdrawal. 

2. 
We favor the most serious efforts to repatriate our American prisoncrs of war at whatever cost. The nation should recognize its deep debt to them and their families for their continued suffering. 

3. 
We favor the usc of our persons and our finan~.:ial resources to rebuild a new and hopeful society in Vietnam and all o1 Indo-China that has known nothing but wars for so many years. 

4. 
We suggest that the people of this whole area must ultimately make their own effort to achieve the kind of society that they want; that whutever the good will of our past and future efforts, it is the Vietnamese, Cambodians, and Laotians themselves who will creatl' the conditions for peace and a better society, something that no force of arms or military imperialism from North or South, East or West. has yet created. 


S. Most fundamentally, may we state our deep convictions that our national priorities today arc not military, but human. Our nation is unnen~~~:•rilv and bitterly divided on issues at home and abroad .If the war abroad can be quickly and effectively diffused,then 1 we can he united at home in our dedication to justice, to equality of opportunity, and to renewing the quality of American life-a task that will require our best personal efforts and even more of our financial resources than those squandered by us in recent years on a largely frustrating and fruitless venture. 
6. Lastly, we realize that the above points would sound like 
.:mpty rhetoric if we did not stand ready as we do-·to comm1t our persons, our talents, our honor, and our futures to help work racism, and sexism at Notre 
for a better America non-v1olcnt manner.  and  a  better  world  in  a  peaceful  and  
T. M. llesburgh Ma 4. 1970  


Da~~~e~rtly 

thereafter the crowd of nearly 1000 students broke up. Many left, but over 100 stayed around to discuss tactics for the strike. Picket lines went up at all the major classroom buildings around campus and small groups met to formulate plans for further discussions and demonstrations. Discussions were to take place this morning and a rally, similar to yestcr­day's, was scheduled for 1:30 this afternoon. 
As an option to striking classes llesburgh offered to sign a statement, with anyone who cared to join him, to be sent to President Nixon, urging the withdrawal of our military forces at the earliest moment 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., delivers his statement on Cambodia. and the designation by the 
Congress of an ultimate date for 


Groups determine action
complete withdrawal. Hesburgh said, "I huve care-In reaction to the call for a dcmic Affairs, spent much of the evening in contact with the
fully read and re-read the Presi-student boycott of classes as deans of the various schools to
dent's statement, as I hope you part of the national st udcnt ask them how they intended to
have, and 1 recognize both his strike protesting President react to the boycott.
sincerity and his courage in Nixon's movement of troops The deans were working with
deciding as he did. But I do not into Cambodia, campus groups the chairmen of each depart­
agree with him. I do not agree and organizations held meetings ment on campus in conducting .1
with him, even though he knows and consultations last night to pnll this morning to ;~ssess
more about all this than I do and determine lhc course of action faculty opinion on the striJ..c.
he has the responsibility of each would take. 
The faculty members were also
decision." In immediate response to the asked how they pl;~nned on
He said that he disagreed strike the Student Union issued 
conduding classes during the
"Because one great need of this a st:1tement supporting the ideals 
strike if there were l;~rge nunl­
nation today is for unity of of the strike and declaring an 
hcrs of student ;~bsences.

purpose, clear priority of values end to the normal functions of The Student Union stall'lllentand vision regarding where we the Union for the duration of explained the reason hchi;HI
might go together. Vietnam runs the strike. In addition, h. John (Continued on pa!(e J} Walsh, Vice President for Aca-(ContinuC'd 011 page 1} 
THE OBSERfJER. TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1970
PAGE 2 
SLC endorses Hesburgh statement 
by Bill Carter 
;\fter suspendmg consJdera­tion of the formal agenda for the day. the Student Life Council last night devoted its entire meeting to discussion of the studen l strike and the possibility of passing a motion to support the students' action. After ex­tended debate the council agreed to a compromise motion which called for two days of Morator­ium-like activities Wednesday and Thursday to protest the escalation of the War in Asia. 
The meeting opened with student representative Ted Jones calling for the suspension of rules so that the strike q ucstion could be considered. Jones ex­plained that he believed the SLC to be a responsible body on campus whose influence would lend support to the "educational aspects" of the strike effort. 
Student Body Vice President Mark Winings then proposed a two-fold resolution calling for the S LC to endorse the declara­tion stated by Fr. Hesburgh at the afternoon rally and to lend support to the students, faculty and administrators who were backing the strike. Later Winings explained that he hoped this support would entail a recom­mendation that no student would be penalized for missing classes d tiring the strike. 
The motion to support Hcs­hurgh's declaration passed unani­mously hut the second section of the resolution was immc­diatcly confronted with opposi­tion. 1:r. Hdgar Whelan, Director of Student Housing, expressed reservations concerning those who headed the strike fearing that they might be part of the group who forcibly disrupted the Trustees meeting last Friday. 
Fr. James Riehle, Dean of Students, said the student strike would not be a peaceful strike. He explained that he had wit­nessed students running through the halls of O'Shaughnessy yes­terday afternoon yelling 'strike" and attempting to disrupt classes. 
Prof. John Houck of the English Department, assuming his usual role of compromiser, offered a substitute motion which called for a general day of speeches, marches and liturgical services to protest the U.S. action in Indochina. 
In supporting llouck 's mo­tion, Fr. James Burtchaell ac­cused the students of calling the strike for public relations pur­poses. lie then asked whether the students would be willing to callt:cl the Senior Prom and the Petula Clark concert in support 
Union center of activities 
(Continued from page 1) 
that is normally done by the Union has temporarily lost its meaning in the face of the actions our country has under­taken," the statement read. "We join in saying 'NO' to the war and calling for its halt." 
The Union also announced that they arc transforming t'hc Union offices into centers of the strike activity. "We arc working with the organizers of the strike, cooperating whenever possible. The time has come for normal activities to stop." 
Prof. John llouck and Mr. Philip Facccnda who were ap­
pointed last night hy the SLC as 
part of an ad hoc committee to work on plans for the two-day 
protest activities Wednesday and Thursday, began last night to formulate ideas for the days' action. Houck worked on con­
tacting faculty members for possible suggestions and contri­butions to the activities while Facccnda relayed the S LC's recommendation to the Admini­stration. It was expected that 
Faccenda would contact Pr. 
oft he strike. 

Ted .Iones objected strongly to !Iouck's compromise. ''I'm afraid I can sec this thing turning into a damn carnival if we go along with that idea," Jones said. "We have to try to cst<J hlish some kind of undcrst<Jnding, in this action the students arc 
striking  out  against fear.  It has  
to  be  a  spont<Jncous thing. One  
person,  one  individual  just  de­ 

cided th<Jt he has to do it." Before the question was put to a vote, the student representa­tives called for a short caucus to 
talk over the course of action they would take in regard to !Iouck's proposaL Houck met with the students during the 
caucus  in  order  to  make  his  
motion  more  acceptable  to  the  
students' purposes.  

Whcri the meeting reconvened Winings formally withdrew his resolution in favor of a new motion from Houck. This pro­posal called for the setting aside of two days this week, Thursday . and Friday, for the purposes of University-wide programs of speeches, teach-ins, demonstra­tions and liturgy which would embody the spirit of the lies­burgh declaration in deploring the President's escalation of the war. The motion also set trp a cPmmittec of Dave Krashna, Winings, llouck and Mr. Philip Facccnda to work out the details 
for  the  actions  to  be  held  on  
those davs.  
The  vote  that  closed  the  

meeting went 14 to 2 in favor of the llouck motion with only student reps Jones and Rich Meckel opposing. Both spoke against the lack of spontaneity of the idea. Jones said he feared people might he induced to come out merely because the SLC had made t1w days legiti­mate. "It seems this is only a token gesture," Jones said. "Something that will last for the two days and then it will be back to business <JS usuaL" 
See pa!{e 7 for the complete text of the SLC's statement on the strike. 

SMC group seek dual objectives inform community, protestmachine 

1 
NUCLEAR ENERGY 

p~
"o/ll'4)'ll. "~!:'(/1. 
01.1. Illy~
~() /:' (~4 u.r~. IJ~-t· 

o~:> ~>t.o ~IV,~J':> 
.':>
A NEW COURSE IN MODERN TECHNOLOGY ·. FOR ND AND STMARY'S HUMANITIES STUDENTS 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MJCHrGAN AVENUE 7500 60611 
TEL: (312) 944-· zrP: ME 213 2MWF Thi•S Fa II 
Ptease add sales fax where applicable 

~~:~~at a~~~~c~~~io~os~ril~~~ss~! 
Wednesday· The student strikers now have organized behind a steering corn­mittec composed of seventeen 
members. The committee has drawn up a list of formal activities for today and will continue to do so throughout the strike. The activities today include discussions of the Indo­chinese War in general and the 
strike's relevance, talks on ra­cism, sexism and the new educa­tion. The committee also plans on a leafletting drive in South Bend, a 3
rally at I : 0 and a march to St. Mary's following the rally· A
lunch on the main quad is also 
I--!:.P:::Ia:.:n:.:n:.:e:.::d:.:· 

The SMC Clubhouse was the scene last night for a discussion on the current strike for peace. The meeting, fourth in a series sponsored by Dr. Arthur llod;­bcrg and Dr. Peter Smith, was attended by approximately 350 faculty, students and adminis­trators. 
There was much discussion concerning the objectives of the strike and what the commitment and course of action of St. Mary's would be. Carol Cusick, a member of the ND-SMC strike 
steering committee, stated the objectives as follows. I) To make the community and nation more aware of the facts of U.S. involvement in Indo-China and 
to exert pressure on governmentleaders for the termination of 
the war; 2) To protest the presence of war machines on the Notre Dame campus, i.e., ROTC program and the government 
sponsored research on Biological warfare. Many students questioned the effectiveness of the strike. fhc 
~~~:t:~nl~re~~~:~t f~<;~~nt~~f~:ec~ 
to respond to the moratorium, it is unlikely he would react to this strike. Several students also said that only by effecting the national economy could govern­mcnt leaders be stirred to action. 
Strike advocates felt, however, that with sufficient cooperation within the community and ex-l)ansJ·on of the strike spirit Olltsj.de the community, Nixon 
would be forced to act. The 
Strike sphere could be extended 
to the labor forces bringing 
serious pressure upon the econ­
omy-

The strike was also cited as an opportunity for taking time out to review the deficiencies within the unJ·vcrsJ·ty educational sys­
tcm as a whole. There will be a number of teach-ins on hoth campuses for reviewing correc­tive measures as well as in­forming students of the facts about Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia and U.S. foreign poli(.:y. Several students expressed the opinion that pursuits in these areas, so often de-emphasized, arc vital to a (.:Omplcte and relevant cd uca­tion. Advocates hope that by securing the cooperation of students and faculty, the strike for peace can become a constructive educational ex­
perience. 
No agreement was reached on what course of action the individual student should follow. Sandy Griffen urged that each student decide what his own commitment should he and then live up to his individual responsi­bility. The strike will take place, there will he te<Jch-ins but no student is forced to participate. 
Dr. Arthur Hochberg, a mem­ber of the SMC faculty, en­couraged students to make their decision independent of the faculty. He said that aftcr the faculty meeting on Wednesday, individual faculty members would, if they wuld, support the students and the strike. 
When questioned as to the policy of the ad ministration during the strike, Father McGrath stated, "As president of St. \1ary's College, it is my responsibility to sec that this institution remain open to the pursuit of truth, for which it was established." He recognized the right of the student to adopt his own course of ·action for the strike and warned against in­fringing on the rights of a fellow student. lie warned that any faculty member refusing to teach a class will he considered in violation of his contract and that "As long as there is one student who wants to continue being taught a subject he signed up to be taught, then that class will he taught." 
As the meeting closed, dis­cussion leaders called for organi­zation, cooperation and caution during the days in which the strike will be in progress. 
See page 6 for the statement issued by Anne Marie Tracey, St. Mary'sSBP. 


List class officer candidates 
Completed lists of candidates eek·ng posJ.tJ'ons 1-n ('lass
s J · · 
Go e n • t were released yes
v r men ­terday by outgoJ·ng Sopho1nore
· 

Class Presi'dent Joe Stankus· 
Accordi-ng to Stankus elec
• ­tions for officers for the Classes of 1971 '72 and '73 WJ-11 be l1eld
• ­

tomorrow in the individual halls during lunch and dinner periods. Those students contending for the posJ.tl'ons are as follows·
· · 
Wit 1 e 

T:1e lone  Senior Class  Presi­ 
dential  candidate  is  Jim  
D'A  ·  h  M'k  C  ·  

urora orngan and Anthony Early runninguncontested for Vice-President 
and Secretary. Larry Ptasinski is opposing Robert Bramlette for Treasurer. 
In the Junior Class, two full tickets are competing. One in­cludes Michael O'Reilly, An­thony Oppegard, Richard Sher­man and Ali Gonlobol for the four offices. The opposing ticket comprises Greg Stepic, Dick Rost, James Strom and incumbent Dan McGrogan . 
In the Sophomore Class, Presi­dential candidates arc Michael Menez, Bud Carpenter, Jeff Lobosky, Steve Palluca and Mike Ruffer. Vice-Presidential hope­fuls include Steve Mlinec, Rick 
K uc nster, Bill McCarthy, Richard Ritchea and John Hes­
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------------------------~~on. Gary UttleandCarlEIIison 
are wmpeting for Secretary 
while Kevin Muse is the sole 
contender for Treasurer. 

Also, four studc'1ts have noti­
fied Th2 Observer of their 
intention to run for the Class of 
'72 offices as a write-in ticket. 
The four, Mike Murray, Kelly 
Flynn, Steve Martinek and Russ 
Stone, contend that the existing 
system of Class Government is 
"utterly useless," maintaining 
that only Senior officers are 
necessary, and if elected as 
Junior officers they would func­
tion only to run Senior Class 
elections. They felt that Student 
Union services could adequately 
handle social functions, whereas 
Class officers in the past have 
been "ineffective" in this area. 
General Program discusses strike 
The General Program will hold a discussion meeting con­cerning the student strike and the issues involved in it Tuesday night at 7:00 in front of the Administration Building for the students, faculty, and friends of the department. In the event of inclement weather, it will be held in the Fiesta Lounge in the student center. 

PAGE 3 




Presidents favor strike 

by Greg Pudhorodski Last night the llall.President's Council decided to sign a state­ment supporting the student strike initiated yesterday. The members signed the st<Jternent acting as individuals rather than as the II PC <JS a body. The statement W<JS drawn up and presented by Bruce Johnson, president of Lyons llall. It reads: We the undersigned Hall Pres­idents fully support the student strike called by our Student Body President. That strike serves to educate and dramatize our dissatisfaction with the In­do-China war. We urge the students of Notre Dame to he non-violent in their protest. Chuck Liddy Carroll Mark Kurtzman Zahm Carlos A. Cruz-Stanford 
ACTIVITIES -DISCUSSIONS AT ST. MARY'S AND NOTRE DAME (These informal discussions will be held at both St. Mary's and Notre Dame at these times.) 
IJ:OO The Indo-Chinese War and the Strike 
10:00 ROTC II :00 Racism 
12:30 Students and cars needed for leafletting South Bend high schools Lunch on the main quad* 
1:30 Rally 
2:30 March to St. Mary's (<~fter the rally)** 
3:00 Sexism 
4:00 New Education Speakers: Torn Brodin, Salv<~tore Bella, Charlotte Casey, Carolyn Gatz, Collete Mosier, Jim Douglass, Peter Walshe, John Houck, Jeff Henry, Mike Kovacavich, Fr. Bartell, John Gerber, Fr. Burrell, Suzanne Kelly, Tom Schaeffer, Major Maio, Carl Estabrook, Donald Costello, Sr. Rosemarie Zitek, Charles McCart h. William Storey, John Mattias, Arthur Hochberg, Dennis Brogan, Jim Danehy, Tom Vanderpatten, Major Brady, Joe Schlosser, Captain Hasty, Bob Minnix and many others. "'In conjunction with the spirit of reul education, free food will be provided. 
**The rest of the leach-in will be held at St. Mary's 
Offers to send president 
Rich Anderson Farley 
Bruce Johnson Lyons 

Boh Weaver St. J·:ds Thomas Belle Pangborn 
Dale Roberts Walsh Joe Stank us IJoly Cross 
Brought hefore the Council hy the !Iuman Affairs Commis­sion were tentative ideas on the Freshmen Orientation Program. Intended to supplement and not conflict with the present pro­gram of the Freshmen Year of Studies, the Commission hopes 
t.o make available to the incoming students avenues of information, presented mainly on a hall hasis, 
on  aspects  of  and  problems  
confronting  the  Notre  Dame  
community.  

The present and past Com­missioners, Orlando Rodreiguez and Jack Canden, stated the views that too many facets of the University were left unex­plained until the student came 
into confrontation with them. 
1\ plan presented separately by the Internal' Affairs Commit­tee of Student Government mirrored many of the ideas of thai of the lluman Affairs Commission. It also emphasized the need to make the freshmen cognizant of the "realities of 
campus"  such  as "  racism  and  
sexism."  
Mike  Jorrl;m  spoke  to  the  

Council concerning the Alumni Senate Meeting which will take place on campus starting Thurs­dily and continue through the W(~·~k::r.d. The Ser.at;:, which represents Alumni clubs across the country, hopes to have eighty members at the upcoming meeting. 
Jordan explained the wish of the Senate that the meeting would help to open communi­cation hetween graduates and current students. lie went on to say that the housing of the Senators in empty heds in the resident halls would work to this effect. Several Senators will also attend hall meetings at lloly Cross, Zahm, Stanford, Badin, Flanner, and Morrissey. 
(Continued on page 6} 

Hair Styling 
for ND men the Continental Way 
Kazor Cutting & Style 
E!.!::opcau Layer Sha!'ing fQr Long Hair 1/aJJe /,rmg Hair & /,et Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed 
Serve & Pamper You 

Continental Hair Styling 
306 Sherland Bldg. 
Student Rates 
South Bend, Ind. 234-0811 
B 


note urging withdrawal 
(Continued from page I) 
lie continued, "It has divided neither do <Jny of you want to 
the nation those favoring the he a partner lo what you 
Vietnam war· being mainly those honestly conceive to he evil, 
who have had no part in the unjust, or just plain wrong or 
suffering and dying an easy idiotic." 
option. It has drained our young In summary, llesburgh said, 
life, in death and mutilation; it "This may seem rather 
has wasted resources desperately undramatic advice to a genera­
needed in our ·nation and around tion that seeks instant answers 
the world for more serious to horribly complicated situa­
problems; it has cast us as a tions. 1\s one of your elders, 
nation in the character of a may I suggest that together we 
pariah, supported in our aims by state our uncompromising revul­
almost no one of importance in sion to the course of this war 
Drop your socks. grab NOSOX.
the world's opinion." and all current wars." 
The now shoes made especially Hesburgh went on to say that 
to be worn without sox. "I have tried to understand the 
counter to all of these preslnt 
drsires." 
Wear NOSOX anywhere. anytime. recurrent milil<1ry logic that the 
They're always correct. Always in fashion. 
war must be widened to be
Lowenstein 

So light and so comfortable you'llnarrowed, escalated to be de­hardly know you're wearing shoes.

to speak 

escalated, but with all the good But a word to the wise: once
will in the world, I find it
Congressman Allard K. Lo­difficult to follow a logic that 
you·ve tried NOSOX.
wenstein of New York, the 1970 has grown more barren, more you may neverSenior Class Fellow at the illogical and more self-defeating 
again go back in promising victory through University of Notre Dame, will 
speak at X p.m. tomorrow night defeat...Military logic reached its
in Washington llall. highpoint when we were told of
The 41-year-old Vietnam War Vietnamese villages and villagers:
critic will he spending Tuesday We had to destroy them to save
and Wednesday on the Notre 
them."

Dame campus, meeting with Speaking of the students,students in the classroom and in lleshurgh said, "No one of you
informal situations. II is Tuesday wants to be a coward, a traitor,
address i:. opt•n to the public. 
or an ungenerous American. ButAn early opponent of the war if I read your conscience aright,
111 Southt•asl Asia, Lowenstein campaigned for Sen. l~ugene J. 
Graduating Class, Note!
McCarthy for president in 196X and won a n<nrow victory in 
House for Rent. June Week November of that year, gaining a 
Two story, mod. log cabin 
scat in the 91 st Congress fo IIH 
in the woods. 5 mi. north
Nt·w York's Nassau County on 
Notre Dame, 3 /Jedrooms, 2
L.ong 1 sla nd. 
ha til, kitclzen, II'. rm., den, /g. 
TAYLOR oF MAINE 

fire-place, wood. Slc:cps 10.
The Observer is PUblished daily 
during the college semester excert 
Bring the whole family.
vacations by students of the Uni­versrty of Notre Dame and St. 
Rented only to pare11ts. $50 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
per Jay, minimum 3 day.f.
he purcloased for $8 from the' 
Write. Resident, 51187
Observer. Box lt, Notre Dame, Ind., 4b~!>6. Second class postage 
NOSOX is available in Rusticana in hand sewn slip ons. boots with buckles. cap toes and lies or buckles.
/,au rei Road, South Bend, 
Boots also available in golden or chocolate suede with leather or cushion-crepe soles.
oa<d. Notre Dame, Ind., 465!>6. 
Indiana 46637. 

PAGE 4 
THE OBSERVER. 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Editorial: 

The strike and the war 
Father Hesburgh yesterday voiced vehement opposition to continued American involvement in Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos. We support his stand against this involvement. 
The commitment to withdraw from Vietnam has already been made by President Nixon and the American people. But President Nixon's latest method of widening the war in order to narrow it, is at best, a calculated risk --but a risk that was taken without the consultation or the consent of the Congress which is charged with the responsibility of waging war. 
We do not feel that the recent expansion ot the war will prove fruitful because the President's stated purpose of protecting American troops cannot stop with attacking headquarters and supply bases. As such it can only drag us deeper into a war we are committed to ending. 
The time had come to call a halt to the President's expansion of the war.
,.. 

One way to do it is, of course, to sign Father Hesburgh's statement (printed on the front page of The Observer), return it to the Student Government office, and have Fr. Hesburgh submit it to the President. 
Dave Krashna's call yesterday for a student strike is another means of accomplishing this end. We are not foolish enough to believe that a student t-_.otest will, of itself, euu Ute war. But we are hopeful that responsible concern on the part of our academic community will snowball, in conjunction with other demonstrations, into increased political pressure on the Nixon admininstration to readjust its priorities. As Father Hesburgh said, "If the war abroad can be quickly defused, then we can be united at home in our dedication to justice, to equality of opportunity, and to renewing the quality of Crrerican life-a task that will require our best personal efforts and even more of our financial resources that those squandered by us in recent years on largely frustrating and fruitless venture." 
The idea behind the strike is to stop "business as usual" and determine the stops the academic community can generate to end U.S. involvement in Indo-China. Business as usual in a crisis period of American life. must halt. 
The strike, or the boycott or the cancellation of classes, can only be significant if it resolves the role of the student and the academic community with the war. We can support the strike only insofar as it affects this end. Therefore we call upon the university community, students, faculty and :tdminstration, to engage in a meaningful dialogue concerning the U.S. participation in Indo-China. We call upon them to strike classes and assemble on the quad or wherever possible to resolve these issues. We urge students to do this today, tomorrow and Thursday. At the end of the week we should evaluate the productiveness of this dialogue-which must include both sides-and determine a course of action. 
Letter 

Dear Students of the University: I would like to speak to such b) Abstension from ALL li­A time of strike is feelings at this time, both to quor, narcotics, tobacco, ct. al. undoubtedly a very confusing those who approve and dis­c) NO desserts or sweets of approve of the strike, in an­
situation for all concerned. any kind. Some people disapprove; others nouncing a campus-wide fast in d) WATER: only liquid. approve but don't know what an 
conjunction with the strike ef­I will begin my fast at 12:00 fort. Such a fast would be in NOON, Tuesday, May 5th and I
effective response on their part would or could be. Still others protest to and in sympathy for invite others to do so. I would would like to participate but are the victims of Kent State and also like to build a sort of lost in a morass of actions and 
Southeast Asia. It will be an community out of this effort. attempt on the part of those For this reason I would like all
leaders. In the midst of all this individuals who take part to those who feel that such an
confusion the individual is often­rediscover some of the potency action is relevant for them to
times at loose ends as to what inherent in their individual lives. contact me in order that pro­
exactly his response should be. Although such actions are aimed The strength of life itself is the gress be made toward such a 
at reasserting one's own power acceptance of suffering -even goal. as inconsequential a suffering as Yours,
in the face of international this. Brian Thomas Wall
decision-making, quite often they only serve to highlight 
I would propose that the fast I 0 I Sorin Hall one's feeling of impotency, even take this form: R462 on the cmapus level. 
a) ONE meal a day. Peace 
Executive Stauffer  Editor:  Dave  SMC Sweeney  News  Editor:  Jeanne  Night Editor: Jim Graif Layout Design: Mary  Chris  
Morrison  
Business Manager. Bruce Rieck  A~sociate  Editors:  Cl1ff  Headlines: Jim Graif  
Arl. Mgr.: Bruce Barker  Wintrode, Ann Conway  Layout:  Ann  Conway,  Rich  
Campus Editor: Glen Corso  Features Editor:  T.C.  rreanor  Smith,  Jeanne  Sweeney,  Dave  
News Editor: Steve Hoffman  Sports ErJitor: Terry Shieltls  Lammers  



Campus Opinion 

The following is a position paper on defense strategy submitte by Senator Frank McAleer. 
Critics maintain that the Russians are behind us in a "missle race," and that they will be insecure until they have reached parity with us. They charge that we have always maintained an edge over the Russians, which keeps them going. This is ridiculous because we have phased out all of our MRBM's (medium range ballistic missiles, as opposed to ICBM, inter-continental ballistic missiles) such as the ones we had in Italy and Turkey. Russia continues to keep 700-odd MRBM's pointed at Europe. We have not increased the number of our ICBM's (1050 now), while the USSR increases their total yearly (currently 1350). We are starting to install a Multiple Individual Reentry Vehicle (MIRV) system, while they have 220 three-pronged SS-9's. This MIRV system allows you to multiply the number of warheads, while keeping down the number of individual ICBM's. Another weapon system, the Marrned Orbital Laboratory MOL, was cancelled because of lack of funds. The SALT (Strategic Arms Limitation Talks) are now being held to try to keep down defense spending by limiting the new weapons' systems. In typical fashion the Russians agree in principle, but when specifics are discussed (such as inspection), they suddenly turn mute. 
Besides going on with their "catch-up" (already having, in fact, caught up and surpassed us in total missiles), the Russians have turned to bigger weapons. Way back in the early Sixties, after breaking the Moratorium on testing, they started to test in the atmosphere. Not being ones to be surpassed by the capitalists, they started to build and test huge megaton weapons. In 1961-2, they progressed up to a 50 megaton terror bomb {for the destruction of a city, a two megaton system is quite sufficient). Then after satisfactorily testing their high-yield weapons (and conducting tests on the effects of nuclear blasts on incoming weapons-a definite testing of an ABM systerm) they agreed to the 1963 Test Ban Treaty. This treaty banned any further testing in the atmosphere, but allowed underground blasts. The Russians had · already 
· conducted their big weapons tests, but we do not have the opportunity to test our theories. Therefore we were left with a technical gap. 
Unfortunately they haven't left these terror weapons on the drawing board. They presently have 220 SS-9's which have a payload of 25 megatons with three different warheads. These are necessary only for the largest of metropolitan areas, such as New York. The only other possible application of that much "meg-power(25)", would be against a hardened Minuteman site. They would not need a direct hit either; with that much force they could afford to miss by a quarter-mile and still KO the Minuteman. They are increasing the number of these SS-9's. By about 1975 they should have enough of them to destroy all our present Minutemen in their silos. 
Critics of our nuclear force complain that we have become so powerful that we might consider launching a nuclear strike first. This is the most flagrant example of circular logic. We have our nuclear weapons pre-set on particular targets. When launched, these weapons immediately go to the targets assigned. Presently we have about I000 sites as the best targets. Enclosed within these targets are 45% 
of .the people and RO% of the industrial might of Russia. We have no plans for destroying their nuclear forces. Therefore even if we struck first, they would still have all of their missiles to destroy the United States. It would not make sense to launch an attack if we would! definitely get destroyed. Our nuclear policy allows for a Russian attack on us, and only then would we launch our missiles (what few we have left)_ 

I I 
TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1970 THE O&fZIW£R PAGE 5 
Professor George Williams on Cambodia 
. Yesterday, Dr. George Williams, a professor in the Gm•ernme,;t Department, was interviewed by OBSh'R VFR staff member Dave /,ammers. Williams, who received his doctorate from Yale, is an ex-member of the CIA. He has taught courses in Internal ional R cia/ ions, Internal ion a/ Communism, and Military l'oli£y during his two year stay at Notre /)am e. 
OBSI:Kvi:K: In 1954, the Geneva a<.:cords established Cambodia as an independent nation. lias the llnit~:d Stales, sin<.:e the Geneva accords, "scrupulously respected the neutrality of the <'ambodian people" as President Nixon contends'! 
WI LLl AM S: None or the nations in Indo-China were supposed to accept military bases or arms unless directly threatened. In order to demonstrate Cambodian determination to remain outside the sphere of influence of the United States, Cambodia for four years prior to_ the re-establishment last autumn or diplomatic relations, a<.:cepted no foreign aid of any variety from the United States. 
OBSFRVER: What was ex-Premier Sihanouk's position? 
WILLIAMS: Be<.:ause of pique against the American government, which Sihanouk, with his vacillating and unpredidive temperament thought was trying to overthrow him, Sihanouk broke all relations with the United States and virtually aligned himself along the tightrope stretched along Moscow and Peking. lie admitted the presence of North Vietnamese forces as a temporary expedient to buy time until the war in Vietnam could be settled with which he presumed to be a Communist-associated regime in Saigon. 
OBSERVER: What was the role of the US before April 30? 
WILLIAMS: The American government scrupulously avoided until Wednesday of last week extending operations into Cambodia. The Cambodian army is a raggle-taggle assortment of untrained, indecisive volunteers whose negligible fighting ability corresponds to its rummage sale equipment. Now, the United States has given a-certain amount of armaments to the non-descript • Cambodian forces. This amount, however, is necessarily quite limited in part because of the unreliability and insignificant size of the Cambodian army, but more probably, because of the transient and unreliable nature of the new Lon Nol regime. Consequently, the United States, for the time being, intends to defend our flanks as we expand further into the country by the use of KHMER mercenary troops, wholly armed and financed by the American government. 
Although questions of tactical secrecy were at stake, the unannounced American invasion into Cambodia is in keeping with Mr. Nixon's logic of double-speak just as we save by destroying, restrict by expanding, so we defend the inviolability of neutrality by obliterating it. 
OBSERVER: Was the United States involved in Cambodia in the past by way of military advisors, reconnaissance runs, and military aid to the Cambodian government? For how long? 
WILLIAMS: Within recent months the United Slates has been stationing officers and NCO's in border regions of Cambodia. Lest this appear a repetition of the a~,:live engagement and combat by so-called "advisors" in Vietnam, these Army personnel were ludicrously labelled "attaches" who engaged in ''protocol conversations." 

Professor Williams said in regard to the United States invasion of Cambodia: "Whether the risks justify the gamble seems doubtful in the view of other similar extensions in that area of the world. 
OBSERVER: Was the United States involved in the overthrow of the left-wing Sihanouk regime? 
WILLIAMS: Sihanouk maintained the pre<.:arious juggling act in playing off political rivalries and ethnic factions. It is unlikely that the United States initiated the army revolt which deposed Sihanouk while on a visit to Moscow, but it would take a naive mind or an incredibly clumsy intelligence service in Phnom Penh not to have been able to ferret out tremors of the incipient coup which Sihanouk's departure signalled as the opportune moment to oust the erratic premier. It would seem that if the U.S. were not abetting plans for the coup, then our government could easily have forestalled its success by threatening to withhold support and recognition after Sihanouk's departure. 
1 

OBSERVER: What is the character of the present Lon No! regime in Cambodia? 
WILLIAMS: The current regime headed by Lon Nol, a man of total obscurity, will most certainly be ephemeral, unless the United States tries to elevate . this non-entity to the status of a Thieu. This means of course massive injections of money -among other lures -in an effort to bring around many officials in ,government who for years have staked their future on Sihanouk and who might prefer his restoration. The Cambodian military structure is hardly amenable to any putative Cambodiazation. Hence, any attempt to supplant Communist troops would lead to outright military occupation of the territories seized. From information available, Communist forces which the United States intended to eliminate have again evaded capture or extermination. The only way to prevent their return is to hold and occupy the sanctuary 
areas. 
OBSERVER: What is the probable cause of the 
alleged increase in guerrilla activities by the Viet Cong 
over the past few weeks? 
WILLIAMS: First, a reaction on the part of the 50,000 North Vietnamese and Viet Cong in Cambodia to earlier American efforts to dislodge them from the c_ountry. Efforts which commenced with Sihanouk's approval some months prior to his demise. No doubt, too, the intensifica-tion is related to some unknowable rivalry between Le Duan, head of North Vietnamese Workers' Party, General Giap, the guerrilla strategist and Democratic REpublic of Vietnam minister· of defense, and other fad ions 
influenced by Peking or Moscow and certainly by the 
leadership of the provisional govern rnent in the 
South. 

OBSERVER: Do you think President Nixon's expansion of the war is actually based -upon his assertion, as he on~,:e put it, that "what is involved in this war is not just the fate of Vietnam but the fate of ail Southeast Asia"? 
WILLIAMS: As Nixon made explicit in his assumption, this latest step is supposed to be computable with his intention to disengage American forces from ground combat operations in Vietnam. That is, in the simple move to deny the enemy his sheltered sanctuaries, at one point just over thirty miles from Saigon, a terminal date of around two month has been forecast. If this optimistic short run sequence of incursions works, he will have taken the wind out of his billowing sails of opposition, and our unease will be proven a false alarm. llis own frenetic avowals of confidence, however, attest to the uncertainty in his own mind. Since these sanctuaries have been used over the past five years without such precipitous counterattack and were obviously considered when Nixon first ordered the withdrawal of troops, the sudden concern over them might throw doubts on the present projection of the South Vietnamese to resist the enemy when American combat unites are no longer around to fight our allies' battles for them. Other considerations clearly are coincident with the new Soviet air defense in Egypt, the unprecedented animosity between China and Russia, the presence now of a totally acquiescant regime in Cambodia. Clearly, the reception by the Cambodians to the largely American-mounted invasion would be less abhorrent to Cambodians than would be the later pursuit of Communist forces by an agressive and vengeful South Vietnamese army. Whether the risks justify the gamble seems doubtful in the view of other similar extensions in that area of the world. 
OBSERVER: President Nixon told Congress in a memorandum that the United States action in Cambodia "would not result in a long-term 'quicksand' operation that would result in a new 'Vietnam situation.' Is the United States now involved in Cambodia for a long term? 
WILLIAMS: Expansion into Cambodia would make further withdrawals of American troops impossible and would likely require fresh injunctions of many American soldiers, with again no conclusive termination foreseeable. We would have to prop up another unviable, but compliant dictator -organize and supply one more fledgling army, and surely losing the confidence of other nations which have so far not despaired of our chances. On top of this, as the President said with such maudlin self-pity, the cumulative impact on American society and politics could be harrowing. 
OBSERVER: If the move into Cambodia fails to 
achieve what Nixon promised in his speech, do you ·foresee his political rejection? 
WILLIAMS: This is one step Nixon can't blame on his predecessors in office. He may be willing to sacrifice the lives of additional thousands of conscripted youths while boasting of his own bravery as LBJ did, but it is impossible to imagine any but the most dim-witted believing the standard repertory of justifications discredited at least by 1968, if not before then. 
Draftees don't show in Oakland 
OAKLAND, Calif. (UPI) -When a draft board in northern California orders a young man to report for induction, the odds are 2 to I against his ending up in an Army uniform. 
More than half don't even show up and II percent of those who do report refuse to serve. 
By the time the Army eliminates its share during re-examination of the potential draftees, only 35 per cent of those sent notices adually go into service. 
The Oakland Induction Center, which processes draftees for all of northern California and a portion of Nevada, reported during the weekend on its operations for the six months ending March 31. 
In that period, 4,463 men were sent notices of induction; only 2,063 reported when ordered; 219 of them refused induction; 300 more were rejected by the Army; and I,554 finally were taken into the service. 
Neither the Army nor the Selective Service knows how many of the 2,3HO men who didn't show up at all had legitimate reasons and how many were draft dodgers. 
Officers at the induction center, who said they were only guessing, extimate from zero to 50 per cent were delin­quents. State and regional Selective Service officials, who also had no exact figures, generalized both ·"no great percentage" and "many.'' 
U.S. Attorney James L. Browning said that during 1969, 822 of those reporting in Oakland refused induction-the highest number of any center in the country. He said nationally there were only 2,140 refusals out of 284,924 men ordered to 
report. 

The Defense Department said 788 men were convicted of draft dodging through­out the nation in 1968, the last year for 
which figures have been tabulated. The total compared with 4,609 in 1944-the high year for World War 
11-and 425 in 1954-which was high for the Korean War as convictions lagged about two years behind violations. Since the expansion of the Vietnam War, convictions totaled 242 in 1965, 373 in 1966, and 748 in 1967. 
The draft refusers face up to five years in federal prison and a $10,000 fine. But the average sentence has been 3H months in a penitentiary with the sentences usually somewhat lighter in the San Francisco Bay area than else where in the state. 
TilE OBSERJJER. TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1970
PAGE 6 

Four Kent State students killed 
KENT, Ohio (UPI)-The Kent State University commons is a large, rectangular grassy plot of ground. It is surrounded on four sides by administration and classroom buildings and slopes up one side to a grove of trees atop a knoll. 
On the commons, I watched crowd disorder turn to tragedy. About noon, I stood along the side of the Commons, midway between about I 00 · National Guard troops and a group of about 600 demonstrators, who gathered in violation of a ban against assembly. 
A lone jeep, carrying three Guardsmen with fixed bayonets and one campus policeman with a bullhorn, left the ranks of the troops and headed toward the center of the Commons. 
"Attention all KSU students, you have five minutes to leave this area. Leave this area immediately." 
Defiant students waved their clenched fists in a power salute, and shouted, "Fight, fight," and "One two three four, we don't 
Ann Marie Tracy 
President Nixon's Address included three possible alternatives to the resolution of the situation in Southeast Asia; two of these he hastily dismissed before concluding that only heightened warfare could bring about an "honorable peace" for the U.S. (maintaining of course, our security as a "first-rate" power.) 
Fortunately or not, unlike Mr. Nixon we have only one course of action to follow: immediate committment to the termination of an unjust war, by whatever just means possible. 
Unless national attention is focused on the problem now, it will continue or accelerate, indefinitely. By joining a general strike of students, and hopefully faculties and administrations, we can register a formal action of protest against the president's unwarranted decision. 
At the same time, is is mandatory that constructive action be taken up. Through both organized and spontaneous teach-ins and open forums during and after the strike we can obtain a more factual and understanding realization of all the undeclared war in Vietnam ahd Cambodia entails. We cannot afford to be irreversably molded in our decisions, be they of condemnation or of support; it must be a time of questioning if we are to acquire a just solution to the problem now, or to prevent those that will invariably arise in the future. Camelot is dead, and we must acknowledge and participate in the world around us. 
I do not believe it is student government's place to determine the conscience of the student body; it would only serve to perpetrate the silent majority mindlessness that lies as a root cause of the crisis. Not as SMC Student Body President, then, but as a student I urge all members of our community to determine the facts and commit themselves to an end to slaughter, true justice, and peace. 
Ann Marie Tracey 

VOTE FOR BOB BRAMLETTE 
SENIOR CLASS TREASURER 
TONIGHT 
want your bloody war." 

The jeep stopped. The troops 
moved out on line, with fixed 
bayonets. · Many Guardsmen 
carried M79 grenade launchers 
from which they fired tear gas 
shells. The tear gas canisters flew 
about 100 yards into the center 
of the demonstrators. 

The students moved back. 
They reformed at the top of the 
knoll, overlooking the 
Commons. 

Several students charged 
down the hills toward the 
Guardsmen, picked up the 
burning tear gas shells, and flung 
them back at the troops. 

The entire field was covered 
with a grey haze of gas. The gas 
felt like a file had been thrust up 
my nose, and rasped against my 
eyelids. Tears rolled down my 
cheeks. 

The demonstrators split into 
two groups, and ran behind the administration building on the knoll. Troops pursued them behind the building and they ran down to a recreation area with a practice football field. The crowd had no swelled to more than I ,500 students. 
The troops formed in regimental order on the football field with their backs to a fence. Demonstrators surrounded them on three sides. 
A student leader, wearing a green head band and carrying a green flag on a pole, led a group of demonstrators towards the encircled troops. The students his hip the size of a half dollar tossed rocks about the size of and was barely conscious. baseballs. A quick look around 
Suddenly a volley of shots confirmed three similar scenes. broke out. By their sound and All three were men and all intensity, I immediately thought seemed to have been shot in the they were blanks. It was lower abdomen. All bled inconceivable to me that the profusely. troops could fire such a barrage One victim lay in a pool of at the demonstrators. blood on a concrete walk way. 
The troops now retreated and As I got closer I say he had his the demonstrators milled around skull split open by a bullet, his in bewilderment. I noticed one eyes were crossed and blood 
demonstrator  lying  on  the pouring  from his  mouth  and  
ground.  lie  was  covered  with nose.  
blood  Several of his  comrades  Students  screamed  for  

stood by, some crying, and ambulances. In five minutes the 
others angered to the point of wounded and apparently dead 
incoherency. students were taken from the 
He had a gunshot wound in scene. 
Begin drug abuse centers 
(Continued from page 3) 

concerning the panty raid. En 
Tom Tollacksen, sought the compassed in a four point plan help of the hall presidents in the findings were; the setting up coordinating hall information of centers in the halls for the centers for drug abuse. returning of stolen articles; the Tollacksen outlined the program establishment of a Notre Dame in two points. The first was that St. Mary's committee to "information banks " would investigate damage done; the soon be established in the halls calling of the individual leaders to let the student who is on of the raid to come forward fo drugs know what he is dealing retribution; and that the Notre with. The second point dealt Dame community should assume with advice to the student who responsibility for the event. On is on a bad trip in the order of the final point Miganelli stressed where to go and where not to go that the payment would be for help. voluntary on an individual basis 
·Tom Miganelli presented to and in no event would the the HPC the decisions reached student activity fund be affect bv the Senate Subcommittee cd. 
Must deal with needs of people 
(Continued from page I) with the need of the people. If institutions do not do so, we
their suspensiOn ot actiVIties 
must eliminate them." He alsoduring the strike. "The work advocated the elimination of"communiversity" would be ROTC and all war research atdesigned to "carry on not Notre Dame in order to createdisrupt." 
an atmosphere meaningful to theJim Engel, Stanford problems and culture of today.
graduate and organizer of the lie closed his short speech by South Bend draft union spoke saying, "the power we have isnext. Recently returned from people and people is where itsCuba where he had cut sugar at...All power to the people.
cane with Cubans and Viet­Yen cere mos."
namese refugees, Engel empha­Krashna followed with hissized the atmosphere of brother­proposal to strike, to abandonhood that existed there. He "normal educational proce­condemned capitalism and dures." He insisted that he wasstressed the need to "eliminate not moving to abolish anythingAmerican Imperialism." 
at the present time saying, "weRegarding education, Engel must see what needs to besupported the boycott on classes abolished."
saying that "education must deal 
· Carol Cusick, woman's libera­tionist and SMC representative speaker at the rally urged St. Mary's to "join in a united strike force with Notre Dame." 
She condemned President
THE SENIOR CLASS 
Nixon's decision to expand the war, attacking his priority of power." She thought that he was imposing American culture on the "Third World" in an effort to attain economic control of it. 
PRESENTS 
CONGRESSMAN 
Chuck Ryan, a two year veteran of the Viet Nam con­flict, considered it a "frustrating
ALLARD LOWENSTEIN 
experience. The war, right or wrong, wasn't going anywhere." He thought that Nixon was not concerned with the problem of right or wrong and labelled the president's attitude "at best 
IN LECTURE 
amoral, at worst immoral." He
AS PART OF THE 1970 
told the audience, "we're taking 
a moral stand." 

lie stressed that Nixon was 
not acting as the president but as 
the Commander in Chief. In so 
doing he had neglected not only 
his fighting forces, but also the 
Congress and his advisors. 
In sanctioning the strike Ryan hoped it would "let Nixon know he's alone." 
Tim Kendall final speaker called for "per;onal resistance': to the war machine, even tho it is often "scary as hell." Be attributed the cause of the war to the American life style itself and considered its conclusion impossible without radical changing of that life style. 
Chris Ottenweller, recently elected member of the SLC, hastily outlined the nature of the strike. It calls for picket lines to be set around O'Shaughnessy Hall, Nieuwland, the Engineering building, and other classrooms on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campus. In addition vol­unteers were solicited to canvass the faculty offices in the library as well as the individual class­rooms. 
According to one rally spokes­man, New York Congressman and Senior Class Fellow Allard Lowenstein would poss{bly ap­pear at the teach-in scheduled for 1:30 p.m. on the main quad. This would happen in the event that classes where Lowenstein was scheduled to lecture were boycotted. 
FINANCE CLUB OF NOTRE DAME
SENIOR CLASS FELLOW PROGRAM 
(" 

IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 
MEMBERSHIP 
FOR 1970-71 APPLICATION FORMS IN THE
TONIGHT IN WASHINGTON HALL 
LOBBY OF COMMERCE BLDG. 
For information call
8:00 

Bruce 6896 8251 l\1ike 
George 1322 8409 Ken 
TUESDAY, MA'!'~ 1970 

_________ _Illl_~0.ar£R--.!f1Dl.~~-------------------.:.P_:_:AG.:::.::E:.....:.7 
Alumni Senate meets Wednesday 
By Charley Myers Notre Dame's National Alumni Hoard and Alumni Senate will open their annual meeting on Wednesday, May 6 in the Center for Coni inumg l~ducation. Sessions will continue throughout the week, terminating Saturday morning. Mr. James Friek of the l'uhlit· Relations Department will speak at the alumni dinner on Wed­nesday evening. Rather than a formal presentation Mr. Friek 
states that he will most likely give an overview of University aetivitics. 
"The talk will be a gencr<il James Frick 
review of the institution." Mr. 
Student Union Committee discuss campus queen contests 
by Don Ruane 
An open meeting of the Student lJ nion Com mittce of the Student Senate will he held at 9 pm this evening in the 1:resta J.oungc to discuss campus queen rontcsts <JrHI the alloealion of the Student (;overnment fel'. 
According tgo Stay Sen:.~tor Pal Weber. chairman of the COlllllliltee, a hill was proposed by Senator Don Mooney that would elimiuatc future queen contests. Mooney's hill is based on the idea I hat the con tests are "dchi.lsing" because the contestants arc determined by looks alone, and not by personality. The hill provides tlwt any organization that violates it, should it pass, he deprived of any STudent ( ;ovcrnmcnt funds. 
The allocation of the Student ( ;overn ment fee will also be discussed at the mcetiug. This is a result of a hill submitted hy Stay Scrwtor Russ Stone. The hill has been before the committee for two months pending the final state of Student Government funds. The hill seeks to determine ways for the fcc to he given hack to the halls and possible the students. 
Weber is attempting to get a diversified opinion presented at the meeting hy inviting students and members of the women's liberation to attend. lie also invited Terry Buck since she is a former q uccn contestant. Weber expects Jim Porst to express the opinion of lhe Student Union Social Commission, an organization that could be greatly affected by a han on queen contests. 
A resolution to the problem is expeeted by Weber, although he expects <J split opinion on the matter. lie said that he was personally in favor of campus queens and that the students would not reject the trad ilion. A possible solution to the question, aceorJing to Weber, is 
to have a homecoming and a howl q uccns selected on the basis of a picture and an accompanying paragraph describing her views and personality. 
Presently, there <Jrc four 
possible ways for the Student 
Government to redistribute the 
fee. Weber stated that the 
money could he given hack to 
the halls, to the individual. {he 
class governments or to the hall 
l>rcsidcnts Council for 
distribution. A decision has not 
been made heeausc it is not 
known how much money will be 
returned or the best way to 
return il. Weber expects 
members of the HPC to express 
the council's opinion and also of 
individual halls. 

Weber termed this evening's 
meeting "unique", heeausc it is a 
regular senate committee 
meeting that is open to the 
Ad hoc committee issues declaration 
An ad hoc committe composed of professors and students of the University of Notre Dame also last night declared that: 
I) it emphatically supports the declaration of the Rev. Theodore llesburgh, C.S.C., University President, which he issued this day, May 4th, against the continuation of our military operations i Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. 
2) it supports the cessation of normal activities at the University in order to focus upon this crisis in our national history. 
3) it calls for a general meeting of the Notre Dame students to formulate a public the Faculty Senate in order to come to a decision regarding the new developments in Indochina, Father Hcshurgh's declaration and the role of the University in the present crisis. 
Those signing the petition were: William G. Storey, Tom Kress, Charles Osborn, John 
Robinson,  Robert  J. Kundtz,  
Douglas  Daher,  Mark  J.  
Mahoney,  Sister  S!-anc  Kelly,  

O.S.B., Robert G. Meagher, William V. D'Antonio, Edward Manier, John Gerber, William J. O'Brien, Leon John Roos, Sr. Marjorie Carey, B. V .M., James 
F. Doubleday, Edward A. Goerner, llans J. Vcrweyen, James C. Buckley, and Charles 
F. Ryan. 

altitude and public objectives ,..----------------1 
regarding the strike already Petula CIark declared by the Student Body President. 
4) it also urges that a general meeting of the Notre Dame 1:rick said, '"whieh should stimu­late questions and lay the groundwork for discussion rrom the audience." 
The Alumni Hoard will begin sessions on Thursd<IY morning to Jiscuss various reports submitted to them by regional commillees. 
Mr. Frick staled that no actual power lies in the hands of the Alumni Senate. The reason the senate exists IS to keep the alumni informed of university direction and development. The senate also receives suggestions which arc submitted to them by 
students and their comments. lie 
believes that the opinions expressed at the meeting will help the committee come to a more representative conclusion on the topics. lie added that he thinks this type of meeting will "work out in the best interests of the student body in the long 
run., 

Don Moone~· 

the regional eomrnittecs. 
From Thursday atternoon un­
til the eondusion of the session. 
the two groups will meet and 
probably diseuss admissions and 
student affairs. 
In the e<tsc of admisswns, tnc 
<Jlumni groups have the oppor­
tunity to review the policies of 
the ad missions offiee. These 
people have been very active in 
recruiImen l. Mr. Frick noted 
th<Jt hlaeks, non-Catholies, and 
members of other minority 
groups have been recruited 
through the efforts of the 
alumni. 
Mr. Frick sees this arrange­ment as providing for a "better avenue of communication" than the students and senate members 
A new plan for the alumni meeting has been put into effect this year. Beginning Thursday evening, Senate members will he housed in residence halls for the 
SLC Statement 
We call upon the student body through its officers, the officers of the administration, and the faculty to plan and set aside Wednesday and Thursday, May 6 and 7, as days j(Jr speeches, teach-ins, and liturgical ceremonies to express the days' feelings and reservations about out government's recent actions in Indo-China. We hope that these days will embody the spirit of the Declaration written by Father Hesburgh and endorsed by the Student Ufe Council. The Student Life Council hereby designates Mr. Kraslma, Mr. Winings, Prof Houck and Mr. Faccenda as an ad hoc com­mittee to use their best efforts to see that this resolution is implemented. 
Juration of the sessions. have experienced in thl~ past. "The alumni ami students w1ii 
have a greater opportunity of knowing each other by living together," s<Jid l'rick, "and the 
less formal structure will <Jllow for a better undersl<Jnding on each side." 
In effect, Mr. Frick felt, the meetings of these alumni groups arc for the purpose of seeing how helpful the alumni can he for the University. 
Kohlbrenner in Blue Book 
Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbrcnncr, professor of graduate studies in education at the University of Notre Dame, is among leaders in the professions whose name will appear in the forthcoming edi­tion of The Blue Book: I.eaders of the h"nglish-Speaking World to he published in London. 
The volume will include per­sons from the United Kingdom, the British Commonwealth and the United States. A specialist in the history of Catholic educa­
tion,  Kohlbn:nner  will  also  he  
cited  in  the  1970  edition  of  
/.eaders in h"ducation.  

Kohlhrenner received his A.B. Jegree from Syracuse University, his A.M. from Sl. Louis Univer­sity and his doctorate in educa­tion from llarv<Jrd University. lie joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1945 and has been a full professor since 1957. In I 968-69 he served as Ford Foundation consultant on uni­versity organization and ad mini­stration to a number of Philippine private and public universties and colleges. 
Sr. Maria Assunta discusses Theology 
"Where Else Is Theology Coing?" is the subject of a talk to be given this Wednesday by Sister Maria Assunta, C.S.C., professor and chairman of the Department of Religious Studies at Saint Mary's College. The leeture, the last in the current series sponsored by the Depart­ment, will begin at X:OO p.m. in Carroll Hall of the Madcleva Memorial Huilding and is open to the public without charge. 
Sister Maria Assunta will exa­mine the work of leading theolo­gians and offer an overview of the cnrrcnl developments in theology and the relation of the Church to non-Christians. 
A graduate of Saint Mary's with a B.A., M.A. and Ph.D., Sister has also done graduate work in special studies at Laval Univers.ity and Indiana Univer­sity at Bloomington. She first joined the College faculty in 195 3 and served as Vice Presi­dent and Dean of Faculty from 1965-1967. During the 1967-68 academic year, Sister was visiting 
Escape••• 

professor of theology at Stone­Sisler Maria Assunta has been hill College in Massachusetts. book-review edi!Dr for The 
Active in the Catholic Stu­Shield since 1966 and is a dents' Mission Crusade. she v. ts frequent contrihntor to other elected Coordinator of Colle!;;! periodicals. She authored the Programming in 1968 and has sections of "First Communion" received the group's highest and the "Baptismal Name" in award, the Paladin Grand Cross. the New Catholic Hncyclopedia. 
BERNARD G. SEGAL 
PRESIDENT 
AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION 
LAW AUDITORIUM 3:00PM TUESDAY MAY 5 
for a while 

AMERICA 
will transport you this Sunday to the DUNES Signups Wed. + Thurs. at the Dining Halls or call 8351 
faculty he called into session by LF_r_i_d_a_:y_M_a_y_8__8_:_3_0_J_________________________________~ 
PAGE 8 

7118 OI.&S"Eilfla TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1970 
JIM MURRAY 
Ruggers make semi-final 
College Kids 
by J.W. Findling Irish turned in their best defen­ment has abandoned the rugby C 1f70, Los AnHies Times sive effort of the season. club due to actions which need
Observer Sportswriter 

Despite losing 14-3 on Sun­no illumination, the ruggers Playing impressively, the day morning against Chicago displayed a good, hustling atti­
Jim Murray was named Sportswriter of the Year for the fourth 
straight time at the 11th annual National Sportscasters and 
Ruggers of du Lac hustled their Lyons, the ruggers produced tude all weekend which pro­
Sportswriters Assn. awards ceremony at Salisbury, N.C. 
way to the semi-finals of the their finest effort of the tourna­pelled their spring record to I don't think it would be possible to find a more felicitous name Midwest Rugby Union Tourna­ment. The Irish missed six free 6-2-1, the best mark on the for a Dodger pitcher than "Sandy Vance." Unless it were Dazzy ment in Chicago this weekend. Notre Dame spring club circuit.
penalty kicks in the game; the Koufax." The rugby club blanked both only score was a penalty kick by The Irish ruggers continue 
Imagine an American League player named "Ty Ruth" or Stan opponents, Chicago Oxford and Mike Paterni, but the final score their fine season against some the Man Hornsby," or Rogers Cobb." Would a guy named "Yogi Wisconsin, 9-0 and 3-0, on Eastern competition this week­
was not indicative of the team's 
Gehrig" get a look-see from the Yankees? Would tfte Cardinals Saturday before being beaten effort. end in the Commonwealth Cupautomatically sign someone named Grover Cleveland Dean?" Or Sunday in a semi-final game Although the Athletic Depart-in Charlottesville, Virginia. "Jerome 'Dizzy' Alexander?" Would the Giants go for anyone 14-3 by Chicago Lyons. named "Christy'' or for "King Carl Mathewson?" Once again the ruggers were 
But, I think the true shocker to all old-time baseball men would playing without regulars Dave 
Sailors • warm-up
1n

be that the new Vance and the new Christy Mathewson -Tom Fleming, Kenny Kern arrd Char­Seaver -who locked up in a pitching duel Sunday at Dodger 
ley Schmitt due to injuries; 
The sailing club split up into
Stadium would both be college men. nevertheless, the Irish ruggers an Notre Dame split two races. 
two groups once again this
Imagine a Stanford man and a USC man deciding a National performed remarkably well. The This was originally supposed to
weekend and its results were a·
League pennant. John McGraw must be tearing off his wings some serum, outweighed in every be the Midwest regional for team
bit more favorable. The two
place today. game, covered the field quickly races but plans for this failed 
regattas took place at Oshkosh,
It conjures up a scene of the future where the grizzled old and bottled up the Oxford and and only Ohio State and the 
Wisconsin and Ohio Wesleyan. 
manager, "Apeneck" Sweeney, mentor of the New York Wisconsin backfields. host team were present.
In the Oshkosh Regatta the
Nightingales, is speaking to his pitcher, "Four-Eyes" Foster, a Senior Bob Moneghan started The Irish disposed of the
Irish placed second in a field of
Harvard man, who has just given up a home run with the bases the scoring Saturday morning Buckeyes 4-0 but they couldn't
eight. The University of Wiscon­
loaded. with a try in the first half against quite handle Wesleyan. The
sin at Milwaukee won the event
Apeneck (the cords in his neck standing out): "Four-Eyes, Oxford. Juniors Tom Herlihy hosts won 3-1 in a close race.
and Notre Dame finished a close
Ya-busher! Ya choked is wat ya done! Ya swallowed the olive. Yer and Charley Blum added tries in The sailors have a week off
second.

Adams apple is as big as a grapefruit. Ya trun him a lollipop because the second half to complete the before the Midwest regionals at
In this regatta NO's Tom
ya lost yer nerve when ya seen that big donkey up there, right?" Irish scoring. Rich Campagna Bloomington, Ind. on May 16.
Willison was low-point skipper in 
Four-Eyes (coolly): "Do you mean, am I uncomfortable in my scored the only three points in Two teams may represent the
the overall scoring. Bill Dowe 
peer group? Do I tend to feel rejected by my colleagues and do I the Wisconsin game Saturday Midwest in the nationals and
and Will Donelan accompanied
seek solace by punishing them by doing less than my best? The afternoon with a second half try. they will be chosen from this
Willison to Oshkosh. 

answer is Tut-tut, Mr. Sweeney. You are acting out a fantasy. What It was enough, however, as the regatta.
In the regatta at Ohio Wesley-
we are dealing with here is a paradox. There is no other explanation for a .160 hitter getting a home run off me, since a simple study of the mathematics of chance would have indicated he was going to pop out in that situation. There was a variable in the equation some 
Rowers fourth in MAC 
place." Apeneck (bawling): "Ya trun him a gopher ball is what ya done, The Rowing Club took fourth The varsity had a rather poor coaches gave their unanimous ya crummy Ivy Leaguer! Ya forgot it wasn't the Yales. Ya was start, but coxswain Phil Hopkins
place in both the JV and varsity approval, but more trouble hit 
throwin' to a major league hitter. What'd ya expect him to do -sing races of the Mid-American Col­led the crew past Purdue after when Irish oars got stuck in the 
Boola-Bolla?" legiate Rowing Association 500 meters. Although the final water, and the crew was a length Four-Eyes: "The correct nomenclature is 'Boola-Boola,' Mr. 1500 meters of the 2000 meter
Regatta Saturday at Marietta, behind before 30 seconds had 
Sweeney. You accent the first syllable." Ohio. race was the best showing for passed. The third difficulty was Apeneck: "Whyn't ya t'row him a curveball, you bein' a perfessor the NO crew this season, the
Marietta won both races in the bad wrist of Stroke Pat an' all? Answer me that an' I'll give you an 'A' magnum come on Irish could not catch Wayne Mulhern, the
fast conditions the Ohio which kept beat 
louder." State in the final sprint.
River. In the varsity race, St. below 36 strokes per minute, 
Four-Eyes (sighing): "Oh, dear, Mr. Sweeney. A curveball is an The JV's ran up against three
Thomas of Minn. was second, and enabled Wayne State to 
archaic terminology for what is basically a problem in refractory problems in their championship remain ahead. 
followed by Wayne State, NO,
optics. A curve ball is illusory. The batter is reacting to a series of Purdue, Morris Harvey, and bid. First the approval of the The season closes this week­movements unrelated to the actual parabola of the ball. He 'sees' the opposing coaches was required
Grand Valley. Purdue was the end at the Dad Vail National 
ball at Point A when it is actually at Point A minus 'x' or it is at the for allowing a non-Notre Dame
runner-up in the JV battle, Small College championships in square root of Point A. To the ninth power." student, coxswain Barb Walker
ahead of Wayne State, NO, and Philadelphia. 
Apeneck: 'The hell it don't curve!" of SMC, to participate. The
St. Thomas. 

Four-Eyes: "Mr. Sweeney, we have computed the trajectory versus the velocity innumerable times in photo-electric tests, taking into account the azimuth as well as the apogee and perigee, and I can 
Shooters go to nationals 
say with absolute assurance that what you consider a 'curveball' is nothing more than an object of diminishing velocity succumbing to 
A club that has existed at point for every hit on the club on a competitive basis.
gravity." 
Notre Dame for five years with moving target (the skeet). Handi­However their scores were goodApeneck: 'Then how come that big guy can't hit none of them?" 
little or no publicity is the caps are given shooters once enough to get these "shooting
Four-Eyes: "Mr. Sweeney, I have cleaned my glasses, and studied University Skeet and Trap Club. level for an score.
they average Irish" a bid to the nationals. 
this figure, and I assure you he's a primate just like you and me." Up until this year the club has These are given similar to golf The club would welcome Apeneck: "Then whyn't ya stick it in his ear?" 
been on an intramural basis. handicaps. new members to this skillful 
Four-Eyes (shuddering): "Mr. Sweeney, you know I abhor However, with an improvement Maliszewski expressed surprise sport. Anyone who would 
like 
violence. I much prefer peaceful demonstration." in the quality of shooters the over being chosen for the meet more information should con­Apeneck (throwing his eyes heavenward in resignation): "Eight club will be competitive for the due to the inexperience of the tact Rich Magrini at 881 0. 
million college kids throwin' bricks and hittin' cops over the head first time this year. and draggin' speakers off platforms and bust in' up the furniture in The club will enter a national the dean's office, an' burnin' flags, an' what do I get? A poet! Eight tournament this weekend in 
MAJOR LEAGUES
million rah-rah boys kickin' a hole in the bottom of the worhl, an' Iowa City, Iowa where 60 of the 
NATIONAL LEAGUE

my scout comes up with Algernon Swinburne! Alright, Four-Eyes, nation's college skeet teams will AMERICAN LEAGUE take yer logarithms and go to Spokane. An' don't come back till ya compete for honors. Notre 
East East
start eat in' with yer fingers." Dame will send five of its best 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB
shooters (based on their scoring 
Chicago 13 8 .619 
Detroit 13

average) to the meet in hopes of New York 12 11 .522 2 7 .650 
Baltimore 14

Stickmen beaten impressing the athletic depart­Philadelphia 12 11 .522 2 8 .636 
Boston 12 

9 .571 1'h
ment. Pittsburgh 11 12 .478 3 Washington 12 11 .522 2Y,
The Irish closed out the I970 St.Louis 11 .476 3
The club hopes that it might 10
Green's fine passing and overall New YorK .., p
1 .520 2!1.
home stand by losing to a strong Montreal 6 15 .286 7
attain varsity status in this I:C:
superiority again were evident as Cleveland 9 tp<; 4hBowling Green squad 9-0. Bowl­
growing sport. At present the
they scored three times to iceing Green, who had beaten 
club consists of 30 members
the game by the end of the WestDenison 8-6 the previous week­who meet once every two weeks fi .769 West
quarter. They added a final tally Cincinnati 20end, used strong midfield play in the fourth quarter to close for practice. They travel to New Atlanta 13 11 .543 6 Minnesota 14 7 .667 
and tremendous netminding to California 14 8 .636 'h
out the scoring. Carlisle, Indiana and this ex­Los Angeles 12 11 .522 6'h
throttle NO. Oakland 11 13
The inability of the Irish to plains why the practices are so San Fran. 12 14 .462 8 .458 4'h 
The Irish played well but Houston 11 15 .423. 9 Chicago 8 13 .381 6 
generate an offense plagued the infrequent. 
never could break the scoring San Diego 9 16 .360 10% Kansas City 8 14 .364 6'h
The five members who will
afternoon. Milwaukee 
.208
ice. In the first period Bowling stickmen all The 5 19 1OY,
journey to Iowa for the na­
defensemen played one of theirGreen was neutralized for some better games as most of the tionals are Bill Maliszewski, a 
Atlanta 5 Pittsburgh 3 scoring came from the midfield­junior who acts as advisor and Houston 7 Chicago 2 time but they worked fine 
stick-handling and passing into a ers of the Falcons. coach for the shooters, Rich Cincinnati 7 St. Louis 3 No games scheduled 2-0 advantage. In the second The Lacrosse team is on the Magrini, the team captain, along period an Irish let-down contri­road to Columbus this weekend with Bill Rosanelli, Tom Lynchbuted to three quick Bowling to play a good Ohio State team. and George Gasper. 
Green tallies. Following this Following this match with the These men were able to 
brief flurry the NO stickmen a score
Buckeyes they will close out the satisfy required of 375 
tightened up and prevented a
season with a match against the out of possible 500 and this further damage ending the half Chicago Lacrosse Club in Chi­permitted them to enter national down 5-0. 
cago the following weekend. competition. They each took In the third period Bowling 
I00 shots. Scoring is based on a 






