
VOL. IV, No. 119 ______S_cr_v_in_.g.:.. tl-~c Notrc-/Jamc a/1(1 "Stiiil/ll1ar:l' 's College ( 'onlmwli(':_ _______ _ WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 1970 
Congressman Allard K. Lowenstein named 1970 Senior Class Fellow 
Jack Crawford, President of ultimately generated the Missis­members of the Senior Class. his arrival time due to legislative the Senior Class, and Michael sippi Freedom Democratic Par­Senior Fellow Chairman commitments. Kelly, Chairman of the Senior ty. Lowenstein serves on the Michael Kelly announced a tena­The program will begin with a Fellow Program, today an­board of directors of the South­tive schedule for the duration of luncheon with members of the nounced that Congressman Al­ern Christian Leadership Confer­Congressman Lowenstein's visit. Senior Class on Tuesday after­lard K. Lowenstein of New York ence at the present time. Kelly apologized for the lack of noon in the South Dining Hall. would be the 1970 Senior Class In 1968 he served as a focus a permanent schedule, but Lowenstein will then lecture in Fellow. lie will be on camp·us for opposition to the administra­Lowenstein is not yet certain of classes until 4 pm at which time Tuesday, May 5 and Wednesday, tion's policies in Viet-Nam and May 6. was described by the New York 
Lowenstein was chosen by the Post in the following manner; class in a recent class election. "No other individual did more Congressman Lowenstein than Lowenstein to set in presently reprcsen ts the 5th motion the sequence of events Congressional District of New climaxed by Mr. Johnson's for­York (Nassau County). He was mal withdrawal." As a Delegate Chairman and chief organizer of to the 1968 Democratic Conven­the Conference of Concerned tion, Lowenstein was active in Democrats in 1967 and one of the McCarthy-McGovern Ken­the key figures in Eugene Mc­nedy effor' to repudiate the Carthy's announcement for the Viet Nam war and reform the Presidency. f:>emocratic Party. That year he 
Lowenstein has long been was electe~ to Congress. active in politics. In 1952, while The Senior Fellow Program a law student at Yale, he served stems back to 1849, when as National Chairman of Stu­Father Sorin first instituted the dents for Stevenson. Lowenstein Washington Day Exercises. The has also served on the staffs of custom of inviting a guest was Senators Frank Graham of established in 1954 as the Senior North Carolina and Hubert Class Patriotism A ward. Past Humphrey of Minnesota as well recipients of this award include as Campaign manager for Con­President John Kennedy, Sena­gressman William Ryan's success­tor Robert Kennedy, President ful race for the house in 1960. Richard Nixon, Bob Hope, Am­
Lowenstein has also been bassador Adlai Stevenson, Sena­active in the field of education. tor Everett Dirksen and Sargent When he was appointed educa­Shriver. Last year the Senior tional advisor to the American Class revised the program from a Association for the United Na­patriotism award to a fellowship, tions, Mrs. Franklin Roosevelt which invited guests to visit with said of him, "lie is a person of unusual ability and complete Nutting to speak integrity. I think he will always fight crusades because injustice fills him with a sense of 
Symposium opens today
re hellion." Lowenstein was Dean of Men Today and continuing until Conference will be the keynote sion, which would make Fatherat Stanford University in 1961 Friday, May 1, the Student address delivered by Dr. Nutting, Hesburgh Chancellor). Dr. Nut­and has taught Political Science Union Academic Commission which will take place this even­ting is a Rhodes Scholar andand Constitutional Law at North will hold its first annual sympo­ing at 8:00 p.m. in the Library holds degrees in History andCarolina State University and 
sium on the status of higher Auditorium. Philosophy.
City College of New York. 
education at Notre Dame. Dr. Nutting, who has taught The conference officiallyIn 1963 AI Lowenstein went The conference, entitled The at Notre Dame for ovt:r 33 years, opens this afternoon at 4:00 to Mississippi to defend civil Free City: A Symposium on is a Professor in the General p.m. with a discussion of "Whatrights workers involved in voter Higher Hducation at l'.otre Program of Liberal Studies. is Liberal Education?" Participa­registration and other projects Dame, will use Dr. Nutting's The .Recently, his ideas on education ting in the discussion will bethere. Remaining for the better Free City as a starting point for have prompted many of his George N. Shuster, Special Assis­part of a year, Lowenstein the discussion of five topics students to nominate him for tant to the President; Dr. Ed­devised and implemented in 
related to academic reform. the Presidency of Notre Dame ward Cronin, Professor in the Mississippi freedom Vote which The major event of the (in a Chancellor-President revi-General Program of Liberal Studies; anc Dr. Edward Goer­ner, Professor in Government
Tower parietals approved; 
and Chairman of the Committee for Academic Progress. All three panel members have written

await new Life Board 0. K. 
papers or books which are concerned with the question of will extend from noon to I I counselors. If a solution is still liberal education. 
The llall Life Board met p.m. on weekdays and from not found, the complaint would In each discussion the three yesterday and accepted the reso­noon to 2 a.m. on weekends and be registered with the Hall panel members will briefly lutions of Flanner and Grace school holidays. Citing the SLC respond to the topic and then llalls concerning parietal hours. rationale on the subject, the 
the audience and panel will The proposals submitted by the resolution required that sign-in (hopefully) exchange views on Towers lengthened the hour~ sheets be permanently posted. 
the opinions expressed. 
from those already in existence. The sheets will be posted in each Tomorrow and Friday at 4:00 The hours arc provisional, section, their collection being p.m. and 8:00 p.m., again in the pending the final approval of the the responsibility of the section Library Auditorium, the panel
full llall Life Board to be named representatives. discussions will con tin uc. by Father llesburgh at a later According to the Flanner at 4:00
Tomorrow afternoon date. Rev. Edgar Whelan, Direc­proposal the enforcement of p.m., the panel will discu£'; tor of Student Residence and a parietals will be a three step "Christianity, Community and member of the Hall Life Board, process. The first level would be the Intellectual Life." The panel saw no reason why the hours on a person-to-person basis, "all members arc Monsignor John 
wouldn't be approved by the full rules would be worked out by Tracy Ellis, a visiting professor board and said that as far · the hall community." If the in the Department of History; as he knew, the hours would be problem persists the second step Professor William Storey of the 
effective immediately. would provide for the resident Theology department; and Dr. The new hours for Flanner assistants or rector to act as 
Continued on page 3 


Seniors may attend an open seminar with the class fellow presently scheduled for Grace Hall. 
Lowenstein will then have dinner with a limited number of Seniors in the South Dining Hall and will accept the Senior Cla~s Fellow A ward in Washington Hall and deliver a major speech that evening. This speech is open to the public. Afterwards Lowenstein will be the guest of the class at the Senior Bar for an informal party open only to Seniors. 
Wednesday, Lowenstein will be lecturing in more predomin­ately Senior classes and will again be available for several seminars, as well as lunch. 
Prosecution 
possible for 

ND students 
An informal meeting between Saint Mary's Student Body Presi­dent Ann Marie Tracey and Notre Dame Student Body Presi­dent David Krashna, yesterday produced an agreement which would allow St. Mary's students to prosecute Notre Dame stu­dents, identified as participants in the panty raid on St. Mary's Sunday night, under the Notre Dame judicial code. 
Another outgrowth of the meeting was a move to establish collection centers around Notre Dame for students to return stolen goods. The Notre Dame Student Senate took steps to implement the collection last night, but Miss Tracey urged students to return goods to the Notre Dame Student Govern­ment Office or to St. Mary's in the meantime. 

Miss Tracey said that "We have received about 3 cartons of "loot" already. Unfortunately, only one article has been of any value-a bedspread-but the girls all would appreciate more re­turns of any kind." 
She also said, "Two or 3 notes arrived with the clothing that helped restore better attitudes at least a bit." 
One note from Lyons, for instance asked for "no hard feelings" and said the students were "sorry that the articles could not be returned in the spirit in which they were taken." 
But Miss Tracey also added, "Unfortunately, a lot of the residents arc still very scared, and another panty raid would probably cause near hysteria." 
She continued, "But besides asking for cooperation from the hall in returning the clothing, there's not much else we can do, except, of course, try to solve some of the underlying caus.:s of the panty raid." 
Notre Dame Studcn t Body President David Krashna also said that he was drafting a letter of apology to the St. Mary's students on behalf of the Notre Dame student body. 


SLC chairman explains Trustee response 
provided for a lessening of specifying the hour limitations. important issue at this Univer­
The editorial criticized a fear 
previous restrictions. He said He said he fears that "the sity today." He emphasized the
expressed in the Trustee's letter 
that in so doing the Truste~::s Trustees' action will be viewed need for more unity at Notre
In response to a WSND that "increasing social life will 
·gave their recognition to the as an open invitation to all halls Dame and called for "each
editorial on the Trustees, Profes­endanger the academic life 
need for a female presence on • to request the maximum pos­member of the Notre Dame
sor James L. Massey, chairman here." Finally the editorial 
campus not limited to strictly sible hours rather than those community to redouble his ef­
of the Student Life Council, called upon the SLC to reject 
social occasions." truly appropriate to that hall." forts to make this a real
explained that the Trustees had the Trustee's action and "to 
Massey, however, feels that He said that "the nature and community where 'we may all
modified the SLC proposals on implement its original proposals 
the Trustees acted unwisely in quality of hall life is the most be one'."
hall life in only two instances. In on hall life." a letter sent to The Observer and all members of the SL~, Masse_y Professor Massey explained said that he did not think that that the first modification L_, 

SMCdiscusses admissions 
"these two actions by the the Trustees was merely a Trustees really amount to unac­practical one, enlarging the Hall by Mary Updike ceptable meddling by the Trus­Life Board from five to nine voiced their frustration and one meeting seemed to agree that the
Concerned students, faculty
tees in matters of which they are members and making it a per­of these students said that, in real issue facing St. Mary's
and administrators met Monday
ignorant." manent administrative board view of the present status quo at College is whether it really does
night in the SMC Clubhouse to
appointed by the President. St. Mary's, she could not encour­want to become in reality the
discuss the problems of black
The WSND editorial which 
Massey sees the "appointment age other blacks to seek admiss­type of community it is nomi­
students on St. Mary's campus.
was aired over both AM and FM by the president (rather than by ion to this college, nally and superficially. Do the
This was the third in a series of
on April 22 attacked a letter the SLC as previously) as the 
Reasons for frustration devel­students, faculty, and admini­
meetings sponsored by Dr. Art
sent by the Executive Commit­
legal formality which gives the oped from dissatisfaction in all stration really desire a cross
Hochbery and Dr. Peter Smith.
tee of the Notre Dame Board of Hall Life Board equal status with areas of the campus life. cultural awareness? If the com­
A major topic of discussion
Trustees to the SLC. "Instead of the other administrative boards munity does desire this type of 
ND-SMC 
TYPISTS 
AND ~~uNSKILLED LABOR" 
HAVE MONEY WILL PAY 
N.D. Student Union Publications 
3 to 12 hours per week. Pick your own hours. 
Call: Scott Braley  
283-1403  283-6637  
233-0842  283-6137  
Open Nitely  IF YOU'RE 11 OR OYER lAKE THE  
at  
6:30  

was the admission of greater Dissatisfaction with the social awareness there is a radical need variety of students. Concern was situation at Saint Mary's, arose for change, beginning on theshown not only for increased from the fact that the social life individual, inter-personal level.
acceptance of blacks but also for of the college is geared to the the increased acceptance of white, middle class woman. All women from other minority students recognized that this 
Hall Life Board 
groups, nationalities, and also situation can not be remedied lower income groups. However, until their are some positive in assessing the current interest changes in attitudes among Approve and attitudes prevalent among white students. the students, faculty and admini­Discussion was also raised on 
parietals

stration of St. Mary's, 'several the handling of funds by the persons felt it may be to a College. One faculty member Judicial Board.
greater advantage to admit fewer stated there was an urgent need The times for Grace Hall willmembers of minority groups. for a re-assessment of the priori­differ from those of Flanner in One black faculty member, who ties governing the use of funds. 
that weekend hours will begin at has been working closely with An additional recommendation 9 a.m. instead of noon. Likethe black students, testified to was for the establishment of Flanner, Grace has shifted the the acute frustration of so many committees that would see to duty of ~ign-in sheets to the blacks as they strive for identity the raising of funds. for particu­sections. 
and a meaningful role in the St. lar causes. This recommendation Differentiating the two resolu­Mary's community_ Is it fair was based on the hoep that by tions was the matter of enforce­then to accept a greater number having concerned individuals ment. The Grace proposalof students into a community working for a cause to which 
emphasized that the main res­which appears in its present they were committed, more 
ponsibility should be born byattitude, unable or unwilling to money could be raised and it 
the hall staff. The resolution did 
accept its share of responsibility could be more likely to be not discount the right of a for the_ well-being of these directed to a worthwhile cause. 
resident to participate in the minority students? Several of All of those present at the 
enforcement of the rule but the black students present 
emphasized that the student may wish to forego the action for valid reasons. Primary among 


Class elections to be held 
these reasons was unnecessary tensions among fellow residents This year's class elections will Government Office. Those seek­and unnecessary strains on 
be held next Wed~esday, May ing the presidency will have to school work. 
6. The date was set Tuesday obtain at least 50 valid signa­The resolution went on to morning by the election com­tures, while the other candidates stat<! that the hall staff, in part mittee governing the elections. must secure only 25. resident assistants, were in a 
This election committee is The petitions must be re­better position to enforce the composed of the three class turned by 6 p.m., Sunday to rules and for that reason the presidents, (Barry Doyle, Jr.; Joe room 313 Holy Cross. Candi­responsibility would be dele­Stankus, Soph,; Denny Wilson, dates ;nay contact friends to gated to them. The resident Fresh.) whose classes are in­build an organization immediate­assistants are under contract to volved, The election is being ly, but open campaigning may enforce provisions of the Hall handled entirely by the classes not start until Sunday at 6 p.m. Governments. themselves, as a result of a bill Campaigning ends at midnight There was no discussion dur­passed by the student Senate on Tuesday night. ing the meeting concerning the earlier this year. This bill made The election will be handled action of Lyons, and subsequent class government autonomous of on a hall basis. Voting will take similar moves by Sorin and Student Government. place in the individual halls from Farley, which rejected the state­
Candidates seeking class 11:30-1:00 and from 5:00-ment on parietal hours submit­offices should obtain petitions 6:30, during the meal periods. ted by the Board of Trustees. and campaign rules on Friday, Each class will be responsible for Lyons has since drawn up a May I. This material will be one-third of the ballot proposal which calls for twenty­available from 8-5 in the Student four hour parietals. 
When questioned on these matters, HLB member, Rnn Mastriana, stated that action un these decisions was out of the jurisdiction of the Hall Life Board. He argued that the purpose of the Board was to "look at the position of the halls and not to initiate disciplinary action." 
Mastriana went on to state that if action was to be taken it would be the responsibility of the Administration, particularly the office of Father Riehle. 
1 he Observer 1s published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
a rational and reasonable expla­nation of their decisions, we are subjected to a continual expres­sion of patent paternalism and not too thinly veiled u.reats,, the editorial said. 
of the University." 

Massey noted that the second modification made by the Trus­tees, the setting of fixed upper limits on parietal hours, still 
Senate criticizes panty raid 
By a unanimous vote last night's session of the Student Senate adopted a resolution condemning the recent "panty raid" as immature, out-dated malicious, male chauvinistic, and completely out of control." 
The resolution, proposed by Carroll Senator Mike McKale, called for I) collection of stolen articles in a central location, 2) establishment of an ND-SMC committee to investigate damage and give an estimate to the Senate at its next meeting, 3) "The members of the com­munity who partook in the destruction come forward and make some payment for their actions." and 4) The N D com­munity assume responsibility for restitution. 
The resolution's mandate said: "The only logical solution for the problem or for each individual that lives in the community; St. Mary's students, Notre Dame Students, Rectors, Prefects, etc.; take a long hard look at the traditions and institutions that guide their daily lives. In this way and in this way 
only can we begin to solve the problem of "community life." 
An amendment that would have placed the responsibility for raising funds in the halls was defeated on the grounds that full financial information should be available first. 
The second major action of the Senate was the unanimous adoption of a resolution sup­porting the original Student Life Council bill on parietals and hall life. 
The bill, which was a report from the Student Affairs Com­mittee, declared that "We, there­fore back the original statement of the SLC and urge the Board of Trustees to reconsider its actions concerning parietals and hall life." 
In addition the student mem­bers of the Student Affairs Sub-committee of the Board of Trustees, Dave Krashna, Mark Winings, Tom Thrasher and Art McFarland, were empowered to work in the special session to encourage the board to change its statement. 
The initial report of the committee called for the rejec-

Joann Yandow named SMC Valedictorian 
Miss Joann M. Yandow has been named Valedictorian for the Class of 1970 at Saint Mary's College and Miss Carol Ekhaml '71 has been named recipient of the St. Catherine Medal, it was announced by Sister M. Jeanne Finske, C.S.C., academic dean. 
Miss Yandow, a sociology major, was selected Valedic­torian on the basis of her cumulative academic average and will deliver the Valedictory 

address during the June 6 Commencement ceremonies. Joann is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth B. Yandow of Burlington, Vermont, and a transfer student from the Uni­versity of Vermont. She has Joann Yandow 

been active in the Neighborhood James E. Ekhaml of WilmintonStudy llelp Program, a volunteer Delaware. She has been active o~tutoring program for students in the Academic Commission ofthe South Bend area schools. 

the Student Government atMiss Yandow, a nominee for Saint Mary's.
Kappa Gamma Pi, the national Catholic college women's honor society, hopes to continue her education in graduate school in the fields of guidance of coun­tion of the board's statement instead of merely repeating sup­port for the SLC bill. An amendment by Thrasher changed the tactic to one of support for the original bill on the grounds that the Senate has ''no power to reject." 


The Senate also sent to 

committee two bills, one calling 
for an end to Student Union 
sponsored "Queen Contests" 
and another concerning the 
fifteen minute rule. 
Students polled 

about the draft 
Forty-three per cent of the education students interviewed in a study conducted at Notre Dame called "the possibility of a 
draft deferment" an important reason for considering teaching as a career. The poll was taken 
before President Richard Nixon issued his executive order endingall new occupational deferments. 
In addition to general infor­mation questions, the poll asked students to asses their basic motives for entering the teaching profession. Over 200 students responded to the questionnaire, distributed by the Office of Teacher Preparation in Novem­her of 1969. Tom Downs and Miss Judy McNally, teaching assistants in the Office, conduct­ed the study under the super­vision of Dr. Eugene Campanale, associate director. 
Although the possibility of a draft deferment appeared a ma­jor factor in motivating students to study education, 91 per cent of the respondents said they would probably remain in the Teacher Preparation Program even if the war ended or the draft were abolished. 
Other important motives in-eluded "an opportunity to be helpful to others" (checked by 72 per cent) and "an opportuni­ty to use my special abilities, talents and aptitudes" (58 per 
cent). 
When asked which of the suggested motivations was most important, 30 per cent of the respondents replied "allowing me to work with people rather than things," while only 13 per cent checked "the possibility of a draft deferment." 
Senator Mike McKale 


N utt1· n g to ke t
yn0 e
d •


e . ucat1on symposium 
Contznued from page 1 

Frederick Crosson, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
In the evening Dean Joseph Hogan of Engineering, Professor John Lyon of the General Pr~gram; and Microbiologist Juhan Pheasants of Lobund Laboratory will address them­selves to the topic of "Know­ledge, Power and Wisdom." 
Friday's afternoon session will be on "The Teacher: Scholar Midwife, Salesman, Gadfly o; Fellow Student." Discussion will bcgm with comments from Mr. Robert Meagher, instructor in Theology; Dr. Stephen Rogers, of the General Program; and Sister Franzita Kane, of the St. Mary's English Department. 
The Symposium will conclude at 8:00 p.m. Friday with a discussion of "Competition in the University." Panelists will include Dr. Art Hochberg of the St. Mary's Psychology Depart­ment, Dr. John Yoder of the Theology Department and the Program for the Study of Non-Violence, and Professor John' Houck of the Business School's Management Department. 
Mike Fallon, a junior English major and the principal organ­izer of the Conference has stressed that "the Symp~sium can only be successful if stu­dents and faculty take the time to come and discuss common problems of academic reform." 
Mike added, "By considering Dr. Nutting, the man and his ideas, we may all better come to understand what education should be. We hope you will join us at the Symposium." 
Will sponsor p]ay series 
The Speech and Drama De­partment is again sponsoring a student-directed and student­produced series of one act plays this semester. These student one -acts, which constitute the final exam of the Advanced Directing course, are frequently the source of the most exciting theatre seen on campus. 
This semester there will be six 
plays done. The student direct­
ors will be Christine Riley, Chris­
tine Hall, Jean-Paul Mustone, 
William O'Reilly, Warren Bowles 
and Michael Kelly. The Advanc­
ed Directing course is taught by 
Professor Reginald Bain. 
Tryouts for these plays will be 
held in Washington Hall on the 
Notre Dame campus hetween 
2:30 and 5 on Thursday, April 
30. All are invited to come and tryout either for acting or for technical work. 

Craftsmen in Optics®seling. 
The St. Catherine Medal is awarded annually by Saint Mary's Kappa Gamma Pi Alum­nae to a junior who maintains a 

SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
high scholastic average and whose service and leadership are 


JlouseofVisiPii G
recognized by her classmates. 

The House of VIsion, Inc.
Miss Ekhaml, a psychology maior, is the daughter of Mr. 

This Friday & Saturday May 1 & 2 9 PM-1 AM 
~e~ MIXED BAG------JAZZ, +~( AMERICANA ~ 
~ 


\o~ ~ ~

... AMERI 
Hidin~ m Flanner Bast'ment 

0... 
~( 

~0 ~~ 

o Be There 

~------~--------~~~~--------------~ 
Give Mom aBiefiUe early. 
And make Mother's Day last longer. Call or visit an FTD florist today. And order a Bi~Hug Bouquet to arrive early. He'll send it across the street. Or q>untry. A special arrangement. For a very special mother. Yours. 
Usually available 112 50 
at less than • 


The FTD ~bouquet. 
•As •n independent businusmon, eoch FTD Member florist sets his own prices. 


THE OBSERfiER.
PAGE 4 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
DAYID C. BACH, -Editor FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

economy of death, 4 
~=~=~=~~=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The present budget under which this country is run is a disaster for America. It has sucked into the service of fear and death the energies and resources desperately needed for hope and life. It stands as an ali-too-clear indication of the madness afflicting our militaristic society, It stands as an all-too-clear indication of where our society stands in the area of national priorit'ies. 
In America today, with few exceptions, military needs rank above civilian needs, private interests rank above public interests and the claims of the affluent take precedence over those of the poor. 
And the sickness is made even more appalling when one realizes that there is really no shock value left in saying that we are a militaristic nation which will practice the most outrageous barbarities in the name of peace and freedom, or that we are a people who, when the chips are down, are uninterested in the elimination of poverty, or a citizenry whose only response to the decay of the cities is a decision to move to the suburbs. 
In my three previous columns, I have attempted to show the false premises upon which the military budget is based: I) the belief that the U.S. must always be at the frontier of technology in every field that could possibly have military significance -the Soviets seem to understand that a more "advanced" (and expensive) system does not necessarily enable a military power to do anything that it could not have done with an old system. 2) The U.S. is pledged to defend 42 countries from attack, external and internal, even if it means fighting three wars at once, and a further world-wide commitment to oppose any and all revolutionary movements -this assumption justifies unlimited military spending and involves us in conflicts such as the Indochina War, where the good guys are not necessarily on our side. 
3) The belief that the nation can increase its security by stockpiling more and more nuclear weapons the situation assumes absurd proportions when we can kill a Russian I 0 times and continue to rush to the apocalyptic abyss with each new megaton. 
My more immediate and pragmatic objection to these premises lies in the fact that they were formulated in the 1950's, and therefore based on the world situation as we interpreted it at that time. They have not been questioned till now. 

I have deliberately avoided any mention of moral objections to our insane policies, since in America, it is not how the job gets done, but JUSt that the job does get done. 
It is beyond my comprehension how America will be able to survive this decade without a major reordering of national priorities. The increasing polarization, alienation, mental disease and suicide rates and other disturbing statistics will not be alleviated by more uf the very policies which I believe were a major cause of them. 
President Nixon has given this necessity recognition in his Stat~ of the Union address and in his plan to reduce military spending by $5 billion. But his actions do not back up his rhetoric. The $5 billion came from the General Purposes Fund while the Research and Development funds were increased-which means even higher spending later. 
Space does not permit a detailed account of exactly how I feel the priorities should stand. But priority must be given to our life giving aims, not the life-destroying ones. 
To raise the incomes of the poor to levels of minimum adequacy will require approximately $15 billion annually. It will take at least $25 billion a year for at least a decade to make the American city viable. To clean up the environment will cost another $30 billion a year. 
These objectives are the absolute minimal requirements for America. They are easy to accomplish-at least in a technical sense. Cutting the war budget by the necessary amount will be little problem once the task is entrusted to men who are not prisoners of the military-industrial superiority complex. Fortune magazine says that within one year we can cut $17.6 billion and Professor Melman of Columbia claims that a $50 billion cut can be made while maintaining an armed force of 2.3 million men, an obliterated power aimed at 156 Soviet cities and air, naval, armada of staggering 
.~· . 
dimensions . -~' I do not advocate unilateral disarmament or a return to the 1 armaments of the Civil War. There is no way to fix a rational limit to 
• .i•;.
I ~efens~ spending other than by application of judgement and moral 
.j. 
insight. Security does not lie solely in more guns and missiles. More energy and resources must be devoted to restoring decency to our 
• 
society and creating a civilized America. Now . 
• 
I 
I : I ~ 
I. 
The opinions expressed in the 
Executive Editor: Dave Associate Editors: Cliff 
editorials, news analyses, and Stauffer Wintrode, Ann Conway columns of THE OBSERVER are 
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Features Editor: T.C. Treanor solely those of the authors and 
Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker Sports Editor: Terry Shields editors of THE OBSERVER and 
Campus Editor: Glen Corso Night Editor: Dave Lammers do ,ot necessarily reflect the News Editor: Steve Hoffman Layout: Mary Beth Crimmons, views of St. Mary's College, the SMC News Editor: Jeanne University of Notre Dame, theirRich Maggi, Tom Ehrbar Sweeney 
administrations, faculty or stu· dent bodies. 
Headlines: Phil Schatz 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29. 19}0 

Now that May's almost here, we'll have some great weather. 
Glen Corso========== 
New foreign policy 
====Campus Opinion===== 
With the recent events in Southeast Asia rapidly nearing some sort of climax it appears quite apparent that America .is stan~i~g at the threshhold of some rather momentous foreign policy declSlons. T~e Pentagon has, as in the past claimed that a friendly non-commum~t ' government is in danger of falling rather soon unless s.ome sort of ~Id is forthcoming. In the past this aid would have consisted of massive 
U.S. arms shipments, followed by "advisers". Since the.application of these remedies sometimes failed to rectify the situation pleas would be issued for direct intervention. In some cases the intervention worked, in others it was a spec~acular failure. 
What American foreign policy planners have failed to realize, and the Soviet Union has not, is that the roots of such "interventionist" policy date back to the days of Teddy Roosevelt. Without discussing the relative merits of the policy that followed, what must be pointed out is that at the time it was done we lacked the sophisticated methods and means that we now possess. In other words, we simply didn't have any choice for ways and means to pursue our policy. Now we do. 
The Soviet Union seems, to some extent, to have shaken off these historical shackles and consequently has forged new methods in the conduct of foreign policy. It appears that they have cast out the idea of direct intervention, rather they attempt to shape events by actively supporting various foreign governments, or rebels, whom they impel to do the actual fighting and dying. 
On the surface, this policy seems ideal. Aside from the morality issue in Vietnam most people are against the war because they really don't want to g~t shot. However if you can get someone else to do it for you, why not? 
The basic value which must underlie the new policy is one that is perhaps as old as mankind -honesty. Too often the lack of this essential commodity in particular policies have doomed the efforts from the very start. We have let military influence and corporate desires obscure the true facts about many of the governments we have supported. 
If a government is truly repressive and is staying in power solely because we are supporting it, then we should withdraw that support. Many times countries turn vehemently anti-American, due to the fact that we become associated with the dictatorial government of that particular country. We have to realize that we are hurting ourselves more than we can ever realize by supporting such people as Ky and Thieu and the Greek Colonels. 
If it is at all possible we should lend our support to the forces in countries that are truly seeking democracy. If none are to be found, then we should let the tide of events run their course. We must take a more long range view of such developments. Even if an anti-American totalitarian regime is running a country now, there is no guarantee that it will be five years from now. We can especially insure this if we stand ready and able to aid any rebels who are seeking democracy for their country. 
We must stand ready to directly intervene if one of our very close allies is invaded, however in all other cases we should limit our help to arms, and persuasion of surrounding countries to help their 
neighbor. If they cannot stand witil oniy limited aict, then the possibilities are excellent that they do not command the widespread support of the population that a government must have in order to survive, and our stepping in would only prolong the agony. 
This policy though, seems to lead countries into moral barbarities, 
(e.g. the Russians are egging the Egyptians on), whicll a great many people in the US abhor. The question then boils down to exactly how can the US pursue a foreign policy which safeguards its interests, does away with direct involvement, and is not supremely immoral. 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 1970 
PAGE 5 
A mov1e rev1ew by by Tom Ehrbar 
Woodstock: Where do we go from here? 
So it's X:OO Thursday night and I'm at I he Statc·/,ake theatre in downtown Chicago and there's a slender crowd of black tics conversing intelligently right there under the marquee, and a swarming crowd of pretty hairs making some din on the pavement out front. 
I shuffle up, suave and duded up with wow-Edwardian anti five inch op-art tie and mauve trousers and wide buckle slats. I'm checking out the scene, dodging the drift of every cal's gaze, and pushing my way through the round-and-around­and-around swivel doors and the uni­formed, French-cuffed arm of a SOish usher tells me to stop. 
So I stop and the dude asks me who I think I am. I throw a line of shabby credentials al him, but my name he has down on a list, so he smiles a polite and · stupid grin and on I go. 
I grab a popcorn-and-coke and settle down in a red velvet seat, tenth row from the hack, facing smack in the center of the screen. Ritual. 
The seals around me fill up: the critics daim the hack aisles; the freaks sit anywhere. There are no ordinary people here since this is an advance Midwest screening. The freaks won some contest on WLS, look like they're on speed, and maintain an incredible level of decibles (noise). The critics bite their lips, are making insights. Piped in Muzak, "Chewy Chewy", "Quick Joey Small" etc. adds to the mood. 
I page through a movie program with man-woman-love foldout and a spiffy aphorism "no one who was there will ever by the same." Now it's dark inside and one second before Woodstoek begins I'm wondering if I left the car lights on. 
The credits appear, then disappear, and the whole audience here in the State·Lake just keeps buzzing away. "What kind of movie is this", the question bangs against my cerebellum. 
What kind of movie is this Woodstock? It has good length, three hours and ten minutes or so (cut from a mere 120 Ius.) so he sure to stuff plenty of pennies in the meter. 
Goon baby. 
Well, Woodstock, the historical Wood­stock, was like to happenings--it was a hard-rock music festival (oh so tough); and it was something quite beyond, spiritual and magic, an unrestrained, joyous celebration among all good freaks-for-peace-and-revolution. These are the same dolts who storm the pentagon every month or two, only this time it was all for song and dance and love. Acid too. 
Anyway: two happenings. 
The trouble with Woodstock, the film, is that it tries, moans and groans, to make two happenings--one happening. And it snags onto a nifty gimmick to almost pull it off, split screen. 
And more split screens. 
And more split screens. (You need four eyes to hack it so bring a friend.) It was strain on the brain back in my dead­center scat. I'm trying to listen to a farmer blast the revolution over here on the right, while a bunch of nude freaks are splashing around in a frolic of bath over here on the left. One at a time, please. I do like, however, the double 
sequence where a interview on "getting together" is matched with a couple undressing in the flowers and well ... ah . . . getting together. Still, there was not enough relief. I was forever wishing the split screen would split the scene. 
A documentary is what we call a film like Woodstock and a documentary is certainly what it was. Guys walk around with microphones interviewing freaks1and non-freaks from town: 
"llow is it man?" 
"Beautiful, ha, trip, ha, man, ha ha ha ha." 
Or, "What do you think of all this sir?" 
"These kids are all right in my book!" 
None of it makes much sense but it all 


......., .....••a1at .,.,.........real Woodltock, alot ofeCMIIlolollcll
""............~.................. 
................., 
communicates, man. 
Anyway these interviews, along with the live recording of the festival, well that's the soundtrack. There's no thick­throated narrator and thank Nog. 
But there is music, lots and lots of it, and it's all good stuff. The aurel plus the visual plus the tactile, McLuhan will love it. So will any hard-rock fan anywhere. 
Richie Havens is up there, all his awful :nergy, pounding his palms together, writhing and orange, slashing a guitar, sweating and stomping across the stage. The audience in the State-Lake right with him too, baby, clapping and cheering and feeling. 
Then there's Joan Baez, sweet, angelic, singing or is she praying? God what a voice! "1'\ 
Arlo GUtrie is his usual bemused self. 
And so it goes,.suave me finally getting with it, the tempo flying up as high as the freaks are, taking the freaks even higher. 
Joe Cocker 
Country Joe and the Fish:­
Crosby, Stills, Nash, anJ Young 
Jimi Hendrix 
Santana 
John Sebastian (follow the bouncing ball ... I, 2, 3, 4 what is Vietnam for) 
Sly and the Family Stone 
Ten Years After 
The Who 
Higher and higher until pure exhaus­
tion drops us down. Not many experi­ences-but one chaotic experience. Not even music hut a screaming-dandng­throbbing-tripping-shout. Singing with anguish and ecstacy. singing as though a man could break !Jis soul on a single note, and die up there on stage. Baby. 
And here, here the split screen no longer bothers. There is an amazing sense of chaos and mad-energy with Santana up there, and on the far left a dose-up of two purple hands slapping a drum, and in the middle a blue-tinted shot of the drummer's heaving profile, and on the far right the hands of the drummer are golden, and the music is banging through the State·-Lake ... One action seen in many perspectives in one moment. I felt surrounded and confused and filled. 
Go on baby. This was the music, the 
festival of Woodstock. It could have been 
filmed and made into a movie. 
But there was something else going on 
at Woodstock too, something that trans­
cended the music and the festival. 
Woodstock tries to tell us what. 
The slow pans of the gigantic crowd, 
the interviews with freaks on speed, with 
freak slinking out of a portable toilet 
(one of the funniest bits in the movie), 
the montage of babies toddling around, 
the freaks nude and honest and sharing 
and worrying and sleeping together and 
eating their meals together and Iovin their 
music together and putting their money 
together. Communion. Caring. Loving. 
Or how about the straights who live up 
there, like the whole year around. Some 
like the mob, "business has never been 
better." Some don't like the mob "Every 
damn one of em's on pot. The whole 
country's going to pot. Don't smile at me 
punk." The punk smiles anyway. As do 
most of the freaks. On several occasions 
the camera, straining for that cinema 
verite naturalism, is thwarted by a tongue 
stuck out at it, or a playful Frankenstein 
expression, or some of the worst 
dead-panning I have ever seen in my life. 
Anyway this is all a part of Woodstock 
as well, the spontaneity, the anti-heroic 
stuff. And the film almost makes a 
statement for me, almost but it fails. The spirit, the humor, the freshness is there but what does it mean, to what will it lead? Is it genuine or fleeting? I like the freaks, but where do I go from here? 
Woodstock is fair, it is objective, it 
attempts to recapture an event, and it 
succeeds. But it does not succeed in 
defining ,.tllat event or even suggesting a 
way to define it. 
The ambivalence of the film, toward a) 
the music of the festival and b) the mood 
of the festival, restrict Woodstock from 
making a profound or novel insight along 
either theme, 
The lights of the Lake-State pop on 
and make my pupils grow large. I leave 
my velvet seat, sweaty, drained, look 
admiringly at all the freaks, sweaty, 
drained, push through the critics intelli­
gently conversing, and out I go into the 
Chicago night time. Woodstock has its 
flaws, but I forget the flaws and 
remember the freaks who were t~re at 
Woodstock, and who loved one another 
and knew happiness. If only for three 
days. I think to myself baby "No one 
who was there will 1 "'r 'be the ;arne." 
God, I wish I had REDMAN's sex appeal!
-the Magnificent Valentine 

PAGE 6 

Letters to Editor 
In Gratitude Editor: Dr. Arthur Hochberg deserves to be congratulated on his brilliant intuition and luxuriant imagination. Although his stay at Saint Mary's has been com­paratively brief-barely seven months-he has already managed to diagnose the ills of the college (Observer, April 16). On the surface, "things seem to be okay," Hochberg states, but in fact "they are actually sty­mied." What is the cause of the plight? Of course, it is Hoch­berg's colleagues: "There are a lot of old-line faculty holding little castle of power." There is "legitimized apathy," he tells us, "reinforced by the older facul­ty." 
We should have known all along-it is the Sister Franzitas, Dr. Noels, Dr. Dineens, Sister 
Miriam Patricks, Dr. Hickeys, and, perhaps, Dr. Schlesingers, who block the r o ad to pro­gress. This discovery may strike some people as the product of a feverish imagination or a not too 
subtle effort to turn students against the senior faculty; others may find this collective psycho­analysis impressive. 
In any case, since the present administration is apparently un­able to cope with a situation as urgent as this, it would seem to be high time that faculty and students mount a campaign, 'Hochberg for President.' 
Sincerely, 
Bruno Schlesinger 
Chairman, Humanistic Studies 
Riot 

Dear Notre Dame, 
The panty raid was not a raid but a riot. I can't understand how some people can call Sunday night's activity fun or a college prank. I can't understand how others excuse it under the phrase "boys will be boys" or "the ratio is abnormal." 
I have the feeling that if a group of blacks did the damage at SMC the administrations and students of both schools 'would be up in arms. I'm sure that if a group from the Women's Libera­tion Front did thousands of dollars worth of damage plus looting of equipment at the Atheletic and Convocation Cen­ter more than a few of the Sunday night thieves would be calling for blood. 
A group of your cream of the crop, All-American Sweethearts, Catholic, clean cut citizens came into my room (which is my home while I am at school), ransacked it, and stole at least one hundred dollars worth of my personal possessions. I do not know the financial situation of most boys at Notre Dame, I only know that one hundred dollars is a lot of money to me. 
I'm not as mad about the monetary loss as I am about the atmosphere and attitude that I've seen at your sterling univer­sity for the past three years. I've seen more obnoxious drunks, heard more gross language, and seen more immaturity than I've cared to see. I realize the ratio is "in my favor" as far as numbers of boys to girls are concerned but that is no excuse for anyone to steal or behave like a rat in a maze. I wish I had a picture of the boys who stole my property in action so I could send it to their parents or their home town honeys so they could see what fine upstanding men(?) they are. 
Maureen Phillips 
Plunder Returned 
Editor: AN OPEN LETTER TO THE WOMEN OF SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Enclosed you will find three small items of clothing (and approximate location of origin on campus) which were spirited away in the Great Panty Raid of 1970. 
When I embarked upon my first panty raid two days ago, I was motivated by a great deal of curiousity about just what a panty raid is. I had absolutely no intention of wreaking mayhem upon anyone or anything. 
The fact that some Notre Dame "men" acted irresponsibily by destroyhg property, stealing on a mass scale, physically assaulting mem­bers of the weaker sex, etc., disgusts me, as I am sure it does you. The great majority of us were bent only on a traditional enjoyable Springtime diversion. ·That such an incident did occur, however, is inexcusable, 
and indicative of deeper prob­lems of this community, which have been identified and which do exist. But I won't belabor the social atmosphere or use it as an excuse for Sunday night-simply because it is no excuse. 
So I hope that by returning my three hard-won prizes of plunder, insignificant as they are, will maybe serve to restore some of your confidence in that nebulous institution: The Notre Dame Man. 
Sincerely, 
One of the Many 

Problem Overlooked 
Editor: 

There has been much said both in your paper and around the campus about the incidents of last Sunday night. I think that the true problem is being over­looked when one speaks in terms of this isolated occurrence, how­ever. Let's not kid ourselves-the panty raid is but one example of the massive human depravity which personifies Notre Dame, the Notre Dame "man", and, to a large extent, our entire society. I suggest that it is unjust for anyone to judge the participants in the raid as immature, dirty or insane. For they arc only 
manifestations of the atmos­phere we live in-an atmosphere which fosters not only sexual perversion, but racism, violence, and dehumanization as well. 
To be sure, this situation is not in any way unique to Notre Dame. But to call ourselves "Christian", as we are so fond of doing, is totally ridiculous in this light. 1t would really be ironic if it takes a panty raid to cause us to re-evaluate our way of doing things around here, but perhaps that is what we need. 
Dave Johnson 
162 Zahm Hall 


Creativity, culture needed at Notre Dame 
fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilii!!i!ii!!Rii...iiiiP.ililiii....~~--·-~~ Dame. Support for the U niver­
sity Arts Council philosophy is 
no as simple as that. Implemen­
tation of this philosophy re­
quires a restructuring of our 
economic and academic priori­
ties. I have presented the imme­
diate needs for this restructuring 
in the first two articles. This last 
will deal with the needs in light 
of the Notre Dame of the future. 
Recently, Notre Dame has chanelled much of its resources into areas of diminishing student interest. One good example of this is the emasculated Govern­ment Department. Administra­tors and Trustees must grasp the fact threat more and more students are moving into the humanities. Next year's fine arts 
uirement is a 


Thurs. ApriJ 30 thru Sat, May 2 Lot south of stadium FORD TOTAL PERFORMANCE SHOW 
-Jimmy Clark's 1965 Champion Indianapolis 500 Lotus 38-High Performance c:ars and parts displays 
-First Campus Appearance ever direct from Atlanta 500, Daytona and all major tracks. 
-High perfor.....-consultants-Formula F 

This is Part III in a three part series devoted to an examination of the role of the Arts at Notre Dame and its implication for students, faculty and administra­tors. 
"The turbulence of our time will be but the birth pains of a new culture, if the conflict is creative." 
-inside cover Notre Dame Bulletin of Information, 1970/1971 
One would be hard-pressed to find a corporation that was for pollution. Yet we live beneath a pall of filth and industrial mismanagement. In the same vein, it would be difficult to find an administrator, alumnus or trustee who was against instilling a creative atmosphere at Notre direction but those who control the "purse strings" of this university should realize that, at present, the ND-SMC atmos­phere is anything but conducive to creativity and thus the hu­manities are kept in the class­room. 
Another fact to be considered is co-education. It is doubtful that the majority of ND women will-:--enter the Schools of Science, Engineering or Archi­tecture. If the administration is seriously concerned about ad­mitting women, accomodations must be made now for their educational needs. Enlargement of facilities designed to meet the needs of the creative students are not a luxury, they are a necessity. 
Father Hesburgh has stated in public that Notre Dame will have to make itself "socially accessible" if it is to open its doors to women. The remedy is not a bigger Huddle or more open space, but a center de­signed to blend academics with experience, a focal point for creative endeavor. 
I have prefaced this article with a quote taken from the Notre Dame catalogue which emphasizes creativity as the determinant factor in the success of our gener<Jtion. Pig chases and panty raids aside, this statement is not accurately reflected in Notre Dame's present atmos­phere. 
The "new culture" that Notre Dame speakes of and pre­sumably prides itself in working for, will not be born on the 50 yard-line. For, as T.S. Eliot has reminded us, culture is born out of leisure. Unfortunately too much of the American culture is formed sitting in front of tele­vision sets and sleeping in bed. Now, contrary to public opin­ion, the function of the universi­ty is not that of a training school for careers nor is a diploma an admission slip to a $20,000 a year job. The university has a responsibility to graduate peopfe 
instructed in the ways of Ameri­
can life and capable of contri­
buting constructively to the 
American life style even if this 
means restructuring our values 
system. The former is a result of 
academic training, the latter is a 
result of experiment and ex­
perience. 

Much of the college grarluate's 
leisure time is filled by doing 
those things which occupied his 
leisure time in "the college 
years". Thus, it is imperative 
that the University work to 
provide a healthy and creative 
environment in which students 
can grow into "cultural beings". 
If Notre Dame is serious 
about "creativity" and if it 
really is optimistic about the 
"new culture" then our present 
list of economic priorities must 
be drastically revamped. "Cul­
ture" and "creativity" cannot be 
sold. They would not suddenly 
appear if an arts center was built 
or if more consideration was 
given it on our list of priorities. 
But creativity has survived in 
niches and cadres at Notre 
Dame. It it is to ever be the rule 
and not the exception, though, 
economic concessions must be 
made. 

In light of proposed co-edu­
cation and increased student 
interest in the arts, the time is 
upon us to make those conces­
sions. 

"Environment" and "atmos­
phere" are elusive concepts. 
Many people seem to think that 
they don't exist. Little does the 
doubting alumnus, back to alma 
mater for the Southern Cal 
game, realize that he is standing 
in the midst of the Notre Dame 
culture. We cannot buy a .'.new 
system of values. "Instant ·~ul­
ture" is a contradiction. · • 
We can, however, use our ·resources, both physical and 
mental to nurture creativity . 
Considering the true role of the 
University, the environment that 
the University Arts Council sets 
as its goal is not a luxury, but a 
life source. 

American Studies Program 
Professor RonaJd Leber wiJJ meet 
with students interested in the propo~ed 
Ameri<.'an Studie~ Major Pro!!ram 

Thurs. April 30 7:30PM Rm. 104 O'Shaughnessy
FREE ADMISSION 10 AM -9 PM 

To release Kopechne inquest documents 
BOSTON (UPI) -Superior Court officers made final pre­parations yesterday for the release of 87 copies of the secret documents from the inquest into the death of Mary Jo Kopcchne in Sen. Edward M. Kennedy's car. 
The release, scheduled for 3 
p.m. EIJf today, was threat­ened, however, with another delay from the attorney for the court stenographers who trans­cribed the inquest and claim the right to distribute copies of the transcript to the news media for a fee. 
Attorney Je1 Jme P. Facher told UPI yesterday he was "considering further legal steps" to halt the release. The most likely course of action open to Facher was a request to the U.S. Supreme Court for a restraining order. He already has a damage suit pending in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals here, but that court refused to hold up release of the inquest papers. 
The documents-the 12 page repc.,rt of the inquest judge and the 764 ·page transcript of testimony from the four-day secret investigation-will be given to members of the media who have paid $75 for the set of two documents. There are 87 sets spoken for, according to court officers. Distribution will be in alphabetical order in a seventh floor Suffolk County Superior Court room. 
The entire procedure has been awaited for I09 days since the inquest closed Jan. 8. 
"On July 18, 1969 at approx­imately I I: I 5 p.m. in Chappa­quiddick, Martha's Vineyard, Mass., I was driving my car on Main Street on my way to get the ferry back to Edgartown." 
With that statement to police 
nine months ago, Kennedy set 
off one of the most explosive 
stories in many years. The death 
of the 38-year old freckled-faced 

To sponsor Law 
The Pre-Law Society of Notre Dame will sponsor a special program on Wednesday evening, April 29, at eight o'clock in the Engineering Auditorium. The program is an annual event 



Stanley Sessler exhibit featured 
The paintings, frescos, pastels and drawings of Stanley S. Sessler, professor of art and 
former head of the University of Notre Dame art department, are 
·i, •.. 
presently being featured in a two-week exhibition which began Sunday in the University of Notre Dame Art Gallery. 
The exhibition, titled "Stan­Icy S. Sessler in Retrospect," will feature 80 pieces of the artist's major works, including the famous portrait of his wife "Jeri and the Siamese." Other works include his portrait of "Dr. Thomas Fern," (present chairman of the art department), "Today's Warrior," a conte cray­on drawing, and "Charlot in Fresco." 
Sessler has been an active 
exhibitor in art shows across the 
country and abroad since 1928, 
when he first joined the Notre 
Dame staff. He was elected a 
Fellow of the Royal Society of 
Art in London in 195 I, and in 
1954 became a Fellow of the 
lntcmalional Institute of Arts 
j

and Letters in Lindau-Bodensee, Germany. A number of his •)""' >5lr1J.Il~ paintings are now in public and 

"' ...

private collections in 35 states, 
and many more are prize win­
Saturday's Hero by Stanley Sessler 
ners. 
blonde from Plymouth, Pa., also 
marked the most damaging blow 
to the fortunes of the surviving 
Kennedy son. 

Kennedy, then at 3 7 a leading 
Democratic contender for the 
1972 presidential nomination, 
took himself out of the race­
some said forever. 

Kennedy spent almost two hours agonizing over his accident report in the small police head-
Careers Night 
entitled Law Careers Night. 

This year, the program will focus on the topic, "Law Prac­tice and Social Concern." Messrs. Thomas Singer, George 
M. Beamer Jr., Greg McMichaels III and Paul Kusback, who are South Bend attorneys closely connected with the social aspect of law, will speak and answer questions at the program. 
Kusbach should be of special interest because he is a defense lawyer in the Notre Dame injunction. Legal aid, civil liber­ties and draft resistance will also be among the topics to be discussed. 
The program is considered "appropriate" by the Pre-law Society. The judicial system of the country is directly confront­ed by issues arising in our society. The society feels that students considering law school, 
but hesitating at the thought of giving up their "social and humanitarian commitments" should derive extra benefits from the program. All interested in law and current events are invite'!_by the society to attend. 
quarters at Edgartown which was caught up in the middle of its usually colorful summer resort trade. 
"I descended a hill and came upon a narrow bridge," he wrote. "The car went off the side of the bridge. There was one passenger with me, one Miss Mary Jo Kopechne, a former secretary of my brother, Sen. Robert Kennedy. The car turned over and sank into the water and landed with the roof resting on the bottom." 
Kennedy struggled out of the black sedan. Miss Kopechne was found the next morning floating in the back seat by a scuba diver. Her death was ruled due to drowning by the medical exam­iner on the scene, but no autopsy was performed. 
Kennedy pleaded guilty one week after the accident, to a charge of leaving the scene of an accident-he failed to report it to police for at least nine hours-and was given a two­month suspended sentence in Edgartown District Court. 

Free pepsi,• 
h d 

. Of OgS Served 
Free Pepsi-cola and hot dogs will be served next Friday afternoon, Free City Day, an­nounced Karen Grabowski. 
The Pepsi-cola and hot dogs 
have been donated to the "Free 
City for a day "group." 

Persons interested in helping should call Tom Saggau at 6819 or Jean Easterly at 5281. 
Final ti<:ket Ti<:ket SaJe~ Today 
Wooden Ships 
THE 1970 SENIOR BALL 
Ball Tickets and Corsages ­Tom Dooley Room -La­Fortune -10:00 AM to 5:00 PM, 7:30PM to 9:30PM. 
Tuxedo Fittings 2-5:00 PM 
THE BALL IS STILL ON SATUROAY, MAY 9 
PAGE 8 




N D Lacrosse-varsity or bust 
by Steve O'Connor Observer Sportswriter 
Editor's note: The lacrosse club is striving for varsity status. Steve O'Connor takes a look at this club and he hopes to inform the student body of the situa­tion for the ND stickmen. 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse 
Club, led by student captain Tim 
McHugh and student club 
president Jack Pierce, has a dual 
determination. One is to prove 
themselves capable of attaining 
varsity status and the other to 
demonstrate that they want this 
status. 
The sentiment of team mem­
bers as a whole was that despite 
the independence of the "club" 
designation, their special prob­
lems with this unique sport and 
their ambition to expand made 
it imperative to push for the 
athletic department's sanction as 
a varsity sport. 
Since its inception as a club sport seven years ago under Jack Tate (who is still helping out and is forming an NO lacrosse alumni association), the lacrosse club has been able to survive a turnover that has threatened its extinction. 
Pierce felt that the outline of this and other pressing problems would best establish the case for the club's varsity consideration. Pierce pointed out that the turnover of graduating players is closely allied with a basic need for a coach. 

The skills of lacrosse combine those of most of the other sports (hockey "checking", basketball "picks", passing, etc.) and add one more fundamental, that of stickhandling and cradling the ball on the end of a "crosse." 
The job of teaching these 

IT'S YOUR STORE ... 

skills fell to the experienced 
members of the team, who of 
course were upperclassmen and 
graduating seniors. In any one 
year a heavy graduation of the 
"coaches" and an influx of 
completely inexperienced la­
crosse hopefuls would combine 
to seriously hamper the develop­
ment of the club. This danger is 
still present if lacrosse remains as 
a club. 

An equally important aspect 
is the administrative require­
ments: schedule-making, disci­
pline and recruiting. These have 
always fallen on the shoulders of 
the students (president and cap­
tain). Jack pointed out that 
these responsibilities require a 
secure, stabilizing influence that 
only a coach can bring to a 
sport. 
It should be pointed out that the club members have worked to fill this administrative void by instituting a very unofficial re­cruiting procedure. They send letters to incoming freshmen from lacrosse areas (New Eng­land, Maryland and New York) explaining the club to prospec­tive players. Joe Mulligan of admissions was particularly help­ful for providing names for club recruitment. 
A new twist was added by this year's club, as visits were paid to high school coaches in the three areas during the Christmas break. Another innovation of the club following up recruiting is a clinic that the team conducts in the off-season from October I to November 1 for freshmen that "don't know the game." The president explained that these new procedures were to be illustrations of the determina­tion of the club to expand, but he pointed out that their success 


The Famous 


KNIT SHIRTS 
Take them with you for good looks and comfort this summer. In crew, placket or mock turtle necks. Choose from a wide 
variety  of  colors  and  stripes.  Gilbert's  
Campus Shop  has  an  excellent  collection.  
Stop in.  
ss  to $7  

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
will depend on the stabilizing 
influence of a coach who will be 
present from year to year. 

• The other major problem area is finances. This difficulty is so commonplace in all organiza­tions that it would hardly seem informative mentioning it here, but lacrosse financing is particu­larly difficult among the clubs. The equipment for this sport makes it more difficult to maintain than most of the other clubs and some varsity sports. 
Each man requires a helmet 

The ND Lacrosse Club-varsity in '71? 

No new 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (UPI) --The policy making body of the National Collegiate Ath­letic Association, still is in no mood to add new college football bowl games. 
The 18 man NCAA Council 
... IN STYLE, PRICE AND TERMS 


that costs about $25, wears large gloves, shoulder pads, cleats and goes through an average of two $15 sticks (crosses) a year. Accompanying these personal equipment costs are the require­ments for travel, meals, and general expenses that all the clubs face and that the lacrosse club is facing right now through the help of alumni clubs and some "ad libing" (hitch-hiking, etc.). 
Mentioning the problems that the club faces is important in establishing a need for varsity status and the accompanying benefits derived, but the lacrosse club feels that justification for their elevation will be shown by their ability to compete on the varsity level. This year the club has held their own against the varsities and have easily defeated the club teams. The team has purposely scheduled only club teams for next season to prove their clear-cut superiority to these groups in the Mid-West. 


bowls next year 
Monday turned down bids from six cities wanting to stage post season games. They were the Cactus Bowl in Phoenix, Ariz., the West Coast Bowl in Tampa, Fla., the Blues Bowl in Memphis, the Carnation Bowl in San Diego, the Copper Bowl in Tucson and the Charity Bowl in Lake Charles, La. 
It was the third year in a row the council has turned thumbs down on new bowls. 
But the council did approve 11 already established bowl games for next year, along with five all star games. 
They include the traditional New Year's Sugar, Cotton, Rose and Orange bowls. Also getting an okay were the Pasadena Bowl on Dec. 12, the Liberty Bowl on Dec. 12, the Sun, Dec. 19, Gator, Dec. 26, Tangerine, Dec. 26, Peach, Dec. 30 and Blue­bonnet, Dec. 31 . 

The Shrine East-West All star game was approved for Jan. 2, the Blue-Gray game on Dec. 28, the North-South Dec. 25, the Alamo Bowl Dec. 26 and the Penn Dutch Bowl Nov. 28. 

The executive committee, which governs financial affairs and new tournaments, also approved for the first time a system of district qualifying for NCAA wrestling tournaments. A spokesman explained there were over 500 entries this year and this is an attempt to cut down the number of entries. 
MAJOR LEAGUES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East 
East 

w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB Chicago 12 4 .750 *Baltimore 11 5 .688 *St. Louis 9 5 .643 2 *Detroit 10 5 .667 % 
Pittsburgh 11 7 .611 2 Boston 9 8 .529 2% *Philadelphia 9 8 .529 3Y:. *Washington 8 8 .500 3 *New York 8 8 .500 4 Cleveland 7 9 .437 4 *Montreal 3 11 .214 8 *New York 7 11 .389 5 
West West Cincinnati 15 6 .714 *California 12 5 .706 *San Fran. 9 10 .474 5 Minnesota 10 6 .625 1Y:. *Los Angeles 8 9 .471 5 Oakland 8 10 .444 4Y:. *Atlanta 7 11 .389 6Y:. *Kansas City 6 10 .375 5Y. Houston 7 13 .350 7Y:. *Chicago 6 10 .375 5Y. *San Diego 6 12 .333 7Y:. *Milwaukee 5 12 .294 7 
*night game not included *night game not included 
Pittsburgh 6 Chicago 1 Cleveland 3 Minnesota 1 Cincinnati 4 Houston 2 Boston 2 Oakland 1 St. Louis 1 Atlanta 0 7th inn. Detroit 8 Kansas City 0, 5th inn. Philadelphia at Los Angeles, night Baltimore 4 Chicago 2, 7th inn. Montreal at San Diego (2) night California at New York, night New York at San Francisco, night Milwaukee at Washingtol), night 




