
VOL. IV, No. 71 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1970 
Pres. holds conference 
by Dan O'Donnell Recruiting incident. Hesburgh that stands in "opposition to the 
Rev. Theodore lleshurgh, held termed protests against the Dow law of the land." He stated that a news conference yesterday Corporation an "issue as out­the ghetto problem in the North during which he commented on dated as the dodo l1ird ." And is "every bit as bad as the school a wide range of questions that said that "it is not a good issue." problem of the South" and that 
ranged from his work with the When lleshurgh was question­perhaps the South may even Civil Rights Commission in ed as to his feelings about the solve their problem before the Washington to the Willis first test of the fifteen minute North. Hesburgh was emphatic Nutting-for-President campaign rule he replied by saying that about the fact that no new laws here on campus. although he regretted the action were needed. "We don't need Fat her lleshurgh opened his he nonetheless felt it "fair". He more laws, we need compliance remarks hy responding to a q ues-went on to cite the fact that the to the Jaws already on the 1 ion on I he G. Harrold Carswell original expulsions were reduced books," he said. In addition to nomination. llis position, he to suspensions to evidence this this he stressed Congressional 
said, was that a Supreme Court fact. appropriations and warned that nomination was a "presidential The bulk of the conference many "seemingly moral" bills perogal ive" and that it remained was taken up with questions that have been passed have died to he seen what action the con­ahout Fr. lleshurgh's work as for lack of money. gress would take. lie speculated chairman of the Civil Rights Hesburgh replied to questions that the nomination would be Commission. Hesburgh pointed about the financial state of the approved by the congress but out inconsistencies in the reason­university by citing recent opera­tleclined to comment on his own ing of Southern whites who re­ting deficits of between I and 2 opinion of Carswell saying that · sist Federal "bussing" regula­million and warning that, "Sur­the matter was between congress lions and stated that to them it vival of private higher education. 
Fr. Hesburgh spoke Monday afternoon at a press conferenctand the president. "depends on what the bussing is is the number one educational concerning both Dr. Nutting and the open forum.
Heshurgh disclosed that the for." To enlarge on this point he problem in the country." He Presitlenl's atlvisory Committee noted that 40% of all school went on to list buildings which on the Draft, of which he is a children arc being bussed the university needs but cannot 
SL.C debates bureau,
member, would meet the presi­presently and nobody raises any finance. Among these were, an dent on February 16th. The objections to this but that the experimental classroom building. Committee's report, he said, arguments arose only when the an Engineering building and a 
Changes recommended
would support the idea of an bussing would serve the purpose Chemical Research building. He all-volunteer army. In response of integration. pointed out that co-education by Bill Carter and Shaun Hill recommendations for changes 111 to Sec. of Defense Melvin Lairtl's Hesburgh gave as an example. will necessitate enlarged facilities The entire first session of last the functioning of the Bureau. recent stantl against an all volun­some in order to make the university night's Student Life Council The discussion of the report
blacks in Selma, Alaba rna, 

teer army, llesburgh concedet! "more accessible, socially." meeting was devoted to dis­itself was extended close to the
who were for years being bussed 
that they "can't say mathemati­He noted that the financial cussion on the report of the full two hours of the first ses­
I 0 miles a day to an all-black 
cally it will or won't work" but problem extended nationwide subcommittee on the Placement sion. The Council evidenced
technical school when another 
said that he hopes that troop and said that every university in Bureau. The report as delivered much difference of opinion re­
white technical school was but 
withdrawals from Vietnam will Notre Dame's category is run­by committee chairman Prof. garding the conclusions of the
two blocks from where most of bring the size of the army down ning on an operating deficit be­Charles Allen examined the his­report. The present functions
the blacks lived. He said that the 
to a level that can be handletl hy tween I and 2 million dollars. tory of the Placement Bureau and purpose of the placement
"great number of blacks have 
I he volunteer-army proposal. and the nature of its role in the office were brought under q ucst­
been through inferior schools" Hcsburgh declined to com­
lleshurgh rejected the PJtion on Black Panther's university. The lengthy report ioning principally by the student
ment theand that there exists in the 
that a volunteer army woultl concluded with a list of eight representatives. Student Body
South a ''dual school system" (Continued on page 6)
lead to an all-black or all-poor Vice-President Fred Dedrick ask­army and indicated that the ed whether the report had any­Committee would show facts to thing to say on the competency substantiate this. of the present Bureau Director Fr. Louis Thornton oft hat post.
Commenting on the Nutting­Prof. Alkn said the report in­
for-President movement bcr:un by a group of students and cluded no recommendations to 
that effect.
faculty here on campus tlwt would ckvale Fr. lleshurgh's 
Much of the debate centered position to the of Chancellor, on the question of the fut urc lleshurgh said that "Anybody is 
policies of the Bureau and free to start a movement . il 
whether the Bureau would be (the election of a president) is open to any groups, social as up to the Board of Trustee's. 
well as industrial, who wished to Father llesburgh answered recruit on campus. Prof. Allen questions concerned with the 
stated that the report emphasiz­results of the first meeting of the 
ed that the Placement Bureau ;wd always been under the con­University Forum by saying that "all hough not enough students 
trol of the Vice-President of came" and the dialogue "has to 
Public Affairs, Mr. James Frick who had stated that the Bureau
attrad a broader segml'nt of the would advocate an open policy
community", hl~ remained hope­for recruitment groups.
ful for its sun.:ess. II~ expressed discontent with the fact that the 
Of the eight recommendations proposed in the report, only twonwjority of the talk centered around the now famous Dow reached the floor tl uring the first session. The first, called for a continuation of the Placement Bureau under the Public Rela­tions Ofice with the stipulation 
that the Bureau work for the


Gargon presents background on Camus 
benefit of the students seeking interviews through that office. The recommendation was passed
by Pat lknnody 19th century French philoso­He also protrayed Camus as an lowed the sixty minute lecture. 
after a phrase that hfc1uded an 
phy. artist and a philosopher with a The entire encounter was
The Memorial Library endorsement of the "present 
Monday the After a description of those vague separation being placed most pleasurable and enjoyment Bureau policies" was strickenAuditorium was 
factors determining the philo­between the two. He called at­was to be found periodically
scene of an address delivcrctl by from the wording of the motion. 
sophical ideology of Camus, the tention to Camus in the realm of through the talk in the forms of
Professor Edward T. Gargan, a The second recommendation 
professor placed the remaining em· philosophy also as a great artist
professor of History from the puns regarding the questioning to be considered was originally University of Wisconsin. llis phasis of his lecture on the and creator. The mainstream of of structures of gnosticism rete­listed as the eighth on the report
specific works of Camus. His the latter dealing with the "pri­vent on the campus of Notre but was up due its
speech dealt with "The In­moved to 
treatment of the philosophical ma" of all historical stories,
nocence of Albert Camus." In Dame. structural nature which made it 
task of Camus with regard to "The Fall of Man" and Ablert Professor Gargan, a man dis­
the opening of the talk Mr. similar to the first proposal. This France's 19th century stand on Camus' treatment of it. tinguished in his field, provided for
Gargan gave a precise, detailed, recommendation called the 
moral philosophy was excellent. Doctor Gargan, a man of un­an interesting and educational
outline regarding the leaching Vice-President for Public Re­
Prof. Gargan also presented indi­q ucstionable ability, remained 60 minutes for all lations to direct
tradition within which Camus who sought the Bureau to had trained. From this point he viduals from whom Camus based just that during a short ques­greater knowledge of Albert clearly state its future policies his philosophical methodology. tion-answer period which fol-Camus.
moved into a brief treatment of (Continued on page 2) 


PAGE 2 THE OBSERIJBR. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1970 

Senate discusses Academic Appeals council 
by Jim Holsinger merman termed "a university ombudsman," with more power
The Academic Affairs in academic areas. It is hopedCommittee of the Student Sen­that the new ombudsman be aate will meet tonight to discuss a faculty member, reimbursed forproposal for an Academic Ap­his services, with a small staff ofpeals council to fill the void left students to work with him. Theby the termination of the Honor ombudsman would have con­Council. 
tacts in each college who wouldThe Committee seeks an ef­work with the deans and depart­fective vehicle for handling com­ment heads.
plaints by faculty and students The academic appeals councilconcerning cases of cheating, plagiarism, and unfair grading practices. 
Under the present system, coJ11plaints about academic in­justices are handled by the stu­dent ombudsman. All the om­
i budsman can do, though, is refer 
.
the case to the proper authority, 
usually the department head. 
'I~..I This inadequacy prompted Jim Smith, the student ombudsman, and Prof. John W. Houck of the Business Department to suggest the new measure. 
The proposal would recom­mend what Academic Affairs committee Chairman John Zim-John Zimmerman 
Refuse CIA use of 
(Continued from page 1) 
and print a brochure outlining the exact purpose of the Bureau. This motion was also easily pass­ed. 

The second recommendation was for the university to do all possible to stimulate recruitment on campus by educational institutions. It further recom­mended that "visible attempts to improve the Educational Place­ment Service should be made." After a minor change in wording suggested by Rich Meckel it was quickly passed. 
The third recommendation called for the Placement Bureau to provide funds for a column explaining the policies of organizations doing recruiting on campus. This column would pos­
r========--===~--. oriented organizations such as 
<.OPYRIGHI 1'~6<J,1. "'-CO 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE ·TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 

sible be printed in the Observer or the Scholastic. After much debate and amendment the reso­lution was passed. 
The fourth recommendation asked that interested members of this university be allowed and encouraged to man an area "not a great distance from" the Place­ment Bureau office in order to present to students information, either pro or con, concerning the practices and policies of inter­viewing organizations. After dis­cussion and minor changes in wording ("not a great distance from" to "near") the measure was passed. _ 
The next two recommenda­tions passed were very similar. The first asked the university to 
have the Placement Bureau en­courage recruitment by socially-
VISTA. The other called for the Placement Bureau to integrate summer employment opportuni­ties by groups such as Cila and VISTA into its program. 
The seventh recommendation asked for a reciprocal open poli­cy for the Placement Offices of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The university was also requested to explore all possibilities of the merger of the two offices. This recommendation was quickly passed by the SLC. 
The next measure to be voted on was Ted Jones' recommenda­tion to charge all profit-making organizations doing recruitment on campus a fee of from $50 to $75 dollars. This was quickly 
The nmt recommen ahon 
defeated,  with all  but Jones  
voting against it.  
·  h  d  ·  

was by far the most important Of the nl
. ht It t ted "G. 

g · s a : 1ven +-th_e_u_n_iv_e_r_si_t_y_a_s_a_co_n_l_m_u_n_it_y_i_n 
. Civil Engineering Sen10rs! Your future can be in transportation! 
Our expanding transportation engineering program includes an annual~ billion dollars in high way construction. 
No Exam -Tuition refunds for Graduage Study 
See our recruiter on Monday, February 16. Visit your Placement Office Now for brochures and Sign Up to hear the full story, or write to: 
Personnel Bureau New York State Department of Transportation State Campus Building 5, Albany, New York 12226 
would have complete judicial 
power over cases of cheating and 
the like. In the area of student 
complaints, it would take the 
form of a formal recommenda­
tion to the concerned depart­
ment head. 

Faculty members could 
submit any case of cheating or 
plagiarism to the council, and 
students owuld use the council 
as an appeals board after first 
consulting the teacher concerned 
and their advisors. 

The Academic Affairs Com­
mittee has issued an outline of 
the proposal which summarizes 
the idea of an appeals council. 
"This would not be 'just another 
committee' in a bureaucratic 
structure. This would be the one 
body empowered to accept com­
plaints from both sides, giving 
direction and guidlines in an 
academic area where none exist­
ed before," the committee state­
ment concluded. 

At tonight's meeting the com­
mittee will discuss the measure 
and recommend action to the 

campus 

which open discussion is a hall­mark then where even the possi­bility of discussion is non-exis­tent, the university should not involve itself (classified research, e.g.). Because It is the stated policy of The Central Intelli­gence Agency not to engage in discussion in any kind of form, even for the sake of defending its actions and operations, this agency should not be allowed to use campus interview facilities." This recommendation met with much debate, and was finally passed by a 13 to 8 vote. Those voting against the proposal were Observer editor Guy DeSapio, Mr. Faccenda, Mr. Hogan, Dean Lawless, Fr. McCarragher, Mr. 
UN delegates to be posted 

The Model United Nations Committee announced that the preliminary delegate list for the Model U.N. would be posted Monday morning in the Huddle. 
Aside from this posting, each delegate will be informed of his country and block by mail when the delegate information packets go out this month. 
Delegate Director Tim Walch emphasized that there were still many delegation spots open. "Only fifty-three delegations are represented thus far," Walch said, "And anyone who wishes to sign up may still do so by sending their delegate fee to me at 237 Breen-Phillips." 
Chairman Mike Kelly said that administrative committee meet­
· ngs would run throughout March and that the actual Gen­eral Assembly would be April 8 9 
1

an_d__·------------. struck Rodney Miles approxi­
mately two hundred yards out­side of the main gate on Notre Dame Avenue. He suffered in­juries to his left leg and a con­cussion. He was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital, where he was treated. Since the leg was not broken, he was released by Sat­urday. Pears said that poor visi­bility was the probable cause of the accident. 
Clothing Alterations done in my home 
lnge Bradburn 
52400 Helman Rd. 
South Bend 
272-2174 

Student Senate which meets on Chairman Zimmerman an­Thursday. The proposal by the nounced that the meeting to­Student Senate would take the night will be open, and that the form of an SLC bill, and the committee encourages students Academic Affairs Committee to attend and express their views will also send their recommenda­on the issue. The meeting is at 7 tions to the Academic Council p.m. in the Fiesta Lounge of :pHI the Faculty Senate. LaFortune Student Center. 
Rep. criticizes budget 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Chair­man George H. Mahon of the House Appropriations Commit­tee said Monday President Nixon's new budget will raise the national debt by more than $7 billion. Even so, he said it provides little extra money for new programs like cleaning up the environment. 
The Texas Democrat said un­less Congress is willing to raise taxes, it should not try to boost Nixon's spending proposals. 
"Everybody is shouting in a loud voice about the ecology, about cleaning up the environ­ment, about fighting crim_e, 


facilities 

Norling, Fr. Riehle and Fr. Schiltz. Many arguments pro and con were given. Fr. Riehle and Mr. Norling felt that the CIA was a necessary evil in this world. Dean Lawless cited the Berlin Airlift and the Cuban Missile Crisis as examples where the CIA was essential to this country's security and as such should not be banned on cam­pus. DeSapio felt that whether or not the CIA would consent to any discussion was unimportant since nothing new would be learned from such a discussion. 
The SLC also passed a motion asking the Placement Bureau to inform companies that the uni­versity is an open community and that they were free to send representatives to address the student body on their activities. 
The student body would be informed of the companies that were interested in such a pro­gram. If enough students were interested in hearing them speak the companies would be asked to send a representative. The Placement Bureau would also be directed to ask a company to send someone to talk about the company's activities if l 00 mem­bers of the community asked for such a meeting through a peti­tion. 
Auto accident, vandalism mar Mardi Gras weekend 
The injury of a Notre Dame student in a car accident was revealed by Arthur Pears, Direc­tor of Security, in an interview
yesterday. On February 4, a vehicle driven by John Hancock 
Other incidents were also re­vealed by Pears. The large iroii gate of St. Mary's was found torn off on Saturday morning. Four cases of larceny were re­ported from Stepan Center over the weekend. All four incidents ·were the theft of coats during 
Mardi Gras. 
A series of vandalism on Feb­

ruary 7 is believed to have been 
caused by visiting students, 
probably from Marquette Uni­
versity. In Badin Hall, a banister 
was wrecked and a lavatory 
water pipe were damaged. In 
Holy Cross Hall, windows were 
broken. In Grace Hall, a thermo­
stat and several light fixtures 
were destroyed. In Flanner Hall, 
ashtrays and an elevator control 
panel were broken. Campus 
Security believes that the stu­
dents who vandalized Flanner 
were from Michigan State 
University. 
about schools and all these other 
good programs,"  he  told  news­ 
men.  
"The  trouble  is  nobody  is  
shouting  in  a  loud  voice  that  

somebody has got to raise the money to pay the bills. We can't have all these glamorous new programs unless we find more revenues," he said. 
Austerity was the theme as Mahon's committee began its formal review of Nixon's $200.8 billion budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1 which shows a $1.3 billion surplus on the "uni­fied books." 
Treasury Secretary David M. Kennedy, Budget Director Rob­ert P. Mayo and Chairman Paul 
W. McCracken of the Council of Economic Advisors all insisted tight control on spending is needed to combat inflation. 
"The fiscal 1971 budget is an anti-inflationary budget...a pru­dent budget...as lean as we could make it," Mayo said. 
Mahon said although Nixon's budget is balanced on the "uni­fied" accounting system, it would be $7.1 billion in the red if the government still keeps its books the way it did before 1969. 
The government's overall bud­get figures now include, in addi­tion to regular day to day opera­tions, the income and expendi­tures by trust funds such as those set up exclusively to pay for Social Security and high­ways. 
Mahon said general funds must borrow at least $7 billion from the trust funds in the new budget, thus pushing the nation­al debt to above the $377 billion limit. Kennedy agreed that the limit must be raised again this year. 
"I point out these important facts in the hope that the head­lines in the papers indicating a budget surplus will not generate an atmosphere of complacency," Mahon said. 


Trustees will meet HPC 
by T. C. Treanor Sunday afternoon and return at nine in the evening. No definite
The Board of Trustees has topics of discussion have yetoffered to meet the Hall presi­been adopted.

dents informally for a banquet Other matters covered in thein a Michigan hunting lodge on short session include: March eighth, IIPC president An Tostal: The HPC stillTom Suddes revealed in a needs two thousand dollars frommeeting last night. 
the halls tofinance the
Suddes, a Holy Cross junior, mid-semester activities. Suddessaid that University Public counts on huge donations fromRelations man Jim Gibbons Grace and Flanner Halls to fillextended the invitation to him the financial gap. 

on behalf of the Trustees. The Sig-ins: Flanner Hall President schedule, not yet finalized, calls Phil Defliese announced thatfor the presidents to leave for Flanner Hall used unmannedthe hunting lodge at 3:30 sign-in desks last weekend during his absence. "It worked fine,"
,, •

Imh0 WinS Defliese reported, "until 
somebody stole the sign-in lists." 
Chicago-born Buz Imhoff Mardi Gras: Suddes reported scored a 1ear-u1,animous tri-that Dean of Students Fr. James umph last night to become 
Riehle had received numerous complaints concerning parietal violations and destruction of hall property over the Mardi Gras weekend. Com men ted Sud des on parietal hours and hall self-government: "I don't know where we'll end up. Perhaps they're right...lt's a question of enforcement. I don't know if I want to (enforce parietal rules and guard against damage to the halls), and I don't know if you as hall presidents want to." 
Coffeehouse: Flanner Hall president Defliese announced that his hall's coffeehouse was 
open  and  ready  for  business.  
Cover  charge,  said  Defliese,  
would be one dollar.  

Grand Prix: As of last night, Grand Prix is still on. 
President of the HPC, Tom Suddes, discussing parietal sign-ins and weekend violence at yesterday's meeting. 
Badin Hall's ~"ifty-ninth presi­dent. Imhoff, a .10pho more Blue 
Circle mer tber and a varsity baseball player, collected eighty-two of the ball's ninety­two valid ballots. No other can­
The most powerful visual didate collected more than two vr•les. lmh•>ff's name was the O•tly one on the ballot. 


statements from Psychology Today 
Imhoff succeeds retiring s~nior Bob Y/atson, who as­
sumed office last year after win­ning a heah'd contest with Dave Edmonds and S' .C me111ber Ron Mastriana. 
Freshman Bnb llig:~en easily beat back t1e '.lrite-ir• challenge of Junior T'Jm Egan lo cop the hall's vice-preddent race. Hig­gens, also fro n Chi·;ar;o, took sixty-eight ballots to E3an's six­teen. Eight ballots were scat­ten:d among other write-in can­didater.. 
In the doses~ race of the night, fresh 11an Frank Chartier 





3 Cocktail Chatter 4 Autistic Child
of Detroit ddeated fresh1nan Ed Ellis and Jose Oti to become the hall's secretary, Citartier col­lected thirty-nine vot~s to Ellis' twenty and Oti's sixteen. Four 
Now available as giant
votes were scattrred. Dan I:yan destroyed Dan 

2' x 3' full color posters
Thornton's upsd bid to win the dadin Hall treasury conte;,t. The :"orwalk, Con•1eticut freshman 
Hang them as posters
scored sixty to twelv·~ for Thorn­ton. J .C. Gros:;entrelter collected 

Frame them as prints 
(')even write-h votes. This election, in marked con­
These beautiful reproductions are lithographed on the
trast to the hall's previous presi­dential election, was conducted 
highest quality coated/grained stock. Truly collector's 
in relative p.:ace anti quiet. The 
items. Available in limited quantity only. 
votes were tabulatlld atld certi­fied by incumbe11t secretary 
Send your order today. 
John Casper Hannan. The tabulation PRESIDENT 
Order any three (your choice) and pay only
Imhoff 82 89.3% Scattered 10 10.7% 
$5.00 complete. The entire set of nine for just $12.50. 
Plurality for Imhoff 80 
VICE-PRESIDENT Higgens 68 73.9% 
~---------------------, 
PSYCHOLOGY TODAY POSTERS 



nl n [J
Egan 16 17.8% 
P. 0. Box 2968, Clinton, Iowa S2732 ~
l!_jl3_j
Scattered 8 8.8% 


2 n3 

Plurality for Higgens 52 
Please send the posters indicated ~ at right. 



[J[J
SECRETARY 

Chartier 39 41.5% Ellis 20 21.7% 
3 for $5.00 


GJ[J
9 for $12.50.

Oti 16 17.5% 
Scattered 17 19.3% 
(New York State and 
[J

Plurality for Chartier 19 
California residents please add sales tax.) 

TREASURER My check or Money Order for $ ______is Enclosed.
Ryan 60 65.2% Thornton 12 13.0% 
Name'-------------------
Grossetreur 11 11.9% Scattered 9 9.7% Plurality for Ryan 48 
Address__________________ 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except 
City _________ State____ZiP•--­
vacations by students of the 
University of Notre Dame and St. ~ Mary's College. Subscriptions may 022 
I 2-oso.-1-t s o 3 6 
be purchased for $8 from The Observer. Box 11. Notre Dame, 
~---------------------~ 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556.
..________ 









TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1970
PAGE 4 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorials: 

Southern hypocrites? 
The Southern governors engaged in a remarkable hypocrisy over the weekend in their statements about the Supreme Court's orders for immediate school desegregation in their states. 
Ever since the Court's ruling setting Feb. 1 as the desegregation deadline Southern Governors have been attempting through the Courts to gain extra time to implement the Supreme Court's 1954 desegregation order. Time and time again their appeals have been turned down. Some of the Governors like John McKeither of Louisiana are still trying. 
We believe in the Supreme Court's orders and civil rights decisions. We feel however that the Southern states have every right to appeal for more time through the courts. The Southern governors' suggestions made through their meeting in Mobile over the weekend suggest however that they will not be willing to abide eventually by the courts' conclusions. If the courts do not rule in the State's favor, one governor suggests, the States will have to move on their own with actions even if they are contrary to the Supreme Court's orders. 
Some of the Governors in question have been the prime proponents for law and order. They will be the first to argue that the government should clamp down on law breakers, make the streets safe, and teach all those who engage in civil disobedience respect for the laws of the United States. 
Now the shoe is on the other foot. When faced with a law which they don't particularly like, some of the governors seem very willing to ask the people of their states to break the law-to oppose the integration efforts. A governor's responsibility is to engender respect for the law of the land, to see it is enforced. We feel that governors who encourage their citizens to break the law should be held accountable for their actions. 
At the same time, the governors have a legitimate case when they argue that civil rights laws are not uniformly enforced. In many of the urban centers in the North, there is commensurate inequity. We hope that the Justice Department will make strides to ensure that the Civil Rights Laws are pushed with equal vigor in Northern States. 
That simple fact, however, does not exonerate the South or justify their arguments for more time. They have been given 15 years advance notice of the move. It is time that they are forced to move. Every effort should be ,ma_9_eto help individual communities to overcome their local problems-but the time has come to act-for justice's sake. 

Favor Nutting 

The recent action by several Notre Dame and St. Mary's students asking that the pre­sent offi~e of Uni~ersit~ President be divided into a Presidency and a Chancellorship de­serves senous consideratiOn by the Board of Trustees. 
The idea has been brought up almost every year since Father Hesburgh began spending a large amount of time away from campus working to enhance the national stature of the University. The question asked is whether the present practice of having a Vice-President act as President while Fr. Hesburgh is away is adequate for Notre Dame. 
Critics point to the confiscation of Vasciline last spring and this fall's Dow-CIA demonstration, as questioning whether or not the tensions could have been avoided if a President, instead of an Acting President, had been here. 
Others though insist that the events would have occurred whether or not the University's acknowledged head had been here. They say that at all times, the Acting President has full power and is free to make decisions during times of crisis. Critics counter, however, by suggesting that most confrontation could be avoided if students had a recognized full time President with whom they had repour and with whom they were in constant communication. 
What, if any changes are needed, could best be ascertained through a thorough study of the problem. The Trustees now examine the President and the Vice-Presidents each year to see whether or not they should be replaced. We think the Trustees should make a thorough examination of the Chancellor-President idea this year and make some sort of affirmative statement. 
The discussions have reached a peak on campus during the last couple of weeks with the Scholastic issue on the potential successors to Father Hesburgh and the Willis Nutting for President Campaign. 
Professor Nutting has indeed made a remarkable contribution to Notre Dame. Through the years, students who have come in contact with him have acknowledged his ability to spark enthusiasm for intellectual pursuit-a rarity in many classrooms today. Such a talent is a rare gift-privileged is the university that has such men-privileged is the 
student who has the opportunity to sit in on such an individual's class. 
We cannot comment on Professor Nutting's and any of the individuals mentioned in the Scholastic articles qualifications for the office of President. We feel however that it is a remarkable tribute to Professor Nutting that his students would feel so strongly about his character and concern for students that they would propose that he be made University President. Although we do not feel that it would be appropriate to comment on the Nutting for President Campaign other than to say that we add one voice to paying tribute to an admirable faculty member. 
Night Editors: John Knorr, Dave  Sweeney, Patty  Lipscomb, Tom  Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney  
Bach  Law  SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear  
Layout  Design:  Mary  Chris  Healines: Jim G.raif  Features Editor: Dave Stauffer  
Morrison  Business Mgr.: Joe Wemhoff  Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin  
Layout:  Ann  Conway,  Jeanne  Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode,  Photo Editor: Mike Murphy  

1ftI Ft:El-THAT EVe:R y NOTRE J)I\ME 
STUD~ NT IS OPPOSED TO PHYSICAL. VIOL.t:N cE, I TJS IW STlTUTIONAL.. \JIOLENCE WE MOST AVOID~... ANI> YOU HAVE 15' MINVT~~ TO A&Rt:~. 
John Knorr The once 

and future King 
Campus politics has undergone dramatic changes in the last four 
years, particularly in idealogical thought of the leader in power, and 
in style. Not since early in the 1960's has ND been plagued with 
dull, year after year conformity among student political leaders. 
Times have changed indeed! 
It all started back on April I, 1967 (an ironic date) when cowboy 
Chris Murphy took office. Armed with the first set of long sideburns 
on campus, a pair of genuine Maryland cowboy boots, and a flashing 
smile, Chris cut a dashing figure. What little Chris did accomplish, 
when he wasn't zipping around the country with Fr. Ted pushing 
SUMMA, he did with style. Chris had the seemingly quaint 
philosophy that politics should be monetarily rewarding, and it 
rubbed off on his administration to the tune of a 'deficit' that will 
be long felt. 
The spring of '68 brought Richard Rossi and "Student Power" to 
the front of Notre Dame politics. Richard, though not the dresser his 
predecessor was, had always been a 'big' man in ND politics. Though 
plagued by his constant 'fired' up sidekick, Richard. '}did instill a 
great deal of activism among the politically inclined of the campus. 
Though possibly his administration did too much demanding and 
not enough asking through proposals and dialogue, Rossi showed 
that the best success that can be enjoyed comes through hard work 
and constant effort. 
Power again changed hands when Phil McKenna won a close and 
hard fought election from his favored opponent John Mroz last year. 
It is hard to say what style Phil has given the office since he 
gained power. However, I did overhear two freshmen talking on their 
way to class the other day and one said, "I heard that Phil McKenna 
was going to ...."but he was cut off by the other's puzzled queary of 
"Who?". Even though we cannot pinpoint Phil's elusive political 
style, his political philosophy is easier to trace. It seems to be one 
that advocated the principle much seen in the US Senate and 
Congress, that politics should be fun -and indeed fun it is. A gleeful 
time has been had by all as they merrily bypass important issues, 
speak out on hilarious things like the Chicago Weathermen, and 
happily romp about their third floor offices. 
Ho~ever, the time has drawn nigh to once again replace the present leader with a new, fresh face. At the start of the year there were two frontrunners for the position. The first was the soft spoken hard working · semi-moderate politician and man of letters from the north quad, and the other was the good looking, equally hard working, though not as well known, contender from the south quad. However, after much soul searching it has become apparent that for different reasons neither desires the position any longer. That leaves us with the question, "Who will our next pace-setter be?" Many names have been thrown around the 'upper echelon' circles these last two weeks and one is led to repeat the question 'who?, The names that have been suggested are like suggesting that Horace Clarke, Jerry Kenney, and Thurman Munson have the potential to build another Yankee dynasty. 
In a way it is sad that there is no dashing leader to keep the image pattern going that has been established the last three years. Maybe we have indeed come to theimQasseT. H. White describeS; in his book 
The Once and Future King. 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1970 THE OBSERV!R. 
PAGE 5 


Grand Funk stunk, Frye worse! 
• 1111111111111111111111.11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
-• North 
-
-
••­
S-J432
•

~ Dave Stauffer 
H-KJ
-
-

. --.-• D-Ql02
-
• C-K1074 
East 

.----Pigs .--West
-

-
by Jim E. Brogan 
Although the rumors were flying that the only reason that David Frye was contracted to play at Notre Dame last Friday was because he was some distant relative of Student Union Business Manager, Joe Frye, nothing could be 
further from the truth. They are obviously not related, and in truth, Joe could have been better on stage than his namesake, David. Anybody could have. 
lie was a good impressionist, but a poor comedian. His voice and gestures for the most part were fair, hinting even at brillance' at times, but only if you were close enough to see him. It was lucky for those who bought bleacher seats that the more expensive seats in front of them were largely vacant and they could move closer to the worst concert Notre Dame has seen in recent years. 
Frye would have been good at a party' fair in a nightclub, but in a sports arena he could and maybe should have been ignored. In order to compensate for the size of the auditorium and his poor delivery, he shouted when he came to a line that he enjoyed; and in fact many times he was the only one of an estimated 
4,500  concert  attenders  that  liked  his  
lines.  
!lis  faulty  delivery  became  most  

obvious as he attempted to impersonate Jack Benny, the old master of the comic pause. lle had the Benny walk, the Benny gestures, part of the Benny voice, but 
•
-
!: 
With a half-hearted jump Mark avoided one of the numerous puddles which had been left by the morning's steady rain. The afternoon sun was bright, and it glis­tened off the windows dotting the back of the bookstore. Funny, Mark thought; he had never noticed those windows before. But now he was sure a thousand eyes behind those windows were watching every move he made. He swallowed hard, but resolved to carry through. 
As he held the door open for a nun in a 
blue habit, Mark realized that for the first 
time this year he had approached by way 
of the sidewalk behind Walsh. He usually 
went under the breezeway between the 
bookstore and Gilbert's to look at 
clothes; but the fact that he didn't do so 
convinced him that his singularness of 
purpose had excluded any regular triviali­
ties. 
Entering the foyer, he wondered if the 
nun who had just left ever thought of 
stealing. Of course she had: he remember­
ed that the waitress at the Huddle had 
told him about the nuns taking all the 
sugar and salt on the counters. But that 
wasn't quite the same Mark told himself. 
But what's the difference Mark asked 
himself. A damn nun never had to buy a 
$2.95 book for twenty pages of reading. 
Walking into the main part of the 
building, Mark quickly scanned the 
check-out counters. The middle-aged 
woman with brown hair and glasses was 
at the counter where you pick up film; 
the colored lady who always wore a loose 
green over-shirt was in the middle, and 
the young but not particularly attractive 
girl was at the counter with all the pens. 
lie could feel them staring at him as he 
turned toward the stairway. Why do they 
have to stare'! Now everyone at the 
counter would be staring, including John, 
who would wonder why Mark had passed 
without talking. 
The steps lasted forever. Mark couldn't 
figure out if he was walking slower or if 
he had just never noticed that it was such 
a long walk to the second floor. No 
matter; the turnstile at the top of the 
stairs had just attacked him, as it always 
did, and a laughing sigh at last escaped his 
tense lips. But the matter at hand quickly 
restored his stiff, dead-serious attitude. 
none of the Benny timing. When he 
should have paused, he rushed; and rather 
than playing it low key, counting on good 
material, he loudly forced what material 
he had on the audience with a booming 
voice. He wanted to make sure we didn't 
miss any of his wit, so he shouted it to us 
when he got a chance. 

Perhaps rather than shouting "I am the 
president, I am the president", he could 
have been saying "I am a comedian, I am 
a comedian, please believe me I am a 
comedian, I think," even though he is 
not, maybe it would give him the 
confidence that he needs. And when he 
lost his notes (who ever heard of any 
decent comedian on stage having to 
depend on notes?) he stated "I don't 
need my notes, I need comedy material." 
David, you were so right. And while 
you're out looking for material, try and 
develop a comic delivery to complement 
your impressions. 

And even though a number of yahoos and philistines in the audience, whose favorite occupation obviously is writing graffiti on john walls, enjoyed and even cheered at the earthy humor. There is certainly no place and no excuse for this type of burlesque humor at the school of 
Our Lady. Mr. Frye showed an extreme 
lack of taste, in spite of the fact that he was forced to try a different type of humor, after his earlier flop with clean material. 
But the worst was yet to come. Much of the audience had never eve , heard of 
.• S-Kl098 S-Q765
-

around; Mark realized the big rush at the beginning of the semester was over. Good. 
But on second thought it wasn't good at all. Granted, there would be few people to see him; but he would be much more vulnerable, more in the open ­more likely to be seen by an employee. lle cursed himself for being stupid enough to assume an uncrowded hour would be best. No matter now; he was determined to carry through. 
Attempting to act naturally and at the same time gaze constantly from side to side, Mark made his way to bin 24, History, with a brief stop at the drama bin to make a final survey of the entire area. No one was at the history bin; no one was watching. 
Everyone was watching. Where had they all come from? Mark couldn't under­stand, for when he had disappeared be­tween the bins the place was empty. Now a thousand gazes fell upon him. The bearded professor seemed to stare intent­ly at the latest fiction, but Mark knew that he was watching too. Why don't they all mind their own business? 
Mark stiffened his right arm and ner­vously approached the check-out counter. The book was suddenly big bulky and heavy. How could he avoid detection? How could he have thought seconds ago 
that  his  winter  coat  concealed  it  com­ 
pletely?  
As  he  hurried  between  the  box  of  

posters and the last o er, he noticed 
that both women had stopped punchinJ; • the register and now stared at him intent­ly. As he descended the steps he felt their stares, the stares of the customers; as he hurried out the front door he felt the stares of the world. 
Faceless, colorless, and plain, they attacked him as he stepped outside. Plunging their knives into his body deeper and deeper, faster and faster; the sweat flowed freely from his body. A prolong­ed, forceful thrust to the throat finally broke his resistance. Lying on the pave­ment in a pool of blood, exhausted but 
relaxed, crushed but ecstatic, Mark realized that stealing a book was hardly the sin he had previously thought it to be. With a smile of accomplishment and 
the Grand Funk Railroad, let alone heard 
any of their material; and most don't 
wish to hear it again. 
Judging from the number of people who left during the GFRR performance (presumably to the infirmary to see if anything could be done about broken eardrums) this would have to be considered the worst concert in the last four years at Notre Dame. Never before have Du Lac students flocked from their expensive, middle range, or bleacher cheap seats to escape an act. Last year Phil Borneo Jr. was terrible, everybody that payed stayed. 
The Grand Funk RR had to be the heaviest thing ND has seen since the last time the dining hall served pancakes for breakfast. If heavy means loud, they were heavy; but if heavy has any conotations of being enjoyable, they were light -very light. 
They were good musicians, but the previews that put them in the same league as the Cream were simply lying. About the only way that they resembled the Cream was that they had only 3 members. Beyond that they were only the average rock group. 
The lead guitarist tried to be a Jimi 
by Dan Zirker 



Bridge 

H-32 South H-Q95 D-J975 S-A D-8643 C-986 H-A108764 C-AS 
D-AK C-QJ32 

North West 
I NT Pass p
2NT 
p
4 Clubs 

p p 
A bidding system that has gained popu­larity in the past decade is the Big Club, a brainchild of Howard Schenken, one of America's greatest players. The heart of this system is the One Club opening, which is entirely artificial, and denotes a hand of seventeen or more high card points. Any other suit opening in this system denies 17 H.C.P. Responder an­swers to I Club as follows: with less than 9 HCP an artificial I Diamond Bid; with over 9 HCP or more he responds natural­ly. At this point, holding a guaranteed 26 HCP, the partnership is forced to game. The Schenken system is at its best on 
-

Hend~ix~ and the Who combined, but like most Jmi~at~rs he fell way short. He was a good gUJtanst., he .was enthusiastic (he even ~ook his shirt off to show his enthusiasm), but he was only a fair imitation, nothing more. Let it suffice to say that the drummer was no Ginger 
Baker.  
Their  lyrics  said  nothing,  and  their  
music  less,  if  that's  possible.  For  
supposedly  heavy  music,  they  had  
amazingly  simple  tunes  that  were  

repetitive to the point of boredom. 
They never even got around to the best cut on their first album, also their biggest single to date, called Time Machine. This is not quite so overpowering as the songs they attempted on stage and left many wondering if they could even play such a tune. Can they do anything except drive crowds away? 
Their best offering of a bad lot was their opening tune called Are You Ready, and two others In Need and Heartbreaker showed some promise, but their overall effect was somewhere between devastation and boredom. 
Only superlatives can describe this concert. The most horrible, the most wretched, or simply the worst. 
South East 1 Club Pass 2 Hearts 
p 
p

3 Clubs 
p

6 Clubs slam hands, for after a l Club opener and a positive response the partnership has a great deal of bidding space to explore for the best contract. In the above deal, the I NT response denoted a balanced hand of 9-11 points. When the rebids brought out the club fit, South knew the odds wete good for a successful slam in that suit. Since both Hearts and Clubs split 3-2 the play was a simple matter of drawing trump and setting up the hearts with a ruff in dummy. In a team of four match this hand showed the advantage of the Shenc­ken system, as a team playing standard American stopped at 4 Hearts. 
There weren't many people milling satisfaction, he vowed to steal again. Toni~ht's yol!r last chance to win it all back. Drop by and lose hom 7 -11. p.m. 
PAGE 6 711E OBSERVER..__:_..::.___::______________T~.::.U::..:ES::.::D:..:...A:..:.Y~.F_EBR_UARY 10, 1970_ 
Fr.O'brien causes confusion among laity 
"Dear Father John," the let­arguing ' with the 1970 John A. control in the early 1960's (he with force before Vatican II, is authorities, Father O'Brien has O'Brien by using old materials was also one of the first expon­now ensconced in parishes, and predicted the acceptance of
ter to one of the University of found in the book-and pam.. ents of the rhythm method in the ecumenical movement not optional celibacy within fiveNotre Dame's most widely phlet-lined office of his secretary the early 1930's), he has never only has reached the point years and, like Msgr. Georgt:known theologians began, "I am challenged the Church on funda­where Father O'Brien wanted to Casey of Boston, a fellow syn­
very disturbed when I read would be easy for anyone. While about you and your activities. his early works were often de­mental doctrine. He feels the see it, but also has perhaps gone dicated columnist, he has called issues which lately have engaged beyond it. "I sometimes think upon the Pope to rescind his
You were a dear friend who was signed to explain and defend his pen-the vernacular liturgy, a encyclical backing the tradi­
a spiritual inspiration to me." controversial stances of. the Cath­we may have ignored the fact The interesting thing about ollc Church, his contemporary larger voice for the laity, greater that no basic dogmas of the tional Church position on arti­ficial birth controL
this letter is that it 'was not add­writings are often careful criti­openness in the Church, celi­Church have been changed," he ressed to one of the many ques of Church positions he no bacy, birth control, and the in­said recently after revismg In "Catching Up with the "young Turk" priests found longer considers tenable. To his ternationalization of the Roman "Faith of Millions" for its 27th Church," a best-selling volume in critics, this is evidence of incon­Curia-are all legitimate subjects e d i t i o n in nine languages.. which Father O'Brien tried to do
today on the campus of Notre Dame and other Catholic univer­sistency; to his friends, it is evid­for forthright debate among Ecumenism is also another area for the post-Vatican II Church loyal members of the Church. "I what he had earlier done for the
sities, but to Father· John A. · ence of growth. where John A. O'Brien's grass­O'Brien, a veteran research theo­Father O'Brien holds a Ph.D. still consider my position," he roots work has borne fruit. Vir­pre-conciliar one, he wrote, 
said recently, "to be in the main­"The emphasis of the Church
logian who finds himself on the in educational psychology from tually sing lehandedly, he has cutting-edge of renewal in the the University of Illinois, where stream of orthodox Catholic brought the Masons and Knights must be shifted from dialectics Church. he spent 22 years in pioneer thought, and I treasure my of Columbus in this country and polemics to the positive, 
Newman Center work, including priesthood as highly today as I from positions of aloofness and constructive and remedial service The correspondence that jams the first permanent accredited did on the day of my ordination distrust to friendship and good­vital relition is capable of render­the small, wooden mailbox out­
side Father O'Brien's modest courses in religion taught in a some 50 years ago." wilL . ing." It is perhaps the best apartment in the Administration Newman Foundation at a state Father O'Brien's role has been Other changes he may not live summation of his own philoso·­Building comes from many university. He did post-doctoral that of a bridge between the to see. In the face of holding phy. 
sources-publishers, ·eaitors, tel­work at Oxford University, the 1: rant garde theologians of the actions on the part of Church low theologians in this country University of Chicago and the t lUrch and the ordinary Catho­
and abroad, to name a few-but University of Mexico before li. in the Sunday pews. He has much of it is written by "Middle coming to the University of not been an innovative theolog­Americans" who have trusted Notre Dame in 1940. Ordained a ian exploring new ground in 
Notes finance problem 
John A. O'Brien since they first priest of the diocese of his native theological journals, nor has he read one of his 25 books or Peoria, Ill., he transferred to the been an expert invited to the Se­(Continued from page 1) and solely. Father Hesburgh more than 100 pamphlets. diocese of Fort Wayne-South cond Vatican Council or Church lauded the Dept. of Non­
allegations that law enforcement Bend when he came to Notre synods. He has however, in the
The wonder of John A. is waging an "all-out war to get Violence as instrumental in re­
Dame. millions of words he has written
O'Brien-and the cause of some the Panthers," saying that he lieving tensions here and saving 
of the confusion of a few of his His widespread reputation as in books, pamphlets and articles would have to wait for the the university from the type of old friends-is that he has man­the most effective priest in the in mass media, translated the 
Chicago Grand Jury to "get to destructive violence that has aged to keep his footing in a c-:mvert apostolate grew out of sometimes abstruse ideas of spe­the bottom of the facts" before plagued other campuses. He his tireless work in the 194Q's cialists into a language common
Church whose terrain has making a conclusion. went on to say that he felt that changed markedly from the time when he travelled throughout to the vast number of average Among other remarks Father "every Notre Dame student is the nation, training diocesan Catholics. While theologians
he wrote "The Faith of Mill­Hesburgh said that in event of opposed to physical violence" ions," a 1938 classic in apologet­priests in the art of attracting have been writing for other theo­another Dow confrontation this and that the problems arose in 
churchless people to the Church. logians, Father O'Brien has been 
ics which has sold more than a month only the university would the application of this principal million copies, to his editorship It is ironic that some dioceses translating for the rest of the have the right to enforce the to what he termed "institutional
People of God in publications
last year of "Why Priests Leave," which once welcomed him as a injunction barring blocking of violence." the personal stories of 12 priests nationally known apologist now such as "Look" and "Reader's the Placement Office and that Hesburgh concluded by re­look upon him as somewhat Digest," no mean feat in a day
who left the active ministry. police would not be allowed on marking on his own concern for When someone once challen­"radicaL" when the pace of change is so campus unless called. When the plight of the American 
The tag "radical" is one which fast.
ged something he had written by questioned as to who would Indian and said that Cotton 
producing an extract from one Father O'Brien will not accept. Many of the changes make the final decision Hes­Bowl receipts which should of his old books, Father O'Brien Despite all the headlines which advocated by Father O'Brien burgh said that he wo~ld be amount to "a couple hundred calmly replied, "I have changed have followed him since his lib­have come to pass-the verna­consulted but declined to say thousand dollars" would be 
my mind." Indeed, the job of eral pronouncements on birth· cular liturgy, which was debated that he would de.cide directly directed into minority recruit­
LOOKlNG FOR A UNlQUE WAY TO SAY YOU KNOW WHAT TO YOU KNOW WHO? 
WHAT BETTER WAY THAN TO SAY IT 
I 

WITH AN OBSERVER VA LENTINE? 
For only a dollar you can express your deepest sentiments to your dear one 
Just Right For: -l. Announcing a Valentine's Day Engagement 
2. 
Telling the girl of your dreams that you never had the courage to face about your true and ever lasting love. 

3. 
That special someone to whom you would like to offer the world. 

4. 
The special guy in your life who you would like to thank for everything? 


Fill in your message here 
(12 words for one dollar) 
It will appear in Friday's OESER VER in our special Valentines Day Yours lovingly,Edition {in-hearts and flowers, of course) 
THE OBSERVER 
Mail to Box 11 or stop by the OBSERVER office by Thursday noon. 
i'.S. For an extra quarter we will mail Friday's OESER VER to your hometown honey (or honies) 
ment involving blacks, Mexican­Americans, and American lndains. He announced progress in the search for a director for the Black Studies Program, another object of Cotton Bowl receipts, and said that ten men have been interviewed, including ~ne black Doctor of Sociology whom Hesburgh said had "re­ceived the offer" but who wanted to meet with black stu­dents before accepting or reject­ing it. 
Mrs. King spea"s out on blac"s 
LONDON (UPI) -Martin Luther King's widow, Coretta, Monday accused President Nixon of slowing the civil rights fllOvement and said Black Pan­
'thers awaiting trial were being unjustly treated. 
Mrs. King, in London on the first stop of a tour promoting her book, "My Life With Martin Luther King," said the Nixon administration was being overly influenced by the South and was bent on following what it thought most Americans wanted 
with regard to Negro civil rights. 

Mrs. King said Americans were willing to move toward complete integration of the races, but Nixon was not willing to give the positive leadership that is "desperately needed." 
As for the Black Panthers, Mrs. King said some members of that militant group had been in jail for six months without trial. 

.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
... 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 197Q--------------------------~~uu~~~Cl~~~~~--._------------------------------------------~P~AGE 7 
Integration --'de jure' versus 'de facto'? 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Accusing the North of "monu­mental hypocrisy," Sen. Abraham Ribicoff, (D. Conn.), called Monday for both govern­ment and business to work to integrate Northern suburbs. 
"If Sen. John Stennis wants to make honest men of us Northern liberals, I think we should help him," Ribicoff told the Senate. He promised to sup­port the Mississippi Democrat's proposal under which schools segregated because of residential patterns would be considered in violation of civil rights laws the same as those segregated by Jaw or local custom. 
Ribicoff, onetime secretary of llealth, Education and Welfare, (HEW) was the first Northern senator to openly support Sten­nis' proposal, one of at least nine amendments offered by South­erners to a four year, $35 billion school aid authorization hill pending before the Senate. 
Stennis and other Southerners have accused HEW of ignoring Northern segregation while clamping down on Southern school segregation. 
Just before Ribicoff'sspeech, Stennis recited HEW statistics which showed hundreds of all white and all black schools in the North. 
HEW has acknowledged that it distinguishes between the South's "de jure" segregation ­separate white and Negro school systems -and the North's "de facto" segregation which results from distinct white and Negro neighborhood patterns. Stennis' amendment is designed to elimi­nate the distinctions. 
"We must be honest with ourselves," Ribicoff said. "Our problem is not only the dual systems of education...the more fundamental problem is the dual society that society that exists in every metropolitan area -th~ 
black society of the central city and the white society of the suburb. 
"Massive school segregation does not exist because we have segregated our society and our neighborhoods," he said. 
" ... The North is guilty of monumental hypocrisy in its treatment of the black man. Northern communities have been as systematic and consis­tent as Southern communities in denying to the black man and his children the opportunity that exists for white people." 
Ribicoff said 80 per cent of new metropolitan area jobs in the past 20 years are located in suburbs. He said discrimination 
More news about happenings
•

1n the War in Vietnam 
SAIGON (UPI) -South Viet­namese troops Jed by U.S. Green Berets clashed with North Viet­namese regulars yesterday in the fourth day of a battle 60 miles west of Saigon. Other U.S. troops found a Communist ar­senal contianing 3,000 rifles and tons of ammunition. Field re­ports said the four day battle on the marshy Plain of Reeds six miles from the Cambodian bor­der had cost the North Viet­namese 117 men killed. Allied losses were placed at 22 killed and 25 wounded with a brunt of the fighting borne by South Vietnamese forces. 
Military sources said a North Vietnamese soldier captured on the Plain said his outfit, the 88th Regiment, was trying to move on the Dinh Tuong capital of My Tho, 34 miles southwest of Sai­gon. It is a major Meking Delta river city and the headquarters for the 7th Division of the South Vietnamese army. 
At least 12,000 North Viet­namese troops are known to be stationed in the delta along with others across the border in Cam­bodia the sources said. Some intelligence reports have indicat­ed that Honoi is planning a major offensive in the delta rice­bowl to test the ability of South Vietnamese troops who haw re­placed American ground forces in the sprawling area. 
The huge store of Communist rifles and ammunition was found by American Green Beret jungle fighters poking through a com-· plex of bunkers 45 miles north­east of Saigon in Long Khanh province along the Cambodian 
Exhibit Callot works, discussion & sale 
A public reception and sale of works of Jacques Callot, father of French printmaking, will be held in the Saint Mary's College Moreau Gallery of Art on Fri­day, February 13, 1970. This 
SUAC presents Pauf·Goodman 
The Student Union Academic Commission will present Paul Goodman, noted poet, essayist, and reviewer on Sunday, September I 5, at 8:00 PM in the Library Auditorium. A native of New York city, the self pro­claimed anarchist will speak on "Contemporary Mis-Education". 
A graduate of CCNY, Good­man received his doctorate from the University of Chicago where he was a member of the faculty before the appearance of his first works in 1942, Stop Light, a 
group of five dance poems, and The Grand Piano. a novel. He is editor of Liberation, a frequent event, scheduled for 7:30 p.m. (EST), will conclude an exhibit of Callot works which has been displayed in the Gallery since January 18. 
In conjunction with the recep­tion, there will be a discussion of the etcher's technique, print collecting, and the works of Callot which will be conducted by Richard-Raymond Alaska, director of the Moreau Gallery of Art. Also participating in the discussion will be Lemuel M. Joyner, specialist in graphics and assistant professor of art of Saint Mary's College; Dean A. Porter, curator of the University of Notre Dame Art Gallery; Roman 
J. Radecki, director of South Bend's Radecki Art Galleries; and John Wilson, director of Lakeside Studios in Lakeside, Michigan, and a lender to the exhibition. 
There is no admission charge to any of the functions and the public is welcome to attend and participate. 
frontiers. Reports from the 
scene said 

the cache, first discovered last week, included more than 4,000 mortar and rocket rounds, scores of rocket propelled grenades and a variety of other weapons. 

AISEC aids foreign job offers 
by Jim Hayes Want a job with a firm in Asia, Latin America, Europe? The Notre Dame chapter of AISEC, the International Association of Students in Eco­nomics and Business, may be able to help you. AISEC is an international organization which operates out of headquarters in Rotterdam. It has local chapters in 47 coun­tries on six continents. The organization, through its local chapters, recruits job openings for an international exchange of job trainees. The trainees are employed by a firm which pays the student a tax-free stipend of $ 7 0 -II 0 a week to cover nominal living costs while he is overseas. The corporation which employs an AISEC exchange stu­dent also pays a small fee to the organization for placement and administration costs. The Notre Dame chapter of AISEC is one of the most active chapters in this world-wide or­
ganization. With a membership ,-----------------------------, 
of approximately 93 students, it is the largest local chapter in the world. The association is active not only in the placement of foreign students, but also has important fund raising and pub-
lie relation functions as well. 
In 1969, Aisec placed over 5,000 students in exchange pro­grams in business, included in this number were 9 Notre Dame students. This year, 31 appli­
cants have med applications to 
go overseas from the local t----=-----=-.:...__.:___::_.:..._;.....:..-=...-=-=-=.:=-===-='--'=.;==----i 
AISEC chapter. Joe Loughrey, Local club president, empha­sized that the organization is run 
contributor to Resistance and....--------------------------....--! 
the author of Growing Up Absurd. 
Called a "non-realist" and a "man of startling individuality" by various reviewers of his work, Godman often, in his essays discusses parent-children rela­tionships, the institution of marriage, and the modern ideas of city and regional planning. 
VALENTINE'S DAY 
CARDS AND GIFTS 
AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
and the high prices of suburban homes keep Negroes in city ghettoes. 
"We cannot solve our urban crisis unless we include the su­burbs in the solution," Ribicoff said."... Improving the Ghetto is 


Policy hurts education 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Five Deep South governors said yes­terday the federal government's "desegregate now" school policy threatens to devastate their pub­lic education systems. 
They particularly objected to midterm desegregation dead­lines, "busing" of pupils to achieve racial balance and the application of exclusive desegre­gation standards to I 2 Southern states. 
The governors, from Louisi­ana, Alabama, Mississippi, Geor­gia and South Carolina, ex­pressed their views in copy­righted interviews with U.S. News & World Report. 
"In my judgment, it has been an absolute, utter disaster. It is a disaster for public education," said Gov. John J. McKeithen of Louisiana. 
"The future of the Mississippi system of public education at this point is in serious jeopar­dy," said Gov. John Bell Wil­liams. 
"Turmotl, tear, contusiOn ... 
in some areas, the public school 
system is going to be almost 
destroyed," said Gov. Lester 
Maddox of Georgia. 
"These court orders, the con­stant shifting about of pupils and teachers to maintain a racial balance, the taking of young children out of their neighbor­hood school areas -these sorts of things are demoralizing ... and there is going to be a serious loss of public support for public education ..." said Gov. Albert Brewer of Alabama. 
"... This order has come at the worst possible time -in the middle of the school year. It is almost impossible to implement it. The effect on our public education system could be seri­ous," said Gov. Robert E. McNair of South Carolina. 
None expressed real hope that relief might be forthcoming from the courts, but none advo­cated violence to resist. 
not enough ... how much more sensible, both in terms of eco­nomic growth and simple humanity, it would be to open up our suburbs to the black and the poor so that they live near their places of employment." 
on a reciprocal basis. "Tills mean," he pointed out, ''that for every student the local chapter wishes to place overseas, we must find a local business willing to take on an exchange trainee from overseas." 
The Notre Dame chapter is 
one of the most active groups in the organiz-;_tion. Recently, Paul Roberts, an N.D. student, was appointed Asian co-ordinator for AISEC-US. In his role, he will coordinate the exchanges be­tween Asia and the United States. Roberts explained the role he plays, "the job has three functions: Public Relations, coordination, and being a good will ambassador, and a represen­tative at the Asian President's 
meeting." 
The officers of the club in­
clude: Joe Loughrey-President, 
Jim Wisner--Secretary, Terry 
Hennen-Director, Paul Roberts­
-Asian Coordinator, and John 
Donaghue-Publicity Director. 
Jim Wisner emphasized several things about the club: "It's run more like a business than a club, the organization provides stu­dents with contacts in business, it is highly organized, set up more like an corporation than an informal club." 
The organization was first started on campus in 1963. After a couple years of activity it sort of died out, only to be revived last year. It experienced phenomenal growth over the last year nad has increased its mem­bership from 15 to 92 members. 
Besides gaining on-the-job ex­perience overseas, the AISEC or­ganization provides other advan­tages to its members. It gives members a chance to meet people involved in business, giv­ing them a chance to discuss problems and develop friend­ships with them. Another im­portant job is in the area of public realtions. A third, is in­volved with the reception of foreign students. 
A ttentlon Observer Staff 
Some Dome pictures did not tum out. Tlze following groups will have their pictures retaken this afternoon at Stepan Center. 
3·.30 All night editors and associate editors 
4:00 Wednesday and Thursd'ay night staffs, sports staff and reporters 
Editors wear coats and ties. 


~-.[·f.J.
~. _·USC ·...~J'~a«,-~·: 
(~~ftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES ANDCONTACTLENSES-­
TI/E S!lERLAND BLJ1G. 132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
2 






~~1ltvzOJt J-. 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.-· Chicago 
PAGE 8

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1970 THE OBSERVIR. 
Thinclads, swimmers second best 
The Notre Dame track squad a strong finishing kick to win in crack at him. John Sherk also starred, taking Paul, Carig Ferrell, and John meet
lost out to a strong Ohio State 4:15.2. Rick Wolhutter was The difference in this firsts in the 1000 free (10:44.9) Sherk; and the 400 medley team 
team Saturday 77-57 as Miami another steady performer as he was OSU's depth and balance and the 500 free (5: 13). of Thomas Gustafson, Michael 
of Ohio finished with 39 in the ran away with the 600 in I :09:9 through all the events and a Second places in the triangu­McDonough, Frank Fahey, and 
triangular meet at Columbus, and anchored the N.D. victory in disappointing showing by the lar were secured by: Brian Short, Vince Spohn. 
Ohio. the mile relay. Other winners for "better than they showed" N.D. 200 free; Frank Fahey, 200 but­The team travels to North­Ohio State took command in Notre Dame were Elio Polselli in hurdle squad. This coupled with terfly; Nicholas Schiralli, 200 western Thursday and hosts St. the perennially weak pole vault Bonaventure Saturday afternoon
the sprints and hurdles, as Jim the shotput, Joe Quaderer in the backstroke; the 400 freestyle Harris took both the 60 Yd. Run 80 Yd. Run and Mike McMan-and high jump events accounted team of Vince Spohn, Howard at Rockne Memorial. and the 300 Yd. Run and Jim non in the Long Jump. for the Irish loss. The track team Barber led a 1-2-3 State sweep of Miami copped the Triple travels to East Lansing, Mich. the 70 Yd. High Hurdles and a Jump, the Pole Vault, and the this Saturday to participate in 1-2 finish in the 70 "Lows". 440 Yd. Run, and took seconds the Michigan State Relays. 
JIM MURRAY
Other top performers for the in the Shot, the 300 Yd. Run 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=

winning Ohio State squad were and the High Jump. Miami also Dave Pryseski in the 1000 Yd. introduced to the Irish one of Notre Dame's swimmers split Run, Ray Hupp in the High the nation's top performers in Friday's triangular meet at Kent Jump and Doug Scorrar in the 2 the Triple Jump, Milan Tiff, who State, losing to Kent 79-34 and 
No Halo 
Mile; these capping a strong, won his specialty at 51 '5W' defeating Marshall 64-35. 
balanced team effort. beating Mike McMannon of Gene Krathaus set a Notre Irish captain Mike McCann Notre Dame who -placed second Dame record in the 50-yard free­provided a bright spot in the in 49'Vz". Milan Tiff will be at style with a time of 22.2 
for Wimpy
Mile with a thinking perfor-Notre Dame in three weeks and seconds, in addition to timing 50 
mance as he hung back and used McMannon will have another flat in the I00 free for a first. 
Lassiter, who gave up work at a very early age, shakes hands with you with his left hand. That's because he plays pool with his right hand and doesn't want to expose it to any more contagion than necessary.
s~YO~(~l~-~~B.~ ~~L~E, ~! ~'~~notrt~'~"'"' 
He plays the game about as well as any body ever has, which is Kranepool stands his ground-means is that he intended no We don't want the reserve clause 
remarkable considering Luther has never had a well day in his life. with an explanation. actual malice when he said what thrown out; we want it modi­
"I've been sick all my life," he says. This includes the 4Vz years he He's been catching it from a he did about the classy Red Sox fied. was It World War II and was on a
seasick. was during Luther number of sides since he called left fielder. subchaser in the Coast Guard. 1He could have put in for a transfer. 
"Instead of being critical of
Carl Yastrzemski a "yo yo" be-The incident took place in There is no doubt a spark-plug wiper on a Coast Guard cutter had a cause of the Boston super star's Albany, N.Y., where Kranepool the association, I said Yastrzem­low priority in the U-boats' master plan, but Luther dismissed the 
ski ought to spend time at our
objection to the Player's Asso-and Tug McGraw were guests at thought. After all, he was sick on LAND, too. At sea, he at least ciation's support of Curt Flood's a sports dinner a couple of meetings and make some contri­knew what it was. law suit but he still feels he's weeks ago. Questions from the bution. The same thing hap­
Luther is as gloomy as a Moscow winter. It took the combined ~ight. audience were invited where-pened to us last year during the 
armies of Hitler, Mussolini, and the Mikado to drive him to working."Personally, I don't have a upon one man got up and asked player strike. He was with the He's fatalistic. He is sure that the worst thing that can happen to you
thing against Carl Yastrzemski," Kranepool, as a player represen-owners, not us. Any time the probably will. He is the Schopenhauer of pool.
the Mets' first baseman says. "I tative, what his reaction was to owners wanted to get a crack at He was operated on for ulcers, but his friends feel there is no 
didn't rip him as a ballplayer Yaz' statement he would quit the ballplayers it seems surgical procedure for his main illness-hypochondria. He looks 
because 1 know he's a good one the Players' Asociation if it Yastrzemski was doing the without enthusiasm on his hickname, "Wimpy" ("A lot of 
and I said only what I felt I had didn't poll the entire member-speaking for them. I said it 
foolishness," he snorts. "I ate 13 hot dogs at a ball game once")'and 
seems he's Joe Cronin's yo yo.
to. I didn't say anything detri-ship on the Curt Flood suit. insists it is not based on a fondness for hamburgers ("People lie-1 mental about him personally." "I said I felt Carl's statement He's doing all Cronin's talking." don't know what for," he grumbles). That's not quite so because was uncalled for," Kranepool 
He is not church-going but says he gives anybody who professes
Kranepool's statement, natur­
when you call a fellow baseball says. "I talked about the reserve atheism a wide berth in case there's a thunderstorm.ally, didn't do a whole lot for his
player a "yo yo" you're not clause and said the players were 
He feels that pool is "the most honest game there is," that it got
popularity with Yaztremski. 

exactly lavishing him with seeking ways to benefit all 600 its undeserved reputation in its infancy ("Some of the biggest thieves in the world are on a golf course," he complained). He snorts also at the notion of pool hall violence. "Pool is not physical in any way. If you can lift 20 ounces, you can play it." He dozes off between turns at the table, sometimes to the considerable annoyance of his opponents (which may be what he intends all along), but Wimpy says sleep is good for you at any ~ime. He looks like a traveling parson, which must have sttod him in good stead (and given the clergy a bad name) in the days when he would hop off a train or drop over th Norfolk to chalk a cue and get himself a little hamburger money. He travels light-just a tux and a pool cue. He never married, never worked for a salary (except when there was a war on) since the days when he used to see his father ruining his health as foreman of a rolling mill near his home in Elizabeth City, N.C. A halo is not part of Luther's wardrobe either.· He admits to hustling in his day ("Everybody hustles," he observes). He's been in love a few times, but mainly with money but he has seen real tragedy. That would be the time the guy with the faulty stroke and $116,000 showed up in Norfolk and all Wimpy could get of it was $9,1 00 before he got called home to take care of his parents. By the time he got back, someone else had got the $106,900. Wimpy has been looking for the guy ever since. He carries his own "Do Not Disturb" sign with him (in case the hotel runs out), shuts off the phone, feels about publicity the way a bank robber would feel about having his picture in the post office, and thinks that life in general is an 8-ball. "I'm glad to be here, and I'll be glad to leave," he says. At 51, he figures the Lord may run the table on him at any moment, particularly since he feels so lousy. He sat in the Elks Club downtown the other day where he's playing in the $19,500 world's pocket billiards championship and surveyed the scene with visible dissatisfaction. For one thing, the billiard cloths will be too new (they will get wet and then dry and lift off the table and the balls will fly high); the pockets are too big ( a good player, like a good golfer, likes the course tough so some rinkydink won't get lucky and win); the guy racking for the break will likely have greasy hands ("Greasy balls don't stroke true"); but, 
worst of all, the guys won't be playing for their own money ("It tenses a man up if he has to reach in his own pocket if he loses-this way I couldn't care if they put up $72 billion. If it don't come out of your own pocket, it's like writing home for money. I'd like to play these guys for THEIR money"). 
Luther looked around the room as though it were a scarlet fever ward. "Do you know," he asked gloomily, "this is the only game in the world you could lose without ever gettin off a shot?" 
Photographer Joe Raymond captured Saturday's highest emotional moment. Austin Carr ,lays in a field goal at the buzzer of the first overtime period, grabbing a tie and the chance to win in double overtime. 









