

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1970 
VOL. IV, NO. 81 Serving the Notre Dame. and Saint M_ary ·.~ College r'ommunity 
SLC OK's parietal recommendation 
b.y Uill Carter 
The Student Life Council last 
night passed a resolution calling 
for the individual determination 
of parietal hour procedure by 
eac!I residence hall after consul­
tation with, and the approval of, 
the llall Life Board. 
The resolution, however, will 
not become university policy un­
less it is approved by the Board 
of Trustees. It will be considered 
at their meeting on March 21. 
The Council's discussion of 
the parietal question had been 
extended over numerous meet­
ings. When last night's meeting 
opened, Fr. Edgar Whelan repre­
senting the Hall Life Board 
asked that the matter be im­
mediately settled. "The timehas 
come for the Council to vote on 
the resolution before it." Whelan 
sa~d "Continuing the debate ad 
nauseam is not going to help." 
The meeting last week had 
ended with the resolution failing 
to secure the necessary two-
thirds vote required to bring the 
motion to a formal vote. 
Fr. Charles McCarragher, Vice 
President for Student Affairs, 
passed out a five page rationale 
discussing the administration's 
opposition to the Life Board's 
m o lion. McCarragher's state­
ment expressed the concern that the resolution would pave the way for complete Hall Auto­nomy which the administration opposed on the grounus that some university-wide regulations must be retained in order to preserve the "cohesion of the student body." 
He argued that the request for allowing each hall to determine · its own hours after negotiating with the Hall Life Board failed to take into account the fact thut there were areas of common concern to students on campus 
ZPG organized to educate public on population 
by Don Ruane 
Organized to educate the 
public on the population pro­
blem, the Notre Dame, Ind. 
Chapter of the Zero Population 
Growth (ZPG) will meet on 
Wednesday, reb. 25, at 7 p.m. in 
room I09 of the Biology 
Building on the Notre Dame 
campus. It is a local chapter and 
membership is not limited to 
members of Notre Dame or St. 
Mary's. 
The ZPG was originated on a national scale by Dr. Paul Ehrlich, director of graduate studies at Stanford University and author of the Population Bomb. Heading the local chapter is Dr. Thomas C. Griffing, Asst. Professor of biology. Dr. Grif­fing is in charge of organizing the faculty and residents of the South Bend area. He has been that should not be left to "local again, the third time it had been 

option." called during the meeting. 
Pr. Whelan answered McCarra-He said most of the meeting 
gher's objections by stating that had been wasted on "rhetorical 
the resolution had grown out of nonsense" and that more impor­
the actual fact of the dissatis-tant issues than parietals were 
faction of the students with the waiting to be handled by the 
present parietal system. "We're Council while the debate ran on. 
intei;ested in letting the students Administration representa­
take up the matter of control," tives Mr. Philip Facenda, and Fr. 
Whelan satli. "The parietal ex-McCarragher next called into 
periment as it was last semester question the Council's ability to 
was not successful because the relegate any authority to the 
students felt they had nothing to Hall Life Board. The resolution 
do with the control of the called for the halls to set up 
system. No rationale for any of their own systems only after 
the procedures was given to the consultation and approval from 
students." the Board. The Chair then noted 
Prof. John Houck added that that a distinction would have to 
he also supported the idea of be made between the legislative 
handing some of the responsibili-or administrative status of the 
ty to the students. "What we are Hall Life Board. 
arguing for is a mechanism to Some members of the Council 
draw out the community leader-argued that only the SLC itself 
ships within the residents of the that neither group should have 
halls." 
could provide final approval for It was noted that the resolu­each hall system. Proponents of tion would place more respon­the bill argued that the power 
Rev. laJl!es Riehle, Dean of Students, Student Body Vice President
sibility on the shoulders of the could be passed on to the Hall Fred Dedrick and Professor James Massey, Chairman of the SLC,hall residents. If they could not 
(continued on page 2) 
listen to the debate on parietal hours.
come up with adequate rationale 
for parietal extensions or sound 
proc,edures for control they pro-
Cusick submits off-campus
bably would not be granted their requests by the hall life board. There was some discussion over whether. the increased hall 

housing proposal for SMC 
responsibility for determining under the proposed system, she The number of off-campus va­
hours should be granted if it by Ann Conway could not be shown that many Observer Associate Editor would need parental consent. cancies would be equal to the 
Miss Cusick's proposal in­
hulls had the hall personnel to "number of resident students
McCandless Hall Senator 

eluded a method of approval of
make the new ruling workable. enrolled over and above the 
Carol Cusick last night sub-housing by the Housing Direc­
Some members of the council existing bed capacity of 1314 
mitted an off-campus housing tor. This consists of the follow­
used this as an argument against students." Approval for a stu­
proposal to an open meeting of ing four steps:
the motion. Others, however, dent to live off-campus would be 
the Student Affairs Committee. 1) Landlords desiring to have
concluded that student respon­for one year only and would be 
This proposal, read by Miss their names on the approved list
sibility could not be developed subject to the discretion of the 
Cusick, consists of 13 parts and would be asked to complete a
until students were granted the Dean. 
outlines the basic components of check list of items pertaining to
freedom to make their own Also included in Miss Cusick's 
such a system. Under this pro-the adequacy Qf the housing
rules. proposal were provisions for dryposed system which Miss Cusick based on local fire regulations. 
cleaning and lunch passes, and
McCarragher's statement 
feels "will allow the greatest 2) The Jist would also be com­
the establishment of an off-included an amendment to the 
freedom tn the student ' all Board's resolution which called single undergraduate st~-dents pleted by the student before campus commission to serve the 
rental. students who decide to move offfor the retention of the present 
over 21 may reside anywhere in 3) Lists would be reviewed by the campus.
24 hours per weekend as the 
the South Bend area. Students the Comm1·ss1· 0 n or the Hous·1·ng M c
iss usick also presented amaximum each hall could work d 21
un er would be allowed to D1'rector. And landlords would
· d ff report prepared by Mrs. Petro­with in deciding its procedures. 
resJ e 0 -campus in housing ap-be gi·ven one month to correct · h D' f H · ff
VIC , ~rector o ousmg, o er-
His amendment was defeated by proved by the Director of Hous-defJ.cJ·encJ·es.
· Th. ing alternate suggestions to Missa vote of 12 to 5. 
mg. IS would represent a com-4) Spot check of approved c · k' b mo~~oen di~:sssi~~:enn:~e ~;::!na~ ~J~~~ c~=~~e ~nhi~~li~lo~e:Ce~ housing would be made periodi-g~~~~d sof:~~·a~~i~s pr~~~s~~g su;~ 
thirty minute extension of the student to live off-campus only cal~he limited only to Seniors not on meeting was agree to. Student is she resided with a parent or method for selecting scholastic or social probation. It B6dy president Phil McKenna guardian. In order for a student rooms off-campus would be suggested also that students not then called the question once under 21 to move off campus based on. the lottery syste~ be allowed to reside in houses 
presently m use at St. Mary s. (continued 011 page 2) 
Senate considers channeling funds to halls 
by Steve Lazar would be taken from the top ot ey should be given expressly to ed of hall presidents and sena­If every hall on campus were the Student Government's cash ti1e halls because it would be 
tors. completely fair and would eli­On one point, all members
given one or two dollars for each each year, and would therefore minate any further bureaucratic seemed in agreement: the halls
student that lives behind-. its not be subject to the lengthy logjams. Others present at the could definitely use the money,doors, would the hall then be­procedure of budgeting. 
come a "viable community"? The implications of the pro­meeting felt that because some and they would be able to spend posal were outlined by HPC of the large halls really have no it in a way directly benefitting
The consensus of opinion at chairman Tom Suddes who felt great need for money, if should their own students.
the Hall Presidents Council 
the money might relieve some be given to the HPC in one lump
meeting last night was that it wouldn't hurt to find out. halls of the necessity to collect a deposit. Money could then be After the discussion about the Student Senator Russ Stone hall tax. The extra money, he appropriated to the halls most in money ct;ased, Ron Mastriana, from Howard Hall addressed the said, could be used for a variety need. Executive Coordinator of the Opposition to this motion was
council and informed them that of purposes, the most obvious HPC, came into the meeting. He the Senate's Student Union being An Toastal. "I don't think summed up by one hall presi­informed the Council that the 
dent who said, "Why should the
lecturing in the area for the last Committee was considering a anyone would disagree with get­SLC had just passed a resolution 
guys in a financially secure hall permitting the halls to formfew weeks in an effort to recruit proposal to channel a certain ting possibly two dollars per man back," said Suddes. like Flanner be forced to have their own policy on parietalmembers. amount of the Student Activity The discussion following _their money given to some small hours. He noted, however, that
Richard Shock has been Fee directly back to the halls assisting Dr. Griffing by as­each year. Stone's remarks centered on hall like St. Ed's?" the resolution still had to be suming the duty of organizing Stone said the halls would be whether .the money if allotted, On the other hand, one coun­passed by the Board of Trustees. 
the undergraduates. He is in the best position to utilize the should be given directly to the cil member thought the debate With that remark the wild jubi­assisted by Sue Simon, who is money in a way most overtly halls or first presented to the over who should get the money, lation that had erupted in the the St. Mary representative. , involved with the students. He Hall Presidents Council. if it comes, would be best settled chambers of the Council came to 
emphasized that the money Some presidents felt the mon-by a steering committee compos-an abrupt close.
(continued on page 3) 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24,1970
PAGE 2 

THE OBSEIWER 

Director of Housing offers other suggestions 

Committee members last night. No action was taken on the report. The other members (left to right) are Beth Driscoll, Irish McNamara, Ruthie Lyons and Sue Turnbull. 


HLB to approve hall changes 
Carol Cusick (right) reads h~r 
(continued from page 1) 

final authority, but that the Halls should be allowed to enact what they felt was the best 
Life B~i!!d. McKenna argued 
system for them and put in into 
effect on their own. 

The Chair then noted that the 
discussion would come under 
the third part of the resolution 
which explicitly stated what the 
hall life board's role would be in 
finalizing each hall's plans. 

A vote was then taken on the 
part of the resolution which 
granted the halls the right ot 
decide on their own hours. It 
passed I0 to 6. 

The Council then continued 
debate on whether or not the 
report on off-campus housing to members of SMC Student Affairs 
Hall Life Board or the SLC would have the final say over whether or not a hall was grant­ed the parietal hours that it sought. The Council passed an amendment by Professor Houck which gave the Hall Life Board final authority to approve each hall's changes but which also granted the SLC the right to review the action. • 
The question then arose again over whether or not the plan could go into effect immediately or would have to be approved by the Board of Trustees.SLC Chairman Professor Massey ruled that the Trustees would have to approve the plan before it went into effect. 
McKenna challenged the chair's ruling stating that the proposal should go into effect immediately. The Council sup­ported Massey's ruling though 10 to 6. 
(continued from page ].) 

where members of the opposite sex reside. Many of the other proposals in her report paralleled those in Miss Cusick's. 
Two major topics ot discus­sion which followed the reading of the reports were room and board scholarships, and the change in St. Mary's from a residential college to a more urban commuter school. Sr. Alma, asked about the college picking up the tab for scholar­ship students living off-campus. This was discussed in the light of dis..:rimination against stijdents who couldn't afford to live off­

campus and lose their scholar­ships by doing so. The second discussion concerning the change in the residential complexion of St. Mary's, and the resulting loss of community was disputed by Miss Cusick. "What is gained," 
she stated, "in having people off ca.mpus, is more diversity, more freedc;>m, and an exposure to realities." 
The entire issue of off-campus housing arose from the expan­sion of St. Mary's, and the lack of room space due to the expan­sion. There was discussion of moving more beds into LeMans Hall and making forced triples · out of doubles where possible. This proposed bill would allevi­ate the problem of room space, and allow those students desiring to move from the dorms to do so. 
The proposal, accepted by consensus of the Committee, will be presented to a meeting of the Executive Committee of Trustees March 14. A survey will be passed out to the students before then asking their reac­tions to the proposal. 
Tunisian talk given 

Under the joint sponsorship of the ASC/ AlA (Architecture Club) and the U.S. Peace Corps, Royce LaNier, a former volun­teer architect-planner in Tunisia, will give two multi-media presen­tations on Wednesday, February 25 in the Architecture Building Auditorium (Room 202). 
At 3:30p.m., Mr. LaNier will present "Tunisia" -An analysis of the effects" of climate, ma­terials and cultural patterns on traditional architectural form and spatial organization. 
At 7:30 in the evening, a· nother presentation will be given entitled "Between Two Worlds". This is described as a survey of the physical, economic and cul­tural environment of Afghanis­tan. It also portrays the life styles and job situations of Peace Corps volunteers in the cities and villages of Afghanistan. Both presentations will be followed by discussions and open to ques­tions. 
Mr. LaNier received his Bache­lor of Architecture degree from the University of Texas in Aus­tin and has studied city planning at Chalmer's Institute in Sweden before serving for two years in the Peace Corps. Since returning to the U.S. in 1967, he has 
engaged in architectural and cityDame Avenue at 6: 15 p.m. on Morrissey Hall were fouad•--------------,most important incidents re-planning practice and has re­JOBSI JOBS! •nd more JOBS! 5~ l d b A th p o· t Friday. Though neither person drenched by the torrent from a 
<dents, TNchers. st.teslde •nd Inter· vea e y r ur ears, 1rec or ceived commissions as a profes­
was taken to a hospital, they fire extinguish~r, believed tonetiQNI Jobs. Aecrutlon•t Jobs: of Security, in an interview yes­sional photographer.
VNr-round Jobs; summer Jobs. All terday. The vehicle of Paige later reported to their respective have been taken from Lyons 
oc;cup•tlons •nd tr~es. Enjoy • v•~ Wilson of Son·n Hall collided doctors for the treatment of Hall. At l :25 a.m. portions of
tlon white you Nrn. Hurry! The best 
injuries received in the accident. the carpet and ceiling of St. Steinbergjobs ere t.ken Nrly. Write: "JOBS", with one driven by Miss Margar­
P.o. Box 475• Dept. CP 163-1, Lodl, rette Arden at the intersection Edward's Hall were soaked by a 
. Calif. 95240 Two thefts were revealed by fire extinguisher. 
on firearms

r-------------~--------------; Pears. A wristwatch valued at 
$40 was stolen from a locker of
Hair Styling the Continental Way-.t:uropean Layer 
On Friday, February 20, a David J. Steinberg, treasurer 
a student in Moreau Seminary
Cut, Hair Coloring and Straightening-Specials for 
number of incidents of van­of the National Council for a
Saturday. The second larceny 

dalism occurred. The candy · Responsible Firearms Policy,
students 

was reported by Kevin Bier, also 
machine was brokeninto in Stan­will speak in the Library
Our Motto: "Have long hair and be well 
on Saturday. He claimed that 

ford Hall. The glass panel of a Auditorium at 8:00 PM pn
groomed" 

the air-filter breather was stolen 
door was broken in Badin Hall. Wednesday, February 25. Pre­
from his automobile during. the 
For •ppointment call 234-0811 

Breen-Philips suffered the de­sented in conjunction with the
previous night, while it ·was
Continental Hair Styling 

struction of one of its drinking Law and Order Series of the
parked in the D 1 parking lot. 
306 Shertand Bldg. 

fountains. Student Union Academic Com­Comer Michigan-Jefferson 
Pears said that there had been mission, Steinberg will speak on
Saturday, February 21 , was Cenified Master Stylists The Baron and Miss Treve to serve and 
"a series of fire exting1,1ishers "Firearms and the Law."
hardly better. The glass pane of pamper you 
emptied recently." On Saturday, In 1955 he chaired a major
the west end door of Morrissey research task force on VietnamHall was broken. A door panel in and is the author of a proposedZahm Hall was broken and a

ACCOUNTING, MATH AND ENGINEERING GRADU­
Congressional Resolution forpainted glass pane was shattered.
ATES FOR SYSTEMS, PRODUCTION, RESEARCH, IN­
political Vietnamization of the 
A.s a note to a recent Observer War. He presently serves as Sec­
DUSTRIAL ENGINEERING, TESTING ENGINEERING, 
editorial, Pears said that four retary and Chief Economist of
FIELD ENGINEERING, DESIGN AND SALES 
false fire alarms had been turned the influential Committee for a in over the weekend: National Trade Policy. 
The Inland Steel Company, East C'hicago, In­diana, invites you to investigate our many career 
"The next B,S, T"-Rock Magazine opportunities. Consult the specific job descriptions in the pocket of our brochure. Our representative 
They combine the best of everything~
will be on your campus on 
DOORS. B.S+T. CLEAR LIGHT, BEATLES
MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1970 The DREAMS come true
INLAND STEEL COMPANY 
INDIANA HAJIIOR. WOJli:S EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA 


Saturday night in Stepan Center 
G 

Tickets on sale in the Dining HaJJs. Equa] Opportunity Emp]oyers m the PJans for Progress Program 
Bookstore and GiJbert's 
Presented b Student Union Social Commission 





Security issues weekend report 
by Torn Bornholdt 

of Door Avenue and Notre the front wall and windows of
A car accident was one of the 


PAGE 3 



Joseph Sulay, Chairman of the Support the President for Peace movement in South Bend, is a frequent adversary when New Left speakers talk on campus. 
Fro sh Senate plans activities·; Schedule includes m1n1-m1xers 
by Ann Therese Darin 
SMC's Freshman Class Senate proposed plans last week for a number of social activities this 
semester. 
Subject to ratification by stu­dents, the Senate's list of acti­vities includes "mini-inixers," a scavenger hunt, and a prom. 
Tentatively scheduled for the first two weeks of March, the "mini-mixer" plan will be an opportunity for groups of five ND and five SMC freshmen to 
meet informally with a freshma'n 
senator from each school in a 
social atmosphere. 
"The purpose of the mini­mixers is just to have more boys meet more girls and vice versa," explained Anne P. Ryan, fresh­man class vice-president. 

"We hope it will foster better relations between the two schools in an enjoyable, relaxing way," she said. 
Similar to the "mini-mixers " the scavenger hunt, schedul~d for April I 0, will be organized in 
Discussion seems best 
(continued from page 1)• 
Shock listed the present, major project of the ZPG as "educating the public". He 
asserts that discussion is the best 
way because "everybody thinks 
they are experts and they're 
not." He added that the public 
has little knowledge of the facts 
and a "lot of panaceas about 
farm subsidi,es, how much food 
Group refocuses war attention 
·we have in reserve and what 
science and teclmology will be 
able to do." 
At present the ZPG has three solutions that have been widely discussed by population experts. _They are: 
I) Limitation of the family to 

two  children.  If  more  are  de­ 
sired,  adoption  should  be  
utilized.  

2) Abortion at the discretion of 
2) Abortion at the discretion of the individuaL If science can 



Szalay rebukes Dr. Spock 
by Cliff Wintrode 
Observer Associate Editor 
Mr. Joseph Szalay; chairman of the Support the President for Peace Movement in South Bend, yesterday rebuked the "anti-American" views of Dr. Ben­jamin Spock and offered his own evaluation of the state of the union. 
Mr. Szalay is a familiar figure at any speech or discussion of the left on campus or in South Bend, and he was a speaker at the Vietnam moratorium events held on campus last October 15th. 
Mr. Szalay is also the head of the South Bend Hungarian Free­dom Fighters. He lived for twelve years under communist rule in Hungary and escaped to this eoun try after Russia squashed the Hungarian Revolu­tion of 1956. His father was 
groups with a senator !rom each 
school as advisor. 
"The joint social commission 
will divide the list of objects to 
be collected among the groups," 
commented Lolo Stankus, presi­dent. "After the hunt everyone
will come back hopefully to Notre Dame's Holy Cross Hall for a mixer until one o'clock." 
Senators are also considering a freshman prom to be held April 

18. "Subcommittees (decora­tion, publicity, favors, band, and mi'dnight champagne brunch) would be chaired by class mem­bers and advised by senators," added Stankus. 
ln order to sponsor not only these activities, but possibly a 
· 
killed in 1964 when Mr. Szalay refused to return to Hungary. 
Mr. Szalay personally ques­tioned the outspoken war critic and famous pediatrician whose attitudes toward child rearing many people have blamed for the revolution of the young 

when  Spock  spoke  here  last  
Thursday.  
The  disturbing parallels,  Mr.  

Szalay said, between the events which culminated in the commu­nist domination of Hungary and the violence and revolutionary rhetoric of today was the pri­mary cause for alarm. 

Me. Szalay believed that peo­pie like Doctor Spock only seem to be interested in "bearing down" or "burning down" the United States while they never voice their appreciation of the country that gave them the free­dom to say what they wish. 
Mr. Szalay stressed that he felt there were some very neces­sary changes to be made in our society, but insisted that the United States was still by far the best country in the world. The changes, he claimed, could only 
be made by following a "down the middle" path to change. The central tenets of Mr. Szalay's "down the middle" 
policy -a willingness to learn and to listen -were essenti-al he said, if the dangers of the ex­treme right or the extreme left were to be dissolved. 
Mr. Szalay was adamantly op­posed to the use of violence to bring about change and felt that violence in accordance with Newton's second law of motion could only be the catalyst for returning and escalating violence from the other side. 

The social problems of today -race, poverty and starvation ­drew sharp comments from Mr. 
Szalay. He felt that these pro­
blems have to be brought to the 
conscious level of the people by 
educating them to the existence 
of the problems. 
He expressed a very optimistic 
attitude that once the people 
were made aware of the social 
evil of this country that they 
would respond in a humanitarian 
manner. He did admit that he 
had been somewhat disap­
pointed in his attempts to edu­
cate other people. 
On a more optimistic note, 
however, he believed that the 
present generation of young peo­
·ple is the best educated genera­
tion in history. According to 
Szalay, this situation will greatly 
help in eliminating social injus­
tices. 
Mr. Szalay viewed the Viet­
nam conflict as a war against 
communism and said he was a 
strong believer in the "domino" 
theory. He felt that our presence 
in Vietnam was welcomed by 
the Vietnamese peasants who do 
not want to live under the "com­
munistic" North. 
Mr. Szalay was also quite crit­
I·cal of the tr t ent that A · 
ea m · men-
can prisoners of war have re­ceived from the Viet Cong. But h · I h 1 · d th t
e saH e a so recogmze a 
s me A e · e e t t'
o m ncans w r rea mg 
the enemy in the ~arne manner. Any pubii'c attempt to ch 
ange

the administration's Vietnam policy was seen by Mr. Szalay as aiding the enemy and weakening 
ourselves. An immediate peace by withdrawing all our forces, he said, would be a peace "dic­tated" by the communists in the Kremlin and in Hanoi and he termed the idea a "liberal plan of surrender." 
The "generation gap" was the result of parents being unwilling to take time off from making money to talk to their children 
cookie bake, trip to the zoo for.-----'----------------------___:~ 
inner-city children, and shopping trip to Chicago, the Senator has proposed class dues. Each fresh­man would be required to pay one dollar. 
By Thursday, the Senate will have voting results from all dis­tricts on proposals for the prom and class dues. 
"So far, the votes are over­whelmingly optimistic for a prom and class dues," admitted Stankus. 
n..J{,U$c J Yt"stoJl j"'· 
Crdtsmen in Optics 
• 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGL~SSES AND CONTACT LEN~ES -­
Tl/H Slft:RLAND B/,Nl. 132 S. MJCJIIGAN ST. 
Centra/2-1468 
~JltJUSe oJVaimt ~. 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
Last Monday night a group of not determine when a fetus seven students met to initiate becomes a human being, then th~ first stages of a campus wide the decision for the abortion of 
EUROPE $229
attempt to refocus attention on an unwanted pregnancy should the war in Vietnam. According be up to the individual and not 
June 24 to August 18 -8 weeks 
to sophomore Tom Schoaf, the state. 
Detroit/London/Detroit
"There exists on this campus a 3) Sterilization for the male. diminishing realization that the The main purpose of 
ROUND TRIP JET 
war docs continue. Too many Wednesday evening's meeting 
N.B. -last sign-up by Feb. 27

students have become compla­will be to educate those present cent about the entire situation." and to start to mobilize. Shock 
University Charter's 6th Annual Charter Flight Series 
Feeling the need to refocus believes that those who attend 
Sponsored by Notre Dame, St. Marys's -Students International
emphasis on the war, the grou .. the first meeting will be "people 
Intra• European student charter flight bookings
non· stop Jet

hopes to attract the support o. who will want to do something 
NSA international I. D. cards
all students on campus who are right away." 
open bar and complete meals 

opposed to the war. However, On campus, the 
Eurai I and Britrai I passes
Detroit departures from near-by Metro Airport
the idea is not to create an hour ZPG volunteers will go into the 
Auto purchases, rentals and Ieases
$50 deposit, final payment in March
of interest, or even a month of halls and run discussion groups. 
Connecting ground and air transportation
renewed interest. Rather the On April 22, an "environmental 
cancellation privileges until day of departure 
Traveler's Checks
group hopes to create a loosely teach-in" will he held on 
complete range of travel services 
Educational tours
unified membership that will campus. 
remain actively interested. r---------------j Student priced hotel bookings The first meeting will be held 
U niver~ity of Dayton 
A London office to serve you 
on Tuesday night at 9: 15 in 118 
A wide variety of flights to choose from
Nieuwland. At that time the 
BEER GIRLS
TGIF 
plans for the spring activities will 
Our Ann Arbor office can book you into student priced hotels before you leave. 
be discussed and a permanent 
February 27, 1970 
and our London office will look after all your needs while you are in Europe. 
steering committee established. 
Open only to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, faculty, staff and immediate families 
Tirnothy's-3:00
The Observer Is published dally 
$50 Deposit Reserves Seats 
dur lng the college semester except vacations . by students of the 
Phone or stop in: 

Brown & irving
University of Notre Oame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
Notre Dame Student Service Commission St. Mary's Contact
or

be purchased for SB from The 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Oame, 
4 E. Lafortune Student Center St. Mary's Student Services
Sponsored by Chi Sigma Alpha
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46!\56. 
283. 7757 Organization
Fraternity 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERfJER. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24,1970, 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Glen Corso 
The war in Vietnam 
The other day I received a fascinating letter from a good friend of mine at Yale University. Before he went to Yale, he could have been roughly classified as a moderate in his political views. The last time I wrote him, though, I made the mistake of including some various phrases about how I hoped for peace with honor in Vietnam. Well anyway Saturday I got back a letter which clearly indicated the extent of my friend's political feelings, and revealed the tremendous gap between us. 
"To Glen the facist?", the letter began Uokingly I assumed)"... Peace with honor. Oh God. Peace, with honor. Do you really think any of us can ever again claim that this country knows even what honor is? It is our god-damned sense of 'honor' that prompted, even dictated that we would destroy a country to save it, would destroy a people to save them." 
Perhaps honor was a bad word to use, perhaps not. At this point I'm not really sure. I am sure though that the war in Vietnam is moral and is justified, if not honorable. 
One of the prime motives as to why I support the war is due to my belief in the "domino theory". For years now, professional liberals, and radicals have laughed at the theory. They claimed that all the North Vietnamese were interested in doing was re-uniting their country. Funny thing though, I remember looking at screaming headlines Saturday proclaiming that North Vietnamese troops had over-run the Plain de Jars in Laos, oh well, perhaps they are only interested in re-uniting Laos to their country also. 
To tell you the truth, I partially agreed with my friend's statement. By introducing U.S. ground troops, by indiscriminately bombing cities, and by propping up the Thieu government, we have done wrong. 
Yet I strongly feel that good will come out of this cauldron of horrors that is called a war. By taking a stana we have bought precious time for Southeast Asia, if not for South Vietnam. I will probably be ridiculed by the intellectual left, but I honestly think that freedom will be forthcoming in South Vietnam, within the next few years, as long as they remain independent. It is easy to scorn this statement now by merely pointing to actions of the Thieu government, yet need I remind people about the governmental oligarchy that our founding fathers envisioned when they set up the constitution? Or the views that several influential members held, concerning the mass of people? 
My friend also talked about the need for change in his letter, and how he felt that the American people were becoming too complacent and too self satisfied, and that perhaps if things remained the same, America would be destroyed. 
"Yes, I know what America could be like. But I know what it is too. You say it is the greatest country in the world, I say that that is a reflection on the world and not on the U.S. It doesn't say much for the world. All of a sudden Americans are very complacent about their country, AMERICA IS GOOD cries Spiro and the crowd echoes AMEN. Well how in God's name are we ever going to change things with people thinking like that? And things have to be changed, because they won't change themselves, and if they aren't changed then America is going to rot from the foundations up and collapse into its own accumulating pile of shit." 
When I first read this part of the letter, I just didn't quite know how to take it. After re-reading it several times, I realized that this paragraph points out the huge gap between the left and right. 
My God, no one is against change. Do you think that I like to see women have numerous illegitimate children, merely because the government welfare system rewards them for it? Do you think that I enjoy seeing our cities rotting from within while some riot, and 
others smirk about how blacks are stupid and lazy? Do you think I want to see my friends and relatives go halfway around the world and get shot at in a war that was never fully explained to the American people? Do you really think that the Arneri.can people want life to stay the same, and not have any change at all? 
What Agnew and others are saying and challenging is the totality of your condemnation.. They are saying that AMERICA IS BASICALLY GOOD. True there are numerous injustices, but the system itself does not have to be entirely scrapped. They are working for reform, perhaps too slowly though. That point is debatable, but that they are not working at all is insane. 
I believe that America is great, not as great as it should be by a long shot, but I will never never harken to the calls of those who consider us evil. 
News Editor: Glen Corso  Murphy  The opinions expressed in the  
Asst. News Editor: Jim Holsinger SMC News Editor: Prue Wear  Ad Layout: Jim Flanagan Night Editor: Dave Bach  editorials, news analyses, and col· umns of THE OBSERVER are  
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode,  Layout  Design:  Mary  Chris  solely  those of the authors and  
Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney  Morrison  editors of THE OBSERVER and  
Layout Editor: Mary Ellen Burke  Layout: Ann Conway. Patty Lips·  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  
Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin  comb,  Jeanne  Sweeney.  Ann  views of St. Mary's College, the  
Features Editor: Dave Stauffer  Therese Darin  University  of  Notre Dame, their  
Photography  Editor:  Mike  Headlines: Jim Graif  administration,  faculty.  or  stu·  
dent bodies.  

Editor: 
In Monday's edition this week various views were espoused on the effectiveness of the McKenna-Dedrick administra­tion. I think that in order to evaluate this we must . first examine what the student body expected of their administration. McKenna and Dedrick had offered a greater vision and insight into what Notre Dame should represent as a Christian University than had their oppo­nents. Many students considered these views over-idealistic, but 
the majority decided that they 

represented the heart of this 
community. Trust, honesty, and 
brotherhood were essential. 

Since that election McKenna 
and Dedrick have had·to apply 

this philosophy to many unanti­
cipated events. Their participa­
tion in all the Moratorium and 

the Dow-CIA affair both repre­
sented natural extensions of 
their philosophy. However, at 
this point many students, who 

had agreed with the administra­
tion, became alienated. They 

had never understood the philo­
sophy which they had at first 
supported, but now opposed. 
They cannot see the relevance to 
their entire lives of this Christian 
doctrine. Rather, they would 
like to relate it to · student 

government only, something 
which does not affect them too 

directly. So those who say that 
M.cKenna is responsible for not 
communicating adequately with 
the students are missing the 
main point. It is true he has not 

gotten out in the halls quite as 
much as he should have. But 
specific issues are not what must 
be emphasized. He should have 

shown the students once again 
the total view of government at 
this university, to show them 

that they, the students, were 
inconsistent in their criticism of 
his actions. Therefore, as we 
evaluate student government in 
this last year, we must evaluate 
ourselves and whether we have 
been faithful to those ideas we 
haveprofessed. 
On another level, if one cares 

to evaluate an administration by 
its actual achievements, McKen­
na and Dedrick enumerated over 
a dozen areas where they have 
had success. This year there have 
been no major issues for stu­
dents to become aroused about. 
Hence, this year's accomplish­
ments have not been fully felt or 
appreciated. However, the 
effects will eventually be appre­ciated by the university com­munity since they are consistent with Christ and brotherhood, and will bring the university closer to the great Christian Uni­versity concept so often echoed. 

Yours in Notre Dame, 
Stephen V. O'Brien '70 
Spock and the women 
Editor: 

As we cannot judge black rage because we are white, so, too, we cannot judge women's anger because we are men. Yet, we can pass a judgment upon fellow white men; in particular, a criti­cism on the actions of Dr. Ben­jamin Spock and members of SUAC who participated in Dr. Spack's address on campus. 
Spock was persuasive and pas­sionate in his defense of dissent in the United States. Yet his conduct and the conduct of SUAC officials in the last five minutes of the question-and·· answer period almost totally dis­credited the preceding two hours. By Spack's own logic, the women who asked those many questions had the right to hang on to the microphone, even to the discomfort and anger of the rest of the audience. Again, by Spock's own logic, the duty of the hard-core radical is to grab the complacent majority by the lapels and shake them into see­ing what the radicals view as immoral or unjust. Those wo­men did exactly that: they shook us by the lapels and should at least be cornrnendt;d for their courage if not for their arguments. 
The events of the last few minutes of the speech reminded one of the Chicago Democratic convention, while the SUAC of­ficial who claimed that the wo­men's protest was "none of my concern" sounded ominously like the Democratic National Party Chairman ignoring the cries from the floor of the Chi­cago convention. 
In short, the actions of Dr. Spock proved him to be at least partly a hypocrite revolutionary, hardly paying lip service to what is a serious growing radical movement. 
We do not agree totally with 
the contentions of the women; 
nonetheless, at the risk of being 
dismembered by fellow male stu­
dents, we cannot support the 
brush-off given to the female 
revolutionaries. 

Torn Farmer Mike Mooney 
Torn Macken Rich Kelly 
PAGE 5

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1970 THE OBSERJJIR. 
Dreams ---Catch 'em quick 
by Jim Porst 
For the last several years, Notre Dame students have been asking for top musical talent to fill the social void of winter and early spring weekends, not just football weekends. This weekend the social com­mission has arranged to take care of this desire, and take care of it in style. Since the rise of Blood, Sweat, and Tears, many gf(>Ups have attempted to perform in the jazz-rock style, but few have met with any significant skill or success. This week­end, though, the appearance of The Dreams will introduce to the midwest a group which has not only developed a sound with great potential, but has elimi­nated many of the complaints people have voiced about BS & T. Gone is the cold perfection and unenthused style of BS & T, while the improvisational, spon­taneous, original sounds of Dreams step in. 
· Much of the originality displayed by The Dreams is due to the diverse back­grounds of its members. Doug Lubahn, the bassist, was the leader first of aear Light and then went on to play base for both the Doors albums. Jeffrey Kent, the composer for the group, has over 50 compositions to his cre?it, done in associ­ation with Doug Lubahn and Steve Still (Super Session) undoubtedly one of the finest talents in the group is Randy Brecher, who In "Jazz and Pop" Maga­zine, the February issue, was voted trum­pet player of the year. Randy recorded Blood, Sweat, and Tears'first album with them, and left to find his own group when Al Kooper left BS & T. Randy had previously been with Horace Silver, Pharoh Sanders, and numerous other groups. Now it seems he's come into his own. Billy Cobham, Jr., the drummer, also has fine credentials, from the James 
L.amb -Hutcherson concert tonight 
Down Beat International Jazz Critics Poll (placing him ahead of such luminaries as Lionel Hampton, Gary Burton, and Milt Jackson of the MJQ). 
Among the sidemen appearing with Land and Hutcherson is Richard Abrams on piano. He appeared last year at Notre Dame's Black. Arts Festival, performing with the AACM group from Chicago. He has agreed to serve as a judge for the 1970 Collegiate Jazz Festival, March 19-21. 
Land and Hutcherson reco'rd on the 
Blue Note label, Abrams on Delmark. 
Brown band, to work with The Supremes, Martha and the Vandellas, Joe Tex, Sam and Dave, and above all, The Beatles where he did much of the studio drum­ming in place of Ringo for Beatles re­cordings. 
Add to these people Randy Brecker's brother Mike, also on horns, and Barry Rogers, you have the group which drove the Fillmore East crowds wild more than the Jefferson Airplane ever did. 
Notre Dame has often been split musically between the jazz buffs and the rock fans, but finally there seems to be a new potential "super group" which can end the split. What makes The Dreams stand out over so many other groups is that they don't sound like just a group of session men reading parts. The Dreams aren't over-arranged (one of BS & T's problems), but are individual musical personalities doing their own thing. No previously written material hashed over for one more round, but original material to bring out the best of each member. All six members have been bouncing around from one top group to another, looking for the right spot. Now they're together, and the sounds are coming out stronger and better than ever. There's a lot of good music being played today; Dreams won't settle for less than great! 
Better catch 'em quick. 
The endless summer 

by Richard Bizot 
The Harold Land-Bobby Hutcherson Quintet, one of the nation's most exciting jazz combos, will appear in concert to­night at the Indiana University at South Bend Auditorium. Starting time is 8:00 p.m.; tickets are $2.00. 
The concert is being sponsored by Michiana Friends of Jazz, a non-profit civic group which orginated last year at Notre Dame's Collegiate Jazz Festival. Though less than a year old, the organi­zation has already promoted highly suc­cessful concerts by the Bill Hurd Trio, Clark Terry, and The Elvin Jones Trio. 
Harold Land is a tenor-saxaphonist of longstanding reputation. He is a veteran of many West Coast groups, particularly ­those of Max Roach, Clifford Brown, and Art Blakey. 
Bobby Hutcherson is still under 30, but he can no longer be referred to as a "future" jazz star. The stardom of thi~ dynamic and eloquent vibe-player, who has been receiving critical acclaim for over a decade, is in the present tense. He was voted No. 1 vibist in the most recent 
Jewish theologian 
•
exam1nes religious life 
The insights of radical theology, psychoanalysis and Jewish tradition are blended--perhaps for the first time--in an authoritative, highly readable analysis of the everyday problems of personal and family life published today by McGraw­Hill: Morality and Eros by Richard L. Rubenstein ($5.95). 
Rabbi Rubenstein, who is director of B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation and adjunct in the Humanities at the Univer­sity of Pittsburgh, examines the gap between traditional values and the real­istic need of the contemporary Jew and Christian for insight and guidance. 
"We are not the kind of people our grandparents were," the author notes. " .. . The techno-cultural revolution of our times has radically altered our environ­ment, the ways in which we enc.ounter it, and, consequently, our very identities." 
Among the decisive transformations of 
our time Rubenstein highlights the 
psychological and moral consequences of 
the contraceptive pill, the communica­
tions revolution, the collapse of autho­
rity, and the arrival of a moment in 
human history which he calls, "the last 
days": 
"Instantaneous mega-murder can now 
be inflicted on whole nations. The 
built-in restraints to aggression operative 
in hand-to-hand combat with a single 
individual do nc;t work where millions of 
lives are at stake. The computer, the 
rocket, the nuclear bomb,. and other 
refinements of electronic technology 
m:~ke mass death possible through a mere 
hand-motion.... Every day is potentially 
our last." 
In the light of such apocalyptic threats, 
and in view of the religious skepticism 
and pessimism which prevail, the author 
contends that man today requires a partially adequate in the areas of self-knowledge, personal encounter, mar­riage and the family, business and professional life. 
"Our most agonizing problem may very well be our extraordinary freedom," he writes. "We need no longer worry about incurring God's wrath.... We pay a heavy price for this freedom." 
Rubenstein doubts our ability to create a new system of values adequate to cope with the stresses and opportunities of our times: "There are too many people with too many radically different back­
grounds, personalities, and needs for any one set of values to be the new way. Instead, we may require a number of 
by Casey Pocius 

chicago, february 21. the sun is shining on the loop. it is II a.m. and already thousands of people have gathered at the civic center. most of them young, most are students, some are older. all deeply caring. gathered to say no. you will not get away with this. yes, we will be heard. past"your cordons of police and blockade of cars you will hear from us. safe in his tower he will hear from us. inside all your jails they can hear us. 
julius hoffman. julius caesar. hiding behind a black robe, veiled by a black hood. hoffman the hangman. blinding justice, blinded by justice. putting out her eyes, beating her bloody with a gavel, with nightsticks and mace. the nightmare of two summers past resurrected in court. in daley's court where only the good die young. where only the young die. 
noon. now they are marching. arm in arm and eight abreast. around the build­ing, toppling the walls of jericho, the facade of inequity. 
"the system cannot destroy you ifyou hold hand in ha"nd. " 
just like the summer. hand in hand 
alternative systems of insight with which marching for peace, asking for justice. to confront the human condition with as denied an answer, denied bail. arrested much responsible fulfillment and gratifi-for truth, convicted by lies. cation and as little resentment, self-deception and self-pity as possible." 

In Morality and Eros, the author attempts to formulate one such system of insight. The table of contents provides an enlightening guide to the path followed by his scholarly, provocative and inspiring trend of thought: "If There Is No God All Things Are Permissible..."; "Situa­tion Ethics and the Ironies of Altruism;" "The Uses and Abuses of Aggression;" "Work Is More Than the Way We 'Make A Living' -It's Our Living;" "The Promises and the Pitfalls of Eros;" "Marriage: Prison or Promised Land'!"; "The Promise and the Pathos of Divorce;" "Our Tribal Society;" "The Cave, the Rock, and the Tent: The Meaning of Place in Contem­porary America;" "God After the Death of God." 
Rabbi Rubenstein, author of two previous books: After Auschwitz and The Religious Imagination, offers an uncompromising, courageous conclusion 
seven minus two. the five apostles. august 1968 the cops beat up the people. so who goes to jail. 
tom hayden, the soft-spoken radical, the intellectual leader, the one who cried. dave dellinger, as old as your father, a 54 year old pacifist accused of inciting a riot. jerry rubin, the irrepressible yippie, he even gave the judge an autographed copy of his book. 
rennie davis, so quiet, with thick glasses, he wants to change a dying nation. abbie hoffman, a bush of black curls, the joking a b bie, "i'll see you in florida,· julie." 
and william kuntsler, the new darrow, fighting the system in its own back yard, gagged and bound by bureaucracy more surely than bobby seale. 
the jury' only one of the twelve under forty, has given its verdict, but the truth comes from their peers in the streets: 
in chicago: innocent, for reasons of con­
science. 

in milwaukee: acquitted, to continue 
fighting oppression . 
in seattle, not guilty, for upholding life. 
in washington, freed, to continue the 
S(TUKKle. 

measure of practical wisdom for which after evoking and attempting to solve Frisbee season was officially opened yesterday. traditional experience is at best only numerous problems. 
If you're on the quad in the sun: watch it. 
r 
PAGE 6 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1970
7118 OBSERIIER 
Plan services 
Kwicien helps found drug rehabilitation house 
by Greg Rudhovadsky 
John Kwicien, a Notre Dame nent South Bend family, who cessed, will just be able to pro­the premises as well as a profes­made by a tentative committee student, has pooled the re­consented to rent a large resi­vide advice to those struggling sional counselor from the until a permanent Board of sources of the South Bend com­dence at 410 St. Joseph's with a drug problem. Eventually, YMCA. Directors can be set up. Besides 
representatives of each spon­
munity and the University to Avenue to the .group for fifty however, they hope to have the Dr. Josephine Ford and establish the. first drug rehabilita­dollars a month. facilities and people to accom­several graduate students from soring organization, Kwicien tion house in the commu·nity. Initially the organization, modate up to twelve addicts the Theology and Psychology hopes that several young ex­
Contacted by Kwichien over a which will be named the Youth who are going "cold turkey.'' Departments have also volun­addicts currently on the com­
mittee will be included on the
month ago, the South Bend Rehabilitation Board as soon as From the beginning a full teered their services. Jaycees, the YMCA, and the corporation papers are pro-Currently decisions are being Board. He feels that certain
time physician will be present on 
Sunny Side Presbyterian Church decisions can only be helped by united and began formulating someone who has experienced plans to establish a place where 
·the situation first hand. 

CR's hear Lt. Governor speak
both professional help and in­Commenting on the need for formation were abailable. 
such a project in this communi­Sunday afternoon four mem­Mr. F olz said: "You can sit assistants are in their 20's. · 
with four hundred dollars ty, K wicien said thaf the pro­bers of the ND-SMC College around and shoot the bull about Mr. Folz said he planned to
working capital the committee blem is widespread expeciallyRepublican Club attended a national problems or you can get continue to hire college students 
among the community's poorerwent to work and one of their 
conference with Richard E. elected and do something about to work in his office during the 
inhabitants. This is where thefirst actions was to contact the 
Folz, Lieutenant Governor if it." summer. Last summer he al­
Board's initial efforts will beSimon brothers of the promi-
Indiana, in Indianapolis. The Mr. Folz noted that it has lowed students to run the dep­
aimed, among those who have ""'*'lnlr*"*"ri+~-*.,Hr**'lll9conference was also attended by been his policy since in office to artment of Tourism which is a been influenced by exposure Ito
~~~~~ ......... 4PM ,..........,..,..., representatives from the Repub­
make appointments of younger several billion dollar business. He "hard.' drugs such as heroin, and . • • 1 . lican Clubs on· sixteen campuses people to ~esponsible positions plans to expand the program this cocaine. 
because they "bring new ideas summer. 
Kwicien also said that the WASHINGTON HALL and, work harder." He cited Dan As far as practical advice goes, 
l. ::o~~:·:~~~~ti;:m;~~:,,~,:~~ 
group's facilities will also be Manion, a Political Science grad­Mr. Folz cautioned against vol­open to any student who may
.L"'t~!!r.ll(~f! !m..6..., ........:..~ vement of youth in government. uate of Notre Dame, who he unteering for running little 
have questions or problems con­events "which some people will
appointed chairman of Industrial 
cerning the halluinogens, such as Development, as an example. swear is the way to get invol­
marijuana and LSD. Though he Four out of five of his top ved." He said the way to be 
aid will be limited at first to the
INTERESTED IN. 
effective is to "get elected a South Bend Community, the precinct committeeman with
Nominations Board eventually hopes to
WORKING FOR 
about six of your buddies and service the'entire county.
then you can .approach your
for SMC office Work is presently being done 
party from a position which on the house ·which is the Board
THE OBSERVER? 
Nominations are open for the commands some respect." 
hopes to open sometime in mid­
SMC offices of Student Body 
March.

Attending the conference
President and Vice President, A­
K wicien is planning an organi··
AWORKSHOP WILL BE HELD FOR All THOSE INTERESTED 
from Notre Dame were John
cademic Affairs chairman, and 
zational meeting for those in­Gaither and Rick Andre. Debbie
Student Affairs Council mem­
terested to be held at the local
IN NEWS AND FEATURE WRITING. 
Kerr and Chris Luby from Saint
ber. The nominations will be 
YMCA Friday at 7:30p.m.

TOPICS WHICH WILL BE COVERED INCLUDE: 
Mary's also attended.

open until 7 p.m. Thursday night.
STRUCTURE OF A NEWS STORY 
It is mandatory that students
INTER VIEWING TECHNIQUE 
running for President or Vice 
Name ND Designates
THE ROLE OF INTERPRETATION IN A NEWS STORY. 
President be on a ticket. The office of President is open only
THE QUESTION OF OBJECTIVITY. 
Five Notre Dame seniors have poet Erica Mann and VISTA 
to juniors but the other offices 
been named Woodrow Wilson director "Pat" Kennedy. 
are all open to sophomores and 
Designates fdr 1970, the Wood­Referring to the current fears
DATES: Mon. -March 2 
freshmen. 
row Wilson National Fellowship of a Ph.D. glut on the academic
Wed. -March 5 
If a student wishes to place 
Foundation has announced. job market, the Foundation 
her name in nomination, there
TIME: 7:30-9:00 
president Hans Rosenhaupt said,will be boxes at the sign-out The "Designate" status singles 
"We encourage young peopledesks of all of the halls in which out these young men as out­
with a gift for college teachi1ig
PlACE: 356 O'Shaughnessy 
standing students with a strong
she should place her name and 
to teach where they are needed,interest in college teaching. Thephone number.
. CaJ1 1715 for information 
which often is outside the smalllist will be sent to all graduate charmed circle of prestige insti­school deans in the United tutions."
TONIGHT! 
States and Canada, with the 
recommendation that the win­
Dooley speaks 
ners be awarded graduate fellow­
ships.

Important Ticket Sales 
Sunday in Lib. 
The five Notre Dame desig­Malcolm Dooley, youngernates are among I ,153 desig­brother of Doctor Tom Dooleynates, selected from approxi­and a 1950 Notre Dame gradu­mately 12,000 outstanding ate, will visit Notre Dame on
Junior Parents-Son Weeke-nd 
graduating seniors nominated for Sundsy, March I. Dooley's talkthe honor by more than 800 on "Tom Dooley's Challenge tocolleges. They are: Lawrence J. 
Modern America" will be held in Brisson, a mathematics major the Library Auditorium at 8:00from 28 Remington Dr., Edison, PM.
N.J.; Gary A. Gereffi, sociology, He is the founder and director3049 NW 6th Ave., Ft. Lauder­of the Tom Dooley Foundation,dale, Fla.; Leo A. Lensing, Jr.,
6:30-9:30 
an organization dedicated toGerman literature, 406 Lake St., 
helping the needy in SoutheastLake Providence, La.; Vincent B. 
Asia. A· Korean War veteran,Sherry, English, 416 Chichester Dooley served four years in the
Tuesday, Feb. 24; Blue-Gold Room 
Lane, Wynnewood, Pa.; and Air Force. His heroic actionsJohn C. Shortell, history, 190 there won him aseries of awardsHall Ave., Wallingford, Conn. 
LaFortune 

and medals including the Distin­The designates join the ranks guished Flying Cross. He is of 15,000 former Woodrow Wil­presently an executive for Jerry
Wednesday, Feb. 25; Blue-Gold Room 
son Fellows, which include con­Fairbanks Productions, Incor­sumer crusarler Ralph Nader, porated of Detroit, Michigan.
LaFortune OBSERVER STAFF MEETING 
TICKETS FOR 
(FOR ALL PERSONNEL)
Presidential Dinner 
Saturday luncheon Friday at 4:20
Communion Breakfast 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1970 PAGE 7
7118 OBSERVER 
Grad uat'e students seek to move on campus 
by Bro. Patrick Carney 
While some undergraduates at both Notre Dame and St. Mary's· have been attempting to get per­mission to live off campus, a number of graduate students have been trying to move on. Apparently this movement has met with some success according to information made available at Friday's Graduate Student of University Village has been turned down because of the pro­blems of scheduling and mone­tary considerations. 
Both a minorityand majority report were presented by the Cafeteria Committee. They have met with Mr. Price concerning the problems he faces .in trying to run the food services. To­gether they have decided to con­duct a survey of graduate stu­dents to discover their ideas and complaints regarding the quality, quantity and prices in the pay cafeteria. 
Another question which is being referred to the consti­tuents is that of the desirability of a university-wide textbook co-op. This would enable G.S.U. members to buy their books at wholesale prices. 
Dave Folts presented the body with a proposal to suggest that the university institute a Dr. of Arts program. He explained it by contrasting it with the pre­sent Ph.D. program. The new program would involve more class hours but eliminate the dissertation. Folts pointed out some other schools which have begun such programs and cited the difficulty of coming up with original topics in some of the 
Liberal Arts subjects as a reason 
for inaugurating the new degree. 
Reports on many of the items which have been brought up during the second semester are expected to be made at the next meeting in early March. An ex­traordinary session to vote on the constitution will also have to be held. This will probably be at night so that it can be open­ended. 
Union Meeting. 
G.S. U. President James King announced that he had con­tacted the administration con­cerning the use of three dorms for graduate students for the 1970-71 school year. As the matter now stands, he has been promised one if enough students will commit themselves to living 
• 
there next year. 
. 
Carroll Hall will probably be the dorm used for the graduate students. During the week, forms will be drawn up and passed out to all of the graduate 
Ifyou don't like the way people talk to each other,
students by their representatives to discover exactly which mem­bers would be interested in such 
we'll pay you to change it. 
housing. 
Besides the present students who will be returning, incoming students will be offered the same service if representative AI Port has his way. Port is working on a plan where information and costs of on-campus lodging will be made available to those who apply to the Graduate School. He has found that some people have chosen not to attend Notre Dame because of the lack of such housing in the past. 
In the matter of old business, the president reported that he had received no answer to inqui­ries regarding the status of teaching assistants in the book­store and library. An attempt to get bus service for the residents 
Award Hesburgh 
Bellarm ine Medal 
We're in the communications business. 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hes­
And during the next 30 years we're going to upgrade all the equip­
burgh, C.S.C., president of the 
ment we now have in order to provide even better service to our 6 million 
University of Notre Dame, has 
existing customers. 
been chosen as the recipient of the I970 Bellarmine Medal 
As if that weren't enough we're also going to have to come up with 
awarded annually by Bellar­
enough new equipment to provide telephone service to about 26 million 
mine-Ursuline College in Louis­
more people.-As well as equipment for a much more extensive data com­
ville, Ky. 
munications program. 
The president of Bellarmine­
We need enough people (electrical, civil, mechanical and industrial 
Ursuline, Msgr. Alfred F. Horri­gan, described Father Hesburgh 
engineers, designers, accountants and economists) to plan, design, build 
as a "distinguished educatqr,­
and operate a company that will be four times bigger than we are today. 
humanitarian and religious 
We also need engineers, researchers and scientists to develop electronic 
leader." Notre Dame's President 
switching equipment, laser and other communications systems we'll be
will receive the medal at cere­
using 10, 25 and 50 years from now.
monies in Louisville April 14. The medal was established in 
But this is only one part of our communications business. 
1955 to honor an individual 
Our Sylvania people, for example, are involved in other types of 
"who on the national or inter­
communications. Like color television sets, satellite tracking stations 
national scene has exemplified in 
and educational television systems. 
a notable manner the virtues of 
Automatic Electric, Lenkurt, Ultronic Systems and some of our other 
charity, justice, and temperate­ness in dealing with difficult and 
companies, subsidiaries and divisions are working on advanced types of 
controversial problems." 
integrated circuitry, electro-opticals and communications systems be­
Previous medalists were Jef­
tween people and computers and between computers and computers.
ferson Caffery, Carlos P. Romu­
So if you think you have something to say about the way people talk 
lo, John W. McCormack, Frank 
to each other ... we're ready to listen. 
M. Folsom, Robert D. Murphy, James P. Mitchell, Frederick H. Boland, Alfred M. Gruenther, 
General Telephone & Electronics
Henry Cabot Lodge, R. Sargent 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
Shriver Irene Dunne, Everett M. Dirkse~, Nicholas de B. Katzen­bach, Danny Thomas and J. Irwin Miller. 
Alumni Club 
6-8 PM 
JOe Schlitz 
Sylvania Electric Products • Len kurt Electric • Automatic Electric • Telephone Companies in 34 States • General Teleph~;11Dir~~tory Company • General Telephone & Electronics Laboratories 
General Telephone & ElectroniCS lnternation I • GT&£ n. C:.grui ...'"ct • '--=-·
Free Pizza Hut Pizza 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1970 
PAGE 8 
•
Carr, Jones key run -gun VICtory 
by Mtke Pavlin Observer Sports Editor 
How they did it no one knows, but Notre Dame and Butler treated over 15,000 fans to a fantastic display of break­neck basketball, resulting in a 121-114 Irish victory. The win established two new team rec­ords and gave ND nine straight triumphs, a 20-5 season slate, and a shoo-in bid for the NCAA Tournament. 
The Irish entered the contest facing a potent set of negative factors. It was Tony Hinkle's final game as basketball coach in a career that goes back over forty years. In Hinkle's last foot­ball game (he coaches three sports and quadruples as Ath­1 e tic Director) his Bulldogs pulled off an upset. 
Butler has been a high-scoring squad this year with two great shooting though tiny, guards in Bill Shepherd and Steve Norris. In their last outing, however, the 
Bulldogs lost undisputed posses­
sion of their conference crown 
on a shot at the buzzer. 
Notre Dame had to play in this emotionally-packed atmos­phere with only seven players in uniform -minus Doug Gemmell and Mike O'Connell due to in­juries and Sid Catlett due to his missing the team bus to Indian­apolis. 
Given the situation, it was obvious that ND needed a big night from Austin Carr and Col­lis Jones. And after an initial cold spell, these two combined for the first 16 Irish points. But Butler's balanced attack held the lead until 13:40 left in the half when Jay Ziznewski stole a pass and fed Carr for a basket. 
A pattern began to emerge as the half progressed. The Bull­dogs ran whenever possible, but 
the Irish dominated the boards, givin~ them extra shots. Carr and Jones continued to pour in the points as ND ran up a six-point lead on several occasions, the last at 3:00 left. Butler con­tinued to run effectively, how­ever, and regained the lead at 1: I 0. 
The upper hand switched throughout the remaining min­ute, but Jack Meehan's three­point play enabled the Irish to take a 63-60 lead into the dressing room after the orgy of scoring. Carr had 27 points and Jones 20. Dave Bennett and Shepherd each had 17 for But­ler. 
First half shooting stats bore out the outrageous score. Butler burned the nets for 57% while the Irish were 28-57. ND led in rebounding 30-22. Bob Schroe­der, Butler's 6-2 forward, shot 6-6 from the floor. 
Unbelievably, the pace con­tinued throughout the remaining half. After an initial Irish spurt which gave them a seven-point lead, 5-10 Shepherd began to work. Height is no factor at 25 
Hoosier Hysteria this week 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) ites and with an array of poten-
Act 1 of Indi-an a-, s-60th tial giant killers waiting in the annual high school basketball wings, opens at Fort Wayne tourney, a four-week spectacle It will be Wednesday and that includes two "solid" favor-Thursday before the month long show will really hit the road in earnest all around the state, with a field of 443, the smallest since 1921, shooting for 64 sectional titles up for grabs Saturday 

Fort Wayne, by virtue of entertaining two sectional tour­neys, again gets the honor of firing the opening shots in the "Hoosier Hoopla," Indiana's most celebrated sports extrava­ganza. 
Fort Wayne Catholic will be the first sectional defending champion in action, in the opener against Carroll. Fort Wayne Elmhurst plays Woodlan in the second game_ None of the four was considered a threat to cut down the nets as winner Saturday night. 
For the third year in a row, major teams were represented among the unbeatens in the field, and top-rated East Chicago Roosevelt and No. 2 Seymour, both 20-garne winners, were tabbed in a pre-tourney UPI "Pick the winner" poll as the most likeliest teams to suc­ceed Indianapolis Washington as state champion. ­
Oddly enough, the two front runners drew first round byes and are idle until Saturday after­noon. Indianapolis Washington, 8-12 for the season, opens the Hinkle Fieldhouse sectional here Wednesday night against city foe Ritter. 
Fencers drop 2nd, tankers lose 
Last Saturday in Columbus, host Ohio State upset the Irish fencers (14-13) making it the second year in a row that they have turned this trick. The Buckeyes overcame a 13-12 Irish lead, capturing the last two foil matches for the win. Rich DeJa drier and John Albright in epee kept the Irish in the match with 3-0 performances. They led a strong showing (7-2) in their weapon, but poor showings by both the sabre and foil squads cost the Irish. 
The fencers bounced back against Michigan State, whipping them 19-8 as substitutes handled much of the action. Deladrier and Albright each added two more victories to cap 5-0 days. The match was never in doubt as the Irish brought their record to 12-2 for the season. 
The Irish will return horne Saturday for three matches in the Convocation Center. N.D. opponents will be Big Ten squads from Illinois and Wiscon­sin and independent Tri-State College. 
John Cox and Gene Krathaus each took two firsts, and John Sherk set a new varstty 500 freestyle mark, but Purdue won eight events and defeated the 
This afternoon, the Irish grapplers will host a double-header in the ACC, a match which was originally scheduled for tomor­row. At 4:00, the 'B' squad will take on Kalamazoo with the varsity contest following at 6:00. The match will be held in the Auxiliary Gym of the Convo. Enter at Gates lor 2. 
Irish 76-4 7 Saturday at Lafa­yette. Cox scored high in the one meter and three meter diving, 
195.1 and 210.8 respectively, and Krathaus triumphed in both the 50 free (22.3) and the I00 free (50.2). 
Sherk timed a 5:0 I . 2 in the 500, erasing his previous mark set against St. Bonaventure Feb. 
14. However, he was defeated in the I000 for the first time this year, taking second with a 
10:46.6. Ray Kenny managed the only other second for the Irish in the 200 breaststroke. 
Notre Dame was without the services of star butterflier Frank Fahey, who recently had his appendix removed. 
The tankers host Central Michigan today at 4 p.m. at the Rock, and will finish up the regular season in another home meet Saturday versus Cincinnati. 
feet and the little guard threw in several long ones to bring the Bulldogs back. 
At 11:57, Jim Hinga's fourth foul resulted in an 82-81 Butler lead, but ND got the margin back. Carr shook off a cold spell for a couple of buckets and his three-point play gave his mates a 101-92 bulge. Shepherd's suc­cessful long-range bombing, however, brought his team back to within a basket, I08-106, with 3:33 left. 
A lay-up by Carr and a three­point play by Jones took the Irish out of danger and they proceeded to run up a 121-l06 lead _before allowing Butler to chalk up the final eight points. 
Jones was the clutca man for the Irish, getting his varsity ca­reer high of 40 points. Carr liad a rather mediocre shooting night, but still ended up with 52 ppints, the fourth time he has reached that plateau this season. His average now stands at 36.6 and he is fifth on the all-time scoring list. Meehan was superb in his floor play and chipped in 
16 markers. Shepherd had 38 and Bennett 30 for Butler. 
The 121 Irish points was the most ever scored by the team on the road and the combined total of 23 5 broke the mark set against St. Peter's earlier this year. 


JIM MU~RAY 
To Tell 
the Truth 
© 1970, .Los Angeles Times 
The world of fishermen, to say nothing of the Burlington Liars' Club, the ghost of Izaak Walton, and the operators of charter boat landings everywhere, was shocked so to speak, to the gills last week when a poacher in illegal waters turned in a record-sized fish and, ultimately, himself, out of compassion for the fish_ 
"This fish," he confessed in a note left along with the dead fish on the warden's door step, "deserves more recognition." In other words, he didn't want his catch to become the Judge Crater of the fish world. 
The man showed a laudable respect for sporting traditions, and we take you now to other fields and other times where this spirit might become infectious, as exemplified by the following hypothetical, not to say, far-fetched news stories: 
"DODGER STADIUM -Willie Mays made a sensational diving catchof a long drive off the bat of Maury Wills with the bases loaded and two out today to give the Sau Francisco Giants the 1970 National League pennant, but, as the fans were dancing in the streets of San Francisco, and the champagne was popping in the dressing room, Willie quietly advised the Dodgers to tag up and advance. 'I trapped the ball,' he told urnp Tom Gorman. 'The hit deserved more recognition than that. It was at least a double.' The Dodgers ultimately won the pennant, and Giant manager Clyde King, when he was revived, lauded Willie for his 'honesty in the best traditions of baseball.' Giant owner Horace Stoneham could not be reached for comment." 
"SUPER BOWL, NEW ORLEANS -Mike Garrett, of the Kansas City Chiefs, won the third straight Super Bowl for the AFL today when, with 10 seconds to play and the Chiefs trailing by three points, he ran 88 yards with a Lenny Dawson swing pass for a touchdown. But, as his teammates lifted him on their shoulders, Mike commanded, 'Put me down.' He then went to the field judge. 'I stepped out of bounds on the 50 when their safetyrnan took out two of my blockers. A move like that deserves more recognition and my left foot was out as the gun went off.' Coach Hank Stram later said a study of the films showed Garrett to be telling the truth. 'I drill these boys in fundamentals,' he said, 'and truth is the first of them."' 
"MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -Joe Frazier won a unanimous decision over Cassius Clay in their heavyweight title fight here tonight but refused to accept it after pointing out he had fouled his 'opponent in three of the rounds he had officially won. The referee -and two judges had an identical 7-6 scoring with two rounds even, but Frazier leaned through the ropes to advise the judges, 'You will recall I butted in the 13th, I hit on the break four times in the II th and I stuck my thumb in his eye and hit him low in the 15th. H~ deserves to be champion even though he can't see out of one eye and I hereby forfeit.' The news brought Gene Tunney out of retirement to announce he was returning his championship belt and his retired-undefeated status to Jack Dempsey as subsequent research has shown he was given a count of 14 when floored by Dempsey in 1927. 'There is no doubt about it, under Marquis of Queens berry rules, I was knocked out,' admitted Tunney, apologizing for the delay.'' 
"MADISON A VENUE -TV Account Executive Irving Shrill, 
shot by his wife, aschbed it all to a case of mistaken identity today. 
'I carne horne with lipstick on my button-down and my wife blamed 
it on my secretary_ I said, 'No, it was the blonde receptionist. A girl 
like that deserves recognition.' Shrill will recover, but has been taken 
off the agency's cigarette account. When last heard in his delirium, 
he was saying 'Our cigarette has killed more mice two-to-one than 
an other brand. A cigarette like that deserves more recognition.'" 



