
FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1970 Serving the Notre Dame and Sairll Mary's College f'ommunity VOL. IV, No. 61 
UAC operating; fie ldhouse to stay 
Kronk, to do the organizing. The announcement marked a committee for the arts center. committee members also by Paul Gallagher Yesterday, only three months Dowdall said he felt things were intended to ask for the
real triumph for members of the Last October no more than a from that early October anti­UAC. In the weeks since early well in hand in the SUAC office university's fund-raising help at a ahndful of Notre Dame-SMC meeting, a letter from President October they had staged rallies, and the arts project was of such meeting with university officers faculty members and students Hisburgh awaited Student Union importance that he wanted to and architects expected to be
circulated petitions, solicited the 
met in a room near the Bear's Academic Commissioner Pat devote himself fully to it. held next month. However, a
cooperation of every faculty 
Craw in the basement of Breen­Dowdall in the Commission "We hope to raise our goal of date for the meeting discussed
member and student known in Phillips llall. The group talked Office. Hesburgh wrote that the any way to be sympathetic to $1.5 million through soliciting by Father Hesburgh at the about the need for encouraging Vice-President's Council, with private individuals, corporations November rally has yet to be
the arts, and still, somehow,
creativity and the cultural arts his recommendation, had gran­and foundations", said the new arranged. Asked whether he felt
managed to do a little art them­
on campus, but they talked less ted the wish of the University committee co-chairman. He said
selves. There was no question in continued on page 6 enthusiastically than they had a Arts Council members and 
the president's letter and there is 
week before. Their numbers had ordered a six month moratorium 
no longer muc)l student 
diminished to a fraction of their on demolition of the university 
Dowdall quits post
government spokesmen that the 
initial strength. fieldhouse. And this, he wrote, 
University Arts Council has "You can't organize artists", in order that its servicibility as 
become a bona fide student complained Dr. Thomas Fern, an art center could be investi­

to aid Art Center
organization. It is here to stay.
Chairman of the Notre Dame gated and discussed. "The under­
And the news is not being 
of the Student Union's fullArt Department. "They usually standing is," the president con­wasted by the arts boosters. by Rick Smith support.

just aren't the type that likes to tinued, "that during this time we 
Hours after reading Hesburgh's 

In a news conference "We wholeheartedly embraceattend meetings." So the group will take a long and hard look at letter, Pat Dowdall, a UAC 
yesterday afternoon, Pat the goals of the Art Center and
decided to stop having meetings the building, the cost of refur­member himself and spokesman ·Dowdall announced his will lend Pat as much aid asand go to work. They gave them­bishing it, and the results of the 

at November's art rally that 

resignation as chairman of the possible."
selves a name the University Arts Council members' efforts to 
hosted Father Hesburgh, 

Student Union Academic Clark called Dowdall, "theArts Council, colored themselves raise sufficient money to cover 
announced that he would resign 

Comission. Dowdall said that he driving force in the presentan official university organi­these costs, as well as the contin­
his position as academic 

and Dr. Thomas Fern would excellent program of lectures."
zation and appointed senior uing costs for the operation of 

commissioner to co-head with head the committee for the McDonough said that heJ ugglcr-Scholast ic writer, Tom the program." 
Dr. Fern a fund-raising University Art Center in its drive planned to initiate no major to raise $1.5 million to renovate changes in policies, personnel, or the old fieldhouse. programs and that the emphasis
Sixkiller directs organization 

At the same time, Pat would continue to focus on McDonough, public relations subjects, not on personalities. director for the Academic "I hope to provide a truly

to aid urban -dwelling Indians 

Commission, was named to worthwhile program for the In an interview, he said that succeed Dowdall. Notre Dame community. This is 
Funded by the Ford Founda­

American Indians United is an Pointing out that the still Dowdall's program, since he by Jim Graif tion, the organization receives Academic Commission had structured it."
affiliation of Indian organiza· no government support. How­achieved its goal of presenting a

lions through U.S. cities. There Hoping to cement the next
Jess Sixkiller, Executive Dir­ever, Mr. Sixkiller feels that it is program which was both
arc seventy-two affiliates in semester's tentative events,
ector of the American Indians effective since it channels its subject-and topic-oriented, McDonough said he plans to
thirty-one states each of which

United, yesterday explained the funds directly to the people for Dowdall said "my term has been "maintain the present level of
according to Sixkiller, maintains

structure, purpose, and aims of whom they are intended. enjoyable."
its local autonomy. He explained excellence."
the organization. 

"A program whose funds In his new postion, Dowdall
the primary purpose of A.I.U. as McDonough also pointed
don't all get to the people for plans to continue to work
being to make use of the talents out that through a more 
whom they are intended, isn't

Seek court of Indians who live off the reser­closely with SUAC in its efficient programming coupled
worth a damn," he said. upcoming programs, including
vations and to find methods of with greater cooperation with relieving the needs of off-reserva­"Too many programs have the Camus Conference, Asian St. Mary's, the Academic

injunction 

tion Indians, particularly in the been designed for Indians rather Studies, and Urban Affairs. Commission had allayed the areas of economic development than hy Indians," Sixkiller said. Denny Clark, director of the effects of the large budget cuts
Four Notre Dame students arc and social improvement. lie feels that the government Student Union, assured Dowdall for the present semester.
scheduled to appear at 10 Begun a year ago, the organi­could provide technical assist­o'clock this morning before the zation channeled its first year's ance in areas where it is needed. 
St. Joseph Superior Court II as efforts towards making assess­Sixkiller thinks that the main
thl' defendants in the Univer­ments of its needs, forming affil­problem so far has been inform­
sity's attempt to obtain an in­iations and lining up sources of ing Indians in the cities of the
junction "restraining and enjoin­ing the defendants and all per­assistance. It has already partici­existence of Indian centers in pated in a wide variety of pro­the cities. He feels that because
sons acting in consort with jects. Mr. Sixkiller said; citing Indians are so spread out in large 
them" in connection with the November 17, Dow-C'I A demon­the following: An affiliate is as­cities the organization has not sisting a group of Indians in yet reached as many people as it
stration. The four arc Fred Dedrick, Texas to obtain ownership of an could. Rick Libowitz, Tim MacCarry ice cream factory. Another affili­Since the organization has a sound basic concept, Sixkiller
and Brian Mcinerney. The name ate helped change a law on 
drunk en ess in Anchorage, foresees a good future for it. He of Sister Jean Malone, originally Alaska. The organization per­feels that its next aim is to in­on the complaing, issued Nov. 
suaded Inland Steel to hire an form the national vehicle of its

IX, has been dropped by the Indian recruiter and urged Cleve-needs. Ex-commissioner Dowdall 
university. 



Testimony concerning the dealings of the defendants and their participation in that 



Co -education to be examined
demonstration is scheduled to be given at the hearing. Philip J. 
by Cliff Win trode warned that until a complete St. Mary's to the university, a where the student takes theFaccenda, Special Assistant to Observer Associate Editor study was made and a specific combination of the first two "burden" of his or her coursesthe President, Father James The Student Government goal was created "it will be proposals, and a trial experiment eventually leading to a combinedRiehle, Dean of Students, Research and Development continuously difficult to achieve including the transfer of Notre Dame-St. Mary's degree.
continued on page 6 

Commission will present their any significant progress no 100-200 women to Notre Dame A number of St. Mary's report on coeducation which matter what the direction." for a year. students limited according to the includes four proposals for a The Coeducation Committee The first proposal advocates space available would live on the coed Notre Dame to the Student of the commission formulated continued expansion of the Notre Dame campus. Affairs Committee of the Board the study which conducted that co-ex program coupled with the The committee felt that of Trustees next Thursday. Notre Dame and St. Mary's recognition of the strengths and unless St. Mary's made a 
The report was made in an could no longer "afford to weaknesses of the two "financial and attitudinal" attempt to change Notre Dame's further delay meaningful institutions and the removal of commitment to coeducation present course of action consideration of a q ucstion all "pretnetions" by St. Mary's now, the college would be in concerning coeducation, which which is so fundamental to their of being a university in itself. desperate financial straits in the 
it termed "ill defined toward an future existence " Instead it recommends that future due, in part, to a unarticulate and, therefore, The four proposals include a St. Mary's "direct its energies duplication of facilities and unknown goal." complete academic merger of towards becoming a college with faculty. The commission intends the the two schools with limited areas of study limited in number The second proposal, based report to be only a basic living on the Notre Dame but excellent in quality." on the assumption that the first guideline for future study of the campus by St. Mary's girls, the A degree would be granted in 
proposal is not acceptable to St. 
continued on page7

feasibility of coeducation. It admittance of women not from the name of the institution 

Page 2 
Observer news meeting 
for all staff reporters this 
afternoon at 4:45 in the 
office 
DancinJ< Friday and NiJ<ht 
South Bend's all-new 
CLASSIC CAT 
4033 South Michigan 
featuring The Salvation Express 
Dancing begins at 9:30 phone 291-0113 
HOUSE 

4 Bedrooms 2 Kitchens 2 Full Baths 
Wall to Wall Carpeting Completely Furnished Recently Redecorated Close to Campus 
Contact AI Brasseur 
289-2463 233-2673 


MPORTANT NOTICE 

Specializing in Jong hair for the co11ege 
student -_Mr. Baron, former]y with Squire ir Styling is now at 


Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Bldg. Phone 234-0811 
OPEN 
SSO presents 


W.C.FIELDS 
m 
'You Can't Cheat an Honest Man' 
Saturday Carroll Hall 8:00pm SMC 
AS CHEAPLY AS ONE 



SKI SPREE 
A romantic way to spend the winter-
r-------­
Send for your free folder  explaining SKI SPREE. the  
unique club that gives you twice the Michigan skiing fun for half the price.  
Name_____________________________________  
Address___________________________________  
l  City___________________  
I1  State  Zip ______  
I  MAIL TO:  SKI SPREE. 11945 GLOBE ROAD  
IL  LIVONIA. MICHIGAN 48150  


THE OBSERVER 

Jack Wilson 


Bringing home the predicament of the Indian 
The following is a personal opinion article submitted bv Notre Dame student Joh~ Wilson. 

To those of you who may not have noticed, Notre Dame this week is the site of a conference on the plight of the American Indian. The lectures and discussions have had fair-sized crowds so far, with only a slight variation of faces at the different events. It is extremely ironic that the overwhelming and silent majority of Notre Dame stu­dents sit in their comfortable rooms in the buildings on the land stolen from the Potawat­omi tribe apparently obliv­ious to the historical and con­temporary conditions that · make our white race guilty of 
genocide. 
When Columbus "dis­covered" this country, there were nearly a million inhab­itants using the land. By the time white America stretched from coast to coast, over half of the native Americans were killed through such tactics as germ warfare, cold blooded 

by .M:trk Walbran 
Flanner Hall has a big empty basement-but not for long. All that empty space has captured the imagination of Flanner's Stu­dent Services Commission. As a result "America," a coffee house which promises to be of a dif­
ferent  breed, has  been decided  
upon.  
Phil  Defliese,  Flanner  Hall  

president, said yesterday that the renovation of the basement has already begun. After prepar­ing a detailed plan with the assis­tance of Mr. Vincent Fraatz, the campus planning engineer, Bob 
owtimes­
1: 15-3:15-5:15

NOW! 
7:15-9:15 

would open the weekend of 

McQueen acts as F~:;·--~~ ..-M.ar.di·G-ra_s_. F.e.br.ua.ry-6-.7._ .. 
The Observer is published daily
he hasn't before 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage 


Technicolor paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
inhuman murder and stealing: the average income of an American Indian is between $1000-$1500 annually (between one-third and one­half the rather minimal nat­ional poverty level); the aver­age education is 5 years of grade school; the suicide rate is the highest of any ethnic group in the world-in some tribes, reaching the unheard of proportion of ten times the national average; all stan­dards for measuring the qual­ity of medical facilities, from infant and maternal mortality rates to deaths from TB and massacre, and death marches. We continually broke our treaties with the Red man as we discovered that the land stolen at the expense of their 
lives and culture meant more profits for our pockets. 
Our "Manifest Destiny" 
has since brought America far 
beyond the bounds of contin­
ental America, and our 
blatant genocide has shifted 
to Asia. However, even if one 
were to claim our bloody 
exploitation of the Indian 
was only a sin of the past, 
there is little doubt that Red 
Americans are still, in Father 
Hesburgh's words, "getting 
the shaft". Some of the statis­
tics offered this week by 
Indian representatives indi­
cate_ how sorry we are for our 
the Redmen and to a much 
smaller degree, in the funct­
ion of the bureau. Several of 
the people here this week give 
personal witness of that 
change. However, the prob­
lems with which the Ameri­
can Indians are faced are still 
extreme and entirely unjust. 
This week, they have asked 
for help from Notre Dame; 
Jet's hope that the response 
of most of Notre Dame's 
students is not indicative of 
the response ultimately given 
by the university. 
Since what the students 
America discovered in Flanner Hall 
say or do has little relevance on this campus anyway, perhaps a little hope can be found in the words of Fr. Hesburgh, who was appar­ently invited to campus to pinch-hit for fellow liberal rhetorician, H.H. Humphrey. In his talk, Hesburgh gave a good analysis of the historical context for the present prob­lems, a context too often lost to Americans with good guy­bad guy mentalities, which in this case was created by cowboy and Indian propa­ganda of the media and of education (an Indian war is a massacre or a battle depend­ing on who won). He went on to say that the hope for the future lay in education, which several of the Indian representatives had previously expressed. Fr. Hesburgh left before any questions could be asked, but there are several ­that should be answered: Why does Notre Dame have 
o n I y one Indian student? Wha( does Notre Dame have to offer the Indian Amer­icans? Perhaps those q ues­tions are unanswerable, but the following should be answered soon: What in the future will this university provide for Indian Americans and other minority sub­cultures in recruiting, in counselling, in content cour­ses, in environment-in short, in the educational needs that 

.the Indians say they want and definitely have a right to? Let us hope Hesburgh's words will not go the way of other fine rhetoric (like "Christian 
infl~enza are at least 300% more per capita than the national average. And the list could go on and on. 

The Indians are virtually controlled by the government in all aspects of their life­even more so and less subtlely than other Americans; fur­thermore, their official Big Brother, the Bureau of Indian 
Coglianese, Flanner's Student 
Services Commissioner, ap­
proached _f'r. Jerome Wilson for 
financial help with the project. 
$4,000 was received for physical 
improvement of the basement. 
The hall is putting in approxi­
mately $1 ,000 for entertainment 
facilities. 
john Fonseca, former man­ager of Badin Hall's coffee house, and Kevin Smith, Flanner Hall senator, will be the co­managers of "America." Aside from the usual folk entertain­ment, the two plan to feature 
rock and classical music, old 
Affairs, which a couple of the Red representatives called "the Indian's worst enemy" cannot simply be rejected because it has such complete control. Indians have not been very militant in their demands for human rights since the last Indian war partially because of this Bureau which has both the money to buy elections for puppet tribal leasers, and the power to make the absurd living condition they provide for a dissenting individual and his family even more insub­stantial. Also, the Bureau has done much to perpetuate, or at least, maintain, an envir­onment that, whether inten­tionally or not, could only be d estructie for lnd ians as individuals and as cultures. 
However, things are chang­ing, both in the attitudes of university") that have merely served as whitewash to cover an absence of any commit­
ment. 
Another important q ues­tion was raised by Dr. Olson the first night: How can a university and a president that claims they want to do something for Indians justify 
accepting money from and complying with the recruit­ment for corporations that exploit the Indians of South America? Let us hope that the apparent contradiction between Fr. Hesburgh's words and his acceptance of university complicity to the extent of allowing ten stu­dents to be suspended for protesting that complicity is only apparent, instead of hypocritical. But unless he can and does either answer some serious questions and criticisms, or respond with immediate and effective changes, some one will have to inform the editors of Look magazine that their moral crusader exists only in words. 
time movies, a variety of drama including mime and one act plays, and even fashion shows. Each weekend two acts will be presented by out of town groups, the managers said. 
Artists of the University Arts Council are helping with the dec­or of "America." Plans include wall murals, carpeting, and black light illumination. The stage will be movable and built of several sections so that its length and width can be varied for different performances. 
Fonseca and Smith said "America" will be serving light food, pizza and sandwiches. Table service will be provided. 
The two said that "America" 
~--.-!P!'!I!!I-!!!-!!ii!N~s~----
due to Student Services Commission 
.------------------------------------------------------~--~--~­

IS-minute rule 'protects complicity' 
'""'rhis is a second of a series tJf articles which will reprint the defense of the ten students who were suspended for their actions in the now CiA protest. Comments on their philosophies can be addressed to the Observer Box 1/. 
I. Now let us turn to the rule under which we have been summarily suspended and expelled. The rule combines in the over-burdened person of a single administrator the functions of police officer, prosecutor, judge, jury, and academic firing squad. The parallels between this procedure and martial law have been pointed out frequently. What is the reason for this severity? 
2. It is perhaps the most basic impulse of Anglo-Saxon common law-subsumed under the phrase "innocent until proven guilty"-that there be a temporal and personal separation in the process of apprehension, prosecution, judgement, and execution of sentence. This procedure is understood to apply at 
every level of our society, even for the most heinous crimes-murder, rape, the destruction of essential property. It is ludicrous to compare our action to crimes like these; yet the Administration has denied us the protection of this fundamental procedure. What is the reason for this 
? 

3. Finally, it should be clear that not all "disruptive" actions but only those with certain objectives are intended as the object of this rule. One may block a door-way, "substitute force for rational persuasion," or "impede normal University operations" in the course of a panty-raid, a week-end drunk, or an over-exuberant pep rally without fear that the "IS-minute rule" will be used against him. But the rule was immediately conceived and employed in response to actions of this sort 
when those actions were directed to political ends: specifically, ending University complicity. 
4. What, then, is the reason for the 
severity of the rule? The only answer we can surmise is that the Administration sees something much more important at stake when those actions are directed at the political stance of the University than when they merely "infringe on the rights of others" (often much more seriously than we did) with no overt political motive. And what is at stake is the perpetuation of the University as a service station for a system that lives on domestic and foreign countries repression. The IS-minute rule is designed to protect the University's complicity. The Administration seems to believe that the financial life-blood of the University as a research and d ment installation flows on 
with the political subjection of the University to military, governmental, and industrial organizations; the Administration must therefore prevent any effective threat to its political 
alignment and cater to the political opinions of these organizations and of those (wealthy) parents and alumni who share these opinions. It must prevent "embarrassing incidents" as 
well as any effective interference with its political stance. The University's constituency is, in short, not the community of teachers and students within it, but rather that "outside contituency", the political and economic system represented by the Board of Trustees! 
S. The principal audience, therefore, for the promulgation of the IS-minute rule was not the University community but rather that "outside community", for whose purposes the University is being run. It is being told in not uncertain terms that Notre Dame is a "safe" place and that the Administration will brook no interference from students or faculty with the cooperation of the University and that constituency. Of course the Administration must be ever wary of the slightest occasion for the use of that rule in order to demonstrate its resolve and prove in the face of critics from the outside it is no "paper tiger." Now we contend that a rule (a) promulgated-unilaterally and by fiat 




lyons' Hall President proposes co -ed dorm 
by Mike Mooney 
If Lyons llall President Bruce Johnson has his way, full co­educational living will come to the Notre Dame campus long hefore anyone expected. John­son has proposed transforming Lyons into a co-ed dorm for the 
Johnson, in conjunction with McCandless Hall President Ruth Johnson and Holy Cross (SMC) President Mary Bernath, pre­sented the suggestion to an in­formal joint meeting of the Student Life Council, Hall Pres­ident's Council and Hall Life Board in December and en­light is needed to see the bene­fits of co-educational living facil­ities. The details of the proposal can be ironed out in a few weeks time. What is needed is the courage to admit that the proposal makes sense, has been found morally acceptable, and shoutd gladly be made fact m Lyons Hall next semester." 

The written proposal also quoted Father Theodore l-Ies­burgh, President of Notre Dame as saying that "we might create a total educational community that will be greater than the two separate opportunities that have existed thus far." 
obviously in haste, (b) to repress, in the harshest possible fashion any effective interference with the political function of the University, is no rule at all when the political stance which it protects becomes so evil as to be intolerable. 
6. On November 18, 1969, the Notre Dame Administration, fully cognizant of the year long debate concerning University complicity, presented us with an ominous alternative: either (a) we must acquiesce in the administration's endorsement of Dow, the CIA, and the structures and assumptions that they represent by the simultaneous scheduling of recruiting by these two organizations -squarely under the Golden Dome, literally and figuratively; or (b) we must prevent this affirmation of a vicious system, even if it meant that the Draconian rules for the protection of this perverse political relation would be used against us. We could find no third alternative: we therefore chose the 
latter course. 


a performance which is ' so funny, so movlnc, so perfectly crafted and realized that it should win her an Academy Award but probably won't, because Oscar is archaic and Llza is contemporary!" 
-Thom.. Thompson. 
liFI MAGAZINE 

coming semester, and, if that countered only light opposition.effort fails, he feels confidant 
"Most of the opposition was that a future co-ed dorm in due to the timing of the pro­Lyons is more than a good pos­
posal," said Johnson. sibility for the coming fall term. 
"The members were not Neither suggestion has been 

opposed to the idea of a co-ed formally l,:dopted by either 
dorm, only that they thought it 

sd10ol, however. Johnson cited was coming too fast or that it 
"lack of courage" and "burea­
would take alot of study."ucracy" as the reasons for the 
lie also noted that several 

delay. fa cully members had some 
Johnson feels that his pro­opposition because they felt that 

posal is only a slight anticipation a co-ed Lyons would interfere 
of the general trend of Notre with the plans for a joint 
Dallll' and St. Mary's toward a N D-SMC experimental college. 
full merger. lie considers the The Lyons hall president felt 
stopped-up enrollment effort strongly that the need for study 
and library expansion plans at of the proposal was overplayed. 
SMC signs that St. Mary's is pre­In the written porposal pre­
paring to enter into a full merger sented before the joint com­
with Nl>. mittees, the three hall presidents 
"St. Mary's realizes that they declared: will have to merge if they are to "There is no need to over­survive," said Johnson. study the proposal for no divine 
Mardi Gras chairman calls for step -I' up in raffle ticket sales 
docs the f:.~te of Mardi Gras has by Glen Corso already been determined--at best 
Observer News Editor 
there will he no Mardi Gras next year; and possibly this year'sDave Dewan, chairman of event muy suffer a similar fate,"Mardi (;ras, issued a statement 

he said. yesterduy S<Jying that this yeur's 
Dewan had some mild criti­

Mardi ( ;ras raffle hook drive is in cism for students who have not 
serious trouble. 
been selling chance books. lie "It has been made clear that stressed that ull the money went the profits of Mardi (;ras are al­

to charity, und that ull the work lotted to charity-Student Union 
was heing done to aid those "less and Student .Government are fortunate than us." 

mnely channels for this dis­"With all the talk of involvem­
hursenwnt, and they absorb ent and personal commitment nont' of the profit. 
that one heurs today it is sad "Ncwrthelcss, the first two that the needs of others can he nights of collection have netted 

so quickly overlooked. Mardi less than $1 ,000-only one-thir­
Gras offers an unusual challengetieth of this year's goal. From 
to those who promote peace and preliminary indications this 

continued on page 6

trend may continue and if it 


Verdict questioned 
previously brought up," MetzgerIn the wake of the suspension 
stated. 
of the Notre Dame I0 by Father He further observed that 
Riehle last month, the group has Hesburgh should understand addressed a letter to Father that the group was most He sburgh a p pea I ing their concerned with their personalposition and calling for a 
moral response to the 
conference with him. 
University's political stance. 
Speaking for the ten, Jim 
Therefore, he continued, a 
Metzger stressed that Fr. Riehle a necessity in order
dialogue is was not aware of the severity of to comprehend the entire .his actions. He also commented situation.
that it was unfortunate that 
Metzer concluded by
Rie hie did not give more reiterating that the punishment
attention to the recom­
of suspension is very, very harsh,mendations of the University and that the University could be Appeals Board of which the ten much less severe if they reallythought highly. to. 
Metzger contended that Riehle did not grasp the sense of the Board's recommendations, and was · not aware of the consequences of the suspensions. He cited problems of draft re-c Ia ssi fica t ion, insufficient credits, and problems of readmission as terrible obstacles that the student now must overcome. 
Metzger felt that Fr. Hesburgh, as the University President, should respond to the ten, and accept the invitation to confer with them, and take up total consideration of the matter. 
"Punishment or not, we want Fr. Hesburgh to see we arc trying to bring up the issue of University complicity not 
Enroll in CE 26: Man And His Environment 
FAMILIES WELCOME 

Open to all undergraduates, Sophomores and above 
11 a.m. to 
12 p.m. 


FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1970 

You've got to hand it to the military-industrial complex, they make great coats. 
:-···································································-­
-: 
~ Glen Corso : 
. ---• --• 
~ Notre Dame Ten! 
--.
--. ­
Aft~r reading the defense put out by the ten students who were disciplined for their actions during the Dow-CIA controversy I came away with the strong feeling that it was a time for decision. As the MCS put it, "Now is the time Brothers and sisters, for each and everyone of you to decide..." I have decided. 
The issue of University "complicity" as put forth in the defense gave me a fascinating insight into the workings of the radical mind. The complete paranoic rejection of society and indeed reality is disappointing. 
The condemnation of the University for allowing ROTC on cam­pus for "channeling" its graduates into industry and government, and for investing in corporations is downright childish. 
The question of ROTC has been debated back and forth for so long that it has degenerated into the hurling of hackneyed phrases by both sides. The simple fact of the matter is that the freedom of this nation depends on a strong and effective military. Aggression is deeply imbedded in human nature. I see little hope of eradicating this trait. As long as it exists our only defense will be the military. The only way we can have a strong military is to have a strong officer corps, which ROTC provides. The University would be failing in its duty towards this nation if it did not do all it could to insure a strong defense for it. 
The assertation that the University is "channeling" its graduates into government and industry is myopic to say the least. What other areas of employment are available to a college graduate? There is teaching to be sure, yet how many teachers can we use? There are very few fields of employment which do not fall into either of these two broad categories, so I really can't see any point here at all. I want to work in government. No one has channeled me. In fact I haven't talked about my aspirations with anyone in the school ad­ministration. 
There remains the rather explosive issue of corporate investment. No doubt some radicals will shudder with horror, but I see nothing wrong with Notre Dame investing in any and all legitimate corpora­tions. I include in this group those corporations which manufacture armaments for our nation's defense, or for the war in Vietnam. I see nothing un-Christian in adopting a strong posture of self-defense, or in waging a war to protect our interests by insuring that most of Southeast Asia will remain free. 
In short I completely reject the fanciful notion of "complicity" by the University. As I see it, the universities are a vital part of our society. They equip their graduates with the necessary skills to earn their living in the world. They provide a haven for the intellectuals in our society who are interested in knowledge for the sake of know­ledge, rather than in means of application to everyday life. By having ROTC on campus and by having most of its graduates go into busi­ness and government and by investing in corporations the univer­sities are guilty of nothing more than playing a vital and active role in serving the needs of our free society. 
The decision I mentioned in the opening paragraph concerns my future course of action. I am casting my lot with the forces of sanity. The lines have been drawn and the swords sharpened. There is to be no turning back. The revolution occurring in the country must be aimed towards achieving freedom and justice, not mob rule by left-wing brown shirts. The time is now, and the decision is yours; I have made mine. 
~-----------------------------------------------------·----­
·.~ 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1970 

THE OBSERVER. Page 5 
Time has come: Middle America strikes back 
' 
by Paul Gallagher 

The awards have been given, the bows "We need more people around that caught in the kitchen can opener and The next Sunday, he began byhave been taken, and as the early days of slick to their job without complaint when 
sisters in the cloth rally to her aid. appealing to his friends. At first, he the new year pass by, John and Mary the going gets tough", the President 
It has been a long year for John, Mary appealed self-consciously and defensively,Middle America, voted Man and Woman scrawled. "You don't make much noise, 
and their once ordinary family, and John treating with great delicacy of the secret of the year 1969, rest a little easier in the but we know you're there backing us", he 
feels a real satisfaction as he thinks back workings of God in his life, the health warmth of their suburban horne. wrote. 
at how, way at the beginning of the year, hazards of drug use, and the misguidedThere sits John, the one with the Next to John is Mary. Mary, too, has 
he decided that things had gone too far efforts of those desiring peace in the peanut-butter and jelly sandwich. He sits recent honors o;1 her mind. For her, being 
and that he was going to exert himself: country.admiring a picture of he and Mrs. on the the nation's first pick meant a special lie considers how he was a nobody letting Soon, however, he found that delicacy cover of Time Magazine. "Yeah, it was on gift-an album of favorite· Christmas 
people smarter than him push hom was not necessary. Support came from all Time, that business magazine", he had carols-from the nation's first lady. Mary around. Now, twelve months later, he was 
sides and John felt himself becoming an told his friends on bowling night two strokes the album with soft gauze and a somebody who had learned how to use instant expert. God ceased his secret days before. "It took up the whole cover positions it on the sterio. The cabinet his, weight. workings and came to act with the and was in a bunch of colors on that growls at first, then whispers of the saga It all started when he and his fellow directness of John's office secretary. The glossy paper they have," he had of the reindeer and his nose. Kiwaneans decided to invite what turned 
Almighty helped John pick the very tie explained. "Kind of like modern artish." At the hall phone upstairs, Michael, 16, out to be "one of those real kooks" from he wore to work and helped him greet the He beamed for a moment as he reflects with a friend on the drama of neighboring to at door. became
the university speak salesman at the Drug use admired the picture, then turned the passing from childhood, through their luncheon last winter. Chaos had more and 
more lethal as John spoke and cover to page through the lenghy tribute. adolescence on to maturity. He speaks of broken out shortly after the beraggled marijuana more and more addictive. lie smiled with reverence as he came dates and dances; of Judy, the youth finished a verse by Yippie Leader Misguided efforts of peacenics became at across two pictures of Mr. Nixon, but checrleading captain and how he could Abbie Hoffman and began a first treacherous and finally treasonous. found the other faces foreign and have taken her out but that he was like a dispassionate, but driving speech. John John and his band of workers, calling disinteresting. The long columns of even big brother to her. He speaks of how he found civility difficult to maintain as he themselves the "Fraternity to Rot Out print came to bore him. He layed the almost played second string guard on the took to instructing the lad. He had not Nonsense", found themselves cementing magazine at his side, careful to keep the junior varsity team, but how-just like in been extended a friendly invitation to the one leaky vessel after another before they cover displayed. grade school-the guy who took the job luncheon, said John, to insult the club's could catch their wits. They worked with 
John thought of Mr. Nixon, his friend. was the coach's son. president or the other Kiwaniis members unparalleled furvor and with amazing They were friends now, in a way-evern Mary, 15, Susan, 14, and Robert, 12, present-members whom, he did not fail success. The school needed to be rid of since the President had sent him a relax their minds and refresh their spirits to add, represented some of the most radical teachers, the kids were thinking 
program from the year's Texas-Arkansas with a wholesome family episode on the respected members of the community. too much, too young. The city's charity football classic with an endearing note Flying Nuns on the television set below. The boy, he felt, should have some sense victims to be made well aware that
were scribbled indise. This week Sr. Sally fields gets her whimple of place. He should not have appeared good money was not to be given· away 
:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i. before them in rags, and especially he until they showed themselves at least should not, as a lad of 19, have taken to willing to clean themselves up and get a mDave Stauffer l;1l instructing gentlemen much older and decent job. Theaters and book stores, more experienced than himself. even the public library, learned that Commotion at the luncheon had smutty books and immoral pictures


I Wake up the echoes I
fragmented what little of his speech the would not be tolerated in at least one youth had been able to deliver and made town. One theatre owner was even.•.·. The Cotton Bowl did it. If I remember This will be followed by the outdoor o;·· it difficult for the local reporter to hear persuaded to contract for Walt Disneycorrectly, the University for years de-spring season, lasting three months. 
exactly what had been said. Apparently, reruns.
dined to participate in a post-season Vacations will no longer be based upon however, the youth intimated that 
game because it would lead the public to national or religious observances; but students at not Before long Mary joined the cause and
the university did mind
believe that Notre Dame is a "football upon various sports seasons. Specifically, organized the city ladies into a geranium
Kiwaneans selling candy for Little League
school." Well, as I sat in front of the tele-Thanksgiving will be moved forward to planting committee. By early November
teams and, when tired of the golf course,
vision on New Year's Day with about become the World Series Break; Christ-they had planted and watered daily 876
holding benefit balls. They only objected
fifty screaming relatives I was at last con-mas and New Year will be eliminated, but geranium around city
to the club's moving into areas of blooming plants 
vinced that Notre Dame is, in fact, a foot-coincide with the Festival of the Bowls; memorials.
government and civic life where some
ball school. Easter will celebrate the opening of base-Only the local newspaper gave John's
understanding was necessary.
Now don't let my attitude confuse or ball season and the closing of hockey and Nonsense group opposition. John
Indignation filled John's chest and
be misunderstood. Like every other mem-basketball. Of course, the Holy Days will demanded that the paper stop giVIng
head as he moved through the afternoon.
ber of the great Notre Dame family, I also be removed, and will be replaced by extravagant headlines to a "handful of
Nor was it relieved that evening as hewant Notre Dame to always remain foot-observances such as Super Sunday, when radical nuts, queers and criminals", andwaited for Mary to finish preparingball's Number I -both in the polls and in everyone is required to attend the TV of that it start instead to give space to thesupper. First Huntley-Brinkley was 
our hearts. However I'm scared. The stu-his choice during the game. showing a review a "gorilla silent majority of Americans. (The silent
detailed ofdents-the greatest twelfth man in the 3. ACADEMICS: Admittance to the majority, that was a stroke of genius,mass" featuring kids running through aworld, the most essential element of the University will be based primarily upon John's shrewdest thought of the year. liechurch "like animals". They ran shouting,
Notre Dame spirit-the students are neg-one's high school performance in sports. liked the sound of that.)
singing, and hugging one another, andlecting their duty to the football tradition All university correspondence will assume The news editor quipped that hethey drank wine. Then 14 year old Susanat Notre Dame. Believe it or not, I have the form of the standard newspaper 
doubted that much color would be came to ask her father where she could
noticed that some students would rather sports story; i.e., "We were greatly brought to a profile of a mute Americans
get information about hippie communeswaste their time in protest than attend a pleased to receive your letter of intent to watching television but before manyand love cults-she was going to do an
football game; others would rather go to attend Notre Dame. We are sure you will months had passed, John and the
English theme.

a so-called art film than go to a pep rally. be an asset to our program, especially Nonsense group had made the whole staffThat did it. John had heard enough of
Some people even study when the Ara since Notre Dame is losing over 1300 pep care when biting the feeding hand.
takepeople's own bags and of blowing minds.

Parseghian Show is on Channel 16. rally lettermen this year, and your fine John smiles and philosophizes as heHe had had it with blacks and coloredNotre Dame must be saved! Football record on the high school yodeling team cleans jelly from his shirt front. "I guesspeople and Negroes. He had had enoughmust remain first and foremost in the will help us fill in our front lines. You can they're right", he says to his wife who hasof slums and protests and following yourminds and hearts of the students. The look forward to intellectual challenge moved to his side, "I guess we have doneconscience, of being scorned just becausetime for talk is over-action is the only also, as we play two teams ( LSU and something small for man."
he lived in a comfortable home, and beingsolution! Missouri) nicknamed Tigers and will Mary smiles and adds, "Yes dear, andridiculed because he played Crazy Eights.
Right now you arc probably thinking: therefore need two catchy slogans to yell something small for mankind."
John decided to stand up for his rights. 
"Of course. I agree I 00%. But he, like all at rallies and games... " who have spoken before him, is wasting 4. CLASSES: Desks will not he ar­his time with meaningless rhetoric rather ranged in rows, but rather in formations. than proposing a definite plan of action." Names and places will be known for the 
But, God bless us all, you are wrong. sports personalities they most resemble; Now that I look hack on it, the solution i.e., Aristotle will be remembered as the was obvious all along; the problem merely Vince Lombardi of philosophy. A class required some deep thought, a plan of day will consist of eight periods, with action, and the divine inspiration provid-breakfast known as warm-up, lunch as ed hy residence beneath the Golden half-time, and food sales renamed the Dome. post-game wrap-up. 
The plan? Simple: Academically, cul­5. PHYSICAL APPEARANCE: Theturally, and immediately, Notre uame groundskeepers will wear jerseys and hel­must become sports oriented in every mets; the maids will dress as cheerleaders.

phase of its operation. The possibilities The campus will be completely coveredand promise arc limitless, but the major with Astroturf, lined in white and readyareas to be dealt with are mentioned be-for play.

low: ,

I. TERMINOLOGY: 'Community no Of course these measures only dent the longer exists. It is replaced by 'team.' Fr. surface of the reforms which must be llesburgh is not the president, he is the made to improve Notre Dame. Student& head coach. Administration =staff; main­Players must take up the banner and tenance and security = groundskeepers; burden of making the school of the Fight­students= players; Huddle =Huddle. ing Irish the haven of collegiate football it Concert tonight The hero of Middle America knew that 

2. CALENDAR: The semester system' has been in the past. Look at our present he was the hero of Middle America in 
First Friday will appear in concert
is completely abandoned. In its place will pitiable state! It is obvious that the 1969. But that didn't make it a duU year: 
tonight at 9 p.m. at the St. Mary's Coffee­
be the 1-4-3 system, That is, there will be Observer should have reported the sus­the one on the left (with his mouth open)
house. A light show will be given by the 
a one month period of preparation for pension (rather than expulsion or a~.:quit­proved that number two doesn't have to 
Greater Northern Light Company. You
the school year, training camp. This is tal) of students at the Dow-CIA demon­try harder-he only has to speak louder. 
are cordially invited if you pay the $1followed by the first full period of the' strations as "A l0-lO tie as the result of 
admissiQ.n (2 for $2). 
•o,)"' "':
college year, known as the indoor season. the final 15 minutes of play."· · · · ··· 

r 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1970 
r Page 6 'E OBSERVER. 

YOGA 


Dewan foresees disaster for Mardi Gras festivitieS 
Beginning Jan. 8, 1970 

included' there really 'won t be a nization in the world will
825 Notre Dame Ave. 
continued from page 3 

damn thing to do around here' not benefit charity if the stu­
6:00, 7:15, 8:30PM. 

happiness in the world. Al­in February," he stated. dents don't sell their· raffle Phone 287-3744 
though on the surface Mardi Dewan's statement also men­books." Gras may seem to be far re­tioned the history of Mardi Gras, Dewan finished his statement moved from this situation, but a saying that it had run for 
with a plea for increased chance
THE HOUSE 

brief moment of serious reflec­eighteen years at a profit, with books sales. tion will dispel such beliefs. the "students responding admir­"Please make every effort to "It is indeed sad to think that ably to the challenge" of selling sell at least one raffle book. If
OF 

the Notre Dame and St. Mary's chance books. Last year Mardi every student cooperates, the students need to be literally co­Gras suffered its first deficit. success of Mardi Gras would be insured. Your hall reps are listed
erced into giving a small amount Dewan attributed the loss to of their time to the welfare of "organ izat io nal difficulties" below -support their efforts others. Should Mardi Gras die, it which plagued last year's set-up. with your raffle returns. Why 

ILL REPUTE 
offers you a chance to 

should Mardi Gras drop from the
will be the result of the apathy He emphasized though that this 
spend some time with 

that often prevails among stu­year "every attempt" has been 3rd largest collegiate weekend in one of its representatives 
the country to a non-existent
dents in the dead of winter. For made to correct these difficul­those of you more 'more socially ties. He said however "the best one?" 

59( 

biggerat Bllr. 





""Ke,. b 
~~· 

~.
.: 


Bt,uger King. Ho~e of the Whopper. 





501 DIXIEWAY NORTH, 
SOUTH BEND 

HALL REPS: T. Tooney, l 025 Flanner; D. Souers, 911 Grace; S. Merkle, 336 Zahm; S. Underhill, 125 Keenan; J. Riley, 304 Stanford; M. Winnings, 413 St. Ed's; T. McKenna, 401 St. Joe; P. Bowers, 423 Farley; T. D' Aquila, 333 Breen-Phillips; B. O'Brien, 218 Cavanaugh; J. Coberstein, 230 Sorin; J. Gra­bias, 300 Walsh; R. Kacenski, 350 Alumni; D. Redle, 312 Dill­on; P. Simmons, 428 Fisher; T. Cronin, 325 Pangborn; T. Trean­or, 358 Badin; S. Martinek, 133 Howard; R. Connell, 203 Morris­sey; J. Toller, 205 Lyons; N. Fairbauch, 308 Carroll; J. Cox, 234 Holy Cross. 
University seeks court in junction 
continued from page 1 
Richard Conklin, Director of Public Information, and Phil McKenna, Student Body Presi­dent are among those scheduled to testify. 
If a temporary injunction is granted, the length will then be decided upon. The complaint for injunction states that the defen­dants and their consorts are enjoined and restrained from "congregating or assembling within the Administration Build­ing or in any corridor, stairway, doorway, or entrance thereinto in such a manner as to disrupt or interfere with the normal funct­ion conducted by the Placement Office ... or any other business office of the University." 
The order emphasizes the fact that the four are acting as "rep­resentatives of all others acting in consort or associated with them." 

UAC starts 
continued from page I 
the university would discourage his committee's university benefactors, Dowdall said, "I have already talked to Mr. Frick about this and he showed no such squeamishness." 
While Dowdall p] repared for arranging finances, UAC chairman Tom Kronk turned toward getting the arts moving on campus second semester. Kronk and his group had been promised full use of the fieldhouse next semester with the university picking up the tab for lighting, heating and minor repairs. Permission was also given for one or two members of the UAC to reside in the fieldhouse so that artists can work early in the morning and late at night. 
While neither Dowdall nor Kronk wish to exaggerate the implications of President Hesburgh's letter, both hope that development of an engaging cultural arts center on campus might mean a change in the philosophy of the university from one of professionalism to one of fostering individual student growth. 
"We hope the success of talk about an art center will mean a reversal in the present trend toward technology and mass education in which every student becomes the computer card", said Dowdall. "We hope it means a change away from professionalism of the university, emphasis on graduate prestige, and the depersonaliza­tion of students", he said. 
"The arts is interested in things in people that aren't measurable", said Kronk. "We 

aren't  interested  in  
professionalism  but  in  
developing  the  person,"  he  
added.  

----------~­
FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1970 

THE OBSERVER. 

Page 7 

OBSERVER STAFF
Nobody moving 0-C 2nd sem. 

Pit'tures will he taken for the Yearhook on Friday
by Shaun Hill made anticipating 60 empty
Dean of Students Fr. James 

4:00-Stephan Center -Night Editors and Associate Editors 
beds by the end of the year.
Riehle has forbidden any There are I I 0 empty at the
student presently residing on campus to move off-campus 
present time. The university second semester except under 
feels that it cannot afford a 

4:30-Second Floor LaFortune Lounge -Sunday, Monday extreme conditions. Off-campus 
further loss of income from 

and Tuesday night stajj; Features staff. Columnists, Business staff
students moving off campus, Student Body President Phil commissioner Bernee Ryan and 
Ryan said. Ryan stated that the decision
McKenna learned Tuesday in a meeting with Riehle and the was final. First of all, Ryan said, 

5:00-/,obby of Center for Continuing Education -Wed­University Vice-Presidents 
it is "well within Fr. Riehle's 

nesday and Thursday night staffs, Sports Staff and 
authority" to make such a
The University's present 

reporters 
decision. Secondly, Ryan cited the fact that when a student 
financial crisis was cited as the 

5:30-Lobby of Center for Continuing Education-All other
reason for Fr. Riehle's decision. 

editors (Sports, News, Photography, etc.) 
..
According to Ryan, the majority decides to reside on-campus he 

of funds for the university's entered into a contrad with the Commissioner Ryan Editors: wear coats and ties Yearly budget comes from University that is binding for the C ..
. omnusstoner Ryan said that 
students. The budget for the entire school year and not just those students that do wish to 1969-1970 school year was the first semester. move off second semester have 

Three co-ed proposals submmitted two alter~ative_s open to them. 

c
. The ftrst ts to fmd someone now 
continued [rom page 1 than dtd come._ living off-campus who wishes to 
Mary's, calls for the admittance The comnuttee refuted the of women for the Fall semester two popular myths of male move on and trade places with of JlJ71. intellectual superiority and the them. This is in line with past 
The long term projection of ',distraction theory" that are policy. The other is to see Fr. this idea os for an eventual given as arguments against Riehle and convince him that female enrollment of 1000 to coeducation from an academic your reasons for wanting to complement the present St. viewpoint. 
move off-campus are extreme Mary's enrollment of 1700 while The committee, after looking enough. Notre Dame's enrollment holds at National Merit test scores and 
When questioned as to his at the present level of SAT scores plus reports from 
opinion on the matter Ryan said 
6000-61 00. Princeton by teachers with 
that, "It is a question fo 
The immediate housing women in their classes and 
finances, but it is also a question
problem created by the women comparitive graduating rank 
of student life. I am not happy
would be solved by the with men concluded that to 
to see students forced to live
conversion of half of contend that women are Keenan-Stanford, Flanner, or intellectually inferior would be a somewhere that they don't want Grace halls for female residence. position "difficult to defend." to. While it is true that the Other problems concerning their The report also considered the students were given the residence can be resolved upon importance and weight of the opportunity to move off-campus further study, the report said. female viewpoint in all male last May, the circumstances that 
If this proposal was enacted, classes and regarded it as a brought about such a decision the future of St. Mary's would "positive contribution" to the could easily change by be in serious question, but the academic situation. February." He felt that it would 

Like a snowball in Heaven is rightl It takes the shape of committee felt that Notre Dame The committee felt that a have been better if the 
fifty beautiful slopes rangi'ng from beginner to expert,
coeducational community
must choose a direction and if University had issued some 

and our new aerial snowmaking system assures you of St. Mary's docs not choose the including Notre Dame and St. directive clearing this matter up 
next-to-nature snow at all times. We have the finest in 
Mary's would be the most
same direction then Notre Dame before Christmas. 

uphill transportation to provide you with the best in economically feasible course ofshould not feel obligated to hold 
skiing recreation. We've accented this snowball with our back on its plans. 
action for both institutions. Ryan went on to say that Edelweiss lodge, trimmed from the game room to the The idea is economically "the decision was based strictly fourth floor in passion red just for you indoor natureA combination of the first sould due to the savings on the on financial grounds. Decisions fans. Top all this off with a candlelight dinner ortwo proposals constitutes the logistics and services based strictly on finance tend to 

dance-side cocktail and you've got our version of a departments which now operate dehumanize the University and third proposal. 
snowball in Heaven. Give us a call on our hotline for ski separately, said the report. It should be gotten away from. 
The final proposal 

conditions and lodge reservations and see how quicklycontended that financial There must be some other recommends that Notre Dame 
you'll melt. Phone 616 775-9984. facilities at St. Mary's, especially solution that would take into 
establish by next fall an 
experimental program 
the new library, would be account both the University'spermitting 100-200 women to relieved by this action. financial position and that of the 

Big

transfer here for a year. 
The report made the gloomy students."
The committee felt that at the prediction that "without fullyend of the one year, the program 
As Ryan said his
d cveloped coeducation, both 




~~BiiFAi M
could be assessed and a decision institutions face the possibility commission has plenty of 

CADILLAC, MICHIGAN MANISTEE, MICHIGAN
made on the future of 

•
of being financially housing available for students if coeducation on campus. 

In the heart of the Manistee National Forest
they are allowed to move.
overburdened, resulting in
The committee presented a 
inferior faculty, a limited
fourfold rationale for curriculum, poorer but
coeducation with the belief that 
duplicated studies, and
coeducation could benefit Notre somewhat less student aid." 

Interested in social action internships
Dame "much more" than simply The social dividends of

"enhancing" the social 
coeducation were also discussedatmosphere, and that primary in the committee's report.

consideration should be given to 
with public or private agencies or in other
Dating, according to sociologist

academic and financial 
Samual Lowrie is a "learningadvantages.

1\ study was experience" and the committee undertaken by the Research and felt that as such coeducation 

work I study programs for academic credit? 
Development Commission last becomes an "essential summer, in· which 570 students component of the total who had been accepted at Notre education which should be Dame, but did not attend, were endemic to the Notre Dame asked questions about their education." refusal to attend. An initial The committee blamed the review of the date reveals similar lack of opportunity for 
findings to those of Princeton. A "informal" acquaintances for significant fact was that more the "psychologically 

DEADLINE FOR DEVELOPING SUCH PROGRAMS
people who had rated academic detrimental" social atmosphere averages over 3.00 did not come at Notre Dame. 
FOR SPRING SEMESTER IS NEXT WEEK. DUPL.ICA TE BRIDGE 
For details contat't: 
..

MIKE Mt'CAFFERTY 
Every Saturday I: 30 Flanner Recreation 
Room 

URBAN STUDIES OFFICE. 
All Welcome 
For Info: Rich 
1067 

1st FLOOR MEMORIAL LIBRARY 
Charley 1216 


Ex. 1112 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1970

Page 8 711B OBSER11£1t 


Kansas opens tough ND schedule 
JIM MURRAY 
gram winners with the middle

Just like you can predict a be Ohio State, the only team to 
size sword. Rich Deladrier and

South Bend winter will be cold, defeat the Irish last year (against 
Hugh DePaolo are the other pro­

you also know that Mike 19 wins). Other troublesome op­

Caught
bable starters but Bill Corda and

DeCicco will have an excellent ponents will be Illinois, Wiscon­
Pat McDonough provide veteran

fencing squad. In both cases this sin, Wayne State and Michigan
backup strength. Of this particu­

year is no exception. State. The Irish will have 23 
lar Epee group DeCicco feels

The strength of this year's matches scheduled and only 

in Draft
that they are "possibly the best

team should lie in a strong Epee three of these will occur at I've ever coached."
division. Co-captain John Al­home. The first will be this 
bright will lead four other mono-weekend against Kansas (and
In the lighter division, foil, © 1970, Los Angeles Times there is also an abundance of ex­possibly Iowa State) in the Con­perienced swordsman. Glenn vocation Center. Kalin, Dave Keeler, and John 
1961, when first them on field, coach 
Lyons appear to have the inside DeCicco feels this year's team In he came upon the 
Norm Van Brocklin characterized his Minnesota Vikings as "a bunch 
track on has a lot of talent. Enough that
starting positions but of stiffs." He was giving them all the best of it.

they have a very good shot at a
they will be pressed by Ray The point to be made here is not that those Minnesota Vikings are

national championship. Over­

.. Madalone and Jim Reardon. 
on the verge of becoming champions of all football now, only eight 
confidence could be a problem
The boys who brandish the short years later, but that this squad (along with the one they play,

but if everything turns out as ex­
big weapon, the sabre, aren't the Kansas City Chiefs) will be the last team of this overall strength 

pected Notre Dame will be in
exactly hurting. Roger Holz­we shall ever see in the pros.

great shape for the National

grafe, the other co-captain, will that 1961 Vikings come to
Also, the Minnesota may be
Tournament. It seems that they
lead Mike Feeney, Doug Daher recognized through a haze of history as a comparative juggernaut. 

are scheduled for a rather friend­
and Bill Maliszewski into combat 
ly place, the Notre Dame Athlet­

against Irish foes. The "bunch of stiffs" included Fran Tarkenton (whom they were
ic and Convocation Center. 

Heading this list of foes will trying to teach to stay in the pocket), Tommy Mason, Grady Alderman and Ed Sharockman (who broke his leg), and the league had stocked them with super veterans like Hugh McElhenny. 
The Vikings won only three games that first year, but in the next
Howard Porter 
draft they were able to get the likes of Mick Tinglehoff and Chuck Saturday afternoon, Johnny 
Lamson. They were able to deal for players like Bill Brown and Jim Dee's Irish test one of the na­
Marshall. tion's finest defensive teams, Vil­
The personnel on that 1962 team would be Super Bowl stuff bylanova, in the Convo Center. The 
1973. Wildcats are led by 6-8 junior center Howard Porter who is one I will explain: The Minnesota Vikings or the Kansas City of the best around, carrying a Chiefs-whichever team wins the Super Bowl-will get to draft 26th 20-point average. Notre Dame this season and perhaps for many to come. will seek to up its record to 9-4 
But, never mind that. Even the weakest team has to wait 25 placesafter Wednesday night's 91-76 between its first and second choices. Expansion, merger, growth in win over Fordham. 
general, have conspired to make football Pygmalions as mythical as the original. 
If you have to wait 25 places to get your FIRST crack at the 
Notre Dame's fabulous Austin footb~ll player, and 50 places to get two, your chances of improving Carr was in danger of losing yourself significantly are minimal. Even if you have the foresight to ground in the National Scoring finish last, a situation where, under the 1961 alignment, you could Race when he scored only six in probably get yourself a handful of players by the 50th round, you the first half against Fordham, still get only one real shot nowadays. You may need six or more but drives like this (left) and good ball players to move your team into contention, but it will be some great outside shooti11g like hav ing to stand 26th in line at a one-to-a-customer nylon sale. 
helped Carr score 23 second-half This has already revolutionized front-office thinking. Time waspoints and Notre Dame pull when a team that was rotting in the seams would hurriedly deal itself away to an easy 91-76 triumph. 
-
off a lot of deadwood for future draft choices. But, suppose you barler away an aging but still serviceable safety man to Kansas City 
for their first draft choice? You have lost yourself a genuine proven


DeMoss, Mollenkoph aide, to be 
pro for a guy who is only, at best the 26th best college player in the country. He wouldn't even make the second-team All-America. He may never make a pro.

named new head coach at Perdue 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. won three of these. 
ball powers. He is steeped in Canny coaches like George Allen, who saw this coming, loaded up The move to the top on· a
(UPI)-Bob DeMoss, a forestry Purdue tradition and has with veteran players rather like the company commander in the graduate who switched to a steady basis, however, figures to gathered many individual honors South Pacific during the war who got the coded word that the Japs career in football, was appointed be challenging. Mollenkopf, in his career, including selection were blockading the area, and he hurriedly requisitioned a 
head coach of Purdue Univer­despite an all time record of 84 
in I947 as the team's outstand­warehouse of canned ham from an evacuating man o' war. "But we sity's football team yesterday by wins, 39 losses and 9 ties, felt 
ing player and an appearance in don't like canned ham," protested his officers. "You will," predicted the breath of disgruntled stu­
• athletic director Guy "Red" the first North-South All Star the commander. 
Mackey. He replaced Jack dents in 1965 when the Boiler­
game, in 1948. He also played a Mollenkopf, who retired Wed­makers, rated among the 
year later as an All Star in the Minnesota and Kansas City are atop football today because they
nesday. nation's top teams, suffered a Hula Bowl game. up the of They without
stocked in days plenty. are teams DeMoss, who will be 43 on 14-10 loss to Michigan State, 
DeMoss and his wife, the weaknesses now that the famine is here. Howard Schnellenbergereven though the outcome was
Jan. 27, takes over a team which former Janet Thompson, are swears Kansas City has such balance and textbook specimens at each 
some affected a play

has enjoyed of its best by disputed parents of three children. position that they just ran their finger down a Sears, Roebuck 
years under Mollenkopf. called against Purdue. 
catalogue, and said, "I'll take two of these (6-5 ends) and two ofDeMoss has done some Mackey said the selection ofDeMoss also has enjoyed suc­these (290-pound tackles) and two of these (cornerbacks who can
recruiting for the Boilermakers. DeMoss "was a well deservedcesses at Purdue both as a player jump 6-6 and fo the 100 in 9.5)."

honor. He is no neophyte in
He will be called on to do more head coaching and he was a and as head coach on two differ­

ent occasions when he took over in his new capacity. As a former Since the merger, the catalogue is slugged, "Subject of
unanimous choice of the present
top flight quarterback and tutor Purdue football staff."

for the ailing Mollenkopf. availability." The wave of the future is teams like the Cleveland 
As a freshman quarterback in of an exceptional group of Browns or Detroit Lions -ones who have outstanding individuals
DeMoss commented, "It is a

1945, DeM~ss led the Boiler­players at the position, DeMoss but team weaknesses. The bricks are fine but the mortar is chipping
dream come true to coach at

makers to w~at many regarded may prove to be invaluable in away between them here and there. The Vikings, on the other hand, 
your alma meter." 

as the season's top upset by extending a tradition which has are solid cement. thumping No. I ranked Ohio produced Mike Phipps, Bob The new coach was immed­
Dawson, The proposition is advanced that the Rams, for instance, are
Griese, Len Dale

State, 35-12. iately barraged with questions. 
getting too old. Too old for what? Too old to stave off a 1961During his four years at Samuels and Bernie Allen. 
He said the present coaching 

expansion team? Hardly. You'll never be able to go from stiffs toPhipps and Griese were
Purdue, Moss became one of the staff will remain unchanged. 
supers in eight years getting a football player every 26 turns of theHeisman Trophy runners up, asnation's top passers, completing DeMoss added he would wheel. That's like trying to catch the Rockefellers by digging oilwas Leroy Keyes, a halfback,191 tosses for 2,759 yards. He 
who graduated after the 1968 retain his role on offense and with a spoon.
tried a year of pro football but 
run that phase of the Boiler­
season.

returned in 1950 as an assistant If your only weakness is old age, you're still socially secure. If y
maker attack. The offense would

coach, a job he was holding Phipps, as a senior, last fall ou're merely over the hill, you still have an edge over those who are
continue to be wide open, basic­

when selected by Mackey. became the first quarterback under the hill. I expect any day the Super Bowl will have two teams ever to lead his team over Notre 
ally, MeMoss commented, with 

wearing glasses, some of them bi-focals.
In 1961, the first time 
Dame three years in a row. emphasis on passing. He quali­DeMoss took control for Mol­Purdue enjoys a 10-4 edge over fied the comment by sayinglenkopf, Purdue dealt a 9-0 Notre Dame teams under Mol­personnel would have to be the shutout to Iowa, marking the or determining factor. 

lenkopf. Often a mediocrefirst time the Hawkeyes were bad season may be overlooked

blanked in 79 consecutive Although the appointment
with a victory over the "Fighting

games. He was named UP! races the final formal approval
Irish."

"Coach of the week" for the of the Purdue Board of Trustees 
'DeMoss, however, has a suc­

feat. which meets Jan. 21, the usual
cessful background and can be

He was head coach again for practice is for a department head 
expected to keep the Boiler­

the final four games of 1968 to name his choice and board
makers prominent among foot-

season and the Boilermakers approval follows. 





