
/ 
·vaL IV, No. 111 Serving the Notre Dame a/Ul Saii11 Mary's College ('ommunity
No men storm SMC in massive panty raid 
by Dave Lammers and Jim Brogan hands, agape at the unheralded doors, demanding entrance until 
sight of hundreds of sweating the security guard relented and > Chanting "Here Come the 
0"' 
and excited men running opened the door to the crowd
Irish" a thousand Notre Dame Ql
throughout the halls. fearing that the glass door woulct ·;:;,students stormed the Saint 
Other girls suffered far more be broken. "I thought it was Ql
Mary's campus in the annual "' 
damaging consequences. One girl noisy and stupid," the se-curity 0::Spring panty raid last night. 
was reportedly molested. guard later related outside of
Armed with a bullhorn, a ~ 
Radios, record albums, purses, McCandless. The ball director of
small group went from hall to 0
..
whole wardrobes of lingerie, and McCandless said that the raid
hall on the Notre Dame campus 0 
other items were stolen or was "immature and out of II. .c. 
shouting to the residents to join destroyed. Residents absent date." "They don't have themthe raiders. Running past the from their rooms were most on other campuses," she said. 
Administration building, the victimized by the Notre Dame At Regina Hall, the freshmengrowing crowd of students re­men, who broke into their coeds were lar_gelv excited andceived a wave from Father rooms in search of plunder. (con tjnued on Page 3)lleshurgh on their way to the 
road joining the two campuses. 
After the raiding students left The initial surge of the invad­
LeMans for the first time, the 
Robinson newsletter
vented LeMans. A window was broken in the side 
ers was on crowd divided, going to Regina, 
Holy Cross, and McCandless of LeMans as one student 
halls. Thwarted at the front door 

attacks ND finances
entered and opened the main 
of Holy Cross, the males circled door to the shouting raiders. 
to the rear of the hall, where 
by Dave McCarthy
Storming up the steps of 
they surged through an openLeMans, some of the girls stood rear door. There, the initial On April 23 Professor James the Universtty Budget the University administration silently watching the rampaging, E. Robinson, Chairman of the Committee to explain values its academic objectives
scene was largely repeated. The chanting males. Reactions to the more daring girls stood outside English Department issued a two instructional responsibilities, and how it respects its faculty ... raid in LeMans varied from the in small groups as the invaders page newsletter concerning the academic objectives, and Bugdetary planning, like curious smiles of the female ran from floor to floor, pound­faculty's participation in bud~etary needs. curriculum development, cannot onlookers to the frightened and ing on closed doors, entering Uniersity financial budgeting. 3. For any given year the be conducted in isolation; the enraged disgust of residents who open rooms in groups of ten or The Newsletter outlined and allocation for faculty salary faculty has had no role in the were vandalized and attacked. explained six recommendations increases should be separated creation of financial policy, and
more. At the fourth floor 
"Come back soon," "I wish stairway, the way was tempo­which were unanimously from other aspects of the so cannot be certain whether the they had stayed longer," "Best rarily blocked by one shouting approved by the English University budget and the over current budgetary strangulation thing that happened in a long resident, who was soon cowed department on April 20. They all rate of increase publicly reflects an overindulgence in time" said some of the LeMans were made in response to announced. academic spending or a
by the chant of "Up, up, up the 
coeds. Girls stood smiling in Robinson's report of an April l 0 4. Plans for faculty misdirected distribution of
stairs." 

their nightgowns and curlers, meeting between Father development in each college potentially adequate total
At McCandless Hall, male 
should funds."
shouting to friends, shaking students pounded on the glass Edmund P. Joyce, Executive reflect the student 
Vice President of Notre Dame enrollment of the college. According to the newletter 
5. The University the focus of the recommend: administration should publicly ations is not so much the clarify the status of the inadequacy of allocations as
Ch~~~e~c~~t~:n~:~~~;!ty~ere: distinguished chairs that have "the atmosphere of obscurity in been publicized as an objective which these allocations are of the Summa drive. determined and imposed." 
F.Ire h•ItS Mor r .I 55 ey~~deantshe :~~getarrep;~%c:~~ 

room destroyed !~ Bp~~~~~~ys:r~~=td~~: ;:c~~!~ 
6. The Department This "atmosphere of
will receive their codicils for encourages the Faulty Senate to obscurity" was present in thehaving smoked before they left 1971-1972 no later thanTwo Morrissey hall residents form a budget committee and April I 0 meeting. Requested by were without a room and most the room just previous to the December l 0, 1970. 
seek representation on the Father James Walsh, Vice
blaze. 2. Before future budgetof their belongings today after a 
University Budget Committee. President of Academic AffairsThe fire was first noticed bv allocations are decided, Deansmattress caught fire yesterday According to the newsletter, the meeting was to have been ";Jones, when he spotted smoke i~ and Department Chairmen1fternoon and destroyed or "The essential questions are hovv review in depth of the financilahis room, and after deciding that should be granted hearings withJa maged ne~rly everything in situation of the University." The 
their room. his room was not on fire went / Chairmen, as departmental
John Zurcher and John Leino into the smoke filled hallway and eu c •• financial administrators were to ::>f 0 I 0 Morrissey had left the saw that next door was the~ 1..,.1 committee report the . findings of the 
room minutes before the fire location of the fire. 
meeting to the faculty members started. and when they returned He attempted to enter the 

1• t • d 
in their departments.
found their room unlivable. 
Evidently the many facts and
~~~~~ ~~~~c:na:ra~~~~p~~ sb~o~~ a.pp I C a I 0 ~ _S . U e
The Notre Dame fire figures were screened in a
Another hall resident tried to by Ann Conway mtormatJOn to th~ Freshme~.
department refused to comment darkened room making it
put out the fire with an Applications for positions on . The Sex EduatJO~ C~~mgtee
on the cause of the fire, but Paul 
(continued on Page 3)
extinguisher, but the thick six newly formed ad hoc com-will w?rk clo~:ly d'_Ytth ; rug
Jones, the basement Morrissey 0 
prefect, who lives next door to smoke repelled him also. mittees at St. Mary's will close fommttt~~~ acco~d mg111 ~ ra~_ey · At this time, the main tonight, according to SBP Ann t too WI provt ,e •orma JOn
010, s<~id a fireman noticed a Carroll Hall 
concern of Jones was to clear Marie Tracey. ?n the St. Marys Campus ~o
cig<trette in an ashtray on top of 
out the basement of occupants. These six committees, namely mterested students, and :-viii
the bed. 
pu lis out of ND
fhe residents rnoved out in an the Drug Committee, Sex Edu-wo!k on the Freshmen onen-
Zurcher and Leino denied (continued on page cation Committee, Off Campus ta~_n. T hopes to fill two 
Fifty-one residents of Carroll
Committee, Public Relations, ISS racey 
Hall seceded from the NotreStudents Rights and Co-Edu-empty. seats o_n tl~e Health 
· . . Committee, whtch IS on the Da:ne community yesterday,cah?n C<?mmttt.ees, ~~~~. work in m . . the Student Affairs 
following two and a half months
conJunction w1th s1m1lar com-sa e ~ar as . 
of fruitless negotiations with themittees at Notre Dame. How-Commtttee, w1t? the two. ~rug University administrators overand Sex EducatiOn Commission-
ever, each committee will have 
plans to turn Carroll into aers and thereby tie up the
its own SMC commissioner, and 
graduate student dorm.
structure for a more workable
will concentrate on problems 
The university first revealedand more effective Health pro­
which affect the SMC campus 
its intentions concerning Carrollgram for the students.
and student body. in February, without consulting
The Off-Campus Committee
The Drug Committee is one the hall's residents. After several 
will concentrate with problems
basically or research. It will 
letters were printed in Theconcerning day students and
work in connection with South Observer and after talking with
those students who chose to
Bend and YMCA drug centers to Father Reilly, the residents
move off-campus. It will work in
provide and publicize services decided that no progress had
conjunction with Notre Dame in
and information available to 
been made.
obtaining housing lists and will
students about drugs. The mem­According to Mike McKale,
try to provide off campus
bers of the committee will also hall senator, the university
students witn "'I p~rtinent col­
work to incorporate into the originally guaranteed the
lege information. 
Freshman orientation m team displaced residents that they
The aim of the Public Re­teaching technique to bring drug 
(continued on page 2) (continued on page 2) 

f 

MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1970 
PAGE 2 


vStalemate •
1n staff student talks 
by Ann Therese Darin 
SMC administrators met Fri­
day with representatives of the 
cafeteria staff students to settle 
differences in their new con­
tract, but the stalemate between 
the two groups continued with­
out a sign of let up. 
According to the Monsignor John J: McGrath, SMC presi­dent, main differences in the contract center on a discrepancy between the amount of time the girls do work and should do work. 
Staff students believe main problems concern compensation for sick time and time spent eating their meals. Another problem is representation of staff students. They claim these points constitute changes in the program and not correction of abuses. 
"The whole problem", ex­plained McGrath, "is what do you mean when you say that you will work for 30 hours? All 

(continued from page 1) 
would be allowed to enter hall picks in other dorms on the basis of their classification. However, the residents have been placed in the general University-wide pick, resulting in "seniors with high averages who have lived in Carroll for three years having to start all over again," according to McKale. 
The secession resolution read 
"Whereas the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac, Inc. has failed to conduct itself in a manner consistent with the concept and policie~ of a Christian would continue for those cur­we want them to do is to work rently in services. "Girls willthe num er of hours that they agreed to work when they be allowed to work for the number of hours for which theyentered the program." 

signed," he reiterated. "ThereCurrently staff students work will be no changes in theon IS, 25, or 30-hour programs program, but only a correction
weekly. Programs vary to pro­of abuses."
vide for a student to earn part of McGrath would like to correcther expenses while the college eating time, sick time, andprovides for total or partial representation abuses. 
write-off expenses. 

On eating time, "I am payingIn the past the staff students for the food and then paying the have worked only 25 hours of a girls to eat it which I find30-hour week, but have been ridiculous. I believe that thispayed for not only this time, but idea originated four years agoalso for time spent eating. 
when the manager permitted
Last fall when adequate ser­vice was not being given, an 
If you collected one kiss for each shade of Natural Wonder tUn-Lipstick' you wear... you could have yourself one sweet little collection. Twenty-four tUn-Lipsticks'... the sheerest, clearest, shiningest lip colors 

ever. They're bare, but the color is there. Natural Wonder ~un-Lipsticks' by Revlon 
Available at: 
St. Mary's College Bookstore 

CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (3~2) 944-7500 • Zl P: 60611 

Add fifty cents for shipping plus sales tax where 
girls to eat and work at the same time." 
On sick time, "Girls want to get paid even if they don't put in their 30 hours. This isn't fair." 

On representation, "No one is saying that Saga will not consult the girls on whem thev should appoint. But, what is being said is that Saga can not be respon­sible for the service unless they manage it." 
At the Friday meeting, term­ed a "most unpleasant exper­ience" by McGrath, the stale­
"During the meeting, some of the student representatives claimed that we didn't care about them. If we didn't care, we would not have supplement­ed their earnings to the full-ex­tent of making the program possible," he explained. 
"While these abuses may not be new, they should not be perpetuated," he continued. 
When questioned on what would happen if staff students; did not wish to contmue, he replied that other employees 

mates continued. (continued on page 7) 
evaluation brought to light that a number of hours were not 


Coalition to sell books;
being worked. In examining the program, evaluaters found certain abuses. 

plans for future events They concluded that it proved 
to be an expensive program for 

by John Abowd
the number of hours provided. other trustees beginning tonight there will be a teach-in on
A week-long series ofWhen McGrath met with staff in the Grace Hall lounge and "Sexism and Male Supremacy atactivities concerning University
students earlier this year, he possibly continuing in other ·Notre Dame." 
complicity and "sexism,"assured them that the program dorms throughout the week. Plans for the Board ofsponsored by the Coalition for "~ed Star Tours" of Trustees meeting Friday, FreePolitical Action begins today. 
University complicity buildings City Day support and Saturday
Highlighting the week is the sale
Carroll Hall secedes are scheduled for Wednesday activities will be discussed at the


of two new CPA research afternoon. Thursday afternoon Wednesday CPA meeting.
booklets, "Notre Dame, Inc." and "Sexism at Notre Dame,"UniversitY: 

sMc •
"Whereas said administration which starts today.
The booklet, "Notre Dame, '~ has failed to fulfill promises 
commtttee 
concerning the future of the Carroll Hall community and has denied us due process; 
"We, the residents of Carroll Hall, do hereby abolish all ties to the University of Notre Dame du Lac, Inc. and declare their authority null and void west of the R.O.T.C. building. We the undersigned do hereby set our hand to this document on the twenty-fourth day of April, in 
the  year  of  Our  Lord,  one  
thousand  nine  hundred  
seventy."  


telephone interview, said the 
purpose of the planned events is 
"to raise the level of awareness


Collection' 
concerning these issues." Current plans include an open discussion of J. Peter Grace and 
Inc.", is a detailed study of the financial affairs of the Board of Trustees' members and an analysis of Notre Dame's attempts to become a modern university. 
The CPA research group notes that, in spite of statements to the contrary, the Board actually represents a special class of people namely: "Excluding the Holy Cross priests, the other 34 members of the board represent the upper strata of America's corporate elite." 
The booklet notes that 16 publications and communi­
cations corporations, 18 utility and transportation companies, 4 7 finance corporations and IOS industrial corporations are represented by "presidents, top level executives or directors," on the board. 
The 
Descriptions of the financial affairs of four Trustees including 
J. Peter Grace are also contained in the book. The domumented
Natural report contends tha Grace controls Peru's cotton, sugar and paper production and uses local police and troops to suppress 
labor uprisings. 
The booklet also deals with suggestions about Notre Dame admissions, co-education 
Wonder 

(tKiss 
investments, and research. John Kraniak, in an Observer 
applications due 
(continued from page 1) 

lations Committee will be "to establish greater communication between the student body and the student government," said Tracey. 
This committee will put out a bi-monthly newsletter concern­ing activities of the student government and will do general public relations work. 
The Student Rights Commit­tee, one of the only two committees for which no appli­cations have been received, is ba . .:ally a research committee. The members of this committee will write to other colleges in order to get ideas on such subjects as academic grades, room privacy, and other student concerns. 
Research into the area of Co-education will be the concern of the sixth committee, the Co-education committee. This committee will also write to other schools concerning their ideas on the subject, and will attempt to guage student opin­ion on the ND-SMC campuses. Thus far, there have been no applications for the Commission­er on this committee. 
Commissioners will be an­nounced Tuesday night. Miss Tracey stated, "We would like a lot of kids working with the commissioners. We'd like most of the Committee's work carried out jointly with Notre Dame, in order to avoid duplication of 
information,  and  to  get  more  
accomplished  by  the  commit­ 
tees."  

Model South? 

ST. AUGUSTINE, Fla. (UPI) -Virginia Gov. Linwood Holton said yesterday it was time for the South to "become a model for race relations." 
Holton, Virginia's first Repub­lica! governor in the 20th cen­tury, pledged Virginia would become a "model in race rela­tions" in his inaugural address in January. 
In remarks prepared for de­livery to a Rotary Convention here, Holton said the South has buried its inferiority complex and is "dismantling the insti­tutionalized prejudice res­ponsible for our guilt complex. 
"Jim Crow simply hau to go if we expected to create a new South. And, for the most part, he has. This is not to say that all our racial problems are going to be resolved today, tomorrow, or next Thursday. 
"It is to say-and say most emphatically-that black and white together can overcome if they will but reason together. 
TYPING WANTED Essays, dissertations or manu­scripts. Experienced, accurate and reasonable. Can pick up and deliver. Qzll: Mrs. Jean Motsinger 259-1  
WANTED Homeworkers, envelope ad­dressers. Send self-addressed stamped envelope for complete details. Keafauver's, 1474 West Grand St., Wabash, 1ndiana 46992.  
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556.  

PAGE 3 

-Panty raid hits SMC 
continued from Page 1) 
afraid, as once again the runnmg males pounded on closed doors, occasionally stopping to shake 'lands with well-wishers or to greet friends. As in the other halls, a few girls were angercr1 and vainly attempted to order the rampaging Notre Dame stu­dents out of the hall. 
An hour and a half after the crowd had formed at Notre Dame, the males slowly left the Saint Mary's campus by way of back doors, tunnels, fire escapes, and windows. Some of the students reentered LeMans, and it was at this time that much of 

Photo by Reggie Dav 
the damage and personal abuse occurred. 



Indian Conference brings benefits 
by Pete Chapin 
The "Conference on the Problems and Culture of the Ar.lerican Indian" has generated many worthwhile programs for the Indians, announced Bill Kurtz yesterday, the conference chairman. 
Despite financial difficulties, the conference produced openings for twenty Indian students in Notre Dame's law school. There is a possibility that these students will receive scholarships and/or financial aid by the next fall semester, said Kurtz. 
Also, research preparation has begun for establishing a Junior College on the Rosebud Reservation. Proposals for this college were discussed during the conference and are being used in the research. 
A scholarship and exchange program was also organized and if funds arc available will be the first school to adopt such a program. 
Indian students will benefit from a special preparitory tutoring program before corning here. They will also receive assistance from professors who understand the Indian culture and its problems. 
An exchange of professors will also take place with Notre Dame teachers going to the reservations and to the Indian Junior Colleges. Father lleshurgh has promised to help raise the money for this program, said Kurtz. 
Many of the Indians who will attend Notre Dame Law School have expressed a desire to return 
to their reservations and fight for treaty rights. 
The Indians have never had the knowledge or money before to carry on these court bat ties, according to Kurtz. When they arc awarded money, the Indians 
are  often  "taken"  because  of  
their lack  of financial  skill,  he  
added.  

To rectify this situation, has a history of being distrustful assistance is being given to Chief of white people, Kurtz said. It Stanley Redbird and his people appears that he will accept Notre on the Rosebud Reservation. Dame's invitation, however, Doctor Dow of Notre Dame because of the work done conducted a survey over Easter through the conference. on the salability and availability Although the Indian of Indian goods across the conference had run into nation. financial difficulties, donations 
have just about wiped out the 

Dr. Dow has received help deficit, Kurtz said. The Kennedy from many interested Business Institute, founded last year at School students, and the Notre Dame, has donated $300 program is beginning to move to the conference. forward, according to Kurtz. An additional $850 has been 
Also, Mr. Jess Sixkiller, the given by Dr. Paul Olson of the chairman of American Indians University of Nebraska. Dr. United, was offered the Olson held a similar Indian facilities of the Notre Dame conference at Nebraska about Law Ss;hool. Mr. Sixkiller is a three months before Notre 

~~Rocbai~p;~~;;n a~e;c;.letter 
attacks N D finances 
(continued from  Page 1)  
impossible  to  remember  or  
record  them  accurately.  Yet  

when Fr. Joyce was requested to furnish transcripts of the figures, he refused, "on the grounds that many of them were not meant for general distribution." This was in contrast to what Fr. Joyce had described in the past 
as "an open book" concerning University financial affairs. 
Robinson's newsletter considered this meeting of little value, saying that, "neither the presentation nor the answers during the subsequent question period responded to the major concerns of the faculty." 
A recent University financial rc port described faculcy response to University fiscal straits as "generosity." The members might more appropriately be described as incredulity or resentment rather than generosity." He added, "Were the financial policies of Notre Dame treated with frankness, the faculty might not feel that they and the context of learning which properly 
ATTENTION GRAND PRIX TEAMS 
Due to insurance considerations, all go-carts must be removed from university property immediately. 
The Social Commission will store 
the carts free until May 5th. 
For detailed information, contact the Social Commission. Tel.: 7489. 
concerns them arc sole victim of a crach program to reduce the eosts Of educating the University students." 
When asked to comment on the objectives of this release Robinson said that he hoped it would promote better procedures and greater understanding of the faculty's position in this situation. 


RED STAR TOURS 
ATTENTION FREAKS, JOCKS DEGENERATES 
STUDENTS, BROTHERS, SISTERS, ,AND OLD PRIESTS,! 
THE NOTRE DAME CHAPTER OF WEREWOLVES, 
COWBOYS, SPACEMEN, WARTHOGS AND RETIRED 
FIREMEN IS CONDUCTING TOURS OF NOTRE 
DAME'S EDIFICES ERECTED IN PURSUIT OF 
WARGASM. TOURS LEAVE THE FLAGPOLE EVERY 
HALF HOUR BEGINNING AT 12:45, WEDNESDAY, 
APRIL 29. COME ONE, COME ALL. 
Prospective Juniors & Government Majors 
Pre-Registration Gov. Consultation With: Faculty & Senior Students 
In: Rooms 314 & 345 O'Shag On: M on, Apr 27; Tues. Apr 28; Wed. Apr 29 From: 10 -12 & 2 -5 Daily 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 9-1-1 7"\00 • ZIP: enf'11 

"I was locked behind double vented idiotic actions by 'college doors, scared to death," said students.' There were no injuries Prudence Wear, a senior in to girls, but a hell of a lot of LeMans. "It was like something hurt pride." out of Alfred Hitchcock's The The majority of the girls, Birds. The girls here scared to however, especially the freshmen death." and sophomores, were enthralled 
Early morning phone calls to by the curious spectacle. "I dig The Observer office brought it." "We loved it." "I wish they reports of theft, destruction, would happen more often." "It ransacked rooms, and physical was the first time guys were on attacks. One caller reported that the fifth floor of LeMans." "I sleeping girls were taken from enjoyed the company; this is the their beds and dumped in the first time I've been close to a hall. Another Saint Mary's girl guy in a long time." One girl reported a stolen coat; several estimated that seventy per cent others complained that all of of the raiders were well behaved. their underwear had been taken. "The guys were really nice," said Windows and transoms were one freshman. broken. Two South Bend fire The raid marked by its tre­trucks responded to tripped mendous energy on the part of alarms, and fire locks on doors the Notre Dame students. "Give were broken through. Some girls us Barahbas!" shouted one of were enraged to the point of the runn~ng brigands. tears. Reactions from the Saint 
"We don't mind the raids," a Mary's girls were mixed. The security guard said. "Our job is LcMans Hall Director responded to keep people trom getting hurt to an Observer interviewer, "Get and to protect property. This out of my hall!" one got completely out of "God, there are some really control and was malicious. All fine girls over here," exclaimed colleges expect raids, but better one of the returning Notre Dame organization would have pre-freshmen. 





Jite hits Morrissey 
(continued from page 1) 
mattresses with water, andorderly fashion while an dragged them outside. 
unknown hall member called the The smoke permeatedNotre Dame fire department. 
throughout the hall, and other Jones pointed out that 
hall residents that came because of the number of false 
downstairs gawked at the scene fire alarms received from 
and hampered efforts, ·said Morrissey this year, the fire Jones. 
·alarms were disconnected and He expected there would be a attempts to notify the change in policy in the department this way failed disconnected fire Jlarms after yesterday. yesterday's blaze, and he favored 
According to Mr. Kirchner of stiffer penalties for people the fire deparment the fire hose caught pulling false alarms. in the cabinet had been stolen, He added that the delay in 
forcing the students to use reaching the fire department was Soda-Acid extinguishers which due to confusion in the hall, and "ruin everything they come into a frantic attempt to locate the contact with." fire department number in the 
The fire department arrived chaos. about ten minutes after being No estimate of the financial called, and apparently entered loss incurred by the students was the burning room, doused the available. 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DAVID C. BACH, Editor GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 


Campus Opinion 
Edited by Glen Corso 

The following is a position paper submitted by Tom Duffy, former Zahm Hall Senator, rebutting the view of the proposed Student Forum offered earlier in the week by Grace Senator Tom Mignanelli. 
In the building of intra-hall communities and a student government based on the affiliation of hall governments, emphasis should be placed upon two factors-the building of small communities within the "boundaries" of halls, and the building of a "student community." In both cases, the interaction of individuals within hall and inter-hall communities is essential. Government, and especially inter-hall or "student government", must be structured so as to be flexible, fluid, and innovative; not one that gives way to rigidity, paralyzed in parliamentary tactics and the games of the few; too often irrelevant and unresponsive to meet the challenges imposed on it by the very constituents it purportedly serves. 
The problem of striking a balance between innovative capacities and the need for some structure for deliberation, administration and research is one that has faced many governments. Unfortunately, critics of the proposed Student Forum emphasize the latter consideration to the detriment of the former. 
The Student Forum as proposed in a new Constitution will fulfill both considerations. First, it will be the only concensus body. Every student will be allowed to address the Forum, as the Forum will not be "structured" to the point where parliamentary procedure and the senseless contest between liberals and conservatives dominate the activities of the Forum. 
The Forum has also been structured to include those considerations necessary for the proper functioning of Student Government. It has been given the power "to pass necessary legislation for the proper and efficient functioning of the Student Government and the Student Union." 
To those who claim that hall presidents will be unnecessarily burdened with research and administrative work (which ·will detract from a president's primary duties of building hall communities and supervising the concerns of hall government) the Forum has been given the power "to establish any advisory, administrative, or research bodies as it deems necessary." The Student Government Cabinet has been singled out to "direct or assist in fulfilling any of these functions." 
These powers were deemed necessary not only for the efficient operation of Student Government, but primarily in order that the Farum could remain an open, deliberative body. The emphasis then is placed upon a student government that is responsive to the problems of halls and hall communities; one which is innovative, and for once, practical as well as relevant. 
Opponents of the Forum have claimed that it is not "representative." I will grant that the Student Senate is theoretically more representative. The problem has been obscured by the theoretical discussion, however, which has been oblivious of past experience. 
The Student Senate has not been representative-regardless of theoretical discussion or the efforts of some senators. It has failed exactly at the point in which its defenders place one of its greatest strengths-parliamentary procedure. Unfortunately, procedure has been the tool to perpetrate the conservative-liberal battle to the point where students no longer doubt its relevance but are totally apathetic to it. 
Some claim that the Senate will work if given enough time and re-structuring. The increasing number of resignations and senators "with excessive absences" however attests to the lack of faith of the representatives themselves. 
The Senate has never been an important research body. Academic reform, parietals, limited hall autonomy, the judicial code, and nearly every important student issue (yes, even senior and junior cars!) could have originated in the Senate. The blunt fact is that this hasn't been the case as the Senate has neither initiated nor fully researched any major legislation on its own. 
The Senate then has failed. It is no longer taken seriously by the students. It is time for the Senate to dissolve and for Student Government to turn to its primary task-the building of hall communities and the successful creation of the Student Forum as a hall-based, consensus voice of the student body. Until that time, the oft repeated phrases of communication, community and possibly hall autonomy are dim, unrealistic platitudes. 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer 
~ 
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck f Advertising Mgr: Bruce Barker ~ Campus Editor: Glen Corso 
News Editor: Steve Hoffman 
f 
~ 
SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney 
f f f 
Assoc. Editors: Cliff Wintrode Layout: Jan Reimer, Marilyn Ann Conway Becker S~orts Editor: Terry Shields Headlines: Jan Reimer Ad Layout: Steve Dollinger
Features Editor: Tim Treaner 
Night Controller: Randy

Night Editor: Rich Smith 
Ernst

Layout Design: Cliff Wintrode 
MONDAY, APRIL 27,1970 


NEIL ROSIN/ 

""That•s only 888 houn" 

economy of death, 3 
Thirty-five years ago, the Jews in Germany believed that Hitler did not mean to exterminate them: "Nobody can be that stupid," they said. So they drifted to the gas chambers, finally going even without resistance. Now the nuclear powers continue stockpiling bombs and pouring new billions into new and improved missiles and anti-missile missiles, at the time assuring us of their intention not to be the first to use them. 
The basic premise behind this process, and behind the military budget in general, is that more nuclear weapons will mean more security. Presently, the United States maintains a substantial edge over the Soviets in numbers of nuclear warheads. And our superiority is even greater than the figures indicate since our navalforces and tactical aircraft operating in the Mediterranean and Pacific can also threaten Soviet territory with nuclear weapons. The Soviets, except for their few submarines and the brief Cuban episode in 1962, keep their nuclear weapons on their own territory. 
We spend over $10 billion a year to maintain and increase the number of nuclear weapons we can land on the Soviet Union. Emulating Detroit's ideal car purchaser, the Pentagon is very close to embracing the annual trade-in. 
If the generals have their way again, American missiles will shortly be equipped with MIRV (Multiple Independently Targeted Vehicles). This means that one missile will be capable of hurling several nuclear weapons at once in several different pre-selected directions. When this program is completed, the U.S. will have more than II ,000 nuclear weapons targeted on the Soviet Union. Each submarine commander will have the power to wipe out 160 cities. 
And America will be even less secure, the future infinitely bleaker than at present. We would possess a first strike capacity -the ability to so utterly devestate our opponent as to preclude any retaliation on his part. The soviets, using our logic, would match our development. 
Finally, the pre-emptive first-strike theory -we have to get them before they get us -gains credence in both nations, resulting in mass annihilation, the self-destruction of the species. 
All of the arguments concerning this issue might be found in a textbook on abnormal psychology. Paul Goodman classifies them under a chapter entitled "The Psychology of Being Powerless." The basic idea, as expressed by Goodman, is that "people believe that the great background conditions of modern life are beyond our power to influence...are inevitable tendencies of history...history is out of control. It is no longer something we make but something that happens to us." 
In relation to the problem at hand, how many times has it been said, "We don't want war. We want peace. But, if they make more bombs, we have to, too." Goodman adds, "In this fantasy, they employ a rhetoric of astonishing disassociation between idea and reality, far beyond customary campaign oratory...some of this, to be sure, is cynical, but that does not make it less mad; for, clever or not, they still avoid the glaring realities of world poverty, American isolation, mounting urban costs, increasing anomie, and so forth. 1 do not think the slogan "The Great Society" is cynical, it is delusional." 
Goodman goes on to discuss the "anomie middle class" -named man and woman of the year recently by Time magazine: "When none of its rational solutions work out at home or abroad, its patience will wear thin, and then it could coldly support a policy of doom, just to have the problems over with, the way a man counts to three and blows his brains out." 
And Paul Tillich wonders about "the possibility that it is the 
destiny of historical man to be annihilated not by a cosmic event but 
by the tensions in his own being and in his own history." 
So it seems that the world is acting out the melancholy scenario 'or Orwell's 1984. Hopefully it is not too late. We must change, renounce our maddened course, or be destroyed. Now. 
~~------~-----­

MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1970 7118 OBS£1lf1Dt 
A review by famous Jim Brogan 

Cash concert well stocked 
performer's exce1Jence forges bond of joy between members of vast audience 
Johnny really cashed in last Saturday night with the largest crowd the ACC has ever seen. He presented the exact same show that he did last week for President Nixon (a rather dubious distinction at best) and the largely middle-age, middle-class audience loved it. 
The first half was much what we have come to expect -a warmup for the main attraction. This one differed a little bit in that rather than featuring one second rate act, it featured four. Carl Perkins kicked the show off. You remember him he did !Jiue Suede Shoes way back in the mid-fifties before Elvis did it. In case you've been wondering what he's been doing since, he's been traveling with the Johnny Cash Show, and trying to make everyone remember him from way back when. 
Next were or was the Cater Family--Mama Maybelle, Helen, Anita, and June (Johnny's wife). They were tolerable, but had no conception of what it meant to play to an audience in the round. Their soft country sound pleased the audience no end. But please note though that this was not the usual Convo 
'er.tcr crowd. It was not comprised o" students, but rather by dyed in the wool, middle aged, family-styled Country-Western Fans. 
The following apparition was a member of the Cash Family, but not Johnny. Rather, it was his brother Tommy. If you think that Johnny has a terrible voice, you should have heard 
Everything I am 1 owe to one man -REDMAN. -Johnny U. 
A play preview by Patrick Gaffney 
Solitaire Vertex 
Solitaire Vertex, an original play to be performed this evening in the courtyard of ()'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's, is the work of an imagination that 
· incarnates the celebrations, the discoveries and the tragedies in the life of a young couple Written and directed by John Pajor, whose wife Laura plays a lead part, the play has strength, the daring and cohesion of true autobiography. John, his wife and their ten month old son, Jeremiah, have recently returned from Nova Scotia to South Bend where the local draft hoard has been impatiently awaiting their arrival. 
The play has no dialogue. The actors walk, dance, roll and run as the accompanying sound track matches their movements with every sort of music from Verdi's Uequiem to John Lenon's "Why Don't We Do It In The Road". Between these two possibilities, a frolic in the road and a final dirge, the characters vacillate and experiment. 
• ~~~;' c; 
-~' :. ~ ••••• < 
J 
>"'"' ~' i,"TJ..'l;..~',. 
-~.~· ~ ". ~~,'{}~\~/ .~ 
',c' 
Tommy's. He performed three numbers, which were quite enough. Including in these was Merle Haggard's psuedo­patriotic Fighting Side of Me. He told us he sung it because he liked the lyrics, which amounted to condemning oppo­sition to the Viet Nam War as "running down my country." This stereotyped, simplistic view could have been at least tolerated if he could have at least sung well. But he didn't. 
But he was a relative of the famous 
Johnny Cash, so the audience embraced 
his so-so act, as if he were their brother 
rather than Johnny's. 
The last performers of the first half and probably the best were the Statler Brothers. They swung through six quick numbers and tried to spice up their performance with some comedy patter between and during numbers. Unfor­tunately, this comedy was on the level of the Three Stooges, (but not quite as clever). It was their songs that saved them. Their choice of material was strong, and they came up with some interesting harmony (especially in Memphis) that is not usually found in Country and Western Music. 
Two of their numbers were gospel tunes (they claimed that they started on gospel, although they must have for­gotten a lot since then) that souldn't have worked, but they were religious songs, and how could the audience not applaud them. It would be like not applauding for a song about apple pie and motherhood. 
No actor holds to any one role for long. A girl who plays a gypsy queen at one moment may be a tree in a forest, a seductress, or a pregnant mother a scene or two later. Person and forms are mixed together, changing with the lyric sweep and the anxious tension of the music. 
By erasing strict character identity, the flow of the play becomes ritual, wherein each actor and each observer share one experience. The polarity is not between the stage and the audience but rather between the fears and hopes which are common to everyone. By using spears, fire, gesture, spirals, chains and guns instead of spoken dialogue, the play depends on the body and the interaction to bring others into the happening. 
There is only one performance, tonight at 8:00 pm, or in case of foul weather, tomorrow night, Tuesday, same time, same place. Anyone who needlessly misses this experience should never forgive himself. 
-
' 


Their Oh Happy Day wasn't bad, but it 
had neither the wistful urgency of 
Dorothy Morrison and the Edwin Hawkin 
Singers nor even the depth of feeling in 
the highly commercialized Glen Campbell 
version. 

They finished with their highly suc­cessful Countin' Flowers on the Wall and perhaps even deserved most of the applause they received. 
After half-time and a short warm-up by the impeccable Tennessee Three (the back-up band), Johnny Cash strode on stage, hair back, in his ruffled shirt and blue Edwardian suit. He was well worth the wait. In fact, he would have been worth standing in the rain or snow in line, or even sitting through the Grand Funk Railroad again to see. No amount of waiting could take away from this performer. 
He zipped through twenty-one tunes and each one was a delight. His I Still 
A playreview by Robert Carey 

SV 2 is a rare play in itself. A loose intra-arti~tic melee of absorbing depth produced by an ameteur group of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. It was written and directed by John Pajor, a young Notre Dame graduate, under whose tight direction the superficial surrealistic qualities are unmasked to expose neatly studied abstractions of interrelated themes. 
Pajor's major theme is the growth of alienation in modern man. The overlying theme is one of impending doom, resolving into great optimism towards the end. From the alienating angular symbols which are predominant throughout the play eventually evolve a young boy, symbolizing the new man, who wistfully stares at circular objects behind him. In between he deals with the primary alienation of the individual and finally the alienation of the artist from his own work, as Science and Technology, with their confining logic, destroy man's rhythm with nature. Our concepts of progress demand individuality, even if only for functional reasons, hence these must be overturned. 
Sexuality is treated in a burlesque fashion. The traditional unifying role of se"x offers no consolation to the man who sees it as the sole escape from alienation. In fact, depencence on sex destroys its unifying role. Sexualtiy is one our few common characteristics with primitive man, an acceptance of violence possibly being the only other. So that in, perhaps an oversimplistic fashion, our deep-rooted desires to return to the simple life are leading to orgies of sex ll'nd violence. 
, 

Miss Someone, Long Black Veil, Folsom Prison Blues, Orange Blossom Special, I Wald the Line, Boy Named Sue, and Ring of Fire were wonderful. Words alone can't accurately express the electricity of his performance. 
Even though his voice sounds like he gargles with razor blades every morning, or is continually trying to clear his throat, his honest, down-to-earth style, com­bining with the suffering qualities seen in his face make him an act not to miss. 
Like Bob Dylan, he has often been criticized for not being able to sing, but also like Dylan the message he presents with his words and his feelings more than make up for his lacking in the vocal areas. His music is not a light-pretty, floating thing, but an art of communication that goes much deeper than the sheet music. 
He has grown up with his music, and his music has become part of him, and part of his audience. 
But the p1ay s statements do not end here. Behind the themes Truth itself is treated. Pajor denies the existence of absolute truth, but sees that even relative truths are regimented by the logic of technological man. The shoe is stripped away from the foot only to find that the foot can be dissected, as well. Pajor teases the audience with his Set and Form symbolism. The angular movements of the players, and the angular design of the Set, are deliberately mistranslated as the play evolve.s and are used to underline growth imagery, creativity imagery, and finally male imagery. The cube which becomes part of the Set in the later scenes can be interpreted in basically conflicting ways, either as evolution towards the unifying circular imagery which appear at the end, or as reinforced angularity, and hence reinforced alienation. Man is, therefore, limited by the mind's ability to only deal in symbols. He cannot deal with absolute truths because the relative truths are so conflicting. The new man that emerges at the end, looks back on the symbolism, because, in a sense, he has risen above it. The new man which Pajor presents is above our understanding. 
SV 2 is one of the most important plays to come out of Notre Dame. It's fascinating and unusual, socio-historical study of the past and present, with some reference to the future, as such, it is well worth the hour vou will soend seeing it. 
It will be put on tonight in the courtyard adjacent to the St. Mary's Coffee House. Don't expect just-another­amateur performance. 
..,. 
I• 

There wa 10mething for the voyeur In everyone at Saturday•s An Tostal celebration. There wu, though, a special liony in the winnen of the two molt publiclzed ewents. For the Kissing Contest: an athlete, J.T. Lyons, with a time of 6 hours thirty minutes, a new American record (the victory shared with a demure lass who declined to release her last name-the first is Peggy, if that's any help.) For the pig-chasing contest: Terri Buck. 
f 

MONDAY, APRIL27, 1970
PAGE 6 
UA C-participation creates total man 

(Part I in a three part series devoted to an examination of the University Arts Council and its relationship to the state of the arts at Notre Dame. Today 's article deals with the philosophy behind the Arts Council.) 
"Every thing the artist invents is true." Flaubert 
The post-war years have seen a tremendous growth in the scope of man's knowledge. The most visible result of these academic advances is the technocratic society that this country and this university operate from. Despite the advantages that accrue to this 
revolution, the " compart­
I mentalizing" aspect of modern society places the concept of
•I "the totally educated man" in 
gr<ive danger of extinction. 
IT'S YOUR STORE••• 

American universities serve as a marketplace for corporate enterprise. This is to some extent, unavoidable. However regardless of societal pressures upon individual students to find a ~'job", the university must "educate" its members so that they can play an effective "role" in the formation.of an American culture. They must therefore function as communities of creative endeavor. 
The doctor or engineer of the 70's finds his formal academic career composed, almost entirely, of courses in his particular field of study. Notre Dame is falling far short of her goal to educate the "total man." This failure is not peculiar to Notre Dame, it is a national malaise that needs correction if 
we are to orevent th.e 
substitution of "one-dimensional men" for cultural beings. 
The rigid structure of today's academic programs leaves little or no time for exposure to the arts for non-arts majors, within the tradtional academic framework. The solution, therefore must combine the best aspects of traditional art studies, along with the creative benefits that only participation can bring, in a program freed from academic pressure for grades and "success." 
The preceeding is a brief overview of the problem. The. basic assumption is that creative endeavor is a major step in rejuvenating higher education. The reasoning behind this statement leads us once again to our increased scope of 
•••IN STYLE, PRICE AND TERMS 

knowledge. All of us ar., confronted by a veritable deluge of facts, in varying fields, often conflicting, that lead some to rage and frustration, others to resignation and apathy. For modern man must realize that he is incapable of "conquering knowledge." He must do this in spite of the fact that many of his crucial decisions will be, at best, only partly his own. In an attempt to "catch up" with the facts, contemporary higher education emphasizes the need to specialize. Scientists and engineers of tomorrow must necessarily devote inordinate amounts of time to their fields if they are to be at all competent. 
What is lacking in this university is an environment conducive to development as as "total man", rather than to training as "an English major," "an architect," or "a lawyer." It is this interdesciplenary growth that stands at the foundation of the University Arts Council's philosophy. For UAC maintains that it is through creative endeavor that the student can best fill this void and play a constructive role in modern 


The Famous 




KNIT SHIRTS 
Take them with you for good looks and comfort this summer. In crew, placket or mock turtle necks. Choose from a wide variety of colors and stripes. Gilbert's Campus Shop has an excellent collection. Stop in. 
$5 to $7 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
society. The artisitc syntheses in writing, theater, music, painting, dance, etc. will re-open man to his feedom of consciousness and thereby offset the anaesthesizing effects of specialization. 
The anaesthesia of dehumanized society makes creative endeavor a necessity rather than a luxury. At the present time this university still considers artistic training a luxury. But interest in the arts at Notre Dame is growing. This can be attributed to another 
post-war phenomenon, i.e. the breaking down of the so-called centres of art (e.g. New York) and the resultant migration and dissemination of art from coast to coast. The opportunities are there, the interest (e.g. 2000 at the Student Arts Festival) is spreading, the time to provide assistance and direction for creative endeavor is now. 
Samuel Beckett is said to have termed James Joyce a genius because "while others write about something, he is writing something." Herein lies the true meaning of artistic creation. And here is a chance. 
SUAC to sponsor an education symposium 
The Student Union Academic Ccmmission will launch a three day Symposium on Higher Edu­cation beginning with keynote addresses scheduled for Wednes­day, April 29th, at 8 pm, in the Library Auditorium. 
Following the keynote ad­dresses, the Symposium will then spotlight five areas for panel discussions: I) What is Liberal Education? 2) Christian­ity, Community and Intellectual Life 3) Teacher: Scholar, Mid­wife, Gadfly, Salesman or Fe!­
low Student? 4) Knowledge, Power and Wisdom 5) Com­petitiOJl in the University. 
Each panel member will be asked by a student moderator to take ten minutes to express their veiws on one of the particular issues. This will be followed by a general discussion which hope­fully will include the audience and the panel. Dr. Willis Nutting has consented to elucidate~ his much publicized ideas concern­ing "Free City" education in one of the keynote speeches. 
PHILADELPHIA CLUB 
Nominations are now being accepted for offices for the PhiJadeJphia CJub. 
Contact: Pete Shalvoy 411 Walsh Hall 283-8147 
1--------------------------------------------------------------------------L----------------------------------------------~ 





SLY & THE FAMILY STONE 
Letters to the Editor 
Students are people 

Editor: 
I read with great interest the remarks made by Father Burtchaell and Mr. Meckle at the SLC meeting last Wednesday. (The Observer, Thursday, April 23, I 970, p. 2) After four years at Notre Dame, I would like to 
offer  some  observations  on  
student  life,  especially  the  
concept  of  "residence  hall  

phii ;ophy," as Mr. Meckle puts it. It seems to me that Father Burtchaell was quite correct in stating that 'students will not obey rules of their own making.' Equally correct was Mr. Meckle's belief that campus problems 'must be dealth with by looking at their causes, not simply their results.' 
In attempting to get at these causes, I would like to suggest the following questions which might be of help in understand­ing the problem of "communi­ty" at Notre Dame. Why do people go to college in the United States? Do the people who come to Notre Dame care to participate in and build a Christian "community"? In attempting to eradicate the image of the University as an impersonal corporation, are stu­dent politicians replacing it with some form of democracy? Do students want as much of this democracy as student leaders seem to believe? Does a 20 year old who cannot vote obey laws any better than a 2 I year old who can? Are the human types who comprise this University any more virt uous than the society in general? Are the various hall governments based on the assumption that students will be more law abiding and politically involved than other groups in society? 
Passing legislation concerning cars for sophomores, campus security, ect. is one thing; attempting to devise institu­tional changes that will make students live together in a man ncr that exemplifies some type of "community" is quite 
vfTalks stalemate 
(continued from page 2) 
would be engaged for work. 
During the Depression, SMC started the program to give students with financial problems an opportunity to attend the school. 
In its infancy, the program called for a minimal number of girls to serve meals. With the opening and expansion of cafe­teria service, however, program needs have changed. 
"Next year, because we arc increasing our enrollment by more than 200 students, we are going to inaugurate new opera­tions. The cafeteria will be open from 7:30am-6:30pm with a short break between lunch and dinner," he stated. 
"Because the operation 
need employees who can work 
for long periods of time, we plan 
to hire people from town. If we 
need any additional help, we will 
hire students at an hourly 
wage," he continued. 
another matter. Perhaps I, like the Board of Trustees, stand guilty of Mr. Meckle's charge that "you are denying the capacity of students to act in the best interests of the hall. . . " However, my guilt is deeper than this. The majority of students are like the majority of peoplt: in our society, tha• is, they act in their own selfish interests most of the time, and they are prevented from harming and are compelled to contribute to the common good by rules and regulations backed by the armed force of society. To view stu­dents as some type of especially virtuous element in our society and to establish hall life and government on this premise is, in my opinion, folly. 
Sincerely, 
John C. Shortell 
305 Morrissey 
Who's moral perversity? 
Editor: 
In his criticisms of Professor George Williams' ICTUS article, Dinks In Memoriam, Chris Wolfe 
despairs that the work overlooks the central issue of American involvement in Vietnam: "the question is whether or not the war is a necessary hateful thing." Mr. Wolfe also avoids coming to terms with this predicament, but I trust that it~ was a question posed tongue-in-cheek. For if not.,. what wildly Orwellian logic must be employed to convince one that something horrible and hateful is mitigated by the fact that it is in some way "necess­ary"? (Perhaps the logic of one military officer in Vietnam: "It became necessary to destroy the village in order to save it.") Only someone devoid of compassion 
could attempt to make such an argument. 
No matter if "communist atrocities" and "communist tac­tics" are responsible for "the horrors." (My deliberate use of lower case "communism" as opposed to Mr. Wolfe's "Com­munism" is intended to indicate that Vietnamese communisn., which at its base is a national-re­volutionary movement adorned with Marxist trappings, is a distinct phenomena quite apart from that ill-starred, obsolete 
concept of "monolithic Com­munism" which is implied by Mr Wolfe's use of the term.) One immoral act is never, never justified or allayed by another immoral act. This, however, is the sentiment hinted at in Mr. Wolfe's article: "Communist atrocities ... make the was necess­arily dirty" (that word again!). And if he wishes to stand by this statement, then there is indeed a "moral perversity in America"­or a least in Mr. Wolfe. 
Albert Sorel once wrote that "there is an eternal dispute between those who imagine the 

world to suit their policy, and 
those who correct their policy to 
suit the realities of the world:" 
The cold-blooded massacre of 
women and children, all the 
more horrible and shocking 
when committed by representa­
tives of a government which 
purports to defend the rights of 
all to "life, liberty and the 
pllrsuit of happiness." Or per­
haps this should be changed to 
read "white life, white liberty 
and the pursuit of happiness for 
white Americans." 
At any rate, it seems to me 
irrational and immoral to at­
tempt to argue that if something 
is "necessarily hateful" then it 
becomes less wrong to partici­
pate in it. And it is -unfair to 
criticize someone for not being 
.!qually irrational and refusing to 
discuss such a ridiculous con­
cept. Intelligent readers demand, 
or at least should demand, a bit 
more from a critic. Unfortunate­
ly, Chris Wolfe falls short of 
these expectations. 
Sincerely, 
Eugene F. Ritzenthaler 
423 Badin Hall 
Relevance is relevant 
Editor: 
Dear Mr. Wolfe: 

I am very sorry to hear that you are tired of relevance. I can 
ND-SMC 

TYPISTS 
HAVE MONEY WILL PAY 
N.D. Student Union Publications 
3 to 12 hours per week. Pick your own hours. 
Call: Scott Braley 
283-1403 283-6637 
see that irrelevent, nondirected, impersonal, "nonpartisan" dia­logue is much more desirable for a person of your intelligence and verbal abilities. However, some of the more ignorant of us j!;et 
very strong emotional reactions (dare I mention emotion at a University) to incidents such as the My Lai massacre and perhaps to war in general. Did you ever stop and ask yourself why the message, as presented by Mark Twain, is the "same old stuff". Why is ICTUS so trite? Why is war and violence so trite? 
You mention that Prof. George Williams' article "never hits the central issue ... The question is not whether the war is a hateful thing-the question is whether the war is a necessary hateful thing. It seems that the 
debate over the necessity of the war is your cup of tea Mr. Wolfe. You could probably spend your whole life looking at all the nuances of all the issues and interests involved in Vietnam and like a good philosopher you 
probably wouldn't get any answers. But perhaps morality, an emotional response, precedes 

intellectual rhetoric and cul­turally directed rationalization. And wouldn't the liberal rhe­
toric concerning the necessity of the war just be branded as "dreary one-sideaness"? 
If the tactics of the new bft boryyou, Mr. Wolfe, perhaps you could suggest new, more creative tactics. But perhaps it's not really the tactics which concern you. Perhaps, vou 
would prefer that the Issues themselves be dropped until the 
great cosmological Rationality solves them in a very tidy manner. I'm afraid that can't be done Mr. Wolfe even at the risk of your bqredom. 
Sincerely yours, Rick Brinker 7 Mor~issey Hall 


We Want You To Join Our Chun:h As An 



Ordained Minister 
And Have The Rank Of 

Dodor of Divinity 
We Ire 1 non-structured fJtth, undenomin.tlonal, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Our fast "owing church ta K'tiwly ..king new ministers who beHew what wa believe; All men ere entilled to their own convicUona; To ~~ek truth their own 
way, whatever it may be, no questions aaud. A5 1 minister of the church, you rm~y: 
1. 
Start your own Cfhurch and lpply for tK· emptton from property and other taxH. 

2. 
Pwform rriarr'-ges, bliptism, funerals and all othlf mlntsterlal functions. 

3. 
Enjoy reduced ratll from 10me modiS of trantp0rt1tion, some theatws, stores, hotets, Ole. 

4. 
SNk draft exemption • one of our work· 


lng million.,-tes. We wlllteU you how. Encl011 1 free will dooltlon for the Minister's c:r.;lentt.ts 1nd licen•. We 1110 ._,. Docror of Dfvlnity Degrees. We ,,. SUite Charterwd 1nd your ordln11tion ts rwcognized In 111 50 m-. 1nd mblt foreign countries. FREE LIFE CHURCH­BOX 4039. HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33023. 


. Craftsmen In Optics® 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 


}louseofVisioJi G 
The House ol VIsion, Inc. 
SPECIAL OFFER 
NOTRE DAME·& ST. MARY'S 
STUDENTS * FACULTY * EMPLOYEES 


FREE WAX 
JUST MENTION OR PRESENT THIS AD 
1NITH  CAR  
EVERY MONDAY THRU  75C  WASH DURING  
FRIDAY  APRIL & MAY  

BOOM -A -ROUND 
v~ 

2 
J')>
~t\~ c 
~o.-r<~~



~~~~~t\~ 

u~ q,
co ~o 

~~ 0-r</ 
~ 

MINUTES 
Reusable Chamois & Pvwe1:/id Vac A Pailable 
2322 E. Edison Rd. 
%Block E. of Ironwood 





TIIB O&IUIIR

PAGE 8 
Irish get it together, now 6-10 
by Jim Donaldson sive. double by Wes Jones. The Irish jumped into an early The Irish wasted no time in
Observer Sportswriter 4-0 lead in the second inning of regammg the lead though, 
The sun was shining this the series opener. Rich Lucke pushing home a run in their half weekend, reflecting off the walked to open the frame. of the third on Joe Keenan's Dome and beaming down on An Chuck Horan struck out but single, a walk, and Bill Orga's Tostal field, but as far as Irish Krill pushed Lucke to second 
single. Notre Dame added a pair

baseball coach Jake Kline is with a single. Bill Orga followed 
of insurance runs in the sixth

concerned nowhere on campus Krill and hit what appeared to 
inning on a pair of Toledo 

was the sun shining so brightly be a doubleplay ball back to the 
errors-Nick Scarpelli's sacrifice 

as on the Cartier Field diamond. Toledo pitcher, Jeff Brawner, 
fly, and a single by Keenan. 

Coach Kline's charges turned in but Brawner, in his haste to get 
Schmitz struck out seven

three first-rate performances in the twin killing, fired the ball 
Toledo batters and gave up eight 

sweeping a trio ·of games this into center field. Lucke came in 
hits. The Irish also banged out

weekend from Toledo U. by to score and Orga wound up on 
eight safeties but played flawless 

scores of 7-4 on Friday, and 7-4 second and Krill stayed at third. 
ball in the field while Toledo

and 5-4 in a doubleheader Tommy O'Conner, making his 
committed four errors.

Saturday. first start of the season at third 
In Saturday's action, clutch

The sweep extended the Irish base for the Irish, plated Krill 
hitting by Chuck Horan and Rob

victory string to five straight with a sharp single up the middle 
Votier and some fine relief 

games and upped their season's and when the throw came to the 
pitching carried Irish to a sweep

record to 6-10. Toledo slipped plate, Orga held at third and 
of the doubleheader and the

to a 6-1 2 mark on the year. O'Conner moved to second. 
three game series. 

Ron Schmitz led the way for Schmitz then brought both base­
Saturday's first game was a

the Irish Friday, going the runners home with a long 
see-saw battle in which the Irish

distance on the mound to notch two-bagger to left center. 
twice saw two-run leads slip

his second complete game vic­Toledo bounced right back in 
from their grasp. It was a

tory and even his record at 2-2 the top of the third, however, 
three-run eight inning that nailed 

on the year. Schmitz also scoring four runs to tie the 
the win for the Irish. Votier's

doubled home a pair of runs to score. The big blow of the inning 
two out single in that frame

assist in the Notre Dame offen-was a three run, bases loaded 
plated Bill Orga with what proved to be the winning run 

Rob Voitier had five big hits over the weekend. His big stick was
and singles by Bob Roemer, and 

instrumental in the three Irish wins over Toledo. Voitier is now
pinch-hitter Joe Keenan brought 

sporting a .310 batting average. 
in a pair of insurance tallies. Roemer handled the catching was trailing 4-3. Horan kept the Rick Eich had started for ND chores Saturday in place of the Irish in the ball game by blasting but lasted only two and a third
The Irish Eye 
injured Keenan who pulled a a l-0 pitch 370 feet over the innings, being pounded for seven muscle in Friday's contest. fence in left center field to tie hits and three runs. Senior 
Irish starter Mike Karkut the score. Denny Curran succeeded Eich didn't last long as he was lifted popped out to kill the threat. on the mound and gave up a run after giving up six hits and a run Notre Dame won the game in in one and two third innings ofThe midpoint of spring training has past with the third weekend in the first three innings of play. ninth. work Irish behind
scrimmage. There is a lot of bleak news for Notre Dame rooters at the bottom of the Krill as the fell 
Sophomore right-hander Jerry drew a walk from the third early in the game, 4-Q.
this time. The old injury nemisis has put an above average number of Fenzel hurled the remaining six Toledo pitcher, and eventual
gridders on the shelf for the remainder of the spring. In addition to Horan, who 
frames to notch his first win of loser, Ralrh Kubacki. LaRocca
Some of the more notable names missing from the depth chart for had two other hits besides his 
the season against two losses. followed Krill at the plate and
this past scrimmage were Jim Yoder, who has already undergone homer, the Irish were led at the 
In the second game, Chuck lined a single to left field. When
knee surgery. Mike Kadish, who received a serious concussion and plate in the second game by
Horan's dramatic homerun saved the ball rolled through Toledo
probably won't return until next fall and Walt Patulski, who is still Votier, Krill, and LaRocca, who 
the Irish from defeat and a left gardener Paul Kozy 's legs
recovering from a shoulder operation. each had two hits, and by Nick 
Toledo error gave the Irish an Krill continued on around the
A few others have sustained minor injuries and they weren't Scarpelli who drove in three 
extra-inning win. bases to register the winning
dressed for the Saturday workout. Bob Neidert and Ed Gulyas were runs. 
The second game was sched­tally.
among this group. The Irish are in action again
uled to be a seven inning affair Bob Jaeger, who pitched two
These injuries caused a number of changes in both the offensive on Cartier Field Wednesday at 3 
and when Horan came to the innings of hitless ball in relief,
and defensive alignments of coach Ara Parseghian. The number of p.m. when they entertain the injuries also hurt the depth of the squad and this was very apparent Michigan Wolverines.
plate with two away in the Irish earned the decision, which gave when the first and second teams skirmished. half of the seventh, Notre Dame him a 1-0 record for the year: Joe Theisman pitched to Tom Gatewood with as much accuracy as Tom Seaver bitting Jerry Grote's mit. Unofficially this combo clicked on seven of nine including a 61 yard screen pass to the fleet 

Drake Relays set record 
Gatewood for a score. Theisman also found Bob Creaney, a , . . Jumps and in the Distance 
freshman tight end who just moved up to the first string, on a by Stare 0 Connor as they placed thud m 58.1 M dl h I . h f "1 d 1
behind the winning Texas A.M. e ey t e ns ale to Pace.
number of occasions. One of these featured an off-balance throw by Observer Sportswriter ly ND 1·ndividual Th1s Saturday the ND Track
d Th

Joe and a diving catch for a first down by the anxious Creaney. squa . e on "11 h th E 
· Paul Gill's ft team w1 ost e astern
177

Andy Huff got a chance to run halfback and he came through in The Drake Relays, held in Des success was · M" h. u · · t th
Discus toss which placed him IC Jgan mvers1ty earn as espectacular form with a number of eight to ten yard bursts. Denny Moines Iowa last Thursday third. in the Long and Triple dual me.et segment of the sched-Allan also had a decent scrimmage and he played his usual consistent Friday and Saturday, Jived up to game at the other half. Bill Barz didn't have a particularly great day its expectation as 14 meet although he did grab a scoring pass and his blocking allowed Huff records and one world record 
MAJOR LEA'GUES
and Allan to make their big gains. were set by the top track 
The line has one position still unsettled on offense at the tackle. competitors of the nation. NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Steve Buches and Tom Gasseling were contesting for this spot. The The world record was set by other positions were manned by John Dampeer at tackle, Gary Kos the Texas A.M. 880 yd. relay 
East

and Larry DiNardo at guards and Dan Novakov at center. Each team of Rogers, Woods, Marvin East GB
w L Pet. 

turned in a workman-like performance as they hammered at the Mills, and Curtis Mills who w L Pet. GB 
Detroit 10 5 .667
Chicago 11 3 .786

second team defenders. turned in a scorching I : 21 . 7. 
Baltimore 10 5 .667 By the time Ara called off his forces the first team had scored five Kansas State's two mile relay .500 2% 
St. Louis 9 4 .692 1)1, 

Pittsburgh 10 6 .625 2 Washington 7 7 
times against the back-up men. team broke the American and New York 8 .533 3% Boston 7 8 .467 3
7 The defense was comperable in results to the "0" as they kept the Drake records as they won in Philadelphia 7 8 .467 4% New York 7 11 .388 4% second team from the goal all afternoon. Bill Etter was able to guide 7: 16.3. Another meet record Montreal 3 11 .215 8 Cleveland 5 9 .357 4% his club on a drive only once and a fumble on the nine killed this. and a near world record was set The linebackers played extremely well as Eric Patton, Tim Kelly, by Ralph Mann from Brigham West West Jim Wright, Rich Thomann and John Raterman alternated and kept Young who covered the 440 Cincinnati 14 6 .700 Minnesota 10 4 .714 
San Fran. 9 10 .474 4% California 11 5 .688
the "two" group bottled up for most of the day. yed. intermediate hurdle dis­
Los Angeles 7 8 .467 4% Oakland 8 8 .500 3
The front four had a late change when Mike Zikas came down tance in 49 .4, just one-tenth of a 
Atlanta 7 11 .388 6 Kansas CitY 6 9 .400 4%
with a fever before game time. He was replaced by Rich Maciag at second off the world standard. 6 .375 5
Houston 7 12 .368 6% Chicago 10 
tackle. Greg Marx played the other tackle and Jim Massey filled in Doug Knop of Kansas set a meet 
San Diego 6 11 .353 6% Milwaukee 5 11 .313 6 
for Neidert at one end slot. Steady Fred Swendson held down the record for the Discus with a 203 other exterior. ft. I 0 in. toss and Ray McGill of Chicago 6 ·Houston 3 
The secondary featured Clarence Ellis, Ralph Stepaniak and either Kansas State cracked the Drake St. Louis 4 Cincinnati Baltimore 10 Kansas City 9 Tom Eaton or Chuck Zloch. They were on Willie Townsend and Bill seven-foot barrier with a 7 ft. I Atlanta 2 Pittsburgh 0 Milwaukee 5 Boston 3 Trapp like a coat of paint for most of the passing attempts. This in. leap. Philadelphia 3 San Diego 1 Minnesota 6 Detroit 0 
New York 3 Los Angeles 1 Chicago 2 Cleveland 0
permitted the line to pour in on Etter and he was forced to scramble A twelve man Irish contingent 
California 3 Washington 2

for his life on numerous occasions.. performed well but was out­
New York 8 Oakland 3

There are only a few bright ways of looking at these injuries and classed in most of the events one is that these men should be healthy by the time "the real thing" entered. Illustrative of this was starts next fall. The big problem is that much can be learned during the Two Mile Relay event in this time of year and many errors can be corrected. These players which the ND foursome set a will be hurt by missing this. school record with a 7:27 time 
The next scrimmage is on Wednesday at Cartier and of course that was good enough for only another in the stadium next Saturday. This will be the last big seventh place. The Irish Shuttle scrimmage before the Blue-Gold Game on May 9 Hurdle Relay team fared better 











