
SENATE HALTS SST 

a proposal to deny PresidentWASHINGTON (UPI) In a Nixon's request for a $290 mil­stunning reversal of sentiment lion installment for development the Senate voted 52 to 41 yes­and flight testing of two SST

terday to halt development of prototypes.
the giant supersonic transport WASHINGTON: In a stunning reversal of sentiment, the Senate plane SST, cornerstone ~o the The Senate's vote last year to voted 12 -3 to halt development of the giant supersonic transport United Stat,~s' bid to maintain contine development of the SST 
plane (SST) cornerstone of the United States' bid to maintain its its superiority in world aviation. was 58 to 22. Thursday's vote superiority in world aviation. Two of the leaders in the fight against Opponents mounting their did not preclude the possibility the SST, Sens. William Proxmire (D-Wisc.)(left) and Edmund Muskie most determined campaign yet however that funds still might be (D-Me.) meet with reporters after the vote. UPI TELEPHOTO succeeded in gaining approval of appropriated for the 1,800 mile 
per hour craft in the current 
fiscal year. 
The House already has ap­

Day espouses new anctrclly 
proved the $290 million appro­priation. The dispute will now a new revolutiOn position. the 1930's.

by Ann Conway have to be resolved in a House
"Violent revolution is This movement, according to 
Senate Conf~rence Committee

im:ons1stent with social reform." Miss Day, "took the opposite
In her lecture, "A Nonviolent which could recommend total
Espousing the Communist position to Roosevelt's 'womb 
Life," given last night at Carroll partial or no financing at all.
ideology for a period of to the tomb plan' of welfare and 
Hall at SMC, Dorthy Day, The vote crossed party and
approximately I 0 years, Miss we still do today."
co-founder and editor of the sectional lines as Republicans
Day turned to Catholicism "The United States has come 
Catholic Worker advocated and Democrats, Northerners and 
because "It was the Church of to be a system of state
voluntary poverty as the Southerners voted on both sides
the people." It was then that she ownership of indigents. We still
foundation of a new social of the issue.
met Peter Maruin who profess the anarchist point of
order. Nineteen senators who voted
"brought simple anarchistic view of starting from the bottom
The position of the Catholic for contined development a year
point of v.iew to me and laid with voluntary poverty,
Worker, according to Miss Day, ago switched to opposition this
down a program of action." The communes, and the rejection of
is one of pacifism and anarchy. time. The wide margin was not
business of turning to the state 

"We're not thinking in terms of (Continued on page 3) expected by even the most
for welfare was foreign to born b throwing." In general, the Maurin and he espoused a Catholic Worker's anarchist system of social service. His position is taking a stand in program of action basically terms of a new social order of consisted of: publishing a paperworking from the bottom up 
to spread the ideas of voluntary(the individualist approach) 
poverty, starting houses of 
instead of from the present Hospitality wherein works of 
system of government programs. mercy would be performed, and 
a movement toward 
The new revolution which decentralization, a movement 
Miss Day advocated last night toward the land. Together, he 
was the rejection of the things of and Miss Day started the 
tllis life, "Voluntary poverty" as Catholic Worker movement in 

Kidnappers release Canadian diplomat 
MONTREAL(U~)The~p~ most of the demands and in­ratist kidnappers of British di­voked the War Measures Act plomat James R. Cross, hunted which temporarily suspended men surrounded by a ring of most civil rights throughout Ca­government firepower, released nada and outlawed the FLQ. him yesterday and prepared to The government promised as collect their only ransom-a flight it had almost since the kidnap MONTREAL: Troops on Martial Ave., three blocks from the house to exile in Cuba. crisis began to give the kidnapers where James Cross was held captive since Oct. 5. This is also theCross appeared tired but un­safe passage to Cuba in return route that was used later on by motorcycle to the site of Man andharmed after 60 days as a host­for the life of Cross the British His World where the exchange was to be made. UPI TELEPHOTO age of the Quebec Liberation trade commissioner. 

Front FLQ' The surrender of the 
kidnapers appeared to be the 
beginning of the end of the 


Female medal1ist chides Nixon
worst peacetime crisis in Cana­
dian history. 

WASHINGTON (UP!) ~ "we're doing the best we can." Solicitor General Erwin"It was the first time I've 
A 19 year--old girl surprised The President who had posed
seen the sun in eight weeks" Griswold and Jack C. Landau 
President Nixon at a White separately with each winner and 
Cross told Quebec Premier Ro­former information director of 
House ceremony yesterday by his family and congressman
Bert Bourassa in a telephone the Justice Department. 
accepting a medal for service declined a photographer's
conversation after his release. Nixon praised the four 
to her fellow man and then request that he pose for a group
One of Cross's first actions re­winners as examples of the 
questioning his sincerity because picture at the end of the
portedly was to telephone his majority of young people whose 
of continued U.S. involvement ceremony. He said he was late
wife in Berne, Switzerland. selfless service to cquntry _and 
in Vietnam. for another appointmetnnt. ·tellow man recetves littleCross, 49, was kidnaped Oct. 4 Deborah Jean Sweet of Miss Sweet daughter to Mr. attention these days. 
five days before the FLQ terro­Madison Wis. whose sandy hair and Mrs. Cilarles W. Sweet of 0 ne medal was awardedrists abducted Quebec Lab9r 

fell to her shoulders and who Madison and a student at
Minister. Pierre Laporte. Laporte posthumously to John N. Caruso 
wore an ankle length calico dress Yalpariaso University Indiana 
was found strangled to death a Jr. of John's Island S.C. a 12 
was the last of four young was honored for her work in
week later. year old who drowned June 26 
perso~ to receive a Young race relations and for organizing
At the time of the kidnapings 1969 while saving the life of a 
American Medal from the a 30 mile march by 3000 high
the FLQ was demanding neighbor Carl Chavis. The medal 
President. She accepted it shook school stude,nts to raise money
$500,000 in gold bullion, the was accepted by John's parents.
hands and said quietly: to feed poor children.
release of 23 jailed FLQ separa­Thomas Dvorscek of Oaklawn
"I find it very hard to believe The medal awarded annually
tists, passage to Cuba for them Ill. was honored for rescuing a
in your sincerity in giving an for bravery and service was
and the kidnapers and time on a I 0 year old girl who had fallen 
award for service until you get established by Congress 20 years 
television network to tell their through ice in a small pond. He 
us out of the war." ago. Winners nominated by state 
story. was nearly 16 at the time.
Nixon seemed taken aback governors were chosen this year
The government turned down 

momentarily. "Well," he replied by FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover 
hopeful of SST opponents.Fur-. ther development of the plane was opposed by a growing num­ber of senators who contended its advantages were outweighed by threatened harm to the envi­ronment and the needs of other more urgent domestic problems. 
The opponents won despite concessions voted Wednesday that would have prohibited all commercial SST flights over U. 
S. territory and required the American SST to meet new noise control standards for do­mestic airports. 
Supporters argued that with­out uninterrupted SST develop­ment the United States risked losing a long held competitive edge over other countnes m commercial aviation because of Anglo French and Russian ver­sions of the supersonic passenger plane now under construction. 
The I 9 senators who voted for the SST last year but voted against it Thursday included 13 Republicans and six Democrats. 
No announced 
opposition to 
new constitution' 
There is no organized 
opposition to the new 
Constitution proposed by the 
Krashna administration, 
according to Stay Senators Tom 
Thrasher and Russ Stone, two 
noted adversaries of the new 
constitution. 
"I am not going to engage in 
a formal, poobah oppostion to 
the Constitution. Most students 
are sick of student government; 
sick of student politicians telling 
1thein what to do", stated 
Thrasher. 
Both Thrasher and Stone said 
they would encourage students 
they met and talked with, to 
vote either against the 
Constitution or not to vote at 
all. Thrasher gave two reasons 
for opposing the new 
Constitution. The first was that 
the best way · to increase the 
power and effectiveness of the 
student legislative body, would 
be to keep the Student Senate. 
If this was done, Thrasher felt 
that the ambitious, active 
members of the Senate would 
vote definitive changes into the 
organization that would expand 
its powers and responsibilities. 
Thrasher's second objection 
was that the proposed 
constitution doesn't tackle any 
of the larger problems of the 
Student Government. He 
described the new Constitution 
as basically the same as the old 
one, except that the new 
Constituiton is minus the 
Senate. 
Speaking of the new 
Constitution, Thrasher said, "It 
fails to reform many defects in 
the Constitution we are working 
under now e.g. the confusion 
surrounding the method to carry 
out a referendum". 

' ': '.I'~ , .1 . Friday, December 4, 1970
Page 2 


W'ITH MAX SHULMAN 
(By the author of Rally Round the Fla(J, Boys ... Dobie Gillis ... etc.) 
Economics, and Other Unsolved Crirnes 
As you know of course, economics is often called "the dismal 
science," but not because it's dismal. Oh mercy, no! In fact, it's a laff 
riot! It's called "the dismal science" only because that's the name of 
the Englishman who invented it back in 1681-Walter C. Dismal. 
Mr. Dismal, curiously enough, wasn't trying to invent economics at all. Actually, he was trying to invent plankton, but as you know of course, Max Planck beat him to it. (This later became known as Guy Fawkes Day.) 
And so spunky Mr. Dismal went back to the old drawing board and stayed .there till he invented economics. Then tired but happy, he rushed to Heidelberg University to announce his findings. But, alas, he arrived during the Erich von Stroheim Sesquicentennial, and naturally everybody was yodelling and couldn't hear what Mr. Dismal was say­ing. And so, alas, he slank back home and died, old and embittered at the age of 11. (This later became known as the Black Tom Explosion.) 
Well sir, p.fter ~\1r. Dismal, nothing much happened in Europe un­less you want to count the Dardanelles. Then in 1776 Adam Smith of Scotland got tired of the cough drop business he had started with his brother and published his famous Wealth of Nations (or Moll Flanders as it is generally known as) and the world came to realize what a jolly, uncomplicated subject economics really is. 
It all boils down to this: when there is a great demand for a prod­uct, there is a great supply on the market. When there is a small de­mand, there is a small supply. Take, for example, knee-cymbals. You walk into your average American middle-sized town today and I'll wager you won't see more than eighty or ninety knee-cymbal vendors. That's because the demand is small. 
With Miller High Life Beer, on the other hand, you'll see a great supply because there is a great demand. And of course the demand is great because the beer is great. And, mark you, I'm not asking you to take my word for it. Prove it yourself with this simple test: 
Get a can or bottle of Miller High Life and pour a few ounces into an empty vessel-your roommate, for example. Observe how his jaw unslacks with pleasure, how the torpidity leaves his tiny eyes, how he drops his yo-yo and whimpers for more. Could mere words tell you one-quarter as we!I what a great beer Miller is? Of course not. 
"Great," in fact, is the single adjective that describes Miller Beer best (except possibly "wet"). Indeed some people are so overcome with admiration for Miller's greatness that they can't bear to drink it. They just sit with a glass of Miller in hand and admire it for as long as ten or twelve years on end. The makers of Miller Beer are of course touched by this reverence, except of course for Clyde R. Greedy, the sales manager. 
But I digress. Adam Smith, as you know of course, was followed by David Ricardo. In fact, he was followed everywhere by Mr. Ricardo. He finally got so annoyed that he summoned a booby, as British policemen are called, and had Mr. Ricardo arrested. (This later be­came known as the Humboldt Current.) 
Upon his release from gaol, as British jails are called, Mr. Ricardo married Thomas Robert Malthus and one night over a game of whist they invented the stock exchange, or chutney as it is called in England. 
Next, economics spread to France (carried, some say, by sheep ticks). The French, however, never really got the hang of it. At first they tried using omelettes as the medium of exchange. When this failed, they tried Edith Piaf records. When this too failed, they flew into a fit of pique and dug the Suez Canal. 
Well sir, I guess you know what happened next. Economics came to America, John Kenneth Galbraith fought his famous duel with Aaron Burr, Gresham's Law was repealed, and at last came the happy ending. Today, I am delighted to report, any American boy or girl, no matter how rich, can afford to dress like a pauper. 
* * * 
We at Miller High Life Beer are brewers, not economists. But this much we know about supply and demand: you demand great flavor in your beer; we supply it--Miller, the Champagne of Beers. 
Anyone interested in inter-collegiate bowling please call 283-1 <183. 
GREAT BOOKS OF THE WESTERN WORLD-54 VOLUMES WITH SYNTOPTICON 
Brand New Call 234-2998 After 5 pm 




SUSC functions defined: 
projects fill campus void 
by J.\rt Ferranti 
The Student Union Social Commission is headed by senior 1im Porst. Under his direction this year the SUSC has tried to "expand the entertainment available to the students" of the ND-SMC communities. Su~.:h a..:tivi ties as the opening of the Rathskellar in the basement of LaFortune with free coffee, the "Over the Hill" free ~.:oncerts in the ballroom of LaFortune every Wednesday night, and the minor concerts at Stepan Center have been initiated this year under Porst's supervision. 
0 bserver Insight 

~~~~~~~~ 
Porst assumes responsibility for every event ths Social Com­mission sponsors. He has an ex­ecutive staff of nine· members which head various committees. Pat McAdams is the assistant commisioner. He and Porst over­see all the activities and work together in all but one activity-­the booking of the groups and such. Booking of the big groups is also the biggest problem the commission has to face. Porst' categorized the two types of 
CREW TEAM 
Pictures 
4:30 FRIDAY 
2nd FLOOR CONCOURSE ACC 

Michael's 

groups he has to face. There are those whi~.:h are already booked through next semester such as Chicago, the Band, and Joe l'ockcrand; and those who will 

Jim Porst 

put off making commitments such as San tan a and the 1effer­son Airplane. 
The Business staff maintains the smallest number of members and works at solving the prob­lems of finances. The concert manager is in ~.:harge of the technical parts of the groups performance and has to provide such items as complete sound systems. The special projects ~.:o­ordinator and his staff wmplete the physical execution for the bookings. 
The other committees are those of ticket managing, pro­motion, homecoming, Collegiate Jazz Festival, and Mardi Gras. 
The Commission loses money on the Rathskellar, Stepan Con­certs, and "Over the Hill" but the losses are more than made up for through the main events 
HI.!R STYUNG FOR MEN 18381 Edison Rd. ()!). mile east of A.C.C.J Ph. 272·7222 t.ppointments if Desired IW \RJJ WINNING· STYLI~:n 

HAIRCUTS -HAIR STfLhvC. STRAIGHT:i.VING 
ATRE presents an IRISH entertainment 
THl 
byBRENDAN


HOSTAGE BEHAN 

on DECEMBER 4, 5, 10, 11,12 at 8:30 and DECEMBER 6 at 2:3 ton Hall-. Tickets 1.50 Info: 28JI.41711 

An Invitation to Attend the 4th Annual 

Montaomery County, Maryland Career Opportunity Proaram 
Sponsored by: Montgomery County Chapter society for Personnel Administration 
At t:1e Ramada lnn-Rts. 70 and 28-Rnckville, Mary­land-December 28, 29 and 30-9 a.m. to 4 p.m. What is the Montgomery CountY Career Opportunity Program?­It is our local participation in the overall college recruiting program -perhaps more aptly called "Operation Native Son." 
Participating Employers
Citizens Bank and Trust of Maryland
Environmental Science Services Admin.· U.S. Dept. of Commerce 
Health Services and Mental Health Administration-PHS, U.S. DHEW National Bureau of Standards-U.S. Dept. of Commerce Bechtel Corporation Montgomery County Public Schools 
GEICO and Affiliates National Institutes of Health. U.S. DHEW 
Maryland National Bank Suburban Trust Company Computer Sciences Corp. U.S. Atomic Energy Commission 
Montgomery County Govt. U.S. IRS at the AC'C and festivities such as Mardi Gras and the Collegiate 1azz Festival. In order to provide more activities of relaxation and t:ntertainmcnt the Commission is willing to take this finandal loss. 

A loss on a Stepan Center con­cert may set the Commission !Jack up to $1 ,000. 
Porst announced that for the upcoming Rare Earth concert in Stepan there will be no chairs in order to allow students and pa­trons to bring blankets and there will be ·a better sound system than that at the Pacific Gas and Electric concert. The reaction to this concert by the students will determine the future of next semesters concerts in Stepan. If it is well received we shall see more of such activities. 
As of now all the ~.:ontracts, construction deadlines, raffle packets and groups have been completed for Mardi Gras and the CJ F. Porst will announce the various groups at a later date. There will be three ~.:oncerts in the ACC in the spring. They are on February 5 for Mardi Gras, April 3, and May l. 
The student body president during the first week he is elected chooses the director of the student union administration who then, within a week, picks the heads of the various com­m Jsswns. Each commissioner then picks his staff. To get a position of authority one liter­ally has to work his way up in order to learn all the ropes. There are three ways in which to join the SUSC. One way is the general applications accepted at the beginning of each school year. Openings are made known throughout the year through the Observer and one could get in by the recommendations of an ex­ecutive member. There are approximately l 00 students in­volved in the SUSC. 
A new concept in ring design ... diamonds perfectly cut and set to make the most of their brilliance. Modern as tomorrow, so why not come in 
today? By-GQLD 

Pri~Cm5$~~~ 
5:Jiamond mportCompan 
Seen by appointment 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS SUITE 602 ST. JOSEPH BANK BUILDING SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46601 

The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the UniversitY of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second clus postage paid, Nqtre came, Ind. 46556. 

1',' f.i•,f I Page 3 
Friday, December 4, 1970 






Pursley declines invitation 
and Missy Un­of the down, the Academic Commis­sion forwarded an invitation to Bishop Pursley and Monsignor James Conroy to present their views to the students directly. About this Metzger commented, "If someone attacks you through the press or mail, you ought to bring that man before those he attacks to explain his position." 

SUAC did not immediately receive a reply, so it followed up the invitation with a teiegram asking for one. The members had offered the bishop a choice of ten speaking dates, and gave him this reason for the invita­tion: "Your comments...reveal a certain concept of the 'Catho­lic University' which we assure you has not ·been sufficiently encouraged here. In light of this, and in the truest vitality of our Open Speakers Policy, we should like to extend an invitation to 
statement of November 8th I tried to say briefly and simply what I though and what I felt obliged to publish. Under exist­ing circumstances as revealed in your letter, I see no point in further discussion of the matter at this time." 
"There's nothing else we can do," Metzger admitted. "except 

let people know that we tried. .We really wanted a chance to rap I with this man. Now we don't 
both yourself and Monsigrlor Conroy." 
Eleven days later, a short .statement was received declining ·the invitation. The text of the letter was as follows: "I have received your invitation of No­vember I Oth so obviously sug­gested be recent events. In my 
even get a chance to listen to him; there can't be any rational discourse." The bishop has "such a different view of the University," Metzger stated. "I imagine we're just going to have to accept his criticism and leave it at that." 
KI~PLER 

MOTOR_IALES 
c.,•.•• 
t:o$3881 

All cars sold with lifetime warrenty ... Top prices paid for used cars 
2306 Western Ave. Ph. --288-3250 

UNIVERSITY ARTS COUr~I~IL PRESErHS A 
Poetry Reading: 
by 



Ken Mannina and Rick Fitzaerald 
Sun., Oec. 6. 2 pm. Free Cuffee Arts Ceilter Lounge (Old Field;lOuse).
*******************•:********l 
~ MAl N CH UR~CH ~
* **
* suN



I DAY MASSES * 
~ 
* 
* 

5:15pm Sat. Fr. Robert Grifflin, C.S.C. *I 8:30am Sun. Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. * 
9:45 c.m Sun. Fr. Edgar Whelan, C.S.C. * 11:00am Sun. Fr.JohnO.uinn * 
12: 15 pm Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. ~ 
..**************************• 


Calley, Capt. John McMahon (R) of Wasl!ington D:C. has been delegated as Boyce's legal representative at the order -of the Army Judge Ady9cate Gener h ---­


CRYPT 
Student Union Record C•op 

Fiest• Lounae 
C'uistmas Special C:1icago's Second Album -::;3.99 While They Last 
Going Home for C:nistmas 
Student Union 
BUS SALES TO O'HARE Leaves: T!lurs.-Oec. 17 i.lt 4:30p.m. Fri. ·Dec. '18 iit 4:30p.m. Sat. · Dec. 19 at 'I :30 p.m. 
Returns: rvlon, January 18 from O'Hf.re (boards in front of restaurant at lower end of United terminal) -8:00 and 't 0:00p.m. 
Buses leave SMC Holy Cross Hal/15 minutes later 
$5.00 ONE WAY 
Sales at First Bank Travel Bureau (ground floor of Badin Hall)-9 :·00-12:00 noon -1:00-4:30 daily 
ALL SALES FINAL 


& Blood Rock 
friday, dec. 4 8:30p.m. stepan center tickets $3 on sale at student 
union ticket office & dining halls 

,­
Page 4 
" .. Y. • .1. Friday, December 4, 1970 





THE OBSERVER 
BRUCE RIECK, Business Manap 
FOUIDED IIOVEMIER t 1-NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editor's Desk by Glen S. Corso 
"Quit birdwatching and keep your eye out for sneaky radicals!" 

"The honor and obligation" 
"The press has had great honor and equally great obligation imposed upon it by the Constitution in the interests, of course, of full and accurate public information. It is the high duty ofthis press to deserve that distinction, that sacred trust on all occasions. It is its duty to print the truth, ALL the truth and nothing but the truth as news"---W. R. Hearst, June 13, 1941. 
Noble words from a man whose newspapers were most famous for their frequent violations of that trust which he eloquently expounded. Yet an"y newspaper, in order to maintain respect, must uphold that obligation. 
For a campus newspaper this task is especially difficult. The temptations to distort the truth to gain political ends is keen, especially when student editors realize they have a largely captive audience. If this is done, the publication ceases to be a newspaper, and becomes a propaganda rag. 
In order to be a newspaper, a publication must tell the truth in its news columns. There are unavoidable lapses, more than in a professional paper. Such is the nature· of students. These lapses must be corrected as quickly as possible. They are nothing to be ashamed of, as long as they are unintentional. 
The people running the paper must develop a sense of what is right and what is wrong with the community they serve. They must then strive to focus the harsh glare of publicity on the wrongs and in the editorial pages, call for their correction. 
During the past semester, often with a great deal of difficulty, The ObserJJer has tried to live up to the standards of an accurate and responsible journal. At times there have been lapses, sometimes serious ones. Much of the news has been fair and free of the taint of bias. The editorials have critidzc-d things which we believe do not serve the students, and praised things that do. A wide range of views have been presented in the column slot. Writers who have felt restricted by daily deadlines have been given long range assignments, which have resulted in a number of Obsen,er Insights. 
There is still a great task ahead of us. Some reporters lack an adequate knowledge of the inner workings of various campus and administrative organizations. The number of errors in news stories must be reduced. Long range in-depth examination of several important issues -such as minority students and the quality of academic life at Notre Dame must be explored. 
We feel we possess the capabilities to adequately measure up to the task before us. We must and shall exploit them as best we can. 
Dave Krashna 

The New Constitution and the Senate 
more involved with student originated resolutions asThe following is the fot.rth in a series of columns . HPC as a base, their areas of responsibility would be the recipient of all ideas. The commtssions· would on the proposed new constitution. Mr. Krashna is extended to include budgeting matters, powers of remain flexible enough to take under their controlStudent Body President. impeachment, and control over election procedures. 
any committee resulting from any individual's re­In addition to increasing the credibility of the HPCLast year in our campaign, Mark and I talked about a commendation. 
need to restructure "if student government is to be by providing it with suitable credentials, a student ----the financial committee would be composed of effective, its aims and attitudes must be changed. It general assembly would be held periodically each year the student body president, student body vice presi­must cease to function above the students and begin to provide all students, of all segments of interest to dent, student body treasurer, student union director, to function among them, in the halls where the voice their opinions either as suggestions, proposals or student union assistant director, vice president of student community has its base." To accomplish this formal. 
student affairs, one professor of the business college, Upon the recommendation from either the Presi­desire an emphasis must be orientated toward provid­three president's council members, off campus presi­dent's Council or this general assemply, studenting the individual with an opportunity to make his dents council representative. This committee wouldgovernment, through the individual cabinet commis­feelings heard. To change the past emphasis of make all initial recommendations and changes in allsions would study the"recommendations and take the government, a need to resturcture is essential. 
budgets to be revised. This committee would in turn A "Student Forum" was proposed last year which necess:'ry steps to implement the principles involved. 
pass its initial findings in to the president's councilwould hopefully fulfill this need. As designed, it An opportunity would be given to the author of the ­which would possess the final decision makingproposal to chair a committee, if he so desires, as awould have been composed of hall presidents, elected powers.
off-campus repres.entatives and the student body member of one of the cabinet commissions. This The election committee would he composed of the president and vice president. This forum would have provides both an opportunity for all students to student body president, student body vice president,express their opinions and then to participate inhopefully assumed all the powers now held by the executive coordinator of the student government,student government.
student senate. But, we feel that this is lacking as three president's council members (as elected by that both a representative and workable organization. A The make-up of this new structure would be as body), and one student life council member. This complete restructuring process must take place which follows: the student body president would head the committee would be authorized to make all re­will allow for the students to best voice their opinion government organization followed by the student commendations concerning election procedures and and also allow for such legislative process as budget body vice president. Then the cabinet and the student dates except in class elections. 

allotments, election organization, and impeachment. union sharing a somewhat equal position. Under these 
Student government is attempting this restructur-These three areas of influence are all which still elements would follow a financial committee and an 
ing in the hopes of avoiding a dilution of its remain in the senate. And we feel that we can offer election committee. At the bottom or as you may efficiency in the future. The main focus of student viable and more representative alternatives. The need wish the top of this organization would be the government should be on the halls and it is with this to change is great and must be accomplished im­president's council. All of these divisions would in in mind that the new constitution was created. The mediately. reality be accountable to the student body through proposed president's council will greatly strengthenIn order to accomplish these aims, a new constitu­the general assembly. 
the bond between student government and the halls. 
tion has been written which calls for the dissolution To explain these further: At the same time student government will be of the student senate while creating a new body ---the voice of the student body president, the streamlined with the elimination of the purposelessThe President's Council. This organization would student body vice president and student union would student senate. This streamlining will cut the bureau­include the hall a11d off-campus representatives and remain the same basically. 
..:racy and make your student government a more be chaired by the student body president. Taking the -the student government cabinet would become efficient organization. 

The quality .of an album stands in inverse proportion to the amount of time spent waiting for it, the amount of historical significance attributed to it before the fact, and the relish with which the package is opened. Now this might be my fault and it might he his, but Stephen Stills has failed to do it. It is what we wanted AI Kooper, Pau.l McCartney and Neil Young to do. Make the kind of music that comes along only once every few years, something that really shakes us up, gives us a charge, reaffirms our faith in the three-chord progression and the sixteen track studio. In other words, gives us the ultimate, but at least every three or four months. So next in line is Stephan Stills, superboy wonder virtuoso, king of the lilting voice and tasteful guitar, and he surely will do it. Just like all the rest of them didn't, and he doesn't, just like all the rest of them did. The album is nice, but hardly up to our expectations, which, at the hasty  soul, but he tries to do it with such overbearing blackness that it stinks. The first hint is in "Love the One You're With", in which the vocal is embellished with soul-chorus backup-type singing. Here it isn't real bad, just a little distract­ing. But in "Church", he crams those "you knows", "oh yeahs", and "you sees" in there, in every possible place where they \von't fit, just like a real soul brother, but, you see, ht: isn't, and it shows. Finally, there are the lyrics. When lyrics are mediocre, you don't notice them much at all. When they are good, you remember them for a long time. When they are bad, they jump right off the turntable at you the tlrst time yoL hear the tune. That happens several times in the Stills album. "You see it's my thing to be a part of someone"; "Round, round, up and down, all along the lonely town", and so on, so that I finally feel justified in my disappointment. Is this, could this be, the same guy who wrote  ..well, I guess he does, I ~ean it says so and all, but God he sounds just like Stills. On the. next cut, Stills does a very nice guitar lead-in, but it soundsiikc Hendrix. Finally, Clapton soles, and removes all doubts that there might be a misprint on the album cover, because he sounds like Clapton-that is to say, repetitious. But here comes the kicker, that is to say, the most intriguing thing about the album, preceeded by a rather poor bit of transition. If you listen to the second tune on side two, you'll ~wear you re listening to...(suspense)....Neil Young! It's all there: the haunting, .steely guitar sound, the vibes and rolling cymbals, the theatrical piano lines, the melody, the voice--amazing! Stilts may not like Young too much (well, they've had a long history of not getting on real well, and besides, the last song, "We Are Not Helpless", seems to be kind of a grabber just in case you don't catch what he's up to in "To a Flame") but man, he sure  Which brings us back rather cleverly (not neatly, just cleverly) to the question of does Stills know what makes Stills go. I'd like to say that any failure in this album comes from the audience, that we seem to be expecting too much from one little tired musician, and that we should be happy with an album that is meant to be a set of nice, listenable tunes. But that would work only if we can be sure that a set of nice tunes was all that Stills was up to here, and, much as I'd like to, I can't believe that that is the case. Because Stills seems to be aware of himself as a rock-art phenomenon (notice how many of his tunes are autobiographical); I think he knows that people are trying to make a legend out of him, and I think he tried, by attempting a display 0 f virtu9si_ty in variety, to accomodate them; the worst thing is that he failed, but the search will continue, and I hear the new Harrison album.... Photo by: Eddie Ateyeh  
destruction of the brown cardboard fold­ "lacy lilting lady, losing love lamenting'?"  
er,  soar as  "oh boy" eyes fall  upon the  But,  lest  I get  carried  away, let  me  
cover.  Not  long  after  though,  reality  explain  o11ce  more  that  this album  has  
crashes down.  nice,  very  listenable  music  on  it.  
The album's first hand is the one you  Occasionally Stills gives out with some of  
hear on the radio, "Love the One You're  the music that sounds just like he always  
With", a very happy, steel-drummy song,  did. "Do For Others" is a start, a simple,  
4uite  nice and  sure  to be  a commercial  pretty song where Stills accompanies him­ 
success.  But from  the first suggestion of  self  on  guitar and  that's all.  Also, "We  
disappointment, I try to figure out what's  Are Not Helpless", now that (at least the  
wrong or how come, and what I come up  first  half of it,  before  he  starts  to  get  
with  is  Stills  sure  is good  but  I don't  tricky) is Stephan Stills.  
think  he  knows exactly  what  it is that  I couldn't stop here (I wouldn't have  
makes him that way.  anyway) without mentioning some things  
For one thing, in this cut (and in many  about  this  album  that  are  neither good  
of the others) he tries to get just a little  nor  bad, just interesting. Although  the  
too good with his voice. A little too much  rumors of thirty-six different guitar play­ 
edge and  attempt  at  comph in it there  ers  on  one  band  were  apparently false,  
that  makes  him  kind  of  rasp .out  the  there are  a lot of noteworthy people in  
words -so that I get the feeling that he's  on  the session:  Hendrix, Clapton, Sebas­ 
sort of misusing that voice that sotinded  tian. Cass Elliot, Booker T. Jones, not to  
so  good before. Worse yet is the feeling  mention Graham Nash and David Crosby  
that  he  thinks  this is  better than what  (and no Neil Young). Now this is nice and  
he's done before.  all, but there is something strange here; in  
There  are  more  things like that too.  the case of the guitarists. nobody sounds  This young lad has had it. After waiting  for nine hours at course registration to get  
The  most  noticeable  is  that  Stills  has  like himself, everybody sounds like some­ four I.B.M. cards that were then mistake nly mailed to his draft board, he just can't  
apparently got the impression that he is  one  else. In "Old Times Good Times'', a  take it any more. The library really shoul d install some couches. Our motto for the  
soulful, and  it  comes off badly. Not  to  sort of minor-key rocker slightly remini­ next sixteen days is the Savoyard prov erb, "I have so much to do, I am going  
say  that  he  can't  have  or demonstrate  scent of "I'm a Man", Jimi Hendrix solos.  asleep."  


---------------~-------------------------------------------­
Friday, December 4, 1970 Page 5 

Fr. 8111 Toohey 

NBC the Snowman 
The Notre Dame segment of NBC's A number of us who did manage to without violence. Granting that there has comes out in our favor); at the same time. First Tuesday show had just ended, and survive the cutting-room floor still felt been considerable change in buildings, we can appreciate the vision of the already my phone was ringing. The voice that our comments were highly .:dited curricuium revision, and rule reform. possibilities and the promise of what on the other end, a friend from South and, some insisted, appreciably out of what does all this mean in the long run, I might become much more of the total Bend, was saying, "Hey, how much did con_text. Somebody said to me, "I saw wondered, if the graduate from this insti­picture at Notre Dame. you guys have to pay for that thirty­you on television the other night, but it tution is not changed in his inner world? All in all, though I feel that we have a minute commercial?" He was kidding, of seems they cut you just as you were In other words, I questioned very serious­great distance to go in making this a place course, but not entirely. Many of the about to say something." I am extremely ly whether we have really advanced very where lives are positively touched, I still 
comments during these past few days of concerned about the disservice rendered much in the direction of making this a feel there is considerable truth in Sander First Tuesday post-mortem have accused to young adults by unqualified adult place where people are truly touched by Vanocur's remark. He said, in effect, that the network of a snow job. There have adulation. Hence, in addition to saying, in the creative force of love. in all its in a world which seems, day by day, to be been claims that the point of view was my own remarks on the show, that I felt ramifications, without which none of us fe·aring students more and more, it is warped and highly slanted, that much of that in some ways students might be can truly become alive and human. For refreshing to see an educational institu­the program was staged (for instance, the more religious today because they were this kind of change we need a profound tion which is trying to show. them scene of the Notre Dame -St. Mary's truly concerned about real issues (peace, involvement of the entire community -respect, to give them understanding, to students together, for which it seems they poverty, racial justice, etc.), I also added­students, faculty, administration -in deep treat them as young adults. There is not did everything but hold auditions and but this was edited out -that there is a personal relationships which encourage, nearly enough of this, of course; but bring in some young starlets from NBC's frequent inconsistency. Many seem to be inspire, and move minds and hearts; ·when you hear the comments of men like Kraft Music Hall). There were some vehe­simultaneously neighbor-centered and which truly meet the deep need each· of Father Hesburgh and Father Whelan and ment complaints about the omission of self-centered. Along with the tremendous us has to grow. (The truth of this is from a number of others around here any substantial coverage of the academic social idealism they have, there is also a evidenced in the anguish that a number of who never got on that show, you realize scene at Notre Dame; as one student put frequent repudiation of the legitimacy of students feel when someone who has that a lot of people have dedicated it: "Despite the assurance that the show any authority outside the self. This can exercised this kind of influence in their themselves to the students, and are really was going to show that Notre Dame was lead to considerable ambiguity and a lives is discontinued at the university for, for students-and in a way which is not at no longer a place where football was the conscience clash. For instance, when the at least in their estimation, very question­all an exercise in permissiveness, or big deal, you still saw an awful lot of it, authority of another person's needs able reasons.) As I told a group of faculty coddling, or phony adulation. To sin­and it seemed that every couple of clashes with my own radical individua­wives the other day, in the end, their cerely like students (or Notre Dame itself, minutes the cheerleaders were on screen." lism, my self-concern can win out over husbands will probably not be asked, for that matter) is not at all to preclude Some objected that it was a great shame my social idealism. This struggle for "How many did you teach?" but "How growth and change. To fail to see this is there was no depiction of the Notre consistency and authentic responsibility many did you touch?" to become eligible for a fallacy like the Dame students involved in ·south Bend is a crucial struggle for the maturing Having said all this, however, I suppose one contained in some people's interpre­community projects, no interviews of young adult -and this slipping ba,ck and one would have to refrain from insisting tation of "America: love it or leave it," a department heads or representative com­forth can constitute the kind of ethical that NBC substitute the snowman for the motto that should be amended to read ments from students, especially student irresponsibility that Sartre has called peacock, for we ought to realize that "America: fix it or forget it." What some leaders. Some said the whole thing struck "bad faith." l there really is no such thing as an of us are trying to say is this: We do like them as a money-raising promotional film There was another comment I made, objective half-hour documentary. To students. We recognize in them much -a sop to Middle America, so up-tight which never saw the light of day, and it expect that an authentic view of even one goodness, a great promise, positive poten­about American educational institutions, might have presented an additiona.l point class, in one department, of one of our tial for greatness. But we also recognize an attempt by NBC to make amends to of view about Notre Dame. I questioned colleges could be given in half an hour is the selfishness, the phoniness, the insensi­the ex-governor of Maryland who has the NBC people on their basic assump­plain naivete. So I suppose we cannot tivity and immaturity, and, in the face of complaine!l so vigorously about the new tion; I said that it seemed they were fault them too much for not accomplish­this, we are willing to struggle with them 
media always showing what is ba.d in coming to Notre Dame presuming that ing the impossible. We can lament the so that they might become the truly America, and never what is good. ·significant change had been effect-ed here narrowness and partiality (even when it human persons they are called to be. 
Mike Lenehan 

Stephen Stj;lls-reality crashes down 



Friday, December 4, 1970
Page 6 
7118 


Here it is-the new Constitution 
PREAMBLE: shall concern itself with the relation­will be elected according to the 8) To confirm the rules established 61 Preside over all the meetings of 
In order to provide <In official ships between individual halls as well guidelines established by the perma­by the Permanent Election Com­the President's Council, the Judicial voice through which student opinion as the co-ordination of the various nent election committee. mittee fo all University wide elec­Council, the Student Union Board of may be expressed, and to develop halls to foster a greater unity in the c) The student body president will tions. Director's and Student Government communities in which all members student body as a whole. The Presi­be elected in the manner prescribed 9) To administer and execute bills Finance Committee, and the Student have an equal opportunity to express dent's Council shall not be a legisla­by this constitution. of impeachment against: Government Election Committee. 
tive body, except in the case of Section V: If a President's Council a) the Student Body President 7) Have the power to remove the themselves in a cooperative spirit, we, budgetary proceedings; nor a "poli­seat becomes vacant, the position will b) the Student Body Vice Presi­Student Union Director or any mem­the undergraduate student body of tical body" but it may express an be filled within two (2) weeks of and ~ dent ber of the Student Government or the University of Notre Dame, here­official opinion on any issue per­by a special election of the consti­c) the Student Union Director and Student Union and thei various com· 


by establish the CONSTITUTION. taining to the hall life of the students tuency or by the prescribed manner of the University. In particular, the of a half's constitution. ARTICLE 1: (Student Life Coun­President's Council shall deal with Section VI: The duties and powers 
cil) interhall activities, and shall direct all of the President's Council will be: 
Section 1: All legislati•te powers of its efforts on and to the promo­1) To establish the qualifications 
will be vested in the Student Life tion of the well being of the student of its members, the student body Council as contained in tis bylaws body of this University. officers, the cabinet members, and -with the exception of bud!Jetary and Section II: The President's Council officials of both the Student Gover­other internal procedures 1:oncerning will be chaired by the Student Body nment, and the Student Union, and student affairs. President, or in his absence, by the the student representatives on the 
Section II~ The elected under­Student Body Vice President. Student Life Council. 
graduate representatives will be Section Ill: The President's Coun­2) To establish its rules of proce­
elected by their respective consti­cil will be composed of: dure. 
tuents. 11 The Chairman -voting only in 3) To make recommendations re­
Section Ill: The election pro­the case of·a TIE. presenting the best interests of the 
cedures will be decided upon by the 2) The Hall President or a duly student body, to confer with the 
election committee in accordance elected under graduate of each resi­administration and faculty, and make 
with the procedures of the Student dent hall. and pass such recommendations on 
Life Council. 3) A duly elected representative the Student Life Council, or the 
Section IV: In the event that an from off-<:ampus. Student Government. elected member representing the stu­Section IV: Elections for President 4) To asses and allocate funds. dent body is removed from office Council members will be held in the 5) to confirm all appointments by and/or relinquishes his po,;ition, the spring semester. the Student Body President and the President's Council will determine a) Each Hall President will be Student Union Director. how the vacant seat is to be filled. elected in the manner prescribed by II To coordinate interhall activi­
ARTICLE II: (President's Council) his hall constitution. ties. Section 1: The President's Council b) The off-campus representative 7) To appoin committees. 
~Be A i~ Ccf~epeople 

rV" ' J Ra1h~ke/Jer ~. / Man-Fri NOON· lt\l~~~~kt Sun~ two-IY\\dn 1~~-r 
Agraduate school that's more fire than smoke. 
Only Honeywell offers a computer course doubles in size and opportunity every five designed exclusively for college graduates. years. Our postgraduate program for managerial Which could make your future pretty candidates. 
bright. All you have to do to light the fire is No matter what your major was. If you can 
mail this coupon. qualify, you'll be ready to learn computers from one of the world's top computer manu­r A:m~s:n~~c: ~P~t;a:;:a~ ;u;;:s----~ 
I Honeywell Institute of Information Sciences I
facturers and leading educators, Honeywell. 

i~~s~~~~~r~k~~~t'!.u~~i;!t I
You'll find yourself ready for the fastest 

Chicago, Illinois 60601 (312) 368-0688 1 
growing industry around. An industry that 

0 I would like additional information on your II program. 0 I wou'ld like to arrange an interview I L on at _ I 
( (date) (time) I ·.,--1• Honeywell will call you to confirm this date and I ':"1 time. "t Name: I I College: ______ _. I 
I College Address: I I ------'---Phone:------I Home Address: ____________ J 
\ Phone· _ 1 ________A~~v~ ~ ~t~a~.J 
The OtherComputerCompany: 
Honeywell 
Commissioners missions and boards for dereliction of 
d) the Student Government Cabinet, Treasurer, and members of duty, incompetancy, corruption in the Student Life Council, for de rei is­office, and/or failure to carry out the tion of duty, corruption in office, programs of the Student Body Presi­and failure to uphold this constitu­dent or the President's Council. The tion. Student Body President himself will 
10) To make all bylaws, statutes, decide when the above criteria has and resolutions, which will be neces­been violated, but the discharged has sary for carrying into execution the the right to appeal to the President's 
foregoing powers. 

Council. A two/thirds vote 2/3 of the ARTICLE Ill: (Executive) 
total President's Council membership Section 1: All executive powers 
is required to reinstate him. granted in this Constitution will be 8) Be a member of the Student vested in the Student Body President. Life Council. Section II: The Student Body 9) Have all other powers which are President will be elected annually by necessary to carry out the provisions and from the undergraduate student of this Constitution and to delegate body of the University of Notre any of the above powers to any Dame. He must remain an under­department or agency of Student graduate student at Notre Dame Government. throughout his term of office. The Section IV: The Student Body student body president's term of President will call a General As­
office will run one (1) year, beginn­sembly of the undergraduate student ing on April 1 of the year in which he body at least once (1) during his term was elected and termination one (1I of office. 
year from that date. 1) This General Assembly will be Section Ill: The Student Body structured in such a way as to allow President will: for the airing of student opinion. 
a) 
Serve as official spokesman of 21 The Student Body President or the student body, representing it in his duly appointed representative will matters affecting its interests and welfare. chair this General Assembly. 

2) 
Enforce the Student Govern­3) A steering committee will be ment Constitution, its bylaws. established by the Student Body Pre­

3) 
Act upon the resolutions of the sident to decide procedural tech­President's Council. niques. 

4) 
Have the power to appoint an 4) Any undergraduate of the Uni­administrative cabinet and other per­versity of Notre Dame can bring sons necessary for the efficient ad­before this body any resolution, pro­ministration of St:~dent Government, posal, or topic for debate he so with the consent of the President's chooses in accordance with the pro­Council. cedures outlined by the steering corn· 

5) 
Enter into necessary agreements mittee. with other organizations, with the 


(Continued on page 8)
consent of the President's Council. 

~:::::::::::::::·:·:·:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:;:::::::::;:::::::::::::~:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

!ill KEEPSAKE DIAMO·N·o···RfN6$--~\\j 
~~~: R.K. MUELLER, INC. :l~l· 
JEWELERS 
218 S. l\1ichigan St. South Bend Phone: 233-4200 


SMC Department of Art Art F•lr 
Dec. 6 2 pm -11 pm 
2:00-"A GUIDE TO THE ART OF THE CONCERT VOCALIST" with Maestro Poco Piu, Madame Sogo Voce and Frau Capella Fingersertig 
3:00-Art Sale, Moreau Art Gallery 9:30p.m.-Rock Concert, featuring Melting Pot, at Coffeehouse. Donation of $1.50 covers all 



If you want to inspire something lasting . ... Do it now at 

T~IE BODY IS BEAUTIFUL AND MAKING IT JUST A LITTLE MORE BEAUTIFUL IS OUR BUSINESS 
SI<Y I<HJG 

;~CROSS FROr.l10BERTSO~S
'· 



Page 7 
Friday, December 4, 1970 




Giamecocks invade N.D 
The Irish Eye 

»:::=:::====~=:::::=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:::=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:::=================:::=:::==============:===========================:NO Cfoss 
On the Tuesday before Thanksgiving, Notre Dame's campus was rapidly losing its 7,000 plus population to the highways exiting Northern Indiana. The campus was a rather quiet and peaceful place. The usual number of people tromping through the snow on the South Quad were gone. The North Dining Hall looked almost barren. Notre Dame was a rather inactive setting. 
There was one place on campus where things were a hit more vibrant, however. This was the Sports Information Office of Roger Valdiserri located on the second t1oor in the Convocation Center. The SID's office and waiting rrom was packed with reporters and television people from as far away as Chicago. What was the occasion that drew all of these noted scribes to the fields of du Lac? This was the day that the Heisman Trophy winner would be announced. · 
Without a doubt one of Notre Dame's very sons was in Lop contention for this esteemed award. Joe Theismann was quite possibly going to be the man of the hour. It had narrowed down to a three way race for the coveted trophy named in honor of the former LSU coach. Jim Plunhtt, the Mexican-Irishman from Stanford who broke the NCAA career mark for total offense, was definitely in consideration. After all, he had that big magazine article written about him and the tough life that he has had to overcome. 
The too, there was a guy down in the good ol' South whose name was Elisha Archie Manning. Most people felt that the Heisman Trophy was nearly conceded to "Archie Who" after the NCAA pre-game show before Ole Miss. vs. Alabama, which included no less than the Ballad of Archie Who along with a film clip of Archie doing everything but selling the bright red buttons with his name on it. But Archie ran int0 two real tradedies. One, he lost to Southern Mississippi which Heisman Trophy winners aren't supposed to do. Two, he was injured in the seventh game of the season and after this there was little hope of a Heisman statue in the Manning household. 
Then of course there was Notre Dame's own Joe Theismann. He also had a few gimics in his favor. Wasn't his name pronounced with a certain familiarity dealing with the Trophy? Also, he had Roger Valdiserri backing him. Roger is one of the more likeable and more promotion-minded Sl D's in the country. 
So the stage was set for the big announcement. There seemed to be more general concern over the winner of the Heisman this year than any year in the past. Therefore on that cold November afternoon there was a squadron of reporters hoping they would be at the scene of the big announcement. 
The television people were busy setting up the lights they thought would be needed for the important interview and the radio and press men were making sure their mikes and tape recorders were in good order. The planned time of announcement would 1 00 p.m. Ev~ryone in the office was hoping for the all important call from New York. As the hour approached things started to quiet down in anticipation of the call. Shari Brown, Valdiserri's secretary (who also just happens to he Mrs. Joe Theismann as of tomorrow) sat nervously at her desk. 
The phone rang and the blonde answered, nearly dropping the receiver. "Sports Information. No, no we haven't received any word yet. It should be announced soon." A few chuckles went through the room when everyone realized what the call was about. 
During all of this, the quarterback himself was not actually in the office but out stalking around the Convo trying to pretend he wasn't nervous. Joe wasn't nearly as successful faking here as he is on a heper play. 
Finally the call did come. Assistant director Dave Kempton answered this time. "Yes, this is Notre Dame, go ahead. Oh, is that right. Well was it close. I see. Well I'm sure he deserves it. Thank you for letting us know." Everyone realized that Joe was ·not the winner of the Heisman. Someone said "Yeah, Plunkett won it. I think Joe was second." 
There was a few seconds hesitation and then some of the menia people suggested that it might still be a good story to get a few comments from the Irish all time offensive record holder. Joe went through the ordeal with dignity and pride. With his fiance at his side the wiry New Jerseyite replied to the queries. "Yes of course I'm disappointed. I'd be a fool to say I don't really care about the trophy. However, it doesn't mean all that much to me. My chief objective was to be on an undefeated Notre Dame team, not to win the Heisman Trophy. I'm sure Jim Plunkett is a worthy recipient of the award. I've only seen him play once and that was on TV against Arkansas this year. I was impressed. Still I'll be much happier with a National Championship than I would with the trophy." 
His attractive wife-to-be also responded to reporters, "To me he's the greatest football player that ever lived. l don't care what anyone else says." That was it. The reporters and cameramen packed up and were gone in a matter of minutes. The office was a quiet place again. There were only Joe, the two secretaries and a reporter left in the big office. 
It was at this point that Joe Theismann showed the type of stuff that true All-Americans are made of. He got on the phone and called long distance to New York. Jim Plunkett just happened to be in Fun City at this time and Joe wan ted to congratulate his rival. "Yes sir. I'd like to speak to Jim Plunkett. Yes sir, this is Joe Theismann from Notre Dame. (a few minutes pause) Oh, he isn't, well, please pass along my best wishes to him. I can't think of anyone who deserves this great honor more than Jim. He's a fine ball player and a fine man. Thanks for taking the message." Plunkett could not be reached but, as the saying goes, it's the thought that counts. 
Joe Theismann now had one more regular season game to look forward to. It too ended in folly. The heartbreaking loss to USC was innumerable times more disappointing for the Irish great than was the second-place finish in the Heism an voting. Even though Joe gave 
(Continued above right) 

Notre Dame's poised basket-the No. 5 quintet nationally ball team, fresh from an opening while Frank McGuire's veteran success at Michigan Tuesday, Gamecocks are rated No.2. faces one of the most demanding Tipoff time in the Athletic tests of the young season here and Convocatjon Center is 8:00 Saturday night against South p.m. with regional television Carolina. (TVS) scheduled. Tickets are 
The Irish tmter the p:ame as still available for the game, the 
(Continued frorn below) 

fans across the country one of the greatest di,:;plays in the history of the game, he was a dejected and broken man. He'll bounce back, though. He always does. 
He now has one chance left for redemption, and that will come hopefully against the nation's No. I team in the Cotton Bowl. Before that, however, Joe must call signals for one more important goal line situation. Tomorrow the automatic will simply be "I do." 
Best of luck, Joe, to both you and Shari. You are and always will be a credit to Notre Dame. 
IRISH EYE-TEM--This is the last week of the regular season on the collegiate scene. This season I have picked 257 out of 335 games for a percentage of '749. With but two big games on the schedule this week I'll try to get back up to the .750 mark. 
I see: 

Texas over Arkansas: The Razorbacks have the psychological advantage what with the revenge motive and all. The Horns are also absent a few key players. Possibly All-Americans Bill Attessis and Steve Worster will be out for this game with injuries. The Horns are still an overall better ball club. 
~,SU over Mississippi: The Tigers defense is just to tough. It's unhkely that Archie can play and that means Orange Bowl for the Bayou Tigers. · 






Winter sports 
Notre Dame's fencing, wrest­ling and swimming teams will open their seasons this week with the annual Notre Dame Invitational swimming meet the lone home event. 
The swimmers-host six schools at 7:00 p.m. Friday while the wrestlers participate in the two-day New York Tech Tournament over the weekend, the fencers travel to Lafayette, Ind. for a triangular match on Saturday at 6:00p.m. 
Coach Dennis Stark hopes .to push his club over last season's .500 mark and he will have to do so with a largely freshman team. Nine monogram winners were lost. But veteran John Sherk gives Stark good reason to be optimistic. Sherk has set varsity records in the 500 yard freestyle (5:01.2), the 1,000 yard free­style (I 0;39.I) and the I 00 yard butterfly (56.3). Those times are also Rockne Memorial Pool rec­ords. 
Another standout is Gene Krathaus. He holds a varsity r<~cord in the 50 yard freestyle, completing that distance in :22. I seconds, a time that also ties a pool mark. 
This year's captain-elect is James Cooney, a freestyler from Palm Beach, Florida. 
The Notre Dame wrestlers face the same problem as the swimmers--inexperience. Six starters are gone from last year's 6-6 team, inc! uding one of the best wrestlers in Notre Dame histroy, Jim Hansen. 
The Irish figure to shine in the heavyweight division. Junior Phil Gustafson, 260 pounds, returns from a 13-0-3 season to head all contenders. In addition to his obvious wrestling abilities Phil is a member of the Notre Dame football team's offensive line. 
Notre Dame captured the New York Tech Invitational last season finishing first out of six schools. ND is 1-0 this season with a win over St. Joe. 
Fencing Coach Mike DeCicco sized up his team's prospects this way, "We'II be real tough in both foil and epee, but we must improve in sabre if we are to better last season's results." 
Four men were lost from the 
20-2, 1969 team, accounting for 96 of the squad's 402 bout wins. But returning is All-America epeeist Rich Deladrier to bolster the Irish hopes. He joins Doug Daher and John Lyons as this year's tri-captains. 

second of the season for both 
teams. · 
Notre Dame coach Johnny Dee was pleased with the 94-81 debut at Michigan but he has little time to ret1ect on the victory. "South Carolina is pro­bably one of the finest teams we've ever played here at Notre Dame," reasoned Dee. 
Dee watched All-American Austin Carr score 38 points, and Collis Jones another 30, includ­ing 12 of 21 from the field, as the Irish overcame a five point Michigan lead early in the second half. 
"We worked the boards better in the second half and also took advantage of several running si­tuations," continued Dee, add­ing, "and except for the usual first game mistakes I was pleased with the results." 
Dee is well aware of South Carolina's potential. ''They have four players taller than any man on our squad, the top rebounder in the Atlantic Coast Conference Tom Owens and the ACC Player 
(Continued on Page 8) 


begin 
Last season Notre Dame hand­Jed the other three opponents in this weekend's action, beating Purdue 234, Indiana 18-9, and Tri-State 234. 
Just for the record 
compiled by Mike Pavlin 

The Sports Information Department usually comes out with an official list of new records set during the year so these are still unofficial. All the marks are new records unless otherwise indicated. 
TEAM~ENERAL 1.) Consecutive Games Scoring-51 
TEAM--SINGLE GAME 1.) First Downs by Passing-19 2.) Pass Completions-33 
3.) Pass Yardage-526 
TEAM--SEASON 1.) PAT%--. 949 2.) Pass Yardage-2527 3.) Pass Yardage/Game-252.7 

4.) Total Offensive P!ays-924 5.) Total Offensive Yardage/Game-510.5 6.) Total Offensive Yardage--S 105 7.) Pass Completions--162 
8.) Pass Attempts-283 

9.) (Record Tied) 2-pt PAT's Made-3 
INDIVIDUAL-SINGLE GAME 1.) Pass Completions-Joe Theismann 33 2.) Pass Yardage-Theismann 526 
3.) Total Offensive Yardage--Theismann 512 
4.) (Record Tied) Touchdown Pass Receptions-Tom Gatewood 3 
INDIVIDUAL--SEASON 1.) Total Offensive Yardage-Theismann 2813 2.) Total Offensive Plays--Theismann 391 
3.) Pass Attempts-Theismann 268 
4.) Pass Completions--Theis mann 155 5.) Pass Yardage-Theismann 2429 
6.) Pass Receptions~atewood 77 
7.) Reception Yardage-Gatewood II 23 
8.) (Record Tied) Touchdown Passes-Theismann 16 
INDIVIDUAL-CAREER (with one game remaining) 1.) PAT's Attempted-Scott Hempel 134 
2.) PAT's Made-Hempel 124 ( 122 regular season, new NCAA record) 
3.) Field Goals--Hempel 15 .~ Touchdown Passes-Theismann 33 
5.) Total Offensive Plays-Theismann 845 
6.) Total Offensive Yardage--Theismann 5711 
7.) Total Performance Plays-Theismann 867 
8.) Total Performance Yardage-Theismann 5830 
9.) Pass Completions-Theismann 307 I O.)Pass Had Intecepted--Theismann 37 
II . )Passing Yardage-Theismann 4642 12 .)Passes Broken Up Clarence Ellis (a junior) 21 (The following are amrks which will probably be broken in the • Cotton Bowl) 
13.)Pass Attempts-550, Theismann 536 14.) Completion %--.567, Theismann .573 15. )Yards/Pass Attempt-8. 28, Theismann. 8.66 16.\P,.\T%--.914, Hempel .925 !-i.'.( R~cord Tied) Touchdown Pass Receptions--Gatewood 16 


--------------------------. 

7'11£ O&IZRI1J1t Page 8 
.-. -.................. . RIVER PARK 
................... fl. •• 
MISHAWAKA AVE. AT -30TH. 
Held Over! Ends Thurs. 
OLIVER REED RON MOODY 
St. Mary's Christmas program chairman announced last night her committee will respond to the cafeteria's inability to accomodate all of the students at one sitting by expanding the annual Christmas dinner to two sittings, at 4:30 and 6:00pm. 
"We have to promote the spirit of Christmas even more this year with final exam pressure," she contended. She also believes that the banquets will help to maintain the 
FEATURE TIMES 
:IS 4:40 7:05 
9:30 

THE AFFAIRS OF 



APl-lRODITE 

Wntten and Ocrected by Produced bv Muscc by 
ALAIN PATRICK • ED DePRIEST • JOHN BATH COLOR sV, EASTMANCOLOR' 
LANET OF THE APES 

SMC to continue Xmas tradition 
"community l!tmosphere" of the Christmas banquets, the hanging way back when LeMans' lounge college. of the holly wrcnth in LeMans was the main dining hall", she The program will include two II a II, the blessing or' the remarked. She learned this last Christmas tree, and the Lumen September in an interview with


SC Preview 

(Continued from page 7) of the Year for the past two years John Roche," said Dee. 
Roche averaged 22.3 ppg. for the 25-3 Gamecocks last year while the 6' I0" Owens was next at 15.9 ppg. while hauling in 14 rebounds per game. Joining Owens on the towering front line will be 6'1 0" John Ribock at forward. The fifth starter is 
6'4"  sophomore  prize  Kevin  
Joyce (25.3 as frosh).  
The  Gamecocks,  as  84-83  
overtime  winner  over  Notre  

Dame in the Sugar Bowl Tourna­ment finals last year, open their season at home Thursday against Auburn. 
Dee started the opener with Carr, Jones, 6'3" junior Doug Gemmell, 6'1" senior Jackie Meehan and 6'8" senior John Pleick. Veterans Sid Catlett 6'8" and Tom Sinnott 6'4" also fi­gure to see considerable action. 

Now Showing 
Frenk Sinatra as "Dirty 'J ingus Milgee" 
''~Nest Side Story" "Street~:ar rJamed Desire" 

Dec. 17: 
"r11onterev Pup"
with Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin
plus Bob Dylan in 
"Don't LJok Jack" 

eCharlton Heston 
• Linda Harrison 
Saturday c.11d Sunday 2, 7, 9:15,11:30 Knig:1ts of Columbus $1.00 
Christi ceremony. Sister Benedictus, former head 
of the sociology department, 
The banquet· originated who briefed Miss Blanchard on according to Miss Blanchard, the other Christmas traditions of thirty years ago. "It was way, the college. 

Duties of SBVP and T reosurer 
(Continued from page 6) 
5) Upon acceptance of any resvl­ution or proposal, the student auth­oring the same will be provided the opportunity to chair a committee within the structure of Student Gov­ernment; to research, and/or imple­ment his recommendation. 
Section V: The Student Body Vice President will be elected at the same time and in the same manner as the Student Body President, and his re­quirements for office will be the 
·same. During ca'ldidacy, the Student Body Vice President will run on the same ticket as the Student Body President. 
Section VI: The duties of and powers of the Student Body Vice President will be: 

ofcreatinglife. Thefreedom to give itaway... 
a) 
to assist the President and pre­side at all meetings in his absence. 

b) 
to assume the office of the Student Body President in case of the resignation of or removal from office of the President. 

c) 
to be a member of the executive cabinet and Student Life Council. 

d) 
to serve as chairman of the Charity Chest Committee. 

e) 
to aid and assist the Student Body President in fulfilling the exe­cutive functions of the Student Gov­ernment. 


Section VII: If the Position of Student Body Vice President be­comes vacant for any reason, the 
office will be filled for the remainder of the term by appointment by the Student Body President, with the consent of the President's Council. 
Section VIII: The Student Body Treasurer will be appointed by the incoming Student Body President with the consent of the President's Council. 
Section IX: The duties and powers of the Student Body Treasurer will be: 
a) 
to keep an accurate record of all Student Government finances . 

b) 
to issue forms for the dis­bursements of funds in the Treasury. 

c) 
to submit bi-weekly reports on the financial situation of the Student Government to the President's Coun­cil. 

d) to prepare for the President's 

e) 
to serve as Secretary of the Charity Chest Committee. 


Council  the  summer  budget  and  
bi-annual  budgets  for  the  Student  
Government.  

Section X: If the position of Stu­dent Body Treasurer becomes vacant for any reason, the office will be filled for the remainder of the term of appointment by the Student Body President with the approval of the President's Council. 
Times: 1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 
9:45 


TheBaby Maker 
NATIONAL GENERAL PICTURES 
l'fU.st:~~ 
A ROBERT WISE PRODUCTION 
TheBabyMaker 
StarrinJ( 
BARBARA HERSHEY 
COLLIN WILCOx-HORNE SAM GROOM 
WRITTEN AND DIRECTED BY JAMES BRIDGES PROOlJCED BY RICHARD GOLDSTONE MUSIC BY FRED KARLIN TECHNICOLOR 







