

CRC moves to abolish Senate 
by Ed Ellis Weber voted to preserve the praised the structure, saying, Senate.
The Student Government 
"Everything that could come up

Constitutional Revision Com­In the opening discussion, is cared for."
mittee met last night for the Barkett stated that communica­
fourth time, and after discussing tion was the key, no matter Russ Stone opposedthe forum-Senate issue at what body or bodies existed. He Thrasher's plan because, in his 
length, approved a motion pro­words, it was "multiplying
said that while he could see no 
posed by John Barkett, Presi­reason to keep the Senate, he bodies" to no good effect. He dent of Morrissey Hall, which 
would not press for its elimina­argued that any body created committed the group to the tion, since it gets some fifty would have the same problems
abolition of the Student Senate 
people involved in the Univer­as the Senate. SBP Krashna 
as such and the establishment of sity. finally brought the committee to a Student Forum to further 
a vote, and the motion by

communication in Student Tom Thrasher agreed with Barkett was 
approved, 5-4. In 

Government. The Barkett mo­Barkett, proposing coexistence 
addition to the abolition of the tion did not preclude the poss­of the Senate and Forum. Senate, . Barkett proposed the ibility of combining the Senate 
incorporation of the Senate'slie said, "I would urge adop­with the proposed For!.:m, and a 

functions into the SBP's Cabi­

tion of both ideas...Maybe we'd 
structure for the new body will net.
even want to throw a fewbe drawn up by Student Body Senators on the Forum."
President Dave Krashna, Vice­
Next week the Committee 

J>rcsident Mark Winings, Stay He said he hoped the Forum will discuss the first draft of the Senator Fred Giuffrida, and could be the connecting meas­new Constitution for Student Barkett, to be presented to the ure, reaching out and touching Government. 
l
whole committee at next week's 
all groups. Dave Krashna 
meeting. SBVP Winings opposed this The 5-4 vote followed a 
because he said he feared the lengthy discussion of the Forum existence of two bodies would 
Academic Council approves 
question, the problem that has diffuse student opinion on key occupied the Committee's time issues. He was backed by SBP for their first four meetings. Krashna. 

Black Studies program
Krashna, Winings, Barkett, Suddes, HPC chairman, then 
In action yesterday afternoon, American Studies. Th 
IIa II Presidents' Council Chair­attacked the Senate on the · · · · · f Bl k St d. e program WI .11 commence
the UmvefSltY Academic Council The Director o ac u Ies man Tom Suddes, and Flanner grounds it was worthless. "No gave final approval to the will be appointed through the next f a11 · IIall President Phil DeFliese one," he said, "has ever given me 
immediate implementation of regular processes of the College The Institute for Urban 
opposed the Senate hy voting a reason for the Senate." 
the Black Studies program and of Arts and Letters. Students Studies will be a major institute for tht~ motion, while the four approved the appointment of a will be enrolled on a depart-as defined in the FacultyStay Senators, Guiffrida, Russ DeFliese supported Suddes, as Director of Black Studies as a mental basis, that is, they will Manual. The objective of the 
Stone, Tom Thrasher, and Pat did Krashna and Winings. 
member of a regular department pursue jointly a major in Black Institute is to assist faculty and 
Weber then defended the in the College of Arts and Studies and a major in another students in relating their study, Senate as an active force for the Letters. regularly established program. teaching, research, and service Student Body. He argued that The Council also approved Enrollment shall be open to activities to urban improvement the problem was with the statutes for the Institute for all students in the university and the solution of Urban people, not the structure. He Urban Studies and a Program in without regard to race or color. problems. 
The institute won't confer acacemic degrees but it will cooperate with the various col­
Women disapprove of raid 
leges and schools of the univer­for the conduct of women in sity in designing the programs
This is a counter-article to the veneer of fun and games, scream­
subsequent raids, including with students who wish toarticle appearing in yesterdays ing mobs unleashed sexual locking all doors, turning off concentrate their departmentalTHE OBSHR VHR concerning repression and a perverted sense lights and pretending no one is
Sunday night's panty raid. It was of virility by rampaging to St. discipline in urban studies.
home, with strictures provided
written by a Spontaneous Wo­Mary's, battering down doors, Under appropriate conditions,
for anyone who does not com­
men's Mobilization Committee. stealing several thousand dollars to be established by the college
ply. If such passes, it will not be 
In .a blatant display of vio­worth of clothes and abusing the and schools, students may re­
the first time in judicial history
lence and vandalism disguised as residents: any semblance of fun ceive a degree with a mention of
that law is made to punish the
"boys will be boys" rites of and games quickly melted. urban studies, pursue a double
victims. 
spring, I ,000 Notre Dame boys Consistently in yesterday's major (one in a regular depart­
To rectify the relatively super­
vented their pent-up energy, and article, emphasis fell on the ment, the other in courses
ficial monetary aspect of Mon­
sexual frustration on the resi­festive show of male might that recognized in urban Studies) or
day morning's invasion, an
dents of St. Mary's College the reporters deemed this exer­receive a certificate recognizing a
unofficial committee of St.
Monday morning. Beneath the cise in animal instinct, including concentration in Urban Studies.
Mary's students have gathered
photos of two peace-sign waving, An Urban Studies Curriculum
estimates of stolen property,
. bra-clad thieves. Violence done Committee will assist the stu­
listed below. Stolen articles
to St. Mary's students and dents in formulating programs in 
Hesburgh rec1eves award 
ranged beyond momentos to use
vandalism received less attention urban studies and shall give
for sexual braggerty: missing
Father Theodore M. Hes­They also mentioned his than previously accorded · the Institute approval of programs
laundry falls under the category
hurgh, President of the Univer­widely-publicized letter to Vice­same actions in the parking lot presented for a double major or
of blatant thievery, as missing
sity of Notre Dame, ret:eived the President Agnew in February. to student autos. a certificate of concentration in
bathing suits, record albums,
Twelfth Annual Alexander Meik­1969, in which he urged that "Running past the Adminis­Urban Studies.
blue jeans, towels, and dresses 
lejohn Award Saturday for his the Federal Government main­tration Building, the growing The American Studies Pro­
(including a formal).
outstanding contributions to tain a "hands off" policy in crowd of students received a gram will be a major sequence,
Damage to halls, including
academic freedom at the Fifty­regard to campus disturbances. wave from Fr. Hesburgh on their cross-departmental program. It
broken windows and fire doors 
sixth Annual Meeting of the Father Hesburgh's letter is way to the road joining the two will entail 6 hours of prerequi­
will increase the monetary loss. 
American Association of Univer­belieyed to have been a major campuses." An ironic response sites, 6 hours of required courses
If the call for return of the 
sity Professors in Los Angeles' factor in averting federal legisla­to mob violence three months and 24 hours of electives.
missing articles does not bring
Ambassador Hotel. tion which might have limited after suspending ten students for The prerequisites are 6 hours
results, the ND Hall Presidents' 
The Meiklejohn Award is the authority of colleges and blocking the Placement Bureau in American literature, history,
Council will probably be faced 
presented each year to an universities to deal with their door. It would seem that the or government. The 6 required
with conjuring monetary re­
administrator, trustee, or group own problems. power structures of both col­hours will be two American
imbursement out of their 
of trustees in recognition of Father Ilesburgh told the leges finds it easier to allow Studies Seminars. 
frolicking "virile" males. 
their activities in support of meeting following his award students to occasionally trans­Twenty-one of the elective
Monetary reimbursement will academic freedom. presentation that"academic free­
form themselves into hordes of hours will consist of approved
not replace the anger of the 
In nominating Father Hes­is so much freedom animals rushing to exploit co-eds upper level courses in American
dom not majority of the victimized St. 
burgh for the Award, members from somebody or something as literature, history and govern­
than to take any significant Mary's student body, however. 
of the AA UP'S Chapter at Notre freedom to do something." action to normalize relations ment, 9 of which must he in one
Nor will it do anything to 
Dame cited Father llesburgh's He added that educators in between the sexes within the field and 6 in the remaining two.
alleviate the physical attacks defense of faculty members who the United States should use "community." In unofficial dis.­made on women during the The 3 other elective hours may had taken unpopular and un­such academic freedom "to come from among upper level
cussion today, the administra­

course of the Irish visitation. In 
orthodox political and religious reform and revive liberal educa-tion of St. Mary's tentatively courses in philosophy, sociology, economics or art.
positions. proposed to set up regulations 

THE O.&rEilVDl 



Free City plans set 
by Dave Lammers Tll:e plans to turn Notre Dame into "a Free City for a day" were largely tmalizell at a meetmg m the Student Center last night. The group plans a concert by the First Friday, an early morning birdwalk with Dr. Nutting, art displays and folk groups, and informal discussions on aca­demic reform and The Free City. A letter to Father Walsh, Vice-President of Academic Af­fairs, from the group asks that he suspend classes Friday so that students can ask "What is the nature and purpose of a Notre Dame education?" The letter to Walsh recommended to him that Friday would be a truly educa­tional experiment. "On th9s day many Notre Dame students and faculty will be creating a Chris­tian academic community through meaningful dialogue. May l st will be an experiment in true higher educaiton." The plans call for free city day to be divided more or less 
into morning and afternoon sessions. The morning will center around the idea of Christian educational community; "what is lacking about Notre Dame and what we need to do to improve 
it." Faculty have expressed great interest in the concepts of educational innovation and of doing away with the grading system. Many faculty plan to hold informal discussions about various innovative ideas on the main quad from 10 to noon. Faculty that are interested in examining educational reform in these morning discussions should contact Scott Carmody at 1380. 
The afternoon activities will be more varied. First Friday has promised to perform throughout the afternoon, interspersing music with conversation about music. Folk artists are urged to spontaneously bring their guitars and voices to the quad; artists plan to set up their canvasses on the quad and discuss their art with the students. The Univer­sity Arts Council has offered help in getting artists to partici­pate in Free City Day activities. 
The main speaker, Willis Nut­ting, the author of The Free City will speak at I :00 p.m. at the main quad. Bayard Rustin, Cong. John Brademas, and Prof. Frank O'Malley have been asked to speak, though no committ­ments have been made. 
Mike Shaughnessey described the afternoon activities as "an academic be-in." "We want to take education out of the class room. We are trying to create an atmosphere that is characterized by creativity, spontaneity, and 

Authority on revolution 
study of revolutionary andDr. Egbal Ahmad, an authori­counter-revolutionary techni­ty on revolution in the Third ques in Algeria and Vietnam.

World will speak on The Algerian and Vietnamese Revo­In addition, he has written alution," tonight in Room I04 recently published book entitledO'Shaughnessy. Dr. Ahmad has 
Political and Labor in the
written a number of articles on Maghreb. Dr. Ahmad is a nativecivil unrest in underdeveloped of Pakistan and received most ofnations and is presently conduct­his education there, culminatinging an extensive comparative 
in a Master's Degree in modern .--------------,history from Punjab University. Graduating Class, Note! He later moved to the United House for Rent, June Week 
States and received his Ph.D. from Princeton in 1967. Dr.
Two story, mod. log cabin 

Ahmad is now in the services of
in the woods, 5 mi. north 
the Stevenson Institute for
Notre Dame, 3 bedrooms, 2 
Foreign Affairs and was pre­
bath, kitchen, lv. rm., den, lg. 
viously assistant professor of the
[ire-place, wood. Sleeps 10. 
School of Industrial and Labor
Bring the whole family. 
Relations at Cornell University.

Rented only to parents. $50 per day, minimum 3 days. 
Dr. Ahmad's free lecture is

Write: Resident, 51187 
being presented by the Student

Laurel Road, South Bend, 
Union Academic Commission.

Indiana 46637. 
CONTEMPORARY ARTS FESTIVAL 
sharing . True understanding means a lot more than accumula­ting dry facts and theories. Education and enjoyment can be combined, and Free City Day is intended to be a festival of learning, a festival of life," says Shaughnessy. 
"Liberal education centers on four questions: man, society, the universe, and God. These four themes will underlie all that happens at the free city of Notre Dame. 
The planners of the day emphasize that the day is open ended. "Anybody that wants to contribute to free city day in any special way just has to show up and participate. This is a day for people to be creative. 
Free Pepsi and possibly free hot dogs will be available on the main quad, 




Administration proposes to set regulations for future raids 
Mike Shaughnessy 
(Continued from page 1) seeing themselves, unconsciously or consciously, as beings to be
each of the four dorms, at least conquered -sexually or other­one case of manhandling has wise. To some, a panty raid is abeen reported, ranging from compliment: "Girls stoodbruises to attempted sexual smiling in their nightgowns andmolestation. 
curlers, shouting to friends,Most students who had pre­shaking hands, agape at the viously laughed at "panty raids" unheralded sight of hundreds of 
after Monday night have con­sweating and excited men run­
cluded, "it's not funny any ning throughout the halls." (Amore." The syndrome of panty strange portrait of a knight in raids bespeaks deeper problems 

shining armor.) The assistants facing the environment of this 
were frequently curiously sur­so-called community. 
prised to find themselves and And the reported sales of 
their possessions the object of bras, etc., that used to belong to 
attack. Illusions of coquetishness
well-known co-eds by the thieves 

quickly dissipated. indicates this. Manifestations of 
The problem boils down tothe exaggerated unnatural rela­the perverted view of womentions between the sexes are only and their private lives which symptoms of the disease. And dominates Notre Dame. Thedisciplinary strictures (there are presence of men in women's rumors that this will block dorms is anything but the arguments with the Board of natural interchange of humanTrustees on increased parietal beings, living normal daily lives.
hours) do nothing to cure the Again, from the masculine side,disease -they only further women are consistently viewed suppress any movement toward as objects of personal gratifica­human relations, reinforcing the tion: why else is the possessionview of women as officially of a pair of women's underwear,forbidden sex objects to be thus or bra, a momenta of fantasizedexploited for self-gratification. 
sexual pleasure? 
With the situation as it exists in There is no excuse for thethis "community," for the conduct of either the men ormajority of men that must be women who engaged in Mondaymob action, or the de-humani­night's violence. It is frighten­zing tactics used at the Circle, or 
remarks which most women experience are only symptoms. And these will not be solved by further repression of humanness, this is what has caused the present disgusting state of af­fairs. Any human would ques­tion when such things as normal encounter are going to be allowed, much less encouraged, by this "community." 
Incomplete estimates of per­sonal property loss are: McCandless ............$885 LeMans ............... 576 Regina ................ 439 Holy Cross . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 0 Total ............... $2,06 0 
A more complete itemized list will be published tomorrow. 

These estimates do not in­clude several broken windows, transoms, door knobs, locks and fire doors. 
Grads chosen for awards 
Richard R. Russell, a candi­date for an M.B.A. degree at Notre Dame, is the recipient of an Administrative Intern award, it has been announced by offi­cials of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Founda­tion. 

presents 
ingly disgu~ting and sad that A native of Houston, Texas,
the bitter unleashing of frustra­

these are the terms in whiCh Russell is a 1964 graduate of
tion and hatred on some 

Notre Dame men deal with Notre Dame who pursued his
objectified, generalized concept 

women, and more sad that for graduate studies after military
Jurgen Claus 
of "Townie" or "St. Mary's 

some women this is a pleasant service. He is the first Notre
girl." The resulting situation is 

experience. Again, the problem Dame recipient of an award of
damaging to both groups.

ARTIST-FILMMAKER-AUTHOR 
is a deep-seated one, outbursts this kind. 
On the other side of the coin, 

of the disease. The Panty Raid, Candidates for the award arc
the women who aided entrance 

or the sale of women at An selected on the basis of their
of the screaming masses did it in 

Tostal or a kissing contest, or academic performance. Fellow­
the spirit of fun and games, 

the obscene phone calls and ship recipients are assigned to an administrative position with a developing college in the South, 
and a 



Prospective Juniors 
and have the opportunity to use 
their expertise and skills in the 
areas of research, planning and


& Government Majors
Multi-Media Happening 
development. Two other Notre Dame stu­

3 (Three) Underground Films 

Pre-Registration 
dents have been selected as alter­nates for similar awards. They


Gov. Consultation With: 
are Richard Johnson, Rockville, Md., a graduate of Franklin and


Faculty & Senior Students 
Marshall College, and Kevin Sul­livan, a 1969 Notre Dame graduate, Staten Island, N.Y. 

In: Rooms 314 & 3•5 O'Shag 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except

On: Mon, Apr 27; Tues. Apr 28; 
vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. 

FREE! FREE! Eng. Auditorium 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the


Wed. Apr 29 

Tonight 8:00 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,



From: 10 -12 & 2 -5 Dally 
1nd., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

•





Forum's topic IS: ND-o Christian university 
The agenda committee of the to Chairman Professor Donald panel members will give their the campus mimstry at Notre fitting to celebrate liturgically University Forum has practically Sniegowski, the basic format of 
personal reactions to Notre Dame. This will provide a more the Christian commitment of the completed plans for the next the meeting is as follows: Dame as a Christian University. specific topic than that of the University. All members of the The panel members are Dr. afternoon meeting. Professor University are invited to the
Forum Meeting to be held May 2 From 2:00 to 5:30 there will Thomas Carney, Trustee, Dean William Storey of the Depart­Mass.
and 3, 1970, Saturday and be an open meeting in the Frederick Crosson, College of ment of Theology will chair this 
Sunday. The topic of the meet­Memorial Library Auditorium. At 12: I 5 there will be a 
Arts and Letters, Professor session. Professor Storey is the
ing will be "Notre Dame as a This meeting will begin with a brunch and private meeting of 
Charles McCarthy, Chairman of Chairman of the newly-formed
Christian University." According panel discussion in which the the Forum in the Trustees Room 
the Committee for the Study of committee on the CaJlllus Min­in the Morris Inn. This will giveistry. There will be open cllscus­
Non-Violence, Mr. Richard

• these people a chance to assess
sion of the campus ministry at
Moran, former editor of the 

the open sessions of the previousthis meeting. 
DDT IS no longer in 
Scholastic, and Mr. Richard 

On Sunday, May 3, Mass will day and to make preliminary
Rosenthal, alumnus. At approx­

plans for the coming year. 
be held at II :00 at Sacred Heart
imately 3:30p.m. there will be a 

Church. Father Hesburgh will The format of the Forum isuse on NO's trees short recess for coffee, followed concelebrate the Mass with other different from the previous
by an open discussion of the 

to be used last spring. priests of the University. Father meeting in that only one topic
Father Jerome Wilson, Vice­topic by all present. 
Methoxoclor which will be James Burtchaell, Chairman of will be discussed. Prof. Sniegow­
President for Business Affairs, An open meeting in the 
used this year in its place is also the Department of Theology, ski felt that condensing the
announced yesterday that the Memorial Library Auditorium is 
in the hydrocarbon family, as is will give the homily. The agenda range would allow for more
University would be spraying its scheduled for 8-10 p.m. The 
DDT. Methoxoclor, however, is committee felt it would be detailed discussion.
elm trees with methoxoclor this concern of this session will be 
only about I I I Oth as toxic. Theyear instead of DDT. The switch is being made because of the breakdown period is shorted­
HPC opposes Hall Life Board
environmental and health haz­that is, methoxoclor remains inards caused by DDT. Methoxclor an Administrative Board and policies of every hall on campus.
the area that it is sprayed for a
is only 1/IOth as toxic as DDT. by Steve Lazar 
much shorter time than DDT. would not only have the power John Barkett of MorrisseyThe University has been The Hall Presidents' Council to review hall visitation hours, Hall criticized the Trustees crea­spraying its trees since the late Methoxoclor is much less ef­continued to express its dissatis­but would also possess authority tion of the llall Life Board as a 1950's as an attempted protect­fective than DDT in combating faction with the Board of to regulate such diverse aspects stalling tactic: "They say let's ion against the Dutch Elm dis­the elm beetle and the necessity Trustees' controversial parietal of hall life as the hall staffs. create a board to fix up the ease. Since it was brought to the for its more frequent use makes hours ruling last night at a halls' problems, but what we 
United States 40 years ago the Members of the HPC opposed 
it much more expensive. post-An Tostal meeting of the should do is to forget the board 
disease has killed 30 to 40 per the Hall Life Board on the
Father Wilson noted that to HPC in LaFortune's Student and start working on the prob­
cent of the 25 million elms that grounds that it was just anotheJ
not use the spray at all would be Ampitheater. lems," he said. existed in the country at that tactic of the Administration to
"taking a chance at the loss of The presidents, who one week time. all the trees." A tree was found ago signed a statement rejecting prevent the halls from deter­Mike Nevens of Cavanaugh The disease is carried by the infected at the Grotto this week­the Board's parietals decision, mining their own parietal hours Hall felt that the Trustees European elm bark beetle. In the philosophy. The presidents also decision to form the new board
end and will be torn down and agreed last night that theywinter the beetle hibernates in felt that it would be nearly was "invalidating the function of
burned. opposed the formation of a new
the wood of dead trees. In the impossible for any student repre­the SLC."
Spraying should begin some­Hall Life Board as proposed by

spring the beetles nest on living sentative to devote as much time
time within the next two weeks. that same ruling of the Trustees. In other action at last night'strees in the area. The beetle as a seat on the Board would
The University has been in The presidents decided therefore meeting, Ron Mastriana ex­
feeds on the tree by boring into require. Current plans call for
constant contact with research to postpone their selection of plicitly denied any connectionit. When a tree has been infested institutions studying the pro­two student representatives to the Hall Life Board to review between An Tostal and Sunday
by tlw beetle there is no way of blerh. No better means of com" and investigate the parietal hours
the new board until after a night's panty raid.
saving it. Infected and dead trees 
bating the disease has yet been meeting Thursday between the arc cut down and burned. 
found than the trimming and Trustees and four members ofThe University had 850 elm 
spraying. the HPC. trees in the late 1950's. Present­
The University has also placed According to Ron Mastriana,ly there arc less than 740 left­
a moratorium on the planting of former Executive Coordinator ofthe rest were killed by the dis­new elms because of high proba­the IIPC, the new Hall Life 
case. 
bility of loss. Board would have the status ofIn an attempt to combat the 
hectic the university has been.------------------------------­trimming dead branches off of 
I WOULD FIRST OF ALL PUBLICALLY LIKE TO THANK 

living trees, cutting down dead 
ALL THOSE WHO WORKED HARD FOR AN TOSTAL FOR 
trees which have been infected 
WITHOUT YOU THERE WOULD HAVE BEEN NO AN TOS­
and burning them. This eliminat­
TAL AND SECONDLY TO EXPLAIN TO THE SAINT MARY'S
ed winter nesting grounds for 
GIRLS THAT THE RAID LATE SUNDAY NIGHT HAD
the beetle. In the spring the 
llniversity had been spraying 
NOTHING TO DO WITH AN TOSTAL. FEAR, THEFT AND 
with a mixture that include 
DAMAGE ARE NOT PART OF "MERRYMAKING" AND MY DDT. The mixture was partially 
APOLOGIES GO TO YOU NOT AS CHAIRMAN OF AN 
successful in killing the beetles. 
TOSTAL BUT AS A STUDENT AT NOTRE DAME IN EMBAR­
It was the most effective means of corn bating the dist•ase. 
ASSMENT FOR THE ACTIONS OF MY FELLOW STUDENTS. Recently DDT has come 
RON MASTRIANA 

under attack for its effed on other species besides insects. Other wildlife in areas that had been sprayed have been effect­ed some killed. Some scientists currently fear the possible ef­fects that DDT n~ay haw on human life. Recent investiga­tions provide evidence stating I hat the majority of American mothers probably carry more DDT in their milk in their breasts than is allowed in milk sold on the nwrket. 
l.ast year the University ttwde the decision to stop using ODT in its spray. llowevcr. a mixup in instructions caused the chemical' 
"Where Quality Counts" 
TOMPSETT 
Studio 
122 N. Mir.hiqan n:~·fi1 !i? 


711B OBSERVER.

PAGE 4 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 

DAVID C. BACH, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Editorial: 
The '' Panty Raid '' 
The so-called "panty raid" on St. Mary's Sunday evening was a glaring example of the tmmaturity and irresponsibility which, because of the actions of a minority of inconsiderate individuals, is attached by many to all Notre Dame 'men.' 
A panty raid on SMC has in the past carried a connotation of guys standing outside the girls' dorms and being given various belongings by their owners. But when this activity degenerates into physical attacks, large scale thievery, and a total loss of privacy any possible justification or rationalization is lost. It means little to say "Hell man, we was just havin a good time," while many girls are adding up losses and damages in hundreds of dollars. There is quite a disparity in the value of 'fun' had by childish boys and the $2500 worth of good stolen from St. Mary's girls. 
The sad thing is that one of the students' most commendable efforts, An Tostal, has been obscured. The Hall Presidents' Council put long hours of effort into the weekend to make it a success. And it was a success. 
It is unfortunate that it is an activity such as Sunday's "panty raid" which reaches individuals outside the community and is subsequently attached to all students, while An Tostal, the Contemporary Arts Festival and other student sponsored events are forgotten. 
If one looks only at "panty raids" it becomes understandable that those in a position to make rules for the community would point to destructive activities and conclude that the participants are hardly mature enough to govern their own lives. 
This should not and must not be the case. 


Student responsibility 
Sunday night, l 000 Notre Dame "men" responded to the arrival of spring with a funfilled romp on the St. Mary's campus. The result: thousands of dollars in damage and theft, and a testimony to the inability of many students to deal with the female on a human level. 
In the last 24 hours I've received calls from a number of girls, many in tears. They have been offended by the ransacking and theft of their property and frightened by the total insensitivity of these men. As a student leader, I find myself in a strange position. I advocate the decentralization of responsibility from the administration to the student, yet I find this total lack of responsibility by possibly one is six students totally indefensible. 
In my last article I called for a show of student responsibility. If this is a manifestation of it, we as students, we as men, have a long way to go. 
Unfortunately, we label the whole group, but certainly not all participated in destruction and theft. The.se non-participants must tind themselves in a aw_kward situation. In this case we are in a sense our brothers' keepers in that we must admonish and hopefully restrain those who must participate in such violence. 
Another thought: while we can get excited by a panty raid or a Notre Dame football loss, we can't get as emotionally involved in the real social problems of the day, such as racism, university compli~ity, or ironically in becoming real, responsible men. 
Friday I must face the Trustees on the issue of Hall Autonomy, especially parietal hours . One of my basic rationales has been that the total education of the male d.emands his taking pride in the female. I must eat these words. The Notre Dame man is no man if he can not find this pride and act by it. The Trustees point to the lack of responsibility of the students in their argument against hall autonomy. Our case is now a poor one. 



SMC Staff 
Father McGrath's ongoing dispute with the St. Mary's staff students points up the large financial problem that St. Mary's College is presently facing. The SMC adminstration's attempt to run a "tight" budget has resulted in much personal harm to the forty girls that work in St. Mary's cafeteria and the problem, initial!y . financial in character, has taken an ugle turn, as the administration has employed deceit, verbal abuse, stalliflg tactics, and legal threats. 
For our male readers information the forty staff students at SMC 
work from 15 to 30 hours a week and receive partial or full 
scholarships, depending on how many hours they work, Before 
Christmas, Father McGrath announced that he was eliminating staff 
scholarships for next year's freshmen. Before Easter, the present 
staff students were given a written contract that made several 
changes in the program. Under the contract, the girls were no longer 
paid for the time spent eating their meals or for time spent in the 
infirmary, and student supervisors, previously elected by the girRs, 
were to be appointed by the dining hall management. The staff 
students contend that the additional six hours spent eating, which is 
not considered as work time under the new contract, allows them 
too little time for their studies and personal lives. Sick time, 
previously considered as work time, must now be made up after the 
girl regains her health; the girls point up the danger of a sick girl 
serving food, and the additional burden of making up the work after 
an illness. 
Father McGrath answers the objections of the girls by claiming 
that the new contract "corrects previous abuses." "I wonder what a 
judge would say about paying girls to eat?" the SMC president asks. 
The girls have responded to Father McGrath's legalisms with their 
own. They reply that "correcting previous abuses" is actually 
breaching a contract that had been in use for many years. Though 
the contract was verbal, Father McGrath, being a lawyer, is surely 
aware that a verbal agreement that is honored for a long period of 
time cannot be breached without the consent of both parties. It is a 
legal contract "implied by fact." 
The staff students have been unified in their opposition to the 
changes, and intend to hold Father McGrath to his Christmas 
promise that the present staff students would be allowed to continue 
under the program without changes in the agreement. 
The present danger is that the SMC administration will resort to 
"divide and conquer" tactics. The girls have waited for four weeks 
for a contract settlement, and fear that the administration will wait 
until the summer when the girls are divided and unable to present a 
unified appeal. The prolongation of the problem is an unnecessary 
burden on the staff students. 
The last meeting of the SMC Board of Trustees considered the 
problem and recommend that McGrath meet with the girls to resolve 
the problem. The administators failed to contact the staff students, 
and one of the girls finally called a Trustee and was told of the 
decision by the Trustees. Last Friday's meeting resulted in a first 
step toward resolution of the conflict. 
There is no doubt that the financial problems of Saint Mary's 
present a great strain on Father McGrath and his assistants. Actions 
such as contract ultimatums,deceit, snickering between the 
administrators at meetings, dela.y tactics, etc. are the unfortunate 
product of Saint Mary's financial bind. There is no excuse for 
subjecting forty staff students to personal abuse, especially when 
one considers that working thirty hours a week in addition to class 
work makes life difficult enough to begin with. 
Editor: 
When anyone asks my opinion of Notre Dame students, I al­ways reply that each student is an individual and shouldn't be categorized; however, a few hours ago, several hundred indi­viduals from Notre Dame raided the St. Mary's dorms like wild animals. Ten Notre Dame "men" forced their way into my room and ransacked our drawers, steal­ing much of the contents. Some of my friends had sheets stolen from their beds. When doors were locked, a few "men" tried to enter rooms through the tran­soms. 
hope our after-midnight gentlemen-callers realized the image they were projecting on their University. Is Notre Dame asking the women of St. Mary's to form a community with a bunch of screaming immature thieves? St. Mary's women don't want to be associated with Notre Dame when we have to fear the invasion of privacy and stealing 

Letters 

of personal property by these more extreme crusaders feel "men." They have shown that a guilt for having plundered such large segment of the Notre Dame booty as sweaters, scarfs, student body is a mob of juve­jewelry, records and even nile delinquents. defenseless women, in addition Peace(?) please, to the acts of terrorism come Kathy mitted in a country like Holy Cross? Perhaps, the citizens of these imperialist powers have lost control or have lost sight of
Editor: 
their original goal. Maybe some
RE: A pantie raid at SMC, 26 
of these more radical pirates,

April, 1970 
who feign to be Christians, could 
Most of the Christian warriors 
enlist their service in an organi­

who began their crusade Sunday 
zation like the United States

evening to capture the holy gar­
Army??? Before the oppressed

ments from St. Mary's College 
foe rises in rebellion, maybe the 

women undoubtedly had good 
unnecessary booty of this savage 

intentions. A crusade does, how­
act of piracy can be returned. 

ever, sometimes produce avarice 
Dave Najar

and blood-thirstiness. Might it be 
354 Sorin

possible that some among the 
Associate Editors: Cli m-
Executive Editor: Dave 
trode, Ann Conway
Stauffer 
Features Editor: T.C. Treanor
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields
Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker 
Night Editor: Jim Graif
Campus Editor: Glen Corso 
Layout Design: Mary Chris
News Editor: Steve Hoffman 
Morrison
SMC News Editor: Jeanne 
Sweeney Headlines: Tom Law 
Layout: Tom Law, Susie Bury, Mary Chris Morrison, Jim Graif, Dave Bach, Terry Shields, Dave Lammers 
The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of THE OBSERVER are solely those of the authors and editors of THE OBSERVER and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty or stu­dent bodies. 
I 1\GE 5

THE OBSERVER 

A review by Mike Mooney 
The show: A Mashing success 
Discipline is destroyed, supcnor olhcershad and English Teacher in ignored, and regular Army typeshighschool who once lectured on "the thoroughly ridiculed. This unit would bethings the audience llrings with them" to the farthest thing from Doug MacArthur's. 

a play or a hook. For example, the Greek mind.
audience brought a pre-knowledge of the Oedipus cycle to the performance of Yet the mayhem doesn't help Gene Oedipus Rex. The Shakespearean 
McCarthy's cause either. Despite the audience brought a knowledge of English 
waves of groaning, bleeding, gory men history to King Richard the Third. Plays 
who regularly swamp the audience from and novels work within a context of 
the butcher-shop atmosphere of the 1udience "givens" in terms of 

operating room, it's surprisingly easy to fierknowledgc or pre-opinions. 
forget that those men arc casualties of In regard to M*A *S*IJ* the audience 
war and that this is not a surgery room in hrings the gamut of opinions about war· 
some Southern California hospital after a 

feelings intensified, of cours~, by the fact 
bad auto crash. lhat nearly all men in the audience have 
The opening shot is a view of an or, very shortly, will fight in some 
"V>~cuating helicopter brigning a wounded national conflict. Working on these 
1pre-formcd opinions, the makers of M*A *S*/1* play a fine joke on that 
"I quit smoking" 

audience. Those audience opinions today arc hccoming, thanks to Vietnam, more 
• • goes to pot

and more narrowed to pro-and anti-war ~cntimcnts, and M*A *S*/1 puckishly 
LO:\DON (UPI)-Actor Tony Curtis, satisfies neither camp. who often appears on television crusading 
As a member of a generation weaned against smoking cigarettes, was arrested on John Wayne killing the enemies of yesterday at London's Heath row airport America by the dozen, I know that this is and charged with the possession of no pro-war movie. There ·arc no heroes in marijuana. .<1-f*A *S*/1 . Yet as a student opposed to A spokesman for Scotland Yard said the war, I must also say that this is not an customs officials discovered the drug anti-war movie. The audience, myself when Curtis arrived yesterday afternoon. 
included, leaves the theater laughing over The 44 year-old actor was released on bail the antics of a few draft-included and was scheduled to appear in court this surgeons, not condemning the world of morning. bloody slaughter in which those antics The Scotland Yard spokesman declined take place. to say how much marijuana was 
It's neither anti-or pro-war because' confiscated or where it was allegedly 
for the staff of doctors at the Mobile hidden. Army Surgical Hospital, the war-this Curtis, who was president of an "I Quit time the Korean "police action"-is at Smoking Club" in the United States, least three miles away; for the audiehce. spoke in London last year on the "perils the cont11ct IS even more distant. of the weed." 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Easy Writer :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:::;. 
How to Score with a St. Mary's girl 
by Pete Peterso_n 

People often say to me "Pete, yQu'rc such a stud. How do you do it, you devil?" In this space, I will tell all my secrets, so that you too can be a hell of a stud. PART 1: THE INTRODUCTION 
The trickiest part of getting a Saint Mary's girl of your very own to fondle and take to· the Huddle is meeting her. Now, we can start with a few basic assumptions. First, you are very cool-after all, you were a varsity letterman and made All-state, right'! Not to mention being class president, Boy's State delegate and diocesesan president of the CYO! From that we can make our second assumption, that is, that the Typical Saint Mary's Girl has no taste, right? So, i f you are going to Score a Biggie, we're going to have to make sure you make a first impression that will put 
you in good shape. 
Where to meet the girl: There arc several good places to make your first contact. The Huddle and the Library are but two. But let's face it, the best place is Saint Mary's itself. The best way to meet the girls is to go over to Saint Mary's on a weekend night with three or four of your friends and walk around until you run into a girl. It is important to appear relaxed, so it is best to have a few drinks before you go over. It might be a good idea to bring a bottle or two in case you are over then: longer than expected. Once you get there, don't waste a Jot of time in places where the hunting doesn't look too good. Move around a lot, wander between halls and other buildings; you never know where an opportunity may be waiting for you. 
What to wear: It is important that you look your most impressive. The girl should be reminded that you arc from the University of Notre Dame so that she will build up a relationship in her mind between you and the football team. The Bookstore carries a fine line of clothing especially geared to bring this about. A pseudo-jock jacket may be purchased which has leather sleeves and the letters "NOTRE DAME" on the back. For an additional charge, you may purchase various emblems, and even have you name stitched on the front. Topped off by an ND wool cap and a blue and gold scarf, you will be the epitome of the Cool Young Stud. Sort of an Irish Joe Buck. · 
The meeting: Obviously, you can't just walk up to the girl and say something stupid like "Hi. Lousy weather, huh?" You have to make The Big Impression. Your introduction has to say to the girl "Hey, this guy is really something!" You have to have a "Grabber" of a first line, something to really spark her interest. A few examples: 
I. What's happening, baby? 

2. 
Hey, whcre's the action around here, sweetheart? 

3. 
Hey, where arc you going? 



4. Are you a Freshman? Once you have delivered your Opening Line, you must then proceed to keep the impetus of your Big Impression. Small Talk is important. Ask a few keen, 
penetrating questions to determine the girl's interests. In a subtle a way as possible, attempt to establish the girl's name, year, major, and hometown. Ask her if she likes Saint Mary's. Demonstrate your sense of humour and wit by keeping up a 
running patter with your companions. Flatter the girl a little, tell her she's not like' "the other g1rls", she's not stuck up like the "Typical Saint Mary's Girl." MOST IMPORTANT: Be sure you get her first and last name. This point cannot be over-emphasized. 
In my next column, I will show you how to use this information in "Obtaining a Date". 
infantryman into the hospital area, the Japan by two of the base's surgeons, 
soldier's bleeding arm dangling over the ostensibly to operate on a Congressman's 
edge of the stretcher. Against this shot son but actually to get in a round of golf. 
and the credits, the soundtrack is a 
Sandpipcr-esque rendition of a half­The bulk of the acting is carried 
serious song about suicide. Thsi scene is faultlessly by the surgical team of Elliot 
the tip-off to the entire movie-that no Gould, Tom Skerrit and Donald Suther­
one in "M* A *S*H" is going to present land. It's difficult, however, to leave any 
war as either entirely heroic or' entirely member of the cast out when one is 
abhorrent, only as wholly absurd. handing out plaudits for acting. From the 
The plot is a series of loosely nubile crew of nurses to the dentist who 
connected episodes in the daily life of the thinks he's turned into a fairy, the entire 
doctors and nurses in a surgical hospital cast gives a near-perfect performance. 
during the Korean War. Most of the If the viewer can keep it in the back of 
segments come off well, one or two 1 his mind that this is more than a service 
especially so. The decline and fall fo a comedy but a story of an army at war, he 
regular Army nurse and a Biblc-totin•, will be quickly rewarded by M*A*S*ll*'s 
hypocritical surgeon, the moans of their black humor. But whether or not he I 
love-making piped through the base ovc1 forgets, as he most likely will, that this is 
the PA system, 1s the best bit in the a "war story," he will certainly appreciate 
movie. Perhaps the only "weak" scene is 
M*A *S*II* as one of the most brilliant a bewilderingly unnecessarily trip to comedies in recent years. 


Ginger Baker 
comes to USA 
GINGER BAKER will bring his "occa­Among the Air Force members are 
sional" AIR FORCE band to the United Rick Grech, formerly with Blind Faith 
States on an eight week concert tour and Denny Laine of Moody Blue's fame: 
beginning June 6 in Pittsburgh. Other Air Force's first single, "Man of 
dates include June 7, Madison Square Constant Sorrow" has just been released 
Garden in New York; June 12, Boston 
by Atlantic Records. The disc features Garden; June 14, Philadelphia; June 28, Denny Laine as lead vocalist and was Sacramento; July 3, Hollywood Bowl; 
arranged from a traditional tunc byand July 5, Oakland, California. 
Ginger Baker and Danny Laine. Baker who is an ex-Cream member and 
An album entitled 'Air Force" is most recently part of the enormously slated for release this week. Both the successful Blind Faith, will bring his 
single and the LP were recorded "live" at highly talented group to the United London's Royal Albert Hall. States following an extensive round of Additional dates for the tour will be appearances in England, Denmark, Fin­announced later this week. land, Sweden and France. 
Bain Blobbist festival 
Springtime at Notre Dame always by American International, the films brings out many unusual activities as well include the very popular "Blob" series as many old and beloved activities. One that horrified movie-goers throughout of the oldest, most beloved and most America between 1962 and 1964. unusual is the upcoming Reginald Bain Kelly claimed that all of Bain's films Film Festival. will be shown except for the "Masque of 
Financed by private donations raised the Yellow Moon." No prints of "Moon" by Michael Kelly, the festival will feature are available. Films in the Reginald Bain a series of old time raunchy horror films Film Festival will include: "The Green which were made in the early 60's by Room," "In the Arena " "The Blob " Notre Dame Speech and Drama Professor "The Return of the Blob', .. "The Bride ~f Reginald Bain. As a graduate student at the Blob," "I Was a Teenage Blob," and the University of Minnesota, Bain and his "Clown White," as well as a comic short fellow drama students began making the entitled "Reggie's Gang." films in order to raise money. Produced 

I enjoy being liberated, but... 
by A Victim 

I had a history test the next day. Trying to ignore the growing rumble of voices in the distance, I picked up my copy of War and Peace. I was at a crucial point of the story, when I realized the roar of voices was in the-dorm. Feminine squeals of delight mixed with the masculine rumble as the ND men surged down the hallway. Thinking that a closed door signified my desire for privacy, 1 continued studying. 
Suddenly, what to my wondering eyes did appear but ten fine specimens of masculinity clad in assorted female attire bursting into my room. I thought perhap~ it was a scavenger hunt and naively asked "What can I do for you?" The mob, with only my safety in mind, shoved me against the wall. The famous Jim Brogan, star reporter, gleefully stuck his head in my room asking "What's your reaction to the panty raid?" I peered over the crowd breathing heavily and said "I enjoy the company; this is the first time I've been close to a guy in a long time!!!" 
Chuckling  lasciviously,  he  clicked  his  
heels and disappeared.  
Meanwhile,  the  ravaging  crowd  had  

ransacked all my drawers. As they turned 
to leave, I smiled with all the Christian charity I could muster and said, "Do you want the dresser too?" They progressed to the next room and I heard happy shreiks of welcome from my neighbors. I peeled myself off the wall and joined the other excited girls. My ecstatic neighbor, exclaiming "THis is the best thing that's happened in a long time!!" proudly displayed her bruises acquired in the scuffle. I grabbed the nearest person dressed in a yellow nightgown to ask a question, only to discover that it was my blind date from last weekend. 
Just then I turned to see seven upstanding ND men emerge from the shower room carrying a maxi bathrobe. A feminine voice from the shower room screamed after them "Come back soon!" One Domer rushed by me in a floor length formal. I hope his date looks good in a tux. The onslaught, apparently satisfied, retreated carrying with them 16 record albums, I music box, a hell of a lot of underwear, and two of my friends. As the echoes of "Here Come the Irish", the roar of the bullhorn, and the aroma of Seagram's and sweat faded from the hall I stumbled over the carnage back into my room. I collapsed sighing, "God, there are some really fine boys over there." 
Come up and see me sometime, REDMAN -Sweet Mae 

Letters to Editor 
Respect and our clothes 

Editor: 
Afte'l-a very memorable panty raid last (Sunday) night, I feel I must compliment the perpetra­tors. The purpose of a panty raid 
· bl t · 
IS, presuma y, o acqurre cer­tain "articles of undress" from 
SMC girls. They are also, sup­posedly, exciting. Well, I must admit, this one was very ex­citing. 
Imagine the excitement of a girl who discovers that her vest sweater, a favorite blouse, and her entire jewelry collection mis­
s1'ng. Or of the g1'rl whose w1·n­dow is suddenly smashed by an 
..--~----------:----....,...,=-----------, 


Hair Styling· 
for ND men the Continental Way 
Razor Cutting c\ Style Eur~i>cau Layer Sha\lin&fJD: Ld~ 
H(lve Long Hatr & Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper You 
C_ontinental Hair Styling 
306 Sherland Bldg. 

South Bend, Ind. Student Rates 234-0811 By Appt. 
over-anxious raider, who pro­ceeds to help himself to a football jersey which her boy­friend just recently sent to her. Or of the girls who lost complete drawers of clothes. 
Many of the articles, although perhaps not worth much in money, had sentimental attach­ment, such as the scarf given to me by a b oy who died in 
Vietnam last spring or the many other borrowed memories. 
Some of the raiders did not confine themselves to looting, however, as the girl who was pulled down the hall by her hair can tell you. She managed to do what many of us wish we could. She slugged him. 
From our room alone, almost one hundred dollars in personal belongings was taken. It's not funny any longer. 
We're not asking for much, 

1------~---------------------'.--------------. 
They say she doesn't exist••• 
-Or does she??? 


A Good Woman in Setzuan 
"gentlemen." Just a little respect -and our clothes. 
Nakedly yours, 
Barb 4291 
Holy Cross Hall 
Rite of Spring 
Editor: 
I had a few sharp reactions to the "rite of spring" that oc­curred last night and thought I would share my thoughts with my fellow students. 
First, I find it all too much in the spirit of the Notre Dame man to obtain 'goodies" by force rather than by finesse. Second, for those men who don't have sisters or mothers or girl-friends, let them realize that the average "goodie" costs five times more than a pair of jockeys from Gilberts. I think we all know what records, radios, and other such items cost and anyone who took items of this sort, not to mention the "goodies", is nothing but a thief. Finally, most of the girls thought it was great fun until they started to total their losses, which brings me to my major point. Does one exhibit manhood by displaying one of the aforementioned "goodies", that he took by force, and then at the end of the year (only 31 days, men) throw it out because he can't take it home to Mom? Or does he show people that Notre Dame men aren't that bad by returning what wasn't his for a mere show of muscle? Some girls lost up to $75 worth of 
underwear. No small sum to anybody especially at the end of the year. 
So show a little guts, men.. Return your plunder. You never know, it may be the start of a "meaningful relationship." 
Bob Paver 
202 Dillon 
Sexism at Notre Dame Editor: As many as 2 out of 5 SMC students make considerable financial contributions toward their own education by financial aid, campus employment, bank loans and summer jobs. Yet some N.D. student insist on 

~-----------------------------------------L--------------,lumping such fucts under the 

Motorola invites graduating seniors to examine the many career opportunities with one of the world's largest and finest companies. 
Graduates in Electrical Engineering can choose from a wide variety of interesting and challenging positions at any one of the nine Motorola locations throughout the country. In _addition to working in the job of your choice, you'II receive an excellent start­ing salary and a full range of company benefits 
MOTOROLA INC. 4545 Augusta Blvd., Chicago, Ill. 60651 

@MOTOROLA@ 
an equal opportunity employer 
including profit sharing. 

And too, if you should decide on continuing your education on a part-time basis you'll be able to benefit from our tuition refund plan. 
If you're interested in a future at Motorola we'd like to talk to you. You can arrange an interview between now and graduation by writing Mr. Will Hausmann at the address below. 
Will Hausmann Professional Personnel Mgr. 
ageless generality that all SMC students have access to limitless monetary backing, when in reali­ty most of the vandalized girls are unable to replace stolen articles nor receive compensa­tion for the suffering and in­convenience caused in the panty raid of 4/27/70. 
Moose Krause must have found particular satisfaction in last night's spectacular of Viking Virility. Evidently the Convo falls short of exhausting student frustrations by channeling them into the basketball courts. 1 suggest that the sub-intelligent attitudes acquired by "the hun­dreds of sweating and excited men" are the result of the conscious repression by the present Notre Dame Adminis­tration. 

"Sexism at Notre Dame" and the teach-in Friday noon, main quad, should provide a-more detailed description of this en­tire distortion. I also urge that "Sexism at Notre Dame" be included with the traditional descriptive brochures sent to all prospective N.D. applicants. 
Beth Costello 454 Le Mans 
SMC Residents 

draft letter on panty raid 
Editor: 
We feel that after last night's incident. it is necessary for us to make a statement concerning the extensive property damage_ We 
· therefore make a plea to you, first of all, to return the articles taken either to the respective dorms or if you don't know where they came from, to the Lost and Found in the Reign­beaux of Le Mans HalL No questions will be asked. Second­ly, we feel this lack of considera­tion for both the property of the students and that of the college is totally disgusting and must be stopped_ We must add that not just the boys are to blame, but also some members of this community who have not yet learned respect for their fellow residents. The vandalism and personal abuse that was seen cannot be tolerated. 
The Hall Presidents of St. Mary's College 






Revive education 
(continued from page 1) present " as a professional class of university men and women do
tiOJi." 
we effectively bring to our times
"I am not suggesting the the wisdom, the insight, the
politization of the University," courage, and the moral judgment
Hesburgh said. I le asked the that should characterize ourcollege and university professors profession? 
Survey aims to 
"Those in the academy must be free to share their convictions

improve food 

and responsible conclusions with 
During the evening meal on their colleagues and students in Tuesday, April 28th, a survey their teaching and writing, with­will be distributed to the stu­out fear of reprisal," he said. dents in the North and South Dining Halls. This survey will list 
Congressman John Brademas 99 entrees. Each student will be 
(D-Ind.) commented in Washing­asked to rate the frequency with 
ton Sunday that "I can think of which he would like to sec each 
no educator in America who entree served. 
more richly deserves the honor It is hoped by the Food 
of the pretigious MeikeljohnService Director that the results 
Award than rather llesburgh of of this survey will help Notre 
Notre Dame. At a time when Dame Food Services provide 
academic freedom faces serious better service to the students. 
attack from eery side, Father llesburgh has distinguished him­self, and the university he so
UAC strives for growth of the arts 
capably leads as a champion of the freedom of the university (/'art 1l in a three part series grams out alone yet they are. anyone who is willing to experi­would like to point out that community against those who devoted to an appraisal of the necessary programs. All of the ment, to interact with other each student is confronted with would erode that freedom. Like position of the arts at Notre following plans are able to be artists and hopefully, to a "list" of priorities. The pro­Alexander Meiklejohn, Father Dame and an explanation of the implemented before the I .6 improve. grams outlined above can be Hesburgh represents as well as he Unil•ersity Arts Council.) million dollar drive to refurbish The Council hopes to pur­carried out only if people are defends the exemplar of the free 
The University Arts Council the Fieldhouse is completed. chase lighting and sound equip­willing to work on committees and educated man." 
has outlined a program designed Students have drawn up plans ment to accomodate campus and more importantly, to be­to upgrade the creative environ­for a temporary theater in the theatre and music groups. The come involved in the arts. I The Meiklejohn A ward was ment at Notre Dame and in­round in the old Fieldhouse. The UAC will again present a Stu­began this series by referring to presented by Professor Sanford crease student participation in, UAC also plans to publish a dent Arts Festival. This year's the need for a synthesis. It is to H. Kadish (Law -Berkeley), and appreciation of, the arts. monthly Student Literary Re­program was the largest in Notre provide an opportunity to Chairman of the Association's Chairman Rob Bartcletti has set view. This would offer students Dame's history and if student achieve that synthesis that the prestigious Academic Freedom up six committees to handle a chance to criticize literary interest and participation is large Arts Council seeks to create a and Tenure Committee before 
next year's activities. They arc works that are of a particular enough next year's festival will physical and intellectual center delegates of the 85,000 member Theater, Writers' Union, Cinema, interest to them. Hopefully, this be much larger. -a building and a spirit in the professors' organization. Art c;allery, Music and Student can include reviews of many My last article will deal with ND-SMC community. Exposure 
German undft'll'ound mm-maker, artist, and author, Jurgen Claus will preaent a multi-media event including four films and multiple projection of slides with diagram texts and collages this evening at 8:00 
p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. The above is an example of Herr Claus' work. 










Arts Festival. The Council is also contemporary pieces that are the economic priorities of the' to this synthesis can no longer 
Pre-Law Society Presents-Law Careers Night-focusing on "The Lawyer and Social Concern"­
exploring the possibility of not covered in the classroom. University and the position of be considered a "luxury": not 
having an open poetry reading, a Student Art Studios and a the arts in that list of priorities. by the administration, not by 
Four young lawyers from various fields discuss the practice of law, conscience, society and Its Ills. 
concert and a student film Student Art Gallery will also The popular belief is that priori­the Board of Trustees and, most 
festival this year. hopefully be constructed in the ties exist only for the adminis­importantly, not by students 
Wednesday, April 29, 8:00 PM, 
Engineering Auditorium-Refresh­
These programs arc contin­old Fieldhouse. Next year's fine tration and the board of dedicated to education rather 
ments served.
gent on funding and student arts requirement should stimu­trustees. Most students see the than training. 
interest. The core of the l!AC late increased interest in the arts. lack of creativity at Notre Dame ~-------------1---------------l cannot carry all of these pro-The studios will be open to and many disparage it verbally. I 

Career Girl Available Hojnacki bids for seat 1n state government 
WEALTHY YOUNG HEIRESS, VERY ATTRACTIVE, LONG GOLDEN BROWN HAIR, GREEN EYES, MEA­
William 1'. Hojnacki, a twenty 
SUREMENTS IN PERFECT PROPORTIONS, WELL EDU­
crats and the First District Dem­

seven year old Notre Dame grad­ocratic Club. 
CATED (ATTENDED LAST CHANGE). READY FOR
uate student, is running for Indi­
Hojnacki is married and in 

INTERVIEWS (AT MY PLACE NATURALLY). MUST
ana state representative on the 
1967 he was the Democratic

Democratic ticket from his 
PASS RIGID TESTS AND BRING GOOD CHARACTER
nominee for South Bend's First

home district of South.Bend. 
REFERENCES.
District Councilman. He lost the

Hojnacki, probably best 
election.

known among Notre Dame 
Contact Margo 
undergraduates for his work dur­ing the Kennedy and Brademas campaigns during 1968, is aim­ing for a victory in the May 5th 
The following cities have possible summer job 
primary. lie has been the only candi­date to issue position papers on 
openings in co-operation with the Federal Work/Study
pollution legislation and govern­mental reform claimed Pete Kelly, a Notre Dame student and 

Program 

supporter of llojnacki. 
llojnacki is a life-long student of South Bend where he attend­ed South Bend Central lligh School. lie received his under­
SYRACUSE, SAN FRANSISCO, BOSTON,
graduate degree from Michigan University. lie is a former assistant direct­
ATLANTA, INDIANAPOLIS, MINNEAPOLIS,
or of the South Bend Human Relations and Fair Employment Practices Commission. He is the president of the Young Demo-

DAYTON AND NEW YORK 
NO-SMG 


TYPISTS 
For information contact:
AND ''UNSKIL.L.ED L.ABOR" 
HAVE MONEY WILL PAY 
MIKE McCAFFERTY 
N.D. Student Union Publications 
URBAN STUDIES INSTITUTE
3 to 12 hours per week. 
Pick your own hours. 

103 MEMORIAL LIBRARY
Call: Scott Braley 283-1403 283-6637 

283-1112 
233-0842 283-6137 
PAGE 8 THE OBSERJJER. TUESDAY, APRIL 28,1970 
~~----------------------------~~~--~--------------------­








Lacrosse team edged by Spartans 

though, and overcame this defi­

by Sttv e O'Connor backup teammates on defense Observer Sportswriter cit to lead by three in the 4th that cost the Irish. These lapses 
quarter before bowing in the 

allowed MSU attackers to drive 
closing minutes to -a powerful, in on goal for deadly close in The ND Lacrosse Club ran the consistent MSU attack. The Irish 
shots. season record to 5-2 by split­suffered a serious setback in the 
Outstanding for the Irish on 
ting in two matches over the first period when the referee, offense was junior attackman weekend. They lost Saturday to overreacting to a shoving match, Ken, who continued his hot Michigan State's Varsity 9-8 threw the Irish goalie Jerry 
scoring pace by scoring four 
but bounced back on Sunday to Kammer out of the game with a and on two
goals assisting

whip the Defiance College Club fighting penalty. 
others. He accompanied these 7-4. ND blew their three goal lead 
points with his characteristic 
In Saturday's game ND got to an MSU squad that capi­
hustle and heart to cap a fine off to a poor start by giving up talized on their mistakes to score 
overall performance. Helping out two goals in the first two five fourth period goals. In 
Ken on offense were Capt. Tim minutes. They soon came to life general it was a failure to back 

McHugh, who added a goal and an assist, and Ed Hoban, Dave
. 

Jurusik, and Jim Lepley whoBoaters w1n twice each scored a goal. On Sunday, playing primarily 
Tha Notre Dame Soccer Club The second day's game was only their Freshmen and Sopho­started its spring season in fine nearly a carbon copy as defense mores Notre Dame defeated fashion over the weekend. The dominated the day's activity. Defiance College 7-4 in a Irish hooters defeated St. Nor­Tom Shriver was involved in the Midwest Lacrosse Club League bert's College twice. Both games scoring once again as he hit a contest. The Irish were in Iiad identical 1-0 scores. penalty kick squarely into the control throughout the entire 
The game played Saturday Green Knight's goal. contest and kept Defiance on afternoon was an overtime affair Tom Makielski matched Brie's defense by controlling the baU and neither team could muster performance of the previous day well. It was only a great much of an offensive. The and he was credited with the performance by the Defiance winning play came on a shot by shutout. goalie that kept the Irish from Gary Troy who was assisted by Both of these Irish victories running away with the score. In Tom--Shrlver. Maury Brie, the were registered in West DePere, the other net Jim Roller had an ND goalie notched the shutout. Wisconsin. easy time of it as the Defiance offense was not able to mount an offense against the Irish defenders and consequently got
Beard g•ves victory thanks 
off few shots. RANCHO LA COST A, Calif. Billy Casper, the Masters cham­Sophomore midfielder Gary (UPI) -Frank Beard looks like pion who had a 72. Riopko had two goals and one 
the nearest thing in creation to a "It looked like Beard was assist to lead the Irish scorers. golfing machine but a guy who playing a different course," Ed Hoban and Jerry Kammer goes off to the church to give Casper said. had two goals apiece and Vic thanks for winning $30,000 Casper had to sink a 30-foot Lupo had a goal and an assist to must have an emotional nature birdie putt on the final green to account for the other ND scores. under that hard exterior. get into the three-way tie for ND has a big match this Ed Hoban, sophomore attack man, scored three goals over the 
Beard, who will be 31 on May weekend against Bowling Green
second, worth $11,633. weekend in two games. Hoban, along with Kenny Lund, has been the 1, ran away from the field Arnold Palmer played strong, and this match will close out the •chief scoring threat for the ND stickmen this season. 
Sunday in the final round of the Home schedule at 2:00 Saturday
steady but unsensational golf all 72 hole, $150,000 Tournament on Stepan Center Field. 
the way, shooting

of Champions· when he shot a 
70-72-69-70-281, seven one under par 71 for a total of under par. That was good for 273, 15 under. 
fifth place and $7,400. "I knew I was ahead and I 
Three shots back of Palmer in shot for the middle of the 

Ruggers suffer first loss
sixth was the U.S. Open kinggreen," he said. Orville Moody with a final 70 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club
Beard's rounds were 

and a 284 total. He earned Bill Berry, Kenny Kern, and Sal also travel to Chicago to com­
suffered their initial defeat of

70-64-68-71-273-good for 
$6,400. Bommarito were unable to make pete in the Midwest Rugby
the spring season 9-6 against the

$30,000. Up until this tourna­Beard and his wife, Pat, who the trip to Iowa. Union Tournament on Saturday
University of Iowa this weekend. 

ment, he had won only $23,000 was on hand here, have three A try by Chuck Leggerio and and Sunday. The winner of this
The "A" team ruggers, who had

in 1970 although last year he youngsters and are expecting the conversion by John Zukaitis 16-team tournament is declared
just beaten Indiana, the Big Ten

was the leading pro with another. Old Moneybags and his . accounted for the scoring for the as the Midwest Champion, and
champion last weekend, did not

$175,000. 
wife went off to a Catholic '~B" team. The "B" team, now although the ruggers played
send their best team to Iowa
Seven strokes back at 280 Church near here after he got 3-0-1, will play the OxfQrd Rug­poorly at Iowa, they will be at

there was a three-way tie -City due to injuries. However,
through with post-tournament by Club in Chicago on Saturday. full strength and spirits this
the "B" team put together a fine

Tony Jacklin, the British Open ceremonies. The "A" team Irish ruggers weekend in the Windy City. 
defensive performance as they

king only two shots back after Beard will take the week off and 
shutout Iowa's "B" team 5-0.

three rounds who skied to a final go home to Louisville, Ky. He 
The "A" team ruggers, whose

76; defending champion Gary plans to attei!_d the Kentucky 
MAJOR LEAGUES
record now stands at 4-1-1, scor­

Player, who tookd a 71, · and Derby -his first. 
ed on a try by senior Paul 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE
•ns Rogers and a penalty kick by

Crew, sailors post W' senior captain Mike Paterni. 
East Both Mike Morrison and Charley w L Pet. GB East 
w L Pet. GB

Although the varsity had no sailing final at Iowa City, Iowa. 
Blum played well in the serum Chicago 12 3 .800 
Baltimore 11 5 .688

opponent and thus was unable The Irish were the favored team 
for the Irish, but the Jack of St. Louis 9 5 .643 2'h Detroit 10 5 .667 'h to race, the JV and third string in this regatta and they showe; Pittsburgh 10 7 .588 3
experience in the backfi(lld made *Washington 7 8 .467 3'h 
crews gained some experience by their superiority from the out­New York 8 8 .500 4%
it a disappointing day for the Boston 8 8 .500 3 defeating Culver Military Aca­set. *Philadelphia 8 8 .500 4Y:. New York 7 11 .389 5
rugby club. "A" team regulars

demy and Lincoln Park Boat There were five other schools *Montreal 3 .11 .214 8% Cleveland 6 9 .400 4'h
Gary Gleason, Bill Choquette,

Club of Chicago in races at St. entered besides ND. In order of 
Tom Hughes, Mark Rubinelli,

Joe River Saturday. their finish they were North­
West West
The JV's, led by coxswain western, Oshkosh State, Mar­
Seniors bept 

Cincinnati 14 6 .700 California 12 5 .706
Barbara Walker, overcame Culver quette, Iowa and Wisconsin. 
. . *Los Angeles 8 8 .500 4 Minnesota 10 5 .667 1
The ND contingent included 

1500 meter race, to win by a seven men, while most schools Atlanta 7 11 .389 6 Kansas City 6 10 .375 5 length, 5:42 to 5:47. The crew stuck with only their best two Houston 7 12 .368 6% Chicago 6 10 .375 5 promptly celebrated its victory *San Diego 6 12 .333 7 *Milwaukee 5 11 .313 6 
in the final 200 meters of the tuntors m San Fran. 9 10 .474 4'h Oakland 8 9 .470 3 
representatives. The Irish took Poobah Bowls by dumping Miss Walker in the an early lead and this allowed It was all the graduating river. them to utilize the high number seniors in the weekend's "Big 
*night game not included 

The third boats were even for of sailors. Games." The old poobahs beat 
Cleveland 5 Minnesota 1

half a mile, but ND pulled ahead Those who appeared in the the new BMOC's in both basket­
Chicago 1 Pittsburgh 0 Boston 4 Oakland 3 

and won by five lengths, timing regatta for ND were Commodore ball (80-64) and touch football 
Philadelphia at Los Angeles, night Washington 3 Milwaukee 3, 9th inn.
Chuck Taylor, Rich Doyle,

5:56 to Lincoln Park's 6:13. (42-14). A baseball game Montreal at San Francisco, night This week, the varsity and the Kevin Hoyt, Tim Flood, Mike planned for Saturday was post­JV crews will enter the Mid­Mischek, Will Donelan and Pat poned. 
America championships at Mari­Leonardo. The title of these events was etta, Ohio, and a strong showing The Irish will now appear in the Corby St. Striders Athletic is expected. the Midwest team race final at Assodation's Anti-Tostal Week­Ohio Wesleyan (Delaware, end Sports Spectacular. One of 
The Sailing Club had a very Ohio). Two weeks hence they the losers, when asked for successful weekend as they cap­will sail in the Midwest regular comment simply replied "Wait tured the Midwest first round finals at Indiana. till next year!" 






