-----------------~-~--­


VOL. IV, NO. 88 
Prof. Nutting
Thrasher opposes SG 
Krashna seeks forum
elaborates on 


as legislative council
handling of racism 
Free City idea 
program, according to Thrasher, would be more effective for it would influence not only the actual students involved, but also the people with whom these students are in contact in their daily lives. In order to do this, Thrasher says, the money now intended for monirity recruit­ment, plus additional funds, would be used. 
Referring to "Students Against Racism", Thrasher de­fined the basic idea as a "good 
incidents to drift into prolonged, unsolved disturbances." In order to alleviate this problem, accord­ing to Thrasher, Student Govern­


ment should have been acting as 

Tom Thrasher an "impartial mediator" between the opposing factions. 
and desirable" one, but said that the approach of the. anti-racism 

• One example that Thrasher committee has angered and dis­specifically mentioned was the illusioned many people. He con­concentration of blacks in sec­tends that the organization tions of Alumni and Dillon · could be restructured, with Halls. lie believes it was wrong emphasis on a more personal for Student Government to level of approach with the "armtwist" the Hall govern­Student Body. Thrasher con­ments into doing this, for it tended that this would be a slow succeeded in fragmenting stu­process, because "you don't dentsupport. legislate anti-racism; you cannot 
Thrasher stated that it would change bias with laws." Accord­be just as wrong now to ing to Thrasher this approach "armtwist" the Hall govern­should be natural and gradual, 
ments to abolish them, for it and it should be extended to would create · more bitterness reach persons of all back­and disillusionment among the grounds, colors, and religious students involved. beliefs. In this way, Thrasher 
Thrasher suggested bringing stated, all of the students of disadvantaged monorities to Notre Dame would come closer Notre Dame· instead of sending to a community atmosphere. individuals to different high Thrashere observed that he schools. In this way, they could has seen the student Senate at its ',experience in a more honest lowest ebb within the past two way" the life of a Notre Dame years, but emphasized that the student. Thus, the recruitment (con tinuecf on page 7) 
Cusick and Way seek Christian communityby Mary Kay Davey Carol Cusick and Susie Way, conltmted with their immediate SMC candidates for SBP and environment. SBVP, presented their views on In the area of academic campaign issues in Regina Hall reform, Carol and Susie hope to last night. expand the pass-fail system to The basic premise of their include requirement courses. An platform involves working all college major providing for towards the ideal of the evolu­"broader individual selection of tion of a true Christian commu­courses" was also proposed. nity at SMC. Carol stressed the An educational program on need for dialogue between stu­racism is a specific academic dents, faculty and administra­endeavor Carol and Sue feel tion and hopefully transcending would be beneficial. The candi­purely rational discussion based dates also discussed the possibi­on purely rational principles. lities of furthering the move­She feels this often hinders crea­ment for experimental colleges tivity. which would attempt the esta b­Carol stated, "Students lishment of a true Christian aca­shouldn't have to be given free­demic community. dom to regulate their lives." She Concerning the question of thought personal freedom co-education, they feel "coedu­should flow from a "mutual cation in the classrooms and trust" between all members of living areas is a natural environ­the college community. ment that stimulates awareness The candidates emphasized and thought." They feel the the need for hall autonomy. "It co-exchange program is evolving is essential for a community towards this type of a more atmosphere within the entire 
(continued on page 3)
college" that the students feel 
by Steve Hoffman and Mark Day Student Body President candi­date Tom Thrasher charged that Student Goernment had failed in dealing with racial tensions on campus this year "by allowing isolated incidents to drift into prolonged unsolved problems." His statements were made in campaign appearances in Cree and Bren Phillips last night. lie also promised to work to trans­form the Senate into an active, positive force within Student Government. 
Thrasher was questioned at length on the problem of racial tensions on campus, and the racial issue in general. According to the candidate, Student Government failed on this issue, in that it has "allowed isolated 
by Steve Lazar 

"I think we've really got to face the fact that perhaps the 'great University' is obsolete; it's trying to do so much that perhaps it can't do anything very well including teaching." Professor Willis D. Nutting, once referred to by one of his colleagues as a "prophet," addressed these words to a full audience last night in the Memorial Lirary A~ditorium. 
Prfessor Nutting, who cur­rently is the object of a student­faculty campaign to make him 
President of Nore Dame, spoke last night of his theory of education which he called ,'The Free City." 

The Free Ciy, a community of teacing and learning, he said, would be a place where the incentives would not be grades, but "the love of the community of life," a place where teachers 
ents. 
"I call it a Fre City because it' free in the sense that as many opportunities as possible are there. AI the ways of coming to know in this com­munity would be offered to the student, and the student himself would be free to choose the one~ 
(continued on page 2) 


Peterson -Baruth seek unification in hall autonomy 
by Rick Smith Calling themselves the "candi­dates of the general students" and disclaiming any ties to poli­tical machines or factions, Pete 
Peterson  and  Rory  Baruth  are  
basing  their  campaign  on  the  
issue of campus unity.  

One of the ways in which Peterson hopes to achieve unity would be through a referendum involving numerous issues of im­port in the fields of academic reform, studnet life and services, and student government. 
The referendum would be fol­lowed by a studnet assembly, similar to that held by student body President Chris Murphy three years ago. The assembly, which would be open to all the students and would probably last several days, would mainly concern itself with those issues which were voted on in the referendum. 
After the student assembly, there would be a second and final referendum to decide the various issues. 
Peterson said he hoped that through the referendums and the 
(continued on page 3) 

Pete Peterson 

by Bill Carter Student Body Presidential Candidate Dave Krashna pro­posed last night that the Student Senate be abolished and that it be replaced with a new body called the Student Fomm. The Forum according to Krashna would be "hall based" and would consist of Hall Presi­dent and Off-Campus represent­·atives who would serve as a new legislature arm to translate the· demands of the hall residents 
would be "older brothers," rum regulations, nobody walking where students would become out or anything like that. The the teachers and teachers stud­forum would be open to the 

Winingfi explained that the re­structuring of student govern­ment was an essential change if the voice of the student body was to become more effective. 
"There's just too much red tape involved now," Winings said. "We don't need any more political games with one person having more power than a­nother. We have to do away with this petty stuff. We are out to change the whole atmosphere, to get the halls intimately involved in government so that ideas can really get somewhere." 
Krashna and Winings see their Forum as holding meetings once or twice a week in different halls. "Ideally we'd like this to be as informal as possible," Winings added. "We don't want to see things get bogged down in parliamentary procedures all the time; so there could be these informal sessions with no quo­
entire University so the students Dave Krashna 
could confront the people that into action. are supposed to be leading One of the basic premises them." 
from which they have launched Krashna and Winings list of their candidacy for SBP-SBVP priorities also includes advo­is the feeling that some of the cating morerepresentation on. most fundamental structures of the SLC for students and re­student government have to be moval of the Board of Trustees' completely reformed so that the absolute veto over the actions of bureaucratic mass of confusion the SLC. As they see it, the that surrounds student govern­atmosphere of the SLC is much 
ment can be eliminated and re­too polarized to accomplish the placed with a ne}V system that things that are important to the will function in the best interests students. of the student in the university. "There are a number of other 
Krashna pointed out that the 

things we feel we should concen­Student Senate could no longer trate on," Winings said. "We are work for the students. "The calling for a vast minority re­Student Senate has become cruitment program to break 
non-functional because the SLC 
down the racial tension on the has really taken over its role," campus. We feel co-education is Krashna said. "And we believe 
an absolute must and we have 
government should be in the definite plans for immediate 
halls. The Student Forum, as we 
change in that area. That has to see it, would coordinate hall come, we have to have that kind activities with overall campus of a change in atmosphere a­activities. Student government. round here." would exist in the halls where it "We are interested in aca­belongs." (continued on page 2) 

Tracey-Gorman stress more hall council power 
by Anne Therese Darin 
dorm with the possibility of hall Speakmg to McCandless Hall 
judicial boards and a greaterresidents last night SMC-SBP 
number of elected offices on hall candidate Ann Marie Tracey and 
boards." SBVP candidate Jean Gorman 
In order to achieve a more advocated bringing student effective hall government, Ann government to individual stu­
Marie and Jean, as senators on dents "so that each student has a 
the student affairs council suc­voice in what's being done." 
cessfully instigated a proposal To accomplish this objective, 
conferring student assembly Ann Marie and Jean proposed senatorial status for hall presi that: dents. 
+ 
Hall councils be given While in the Senate, they also greater power ("so that they can successfully slightly restructured function as a community within hall government and introduced a community and that a person legislation to abolish curfew for has a greater responsibility in second-semester freshmen. it"); + policy statements in Echoing the ideas of Junior departmental mergers; Class President, Karen Schulz, 

+ 
plans for concentrated campaigning with them for a areas of study on either cam­seat on the student affairs coun­puses such as education, political cil, Carol stated, "We would like science, and fine arts; and to improve the situation of 

+ 
clarification of residency juniors some of whom have no situations (on or off SMC's cam­set policy in their major's pus). requirements." 


they would primarily First SMC senators to propose · emphasize "an effective 
(continued on page 2)
operating hall council in each 
,~ 
THURSDAY, MARCH 5•, 1970
I PAGE 2 THE OBSERrJBl. 
I 



Volunteers remodel school 
"Beautiful," was the reply of 
Sister M. Marita last Saturday afternoon when she was asked what she thought of the work some. thirty-five Notre Dame-St. Mary's students, faculty members, and Holy Cross nurses were voluntarily doing to reno­vate her school. 
The job is not an easy one. It includes scrubbin'', scraping and repainting of walls and ceilings, cleaning of light fixtures and windows, and floor sanding and varnishing -all of which have been neglected for over ten years. 
All of this is taking place on 
the second floor of the old Saint 

Stephen's grade school at 1024 
Thomas St. in the heart of South 
Bend's own ghetto. Sister 
Marita's free non-denomina­
tiona! Primary Day School is a 
minor miracle to many people. 
Sister solicited door-to-door for 

her entirely black enrollment of 
first and second graders. All of 
the seventy students in the 
school have not been able to 
keep up with the public school 
instruction in South Bend. 
Sister and her three assistants 
(among whom is Don Hynes, Notre Dame graduate of last year and columnist for the Ob­server) have had great success in teaching these students to read and preparing them to re­enter the public school system after the primary grades are completed at Sister's school. Most all of Sister's pupils excel when they return to the public schools, and many of them can read ten times the average vocabulary for their age. 
The most difficult problem facing Sister's school is the lack of money. Sister literally begs food from anywhere so that she is able to give the children some lunch every day. Most all of them come to school without breakfast. The important thing is that they all want to come to school. There is no truancy or vandalism. Sister's students really want to learn. 
Because students and teachers nearly everywhere seem to suffer from lack of funds, the students who are volunteering to help Sister are giving their time and 

Tracy states academi~ _refo~m~ 
. 
(contznued from page 1) 
a joint student union with Notre Dame, they also advocate activa-

STARTS TOMORROW 
From the countrythat gave you, "I A WOMAN," "INGA" and "lAM CURIOUS 
Daily -6:15-7:50-9:30 Sun. -cont. from 1:00 

hard work, not their money. 
"Now it is our school," was Sister's thanks to those who helped here school this past weekend. If you would like to make the school yours too, you can help us this weekend. Cars will leave the Circle at 7:00 Friday night and again on Satur­day at 12:30. Anyone who was there last Friday night will testi­fy to the great time and hard work that everyone had. For more information about the school or the project call 1626 anytime. 

Nutting calls University 'obsolete' 
(continued from page 1) 'that suit him best. lt'sa city 
because it'sa political thing, not 
a dictated thing. People work 
together, think together, argue 
together and discuss together 
what will be done," h said 
Of the present American 
educational system Nuting said: 
"We're the only people on the 
tion of committees studying the feasibility of co-education and expansion of the co-exchange program. Having served two years on student affairs council, Ann Marie feels that she and Carol Cusick, her contender, differ in orientation. "1 want to devote myself to practical problems," she explain­ed, "that can completely disrupt student life. These should be taken care of before interna­tional and social issues are de­bated." "Regarding academic reform, 1 believe that we shouldn't lower 

NOTRE DAME CLASS RING Yellowgold, with faceted Ruby stone -Class I940. 
Please contact Notre Dame Book mtmmum acaderruc reqmre­
ments," she added. "Instead, I 
would stress greater recruitment 
by professors and students to 
better integrate SMC racially, 
socially, and culturally." 
She also advocates greater 
research into available 
scholarships and feasibility stu­
dies for summer college sessions 
to prepare incoming freshmen. 
With one year's experience as 
both Holy Cross Hall representa­
tive and student affairs represen­
tative, Jean suggests expansion 
of health facilities (full-time 
doctor on campus) and admit­
tance of SMC undergrads to the 
Rockne Memorial for swimming. 
Questioned on the future of 
SMC, Tracey responded, "That's 
exactly the problem, no one 
knows what is in store for SMC 
in the next few years, which is 
responsible for a large measure 
of student discontent." 
"It's as much the student's. 
fault as the administration's," 
she continued. There should be 
definite organized research and 
proposals by students-as well as 
by the administrators of St. 
Mary's College -indicating exact­
ly what we want done." 
Coordinated by Jane Sheehy, Louise McGrath, Judy Lammers, ·and Dianne Derfler, Regina Hall president, both Ann Marie and Jean will speak tonight in LeMans Hall. 
face  of  the  earth  that  ever  
thought  of  such  a  horrible  
system."  He  cited  the  cu~ent  

dissent surrounding educatwnal institutions as a sign of its decadence. He noted that here at Notre Dame the dissent centered on three areas: the narrow way education is presented, the lack of power students have in determining the course of their won existence, and the alleged mral complacency of the of­ficial Notre Dame. 
Professor Nuting suggested a number of actions that would be taken to breach the gap between today's form of education and tThe FreeCity. 
A first, and most important hurdle would be to "establish a natural community; that is, a feeling of oneness." Hefelt that the most essential way to do this would be to get rid of the student-teacher hostility and develop a "w" feeling rather than a "w-they" sruggle. "This," h said, "would require a lot of love." 
A second way to build the road to The Free City, Nuting said would be to abolish the cou;se-grade system. Acording to Nutting, the present system reveals"n bearing on the real state of a person's mind." He said a person could be rejected for a position because he had received a low grade in a subject, even though later reading may have made him an expert in that field. Th system should be replaced, he thoght, by a method where a person would get academic credit for know­ledge gathered from any source, whether it be outside reading, or even just lestening to lec­tures. He proposed that in The Free City a student wouldn't suffer trying to complete work for five teachers at the same time. In[The Free City, he said, the student would be responsible to only one teacher at a time. 
As a last measure, the student in the new community of learning would have a real voice in the actions of that com­munity, he said. 
Speaking of Notre Dame, as he did very often in his address, Nutting thought that the Unver­sity might "exeriment boldly" in the field of education. H said that in the recent past Nore Dame has worked very had to catch up to the "big-time" universities like Havard and Princeton. This "keep up with the Joeses" aproach, he sug­gested, is no longer practical. 
Nutting in closing reflected that, "with our past, with our history, with OUI tradition, quite possibly the Unversity of Notre Dame might take a new direction ... and might possibly be better." 

Krashna-Winings outline platfor-m 
him on a work-study basis 'in order to provide a means for
(con tin.ued from paJ;e 1) 
demic reform, of course, but we immediate solutions for studentalso want definite physical im­problems without the endlessprovements on campus. We'd streams of red tape."
like to see a new student center, Winings added that Commun­a more complete one where ity Relations was another areapeople could get together at any he and Krashna were very muchtime. One logical place to work interested in. He stated that they 

TO OUR ADVERTISERS: 
Deadlines for display ad­vertising is 48 hours prior to the date of publica­tion. 
Copy may be brought in any 
_________________ co-feature-------------------time up to 2:30 the day before publication.



:StfB<6TT<8 
on is the new Arts Center where 

advocated giving some sort of
the Arts people have already 

academic credit to those who
done so much themselves. We 

offer their time in working on
want to try to get more money 
community project.
in there to help them out." 

"Atmosphere is a really big
"Another idea we're working 

thing to us, we want to work to 
on is contacting Alumni and law 

make the atmosphere around
school people to set up some 

here comfortable for everybody
kind of legal aid system exclu­

to live in," Winings said. "We're
sively _f_or students and especially 

totally against the kind of phil­
for off-campus people. We are 

osophy that produces 15 minute
also pressing for the establish­

rules and racial tension and 
ment of a full time salaried 

things like that. We want to
office of Ombudsman with may­

emphasize the people in this
be 8 or I 0 student aides under 

university, strip away all the 
bureaucracy, change the at­titudes that are hurting this
' STARTS FRIDAY ~J(,usc JYt"stol.3"'-. 
place. We want to make student 
Cr<'ftsmen in Optics 

government mean something, 
• 
not just to the people in it, but
FOR THE FINEST EYEGL~SSES ,!\NO CONTACT LENf.ES -­

to all the students as indivi-
TilH SlfHRLAND BL[)G. 
The Observer is published daily
132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
during the college seme~ter llXcept
Central 2-1468 
vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. 

PEERUSSLY PORTRAYED IN APANOPLY OF COLOR 
co-feature 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
be purchased for $8 from the


'rMJliJU$e o} ViSiOJt3nc· 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame. Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 

MoNICA'S THING ? 
Ind•• 46556. Second class postage 
paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556.

Must show legal proof ofage and Notre Dame ID card 
.U£ OBSERUER. PAGE 3
--~T~H~U~R~S~D~A~Y~,~M~A~R~C~H~5~·21~97~0~-----------------------------------~·_.~4=-~====~~==~-------------------------------------------------­


White mob attacks South Carolina school bus 
condone and will not tolerate 
violence resulting from the law­
ful desegregation of schools any-
wh~:re," the vice presidt:nt said. 
A federal judge, meanwhile, issut:d a show cause order in connection with the violence, and President Nixon let it be known he is watching "that situ­ation closely." 
The order, issued by U.S. Dis­trict Judge Robert Martin, was directed at severi whites and ordered them to appear in court Monday at Columbia to show cause why they should not be enjoined from interfering with operation of Lamar schools. 
About I 50 screaming 
death." 
National Guard troops re­mained on alert Wednesday for any additional trouble in Lamar, but the day passed without incident. The federal govern­ment also reportedly was sending in additional U.S. mar­
shals. 
About ISO whites gathered at nearby Hartsville during the morning, but disspersed when Fred Stanley, leader of "freedom of choice" group, told them further violence would not solve the integration problem. Jeryl Best, another of the "freedoof choice"leaders and one of those 
ordered to appear in federal court, said Wednesday that al­though he was in the front line of the group of whites that marched on the school, he was not a leader of the violence. 
Best said he was trying to "keep down violence of any typ.e," and that he believed the troopers were correct in using tear gas and nightsticks to re­strain the mob. 
A.W. Stanley, president of the Darlington County Lamar branch of the National As­sociation for the Advancement of Colored People NAACP, cri­ticized the state troopers for not making arrests on the scene. Seal said the troopers had not done so because they were "ou­tnumbered" and because the in­tegration order "is a federal mat­

ter." 

Stanley urged Negro parents to keep their children out of Lamar schools until "we can get a guarantee from the federal government that they will. be protected." Classes were sus­pended Tuesday, and officials indicated it will be at least next week before any attempt is made to resume studies. 
:a~~~:~d~:~yo~!rt~~:~:~::'o~7Cusick and Way stress dialogue
buses arrived at Lamar High with 
(UP I) -State authorities dis­closed yesterday they have pic­tures of the white mob that attacked school buses bringing Negro students to formerly all white Lamar High School, and said arrests would be made. 
"The South Carolina attorney general's office is in the process of preparing charges," said Wayne Seal, Gov. Robert E. McNair's news secretary. 
"The warrants will be . . .based on the evidence which they have on hand -which is ample," Seal said. 
State Law Enforcement Division SLED agents took pic­tures of the mob at the height of the violence, it was learned, and reportedly worked through the night identifying those involved. 
Shortly after disclosure of the pictures, Vice President Spiro T. 
Agnew called reporters to his 
office in Washington and under­
scored that those responsible for 
the violence would be prose­
cuted. 
"Speaking for myself and for the cabinet committee which I chair, I want to make it clear that this administration does not 


Peterson seeks change
(continued from page 1) 
student assembly he could rally complete student backing behind the programs, thus giving him more power in dealing with the administration and the Board of Trustees. 
"I expect more authority ' after arriving at a consensus. This is realistic -more so than the other candidates' proposals." 
Another proposal advanced by Peterson is a plan whereby the sophomore year abroad pro­gram could be expanded to in-elude sending students to ghettoes,lndian reservations, and Appalachia. 
Under this expanded program, participating students could get credit in sociology, ecology • Black or Indian studies, and urban or rural problems. 
Peterson suggested that the program could be implemented through arangements with Vol­unteers in Service to America (VISTA) or the Headstart pro­gram. ' 
Taking off from the Sopho­more Literary Festival concept, Pt~terson proposed an "Issues Week" during which notable politicians and philosophers would be invited to speak on campus. 
Under the Peterson proposal, the week would be followed up with the publishing of a journal comprised of articles on and analyses of the various lectures. 
Peterson commented that he did not expect the immediate implementation or either the expanded sophomore year abroad program or of the "Issues Week" idea. 
Negro students. State troopers finally beat back the attacks with tear gas. 

"The ladies got in front of the bus and the driver stopped," said 16 year old Annie Burris, one of the Negro students. "We got down in the aisles and they were throwing bricks and bottles and beating on the bus with chains and stuff. I was scared to 
"These are not promises. They are proposals which will have to be discussed and worked out. I would want to talk with my former opponents and other students before going ahead." 
On the issue of co-education, Peterson has proposed an "all out effort to recruit women." 
In the same vein, Peterson said that "the shuttle bus is indicative of the administration's 
The administration imposes a cost 01, social interchange while intellectual interchange remains free. This is perverse and im­moral, more perverse and im­moral than anything that a man and woman could do together. It is pimping the students." 

Another Peterson proposal concerns the "N eed for a com­petent security force." In line with this proposal, Peterson calls for the removal of security chief Arthur Pears, terming him "in­competent and not respected by students or the administration." 
Concerning the administration of SBP Phil McKenna, Peterson said, "his main fault was in not maintaining contact with the student. He was too over­worked." 
To remedy this communica­tion gap, Peterson recommended that the SBP have more time to meet with the student on a personal basis. To bring about this change, Peterson proposed that the president be relieved of many "bureaucratic" duties and that he delegate some responsibi­lities. 
JOBS! JOBS! •nd more J08$f $~. ·dents, Tuchers. Shlteslde •nd IAtetj
Welcome Home, 
n.ttlon•l Jobs. Reci'Utlon.t! _,JObi. Vqr-round Jobs; Summer JObs. All ~UP8tlons •nd tredes. EnJoy • V8Cf-,: tlon while you urn. Hurry! The JMift
Easy N. 
Jobs •re hlken qrly. Wrlte1 "JOBS.. , 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1. LocH; C.llf. 95240 

STUDENT AUTO FINANCE PLAN 
No fhlyments for ninety days! New or used cars to qualified graduating seniors. Lower payments 
al'ailab/e f(Jr down paymecontact- first nts.  1/3 of contract with nominal For more exact information, JORDAN FORD 609 E. Jefferson  
Mishawaka, lnd ian a  
Phone 259-1981  

(continued from page 1) 
The candidates also expressed heterogeneous environment. the hope that physical education The candidates proposed that facilities such as a new gym, be a Coeducational Student Union improved upon. More recrea­
be built at SMC. The main goal tional facilities for the halls were also proposed. 

of such a union would be to '"fulfill student interests pro­Another practical proposalviding a place for student activi­was that of selling shuttle busties and cultural exchange," passes at the beginning of thestated Susie Way, SBVP candi­school yar to eliminate the in­date. 
convenience of constantly dig­This proposal provided the ging for the fare.
hope that the Union would be student _financed. The candidates Carol and Susie are stressing
stated this might be accom­the needs of the individual per­plished by selling bonds to the son as being the focus for the ND-SMC and South Bend com­munities. 
Carol Cusick stated she would Hair Styling the C-ontinental Way-.t.·uropean Layer also work towards the issuance Cut, Hair Coloring and Straightening-Specials for of a statement of student rights studeflts from the administration. This 
Our Motto: "Have long hair and be well
would include such things as 
groomed"
room privacy and confidential sign-out procedures. 

view of  women. There has been  
created  a  dichotomy  between  
women  students  and  women.  

For appointment ~II 234-0811 Carol and Susie feel "the ind­
Continental Hair Styling ividual must have the choice to 
306 Sherfand Bldg. live on or off campus. An off­
Comer Michigan-Jefferson campus housing program· could 
Certified Master Stylists The Baron and Miss Treva to 18rve and
also enhance the diversity of the 
pamper you
academic community." 




This "patch'' 
identifies the world's best beer drinkers! 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 

establishment of a real Christian community. 
"We hope to stimulate stu­dent interest and participation by opening to each student the channels of community govern­ment," stated the SMC candi­dates. 

711B OBSDHIEit THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1970
PAGE 4 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial Make your vote count 
Students from both campuses will be voting soon for the individuals that they wish to see lead their student government next year. It is our hope that all students will consier the alternatives seriously and select individualswho they feel can meet the problems that need to be faced with progressive solutions, and hard work, and dedication. 
More than ever the times call for student leaders who are informed and concerned about changes that need to be made in academics as well as in other sreas of student life. For the last five years student leaders at Notre Dame and St. Mary's have been pushing ardently for changes in the social environment and the living conditions on both campuses. Although these items are important we feel that it is time for student government to play a greater role in bringing about the needed changes in the quality of education on both campuses. 
The suggestions made for change offered to the Academic Affairs Council at Notre Dame under the present administration are meager to say the least. They deal merely with issues that are on the periphery. Calls were made for changes in the scheduling of classes and a radical change was made in the calendar year. Minor changes to say the least. Other proposals for change are merely broad platitudes which offer little in the way to the student. There is a call for further exploration of the possibility of expanding independent research and work study, and a partial revamping of the grading system to let students take one course pass fail out of his major. 
Such suggestions do little to attack the basic problems here. Definite programs should be worked on to provide immediate opportunities for independent work study. Pass -fail should be expanded much further to allow for more flexibility in the classroom and to encourage students to broaden their backgrounds outside of their fields without being pressured by the "grade mainia." 
What students on both campuses should look for are candidates who present sound proposals for enhancing the education experience on both campuses. A primary focus we feel should be on changes that can be made in the classroom environment. This does not mean, of course, that the total environment should be neglected. 
The Student Body Presidents who are elected would be individuals who are willing to work with their counterpart at the other school. As we make greater strides toward cooperation and co-education the Student Governments of both schools should begin to cooperate more on all issues. Working together they should push the administrations at both schools toward greater academic reform, greater expansion of the co-ex programs, and more cooperation and coordination between faculty and administrative efforts at both schools. 
Programs should be embarked upon which will encourage more informal contact between Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. At the same time efforts must be made to insure that changes made are in the best interests of St. Mary's as well as Notre Dame. 
At the same time, this year's leaders should be individuals who will work toward developing more responsibility on the part of individual students in the halls. They must present programs that will draw students into the decision making process. At the same time they must work to heal the divisions that have arisen between blacks and whites, the student and the university, and students and university officials. 
Shallow calls for community on both campuses will be of no avail if student leaders do not attempt to start first to bring students closer to their own student governments. Hall governments and personal contact should be emphasized. At the same time the student leadership must be willing to get to know the administrations of both schools on a personal level in hopes of avoiding the senseless antagonism that develops between students and administrations when issues go undealt with because of lack of communication. 
We ask students to vote intelligently -to make their vote count. Elect individuals who will represent you and your opinions. 
Bruce Rieck, Business Mgr. Bruce Barker, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso SMC News Editor: Prue Wear  Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode Headlines: Frank Weigand, Paul Colgan  The opin'ions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and col· umns of The Observer are solely the opinions of the authors and  
Associate Editors: Cliff Win-trade, Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeny  Layout: Susie Bury, Dan Shaw, Br. Patrick Carney  editors of The Observer and do not reflect the views of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, St. Mary's  
Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer  Ad Layout: Barb Duensing  College, their administrations, faculty, or student bodies.  
Photography Murphy  Editor:  Mike  Night Control: Scott Braley  

Draft protest 
Notre Dame: 

The following is a letter which I have recently mailed to my local draft board in Texas. I urge all who feel a personal distaste for the war in Vietnam, and all wars, to pursue a similar course of action. Within the next two weeks, the Notre Dame Mora­torium Committe will circulate a "We Won't go" petition in con­junction with a national move­ment to end the war, and later in April will hold a fast in protest of United States involvement in Southeast Asia. You will be faced, in a matter of months or years, with the decision of living or dying. I urge you to think about it. If you are interested in helping to circulate the petition. or if you just want to end this datnn war, contact: 
Tom Schoaf  1347  
Bill Wilka  1989  
Bill Walkup  3276  

Texas Local Board No. 216 Rm. 306 912 Commerce St. Dallas, Texas 75202 
Gentleman: 

At this point in my academic career, and in the formation of my life principles, I feel the ever increasing need to inform you that I can no longer condone the channeling of American youth in order to carry on war. As a pacifist and as one who believes in individualism and the brother­hood of all humanity, I must totally reject the principles of conscription and militarism which our country is following.. 
It must be difficult for men in your position to understand why someone like myself would choose a position that many consider foolish and idealistic. I would like to take this oppor­tunity to try to give you an idea of the thinking which has led me to such a position. 
The aspects of human life which make existence meaning­ful and fulfilling, are psycholog­ical, social, and stem from men's relationships with each other. Mere existence is empty and barren, but real joy can be de­rived in the development of lov­ing human relationships. Hence, I believe _that material things have no intrinsic worth, and bring no satisfaction except in a 

social context. Thus, I have come to believe that a man's first commitment must be to human values and not material things. Armies, wars, and vio­lence are the means of achieving material, not spiritual or human ends, and must be rejected. The weapons that one must use in the defense of freedom, or with which to build a better world, are the weapons that are com­mensurate with the ends that they are used to achieve. These are the weapons of truth, of love, of charity, of equality, and und-::rstanding. For this reason violence can never be successful in bringing about peace. 
The men who live their lives according to principle believe that they can most fully lend their support to the devl~lop­ment of peace and freedom by setting a living example of those qualities for their fellows. I know of no better way of ach­ieving peace than to live p'eace­ably with my fellow man. I know of no way of developing a better social climate than to treat all men with love and understanding. I know, in short, of no way to create a better world than to live better myself. 
Therefore, I must once again voice my opinion that all war is wrong and must be avo!ded: In a shor! two weeks, I will_ stgn a pubhc statement expressmg my 
refusal to accept the principles of conscription and militarism. At that time I will forward you a copy for inclusion in my file. Furthermore, along with this let­ter I am sending copies to Sena­tor John Tower of Texas, Presi­dent Nixon, and my parents. 
Thank you for your time. 
Most sincerely, 
John W. Walkup 41-216-50-681 


THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1970 
PAGE 5 
CAF to present Tommy Flanders Sunday 
Fifth-Dimension --a long way since the Versatiles 
by Pat Clinton Every now and then, when you follow the reviewer's trade, you run across some­one who knocks you out so hard there's 
not really much to say. Tommy Flanders is one of those people. He's coming Sunday. 
What constantly gets me is that no one has heard of Flanders, or at least damn few are admitting it. lie's been around for as long as Kooper or Katz or those people and is as good, but while we get deluged with new and unwanted Kooper records all the time, there's been one Flanders in five years. 
Flanders started recording with the old ·Blues Project four or five, maybe six years ago, I forget exactly when. I was on the folk/progressive folk thing at the time and was dozing "through a late night radio FM thing when bam there's this outra­geous blues on. Spoonful. Cafe Au go go. And I had never heard anything like it, hell there wasn't anything like it at the time. 
You ought to know by now, you're big people, that this stuff about the Beatles starting the prcgressive movement in Rock is fairly dubious truth-wise (as they say in the suburbs). Early progressive sprang almost intact out of the fok scene; there were good mus1c1ans hacking around and they needed more of an 
It was the middle 60's, the jet age, the time of vibrations, a special era of mean ingful, exciting and extremely cr·~ative music. It was the hour of the young who dictated the popular musical taste of the world. Into this atmosphere came a bright, powerful vibrant group and they added a new dimension to the 60's with a distinctive taste of the 70's. It was The Fifth Dimension. 
That was the period when groups came and went and musical moods changed 
mr=-.:::s:-.:».:?.~:;:::;;;;-~::;:;;::;;::;;::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::8:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::!~~ It was a precedent setting, historic 
!!!! Go F1sh 
=:=:  
~  
~  Southwest S-J,S H-2 D-Q,6 C-K,9  Northwest S-Q H-8,7 D-7 C-8,4  

cards (in order received): NE: K,IO,S,I0,4,9,A SW: Q,2,6,6,J,9,K SE: 3,9,J,4,A,3,5 NW: 7, 2,Q,8,7,4,8 
Today's Jesson will primarily deal with the correction of some common misconceptions concerning opening ven­tures and careless forays into the pond. For those Go Fish buffs who will be inclined to sneer and jeer at the explan­ation of such basic bricks of the game structure, I can only say that such fund­amentals can never become too familiar. I myself can recall many a crucial contest being lost because of a thoughtless first query or a left hand 30 degree draw rather than a right hand 40. 
For the casual Gofisher the obvious play for NE is to inquire as to whether SE has any ten's. The magnitude of error in this seemingly innocent gamble cannot be emph(jsized enough. According to the Caruthers Potippi system of successive distribution, another ten would not be due to appear until at least three addi­tional cards had been dealt. Were some­one playing the now-obsolete eight card version of Go Fish there would be a 26 I -I chance of another ten being dealt, but even then, the recipient could only be NW. 
To a student of the Potippi system, the logical alternative is to forple SW by courting his kings. Such a move has not only the offensive potential of pilfering one of the two additional kings which should be dealt by the 28th card (odds favoring success 20-3), but the extrinsic function of protecting NE's pair of ten's. Although this move by NE is successful quickly. But the first sound of the 5th Dimension, and the immediate recogni­tion and acceptance that followed, gave proof that they were of lasting quality. 
Their list of achievements soon became unprecedented, astonishing and unbeliev­able. The 5th Dimension became the group that breaks records and is distinc­tively honored. 
The 5th Dimension's thunder exploded with the recording of Jim Webb's compo­sition, "Up, Up and Away." It was not 

Tommy Flanders 
artistic challange than the hoots gave them. McGuinn, Dylan, the Mamas ·and Papas (not an artistic culmination, but a good thing commercially for the art as a whole), the Spoonful (some of Sebas­tian's best playing is still on folk sides, and he's back doing it). 

evening.I Their next recordings, "Magic Gar­den," and "Stoned Soul Picnic," movedby Dan Shaw ::=s them higher in the ascendency and then.
came "Aquarius"/"Let the Sun Shine 
Southeast Northeast :;:~ S S-K,9,5 H-A,9,3 H-10, 4 D-5,4 D-10 C-J,3 C-A  
according  to  the  random hands shown,  

there is a distinct possibility that NE would guess wrong. 
Insofar as one's initial speculation may be wrong, one must evaluate his upcom­ing excursion to the pond. Such evalua­tion is impossible, in fact ludicrous if one is playing in the company of the occas­sional player. The random placement of the pond is generally so erratic as to completely eliminate the use of intelli­gence in choosing a pond prospect. 
There are two basic modes of card displacement in the more sophisticated version of Go Fish: the left and right hand Sinkiewicz Swirl. this system, the brainchild of the late Snidely Sinkiewicz, consists of the distribution of the remain­ing cards in a tight figure eight, begun at the apex of the top loop. In the left hand Sinkiewicz Swirl, the process is accom­plished with the use of an initial clock­wise movement, while just the reverse is true of the RHSS. 
Now it becomes clear, even to the most inexperienced player, that NE's draw should lie somewhere between 25 and 30 degrees to the right of the apex of the eight in the LHSS condition (one must keep in mind that the apex of the eight will be directly opposite the dealer, in this case SE). 
Naturally, in the RHSS condition the draw will be between 25 and 30 degrees right of apex. In either instance the probability of success is a phenomenal one in seven. 
If one masters these techniques, it is only a matter of time until he accom­plishes the rare and pre:;ti~ious Grand Splash. 
The Blues Project was a key group in the history of recent rock, both for development of rock and audience educa­tion-their post-Flanders album Projec­tions along with Forever Changes by Love and High way 61 and Revolver are pro­bably the Four Albums. 
Anyhow, back to Flanders. The best way to picture what he sounds like if you haven't heard him is to think of Eric Anderson (not too hard though) and Tim Hardin (a little harder but still not too hard and raise the key a few notes) and what AI Kooper would sound like if he were any good. As a matter of fact Kooper has been trying to sing like Flanders for years, but he just can't hack 
the breaks. Flanders can push his voice into the most amazing falsettos there are. It doesn't come out like Frankie Vallee either; he keeps shifting in and out of it with unbelievable precision and at places and in ways you just wouldn't have thought of (check the chorus of Purple and Blue on his album). 
He's got an album out called Moon­stone. Buy it. Unfortunately you'll pro­bably have to order it special. No one carries it. I know. I've been looking for it in stores all year. It's the same thing as Van Morrison's Astral Weeks-a very good album that the critics like (Sing Out said 
only a smash single and album but a dramatic description of the group's accel­eration. It catapulted them into interna­tional stardom and its end result was: sales of close to a million records and four coveted Grammy Awards at the lOth annual presentations of the National Aca­demy of Recording Arts and Sciences for: 
Record of the Year, Best Performance by a Vocal Group, Best Contemporary Sin­gle, and Best Contemporary Group Per­formance. 
ln." Again it was a single and an album, and it isn't long before the single sells over two million copies and the album sales exceed one million dollars. The Grammy Awards for this year are yet to be announced. 

The 5th Dimension were discovered by their manager, Marc Gordon, when the group was called "The Versatiles." Gor­don was so impressed with their presence, versatility, and unique approach to pop Flanders sounded very Bostony. They don't quite know what it means, they say, but that's what he sounds like. They're right, you know) hut it won't sell because no one will buy it to find out what it's like. 
Well, I will tell you so you will know 
and can buy it securely. It is Bostony, 
country-y, slightly rocky (but not a 
whole lot) neat calm music sung by the 
best Boston country rock singer in the 
business (with the possible exception of 
Tom Rush who is the other one in the 
business). 
Flander's guitar is beautiful. Even the Mozart freaks admit it. He has stripped away everyting superficial from his play­ing so you end up hearing about five strums in your head for everyone he plays on the record. 
On the record he's accompanied by the absolute best of the old line folk/rock side men Dick Rosmini (he has a rela­tively new record of his own that I haven't heard) and Bruce Langhorne (he plays the twiddleyummm part of "Urge for Going" if you know that). 
It's a good record. He's a good per­former. He's going to be here Sunday. It only costs one crummy buck, and not even that if you have a CAF card. So go, dam mit. 
music he immediately signed them for person management and introduced them to the founder of Soul City Records, Johnny Rivers. It was Johnny who sug­gested they change their name and it was one of the group, Ron Townson, who recommended the name, "The 5th Di­mension," which was agreed upon unani­mously. 
The first release on Soul City was "Go Where You Wanna Go," which became their big hit, played by both popular and R&B disc jockeys, attesting to the musical versatility of the group and win­ning for them mass public acclaim. 
The greatness that is The 5th Dimen­sion is not only what is in the groove, but their professional, fresh, magnificent style, the distinctive showmanship they display in their theatre, supper club, concert and television appearances. 
The audiences are the young and old in age, but young in spirit and attitude. The 5th Dimension is introduced and there is an immediate cheering, whistling res­ponse. The group comes on stage brilliant in poise, dressed in specially tailored mod outfits which became a trend-setting idea for new groups of today. 
I 
DimensionThe Fifth 
THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1970

PAGE 6 
1718 O&rEilVM 


Letters to the Editor 
Broad based effort 
Editor: 
There is, of course, an immediate problem in a woman addressing herself to men on the subect of herself and her oppres­sions. The national women's lib­eration front addresses itself to womeR because the ends of liberation are, first, a trans­formation of consciousness and ·second a release from oppressive -institutions (those which dis­regard the individual). These ends will be realized through women first and then perhaps in 
a supportive way by men. 
Mr. Lammers' comment that 
"we don't know what's in it for 
us; if we did, we'd be all for it!" 
This has nothing to do with the 
question. We are not interested 
in male support. It is supplemen­
tary rather than essential to our 
cause. We have no desire for a 
reversed myth situation (as des­
_cribed by Mr. Lammers in a 
Congratulations 
From the Brothers of Chi Sigma Alpha fraternity of U. of Dayton for your NCAA bid to the Dayton Reglonals. We are organ­izing a dance for students from competing schools on March 7, 
9:00 PM to 1:00 AM, Flyers' Hanger on the main campus. Live band and beer. 
Admission $1.50 
dating context). We are inter­ested in a broad based effort to restructure or annihilate the pre­sent institutions. The movement for the liberation of women de­pends on a political ideology and vision (socialism as seen by Marx). 
Women are 51% of the popu­lation in this country. Their po­tential power as a political force is staggering. That force will not always be malleable for the ends of a male society. Those institu­tions that oppress women are the same institutions whicll de­fine the activity of our society at large, a homicidal and suicidal motion. 
The attitude that pervades Mr. Lammers' column is a patron­izing one. Such an attitude is predicated on a position of power, a presumption which will not always be the case. 
Kathy Cecil 
Murray chided 
Editor: 
Jim Murray's article "Shades of AI Brown" (Observer of March 3) captured quite accur­ately the fans' feelings about I. Laguna and the spectacular hiS­tory of · Panama AI, but the representation of the Republic of Panama was in very poor taste. 

OBSERVER BUFFS 
-We Need Your HelpTHE OBSERVER is in the process of completing its files and finds that it is missing some back issues. We would like to compile complete sets of Observers so we can have a permanent record of our history here in the office. We need the following. Can you help? 
Volume  I  1966~67  
N0.5  NO. 50 (March)  
N0.6  NO. 54  "  
N0.10  NO. 59  "  
NO. 12 (if we  printed that  NO. 67 (April)  
far) through the end of the  NO. 68 (April)  


If it was included as a joke, it was a bad one, and you're not supposed to write those down. If it was with serious intent, the only thing exhibited was a com­plete lack of culture. Maybe the last time Mr. Murray read or visited Panama (if ever) it was probably with Count DeLesseps in 1893, when the Suez engineer tried unsuccesfully to build a canal across our Isthmus. 
Mr. Murray, the next time you want to make a fool of yourself, don't bother to re­search your knowledge. Should you make a trip to Panama, you will be pleasantly surprised to discover less mosquitoes than in your backyard. So please, watch out for them next time you use your sandbox, Will you? 
Sincerely yours, 
George Richa 
251 Dillon 
P.S. Imael Laguna is the new world champion, again. 
Panamanians object 
Editor: 
In regard to Jim Murray's sports column "Shades of AI Brown" printed in the Observer on March 3, we find it our duty and responsibility as Pana­manians to call to your attention the fact that it was very dis­
respectful of the Observer's staff towards the Panamanian students at Notre Dame, to print such a deceiving article full of deliberate, misrepresented, utter­ly absurd and untruthful state­ments about our country, the 
Republic of Panama, 
We feel that you as a college student should have exercised better judgement in printing the article. 
We consider this an insult not only to us as Panamanians, but also to the Republic of Panama. 
Respectfully, 
Nelson Keiswetter 
Aquilino Boyd 
Murray's article has caused b~d feeling among the Panamanzan students here at Notre Dame and I offer my apologies for printing 
it. 
Mike Pavlin 
Sports Editor 

De gustibus 
Editor: 

I would like to respond to Mr. Overlan's views on the absurdity of the interest shown by stu­dents to athletics, here at Notre Dame. It is quite apparent that he has no interest in sports. So, 

who cares? I see that to be a rather poor reason for him to condemn the pride and excite­
ment  that  we  "rah-rahs" derive  
from  enthusiastically following  
the  football  and  basketball  

teams. I wonder if the thought that football and basketball might appeal to some people, in fact to most people, has ever occurred to him. If the enthusi­asm of the sports atmosphere around here interferes with Mr. Overlan 's ability to "think" and to "become more aware" so much, then why did he come here, better yet, why does he remain. I'm sure that he could find some other institution with a non-athletic atmosphere in which he could find a more productive way to exist. When a freshman said to me, "What did you do around here when the basketball team wasn't any good?" I answered "We cheered louder!" Wasn't that absurd. 
Charles Clark 
326 Keenan 

Alarming increase 
Editor: 

Thank you for expressing your interest in the false fire alarm problem here on campus. Being a member of the Notre Dame Fire Department, I thought• that you, and possibly all members of the student com­munity would be interested in some further facts. First, I would like to point out the degree to which the false alarm situation is growing. The year before I came to Notre Dame, the fire department made a total of 52 responses; one year later, in 196 7, 88 responses were made; last year this figure rose to 106 and already this year, the firgure is at 89. 
In each instance the increase does not represent an increase in fires, but rather, an increase of false alarms of malicious nature. How does our situation compare with that of other universities, one might ask? I have visited two university fire departments and spoken to the Chiefs in this regard. Purdue University Fire Department made 261 repsonses on a campus of 24,000 students and had only 4 false alarms. University of Illinois (Cham­paigne) Fire Dept. reports for 
WANTED: 
REFINED TRAVELING COMPANION Aller et Retour -Long Island Easter Holidays Contact: R.W. Fisher Box 176 
their campus of 26,000 students, they made 306 responses last year with only 11 false alarms (malicious)-there have been 14 malicious false alarms at Notre Dame since Jan. I, 1970! 
I feel that fire protection should be the concern of every student, especially in light of the fact that many of our older residence halls are constructed of non-fire resistive materials, and that fire in any of these hall could result in multiple fatal­ities. The fire at a Cornell Uni­versity dormatory a few years back, and a more recent fire at a college in Ohio, claiming 32 and II lives respectively, are good examples for students to express their concern and cooperation. This should start at the "section" level of hall govern­ment. Each section should check to make sure they have their fire hoses, and extinguishers in good order. This is the student's first line of defense against fire. 
Pulling a false alarm is a mis­

demeanor in the state of 
Indiana. However, the conse­
quences may be more serious 
than merely being "caught". 
Every time a fire box is pulled, 
as well as Notre Dame apparatus 
responding, the city of South 
Bend also furnishes a response to 
the alarm. With the traffic as it 
is, think of how possible it is for 
this equipment to become 
involved in an accident and may­
be kill innocent occupants in 
another automobile as well as 
firemen on the truck. 
Of course, the false alarm problem is more or lless nation­wide. In South Bend, the false alarm rate for fire boxes is in excess of 90%. How does our high false alarm rate affect our fire protection? Well until three years ago, an alarm transmitted by fire box brought the campus fire dept., as well as two pump­ers and one aerial ladder truck from town. In 1967, it became necessary to cut this back to only one pumper truck since the number of false alarms were on the rise. This year, the situation is worse. Under the present plan, only the campus fire dept. goes on the fire call. If, on arrival, an actual fire exists, thc~n a mutual aid from South Bend may be requested. It's quite evident that such an unnecessary delay for the arrival of additional help could be avoided if the false alarm situation were halted. 
My own personal appraisal of the situation, having volunteered service to the Chicago Fire Dept. on the south side, and the New York City Fire Dept. in Spanish-Harlem is that there is little excuse for a "ghetto prob­lem" such as this to exist at a university-especially ours. As a member of this community, I am concerned about its welfare. I therefore invite and urge any­one interested to visit our fire station any Saturday afternoon between I and 4 o'clock_ Our 
student-members would be happy to show you around and answer any questions. If a hose cabinet or fire extinguisher needs attention, dial 6595 (Mon.-Fri., 84), and we will be glad to remidy the problem. Believe it or not there are many people working to make Notre Dame a saf.e place to live at. We volunteer our time gladly; all we humbly request is your coopera­tion. 
Thank you, 
AI Kirchner 
Rescue Company No. 4 

Notre Dame Fin: Dept. 
THURSDAY,MARCH__5_,1_9_7o______________________________~~~~~~Cl==~~~~~~-----------------------­
Sn iegowski reports some progress 
by Floyd Kezele 
"Transforming the Forum from an idea to a fact has been rather difficult. But there is now some progress to report," ex­plained Professor Donald C. Sniegowski while discussing the recent activities of the Univer­sity Forum. 
Thus, Prof. Sniegowski an­nounced that after a discussion with various ex officio members of the Forum, the following Agenda Committee has been ap­pointed: Dr. Phillip J. Fac­cenda-Trustees and Admin­stration; Mr. Jerry Kearns 
Alumni; Mr. Joseph Kelly­Graduate Students; Michael Kelly-Undergraduate Students; and Sister Suzanne Kelly­Faculty. 
It was also revealed that the first University Forum would be held on Tuesday, March 17 and that Sister Suzanne Kelly and Joseph Kelly would act as coor­dinators for that meeting. 
Although Prof. Sniegowski a­greed that the "March 17 meet­ing would rush things" he ex­plained that this date and Satur-
Thrasher speaks on race relations at Grace, B-P 
(continued from page I) 
organization could be trans­f, :med into a vibrant, positive body. 
Opposing the notion of total abolition of the Senate, Thrasher remarked: "Student Govern­ment must work for a change in attitudes, rather than tinker with the structures themselves." 
To gain what he called a "basic attitudinal change" with­in the Senate, Thrasher called for a reassessment of the body's function. 
"The Senate could act as a very valuable research body for the SL<', wherein the Senate would forw;ml informative, detailed resolutions to the SLC, thereby eradicating much time­consuming indicision"' he com­mented. 
"By playing an integral role in the communittee structure of the SLC, and by allowing indivi­dual Senators to speak before the SLC, the senate can truly become an extension of st udnet opinion." 
Thrasher noted the impor­tance that the Senate plays in determining the Student Govern­ment budget. lie pointed this out as ;mother reason why the senate should continue to exist. 
"It is imperative that the Senate fulfill its budgetary obli­gation by riding herd on budget­ed groups, and issue a report at 1 he end of each year assessing the value and progress of each group," he stated. 
"The Senate must be willing to devote itself to a degree of difficult, thankless, unheralded research toward creating a more well-defined, ·coherent Student Govern men tstruct ure." 
In referring to the past pro­blems of Student Government, Thrasher said that it had been heavy in rhetoric with the students but not at all strong in dealing with the ~dministration. 
day, April 25 were the only the Agenda Committee are the dates when both Father 
following: the University and social responsibility; Notrellesburgh and Mr. Edmund A. 
Dame and its responsibilities toStephen of the Trustees would the minorities; admissions poli­be able to be in attendance. 
cies; coeducation; campus minis­He added that because of the try; and creative education. 
immediacy of the March I 7 In the discussion of thesemeeting, it would have to be topics, Prof. Sniegowski remark­rather limited in scope. How­ed, "these are quite general andever, he said that he envisions a inclusive, and some of these"full-blown, open-ended, public topics are presently being takenaffair,"at the April 25 meeting. 

up in other organizations in the
In a re Ia ted manner, 
University."
Sniegowski revealed that the A­Thus, he has asked for "anygenda Committee has already comments on these topicsheld one meeting and is planning and/or for

another one for March 9. The suggestions other 
topics." However, he stressedpurpose of these meetings has been to formulate topics of dis­that all such comments must reach either your respective re­
cussion which can be presented to the Forum and ultimately to presentatives on the Agenda the university community. Committee or Prof. Sniegowski, Among topics suggested by 
c/o the Notre Dame English De­partment by Monday, March 9. 
In his wrap-up of the accom­plishments of the Forum thus far, Prof. Sniegowski remarked that although the Forum is to be informal, it will take some time to establish itself as a general workable feature of the Univer­sity. 
PAGE 7 

BLOW YOURSELF UP 
TO POSTER SIZE 
. t. 2x3 f! $4.50 
· 
3x4 Ft. -$7.50 1112x2 ft.• $3.50 
Send any black and while or color p h o I o , polaroid print or magazine pnoto. A oreal Gift Ideo . . . A splendid . . . Ideal 
room decoration . . . tor parties. 
Poster mailed In sturdy lube. Your original returned unclamaved. Add SOc for postage and handling for EACH Item ordered. Send check, or M.O. (No 

PHOTO POSTER INC. . 23 St., N.Y. 10010 
St. Mary's SSO 
presents 
" SPLENDOR IN THE GRASS " with Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty 
tonight 7:00 & 9:30 Carroll Hall (SMC) 75 c 
-~---------------~­

711B OBSERfiEit THURSDAY, MARCH 5,1970
PAGE 8 
Ed Roiclfle 
Defining 'Lawful' Recruitment 
directly, as well as any additional shares
I quote from a story in the Feb. 9, Space does not permit a fu.rther elab-. tinction in my mind· between killing for 
1970 Observer concerning the University that it controlled. Other General Motors 
oration, but there are many other such God and country and murdering for the 
stockholders are now suing DuPont for
Forum: violations of existing laws by companies mob. AI Capone went to Mass every
"Fr. Hesburgh immediately disagreed. He damages incurred (through forced GM which recruit at Notre Dame. These Sunday.
purchases of DuPont paints, upholstery
said that the (Black) Panthers were an examples merely scratch the surface. One could also argue that these cor­
organization which is not breaking any materials, and other automotive supplies) 
Personally, I do not believe that these porations, unlike the Mafia, do more 
during the period of DuPont control."
law and would be allowed to recruit on companies should recruit here, legally good than harm, despite the fact that 
campus if they so desired. As an example (p30) clean or not. I also do not believe that the neither always operates within the "law". 
of an organization who would NOT be present system of law serves the people. If I was to make a subjective judgement
2) National Steel 

allowed to recruit, the president offered Most individuals who have ever tried to (how can one objectively weign mur­
the Mafia since they do BREAK THE "A. Federal grand jury in 1964 indicted 
sue a large company will tell you who the ders?), I would venture that all the 
LAW." (emphasis supplied) National, along with eight other steel 
law serves: it serves the system. However company propaganda about how much 
companies including the Great Lakes div­it is interesting to note that these cor-good they do for humanity is far out­
On the basis of his statements at the. ision of National, for fixing prices of porations do not even observe the weighed by the mute testimony of Forum, I think it is safe to assume that carbon steel during 1955-1961. The result minimal regulations set forth by the very thousands of dead Vietnamese, Amer­Father Hesburgh has in mind minimum of the conspiracy was higher prices for legal system which permits, no, guaran-icans, Laotians, Latin Americans, and criteria which organizations must meet in such consumer products as washing tees, their continued existence. These are others. Aside from the wars, just reflect a order to recruit at Notre Dame­machines, automobiles, and refrigerators. the same laws of which Father Hesburgh moment on the number of people who specifically, that they do not violate the When the case came to trial in July, 1965 spoke at the Forum meeting. The ques-die every year in auto accidents caused by law. This concern for the law seems to go the eight corporations pleaded no contest tion is why are these law-breaking corpor-defective cars, or by cars with an over­along quite nicely with the University's and were fined $50.000 each. (p22) ations still recruiting here? abundance of horsepower put in them to willingness to employ the injunction in In defense of his position Father enhance their value, and to make more order to preserve its narrow conception 3) Uniroyal (formerly U.S_ Rubber Hesburgh could claim that there is a money for the manufacturer. of "community". If it is true that organ­difference between the Mafia and these But to return to the original point, I izations which break the law are not "On December 9, 1965, U.S. Rubber corporations. But is there really? Both again ask Father Hesburgh: how is it that allowed to recruit at Notre Dame, then along with Goodyear and four other tire exist to make money, the Mafia just these "law breaking" organizations are we deserve explanatio-n to why and rubber compimies, plus three indi-operates a little farther outside the law. If allowed to recruit at Notre Dame? 
an as known violators of the law do recruit 
viduals, incurred a $204,500 fine on ~;me prefers to think of the law as There will be no answer, or if there is here. Here are a few excerpts from similar charges. The defendents pleaded guaranteeing justice to everyone, then one it will be sheer rhetoric accompanied "Misplacement at Notre Dame". (Check d neither operates inside that kind of law. by no action. Why? Because the Uni-
the booklet for documentation.) no contest to in ictments charging As to their brutal methods of operating, 1 
conspiracy to fix pn·ces for hydraulic versity being what it is-a corporation hoses. The U.S. Rubber and Goodyear see no difference between the killing and with an image and a bank account to 
1) DuPont fines amounted to $50,000 each. maiming of innocent people by the Mafia preserve, cannot afford to rock the boat. "In the course of its reorganization dur-The Justice Department filed suit ag-and the slaughter of innocent people by It is perfectly permissible to speak of ing the 1920s, DuPont acquired a 23% ainst U.S. Rubber in 1964 for violations · Honeywell bombs, Dow herbicides, or upholding the "law" in abstract terms, 
· Remington (a subsidiary of DuPont) b t h h t h th
share in General M otors stoc k ownershzp. of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, claiming u w en pus comes o s ove e In 1962, after a thirteen year effort by that the firm had conspired with retailers rifles. Simply because the corporations University will protect itself first, and the Justice Department's anti-trust div-since 1958 to fix the price of their 'Keds • are somewhat removed from the actual worry about other things, including ISlon, this convenient and profitable tennis shoes and that it had agreed to scene of slaughter does not relieve them of people, later. As a matter of fact so will corporate marriage was broken up. Chris-withhold supplies of the shoes from the responsibility. Consider the fact that any corporation, or even the U.S. Judicial tiana Securities Company, the family dealers who undersold the fixed price. On German munitions manufacturers were System. For some enlightening comments investment firm that owned 13,417,120 May 5, 1969, a Federal court in New sent to prison for "crimes under inter-on this kind of situation I recommend a shares ofDuPont stock, was forced to sell York found Uniroyal guilty as charged. national law" as set forth in the Treaty of reading of the Declaration of lndep­535,000 shares of GM stock it owned (p36) London. Finally, there is no real dis-endence. We sure have come a long way. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::~:=:~:~:::::::::::::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:;:~:;:;:~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~:;:;:;:;:;:;;;:;:~:~;:;:::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
St. Angelo vies for Democratic chairmanship 
indicated O'Brien wou!o nanuuy turned a similar request from bl -d 
(up ) " il t · "ty" f upport on · oc as uncomm111e
I -Gordon St. Angelo, s en .majon ? s wm back the chairmanship he former Vice Presidnet Huberi H. Indiana Democratic chairman, the national committee. held durring the 1968 campaign. Humphrey, titular head of the Former Gov. Hulett C. Smith announced yesterday he would St. Angelo said he had party. of West Virginia was present andl 
hall L O'B · but early arri·vals among com t 1 d 19,000 mile "There silent majority" s~;d"-' he was not a ca·ndidate.
c enge awrence F. nen -rave e sand visited is a 
for the n a tiona! party mittee members gathering for party leaders in 37 states, at his within the national commjttee, Others who were invited but 
chairmanship. He claimed a the vote on Thursday strongly own expense. He dicided, he St. Angelo said, that does not sent word that they would not
•t I• d 

said, that the national com-want to rubberstamp the choice appear were O'Brien, Gov..
J0hnson hospl a JZe mi!~ee "w,ants a choi~e." of. a chiirman. He said the Buford Ellington of Tennessee 
There s no questiOn that the national committee last really and Joseph F. Drangle, chairman Lyndon B. Johnson, hospit­Johnson suffered chest pams party is in disarray, but it can be elected the chairman in 19 56 of the Erie County, N.y., 
a Feb. 20 while attending a board
alized with painful heart ail­put back together," he said. He when it chose Paul M. Butler no Democratic Council. 
ment, suffered what could be meeting at Mayo Clinic in Minn­said he believed he had the deceased, another Indiana resi­the start of a common cold. esota. He reported the condition 
"technical know haw" to reunite dent.
His symptoms included a run­to his doctors, who took exten­8-ba'l pJauoff.•
it. Although St. Angelo declined l1 1 · sive tests at the LBJ Ranch near
ny nose, stuffy head and an St. Angelo made clear that he to disouss a vote break down,
aching chest. The former pres­Johnson City, Texas. They hos­objected to the maneuvering one national committeeman said Alumni aheadident still suffered the pains near pitalized the former President which led to O'Brien agreeing to the Indiana chairman had his heart that sent him to Monday as a "preventative mea­be drafted at the request of the counted close to 30 votes for Interhall Basketball Champion­
Brooke General Hospital three sure." ship -First Game 
'lational Committee's Executive him in the 108 member national 
days ago. 
'nmmittee, after O'Brien had committee and listed another Alumni 64, Stanford 55 
But Johnson's chief heart 
Alumni rolled over Stanford specialist said he had "every after a sluggish first half to take reason to be encouraged" about a 1-0 lead in the best two out
FDA decries bad effects of pill
the condition of the 36th U.S. 
of three Interhall Basketball President. Johnson suffered a The Food and Drug Adminis­he proposed says women with adds. championship. Craig Stark and 
severe heart attack 15 years ago. tration FDA said yesterday it serious liver disease, cancer of Edwards said he decided to Chuck "Technical" Nightingale"He is taking his confinement will soon require drug manufac­the breast, other cancers and require the leaflet because "I ignited the Alumni attack. Stark very well. He is in very good turerers to place a government vaginal bleeding should not take have come to the conclusion was the game's 1eading re­
spirits," said Tom Johnson, the written warning of possible the pill and women with kidney that the information being sup­bounder and leading scorer with former President's executive as­health hazards in every package 1disease, asthma, high blood pres­plied to the patient...is insuffi­22 points. Nightingale had 16 sistant. of birth control pills. sure, epilepsy, fibroids of the cient." points on some great second half 
"He could have the beginnings Sen. Gaylord Nelson, D. Wis., uterus, migraine headaches or Edwards added that the drives. Dale Mitchell chipped in 
of a common cold,"North said. hailed the "courageous" and mental depression should take it FDA's position on oral contra­II points and quarterbacked the 
The cardiologist said the for­"historic" decision as vindica­under "special supervision." ceptives is that they "are an Alumni offense; Bob Singleton mer President would be kept in tion of his Senate small business It says reactions from the pill effective and safe method for also played another fine game the hospital "at least several subcommittee's controversial may include blood clots, mental birth control, but as with other for the winners. Bill Etter and 
days." Johnson's wife, Lady hearings on the pill. depression, swelling, skin rash, potent drugs, have both con­Denis Garvey were standouts for Bird, stayed at his side. He said the 8.5 million wo­jaundice, increased blood pres­traindications side effects and Stanford. The Alumni players An electrocardiogram taken in men who take the pill will be sure, increased sugar content in complications." feel that they can't be stopped 
able to learn of the risks from the blood, headaches, nervous­He did ·disclose that 15 deaths because as they say, "It's the
Johnson's seventh floor suite the required pamphlet. He said ness, dizziness, fatigue, back from blood clotting associated Year of the Dog." Well, we'll
Wednesday was unchanged from two thirds of the nation's doc­aches, changes in appetite and with the pill were reported to see. The next game is Thursday
the day before. North said it still showed "irregularities." tors fail to mention these ha­sex drive, pain when urinating. the FDA between July I and at 7:30 on the main court of the 
zards when prescribing oral con­Dec. 31, 1969. ACC.
growth of more body hair, loss 
The doctor diagnosed traceptives. 
of hair, nervousness and irrita­
Johnson's ailment as angina pec­Dr. Charles C. Edwards, FDA 
bility.toris, pains in the chest caused ~ommissioner, told a hearing be­
"Scientists know the hor­by a reduced flow of blood to fore Nelson's subcommittee that mones in the pill have caused the heart. The condition IS-a _!he leaflet will be required, per­
cancer in animals, but they have -result of a type of hardening of· haps within two months. no proof that the pill causes 
the arteries, North said. The 700 word draft statement cancer in humans," the leaflet 




