
VOL. IV, No. 128_ 
"Ahead of schedule" 
Laird says troops leaving Cambodia 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Def­

ense Secretary Ml·lvin R. Laird 
said yesterday that several thous­
and Ameril:an troops already 
had been withdrawn from Cam­
bodia and predicted that U.S. 
ground combat missions in Viet­
nam would be ended by the 
middle of next year. 
"At the end of this next fiscal 

year (June 30, 1971 ), there will 
be some U.S. ground forces in 
Vietnam but they will not be 
assigned to comhat missions," 
said Laird, declaring that Viet­
namization of the war "is well 
ahead of schedule." 
lie told the Senate Armed 

Services Com mi!lee that after 
that date, 40 to 60 per cent of 
remaining U.S. troops would be 
assigned to protect American 
support forces, which he ack­
nowledged might involve some 
fighting. 
As for Cambodia, Laird urged 

Canvassers get 
many signatures 
for Declaration 
by Tom Hufendick 
A total of 19,62R signatures have thus far been collected on Father llesburgh's Declaration petitions. According to Hill Dris­coll, a coordinator of the canvas­sing effort, well over 1,050 signatures were collected yester­day alone. 
Driscoll also indicated that the response in South Bend has been generally favorable. "Be­tween 33 and 40 per cent of the people contacted have signed it, and a lot more listen to the canvassers and read I he litera­ture," he said. 
Fred Dedrick, organizer of the nmvass, said signatures for the llesburgh Declaration will con­tinue to be collected until the end of the week. 
Father llesburgh will present the petition to Congress later this month, and unconfirmed reports have him making the trip within three days, Dedrick com­mented. 
Dedrick also noted that other college presidents who have visited Congress brought stu­dents along with them. "There is a possibility a few students may accompany Father Jlesburgh," he speculated. 
After the llesburgh Declara­tion petition drive has been completed, the canvassers will turn their attention to an impending Congressional anti­war bill. 
This bill sponsored in the Senate by Goodt;ll, llatfield, Bayh, and McGovern-would eliminate all military spending in Indochina by June 30, 1971. (In his speech Monday night, Indi­ana's Senator llartke affirmed that $1 million is now being spent on the war every I 5 minutes.) 
Harvard University, which is spearheading a nat ion a I drive to l:OIIect pl'litions in support of the bill, has sent Notre Dame a copy of it. When it arrives, l:anvassers will again seek signa­tures in South Bend. 
(continued on page 2) 


defeat of any measure that out the requirement ... for the Vietnam "the most credible" to announcement, every timetable, would limit President Nixon's use of U.S. air power on the date, said: has been met. Each time ... authority in Cambodia, even supply routes which come down "Every timetable we've set, from the first withdrawal an­though he reaffirmed Nixon's out of Laos into Cambodia." every troop withdrawal, has nouncement at Midway, every promise to have all U.S. ';oops But he said American forces been met. Every single public pledge has been honored." out by June 30. would not re-enter Camhodia 
"We have a restriction that we after June 30. If such s~rikes 
Assembly activates
will be out of theresb bbb end against Communist border san­of June," Laird said. "Already ctuaries are necessary again, as we have withdrawn American expected, the South Vietnamese forces from Cambodia. We have would make them, he said. 
Community Board
withdrawn several thousand this He added: "I will not permit week and we will withdraw more the South Vietnamese forces to by Mary Kay Davey this week." be tied down in such a way that The SMC Student Assembly as Social Commissioner, Carrie 
The Senate was expected to it would affect the withdrawal voted last night to activate the Friday as Public Relations vote later this week on an of American forces from South­Community Relations Board. Commissioner, Missy Underman amendment sponsored by Sens. east Asia." Though previously provided for, as Academic Commissioner, John Sherman Cooper, (R-Ky.), Laird said the Cambodian the Board has not functioned Janet Endress as Development and Frank Church, (D-ldaho), operation was a success beyond this year. Commissioner, and Peggy Aste that would cut off funds for the expectations of Gen. Creigh­The purpose of the as Community Relations "retaining United States forces ton W. Abrams, the U.S. com­Community Relations Board is Com missioner. 
in Cambodia" after the current mander in Vietnam. Communist to handle disputes between Nan Kavanaugh received the operaion ends. resistance, however, was less faculty and students, specifically student appointment to the 
Laird said he opposed any than expected, Laird said, and over grades. The board will be Student Policy Committee. She legislation "which limits the the North Vietnamese and Viet composes of two students, four and the Student Body President President's authority to protect Cong headquarters complex is faculty members and four are the two student Americans, American fighting movable. members of the administration. representatives on this 
U.S. forces are trying to

men, in South Vietnam." He Appointments will be made by sub-committee of the Board of 
said he did not believe the destroy sanctuary facilities all the Judicial Reviewing Board. 
Trustees. limitation would help "as far as along the Cambodian border and When such a dispute arises, 
Marilyn Becker was Cultural protecting American lives and deny the headquarters complex the procedure is to be as follows. Affairs Commissioner. She will carrying out the Vietnamization any place to hide, he said. The student first confers with 
be largely responsible for the program." The secretary, calling Presi­the faculty member. If a mutual invitation of professionalUnder repeated questioning, dent Nixon's program for turn­agreement is not reached, the cultural groups to campus. 
Laird said be would "not rule ing tbe war over to South question then goes to the Sberry Marcou iller was department chairman. 
appointed to the Academic 
Barred settlement at this level, (continued on page 7) 
the question will then be 
presented to the Community Will present 
Relations Board. All decisions 
made on student appeals by the system of 
Board will be final. • 
Report was also made to the econom1cs 
Student Assembly of a Student Lawyer-entrepeneur Lewis Affairs Committee meeting Kelso will present to the Notredecision concerning room Dame community his uniqueentrance by hall directors. The system of economics which he policy has been established that, labels "two-factor economics." 
when the hall directors desire The Student Union Academic 
room checks, signs must be Commission has coupled Kelso's posted in advance of the check speech which will be given in the to enable the residents to be Library Auditorium at 8 p.m.
present if they desire. 
Wednesday with a round table Various student appointments discussion with Fr. Ernest 
were voted on by the Student Bartell, Prof. Peter Walshe, Fr.
Assembly. Martha Coyne was Lewis and Kelso to oenamed Student Body Secretary moderated by economist Dennisand Carol Lacey, Student Body Dugan. The topic of theTreasurer. 
discussion will he "EcononicsDiane Shahady was elected and the National Boycott."
Student Services Organization Considered by most to be the(SSO) director. Mary Jane Alias 
middle ground between
will serve as Controller of SSO. 
socialism and capitalism,The five SSO Commissioners "two-factor economics" is based were also named: Chris Nieuland on both capital and labor. Kelso 
(continued on page 6) 

Proposes ND as sanctuary 
by Steve Lazar 
He proposed this form of little help because it 
"I would absolutely guarantee

Prof. Charles McCarthy of the group sanctuary because of the discriminates against those who 
that I would give up citizenship
Program of Non-Violence complex moral cns1s that 
form their conscience : on the 
in the United States if the right
proposed last night that a confronts students upon 
"just war" tradition of Christian 
to selectively conscientiously
sanctuary be created at Notre graduation. 
theology. 
object were not recognized by
Dame for the protection of According to McCarthy a 
"I think it's better to make the Federal Government," he
those students who could not person has only four alternatives 
the case from here and as a said.
morally justify their induction upon receiving his draft notice: 
unit," he said, "with the help of "You have the absolute right
into the military institution. comply and commit "murder" 
the corporation of Notre Dame, not to have the Government
McCarthy suggested that the against his conscience, stand trial 
but with the help of the force you to kill another person
st uden Is "stand together" at and go to prison, get a medical 
Christians of Notre Dame... Here when you consider it immoral,"
Notre Dame in wllective deferment, or leave the country. 
we've got the resourcesz, the he told his audience.
conscientious resistance to the "This is an intolerable situation, 
people and the moral traditions 
McCarthy noted that after the
"immoral killing in South East a moral dilemma of gigantic 
to take such a stand," he said. 
U.S. forced Germany to write a
Asia." He suggested that proportions," he said. 
McCarthy deaied the absence selective CO law into its
graduating students form a McCarthy said that it was 
of a selective conscientious constitution, but it did not take
community in one of the halls usually fruitless for a person to 
objector law in this country that the same step at home. 
on campus and use all forms of "stand alone" in resisting 
would allow young men to 
lie said that England had a
legal and moral resistance to induction. He said that the 
morally oppose involvement in 
oppose induction. present CO deferment was of (con 1 inued 011 page J)
specific wars. 
-~~--~--~--------------------------~~~~~~~ 
PAGE 2 
711B OBSERfJER. 
Queens to stay 

Senate tables fee cut 
by Charles Myers 

The Student Senate cngated in a lengthy debate last night 
over  a·  motion  presented  by  
senator  Pat  Weber  to  cut  the  
Student  Activity  Fee  by  two  

dollars for the upcoming year. 

All the senators were able to agree on, however, was a motion to table the bill until a clearer study could be made. 
Mr. Weber's committee sup­ported the cutback by a I 0 to I vote. The rationale behind their decision was twofold: first, the cutback would allow the halls to exercise their own perogatives in spending, an; make it easier for them to collect a hall tax. This would eliminate the problem of having student government allo­cate funds to the various halls. Secondly, they contend that the cutback would not have any serious effect on the budget of the student government. that the majority of campus organizations experienced a cut­back in funds allocated this year. 
The motion to table the bill bureaucratic structures detrac; until a future meeting was from his ability to relate back t passed by a 15 to 6 count. the students, especially in th 
A motion was also presented halls. His voting privilege woul which would have banned the still be maintained by the SBVJ sponsoring of queen contests by 
The senator's second proposath social commission. 

would in effect abolish manda 

The argument in favor of this tory buying of mealcards b)motion was that such contests on-campus students. Hopefully arc "contrary to the spirit of a meal ticket system could bt human sensitivity since they implemented soon. 
emphasize an evaluation of the female on the basis of physical Prior to adjournment, Senator appearance alone." Jim DeSapio made a motion that 
Not all of the senators were would prohibit the use of convinced, since the motion student government funds to failed by a 13 to 7 vote. support recent strike activities. 
In the line of new business, Mark Winings assured the body Senator Tom Miganelli presented that the fund itself would be two bills for reference to the sufficient to cover all the ex­Student Affairs Committee. penditures of the strike. 
The first motion would be to This motion was passed by aremove the Student Body Pres­unanimous concensus of theident from such Committees as Senate members, and the meet­the SLC, the University Forum, ing was adjourned. The nextand the Student Affairs Commit­Senate meeting will take placetee of the Board of Trustees. 
on Tuesday of next week

Miganelli's rationale was that involvement by the SBP in such 
1-!esburgh announces promotions 
Twelve University of Notre Dame teachers were promoted to full professors, it was announ­ced y,esterday by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., at the traditional President's Dinner at the University of Notre Dame. 
Promoted to full professor were Dr. Leon L. Bernard, history; Drs. William B. Berry and Richard J. Leake, electrical engineering; Drs. George A. Brinkley and Edward A. Boer­ner, government and internation­
al studies; Dr. Paul R. Chagnon and Dr. Gerald L. Jones, physics; John W. Houck, business organ­ization and management; Dr. John J. Kennedy, marketing management; Dr. Richard W. Kurtz, sociology and anthropo­logy; the Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., art; Dr. Robert J. Lordi, English; Drs. Karamjit S. Rai and Joseph A. Tihen, biolo­gy; Dr. Herbert E. Sim, finance and business economics; Donald 
E. Sporleder, architecture, and the Rev. Ivo Thomas, O.P., general program of liberal stud­ies. 
Carl G. Estabrook, Jr., history; John A. Kromkowski, govern­
The New Book 

by Paul R. Ehrlich ment and political science; Samuel D. McClelland, commu­
and Anne H. Ehrlich 
nication arts, and Leo I. Phillips, The author(s) of the bestselling 
modern languages. paperback The Population Bomb 
To associate professional present the first comprehensive, 
specialist-the Rev. William B. detailed analysis of the worldwide 
Friend, Office for Educational population-ecology crisis. An 
Research; Dale Schutt and Dr. indispensable sourcebook for all 
Alberta B. Ross, Radiation concerned citizens; a timely and 
Labor a tory, and W iII i am L. relevant textbook for courses in 
Rickhoff, physics. environmental science. 
Three other promotions were "I have found this authoritative 
Mrs. Maureen L. Gleason, to and well-documented discussion 
associate librarian;JohnJ. of today's great problems not only 
Risser, to professional specialist valuable but also very interesting." 
in the Radiation Laboratory, -Linus Pauling 
and Mrs. Mary G. Peltir, to "A superb book." -Preston Cloud 
assistant profesional specialist in the Computing Center. 

Cloth, illustrated, $8.95 

Twenty-five members of the Moran, C.S.C., associate pro­faculty, including Father Hes­fessor of modern languages; burgh, were honored for 25 Roger P. Peters, professor of years of service. Others were: law; Stanley S. Sessler, professor the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, of art; Andrew T. Smithberger, C.S.C., dean of the graduate 
professor of English, and Dr. school; Dr. Milton Burton, direc­Ernest J. Wilhelm, associate tor of the Radiation Laboratory; professor of chemical engineer­the Rev. Raymond F. Cour, ing. C.S.C., professor of government and international studies; Dr. 
Other promotions were as Bernard J. Kohl brenner, pro­follows: fessor of education; Dr. Charles 
To associate professor-Drs. 

J. Mullin, professor of physics; Mario Borelli, Yum-Tong Siu, the Rev. Herman R. Reith, and Brian Smyth, mathematics; C.S.C., associate professor of the Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C., philosophy, and Leonard F. philosophy, Dr. Eugene A. CAm­Sommer, associate professor of panale, education; Dr. Neal M. speech and drama. Cason, physics; Drs. Dennis J. Dugan and Thomas R. Swartz, A dozen faculty members economics; Drs. Robert H. Evans received retired status as pro­and Michael J. Francis, govern­
fessors emeriti--Edward F. ment and international studies; Barrett, professor of law; Gil fred Drs. Thomas J. Jemielity, 
A. Burdick, instructor in physi­Donald C. Sniegowski, and 
cal education; Dr. Henry H. Adolph L. Soens, Jr., English; Drs. Kraemer D. Luks, general
Carter, professor of modem program of liberal studies; Dr.
I a nguages; Kohl brenner; Dr. Albert E. Miller, metallurgical
Patrick A. McCusker, professor engineering, and Dr. Irwin Press, of chemistry; the Rev. James E. 
sociology and anthopology. To assistant professor--Dr. 


by Dave Lammers 
would look through already
A book of readings on 

published materials, people who 
Christian attitudes towards war, 
could help with the organization
conscience, the draft, and other 
of the topics," said Dave 
related topics, is being planned 
Johnson. Students interested in 
this spring. The book of readings to book are
contributing the 
is to be written by Notre Dame 
urged to attend an 
and St. Mary's students and is 
organizational meeting tonight
intended to inform the high 
in the Ballroom of the Student 
school age audience about 
Center at 9:00PM. 
various attitudes towards war. 
"Publishers have been
The topics planned include 

contacted and have expressed a
such things as women and war, 
definite interest in the book " 
selective conscientious 
reported Dave Johnson. Most ~f
objection, the just war theory, 
the publishers asked that sample
the New Testament and war, and 
materials be prepared before a
articles by ROTC students from 
contract could be signed. "Most
Notre Dame. 
of the work would be done over
The planners of the book 

the summer" said Johnson "But
envision about twenty topics, 
we have to spend some tin;e this 
with each topic being 
spring getting things organized,
approached through prose, 
which is why this meeting
fiction, pictures, and cartoons. 
tonight is so essential to the
"We need writers, artists, 

success of the book."
cartoonists, typists, people who 
SMC frosh select Welte 
by Ann Therese Darin SMC freshmen sailed the ship of experience yesterday as they elected the team of Sue Welte, Mary Jo Ferlini, and Pat Haffey to office in next year's sophomore class. They · defeated a slate composed of Julie Webb, Joan (Punky) Organ, and Kathy Kane by a vote of 192-135. Thirty-three voters abstained. "It was a fair election," claimed Molly Metzler, Miss Webb's campaign manager. "I counted every vote with Lolo Stankus and Ann P. Ryan, who had endorsed the other candidates. To make it a fair election, they asked me to count the ballots with them." According to Miss Metzler, the Webb ticket lost every hall by at least a twenty vote margin. Instrumental to Miss Welte's success was a petition with the endorsement of many present Freshman Class Officers including Lolo Stankus, president, and Ann P. Ryan, 
POPULATION, EVOLUTION, AND BIRTH CONTROL A Collage of Controversial Ideas. Assembled by Garrett Hardin "The only book ... that gives all sides of the controversy their 'day in court,' in their own words ... a mine of information." -Defenders of 

Craftsmen in Optics® 
Wildlife News. Cloth $6.00, paper $2.95 
RESOURCES AND MAN A Study and Recommendations 
National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING. 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
By Preston Cloud et al. "The reading and study of this document is an absolute necessity for every intelligent person in this country and else­where." -James H. Zumberge. Cloth $5.95, paper $2.95 
Jluuse ufVisioli (f) 
From your bookstore, !fi W. H. FREEMAN AND COMPANY The House of Vision, Inc. or from I~JI 660 Market Street, San Francisco, Ca. 94104 
vice-president. 
Victors ran on a platform 
advocating more social activities 
with ND's hall governments, and 
establishment of an academic 
committee to bridge the gap 
between class and student 
government. 

Canvassers get many signatures 
(continued from page 1) 
"Notre Dan·e has been asked to act as regional (Midwest) headquarters of this drive" Dedrick said. ' 
Dedrick went on to announce that Vance Hartke and John Brademas, Indiana candidates for the U.S. Senate and House respectively, have asked that I 0 Notre Dame students be appoin­ted to organize their student canvassing. Both Hartke and Brademas are anti-war candi­dates. 
Today canvassers will meet in the LaFortune ballroom at 2:00 before going out to get more signatures. 
In other canvassing news, Dedrick said historian Staughton Lynd is scheduled to speak at 
I:00 on Friday afternoon. It is still unannounced as to where he will appear. 
The Observer is published daily durin_g the college semester except vacat1ons by students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame and st Mary's College. Subscriptions ma~ be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class Postage 
46556Paid. Notre Dame, Ind., _ 

WEDNESDAY, MAY 13, 1970 
PAGE 3
THE O&rUIIDl. 

Campus unrest continues across country 
(UPI)-Curfews were clamped on some campuses yesterday as authorities sought to control student protests that erupted into violence and clashes with police. 
Firebombings and fires plagu­ed many colleges and universi­ties, doing heavy property damage on a few campuses. 
Students returned to classes on many campuses but the national strike center at Brandeis University said here were 286 school closings and student strikes. 
Many strikes involved only a few score or a few hundred students in college populations mounting into many thousands. And as during the height of the 
campus protests last week, many colleges operated normally. 
A dark to dawn curfew was imposed on the University of South Carolina campus at Col­umbia, where National Guards­men used tear gas early Tuesday to put down a rampage in which a university office was vandali­zed by a student mob. 
Communiversity 
The Communiversity Programming Committee met last night with representatives from South Bend, local high schools, I.U.S.B., Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The purpose of the meeting was to establish summer and fall extension of Communiversity, to provide for community participation and communication, and to expand and consolidate its present organizational structure. 
An economic committee was initiated to plan a youth employment agency, day care centers, free food programs, and housing developments. David Kahn said that there would be an organizational meeting at 807 Diamond Avenue at 7:30 p.m., Friday. He also said that rides will be available, leaving from the circle at 7:00p.m. 
The Program Committee, Kahn said, extends an apology for its rescheduled screening of the film In the Year of the Pig. All future discrepancies in programming will be published in the Observer which will carry a daily up-to-date schedule of events. In the Year of the Pig will have additional screenings at Notre Dame next week due to its enthusiastic reception at the showing 
yesterday afternoon. 
1:110 pm 
3:30pm 
7:00pm 

WEDNESDAY MAY 13 
History of Vi.tiiMII 

8:00pm
Rita Cassidy Dining Hall(Juad, S.M.C. 
Pinel: Wh1t IThink of the W1r Anton Chroust William Storey Donald Sneigowski 

9:00pm
Paul Mossbarger Main Quad 

The Univellity is 1 Crecker Fectory Richard Bizot LaFortune Ballroom 
P1nel: Economic Boycott 
John Houck Fr. Lewers Fr. Bartell 
Peter Walsh Library Auditorium 
w.111d Exmmtillilm 
Mr. Tolan Holy Cross Hall, S.M.C. 
The mayor of Ypsilanti, were arrested Monday night and Mich., imposed a I 0 p.m. to early Tuesday. 
5:30 a.m. curfew for a second A firebomb was tossed into a night in the wake of disorders in cafeteria at Ohio University in which students of Eastern Michi­Athens, causing an estimated gan University threw rocks, set $122,000 damage. John Froines, fires at barricades and overturn­a member of the "Chicago ed a truck. At least 76 persons Seven," told students Monday night the deaths of four Kent State University students s were a "second Boston massacre." 
Two fires believed set by arsonists caused an estimated $I 00,000 damage to a music building at Illinois Wesleyan University in Bloomington. 
Profs support boycott 
by Dave McCarthy 
Yesterday afternoon more 
than a dozen faculty members of 
the Economics department 
issued a one page newsletter 
saying: "We the undersigned 
members of the Notre Dame 
community, endorse the Notre 
Dame students and all college 
and university students through­
out the country in their econ­
omic boycott of selected goods 
and services of youth oriented 
industries." 
According to the newsletter, the faculty members recognize that the boycott is a means which students have chosen "to express their support for imme­diate withdrawal of the United States from the Indochina con­flict." It further noted the two-fold purpose of the boycott to be: "(I) To exert economic pressure upon specific youth­oriented companies to gain their support in the Congress for the withdrawal of American troops from SE Asia. . . (2) To encourage the curtailment of purchasing items which yield substantial revenues to the fed­eral government for the finan­cing of the war." 
The newsletter also solicited the support of South Bend ;nerchants who "have received 

the generous financial support of 
the Notre Dame students." 
Mike Shaughnessy, Notre Dame student Iiason with the national economic boycott movement concurred with the newsletter, explaining the pur­pose of the boycott as "a united national student movement that can wield economic pressure." Specifically this pressure is being levelled at the Coca-Cola and Philip Morris companies, which have sizable "youth-oriented" markets. 
Shaughnessy admitted that presently the movement is in its 

Blackmun approval shifts Court 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Judge Harry A. Blackmun could weight the voting balance in the Su­preme Court in much the way Arthur J. Goldberg did in 1962, but in the opposite direction. 
Goldberg, who resigned to become ambassador to the Unit­ed Nations and is now a candidate for the Democratic nomination for governor of New York, swung the "Warren Court" away from a conservative trend in the late 1950s into a new era of judicial activism. 
When Chief Justice Warren E. Burger succeeded Earl Warren last October, another trend to­ward more conservative de­cisions was set in motion. 
Observers will be watching to see whether Blackmun, an old 
Reds behind protests? 
personal friend of Burger, will 

M. Harlan has always deplored
side with him in individual 

what he thought was undue 
liberties cases much as Goldberg, 

overriding of the congressional
appointed by John F. Kennedy, 

will. 
did with Warren. 

The votes of Justices Potter 
President Nixon favors what 

Stewart, Byron R. While and 
he calls "strict constructionists" 

probably Hugo L. Black could 
of the Constitution in his Su­

be mustered in many cases for a 
preme Court nominations. He 

philosophy more in keeping with 
has explained that he means 

the Nixon concept than has been 
justices who would give Congress 

evident in the past few years.
greater leeway to write the laws 

For instance, states may have
and who would be "very conser­

things more their own way in 
vative in overthrowing a law 

areas like obscenity and some
passed by the elected represent­

"embryo stage." Communica­tions networks are being set up across the country, but a need for organization, at least at Notre Dame, is apparent. He explained that a meeting of the National Steering committee that was held at Brandeis Univer­sity last night would be a significant event which would serve to better unify and organ­ize the nationwide movement. 
When questioned about the duration of the strike he said that the national chairman, sometime comedian Dick Greg­ory, had called for a strike of ..Christmas 1970." According to a written announcement Shaugh­nessy had, the strike would continue until "these companies demonstrate a true commitment to help end the war in Southeast Asia, and to meet other strike demands." 
Tonight at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium, a panel discussion concerning the econo­mic boycott is scheduled. 
Exhibit works 
Over 30 students are exhibit­ing in the current show in the Moreau Art Gallery at St. Mary's College. The "Student Exhibi­tion" show, which runs through May 16, includes a range of media and techniques in draw­ing, painting, sculpture, ceramics and enamels. 
Works on display were chosen through a department-wide com­petition in the first juried show· at St. Mary's this year and represent student development and experimentation. 
Variety is the keynote of the show and is witnessed in such works as: a nco-dada white canvas; mobile metal sculpture; a mixed-media work of textures, printing, and dying; collages; oil cum cast figure; and a textured string painting. 
phases of criminal law.
atives at the state or federal

SAN FRANCISCO (UPI)-­should look behind student Only Justices William 0. 
LOST
level."

Gov. Ronald Reagan told news­unrest to determine if there is a Douglas, William J. Brennan Jr.
Burger already has spoken out 

paper editors yesterday they plot to foment campus violence. 
and Thurgood Marshall of the
in dissent from what he calls the

The Republican governor dis­
Contact Lens in case

Warren voting block are left.
court's tendency to reach out

cussed campus protests while
ND proposed 
!fj(JUnd call John 1285

Black has been drawing away
for solutions to social problems

answering newsmen's questions from it for several years.
beyond its concern. Justice John

at the annual convention of the
as sanctuary 
American Society of Newspaper
(continued from page I) 
Editors. selective CO statute throughout He told several hundred edi­
ATTENTION ALL World War II hut that only one tors and their wives that campus tenth of one per cent of those radicals had seized on the called to service invoked it." Cambodian invasion as an issue 
SOPHOMORES 
"When people sense that would bring other students themselves threatened they will "along partway in their miscon­get up and fight but when they duct." 
don't truly feel they're ""For the first time, the threatened they just won't radicals have got a majority of fight." 
Sophomores may start placing ring orders
students behind them in the 
NOW 

"This," he said, "has antiwar movem.:nt," Reagan enormous implications." 
said. 
Hours: 1:30-4:30 Monday Thru Friday
Is then• really a nude 
scene m Carmina Burana? 
m office on second floor of NO Bookstore 


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSEIIIBt

PAGE 4 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 

DAVID C'. BAC'H,Editor 
FOUNDE(} NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Letters to the Editor 
Editor: 
Last week it was reported in The Observer that I would be one of those turning my draft 
card into the president. The report was not incorrect; but since that time, certain personal factors have brought me to change my mind. I thought it proper that this change also be noted. Thank you. 
Rich Moran 
Editor: 
The purpose of this letter is to express my deep dissatisfaction with the student strike here at Notre Dame. I would first like to make it clear that this letter is not intended to express my opinion of the Cambodian situa­tion, nor is it intended to express an opinion of the trag­edy at Kent State. I merely desire to state my position on the strike. I was opposed to the idea of a student strike from its conception. The manner in which I expressed this dissatis­faction was through attendance at class on Tuesday. Due to the decision of the Administration, I am now unable to attend classes. This, in effect, is forcing me to participate in the strike against my will. I realize, however, that this situation gives me more opportunity to express my opin­

ions  at  discussions  during  the  
next  few  days.  My  difficulty  
with  this opportunity probably  

constitutes my strongest objec­tion to the strike. Student Body President Krashna's treatment of the Cambodian situation as a mere "catalyst", however, ap­pears to have failed to bring the real issues into view, for I fail to see the relevancy of such topics as racism, sexism, and new education to the Cambodian issue. Mr. Krashna has called for a student strike to participate in meaningful "dialogues." Instead, these dialogues have only served to cloud the issues that should seriously be discussed. In my opinion, the strike at Notre Dame has failed to reach its anticipated peak. It has failed because it never had a chance to 
begin. 
William Friese 


from other campuses 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=============: Jim Senyszyn 
"A school strike is very different from a factory strike because very few real economic sanctions are involved. There is no stopping of supplies, and no loss of profits for the management. The chief impact of a school strike comes from winning public support and sympathy," Albert Shanker, University of Illinois alumnus and leader of the landmark New York City teacher's strike, said in a lecture here last summer. 
Shanker even suspected that New York City Mayor John Lindsay tried to prolong the strike in order to balance his budget through savings on non-payment of striking teachers; salaries. Shanker was running a strike which was actually profitable to the management! 
Shanker said that convincing New Yorkers that the teachers' demands were in the best interests of the schools, the children, and the public was crucial in winning the strike. He also noted that his union had a very long history of political activism. 
Shanker's advice should be closely heeded in view of the startling success of the New York City teachers' strike in stark contrast to the dismal failures of college strikes in California. College strikes do not stop tuition payments or salary payments or the collection of tax monies supporting institutions. Therefore winning public support is a key and perhaps only tool. 
In view of Gov. Ogilvie's recent tuition hike proposals students should at all costs avoid incidents which could be profitable to the reactionaries who would welcome excuses to clamp down on the University, and beyond that go out of their way to explain the causes and goals of the strike. 
Student volunteers could use their bodies to block objects hurled at windows and buildings. They could also wear white armbands to indicate their support of non-violent tactics. Cameramen could adequately record all provocations by all sides in order to dampen violence. Also students could try to dissuade and calm people who may become violent. 
Writing letters to the editors of hometown newspapers and talking on radio call-in programs is very important to explain and clarify issues behind the strike. Rural newspapers and weekly newspapers are very willing to print letters. (Then can usually asc the extra copy). 
Students  don't  have  to  wait  for  some  
stuffed-shirt  to  interpret  campus  events to  their  
folks  back  home-they  can  become  self-made  

campus correspondents from the scene. 
They should raise the constitutional issue of the need for a declaration of war from Congress and for prior consultation with the Senate. They can point out that we have no previous C?mmittment 
or treaty with formerly neutral Cambodia. They can point out the inadequacy of purportedly temporary invasions to wipe out Vietcong strongholds since they are highly mobile. They can explain how Nixon reversed his previous deescalation policy. They can ask why troops fired into crowds at ground level in response to an alleged sniper on a roof at Kent State University. 
Don't allow teach-ins and bull sessions to become cop-outs. Take responsibility to use information gained at such events in order to persuade others. Teaching is a real test of how much you've learned. Sift through and question ideas presented at such teach-ins with a view toward presenting them to others. 
Students can clip out editorials and informational articles and mail them home to their folks or the editors of their hometown newspapers. 
Students can make a committment now to work year-round for peace by joining a national organization like SANE, Fellowship of Reconciliation, Veterans for Peace in Vietnam, or Independent Democratic Coalition. They do lobbying, advertising, and political organizing which are just as important as rallies and demonstrations. 
Yale University Chaplain William Sloane Coffin Jr. recently preached, "Of the many responses, perhaps the most impressive has been the desire of some to be heroes. But our main duty is not to seek heroism but to avoid escapism. 
"We must not seek to escape our distress, either by abdicating our ethics or by ignoring reality. Lucidity is our most immediate need. For our inner divisions can easily deepen the already bitter divisions of our communities... Here let me say that I think revolutions are better after men have been pushed to do their best rather than provoked to do their worst." 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Advertising Manager: Bruce 
Barker Campus Editor: Glen Corso News Editor: Steve Hoffman SMC News Editor: Jeanne 
Sweeney 

Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway Photography Editor: Michael Murphy 
Features Editor: T. C. Treanor 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 13, 1970 


Here's the deal-We'll release the dean, evacuate the administration offices, and won't burn any more buildings if they'll have the pop machine fixed! 
.Campus Opinion_ 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The following was submitted to Camp;:;s Opinion by]ohn Gaither Jr. who is the chairman of the Notre Dame Young Republicans. It is a statement of his personal opinion on President Nixon's recent action and is not meant to be indicative of the sentiment of the memb~rs of the Notre Dame Young Republicans. . . 
President Nixon's announcement that he was sendmg troops mto Cambodia shocked the nation. It provoked many to reconsider our national priorities. Those who did not want to face the fact that this was a time for each individual to give serious thought to the future of our nation have been forced to consider the effects of our foreign policy in Southeast Asia by student unrest on the home front. No one can avoid taking a stand. Silence implies consent. 
The issue is not how many lives will be spent in Cambodia. The issue is whether or not the lives lost in the next few weeks in Cambodia will prevent many more from being lost in the months to come. It is too early to tell. Anyone's statements on this issue are at best an educated guess. 
History seems to support the negative point of view. President 
Kennedy escalated and we got deeper into war. President Johnson escalated and we got deeper into war. President Nixon now chose to escalate and the death rates have been higher than they have been in many months. One can ·only ask why he chose this course of action. 
I do not question that the President has better facts on the issue than the general public. Evidently he feels the situation is different from before. I do not know why? I do not pretend to. Nor do I purport to have a solution to the Vietnam conflict. I can only see where policies succeed and where they fail-where effects are good and where they are bad. In this instance I feel that it is too early to tell. 
Mr. N'ixon has made some promises to us. First, he promised to withdraw 150,000 troops from the war zone within a year. Second, he promised that we would be out of Cambodia within eight week~. Reconsidering the decision to enter Cambodia is wasted effort; 1t 1s now history. We must look to the future. 
Mr. Nixon has asked for eight weeks to see the outcome of his policy. If the U.S. position will deteriorate in this time, we should not wait to put all the pressure we can muster on Congress. But I see no evidence of deterioration. If the Communist block were going to come through with massive support, their reaction would have been immediate. We are now doing what they have been doing for years. It is the North Vietnamese we are fighting in Cambodia. They have no more right there than we do. 
Another consideration is how the military effort is going in Cambodia. So far it has seemingly been a success. Tons of food supplies have been captured. Arms for thousands of troops have also been discovered. The South Vietnamese are carrying a large part of the battle. 
At the end of eight weeks, everyone in the world will be able to tell if the invasion was a wise decision. If it forces the North to commit their reserves to no avail or if it drives the enemy troops from their sanctuaries, the mission will have been a success from a 
military point of view. If war casualties are reduced at the end of the action to levels below those prior to the invasion, Mr. Nixon will have been proven correct. If the invasion brings no significant military or political results, no public relations man in the country could save Mr. Nixon. The doves in the House will be able to collect the necessary votes to cut off funds to Southeast Asia and collecting signal ures will be unnecessary because even the "silent majority" will become vocal. 
Meanwhile the nation should keep a watchful eye on foreign policy and pray that Mr. Nixon is right. He does not want war. It can only mean his downfall; indeed the nation's downfall. He made a judgement about the best course of action to get us out of a war he inherited. In doing so he put his head on the chopping block. If nothing else it took courage. Give Mr. Nixon his eight weeks; that is all he asked for. After that, if he has not produced results, his time has run out. Let the ax fall where it may. 
Night Editor: rich smith, of sorts Layout Design: rich, Dave, and others Headlines: Phil Schatz,rich, and others 
Layout: Marilyn Becker, Dave, rich, 
and others Ad layout: Steve Dellinger Night Controller: Tom Duffy 


-
WEDNESDAY, MAY 13, 1970 THE OBSERfJER. 
PAGE 5 

A review by Jim E. Brogan 
Petula Parades undiminished 
illiterates. And he has reviewed them 
This is Jim Brogan's swan song as a well. concert reviewer. Throughout tiJis year Brogan has never made any pretense of and throughout his career here he has being a professional critic. He claims no reviewed concerts fair(v, objectively, and especial expertise in the various forms of intelligently. lie has reviewed tlzem in music. His criticism has been remarkably spite of Social Commission paranoia; he free of the kind of pretentiousness that has reviewed them in spite of attacks haqJs on the question of whether the bass from some ofNotre Dame's more notable guitar captures the soul of a woodpecker 
A review by Mike Lenehan 
McCartney: all wrong from the beginning 
(Social Commission please note: I am had enough, now McCartney comes up 
about to pan this album. To the best of with Song Along Junk (side one), properly embellished to lift it a notch
my knowledge, the NotreDame Student 
above track of Junk (side one), properly
Union Social Commission is in no way 
embellished to lift it a notch above the
connected with the recording, production Beach Boys Favorite Recording Sessions or distribution of it. If I want a letter 
type of thing. I'm not fooled. 
with 47 signatures on it, I'll ask for one.) 
All this and more: There are two The goddarn thing was bothering me 
instrumentals on the album, tlut they'reweeks before it ever carne out. The 
so blah that I keep waiting for him to McCartney album, I mean. First there was 
sing. And his singing isn't always so hot the back cover of "Billboard", this table either; that's sad, bacause you know he with a bowlful of cherries, except that all 
can do better. The first two lines of the cherries were spilled out. That's all, 
Maybe I'm Amazed are "Maybe I'm 
just the table and the howl and the amazed," there I am, waiting for the rest 
cherries-bothered me for days. What it what like a nice
of sounds real vocal turns out to be-but nobody knew it 
effort. By the time he gets to the word then was the cover of Paul McCartney's 
"time" forget it. 
new album McCartney. 
And so forth. Rut that's nut really the Then there was this review by some cat problem. The problem has something to from the Chicago Tribune more fortunate do with the nature of rock music. 
than I (lie got the album first, I mean). 
Somehow or other, rock needs to be a lie said that the album was a failure commujal group experience. It's just all (right) because McCartney couldn't do it wrong when one guy does it all himself all by himself (partially right) because he (or, more aptly, fails to do it all byisn't a solo genius like AI Kooper 
himself).
(wrong-Kooper has singlehandedly It could be because rock in its mostwasted enough perfectly good wax to vital form is performed live, and there's erect a 4-rnilc statue of himself, which is just no way that one guy can performall he's been trying to do lately anyway). 
rock music live. When its live, it's a group,What I mean to say is that this guy was and they react. Like one guy lays downkind of almost right, but not <]Uitc his da-da-da, and the other gives out with (every newspaper, even small ones, has his own interpretation of da-da-da, which one of those) the McCartney album does comes out something like da-da-dum-da,fail hut I think there is another reason and the thing is, man, they're reacting,for' its faiiurc besides the fad that Paul they're talking! And that's where the life McCartney can't play no drums. This I in rock comes from. (Caution potentialwill condescendingly explain as soon as I detractors: a· sound engineer or a remix have fulfilled the compulsory figures of man can react in his own way, too. Even alhum reviewing. 
in a good 32-track overdub recording,Musically speaking, McCartney has there's a dialogue-it takes more than an some problems. The most obvious is that EE degree to make a recording engineer. 
Paul McCartney can't play no drums (as But who the hell is McCartney talkingmy friend from the Trib points out). 
to when he says "more guitar" on OouApparently he thinks he can get away You, or when one of his soul groans slip?
with a straight, funky style, which he Nobody, man, 'cause there's no one elsethinks (wrong) is easy to do. It used to be in the goddam studio! This cat is talkingeasy to underestimate the talents of 
to himself! 
Ringo Starr no more. 
All of which isn't to say that thereMcCartney's lack of ability on the aren't some nice things on the album. I'lldrums, which reaches almost unbearable take McCartney's onanism over Ironproportions by the t imc we get to the Butterfly's perversion any time. Its justfirst cut on side two (00U YOU), serves that you expect so much more from . 
to point up another problem·-it seems someone who you know is good. Butlike the cat has no imagination. lie's at a then, I waited for AI Kooper's solo albumloss for interesting ways to get into and too. 
out of songs, a thing which never seemed ..------------------; important or difficult until I heard it done so badly. It seems as though he starts everv song with drums, a Ia high 
High flying 
s~.-!-::::>"1 r~vj~ group. Especially in light of his dubious ability on the drums and the poor sound he manages to get out of 
legalized in D.C. 
them, this is a no-no. McCartney turns to WASHINGTON (UPI)~House mem­
the drums whenever he needs something, bers voted Monday to legalize kite flying
hut he never gets that something out of in the nation's capital. They didn't
them. For example, what might have temper, however, with other ancient
been an interesting change of direction in restraints on local public behavior,
Momma Miss America is aborted by a bit 
including the playing of bandy andof poor percussive transition. 
shindy or tieing horses to trees.
McCartney also shows a lack of "We have a long way to go," said Rep.
creativity in the use of sounds. Often his Andrew Jacobs, D~lnd., sponsor of thechoice of instrumentation denies a bill to repeal a kite flying ban dating back potentially good song any chance of at least to 1871. "But as has been said,success. The use of a washboard-type­the journey of I,000 miles begins withrhythm guitar (there's a name for it, but I but a single step. I promised members Ican't, remember it) on Oou You, for will be back with bills to repeal some ofinstance, kills any possibilities the song these other measures if you help me getmay have had. 
this one off the ground."
As if my artistic sensibilities haven't in the third movement of Hey Jude; as a they can, she glided with the grace and result, it has sparkled with honesty and a effortlessness of a breezy seraphim detached sense ofjudgement. around the rectangular stage. 
Brogan was a man with a ticket going This stage was constructed in such a manner that the orchestra was concealed
to a concert, just like everyone else. 
in a sunken pit in the center of the stage,
That's why he was able to capture the 
allowing peppy Pel ula to joyfully float
brilliance and the mockery that this 
around them. An ideal set up for such a
concert season evoked. 
concert-Petula, the star, set on a higher
Only a persistant group o[quasi-critics 
plane than the orchestra, while at the 
who wished they could do the same 
same time surrounding them with her couldn 't see that. It was really too bad. voice and her presence. -ed. This, of course, should not take away anything from the orchestra, the mem­bers of which were roundly applauded for
"You are going to get your money's "accompanying me so very beautifully."
worth" announced spritely Petula Clark. This orchestra, which we have heard
And we did. Last Friday night the Athletic and 
before with Henry Mancini during his Convocation Center presented Petula Midwest tours, and with Andy Williams at Clark in concert; and this time they the opening of the ACC, richly deserved 
meant just Petula Clark, not Petula Cl_ark such acclaim. The band leader, Frank and a bunch of half-baked, never-gomg­Owens, especially showed great versatility to-make-it-on-their-own semi-entertainers in his conducting and his performance on to duly fill in the first half of the show. the piano. 
The show was Petula Clark, and Petula Her studio-perfect renditions included Clark was a show in herself. She carried her hits, Don't Sleep in the Subway, the whole concert on her own strength Darling, This is My Song, Sign of the 
(with help of course fr~rn a _back-up 
Times, Color My World, I Couldn't Live 
orchestra) and did an admuable JOb. She 
Without Your Love, and Downtown. 
is undoubtedly the best single performer She also performed medley-type num­that Notre Dame has seen this year, and bers, such as bits from My Fair Lady; a fits somewhere between Ray Charles and ditty called My Name is Petu/a in which Dionne Warwick on the best of the last 4 
she showed that she is talented in anyyears list. . 
language; music from the vastly over­She sang her hits, she sang her non-htts, rated Hair; and a brief anthology of and she sang other people's hits. But musical styles called appropriately The that's an understatement. She did more 
Beat Goes On. 
than sing, she gave what Peter Townshend The remainder . of her material was 
of the Who would demand of a concert-a 
equally strong with (what should have theatrical performance. Perky Petula was been last year's song of the year) Joe 
lively on stage, she animated each s<;>ng, 
South's Games People Play, the sentimen­
she acted out the motions and emotwns 
tal classic My Funny Valentine, and three 
of each to such an extent that they came 
of the Beatie's most famous numbers, alive both visually and vocally. 
Yesterday, Fool on the /Iii/, and Hey,
She is one of the few performers who 
Jude. 

uses playing in the round to her "Maybe my lucky star at last has advantage. While most singers and story­started to shine," she sang. But we all tellers continually and rather irritatingly knew she had a lot more to offer than 
fight in a futile attempt to . expose just luck. She was a complete performer.
themselves to as much of the audtence as 
Michael KeUy, presently under investigation by the Army Security Agency as a dangerous subversive, raps with revolutionary leader William F. Stokley, Jr. 

... 
PAGE6 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 13, 1970 
Letters to the Editor 
Free ROTC 
Editor: 

Isn't it rather hypocritical 
that the vast majority of those 
who support the Academic Free­
dom proposal would be the same 
ones who would have ROTC 
discontinued on campus? I have 
signed this proposal because I 
believe that those who so wish 
should have the freedom to 
make choices implicated in it. 
But I wonder how many of this 
vast majority would sign such a 
similar proposal allowing me to 
make a choice about whether or 
not I would like to continue my 
studies in ROTC? I doubt that it 
would be more than a handful, if 
any at all. 
Sincerely, 
Donald J. White 
405 Keenan 
United for Peace 
Editor: 

I am writing this letter because I believe a wave of mass hysteria is sweeping this country. From the provinces come the echoes of harsh rhetoric and indecent language. Everyone is either a communist or a fascist. Is it any longer possible to be an American, "to love my country and still love justice," as Camus said? 
Not since the Civil War has our country been so torn apart. What we are witnessing today is a politics of polarization. It issues from the White House and from the streets of Kent, Ohio. It is a politics of manipulation on both ends-and the fate of the republic stands in the balance.. We must not make her the victim. For there have been too many victims already. 
The question now is what we are called upon to do. For some, the madness of an escalation abroad calls for an escalation of violence at home, which is equally as mad. We must call for an escalation, but of a different kind. Confrontation convinces few here, and is not the right way. 
Many already see the blindness of this war. But, it does convince those outside the crumbling ivory tower-con­vinces them that reason does not lie within the confines of the university. It is our task to demonstrate that justice is common sense and that reason still is possible. We are faced then ·with the task of persuasiont. We must speak not 
each  to  the  other  but  one  to  
another.  
We  shall  have  this  chance.  

This November we shall face one of the most crucial tests in our country's history. If we do not contribute to the victory in these elections we shall contribute to the defeat of justice through democratic rule. 
I· believe that a policy of confrontation and despair must 
The Dome needs Photographers 
If interested ca11 JJ. CottreJl 8761 AFTER MIDNIGHT 
not be our guide, especially in this community. A didiscussion of problems and aims is a first step. But action must be taken and this action should be to elect representatives to Congress and the Senate who will act to terminate the Indo~hina War now. For this purpose, a national bipartisan committee to obtain support for such candidates might be a viable response. And all of us should work for and support these candidates. 
The goal is not to divide left from right, but unite our country in a common cause-the immediate end of a hopeless war. Perhaps then we shall be able to say with Pascal, "A man does not show his greatness by being at one extremity, but rather by touching both at once." 
Edward M. Smith 
I 0 I Alumni Hall 

.I.
.. 
Cuba no paradise Editor: 
As I attended the Rally on Monday, May 4, I was deeply disturbed by the shocking naivete of some of the speakers, and, judging from their reactions, a large portion of the crowd. I personally feel that our 
world's most urgent need is peace and love among all; but, being from Cuba, 1 know that Communism is not the way to be followed. 
When one of the speakers mentioned his good impressions of Cuba while he cut sugar cane there, I felt compelled to express my own thoughts on the island. 
In a country that once had more than enough agricultural products to feed its own people, food is now scarce. The food of Cuba is now exported in exchange for military supplies, and while Castro proudly displays his MIGs and Russian T-34 tanks, the island starves. 
Terror and suppression are daily experiences in Cuba, and the jails are filled with political prisoners. All forms of communication are not only censored but government-run, and listening to foreign short-wave broadcasts such as The Voice of the Americas is a 
crime punishable by imprisonment. No protests at all are tolerated by the Castro regime; being overheard complaining against the government is enough cause for imprisonment, and informers are well rewarded. Little by little, Castro's government seeks to gain total control over the lives of the people. Even mass 
brainwashing is practiced: participation in pro~astro rallies is mandatory for all workers; punitive measures are taken against those who refuse to attend or even to cheer at appointed times. 
Draft protestors in the U.S. might find it interesting that Cuban youths are drafted at fourteen years of age, and must serve for at least five years. 
Religion is strictly suppressed, and I am a witness of the imprisonment of many priests, the closing down and destruction of churches and of all Catholic schools, and the sight of consecrated hosts strewn on the floor, trampled, and spat on by Castro's militia. 
The United States is committed to the preservation of the intrinsic freedoms of man; 

r--------------------~:--------L---------------, this commitment and the 
example of Cuba and other Communist nations must be 
IT'S 
YOUR 
STORE ... 

ij®t;lte~@l. 
KNIT SHIRTS 
Cool in comfort, cool in appearance ...these famous McGregor cotton knits are indispe~s­able for warm weather action. Choose now from a good variety of colors and striping..~ at your Campus Shop. Use your account, it's open. 
$4 
ON THE CAMPUS ..._N_QTR~ DA'ME 
seriously analyzed in any criticism of our war policy. 
I, too, want peace in Indochina and the world, but compromising the dignity of man is too high a price to pay. 
Sincerely, 
George Viamontes 
No bums Editor: After listening to the rhetoric on the student strike and the Cambodian situation, I believe one can say that the people in the academic environment are discussing the problem which means dialogue has been started. This dialogue must continue not only here on campus but must continue and spread to the South Bend community. Must people outside the Uni­versity look at a student as one who has nothing to do but protest, riot and picket? This image has been part of the Nixon campaign and it must be changed. I suggest that all those who feel deeply committed must be willing to take a personal loss and instead of just being "pimp­ed" because one misses a class, I suggest that one turns his efforts to canvass the South Bend area and try to reach tt.e people who have been called the "silent majority." One must try to convince these people through dialogue about the objectives of the strike. This would involve many of the campus radicals, looking neat and clean and then not to 
be arrogant but try to be convincing in their efforts to get public support against the wars in VietNam and Carrhodia. 
Since Nixon has written off campus support and tried to make intellectuals appear as "bums", all should try on the personal level to change this image and this appears to me to be one way to do just that. 
Robert Rovito 
4S6 Farley 
... IN STYLE, 

Economist Kelso to 
PRICE 

lecture on system 
{continued from page 1)
AND TERMS 
claims that until he came alone, economists-Marx included-based all their theories on one factor only-labor. Kelso's solution: emancipate wage earners from the false rewards of wages and give all of them a share of capital ownership. The system can be sensibly changed, says Kelso, not by redistributing the capital owned by 5 per cent of the popupulation, but by expanding the economy so radically that the 9S per cent of the population can also become owners. 
Kelso recognizes an ever-widening gap between the very rich and the very poor but solves it this way: "New capital formation in the American economy is taking place at the rate of about $60 billion a year, which is enough new capital to allocate about $4,000 to each of IS million families each year, or $20,000 in five years. The IS million families are one quarter of all households in the United 
States  and  almost  all  of  the  
poorest ones."  
By  Kelso's  timetable,  the  
switchover  would  be  

accomplished with falling costs, be cause the treadmill phenomenon that brings about nsmg costs in today's economy-the worker demanding more money and less work, packing his wage base with personal welfare, using the price system to charge the public and then discovering he's the public, and then going back and doing the same thing again. 
The panel discussion immediately following will focus on economic problems that, at least in part, have caused the national boycott, and the ramifications of that boycott. 

N.D. BOOKSTORE 
Record Sale 
Starts May 11 

WEDNESDAY, MAY 13, 1970 THE OBSERfJER. 
PAGE 7 

India and West IS • Khera lecture topic 
by Mike Chapin 

"Non-violcn~.:e is being fol­lowed to some extent but now India has just about forgotten Mahatma Ghandi. Now that the objed has been acheived (inde­pendence), non -violence has been put in the cupboard." The new religion to save India and l he rest of the world is "Dev Samaj", said Professor Prcm Dal K hera, founder and president of Dev Samaj College for Women in A mhala City, India. 
Professor Khera spoke in the Noire Dame Library Auditori­um, yesterday, on the topic, "India and the West: What can We Learn From Each Other?" 
"I have a very simple solution for mankind. What docs man need'! Happiness. But the more men have run off to happiness, the more they have invited misery," he said. 
Khera explained that feelings within man make man happy or. sad. These feelings can "bring harmony among persons and among nations". 
"We must cultivate one or the 

other higher feeling. If you are 
able to make another person 
happy, you will have that 
happiness which everyone aims 
at." 
P:ofessor Khcra explained that this religion was formed by a man called Bhagwan Dev Atman who was born in 1850. The religion is quite small and the members number only in the hundreds, he said. However, the divine influence has converted many sinners, according to Khcra. 
One man who was in the process of murdering his invalid mother by lo~.:king her in the house wandered into a meeting of the Dev Samaj and was "moved 
Krashna supports impeachment 
by John Powers 

Student Body President Dave Krashna on May I signed a statement calling for the im­peachment of President Nixon for ordering United States troops into Cambodia on April 
30. The two page statement was drawn up by the National Student Association in Washing­ton and signed by 70 college student body presidents from across the nation. 
The statement finds the inva­

sion "an odious disregard of the 
Constitution of the United 
States," and calls on the House 
of Representatives "to carry out 
its constitutionally delegated 
duties and begin impeachment 
proceedings against Richard Mil­
hous Nixon." 
"We have been told," the statement says, "that the strength of our country depends on law and order. The keystone of this law is the Constitution, in which the separation of powers --and the means to enforce that separation --was clearly outlined by men who feared the rise of a monarch or despot. We see the president disregarding that separation of power, disre­garding the constitution of the United States." 
The NSA and the student body presidents plan "to rally students throughout the coun­try, urging them to enlist the support of their campus and community to urge their con­gressmen to take action and assume their constitutional re­sponsibility to check the Presi­dent's use of power." 
by the sermon. "The man who would huve killed his mother then became her bond slave," Khcru said. Another mun who wus raised from evilness had committed 25 murders, a~.:cording to Khera. Khcra also discussed what Amer­ica has to offer India. "I deeply admire the great 
effort, labor and expense of the moon effort. I do not admire the effort and expense as much as your great enthusiasm. 
Speaking specifically of the last moon shot, Khera was surprised that the astronauts were received with such vigor. 
"I deeply admire that they received the same welcome that the others before them did. You (Americans) can face success and you can face failure." 

Khera was impressed by the technical advances of the United States. He said that our sky­scrapers were a good way to habitate such a large number of people in one place. Khcra also expressed his thanks for the foreign aid his country had received. 
"I want to express my very grateful thanks to your country for coming to our aid. We were facing famine." 
"People of America are very polite, very reasonable, and extremely cooperating. Our peo­ple are not as hard working." 
Quiet settles over troubled Augusta 
AUGUSTA, Ga. whites were injured and SO (UPI)-Hundreds of blacks buildings damaged or destroyed gathered in eerie silence on their Monday night. A total of 217 doorsteps in the riot scarred were arrested. section of Augusta last night, In a three mile drive through scaled off from the rest of the the debris strewn area, UPI town by National Guard reporters saw only two moving road blocks. vehicles-one carrying other 
Darkness brought massive newsmen and one a state patrol tension and unnatural silence to car. the 130 block area where police Residents were carefully slew six Negroes, 60 blacks and obeying the letter of the 8:30 
p.m. EDT curfews-staying off the streets, but sitting

Schedule vote watchfully on porches and 
doorsteps.

on Wednesday 
Troops blocking intersections with bayonet affixed rifles 

A national student refer­stopped each car coming in and endum is planned to determine carefully inspected it-including study support for the the trunk. McGovern-Hatfield amendment Negro leaders waited in a 
which would cut off funds for church where they had set up a Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos, 
"rumor center" for residents to by December 31, 1970. The 
call in reports of trouble. Men in referendum is to be completed 
black armbands-to identify by May 22 and the vote on the 
them to police and troops-were ready to move into trouble spotsamendment is expected to come and plead for peace. 

in early June. Gov. Lester Maddox flew into
The referendum is to be this east Georgia city and said
conducted at Notre Dame next the rioting was the result of a a
WedJ1csday, May 20at noon and at "Communist conspiracy."
supper. Hall Presidents are to Augusta born soul singer
call Mark Winings at 7417 for James Brown flew into Augusta
more information and proper too and met with Maddox at his
balloting procedure. 
courages the organization from becoming deeply involved in political issues. 
Professor Donald Kommers of the Government and Interna­tional Relations Dept. stated that under the Constitution, Congress can impeach "for al­most anything," but in the case of the President's recent action 


in Cambodia, "unconstitutional misconduct is doubtful." The President acted under power already granted by Congress. 
"Perhaps the Constitution was 
offended, " said Kommers, "but

Steve Novak 
historical precedent, constitu­

Dave Krashna said the signing tional law and authorities on the was "a big decision on my part." subject would probably resolve "I was signing it for myself," he doubts in favor of the Prcsi­said, not only because of the war dent." but because of the state of the 
"In legalistic terms it is economy and Nixon's "poor 
difficult to make a strong case position on civil rights." "Nixon 
against the President," he said. 

radio station. Brown said black 
NAACP chapter, reported the 
youths have gotten "promises, 
group had changed its mind after 
promises but no results." 
Mayor Millard Beckum verballyBrown's station began 
committed himself "to do all he broadcasting a 20 minute tape can to get those kids out of jail,
hurriedly made by the singer in 
to set up working policies for an effort to calm the situation. hiring members of minority Black leaders met with city groups and to investigate the officials earlier Monday and existing jail facilities." refused to go into the streets to Beckum would only say that try to prevent further disorders. these things are "under One said "we're as good as discussion." dead" if they tried to convince 
Col. J. Edwin Slaton, deputy

their people to keep off the 
commander of the Georgia 
streets without concessions from 
Guard, said the troops had been 
white officials. 
instructed to fire only in self 
But a few hours later, Daniel 

defense, and then to shoot to 
Cross, president of the local 
maim rather than to kill. 
Assembly initiates board 
(continued from page 1) 
Standing Committee. Sue Dorn 
and Barb Connelly received the 
academic appointments of 
student representatives on the 
committee concerned with 
admissions. 
Cathy Eglet will fill one of the 

two student positions open on the Health Committee of the Student Affairs Committee. The other position remains to be filled. 
Two students were named to the Space Allocation Committee. Barb Ramon and Ann Muellman will serve in this capacity. 
The position of campus Fire Safety Captain will be filled by Rose Ann Wolfe. 
A motion was also passed by the Assembly to give the Student Body President the option of attending Academic Affairs Council meetings as a non-voting member. The rationale of this motion is to help bridge the gap between the student and academic affairs. This motion will now be sent to the Student Affairs Committee for consideration. 
..--------------. 
Elections today 
Class elections will be held today in Sorin, Alumni and Fisher halls. Elections were not 
held in these halls last Friday 
because ballot boxes were not 
delivered. Off-campus students 
may also vote today. Voting will 
be from II :30-1 :00 and from 
5: I 5  until  7  in  the  halls.  
Off-campus  students  will vote  
during  the  off-campus  office  
hours.  

ive 
4 Foot Black Lites and Fixture 
FOR SALE 
$15.00 Used only once at Tri-Prom CalJ 6967 
should be studying the situ­ation," and this statement 
This is

"would allow people to see exactly what's going on." Krashna thought it was "unfor­
AMERICA'S
tunate that they (the NSA) \\Ould come to student body presidents" because of the misre­presentation it would cause. 
LAST WEEK END 
NSA coordinator Steve Novak was unaware of the statement unt.il May 2, and he was "surprised that they did it." The 
And We're going out with
tax status of the NSA dis-
a TRULY GREAT SHOW FRIDAY: ROCK SATURDAY: FOLK 
Happy 20th Birthday, 
Janet. 
Steve 

Be There-9:00 PM 
) 
• 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 13, 1970
PAGE 8 
111E OBSERflllt 

Ruggers second •
1n Commonwealth 
by J.W. Findling Observer Sportswriter The Notre Dame Rugby Club, although weakened by injuries again, fought its way to the final game of the Commonwealth Cup Tournament and came very close to capturing the crown. The ruggers humbled North Carolina 24-3 and Michigan 25-3 on Saturday before losing a heart­breaking, overtime defeat to Brown 6-3 in the final game on Sunday. Playing in the 95 degree heat of Charlottesville, Virginia, the Irish ruggers played brilliantly 
against the best rugby teams in the East and the South. Top-seeded, Yale, who was undefeated and Ivy League champions, were taken out of the tourney by Brown in the semi-finals. Before the Irish clipped Michigan, the Wolverines eliminated Georgia who was regarded as the finest team in the South. 

Brown scored a try in the 10-minute overtime and held the Irish scoreless to break a 3-3 tie and win the Common­wealth Cup. Although the serum had difficulty getting the ball to them, the Irish backs, despite their small size, played very welL Particularly outstanding for Notre Dame was little Bill Berry who scored three tries in the tournament. Many claimed that Berry was the best player in the tourney, and certainlv. for his size, one of the finest ruggers in the ocuntry. 
Of the fifteen Irish starters this weekend, only four were seniors. Mike Paterni, Bob Monaghan, Jim Butler, and Gary Gleason have all been per­forming consistently well this spring. Both Paterni and Mon­aghan contributed significantly to the Irish offensive attack in Virginia. These four seniors will lead the ruggers to Chicago this Saturday for the season finale. The rugby club, which is gra­ciously indebted to the support received from the athletic de­partment, confronts Chicago Lyons, winner of the Mid­
west Rugby Tournament. 

NBA announces 7 vet draft picks 

sion draft: Buffalo: Ray Scott, Balti­NEW YORK (UPI) -The 
players selected in the National more; Dick Garrett, Los Angeles; 
Basketball Association's expan-

MAJOR LEAGUES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Chicago  16  12  .571  
New York  15  16  .484  2'h  
*St. Louis  12  14  .462  3  
Pittsburgh  14  17  .452  3'h  
*Philadelphia 13  17  .433  4  
Montreal  9  20  .310  8  
West  
Cincinnati  24  9  .722  
Atlanta  18  13  .581  5  
*Los Angeles 17  12  .586  5  
*San Fran.  16  16  .5000 7'h  
*Houston  14  17  .452  9  
*San Diego  14  19  .424  10  
New York 8  Montreal 4  

Cincinnati 5 Pittsburgh 3 Chicago 4 Atlanta 3 Philadelphia 4 St. Louis 4, 5th inn. San Francisco at San Diego, night Houston at Los Angeles, night 

It's your store ... 
( 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East  
w  
*Baltimore  21  
*Detroit  15  
*New York  16  
*Boston  14  

*Washington 13 Cleveland 10 
West 
*Minnesota 18 *California 19 *Oakland 14 *Chicago 12 Kansas City 10 *Milwaukee 10 
L  Pet.  GB  
8  .724  
13  .536  5'h  
15  .516  6  
14  .500  6'h  
16  .448  8  
16  .385  9'h  
9  .667  
10  .655  
16  .467  5'h  
17  .414  7  
18  .357  8'h  
20  .333  9'h  


*night game not included New York 8 Milwaukee 0, 6th inn. Minnesota 2 Baltimore 1, 4th inn. Detroit 1 Chicago 0, 6th inn. Kansas City at Cleveland, ppd. rain Boston at California, night Washington at Oakland, night 
Bill tlosket, New York; Don May, New York; Bailey Howell, Boston; ,Fred Crawford, Mil­waukee; Herm Gilliam, Cincin­nati; George Wilson,Phila­delphia;Emmette Bryant, Boston; Paul Long, Detroit, and Mike Lynn, Los Angeles. 
Cleveland: Walt Wasley, Chicago; Luther Rackley, Cin­cinnati; John Warren, New York; Johnny Egan, Los Angeles; Bobby Smith, San Diego; Butch Beard, Atlanta; Len Chaipell,. Milwaukee; McCoy McLemore, Detroit; Bobby Lewis, San Francisco; Don Ohl, Atlanta, and Loy Petersen, Chicago. 
Portland: Leroy Ellis, Bal­timore; Larry Siegfried, Boston traded to San Diego for Jim Barrett; Jerry Chambers, Phoe­
nix;  Stan  McKenzie,  Phoenix;  
Dale  Schleuter,  San  Francisco;  
Rick  Adelman,  San  Diego; Ed  

Manning, Chicago; Dorie Mur­rey, Seattle; Fred Hetzel, Phila­delphia; Joe Kennedy, Seattle, and Pat Riley, San Diego. 
... Style, price + terms 


Pre-Summer 
QUALITY SALE 
of nationally advertised 
SUITS, SPORTCOATS, ALL-WEATHER COATS 
at savings of 
1/4 
1/3 
Quality apparel at great savings is the key to this sale now in progress. 
You are invited to stop and browse through the selections, be 
convinced what we say is true. Use your account. 
.. 

Ruggers Charlie Blum and Bill Chuquette wait for the ball to come down on an inbounds pass. ) 
JIM MURRAY 

Just One, Long Season 
© 1970, Los Angeles Times 
Remember when, if you saw a guy in a raccoon coat and a flask, you knew he was going to a football game? Remember when, if you saw him in sleeve garters, straw hat and a beer you knew he was going to a baseball game? 
Re~ember when, if you saw a girl and guy walking through the snow to a gymnasium and she had a corsage and gold shoes on, you knew they were going to a basketball game and the dance afterward? 
Well you can no longer tell sports seasons by the haberdashery. I was str~ck by this watching the Knicks-Lakers playoff game in New York the other night, and all those kids ran out on the floor at the end, and 1 noticed they were wearing short-sleeved shirts or none at all and some weren't even wearing socks and I thought, "Why, they'll catch their death of cold!" 
Then I realized it was almost the middle of May and they might 
have to go home after the basketball game to a paper fan and a 
pitcher of lemonade and sit out on the stoop till a breeze came up. 
If Minnesota gets in the world Series this year, even the players 
may need raccoon coats. The cli1t1ate at the opening exhibition 
football game is likely to be equatorial. Hockey hopes to have a 
clear-cut winner by the Fouth of July. Basketball will be more 
modest. It has already cut into the World Series, the football season, 
the baseball season and the Kentucky Derby, but it hopes to get out 
of the way before the Indianapolis 500.. 
Seasons don't overlap anymore, they coincide. Three more domed 
stadiums and we can have 300-game baseball seasons (per team) and 
I 00-game football seasons. Basketball can even play matinees. 
Season tickets can cost you $20,000. They can artfully rework the 
playoffs (which are not included in your season tickets) so they can 
cost even more. In addition to Unisex, we will now have Uniseason. 
Knowing the cupidity of sports entrepreneurs, I can see them 
going any day now to the government to see if there:s some way we 
can stretch the calendar to 13 months. They can copy a leaf from 
Treasury and borrow the extra days from 1989 or I999 and let 
another generation figure how to pay them back. 
The yawning maw of television will go from doubleheaders to 
tripleheaders to round-the-clock football. There are already plans for 
a second golf tour, which, presumably, will one day challenge the 
older existent golf tour, defeat it in a playoff, merge, then establish 
another golf tour. To be played at 6 am. 
They already have plans to stretch out the Super Bowl to 
2-out-of-3. So, why not 6-out-of-11? They have figured out how to 
make the World Series THREE series. The Sports universe is 
expanding at a rate greater than anyone's ability to cope with it. 
You have to do what they do at Palomar: Take a picture of it 
through a telescope and then study the picture for trends and 
details. 
One constant is beginning to emerge of interest to the bettor: 
With stretched-out secedules, more and longer trips to new and 
distant franchises, increased hours of tension, a line is easy to 
establish. When it gets down to the end, bet on youth. 
In basketball, a Bill Russell had to save himself over the season to be able to eke out his last championship. Then he quit. In baseball, a fat old gaffer could coast through the old, leisurely 1 54-game daytime series and be fresh at Series time. Now, only strong young arms can survive the season, a pressure-packed, 3-out-Of-5 playoff and come "into a World Serids with their concentration and fastball intact. In football, only the young vigorously can bounce back quickly enough after an exhibition-regular-and-post-season set of concussions, nose bleeds and knee-locks and be healed enough to win the Super Bowl. Experience only counts when you're not too tired-or too hurt-to use it. 
All I know is, by 1984, the championship team in any given sport will average 14 years of age. And, if you'll hand me my pith helmet, shorts, and mosquito-repellent, I must be off now for the opening of the football season . 




