~------­


Voi.V, No.22 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi~v Friday, Oct. 9,1970 
GAMBLING RINGS EXPOSED 
sror:'1:·A'3:" :::. 
5.\.TUallA.Y-OC'i.UEt.'F. 3 

Callege Football 1 Arlaona.• ..2: 2 Iawa 3 Hebraska 4 t~Ruta• +6
Ties with Chicago
Saturday. (ktober 10, 1970 

$ Virgini&* 6 Wake !'oretot ¥/ 1 Michigan -13 7 Georgia 8 Miss St• +7 
9 Missouri 10 Okla St• +7

3 Tennessee 4 •Georgia Tech :-1 on-campus ring also takes bets 
11 Northwestem• 12 SMU +7

The following is the work of a The off-campus operation has
5 •Northwestern 6 Illinois -~3 
lJ CalU'ornia 14 Rice• +7 +3 15 N. carolina +7 17 Hissisaippi*('l"l) 18 Al.aballlll -+'1 
7 Wisconsin 8 *Iowa special Observer Investigative on the professional baseball three levels of organization. 16 Vowierbilt• 
9 So. California 10 •stanford -'-3 
playoffs. 19 Auburn 20 J:entuc~ +10 1J •N. Carolina 12 S. Carolina +4 21 il. Virgini.a. 22 Indiana* +10 13 •washington It is quite easy to identify the 23 Yale• 24 Colga:te +1) 
team. There is a resident students 
14 California H thai goes from hall to hall 
15 Florida *Florida The operations of two 25 Oregon• 26 Wash st +1)
16 St. +& 

"modus operandi" of each ring. 27 s. carolina• 28 va.. Tech +t) 
17 •Wake Forrest !8 Virginia Tech +e separate gambling rings on solicitin·g bets and wllccting 29 Georgia Tech* :)a CllliiiSOll +14 
19 •Oklahoma St. 20 T.C.U. The off-campus tied in operation )1. Perm State )2 \:1aconsln-+14
+6 wagers a South Bend man that )J Stanford• )4 Purdue +14 
21 •Minnesota campus involving students, one
22 Indiana 

uses blue cards listing the games 35 irkansaa J6 '!CD • +14 
23 •Nebraska 24 Mi~uri +7 is the contact for the Chicago 39 Notre Dame 40 ~ii.ahigan st• +17
apparently h<Jving ties with 41 Tenneuee• 42 Anqy +20
25 Harvard 2t" •Columbia +8 and point spreads while the group and who receives the 
4) Princeton• 44 Col.UIIbia +20 27 Mississippi 28 •Georgia +B South Bend and Chic<Jgo have other ring uses white sheets of hetting slips and money from 4.5 llic~ 46 1'!!XIL5 A&H +ZO 
47 J.rl.&ona St 48 ~ +20been uncovered by The Ob­paper for the same purpose. 49 ~faa~ SO Havy -t20
29 Penn State 30 •Boston Col. ·'·10 
::tl Houston 32 •Miss'ippi St. + 12 the student, and the gambling 51 Teu.s• 
52 tiC"~ +20 33 •Dartmouth 34 Princeton -l-13 server 5) Southern Cal• 54 Oregon St
On the back of the blue cards +24 
36 Pennsylvania +14 hierarchy in Chicago. 55 LSU• 56 Ea.ylor +24
35 •cornell The strictly on-campus ring is 
is an inscription that reads "this 57 Ohio State" 58 """" +:!8 39 Pittsburgh 40 •Navy more widespread and run solely forecast amusement 9 (sa.t.Oct.)) •liui•-260 Oakl.ami ..z 
37 ·w~t Virginia 38 Duke .-1~ Post time for the student S9 iiiMi.POO'l'BlLlmm&.Y.;.ocroBER 4 
41 •Air Force +14 for only" gamblers is Friday afternoon, 61 ClevelaD:l*(Oct.)) -262 Pittsburgh +7
42 Tulane -1...14 

by students out of Morrisse: 6) Cincinnati• -2 64 Houston ...2 
43 •colorado 44 Iowa St. +14 and further down "this card to and Friday evenings a "runner" 65 AtJ..anta• -2 66 San Francisco-2 
45 1 46 • li 67 St '-iS" -2 68 DallAs -2
Texas CTV) • Oklahoma Morrissey Hall. used news only. 69 l:w Orleans•
be for matter from Bend -2. 70 ~y Giants ..Z 
47 Auburn 48 •clemson I 17 South picks up the 71 ilaahington 72 Phil&.• +7 
49 Ohio State 50 •Mich. St. :-27' Gambling in Indiana is Not to be used in violation of slips and money from the 74 Beeton• +7
7'J Bal-tilllkre 

?5 ltinneaota. ?6 Green ~ +10
Games Must Be Played on Above Date forbidden and is punishable by a 
anylaw. NOT TO BE SOLD." student 77 Kanaaa City 7&De:mer-' -!1.0
"Home tNeotral <·Nicht Game 
79 iff Jets 80 &Ual.o* +:)
<TV> Television penalty of from 2 to I0 years in The card <!lso has_ a number Payoffs are made Tuesday 62 Sa1l Dieco
81 :u. RaiD* +l4 81 (Hon.Oct.'i)Detroit• RJr rM..,....., +14
prison. Severe disciplinary action stampL'd on it and is kept by the evenings. The above is a sample of the could he taken by the University student identifying himself and 
A student with a winning This is a sample of the betting betting cards distributed by the against any involved students. his choices. ticket is required to telephone slip distributed by the gambling ring which has links Both rings <Jccept bets on The student contact man for the student contact in advance organization which is solely 
with an organization in Chicago. college and professional football the off-cllmpus ring claims that 
and tell him that he is coming based on campus. gamt~s. and in addition, the he rakes in nine hundred to a over to collect his winnings. 
either go to Chicago and get the
thousand dollars a week, lind 
When the winner arrives in the needed money or ask Chicago tothat the off-campus opemtors contact's room, he is payed off send the extra cash to him by
Kras h n a addresses 
are making more contacts at by tht· runner from the man in messenger.
Notre D<Jme to keep pace with South Bend. 
This weekend marks the
the increasing demand. 
Thl~ runner also gives the fourth weekend of operation
He says that his cut
trustee meeting 
contact man the betting cards and although the bets have been 
sometimes reaches two hundred 
for the next weekend's games. 
substantial, apparently the
By Thomas Bornholdt recommendation. He wants it dollars for a week. When the week's winnings are payoffs have not. and theto _"he rdnstituted into a body He also claims that the very substantial, the South Bend
A report covering social life, operators in Chicago are dearing
wh1ch plans the long range goals off campus organization has
the Minority Program, and the man may run out of payoff a considerable sum of money.
of the University.., Krashna contacts at lnd ian a University in money, and a delay in that
University Forum, will he pre­The strictly student runwould have the recommenda­South Bend, Indiana University week's payoff is likely. 
sented to the Board of Trustees gambling ring operates very
tions of the University Forum in Bloomington, and Purdue When this happens, the South
meeting today by SBP Dave 
sent to the Student Life Council 
Krashna and SBVP Mark Win­University in Laf<Jyette. Bend contact is required to the President of The University
nings. This the report of the and the Board of Trustees.
Student Affairs Committee. will "'The SLC has been hamperedbe part of a day long meeting in 1
LaSalle boycotted after trouble
1Y poor plam>iHg :1nrl slip-shortthe Continuing Education Build­decisions': said Krashna addinging. 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (lJPI) students attended classes community to boycott all SouthKraslma said yesterday that 
(continued 011 page 3) 

About 40 to 50 per cent of the Thursday. Only ab<,ut a dozen Bend community schoolsthe report would ask the Trus students at racially troub!l'd of the school's 351 Negro pupils hecause of the inability of thetees to improve the social aspect South Bend LaSalle High School were prl'ScnL Most of the absent South Bend police departmentof the University. The report's stayed away from clllsses blacks spent part of the day at a and other officials to protectphysical considerations would yesterday liS school officials meeting l.o prepare a statement · black students " include a new Student Center a attempted to organize a biracial Principal .1. Gordon Nelson Seven students have been
new Art Center improved stu­committee to study the sent letters to parents outlining
dent and faculty housing and the ( Omtinued on page 8)
problems. some ofthe incidents of the pastpossibility of shops in the few days. He said efforts were
unused portion of the Univer­More than 60 persons were 
sity's area. arrested Wednesday, and fire being made to establish a biracial Sen. McGovern On the problem of Minority 
bombings caust•d damage in the committee to study the Student Program, Krashmi said area of the school later problems. of St. Mary'sU1at he will ask the Trustees to 
Wednesday night .Seven persons There also were some take a long range stand on the wert~ hurt four oi' them absenteeism of Negro students issue. policemen, and more than 20 reported at other South Bend this afternoon ..The University has for the were arrestt•d in confrontations schools ,appllrently in response last five years from the Com­Tuesday. to an unsignl'd h<Jndhill 
George McGovern, South
mitteL' on Negro Enfollmcnt School officials said only 50 distributed Wednesday. It said Dakota Democrat and a leading
The Committee on Minority to 60 per.cent of L<JSalle's 1,742. "We are asking the entire black Senate critic of the war inEnrollment, and RAP., made Vietnam, will speak thispiecemeal commitments" said afternoon at 4:30 in ()'LaughlinKrashna. He felt that recruit S.A.D. strikes •• thievery at Fisher Ayditorium at St. Mary's.
ment. living facilit ics and aca demic programs needed a long By Don Ruane Through the portals which paintings would ''ttn-n up" in rang~e cor:zmitment of money, The oil paintings of the· Fisher bodies pass, You've just one of the halls. ··1 don't think the University can seen l'rt·d and Martha for the The security force has not McGovern made a brief run
benefactors of Fisher Hall were 
dcper.d upon a Cott•J n Bowl, or last. Hint: Lobby" requested any outside for tlie Presidency in August of
stolen early Thursday morning 
any Bowl." (signed) investigative help because, 1968. and has been mentioned
by one or more thieves Krashna included Negroes, according to Rev. Jerome M. S.A.D_ according to Nova they do not prominently as a potential 
Ml·xican Americ<Jns. Puerto, Boyle C.S.C., Rector. He said Rev. Boyle checked the lobby believe the paintings will be candidate for 1972. He has Ricans Amt:rican Indians and the paintings were very valuable at 7:30a.m. and discovered the taken off-campus. served as chairman of a special other Minorities in his list of and were probably taken by two paintings by c;. Anthony Wills Rev. Boyle called the theft a committee to propose internal beneficiaries of the Minority or more persons because they missing. joke and said it was ''silly and reforms for the party. The progrllms. are "quite large." The security department was childish " He added the S.A.D. committee WliS established by Krashna fllvorcd the ''revital­The paintings of Mr. and Mrs. notified by telephone at H:40 knew the Fishers or were from the 196H convention to propose ization of the now dead, now Fred J. Fisher of Detroit were a.m. by Rev. Boyle. Detroit bcnwse first names, ways to deal with problems 
inactive University Forum." He apparently t<Jken from the hall Security Night Commander Fred and Martha, were used in thoug:1t that the idea of the lobby som~time before 4:30 Eugene Nova said ''Director the note. University Forum was basically a a.m. by a mysterious group Arthur Pears has talked to S.A.D. also delivered notes to which arose concerning delegate 
selection and seating. The
good idea with its representation calling themselves S.A.D. Rev. several people lind we haVt' the Observer. Tuesday afternoon committee made its report this
of all six elements of the Boyle said one of the hall several leads " He speculated an unidentified male youth summer urging that a number ofcampus. Krashna want.; the residents noticed a note under that the theft might be a prank ddivered a note urging the paper changes be made in delegateForum's function to be changed the rector's door at this time. since it is a footh<Jil weekend 
(coni inued on page 3) selection procedures..
from discussion to nlannine; lind The nott' read: "Fr. Boyle, and l'Xpressed a belief that the 

....---~~~~~~---~-------------------------~ --~------~ 
THE OBSERJJER Friday, Oct. 9, 1970
Page 2 

Students drive for can~ridates 
by Dan Thornton 

Even though the Princeton Plan referendum failed last week ND-SMC students will still be given a chance to participate in the campaign for peace candidates. In conjunction with the Committee for a New 
Congress and Hartke-Brademas Headquarters, a group ot students headed by Barney Gallagher has initiated a campus drive to drum up student volunteers for Hartke-Brademas. 
The Committee for a New Congress has ~.:hosen to support Senator Vance Hartke (Dem., Ind.) in this area because of his 

The new 

SIMERI'S 
(completely remodeled) 

PITCHER SPECIAL 
2-4 and 7-9 Dally 



Budweiser. 
KINO 0 ........ 
~._...-~~~~~. 
~W..,.Jit.MUJ.»,.u~ 
lii!Aml-SEUJIIIER I Tll aD 
~-~~ 
ST.LOUIS NE.WARK LOS ANC3E.LE.S TAMPA HOUSTON 
consistently liberal record. Senator Hartke has been a strong opponent of the Vietnam conflict since 1965 and has favored cutting back defense spending in favor of fighting pollution, poverty and the lack 
~ of medical attention for the aged. In an article for Playboy Magazine the Senator proposed to include a "Secretary of Peace" in the President's Cabinet, pointing out that we should be more concerned with making peace than making war. 
2 Gambling rings found 
(Continued from Page 1) 

similar to the off campus rir.g This operation takes the odds quoted by the off-campus ring 
and adjusts them for their own usc. Usually the point spreads are raised and rounded off to 
combinal ions  of  sevens  and  
threes.  
There  are  contact  men  in  

sever~tl halls who serve tlw same purpose as the solo student contad in the off-campus operation. These students solicit bets and collect the wages plac etl by their hall's residents. 
Post time for gamblers here is also Friday afternoon. and someone from the main organization picks up the slips and money from each hall contact very late Friday afternoon. 
Payoffs an~· made in the hall contact's room Tuesday afternoon. 
The students involved in this ring claim all the winnings but they arc also responsible for any losses incurred. However payoffs by this ring have not been substantial eit!1er, and the lose. 
students  have  reaped  good  
profits for t!11~ir venture  
Ties  in  both  gambling  rings  

Student gambling on football ga:..es is not a new occurcnce hut the scale of these two operations surpasses any past efforts and the intrusion of 
Chicago  on  the scene  is  a  fresh  
addition.  
Limited  scale  gambling  on  

football games takes place in many halls, with the winning student or students collecting all the money that was bet that parliwlar week. 
Very often, this minor gambling is conducted on each floor or in each section. 



ND phys:icists return 
by Greg Rowinski 

"Siberia has a pretty bad press but it actually enjoys a rather pleasant climate, and you feel more of a sense of freedom there than anywhere else in Russia_" 
This was one of the obserYa­tions made by Drs. V. Paul Kenney and John A. Poirier on t11eir return from the lntcrna­tiona! ·Conference on High Fn­crgy Physics in Kiev. But this and other impressions which the two professors brought hack could be as vital in the field of international relations as their reports were to the field of international physics 
The Conference gave the two and their assistants an oppor­tunity to look at the conllit"lons under which their Russian coun­terparts work. 
Tt1c Notre Dame researchers were impressed by the size and power of the equipment avail­able. The Soviets boast a high -energy accelerator two-and-a­halt times larger than any in the 
U.S. or Europe. 

"But," they agreed "the Russians seem to spcci;!lizc in ~-\~~~-~!~.g .. these huge m;\~.:hincs 
Senator Hartke is facing a stiff challenge from Republican Richard Roudebush for the Senate seat which he has held for twelve years. According to Gallagher. llartke isn't doing well but ·'can pick up and take this area as he has in the past." 
Brademas, on the other hand "is in good shape hut can't let up,'' said Gallagher. Gallagher implred the success of both candidates may depend heavily on the number of students who volunteer. 
Along with helping local politicians. the Committee also plans to contact and organize students who are going to return home to campaign for politicians in other states. Its purpose will be to arrange transportation for groups travelling to the same area and to locate contacts for them when they arrive. 
Those wishing to volunteer have been invited to sign up after Senator McGovern's spt•ech on Friday at O'Laughlin Auditorium or contact either Barney Gallagher at 234-1539 or Anne Radford at 284-4197. 
more than usin)! them to c!u research." 
Both wer.: dismayetl by the shortage of intriec:le devices, especially comp1·.iers Also, the Soviet scientbls w1~rc hampered hy compulsive secrecy and the elaborate paper work that is very evident in the Soviet Union. 
The best research was that being done in Siberia, where, according to Kenney, "The ob­scssivc secrecy, the rigid rules of hureauna~.:y, and the crowded, sub-standard living conditions l:easc to operate and people do pretty much what they please." 
The Russian government supports only prestige areas of science. Soviet researchers are unable to alter their research to pursue sidelines which appear during experimentation, as west­ern scie11l.ists can. 
These restrictions, not very evident in Siberia, arc more visible in Moscow and Dubna. Poirier reported, ''Dubna is a dosed city, and the met:ti:1g~; were held in a security area surrounded by a barbed-wire fence with freshly-plowed 
~-=·=·=·~·=·:·:·:::::~:::~=~=~=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:;:::::::::::;:;:;:;:¢; 
)! SAVE THE CHILDREN)!)! 
1

join ·the MOD SQIUAD 
Solicit for the March of Oimes before the Army game. All you have to do is come to 128 O'Shag between 10:45-11:00 AM on Si!turday morning. 

MBA PROGI~AM 
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA, Chapel 
A representative will be on the Not Dame campus on October 12th to interview upperclassmen of all majors .. Placement Office for details. 
ground on both sides of it." 
In contrast, the Siberian lah­onJtory at Novosibirsk is popu­ulated with young, energetic scientists. The surrounding area is wooded and dotted with lakes and suburban homes. Fine re­search, better equipment and an esprit de corps can be found there, far from the Mns~:;,w bureaucracy. 
Kenney and Pourier delivered four papers at the Conference, two dealing with the conver~JOn of t'nergy into matter, and two on I_ he possible existence of sub-atomit: particles with th•~ proton. 
fhe research on the first topic was conducted at the Atomic Energy Commission's accelerator at the Brookhaven Laboratory in New York. Particles released through nuclear fission were smashed against hydrogen nuclei, producing protons and anti-protons. The prohaLility of this occurencc and its reaction mechanism were studied. 
The second subject under study was partons a result of proton fission. This research reversed the a~.:cepted thought that protdrls were 'fundamental units. 1.l~~"J'' 1 
Be! wcenLf.lle meet'iftgs, Pdirier visited • the• S\ . .t'buhkov 'accelera­tor tfie :largest hhd IT/ost(power ful in the worl1t He found that the scientists there were pur­suing studies similar to those now being planned by Notre Dame physicists to be under­taken at the still-unfinished 
National Acceleration Labora­tory in Batavia, Illinois. It is no coincidence that similar research should he going on in Serpuh­kov. Dubna, Moscow. and in the continental u.s.· ·No· .matter which country PtS,ientist may be workmg for,;tlt:Hii.ll has the same interest-finding out what the world is made of. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
.-------­

Friday, Oct. 9,1970 Page 3 




US peace initiative foils Hanoi 
eight day European visit and a supported it, both critics of our Georgia dedication at midafter­will ask the next Congress toKEY BISCAYNE, Fla (UPI) major policy address into the Vietnam policy and those who noon, they flew to Key Bis­deal with in specific terms.
President Nixon said 
previously supported it. cayne where they will remainpast two weeks, said the factyesterday the '"very favorable" 
reaction to his Indochina peace that his new peace proposal has "Now that we have moved through the weekend. 
He noted the problems of air
wide bipartisan support "will diplomatically, world leaders
initiative has destroyed Hanoi's and water pollution in his 
not go unnoticed in Hanoi." will give us support who might
efforts to capitalize on Amedcan 90,000 persons turned out in remarks. but it was his peace
A crowd estimated by state otherwise have waited thinking
anti war sentiment. Savannah to greet Nixon. "It proposal, and the world's reac­
The President made the police as between 80,000 to we had not gone as far as we 
was a very warm reception," the tion to it, that obviously was
could at the conference table " 
remarks in Savannah, Ga., where they could achieve on the President said noting that bus­uppermost in his mind. 
he dedicated a new ocean battlefield. But he said his new Accompanying him on the inessmen as well as school research center before flying peace initiative and the reaction trio were his wife, Pat and his children-who were dismissed He was undaunted by the
daughter and son-in-law, Julie
here for a long weekend of rest. to it has changed that. from classes for the occasion-­initial negative Communist reac­
"Leaders of both parties have and David Eisenhower. After theNixon, wl_lo has crammed an 
were in the crowd. tion to the five point plan, which included a call for an immediate ceascfire in the fight­
"They were quite with it " ing in Southeast Asia. "At first the President observed. "I saw'a blush, it would seem that it had sign that said 'That was Quite a been turned down," Nixon said, 
Fire bombings reported 
(UPI) Bombs rocked a store were forebombed in In Seattle Wash. two bombs 
Speech, Mr. President'.'' but added: ';We expect a more
courtroom, a -National Guard Indiana. exploded in the basement of serious and formal reply inarmory and a university ROTC In San Rafael Calif. a Clark Hall at the University of Nixon's visit to Georgia to about a week."
building on the West Coast early powerful bomb in a ladies' Washington, where Navy and dedicate the research center on
yesterday. A high school and a restroom wrecked a courtroom Army ROTC offices were The President said North
in the Frank Lloyd Wright housed. Skidaway Island off the Savan­designed Marin County Hall of In South Bend, Ind. fire nah coast underscored his grow­Vietnamese leaders had been ing concern over pollution of the counting on war weariness in the
Justice near where a judge and bombs were hurled into a high
S.A.D. 
three others were killed in an school and store Wednesday oceans, a problem he has said he ,United States to win them a more favorable settlement than
abortive convict escape attempt night causing $230,000 damages, 
two months ago. after a night of racial disorders
(Continued from Page 1) 
In Santa Barbara. f'<>lif " on tbe citv's West Side. 
to keep Friday's edition open bomb ripped a large hole in tht­Tlte San Rafael blast at 1:27 Halls list charitiesfor a "story breaking Thurs." 
concrete wall of the National a.m. 111 tne courtroom of 
After the youth handed the note 
Guard Armory, shattering Superior Judge Joseph Wilson to Editor Glen S. Corso he windows and blowing out a blew out two walls of the room Drug Information
In lieu of building hall floats Center:turned and left the office. Late 
door. damaged a courtroom next doo; Keenan
for Homecoming this year. mostThursday afternoon Corso found 
and drove flying fragments as far 
halls have decided to donateanother note on his desk 
as 50 yards to knock out wood Logan Center: Alumni Sorin
money to various local charities. ' reporting the "kidnapping of 
panels across a corridor. ~orvilla, Inc.: Dillon
This idea was endorsed by thetwo prominent Nolre Dame 
HPC meets The county board of Holy Cross, Lyons, and
Hall President's Council and the
figures." It also said S.A.D. supervisors held a 6:30 a.m. Zahm have not yet decided
following is a list of the charitieswould be in touch over the The Hall President's Council emergency session and ordered and the halls which gave them on a charity but definitely will weekend to present demands. 
met last night in a dosed session Sheriff Louis Mountanos to money: give.
Rev. Boyle laughed when he 
to discuss the upcoming Senate further heighten the strict 
read the demands section and 
election and· the proposed new security in effect since Aug . 7. 
asked if it was possible that Sr. Marita's Primary Day
Student GoverJHnent On that day, three convicts 
anyone would pay any money to School: Grace, Morrissey, Walsh, 
Constitution. No comment was and an accomplice held the 
"redeem or get" the paintings Breen-Philllps Howard Badin
released concerning the courtroom of Judge Harold 
back. St. Edward's Pangobrn: Farley:
discussions except that they Haley at gunpoint and took the 
All of the notes were written Cavanaugh, Fisher, Stanford.
were "extensive". HPC' judge and three others hostage in 
in the same style. There were Chairman John Barkett of 
printed on loose leaf paper _Morrissey Hall said that the apparently ripped from a statement of policy would be s.oftback notebook. The words released afterthe Monday meeting were printed in penciL Both grou-p::
of the 
Rev. Boyle's and the second Observer note contained the same rhyme about the Fisher portals Krashna 
Rev. Boyle complained that 
(continued from page 1)
S.A.D. had dirtied the newly 
painted lobby walls when they that he felt the University removed the paintings. "The Forum could alleviate this. pictures are quite large and As far as the makeup of the couldn't be handled by one man. Forum, Krashna felt that while You need at least two men to all six elements should be carry them, decently. They were represented, "We believe that clumsy in handling the things," the Forum should be pro­
Boyle said. portionally greater· in the stu­If the theft is a prank, as Nova dent and faculty portions." thinks or is a serious attempt to When asked about the Trustee get some demands met by either meeting , Vice President and Fisher Hall or the University it Genreal Counsel Philip Fac­may not be successfuL Last fall a cenda said that there were to be small group claimed to have reports from all the committees 
stolen two cornerstones from of the Trustees and the election · the Towers. They stole the of more Fellows and Trustees. stones shortly before the Towers Coeducation will not be dis 
were to be dedicated and made cussed by the Trustees until demands for better food, Deccmber~o~., January, he said. cheaper laundry, better 

f¥¥¥'$¥G.¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥1f
dormitory service and general -' et your · domestic improvements. 

Red Hot 

The demands were never met. and the cornerstones were never Tube Stealrs returned. 
~:::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::.:::.:::::.:::.:::.:=:=:·:=..:::::::::.:::::::::::::.:::::::: 

I MAIN CHURCH ~ 
.... 
1 1_.1. 





$~1~1~-.~o:o:~aD.:m. ~~:~~~.~$
Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, o.s.b. 
:::: 12:15 p.m. Fr. William Toohey, c.s.c. 
~~~~ *Beginning this week, the 11 o'clock l\1ass will be ·· ~~~~ under the direction of a special team from the @: 
~~t=========~==~=~~=~!:=~:I¥:~~~==M~:~:f:!:~====~=~;~~~=f:~=:W=======================:============================================t~ 
TYPING 

Any material, any length, charts and diagrams. $.5~/page. Will pick up and deltver. Call Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 PM 


'i 
~.~ • :...: fl~·. .., 

'] 
~ ' _"r ..·..• ~~ •· 
;,.. 
.•· 



(Continued on page 8) 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER:;_____--,--Friday, Oct. 9, 1970 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GLEN S. CORSO. Editor GAETANO M. DeSAPIO, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Long Odds 
Last wt•ek in Las Vegas, the Detroit Lions were 
fourteen point picks over the Chicago Bears. Last week, 
too, an eight-year-old kid in Harlem was named a 
twenty-five point underdog to life. 
Those innocuous looking cards you see pictured on 
page I raise money to support organizations whose 
business it is to break the law. As of yet, The Observer 
does not know the scope of the operations. But we have 
a pretty good idea. 
The off campus operation is probably run by the 
Mafia. And the Mafia kills. It has sold enough horse and 
coke to hold kids in the ghetto for the rest of their lives. 
It runs rackets that specialize in victimizing the poor 
the elderly, and the uneducated. The Mafia subsidizes 
these activities partly by money drawn in via the 
innocuous-lao king cards. 
The on-campus or ''Sportscaster" operation apparently, 
has no ties \Vith outside organizations, but it is hardly'
legitimate. Keputabte stansnc1ans put tt1e odds against 
picking three out of three teams with a point spread 
correctly at upwards of twenty-five to one. The 
"sportscaster" payoff is five to one. The payoff for 
predicting twelve out of twelve teams with the point 
spread is listed at three hundred to one. Professional 
oddsmakers put the odds against such an occurence at 
close to ten thousand to one. Participation in the 
"Sportscaster" operation is foolishness rank enough to 
border on insanity. 
Participation in either operation is quite illegal. Bluntly, if you are caught gambling in this state, you are screwed. Two to ten years in the state pen IS ·~~le sentence designated by law, and if you think the food's 
bad here .. Gambling is older than the security guards, and no one seriously believes that it can be entirely erradicated at Notre Dame, or anywhere else. But these cheap, tawdy, and damn dishonest gambling rings add a new and decididedly unpleasant dimension to the whole · 
show. So go ahead and bet, if you have to. Fill up your little blue-and-white cards with bets that will lose your money and make the asses running these organizations rich. But remember that with each bet the odds on that kid in Harlem grow longer and longer. 
The note in yesterday's 
the statement was not taken as
Observer concerning Student 
intended. For this sincere
Union President Bob Pohl was 
apologies are extended to Bob
intended to be humorous . 
Pohl for any damage done to his
Unfortunately, subsequent 
reputation.

repercussions have shown that 
~-Executive Editor: John Knorr Kezele, Charley Meyers, Greg Night Editor: John Abowd
I 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Pudhorodsky, Tom Bornholdt, Headlines: Tim Burke, SteveNev"s Editor: Ed Ellis Don Ruane. 
MyerFeatures Editor: Dave Lammers Associate Editors: Dennis McCoy, Layout: Rich Maggi, MartySports Editor: Terry Shields Steve Hoffman, Cliff Wintrode, MillerBusiness Manager: Bruce Reick Bob Fulton, Di!ve Stauffer, Sue Layout Oesign: John AbowdAd Manager: Bruce Barker Bury. 

Assistant Night Editor: L.
Accountant: John Maher SMC News Editor: Jeanne Emmet BallantineAssistant News Editors: Floyd Sweeney 
Controller of the Night: Rick Smith 

"And I didn't go to school here." 
Ann Madtt Trace, 
****************~·· 

Alt-ernatives 
After deciding not to endorse the proposed political recess last week, St. Mary's student assembly unanimously passed a statement calling for the provision of academic alternatives for those ~tudents who wished to participate in political campaigning before the upcoming elections. . . 
Realizing that conditions differ now from last spnng (~e arc m the middle of the semester and studt•nts, cognizant of the fall activities could have signed up for pass-fail cour~es and a light load), the assembly primarily has asked the Academio.; Affairs Council to pass an official recommendation to the fa..:ulty. This states, for the most part, that a student ,wishing to leave in order to campaign ''must make a written agreement with hl~r individual teachers to arrange ht~r work load around her ten-day absence. No punitive action amy be taken by a te;~cher against a student following the agreement made. This includes considering the absences unexcused or lowering of th·e course grade. If the student or teach~r.vwlat~s the agreement 1he case may he subject to the decrsron of the Communi( y Rclat ions Board." After a brief discussion at the Academic Affairs Council the proposal was tabled for consideration next Monday. 
Basic opposi1ion to the proposal rests in the fear that a poli~.:y of this sort is politicizing the college, which would jcopardir.e its tax-exempt status. Initially, however, the policy states that the student need not show proof of participation in any pplitical campaign. (.'urthnmor.e, the American Council on Education's statement, "(;uidelines on Questions Relating to Tax Exemption and Political Activiti,~s" (June 19, 1970 Vol. XIX, No. 22), approved by the Internal Revenue Servic.e states: ·'Every member of t_he academic community has a right to participatt: or not as he sees fit in the l'lect ion process. On the other hand no member of that community should speak or act in the name of the institution 111 a political campaign.'' 
Naturally, individuals in the college "politicize" themselves by at'lion of this sort hut in no way will St. Mary's be committing itself to a specific political candidate or ideology. Instead, it will be 
·.>perating as rnon: than just a "democracy" in which only the will of the majority is considered (even it it need not bother to vote m order for its opinion .to have an affect). The wishes of the minority in this case do not infringe upon the rights of the majority. Why not, then, take the opportunity to foster a true academic freedom at St. Mary's...the kind that provides· a true and complete educational experience for those willing to seek it out? 
The opinions expressed i,. the ~itOt-ials, news analyses. and columns of The Observer are solely the opinions of the authors and editors of The Observer and Clo not necessarily reflect the ' views of St. Mary's College. the Univer5ity of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty, or stuc1ent bed~~. 
Friday, Oct. 9,1970 
THE OBSUIIEil Page 5 

Free University opens 

The Free University. under the leadership of Mike Shaughnessey and Dr. Willis Nutting is in the process of formulating its "classes" and "teachers" though the purpose . of the Free U. is to avoid such formalities. Fourteen course descriptions presently grace the 
Free U. brochure, and several of them are presented here to give the general flavor oft he courses. 
David Burrell C.S.C., is offering a course in the Farley Hall chapel at 8:30 p.m. on '·Hatha Yoga." ·This will be an opportunity to practice those Yoga postures which are gradually conduL:ive to meditation. We will meet once a week for an hour or so to learnappropriate exercises which those who wish to participate may praL:tice during the week. One semester of intensive practice should prepare a person to continue on his own." 
Dr. Nutting previously of General Program fame is leading a Free U. course entitled, q t!izotically enough, "The problems behind our problems." Willis writes "No matter how much or how little we are 
educated, the way we most frequently use our minds is in figuring out the answers to the problems we meet These problems are many--new ones every day-but they are all instanL:es of a few basic problems or a kind of problem. We will look at these basic problems and see what answers human beings have given to them in different cultures and at different times In this way we will perhaps find help in dealing with what comes up in our lives. We will learn to focus our 

Mike Shaughnessey knowledge on the situation at hand. Mike McCalc will shan: his expt·riences in radical thought and radical politics. His course "is geared for those who are interested in tn1nscending the standard revolutionary rhetoriL: of · we'' versus '1hey,'' violence."' 
Their is a course in 'The incredible Shrinking Ego" with Casey Pocius which will examine "life styles allernative to that of the Western world." 
Father John Young will present a L:ourse in "the consolations and Hazards of Science" and Juliana Dwyer will lead discussions in sexuality on Saturday mornings. 
Complete course descriptions including "Human Awareness" ·A Short History of the Blues'' with Professor Bizot "The United States in Vietnam," ·Elementary Juggling" with wunderkind John Barkett, "The Music and Poetry of Bob Dylan" with Chuck Darst "Essential Beethoven" with Tim Kendall 
Instructors are still needed for 
auto mechanics, kites. balloons, 
photography, and 
filmmaking. 
Mike Sh•uahneuey True Love 
The Free University came to Notre Dame about four years ago after the concept had proven itself to be successful at a number of th~ more progressive colleges and universities across the country. The time was ripe for this free approach to learning to attract a following among a student population that felt that there was a great lack in the present educational system. The core of required courses supplemented by electives did not seem to meet the desires that these students had for a meaningful education. 
Moreover the rigid structures did not seem to help create the academic atmosphere that festers insight. The belief that wisdom was a composite of cumulative grdde point average credit hours, and 
fulfilled requirements was rejected by more and more students desirous of becoming true phislosophers · lovers of wisdom. 
The Free University offered people a chance to get together because thev shared an interest and wanted to learn more about it. The philosophy of the Free U echoes Aristotle that basically people want to know. Given the opportunity, the naturally inquisitive nature of human beings can very easily lead to wisdom and the love of same. 
However, a school as an institution has an extremely difficult time giving students this opportunity that they need. In the mass production concept of education the individual student becomes littie more than an lD number and quite often his individual needs cannot be met within the normal academic regulations of the school. 
The Free University even though it is an institution, attempts to 
avoid this basic pitfall by being free and not having academic 
regulations That is one reason that even though at some other 
campuses Free U courses may be taken for credit that is not the 
case here. The knowledge 1.hat can be gained from the experience of 
sharing in a Free U course is a reward in itself 
The Free University is an integral part of the present attempt 
being made to create a new culture It is one vehicle made available 
to people who are trying to critically reexamine the basic principles 
of society in general and our society in particular. It is in itself one 
alternative to the present educational system. While most schools 
can be called "decompression chambers for creativity" because their 
function is to help fit people into our society as it exists, the Free U 
thrives on spontaneity and creativity. 
An important aspect of the Free University is sharing -sharing 
with the people in your class your brothers and sisters. It is more 
than just sharing thoughts only; it is sharing your hearts and lives 
This is the sharing that is essential to understanding and peace and 
in this way the Free U is attempting to make peace a reality. 
The course listing for this semester was just distributed this week 
and this is the time to become involved in the courses you are 
interested in. The courses this semester. thogh small in number are 
quite excellent I'd like to point out that we are still looking for new 
courses. Unlike in the past course listing will be publicized as they arc collected rather than just once a semester 


Romeo."

"Romeo," "Oh, Juliet," "Oh, Romeo, my
''Tomorrow, and tomorrow and tomorrow, it11 clear up tomorrow." 

the readathon 


Diarrhea of the Sha"espeare
Will Shakespeare may appear or will at least roll over Beethoven. Ted Heshurgh and Jimmy Burtchaell are being urged to read and the cast of actors rival a Cecil B. DeMille flick. The marathon Shakespeare reading grinds on through talent thick and thicker groaning and grunting to break the 66 hour Shakespeare reading record. 
The reading right after the football game is "Much Ado About Nothing" (apologies to Terry Sheilds. our sports editor). Senator George McGovern looking for the literary vote no doubt will read from I: I 0 to 1:13 Saturday afternoon right before he goes to gather up the sportsmen's votes . 
Immaculate E. A. Goerner will read at 4 p,m Friday. Midnight Friday to 7 a.m Saturday is "freak" night led off"by Jimmy Leary 
9:00 Saturday morning finds Prfoessors Werge and Rathburn (the organizers of the marathon or readathon) at the books Professor Joseph Duffy, of tragedy fame, will read at 10:00 a.m Saturday. Willis "El Presidente" Nutting reads Shakespeare's pearly words at 10:30, Edward Cronin reads at 11, and the hour before the game belongs to Dave Krashna and Mark Winings. Sunday features Carl Estabrook and John Houck at 1:00 p.m., David Burrel at 8 p.m., Bob Pohl at 9:00 p m. The Young Americans for Freedom (we must have balance) read from 1 a.m. to 4 a m. Monday morning Sister Marita is doing a great job she needs the money. so drop over and drop a hundred dollar bill in the pot or even a quarter maybe. OK? 
._ 


~~­
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Friday, Oct. 9, 1970 


Trustees to meet 
In a report to the 

Saint Mary's College Board of 
Trustees Sister M. Alma, acting 
president of the College, cited 
the next five years as crucial to 
the College and focused on the 
selection and appointment of a 
new president as one of the most 
vital tasks facing the Board 
The Board of Trustees whose 
lay and religious members bear 
full responsibility for the 
College appointed a Presidential 
Search Committee last June and 
empowered it to review criteria 
for the presidency, to interview 
nominees and to submit to the 
Board the names of three 
candidates. The presidency of 
Saint Mary's was vacated by the 
sudden death June 9 of Msgr. 
John J. McGrath, sixth president 
of the College. 
The Presidential Search 
Committee, composed of 
representatives from the 
trustees administration, faculty, 
students and alumnae, has reviewed the initial response of ·over 140 candidates. Of these 
49 were invited to submit 
SMC financial area weighed 
The Finance and Budget 
Committee will be reviewing the 
financial picture of St. Mary's 
College this weekend. This is the 
only committee of the Board of 
nustees which does not include 
a student. 
Sister Basil Anthony 
Vice-President for Fiscal Affairs 
and the secretary of this 
committee said .. we will review 
anything pertinent to the 
financial situation of the 
college." 
This includes making 
recommendations concerning 
the annual budget and reviewing 
the investments securities and 
real estate of the college. 
This committee will also make 
recommendations about student 
tuition and fees and other 
(Continued on page 8) 

ATTENTION: 
REPORTERS 
.. ~ . &.. 
~ 

. . .. : Al.l. 
. ; . ~ ;·<:~·~~:It:-~~.<: 
. . ... -~. \ ' ·:., .., 


,.• .:.l"liTERESTED'• ·-'".-:_.:" 
-If , ' , .... -~--,, ; . . .: .~~'~) ~-~--­
IN REPORTING 
THERE WILL BE A WRITING WORKSHOP ON MONDAY, OCT.12 FROM 7:30 TO 9:30 IN ROOM 2D LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
All present reporters must attend this workshop or one that will be held later in tht: week. 
detailed curriculum vitae to Ul.e· Committee and six were interviewed on the campus by the Search Committee and members of the faculty, students and administration. 
In its own report to the Board of Trustees, the Search Committee stated its continuing search for a president and called for the Board to consider a preliminary interview with one candidate as it appeared unlikely that three equally well qualified· candidates would be available for interviews with the Board at the same time. 
In her report providing an overview of the College's progress Sister Alma also cited: 
McGrath Scholarship 
A goal of $25,000 has been established for the Monsignor McGrath Scholarship Fund which will enable the College to 
offer an endowed tuition scholarship to a deserving student each year. 
Projected Enrollment 
A two-year enrollment projection anticipates the College's growth to a total of 1,860 students by 1972. This would be accomplished largely 
by continuing·to admit freshmen vice president will present

· ·· Istudent viewpoints on the 
classes of 500 students. a mark proposals to be considered by (Continued on page 8) --=.:th:.:..:e:.-c::.:·o:..:n;.:.J:.:m:.:it:..:t.::.ee::.:··________~ 
Education Commitee 
Faculty salaries and schools. We'll be concerned with compensations will be among the 1969-70 and 1970-71 the issues discussed this morning figures " at a meeting of the Educational The Committee will also Policy Committee of the Board discuss the feasibility of St. of Trustees, according to Dr. Mary's reviving a full fledged 1a ck Detzler, Committee credit program summer session. Executive Secretary. With the decreasing number of 
religious vocations, the need for 
a full fledged credit program"We're going to discuss the decreased. However, the collegeAmerican Association of overhead goes on. In the pastUniversity Professor's ratings. 
St. Mary's has tried to keepThey publish rating scales of down overhead hy renting dorm universities and colleges every 
facilities to conventions such as year comparing faculty salaries 
and compensations of various (Continued on page 8) 

BlOWYOURSElf U 
TO POSTER SIZE 
Send any black and whtte or 

2FT 3FT $3 SO
~~~~~o~h~~o,m~~~~~~~d ::~~J: Jl • ~;~·~~iG•:J~~~·~ooni •d:~~~~: 1 % FT. x 2 FT. $2.50 ~~~ter m:~~m !f~,S:!~::: 3 FT. X 4 FT. $7.50 
Your ori&inal returned undamaced. Add soc tor postJ&e handlina for 
EACH item ordered.· Send check. cash or M.O. (No C.O.D.) To,
BLOW·UP POBOX 589NY 10010 NY 
Michael's 

HAIR STYLING FOR MEN 
18381 Edison Rd. 
(% mile east of A.C.C.) 
Ph. 272·7.222 
Appointments if Desired 

AWARD WINNING· STYLISTS 

.STANDARD HAIRCUTS--HAIR RAZOR CUTS-HAIR STRAIGHTENING 
Missouri Wee"e~rtd

Bus to R _ldt_u;rs 
Sponsored by St. Louis Club 
Lv. Friday Noon 
~eturn  Sunday Evening  
$15/MEMBERS  $17/NON-MEMBERS  
John 1793  Jim 8138  
337W•Ish  

Tracey g~• to trustees 
St. Mary's Board of Trustees 
has issued an invitation to Ann 
Marie Tracey, student body 
president to attend their 
meeting scheduled for Friday 
afternoon. 
In making th announcement Sister Alma , acting president, stated, "This is the first time in the history of St. Mary's that the Board has issued such an 
invitation to a student " She 
added that Although Ann Marie will only be able to observe the proceedings. it is a step in the right direction. She hopes that it is the first of many such gestures. 
'"It will be a good opportunity," added Miss Tracey, ''to follow through legislation. In the past proposals would pass through all of the channels of community government and when they would be 'proposed to the Board all communication about it would cease. This invitation will strengthen the communication " she ho;Jes. 
Besides observing at the Board meeting, Miss Tracey will also meet with the Student Policy Committee Friday morning. She, Nan Kavanagh, and Jean Gorman, student hody 





Study drugs, OC 
St. Mary's College Board of Trustees is meeting this weekend -October 8 -10 -on the campus. There will be meetings of the various subcommittees of the Board, the executive committee and the associate trustees. We hope the following preview wal shed light on what will be reported and discussed at the meetings. SMC Edlitor. 
The new drug policy, 
off-campus housing, college 
expansion, and the student 
procedural manula will primarily 
concern the Studt:nt Policy 
Committee this weekend. This 
committee deals basically with 
the many diverse areas of 
student's non-academic life. 
Tested for three years, the student procedura:l manual contains statements on the rights and responsibilities of students, campus disruptions and documents all campus regulations. The first of three procedural manuals proposed by Fr. John McGrath, the former SMC president, for students, faculty, and administrators the handbooks is now in finalized form. 
Another proposal for the Board's consideration concerns a change in the present drug policy. "This proposal defines the college's responsibility to the CIVIC community on drug abuse," stated Sr. Immaculata. Campus judiciary would primarily handle drug offenses. Emphasizing positive help instead of negative punishment they plan to develop a program to aid the violator. 
The student policy committee will also vote on extension of off-campus housing. The present policy allowing students over 21 to move off campus ends this year Besides continuing it the proposal would permit juniors and any students over 21 to live away from the school According to the plan, it is the stu dents' responsibility, however, to verify that their move will not jeopardize the school financially by leaving a room vacant. 
Jean Gorman, has coordinated 
research for the final proposal, 
school expansion. 

Before the Board investigates the need of expansion to " accomodate the larger student body, students would like to prepare a definition of St. Mary's as an institution with spt:cific aims and purposes. They believe that an evaluation of the school's future would be beneficial before expansion Plans are discussed. (More details in following article.) 
SIIC report 
A comprehensive student report on SMC facilities has been prepared for the Student Polic Committee of the Board of Trustees. The report concerns study facilities the shuttle bus, the dining hall, and general dorm facilities. 
Jean Gorman, Study Body Vice-President, organizer of the report, stated its purpose chiefly to create "an awareness in the committee of the students' position in the present SMC expansion program." 
Currently. 1413 of SMC's 143 7 available beds are filled. The plan for 1971 is ot expand dorm occupancy to 1570 beds. 
Miss Gorman stated "such a survey shold have conducted a long time ago." She expressed little hope for its effect on '71 plans but feels it is a valid, necessary report. 
"Hopefully a definition of what what kind of school SMC is and wants to be will be clarified through this research. " 
Miss Gorman voiced the hope 
that "from this evaluation of facilities some of the facilities already here may be used in a better way. 
For example, she proposed that the south wing of Augusta Hall be opened for residence A 
(Continued on page 8) 

SHUBERT 

THEATRE 
22W.MONROE CE 6-8240 THRU SAT., 
OCT. 17th TickeD AYaillble It 
Box Office 

BLACKSTONE 

THEATRE 
60 E. BALBO CE 6-8240 FROM TUES., 
OCT. 20th 
Tlcketa Av•ll•ble by Mail Specl•l Conalder..lon 
for Groups Phone Merlin 

Friday, Oct. 9,1970 
THE OBSEIWER. Page 7 
NO-Army •IS not like it used to be 
Knights of the Hudson, Mr. 
The Army is coming! There Inside and Mr. Outside, the 
was a time when the mention of Lonely End, Heisman Trophy these words on a college campus winner Pete Dawkins. Truly a 
was enough to give any proud football heritage. self-respecting coach a case of But alas these arc thoughts of ulcers. These were the Black days gone by. The Army hasn't 

If the Army team is able to score tomorrow they will probably do so by passing to their ace receiver Joe Albano. 




The Irish Eye 

Last week was an exciting weekend in college football with a number of big upsets and near upsets. There are a few more games this week where nationally prominent teams will face stiff te.sts. This is the way the top attractions should turn out. 
Notre Dame over Army: At one time this was a battle of giants, unfortunately the Cadets haven't grown but the Irish arc still Coliaths. Ara can name the score for this encounter. It may be of interest to note that the most points ever scored against a!1 Armv team has been 49. 
Southern Cal over Stanford: This is the feature attraction of the afternoon. It should be a close game similar to last year's when SC won on the final play of the game. The Trojans arc just a little too clutch for Plunkett and co. 
Texas over Oklahoma: Anot]l.er close game between two bitter rival. The Longhorns seem to own fourth quarters and that's where this TV game will be won. 
Mississippi over Georgia: Archie won't have national television playing his ballad before the kickoff but he should still put on a show for the fans in Athens. Ga. 
Georgia Tech over Tennessee: This is the biggest test so far for the undefeated Yellow Jackets. They should once again send the Atlanta people home happy. 
West Virginia over Duke: Even though the Blue Devils put up a heroic fight agai-nst mighty Ohio State they won't have enough to give the Mountaineers their first defeat. 
Texas A&M over Texas Tech: Some how, some way the fighting Aggies will find a way to pull this game out. The people in College Station know that the worst part of the schedule is over. 
Florida over Florida State: The Gators should pull this one out 011 the strength of John Reaves passing arm. Look for a high scoring contest between these two intra-state rivals. 
Nebraska over Missouri: The Huskers are good, real good, but Missouri is no patsy. The nod goes to UN for their home field advantage. I 
UPSET OF THE WEEK 

Purdue over Michigan: The Boilermakers can do it again. The game is in Ross Ade Stadium and the Wolverines just haven't been that impressive in their three victories. 
In the other big college games around the country it looks like: Pitt over Navy, Penn State in a squeaker over Boston College, Syracuse over Maryland, Ohio State over Michigan State, Northweste.rn over Illinois, Wisconsin over Iowa, Minnesota over Indiana, Kansas State over Kansas, Oklahoma State over TCU, North Carolina over South Carolina, Houston to swamp Mississippi State, had a true national power since the beginning of the last decade. This is due mainly to the fact that the Military Academy just 
doesn't have the appeal to the athletes that it once had. Nonetheless, the AfiJry still •)Jays a national schedule and it holds its own against some of the weaker conference teams. 
Tomorrow, however, the Cadets have knocked on the wrong door as far as finding a weak opponent goes. They have come to the home of the third ranked Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. The Cadets are in trouble. 
This glorified series has a history that dates back to 19 I 3 when Cus Dorais threw to Knute Rockne, the day the Notre 
Dame mystique was created. Through the years rna ny more memorable games were played between the two powerhouses 
but since the dawning of the Era of Ara there really hasn't been much question as to who possesses the superior teams. 
This is the fortieth meeting of the two schools and the won-loss results arc quite lopsided in favor of ND. The Irish have won 27 of the 39 games played with four tics sprinkled in. Army has not scored on Notre Dame fn its 
last  three  meetings  with  Notre  
Dame  while  the  Irish  have  
racked up 97 points.  
But  like  the  man  said,  

anything can happen on the football field so the Irish haven't looked past the Cadets by any means. Although Tennessee beat the West Pointers 48-3 the Army did fight mighty Nebraska before yielding 28-0. 
If the Cadets are going to give 

the Irish trouble these are the men that should be watched. Bernie Wall and Bob Mohn are two quarterbacks who started at one time or another last season. Both are adequate passers and Mohn is also a good runner. 
Bill Roden a 5'10"', 190 lb. running back, is the chief overland threat for the Cadets. Roden will follow an offensive line that will be out weighed nearly 30 pounds per man. The other running back is Ray Ritacco 5'10" 195 pounder who is a strong runner and the fourth leading ground gainer from last season. 
The Cadets do have a bonafide all-East receiver in Joe Albano. Albano is a 6' senior with good moves and if his quarterback gets time to throw he may be dangerous to cover. 
The Cadets may not be able to score against the Irish (a safe bet when one considers that neither Purdue or Michigan State were able to register a tally on the board against ND) and a scoreless tie isn't a very strong possibility. 
The Cadets who must try to stop the advances of a Notre Dame offense that ranks third in the nation in total offense are Ken Wyrick (204 lb. tackle) Bob Bishop (I9 5 lb. end) and Dave Smith (the big man at 212 lb.) The ND line will hold a twenty-five pound advantage over the Cadet defense. 
Besides team offense Notre Dame boasts two individual standouts in national statistics. Tom Gatewood is the leading receiver in the country with an average of 9.3 catches per game. His quarterback, Joe Theismann, ranks fifth in total offense with 721 yards in three games. Notre Dame is also the sixth ranking team in rushing offense. 
In the injury department, Notre Dame will probably be without the services of halfback Denny Allan (ankle injury) along with Andy Huff, Dick Zielony and Mike Kadish. Another key injury that might be cause for alarm for those who become bored with the ball game is that cheerleader Terri Buck will be out of action with a pulled hamstring. 





Irish host big C-C meet 
National powers Western"' Western Michigan is unbeaten Michigan, Pittsburgh, Bowling .. Michigan, Bowling Green and this fall and this includes a 23-34 Green. Ohio University, Illinois, the Air Force Academy head a win over the Air Force. Bronco Northwestern, Air Force, classy 30-team field that will Jerry Liedenberg won the ND Eastern Kentucky, Michigan, compete in the I5th annual Invitational title last fall with a Allegany College, Aquinas Notre Dame Invitational Cross record time of 23:49. I while Central Michigan, Cleveland Country meet Friday afternoon. Sink was second (24:08), State, Drake, Eastern Illinois, 
"This is the best field we've Eastern Michigan's Dave Edinboro, Illinois-Chicago ever had, it's a preview of the Campbell third (24: 12) and Circle, Illinois State Mankato nationals " said veteran Notre Richey fourth (24: I 7). State Marquette North Central Dame coach Alex Wilson. Campbell also returns along with St. John's, Minn. Taylor 
The five mile test will start at eight of the top ten finishers Augustana. Westen Illinois and 2 PJL (EST) on the Burke from last year. Valparaiso. Memorial Golf Course at the Teams entered include host The host Irish are J-1 University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Western Michigan, following 1543 
win at 
The list of outstanding 1969 runner-up Eastern Valparaiso last Friday.
individual·; entered includes some of the top distance men in the collegiate ranks. The 
Denver keeps Simpson 
pre-meet favorite is Ohio 
University senior Bob Bertelsen, the defending NCAA outdoor six-mile champion. Bertelsen is unbeaten in the past I I cross country dual meets. 
Bertelsen will have strong competition from Bowling Green's Sid Sink and Dave Wottle, .J crry Richey of Pittsburgh and a trio of Western Michigan runners Sink is a two-time CC All American and is the current NCAA steeplechase champion while Wottle finished 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Ralph Simpson's battle from now on will be on a basketball court instead of in a court of law. 
The  6  S guard,  who signed  
while  he  still  had  two  years'  
eligibility  to  play -for  Michigan  

State, was granted official ~ermission Wednesday by the American Basketball Association to play for the Denver Rockets 
Permission for Simpson to dol'l a Rocket uniform came after a federal court ruled in his college eligib tlity remamm!J except in cases of h&rdship, and Simpson, with eight younger brothers and sisters, qualified as an exception to the rule. 
Rally lfW)Yed ...... 
Once again there has been a change in plans for the Friday night pep rally. Since seats were not attainable for a rally in front of the Biology Building the rally • has been moved to the front of Sorin Hall. Access to the 
Auburn over Clemson, Alabama over Vanderbilt, Louisiana State second in the NCAA outdoor Convocation Center was not
favor seventeen days ago in a over Pacific (Who?), UCLA over Oregon, Oregon State over Utah, mile finals in I 970 as a ·suit against the ABA and Denver available and Stepan Center was Air Force over Tulane, California over Washington, Colorado over sophomore. Richey, likewise, is club. being used. Iowa State, and Arkansas over Baylor. a CC All American and one of It is against ABA rules for a The time and speakers have ­Last week: 25 of 30 Season percentage: .772 the nation's premier milers. remained the same.
team to sign a player with 
-=-P=agc::....e-=--8 ________________'THE. OBSERfJER. _________ Friday, Oct. 9, 1970 
------------------~ 
Santa Barbara, Washington, South Bend hit 
an escape attempt The judge blast that there was a "'big bomb and three of his kidnapers were in the courthouse in San shot to death. Rafael." 
An anonymous woman caller The Santa Barbara blast at warned five minutes before the 4:17 a.m. came from a bomb 
Student report 
Besides surveying our own

(Continued from page 6) 
facilities, an attempt is beingresultmg population decrease in made at comparing ours withLeMans and Holy Cross would other colleges of a similar sizeenable certain rooms on each and nature.
residence floor to be converted The students working on this to study rooms. 
report under the direction ofA survey of study facilties Miss Gorman are: Amyshows that in Augusta Hall there Alsopiedy, Kathy Barlow, Maryare 4.5 girls per chair, 6 girls per Bernath, Teeta Bliley, Margaretchair in Regina and Holy Cro~s. 
Conwell, Jeanne Crouere, Susie15 in LeMans. and 10 in Dorn, Kathy Eglet Lisa Elk,
McCandless. The library 
Anne Meuleman, Marilynaccomodates 238 students. A Morman, Anne Radford, and limited number of chairs are Mary Ann Weiss. 

available in the study lounges of Mad eleva. In response to the question, 

Expansion plans 

"why not study in your own 
(U.mtinued from page 6)

room?" Miss Gorman pointed out that with the absence of a reached for the first time this Studnt Union our rooms are a September, thereby leveling the 
place to relax and entertain upperclasses to a number friends. This condition makes between 350 and 400. room studying very difficult." Anticipated in the enrollment 
Shuttle buses are extremely figures are a resident student overcrowded. According to a population of 1,610 and an head count last week, at one increase in foreign study 
point ther were one hundred programs from the current 67 passengers on a week-day students to 125 students by morning shuttle. 1972. 
IF IT WAS TROUBLE HE WANTED IT! 





tnnv 
ADULTS ONLY 

FREE .•• lor lbve 
HUNGRY••• 
lor adventure! 

-AND ARACE AGAINST DEATH FOR AWOMAN'S PASSION! 
Unlimited 
FREE NOW
PARKING 
.. 
Doors open daily 1:30 P.M. Feature at 2:00, 5:15, 8:30 
FOR THE FIRST TIME 
COME ANYTIME

IN HISTORY YOU CAN 
FOR THE TIME

SEE'HELI.D.DOLLY!' 
OF YOUR LIFE!

AT POPULAR PRICES! 
• 
IlDlA S1'IEISIID · W1L1111111'111AU 
IIICIIIIL C:UWI'OIII 

iil~~-0.1 
~~~~'fifii uiiii flliR£006 .ifi"1ij lliiiifiii _"::., jiij.;:;;:+ ACADE=~N:~:.?rfs~ 
planted against the base of the A caller warned security lives and safety of persons 
on north side of I he huildirll! behind police of the bombs 22 minutes the campus, university before they went off. The executive Vice President Philip a drain pipe. The location was building's lone occupant, a on the only side not protected janitor, escaped. W. Cartwright said. "'This has to by a high chain link fence be the work of a fanatic." The Seattle Times also 
The South Bend, Ind. fire received a calL from a woman 
bombs were hurled into a highA door was blown off its who said, "'You better send a school , a store and a residence.
hinges, several windown blown reporter to the University of Dam<.~ge to the Nuway ft:ed store out and a large hole blown out Washington. Tht! ROTC building 
was estimated at $230 000. of a wall. is about to be blown up." School officials said considemble damage was inflicted to 
No one was inside the Seattle police said the total classrooms in LaSalle Highbuilding at the time. blast equalled that of about 20 School.
The Seattle explosions at sticks of dynamite. 
2:44 a.m.. sprayed broken glass 50 feet from the building, Financial areas
"I am shocked at such wanton 
touched off a fire which was 
destruction and the threat to 
(OmtirtUed from page 6)

quickly extinguished and caused an estimated $100,000 damage. sources of college income after examining the jncoming expenses for this yearSr. AIIM reports Student Government leaders this year would like to place a 
(Continued from page 6) 
student on this committee
speaking on Placement facilities 
the National Mobile Home at SMC. Sister Basil Anthony explained 
Convention, and has relied also The purpose of the that Father McGrath felt that the students really did not bring
on various institutes and Educational Polky Committee is 
workshops on campus. the expertise that would merit
to consider and make 
''Preliminary investigation their putting so much time into
recommendations concerningwould seem to indicate that the committee.
the College's broad policies on 
probably the ·patter we have Sister added that "this is not
education and research and 
been following during the past an area which is problematic to
academic probllems of the 
several years best meets the students " She could not justify
College and its several situation -that is, the schedule the time a student would need
departments. It is made up of 
of workshops, institutions and to prepare for the meetings and
three members o the Board of 
the renting of our dormitory she added a student would need
Trustees, Dr. Deltzler, two facilities to outside groups" Dr. faculty members, and one a hroad perspective and Detzler feels that it would be experience in financial matters.
student. appropriate to at least see if students could be attracted to a 
•

full credit summer program. 

Violenc:e 1n South Bend
Also under discussion at today's meeting will be the various counseling services (Continued from Page I) incidents of fire bombings last offered to St. Mary's students. 
suspend<~d from classes in night in the third night of Among the speakers will be Sr. 
connection with the troubles.. disorders in the South Bend Jeanne Finske Academic Dean, Most of the students arrested community following Tuesday'sspeaking on academic counseling Wednesday, about half white outbreak of racial violence in services; Mrs. Mary Martucci 
LaSalle High School. speaking on student counseling, 
ami half black, wer<~ taken into 
custody after they refused to
and Miss Janice Wheaton, 
break up gatherings at the 
Fire Department officials saidschool. 
Thursday's bombings centered in
artists 
As many as fiv<~ firebombs 
the south side of the city after
poets 
were thrown into the LaSalle 
two nights of trouble on the
essayists 
school Wednesday night hut no 
north side. The first two fires,
photographers 
extensive damage resulted. 
on Rush St. and Elder street
lo1'ers of life 
llowever , considerable damage 
were handled and controlkd 
was done by a firebomb thrown 
quickly, but a third fire had
at the Nu Way gmin elevator and 
started just as the Elder street
contribute to: 

store. 
blaze was extinguisht!d. Addendum
CHIMES 

No report on the extl!nt of 
124 Madeleva 

the damages was available nor
The South Bend Fire 
Department reported three more was it disclosed if the South lknd police had made any arrests in connect ion with the 
St. Mary's 
FEATURE TIMES 

incidents. The Fir!! Dept did
11 :45-3:45-5:4!\ 

report that police officials were
NOW 
7:45-9:45 

accompanying tht•m to each fire and conducting investigations at
Last 5 Days 
the scenes.

£'' 
Presents A Howard W Koch -Alan Jay Lerner 
Product<on Slarnng f):):)!)iii; 
Yves Montand 



On A (~/earoayJ'PucanSeeFotever 
Based upc•n the llltusat Play On A Clear You Can See Forever
JohnWayne 


is "Chisum" 
Phone 288-8488 
For Show Times 





