Irish, Longhorns Tie For I st 
......see sports on page 3 for details..... . 
Vol. V. No. 44 
SL C sets Appeals Board Soph cars also discussed 

By Don Ruane cal Engineering Professor. Arthur car on campus. The costs include 
J. Quigley; Students: Juniors security patrols, preventive light­In a meeting last night the Peter Boid, and Tim Kuntz and ing and maintanance of the park­Student Life Council unani­Sophomore Steven J eselnick. ing lots. 

mously approved the recommen­The alternates will serve when Discussion of the issue wasdation of the Appeals Board an appointed board member opened by Dean of Students
Nominating Committee that 
cannot serve on any given case. Rev. James L. Riehle whoLaw School Dean William B. 

The board members and alter­presented arguments against theLawless, Sociology professor nates were nominated by a three proposal. "I honestly just don'tJohn Koval and Junior Greg 

believe we have space for an

Potts be appointed to the man committee composed of The SLC 
Professor Paul F. Conway, stu­additional three or four hundredAppeals Board provided for in dent Mark Zimmerman and cars," said Riehle. He said this anyone having a car on campus of the C2 lot (an off-campus lotthe judicial code enacted on May University Vice-President and year's freshmen class is the but the parking facilities cannot located north of the aero-spacetwenty-seventh. 

General Counsel Philip J. largest yet and that per centage accomodate that many auto­building) be surfaced with gravel The board will hear any Faccenda. wise, there will be more cars by mobiles. and be designated D3 for on­appeals to decisions handed In the only other business the time the present sophomores Sophomore Class Executive campus parking. The off-campusdown by the University Board. 
brought to the floor at the meet­are seniors than at present. Coordinator Gary Caruso students would park in the lotIt has the power to uphold Uni­
ing, the issue of Sophomore cars Personally, Riehle said he sees respopded to Fr. Riehle's P!.esen­

versity Board decisions or send on campus was assigned to a "nothing incompatible" about tation. He proposed that the rear (Continued on Page 2)cases back to the board if it committee until all relatedfeels the evidence presented does problems could be considerednot justify the verdict. 
and the committee can presentLawless, Kovel and Potts one proposal regarding the 

Clarke prophesies of 200 I
represent the administration, feasibility of the issue to thefaculty and students respective­entire SLC. It is hoped that the pen up a tremendous amount ot
ly. Alternates for each area were of technological advances begin­
By Art Ferranti 

also appointed at the meeting. proposal will be made before the ning with piped water, indoor land which Clarke hoped would
Arthur C. Clarke, inventor of

They are Administrators: Fresh­end of the semester. pi urn bing, gas heating and be left for wilderness which man
the first communications satel­

man year dean William Burke, The committee will consult cooking, the telephone, and the needs both physically and
lite in 1945 and co-author of the

Asst. Dean of Business Admini­with University Provost Rev. electric light. Once family units mentally.
novel and movie 2001, A Space

stration Vincent Raymond and James T. Burtchaell regarding were very self-contained but It will cost billions to make
Odyssey, spoke last night on life

Asst. Dean of Arts and Letters academic considerations and even now that is changing im­the machinery necessary for his
in the year 200 I to a capadty

Robert Waddick; Faculty: with Vice President of Business mensely. The only home pre­food conversion, Clarke said, but
audience in Washington Hall. 

Mechanical Engineering Profes­Affairs Rev. Jerome J. Wilson to paration now left is the meals, that once this is made the cost
Following introductions by 

sor Albert E. Miller and Electri-consider the costs of keeping a said Clarke, and that will soon will be relatively small. 
Prof. Emil Hoffman and Dean 

be in the past due to dehydrated We will go back to the village
Waldmen, Clarke first set the 

foods (approximately 90% of all as a way of life in the future,
audience at ease with a few

Meagher speaks of women 
food is water). One hundred Clarke claimed. We will learn
anecdotes concerning the motto
He also attacked the present

By Ann Therese Darin pounds of food per family per how to ~.ore electricity and have 
of the Mystery Writers of
concepts of marriage and month would be all that is completely mobile homes. ThereRobert Meagher, Notre Dame Ameri~.:a ("Crime does not pay­

maturity. "We need to seriously necessary to sustain life. All one will be no shortage of space.

theology professor, added a new enough") and that of the
give children meaningful rituals would have to do is add water According to Clarke, we aredimension to the women's liber­Science Fiction Writers of

so that when they come of age, and cook for lO minutes. now on the verge of the greatestation movement last night by Ame!i~.:a ("The future is not

we dor,'t give them the car keys Natural reproduction of communication revolution inclaiming that although women what it used to be"). This

and a can of beer or a military animals may possibly be outla~­history. Two advances of mod­should not be denied their "modern Jules Verne" said this

uniform and we won't marry ed due to the slowness of this ern science have put us at thatrights, they should evaluate the was the first time in history man

them in a carnival atmosphere process compared to the need of point, said Clarke. They are theworth of those rights to see if that quickly collapses," he con­has begun to look seriously the people. Clarke said,"For coming of solid stage electronics they are worth fighting for. toward his future. He said that it

tinued. 

every man to eat a pound of initiated by the invention of theSympathizing with woman In their place, he, repulsed in meat, ten men must starve." The transistor and the communica­and "her apparently sterile life the same way as Miss Jane answer is to turn to new food tions satellites. At the end of theand home amounting to a cycli­Fonda by the great stress being sources such as the hippopota­century, Clarke proposed, therecal accomplishment of nothing," placed on materialism, would mus and the sea. will be enough communicationMeagher championed the cause reinstitute the basic function of Clarke pursued the latter satellites in orbit "for the wholeof women's equality by reading human life instead of concen­point in detail pointing out that human race to pair off and talksome remarks which he intends trating on political activities as man is still a primitive hunter to itself."
to publish in an article for the Miss Fonda has advocated. He and that his new domain will be Instead of telephones in our
St. Anthuny'sMessenger. 
would reconstruct the human the sea. We will go to the sea for homes we would have a device"We can't deny people the situation with a greater emphasis new farming techniques and man

right to feed at the trough," he 
with a television screen audio 
on personal human experien­may possibly herd whales. This devices, and a small computer.

explained. Although he supports c<>s -opposed to the purely brought up the moral question This, said Clarke, would meanwoman in her freedom drive, he mechanical value of production. man having the right to slaughter the end of newspapers becausetermed the values that she is Specifically, he suggested the mammals with nearly the same all one would have to do is lookstriving for as worthless. expansion of the nuclear family intelligence as man such as the on this TV screen and zoom inHe cited education as one unit to a more communal way of Arthur C. Clarke whale and dolphin. Clarke jibed what he wishes to read. One
example of lost significance. It has degenerated, he revealed, Jiving. He also encouraged a was an impossibility to actually that we had better not start could also read any piece of more complete experience of killing dolphins since they are literature ever written by dialing
"into a massive four-year version predict the future but he did
and reverence for the signifi'cant one of the few animals left into a universal library and let­
of a summer camp in which the outline possible future technolo­events of human life such as, gies. which seem to get along with ting the sel0ction appear on the
imagination is progressivelydeadened for what society calls a birth, death, coming of age, and He pointe out that in the past man. screen providing of course, that job." coming to know by placing them new inventions were doubted Inevitably, though, the main we do not mis-dial the needed 
IPOCiocacc~t_e....,IOC~:teoCICIOCICID hack in to the home. and that their far reaching effect bulk of the food production of 30 digit number. emmder To illustrate the dilemma of the future will come from inor­The most important use of
on the role of man was not There are still SOO football today's values, he quoted a forseen. He predided two defi­ganic materials, said Clarke. Al­this system in the opinion of 
tickets needed for all the child-Shoshone Indi<~n chief, "You ask nite events of the future, ready in England beef is being Clarke is direct hradcasting from ren invited to see the Georgia me to cut the grass and make though: (I) conta..:ts with extra­synthesized to the point that the space. This will not appear in Tech game this Saturday. The hay and sell it, and to be rich terrestials and ( 2) the Rise of the protein one would eat would this country for another ten Observer urges you to donate like the white man. But how Ultra-intelligent ma~.:hines. When look, smell. and taste like beef ye<~rs but plans are already being your ticket at the ACC ticket dare I cut my mother's hair'! that happens, he qJtipped, "all and only sell for 1 S cen·ts a laid sown in India for such a office before five o'clock today. Shall I take a knife, the plow bets are off." pound. Three percent of all the system. For each receiving unit 
':our generosity will be appre-and cut my mother's breasts? The year 2001, said Clarke, is petroleum if converted to pro­it would only cost the govern­
c1ated for years to come .by an My young men will never work. as far off as 1890 because 1890 tein can feed all of mankind. ment a few thousand dollars 
underprivileged child. Men who work cannot dream was the beginning of a new era This would phase out 
(Continued on page 4)

agriculture, Clarke said, and o-
o=-----------·:aodl and wisdom comes in dreams." 

Page 2 THE OBSERfJER Tuesday, Nov. 10 
for ND men the Continental Wav 

Peter Groce back '" • news 

Razor Cuttin!l 3! Style Eur!!pean Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
Have  Long  Hair  &  Let  Miss  Treva  &  The  Baron  
Be  Well  Groomed  Serve  &  Pamper  Y au  
306 S'lerland  Bldg.  
South  Bend,  Ind.  Student  Rates  
234-0811  
By  Appt.  

We are adoptive parents. Our children were given the gift of life by men and women other than ourselves. Our children live now because these women and men chose life instead of death. We can never comprehend the suffering they endured. But we shall always be thankful for their courage and generosity. Their gift of life shall flourish. 
-A Notre Oame faculty ~e~ber and wife 
Confidential counselling regarding adoptions is available for men 
and women at these local agencies: Catholic Social Services, Family 
and Children's Center, <!nd St. Joseph County Welfare Department. 

tics indicating that the W.R. 
A rumor leaked by an admin­

Grace Company was interested 
istrative source that University 

in the people of the area and not 
Trustee J. Peter Grace had re­
just profits. 
fused to make any financial con­

Several students challenged
tributions to the University this 

the figures and questioned 
year because of an incident last 

Grace's integrity, claiming the 
spring was termed "unfounded 

facts were fabricated. One stu­
and false" by Grace yesterday 

dent acknowledged by Grace to
afternoon from his executive of­

present a question climbed on
fice in New York City. 
stage and began reading from a pamphlet that American cor­porations are interested solely in profits and not the people who work for the corporations 
Grace said the response was generally favorable but some in­dividual responses were "unsatis­factory." He described these in­dividuals as "a few bad apples." 
Grace, who is President of the 

Soplt cor privileges discussed
W.R. Grace Company based in New York said he has not been (Continued from Page 1) asked to contribute this year and that he is still completing pay­south of the stadium. ments on a pledge from last Caruso said the new off­year. campus lot would be empty 
Last May Grace was asked to after class hours except for those defend his company's interests who are studying in the library in Latin America. In town for a and would be empty overnight Board of Trustees meeting, and on home football weekends Grace met with a number of stu­and ACC events. The new D3 lot dents in the Library Auditorium. would satisfy the sophomore At t!!_e meeti!_!g_Grace read statis-requests Jor this year and 

Sure, you got through Shakespeare in class. You can even quote lines from his plays. 
But have you ever walked down the streets where he walked? Like Henley Street where he was born. Or visited Hall's Croft, the home ofhis daughter Susanna? Or some of the other homes he held dear? Because only then can you truly understand the man and his times. 
There's somuchmoreyoucan learn about history simply by being where it happened. 


r----------------,
I BRITISH TOURIST AUTHORITY 
I Box9ZJ,Dept.CN-l,N.Y.,N.Y.IOOI9 I Send me your free booldet: I Britain for Young People.I
I Name___________ I1 College:__________
I 
Address._________I City·__________ I State Zip.____ 
L---------------~ 

And in Britain you can travel through thousands of years of history. And you can do it on a very limited budget. 
To find out about accommodations for as little as $J a night (full English breakfast included), places where lunch or dinner costs $1.50, special discount tickets and lots more ways to save money, send for our free booklet: Britain for Young People. 
It's one way to get acquainted with the right people and places. 
possibly for tlie next few years. 
Fr. Reihle replied that the new D3 lot would not satisfy sophomore needs because the lot is now used by a large number of faculty members and this usage will increase when the new biology building is opened. As for putting a gravel surface behLnd the present C2 lot,· Rieule said this would amount to putting a gravel surface in the outfield of the baseball diamond. 
He explained that even if there were areas that could be surfaced with gravel it is too late to begin the project because the worst months for weather are beginning to arrive. There would be problems with mud and snow because the gravel would not be well packed and is difficult to plow when covered with snow. 
After further discussion stu­dent representative Tom Schoaf asked the committee to produce one proposal, hopefully before the semester's end, as to the feasibility of sophomore car privileges. The proposal was amended to include consultation with Fr. Burtchaell and Fr. Wilson. 
Corr~tion 


PRE-LAW SOCIETY -Southern ' Methodist University School of 
Law is scheduling interviews for 
prospective students on Thursday, 
November 12 in room 205 Busi· ness Bldg. Sign up fQ! appoint· rnents outside room 101 O'Shau hn 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY-Washing· ton and Lee University School of Law is scheduling interviews for prospective students on Thursday, November 12 in room 205 Busi­ness Bldg. Sign up for appoint· ments outside room 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
The Cultural Arts Com­mission's Contemporary Arts Festival Presents 
The San Fransisco Mime Troupe 
(as seen on the cover of Ramparts Magazine) 
Tonight-8:30pm­O'Laug!tlin Aud. $2.00; CAF patrons free 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob· server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Tuesday, Nov. 10 7118 OBSERVER. Page 3 



Texas' close call tightens poll race 
(UPI) -Stanford has its bowl 

of roses but Texas' drive toward 
the Cotton Bowl and a national 
title met near disaster. 
The No. 5 Stanford Indians 

clinched their first trip to the 
Rose Bowl with a 29-22 victory 

over Washington Saturday that 
featured Jim Plunkett's four 
touchdown passes. 

Texas ranked No. I, is seeking a double slam as collegiate champion and the Southwest Conference Cotton Bowl repre­sentative this season. 
Third ranked ·Ohio State moved closer to a Rose Bowl bid by creaming Wisconsin 24-7 and No. 2 Notre Dame took a giant step toward a Cotton or Orange Bowl invitation with a 46-14 demolition job on Pittsburgh. 
Fourth ranked Nebraska, the Big Eight Conference's potential Orange Bowl entry, mauled Iowa State 54-29. 
Only one of the top I 0 ranked teams met defeat Satur­day -seventh rated AirForce, losing to Oregon 46-35. Sixth ranked Michigan beat Illinois 42-0. No. 8 Arkansas trampled Rice 38-14. No. 9 Auburn swamped Mississippi State 56-0 and tenth rated Tennessee edged South Carolina 20-18. 
Individual performances counting toward the Heisman Trophy were in evidence among 
the  nation's  All-America candi­ 
dates,  but  Mississippi's  bowl  
dreams  and  Archie  Manning's  

trophy ambitions were both chilled when the Ole Miss quarterback broke his left fore­arm during a 24-13 win over Houston. Manning threw two scoring strikes before his injury. 
Plunkett established his right to individual honors with the touchdown pass barrage for Stanford. The fourth TD toss overcame Washington's 22-21 lead in the final period and brought Stanford the Pacific Eight Conference title and the first trip to Pasadena in 19 years. 
Notre Dame quarterback Joe Theismann guided the Fighting Irish to their seventh straight win as he threw three TD passes 

Sports Shorts 
And now it's a two-man race for the Heisman Trophy. A race between Jim Plunkett, who fills the air with footballs at Stanford, and that wee lad, Joe Theismann, who quarterbacks the Fighting Irish. 
Early season contenders Jimmy Jones of USC, Rex Kern of Ohio State, and Archie Manning of Mississippi have fallen by the wayside. Jones' Trojan club has lost three games and tied another and he is, for this season, a torgotten man. Kern's Buckeyes are unbeaten but Rex isn't performing as well as had been expected. Manning, who received such a great pre-season buildup, largely lived up to his reputation but his broken arm, suffered last Saturday, will hamper his chances of receiving college football's top individual award. 
That leaves Plunkett and little Joe. 
Plunkett is probably the best passer in the college ranks this season. He has accounted for more total offensive yards than any other player in major college history. He should be the first quarterback selected in the professional football draft. Those are just a few of his most impressive credentials. 
But I'd like to do a little tub-thumping for Theismann. 
The Irish have had some great quarterbacks through the years. Paul Hornung, John Lujack, Angelo Bertelli, Ralph Guglielmi, John Huarte, and Terry Hanratty have starred at QB for Notre Dame. All were first team All-Americans at least once and four, Hornung, Lujack, Bertelli, and Huarte, won the Heisman Trophy. And Theismann is better than all of them. At least the record book says so. 
Last Saturday agajnst Pitt the South River Roadrunner displaced HanrattY as the all-time Notre Dame. leader in total offensive yards and moved· ahead of the immortal George Gipp in total performance yards. If Theismann can maintain his current season and career completion percentages he will set records in those categories. 
His three touchdown tosses against the Panthers boosted Joe s career total to 29, more than any other passer in Notre Dame history. Theismann needs but three more TD passes this season to set a single season record for touchdown passes. 
In addition to his outs.tanding statistics, Theismann ll..as earned praises for his proficiency as a quarterback from the coaches of Notre Dame and the seven clubs he and the Fighting Irish have demolished this season. 
Carl DePasqua of Pitt said, "He's the best I've seen in a long, long time and that takes in 17 years of coaching." · 
Rick Forzano of Navy -"Any great team like Notre Dame has to have one super player that makes it go. It's obvious that...Theismann is the man that does this." 
Mizzou coach Dan Devine claimed Theismann was "the best quarterback I've seen in a long time. He can throw from any position and he is a good leader." 
And Joe is a winner. Since taking over the quarterbacking chores from Hanratty in the next-to-last game of the '68 season Theismann has directed the Irish to a 16-2-2 record. 
At a luncheon in Chicago the week after Notre Dame"stvictory over the Missouri Tigers Theismann was quoted as saying, "It's a nice dream and what kid wouldn't want to win the Heisman Trophy? But right now I just want to win five more games for Notre Dame." 
He and his mates have won two of those five games and, now that they are ranked No. 1 in the country the pressure will really be on them to win their last Nl.ree games. But Theismann thrives on pressure and, at season's end, Moose Krause could very well add two trophies to the glittering cotl.ection in the Convo -the national championship trophy courtesy of Ara's Fighting Irish, and the Heisman Trophy, courtesy of Joe Theis mann. 
and ran up 381 yards in total offense. Theismann's perfor­mance gave him a varsity career total of 4,853 yards, a school . record that surpassed the marks of Terry Hanratty and the leg­
endary George Gipp. 
Texas compressed its scoring 

into three second period touch­
downs against Baylor with full­
back Steve Worster going over from the one twice and quarter­back Eddie Phillips scoring on a five yard keeper. 
Full back John Brockington scored all three Ohio State touchdowns on runs of II, 4 and 1 yard and Fred Schram booted a 23 yard field goal for Ohio State as the Buckeyes re­mained unbeaten and untied through seven games. State has an easy opponent in Purdue this Saturday and then meets tough Michigan in its Big Ten finale. 
In other top games Arizor;a State beat San Jose State 46-10; LSU topped Alabama 1~-9; San Diego State nipped Pacific 14-13; Dartmouth drubbed Columbia 55-0; and Toledo beat Northern Illinois 45-7. Tampa, the small college leader, defeated Southwest Louisiana 59-38. 


Ruggers raise record 
by J. W. Findling Observer Sportswriter 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club added another victory to its fine fall season by pasting John Carroll 20-1 I on Saturday morn­ing behind Stepan Center. It was a see-saw battle, and the Irish ruggers, who now have a 5-l season record, did not pull away until the second half. 
John Carroll, who were 6-1 coming into the game, opened quickly with a try and a conver­sion to secure a 5-0 lead. But Notre Dame wiped out the Blue Streak lead with two tries--one a blazing >40-yard dash by Herb Giorgio, the other a powerful run by Charley Blum. Both Irish conversions were missed, and a penalty . kick by John Carroll gave the Blue Streaks an apparent 8-6 halftime lead. Then little Bill Berry, who is certainly one of the finest halfbacks in the Midwest, exploded on a brilliant 30-yard run into the end zone. It was Berry's first score of the sea­son, and after Charley JBlum's conversion, the Irish led at half­time 11-8. 
In the second half John Carroll tied the game early with another penalty kick. The winn­ing Irish points came after a high kick by Blum. Tom Herlihy caught it and lateraled it to Berry. Berry tossed the ball to Giorgio who ran in for the try. Pete Hartney and Mark Rubinelli both added tries later in the half to complete the scoring. 
Once again the game was high­lighted by the fine defense and kicking of Jim Hagen barth. Phil Krause and John Zukaitis did a fine job of controlling the line­outs for the Irisli. 
The Notre Dame "B" team suffered their second loss in a real heartbreaker 8-6. The Blue Streaks scored a try just before the game ended for the victocy. The "B" team is now 4-2. 

The Irish ruggers play their last home game next Saturday morning behind Stepan against the Chicago Lyons Rugby Club. The Lyons team is considered as one of the three best in the Mid­west (along with the Irish). "8" game starts at 9:00am followed by the "A" game. It should be a great game. So, if you're giving up your ticket to the Georgia Tech game and you still want"to see some good hitting on Satur­day, the rugby game will sub­stitute nicely. It won't be on TV. 
Booters fop West. Illinois 
The Notre Dame soccer club turned in one of their best per­formances this season last Satur­day as they handed a highly touted Western Illinois team a 

5-3  setback  behind the  Stepan  
Center.  
The  Irish  hooters built up  a  

4-0 lead early in the third quarter of play but Western Illinois struck back for three tallies in the third stanza to keep the pressure on. The Irish did not fall apart, however, and Rick Coleman put the game out of reach of West. Illinois by head­ing in a 15 foot shot in the fourth quarter for Notre Dame's final goal. 
Hugh Schoemaker notched the game's first marker, left­footing a short shot into the lower right-hand corner of the net midway through the first quarter. 
Jack Goldkamp chipped a 25 yard shot into the net in the second quarter, kicking the ball just under the crossbar and over 


UP/Poll 
The results of Yesterdays poll of football coaches were a little close to say the least. Texas the defending champion and on-rushing Notre Dame have tied for the Number One position. Each posted 13 first place votes and a combined 310 points. 
I. Notre Dame(l3) 7-0 310 2. Texas(13) 7-0 310 3. Ohio State (7) 7-0 281 4. Nebraska (2) 8-0-1 243 5. Michigan 8-0 218 6. Stanford 8-1 176 7. Auburn 7-1 108 8. Arkansas 7-1 85 9. Louisiana St. 6-1 69 10. Tennessee 7-1 52 II. Arizona St. 7-0 41 12. Air Force 8-1 14 13. Mississippi 6-1, 12 14. Dartmouth 7-0 7 I 5. (Tie) Alabama s--4 4 
(Tie) USC 5-3-1 4 
17. (Tie) San Diego St. 8-0 2 (Tie) UCLA 6-3 · 2 
19. Toledo 9-0 . . . . 1 the goalie's out-stl..:tched hands, to send the Irish oti the field at halftime. with a 2-0 advantage. 

The Notre Dame hooters appeared to have the game wrapped up when they added two quick scores early in the third stanza and built up a 4-0 lead. Chris Hanlon took a pass from Mike Macken, who had a free kick, and drilled the ball into the net from short range for Notre Dame's third tally and G a ry Troy netted a short shot for the fourth marker. 
Western Illinois suddenly came alive, however, striking back for three goals~fore the end of the third quarter to cut the Irish lead to 4-3. 
Coleman's fourth qUarter goal provided the clincher for Notre Dame however. 

The Irish hooters now boast a 54-2 record this year. They are in action again· this weekend. traveling to Washington U. in St. Louis for a Sunday encounter. 
Archie is hospitalized 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (UPI) ­Mississippi quarterback Archie Manning was admitted to the Campbell Clinic section of Bap­tist Hospital Sunday in prepara­tion for surgery on his broken left arm which apparently has ended his collegiate football career. 
Manning, accompanred by his mother and fiancee, was checked quietly into the hospital and placed in an eighth floor room to await surgery planned for this morning. 
Manning said doctors had assured him his injured arm would be as "good as new" after surgery. 
Obviously downhearted he said he would help Ole Miss in any way he could from the. side­lines for the rest of the season. 
The red-haird senior broke the arin in the third period ·of the Houston-Mississippi game Satur­day as he was trying to pass. Earlier, he. had thrown two t<Jlchdown passes to start the R)bels on a 24-13 vi.ct~y over the Cougars. 
"Archie said 'Coach I've hurt my arm. I can't stay in'" interim Coach Frank Kinard said. 
Two hours later X·rays at Lafayette County Hospital showed a fracture of the radius, the large bone in the left fore­arm just above the wrist. 
It was an abrupt halt to a spectacular three year college football career that .many believed would culminate this season in a Southeastern Confer­ence championship for the Rebels, a 14th consecutive major bowl appearance, and the Heis­man Trophy for Manning. 
Dillon, Keenan reach ployoHs 
Interhall football playoffs will begin Sunday with Keenan meet­ing Breen-Philips at l: 30 for the North Quad championship, and Dillon ·facing Morrissey at 2:45 for South Quad honors. 
Dillon eked out aJil 8-6 victory over Alumni Sunday to win their division title. Alumni was stopped on the one yard line on the final play of · the game, following a pass interference play that began on the Dillon eight yard line. The ball was placed on the one, abut Dillon held and preserved tHeir victory. Dillon had scored on a three yard run and made a two point conversion on a broken play. Alumni scored on a 10 yard pass that was dipp"ed by a Dillon defender. 
In a rugged defensive battle, Keenan edged Grace 6-0 and won. their conference title. 

Tuesday,.Nov. 10

Page4 THE OBSERfJER. 
Mary Chris-
Hope your footsie gets 
better real soon. Love, The Staff 


A honoar•ph 
.. noBett• Thlln Its' Pickup 


C•rtrldae 
True high fidelity sound re-crea­tion pegins at the source of souna Just as a camera is no 
better than its lens, a phonograph system is no better than its cartridge. This breathtakingly pre­cise miniaturized electric gener­ator (that's what it really is) must carry the full burden of trans­ating the stereo record groove Into usable electrical impulses ­and should do this without adding or subtracting from what is on the recording. Knowing this, Shure quality standards are rigidly main­tained at the highest levels. 
V-15 Type II (Improved) 
$67.50 
Phono Cartridge 
The overwhelming choice of critics 
RMS Audio also features the Shure M9JE cartridge ­second only to the incompar­able VJ5-ll. This very popu­lar cartridge has a list price of $49,95, but sells at RMS for 
only $25.00. 
t 
ci 
i 

RMSAUDIO 
1307 E. CALVERT Pholljl288-1681 
~~· 
OPEN 3-8M-TH 
1-4:30 SUNandFRI CLOSED SATURDAY 

ost in the direction of' Saturday's sunset, probably as a tag-along companion to children: a nine-months old, brown and white, male cocl<er spaniel answering to the name of DARBY O'Gill 
Chiefly notable as the love object of the Rector and maids of Keenan. Principally addicted to carmel corn, the girls of Regina, animals to scamper on the lawns with, and a privately-owned, red rubber boot. 
If found, please contact the Kennel Master, 120 Keenan 






acific gas 
8:30, friday, nov. 13 stepan center tickets $2.50 at student 
union ticket office 


clric 
Clarke talks of man's future 
(Continued from Page 1) 
compared to the billions spent on the land communications 
systems of today.  
Clarke  pointed  out  that  this  
was  a  practical  use  of  space  
exploration  to  solve  a  social  

problem. "One TV set in a vil­lage could start a revolution," • said Clarke. They would be used 
for educational purposes 
15,800,000 
COLLEGE­STUDENTS CAN'T BE WRONG 
By conserva­tive estimate more than fifteen million college students have used Cliff's Notes since we became America's first literary study aid. This prefer­ence continues to build-for two big reasons: 


1 I QUALITY-The easy-to­
understand commentary and explanation you get from Cliff's 
Notes result from painstaking work by our board of authors. 
Predominantly Ph.D.'s, these scholars are specially selected for their knowledge of particular works and for their ability to make these works meaningful to you. 
2/ AVAILABILITY-Cliff's Notes concentrate on giving you all the plays and novels most frequently assigned in college. If your dealer is temporarily out of the title you need, ask him to call us on his speciai"Hot Line." 
Buy Cliff's Notes today-they're a bargain in understanding college literature assignments. 
$1 at your bookseller or write: 
Box 80728 
Lincoln. Nebraska 6850 I 

and 
The impact of communica· tions on the future will be "over­whelming" said Clarke. Just as the railroad and the telegraph made possible the United States of the past, so now will the jet plane and communication satel­lites make ready the future. 
This universal .communication system may bring about the use of only one language. Clarke rna de the analogy of the communication satellites with the ill-fated tower of Babel of biblical times. Of course this system would bring about many problems of time, said Clarke, but we would have to sychronize our watches the world over so everyone would ~et up and go to 
work at the same time. Since some people would get the raw end of the deal two possibilities were hypothesized by Clarke. T~ey were: (I) to abolish 
Thefts and assaults reported 
By Pat Gooley 

A large number of violations were reported to campus securi­ty this weekend. None were very serious, but many fell into the increasingly recurrent pattern of weekend vandalism. 
There were smaller thefts -a jacket and a car license plate; vending machine vandalism -a cigarette machine in St. Ed's and 
TVPINr-
A, material, any length, c-harts and diagnzlfll. $.50/page. Will pick iqJ tmd deliver. Call Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 PM 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 ·ZIP: 60611 
Sales lax where applicable 
presented by student union social commission 

sleep-which is highly unlikely, or to (2) make the days four minutes shorter which would allow all the people to work in six months of daylight hours and six months of night hours. 
Ano'ther major point of importance with this machine, said Clarke, is that man would never have to leave home to go to work. Variations of this device could permit even a brain surgeon perform an operation at home on a patient somewhere across the nation wi!h accurate remote control arms, lOaid Clarke. 
Another effect would be the death of the city. To be sure, said Clarke, by the year 200 l we will have larger cities but like the dinosaur of prehistoric times they will cease to exist and all that will remain are the steel and brick skeletons of a past era. 
Clarke said that it would take 
a candy machine in the engineer· ing building; and larger thefts ­a sofa from the second floor of the South Dining Hall and five wallets stolen from members of a visiting soccer team. Two groups of ND students were ap­prehended for stealing barricades and signs from nearby campuses and apartments. Three false fire alarms occurred on Saturday: in Holy Cross, O'Shaugnessy and 
Flanner Halls. 

There were also incidents of a malicious nature. A security force car was sprayed with material from a fire extinguisher out of Morrissey Hall or one of its neighbors, and acid reactions caused some damage to the paint job. Black paint was found sprayed on sidewalks near the 
Notre Dam_e_a_n_d-:-S-:'::t-_-:M:-:a-r-y-:,s:--------,. 

Th•,..alvlna Bus -CleveiMCI C ..b 
Sign-ups Wednesday Nite 7:00 LaFortune Basement 
Applications now being accepted for student mem­bership on University Academic Council. 
Submit name and statement of purpose to student chairman c/o appropriate Dean's office. 
Arts & Letters -Ed McCartin 
Business -Robert Bramlette 
Engineering­Robert Jenson 
Science -Thomas Kenny 

Ho••w•rdB••d STUDENT UNION'S 
BUS SALES to O'HARE 
,.......lw... Bre•ll 
Leaves: Tues. Nov. 24 ND Circle at 4:30 p.m. Wed. Nov. 25 ND Circle at I :00 p.m. Returns: Sun. Nov. 29 from O'Hare (U11ited's 
ground  floor  terminal  
at  S:OO  &  10:00  pm.  
Buses  leave  SMC  Holy  Cross  Hall  15  minutes  later.  
$5.00  ONE-WAY  
Sales  at  Ist  Bank  Travel  Bureau  (on  campus  in  the  

ground floor of Badin Hall) 9:00-I2:00, I :00-4:30 Daily 
ALL SALES FINAL 
Grotto, as well as on the main altar and statue there. A screen leading to the Sacred Heart crypt was torn off. when some­one tried to enter the building. 
In addition, there was another incidence of personal assault re­ported to the security office. Two students were attacked near Alumni Hall Saturday night. The two assailants fled when other students came to the aid of the victims. 
Reports of a bombin.,; at the ROTC building proved false. Campus Security Chief Arthur Pears declared definitely, "There was no bombing attempt at the ROTC." Enquiries at ROTC headquarters brought a similar 
response·. 

a long time to reach stability once these changes are enacted. We will have robots for slaves and they will operate in ways as diverse as washing machines or miniature H.A.L. computers of 2001 fame. We will eliminate 99% of all human activity and will have universal leisure with no un-employ,uent. 
The greatest industry in the world will br education, said Clarke, and second to that will he entertainment. "Only the educated will survive because the uneducated will die of bore­dom," concluded Clark. 
With the conclusion of his speech, Clarke left Washington Hall and spoke with students and faculty in the Rathskellar of the LaFortune Student Center. This was the first in a series of lectures sponsored by the Arthur 
J. Schmit Foundation of Chicago. 




