.Irish break jinx, smash Bobcats J 
story on page 8 

VOL. IV, No. 90 Serving the Notre Dame and Saii11 Mary's College ('ommuni~l' MONDAY, MARCH 9, 1970
I.r~w~ e y t~n~i~~.~.~-s Tu~ ,~,~!!trl t i 0 n flyers 
Observer Associate Editor , ment, through the abstention Tracey stated that she was 
St. Mary's SBP hopeful Ann Marie Tracey last night discussed her reactions to flyers recently circulated on campus sdvising studnets to abstain in the vote for Student Body President and 
Vice President.
"These flyers express a valid point," according to Miss Tracey. "They question the whole idea of the deadness of the platforms of the two candi­dates in this election. They ask for progressiveness in the stu­dent government, but unfortu­nately offer no constructive suggestions. 
The flyers which appeared on campus Saturday state "a careful look at the platforms reveals that neither contain any con­crete, viable, or necessary pro­posals." This Miss Tracey took issue with stating that "in our platform we spoke of the direc­tion of the Student Government and St. Mary's as a whole. We can't promise what can't be fulfilled. We offer many general ideas but leave these areas open to investigation. We realize the pitfalls of the Student govern­ment as it now exists, and we do offer specific programs such as the restructuring of this govern­ment thus improving the lines of communication between the government and the individual 
students." 
The flyers offer as an alterna­tive to the election of the SBP that the students abstain and call for a "moratorium of one year on Student Government activi­ties. During this time any impor­tant issues could be dealt with by means of 'ad hoc' commit­tees." Miss Tracey stated that this would be a big mistake. "In November, we suspended the Student Government and noth­ing was done during the time it was suspended. The considera­tion of the flyers that there is something wrong with Student government is valid, but suspen­sion is not the answer." 
Speaking at the open forum later that evening, Miss Tracey stated, "Structure with thought is one way of attaining com­munity. By abolishing the struc­movement, you destroy the pleas~d with. student interest, means of attaining a community. e~pectally '%1th that .of the Evolution is progress brought. Freshmen. people thmk the from within. It cannot be Freshmen are not aware of dictated by a few for the student government or of the majority." (continued on page 7)

Cus•·ck talks on ··ssues 
by Mary Kay Davey 
"Community government pre­supposes a bond among the people involved. This bond tran­scends set procedures or struc­ture," commented Carol Cusick, 
SBP candidate in an interview yesterday afternoon. 
"A community is an on-going process of human relationships. The means of communication must be incorporated in any goal it is trying to attain." · 
Carol stressed the fact that the means a government chooses for operation must be consistent with and reflective of the end it is aiming towards. 
Carol commented extensively on the area of academic reform. She stated that she and Susie Way, her vice-presidential run­ning mate, would work towards open academic committee and council meetings. 
·'in this way the reforms would be more reflective of community desires," she said. 
Specifically, Carol stated four reform goals. She feels the pass-fail system should be exten­ded to all non-major courses and that curriculum changes should take place in regards to courses that are geared towards objective testing. 
Thirdly, Carol expressed a d~ire for increased student­faculty dialogue. Formally, this may occur through the continu­ation of the faculty lecture series and informally, by bringing faculty into the dining halls and dorms to provide more oppor­tunities for communication. 
Finally, Carol expressed her desire to implement plans for an experimental college. The goal of such a college would be to 
(continued on PGge 2) 



Thrasher leads, barely 
Tom Thrasher last night lead in The Observer straw poll by 4 per cent over Human Affairs Commissioner Dave Krashna. 
Thrasher collected 35% of the vote in the poll, up 6% from last Friday's poll while Krashna collected 31%, just 1% more than his previous total. 
A sizable number of students (27%) remain uncommitted in the close race. The figures for ped in three classes, but in­creased in the sophomore class, where he took the lead from 
the total campus vote are:  
Tom Thrasher  35%  
Dave Krashna  31%  
Pete Peterson  5%  
John McGuire  1%  
Joe Lord  1%  

John Dowdle  1%  
Undecided  27%  
Krashna's  percentages  drop­ 

Thrasher. ' The vote by class is: 
Fr. % 

Thrasher 42 
Kmshna 33 Peterson 4 McGuire Lord Dowdle Undecided 21 
So. %  Jr. %  Sr %  
35 37 3 1  25 35 10 3  29 25 4  
1 24  27  41  

Morrissey, Flanner, Lyons, and Dillon, all of which showed majorities for Krashna last Fri-· day, voted for Thrasher this time 
aroung. Krashna captured Stan­
ford and Fisher from the Thrash­
er column. 
Pete Peterson captured St. Joe's hall in swinging up from three to five per cent. 
Today's poll is the second of three polls The Observer will conduct. The third will come out Wednesday, the day of the election. 
The SMC Student Govern­

ment election has brought about 
rather strange developments, the 
most notable being the Absten­
tion Movement. 
Posters appeared late Friday night, urging students to vote and abstain in the SMC Student Body President r.ace. According to the initiators of the Absten­tion Movement, "the speed and dexterity with which these post­ers were destroyed prevented what was the main objective of the Movement -a free and unbigoted discussion of the value and means of the present governmental structure." 
Judging from the comments of Carol Cusick, SBP candidate, the campaign did not go entirely unnoticed. 
Cusick, who is totally inde­pendent of the Movement, stated that she felt it raised legitimate and necessary ques-
More 
election 
ttews, 

tions. 
Judging from the precipitous disappearance of the posters from three of the four dorms on 

two  consecutive  nights,  the  
Movement  leaders  charge  that  
another  political  segment  or  

segments has made "a valiant effort to stifle any intelligent and rational consideration of this issue." 
As a result of these actions, several members of the Absten­tion Movement were forced to call "foul play" in a recent interview with the Observer. The studnets said they preferred to remain anonymous in order to keepthe Movement an unprejudi­ced and impersonal as possible. 
As result of what they consi­der to be "the bigoted, narrow minded, and inane hostility" with which this Movement has been received, these students feelthat the rights of the majori­ty of the Student Body have been impinged upon, and that true freedom of discussion, "one ideal of the Christian com­munity, has once more bitten the dust." . 
The original statement of the Abstnetion Movement stressed that "it is not a cri1icism of the integrity or personality of the two candidates." One of the members of the Movement, at the time of this interview, stated that "-perhaps that's what killed us; we over-estimated SMC's recognition (i)f basic political rights and toleratioo of the freedom of th~ individual." 
The Movement stemmed from a dissatisfaction with ~he politi­cal structure of Student Govern­

ment and particululy with its 
functioning during the past 
several years. "A comparison of 
(continued on page 2) 


PAGE 2' MONDAY, MARCH 9, 1970
711B O&rurlli 
~ ' 
~ ~ 
GSU discusses TA's and money
mittee on Teaching Assistants tremely disturbed about the 17 meeting, had until today topositive of their facts andFriday's meeting of the Grad­and Junior Members of the status of teaching assistants at make it known to Joe Kelly, the figures.
uate Student Union was high­American Association of Univer-Notre Dame --especially in G.S.U. representative on theFor this reason, the grouplighted by rumours of projected sity Professors in Washington, regards to contracts, stipends, Agenda Committee. 
decided to postpone action until cuts in the total salaries for D.C. gave his report. and grievence structures. Fur-With regard to the Studentmore exact information could be teaching assistants for the According to Lorimer, the thermore the National Commit Life Council, Bob Parker report­gathered.

coming year. These apparently organization met for ten hours tee on Teaching Assistants and ed that a group of members metIn the midst of this discus­have originated in various in committee and issued a junior Members encourages and with a subcommittee of thesion, Bill Lorimer, who haddepartments of the College of statement saying "The National supports all graduate organiza-S.L.C., the graduate studentsrepresented the _G.S.U. at theArts and Letters, but for the Office of the A.A.U.P. is ex-tions which seek to achieve the involved drew up a positionmeeting of the National Com-most part, delegates were not 
goals outlined by the A.A.U.P." _paper outlining the reaons why Lorimer, a graduate student in they felt they should be repre­the English Department, indi-sented on the council. Basically
ND tobe in full'compliance 
cated that the final sentence the document says that the could be interpreted as support-S.L.C. apparently intends to ing both the G;S.U. and partici-concern itself with legislating
with government ~U£t~Jl1S 
pation by teaching assistants in some items which will effect Title 6 of the 1964 Civil Rights "The question that HEW the American Federation of graduate students and the G.S.U. 
by Cliff Wintrode 

Act, which concluded with HEW addressed to us was how we can Teachers. In fact, he urged members ft..' that they should 
Observer Associate Editor 

offering approximately twenty better advertise our compli­members to join this organiza-have a voice in these decisions. Mr. Philip Faccenda, Special "suggestions" to insure Notre ance," Faccenda said. He added tion and offered to supply forms ·In other business, President Assistant to the President, Satur­Dame's "full compliance." Title th"t HEW investigates every and information to those inter-James King announced that as a 
day dismissed any statements 
ested. result of the interest shown in that the University faces the 
6 prohibit' dispensing university school and their visit to Notre 
facilitie-s on the basis of race, Dame was "routine." During the course of the the recent questionnaire, the immediate loss of federal funds 
meeting, members were also graduate students will be permit­religion, or national origin. HEW officials made the "sug­due to the black concentrations informed about their participa-ted to move on campus for theFaccenda explained that gestions" to Faccenda at the
in Alumni and Dillon Halls as tion on other bodies here at the 1970-71 school year. As was
Notre Dame was considered to conclusion of their visit lastnot containing even the "re­be in "substantive compliance" summer, and formally presented University. previously reported, Carroll Hall motest"possibility of truth. 
with Title 6 by HEW and "full them in a letter sent to Father On one hand, it was noted is planned as a graduate dorm. 
The question of the possible that anyone who had anything The Housing Committee willcompliance" is expecfed from Hesburgh last December. Fifteenloss of funds has been mention­he wished brought up before the contact those involved soon.
HEW by "the end of the of the "suggestions" were consi­ed during the current Student University Forum at the March Answers to some questions
Body President campaign, and to CUSiCJf speaks ~:~ec~n~~-be "form" things by (continued -on page 7) stop any false statements Stu­
During the time from the
dent Body Presidnet Phil Mc­(continued from page 1) 
HEW visit to last December, the 
SBP hopefuls oppose
Kenna asked_ Mr. Faccenda to actualize "the spirit of com-university imf)lemented aboutclarify the situation. 
munity living." 

90% of the "suggestions", of
The misunderstanding about Carol commented on the 
which this group comprises all
the loss of funds is founded in 
SG mo·raforium year
movement promoting abstention 

the "procedural rather than the
an on campus visit last summer in the election. The promoters substantive sugestions" said Fac­by Prue Wear that has been done this year thatby the Department of Health; of this action feel student cenda. SMC News Editor has net come from ad hocFrlnr.ation. and Welfare assaying government activities should be The validity of the existence
Notre Dame's compliance with He expects that a detailed committees." She contended
suspended . for one year to explanation of Notre Dame's of SMC Student Government that if the pattern continuedprovide time to sincerely analyze structure was the main consi­

practices concerning the remain­next year and after the StudentSMC student government, since deration of the Open Forum last
PRE-CANA 

ing "substantive suggestions" Assembly would merely be mak­they feel that the current struc­will suffice to convince HEW night as proponents of the ing presentations of other issues
Sign-ups tor the Notre 
ture is meaningless. 

movement for abstention ques­
that the university. is currently which could be handled direct~
Dame-St. Mary's Pre­
"I feel these students have a tioned the SBP candidates for

complying with the law. ly."
Cana Conference will be 
good point that without com­

nearly an hour. Tuesday and Wednesday, 
Faccenda said part of the
mitment meaningful encounters ',After each of the candidates

blame for HEW's alleged miscon­Another student, then chang­are hindered. Something is basic­
March 1Oth and 11th in 

struction of Notre Dame's prac~ outlined her platform both of ed the subject and asked theally wrong now. However, I am tices was i:lue to their coming which were covered in last candidates for the Student Af­
the Notre Dame dining 
not sure that abstention is the Tuesday's Observer a student

during the summer when school fairs Council seat and Academic
halls during lunch and 
right way to solve the problem. 

was not is session. This necessita­asked the candidates to give Commissioner to give thei1r
dinner. Sign-ups at St. 
If people don't understand why their opinions of the Abstention

ted HEW officials relying on opinions and plans for next year.
they are abstaining they will not
Mary's will also be Tues­

Movement which had begun this 
"hearsay;' said Faccenda. They briefly stated their viewsnecessarily work towards an 
weekend. ultimate goal of true community
day and Wednesday, the 

A point by point compliance and the forum ended. 
Carol Cusick answered that
report on each of the HEW
time and place to be 
government merely with the she thought it was trying to

suggestions will' be sent to the
announced . There is a 
suspension of the existing struc­make a "good point."

(continued on page 6) Start movement
$1_.QO registration fee . 

ture." She said, however, "As it 
(continued from page 1)

stands now I think the move is 
contrary to what is hoped to be this year's platforms with those 
established." 

of previous years shows that while praisworthy ideals areAnn Marie Tracey commented constantly sought, they have•that "the Abstention Movement never been achieved. The fact
Stop sitting 
doesn't giv'~ those who pre­that they perenially appea1rviously wished to abstain a points to the fact that owrchance to do so without regis­present means are insufficient."
tering a V·Jte for the Movement." 
around 
The alternative urged is an 
The candidates were asked abstention vote leading to a what they felt was the basic referendum calling for a mora­function of the SBP which could torium on one year on Student 
Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you 
not be fulfilled by someone else Government activities. "This 
fly whenever you want to (even holidays), in another manner. action would not prevent imple­gives you advance reservations and menting any new programs that saves you up to 33%%. Cusick said that "the present might arise. In the past, such structure will give people a issues as Off-Campus Housing 
If you're between 12 and 22, chance to talk about and think and_ th~ All College Major have: what are you waiting for? about why the structures do been dealt with by means of Stop by an Allegheny ticket exist so that it can be worked 'ad/hoc' committees which a.w toward eliminating them." not dependent on any structure:
counter and purchase your 
of Student Government. Their
Young Adult Card. 

Tracey said the role of the final approval is subject to either Only $5.00 for all of 1970. SBP was a dual one of co-ordina­the Student Affairs Council or tor and spokesman. 
the Academic Affairs Council which would remain intaci. 
Tracey was then questioned as More importantly, this time to whether or not a spokesman could be used to re-think the might not be representative, for purpose, values, and means of the major part, of her own Student Government." opinions. She answered that the At the conclusion of tht: SBP takes the opinion of the interview, one of the memben; students into account in her of the Abstention Movement decisions and public opinions. stated, "After the irrational 
events of this weekend, I can Irish McNamara, SMC senator, only wonder is SMC really ready said "1 have not seen one thing for self-government."
Allegheny Airlines 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the University of NOtre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The
We have a lot more going for you 
Observer, Box li, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 


PAGE 3
7118 O.&WH1£1t 

•
Thrasher ISSUeS challenges 
by T .C. Treanor those voting, which will be came up, a lot of hotheads were almost as difficult to get as a ready to do down with heavy
Rich Hunter, campaign mana­two-thirds vote of the Senate." boots and chains. Only the ger for Student Body Presi­Thrasher contended that the knowledge that the fifteen­dential candidate Tom Thrasher, Student Forum could not be minute rule would be invokedannounced last night that representative because it was not prevented them from doing so."Thrasher and SBP contender proportionate. "Carroll Hall, The candidate maintainedPete Peterson had challenged with ninety people, will have as that only attitudinal changecandidate Dave Krashna to a many representatives as Flanner, could solve the "apathy pro­debate at Cavanaugh Hall Tues­with five hundred. Bills passed blem" here. "The Student

day Night at eight o'clock. been too
through that body probably Government has in­According to Hunter, Bob Pohl, won't be too representative." volved in national and inter­Krashna's campaign manager, The SBP candidate also scored national affairs" said Thrasherwith Hunter Monday
will meet the proposal because "a lot of "with things that rightly should
night to discuss Krashna's deci­hall presidents don't want to be left for the pages of the sion. carry the extra burden of sorting Scholastic or The Observer andPohl refused to discuss that out ideas for the SLC." Thrasher to politicalized organizationsdecision with The Observer last argues that the Hall Presidents like the CPA and the YAF. Thatnight, saying "what I have to say

" were elected primarily as admini­tends to alienate people need­
is between Rich Hunter and lessly to make them apathetic."strators for their halls.myself."

,-i" 

In dor-to-door campaigning, Thrasher also talked aboutThrasher appeared in six halls Thrasher reiterated his call for a minority recruitment, contend­last night, where he attacked
Stay Senator Tom Tbnaher eampaip for SBP ing that it had been deficient in
girl's dorm on campus by I 971. Krashna's proposed Student recruitment of non-black minori­Thrasher is optimistic about theforum as "impractical" and ties, and ineffective in its ap­chances for coeducation. "foolish." proach."Necessity almost dictates the
"In order for the Senate to be

Krashna challenges move. St. Mary's is becoming "A bunch of politicos from
abolished within the present 

Notre Dame run down to Chica­overcrowded and with
constitutional system," Thrasher so many go or Dayton or some place, talk people wanting to move off­said, "Two-thirds of the Sena­
by Bill Carter but that the present situation 
campus here, there should be to high school kids for forty"five tors will have to vote to abolishcould be improved by fusing
. A dressing himself to problems tmough room for SMC girls." minutes, and duck out to go to
the institution. In order for thesome black sections with white

surrounding the issues of racial another school. That's hardly an
constitution to be changed, a Thrasher also defended thesections. He felt that the Stu­
tension, coeducation and aca­petition describing the change fifteen-minute rule while critici­honest or particularly effective 
demic reform Student Body d~nt Government should take way of preseJIIting Notre Dame.
must be signed by five hundred zing the way it came about.action in revamping the pro­
President candidate Dave people -that will be easy -and According to Thrasher, the fif­"What I propose is that 
grams of the Students Against
Krashna spoke to students in an teen-minute rule prevents de­instead of all that promising,
then must be passed by a vote ofRacism and diversifying the

informal session in Stanford Hall monstrations from flaring into students be brought to Notre
the majority of the studentprograms of the Student Union.

last night. Krashna outlined body, not just the majority of riots. "When the DOW-CIA thing· (continued on page 7)
In addition, Krashna expressed
some of his ideas for improving 
recent

the racial situation on campus his support for the 
recommendation of the Black
which he described as "def­
Studies Program that all students 
Peterson stresses individuality
initely hostile." Krashna stressed 
on take one
the necessity for fundamental campus at least by Greg Pudhorodsky d h · · 
. an ts runmng mate, Rory do not support his full platformBlack Studies course.
changes in the atmosphere on 
"Right now I do believe the SBP candidate Pete Peterson, Baruth, make only two prom-to make known their views 
campus before effective meas­
Black Concentrations should w?rking a campai~n day that he ises: "If elected we will work for Pointing out an exam~le of 
ures toward creating a complete 
remain, on the theory that they said spans up to eighteen hours, hall autonomy, and we promise bringing the campaign to the
community environment can be 
spent the weekend presenting his a full student assembly in either individual, Peterson cited the
worked out. can provide a comfortable tran­
view~ in the indivi~u~l halls, September or October." . Carroll Hall situation. Sending a
Krashna answered specific sition for blacks that have come 
contmually emphasiZing an The student assembly IS representative to Father Riehle
objections to the so-called from an all black environment to 
"honest and individual" ap-designed to enable students who (continued on page 7) ' 
"black concentrations" in some an all white environment. The 
proach in the campaign.

of the halls. "The problem of fullest manifestation of this 
Peterson expressed the

black concentrations is not a theory can be seen in the case of 
opinion that the campaign was

black problem but a white predominantly black colleges 
gaining momentum by picking

problem," Krashna said. "The where there may be 98% black 
up votes among students who

black student has done some­students. The 2% white students 
previously had no intention to

thing about the environment he all sit together and no one 
vote in the election because of a

has found here, and now the questions why." 
growing lack of interest in

white student has to do some­Krashna offered a pointed 
student government.

thing about it too." example of what he meant by a 
He feels that this trend stems

"We see the problem as one of lack of comfortable racial atmos­
from a respect for their honest

exposure. People have got to phere on campus. He recalled an 
approach which is not pushing

quit quibbling about things they incident last year when a group 
an "image" and the fact that

aren't really aware of. We want of black students posing for 
Peterson, himself, is not a

to go at the problem with its Dome pictures on the steps of 
politician:

basic subtleties in mind. If we the Administration Building 
some were The General Program junior,
can dissect of the compli­confronted by campus 
commenting on his non-political

cations the Administration puts security guards who had received 
status, said that most of the

on us we can start to make the a report that blacks were 
presidents in the past have

needed changes where they have attempting to take over the 
followed Notre Dame with law

to be made, in the total building. 
school.

atmosphere of the university and "That's why exposure has to 
He said that the response to

campus life." be the main point. You can 
his literature, consisting of his

Several specific proposals increase recruitment but if you 
platform's general outline, has

were included in Krashna's call don't improve the atmosphere 
been Responding

for an easing of the hostile racial more black students will only favorable. to 
criticism that though many of

atmosphere. He pointed out that· mean more tension. The need is 
the ideas arc good, they are also

there were no real Black sections to look at black people as 
unrealistic, Peterson said that he

in any of the halls on campus (continued on page 6) ..Consensus .. candidate Pete Petenon eampaipinJ for SBP 
VOTE 

OR STUDENT BODY PRESIDEN AND VICE-PRESIDENT MARCH 11th IN YOUR HALLS DURING I.JNCH 


AND DINNER HOURS 
OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS 
VOTE 9-Spm IN THE 0-C OFFICE 
~--------==================~-----------------S_e_n~ro~rsMay Vote 

PAGE 4 711E OBSERJJER. MONDAY, MARCH 8. 1870 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 

Creative student government 
Less than two days remain before Notre Dame elects a Student Body President. As with every spring Presidential race excitement is at a fervor pitch in the halls and issues are being discussed and argued by almost everyone. 
Most students are assessing this year's student government and its failures to bring about change, hall community, and communication and are arguing that one candidate or the other will REALLY CHANGE things next year. The change being looked for for the most part is a change in atmosphere, a sense of real community. 
When there are two or more people running for office there is usually no doubt that one of them will be more effective than another, that one of them will work harder or communicate more. Students here usually depend on that fact and use it as a crutch -as an excuse to sit back after the election is over, to stop talking about the issues, and to wait expecting for the new leadership to do what it promised. 
We must come to realize that such complacency after the candidate is elected is antithetical to all arguments that are being made for community government. What all candidates are arguing for is a continuation of student interest in student government and community development after the election is over. 
Spirit and atmosphere are two things that can not be legislated nor created by any amount of student government effort. They are two things that each individual student must be willing to commit himself to and work for. Like education itself, community can not be created by any one institution but rather is aquired only to the degree that each man is willing to work for it on his own. 
Problems on campus concerning relations between white and white, and white and black, and black and black, and any two groups that have disagreement are solved to the degree that each participant is willing to remain open minded, is willing to learn, and to respect the other's point of view. New ideas and changes will be accepted and instituted only to the extent to which all parties are willing to work for them. This fact by necessity suggests a process of give and take, of building upon the view of all involved, and of a desire to work together but on a common objective of doing what will eventually prove to be best for the Notre Dame community -for the students, faculty, and administrators and all others that are a part of it. 
There has been too much arrogance at Notre Dame in the past. Too many students have been willing to write off the administration as a group of old men dedicated to backwardness, too many administrators have been willing to characterize all students as being irresponsible and incapable of playing a role in providing direction. Too many faculty members have been willing to sit back content that what they offered in class is enough ·to insure educational development and so have not worked to make sure that an educational environment exists outside of the classroom. Too many student leaders have been willing to argue that they have all the answers before examining all the implications of their call for change. 
We hope that the student body will continue to maintain the interest in student issues after the campaign is over. To expect that any one candidate can ·bring about the changes that we need without students working along with him is to delude ourselves to the point of naivete. 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Reick Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker Accountant: John Maher News Editor: Glen Corso Asst. News Editor: T.C. Trea­
nor SMC News Editor: Prue Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Win­
trade, Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
Features Editor:. Dave Stauffer 
Photography Editor: Mike Mur· 

The opinions expressed in the phy editorials, news analyses, and Night Editor: Dave Lammers 
columns of The Observer are Headlines: Rich Smith 
solely those of the authors and Layout design: Dave Bach 
editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the viewsLayout: Marilyn Becker, Mar· of St. Mary's College, the Univer­gie Rurak, Cliff Wintrode sity of Notre Dame, their admini­Ad Layo!Jt: Steve Dollinger strations, faculty,_ or studentNight Controller: S. 'Liberace' bodies.
[king of the keyboard) Braley 

To expect that any one candidate ean brina about the eh•aes that we need without students working along with him is to delude ourselves to the point of naivete. 
Tim MacCarry 
On Female Liberation 
This piece is not intended to speak to women about their oppression, nor to detail the origins and realities of HJale supremacy as understood in anthropology, history and political economy. Rather, it is to commemorate Sunday, March 8-International Women's Day-a good time to recall the long history of women's struggle against inferior status, and to begin to reverse the failure of "radicals" at Notre Dame to consistently fight against male supremacy. Nor should it make the men to whom it is addressed think that what the women's movement itself says shouldn't be listened to. or printed in the O.bserver. . . . . . 
Briefly, the problem stems from an economic diVISIOn datmg from the origins of private property and class distinctions. Women­particularly blacks-are underpaid: in 1965 white and black men averaged $6,375 and $4,000 in earnings, while white and black women averaged $3,744 and $2,642 respectively. Women form a fluid, relatively unskilled surplus labor pool which is used in competition with unionized workers; these patterns have intensified in postwar years, with substantial drops in relative income for women. Finally, they provide unpaid domestic labor and child-rearing services at a cost far less than that of equivalent hired 
labor. New techniques of consumer exploitation have hit women in particular: a leading advertising "motivator" has written, "Properly manipulated ... American housewives can be given the sense of identity, purpose, creativity, the self-realization, even the sexual joy they lack-by the buying of things ... In a free enterprise economy we have to develop the need for new products . .. The manufacturer wants her back into the kitchen-and we show him how to do it..." 
American women are told that their fulfillment through housework, 
children, and sexual-emotional gratification of their husbands is 
sufficient; they should vicariously identify with his career, since he is 
organically suited for "worldly affairs" as she is not. This ideology of 
male supremacy was best developed in its modern form in Hitler's 
1930's campaign for "Kinder, Kuche, Kirche" (children, kitchen, 
church) for women, along with racism, fascism, and national 
chauvinism. 

Notre Dame "men" exemplify this. An hour in a dormitory will show how women are seen as objects, as "chicks", or broads, or----(removed by the editor). A glance at the paper or bulletin 
boards shows the same in movie advertising. A tnp to the library, a 
mixer, or even a "freak" party reveals the dehumanizing games being 
played in the eternal competition for sex on one side, and marriage 
on the other. Finally, a sensitive look at sports, religious life, and 
camp·us politics (including the liberals) will discern elements of the 
cult of _exaggerated masculinity which empties men of organic worth 
as well as women. One of the most absured products of machismo is thefear of being called a "fag" as and the pooular jokes and stories 
about homosexuality, as if one's "manhood" had to be continually 
justified against one's sexual insecurity. _ 
Notre Dame, lnc., exhibits the usual pattern in its higher-level employment: female clerical workers serve male managers and faculty. The education it sells is geared to success in a class which is overwhelmingly white and male-dominated; hence the racism and male chauvinism of its admissions patterns. The problem is complicated by the fact that it is in the short-run advantage of the woman who comes to St. Mary's looking for an N.D. husband to oppose a change in the ratio. 
But all this leaves out the most important consideration: the needs and aspirations of the working population of America, including the need to end the divisions of race and sex which weaken them; and particularly of the average young woman faced with a choice of second-rate employment or household subservience, including her need for higher education. Any Notre Dame man who thinks of himself as on the side of social progress, or as concerned about the honesty of his personal relationships had better start relating to this,.and support the demands made upon their university by the women's movement. 
THE OBSERfJER. 
PAGE 5

MONDAY, MARCH 9, 1970 
John Lennon -'bag one' art exhibit 
The opening was scheduled for 9:00 
p.m. By 7:30 p.m., people had lined up outside the front door. By 8:30p.m., the crowd had grown to nearly 500 and was assembling itself in line formation which stretched the length of a city block. By 
9:00 p.m., when the doors opened, there were over 500 people pushing their way inside. 9:15 p.m.: space for 800 coats completely taken up. 9:30 p.m.: galleries three, four, five and six filled to over-Bowing capacity. 10:00 p.m.: two of the three bars depleted three barrels of ice, six cases of liquor. 10:15 p.m.: the Gallery is picketed by the NLF because of the guest of honor's request to hold a private vernissage by invitation only. Police are summoned. I0:30 p.m.: two chemical bombs set off by demonstrators within the Gallery, filling the entire area with a nauseating stench. II :00: all three bars depleted of well over twelve cases of liquor. Film crews report that they are unable to move from the downstairs to the upstairs galleries because of the crowds. So opened John Lennon's 'bag one' and the celebration for Yoko Ono's book, Grapefruit, at the Lee Nordness 
Galleries on February 6, 197.0. 
To launch John Lennon's entry into the art world, a complete environment was designed in the upstairs galleries five and six. The entire expanse of floor space was covered with plastic 'air-cap' bubbles which popped when stepped upon. For the first 500 people, the floors seemed to keep some bizarre kind of rhythmic pace to the sound system which consisted of mixed tapes of John and Yoko's Wedding A /bum, and The Plastic Ono Band. As guests entered gallery five, they were asked to remove their footwear and hang it in floating shoe hammoocks also constructed from plastic bubbles. For 

Wayward Saints add church to sites 
Tile Company of Wayward Saints, as United Methodist Church of LaPorte at 8 performed by the National Traveling p.m. (CST) on Wednesday, March II. Players of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Admission is free. Theatre, is advertised as a play that can The Notre Dame-St. Mary's National 
he presented anywhere, "in a living room, Traveling Players is in its second season of a gymnasium, a theatre, or even out­touring. The present company is under doors." Next week, the group will have the direction of Reginald Bain, a director 
the opportunity to add another possible of the ND/SMC Theatre. To date the local ion to their list-they will perform in company has performed from Detroit to a church. Tennessee and from Peoria to Boston. 
The occasion is the fourth in a series of The company includes seven actors-four special Lenten programs sponsored by the men and three women-all students at combined churches of La· Porte, Ind. The either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The series is entitled "One Lord, Many 
entire production, including all props,Witnesses" and is designed to show the costumes, scenery and personal luggage,many ways in which God is present in our has been designed to travel in a singlelives as well as the variety of means station wagon. The show itself concerns athrough which we recognize Him. Others group of commedia actors, 20th centuryin the series include Robert L. Short, actors performing the ancient Italianauthor of "The Gospel According to comedy of improvisation. They eachPeanuts" and "The Parable of Peanuts"; become so involved in personal ambition

and a gospel choir; a contemporary dance group; and a special liturgical celebration and petty jealousies that they find they designed by the Center for Contemporary can no longer act together. Eventually Celebration. Each of the churches in this they realize that they must work series hosts one of these events, and together, and as they strip away the mask members of all the congregations arc of character they have been hiding urged to attend. behind, they discover real meaning in 
The Company of Way ward Saints was their lives and in their work. invited to participate because the theme Dates are still available through June of the play-the necessity of man's for booking for the Players. Arrangments working with other men-is directly may be made by contacting Professor related to the main thrust of the series. Reginald Bain, Notre Dame-St. Mary's The play will be presented in the First Theatre, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Bring circus in 35 ft. trailer 
SANTA ANA, Calif. (UPI) -Johnny Whiteriver, an unemployed clown, was arrested Saturday after police found him sharing his 35 foot trailer home with three 150-200 pound bears, a burro, a wallaby, an ocelot, a bobcat, three goats, two opossums, a monkey, three peacocks and his wife. 
Six truckloads were required to transport the animals to the Orange County Animal Shelter. Also inside the trailer were 13 dogs, four cats, six pigeons, five doves, three rabbits, five guinea pigs, one duck, nine chickens, two geese, 16 quail and two turtles. 
Charges of cruelty to animals, possession of wild animals within the city limits and owning unlicensed dogs were being prepared against Whiteriver, 37, and his wife, Detha, police sa_i_d Sunday. He 
was held on warrants for traffic 
violations. 
Officers said the animals created an 
uproar which could be heard outside the 
trailer. Inside, they said, cages were 
stacked from the floor to the ceiling. 
Pete Peterson, the investigating officer, said the couple was living in the trailer, which also contained a bed and food. 
Whiteriver told police he used the animals in his act and denied treating them cruelly. He said they were fed twice daily and exercised but otherwise kept inside. 
Police had to use tranquilizer guns to remove some of the animals, including a 200-pound Himalayan bear. Many of the cages were about the same size as the animals they contained, they said. 

Poetry anthology 
The National Poetry Press announces its Spring Competition. 
The closing date for the submission of manuscripts by college students is April tenth. 
Any student attending either junior or senior college is eligible to submit his verse. There is no limitation as to form or theme. Shorter works are preferred by the Board of Judges, because of space identity purposes, each hammock was named with a word taken from Yoko Ono's book, Grapefruit. With their shoes 
removed, guests could enjoy the full textural effects of the floor while viewing the prints. 
The lithographs themselves were each encased in tautly-sealed plastic frames and displayed on a row of standing tatami mats. The handsome white vinyl portfolio which Lennon designed himself and had executed in Milan was also on display, the words 'John Lennon bag one' vividly impressive against the sleek white background. Spotlights also accented a display of pages from Yoko Ono's book, Grapefruit. published by Simon and Schuster. Pre-edition copies will remain on sale at the Gallery throughout the duration of the exhibi­tion, courtesy of the publisher. The price is $3.50. 
Though the Lennons were unable to attend the affair due to the sudden hospitalization of Yoko Ono in London, their personal representative, Anthopy Fawcett, flew in from London to film the entire evening for world-wide distribution under the Apple Label. Celebrities in attendance at the opening included Jon Voight, Sally Kirkland, Tony Bennet, Carl Reiner, John Ireland, George Plimp­ton, Vidal Sassoon, Salvador Dali, and Edward Villela and Jacques D' Am boise of the New York City Ballet. Important museum officials and private collectors were also seen making their way through the crowds. The Lennons no doubt would have been encouraged with the sale of the lithographs that evening. Already several museums have purchased sets for their permanent collections, and many import­ant private collectors throughout the country have wired or flown to New York to acquire their own sets. 
Since the public opening on February 
7th, the stream or visitors has been constant and the numbers seem to be growing with each day. The Gallery reports the largest catalogue sale in its entire history. The handsome 24-page catalogue contains reproductions of the entire suite of lithographs as well"as a portrait of the Lennons and a description of the roster of the Lee Nordness Galleries. The catalogue is priced at $2.95 plus tax, at the Gallery or by mail. Due to the increasing requests for the catalogue and at the suggestion of the Lennons, Lee Nordness is pleased to announce that a national distribution will commence shortly. 
The price of the set 'bag one' is now $1500, to match the prices set in London, Paris and Hamburg. Each set consists of fourteen lithographs and is delivered with its own white vinyl portfolio. Individual prints are now on sale for $125, until the edition is sold out. Only 300 signed sets are available on the world market. 
Problems with law enforcement of­ficials have not been encountered. As the nature of the lithographics is highly erotic, the exhibition is limited and suggested for those over eighteen only. All visitors must enter on floor one of the Galleries and pass through the especially designed environmental areas in galleries 
five and six on the second floor. 
The exhibition will continue through the 28th of February with a possibility of extending it to accommodate the increas­ing number of visitors. Members of the press are always welcome and photo­graphs may be taken of the exhibition areas. Further documentation is available and interviews with Lee Nordness may be scheduled by appointment only. For further information please contact Gair Overs, Director of Public Relations, (212) 988-4410, 
Martin Club offers minority scholarship 
by Sue aury 

The Martin Club will conduct a funu to make their donations this way. drive this Thursday and Friday to give a Miss Henley urges that all members of minority group student a scholarship to the ND-SMC community make an effort St. Mary's College. Marie Henley, acting to contribute as much as they can. If you president of the group, is planning to wish further information, call her at accept contributions all day, both days, 4628. in the foyer of Carroll Lecure Hall, Madeleva Memorial. 
PCP & parsley ­
An SMC student, Mary Mackey, originated the Martin de Porres scholar­ship in 1949. It started out as a one-year pow! full tuition grant for a black student, 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Five persons
intended to help diversify the student body. were held in New York and California Sunday in connection with the manufac­Since then, those participating in the ture and widespread distribution of a new 
fund drive have adopted the name hallucinogenic drug called PCP, which is "Organizzation for Martin Scholars," or mixed with parsley .md smoked. the Martin Club. Their aim is still to Federal narcotics agents arrested three 
diversify the student body but they have of the suspects in a raid on an electronics extended their efforts to include firm in the Forest Hills section of Queens. Mexican-Americans and other ethnic or The agents said they seized 50 pounds of 
religious minority groups that are not the powder substance whose chemical represented at St. Mary's. name is phencyclidi,le hydrochloride. The raid here followed the arrests For the last three years, the club has 
Friday night in the San Francisco suburb collected money at class meetings and at 
of Redwood City of two .men authorities the dining hall. However, class meetings said had just arrived from New York with are no more, and collections during meals a salesman's display case full of PCP and caused some confusion. The classroom other drugs.building should provide a convenient The PCP were processed, mixed with location for prospective contributors. · parsley and packed for distribution in the fifth floor plant at Harvard Electronics in Beyond the minority group stipulation, Forest Hills where the alleged ringleader the SMC admissions office selects the and a teenage youth and a young woman recipient of the scholarship. The club will were arrested, narcotics agents said. sponsor at least one new student and Jay Schwartz, 51, of New York hopes to help as many others as possible. described as head of the operation, was For one girl's tuition alone, $1900 is charged with the manufacture of drugs. needed. Lloyd Landsman, 18, of New York and 
Sandra Slonim, 24, of Rickville Centre, The club will accept cash, checks, and N.Y., were charged with possession of pledges. If a pledge is given, the dangerous drugs and Miss Slonim also 
contributor will be given the name of a with assault for resisting arrest. 
representative at St. Mary's who will San Mateo sheriffs deputies arrested collect the money. Arrangements will be Bruce A. Barrett, 31, and Steve Prosher, made for Notre Dame students who want 22, both of New York in Redwood City. 
limitations. Each poem must be typed or printed on a separate sheet, and must bear the 
name and home address of the student, and the college address as well. 
Manuscripts should be sent to the Office• of the Press, National Poetry Press, 3210 Selby Avenue, Los Anglees, Calif. 90034. 


711B OBSE~lf~Dt 
Krashna 
(continued from page J) 
individuals, not stereotypes in a black concentration." 

In responding to questions on improvements in . · recruitment procedures, Krashna pointed out the practical economic difficul­ties in making the program work. He saw the ideal program I of bringing large numbers of !'" minority applicants to campus
I 
for weekends as impossible at present with the limited funds the program had to work with. 
"There is also something of an advantage in traveling to talk to these kids," Krashna said. "When they see a Notre Dame student taking time off from his studies and his social life to come to talk to them, it's impressive. They notice things like well-shined shoes, andHuman Affairs Commissioner David Krashna campaigning · combed hair, and how articu­lately the recruiter speaks to them. It has a very good psychological effect."

NDby end of semester 
Krashna also attacked the university atmosphere as being

will be in compliance 
overcompetitive, in calling for 

(continued [rom page 2) 
department during April or May reported Faccenda. If "full com­pliance" is then not forth­coming, further "suggestions" will be made. 
The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare's en­forcement procedure of title 6 consists of several levels of warnings, then a citation of non-compliance, and finally the threat of a cutoff of funds. Faccenda said no school has been cited for non-compliance, and only one school, Antioch, has the idea ever been conside­red. No school has ·reached a stage of non-compliance to war­rant the threat of a cutoff of funds. 
The amount of federal money involved by Title 6 was uq­known to Faccenda, but he felt that even if a school was non-complying with HEW to !;UCh an extent that financial penalties were threatened, cutoff of all funds was not possible. 
He pointed to the fact that 
the constitutionality of Title 6 
as having never been tested as a 
partial basis for his belief. 
Faccenda viewed the great 
spread of time between the 
JOBS! JOBS! arid mor. joBSr·Stl\; ·dents, Tuchers. StateslcN and I~· national Jobs. Recreational ""'..,_~ Vur-round JobS; summer Jobs. Atl ~upatlons and tracNI. Enjoy a v~. :tlon while you urn. Hurry! The J»eft' JobJ are taken early. Wrltea "JOBS•, 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1, L~.' c.ttf. 95240 . 
CU1is Cf3unuels [Masterpiece ofP.rotica! 
extensive academic reform. Hepassage of the 1964 Act and advocated a thorough evaluation HEW's investigation last summer and reform of -some of the . basicjiS an indicator of the minor 

concern HEW has for Notre 
academic structures at the Dame's compliance of the law. 
University. The "mere consider­Father Hesburgh's position as 
ation of getting A'S" is the kind Chairman of the Civil Rights 
of spirit that is to be avoided, in Commission was seen by Fac­Krashna's opinion. He called for cenda as a reason why HEW is expansion of the pass-fail system not even "mildly upset" about to cover more than electives, as the po!'~ibility that the chair­well as increases in the work-man.'s school will not comply. 
Anoth~r positive indicator ofWate r p0 IIut •. 0 n panelscheduled
HEW's mmor concern for Notre 
Dame said Faccenda is the time extension given the university to reply to the letter to Father Hesburgh. Normally, a school has to reply within sixty days of receipt of a letter, but Faccenda asked for and was gratited a continuance on the grounds of not having had time to formu­late an answer. 
Faccenda added that the De­partment of Health, Education, and Welfare's handling of any school considered to be in serious violation of the law is much more stringent and de­manding on the offending school. Antioch, for instance, has to make monthly progress reports to HEW. 
Faccenda said he was the only person besides Hesburgh that has seen the HEW letter. Faccenda is handling all the negotiations between the university and ·HEW's regional office in 
Chicago. 
Presented by 
Sophomore Literary Festival 
MONDAY, MARCH 9 
WASHINGTON HALL 
7:00 & 9:15P.M. 
$1.00 


Applications now be in!! a ('('epted for ~taH positions of the 
SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
Positions open to students of ALL classes. Send or bring vitae to: , 
SCIENCE QUARTERLY ROOM 248 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL 
cover-s 

study program and more and complete opportunities for counselling in academic problems. 
KJashna said he was pushing for widespread improvements in the social atmosphere as well. "Fr. Hesburgh has called Notre Dame a resident University and yet the Administration has con­sistently bypassed some of the basic needs of residents. They seem to only stress the academic side and there are many more social considerations which are just as important to students that have been overlooked. 
"We should have places on campus for students to meet in an informal atmosphere," Krashna said. One idea is to keep the huddle open all night, possibly run by students during the night hours. I'm supporting the proposals for a Co-op book­store, a student-run campus drugstore and central ticket office." 
Krashna said he also favored extending the privilege of having cars on campus to sophomores but saw a basic need to vastly improve the security situation before admitting large numbers of new cars. According to Krashna's plan, this could . be accomplished by immediately lighting and fencing all student parking lots and oerhaps actively recruiting a force of -young ex-military men out of the army, 
MONDAY, ~lARCH 9, 1970 
reform 
who wish to return to college, to serve as a guarding force for the lots. 

Speaking to questions on his view on coeducation, Krashna said the i~.me was among the highest vn his list of priorities. He indicated that there were many sides to the question that warranted the study that is to be conducted by a subcommittee of the Board of Trustees. But he saw the Student Government's role as a "watchdog" to insure that the study group finished their work and set the program 
into action. 

"We have to be sure the studying doesn't last until 1981. Co-education really is vital to the atmosphere of this university from two points of view. The fact is woman have a basic right to the education and the social benefits for the male students from the presence of women on campus are immeasurable." 
When asked about the pro­
gress of his campaign so far, 
Krashna said he was very pleased 
with the recent endorsements 
from the Scholastic and WSND 
and felt sure they would help his 
effort. He regarded the seven to 
zero vote of the WSND board as 
a special expression of support 
for the ideas he and his running­
mate Mark Winings are trying to 
voice in the campaign. 
. 
Tomorrow at 2:30 p.m., a 
symposium on water pollution 
control and the water quality act 
will be held in the Memorial 
Library Auditorium. Guest 
speaker for the program will be 
Mury Stein. 
Mr. Stein was graduated from 
George Washington University, 
has served on the Federal Secur­
ity Agency, Department of 
Health, Education and Welfare 
and is presently on the staff of 
the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Program. He is the Chief 
Enforcement Officer and has 
handled all pollution cases under 
the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act. 
Other members of the panel 
include Mr. Ralph W. Purdy, 
Executive Secretary of Michigan 
Water Resources Commission; 
Mr. Lloyd S. Taylor, City 
Engineer of South Bend; Mr. 
Kenneth E. Blessing, Vice-Presi­
dent of the Wheelabrator Cor­
poration of Mishawaka; and Mr. 
Kenneth Horn, corporate direc­
tor of the Bendix Corporation. 
The purpose of this sympo­
sium, according to Dr. Philip 
Singer, Assistant Professor of 
Civil Engineering, is to inform 
the students about the difficul­
ties of developing a sound water 
pollution control program. Each 
of the members of the panel will 
give a 5-I 0 minute opening 
statement describing their indivi­
dual involvement in water pollu­
tion control. Following this, a 
question and answer period will 
be held. 
There are many contributing 
factors to the problem of water 
pollution control. Mr. Kenneth 
• Blessing of Wheelabrator com­mented that the grea1:~st pr0b­lem is how the program will be financed. On the industrial level, it is almost impossible for a company to afford such a project on its own. Industries receive very little help from federal agencies. This lack of support is made up by state programs. 


"The majority of the indus­tries which are running such a program," Mr. Blessing added, "are helped financially from state aid." Many states have bond issues just for this purpose. For example, Ohio has an $800,000,000 bond issue. Any industry may borrow money at a rate of interest of 4% over long periods of time. 
On the city level, money poses an even more important problem. Mr. Lloyd Taylor, City Engineer of South Bend, com­mented that the city is not able to afford a program of its own. 
A federal grant from the government can pay in the neighborhood of 75% of the project's total cost. The diffi­culty lies in receiving the grant. At the present moment, South Bend has been waiting six years for a federal grant. All plans have been drawn up and are ready for use, but the city does not have high enough priority to receive a grant. 
According to Mr. Taylor, priorities are established by the Indiana Streams Control Board, and higher priority is given to cities in central Indiana where wastes pollute rivers; and because people live along these rivers and can be endangered by the pollution, they receive these grants first. 
The economic problems of water pollution are even more pressing than the financial ones. 
"If a city attempted to build a system on its own," said Mr. Taylor, "it could force the sewage rates to climb four times the present rate. If a nearby city then received a grant for such a project, the former would be unattractive to industry because of these high sewage rates, thus killing much of the economic progress of the city," Mr. Taylor commented. 

-
MONDAY, MARCH 9, 1970 THE O&C'QIJIR PAGE 7 
ND • w1n season
1cers sweep Air Force for 20-• 
Peterson campaigns 
the University then they must be willmg to also accent some of the fiscal responsibility, for "to act otherwise is like running away from home and askine your parents for cab fare." 
The SBP candidate qualified a lJUOte in Friday's Observer which had him saying that the ultimate decision on such topics as drugs, drinking and sex should be left to the student. He said he meant that the decisions on these topics "will be made by the individual." 
Peterson answered the peren­nial question of whether he believes he can win. 
"A lot of people have said that they would support us except they don't feel we can win; so many have said it that if they did vote for us we would win," he said. 

classes.  Paul  Regan  and  Mark  
Longar  threw  their  weight  
around  on  more  than  several  

occassions both nights and by Saturday eve had successfully grounded the Falcon squadron. 
Friday night's affair was a lot more one-sided than the slim 4-3 margin might indicate. The Irish forwards pummelled Air Force 1oalie Kim Newman with 56 shots, almost twice the amount Notre Dame's Dick Tomasoni dealt with. Newman's spectacu­lar play kept the Air Force close, however, and a pair of fluke 1oals gave the Falcons a 3-2 edge in the waning moments of the third stanza. 
But with the Irish skating under a delayed penalty call against the Falcons-thus enabling ND to pull goalie Tomasoni for an extra forward advantage-freshman winger Paul Regan netted his second tally of the night to even the count at 3 and 
3. Mark Steinborn, whose calibre of play has steadily improved over the course of the last nine contests, gave the Irish the 1 
To hold discussion on democracy 
Political scientists from the United States, Canada, Great Britian and Italy will join in a discussion of "New Challenges to Constitutional Democracy in the Atlantic Community" at a conference here March 15-17. 
Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz, con­ference chairman and director of Notre Dame's West European Studies Program, said topics will 
include the interaction of domestic and foreign policies, the "withering away of Western Liberal Democracy," the impact of the European community on the legal and political systems of the member states, the ~'New Left," and the "crisis of author­ity." Sessions beginning Sunday evening (March 15) wil continue through Tuesday in the Center for Continuing Education. 

Dr. Henry Koeppler, founder, France and visiting professor at 
reform 

allow juniors to attend other 
schools in the United States for 
a year. 

"Some other schools simply have stronger departments than we do," Thrasher said. "This· program would allow Notre Dame students to take advantage of them." 
Thrasher, bouyed by polls that have him leading all other candidates by four per cent, will appear with running-mate Greg Murray on WSND-AM tonight at 

and director of England's famed meeting place for statesmen, Wilton Park, will discuss foreign policies at the opening session. He is presently serving as visiting professor of West European Studies at Indiana University and has served in similar capaci­ties at Ohio State University and Heidelberg, Germany. 
Current challenges to demo­cracy in the u.s. will be outlined by Dr. Glenn Tinder, professor of political science at the Univer­sity of Massachusetts, Boston, at a Monday morning session. This will be followed by a discussion of challenges to democracy in Canada by Dr. Douglas Berney, York Uni\'ersity, Toronto, presi­dent of the Canadian Political Science Association. . Dr. Jean Blonde!, a native of 
covered 
eight in a program moderated by 
Observer editor Guy De Sanin He is also scheduled to make appearances at Zahm hall at 
6:30 p.m., Farley at 7:00, Morrissey after his radio appear­ance, Badin at 10:00, Dillon at 11:00, and Sorin at 12:00. 
Murray will be at Stanford at 6:30, Howard at seven, Morris­sey with Thrasher at nine, Walsh at ten, Keenan at eleven, and conclude at Grace at midnight. 
Pre -marriage 
talks to begin 
on March 15 

We can't know where we're going if we don't know where we are. 

CENSUS 
DAY 
IS APRIL l 

T ••~o.or'­
-l~l> 's, /,..~"
0 ~ \ 
... 0 '
m

advertising contributed for the public good \ ..,, ; "'ouMc.'"e •,,,.,.. d'/ 
margin of victory with his fourth 
marker of the year under the 
same circumstances 

The series finale featured three entirely different periods of hockey. The fans were at ringside for a first period of brusing checking that left splin­ters of the boards strewn over the ice. Both teams settled down-for at least one spell of funda­mental hockey in the second frame, but resumed their warring ways for the game's close. 
Mark Steinborn opened the scoring in the Irish dominated first period with a low slap shot that beat a screened Kim New­man in the lower left corner of the net. An example of to what extent Lefty's boys controlled• things in the first period is the fact that the flyboys could manage only six shots on goal while the Irish were shorthanded on three different occassions. 
Steinborn collected his third goal in two nights with ';1 blue-line slap shot that deflected in off Newman's shoulder at 
I:55 of the second period. But with Irish goalie Chris Cathcart sprawled helplessly on the ice, Falcon winger Steve Hall hit the open net to make it 2-1 for the Irish just 29 seconds after Steinborn's tally. Captain Phil Whittliff and AF forward Jon Hanson traded red-lighters in an eleven second span at 7:53 and 
8:04. Following a disputed call in which a shot by Falcon star David Skalko was ruled no goal, Kevin Hoene rammed in his 20th goal of the season while the Falcon's coach was still shaking his head in dismay . at the previous call. 
The third period opened with somewhat of a goalie's night­mare. Skalko took the faceoff and slid the puck to teammate Steve Mullvain who promptly dumped the disc into the Irish offensive zone, but heading on goal. Cathcart apparently saw it coming, but took no immediate action to deflect its trajectory. So at :06 of the final frame the Cadets were back within one goal of the Irish. But that's as close as they were to come. 
Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada, will focus on democracy challenges in Britian and France at an afternoon session, followed by a talk on the parliamentary government crisis in Italy by Dr. Giovanni Bognetti. professor of Jaw at the University of Urbino, Milan, Italy, and former visiting professor at Notre Dame. 
Tracey speaks 
(continued from page 1) 

issues, but they have shown 
themselves to be terribly in­
volved in the issues." 

"We've had help form stu­dents at all class levels. The majority of our strength comes from the support we've gotten. Dianne Dertler, our campaign manager, has done a great job getting kids involved with the campaign in all halls and class levels. Now that the campaign is over, I think that the small discussion groups were the most effective way to get to the students. We could not only present our platform and what we want to do, but we got a chance to hear their opinion of our ideas and what they want us to do for St. Mary's. 
"I've been accused of promis­ing too much. A lot of the promises I've made can and will be accomp:ished in the coming year. Many of the other promis­es can have the groundwork laid during the next year such as possible student union." 
Speaking of the election, Miss Tracey said, "I hope everyone votes. Whatever happens, I hope it's the wish of the majority of the student body and not just a few concerned students. This is an important election, and if many voice their choice, then Student Government can and will be improved in the coming year. 
by Don Kennedy Observer Sports Writer The Bengal Bouts aren't slated to start for another week, but those who attended this week­end's hockey series with the Air Force Academy were treated to a sneak preview of next week's 
events. 
The Irish closed out their '69-'70 season by notching their 20th and 21st victories against the Falcons by scores of 4-3 and 6-3 in a pair of slugfests at the Convo ice rink that featured preliminary bouts of all wei&ht 
' ... ' ..... 

Def-lluklteillbont a.ned oft...._....._.....weetnd, 
supplying the Irish with three goals in the two-game set. 
GSU meeting centers on money problems 
(continued from page 2) 
brought up at previous meetings have finally been received. With regard to the bookstore, King related that the criteria which has been set up for the T A discount is that the individual must complete responsibility for teaching a course. 
A number of members voiced objection to this (including at' least two who do qualify) that this discriminates against other teaching assistants who do· as much or more work for the university although they might not total charge of a course. 
On the subject of the library, where complaints have been made about the assignments of carrels and the privileges for teaching assistants, it was discov­ered that all legislation must come from the faculty library committee. A G.S.U. Committee has been set up to investigate the situation and make representa­tion. 
Another committee which 
had been investigating condi­
tions and costs in the pay 
cafeteria told the delegates of 
their difficulty in calculating 
mark up because they have not 
been permitted to see the books 
of the food services. With the 
backing of a resolution of 
support, they plan to appeal this 
decision to Fr. Heshurgh. 
The activities committee 
informed the membership that 
the ski trip had been cancelled 
due to lack of interest but that 
although they had run into some 
difficulties, they still hope to 
hold the planned party. A golf 
tournament is also slated and 
names are now being taken. 
In the final matter of busi­
ness, delegates were given a list 
of members of their departments who were not contacted to pay dues at registration. It is hoped that they will be able to check out the accuracy of the member­ship lists while collecting the remaining dues. 
Thrasher 
(continued from page 3) 
Dame for a week at the partial expense of studnet government. They'll be here to see the school, go to some of the classes, eat the dining hall food, live at in a Notre Dame dorm. They'll get a lot more complete view this way." 
Thrasher described his pro­posal for a "Junior Year at Home" program which would 
(continued from page 3) 
Dean of Students, he found that there was nothing that could be done to prevent Carroll from turning into a graduate dwelling next year. He feels it unjust however, that the students who will be forced into new dorms next year will be at the end of hall lists for room preferences. 
On the current issue of co-education Peterson said he favors an "autonomous" approach by the University but 
will wait for a student refer­endum before he will act. On when such action comes the candidate said that "student government's position should be one of diplomacy and action and not making demands." 
Peterson added that if the students make decisions which affect the ecomomic situation of 
~ 

MONDAY, MARCH 9, 1970
-TIIB OBSEIHIEitPAGE 8 
And highpoint man in the ball game ... 
by Mike Pa vlin 
crucial plays of the first half) Observer Sports Editor stole the ball after an Irish miss 
I was sitting next to the Ohio 
and dumped it in. University bench on Saturday. It 
By this time, several things 

was an excellent place to listen 
had happened. First of all, the 

in on coach Jim Snyder's stra­
cutting-post offense of the Bob­

tegy and the best place to watch 
cats had ceased to bewilder the 

the wizardry of Austin Carr. 
Irish man-to-man defense. 

Down there the tall players 
Secondly, Collis Jones found out 

(especially Artis Gilmore) are 
that the size of OU's forwards 

very tall, and the fast players 
did not necessarily make them 

(especially Vaughn Wedeking) 
good and began to hound the 

are very fast. And Carr's moves 
boards. Love's third foul at 

and shots become _even more 
12: II didn't hurt either. 

unbelievable when the sizes and 
Carr's II points in five 

distances are in the correct to upset the
minutes had failed 

perspectives. 
Bobcats, but once his offense 

Austin set a total of two flag Austin
began to and con­

NCAA tournament records 
tinued to destroy Kowell,

(most points, 61 ; and most field 
Snyder brought in Tom (T.C.)

goals, 25) and two ND records, 
Corde at 10:05 (Catlett and 

in the same catagories. He also 
Sinnott entered for ND). Bopp­

went over the I ,000-point mark 
ing out to war, Corde forced 

for the season and thoroughly 
Austin into two misses and OU 

destroyed what might have been 
took a 32-28 lead. A TV-time 

a successful Bobcat game plan. 
out found Corde on the bench 
Johnny Dee started Jay Ziz­
grinning over his success and his 

newski and John Gallagher, as he 
teammates confident. 

said later, "To bring two men quickly
The dream ended as 

off the bench (Tom Sinnott, Sid 
Jones entered the picture offen­

Catlett) as sort of a new tempo." 
sively with several buckets. Carr 

Snyder went with his excellent 
began teaching TC a few things

pattern offense and Ken Lowell 
and soon it was all over, up to 

on Carr. Although Austin 
46-35. 

immediately began bombing the 
The OU bench was visibly

nets (despite encouraging cries 
disheart~ned by the early second 

of "stick him, stick him!" to 
half performances. They were 

Kowell from the OU bench), 
still confident at the outset as 

John Canine's shooting kept the 
their patterned offense netted 

Bobcats ahead. 
several quick baskets. But the 

Not even a TV-time out could 
box-and-one defense which 

stop Canine, who blew in five 
Snyder installed on Carr broke 

field goals to give 0 U a 20-14 
down and the Bobcats exper­

lead at 14:18. Here Gallagher 
ienced a horrendous frozen 

and Big Ziz proved their worth. 
shooting touch. 

Jay put in a lay-up and Gallagher 
As Carr warmed up after a 

(in what I consider one of the FG FT REB PTS Jones 9-19 6-6 17 24 McDivitt Gallagher 4-8 1-2 2 9 Groff Ziznewski S-12 0-1 10 10 Love Carr 25-44 11-14 6 61 Canine Meehan 0-1 2-2 2 2 Kowall Sinnott 2-4 0-1 6 4 Parker Hinga 1-1 0-0 0 2 Corde Catlett 0-1 0-0 11 0" Wolf TOTALS 46-90 20-26 54 112 Hunter Miller Halftime: Notre Dame 54, Ohio 41 Rumpke 
Shooting: Notre Dame 46 of 90 for S 1 per cent; Rumpke 
Ohio 36 of 94 for 38 per cent. Glancy 
Turnovers: Notre Dame 15, Ohio 13. TOTALS 
Fencers earn tie~at 
The Notre Dame fencers came fencing squad will travel to Cleveland to meet Case Western
through Saturday in Detroit to 
and Cleveland State. On the

tie Wayne State for the Great 
following day they will close out

Lakes tournament champion­
ship. Case Western fencers cap­
tured both the sabre and epee 
Wrestlers

crowns but it were the teams 
with depth, the Irish and the 
Bob Habig, Jim Hansen, and

Waynemen, who prevailed. Each 
Phil Gustafson, standouts all

of the nine schools entered two 
season long for the Irish

men in each weapon and the 
wrestling team, led the way to a

Notre Dame and Illinois Circle 
over Marquette

squads were the only two that 24-12 victory 
this weekend in Milwaukee that

succeeded in qualifying all six of 
-enabled the Irish to conclude
their men for the finals. 
their 1969-70 dual meet season

The team championship was­
with a 6-6 record. 

decided by the total number of 
Habig, only a freshman, tal­

matches won and Wayne and 
lied his ninth pin of the season, a

N.D. finished deadlocked at 62. 
new Notre Dame record, scoring 

Individual placing was de~ed 
at 3:52 in the ISO pound class.

by won-lost records in the finals. 
The previous mark for pins in a

The winner in foil was Jerry 
~eason was set in 1963 by Dick

Lott from Wayn~ State (8-l) and 
Arrington. Gustafson contin-ued

he was followed by John Nishi­
his unbeaten streak by pinning

mura of Illinois Circle and N.D. 
his opponent in l :51 in the

fencers Glen Kalin and John 
heavyweight division. Phil is

Lyons. Case Western's Nagorney 
15-0-3 on the year. Hansen

captured sabre (7-2) and Dave 
notched his 17th win· in 21

Arr •. 'k and Roger Holzgrafe 
matches this season by nailing

(N.I . ; .nished second and third 
his opponent to the ~at in 2:39'

behind him. Epee was won by 
in the 158 pound weight class.

Madas of Case Western (8-1) 
Also picking up victories for

followed by Anderson of Wis­
the Irish Saturday . were Tom

consin Parkside and Hoker of 
Ciaccio (118) with a 12-1

the Univ. of Detroit. 
triumph, captain Keith Giron
Next Friday evening the Irish slow start and Jones and Catlett really cleaned up on the boards, the Bobcat bench was reduced to silence. Ocassionally as assis­tant coach or a fan, would lean over to ask "how many does he have", and that same, shrill­voiced women kept screeching "Oh no, there he goes again." 

I don't think anyone could say that 112-82 was an indica­tive score. Actually, the Irish could not have done anything 
·more perfectly if they had written a script. After the game Dee said, "We knew it was_going to be a physical game. The kids got in a good frame of mind to do some rebounding." Jones. 
Catlett, and Ziznewski put their "good frame of mind" to work by grabbing 38 rebounds be­tween them. 
Jones was particularly devas­tating in the first half, getting 13 rebounds. It was his clutch work that enabled the Irish to unpack a blistering fast break late in the period. ND followed two other important rules: getting the Bobcats into foul trouble (bonus throw at 9:35) and staying close early in the game. 
While Carr and Jones (24 points) were the most outstand­ing offensive performers, the victory belonged equally to Catlett, Ziznewski, Gallagher, and Jackie Meehan. 
Gallagher. scored eight points, all early in each half when they were sorely needed. Six came in the second period when John's three jumpers pointed out the dangerous holes in the Bobcat box-and-one. 
FG  ·FT  REB  PTS  
2-13  4-8  11  8  
7-13  3-7  5  17  
4-12  0-0  13  8  
12-29  0-0  4  24  
3-7  1-2  0  7  
1-4  2-2  4  4  
2-6  0-1  3  4  
3-5'  0-0  6  6  
1-3  0-0  3  2  
1-1  0-0  0  2  
0-0  00  
0-0  0-0  0  0  
0-1  0-0  0  0  
36-94  10-20  49  . 82  

Detroit 
. . then dual meet season agal~st · Syracuse, Harper and Bufalo m Buffalo N.Y. 
take.MU 
(134), registering a 2-0 decision, and Bill Hasbrook (I77), who won 6-0. 
Swimming 

Despite eight firsts; the Notre Dame swim team fell to Oakland University in the Motor City Invitational Saturday, as Oak­land totaled 209 points to ND's 177 and Wayne State's 142. 
Freestylers John Sherk and Gene Krathaus each won two events, Sherk taking the 500 (5:15.8) and 1000 (10:58.6), and Krauthaus winning the SO· 
(22.6) and I00 (50.2). Sherk's times and Krathaus' 50 were meet records. 
Vince Spohn and Craig Ferrell joined Sherk and Krauthaus in the victorious 400 free relay team, and also swam with John Balthrop and Mike McDonough in the triumphant 400 medley relay team. 
"I was thrilled by Ziznewski," said Dee. The coach's feeling was based on Jay's 10 rebounds and I 0 points; and especially based on the fact that the big m a n h a s been playing his first full season of practice/play. 
"Strong and silent" is a cliche, but it fits Catlett's play to perfection. Sid was definitely on time for this game, getting his II rebounds in half a game. Sid didn't score, but he intimidated the OU forwards like the~Sword ot Damocles. Catlett's strong performance in the first half (five 'bounds in l 0 minutes) put the lid on OU's haunted offen­sive hoard skill. 
Dee especiallY emphasized the fact that Catlett and Meehan took only one shot apiece and yet played "their bes.t of the season." Jackie (whom Dee called ''The most underrated backcourt man in the country") went the whole way and direct­ed things as well as a sargeant at boot camp. Never bothered by the feeble Bobcat press, Meehan found Carr and Jones open all day with excellent passes. He wound up with a truly incredible 17 assists. "Is that a record," asked Dee. 
I don't know, but the only one who could have more assists is the devil who shovels damned souls into hell during the game of life. 



