Happy St. Pat's Day! 


Hesburgh explains 
draft reforms 
by Floyd Kezele 
Ahout two hundred people were present last nigh I in Stepan Center, to hear Fr. Theodore llesburgh speak on the various reforms that the Draft Commis­siorl, which he ~·haired, has made to President Nixon. Among ot­her areas, lleshurgh touched on the very rl·al need for a ''recog­nition of an individuals con­science on the part of the government," and whether or not there is a need fur conscript­ion in a dcmonacy. 
Fr. Hesburgh made his re­marks as a part of a panel discussion on "The Draft, The War." also on the panel were Dr. John Williams, Prof. I-I is tory; Dr. Thomas Shaffer, Associate Dean of the Law School; Major Joseph Maio, Prof. Military Science; and Or. John Yoder, Prof. Theology, who was unable to attend. The discussion group was chaired by Student Body President Phil McKenna. 
Moderator McKenna began the evening by outlining the procedure for discussion along the lines of "Should there be a tlraft in our democracy, and if not what are the alternatives in light of our present military sit­uation?" 
Mr. Maio who attended the meeting our of uniform ex­plained that he was pn:sent as aJ.l interested individual explaining his own views on the subjects at hand, and could in no way speak for the military or the R.O.T.C. program. 
Maio said that he could not support a volunteer army be­cause he felt that "a volunteer army could eventually become alienated from the civilian pop­ulation and be in such a position that it could cover up incidents such as those which have recent­ly been exposed." 

Thomas Shaffer, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, Phil McKenna, John Williams and Joseph Maio were the participants in last night's forum on the draft in Stepan Center. 
Dr. Williams challenged Maio, and said that it was his opinion that, "if the draft is not abolish­ed, the only sensible aJternative to conscription is resistam:e." He further contended that the mili­tary is in such a position that one is continually subjected by it, and in many areas cannot escape its effeds. 

SLC delays action on judicial code 
by Dennis Anastosoff The Student Life Council met yesterday and unanimously passetl a motion "to delay action on this judicial code until a committee of the council could report hack to the council within three weeks on aJterna­tives to the code presently under consideration." The motion was co-sponsored hy Mr. Philip Fal"­cenda, administration represen­tative. and Phil McKenna, Stu­dent. Body President. After discussion, McKenna and J."accenda had agreed that the new co(k r11ight be too "legalistk." They thought there might be yet a simpler alterna­tive to the proposed code, which is complex. "The committee will study the whole form of the judicial 
code. The necessity of one at all will be discussed, and if one is needed, how elaborate it should be, what form it should take. We arc looking for the best way of dealing with the students," said McKenna. 
The SLC emphasized that the present code from last year will be in effect until a new one is decided upon. 
Father James Burtchaell said he felt the code under consider­ation wus far too elaborate and intricate. 
Dean William Lawless, Dean of the Law School, admitted that it was overly complex, hut that there is a need for one. lie cited four examples of univers­ities where there were distur­bances. 

1 F0ru m sclleOule-set 
I 
The following is the sdredu/e for today r meeting of the U1it l'crsiI v /."om m: 2:00-·2:40 Student Government 
2:00 Mr. David 1\rashna, Student Body Pres­rden t-E/ect 2:/0 Mr. Htlward Isley, Graduate Stlldent Union 
2:20 Discussion 2:40-3:20 Current Issues on Campus 
2:40 Mr. 17wmas J1rid1'1!Siein, University Arts Council 
2:50 Afr. f\ o!nneth fl!len tert, Nutting-for-President Campaign 
3:00 Discussion 3:20-3:30 Break 3:30-4:/0 University Priorities 
3:30 Dr. Hdward J. Cronin, General Program of" Uhcral Studies 
3:40 Rev. Hrnest Bartell, C.S.C., Chairman: Depart­ment of Economics 
3:50 Discussion 4:10-4:30 Cuffee Break 4:30-5:30 Campus Life 
4:30 Mr. Charles !.enon, Notre Dame Alumnus (//all Ufcj 
4:40 Mr. Jolin Barkett, Notre Dame Student (Hall Ufc) 
4:50 Mr. James Cooney, Notre Dame Alumnus (Campus Ministry) 
5:00 Discussion 
"There was a jungle of con­fusion at Columbia because no· one knew what the university had in the way of a judicial code," he said. 
Dean Lawless cited a distur­bance at State University of New York at Buffalo last night, which he claimed might have been avoided with a clearly deter­mined judicial process. 
"We should predetermine a fairly flexible code. There must be some structure to maintain order," he stressed. 
Ed Roickle, student represen­tative, pointed out that these examples were all of secular col­leges. He said the committee could find out if Notre Dame is unique. He hoped that a less legalistic aJternative could be found to the code being· consi­dered. 
Student Body Vice President Fred Dedrick stressed that the need for a strict code is the protection of the nghts of the students. lie argued that the proposed code was important in that it assured f.hat the Dean of Students would not have the final say in all cases. He pointed out the case of the ten students who were suspended last Janu­ary as an example of a need for a system to protect student rights. 
"We shouldn'I go the rest of theyear without students being protected," he said. 
Representing the administra­tion on the committee will be Father James Riehle, Dean of Students and Mr. Faccenda; for the faculty: Father James Schultz and Father Burtchaell; and for the students are Phil McKenna and Fred Dedrick. 
Professor Josephine Ford proposed another mol ion that "the SLC form a committee to study the use of drugs on cam­pus and report to the council its 
(continued on page 6) 

Along other lines, Williams nevertheless possible to get explained that because of the around the draft. It was also his present state of our society, it is contention that because, "the much easier for a young man of burdens of a political society are 19 to join the army than it is to to be shared by everyone," there resist the draft and thus be is, in his view, a very definite scorned. possibility to end the draft. 
Dean Shaffer spoke next, and Shaffer was followed by Fr. expressed his disagreement on 1-lesburgh, who explained that the issue of objection to the war, the Draft Com mission was at its by stating that, "it is not part­conception a group with diverse icularly tough to have an object­views. However, he revealed fur­ion to the Vietnam War that falls 
ther that at the time the com­within the present confines of mssion issued its report, it was the law." of the opinion to "get rid of the 
Although he agreed that one draft, putting it bluntly." must in order to obtain a defer­
When asked about the pro­ment allow someone else to take his place in the draft, it was 
SMC Off-campus 
byPrue~a~usi ng 
SMC News Editor The Off-Campus Housmg pro­posal submitted to the Executive Committee of the SMC Board of Trustees last Saturday was pass­ed with minor changes. Begin­ning next September Seniors will be permitted to live anywhere off-campus. According to SBP Susan Turn­bull. the proposal presented to. the Committee requested that all upperclassmen be permitted to live off-campus in approved housing. The "approved hous­ing" clause was inserted as a protection for the student from landlords and housing problems. The final decision of the Com­mittee was permission for only seniors to live off. In addition, the Committee maintained that the students would not have to live in approved housing. Those students under 21 will need par­e.ntal permission. According to Carol Cusick, who worked on the Off-Campus 1-lousing Committee, no provi­sion has been established which would make checks on students living off-campus. In addition, she mentioned that a substantial number of next year's Seniors will have to be found who will live off-cam­pus. "1 don't know what they'll do if they don't fill the quota," she said, "but whetht•r or nut they open it up to sophomores and juniors is subject to another decision by the Board of Trus­tees." Students wishing to move off-campus will pull numbers 
passes 

with the rest of their class, but instead of picking out a room on campus they will register for an off-campus residence. 
Susan Turnbull commented on the move. "I am pleased that Off-Campus Housing in some form has passed, but it is unfor­tunate that it is limited to sen­iors." Turnbull also noted that the program is on an experimen­tal basis for one year and is su bje.;-t to revocation. 
Riehle issues room directive 
In a directive issued last Fri­day~ Father James L. Riehle, Dean of Students announced that some present sophomores may be allowetl to move off­campus next year. Riehle stated, however, that the number who will be allowed off-campus hous­ing will depend upon the pos· sible shortage of on-campus accomodations. 
Father Riehle asked any pre­sent juniors who had not indi­cated a preference to live on­campus. hut had changed their minds, to notify the Dean of Students' office. 
To fa~.·ilitale room selection, next year's juniors an• asked to have a letter from their parents sent to the Dean of Students' office by April 6 staling their permission to move off-l"arnpus. University permission to move 
off-campus  will  be  determined  
from  the  dates  on  the  letters  
from p<~rcnts.  


Hartley criticizes gov't 
by Bob Fulton 
Anthony Hartley last night in a speech presented for the New Challenges to Constitutional Democracy in the Atlantic Com­munity, criticized the inability of democratic governments to respond to the moods and opin­ions of the governed. 
llartley defined democracy as the ability of every citizen to play some kind of institution­alized political role in the so­ciety in which he lives. "It also must afford each citizen the maximum amount of control over his own destiny through political action. The question now, is if in fact a citizen exerts some influence on his own des­tiny," he stated. 
Rumor has it ... 
Rumors that the SM(' sign-out cards were being kept as part of students' personal records were denied by Sr. Immaculata, Dean of Students, yesterday. 
The past cards are kept on file, Sister explained, because "once in a while it is found as helpful in assisting in locating students." 
The present sign-out proce­dure is based on the assumption that the information on the card is confidential, to be used only in the case of emergency. The rumor which Sister counter­manded held that the Administr­ation was amassing back cards which would later be considered when the college made its refer­ences. 
r-C-.-0-.-C-Iu_b_M_e_e_t-in-g-;the arbitrary decisions of offi­cials, an appeal to some higher and more impartial instance. It is thoroughly unsatisfactory and ultimately damaging to demo­cratic government when officials 
Wed. March 18-7:30 
are judges in their own cause."

2nd Floor LaFortune 
"The basic difficulty of ap­plied democracy in the process 

John Lehman will speak 
of government of advanced in­dustrial societies remained diffi­culties of communication," Hartley said. "The idea of an 

on alternatiPe serPice 
A11 are invited 
educated citizenry deciding an 
He felt that the New Left's criticisms that "men in bed­rooms filled with cigar smoke decide what will become of the average American" were un­founded. He argued that they have done a great deal of harm because most of the arguments were circular and were apt to prove anything or nothing. But their voices added with ·others expressed dissatisfaction with the workings of liberal democ­racy. They do not feel they are being heard. 
Other forms of dissatisfaction are being articulated in the imaginative literature which has evolved in the liberal democratic state, said Hartley. He referred to those forms of writing which reflected direct criticism of poli­tical and social forms. As an example he offered the advent of stories with plots similar to Huxley's 1984. 
The causes of this dissatisfac­tion he felt, were found in the bureaucratization of politics and the administrative decision­making which affects the lives of citizens. "The complicated ques­tions that governments have to decide these days are not respon­sive to the purely moralistic opinions which are the way in which the political views of most of us tend to express themsel­ves," he stated. Nor can Hartley see a solution. 
He feels that the technical decisions which affect the citi­zen could not be understood by the average citizen. "But," he stated, "in democracies there should always be a remedy for important question of inter­national relations with full knowledge of the issue has some­how got lost." 

He gave the case of the SALT (Strategic Arms Limitations ..':...,Talk) negotiations as an exam­
~ . 
ple. "Anyone who has been the least bit involved in the world of defense thinking will realize that there is a vast area of knowledge which never gets into the daily press at all." Hartley finds the dilemma in the advent of a group of technicians in the government whose decisions can­not be translated and the im­possibility of replacing this professional body of civil ser­vants. "!!!t· 
••.L:.. :;
In conclusion, Mr. Hartley 
'· --­

offered no solutions; he felt that Francisco E:spinosa, a well-known Spanish guitarist, gave an he could only present the prob­outstanding performance in the Memorial Library Auditorium last lems. But he felt the title of his evening. Included in his performance was the oldest and most talk, "The Withering Away of popular flamenco music of Spain, dances, traditional rhythms, and Western Liberal Democracy" other folklore favorites from provinces and cities of Spain. His was rather pessimistic. encore was especially interesting, in particular when he combined 
some American songs with other Spanish tunes. 
Parking lot fence being built Ask not to park on perimeter
by Tom Bornholdt The fence is being constructeu from the Hayes-Healey Building around the D I parking lot now. on March 12. according to Director of Securi­A nillfold was stolen from an ty, Arthur Pears. In an interview, Athletic and Convocation Center he asked that "We're asking the locker. The billfold contained students not to park their cars $1 5. Another wallet, containing on the perimeter for two rea­$1 5, was stolen from the second sons. First, so as not to damage floor of LaFortune. 
their cars. Secondly, so that the Vandalism was reported at the workers can get that fence in as Boat Dock, at 7:47 a.m. on soon as possible." March 14. The lock was undone 
A car was reported stolen and several boats were capsized. from the Stepan Center Parking A room was entered in Pangborn Lot on March 14. The car was 
on March 14. Several articles found in tact and undamaged were moved in to the hall, but near 132 Mean Street by the 
South Bend Police. A couch was stolen from La 

Three U.S. planes lost 
Fortune Center. It had recently been upholstered with an olive green synthetic covering. The 


in operation over L.aos 
couch was discovered missing at 

4:00 p.m. on March 12. An SAIGON ( UPI) U.S. expensive camera was stolen headquarters yesterday an­
nounced the loss of three Amer­
----. -------....1-----------------~""""""'­
ican planes in operations over Laos that included ground support for Laotian troops and B5 2 raids against the Ho Chi Minh Trail. The communiques were the most extensive to date on the Laotian war. 

In South Vietnam, a U.S. Navy ECI21 reconnaissance 
plane crashed and burned yes­terday at the Da Nang air base, 

TMf 
JAil 

killing 22 Americans and injur­ing II in one of the worst non­
SPECTRUM 

com bat air disasters of the war. Spokesmen said the plane had
A,. 

"mechanical failure" during its 
landing approach.




COL.L.EGIA TE JAZZ FESTIVAL. 
The U.S. command also reported one American was killed and three wounded
Friday-Saturday March 20 and 21 
Sunday when Viet Cong gunners shot down an Army UH I "Huey" helicopter 9R miles
I:30 and 7:30 PM Stepan Center 
northeast of Saigon in jungles two miles from the Cambodian border. 
Yesterday's announcement of
Symposium -Thursday March 19 -8:00 PM 
air activities over Laos was the first formal release of informa­tion under a new policy ordered

Center for Continuing Education 
by the Nixon administration to counter charges that the United 
States is involved in a "secret war" there. 
ADMISSION FREE 

Briefing officers said U.S. Air
Judges: Dan Morgenstern, Ernie Wilkens, Joe Farrell, 
Force, Navy and Marine Corps 
pilots flew raids Sunday in Laos,

Richard Abrams, and I.eon Breeden 
nothing was stolen. 
As an example of the effectiveness of the new security improvements, there was only one incident of vandalism in the parking lots according to Pears. This was a car that was scratched and dented in the C I parking lot on the night of March I 2. 
In Morrissey Hall, people tore the hand rail between the second and third floors. On March I 5, in Alumni Hall, two panes were smashed in the East door, plus another in the basement door. 
but the number of sorties was not disclosed. 

"In addt:ion, B42's partici­pated in interdiction operations along the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos," an official spokesman said, adding that the new infor­mation policy was "based on 
guidance  received  from  fhe  
Department of Defense."  
The  U.S.  command  has  

announced the loss of four air­craft over Laos since the new policy was initiated March I 0. 
On Saturday, a Navy A4 Skyhawk crashed due to "un­known causes" in the lower panhandle of Laos, but the pilot was rescued. A second A4 was shot down and crashed into the Gulf of Tonkin off North Viet­nam on Sunday, spokesmen said, but helicopter rescue teams plucked the pilot from the water. 
Sunday evening, spokesmen reported, an OCIO Bronco observation plane was hit by groundfire and crashed in the northern panhandle of Laos. The pilot was rescued unhurt. 
Officials said U.S. Air Force planes Sunday "flew combat support missions in Laos for Royal Laotian forces" but com­muniques added that "no ad­d i tiona! information on air operations over Laos will be released." 

----~ Observer is published daily during the college semester
Tickets: Afternoon Session $1.00; Evening $3.00 
except vacations by students of the University of Notre Dame and 
SL Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The 
Observer. Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
All Sissions $4.50 

-------------------~Se~r~v~ic~e~o~f~S~tu~d~e~n~t~U~n~io~n~So~c~i~ai~C~o~m~m~is~s·~,o~n--------------------------~-----p~a_i_d_.N~ot~r~e~D~a~m~e~,~ln~d~.~·4~6~5~5~6~.--------------------------~ 

PAGE J

TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1970____________ ___7118 OBSERVER.~~--------­





Model UN prepares for General Assembly 
The Model United Nations will call committee meetings this week to review proposed lrgisla­
tion  in  preparation  for  the  
c;encral  Assembly  to  be  held  
April !land 9.  
Resolutions,  drawn  up  by  

delegates to the General Assem­bly, will be divided into three general categories: Political Security, Economic Security and Humanitarian Affairs. 
Sample resolutions arc avail­uhle in tht• Academil· C'ommis­
sion office (40 of the LaFortune Student Center) for those dele­gates still considering submitting resolutions. 
The three committees will ml:!et at 7:30p.m. this Thursday, March IY. 

The Political Security Com­mittee, chaired hy Mike Kendall. will meet in Room I03 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The Eeo­nomic Security Committee, chaired by Rich Hunter, will meet in Room I02 O'Shaugh­nessy. The Cultural and Jfurnani­African Bloc (Room 110) and Arabian Bloc (Room 120). 
Model UN Chairman Michael Kelly said that no resolution that fails to achieve committee approval will he placed on the agenda for the General Assem­hley. "It is crucial for the suc­
Hippies hijackColumbia Eagle Cambodia offers them asylum 
SATTA!Ill'. Thailand ( U PI) 
Crewman of tlH' U.S. munitions 
ship Columbia l·.aglc were 
quoted as saying yesterday the 
ship was commallllet•red to Cam­
bodia by two "pill popping and 
rnarijuanan blowing hippies" 
who hijad.ed the hornb laden 
vessl'l to protest the Vietnam 
War. 
('am hodia was reported to 
llav~ granted asylum t.o the two I 
dissidents after a ( ambodwn 
navy patrol hoanlt.:d the ship as 
it lay at anchor off the · 
Cambodian port of Sihanouk­
ville where it arrived Sunday on 
1ts. interrupted voyage to Thai­
land. 
The ship's owner said 15 new 
members and the captain were 
ahoanl the vessd after the vesst•l 
was diverted_ Farlier dispakhes 
from Washington headquarters 
said a total of IS men were 
aboard the Columbia Eagle. 
The other crewman remained 
aboard .1nu the Cambodian gov­
ernment, according to Washing­
ton dispakhes, was said to have 
told Anll'rican diplomats that a 
dl•t:ision would be forthcoming 
on the Jisposition of the men. 
the ship and its ~:argo of 500 
pound and 750 pound bombs. 
lktails of the inddent. one of 
the most bizarre in the annals of 
the Sl'a, wen: disclosed by ere w­
nwn of the SS Rappahanno~:k, a 
vessl'l wh1ch picked up 24 Col­
umbia I·.agle sailors who were set 
adrift in lifeboats after the muni­
tions ship was commandeered. 
Ri~:hanl Joy~:e of San Fran­
cist·o, a Rappahannock 
cn:wman, was interviewed after 
his vessel arrived at Sattahip, a 
U.S. supply base in Thailand wht•re the Columbia Eagle's homh cargo was to have been unloaded for usc hy American pilots attacking Communist tar­gets in Laos and Vietnam. Joyce said h\.' talked with crewmen 
about lh\.' incident. 
Relief collections 
Students for Biafran Relief 
yesterday said that collections 
will he taken up in the halls of 
St. Mary's tomorrow night and 
Notre Dame on Thursday night. 
Dan Sherry, a spokesman for the group, said that hall eaplains are still needed to head the drive in Pangborn, Lyons, Howard, and Sorin Halls. Sherry said if anyone is in !crested in being a hall eaptain or in canvassing in South Bend this weekend, they should contact him at head­quarters, Room 2-A, LaFortune or at 2X3-l YlJ6. 
JOBS• JOBS' and mor~ JOBS! Stu denH, Teach~<rs. Stateside and Inter· na! lonal Job~. Recreational Jobs: Year-round Jobs; Summer Jobs. A'll occupations and trades. Enjoy a vac•· tlon while you earn. Hurry! The best jobs are taken early. Write: ".IOBS"J 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163·1, LC'dqCalif. 95240 
*FINEST IN STEREOtr t 
TJ:'A C, A L TEC, 
LANSING, JVCI ' Color TV sets ' /VC 
. OSS PRODUCTION . c.u 232·2 
"They said they believe that 
Survivors told men of the 
the hijacking was done by a 
Rappahannock that an order to 
couple ol hipp1cs who had 
abandon ship was announced 
signed on in the United States," 
over the C'olumhia J·:agle public 
Joyce said. "They said these 
address system by the third mate 
guys wer\.' popping pills and 
who said he was acting on orders 
blowing marijuana all the way 
from the captain, identified as 
over and talking about how they 
Donald Swann of Portland, Ore. 
"
were anti-Vic 

GreatYoung Britain! 
tarian  Affairs  Committee,  
chaired  hy  Greg  Turza,  !USB  
Model  UN  Co-ordinator,  will  

meet in Room I05 O'Shaugh­nessy. 
The com rni ttee meetings will he the evening after the regional bloc meetings. 
The regional bloc meetings meet Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. and will include the Latin American bloc (Room I02). the Western Bloc (Room 103), the Com rnunist Bloc (Room I04 ). the Asian Bloc (Room 105), the cess of the Modd United Nations that tht•se bloc and com­mittee meetings be successful." 
Each  nation  has  one  delegate  
vote  in  each  of the  three  com­ 
mittel's.  

MAD-FUNNY-SAD LETTERS? 
Have you received a "classic" letter from home (parental an~ xiety, wisdom, advice about sex, politics, lifestyle, etc.)? We'd like It for a social-psych project. An· onymlty guaranteed! Send to Let~ ters, 1125 Mcintyre, Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
For the price of a stamp, we'll clue you in on the Briti~h scene. Naming names of the spots only we local folk arc "in" on. 
We'll tell you about our native haunts. The pubs. CoiTeehouses. Dis­cotheques. Boutiques. And the like. 
We'll tell you where you can bed­down for $2 a night, breakfast in­cluded. And chow-down for $1. 
We'll tell you about the "doings" in the theatrl'. So you can SL'e Broad­way hits long before they break on Broadway. (Tickets: 90(.) 
We'll tell you about a crazy little $30 ticket that'll buy you 1.100 miles of rail and boat travel. 
And fill you in on all kinds of tours planned especially for the college crowd. 
We'll even show you how to make it through ShakcspL'arc country. Even if you couldn't make it through Shakespeare in class. 
We've got hundreds of ideas. All wrapped up in our free book: Great Young Britain. 20 pages big. With over 50 color photos. 

It's yours for the asking. Mail the coupon. And sec your travel agent. 
r------------------------, 
British Tllurist Authority Box4100, NewYork, N.Y.IOOI7 
Senu me your free book: Great Young Britain. 50 
Namr College-·--------­Address___-~ 
City_ -~--------­State _____ Zip ____ 
L------------------------~ 
PAGE 4 
THE OBSERVER 
TUESDAY, MARCH 17 1970 

,_




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
,/ v 
;


GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
I' 
J
(/

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
.i 
:/
I.


Serpent power 
7 
, 
Up against the wall, Paddy 
I 

_-:_1_ -4 
'(. 
~-~~­
We applaud St. Patrick's forceful and foresighted action 

in driving the snakes from Ireland over a century and one half ago. We do not so, however, without reservation. Although everyone agrees that someone has to do 
~~~:.­

something about the serpents it is indeed questionable that anyone should take unilateral action on an issue as important as this. Is it right for any one man to stand firmly for anything that everyone agrees with, without first asking everyone if he should do so? 
Without a doubt the snakes should have been consulted 

Sure, and St. Patrick never gave the Emerald Isle weather like this. 
since the move directly affected their Jives. Snakes have been ignored too long around the world. Their rights, so to 
speak, have been trampled on in many instances. 
The land from which they were driven was as much theirs as St. Patrick's. Patrick should have paid them the courtesy of calling them in before driving them out. To just throw them out just served to alienate further an already hostile group. The snakes' venomous invectives against society will no doubt increase one hundred fold because of their inhumane treatment. In fact, five people who were bitten by them have already issued statements denouncing St. Patrick's action and supporting amnesty for the group. 
It is obvious now that St. Patrick should have called everyone in to talk about the issue and to ask them what he should do. This would have taken up time and forced people to elect members to another committee which would have kept people busy. It also would have taken up enough time to insure that people would not have the time to think about the really pressing problems of our time. It is also important that everyone be in on everything to insure inefficiency and also to insure that we satisfy everyone's ego. 
Now many years later we are still facing the problem of a lack of enough committees and group decisions. In fact, we have not even outlined enough ways that everyone can be in on everything to insure that people don't go around doing the right things before they have group approval. We just can't allow this fouless concept of trust to get in our way. 
Not insignificant at all is the fact that St. Patrick had dose ties to the Church. His action was no doubt motivated in part by a religious set of va~ues indoctrinated in him by 60 year old nuns through the use of the Baltimore Catechism. Everyone knows that any person brought up on such a set of values has a warped impression of reality and cannot relate relevantly to the world. Patrick is a nice guy but we feel that he should broaden his background and believe less firmly in what he believes in before he goes around acting on principle. 
St. Patrick's actions leave much to be desired. He should have consulted at least the Student Senate before he made his move. After all why shouldn't we make our lives as complicated as possible. 
I.etters 

ending series of riots, wars Dear Notre Dame and Other murders, and sufferings united Readers: by hate. 
While at Notre Dame, each We must start somewhere, let one of us must learn to partake it be Notre Dame. Let whites of Notre Dame, and in her. That shake hands with the first black 
is to say, all of us must learn to that they see. Introduce your­partake of the people of Notre self. Let the blacks do the same. Dame. Most importantly, we Say hello to the first person you 
must learn to give of ourselves to see and don't know. Try to get 
each and every one of our bro­involved with people, not books thers and sisters here at du Lac. and beer. Do it in your way, but This is pivotal. Only through please do it. Believe me, people 
giving will we, as the now found­are the most fascinating beings 
ers of the New World (one of around. I will never be happy love and peace) ever succeed. until I know that I've made There are burning issues at Notre 
someone else happy --let that Dame which, while not being be your creed as much as "We're ignored, are being overlooked. No. I" has been in the past. National and international issues It is well past the time that we are very much a part of us also, at Notre Dame should start rea­but how can the world ever live lizing that people are people: 
in peace if we at Notre Dame women aren't 'broads.' blacks (6,000 weak) cannot? aren't 'niggers,' Latins aren't 
ff men want to turn away 'spies,' whites aren't 'hankies,' from each others problems, if hippies aren't 'queers,' and God they refuse (overtly or not) to is alive and happy in 416 Fisher. 
try to understand one another, Peace, 
then life may go on, but if it Thomas M. Allen 
does it will simply be a never-416 Fisher 
Editor: There is a young man named Carr Whose basketball talent is beyond par His statistics and records have no mar To find a better player one would have to look far. 
He can do more than the Tri-M boys can Pass, shoot and dribble better than any other man. He's certainly no gunner, or a flash in the pan Each of us thinks we're his greatest fan. 
The ball to his teammates he'll always feed A hog he is not, a real teamplayer indeed. But perhaps his greatest quality is that he can lead. The kind of man our team really does need. 
Snubbed by the pollsters of the AP Austin Carr just has to be. 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck 
Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker 
News Editor: Glen O'Corso 
Asst. News Fditar: Jim McHol­singer SMC News Editor: Prue McWear Assoc. Editors: Cliff McWin· trode, Ann Conway, Jeanne Swee­
ney  
Sports  Editor:  Mike  
"McJeesch" Pavlin  
Features  Editor:  Dave  
O'Stauffer  

Photography Editor: Mike Murphy 
Ad Layout: Jim Flanagan 
Night Editor: Dave "Lepra­chaun" Bach Layout Design: Mary Chris MeMorrison 
Layout: Ann "Four Leaf Clo­ver" Conway, Paddy O'Lipscomb, Jeanne "Shamrock" Sweeney, Ann Therese McDarin 
Headlines: Jim O'Graif, Tom MeLaw Night Controller: Harold "King of the Blarney" Taegel 
T"t opinions expressed m the editorial~;, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are sole­ly tf'lose of the authors and edi­torS of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administra­tions, faculty, or student bodies. 

I think we can all agree The best the writers will ever see. 
From crises and overtimes, he has never fled His spirit and courage will never be dead Of praise and honor not enough can be said, But all this glory has not gone to his head. 
And so I would just like to say On this typically ribald St. Patrick's Day In this rather simple and unorthodox way That to our lives you have provided a shining ray Of excitement and emotion with your play. 
Mike Egart 914 Flanner 
_TU~~~S~D~A~Y~·~M~A~R~CH~17~,_1_97_0________________________________~~~~~~ca~~-------------------------------~P~A~G~E~5 
Gip p er's g h ~~~ ~,: '"'~'~Pl:omo~ !,s,!,~"~Tho~'~"' ho!<~p: 9,~,~,:rope<~! ~~~ 
Washington Hall pianos playing, ~:ur-fear of the girl being thought was down investigating, he heard one of
The first of what is hopefully a series. 
by T .C. Treanor 
Offi..:ially, the first Notre Dame suicide 
oc..:urred five or six years ago, when some 
unfortunate hanged himself in a St. Ed­
ward's cubbyhole. 
Officially. 
Officially, former Notre Dame great 
George Gipp died a peaceful death of 
pneumonia some years ago. Officially. 
Washington Hall by night is just a cold, 
dark, empty place. Officially, there are n~ 
ghosts. 
Officially. 
But some time in 1945 a rejected 
young swain, convinced that the world 
could do him no right, hanged himself in 
one of Washington's numerous ferrets. 
Every night since then his apparition has 
glowed in the dark for the pleasure of 
thousands. 
Or: 
I'he Cipper, having not died from 
pneumonia but rather from one of a 
thousand obscene diseases, haunts still 
the old building, moving and moaning 
from room to room and occasionally 
twinkling the ivories for the pleasure of 
thousands. 
Or: 
A de men ted young actor, rapturous in 
his desire to imitate the Gipper, threw 
himself from a balcony and landed blood­
ily on the Theatre floor. To this day his 
ghost haunts the joint. 
Or: 
An avaricious priest, who dipped into the poorbox to feed his evil habits, died, and every night his spirit moves from tower to tower, counting the money he stole from the starving children. 
All these supernatural theories have generated over the past several years to 

Kunen•• 
The fiJI/owing is an interview with James Simon 1\unen, author of The Straw berry Statement: Notes ofa College Ne~·olutionary. 
Interviewer: In your book, The Straw­herry Statement, you chronicle the events leading up to and through the much publicized Columbia University distur­bances of I96X in which you were intimatl'ly involved. What, if anything, do you think was accomplished by the students at Columbia, and do you think they might have been more successful if their methods had been different? 
Kunen: One thing was accomplished; the gym was not built. But the major goals of the students were to stop the University from expanding into the community and to stop the University from conducting war research. Both activities are still going unabated. 
Columbia is quiet now not because anything has changed, but because nothing has changed and the kids are frustrated. The reason the University hasn't changed is that it can't, or it wouldn't be Columbia University, not because of the students' tactics. Colum­bia, like all major universities, exists to serve the ruling class. It's founded by them and funded by them, so, by definition, it's going to serve the ruling class, that is, the elite, small number of men whose interests dominate the affairs of this country, the interests for whom the Vietnam War is being fought. 
Interviewer: Why do you think the Columbia crisis attraded so much atten­tion front p a gc headlines, national radio and television treatment, and even inter­national coverage? 
Kunen: I don't think any of us thought that this was going to become such a huge issue. Though we hadn't realized it, we had apparently struck at a nerve center of the Establishment, something it was very important for them to preserve, that is, the university as the "I hink center" of the Estahlishment. Also, we apparently had tremendous potential for setting off a wave of these things, which was what 
tains rustling, people fainting, shoulders 
being tapped, people being knocked out 
-the whole list is rather staggering. 
For starters, there's the Jimmy Brogan story-Brogan along with three other ghosthunters (none of which presently attend the University du La~,;), waited for the ghost one night. As Brogan describes it, he himself was skeptical, but his three companions were believers. Brogan sat in a Theatre Chair as the other three chant­ed for the ghost. About 3:30, Brogan began to hear footsteps on the balcony stairs. He --but let Brogan tell the story. 
"I got the hell out of there." 
Sucdn..:tly, that seems to be the fate of most of the people who have gone in search of the ineffable apparition. Here are some more stories: 
One night, two people were· crawling on the rafters high above Washington llall Theatre. One of them felt a tapping on his shoulder. He turned to his companion and asked the inevitable question. His ~,;ornpanion denied tapping his shoulder. 
It happened again. The man turned around again. His friend was a good twenty-five feet back -and there was nothing in between them. 
There was no third time. Emulating Dr. Brogan, the two of them got the hell out of there, sans wits and sans apparition. 
There are more. Last year, six people went ghost-hunting, and two of them wandered into one of the turrets. There, right before their incredulous eyes, an 
inch diameter beam of light appeared, ever widening. When it rea~,;hed three feet, the ghost-hunting had terminated. 
More still. Last year, there was sup­posed to be play rehearsal at Washington Ilall. One of the leading ~:haracters did something outside the script. She fainted. When she revived she swore she saw the shimmering ghost of someone hanging in 
crazy. Maybe she was. 
More still: There always has been, and is now, a resident human in Washington Hall. When students live there, they got their tuition paid for them, or some such equivalent nonsense. There is one thing now in spite of rumors to the contrary. 
But, on~:e upon a time, one of them, searching through his dresser drawers, was KO'd, sight unseen. When he woke up, he found himself on the other side of the room. Nothing was missing. 
Jimmy Brogan, part two, is almost as weird as Jimmy Brogan, part one. Last year, he and three of his friends, Bob Spaulding, Dave Edmonds, and Tommy Ehrbar, visited Washington llall for the Obser11er. Brogan came armed with bed­sheet and football helmet, Spaulding with camera. They were going to spoof the ghost. 
Somebody came ready to spoof them. At the top of some windows, people whined and otherwise imitated ghosts. So Brogan thought that he'd get even, and he turned out the lights. 
But after the amateur ghosts left, the professionals took over. Edmonds sug­gested, rather loudly, that Brogan turn on 
the  lights.  Brogan  flicked  the  switch.  
Nothing happend.  
Edmonds  yelled  a  little  more,  and  
Brogan  turned  the  switch  off and  on  

again. Still, nothing happened. Frantical­ly, up and down again, Brogan manipulat­ed the controls. Nothing. 
Suddenly, Brogan reports, he heard a loud buzzing above his head. He looked up. Saw nothing. But when he turned the switch on again, it worked. 
Incidentally, none of the pidures dev­eloped. 
More student stories: About ten years ago, one of the Washington Hall worthies was up studying. He heard one of the 

the upstairs lavatories operating. So he 
went upstairs. At the top of the stairs, 
somdhing brushed him baL·k. He looked 
down and saw a shadowy figure at the 
bottom of the stairs. But the only foot­
prints he was able to find the next day in 
the Washington Hall dust were his own. 
One of the later students reports silting and studying when suddenly he was gripped either by inspiration or the ghost of Washington Hall. Half of his face turned frozen cold and half of it dripping hot. And as he gawked in this paralyzed state his book began to move. Finally it opened to page 20. The Gipper died in 1920. 
The wildest story concerns last year's seance. A group of ghost fans gathered there to raise Gippcr or whoever is in there. Before they joined hands, the leader warned that if there was a believer who was really worried that the ghost would suck up their blood or something, he could break the circle. About midway into the festivities two people broke away. A little later the leader began to spout poetry_ After a rather exhaustive research session, the group found the source of the verse. It was the Dome. 1921. 
There's something to he said about 
myths and those who propagate them, 
but there's even more to be said about 
ghosts. An investigation is in order here. Obviously, one of two things is true. There really is a ghost at Washington Hall 
-that'd be a fa~cinating story. Or there's somebody there who desperately wants us to believe there's a ghost there. Thatd be an even more fascinating story. There's something there.. And I mean to find out what it is. 
Gipper, I'm calling you out. 
radical embraced by The Establishment 
happened. 
Interviewer: What changes do you see 
in the general direction of the youth 
movement since the Columbia crisis of 
1968? 
Kunen: Kids are much less uptight about breaking rules that they have been taught not to break. For example, during the strike, I had great misgiving about breaking down a door. Now I wouldn't. The youth movement is becoming more militant because it sees it's not going to get anything by trying to persuade the Establishment to change. We used to have demonstrations. Now there are "actions" aimed at accomplishing something then and there. Examples of this are the attack on the Justice Department, keeping Hayakawa from speaking, and the Young Lord's seizing a church. 
Interviewer: What do you see as the major concerns of youth at this moment'? 
Kunen: The ends are the same. Youth wants to have a world of peace and a world where people can he themselves, but their perception of the means has changed. 
The radical movement itself used to think that you could reform the problems of this country away and now they no longer think that can be done. The problems we face are so deeply part of the country that you have to change the whole country at once, or throw out the whole package. Obviously, it's only a small percentage of the population that thinks this way, but that percentage has an important impact on the majority. 
Interviewer: What do you think is going to happen to these people? Many of them, like you, are getting out of college now and starting out on their own. In what direction do you think they're headed'? 
Kunen: The hardest of the hard core are going to continue working as hard as they can to achieve their goals and just hold down whatever odd jobs they need to survive. 
What's more importanl than that, though, is that very large numbers of young people have been irrevocably· shaken out of their complacency and will unavoidably change the charJcter of the country. Experience changes a person, and large numbers of young people have experienced the inflexibility of the rulers of this country in the form of the policeman's club, and they are never 
going  to  hear  the  National  Anthem  in  
quite the same way  again.  
One  irrefutable  piece  of  evidence  is  

that the nation's large corporations are now having difficulty recruiting young people to work for them. 
• IHterviewer: But will these pe"ople stay "shaken out of their complacency," as you say: It is common for parents to point back to their own days of political activism and idealsim and to advise their children that their views, too, will become "mellowed" with age, and they will settle into complacency. Do you think that this will happen to today's youth: 
Kunen: It will happen to some extent, because when you have a family, it's not that you change your mind about anything; it's just that you amass a lot of obligations that interfere. Rut I don't believe in the "generation gap" theory as an explanation for what's going on. The idea of the generation gap was somethin invented by the press to put political . issues into non-political terms. It is common to read in the press that radicals dislike their parents, but that is not 
generally ture. 
What's really going on is a political struggle that cuts across age lines. People would rather think of this as something like late toilet training instead of facing it for what it is. 
Interviewer: With the extraordinary success of The Strawberry Statement. reviews and articles in all of the nation's major magazines and newspapers, your appearances on television and radio, and now the movie production, have you been accused of "selling out" by members of the movement? 
Kunen: From within SDS, there were some who though I was selling out, but not very many, and I over-reacted to it and am still very concerned about wht>ther I may be selling out. 

I see my role as standihg half-way between The New York Times and Rat. From the mail I've gotten on the book, I think maybe I've been able to introduce people to some of the options open to them. 
I've been so warmly embraced bythe 
Establishment  media  that  I  can't  help  
wondering  whether  or  not  I'm  doing  
something wrong.  

Interviewer: From the time of the Columbia crisis, when you began writing articles on what you were witnessing, and particularly with the publication of The Strawberry Statement, you seem to have be..:ome widely recognized as a spokes­man for the entire youth movement. How do you regard this responsibility? 
Kunen: I did find myself put into the role of being a spokesman for everything that was going on at Columbia and having to defend it all. I've accepted that role. For example, recently on television, I defended the Weathermen, although I don't agree with everything they do. I feel that, although I may have intra-left disagreements with some of the people involved in the movement, I should try to make the movement as a whole look good to outsiders, because it's s1,1bject to enough criticism without my adding to it. 
Interviewer: What about your own future'? Has its direction been changed by any of these recent events or by your unexpected notoriety? 
Kunen: Yes, I'm almost beginning to think of myself as a writer, which is something that fell on me. I hadn't aspired to be that. Right now, I'm working on the screenplay for a movie about hitchhiking, called The Interstate Highway System, for Columbia pictures. 
The movie has been a good half-way step between fiction and non-fiction. It's based on some things that were real, and others that were not. To conceive something entirely in my mind is something I haven't done yet. 
I guess my prime writing project is my life, because tije reviewers all treated me as a fictional character, so I've picked up on that, and I try to do things a character in a novel might do. 

PAGE6 __________________________________________7?.l___~___Cl_~--~---~----------------------------------~TU~E~S~DAY,MARCH17,1970 
Discuss women's hall 
rights but not voting privileges. campus. 

s~eek-mea_nst_opr_ovid_e

as_soon_TasH_E___----. TriaI 0 f Rap Brown adjourned 
(continued from page 1) o/qn­
recommendations for dealing 
with this problem on the Notre 
Dame _campu~ with particular 
1

emphasts on atdmg the students· 
and disseminating information 
to them." It was passed unan­
imously. 
She said that there is an 
enormous naivete about drugs 
that should be alleviated. She 
added that there is a rehabili­
tation center being formed. 
Phil McKenna stressed the 
need for a qualified person, such 
as a psychiatrist, in the infirmary 
full-time. 
Other members agreed 
wholeheartedly, stressing the 
urgency of the problem. 
The SLC also passed u­
nanimously a motion stating 
that "the SLC recommend that 
the university administration 
BEL AIK, Md. (UP!)-The presiding judge at the riot and arson trial of H. Rap Brown

Bus AD MAJOR
• • adjourned the proceedings for another week yesterday because of "an atmosphere of potential
SAID 
danger" but dire<;:ted that Brown 

STI A ITISTICALLV•. appear in court for the first timeft 1.1. when it reconvenes next Tues-

feasible a residence hall for women graduate students and guests." 
Miss Ford proposed the mo­tion pointing out that there are no facilities for women on cam­pus. 
Father Riehle pointed out a few of the difficulties that may be encountered in setting up the dorm. 
Father Riehle said that the university will be 300 rooms short next year, due to Carroll Hall going to male graduate stu­
dents. He said that taking another hall would be hard on the undergraduates. 
A resolution was passed granting temporary seating on the Council to 4 graduate stu­dents and one Jaw student. The 5 people would have speaking The SLC yesterday passed a motion to set up a committee to investigate the use of drugs on 

day. 
Circuit Court Judge Harry E. Dyer Jr. called the week's ad­journment in response to de­fense pleas for an indefinite ad­journment on grounds that two'•· bombing incidents last week made a fair trial impossible. 
Dyer said he agreed that the explosions which killed two of Brown's black militant associates in their car and damaged the Dorchester County Courthouse in Cam bridge, "however they are 
WRIGHT SLACKS ARE FOR LOOKING GOOD 
Wright Slacks are for looking good on the hanger and on you. The secret? Fit. 
So if you want good fashion in the sea-son's newest colors and fabrics, think Wright. Wright Slacks ... try them on 
· d
fOr SIZe at any goo Store. 
.g ht s Iallks
lUrl ~ 

related to this trial, have created an atmosphere of potential dan­ger." 
But, he said, "the defendant will be tried in Hartford County (Bel Air) and there will be no more postponements unless the 
defendant himself persuades the court of their necessity." 
Brown has been missing since the first of the bombings last Monday night killed his two friends. 
Volunteer army issue draws dual response 
(Continued from page 1) c/, 
vision for a Stand-by draft, he 
While agreeing with the de­fense that "no case is worth a threat to life or property," Dyer said he felt no racial tension in the area and was confident "the defendant will receive a fair trial in Hartford." 
Brown is charged with inciting to riot and arson and commiting a rson in connection with a speech he delivered in Cam­bridge, July 24, 1967 which was followed by racial disorders and fires. 
explained that this was really only a ploy to "get it through Congress, past men such as Sena­tor Stennis and Congressman Cellars," who would be against it on any terms. Hesburgh contin­ued by stating his belief that once the draft was done away with, the Stand-by would be virtually impossible to institute in any case other than all out war. 
He backed this up by explain­ing that in 1939, the U.S. had only 150,000 troops in uniform. and Jhat when war was declared, the draft was then and only then attempted. 
According to Hesburgh, the main problem in abolishing the draft would be in educating peo­ple about it. He explained by stating that his commission was the first to study the draft and that it was his hope that it would convince and help to edu­cate the people on life without the draft. Thus, when Major Maio expressed an interest in the study, Fr. Hesburgh offered him his copy of the commissions findings. 
Hesburgh went on to say that the draft is now such an inbred part of our society that many people cannot see us functioning without it. However, it was his belief that since 60% of the army is now volunteer it would be easy to eliminate the draft because, "the Draft doesn't get an army ... only bodies that can be trained." 
A very lively question and answer period followed, with Fr. Hesburgh being asked the bulk 
of the questions. Among these 
wars, "If you were a potential 
draftee of 19 who was opposed to the Vietnam War on moral grounds, what would you do?" Hesburgh's reply was that, "I 
would teach.. .in the South 
where I could do something 

----------------------------'-----------------------------1 worthwhile." 



~SDAY, MARCH 17, 1970 711E OBSERfiER 
DuBois 
by Dennis McCoy 
"Sacred Heart Church \nust he sold to pun.:hase bandages and food for bleeding and star­ving children," wrote Senior Peter J)u Bois in a Jetter to the editor in the March I 2 issue of the Ohserver. 
To that end, DuBois began at the same time the Jetter was submit to.Jd to place petitions in the lluddle and a number of rcsidem:e halls that ro.Jad: "We, the undersigno.Jd, as members of the community that owns and operates Sacred Heart Church hcrehy o.Jxpress our desire to have it solu, in order to purchase food and mcdil.:ine for starving ~tnd injureu people." 
Dubois claimed that according to the latest count there are forty-two signatures, including that of one faculty member, Mr. Charles McCarthy. McCarthy is the Direclor of the Program for 
the  Practice  Jnd  Study  of  
Nun Violence.  
When  questioned  as  to  th.:  

reason he put up the petitions, DuBois responded with the as­surance that it was neither a Joke, nor was it merely sym­bolic. lie hoped that it would motivate "the community to 
a~.:t." 
Referring to his letter, he re­iterated, "So long as we give ~.:hanty instead of ourselves we arc saving the vi~.:tirns of the world with our right hands and murdering them with our left." 
"Several dozen people will be murdered by us in Biafra alone before this short interview is over. (;o see it on the news tonight -if it isn't replaced by a special report on the length of Mme. Pompidou's skirt. News, like advertising, education, and all other purveyers of the 'real world' is whatever the prevailing 'we' wan I to see, or to put it existentially, to he," DuBois consttt utcs whatever the signer expects to result from his signing of it. Let me make one thing perfedly dear. I may have given birth to this idea but it stands on its own feet now. It no longer depends solely on my own intcl­Ie~.:tual and moral resources. Mine is only one of forty-two signatures. People must stop coming 'to me for explanations and start going to the others. My own opinion though is that it hits dead center. That is, if it is successful there is no aspel:t of Notre Dame that will remain unchanged. Radical means root. This proposal gets at the roots of Notre Dame and our world." 
said.  
In  reference  to  signing  the  
petition  and  its  immediate  ef­ 
fect.  DuBois  commented.  "It  

To the question of whet her or not he would receive criticism from both the student body and faculty, DuBois parried, "My petition is absurd by the stan­dards of this world because I'm proposing an unprcceuentetl ex­periment: to increase this com­munity percentage geometrical­ly, apocalyptically. It sounds dangerous because everyone realizes that if the petition is successful it might cause a chain reaction. Ironically, like nuclear fission. One doesn't have to be a disciple of Christ or Oppenheimer or McLuhan to realize that we are approaching a critical mass. If Sacred Heart Church went what would be next'! The gold plate on the Dome'? And could other univer­sities ignore our precedent? Would Notre Dame finally be number one? Could our worlu survive'? I think not, though per­haps I'm over optimistic." 
When the practical question of who would buy the Church, Mr. DuBois had a number of suggestions. I le suggested that the altar alone would bring in a sizeable sum and the bricks 
•

ser1ous about selling Sacred Heart 

labor and meditation are topics of lectures 
. Ronald W. Haughton, prest­dent of the Board of Mediation for Community Disputes in New york City, on the list of distin­guished labor and management spokesmen who will present talks at the Union Management Conference at St. Mary's April 3. II a ugh ton, professor of management and co-director of the Institute of Labor ami Indus­trial Relations of the University of Michigan-Wayne State Univer­sity. has served as chairman of presidential fact finding boards 
in  railroads,  airlines  and  dock  
disputes,  and  for  Michigan  
governors.  

Haughton will uiscuss new <Jreas in dispute settlements at 
the 2 p.m. session in O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's. He will he introduced by the Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., direc­tor of the Industrial Relations section of the Notre Dame department of economics and chairman of the conference. Speakers at morning sessions will include Charles M. Brooks, assistant general manager for em­ployee and labor relations, Texaco, Inc., who will discuss the signifkance of human re­sources in our economy, and DeWill Gilpin, community reta­lions and publicity director for United Auto Workers (UAW), Region 4, who will outline the role of unions in meeting social responsibilities. 
might  be  able  to  be  sold  as  
building  material and  perhaps  
even as "souvenirs."  

As a final resort, DuBois him­self offered to buy the edifice for the sum of "two hits," which he claimed was tltt: amount that was necessary Lo keep a Biafran 
child alive for a week. He observ­ed that there would be no want of buyers if the Colden Dome was offered for sale. 
I le stated, "The petition was put up in the lluddle Thursday afternoon. By Saturday morning the petition had been torn down. Sin~.:e the original Hall petitions were also torn down anu defa~.:ed I pla~.:ed the petition in 361 Morrissey Hall for the time being. All pn:vious signers and any new ones are asked to stop by that room to sign." 
Finally, DuBois was question­ed as to the effect that the disappearance of Sacred IIcari Church would have on the spirit­ual life of the community. 
lie answered. "I'm not sure exadly what you arc referring to. Pt:oples' lives would be saved, I know that. If that constitutes a threat to the spiritual life of this community and the worlu then maybe spiritual life is no longer important. From what I know a hou t the history of Christianity though I suspect that its genuine presence would be dramatically enlarged. The best Christians that ever lived were Christians without churches. Our catacomb system here may be too full of gas lines to conduct mass in but certainly the Moratorium day mass doesn't take second place to any mass ever held in Sacred Heart. Let us use it for a new model if we need one." 

"Where Ouatity Counts" 
TOMPSETT 
Studio 
122 N. Michigan 233-6157 

Sacred Heart Church-Do you want to buy this Great Gothic Goliath? 
!--------·--· --·-----­
STUDENT AUTO FINANCE PLAN 
No payments for ninety days! New or used cars to qualified graduating seniors. Lower payments a1>ai/able for first 1/3 of contract with nominal down payments. For more exact information, contact-
JORDAN FORD 
609 E. ) efferson Mishawaka, Indiana 

-------------------------· 
't"'-.Uusc JYt'sC:oa ~­
Cr!'ftsmen in Optics 
• 
FOR "!'P.E FINEST EYEGL-4SSES ~~ND CONTACT LEN~ES -­
Till!' SII/:'R/.AND BU1G. /32 S. MICII/GAN ST. 
Centra/2-146ti 
7:1..JltJUSe, o} )liSiOJt 3nc· 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
APPLICATIONS AR£ NOW BEING TAKEN 
_EOR· THE POSITION OE 
STUDENT UNION DIRECTOR 
APPLICATION MAY BE MADE BY SUBMITTING A STATEMENT OF INTENT TO 
Dave Krashna box 522 Student Government office Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

The application should contain a statement of' the app/i~·ant :v conception of the role ofStudent Union Director. Applications must be .flied hy Friday March 20. Announcement ol appointment and acceptance will be made on Monday, March 23. 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------­
PAGE 8 THE OBSERfJBR. TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1970 
Irish Eye­Basketball Review 

Heap of surpr1ses 1n a year that Was 
by Mike Pavlin 
Observer Sports Editor 
This was the Year That Wasn't Supposed to Be But Was, as compared to last year, the Year That Was Supposed to Be But Wasn't. This was the year after the Great Disappointment, a year of rebuilding, of trying to 
~ · figure out what went wrong so the same mistakes wouldn't be repeated the next year when everyone would be a senior. Instead, this intermediate year of Notre Dame basketball was the most successful since 1957-58. This was the highest scoring, best shooting offensive machine ever, led by the highest scoring, best shooting player ever. And what made the whole season so exciting was the fact that there was a real TEAM out on the floor instead of the con­glomoration of talented but unmeshed individuals on the '68-69 squad. Head Coach Johnny Dee's problems began far earlier than the date of opening practice. Hanging over him and his return­ing players was the stigma of the old season. With the greatest collection of talent ever assem­bled under one roof (or dome) at du Lac, Notre Dame blud­geoned their way to the NCAA's beset by injuries only to fall before a much weaker (on paper) team from Miami of Ohip, 63-60. With Bob Arnzen, Bob Whitmore, and Dwight Murphy gone, Dee was faced with an all­junior starting five (before injury side-lined Jackie Meehan). Austin Carr had missed part of the season with a broken foot, but was counted on to carry the load. Dee's only full-time player returning was Collis Jones who had appeared in all 27 games. John Pleick gave great promise at center, Meehan had averaged 3.2, and Tom Sinnott had ac­tually started the '68-69 season at the other guard post. 
The question mark was Sid 
• Catlett. Having missed valuable playing experience when he sat out freshman year, Sid had a dismal season. His shooting per­centages (.314 field and .368 line) were just rotten and he wasn't living up to the potential exhibited back at DeMatha High School in Washington, D.C. 
Bothered by injuries the year before, Dee opened practice with several players recuperating from an assortment of ills. Two of the three sophomores on the squad, John Egart and Jim Regelean, never were able to recover completely (although they played intersquad games) and sat out the entire year. Meehan's knee wasn't ready, Sinn.ot was doubtful and O'Connell had injured his hand over the summer. And Dee faced the toughest schedule in ND history. 
To cope with the likes of UCLA, Kentucky, and South Carolina, Dee installed new devices on both offense and defense. Beginning with the "big man" concept, Dee fashioned a double low post offense, des­igned to free Jones for his fine banking jump shot and Carr f0r whatever magic he had on his mind at the moment, while keeping Catlett and Pleick close to the boards. This would insure the best of all possible worlds, if someone could get the hall down inside. 
Defensively, the gimmick was a "matching zone", supposed to destroy all offensive patterns by picking up individual men inside each zone. lt had weaknesses, especially in the corners; but Dee felt that by dint of much practice, it could be perfected. 
Armed with these new dev­ices, the Irish ran off five wins as people were awakened to the fact that they had a superstar named Carr on their hands. The highlight of this early streak (besides Austin's scoring) was the Michigan win when Catlett hobbled off the bench on a sprained ankle, thorougl1ly intimidated All-American Rudy Tomjanovich, and brought ND back from a second half deficit. 
After a loss to Kansas (per­haps the Jayhawks' best game of the year, as subsequent history has shown), the Irish embarked on the most perilous of road trips. After close losses to Kentucky and South Carolina, plus a fatigue-induced drubbing by UCLA, they returned home with plenty of experience and lots of hope for the middle 
season. 
The log for the remainder of the regular schedule shows only two losses; but ND went through several major personal shake-ups during this time, emerging as a solidly built team. 
The initial changes revolved around Catlett. Although scoring and shooting better than the previous year, Sid was curiously on and off. He seemed lax on the boards, careless with his passing, unimpressive on defense save for numerous goal-tending calls. After a poor performam:e against Duquesne, Sid (and the rest of the team, for that matter) had an utterly horrible night against Michigan State, a no bet­ter than average team. This loss was perhaps the most galling of the year since MS U had beaten the Irish apparently since crea­tion with inferior teams. 
During the I 1-day lay-off be­fore the Illinois contest, Dee did some reshuffling. He disposed of his "big man" concept (the new defense had long since been re­placed by the traditional man­to-man) and benched Catlett. Replacing Sid was neither Sinnott, Jim Hinga, nor John Gallagher, but Doug Gemmell. Only 6-3, the sophomore was expected to furnish the Irish with more quickness and shoot­ing. 
The Illini were then the Big Ten leaders, and NO's win was landmark for the rest of the season. The new offense seemed adequate and Gemmell shone in his new role. Then the blow fell. John Pleick's 1.97 academic average fell barely short of the University's standard of 2.00. The ND roster was doen to ten and Catlett was installed at cen­ter. 
Immediately, Sid seemed 
more at home. He contributed 
his share on the boards and 
played some exceptional de­
fense. The Irish rim-off nine wins 
in a row including four games of 
100-plus points. Most important­
ly, the Irish gradually evolved an 
offense with set duties to be 
performed by each man. 
The brunt of the offensive. 
load fell on Carr, who carried it 
superbly. Not only did he score 
over 50 points several times, but 
he shot for an exceptional per­
centage and continued as the 
team's second leading rebound­
cr. The duty of setting up Carr 
belonged to Meehan. Jackie 
racked up a bundle of assists 
every game and controlled the 
vicious Irish fast break. 
Jones acted without fanfare, but with I7 points and I 2 rebounds a game. Teams found 
that overplaying Autsin inevit­ably left collis open for his I0-foot bank shot. Thoroughly 
enjoying his new job, Gemmell averaged a couple of buckets a game and shot even better than Carr. 
Chief relief men were Sinnott and O'Connell. Moved to for­ward while still spelling at guard, Tom helped take pressure off Carr with his funny-looking but accurate push shot. O'Connell played full steam at all times, driving fans up the walls with his seemingly aimless energy. But Mike was great for sparking a lethargic team and possessed the excellent move of driving the lane and passing off at the last moment after three men con­verged on him. The loss of Pleick gave Jay Ziznewski and backup center job and Big Jay, finally getting in a full practice season performed wonderfully. Op­ponents learned that allhough he dribbled with his head down, Jay had a fine touch around the 

Final basketball statistics 
Player  G  FGA  
Austin Carr  29  799  
Collis Jones  29  502  
Sid Catlett  28  253  
Mike O'Connell  26  141  
John Pleick  16  135  
Tom Sinnott  27  133  
Jackie Meehan  27  77  
Jim Hinga  27  85  
Jay Ziznewski  23  66  
John Gallagher  19  56  
Doug Gemmell  16  52  
NOTRE DAME  29  2299  
OPPONENTS  29  2223  

*does not include team rebounds 
FGM  PCT  FTA  FTM  PCT  REB  AVG PTS  AVG  
444  .556  264  218  .826  240  8.31106  38.1  
232  .462  125  75  :600  359  12.4 539  18.6  
104  .411  71  33  .465  214  7.6 241  8.6  
58  .411  66  46  .697  69  2.6  162  6.2  
61  .452  42  24  .571  107  6.7  146  9.1  
59  .444  30  19  .633  92  3.4  137  5.1  
34  .442  27  18  .667  47  1.7  86  3.2  
30  .353  36  24  .667  63  2.3  84  3.1  
34  .516  40  16  .400  88  3.8  84  3.7  
26  .464  16  II  .688  22  1.2  63  3.3  
27  .519  16  9  .563  43  2.7  63  3.9  
1109  .482  733  493  .673  1350* 46.6'2711  93.5  
987  .444  728  502  .689  1350  46.6 2496  86.1  


iron andwas very difficult to 
move. 

During the win-streak, the 
Irish showed they could play in 
the clutch as well as blow teams 
off the courtt. An overtime win 
against Villanova set the stage 
for the miraculous double-over­
time victory over Marquette and 
the overtime decision against 
Detroit made possible by Jones' 
acrobatic buzzer shot. 

The injury bug continued to 
plague Dee, however, as Gem­
mell was lost for the year during the West Virginia clash. O'Connell suffered a sprained ankle at the same time and ND won at Butler with seven men on the bench and Catlett missing from the bus. 
Undoubtedly, the highlight of the season was the victory over Ohio University. The planned offense worked like it was diagramed as Carr scored half the points, Meehan had I7. assists, and Jones-Catlett-Ziz­newski dominated the boards. But the Regional experience 
ended on a sour note with the losses to Kentucky and Iowa. The Wildcats exploited the chinks in the Irish armor: the overdependence on Carr, lack of corner shooting, the lack of 
bench strength caused by in­juries. 
Still, the 1969-70 season came as a delightful surprise. Instead of a "rebuilding" year, more or less expected. the Irish develop­ed into a top-flight team which earned UPI's No. 8 ranking. It was gratifying to watch ND work as a unit, especially since this unit will be returning next season. 
Of course Austin Carr was the 

man of the year, as the ac­
companying story shows. It is 
unfortunate that he did not get 
much recognition until the end 
of the season, when he was 
voted the MVP of the Mid-East 
Regional. Yet each man on the 
team was able to contribute 
some special skill whether it was 
Mike O'Connell rushing head­
long down the lane into six 
other players, or Jim Hinga 
diving into the third row of seats 
after a loose ball. 
Let's hope that Austin and hiw crew can retain this machine-like precision for next 
season. Pleick and Gemmell will 
be back to bolster the front line 
and Egart to spell Meehan. 
And maybe, just maybe, 

Austin Carr will make first team 
All-American. 
JfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMIIIIIII.
. . 
; Year For Records g
-
.
-
• 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
--•
-
. 
.•
-
. 
.­
•
•
.
. 
.­
.•
•
.• 
.
.-•
.• 
-
-
-
-
.-­
-
.­
. / 
-
-
-

INDIVIDUAL SINGLE GAME (6) : Most Points: Austin Carr 61 * : Most Field Goals: Carr 25* : TOURNAMENT SERIES (4) -: Most Points: Carr 158** -: Most Field Goals: Carr 68** :
-
•

TOURNAMENT CAREER(~ .-• •Most Points: Carr 158 
-

Most Field Goals: Carr 68 
. 

INDIVIDUAL SEASON (12) --•
-

Most Points (regular season): Carr 948 . MP (all games): Carr II 06 Average (rs): Carr 36.5 Av. (all games): Carr 38.1 Field Goal Attempts (rs): Carr 681 FGA (all !J:ames): Carr 799 Field Goals Made (rs): Carr 376 FGM (all games): 444 Free Throws Attempted: Carr 264 FT Made: Carr 218 Field Goal Percentage: Carr .556 
-

Most Points By A Junior: Carr 1106 .. -­TEAM SINGLE GAME (7) .
-

Most Points: 135 
.

Most Points Both Teams: 237 
-
-

Most Points At Home: 135 
-
.

Most Points On Opponents Floor: 121 •
.•

Most Points On Neutral Court: 112 
•
•

Most Points In Losing Effort: I06 ­Most Points In A Half: 71 .-
TOURNAMENT SINGLE GAME (3) .• 
.•

Most Points: 112 . Most Field Goals: 46 -• Most Points Both Teams: 237 . -• 
-

TOURNAMENT SERIES (2) . Most Points: 317 .•
-
.

Most Field Goals: 130 
.­

SEASON (6) Most Points: 271 I . •--­Most Points Allowed: 2496 .­Highest Scoring Average: 93.5 -•
-
-
•

Most Field Goals Made: II 09 . Best Shooting Percentage: .482 .-­Season Attendance: 276,023 .
-
.
-

*Also ND and NCAA records for a tournament game. : **Also NCAA records for three and four game series : 
L .. 





