
(Photo by U.P.I.) 
Sen. Vance Hartke 
Hartke is winner, recount likely 
INDIANAPOLIS lnd. (UPI)­A recount is likely in the Senate battle between Democratic Sen. Vance Hartke and Rep. Richard 
L. Roudebush following the impounding of voting machines' and ballots in Indiana's 92 counties. 
(continued on page 10) 


Dems gafn in Congress,looking forward to '72 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Despite the glory of victories most by winning governorships York. The present Senate lineup held by Republicans in the is 57 Democrats and 43 Repub­
outcome of Tuesday's elections in Tennessee the Republicans populous states of Pennsylvania,
suffered setbacks in the South licans.
made the 1972 presidential Ohio, and Florida. These andwhere they have been expanding 

nomination appear more valu­With two House races still
other governorships providetheir beachhead for more than a
able to Sen. Edmund S. Muskie undecided in Kentucky and
them with new power bases al­decade. They also suffered North Dakota the new House
and his potential rivals but it did though electing a governor does
significant losses in the Midwest will have at least 180 Republi­

not wreck President Nixon's not guarantee that his state will
which has long been vital to cans and 253 Democrats a gain

chance for a second term. go for the presidential nominee
GOP national election victories. 
of at least seven for the Demo­

It may force the President and of his party in the next election.
While retaining control of 

crats. The present lineup is 246his advisers to reassess their Congress the Democrats enjoyed With the close Indiana race 
Democrats and 189 Republicans.

still undecided the Republicans
plans for building a new coa­their greatest triumph in the In the South the GOP took a
lition of American voters. will hold at least 44 Senate seats
statehouses. &en if they lose Senate seat and governorship
Muskie, elected to a third in the new Cbngress and the
two still unsettled races and from the Democrats in Tenn­

term from Maine stays in front Democrats 53. The other two
Maine where a recount is in essee while losing governorships 
as the strongest prospect for the prospect they would show a 27 seats will be occupied by Sen. 
in Arkansas and Florida. They1972 Democratic nomination. to 23 margin over Republicans Harry F. Byrd the Democrat also failed to win DemocraticBut Sen. George S. McGovern of in governorships. The present _reelected as an independent and Senate seats in Florida andSouth Dakota will be the first lineup is 3 2 Republicans and 18 James L. Buckley Conservative Texas which were states on their

announced candidate because he Democrats. party candidate who won with list of major targets. 
needs more national exposure. The Democrats were cheered White House support in New 
Vol. V. No. 42 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Coi/C'gC' Community 
Observer viewed as byCiiff\Vint!ccessory to crime 
of The Observer. Catholics throughout the worldBishop Leo Pursley, head of Pursley and Conroy said that who have come to look uponthe Fort Wayne-South Bend dio­the University was to blame for Notre Dame as a "staunch de­cese, and Reverend Monseignor allowing such attacks on the fender of the Faith, the Church,James Conroy, editor of Our Church to be presented on cam­and the honor of the most
Sunday Visitor,remained firm 
pus and both believed that the ' sacred example of womanhood ­yesterday in their criticism of administration should exercise Our Lady."
The Observer and the admini­
some control over who comes Her comments slanderedstration concerning an abortion here to speak. This would be an the image of the "Notre Damead placed in The Obsen'er and Ti infringement of the open Man" said Conroy, and "betray­Grace Atkinson's appearance speaker policy that Father Hes­ed the ideals" of the University.
here last month. 
burgh de-fended two days ago in The Notre Dame man in theBishop Pursley said The the wake of this criticism. past was characterized byObserv~r "encouraged" girls to However, Conroy did not be­"integrity and an awareness of Ti Grace Atkinson. at the h-eart of the controversy have abortions which are forbid­lieve that the University condon­his position representing Our
den by the Catholic Church and Virgin is the one thing in the Together Pursley and Conroyed .Miss Atkinson's comments Lady" he said. 
of which "no arguments " can history of the Church and the received complaints from parish­
beyond allowing her to speak on Notre Dame stood for certain
be made in support. The Ob­world which brought women oners and alumni regarding Ti
ideals and if a "boy" came hera
campus.

server he said was an "acces­from the prior position of slav­Grace's speech and the abortion
and lived up to these ideals he

sory" in the commitment of a The comments of both clergy­ery. The promotion of the Blt:s­ad and Cbnroy said that "such
would emerge as a N:ltre Dame

men were made in the context
"crime" that is a "mortal sin." incidents are multiplying and the
sed Virgin is fighting for the 
He recognized no "material" of what each perceived as tile man but now he does not alumni art( alarmed."
·freedom of womankind.': difference between an article He said he was "anxious and
definition of a Catholic universi­have the same ideals to live up' Conroy considen!d Atkinson's 
espousing abortions and an ad­ty. ~to, explained Con~or. · speech a "hetrayal" of Catholics concerned '! whk_b he placed Bishop Pursley said a Catholic
vertisement which states where a between despair and hope
university is not a plal~e "where The ideals which were held up and illumni because of the act
girl can go if she has decided to Catholic truth is denied and to past students included itself, irrespective of the in­abou_t the future of Notre Dame have an abortion. 
where the Mother of God is "defense of the Faith and fluenee her words might have. and the CathOlic Church. 
Observer Editor-in-Chief Glen insulted." Monseignor Conroy Church" and defense of woman 

s d •

Corso said Pursley's accusations described a Catholic university
were "ridiculous." ~~~dc~~~~~lified by Our Lady, tu ent campa1gn
as a "defender of the Faith and"I imagine in a strictly theo­Church and a promulgator of the Notre Dame and the Catholic 

d b

logical sense the bishop might be example of the woman of our 
group·IS_. a.nds

right. However, I think his accu­church's position of upholding 
Lady" in the case of Notre and exalting the Virgin Mary was __
satio is much like the old guilt 
Dame. a "direct refutation" of Atkin-B A of "decisive effect" to incum­association trick whereby if you Monseignor Conroy in his son's charges that the Church Y rt Ferranti bent Democratic senatorial andknew a gangster that means that editorial in the current issue of politically and economically had The Committee for a New congressional candidates. In theyou were one yourself. If the Our Sunday Visitor said Miss done more than any other insti-Congress, headed by Notre last few days of the campaigns,bishop was at all versed in Atkinson's speech at Notre tution to enslave women, Con-Dame Senior Barney Gallagher 325 students and residents ofmodern Catholic theology he 
Dame was a "betrayal of the roy said. disbanded Tuesday night after South Bend contacted over 3/4would realize that there are no prayers and confidence" of "Holding up the Blessed performing an extensive service of the registered Democrats in
absolutes. "-1 think his charge that we are the Saint Joseph County. G::Jtag­
• k t L I -I · d 
accessories to a crime is ridicu­her reels this had a "deciri·re
TfC e excnange p ans re ease 
effect" on the results of the

lous. The girls at St. Mary~s know abortions exist and prob­by Greg Rowinski Convo. "l'hey wr"ll be gJ·ven a Nerg. hborhood Study HeIp pro-election. ably can find out where to get Students wishing to donate duplicate ticket." gram, to the 35 youngsters in Democrats swept St. Joseph 
one if their back is up against the wall. At least the service we advertised do sen 't shunt girls to 
butchers who perform their operations in motel rooms." 
Pursley also criticized The Observer for including the vulgarities used by Miss Atkin­son and the content of the speech itself in their coverage. 
Monseignor Conroy criticized The Observer for printing the obscenities mouthed by Miss Atkinson, but believed that the difficult questior. of vv'lat to print ruled or,t severe criticism their tickets for the Georgia Tech game on Saturday Nov­ember 14 are invited to drop them off at the Athletic and Convocation Center ticket windows on Monday and Tues­day, November 9 and 1O, from 9pm to Spm. They will rec~ive a receipt for their ticket, which can be redeemed during the week of November 16-21, before the LSU game. 
"We won't give the actual ticket to the underprivileged children," said Mr. Donald Bouffard, ticket manager at the 
Eric Andrus, co-chairman of the effort to allow South Bend's underprivileged youngsters to see a Notre Dame football gar.,1e. reported that he is "confident" that enough mc>nr"tors wr.ll be at the game. 70 volunteers attend­ed a meetr"ng last nr"ght. The br"ggest problem facr"ng the ef­fort, Andrus added, is that of transporting all the children to the game. Only 40 cars have 
been offered up to Thursday afternoon. Invitations have already been mailed to the 700 children in the 

Logan School, which is under the direction of the Notre Dame -St. Mary College Council for R d d Ch "ld d
etar e 1 ren, an to 7 students in Sister Marita's S ·h ·t t"
c oo1. 1nv1 a IOns were sent before the monitors and trans-t t" "d d
por a IOn were provr e , accor­d" t A d b h
mg o n rus, ecause t e chairmen were sure they would be made available and because of the short time in which the arrangements had to be made. Affirmative replies have been received from the latter two groups. 
and Elkhard Counties by votes approaching 15,000. According to Gallagher, this was the only section of the state that had such a monumental turnout and that it was the only area in which students actively partici­pated in the elections. 
250 students and 75 members of the ~uth Bend community called from 76 phones in Farley and Beenn-Phillips Halls. . 
Ann Radford was the coordi­nat,)r for the SMC girls with the help of Ann Martin and Mary Clark. 

_P_ag_e_2-----------------------------------------------~--1f.-~___().__~~~~~-=----------------------------------F_r_id_av_._N_o_ve_m_b_er_6_,_1_97__0 

The Advisory Council of the 
College  of  Business  Adminis­ 
tration  will  hold  its  annual  
meeting  on  Friday,  November  

6.For the first time, however, seminar type discussion groups will be held between Notre Dame business students and the businessmen who constitute the council's membership. 
According to Ken Walsh, a member of the Business College Student Council and publicity chairman for the Advisory Coun­cil, there are forty-five students scheduled to meet with the 

Bus-Ad to hold semin-ars 
•• Design contest now going on for any Campus Hall or •• twenty-six advisors in groups of
six students and two or three club for rights to booth at Mardi Gras. advisors. The groups will discuss • • the complaints and recommen­• • dations that students have with • • the business college. The busi­
• nessmen will also be interested 
• 
in hearing student opinions as to 

• For information call: Phil Michaels -1801 • what they expect from business 
• Deadline December I, 1970 • when they graduate, particularly 
• in the area of social improve­
• 

ment. • • The participating students • •. have been selected by the •••••••••••••••••••••t Business College Student Coun-

Before: 


During: 
Student Billing Service 
makes Sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your dorm room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm residents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Business Office. Talk it up. 
@ 

Indiana Bell 

cil. The students chosen have Walsh described the members grade point averages from the of the Advisory Council as, entire spectrum and come from "some of the more successful virtually every hall on campus, and respected businessmen in so as to get a true diversity of the nation". The group includes opinion. 
Paul D. Gilbert, President of Walsh felt that the Business 

Gilbert's Men's Clothing, and College was introducing this 
Anthony DeLorenzo, a Vice-Pre­change in procedures to increase 
sident of General Moters, who is student participation in the 
to give a lecture in the Libraryplanning of the structure of the 
Auditorium at 3:00 p.m. todayBusiness College. In the past, 
on the role of the business 

students had only presented community in solving social formal reports to the Advisory problems.
Council. The function of the 
advisory Council is to evaluate The activities will start with 
the Business College and to breakfast at 8:00 a.m. followed 
advise it on reasonable improve-by the discussion groups until 
ments. noon. 
Co-ed rumor gives new life to SMCpresident hunt 
Rumors have often -b~en-co-iducation announcement and 

called the lifeblood of any the Board of Trustee's meeting 
community and the ND-SMC last month. 
complex is no exception. After The first of the rumors 
last month's leak that ND would circulated was that dissatisfac­
go coeducational with or with-tion with the Trustee's decision 
out St. Mary's, the proverbial to consider three candidates at a 
dam seems to have burst. time instead of just one was 
One particular area in which causing the Search Committee to 

the rumors have thrived is in entertain thoughts of disband­
SMC's search for a President. ing. Sr. Miriam Patrick Coorrey, 
The Search Committee which C.S.C. head of· the Search 
Committee, denied this rumorhas been meeting in closed stating that the Committee issession since last July has been meeting regularly (yesterday inthe subject of muchspeculation, fact) and that they are makingparticularly after the recent 

progress she said. The reason forProf. AI Adler any dissatisfaction with the Trustees was temporary and was in fact due to the Searchto give lecture on Committee's not being com­pletely prepared for the meeting. law and dissent A second rumor centered around the problem of co-educa­"Law, Coercion, and Dissent" tion itself. Word has been passed is the topic of a public lecture around that the search commit­planned by Dr. Mortimer J. tee plans to suspend activities Adler, director of the Institute until the Parks-Mayhew report is of Philosophical Research, issued Dec. 25, or until some Chicago, at 4 p.m. November 9 definite decision has been made 
in Notre Dame's Memorial Libra­on the future of St. Mary's. 
ry auditorium. 
They would suspend activityDr. Adler edited the Syntopi­because in the words of one 

con volume of the major series, source, "Who'd want to he Great Ideas in the Western Tradi­president of a college where he 
tion, and is the author of a could lose his job any minute?" 
current book, Ethics and Com­Sr. Miriam Patrick once again 
mon Sense. 
denied any suspension of acti­The talk, which is open to the vity, stating that what is needed 

public, is sponsored by the Col-· to lead SMC in the growinglegiate Seminar, philosophy de­cooperation activity with ND is 
partment, and the Student 
a strong leader and this is no Union Academic Commission. 

time to be without one. 





Budweiser~ 
KINO 0~ BEEftS 
~~~~~~114 ~.Wopt~andt~~a4 
THE lARGEST-SELliNG BEER IN THE WORLD 

~-/78~~ 
ST. LOUIS NEWARK LOS ANGELES TAMPA HOUSTON 

Social Understanding Committee oss-ERVER 1r~s1GHT 



'Creative Thinldng' goal of new group
By Fred Schaefer The Committee for Social Understanding, a diverse group of stu­dents and faculty from both campuses, has recently emerged on the never-ending Notre Dame soda! scene. The brainchild of Student Body President Dave Krashna, the committee seeks to develop the cam­pus cultural and social life by, according to Krashna, "offering suggestions on physical improvements." One of the major problems that the committee sees is the lack of a place to go and sit and meet people. Tim Connor, executive secretary of the group, says that this problem "is especially bad with dates. Of course this presumes that you have a date. The atmosphere for meeting girls is too formalized." 
Library unveils exhibit on Loch Ness Monster; existence verified 
By Bob Schueler 

Fact or fable? Animal, vege­table, or imagination? These questions have been asked about the existence of the Loch Ness Monster for close to fourteen hundred years. 
A display titled, "Scotland's 'Raire Beastie,' the Loch Ness Monster" is currently on exhibit in the concourse of Notre Dame's Memorial Library. 
While the current exhibit in the library does not pretend to answer the questions raised above, it does a very creditable job of presenting various sides of the question of "Nessie's" exis­tence. In addition, the exhibit publicizes some of the recent studies undertaken by various scientific teams. 
Mr. Paul Smyers, a library staff member, is responsible for the exhibit. "All of the materials in the exhibit are from my own collection," said Mr. Smyers. "The maps and pictures I pur­chased last summer during a visit to Loch Ness." 
"I decided on the exhibit," he said, "because many people don't know about the Loch Ness monster or else they have a hazy idea about what it is." 
According to Mr. Smyers, Loch NeJs is a fresh water lake located in a valley called the Great Glen in Scotland. The valley stretches from the Atlan­tic Ocean on the southwest to the North Sea on Scotland's east coast. It is a shallow valley, reaching, at most, one hundred feet above sea level, but in most cases it is only about fifty fe~t abo ve sea level, w\ ~-1 ·s t: .; lc:vd 
of the surface of Loch Ness. 
Loch Ness is twenty-four miles long and averages one mile in width. It empties into the River Ness which flows into the North Sea, three miles away at Inverness. Loeh Ness is a fresh­
-MOVIE APOLOGY 

Due to technical difficul­ties the main sound system in Washington Hall was out of commission last night. As a result the emergency sound system was used during the showing of the movie The 
(~raduate. The main system will be repaired in time for to­night's preformance. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
K rashna agrees and favors co­
education, but warns, "Co-education is 
not a cure all." 

Faculty member Mr. Richard Bizot 
claims that "there is a vacuum here," in 
reference to the social and cultural life of 
the University. He feels that "there have 
been no signs of creative thinking on a 
broad scale along these lines." 
He sees the committee as,"Some kind . of yeast in the status quo to examine what is deadening." 
The group presented the executive 
Board of Trustees with a list of sugges­
tions including: co-ed dining facilities, an 
interchangeable dining pass good at St. 
Mary's and Notre Dame, division of the 
South Dining Hall into smaller sections, 
take out food for eating in the halls, 
water lake, but the water is pitch black because it is saturated with particles of peat, a coal-like sub­
stance. 
The most unusual feature of Loch Ness is its depth. It is the deepest lake in the British Isles, reaching depths of nine hundred feet and averaging seven hundred feet in depth. This is far deeper than any ocean depth around Scotland. Because of this ex­treme depth, Loch Ness is the largest body of water, by vol­ume, in the British Isles. 
In the recent geologic past, the Loch was part of the sea. Fossil beaches in the area indi­cate that the water level was more than sixty feet higher, up to about ten thousand years ago, making Loch Ness an arm of the North Sea. This arm, or fjord, would have the greatest depth of any part of the surrounding sea. 
U n u sua! phenomena have been reported in Loch Ness for many hundreds of years. The first recordings of this type date back to 565 A.D. and a work on the life of St. Columba. Ile was supposed to l1ave frightened off a large, strange animal that was heading toward a man swimming near the entrance of tlw Loch Ness by loudly evoking the name of God and telling the creature to "begone." 
In recent years, many sight­ings by engineers, students, scientists, residents of the area, tourists, military observers, and members of Parliament have been recorded. These sightings have generally been of strange, 
. · 


Conner Bizot 
making LaFortune Student Center, the field house, and the psyehology building a social and cultural center for the stu­dents. 
They h:~ve. also proposed the develop­ment of the land on both sides of U.S. 31 between the two schools. They suggest that shops, a religious center, a movie theatre, co-ed apartment nouses and var­ious recreational facilities be built. This is a proposal which they acknowledge can­not become reality until sometime in the distant future. They are, however, hope­fuL 
Regarding the vacant road to St. Mary's, Fr. Charles Sheedy stated,"This geographical blank creates a psychological break." 
In this plan, they propose the Universi­ty lease the land to local entrepeneurs, maintaining "careful control" according to Bizot. This would not, they feel, require the expenditure of large sums of capital by the Uliversity. 
Bizot feels that this would "help tic the two communities to the South Bend community." 
(Continued on page 10) 
grey, hump-like objects, ranging in height from six to twelve feet in length from twelve to sixty feet. 
In 1962, a group of promi­nent Britishers formed the Loch Ness Phenomena Investigation Bureau' Led., a non-profit society to study the queston of the monster of Loch Ness. 
The Bureau does this pri­marily by operating a fleet of camera trucks stationed around Library's Loch Ness Monster display at the west entrance.

the Loch. These trucks contain twenty to +hl;t;-~i;:. inch aerial ~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::~::::::::~ 
reconnaissance cameras position­ed so that virtually the entire \l~l\ surface of Loch Ness is covered. 
;~~~:
The Bureau limits itself to sur­
:::::
face photography, because the 
::~::
peat in the murky water makes underwater photography impos­
sible. 
In addition, the Bureau col­lects and checks the reliability of all sightings, and tries to induce outside scientific groups to come to Loch Ness. 
Much hard work (a sighting is averaged for only every three hundred fifty rr.an-hours of ob­servance) has resulted in many photographs and much motion­picture film of strange objects in Loch Ness. 
In 1966, these photographs and movies were studied by the Joint Air Reconnaissance Intelli­gence Centre of the Royal Air­force. J ARIC concluded that Loch Ness contains at least "two animate objects weighing about one and a half tons each." 
Lord Shackleton, then Air 
(continued on page 10) 

Need a home? 
You probably haven't considered buying one while you're in school. But this week­end, we can sell students needing off­campus housing a home for as low as $3,895. It's a mobile home--fully fur­nished, complete with major appliances. No more money down the drain. No more people upstairs. You'll have a new and comfortable home, privacy, and most im­portant, an investment ... all for monthly payments that are probably lower than what you're now paying for rent. 
Sound too good? Come see us this week­end during our open house. 
You'll be surprised. 
Greenbrook Estates 
Mayflower and Sample 
South Bend 

Mobile Home Sales and Lot Rentals 


Applicants are wanted for the twelve student positions 

l on the Campus Judicial Board. Any Notre Dame student ;~ who is in academic and disciplinary good standing may :::: apply. Please send the application to: ~~;: 





save time ... shop quick and easy on campus 
You've got an emergency? You're late with a gift or greeting card? You need a textbook fast? 
Run to your nearest store ...your College Store, right on campus. That's where you're pretty sure to find what the situation calls for ...at the price you want to pay. Shopping here is quick and easy ...because we're here just to serve you. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Friday, November 6, 1970

Page4 711E OBSERfiER. 
Shiltz-ND Pep Rallies Add New Dimension 
(The following is a commentary prepared by Father James Shiltz Ass't. Vice President of Student Affairs.) 
The Friday night Pep Rally before home football games is a Notre Dame tradition olJer than years, the home for this display of devotion and madness has been t)le Field}louse, now re­ferred to as the Old Fieldhouse. The enthusiasm of each rally has fed on the echoes of cheers for generations of Notre Dame's heroes and has breathed tons of ~weat and spirit into its white­washed walls. But this year the 
the Gipper. For the last twenty Fieldhouse resounds only to the 
~

......... 
SHOWTIMES 
NOW ~~~On~~ ·Monte Walsh is what the West was all about. 
Ll:l: 

MABVI:rf· 
••MaRTI: WALl&••. 
A Real Western 
co-slarr1ng 

JEANNE MOREAU ·JACK PALANCE 
ACINEMA CENTER filMS ~ESENTATION ANATIONAl GENERAl PICTURES RElEASE PANAVI510N"and TECHNICOlOi' 







!'AMOAMGO 
ADULTS A TIVOLI PRODUCTION RELEASED BY CLOVER FILMS. 
PROOF OF AGE REQUIRED 
hammer and chisel of ·sculptor 
Joe FauL The rallies have moved elsewhere. 
Rallies don't just happen. They are put together under the direction of the Blue Circle. The speakers, the hand and cheer leaders do their thing according to plans coordinated this year by Doug Coppola, a senior Circle member. Doug has set the scene for two rallies already, handi­capped hy having buildings un­available because of previous scheduling or, in the case of the Fieldhouse, use by the Univer­sity Arts Council and the Art Department. Both rallies proved to he satisfactory displays of. team support, student enthu­siasm and yards of paper. Stepan. Center was hot but exciting with· Ara and the co-captains. ~rin porch provided fresh air, poor sound and a 5 I -I 0 victory over Army. 
But where do we go from here with the rallies? According to plans, the Pitt game rally will be 
held  in the Convocation Center.  
The  Center  offers  difficulties  
and  challenges  to  a  successful  

rally, but it has some advantages, too. Where Stepan was too small to house the crowd comfortably, the Convo has ample space. Where the Old Fieldhouse and Stepan atmosphere left the team and crowd cooked, the ACC offers fresh air. And there is no ' fear of rain like we almost got for the Sorin rally. The Convo was the scene of one abortive rally last year. That rally was poorly conducted and would probably have bombed any­where. The hope is that a good program of speakers and proper use of the building will satisfy the skeptics. Plans also include an outdoor rally near Stepan for the Georgia Tech game with a bonfire to light and warm it. Contrary to an earlier report in The Observer, outdoor rallies were a regular thing in past years and the students who collected wood for the bonfires inspired many a campus neighbor to switch to indoor plumbing. 
What's really wrong with the Old Fieldhouse? In an interview early in the season, Coach Parseghian pointed out how strongly he opposes the Field­lJouse for rallies. He considers them uncomfortable and danger­ously unhealthy. The air where the team sat in the balcony of the old building became hot and stale, so that players were overheated and threatened by colds as they left the rally. Ara spoke enthusiastically in support of our rallies and considers them ideal for~ pulling the team and student body together. He feels the same sense of awe at the spirit expressed during a rally that he experienced at his first 
TIMES: 2:00 · 4:00

GiiNUAoA 
6:00. 8:00. 10:00

lli'US DlllT 1245 PM. PH 1337301 Jost:ph E. Levine presents An Avco Embassy Film starring 
410E NAMATH 

Doors Open 1:30 Feature: 2:15, 4:40 7:05, 9:30 




H·22' 

IS, QUITE SIMPLY, THE BEST AMERICAN FILM I'VE SEEN THIS YEAR!"-~~"~-e~:~:~by. 
PAWUJijlf'ICIUAI'iCIIRPOUIIO'lii~ASSOCIAllOII'ItiiKIRIIIJf$ II: PN:SI.II 
AMIKE NICHOLS FILM A!ANARKIN ~ 
~\'~\-1. ,.l~~ liSID!KIWVIIil 
JOSEPH HELLER 
~AR1~N BALSAM. RICHARD RENJ!MIN. ARTHUR GARFUNKIL. JACK GILFORD. BUCK HENRY, BOB NEWHART, ANTHONY PERKINS, PAULA PRENTISS, MARTIN SHHN. JON VOIGHT &ORSON WELlES AS ORHDLE SCREENPLAY BY BUCK HENRY PRODUCED BY JOHN CALLEY &MARIINRANSDHOI 
one. He recognizes their value to Notre Dame spirit and insists that the team members attend and speak when requested. But 
he prefers to have them in the ACC. 
Sports Illustrated predicted a mediocre season for the lris1. because the traditional Pep Rally could not be held without a Fieldhouse. The SI jinx worked in reverse. The season is a great one and the rally tradition has not died. Finding alternative sites for the rallies has called for extra imagination and work. Each locale raises unique prob­lems of sound amplification, routes for the band and a stage for the team and speakers. Some rally sites will be more successful than others. The successes can form a pattern that will keep the tradition alive. 
MOD seeking volunteers for Pitt. game 

The March of Dimes will be sponsoring a second campus collection this year on Saturday, November 7 prior to the Pitt-NO football game. 
The MOD Squad's first effort of October lOth raised $782.92 with a force of approximately 80 volunteers. Albert Brenner, who is coordinating the campus effort, is aiming at the goal of $1 ,000 this week-end. Mr. Brenner is seeking upwards of 200 people to volunteer for the collection. 
Apart from the national programs towards which this money goes, St. Joseph's County sponsors a program unique to this area. Money is used in training physicians in obstetrical anasthesea to provide better care for pregnant women residing in this county during high defect producing stages of pregnancy. 
Any and all persons interested in offering their services on Saturday should go to room I 32 O'Shag between 10:45 and 
I I: 15 on the morning of the game. Solicitation will proceed up to game time. fur further information, call Albert Brenner at 3584. 
COLORbvOelllxe <0> Umted Art1sts 
.. A HARD DAYS 


NIGHT" 
WEEK DAYS-3 FILMS SAT & SUN-4 FILMS 


THE OBSERUER. 

ND hands tied on pollution

funds. tions. There was a report,;;!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "We are in the process of brought to the adrni stration on 
proposals lies with the Mrnini-
OBSERVER INSIGHT 
stration. The University, how­ever, has run into a serious fund­ing problem. 
Mr. William Ganser, chief engineer at the University's power plant, accurately sketched the dilemma in an Observer in­terview. Mr. Ganser said that in addition to, and compounding, the problem of lack of funds was a legal question. According to A TC -13, a section of Indiana law that deals with air pollution, the sulfur content of the plant emission rn ust be limited to 1.25%. Mr. Ganser termed this "impractical". 
There are two limiting factors, he said. Each contributes to the other. The range of solutions to the sulfur problem is extremely limited, and prototypes are ex­pensive. The second problem is a simple lack of funds. 
As of this time, there are devices installed at the plant to collect dust which are 85% ef­fective, but these need "to be upgraded to meet new stan­dards," according to Mr. Ganser. "As for sulfur, that's entirely another story." 
"There are several ways· of doing this thing (removing sulfur from the emissions)," noted Mr. Ganser, "yet they are all imprac­tical." 
The main factor is expense. Mr. Ganser's feeling is th:.tt there just has not been enough re­search and development on the problem. All the prototypes are out of the University's financial spectrum. He noted that the larger companies were able to afford this equipment, but a consumer the size of Notre 
Dame simply could not. 
Another possibility is a switch to oil or gas -but the Univer­sity's requests were "turned down by the oil companies." With respect to gas, Mr. Ganser related the fact that "gas com­panies said no gas would be available for the next year." The quantities needed are simply not available. 
So the power plant is left with the option of using coal with lower sulfur content. The prQb­lerns outlined here by Mr. Gan­ser are three-fold. First, the only coal to be found in the Midwest that could satisfy the Univer­sity's needs contains over 3% sulfur. Third, even if this coal could be procurred, it might not be suitable, being of a low-grade lignite type. 
Mr. Ganser sees the problem in terms of a power consump­tion rate that is increasing five times as fast as the population, according to authorities, and a lack of research and develop­rn ent of new pollution-free sources of power. Clearly, the University is caught in a di!ern­rna. There seems to be no way that the sulfu~ ~eve! can be ~ro.ught to w1thm acceptable hrn1ts. 
"We don't know which way to go," concluded Mr. Ganser. 
In speaking of the second major pollution problem at Notre Dame, thermal pollution of St. Joseph's lake, the engineer once again stressed a lack of 
installing cooling towers to cool the water before it re-enters the lake. We are awaiting allocation of funds." 
The technique of cooling the water after it is used will reduce the thermal pollution, and also have a cyclic affect. Rght now the water receives more and more heat as it is continuously re-cycled. There is not enough time for it to cool off. Mr. Ganser hoped that the reverse would occur with the cooling tower. 

He admitted that the thermal pollution of the lake had gotten out of hand. 
"We refer to it (the lake) as a 

'cooling pond'.lt has lost, all identification as a lake as far as we're concerned." 
But these problems remain without money to finance solu~ 
September 8, 1969, but action has yet to be initiated. 
Mr. Ganser summed up the feelings of the entire cornrnunitv at Notre Dame when he co~­rnented, "We all want to make the environment as safe and pleasant as we can." 
Placement Bureau 
FOR SENIORS AND GRAD· 
ATE STUDENTS WHO WILL 
IVE DEGREES IN JANUARY' AY' OR AUGUST OF 1971. YOU UST BE REGISTERED WITH THE 
BUREAU BEFORE SIGN FOR INTERVIEWS TH THE EMPLOYERS LISTED ELOW IN ROOM 222, MAIN BLDG. 
UP THE WEEK OF OVEIVBER 9 FOR INTERVIEWS ITH THESE EMPLOYERS DURING THE FOLLOWING WEEK. THE SIGN-UP SHEETS FOR 
INTERVIEWS WILL BE AVAIL­
(November 16 ­
Insurance 
TUES. 
iamond Shamrock Corp.* .S. Naval Ordinance Lab. .S. Steel Corp. rthur Andersen & Co. 
* Chemical Co., Esso Research 

ABLE FROM 8:0 A.M.,MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, IN ROOM 207 
MAIN BLDG. THE 
SI"'"'-'JMI SHEETS ARE ON THE UPPER A EMPLOYMENT LITERATURE ON THE LOWER SHELVES' FEEL FREE TO TAKE A COPY OF EMPLOYER LITERATURE TO READ AND STUDY. 
CONSULT YOUR INTERVIEWS" BOOKLETS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 0 PLACEMENT BUREA PROCEDURES AND STUDENT 
EMPLOYERS INTERYIEV\6. 
PREPARE FOR THE INTERVIE 
19 Inclusive) 
WED. NOV. 18 
Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing c Marathon Oil Co.* National Bank of Detroit. 
Dow Chemical Co. 
THURS. NOV. 19 
American Cyanamid Co. Continental Illinois National Ba and Trust Company of Chicago. Corning Glass Works. Essex International, 1nc. Grumman Aerospace Corp.* Howard, Needles, Tammen & Bergendoff. 
u.s. Geological survey* 
U.S. Government Universal Oil Products Co. * 

CANCELLED. C 0 NTACT THIS E M P L 0 Y E R V 1 A 
Engr. Co., Humble Oil & Refinig COR RESPONDENCE. VISIT THE PLACEMENT BUREAU FOR ADDITIONAL 
THIS WAS THE SPACE ALLOTTED FOR 
THE ABORTION REFERRAL AGENCY 
AD. WE HAVE OMITTED THE AD 
BECAUSE OF THE ILL-WILL IT GENER­
ATED OVER AT ST. MARY'S. FOR THE 
OBSERVER'S OFFICIAL POSITION ON 
ABORTION SEE PAGE 6. 


lticHJlD toR,Y's
HEADANDLEATHERSHOP 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK CORNER OF SOUTH BEND AVE & NOTRE DAME AVE 
Page 5 

Sergio Mendes 
& 


Brasil '66 

with C••er Anderson 
•ncJ Don Shernt•n 
Saturday, Nov. 7 

8:30 in ACC Tickets $5, $4, and $2 at Student Union Ticket Office and Dining Halls (Tues., Wed., Thurs.) presented by Student Union Social Commission & ACC 


J 

THI!. OBSERJJ£R. Friday, November 6, 1970 
Page6 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspapttr 

How Not Like a Toothache 
The advertisement printed in the October 26 issue of The Observer, advocating the employment of a New York abortion-hunting agency, was the cheap, tawdy effort of a cheap, tawdy organization. It treats with appalling casualness an issue of the most profound moral content. It further treats abortion as a special privilege for the rich. The Abortion Mill which took out the ad gets a kickback for each abortion performed. It's 
.. 
out to bilk the young pregnant woman out of as much of her money as it can possibly get. The Observer is not in favor of the New York State Abortion Law, which permits abortion to be perfnrmed wh~never two or more doctors and the mother involved agree to have the abortion. Every inscipient human has the right to determine the duration ol his own existence. That much is obvious. The decision -whether an entity which might be crippled for life should be permitted to survive outside the womb; whether an incipient child, the product of rape should be allowed to survive outside the womb; whether a possible man, simply unwanted by his parents, should be permitted to live, is not the decision of his mother. Nor is it the decision of "two competent physicians." as. the law suggests. Rather, it is the decision of the new human himself; and no one else's.. unless his very existence threatens the mother's life. But is this "new human," indeed human? Who can answer such a question? Indeed, who knows if the severely retarded teenager is a human? Is the physical vegetable? To know if a fetus is human, one must be able to answer the question "wh1t is it which makes a man?" and that is a job for philosophers and kings, not the New York State Legislature. Just the fact that the question exists admits some possibility of human life in the womb.i Tne fetus gro\-W.. 1 He takt:S in nourishment.. He expels w-aste. lr, s!vwt, he d·Jes everything the severely retarded teenager or the physical vegetable is capable of doing. The only difference between the fetus and the :Vegetable: or the retarded man is that the fetus. has the potential to do something. He may not be as healthy as the rest of us. He may not be as strong. He may not be as happy. But he can do something-something for himself; perhaps, something for humanity. If one were forced to guess what it is that makes a man, it might be that very quality, that he can do something. Representatives of the Zero Population Growth, which had met Wednesday night, talked of abortion as a "backup" to contraceptives -ZPG's version of the ABM, one supposes. In that sense, too, war and famine are backups to contraceptives. BLtt there 
comes a point where the defense is more deadly than tne disease. There are solutions to the problem of unwanted pregnancies. One is revitalization of our adoption agencies. Orphanages today are poor 'and getting worse. Proper care -proper channelling -proper preparation for the outside world -removes an awful lot of the agony of being an unwanted child. 
. But it is far more important that we form a new attitude towards unwed mothers. They can no longer be the pariah of society. A careful examination of Notre Dame dorms would indicate that a fall from grace is not an exceptional occurance. Raising a child without a husband is no fun; to raise the child with stares right out of The Scarlet Letter 
is torture of the most thorough variety. 
But unaer no circumstances if the solution to the problem of unwanted pregnancy contained in the cheap invitation issued in the advertisement of October 26.. Unwanted pregnancy is not lik0 a toothache. It cannot be removed by an ice-cream scoop and a simple lobotomy. It stays. 

No More Pollution 
It's a good thing to see the University so concerned with the environment. Exhaustive reporting has indicated that the University dumps wastes from neither dorms nor work-buildings into St. Joe's aake, and that that lake is fit for both fishing and swimming. The reports we have received have also indicated that the University has ceased spraying our trees and shrubs with poisonous DDT. Many suspicions have been quelled. Many fears have been allayed. 
In turn, it is more than vaguely disturbing to hear finally confirmed rumors about the extent of the University's thermal pollution. The University's continuing practice of using water from St. Joe's lake to cool off the power plant then returning the warm water to the lake, plays havoc with the life balance there, especially in winter. The University has taken a lake that could be a place of great natural beauty and made it into a glorified water tank. 
The Observer commends. then, the University for its strong stand against pollution, and condemns, then, its continuing policy of thermally polluting St. Joe's Lake. 
Sports Editor:  Terry ·shields  ' L. Emmet Ballantine, Jim  
Managing Editor:  Bill Carter  Gralf  
'Fditorial Page  Editor:  T.C.  Night Editor:  John Abowd  Headlines:  Steve Mayer, Tim  
treanor  Layout:  Rich  Maggi,  Briah  Burke  
News Editor:  Ed  Ellis  Hickey, Joe Cassinl, Mike  Knight Kommander of the  
Features Editor:  Dave Lammers  .Corcoran, Charles Luclaro  Kontrol  Room:  John  Knorr.  

~, 
ec ·­
Jim Grail 
NO vs. SMC: 
o,Pep Talk 

So it goes. The girls blame the boys. "Degenerate animals, no 
consideration for anyone, gross, ungentlemanly." The boys blame .the girls. "Conceited game players, heart breakers, good time grabbers." OK, so both sides have an honest gripe, but how about a little self-examination? 
First of all; I think guys make life harder on themselves then it really is. I get so tired of hearing the line "I can't get a date, all SMC girls are bitches." Well, how many times have you asked her out? "One." She shot you down once; you never tried again? "Right." Why don't you try again? "What and get shot down again!" How do you know she'll shoot you down? "I just know." Bull, your male ego just got bruis~d and you haven't the guts to take a second chance. 
Many are the stories I've heard of St. Mary's girls staying in on 
week-ends because they didn't have dates. They were attractive girls 
too,. not barkers. 
You're not exactly blameless, though, girls. Stop and think. Did 
you ever break a date with a guy because somebody else called later 
who seemed a better prize? If the first guy wasn't good enough for 
you, why did you accept the date in the first place? There's nothing 
that will destroy a guy quicker than to have a girl break a date in 
favor of someone else. This is particularly true if he is sensitive and 
doesn't have a lot of self-confidence to begin with. 
I find it hard to believe that every guy is worse off here, as far as 
social life goes, than he is at home. I doubt very much that guys have 
a date every week-end at home, unless they have an HTH. I know 
that since I don't, I don't. So why should it be any better at Notre 
Dame? 
Maybe I'm wrong, but I think that girls who make use of their 
numerical advantage here to do things they wouldn't do anyplace 
else are only hurting themselves. They're inflating themselves out of 
proportion and will have a rude awakening when they find out that 
women make up 51% of the population. How many true friendships 
can be formed by a girl who jumps from person to person as mere 
fancy strikes her? 
The underlying factor in the whole situation is that the sexes 
don't want to become friends with each other. They don't want to, 
because it's hard; it requires courage and humility. It's so much 
simpler to maintain a superficial relationship. Why do you think 
there's such a scramble for dates around concert time? It looks bad 
to go without a date.... very superficial. All part of the big ego trip. 
Present relationships here are a big game; games are for the stadium, 
the Rock, and the Convo. 
If guys would realize that girl's don't just want to be entertained 
and girls would realize that guys aren't just looking to see how much 
flesh they can get, then maybe a few honest relationships could take 
place. 
Basic attitude changes are necessary. Girls, we're not puppets for 
you to mauipulate. Guys, they're not statu~ symbols like a car, 
stereo, or letter jacket. 
Positive attitudes can be achieved in small steps. Guys, remember 
all those manners you learned when you were little; try using them, 
it won't hurt. Open the car door for her, hold her coat for her, let 
her be first in line, and above all, keep the dirty mouth under 
control. 'Women's Lib. or no, girls do appreciate such things. Girls, 
make sure you do voice your appreciation for such courtesies. 
Coeducation is a great idea, but it won't have a chance if the basic 
attitudes remain the same. 
Finally let's put in a good word for the silent majority. The 
percentage of animals to good men is no· different here than 
anyplace else. The percentage of bitches to nice girls is no greater, 
maybe even smaller, at St. Mary's than at a place where the ratio is 
one tu one. I should know, I spent two years at such a place. 
~riday, November 6, 1970 .-~~­
r~~~~~~~----------------------------~...D nDr~n.~D ---------------------------------~P~~e~7 
What the Gipper means to me 
By Christopher Egan 
Editor: . 

On the way to my class m Primitive Medieval Medievality, I passed the Huddle on(v to see some papers blow out of an open window on an upper j7oor. Upon inspection, they were found to be the printer's _copy of an article by C. T. Tramer. To my amazement, an artie/~ on the same subject appeared m Wed­.nesday's Observer. This ar~ic~e 
was far inferior in journallstzc merit to the copy in my possess­ion. (In fact, at times it showed inklings of literary lethargy:) Naturallv. I was forced to con­clude that some semi-literate printer, frightened _at havi~g lost Mr. Trianer's artrcle, trred to re~vrite what precious little he remembered of the story con­tent and of Mr. Trayner's style. Obviously, he failed miserably. So, driven by artistic conscienc~ t•nd a sense of fairness to T.B. s literan' skill, I felt morally obli­gated. to come forwa~d w_ith ,the original text of B.C. Stramer s . . 
WHAT THE G IPPER MEANS TO ME or 
How I transcend an old Celtic cryptogram and resurrected an i IIi t e rate pre-historic British Druid for fun and profit, there­by firmly entrenching my emin­ence as a viable medium for the transmigration of sexually deca­dent Gaelic poltergeists. (and other 60 cent sentences). 

ACT I 

SCENE: The noticeably ama­teurishly constructed (what can one expect from mere drama majors) but naively viable thrust stage at Washington HalL Frank Dcviny has just entangled him­self in his official WSND lavalier microphone while trying to in­terview an old photograph of George Gipp. Sundry "actors", henceforth referred to as "rab­ble" are dancing a painfully sim­plistic Irish jig with the inebri­ated ghost of James Joyce., who is singing "Tim Finnegan's Wake". This Correspondent sur­veys the entire scene from his viable perch in the balcony. 
Frank Devine: Hi there all you fans in Radioland. This is Frank Devine reporting to you from Washington Hall where sev­eral rabble are attempting to communicate with a Ouija Board. How's it going? 
Rabble: Not too well, Frank. There seems to be some sort of barrier onstage. There must be an unsuitable medium near. 
(enter T.C.) 

T.C.: Greetings and hallucina­tions infantile believers in the scientifically proven impossibili­ties of post-vitalic existence. Which of your number claims 
Types::===============::========;=;=====;===;=;==:;=;:=======:=====:=====:=:=============:=====:=========:====:===================:=:=====:= 

Hey -did anybody ever think you were someone else? Ever get unsure of what you were? are? Well, who are you? What do you look like? Do you like what you look like? Do you look like what you are? Are you a "type?" Aren't we all? 
There are different "types" -Them weird hippie types who get high on false drugs and perpetrate cult murders and are always protesting and never wash and run around naked and stuff. Them straight dudes who don't do dope and think about getting ahead and are in ROTC and buy insurance and drink beer. Them fascists with rednecks and hot cars and American flags and shotguns. Them Negroes who all look the same and are lazy and eat watermelons and have natural rhythm. There are other "types" too, and you can always tell a "type." Everyone fits somewhere. Sure makes things easy. It eliminates thinking, just look and FLASH, you can always tell the "type." Sure siis good to turn to cliches. Sure is good to be a type and see in types and create ourselves in our own images. ("Whataya gonna do when you grow up, Mudhead?" "Gee Porgy, I don't know. Maybe I'll get a bunch of guys and dress alike and follow them around. ') Straights and freeks and pigs and niggers and honkies and squares and beatniks. 
Hmmm. Perhaps there's a pattern, perhaps there's something growing in the guts of Americans which clamps blinders on us and confirms our vision to the narrow realm of "types?" 
BEAT -"The term lost any significance of meaning, assuming it ever had one, and broke down to a physical type -a kid with a beard, rumpled clothes, sandals, bongo drums, jazz records, and a copy of Howl. Hints of sexual immoralities and use of drugs added a 

perverted glamor. The 'beats' -whether in Venice, California or in Greenwich Village -were lumped together in the same mattress on a steel spring bed. With more and more name calling came less and less clarity until the word assumed mythic proportions anct. the Beat Generation had arrived. This might be called typical for America which would rather catalogue people than understand them." (Elias Wilentz, The Beat Scene) 
Well, here we are with the same sduff. Here we are with nothing names, with plastic reality, with the truth stuck far behind myths and masks and "types." Isn't it easy that way? We don't even have to think. Everyone's a "type." We all fit into our own existential groove. "Lifelessness is the Great Enemy and always wears a the proprietorship of this viable Weejie rectanguloplano surface? 
Rabble I: It's mine, Nub-face. 

T.C.: If it would not be a source of discomfort to your simplistic sensibilities, this cor­respondent would appreciate an opportunity to research the operation of yon questionably viable Weejum. 
Rabble (together): Let's go get some cigarettes. 
(exit Rabble) 
Devine: Well, T.C., since the 

psuedo-artistic rabble have all left us alone, I will assist you in your research (to microphone) Stand by, Paul. 
T.C. (to universe): Atten­tion all you non-existent globs of ectoplasm. This is T.V. Drain­er, Editorial Page Editor of the Observer, and other important things. If any of you desire to establish communication with me, feel welcome to do so. 
Ouija: A ... B ... C ... D ... E 

T.C.(aside): There seems to be some sort of pattern extant, however the nature of said p11t­tern is unrecognizable ·to me now. 
Ouija: ...F ... G ... H ...I 

T.C.(aside): It must be some mrt of cryptogram.(to Ouija) A.re you speaking to me in a 
cryptogram? Rabble I (returning): What's a ;;ryptogram? Rabble 2 (bored): A light­weight burying ground. T.C.: How ridiculous! Actual­ly, a cryp... Rabble 1: There seems to be an evil spirit here. Ouija: ... J ... K ... L..M... 
T.C. (to Ouija): Do you speak any of the contemporarily umn­derstood Indo-European Ian­gauges? 
Ouija: ... N ... O ... 
T.C. (excitedly): NO! I've es­tablished contact with the spirit world. It must be an ancient pre-historic British Druid, since it doesn't speak any known lan­guages. 

R I : There seems to be an evil 

spirit here. 
Ouija: SEX 

T.C.: GASP! (he faints. Rab­ble revives T.C.) Whew! The oower of that evil message! You're right, there must be an evil spmt here. 1 haven't felt such raw eroticism since my first "passionate kiss" (i.e.: necking) 
in my freshman year -of col­lege. It was awful. (he turns slight pink, as in ham) 
Rabble 1: There rhust be an evil spirit here. 

T.C.(visibly shaken): There 
must be an evil spirit here. 
Rabble 2 (bored): There must 
be an echo here. 

T.C.(vehemently): Just you wait, viable George Gipp. You may have avoided me tonight, but someday you and I will have a showdown! 
At this point the ghost 6f Horace Greeley appears before 
T.C. and says, "Go West, young 
man." Ever obliging, T.C. does so ana rnps over his copy of Roget's Thesaurus, falling into the first row of seats. Dying, he gazes up and sees Chekhov's Sea Gull, a remnant of last month's production. Bird perches on Treanor's head. 
SeaGull: Nevermore! 


Editor's Note: Mr. Treanor, when questioned about this report, muttered something about "damn superstitious rabble" and returned to his voodoo dolls. 
Sergio Mendez here Saturday 
Sergio Mendes and Brasil 116 come to Northern Indiana this Saturday night bringing with them the cool bossa nova beat that has made their fame. Sponsored by the Student Union Social Commission, Brasil '66 will perform in the Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center 
together  with  comedian  Don  
Sherman  and singer Casey  An­ 
derson.  .  

Don Sherman's comedy is more than just mind-blowing: it is the work of a creative individual, striving for excellence in the field of humor. Don Sherman began his career pen­ning one-liners for Joey Bishop. 
Eventually, however, Don Sher­man found that his jokes were best performed by someone who really understood what his com­edy was all about: Don Sher­man. He has toured with Sergio Mendes before, and provides a light touch during a Brasil '66 concert. 

Casey Anderson is more than just a singer. He is an artist, a composer, an arranger, an enter­tainer. His musical range is unlimited: he plays jazz-rock as 
easily as sings blues. Casey Anderson is a product of the Midwest, and the down-to-earth sounds he achieves delight audi­ences across the country. 
Ticket prices are $5, $4, and $2. The concert begins at 8:30 PM EST. 
hipguard." Looks like there ain't no excape. Might as well get on Phil Simmons, AI Brenner, Marty Lynch, and Damian, the St. Joseph County poster child urge with it. Repeat after me: MAYOR DALEY IS A PORKOMORPH". your support of the MOD Squad. (That's the March of Dimes, dummy, not the TV show.) 
.Friday, November 6, 1970

Page 8 THE OBSBRfJER. 

Co-ed class boycott on this campus, and (ewer horny body to make co-education at animals on the loose around this Notre Dame a living reality and Dear Editor: 
place. not just a dream that will come This is not so much a letter to Unfortunately, most of the true "someday",the editor as it is a letter to the process of achieving co-educa­Eugene Slason 
student body of Notre Dame. tion has been lef'. up to the 
Because it is a matter of grave administration. I ;_~ersonally am Tl GRACE (again)
importance to the student body. not convinced that the admin­
I would be grateful if you stration really wants N.D. to Editor: 
printed it as such. become such a place. They will When yesterday's. editorial 
First of all, this idea I am probably proceed as slowly as about the Sunday Visitor editor­
proposing is not joke. I'm not possible and put off co-edu­ial ended with the words "sense­
writing to amuse anyone. I am cation as long as they can. less harangue", it seemed to be a 
serious about this. 

Recently, student leaders have felicitous summing up of yourI am refering to the matter of 
been critisizing University priori­whole exposition. Rarely are we co-education at Notre Dame. 
ties. While their criticisms may treated to such an epitome of Co-education is a concept which, 
be well intentioned and justified, sober, rational thinking, repletein my estimation, is approved 
I might suggest that student with words like "contemptible
and advocated by a great num­leaders examine their own priori­narrow· thinking 'J "return to 
ber of N.D. students. Yet co­ties. the dark ages", "sly innuendo" 
-education is still a long, long What are your priorities? and "unsubtle vilification" (both 
way off in the future. "Some­Cockroaches? The kind of jello referring to the same thing, mind 
day" it may be here. I don't you ear for dinner? you!), "abomination'', "ludi­
think that is quite soon enough. No? Then what is important crous attack", "picayune 
The reason that Jlbtre Dame is to you? sniping", "laughable" claim. 
not co-educational today can M Achieving co-education at From the tone of it one might found in the student body's Notre Dame should be the top expect the criticism of our attitude towards achieving this priority of the student officers, "exemplary" open speakers poli­most desirable goal. senators, and hall presidents. cy signaled the beseiging of the 
Students here seem too busy The effort to achieve this goal University by legions of murder­with studies. They are too busy should be done primarily by the ing feudal armies led by blood­complaining, cursing, drinking student body, not the admini­thirsty clerics. and grossing-out. They don't stration. I think co-education The real curiosity is that the seem to have the time or the can be a reality next fall. I think Sunday Visitor editorial called innitiative to take some positive N.D. can accomodate 1,000 girls forth such paranoia, while Ti action is solving their problems. (750 freshman and 250 sopho­Grace Atkinson and her filth and 
Maybe the Notre Dame stu­more applicants) by next fall. ignorance merited only unusu­dent is not MAN enough 'to do It is for these reasons that I ally (for the .Observer) precise such a thing. Maybe he is lucky am asking responsible students reporting. If the Observer really enough to know a girl at St. to organize a student boycott of objected to "contemptible nar­Marys, and so he doesn't care classes on December 8th and 9th row thinking" and "abomina­
about co-education anymore. Or for the following purposes: tions" one might have expected maybe he just graduated from an ( 1 ) ... to show the student some editorial criticism of her all male high school and has body's dissatisfaction with the before now. But, let's face it, forgotten what co-education is manner in which the process of what is more important to like. He just doesn't know what realizing co-education, is being defend-the open speakers policy he's missing. None of these handled to date. and Observer license to print excuses are acceptable. (2) ... to create the atmosphere obscenity, or the Church and 
Co-education has a lot going of an open forum on the Mary,"notre dame"? for it educationally as well as problem. The open speakers policy and socially. I believe the quality of (3)... to prepare student pro­Observer editorial and adver­
education here would be bettered posals beneficial to arrive at a tising freedom make sense only if Notre Dame went co-ed (on workable solutiQn. if they are exercised with re­it's own with or without St. ( 4 ) ... to discuss the possibility sponsibility. The open speakers Marys). of directing Student Union policy, fortunately, has pre­
The University would cer­funds as well as Cotton Bowl sented ignorance more often tainly be less painful to live in. monies towards achieving this than blasphemy and has been After all. as many students say: goal. used irresponsibly 
•Even Hell Is CO-ed"I also believe (5)..Jn short, academic than a there might be more gentlemen all-out effort ( both in 


America Coffeehouse opens its doors to all 
girls FREE... 
~----------~----~--------~ 
w 

Frld•y •nd 
A 

R S•turd•y Nlahts N I 8:30pm
N 
G 


Food •nd 
ALS 


AND drinks JEB v•la.bl 
MAY BE THERE! 

featuring 
Atkinson). But the Observer's and contains only general figures 
irresponsibility has been more is bound to stimulate questions 
consistent. Besides that glori­such as those which we raised. I 
ously vulgar precision in report­should further state that to my 
ing Atkinson's speech, there are knowledge I have never seen the 
the abortion counseling ad and "official financial records" as 
the Cinema Arts ads. I'm reas­stat'ed in this article. I have seen 
sured b•y reports that you've the· general published figures on 
dropped the abortion ad and which I based my example. have come out against abortion. Under the present secrecy, even Will you proceed to drop the if I had seen the official Cinema Arts ads and come out budget, I would have had to against voyeurism, or does that present this knowledge as rumor, 1 meet Observer standards of good or be charged with spying by the 
taste? 

financial officers. Thus Dave 
Chris Wolfe Krashna, myself, and other stu­dent leaders are forced to deal in rumors and partial facts by the 

G.S.U. very Administration which urges us to be more accurate and Gentlemen: complete in our work. 
For the sake of journalistic As I see it, you of The accuracy I would like to make a Observer staff are caught in the few clarifications concerning very same bind when you your October 30th articles head­attempt to report in accurate lined "Orgimizations confront detail upon the closed (and even Trustees". the open) sessions of this sub­
The headline does, I will committee of the Board of admit, lend a certain dramatic Trustees. Tidbits of information arua to what was a long and gathered in the C.C.E. lounge tiring meeting. But for the sake aren't really satisfactory and of preciseness perhaps "con­those who attend only the front" should have been simply public session must realize that "confer with". The word "con­they are like moviegoers who front" implies a greater degree enter the theater long after the of hostility than was evident movie begins and leave before it during the closed session. I do ends. To avoid a charge of agree that, after eight hours of hypocrisy then, I would urge that grueling substantive discussion, we, as students, propose some the wearying representatives of more effective means of infor­both the student organizations mation gathering to this com­and the Trustees did get a bit mittee at its next meeting, if not hot during the hour and a half or before. I will pledge the help of so of public session. Only at this the G.S.U. in finding a satisfac­point did the meeting even· tory solution to this problem. faintly resemble a "confron­Perhaps representatives from tation". The Observer and the various 
In the leader which heads the student organizations involved article about the public session, I can meet in the near future-would question the fact that any Please accept these comments student charged "mismanage­in the constructive spirit in ment of funds". My arguments which they are offered. I ap­and those of Mr. lsely were plaud your efforts in attempting aimed at convincing the Trustees to produce a quality liberal that apparent University priori­newspaper for Notre Dame/Saint ties often seem less than well Mary's. This letter is my attempt considered, and that student to clarify the issues as I see them groups actually cannot know the and as I expressed them at last budgetary realities because of Thursday's meeting. the seemingly paranoid secrecy Sincerely yours, in which the actual budget is Bill Lorimer annually locked. Any publically President released budget which is vague The Graduate Student Union. 
:::~~·:::::::::::::::::::~~=;=~=~=~=~=~=~=~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
t. SAVE THE CHILDREN J 

Volunteer to help collect for the March of Dimes before the 
Pitt game. 

Corre to 132 O'Shaughnessey between 10:45­
11:00 Saturday morning. 
:::: The Children need you :::: 
~"':::::::::::::::::;:::~:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::::::::::~:::::::::::::=:::-~;~~=~=~:::::::::::~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
8:30A.M. Fr. Donald Abbott, C.S.C. 
9:45A.M. Fr. James Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
11:00 A.M. Fr. John Quinn 
12:15 P.M. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
the ND-SMC STUDIO THEATRE 
presents 



THURBER A LA eARn 
a chamber theatre presentation of works by 
James Thurber 
NOV. 13 & 14 at 8:30, 15 at 7:30PM Little Theatre -Moreau Hall -SMC Tickets: $1.00 Season Subscribers FREE For information or reservations call 284-4176 

--------~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­

A major misconception of the St. Mary's College Placement Bureau has been that it restricts itself to working with graduating seniors. Miss Janice Wheaton, Director of Placement at St. Mary's, wants to dispel that image. "We perform services for all studentL 


SMC Frosh elections today 
by Patti S~1~u 
Eighteen SMC freshmen are vying to fill six freshmen leader­ship posts today in elections· from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. in LeMans lobby. 
The girls running for freshman 

class offices are President-Janet 
Caldemeyer, Cindy Corsaro, 
Nannette Lauer, Jane Redmund 
and Maureen Rogers; Vice­
President-Sheila Carney, Kathy 
:1essert, and Jane Matt; Serre 
ta1y-Cindy Holland and Trac~y 
Funke; Treasurer--Kathy Hur­ley. 
"The main responsibility of 

the class officers is to unify the 
class and provide class leader­
ship," stated Jean Gorman, 
chairman of the election. 
Nominated for two open 

positions on the Student Assem­
bly which serves as the base of 
SMC community government are 
Barb Chock, Connie Etter, Katie 
Joy, Candy Kelly, Margaret 
0 'Grady, Debbie Tirsway, and 
Mary Walsh. 
SMC's Holy Cross Hall plagued with safety, overcrowding and recreation problems 
One of the oldest halls on the St. Mary's campus, Holy Cross Hall provides generally comfort­able accomodations for the girls who live there, except for the quints on the first floor. In an attempt to utilize all possible space, what were formerly first floor classrooms were converted to five-girl rooms during the summer, creating somewhat ~:ramped conditions for the girls residing there. 
Upon arrival in September, the girls were faced with the problem of no closet space and limited access to desks and chest of drawers, through the first two weeks of school. Because of this none of the girls were able to unpack. In addition, blackboards still remained in some of the rooms. 
Due to the overcrowding, the quint experiment proved for the most part to be a failure and the quints have since been broken up into doubles and triples. But the switches and final settling of girls into permanent rooms were not completed until almost mid -semester. 
A problem common to all floors in the dorm is that of doors and locks. A great major­ity of the doors are warped, causing them to stick. The locks, long outmoded, are obsolete; consequently any problems with doors that fail to open, lock,. or shut must of necessity go un­rectified. Many of the locks are the same; each person's key is like a skeleton key in that it opens almost everyone else's door. 
Holy Cross Hall also has a 

number of safety hazards. Age 
and conditions of the building as 
a whole have made it a potential 
fire hazard; no smoking is per­
mitted anywhere except in the 
Providing solutions to the problems of communication is the main theme of the presi­dential campaign platforms. 
Presidential candidate Janet Ealdemeyer from Evansville, In­diana stressed her three-fold objective of representation, com­munication, and action. "I'm backing the formation of a freshman senate," she explained. "Because of the size of the freshman class, a senate would take advantage of the vast resources of ideas." 
Nannette Lauer, from Fort Wayne, Indiana, cited her major campaign point as that of "aggregating the loose ends of communication between fresh­mm class members in an attempt to completely orient freshmen with the academic and social activities on both cam­puses." Nannette suggested the establishment of a freshman newsletter, class meetings, and CIVIC contributions such as working for the Red Cross as her main foals. 
Maureen Rug~rs from Cleve­

· and alumnae who have registered with us," she said. "We assist in professional career planning, but we also have career materials that can help freshmen and sophomores decide on a major." The Placement Bureau has a wide scope of activities. They locate full-time positions for 
mistake about this••• 
lam 
NO. 

a time piece a conversation piece a collector's piece

Dickie 

Set a precedent (pun intended). 
The Swiss movement Be the first on your block to have carries a 
Tickie Dickie on hand. He's 
2 year guarantee. 

yours in American red, crystal white, and establishment blue. 
Red, White and Blue 
Band included 
1995 


~-------$ . . -.
I Enclosed is my check or money Postpa1d. Band mcluded.I order for $19.95 . Please rush my Tickie Dickie to me. I 
I I 
I Name I
Address 

J City State Zip 1 
________..,
The Dey Distributor Co. P.O. Box 2111, Anaheim 9280-l 
seniors, and arrange interviews for them with the companies and school systems that recruit on campus. Information about the interviews, and notices concerning graduate schools, are posted on the Placement Bulle­tin Board in the basement of LeMans Hall, next to the book-
land, Ohio, stressed her three main campaign principles of uuifi~..iti,)H, sudalizatiun. M;wreen cited the n.ocd fur more activities with Nulr.: Dame as w~~l a~ student and faculty get-togethers. 
Janie Redmund from In­dianapolis, Indiana, emphasized her interest in the freshman hours controversy. "We have been working to give second semester freshmen upper-class­men hours. ! h::vc lcamcd from thi~ experience the channels you must go through ta give the freshmen a voice. 
Cindy Corsaro from Cleve­land, Ohio, outlined her main aims as representation, com­munication, and action. "We have to start working this year to unify the freshman class. This is the most important thing a president should try to do," st:c commented. Her more specific plans include the formation of a government working within the class structure as well as plan­ning freshman social activities with Notre Dame. 
store. 
To be registered with the office, a student must file credentials with Miss Wheaton six months to a year before graduation. No one may register for an appointment with a recruiter without placement papers on file. 
Alumnae are also beneficiaries of the services of the Placement Bureau, if they choose to make use of thos services. If an alumna has registered with the office and keeps in touch with Miss Wheaton, she will have on file up-to-date credentials, requested by most employers. These files contain personal information, educational achievement and ex­tracurricular activities reports, and information on job experi­ence and references. 
Any student or alumna in­terested in the field of education who has registered with the Bureau can also receive a peri­odic report of teacher vacancies across the United States, simply by giving Miss Wheaton her name and address and asking to be kept up-to-date. 
Alumnae are also asked to file a Record of Employment with Miss Wheaton. This record tells where a girl is employed, what type of position she holds, the salary she receives (this informa­
:;:;:::::::::;:~:~:~:~:~:;:;:;:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~:~:~:;:~:~:;:~:::~=~=~=~=~~~;.:~:~:;:::;:~:~:!:~~=~=~::::: 
il~lNew Student Union Rider Service t 
Submit the following information by Wednesday of each week for future transportation information: 
1.) Your name and phone number 2.) Destination 
~~j~ This information will be distributed throughout the campus n :~:~ Thank you, ~:l l:~: Student Services Commission-4th Floor LaFortune-7757:;:; 
.;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;~:;:;:::::~:::::;:~:*!: 




EVERYTHING 
YOU.VE EVER WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT BEER 
(But didn"t know whom to ask) 

At last ... in one great book ... a delightful mixture of lore, myth and anecdote never before assembled in a single volume. 
For instance, do you know how many bottles of beer it would take to float the battleship Missouri? Or what beer can do for orchids? You're planning a party and you need to know how to tap a keg, and how many glasses of beer you can get from a half-barrel ... and how many servings you should allow per male guest ... and per female. Maybe beer steins intrigue you, and you'd like to know more about them. 
Search no longer ... the answers are all here in Falstaff's Complete Beer Book. And that's not nearly all. You'll chuckle at author Fred Birmingham's light-hearted history of beer ... and you'll join him in a brewery tour with the brewmaster as your guide. There's even a glos­sary of little-known brewing terms ... because everyone should know what a "zwlckel" is! And wait 'til you try "Hungerburgers" made with beer! 
The perfect gift for Dad . , . or a fraternity brother ... or even for Uncle Charley. In fact, this deluxe paperback belongs on every book­shelf and backbar! 
I I 
Send $1.00 plus 25¢ posbo11 Send ( ) books. Enclosed is $____ 1 


·--------------------------· 
I •nd hondlln1 for uch co~~r to: 
I BEER BOOK II
I P.O. Box 23007 Narne
1 St. Louis, Mo. 63156 I 
I ~:~~~~~·usn~ 0~-=:n:: ~~~~~:=~ Address I I with order. Sorry, no coo·.. I (Missouri residents add 3% II sales box.) City Stile Zip I 
---------------------------· 
tion is confidential) and, if she is in graduate school, information on her work there. 
"This helps us counsel under­graduates, and provide them with career information. It lets them know what they can do with the majors they choose,' i Miss Wheaton explained. 
Freshmen, sophomores and juniors will also receive help form the Bureau, if they wish it. They have access to the Place­ment Library, which is located in the back of the Student Personnel Office area, LeMans Hall. This library has informa­tion on graduate schools (bulle­tins and reference books), and notice of fellowships and scholarships; material on the Peace Corps and VISTA; as well as data on Government and private company positions. Miss Wheaton will also help arrange for a part-time job for a girl whose credentials are on file in her office. 
Any student confused about possible areas of interest and concentration can make an ap­pointment with Miss Wheaton, who will "try to help her find her niche." 
plus 25¢ for postage and handling 

Pebble (basement recreation room) and the reception rooms on the first floor. The fire escapes, which are as old as the building itself (circa 1855) are in a state of ill-repair and the girls have been advised not to use them, even in the event of a fire. 
The main reason why the situation has been let go for such a long period of time is simply lack of money. As soon as the funds become available, action will be taken beginning with installing new locks on all the 
doors. 
SMC Placement Bureau aids all 


__:c_:;___~=-=--=-=-=--=-~..:::-------------------------------



Krashna 'surprised' with CSU's progress 
on of diversity. A great number

(Continued from page 3) 
the proposal for the land be­dosen't feel relaxed. Everything ty, and according to Connor, of viewpoints were desired. 
Both Connor and Krashna tween the two campuses. Some is white traditions, mores and some could materialize next Thus, Fr. Sheedy, a conserva­were pleased with the reaction of the fine points have to be customs. It's the same situation semester. Krashna says, "They­tive theologian, and Dr. Richard of the Trustees, with Krashna worked out, such as the problem as if a white student went to will probably become reality, Bizot, liberal English Professor, 
saying, "They (the proposals) of tax, who owns the land, if the Grambling." but to what degree we're not were chosen to provide a wide were so well developed and University could be annexed if Some steps to alleviate the sure." range of views. worked out that they were hard this did become a reality. problem, he says would be " to The selection of themembers Four of the six Notre Dame to dispute." Another area of concern is allow them a facility, a house 
of the committee, according to students are from student gov­Krashna is "suprised" with that of minority students. Ac­where they could live together if Connor. was made by the criteri-ernment. 
the progress of the committee so cording to SBP Krashna he they wanted to." far. He feels that it is "very hopes to be able to make "Notre Also, he feels a black cultural unusual to have had this much Dame" attractive to minority center should be established, and 
Loch Ness Monster 
progress in three meetings." students. 1 would like for it to the black studies program should 
(Continued from page 3)
However, he says, "many things be a place where the minority be developed further. Force minister and a disbeliever
still have to be worked out in student can relax and be himself. They feel that the proposals 
detail. 'lAs an example he cited Right now. the black student will all eventually become re<:~li-in monsters, confessed, "I find it However, from years of re­very hard to discount the find-search, the Loch Ness Bureau has reached some tentative con­clusions of their own. They be­

BI uecollar vote is surprising~";~<96';' ;:RI~~,~,,::~ 
lieve that Loch Ness contains a Senate, House, and guberna-"law and order" candidate for En cyclo'pedia'· contnbuted breeding herd of from fifteen to
WASHINGTON (UP!) -The torial seats. President in 1968. money to the Bureau to aid its fifty creatures. They believe the
hard hat and his neighbors The most notable exception Democrat Milton Shapp won research. One of the studies ancestors of these creatures were··' proved one of the big surprises was New York's Senate race the Pennsylvania governorship which resulted was the work of a cut off from the sea about fiveof the election. 

where Conservative Party can-with u.nusually strong support joint University of Chicago and to seven thousand years ago andRepublican strategists had ex­didate lames L. Buckley with from Pittsburgh steelworkers. University of Birmingham (Eng-gradually adapted as the waterpected blue collar workers to implicit White House backing One sample ward gave Shapp land) scientific team. became fresh.
desert the Democrats in large defeated a Democratic and a 91% of the vote. The Bureau is not sure whatnumbers and join the ranks of Republican liberal opposed to Democrat John F. Seiberling, Part of these findings were these creatures might be. ThePresident Nixon's hoped for the Vietnam war. The New York Jr. attacked during the campaign reported by University of Chi-photographs and sightings sug­"new majority." 
Daily News estimated that 42% because of a photograph show-cago biologist Ray Mackal in the gest a Pieiosaurus, a sea-going .The appeal by Nixon and of the city's blue collar vote ing him alongisde long-haired Chicago Daily News of Decem­dinosaur, but the temperature of
Vice-President Agnew for elec­
went to Buckley. youths at Akron university de-ber 19, 1968. He relates that, Loch Ness is much too cold for
tion of "law and order" candi­
But elsewhere rising prices feated 10-term Rep. William "In one sonar sequence, an ob­reptiles, which seems to rule outdates was supposed to captivate and unemployment or just plain Ayres (R.-Ohio) in a district ject of large size was followed as that possibility. A large mam­the working classes bitter over habit seem to have blunted the heavily populated by Akron it dove at a speed of nearly five mal, such as a giant seal, alsocrime in the streets and campus impact of the Nixon-Agnew ap-rubber workers. knots, reaching a depth of al-seems to have been rul~d oul 
unrest. 5 f
peal. Liberal Democratic Rep. most 00 eet in one minute." because the creatures exhibitBut with a few exceptions it none of the behavioral character­did not work. A UP! spot check Textile wprkers in Greenville Brock Adams won re-election in 
"Another sonar sequence dis­
istics of mammals.

of sample areas in major indus-County, S.C. helped elect a industrial Seattle by a 2-1 mar­closed similar objects ascending Other possibilities, such astrial states shows that heavy moderate Democrat as governor gin over a Republican who cam­toward the surface of the loch at fish (a fiant eel). amphibians (aDemocratic majorities in blue over a segregationist Republican. paigned hard on the "law and speeds of almost nine knots. 
giant salamander), or inverte­collar districts may have been They had voted for segrega-order" theme. 

Some of these objects then des­brates (a giant mollusc or sea
,d-~_i_si_ve___in___G_O_P_I_o_ss_e_s_o_f_s_o_m_e_t_io_n_is_t_G_eo_r_g_e_w_a_·I_Ia_c_e,_an_o_t--,her Hortk e WInner cended to the bottom, remained 
slug) seem more plausible. 

WHY PAY MORE FOR USED FURNITURH & APPLIANCES? 
CALL BILL; 232-2646; SELLING & BUYING. 


BODY SHIRT 

a 



THINGS 
10% DISCOUNT to ALL STUDENTS SHOWING I.D. CARDS 

SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 2210 MIAMI STREET P><cN£ 289-3012 
there for about six minutes and 
The Bureau is quick to point

(continued from page 1) ascended again." ' 
out that other marine creatures 
The state election board 
have been cut off from the sea
"Those operating the sonar

headed by Gov. Edgar D. Whit­
and have adapted to a fresh

were convinced that the be­
comb took the surprise action 
water environment. These in­

havior of these objects could not
Wednesday after unofficial tab­
clude seals (in Russia and Cana­

be accounted for by schbols of
ulations of Tuesday's election 
da), sharks (in Nicaragua), and

fish," said Mack a!. 
showed Hartke the winner in the 
dolphins (in China, India, and 

closest U.S. Senate election in 
"These actions," he said, "re­Brazil).
Indiana's history. 
semble those one might antici­In addition, there is the ex­
Indiana state police impound­

pate from large, air-breathing ac­ample of the Coeleocanth. This 
ed voting machines, paper bal­
quatic animals when surfacing." fish was thought to be extinct 
lots, and absentee ballots casting 
for millions of years. Extinct, 

doubt also on the final outcome "The activities we have visual­
that is, until one was caught by

of other statewide races won ly observed, photographed, and 
fishermanen, off Madagas~.:ar be­

according to unofficial figures now tracked on sonar are com­
fore World War II. Since -then,

by Democrats. patible with activities one would 
many more have been caught.

The nearly complete tabula­Pxpect t'nim large, living 
More information about 

tion by N a tiona! Election creatures." But he added: "We 
"Nessie ' . can be obtained by

Service (NES) showed 865,397 still have no idea what such 
writing to the Loch Ness Pheno­

votes for Hartke to 861,520 for creatures, if they truly exist, 
mena Investigation Bureau. Ltd. 

his opponent. might be." 
in Loch Ness, Scotland. 


Fonda to speak of Stepan 
Jane Fonda, actress and poli­tical activist, will speak on "Public Political Alternatives" at 9 p.m. November 8 in the Stepan Center on the Universily of Notre Dame campus. 
Miss Fonda helped found the 
G.l. Office in Washington, D.C., to support soldiers who claimed they were illegally disciplined for expressing First Amendment rights. She has picketed with the Indians, publicly supported their efforts for self-determination and assisted a foundation con­cerned exclusively with fair treatment for Indians. 
Also known for her starring roles in "Cat Balou," "Barbarel­la" and "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?", Miss Fonda is a national coordinator for the Vietnam Veterans Against the War, and has spoken out against what she terms as police attach upon members of minority groups. Her address is open to the public, and is sponsored by the Student Union A cad em ic: Commission. 

--------------------~ 
Friday, November 6, 1970 _:f'H~_ OBSERJJER • 
Frosh meet awesome Michigan at Ann Arbor 


by Vic Dorr group. They are good students, nod. Complementing the Wol­performer, decided on Michigan Frazier made receptions which Observer Sportswriter and will give us the help at verine signal-caller in the back­after receiving scholarship offers kept late Irish drives alive. postitions where we'll ne,ed help field will be Harry Banks, a 5-l 0 from all ten Big Ten schools. Halfback Gary Diminick and
On the strength of last week's come from behind victory in another year." Schembechler sprinter from Cleveland. As a Once again, the key to the tight end Dave Casper have also
over 

was especially pleased with the schoolboy, Banks built a repu­game will rest with Irish quarter­proven themselves capable re­Tennessee, the Notre Dame large number of scholarship tation of being perhaps the back Cliff Brown's ability to put ceivers. If Brown can find the
freshmen have ridden to within striking distance of a winning athletes (36) who chose to finest breakaway back in Ohio. some life into the Notre Dame range during the early going, the frosh now attend Michigan. This figure On paper, both the offensive and offense during the first half. Wolverine secondary will be in
season. The record 
contrasts sharply with 1969, a defensive lines appear nothing Under Brown's direction, the for a long afternoon.
stands at 1-1, with but one game 
year in which the Wolverines less than awesome. Nearly all of frosh are averaging 17 points and On defense, too, the Irish will remaining to be played. 
drew only 26 players on scholar­the performers at line positions 289 yards of total offense per be seeking to play a consistentBut in order to reach this 
ships. "You have to think in of better than average size, game, but have yet to register a So this the
goal, the Irish yearlings must are game. far season, 
terms of a four-year cycle in and a good number of them first half tally. Michigan State frosh defense has allowed 41overcome a formidable oppo­
nent-the Michigan freshman recruiting," he explained, "and display attributes that would do and Tennessee were quick to first half points and three second you just cannot have two weak justice to a professional. James capitalize on this lethargy, and half pnints. Led by tackle Tom
team. And even though Notre 
years back-to-back: ': Cherry (6-7, 255), Walt William­the Wolverines will certainly Ross, the linebackers Joe Alva­Dame defeated Michigan 17-7 The Michigan coaches have son (6-5, 220), and Paul &als seize the opportunity if it is rado and Torn Devine, thelast year, the Wolverines can good reason to feel that this is (6-6, 225) are but three of the offered to them. It will be up to defense afainst Tennessee in thenever be considered a soft touch. 
not going to be a "weak year." problems with which the Irish Brown to see that this doesn't second half was nothing short ofThis season, the task confronting 
Coach Denny Murphy's players The Wolverine first year men line must contend. The Wol­happen. The team seems to outstanding. And yet, the Vols boast talent and outstanding verine linebackers, led by 64 move most effectively through scored 20 first half points. 
will be even more difficult. 
size. They, like Tennessee, boast David Gallagher and 6-5 Richard the air. In the first two games, Clearly, the Notre DameWolverine l-ead Coach Bo Mussehl, are also cast from this Brown completed 35 of 71 freshmen have yet to "put it allSchem bechler, after observing some depth at quarterback, 
his I 97 0 recruits, said: "They where two Michigan All-Staters, better-than-average-size mold. passes for 431 yards and one together." But if they do so Anchoring the Michigan secon­touchdown. Against Tennessee, Saturday, Michigan's freshman
are the best we've had in two Kein Casey and Tommy Slade, 
years here, and a quality be for starting dary will be Jeff Stager, a Algery Frazier was very impres­team--their "best in two years"­
real will vying the cornerback from Winetka, Illin­sive as a receiver, as he grabbed is going to have its hands ois. Stager, a much sought after six for 92 yards. Several times,. full. 

Season Statistics 



The Irish Eye 
Scoring by Quarters INDIVIDUAL SCORING 1 2 3 4 Total TDs Kick Play FG TP :::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:::::::;:;:;:::=:=:=:;:;;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::===========::::::::~::::::::::::: Picks Notre Dame 62 80 49 52 243 Gatewood .. 7 1-1(P) 44 Opponents 7 17 14 0 38 Hempel ...... 0 30-31 3-3 39
IRISH EYE-TEM-The two part series that The Observer ran this 
Allan .......... 5 30 
week on Jim Eggert s views from the Ohio State Lantern proved to 
Gulyas ...... 4 24 
be of better timing than one could really hope for. Mr. Eggert's one TEAM STATISTICS Barz .......... 4 24 quip still rings in my memory, "After all, I don't see Notre Dame ND OPP Dewan ........ 3 18 ranked in the Top Two." Minnix ...... 3 18
Total Offense .... . ..... .. .. .... 3267 1255 
Another note of interest is the current issue of Sports Illustrated. Theismann 2 1-1(R) 14
Total Plays .... .............. 580 370 
Contrary to what one might expect, Dan Jenkins gives the Irish Yards per Play............ 5.6 3.4 Parker ...... 2 12 
Steenberge.. 1 6
equal treatment along with Texas and Ohio 3:ate. Mr. Jenkin's fine Yards per Game ........ 544.5 209.2 
Creaney .... 1 6
writing style was the only thing that made the article worth reading. 
Net Yards Rushing ........ 1971 595 
Cieszkowski 1 6
Everyone knew that all three teams were good, we just wanted to see Attempts ................ .... 448 193 who should be ruled out of contention for Number One because of Yards per Rush.......... 4.4 3.1 
INDIVIDUAL PUNTING
the infamous SI jinks. Yards per Game ........ 328.5 99.1 NO. YDS AVG Long
WHAT DOES A GUY HAVE TO DO? AWARD-Terry Hanratty Net Yards Passing ........ 1296 662 
Yoder ............15 544 36.3 48
car.1c into Monday night's national TV game to spark Pittsburgh over Attempts . .......... 138 187 
Completions ... .... .. .... . 87 62 Roolf ...... ...... .. 1 41 41.0 41Cincinn_ilti. The ex-Notre Dame qb completed 7 of II passes for 125 
Completion Pet. .......... .630 .332
yards in little more than a quarter, but in Tuesday's Pittsburgh Press 
Had Intercepted ........ 6 14 RUSHING
Coach Chuck Noll was quoted as·saying "I'll make no comment on 
Touchdown Passes . . .. 11 1 
TC YDS AVGTD

who will start Sunday against N:w York. 
Yards per Attempt .... 9.4 3.5 
Gulyas 84 369 4.4 3
Yds. per Completion . 14.9 10.7 
Allan .......... 68 289 4.2 5
Yards per Game ........ 216.0 110.3 
The college football season is progressing to the point where many Theismann .. 69 264 3.7 2 
Punt Retum Yards........ 135 188 
Barz ............ 67 267 4.0 3
conferences and national titles will be decided in the next few 
No. of Returns............ 19 10 
Minnix ........ 42 209 5.0 2games. In this week's BIG games it looks like: 
Avg. per Return ........ 7.1 18.8 
Parker ........ 20 155 7.8 2Notre Dame over Pitt: Why did those Panthers have to lose last 
Punts................................ 16 43 Cieszkowski 30 14.8 4.9 1
week? Now this wide margin won't look nearly as impressive. 
Yards Punting ............ 585 1558 Dewan ........ 30 128 4.3 3 
Texas over Baylor: The Longhorns are just biding their time until 
Avg. per Punt ........... 36.6 36.2 Steenberge .. 13 45 3.4 1 Dec. 5. They better remember to show up for the A&M game on Had Blocked..... 0 1 Gallagher .... 7 44 6.6 0 Thanksgiving though. Trapp .......... 2 20 10.0 0
Penalties .... .. .. .. .. .. . . .... .. .. .. 33 18 Ohio State over Wisconsin: The mighty Bucks keep rolling on a Yards Penalized 295 202 Johnson ...... 3 16 5.3 0 collision course with Michigan. They may try to run this score up to Fumbles' (Lost) ............16(12) 15(6) Nightingale 3 6 2.0 0 get back in Mr. Eggert's TOP T\\0. 
Garner ........ 1 5 5.0 0
Total First Downs ........ . . 174 77 
T. Wright .... :t 2 2.0 0
Mississippi over Houston: After a week away from the press 
Rushing ...................... 108 36 
Archie should be ready to come back throwing. The Cougars chould Passing ........................ 60 34 
PASSING

make this one exciting. Penalty ........................ 6 7 
LSU over Alabama: Please Tigers, don't let the Bear get out of No Comp Int Yds TD Pet t:1is season with a respectable record. There is nothing worse than a Theismann 126 80 5 1198 11 .635 bowl-bound team with a 5-5 record. INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE Steenberge 12 7 1 98 0 .583 
LEADERS

Stanford over Washington: This one should clinch the Pasadena trip for Mr. Plunkett and Co. The Huskies can make trouble but not G Plays YDS AVG RECEIVING quite enough. PC YDS AVG TD Long
Theismann ..... 6 195 1462 7.3 Gulyas ............ 6 84 369 4.3
Air Force over Oregon: If you'll check NCAA stats you'll find Gatewood .... 49 754 15.4 7 39
Barz .... ...... ...... 6 66 267 4.0
that the top ranked independent has an 8-0 record, very impressive Creaney ...... 9 170 18.9 1 55
Allan . . ............ 5 68 289 4.2
Falcons. Barz ............ 10 108 10.8 1 18
Minnix 6 42 209 4.9
Michigan State over Purdue: Duffy has his boys in gear and they Tereschuk .. 3 56 18.7 0 28 Gulyas 3 51 17.0 1 30
should rack up their third in a row against a disheartened Boilermaker team. Results: Won 6, Lost 0, Tied 0 Minnix ........ 1 40 40.0 1 40 
Parker ........ 3 34 11.3 0 21
Missouri over Oklahoma: The Tigers, like Ara said, arc a good ball N.D. 3'>, Northwestern 14 (50,409) C 
Allan .......... 3 29 9.7 0 12
club. This should be an exdting renewal between two old rivals. N.D. 48, Purdue 0 (59,075) C 
Trapp .......... 1 16 16.0 0 16
UPSET OF THE WEEK N.D. 29, Michigan State 0 (76,103) C Cieszkowski 1 9 9.0 0 9 
Texas A&M over Southern Methodist: Those Aggies are just N.D. 51, Army 10 (59,075> C Dewan ......:. 1 3 3.0 0 3
N.D. 24, Missouri 7 (64,200) C
unbelievable. They shouldn't win another game this season so the 
N.D. 56, Navy 7 (45,226)
smart money should definitely ride on the boys from College 
RETURNS (No.-Yds.-TDs)
Station. In the other top college attractions I see: TEAM SCORING Int. Punts Kickoffs Syracuse over Army, Georgia Tech over Navy, Penn ~tate over ND OPP Stepaniak .. .. 5-39-0 
Maryland, West Virginia over East Carolina, Florida 3:ate over Total Points 243 38 Ellis ...... .... .. .. 4-20-0 
Avg. per Game ............. 40.5 6.3 Kelly ............ 2-15-0
Clemson, Georgia over Florida, Duke over Wake Forest, Michigan 
No. ofTDs ..................... . 33 5 Webb ............ 1-11-0
over Illinois, Indiana over Iowa, Northwestern over Minnesota, 
by Rushing ............... 22 3 Wright ........ 1-0-0
Nebraska over Iowa State, Colorado over Kansas, Kansas State oyer 
by Passing ................... 11 1 Crotty .......... 1-0-0
Oklahoma State, Arkansas over Rice, Toledo over Northern Illinois, 
by Returns ................. . 0 1 Schlezes ........ 7-77-0 1-3-0
Southern California over Washington State, Tennessee over South 
Field Goals (Att-Made) 3-3 1-4 Crotty .......... 9-46-0 2-19-0 
Carolina, Tulane over Miami, Arizona State over San Jose State, Safeties ......................... . 1 0 Nightingale 2-9-0 4-77-0 California over Oregon State and Dartmouth over Columbia. PAT-Kick ..................... . 30-31 5-5 Parker .......... 1-3-0 1-8-0 PAT-Run ........................ 1-1 0-0 Dewan .......... 1-20-0 Last week 23 of 30 Season Percentage .764 PAT-Pass ..................... 1-1 0-0 Allan .......... . 2-30-0 
r~--=:------­
Friday, November 6, 1970

TIIB O&WWIIt 

1 






The Pitt Panther is back. Big deal. 
I by Terry Shtelds catchy little saying like "This is won't be that close. 
t 
~ 
I : I • 
f 
Observer Sports Editor the year the Panther begins to 
To anyone familiar with the growl." This year the phrase was Pittsburgh sports scene the pre-"The Pitt Panther is back." season buildup for this year's Naturally any true football fan Pitt Panthers sounded oh-so would chuckle quietly to himself repetitious of all the publicity and even the most optimistic of that Pittsburgh teams get from the bunch could only hope for a the home town scribes. Before break even season. But it is no each season the press usually dream! Indeed the Pitt Panther jumps on a team's bandwagon has returned and the question and before half the season is remains how far has Pitt return-over they are calling for the ed? heads of anyone involved with a Obviously Pitt has not turned team. into a super team and the 
The Steelers and Pirates were beating they absorbed last week long time examples of this makes one wonder just how in phenomenon and since 1963 the the world Pitt ever won those University of Pittsburgh has five games to begin with. Pos­joined right in as the victim of sibly a combination of things led Pa Pitt's poison pens. to the Syracuse debacle. The 
Then in 1970 things sfarted to Orangemen are definitely an happen. The Pirates finally won improving ball club and maybe, something and the resurging just maybe, the Panthers got
.. 
Steelers are only a game away cocky enough to overlook an from the lead in their division of opponent and envisioned what the AFC (possible because Terry an upset over NOTRE DAME Hanratty's Notre Dame winning could do to their stature. Unfor­spirit is starting to rub off). And tunately Pitt is not a good now the impossible has hap-enough team to overlook even pened. Six weeks into the season Slippery Rock. They simply and lo and behold the infamous can't look past a team like Pitt Panthers are ranked Number Syracuse and hope to win. One in the East. Something must What is left of the pieces from be wrong somewhere. the Orangemen could give Notre For the last six years every Dame a ball game for a half but Pitt football guide had some the results of this game just 
lust for the record 
compiled by Mike Pavlin 

By virtue of intercepting two passes against Navy, Ralph Stepaniak has moved into a tenth-place tie on the all-time list for pass interceptions. The junior defensive back now has nine in his brief career, tying him with John Pergine, a linebacker who played on Ara Parseghian's '65-6-7 teams. TEAM-GENERAL 
I) (Record tied) Most Consecutive Games Scoring (incl. Cbtton Bowl) 47 TEAM-SEASON 1) Points Scored-389, 243 2) Touchdowns -55, 33 
3) PAT's by Kick Made-49,30 4) PAT%-.942, .968 5) 2-Pt. PAt's Made-3, 2 
6) Safeties -2, I 

7) Touchdown Passes -18, li 8) Pass Completions -I47, 87 9) Lowest% Intercepted -4.4, 4.3 10) Rush Attempts-663,448 11) Passing Yards-2105, I296 I2) Pass Y ds/Game -210.5, 216.0 13) Completion%-.583, .630 14) Total Offensive Plays-909, 580 
15) Total Offensive Yards -5044, 3267 16) Tot. Off. Yds/Game-504.4, 544.5 17) First Downs -296, 174 
18) First Downs by Rush-171, I08 INDIVIDUAL-SINGLE GAME 
1) (Record Tied) Touchdown Pass ~ceptions -Tom Gatewood 3 INDIVIDUAL SEASON 
l) 
Pass lttempts -21 0, Joe Theismann I26 2) Corrpletions-116, Theismann 80 3) Completion%-.589, Theismann .635 

4) 
Touchdown Passes-16, Theismann Il 

5) 
Total Offensive Yards-2069, Theismann 1462 

6) 
Total Offense Plays -308, Theismann 195 

7) 
Touchdowns Responsible For -21, Theismann 13 

8) 
2-Pt Conversions Made -2, Theismann and Gatewood I 

9) 
Pass Receptions -60, Gatewood 49 10) ~ception Yards-1114, Gatewood 754 1I) Touchdown Pass Receptions-9, Gatewood 7 


12) PAT Kick Attempts -52, Scott Hempel31 
13) PAT Kicks Made-41, Hempel 30 14) Points by Kick-61, Hempel39 INDIVIDUAL CAREER 
1) (New Record) PAT Attempts.-Scott Hempell25 
2) (New Record) PAT's Made -Hempel 116 
3) (Record Tied) Field Goals-Hempell3 4) PAT%-.914, Hempel .928 
5) Touchdown Passes-28, Joe Theisrmnn 26 6) Completion%-.567, Theismann .586 
7) Yds/Pass /ttempt -8.38, Theismann 8.66 
8) Total Offense Plays-731, Theismann 611 
9) Total Ufense Yards -4738, Theisrrann 4081 10) Total Performance Plays-751, Theismann 629 1I) Total Performance Yards-4833, Theismann 4193 
12) Touchdown Pass Receptions-16, TomGatewood (a junior) 15 
13) Passes Broken Up-19, Clarence Ellis (a junior) 16 
Pitt is a big, physical ball club which relies mostly on a power running offense and a tough defense to win its games. Too bad for the Panthers that they have come to the place'where a "power offense and tough defen­se" was created. The relative strengths of the two clubs should be most evident by the second half. 
The standout ball carrier of this powerful running game is Tony Esposito, a 6' l", 230 lb. senior. He has gained 453 yards overland this season and he sometimes gets a breather from a smaller fullback Phil Sgrignoli, who has chalked up 204 yards while spelling Esposito. 
The slash and dash to Pitf s offense (what little of it there is) comes from leading scorer Den­ny Ferris, a halfback. Ferris has scored eight TD's for the Jungle Cats and he uses his speed not only on the running plays but also for hauling in passes. He has caught 26 passes this season. 
The other receiving threat is end Steve Moyer who has caught 25 aerials. Moyer has great hands and he was effective against the Irish last season early in the game. 
Who will throw the ball to these men is a question that is difficult to answer. John Hogan should be the starter and he has been brilliant when he is heal­thy. He has completed 55 of I 0 I for 628 yards. Dave Havern has played almost as much and he has hit on 42 of 69 for 4I9 
since Cindrich 's injury. Lloyd is 
running and passing are evident.
yards. 
a rugged one but there just aren't 
Perhaps the statistics on page llAs for the "tough defense" of 
enough like him on Pitt's cam­
could tell the tale of ND betterPitt that must stop the nation's 
pus for the Panther defense to 
than any description here. 
leading offense, well, they still 

compare with ND's. leave something to be desired, as Other men who will try to Look for a close first half, 
unless Joe T. gets heated upthe 43 Syracuse points might 
make life difficult for Joe 
early against a Pitt pass defenseindicate. 
Theisrmnn, Tom Gatewood, Bill 
that is admittedly not the best in Ralph Cindrich, Pitt's only 
Barz et a! are Howard Broadhead 
the country. The guess here isbonafide All-American candidate (biggest man on the Pitt team at .that if Syracuse could score 43will miss this clash and probably 6'4", 250 lb.), Bryant Salter, a points against Pitt, even on a badthose for the rest of the season. fugitive from the track team day, the Irish should better thatCindrich is a middle linebacker who plays defensive halfback and the defense, if it doesn't falland it would behoove coach Carl and Charlie Hall, who has been asleep early (as it did againstDe Pasqua to find an adequate bruised more this season than a Navy) could register the season'sreplacement. month old banana. 

third shutout.

Lloyd Weston, a defensive For the undefeated Fighting 

Big Ten teams prepare 
sota would be no cakewalk. scrimmage covering all phases ofCHICAGO (UPI) Nationally Agase reminded his team that their game plan with sophnmore ranked and undefeated Ohio despite Minnesota's losing record quarterback Gary Danielson atState and Michigan sharing the the Gophers had lost to some of the helm of the first unit.
Big Ten lead worked on offense the top teams in the nation. Michigan State was also

Wednesday in hopes of extend­ing their winning ways as Big Purdue expects to be at full healthy. The entire squad report­strength to take on Michigan ed for the training session and
Ten teams prepared for the fifth weekend of conference play. State Saturday according to the Spartans concentrated on Coach Bob DeMoss. The Boiler­their kicking game. 
OSU Coach Woody Hayes said 
makers went through a light

Wednesday his team had "a very good offensive workout." He said "We're getting better and Rex Kern is throwing better." Riflemen are undefeated 
Wisconsin, OSU's weekend Although they have received a possible 400. opponent won't have "any sur­little publicity to date, the Sorin The next victim for the Sorin prises" in store for the Buckeyes Rifle Club is probably the most Club was Western Michigan Uni­according to Badger Coach John successful club sport on campus versity from Kalamazoo. ND Jardine. Jardine said his team this fall, speaking solely from a eeked out a 1257-1156 win has been working on blocking won-loss standpoint. The Notre there. Coach Frank Liebner Jed 
and preparing to defend against 

Dame marksmen are undefeated the squad in this match with a OSU's option threat. in two matches this season. tally of 262 out of 300. Sixth ranked ~Michigan went 
In the first match of the The Sorin Rifle Club is openthrough passing drills Wednesday season the Irish sharpshooters to any member of the ND-SMC in preparation for Illinois. Wol­
posted a score of 1714 points to Community. l'llyone interested verine Coach Glenn Schem­their opponents 1565. The first in joining the Rifle Club should bechler emphasized that the 11­
victim was Rose Poly. In this call 6315 between 1: 15 and lini have a strong defense and first match Bill Elliot led the 4:00 every afternoon Mondaypredicted a close game. team with a score of 362 out of thru Friday. 
Northwestern who had ridden atop the conference with Michigan and Ohio State until falling at the hands of the Buck­eyes last weekend was preparing for Minnesota. 
Coach Alex J\gasc warned his Wildcats Wednesday that Minne-







