
VOL. IV, No. 112 
De Bell keynote speaker 

by nich Smith and Steve lazar Hoping to "promote ecologi­cal thinking and awareness on the pari of every person," the l~nvironmental Teach-in Com­mittee has finalized plans for this week's "Earth Week." The Committee has described "Earth Week" as "both technical and psychic" since it will involve aspects of science and tech-
StudentS meet, 
discuss action on restrictions 
by Ed Ellis 
In an open meeting attended hy some thirty students last night, Charlie Zappela, head of the group opposing the Uni­versity fiscal polides which have restricted (iovernmen t courses to Government majors only, discussed the basis behind his appeal for student support on the issue, and considered the possibility of a strike of Govern­ment courses by students and 
faculty during  the  week before  
the  May  I  Board  of  Trustees  
meeting.  

Zappala mentioned the student-faculty ratio statistics presented at last week's meeting for c;overnment majors alone. These showed the Government Department with a twenty-five to one student-faculty ratio, whereas the University ratio is near thirteen to one. lie also said that students in the more tech­nical colleges, Sdence and Engineering had far lower ratios. l·:ngineering, for example, he 
(continued on page 6) 

Week ' ' 

nology and celebration. Believ­ing the earth to he "our house of worship," the Committee feels lhat there should he a certain religious fervor pervading the week. 
Mr. Garrett De Bell will open the Teach-in with a talk on "Alternatives to Ecological Dis­aster" at 7:30 p.m. tomorrow in Washington Hall. 
Founder of Ecology Action and lobbyist in Washington for Zero Population Growth, Mr. De Bell has also distinguished him­self in the field of ecology by editing The Hnvironmen tal Handbook. 
On Wednesday the Teach-in will move outdoors to the main quad as students and faculty members deliver a series of speeches on the environmental and population problems. "Rele­vant" literature, poetry and live music will also be provided during the program. 
At 7:30 that evening in the Law Auditorium a panel of Notre Dame professors will dis­cuss the "Methods, Morality, and Feasibility of Popula­tion Control in the U.S. and Other Nations." 
Four speeches concerning the governmental, economic and industrial aspects of the environ­mental problem will be delivered on Thursday afternoon between I and 3:30 p.m. Speakers will include Mr. Thomas Jorling of the Minority Council, Senate Public Works Department, and 
Mr. William Matuszeski of the 
President's Advisory Council on 
Environmental Quality. 
Jorling and Matuszeski will also participate in a panel 
teach-in 

discussion Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall con­cerning "Capitalism and a No Growth Economy" and "Eco­logy, Economics~ What the Fu­ture Will Bring." The panel will be moderated by Dr. Thomas Griffing of the Notre Dame Biology Department. 
"Earth Week" concludes on Friday with a nature sensitivity session, a survey of the campus to find out how the Notre Dame students rate environmental problems, and "action tactics" against polluters of the South 

begins 

Bend environment. Also on Friday a number of "fun" activities are planned, including a bird walk led by Dr. Willis Nutting, and an aluminum can pyramid which will be "recycled." Finally, the Theology Depart­ment, in conjunction with "Earth Week," will celebrate an Earth-Life Mass in a manner much the same as that used during the October Moratorium. In a statement regarding their goals, Chris Putnam, spokesman for the Teach-in Committee, 
Six from North Quad, campaign for position 
by Don Ruane and Floyd Kezele 
This year's Student Life Council Election for the Flanner-Grace Tower district, finds three candidates vying for the district's one seat. The candiates are Robert Ohlemiller, a sophomore from Kingston, Ind., Glen Corso, a sophomore from Massapequa, N.Y., and James O'Gorman, a junior from Teaneck, N.J. 
Ohlemiller, citing "frustration over the Trustee's stand on parietals" as a reason for his candidacy, stated that he felt that, "the Trustees are being presumptious as to the needs and desires of the Notre Dame student." He explained this by saying that while the S.L.C. is the one board with both stu­dents and faculty, and thus in a position to gauge the true 


South Quad, OC aspirants give their views on SLC 
by Tom Hufendick and John Papa 
Sophomores Dick Tarrier and Frank Healy expressed their views yesterday in relation to their candidacy for the Student Life Council. Healy hopes to represent the off-campus stu­dents and Tarrier is running as the out-lying halls' representa­tive on the SL<'. · 
Both candidates felt that the su· should be primarily con­cerned with student life. Tarrier daimed, "the SLC' got bogged down this year on many trivial thiags." Healy, commenting on the work of the last SLC, said, 
'They should not have dealt with the far-reaching topics that affected more than just student life." lie felt the SLC should be concerned directly with '\Jay­by-day student life." 
Tarrier questioned whether the su· should be a recom­mending or legislative body. He said the present parietal con­troversy exemplified the prob­lems the SLC had this year. He seemed dismayed at the "pat-. ernalistic attitude" the Board of Trustees took toward the SLC's parietal recommendation. He cited, "The SLC knows what is happening here on campus, but 
these  businessmen  in  Miami  
don't."  lie  thinks  the  recom­ 
mendation  should  be  resub­ 

mitted to the hoard before the end of this year. Allowing sophomore cars, rewriting the judicial code, and a 
better organization of the Hall Life Board were the major goals of the Tarrier platform. He also hoped to get more student and faculty representation on the SLC, and felt that there should be more student representatives than faculty or administrators. Presently working in the 
(continued on page 7) 


Ray Conell 
John Mateja Glen Corso 

feetmgs of the students, the 
Trustees chose to ignore their 
suggestions on parietals. 
Concerning Black Recruit­
ment, Ohlemillcr said that he 
felt "all minorities should be 
recruited, including Pro­
testants." Although he said that 
he felt the program was a success 
this year, he revealed that he 
would seek to have a student 
placed on the Admissions Board. 
He said that a student would be 
more qualified to dedde 
whether in some cases a prospec­
tive student that was academi­
cally behind could indeed cope 
with the acaclemic situation at 
Notre Dame. In other areas, 
Ohlemiller revealed that he felt the Security System was Jacking and should be revamped, in­cluding the hiring of more competent guards. 
Glen Corso began his state­ment by expressing his thoughts on the goals of the S.L.C. He said that "since its inception it has been concerned with restric­tive University rules such as parietals, and should now wid~n the scope of its activities." Corso said further that he felt Black Recruitment was the "foremost problem, requmng prompt attention by the university." He said that the present staff has done an excellent job in spite of the limitations placed on it through monetary restrictions. Corso revealed that he felt that the S.L.C. should press for a "professionally staffed and fully funded program for minority recruitment." 
"University priorities is 


Tuesday 
said: 
"The Environmental Teach-in 

Committee feels that our educa­
tional system, as it now exists, 
does not foster the love and 
respect for nature that it should. 
Thus the image of society that 
results is incomplete, for man is 
intimately a part of nature and 
reliant upon it. We can't wait for 
another decade to solve the 
environmental crisis." 
In a final statement directed 

to every person in the world 
Putnam asked, "Have you 
thanked a greenplant today?" 
towers 
on Council 
Tom Shoaf 

another key question" according to Corso in that he feels that the "university is placing financial emphasis on the wrong things." Citing the current Government Department situation as an example, he went on to say that while the number of science students has decreased and the number in Arts and Letters has increased, the liberal arts program is still inadequately funded. He said that all stud.ents should, through their electives, be able to take a wide variety of courses but that the restrictions on government courses was "a denial of the very essence of a liberal arts education." In other areas, Corso said that he would work for improvements in the "calibar of our security force", and especially for better judge­ment in the committrnents of University funds. 
James O'Gorman in discussing the issues of the current SLC campaign expressed his belief that, "while issues and problems are important, the student should vole for the man and not the issue, because issues pass hut the men must deal with new problems." In the area of BJ;ick Recruitment, O'Gorman said that it should definitely be stepped up and that St. Mary's should also step up recruitment so that students would not feel isolated. He also said that the money from the Cotton Bowl should he used in this area as well as the Arts and Letters program in general, so that other departments would not find 
(continu_ed 011 page 2) 


Quad, OC aspirants give 
(continued from page II 

themselves in the same situation as the government department. Citing Notre Dame's financial situation, he said that the school is spread too thin and that the SLC could provide the proper direction to the administration and faculty alike. 
Concerning security, O'Gor­
man said that the students 
"should be more careful them­
selves, and make it clear to the 
security force that they feel the 
job is definitely not being 
done." 

Three North Quad SLC candi­dates gave their reasons for running and views on a wide rangy of topics yesterday after­noon in separate telephone inter­views with this reporter. Topics discussed in the interviews ranged from hall life and of-cam­pus to ROTC. 
John Hurley, a resident of Breen-Phillips, is campaigning on what he calls the university's need for a "sense of creativity." Hurley says that the university has many talented people in many fields, but only the talents of specific areas are emphasized. By working through the SLC, Hurley said that he will work to expand the number of "outlets" for this "creativity," He believes that the major outlet in need of expansion is the art department. 
"It's time for the art department 
to come out and show how 
talented they are. I'm all for the 
University Arts Council." 

In other topics, Hurley recom­on an important issue within a 
mended the use of "outside week of the first meeting on the contracters" in the dining halls, topic. (d) A time limit on the the laundry and security. He discussion of bills. feels that this would bring more 
In the area of hall life, Schoat quality at lower costs. He sees called for a two-week testing ofthe university as a "tool for all hall staffs by the counselingstudents to use to become better 

center. The purpose of the tests

human beings." Hurley said he would be to determine how well
questions the role of the univer­sity in offering the above ser­the staff members can recognize problems among hall residents.
vices with his interpretation in mind. 
Cavanaugh resident, Pete Col­Tom Schoaf, a sophomore, lins, is centering his campaignbelieves internal changes are around "individual freedom."

needed in the SLC to "inte­He says the SLC should existgrate" all areas of the university only to decide issues affectingand produce a "well rounded" the university as a whole, such asand "better educated" student ROTC and the fifteen minutebody. He said that the university 
rule.

"needs a body of students with the power to set and determine Collins, like Schoaf, is cam­university policy." 
paigning for 50% student repre­Schoat stated that he .will 
sentation on the council. In his work for the following changes opinion, the student members 
in the SLC. should make the final decisions 
I) A 50% student representa­
after they have listened to and tion on the council. Schoaf feels considered the views of the that this would be effective administrative and faculty mem­because student life is the bers. primary concern of the student, Collins said that he will while faculty and administrative concern himself with the major members have other priorities issues. He offered brief views on respective to their positions. He added, "The main burden should 


qualifications, eliminating class distinctions, was made because there were too many freshmen and sophomores who applied, 
Craftsmen in Optics® 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING. 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
and not enough juniors. Origin­
ally the Judicial Board was made 
up of one senior chairman, three 
JluuseufVisioli ') 
seniors, two juniors, and one 
The House of Vision, Inc. 
sophomore. The new chairman appointed 
~-----------------------~--~----------~--~ 
t 
• 
COMING TO THE PROM? 
TICKET SALES 

THURS. APRIL 23 7:00-9:00 MON. APRIL 27 7:00 -9:00 
THURS. APRIL 30 7:00 -9:00 
20 LaFortune Student Center 
Please Help! Decoration Committee Needs Black Lites -Will Rent Call Greg 6968 

fall on the students." 2)Rule changes: (a) Approval 
Appoint SMC judicial board 
Thursday night will be Kathy Shelton, a junior. She has already had experience on the Judicial Board during the past year. 
Four sophomores were also named to posit{ons on the board. Mary Bernath, this year's President of Holy Cross Hall, Pat Corn, presently the Student 
T0 sh0 w r r china r' 
The New York Film Critics award-winning film, "China"' by, Felix Green, will be shown at 
NntreDa~~ilie~~ne~q 
Auditorium at 7:30PM\ tomght. 
The film will be introduced by Miss Maud Russell, distinguished editor and publish­er of the Far East Reporter and a resident of China for 26 years as a YWCA worker. Since leaving China in 1943, Miss Russell has written, lecture and published extensively on China. In 1958, she returned to that country for several months, and she con­tinues to correspond with many of China's residents. She is now 
72. She will be available for questions about the film and about other aspects of China. The program is sponsored by the South Bend Bail Project, Inc.; admission is $.75. 
We Want You To Join Our Church As An • 
Ordained Minister 
And Have The Rank Of 
Doctor of Divinity 
We are a non-structured faith, undenominational, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Our fast growing church IS actively seeking new ministers who believe what we believe; All men are entitled to their own convictions; To seek truth their own way, whatever it may be, no questions asked. As a minister of the church, you may: 
1. Start your own c;hurch and apply for ex­
emption from property and other taxes. 
2. Perform marriages, baptism, funerals and 
all other ministerial functions. 
3. Enjoy reduced rates from some modes of 
transportation, some theaters, stores, hotels, etc. 
4. Seek draft exemption as one of our work· 
ing missionaries. We will tell you how. Enclose a free will donation for the Minister's credentials and license. We also issue Doctor of Divinity Degrees. We are State Chartered and your ordination is recognized in all 50 states and most foreign countries. FREE LIFE CHURCH­BOX 4039. HOLLYWOOD. FLORIDA 33023. 

of a proposal by 65% of the by Jeanne Sweeney council votes. (b) Flexible proce­SMC News Editor dure rules that would eliminate After removing all class dis­"tabling" certain issues. (c) A tinctions from the positions on provision for a second meeting the Judicial Board, the St. 
Mary's Judicial Reviewing Board made their decisions on appoint­ments for next year's Judicial Board. 
The decision to change the 
•
VIeWS 

the fifteen minute rule, minority recognition by the university of recruitment and ROTC on cam­the backgrounds of minority pus. "The fifteen minute rule students. In regard to the ROTC has to go," he said. He feels that program, Collins feels that it it is "backwards" because a should not be on campus or student must prove his inno­given academic credit status. cence. Collins described the Recruitment Action Program as A fourth candidate, Steve "good." He plans to ask for Flavin of Farley Hall, could not tutorial programs and a greater be reached for comment. 
Poet John logan to give reading 
John Logan will read his own Dame. He is presently writer inpoetry Tuesday, April 21, at residence at the State University8:00 PM in Carroll Hall, Mad­of New York at Buffalo.
eleva Memorial. The reading is Among his published workssponsored by the SMC Depart­
are Ghosts of the Heart, Spring
ment of English. 
of the Thief, Cycle for Mother
Logan received his bachelor's 
Cabrini, and Zig Zag Walk,
degree from Coe College, Iowa, 
and his master's from the Uni­had works published in the New

Poems 1963-1968. He has alsc

versity of Iowa and St. John's College, Annapolis, Maryland. He has taught at the University of Washington, San Francisco  Yorker, Poetry, Nation, Hudson Swanee Review.  Choice, Review,  The and  
State,  St.  Mary's  College  of  
California,  St.  John's  College,  
and  the  University  of  Notre  

Development committee chair­man, Vicky Chrobak, and Debby Dishinger, who is now on the late minutes hoard. 
Casey Tiernan and Christina Keppel, both freshmen, were appointed to the other positions on the Judical Board. 
One of the members of the Judicial Reviewing Board who decided on the appointments was Jean Gorman, the Student Body Vice-President. Miss Gor­man said "they chose the six best who would form a well balanced group." 
The Judicial Reviewing Board 
consists of the four class presi­dents, Rosemary Rinella, Karen ~~z, s~ Wzy, md D~o~ Stankus, and the Student Body President and Vice-President, Anne Marie Tracey and Jean Gorman. Also on the Board are Barbara Orr, Father Raymond Runde, and Sister Immaculata. 

Plan ND night 
Universal Notre Dame Night, observed during April and May by more than I00 Notre Dame clubs around the world, will have a theme this year "Notre Dame in the 1970's." The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley will observe Universal Notre Dame Night April 1.2 at 7:30 
p.m. in the Monogram Room of the Athletic-Convocation Cen­ter. Cocktails will precede the dinner at 6 p.m. Dean William B. Lawless of the Notre Dame Law School will be the sp.eaker. 
Established in 1924 as an an­nual occasion in which alumni clubs could highlight the aca­demic achievements of the Uni­versity, many of this year's dinners will include a student speaker in addition to the cus­tomary administrator or faculty member. Sixteen clubs in foreign countries will participate. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Da'me and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 


PAGE 3

MONDAY, APRIL 20, 1970 
THE OBSERJJER 

IJ 
Rich Roddewig, CAF chairman, plans Endfest 
A vacation with the first Americans 
by larry Overlan 
Over the Easter vacation I went to the Rosebud Indian Reservation in Southern South Dakota. Here there are approx­imately seven thousand Sioux Indians living. I went to this particular reservation by chance since I met one of the inhabi­tants when Notre Dame had its Indian Conference in January. I am by no means an expert on Indian affairs nor am I an expert on this particular reservation since I spent only four days there. 
My hope in writing this is not to burden people with statistics since they don't convey any emotional meaning of what they mean to the people experiencing those statistics. What does the statistic that the avcrave edu­ca tiona! level for all Indians under Federal supervision is five school years mean to you? Does the fact that the dropout rates for Indians are twice the na­tional average or the suicide rate is two to three times the national average mean anything to you? The life span of Indians averages around forty-five years compared to the national av­erage of almost seventy. The average family income for Indians is $1 ,500 a year and the unemployment rate is fifty (50!) percent. 
These statistics were known to me before I went to South Dakota but they for the most part simply added on to all my statistical knowledge rather than making me feel the true plight of the American Indian. 
As I was arriving through South Dakota on my way out, I noticed how the land was not flat like Iowa and Indiana but was full of small rolling hills for as far as I rould see. There were few trees to he seen hut many herds of cattle stayed near the roadside. Then I saw my first "herd" of buffalo. Perhaps twenty all together with their enormous heads and horns 
HAPPY HOUR 
2-4 and 8-10 DAILY -98<' a PITCHER 
Open 10a.m. 2 Pool Tables Real Italian Food Pinball Beer & Liquor Carry-out 
Ample Parking in Rear 
SIMERI'S 
410 N. H i11 (at Madison) 233-0803 
reminding me of movie pictures I had seen. 
There is not much industry in South Dakota and most of the cities are very small-maybe in the five to ten thousand range. However, while noticing the little industry there was I also 
noticed how abruptly it ended when I neared the reservation. There were only a few gas stations, the Bureau of Indian Affairs offices, a hospital and the Tribal Headquarters. This scene was probably duplicated in the rest of the Reservalion, although I'm not sure since I didn't visit every community on the reservation. This reservation extends about one hundred and fifty miles east to west and fifty to seventy-five miles north to south. 
However, I didn't have to go any further than the town of St. Francis where I stayed for those four days to see the problems I had read about. In that small community of about seven hundred people there is a school opera ted by the Jesuits which goes from kindergarten to the twelfth grade. This school's te, ch~rs arc thirty to forth pa cent lay volunteers who s1•end any where from one or two years to five or six years without pay except for some spending money. The rest of the teachers are Jesuit priests or Franciscan nuns. 
The school has about three hundred students of whom about half Jive in dormitories at the school. The reasons for this arc that many of these children come from broken homes or have no homes. Also some Jive too far away to commute and therefore arc separated from their homes. Indeed, the situa­tion is better for many of these children at the school since there is adequate food, clothing and shelter there. So for the sake of the children's physical good many are living away from home. This is happening now. 
Endfest planned by CAF 
by Tom Bornholdt A flurry of activities will end the year for the Contemporary Arts Festival. In a telephone interview, Richard Roddewig, this year's Contemporary Arts Festival Chairman said, "Starting on this Thursday, we will have what we call an Endfest." The first event will be a series of animated films, including part of Disney's Fantasia. Next Saturday, the Lukus Hoving Dance Company will come here for three days. Also on Saturday night, film maker Stan Vanderbeck will lecture and screen a number of his most recent films. Co-sponsored with the Student Union Academic Commission, the CAF will bring Jergin Klaus, multimedia artist who will give two multimedia events, described by Rodde wig as "more a happening than a formal demonstration". Klaus 
Indian families are being split 
up-not actually by law but by economic necessity. 
There is no strong family bond for many if not most of these children· because of the economic structure I spoke of earlier. The Indians are not unique in having a strong family or tribe relationship. Every race has been psychologically better when their families remained intact. This is one of the main goals of the Black movement today-to have pride in their family and their race. 
Now why are many of these families broken and economi­cally (if not physically) starving? The answer is actually quite simple-there are no jobs. Only temporary jobs are found for the most part and these are when the Bureau of Indian Affairs decides to build something--a few small houses etc. These jobs are meaningless to the Sioux since they know they arc only temporary and will not give them security. For the most part these pay checks are immed­iately spent on either bare necessities or liquor. Again this is not untypieal of any group of people (or individual for that· matter) when they get their first real pay check in months. (The barrooms were full when many of the recipients of New Deal legislation received their first checks). 
Perhaps the most dismaying thing that saw was the difference in attitudes between the younger Sioux (5-11) and the older children ( J•l-17). In the younger grades the children were happy, smiling and very talkative. The main request I had from these children was for me to swing them around by their 

Assorted styles for night and day wear. Really do your thing -find a more excit1ng you w1th Suzie's dreamy collection of s1nfully flattering lashes. Specify black or brown. Send $6.00 check or money order. 
• 1. Allow two weeks for delivery 
uzte~ P.O. Box 629 • Glen Ellyn, llllrwis 60731 
will try to present the recent trends and styles in multimedi<• art. 
On April 30, the CAF will sponsor a night of blues in Washington Hall. On May I and 2, the Czech film "Shop on Mainstreet" will be screened. On May 5 and May 6, the final event of this year's Contemporary Arts Festival will be the showing of the motion picture, "Smiles of a Summer Night". 
Roddewig expressed a sense of accomplishment f'or this year's CAF. "It's the first year we went year-long. We esta b­lished the Con temporary Arts Festival." He did feel that there were several problems with the CAF this year. "We were really hampered by the lack of funds voted us by the Senate." The student Senate had voted the CAF $3000 of their approx. 
nanas. 1 010 rrns tui a~ wng as 1 
could until dizziness set in and it 
was I asking them to help me 
stand up. I'm reminded of 
Robert Kennedy who always 
remarked how full of life the 
children's faces were in the 
ghettos of L.A. and New York 
and elsewhere. 
When I visited the high school classes I saw the change that had taken place in those faces .. Of course many had already dropped out but those who were left were uncommunicative, without much ambition and generally frustrated. They kne\< by now what their role in society would be or better yet they knew what roles in sodet they would never be. for school, education, religion, tri life, the surrounding ,,,., and life became drastically le, important. This trend continu as they grow older and find how impossible life really is an how much people despise "Red man". 
There are many economical, political. social, educational etc. problems of the Sioux and all Indians. However, all of those statistics come to life in the faces of those children. Think about it for a while and try to remember when you began explore the world around you. Perhaps some doors were closed to you, but how many'! Surely not all of them. You and I could look at people and find goa and ideas worth striving for anti then we were able to strive. 
The system created by the United States-its gov't and its people-closes all those doors around them and destroys all the people around them whom they 
·Jove and respect. I am not goi 
to give you a list of proposals I 
think should he enacted. I don't $22 ~1 0 b -• ·t Th CAL' h· d 
,J J uuge . e ,-a asked for more, and the cuts caused them to cancel a planned rock concert among other things. 
Roddewig was also somewhat critical of the Observer's cov­erage of the CA F: "The Ob­server docsn't give the coverage it should .. should'vc reviewed 
Tom Paine, Nac//et/1 and the Murray Louis Dance Company." Michael Servas, a sophomore, 
has been appointed head of the 
Contemporary Arts Festival for 
the next year. In an in tervicw, 
he expressed a desire to build on 
the accomplishments of this 
year's C'AF, "We will carry on 
the tradition, established this 
year, of having the CA F year­
long." 
know enough facts and I haven't seen enough reservations to understand all the problems. I do know people are being ruined and it's not their fault. 
It's your fault, my fault and everybody else's fault in the United States. Let's stop kidding ourselves by practicing "benign neglect". If you can now en­vision an Indian before you, think of him this way: "He is sad to be himself and is staring at the primitive landscape re­minding him of broken treaties and broken hearts." 
qs there 
aPaulist 
in the crowd? 
Believe it or not. a campus pro­test group is 110/ an unlikely place to find a Paulist. 
Why? Because Paulists arc the medilltors of our time , .. stand­ing between God and man ... understanding, helping. loving ... trying to bring together the extremes of the world we live in and the Church. 
Wherever he is . , . as a college chaplain. working in a ghetto or helping in a parish ... the Paulist is servinR. 
If you're interested in finding out more about the Paulist priestly spirit. write for our illustrated hrochure and a copy of our Renewal Chapter Guide­lines. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 
cpaulisth
'Pat erG 
Room 400 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 
Only $6 00-5 pair 

upper-1 pair lower lashes. 
THE OBS£Rfi£R. 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Puhlisher DAVID C. BACH, Editor 
FCUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorio I. 

The SLC elections 
, Elections for student representatives to the Student Life Council will take place this Thursday .. Most Candidates began their bid for the office over the week by distributing literature and campaigning the halls. With hall elections going on there is a tendency among students inundated by all the literature to take the campaigns lightly or to ignore voting. We hope that this does not become the case. 
The SLC can play an important role in bringing about change in student life at the university. Since its inception two years ago it has brought about the change of many· rules that were archaic and were not attuned to the needs of the Notre Dame students. I 

Significant changes alone were made in the areas of hall life as the rules on drinking and visitation hours by women were liberalized. First steps were taking towards implementing the concept of Hall autonomy. Although the Council passed a parietal hour resolution which would have made that concept a reality the Trustees did not approve it. SLC members are needed who will continue to push to see that idea of students governing their own lives becomes a reality. men of quality are found to fill those jobs. For these reasons it is important that students seriously consider the literature and statements by current candidates for SLC and elect representatives who will work to see 
==Letter===== 
Editor: 
I have long had a slight premonition that the Student Senate was unresponsive to the students but this is ridiculous. Who won the last Student Body President Election anyway? I thought that Dave Krashna proved to all concerned that he was the choice of the people. The basis of his platfGrm called for the transfer of student government to the halls through the formation of a Student Forum and the abolition of the Student Senate. During the campaign, Tom Thrasher mentioned that it might be difficult to persuade the Senate to abolish itself. Is Stay Senator Tom Thrasher trying to fulfill that campaign prophecy so as to remain a political "power" on campus? Who the hell does the Senate think they are? Didn't the last SBP election show them where the students stand? Senate: why not abolish yourself so Student Government can be given back to the people, the same people that voted for the platform of Dave Krashna so emphatically not long ago? 
Kevin George 
133 Alumni Hall 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck Campus Editor: Glen Corso 
News Editor: Steve Hoffman 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 
Ann Conway, Jeanne Svveeney Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
Features Editor: T.C. Treanor Photography Editor: Mike Murphy Night Editor: Dave Lammers 
Headliner: Rich Smith 
Layout: Jan Reimer, Mary Beth Crimmins, Cliff Wintrode Night Controller: Joe Becker 

that the SLC lives up to its potential. 

·;:;; 

Campus Opinion 
Edited by Glen Corso 
The following is a letter written by John M. Crump and Philip J. Welchman and a third person whose name I could not make out. It is a rebuttal to a column I wrote concerning a bulletin on LSD issued 
by the Fort Lauderdale Police. 

We read your paranoid letter and it is indeed typical of the numerous articles on acid. Did you quote Life to find the effects of acid? There are so many people writing who know nothing of acid. So you picked up a pamphlet and now you know all about drugs. Thafs like finding out what intercourse feels like after reading a book on Catholic marriage. We could say a little about what the acid scene is like but we think you'd rather listen to the Fort Lauderdale police. I should tell you of the astonishing increase in suicide, homicide, and accidents on (oh, and off) campus which according to this unquestionalbe hypothesis parallels the increase in drug use here. 
We're praying for you, glen; we're praying that your paternal humanism will change into something rather more viable, rather less rhetorical. There are so many people writing who know nothing about acid: something there is in journalism which abhors a blank space, and would scribble vacuities to efface the silence. 
We gave up acid 2 years ago but your article makes me want to try again. And the next time you see a friend with sunglasses, a smile and anti-social behavior throw him in jail for 5 years and save him from himself and remember the smile was deceptive-he wasn't really happy. 
Protest ignorance, drop one for gipper. 
Mr. Welchman and Mr. Crump seem to have committed the grave ?rror of failing to closely read an article which they have chosen to criticize. At no time did I state that the portions of the Fort Lauderdale Police report which I printed were my own views on the use of LSD. I reprinted the report since I felt it might be ofinterest to students to see how the police view drug use. As for the statement saying my column carried the implication that because there is increased drug use on campuses, there is increased suicides and homicides-/ do not have the statistics to justify such a claim. I suggest that you gentlemen contact the Fort Lauderdale Police, or perhaps Mr. Art Linkletter. 
My own views were contained in the last two paragraphs of the 
column and concerned the enforcement problem of drug abuse, 
which I have researched. 

My prayers will be offered for the salvation of your souls 
gentlemen in the hopes that you will not require LSD to find the 
true God. Yours in Christ--gsc 
Position papers and clarifications of points specifically for this 
column should be addressed to 
Campus Editor 
The Observer 
Box 11, Notre Dame 

These presentations should be no longer than typewritten 
double-spaced nav:es. 

"Will it come to this?" ._.___.,,______~-------------­

==========================.. 
In emergency only 
With the whole world watching Apollo 13 splashed down safely in 
the Pacific on Friday. The milk run turned space age drama shook 
this usually complacent world. For three and one half days the fears 
of Lovell, Haise and Swigert became every man's; concern for their 
safe return. became., every'"'man's venture, with a seat reserved for 
everyone at the Manned Space Craft Center in living color. 
Living-that was the concern, wasn't it'! How to get three men, off 
to the moon in mankind's name, back safely to earth. For the 
superstitious-a field day. Just the names of the space craft were 
enough to set them off-the Odyssey and the Aquarius. Then there 
were all the 13's. The mission number itself; plus the thirteen letters 
in the astronauts first names: James, Fred, John; then the accident 
on Monday the 13; and the somewhat superfluous fact that the 
landing took place a little after 13 hundred hours on Friday. 
But the drama was destined to appeal to a different type of 
mind-the general mind of mankind that flutters when a new king or 
Pope is crowned, a president elected, or a president assassinated. The 
mind that marvels when a Lindberg flys over an ocean or a Titanic 
sinks but then can sit back half passive while a child with a bloated 
stomach starves in Biafra and one hundred bodies of dead 
Vietnamese float silently down a river bundled in groups of five and 
ten. 

People streamed to the churches on Tuesday morning. Congress 
asked that time be spent in prayer at 9 p.m. that night while the 
three men made the crucial engine burn on the side of the moon that 
the people who were doing the praying never get to see. Meanwhile 
the commentator on ABC related Congress' request to the American 
people, then a second later the station switched to the Movie of the 
Week to keep them all from thinking about what that request really 
meant. 

Isn't it funny the way people flock to prayer when situations get 
really tense? No one calls for an hour of prayer for the sake of a safe 
trip before m~nkind starts out on his ventures to be master of his 
environment ah~ his fate. No wonder the Notre Dame student 
watching the recovery on Friday, covered his head with his baseball 
glove and smirked an "oh no" when the chaplain on the Iwo Jima 
offered a prayer of thanksgiving for the safe recovery. 
Emergency-only religion-Could that be one of the hypocrasies that 
the young world is talking about? · 
Out in Hawaii, the President gave the three men and the ground 
crew the Medal of Freedom and stated that the flight wasn't a failure 
since it united the hearts of all mankind. Across the street pickets 
marched, their signs reading: "Poor people worry about astronauts. 
Who worries about poor people'!" 

But the world did unite. Nations of Africa and Asia which usually 
don;t trust American planes granted permission for them to fly over 
their territories when there was question about whether the landing 
might be in the Indian Ocean. Communications networks of ally and 
enemy alike that were on frequencies close to that of Apollo offered 
to shut down so as not to interfere with communications. The 
Russians even volunteered to help with the recovery. The Chumikan, 
a Soviet Missile Instrumentation Ship, which apparently had 
originally been dispatched to spy on the whole show , suddenly 
became attuned to the possibility of saving three human lives. 
One has to wonder why such concern can not be sustained beyond immediate crises. If men can work together for three days to save three lives, if they have the knowledge to put them up there and on the moon in the first place, you'd think they coijld figure out how to keep children around the world from starving or could stop all those stupid wars. Maybe we should put the whole show on television. If the camera were kept tuned in on all the bodies floating down the rivers maybe people would get angry about missing the Tuesday night movie and do something. 


PAGE 5

MONDAY, APRIL 20. 1970 7118 OBS£RJJER. 

·::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:::::~:~:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
1n

Ice Capades: Overdoing it • 
by Dave Stauffer 

Extravagance tends to overshadow 
quality, when quality is present. Extrava­
gance can also cover up a lack of quality. 
A certain degree of extravagance is often 
quite appropriate. f"or exP.mplc, wed­
dings. state dinners, and Broadway 
muskals generally employ extravagance 
for cffed. 

Tlu.: 30th Anniversary Hdition uf Ice 
Capadcs which appeared at the Convo last 
week. was extravagant to the point of 
heing literally frightening. Time and again 
giant phalanxes of gaudily costumed 
skaters came grating down the icc toward 
I he wide-eyed and unarmed spectators, 
accompanied hy thl' Icc Capadcs Orches­
tra (of ahout thirty mcmhcrs), noisy 
sound effects, and at least eight dancing 
spotlights. It was actually not at all unlike 
a nigh !marc in which you arc being 
pursued by a slowly advancing army of 
ten-foot tall aliens but you arc fur some 
reason unable to run from them. 

Because of this largely unnecessary extravagance, it was quite difficult to judge the presence or absence of quality. With many of the performers it was easy to assume that ability existed, based on past cn:dcntials, such as Olympic appear­ances and various national an·j world championships. The trouble was that these featured stars are no longer competitive ice skaters, but rather profes­sional entertainers. Recognized ability in the former does not make one necessarily an expert as the latter, and that was the biggest problem with the Ice Capades. 
If I were asked to make up an obvious 
A short story by 
Gene Molineili 

All things die at least one time 
It was tragic. He had always been a sickly little boy, and no one was surprisec. 
when he died; but he was so very young. It was tragic. 
Everyone felt the death but no one more than the dead boy's friend, Bobby. 
When the announcement was made to the class, Bobby actually broke down and 
cried; and when the arrangements had been made for the funeral, it was little 
Bobby who, with tears in his eyes, had volunteered to serve the funeral Mass. 
The day of the Mass was bright and sunny, and since the class had been let out 
that day for the funeral there was more than the usual number of children outside 
playing. Bobby could see them playing from his house. He could hear them calling 
and laughing on the day of the funeral and it made him mad. He was not going to 
go out and play on a day when everyone should be sad; even his mother had said 
how awfully disrespectful it was to the dead and all. 
Yet there they were, having fun only a couple of hours before the funeral. And 
there, right in the middle, was Scott Vacari. Scott was always doing things like that; 
he would fool around in class and he thought he was really great in everything. 
Bobby should have known that Scott, of all people, would be out there. Bobby's 
mother had said it was disrespectful and disgusting. And Scott was most disgusting 
of all. 

Bobby's mother called him to get ready and as he left the window he made up 
his mind that somehow he would teach them all a lesson. He wouldn't cause a fight 
because fighting is the sissy's way out--Sister Mary Joseph had told him that; but 
he would think of something. 

And think he did--all through the Mass. He did not move or sway like the other 
lesser altar boys. It disgusted him to see them standing there shifting their weight 
from one foot to another and picking their noses. They were as bad as Scott. 14! 
stood there perfectly still, thinking how he could show them all just how disgusting 
they were. 

The funeral would be long past when Bobby could do so, and he would not let 
the opportunity pass him by. 

Scott was doing tricks on his bike on a street near Bobby's and a car was coming up behind him. Bobby did not yell, the car whizzed past Scott startling him. Scott swerved off balance, reached for his handlebars, missed a,ld fell headlong from his bike. Bobby could not have asked for more. 
He did not change his pace. Scott was getting what he deserved and it felt good that the other had been hurt. He did not care that the other was in pain; he thought only of the dead who had been wronged. He was unmoved by the figure sitting in the street trying to hold back his tears while his smudged blackened hands clutched at red bloodied knees that appeared out of a torn pants leg. Bobby's face was set in an expression which took all the hate his body could muster, and he passed on. And, hurt a second time, Scott watched him go. 
He had not gone far when he passed Scott's home, and Mrs. Vacari just happened to see him walk by. "Oh look," she said to her coffee-drinking companion, "there's little Robert Miller, Scott's friend. He's such a sweet boy ... Why, you should have seen him last week serving their poor friend's funeral. He was just marvelous standing there so straight and still and serious-like a little saint. It's really wonderful how children can be so holv." 
• I 

The pagentry! The show! An icy version of the June Taylor Dancers! More 
hoop-de-do than the Coronation of Elizabeth the second! What a bore! 
and. descriptive name for the enterprise the aforementioned extravagancies, nor is which presents the Ice Capades, it would it difficult to imagine the use of devices probably be something like 'Metromedia.' of communication other than live sight In this word it is not difficult to imagine and live and recorded sound. Hence the 
A review by 
Mike Chapin 
The third and latest issue of Ictus has a new dimension: readability. Printed for the first time on glossy paper, only two of the six articles could be considered "heavy" essays, while the others are short stories and poems. Also, the photographs and artwork for this issue are unmatched by any publication to come out of Notre Dame this year. The photographs them­selves make looking at the magazine worthwhile. 
This issue of Ictus tries to root up 
Corby Street 
AC to have 
"atheletic festival" 
"At the time you receive this, my teammate Rick Libowitz will be in Boston making final preparations for Monday's Marathon. It was with great unhappiness that I decided Saturday that I could not accompany him on his heroic venture; however, injuries precluded my participation in the race. While practicing Friday, I fell on my hip. My wallet cushioned the fall, but there was nothing in it. Thls proved to be an important factor in my decision not to make the trip. 
"At this time, would like to announce the next major event on our spring schedule. We will be sponsoring, on the weekend of April 24 through 26, the first Annual Corby Street Striders Poobah Athletic Festival. This Festival will consist of three events-a basketball game, a softball game, and a football game-between a team of graduating seniors from Student Government and Student Union, and a team made up of new players and returning veterans from these two organizations. 
Libowitz is scheduled to run in M.onday's Boston·Marathon. 
a big way 
extensive usc of film. From the grand opening of the show ("Skate In") to the imposing finale, color film screened 
agamst an enormous backdrop provHtell 
smiling introductions of the performers, 
background information on the compos­
ing of Rhapsody for Piano and Ice, as 
well as exciting, action-packed lead-ins 
for numbers like the clever(?) Mission: 
Improbable. By the way, Ice Capadcs is 
owned and operated by none other than 
Metromedia, out of Hollywood, Califor­
nia. 

I suppose one mistake made by the promotion department of the Ice Capades is that it is hilled as "entertainment for the entire family.'' It should actually be labeled as entertainment for anyone over forty, preferable female, and preferably a senior citizen. It's not that the taste or integrity of this group of people should be questioned, but rather that it's the type of thing grandmothers really go for, but everyone else sits around and tolerates while feigning excited appreci­ation. 
Throughout the program I glanced 
frequently at a boy of about six years. He 
stood and smiled during the initial performance of the clowns (Freddie "The Bouncing Ball" Trenkler), but was busy eating popcorn off the floor when they appeared during the second half. A climactic finale, with color and noise, would probably have regained the young­ster's attention. But because noise and color was constant throughout the show, it was difficult to regain anyone's attention. 
Patriotism and Ictus 
some of our complacent "values and 
commitments" at Notre Dame. The tone 
for the whole magazine, that we must not 
be afraid to think and to question the 
"givens" of our society, is capsulized in 
the first article. The short story-poem is a 
fantasy about a man who finally comes to 
discover the meaning of life after he finds 
"freedom from the other men's judg­
ments, and their opinions even more 
petty, and also freedom from their do's 
and don'ts, and freedom from their 
money." 

Ictus gives the reader a new view of 
society, its war, its education, and its 
goals. Mark Twain's "War Prayer" and 
George William's "Oinks in Memoriam" 
point out the realities of war: the blood, 
the pain, the grief, the hunger, and the 
broken spirits. Twain tries to show how 
people hide these horrors by praying to 
the "God of Battles" to help. them "win 
for the flag" in the "field of honor." 
Our sacred Notre Dame education 
comes into question in Mario. Corradi's 
"Where are My Grades? Where are My 
Grades?" Corradi feels that American 
education's primary function has warped 
into turnir 51 out people who only 
produce in society. They have no concern 
for finding "the responsible commitment 
to the realization of the Self which we 
inherited by birth." 
Corradi's point is shockingly demon­
strated in a short story. by Mike Fallon. 
Actually, reading Fallon's "Cry of the 
Torrents" is a pleasurable experience 
because one identifies with John, the 
main character., in almost every way. The 
story is powerful at the end when one 
finds that John, because of his college 
environment, is a shallow person. One can 
not help but introspect about his own 
development at Notre Dame. 
Michael Feeney's poem "Road 
Impressions Near Home Overlifelooking" 
criticizes this lack of depth and over­
emphasis on production of our society. 
He contrasts our rural heritage of "golden 
cornfields", red sunsets, and log cabins 
with Las Vegas, T.V. antennas, Apollo 
12, and John Wayne movies. 
Ictus, then, brings reality to us; a complacent Notre Dame, a complacent America. And it brings reality in such a way that it's impossible to ignore. 
PAGE 6 
711B OBSERIIDt 

Discuss gov'f class restrictions 
(continued from page 1) 

mentioned, has a 7.2-1 ratio and 
math only 1.3-1. 

Zappala said that Mr. 
Brinkley, head of the Depart­
ment, has been placed in a 
dilemma by the University's 
refusal to act on his requests for 
funds outside a fifteen per cent 
increase for next year. 

"We felt something drastic priation of funds. It is this that must be done to focus attention the Government Department is on the problem," said Zappala. protesting." "Mr. Brinkley could hurt either Regarding the fifteen per cent the majors or the non-majors. He increase in next year's budget, really didn't have much of a he said, "This only begins to choice. meet the problem. We have 
"The responsibility for this," something more serious than one 
continued Zappala, "lies not department. The Arts and with the Government Depart­Letters school is not getting the ment, but with the appro-money they should be." 
Thespian selections announeed 
The cast for the final product­ion of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre season, Bertolt Brecht's "The Good Woman of Setzuan," was announced yes-tef­Soi¥ by Director Roger L. Ken­vin. The production, a musical drama, is scheduled to run the first two weekends of May in O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's. 
The Good Woman, Shen-Te, 
will be played by Anne Patter­son, most recentiYseen as Juliet in the recent production of "Romeo and Juliet." Miss Pat­terson will also appear as Shui­Ta, the Good Woman's cousin. Miss Patterson is a junior theatre major at St. Mary's, and is also a member of the National Travel­ing Players. 

-Yang -Sun, the lover, will be played by sophomore Mark Genero, who last appeared as Tybalt in "Romeo and Juliet." Wong, the water-seller, will be played by junior James Boland ' who was Pantalone in "The Servant of Two Masters" recent­ly presented in the Little Thea­tre. Others in the cast include William O'Reilly, who portrayed King Pellinore in last May's "Camelot"; Missy Smith, whose last ND/SMC Theatre role was The Nurse in "The Death of Bessie Smith," and Paulette Petretti of the National Travel­ing Players. 
The production is under the 
direction of Roger L. Kenvin, are by William T. Byrd Jr., with chairman of the speech and costuming by Jane Shanaba rger. drama department. In addition Production dates for "The Good to directing the production, Dr. Woman of Setzuan" are May I, Kenvin has also composed the 2, 3, 7, 8, and 9 in O'Laughlin music for this staging. Stage Auditorium. design and technical direction 
He said, "There's no doubt that something must be done about this. We're paying for the same education as a Math or Engineering major but we're not getting it." 
Zappala asked those present to sign a petition asking the Administration for more money, and asked the students to "talk it up among their friends." He said that perhaps something could be done by next year, but he doubted it. 
At this point, the possibility 

of  a  boycott  of  classes  was  
brought  up  by  one  of those in  
attendance.  

Zappala said, "I think Mr. Brinkley has taken as dramatic a gesture as he is willing to take at this time." But he said he was willing to consider this if student support did not materialize soon. The week before the May I Board of Trustees meeting was considered a most likely date 
With respect to the small turnout, Zappala was "dis­appointed". He said, "We were hoping to get a response out of the administration and students, but apparently we haven't yet." 
All his efforts, Zappala said, 

would  be  worhless,  unless  the  
students  concerned  with  the  
educational  process  at  Notre  

Dame would become interested in the problem, not only in the Government Department where it was so critical a problem, but in the whole College of Arts and Letters. He stated, "It's the student's ball to carry." 
Advantages of Chancellor-President set-up 
This is the fifth in a jive-part series written by the Nutting for President Headquarters. A sum­mary will appear tomorrow. 
A brief example may better display the nature of the revi­sion. Say a group of students blocked the access to the Place­ment Bureau in an attempt to demonstrate to the communit:y the "immorality of certain ex­ploitation-related jobs" and to confront "the complicity of thi~ university;" Who would do what? 
Burrell speaks 

The Rev. David B. Burrell C.S.C., assistant professor ot philosphy at the University of Notre Dame, will give on of four public lectures at the McCormick Theological Sem­inary's "Consultation on the Future of Philosophic Theo­logy" Thursday and Friday (April 23-24) in Chicago. 
SPECIAL OFFER 
NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
STUDENTS * FACULTY * EMPLOYEES 
FREE WAX 
JUST MENTION OR PRESENT THIS AD 
'NITH 

CAR EVERY 
'NASH 
MONDAY THRU 

DURING FRIDAY 
75C 
APRIL & MAY 

BOOM -A -ROUND 
~v~ 2 ~)> 
~v~~~,c ~0~~ co~o~~ u~ q, 
~\.) 0~ 
~ 

MINUTES 
Reusable Chamois & Powerful Vac A Failable 
2322 E. Edison Rd. 
YzBiock E. of Ironwood 
This situation, because of its obvious "external" considera­tions (i.e., Notre Dame's rela­tionship to the off-campus com­mercial-industrial interests, the obtaining of future gifts to the University being jeopardized by adverse publicity, etc.) and equally obvious "internal" consi­derations (i.e., the relation of a Christian community to the desires of its majority and minority members, the status and limits of an individual's 
activities, etc.) would call upon 
both the Chancellor and the 
President to attempt to calm all 
interest groups and act in a way 
that would befit .a Chrisitan 
community. Balancing the 
various influences is difficult 
indeed. But by having men 
aware of the two broad sets of 
interests at stake in this type of 
situation a resolution through an 
interplay of considerations 
would be possible. 
This then is the major advan­

tage to this proposed revision: it 
heightens the prospect of fulfill­
ing the major obligations of this 
University. And it does this by 
making the administrative struc­
ture more conducive to com­
munity by allowing for a mean­
ingful dialogue at the highest 
level of University decision mak­
ing. 
A further advantage, and one 

which must not be treated 
lightly, is the protection of the physical well-being of the Uni­versity's top office holders. Those men who hold the post of President often find their health destroyed by the tremendous 
energy requ11.:d by thtil posi­
tions. What we suggest should 
significantly lighten the burden 
of the current President, by 
making it possible for a division 
of the work load. Not only 
would this be a more humane 
structure, but it would allow 
many men to serve longer in the 
positions they are qualified to 
fill. 
Before a summary conclusion 

we should turn to the question 
of feasibility. Will this new 
structure work? 
As far as we know, no such 

division ever has been tried by 
an American university. Though 
the titles Chancellor and Presi­
dent frequently are applied to 
administrators at various 
schools, the responsibilities and 
functions seem quite different 
from those envisioned here. A 
list of some thirty schools that 
have both a Chancellor and 
President, include Brown, the 
University of California, Indiana 
City University of New York. However, we feel that the only way to be certain if this plan will work is to give it a short term trial. 
Faculty Night at Senior Bar 
for Colle~e ot· Arts & Letters Tuesday, April 21, 8:30p.m. 
Open to all Arts & Letters Seniors 
"8uy your Prof a Seer" 
TICKET SALES­
wooDEN SHIPS 
THE 1970 SENIOR BALL 
SALt'S: WEDNHSDAY APRIL 22 2D LaFortune 7:30-9:30 
Tuxedo Fittings by Gingiss on Wed. 11:00-5:00, 7: 00-9:00 Thurs.11:00-5:00 


Motel Accomodations and Corsages A J!ai/able at Ticket Sales 
As we have outlined the Chancellor-President structure we can find no decisive problem which would bar its implementa­tion. As always the major problem in any structural arrangement is finding men to fill the positions. Here, however, we are entering a new realm of discussion: the question of per­son and personality of the possible office holders. Certain problems refuse to appear on the drafting board, and these would have to be met in the everyday practice of this new structure. 
It has been suggested that one major drawback to the new structure would be seen in the 
Chancellor's "inability to secure investments in the University, for he woulu not really be the University's leader." This pos­sible problem would seem to resolve itself (at least theoretical­ly) hy recalling that most dona­tions are given to the University and not diret:tly to its leader. And secondly, there is a basic mis-understanding if one sees the Chancellor as anything less that the University's chief appointed administrative officer, for this is what Chancellor means. 
We suspect there are consid­erations which we have failed to raise thus far in our discussions. We would hope that you would share with us the problems which you see as unanswered in !his series of articles so thai we might be able to come to know more of the alternatives to understanding and improving the structure of Notre Dame. (Com­ments welcomed: box 813-SMC Notre Dame, Ind. ' 
TYPING WANTED 

ESSAYS, DISSERTATIONS, OR MANUSCRIPTS; EX· PERIENCED. ACCUR. & REAS. CAN PICK UP & DELIVER. 
CALL MRS. JEAN MOTSINGER 259-1304, 
* 1-1\FST 1\ )Tl:Rl :) * 
HAC. Al.TI (' l.ANSI:-.iC . .IVC 
Colur Tl Sc ts .I I C ZOSS PRODUCTION 
Call 232-2804 

WANTED 
Homeworkers, envelope ad­dressers. Send self-addressed stamped envelope for complete details. Keafauver's, 14 74 West Grand St., Wabash, 1ndiana 46992. 
WANTED: Female roommates to share house with N.D. students on 
N.D. Ave. for 70· 71 yr. 
Call: 283-6979 283-3580 283·8954 
PAGE 7 

MONDAY, APRIL 20, 1970 THE OBSERVER 
---------------------·· ------------------­
Council hopefuls express opinions 
(continued from page I) 
student housmg division of the off-campus office, Healy said that the "hassle" he had trying to move off-campus was the reason for his candidacy. While on the SLC he hoped to give the off-campus student good rep­resentation. A major goal he said, "would he to funnel attempts to get off campus, eliminating much red tape." lie also felt that "the students living off campus now should go through the OC office more than 
the administration." lie contends that the people in the OC office know more about off-campus problems and situa­tions than the administration docs. This makes the OC office more qualified to handle the OC student than the regular univer­sity facilities. 
llealy also agrees with the new structures proposed by SBP-elect Dave Krashna. He would like to sec the strengthen­ing of the Hall Life Board with the addition of two students. 
If there 1s a single theme running through the campaigns of south quad candidates for Student Life Council, it is dissatisfaction. Dissatisfaction with student life and, in particu­lar, dissatisfaction with the pre­sent SLC. 
Mark Zimmerman, for exam­ple, is concerned with the plight of the student in SLC: "Student representatives come up against respected people (from the fac­ulty and Board of Trustees), but the students themselves are not respected. It's hard not to be factionalized." 
To combat the divisive ten­dencies inherent in this year's SLC, Zimmerman proposes a weekend get-together at which the members of the SLC could get to know each other fairly well. 
Another dissatisfied candidate is Chris Ottenweller, who com­plains especially of the lack of student power exerted through the SLC. 
Ottenweller indicates that the parietal ruling by the Board of Trustees provides an example of infringement upon student pow­er. He adds, "pressures should definitely be applied on the administration. There are many ways of doing this. As a beginning, the halls halls should declare their own autonomy." 
Ottcnweller notes that the SLC should be the organ by which students participate in 
Collegiate GOP meets 
Representing tl11rtcen states from North Dakota to Oklaho­ma, Collegiate Republicans, in­cluding 9 representatives from Notre Dame and St. Mary's, convened last weekend in In­dianapolis to elect Midwest Fed­eration officers and propose n•solutions. 
These objectives, however, proved secondary during the weekend to a confrontation that the delegates had with support­ers of Sen. Vance Hartke (D), Indiana's senior senator, over the use of the motel's main ball­room. 
According to a contract with the motel, the Republicans had the use of the room for <JII weekend events including a speech by Gov. Edgar A. Whit­comb ( R), caucuses, elections, a breakfast, and resolution com­mittee meetings. 
When the group tried to enter the room Sat. morning, they were confronted with a delega­tion of Hartke supporters ac­companied hy the hotel manage­ment, who barred the students from entering it. 
"A week ago the management of the Lincoln called to ask me a favor," explained Ronald Culp, Ind. Federal ion president. "Would you consider moving to some other location for your Saturday meeting? We have the opportunity to book a luncheon. 
Little did we know this lun­
cheon was Mr. Hartke's an­
nouncement party." 
From the GOP crowd, Robert 

Edgeworth, current Federation 
president, announced an alter­
nate plan and that legal action 
would be taken against the 
motel. 
With the permission of Indian­apolis's Mayor Lugar, delegates would peacefully march to the state capitol a few blocks away and reconvene on the capitol's steps. There, they would elect 
officers. 
At the capitol, they chose 

Paul Asquith, a Michigan State 
senior, as their new president. 
Notre Dame delegates also parti­
cipated in the region V elections. 
In another surprise move at 

the convention, delegates 
adjourned the resolution com­
mittee before a single resolution 
could be considered. 
Submission of only ultra­conservative resolutions by a small bloc of delegates urging for instance abolition of federal income tax, public schools, the post office system, social securi­ty and medicare prompted this move. 
Closing the convention, Wil­liam Ruckleshaus, assistant U.S. attorney general and prosecutor of air traffic controllers. in Washington, spoke. at a banquet 
EUROPE S234 
ROUND TRIP JET 
JU//(' ~.;. /'17(} tv Aug. 18, /IJ70 Ot~ly It'll .H'11!S lej( 1st ,·om,•, /.u Jt•rl't' ha.~i.t 
t.!nl\'ersrty Charte.r's 6th .-lnnual Charter Fhsht Stri~s 
&ponaom lly Notre Dame, St. M1rya's-Stu•nts llltematlonal 
Intra• European student charter nlcht '-aklnaa NSA International 1.0. cards 
Eurall and Bnt,all panes Au1o purchaaet, ,.,tall and •••••• Connectin1 1round and air tr*1aportMion Traveler·• Checlu 
Educational tours Student priced hotel bDok•nJI A London office to serve )'Ou 
A wide variety of fi•Jhts to choose from 
non· stop Jet 

oprn bur und complttu mruls 
D~trolt departllrt's from nttur· b,\' .\ftttro .4irport S.~O dt'pOsrt, f~nal paymtnt in .\furd1 ''tlt1Ct'llatiOfl privllf!'gtts until da>· of dtpGrture ro'"plttte ranRe uf tra\'l'l ~·t~rvlct'.'i 
lor further inform11ion 

contact:  Jim Pohl  Stud!Jnt  
NotriDMmiJ  S.rviCIK  
283 7757  

university decision-making. purpose in running. 
George Holt is also a candi­Ray Connell, candidate from date basing his campaign on Morrissey, objects to the various discontent. "We don't communi­problems that have kept the SLC cate as much as I expected when from being the most powerful I came here," said Holt of the legislative body on campus. blacks and whites on campus. Among these problems, says 
Holt emphasizes that the SLC Connell, are "differences as to can bring about a racial under­purpose, unnecessary delays, and standing at Notre Dame, but uncertainty as to power in that "I definitely feel black dealing with issues which, representation is necessary." though important, circumvent Holt adds that this is his main the area of student life." 
Candidate John Mateja's dis­satisfaction with the present SLC' is relatively basic. Accord­ing to his campaign manager Fred Guiffrida, "The SLC this year demonstrates an excess of rhetoric but lack of action·." 
Mateja stresses that the trivia which is now thrown around in the SLC must be replaced by concrete action -progress toward co=:education and improvements in security, for example. 
Berrigan speaks at Cornell 
ITHACA, N.Y. (UPI) Brightly clad young persons gyrated to electric rock Sunday in a festival tribute to a fugitive priest wanted in Maryland for destroying draft records. 
The Rev. Daniel Berrigan, a Jesuit, put in a brief, surprise appearance at the festival in Barton llall on the Cornell University campus Friday night but then disappeared. 
Authorities made no move to arrest the former Cornell chap­lin, apparently to avoid any trouble that might have devel­oped among the more than I0,000 persons attending the 
in the Atkinson Hotel. Labelling courts as "legisla­
tive,  judicial  and  executive  
authorities  since  1954,"  
Ruckleshaus  accused  the  judi­ 

ciary for the airport stalemate. 
"Each judge thinks he has the solution to the problem and proposes to announce his pro­grams to resolve the strike," he complained. 
Besides analyzing the airport situation, Ruckleshaus also con­sidered the underprivileged, "a weak spot in the Nixon admini­stration." "The administration goals are to provide an equal start for all, but not to guarantee an equal finish," he revealed. "This leaves plenty of room for individual initiative." 
"I am pleased with the out­come of Saturday's ev6nts," claimed John Gaither, president of ND-SMC's Republican Club. The situation had the makings of potential disaster for college Republicans in Indiana. We did our thing, however, and showed Hartke was a jerk." 
festival. 
Berrigan, one of the Catons­ville Nine, failed to surrender April 9 to U.S. marshals to begin a three-year sentence for des­troying draft records at Catons­ville, Md., with home-made napalm in 1968. 
Berrigan stayed at the rally less than three hours, told the crowd, "the war must stop here," and that he would "be foolish to go to jail." He was then spirited away in a blue panel truck. 
Throughout the weekend, there was a nearly continuous schedule of anti-war speakers and entertainment by per­formers identified with the peace movement. 
Dr. Howard Levy, an Army doctor who refused to train Special Forces troops at Ft. Jackson, S.C., said President Nixon would not only be the first President to lose a war but also "the first President to lose an Army." 
David Dellinger, one of the "Chicago Seven" conspiracy trial defendants, said the Berrigan brothers had done more for the cause of peace and freedom than the "Chicago Seven." 
Daniel and his Josephite priest brother Phiii~, both Syracuse natives, have been active against the war for several years. 
Present awards 
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus honored two of its members this week by present­ing to them the annual Knight of the Semester awards. Recipients of these awards were Robert Walton for the Fall Semester and Joe Capo for the Spring Semes­ter. 
These two men were very active in many council activities. Bob was chairman of the highly successful movie program as well as being active in the monthly dinner nights and the Mardi Gras. He also received the Knight of the Month award for October. Joe was membership chairman this year and under his guidance many new members were added. lie was also a dealer and carpenter for the Mardi Gras booth. The Knight of the Month award was presented to him in September. 
IN PERSON 
JOHNNY CASH 
SAT. 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC AND
APRIL25 
CONVOCATION
8:00P.M. 
CENTER 
PLUS 

STATLER BROS.* CARL PERKINS 
CARTER FAMILY * TOMMY CASH 
Only $2. 75 Upper Arena Tickets Remain Tickets at ACC Bmf O"ffice 
293 ­

Yes! There Are Still 293 Juniors Who Haven't Been Photographed For Their Senior Portraits For The '71 Dome! 
One Last Make-Up Day Available! 
Phone 283-3813 For An Appointment ­Hours : 10:30am -5:00 pm. 
One Week Left To Return Your Proofs For Your Selection For The Dome 
MONDAY. APRIL 20. 1970 
PAGE 8 

THE OBSERJIER.~~-----------------­
•

Home is sweet for tired Irish n1ne 

for a force out, then fired to Sanford completely handcuffed
by Jim Donaldson 

home plate. Bronco catcher the Irish after the first frame,Observer Sportswriter 
Roger Cook then made the surrendering just one hit the Junior right-hander Ron mistake that eventually cost remainder of the way. That Schmitz blanked Western Michi­Western Michigan the ball game. safety, a leadoff single in the gan University on seven hits to Cook, forgetting that the force seventh inning by Lucke started enable the Fighting Irish baseball play at the plate had been the only other Irish uprising in team to win their home opener removed when Mayer stepped on the game. An error and a walk l-0 and salvage a split of their third, did not tag Votier coming loaded the sacks for the Irish 
two game home and home series home only stepped on with but
and the one away Sanford last weekend with the Broncos. 
plate before firing to first in induced Bill Schoen to hit into a Western Michigan won the first attempt to nail Lucke. Votier double play to kill the threat. 
game of the set by a 5-4 count was, of course, ruled safe at In Friday's game the Irish Friday in Kalamazoo. 
home and, after an err~~t dropped a 5-4 decision when,
The Irish tallied their only run 
Bronco thro_w in the e?sum~ after loading the bases with noof Saturday's contest on a action, the lnsh had a run man one out in the ninth inning, they 
men tal miscue by the Broncos in 
men on second and third with failed to score. 
the first inning. Rob Votier 
one out. The Irish jumpeu ;rrto an edr\yopened the inning by beating Bronco hurler Jim Sanford lead at Kalamazoo by scoring
out a drag bunt for a single. Nick three runs the
worked out of the jam however in third inntng.
Scarpelli reached safely when 
by retiring Phil Krill on a popup Rob Votier drove in a. pair of the Bronco shortstop booted his and fanning Chuck Horan. runs with a single and Rich 
routine grounder. Joe Keenan Schmitz and Sanford battled Lucke's double brought home beat out a bunt down the third 
on even terms throughout the the third tally.
base line to fill the bases with no final eight innings, neither hurler The Broncos bounced right outs. Irish cleanup hitter Rich 
allowing a run. The Broncos had back in their half of the third Irish eyes were finally smiling on the diamond. Notre Dame wo111Lucke followed Keenan to the men in scoring in position in the though and, aided by a pair of its first home game after going 1-10 on the road. Maybe home sweetplate and rapped a sharp ground­fifth, sixth, eighth, and ninth Irish errors, they rapped four home will get a respectable record for ND in the weeks to come. 
er to third base. Bronco third 
innings but each time Schmitz hits good for four runs off Notre sacker Jim Mayer handled the rose to the occassion and retired Dame starter and loser Mike eighth inning single scored sewed up his victory by fanning ball easily and stepped on third the side without mishap. Karkut. Karkut gave up nine hits Scarpelli from second base. Scarpelli, retiring Bill Orga on a but didn't get much support in The Irish almost won it in the short fly to right and striking the field as the Irish committed ninth but couldn't get the big out Lucke to end the game.
Ara ·shifts spots 
five miscues. hit. Pinch-hitter Bob Roemer The Irish, now with a 2-10 There were a number of A single and an ND error gave opened the frame with a single. record for the season, will 
O'Malley hails from Youngs­the Broncos a · 5-3 lead after Karku t and Votier followed up entertain Valparaiso at Cartierchanges made this week in the town, Ohio.
football team's lineup. In Sat­seven innings but the Irish closed with singles to load the sacks but Field this Tuesday. 
Larry Parker, a freshman who 
urday's scrimmage, Gary Kos, the gap to 5-4 when Lucke's Bronco hurler Joe Hubbard 
was expected to give depthwho had been playing tight end, strength to the ND running game was switched back to his original tore some ligaments earlier inthe spot of guard. 
week and he will undergoThis was far from being the 
Track team fares well
surgery immediately. Parker'sonly change, however. John injury added in the decision to by Steve O'Connor 
Cieszkowski, the highly touted Wohlhutter ran the Half-mile leg, toss of 51 '8" that was six feet 
move Cieszkowski back to a Observer Sportswriter 
running back of a year ago, has Mike McMannon the Quarter, back of Indiana's winner, Bob
running back position.

manned this position once again The Irish track team, along Vince Ambrico the Three­Winchell. Mike McMannon took
The Irish worked a little more 
with squads from thirty other

after a short stint at the quarter, and Mike McCann the a fifth for the Irish in the Long
with their passing game as Joe 
schools, competed last Saturday

defensive end position. "Cisco" Mile. Jump after running two exhaust­
Theisman clicked with Tom 
at Columbus Ohio in the Ohio

ran with both the first and In the individual events Notre ing quarter-mile legs earlier in
Gatewood and his understudy
second teams in the workout. State Relays. Saturday's per­Dame did not fare as well. Pat the day.
Willie Townsend and he looked formance was very encouraging
Phil Gustafson has moved up Holleran placed sixth in the The track team had a "good"
good in this game condition 
the and

into a starting berth at tackle for team, with the Three Mile and Dave Stickler day
practice. Bill Etter ran the team competition getting keener as on the second week of the 
replacing George Rankin who took sixth in the 120 yd. High season that holds promise of 
was at that spot one week ago. behind Theisman. the season progresses, this meet Hurdles. 
success through overall balance.

Standouts on defense were 
was also an important confi­

Gustafson teams with John In the field events the Irish The meet was evaluated as an
Tim Kelly and Rich Thomann. 
dence builder. 

Dampeer to give the Irish suffi­entered only the Shot, Discuss, excellent for N.D.
Both of these are linebackers tune-up an
The meet featured primarily

cient size but since both are and Long Jump but placed in all contingent that will travel to the
and it seemed as though they 
relay and field events with only

sophs who saw limited action making it a successful after­Drake Relays in Des Moines,
were in on every tackle. 
a few individual events. Notre

last season, their experience is noon's work in the field. Notre Iowa next week. The Drake
There are three weeks remain­
Dame entered three relay teams

minimal. Dame's Paul Gill (17 3'10") and Relays is one of the big national 
ing in spring drills before the 
and came away with a first and

Replacing Kos at tight end Elio Polselli ( 171 ') took second meets of the early indoor season
Blue-Gold Game on May 9. 
two seconds. The Irish Two Mile

was Jim O'Malley, a sophomore. and third behind Miami of that attracts top competitors
Relay Team captured their event 

Ohio's Pete Meller who won the from around the country and a
easily in a meet record time of

Netmen take three discuss event with a toss of 177' good showing there Friday and
7:3 5.0. Tom Gilhooly, Vince 

1 O". In the Shot Elio Polselli Saturday could highlight the 
The Notre Dame varsity Saturday, April 18: ND 6; Ambrico, Mike McCann, and came back to grab fourth with a season for Notre Dame. 
tennis team had an outstanding Cinn. 3 Rich Wohlhutter set the record weekend, winning three matches l. Brown def. Joe Foley 6-2, 6-0 and established themselves as the in three days. On Friday they 2. Bob Helmars, Cinn. dcf. team to beat for the rest of the 
MAJOR LEAGUES
disposed of DePaul 9-0, without LeSage 4-6, 6-3, 8-6 season. In the Shuttle Hurdle losing a single set. Saturday the 3. Chris Everson, Conn., def. Relay the N.D. foursome of Pat NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE squad played host to the Uni­Reilly 6-4, 6-4 Mullaley, Tom Me Mannon, Dave versity of Cincinnati and was 4. Arlo Vandenover, Cinn. def. Stickler, and Joe Utz placed 
East East 
victorious by a. 6-3 score. Then Theissen 6-1, 9-7 second. Their 58.9 was just on Sunday the team demolished 5. Schefter def. Gary Trembley narrowly bettered by an Ohio w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB
Eastern Michigan 9-0, once again 7-5' 6-3 State entry that was timed in 
St. Louis 7 2 .778 Baltimore 8 3 .728
the Irish did not lose a set. This 6. O'Mally def. John Drierer 6-0, 58.5. The other second place 
Chicago 6 3 .667 1 Detroit 7 3 .700 Y:.
weekend's victories boosted the 6-2 was taken by the Distance 5 4
Pittsburgh .556 2. Washington 6 6 .500 2Irish season record to a hefty six I. LeSage-Reilly def. Foley­Medley team who were also New York 5 5 .500 2Y:. Boston 5 .500 2
wins against three losses. The Helmars 6-1, 9-7 narrowly beaten-this time by Philadelphia 4 7 .363 4 Cleveland 5 
3 6 .333 3Y:.

Irish host Toledo today at 3:00 2. Brown-Theissen def. Everson­Pittsburgh. For the Irish, Rick Montreal 8 .111 6 New York 
3 9 .250 5Y:. 

PM. Vandenover I 5-13, 6-4 
West

3. Schefter-Murray def. Trem­P1a yoff info West Friday, April 17: ND 9; bley-Drierer 6-l, 6-4 
Minnesota 6 2 .750

Depaul 0 Professional sports is ringing Cicinnati 11 4 .733
Sunday, April 19: ND 9; 
.600

I. Buster Brown, ND defeated out two seasons with playoffs. Houston 7 6 .538 3 Jlifornia 6 4 
Eastern Michigan 0 
Kansas City 5 4 .556 1Y:.

Elias Attallah 6-2,6-2 In the National Basketball San Fran. 7 7 .500 3Y:.
l. Brown def. Lee Patton 6-1, Oakland 5 6 .455 2Y:.
Atlanta 5 7 .417 4Y,

2. Bernie LeSage, ND, def. Ray 6-0 Association there appears to be .400
Chicago 4 6 3Los Angeles 5 7 .417 4Y:.

Bachman 6-0, 6-2 two finalists emerging in New
2. LeSage de f. AI J agutis 6-0, 6-2 Milwaukee 3 7 .300 4Y:.
San Diego 5 8 .357 5

3. Mike Reilly, ND, def Tom York and Los Angeles. The
3. Reilly def. Maurice Gilbert 
Kersten 6-2, 6-1 Knicks took the Milwaukee Minnesota 6 Oakland3
6-2, 6-2 Philadelphia 3 New York 2 
4. Gil Theissen, ND, def. Dan Bucks into camp 117-112. The Kansas City 4 California 1
4. Theissen def. Mike Dombrow­Montreal at Chicago ppd. rain 
Collins 6-0, 6-4 New Yorkers hold a 3-1 advan­Chicago at Milwaukee ppd. rain
St. Louis at Pittsburgh ppd. rain Boston at Detroit ppd. rain
ski 7-5, 6-2 

5. Rob Schefter, ND, def. Jim tage over Lew Alcindor and the Los Angeles 10 Atlanta 1
5. Schefter def. Rod MacDonald 
Washington at Cleveland (2) ood. rain

Cosa 6-1 , 6-0 Bucks. Cincinnati 6 San Francisco 0
6-0, 6-0 
New York 3 · 5

6. Bob O'Mally, ND, def. Dave The Lakers were scheduled to 
Houston 5 San Diego 1 Baltimore 4 · 8 
6. O'Mally def. Tom Fioritti 6-0,
Buksa 6-2, 6-0 play the Altanta Hawks last
6-2 

1. LeSage-Reilly def. Atallah­night in Los Angeles.
l. LeSage-Reilly def. J agutis-Gil 
Bachman 6-2, 6-4 In the Nationat Hockey
bert 6-1, 6-1 

2. Brown-Theissen def. Kersten­League the Boston Bruins
2. Brown-Theissen def. Patton­
Cullins 6-1, 6-3 jumped out to a one game lead
Dombrowski 6-1, 6-3 

3. Schefter-Murray def. Coca­in the Stanley Cup Eastern
3. Schefter-Murray def. MacDon­
Buksa 6-2, 6-2 finals.
ald-Fioritti 6-1, 6-2 







