
Serving the Notre /)a me aJI(/ Saint Mary's College ('o1111111111it.1' THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1970
IV, tf/o. io r 
•
Divided Senate reJects Carswell 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A bitterly divided Senate rejected the Supreme Court nomination of (;.Harrold Carswell yesterday in a second stunning repudiation of President Nixon's efforts to restore "the kind of balance" he says the court needs. 
By a vote of 51 to 45, the Senate resolved its anguish over party loyalties and doubts about 
Carswell's fitness for the high bench. The votes of five moder­ate Republicans were decisive, but it was not until the roll call had neared its finish and Mrs. Margaret Chase Smith, the Main Republican, softly uttered her "no" that the outcome was no longer in doubt. 
Thirteen Republicans deserted 
Nixon to join 38 Democrats in 
opposing the nomination. Twen­
ty eight Republicans and 17 
Democrats-all from sout)1em or 
border states-voted for 
Carswell. Four senators were 
absent, two of them ailing and 
two overseas, hut had they 
voted, they would have canceled 
each other out. 
Some Republicans who helped defeat Nixon's first choice of Judge Clement F. Haynsworth Jr. for the Abe Fortas court vacancy last November, including Senate GOP leader Hugh Scott and his assistant, Robert P. Griffin of Michigan, went along with Car­swell this time. 
But others who supported Haynsworth refused to accept Carswell. These included Sens. Winston L. Prouty, ( R. Vt ); Marlow W. Cook, (R. Ky.); and 
J. William Fulbright, (D. Ark.). 
Scattered applause -rarely heard in the Senate chamber . ­greeted Mrs. Smith's vote, which was considered undecided to the last. Loud applause and whistles, and some booing as well, e­rupted in the galleries when Vice President Spiro T. Agnew was handed the tally and said: 
"On this vote the ayes are 45 and the nays are 51. The nomination is not agreed to." 
The White House had insisted the President was confident of victory until a little more than an hour before the vote beg.m but Nixon himself acknowledged to a group of visitors that he thought it would be "tight, very tight." 
SLF poetry reading includes Gary Snyder 
One of the most vital and by Bob Meyers important movements of mo­Highlighting the S.L.F. poetry 
dern poetry derives much of its readings will be San Francisco's 
content from antrhhropology. (;ary Snyder along with British As a professional anthropologist, poets Nathania! Tarn and Nathaniel Tarn possesses a singu­
Anselm Iloilo. In an attempt to lar understanding of the manner 
get greater student-author con­in which myth functions in tact the poets will also be society. Combined with this is reading and attending classes for radical activism and a dedication 
the entire week. 
to natural conservation. Tarn 

(Jary Snyder's poetry is an states that "An anthropologist is attempt to build for himself a often torn between his desire to new myth. He has become a preserve what he studies. and his 
proponent of the construction of a system that rejects the city and embraces the Eastern­Buddhist-Contemplative ethic. (;ary Snyder is a poet who was vitally concerned with ecology long before it became popular. Snyder tells us that "As a poet I hold the most archaic values on earth. They go back to the late l'aleoli lhic; the fertility of the soil, the magic of animals, ... the common work of the tribe." The move, then, has been made, and the poet offers us perhaps one of 

the best examples around of one Nathaniel Tam

man's creative potential. Born in San Francisco in knowledge that the clock can 
1930, Gary Snyder grew up in never turn back." the Pacific North west. He grad­A native of France, Nathaniel uated from Reed College in Tarn was educated at the Univer­
Anthropology and Lirerature sities of Cambridge, Paris and and from Berkley in Chinese and Chicago and has done anthro­Japanese studies. From 1956 to 
polical research in South 1%H he lived mostly in Japan America and the Far East. Now 
and traveled through India. He teaching in Princeton, Tarn has was a Guggenheim Fellow in published ten volumes of poetry.
I<JOH-1969. Mr. Snyder's books 
Of the first, Old Savage/Young
include Riprap( 1969), Myths· 
City, The Poetry Review says,and 1bts( 1960), The Back 
"There is a proper savagery, a 
Country( 196H), Harth House 
wealth of music and a depth of //old ( 1960) and Regarding philosophy that are as rewardingWave ( 1970). 
as they are rare." In his latest Gary Snyder will be speaking 
volume, The BeaUtiful Contra-
in Washington Hall on Tuesday, 

(continued on page J)
April 14, at 8 PM. 
President Nixon said through and gained his agreement to He was regarded as a "strict a spokesman that he was "of 
remain on the 5th U.S. Circuit constructionist" of the type course disappointed" and would Court of Appeals. Nixon wanted without any of name another "strict con­
Carswell, a former U.S. at­the financial indiscretions which tructionists" to the court in due torney and a U.S. district judge opponents used to block Hayns­course, although he had no from 1953 to 1969, had been worth. names in mind. elevated with Senate confirma­But Carswell's 1948 speech 
In Tallahassee, Fla., Carswell tion last year without a dis­pledging eternal loyalty to the said: "It's a relief." He said he senting vote to the 5th U.S. concept of white supremacy, his wasn't bitter about the outcome Circuit Court of Appeals. When role in turning the public golf even though "it's always disap­he was nominated by Nixon on course in his home town of pointing not to win." Jan. 19, leaders of both parties Tallahassee, Fla., over to a Nixon spoke to Carswell by predicted a quick, smooth con­private group to avoid the need telephone shortly after the vote firmation. 
(continued on page 7) 


Israeli crisis and Red China 
considered by Model UN 
by John Abowd 

For the first time yesterday in the history of the Model UN, the People's Republic of China was seated· yesterday with full mem­bership in that body. 
Red China's <~,dmission high­lighted Wednesday's opening ses­sion of the Model UN as delegates from seventy six na­tions convened at Stepan Center to discuss thirteen resolutions concerning world affairs. 
Secretary General Michael Kendall opened the session with a welcoming address to the delegates. Kendall cited the "mutual understanding" of the member nations of the United Nations as the means to "peace and harmony" in the world. He stressed the idea that the MUN (Model UN) should have the organizations related to it." mittee supporting the recog­"goals of peace and security." In the afternoon session the nition of the People's Republic 
The resolution asked the MUN defeated a resolution of China and the expulsion of MUN to "restore all its rights to which condemned the "inter­the representatives of Nationalist the People's Republic of China ventioniest" activities of the China. and to recognize the representa­U.S., North Vietnam, Russia and Michael Kelly, the Assembly tives of its Government as the Cuba. The resolution asked the President, also gave an initial only lawful representatives of MUN to recognize the sover­address. His remarks were most­China to the United Nations, t:ignty of every nation within its ly procedural however he con­and to expel forthwith the boarders. cluded: "If we can't understand representatives of Chiang The major acitivity of the what draws us apart we can't Kai-shek from the place which evening session was the enact­understand what can pull us they unlawfully occupy at the ment of the AI banian resolution together." United Nations and all the from the Political Sec' rity Com-An early decision based on 
the UN rules of Mike Kelly allowed Red China to speak during the consideration of this resolution. Joel Connelly, a Notre Dame graduate currently 
Board of Trustees 
at the University of Washington, and Howard Dooley, a Notre Dame graduate student spoke as 

hold open meeting 
by Shawn Hill 

Arts Council. the Red Chinese representatives. An open discussion will be Former Student Body Connelly said: "No state has held today from 4 to 5 pm in president Phil McKenna said that been subjected to the abuse that the Center for Continuing if any time then remains he will has been suffered by the Education at the conclusion of question the Trusteess about People's Republic of China." He the Students Affairs Committee their decisions in the future further noted that the only 
meeting of the Board of parietal hours. government which represents the Trustees. The full board met in Miami people of China is the govern­All students are encouraged to over Easter and made a decision ment of Red China. Tim Walch, attend. on parietals which was expected a senior history major, intro­The goal of the committee's to be released earlier this week, duced an amendment in tbe meeting is threefold: to "define but as of yesterday now word name of the Luxembourg dele­problems in student affairs," to has been heard. gation calling for a two China hear "presentations from The morning session will open policy which granted full mem­responsible campus groups and with the Nutting for President bership to both the People's decisions geared toward action", committee presenting and Republic and Nationalist China. and "to make recommendations explaining its proposals for Because of a credential challenge to the Board of Trustees or the change in the university which resulted in the disqualifi­
other authorized University governing structure. cation of the Iraq vote and a desicion making bodies." The University Arts Council bolt by Rich Hunter's Polish 
The Student Affairs will then present a proposal to delegation from the Soviet bloc, Committee this morning will the Trustees for extension of the the amendment carried. definitely hear presentations June Ist deadline for collection The amendment altered the from the Nutting for President of funds to retain the fieldhouse. resolution by calling on the Committee and the University (eon tinued on page 7) (continued on page 7) 

THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1970
THE OBS£Rfl£lt
PAGE 2 
University has cabinet structure 
Notre Dame Band 'POPS ' CONCERT Friday, April 10 8:15pm 
ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER
•

admission free 


THIS SATURDAY, APRIL 11 -1:30PM O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM-ST. MARY'S STUDENTS $2.00 ADULTS $3.00 TICKETS ON SALE IN DINING HALLS 
Sponwred by Contemporary Arts F'estiPal often than not, an administrative vice-presidents has greatly in­

cities for academic achievement 

caretaker rather than an aca­on campus." Yet the modern creased is quite clear: demic trailblazer in higher edu­president "does not himself tend The proliferation of cation. to be an innovator" as presidents vice -presidents which has occur­
This criticism of the present before him. Yet the influence red at this level of administra­university president has its para­extends much further than this: tion is amusingly illustrated on llels in other institutions which .. . even if modern university one campus where the president 
have adopted a "new pattern of presidents are not themselves could not recall the names ofall cabinet government." But still, trailblazers, their influence goes his vice-presidents in the course Rourke and Brooks conclude: of an interview with one of the
a long way toward determining authors.

The university president is whether or not trails are blazed 
now required not so much to be on campus. The description of "cabinet an innovator in the matters of To demonstrate this fact the government" concludes with a very important observation,
education as to be an effective authors point to "one university 
manager of a vast and complex which is quoted in full because
in our sample" which has made 

educational enterprise. of its bearing on our discussion
tremendous progress in the past It is in this "context" that the of structural revision at Notre
decade as a result of such a 
Dame:emergence of cabinet govern­president, for the president can 

ment of university administra­play a "catalytic role in stimula­However varied the duties of tions "simply reflects the neces­ting renewal and innovation in the vice-presidents may be, sities imposed by size and there are two quite different sets
the individual academic depart­

complexity." The president, in of interests or viewpoints in any 
ments." fact, becomes a prime minister; cabinet. One is the academic or for there is no other way for him Criticism 
educational perspective, and the 
to administer the university. As A major criticism of the 
other is the fiscal or house­
we suggested, "business firms cabinet government is that "it 
keeping point of view. Virtually 
went through this process" at an acts to cut the president off 
all major decisions on university
earlier date than universities. from the faculty, department 
policy tum ultimately on some chairmen, deans, or indeed from resolution of the inherent con­
Effect 

the grass-roots sentiment on the flict between a university s ob­The effect of this new system campus generally.": 
jectives and its capacities. 

of governence is to have the From this perspective the 
Rourke and Brooks conclude"chief executive share authority cabinet is viewed as a bottleneck 
by suggesting that the cabinet over decision making with other in the system of university form of government offers the officials." This results in the communications. 
best framework for balancing"advantage of division of la­To overcome this problem, 
the activities of the university.
bor," and is necessitated by the Rourke and Brooks suggest that 
It seems to us that those who "wide range of subjects over the president "assign special, have structured this universitywhich decisions must now assistants in his own office to were operating in way which
a range." the task of keeping channels of makes Rourke and Brooks theo­What happens to the president communication open to all seg­
retical discussion most insiteful. in this system: ments of the university com­This is the University of 1\Jotre The emergence of the cabinet munity." A further function of Dame appears to be so system by no means implies the these aids can be to keep 
structured (with a"cabinet form 
abdication of the president from vice-president "in check" by of government"). a position of central responsi­providing the president with his bility in the governence of the own source of information from Application to Nctre Oame 
university ... in paint of fact, a "the outside." 
A more specific statement
university president is far more , There is some problem as far 
about how deciswns are made at
than a prime minister. The only as making generalizations. The 
Notre Dame, and one which is
certain power which the cabinet number of offices included with­
far from complete (and perhapsas a whole has over him is that in a university cabinet varies a bit over-zealous) comes fromof giving advice, which he may considerably from one 'campus the March '69 issue of the 
or may not choose to accept. to the next. Further university Scholastic:
Furthermore, according to vice-presidents have a wide 
Presidential decision-making is
these authors, it is quite certain range of responsibilities, for as 
an. unchallenged philosophy at
that no university official is in a 
yet there is no agreed upon layer 

Notre Dame. No one disputes
better position than a president 
of operation for these execu­

I-lesburgh s final authority. In
to "stimulate or enhance capa­
tives. That the number of 

point of fact, buck-passing 

places many matters in the hands of the President which should have been decided on the vice-presidential level. Issues are deferred to the paint that either Hesburgh decides or there is no resolution . 
. . . decisions on almost every level are deferred to the Presi­dent. . . Strong opinions are rarely expressed, especially in the field of academic affairs ... The vice-presidents and their assistants are thus to a large degree administrators who exe,-t little or no pressure on the President of the University. 
Here, then, we have as com­plete an answer as we can now provide to the question-how is 
(continued on page 3) 
This is the second in a five-part series written by the Nutting for President Head­quarters. 
The only statement of the duties of the President of Notre Dame is found in the bylaws of the University (Sec. III, p. ii): 
I) general direction of Univer­sity's affairs 2) appointments 3) ex officio member of all com­mittees of Board 4) preside over academic functions 5) represent University before the public 6) sign contracts, deeds, legal instruments for University's bus­iness 7) make an annual report oh general condition of Univer­sity to Board 8) submit annual budget to Executive Committee. 
8elow the President, there is a "cabinet type" of government, with each of the University's six vice-presidents charged with a particular administrative area. For a description of how this sort of university government works, we have called on Rourke and Brooks' discussion ("The Rise of Cabinet Government" in 
The Managerial Revolution in Higher Education by Francis Rourke and Glenn C. Brooks, Johns Hopkins Press, 1966, pp. 109-113).: 

More and more the task of managing the internal university affairs has been delegated to an assortment of vice-presidents in charge of such rna tters as bus­iness, student, or academic af fairs. As a result a new layer of top-level officials has become firmly fixed at the summit of the administrative hierarchy. Where once he reigned in soli­tary splendor, the university president has now come to share responsibilities for governing his institution with a variety of other executive colleagues. 
With this type of government, 
according to the authors, the 
most important fact is that these 
vice-presidents commonly sit 
together with the president in an 
"executive cabinet, which meets 
on a regular basis to handle most 
of the major decisions that come 
before the university, including 
budgetary allocations, plans for 
campus expansion, and other 
matters of a critical nature." 
This cabinet is quite formal in 
character, yet "very often it is a 
highly informal arrangement" 
which marks its actual opera­
tion: a group of advisors with 
whom the president habitually 
meets to discuss the university's 
most pressing problems. 
This leads to a situation, 
which often exists in govern­
ment, where there is an official 
cabinet and an unofficial "kit­
chen cabinet", both operating at 
the same time and often in 
opposition. 

Cabinet government What is. the nature of this cabinet government? 
The new pattern of cabinet government stands in sharp con­trast to the administrative tradi­tion of higher education. . . Criticism of the modern day university president has focused on the fact that he is, more 



STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
IS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITIONS OF: 
Assistant Social Commissioner  Ticket Manager  
Collegiate Jazz Festival Chairman  Concert Chairman  
Special Projects Chairman  >Promotion Director  
Homecoming Chairman  Business Manager  

Grand Prix Chairman Mardi Gras Chairman 
Applications should be submitted by April 15 to: Social Commi~ioner 
Box 427 
Notre Dame, lnd 

THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1970 PAGE 3
711£ OBJ'ERflllt 
Nutting supporters turn efforts to Trustees 
by Steve Hoffman 
Observer News Editor 

In a tabulation of signatures of the Nutting for President Petition, Nutting Headquarters reported yesterday that inore than I,000 people had voiced approval of the Chancel-· lor-President move. According to spokesman Karen Grabowski, many more signatures should be forthcoming from the twen­ty -five people who are canvas­sing their own dorms. 
The Headquarters also an­nounced the reception of its first response from a member of the cBoard of Trustees. In a letter dated March 31, 1970, Mr. J.A. LaFortune of Tulsa, Oklahoma requested that the Nutting Com­mittee "forward.. .information concerning Dr. Nutting and his credentials." 

Biographical sketches were immediately sent to Mr. LaFor­tune. 
Miss Grabowski also noted that efforts will continue to be made to explain and explore the possibilities of implementing the Chancellor structure. 
Five students spokesmen for the "Chancellor-Presi­dent-Hesburgh-Nutting" move­ment will address the Student .Affairs Committee of the Soard of Trustees this morning at 9:00 a.m.in the Center for Continuing Education. Ken Guentert com­mented: "this is an opportunity to confront those who can really make decision on the proposal." 
"The Committee, composed of eight members of the Board 
ISO leadership expands activities 
by Dave McCarthy 
A luncheon party was held yesterday between Father Daniel O'Neil, Director of the Office for International Services, and new Officers of the International Students Organization. 
The newly elected officers are 

as follows: 
Mishael Maduakolam, presi­

dent; Miss Sari Bellini, vice­
president; Miss Elsa Schimilinski, 
treasurer and SMC co-ordinator; 
Miss Billie Sink, secretary, B~l 
De Talance, Notre Dame co­
ordinator. 
Mishael, a native of Biafra, 

said that he wanted to see the 
ISO transformed into an active 
and influential body worthy of 
its name. He added that in the 
past the ISO had faced such 
problems as lack of activities, 
influence of National Associa­
tions, an all male atmosphere, 
academic pressure on members, 
and lack of publicity. Mishael 
will concentrate upon a re­
definition of the ISO as to goals 
and objectives together with 
increased enrollment in the 
organization. 
The ISO is expanding its 

activities to include establish­
ment of areas of common 
interest with the National Asso­
ciations, adivities with interna­
tional bodie~ in neighboring 
Cabinet viewed 

as bottleneck 

(continued from page 2) 
Notre Dame governed? 1\ more 
extensive analysis of the deci­
sion-making strut:ture at Notre 
Dame might include statements 
from the holders of the various 
hi~h level positions addressed to 
"how. and in what way, deci­
sions are made at Notre Dame?", 
as well as other indications of 
the way university problems are 
actually decided. 
With this outline before us we 

will in the next segment turn our 
attention to the lluestion of a 
"( 'l•anccllor-l'residenI" struc­
tural revision; we shall ask: llow 
will Notre Dame he governed 
under this new administrative 
framework? 
1 he Observer is published daily during the college semester except Va<:dtions by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre DamP, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paod. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

universities. selection of a for­emphatically that, "foreign stu­eign student of the year, an ISO dents here should be made to newsletter to circulate monthly feel a sense of belonging to at or bimonthly. There will also be least a section of this commu­a special orientation for in­nity." Mishael affirmed that, "I coming freshmen. will make time for this impor­
The new president added tant assignment." 



Tarn coming 
(continued from page 1) dictions, Tarn's rare knowledge of myth allows him to combine it with cogent ecological state­ments. Anselm Hollo says that after years of formal study and the "phantasmagoria of mass media work," he still finds himself a "travding man", yet a house­holder as well. lie calls himself "the mobile householder as the early Navajo." There is a polar­ity in his poetry ("Finns and North American Indians at geo­graphically 'opposite' ends of cult ural string game") that be­comes basic and makes it spark. Anselm Hollo's poetry is, sim­ply, concerned 'Vi th sex ,politics, 
~a! king and ultimately, tne problem of finding out if you really know how to walk at all. 
Anselm Hollo, a native of Helsinki, Finland, was born in 1934. He considers his first apprenticeship to his father who was a writer, translator and philosopher. He is as well known for his translations as for his 
·poetry. His numerous trans­lations and collections include Red Cats, and it is a song, Faces and Forms and The Coherences. Mr. Hollo is currently teaching at the University of Iowa at the Creative Writers School. 
Mr. Tarn and Anselm Hollo will be reading in Washington Hall on Wednesday, April 15, at 
7:30 PM. 


Craftsmen in Optics® 

SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
Jlouse ofVisioli ~ 
The House of Vision, Inc. 

If you're 18 or over make the 

Open Week davs Must have 1 legal 6. 30 . 
proof of age and Sat. & Sun. Student ID Card 12:45 
Now thru April 14 
See both as late as 9: 15 
of Trustees, and six students, could provide direct access to the Full Board which meets on May 1," Guentert observed. 
In the hope of getting all of Dr. Nutting's friends and suppor­ters together for an evening of dining and intellectual pleasure, the Headquarters has scheduled a FUN-raising dinner for Wed­nesday, April IS. 
Ray Carlson, 313 Alumni 
Hall, who will be handling all of the arrangements, noted that tickets will be available nightly in the outer lobby of the Library, and by telephone at 233-7232 between 10-12 p.m.. 

The dinner is for Faculty and Administrators, as well as for students and other friends of Dr. Nutting. Fr. Hesburgh has been sent a complementary ticket and a special invitation. 
The dinner will consist of spaghetti, salad, bread, dessert and a drink. Donations are $1.75 per person, and serving will begin at 6: 15 p.m. at Shag's place, I 19 Mill court. 
Dr. Nutting will be in atten­dance as guest of honor. 
AN TOSTAL QUEEN CONTEST send photos to: 414 Badin Hall 

PAGE 4 

THE OBSERJJER. 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DAVID C. BACH, Editor GAETANO M: De SAPIO, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial: 

A lesson for the President 
Yesterday the Senate rejected President Nixon's nomination of G. Harrold Carswell to 
the Supreme Court. Three of the last four nominees to positions on the Court have been 
rejected. One member of the court was rejected elevation Chief Justice because of 
conflict of interest. Another was denied a seat for the same reason. Judge Carswell was 
rejected primarily because of questions about his competence. 
In rejecting three nominees, the Senate has shown that it expects a high standard for 
Supreme Court Justices. President Nixon, in a letter to William Sax be of Ohio, stated that 
he felt that the Senate was tampering with the President's traditional freedom to appoint 
candidates of his own choice. But such scrutiny is entirely within the constitutional 
authority of the Senate. The body not only has the power to reject nominations but the 
responsibility to do so when, in the mind of the Senate, the man is not qualified to sit on 
the highest court in the land. 

A Supreme Court justice must be of the highest judicial calibre. It is the president's 
responsibility to select a nominee now who will meet the ethical and professional 
standards that the Senate and the position demand. there are enough important cases 
before the Court that should be heard by a full nine man court that the rejection of 
another nominee can not be tolerate. 

The President promises to nominate another "strict constructionist." If so, he should 
be a man of the highest judicial standing and not one picked to please a sectional or 
special interest group. The ultimate standard must be his judicial competence and not. his 
philosophy. 

The country is facing a major crisis of confidence in the judicial process. Competence 
in the highest court is one way ·of stimulating a feeling of trust toward the judicial 
system. 


Guy DeSapio 
New York, New York 
There are times when one has to wonder whether the Indians knew what they were doing when they sold Manhattan to the Dutch. People say that they got a bad deal when they gave it up for only 24 dollars but given the miracles of compound interest and the present rate of inflation, an investment in some growing American firm would probably have netted them enough to buy the island back at its present value. 
But the Indians left the money market to the new tenents and they, in tum, have paid dearly over the years for the use of the island. 
Downtown where a group of traders used to buy and sell securities under a buttonwood tree now stands the New York Stock Exchange. Visit it any day and you can see the toll that the proponents of capitalism must pay to help keep the economy on its feet. There on Wall Street are the many ulcers, nervous breakdowns, and the windows that old timers point to telling of an acquaintance who escaped from the whole mess in the early thirties. 
Further uptown is the Village home which is close to many of the young people who are trying to get away from that system in different ways or to destroy it. On Sunday afternoon liberated women can get into the Electric Circus if they can prove somehow that they have liberated busts and have left their bras back home. The Electric Circus was the cite of a recent bomb explosion. There have been others in the Village. The home-made bomb factories of those who are out to destroy the ugly system to make the world safe for peace have been blowing up accidentally. Meanwhile down on Wall Street they have installed bullet proof glass in front of the visitor's gallery over the exchange 'to. try to keep a defender of' freedom from dropping a stick of dynamite in the lap of the AT&T 
specialist. 
Walk out in the streets and a taxi cab driver will run you over for 
a thirty cent token at 45 miles per hour in a 15 mile per hour zone. 
During the rush hour you can watch people push eight abreast in the 
subway stations; the wonder of it all is that they will stand in lines 
100 feet long to do it. Some stations have problems keeping the 
trains on time -it seems that people are periodically getting pushed 
onto the tracks by the herds behind them. 
Try getting away from it all by going further uptown to Central 
Park. You can row on the lake or take a long slow walk through the 
trees or watch the people jogging or riding bikes to keep in shape ­
as long as you do it in the daylight. At night you might get mugged 
or if you're under a tree; pounded over the head by the citizen's 
committee that patrols to keep the homosexuals out of the bushes. 
Or you can go to the U.N. only to be told that you can't ride the 
elevator upstairs to look at the meeting rooms unless you paid the 
$1.50 for the guided tour. They can't have just anyone roaming 
around free in a building that is dedicated to the freedom of 
everyone. 
But if you look further than all that you can find what makes the 
city move. There is something more that makes a visit electric than 
merely the sight at the corner of 42nd and Broadway on a warm 
spring night. It's the man who will sell you a fresh pretzel or a warm 
hotdog anytime on the street corner, the little ladies who sell 
flowers, it's the food and friends at Mama Leone's, it's the kid with 
the Mets cap and the old man in the park who only knows that the 
air has been a little bit dirty in recent years. It's their town: It's their 
world. There are a lot of people like them. 


letter 
Editor: 
The contentions by Mr. Rice (Letters, Wed., April 8) are absurd, and serve as a direct insult to me and the Academic Commission staff. Obviously Mr. Rice does not know the facts behind our scheduling and sub­sequent cancellations of appear­ances by Frank Shakespeare and Frank Borman. In addition we have sought Barry Goldwater, Spiro Agnew, John Tower, and Robert Finch, who easily repre­sent the antithesis to Mr. Rice's "revolution" preachers. We are, indeed, presently attempting to contract U.S. Attorney Thomas Fvran-this we have mentioned to the press many times. Fur­thermore, as the editor's note points out, William Buckley (who appeared h'-'re only two years ago) has a $3,000 figure, which is out of the question. 
The manner in which Mr. Rice throws about such terms as "propaganda", "brainwashing", "extravagant", "disproportion­ate" and "revolution", borders on idiocy. As a Professor of Law it would seem that Mr. Rice more than anyone in the Aca~ demic Commission would respect well and adhere to the procedure of getting all the facts before making a judgement. As I have never talked to Mr. Rice, and as none of my staff has, concerning the questions raised in his letter, it is evident that he does not know what he is talking about. His comments, moreover, appear more disturbing than any of the "brainwashing" that the 4,000 people in attendance ex­perienced March 22 at Mr. Kunstler's speech. If l am responsible for 4,000 people of the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community, and the general area taking interest in a lecture, then I am proud of it. 
Sincerely, Pat McDonough 
Editor's Note -The $3,000 fee for Mr. Buckley is his present fee. Chuck Nau, Academic Commissioner when Buckley appeared 2 years ago, said that the fee paid then was $1,000. 

THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1970 
----· 
--~---------­

~ELLO,DUKE_? THIS IS I)(J\. I W,~S vVATCHING "\ you ON T~E AW~.P-DS U.,ST NIGHT AND IT \ TO ME TH.~l" YOU !:Rf. OVE OF THE Li:-AST ME.D/OCRE IN THE c.ou~nRY: T~ !S /'-,.>:·' JTOCLURREO TO~t:.. TI-L~T I (V\iGH'. RoLe ... ER 1 MEAN JOB 1~m '(OU... 
i I I I 
~~~~-:--·-----:-------------=-~,1£ 
[-~-·-] [



-[ ~ 
A Forum 

Campus Opinion 
Edited by Glen Corso 
This letter was sent to us by Sister Ellen Fitzgerald. The lecture 
she is referring to was one given by Dr. Garret Hardin on March 23. 
My comments on abortion will appear in tomorrow's Observer. 
Normally letters will continue to be printed in a separate space, 
but I felt that Sister's letter is a good starting point for discussion on 
abortion. 

Dr. Garrett Hardin's remarks, as reported in the Observer, March 
24, should not pass unchallenged. He objects to theological and 
ethical arguments against abortion, which he says use "traps'. and 
"logical ploys" to replace rational discussion with ambiguous 
phrases. Yet his own phrasing is not just ambiguous; it is dishonest, 
relying as it does on distorted analogies, scare tactics, gross 
exaggerations, semantic sleight-of-hand, and, yes, "logical ploys." 
The original fertilized egg is merely an information bank," Hardin. 
explained, just like the blueprint for a house. If you destroy the 
blueprints for a house you are not destroying the house." True; but 
if l owned a blueprint that was in the process of growing in to a 
house all by itself, and I destroyed it, I could with some accuracy 
~peak of having destroyed the house. 
"Once you realize that there are at least a hundred million 
spermatozoa in each sexual ejaculation you realize that you are 
absolutely stymied. You simply cannot adhere to this doctrine of 
never killing or allowing life to be killed. No matter how pious you 
are you cannot dream of having a hundred million children every 
time you have relations with your wife. This is beyond the means of 
the most devoted wives." This incredible bit of rhetoric contains 
even at first glance, five outright falsehoods. Most basic seems to b~ 
Dr. Hardin's ignoring of the simple biological fact that human life 
develops from an ovum after it has been fertilized by one sperm cell. 
Surely we might expect better of a biology professor. 
"If we call an embryo a human being then why can't we call 
human beings embryos?" Now, really. If we call a child a human 
being, why can't we call all human beings children? Or-Women's 
Liberati~n Movement, take note.!-if we call a woman a human being, 
why cant we call all human bemgs women? (Or blacks or chicanos 
or Indians, for that matter?) 

The whole problem of abortion and life-before-birth needs much 
serious medical, psychological, social, ethical, and theological study. 
But no cause is served by the sort of obscurantist, anti-intellectual 
tactics indulged in by Dr Hardin. I might add that, having done some 
reading on the Third Reich lately, I was more than a little disturbed 
at the many points of resemblance between Hardin's social-eugenic 
theories and the practice of Adolph Hitler. 
The Model United Nations ran yesterday and will continue into today with the students learning first hand how difficult the art of diplomacy is. However, the UN has numerous shortcomings, the greatest being the obstinacy of the member states who comprise it. Acting in the unfamiliar role of a devil's advocate l would like to advance the contention that the US should disengage itself from the United Nations. With the advent of the hot line and satellite communications, plus the growing US-Soviet detente, the need for the UN as a common meeting ground has diminished. The US pays a huge amount for the upkeep of the UN and receives nothing but barbs from members nations for its troubles. I do not think it is worthwhile for us to remain in the organization. 
Position papers and clarifications of points specifically for this column should be addressed to 
Campus Editor 
The Observer 
Box 11, Notre Dame 

These presentations should be no Longer than 3 typewritten double-spaced pages. 
THURSDAY,APRIL~9~·~19~7~0------------------------------~~~~~~(J==~~~~~~~~-----------------------------------------P-A~G~E~5 
I'd like to thank my Mother, my Co -workers, my pet Guana 
by T. C. Treanor 
Something old, something new, something borrowed, and something blue look the 19XO At:ademy awards by force tonight in the sometimes tear-filled llollcywood Bowl. 
The Something Old was John Whine, the fat hut balding sex symbol who last night at:t:epted his first Academy award ever for his "best actor" performance in the box-office smash "Gritface." 
Whine, who has been acting since 1863, won his first award in an emotion-packed atmosphere. Appearing before the crowd-sober this lime-Whine, thanked everyone involved in the production of "Gritface-" From the producers on down to the darkies who swept up," and promised to "trade in the oscar at a pawnshop for a tank," which he in tends to use against the University of California at Berkley. Then, inexplicably, this :?.50-pound he-man broke down and cried. When asked to comment about this later, Whine said, "I would have cried a lot more if they had passed me up again." 
In "Gritface," the one-eyed, drunken Whine played a one-eyed drunken lawman. 
The something blue was "Midnight Sawhorse," the movie that rated the studio's controversial "OW" rating and the Academy Award as "Best Movie." The "OW" rating which admits no one under eighty-five without a pacifier," was awarded to the film because of a scene in which the heroine is brutally raped and murdered by a rhinocerous. 


New Editor Tremor e•lht relulq at home in this candid shot. 
Formaldehyde shortage forces editorial change 
Editor-in-Chief Dave Bach yesterday reluctantly announced that T.C. Treanor would become Dave Stauffer's successor as Features Editor. 
"He (Stauffer) was beginning to stink," Bach reported, commenting on the three-weeks-dead Stauffer's removal. "The Student Government people were complaining." 
Treanor won the position by defeating two crippled nuns in an arm-wrestling tournament. "That last one was tough," he said, commenting on the tourney, "but we were running out of formelda­hyde for Stauffer and somebody had to do something." 
Stauffer will be interred in the 

Executive Editorship later this week. 
Treanor, who was interred quite some 
time ago, commented on the type of page 
he wished to develop. 
"We will foster search for the truth, 

community, and constant ego gratifica­
tion, particularly the latter. This is only 
the first of many." 
When told that "latter" implies two elements, Treanor reportedly com­mented, "shut the hell up." 
The story concerns the everyday battles of two ideological eunuchs in New York City. One of the film's songs, "Nobody's Talking," by the Silent 
••• And 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -It was early Sunday morning, and two old hand Washington Democrats were leaning against a wall outside an after dinner party roo.n in the Statler Hotel. One of the Democratic pros in the hallway ­there was no room inside the suite -said to his colleague, "God knows what sort of image Nixon could take into 1972 -it might be murderous." 
What produced this left-handed compliment was this: 
At the end of the Gridiron Club's annual dinner, after the traditional toast to the Chief executive, President Nixon did not make the customary response from his place at the head table. Instead, he walked in semi-darkness around the banquet room to center stage. What's more, he took Vice President Spiro T. Agnew along. 
The lights came up again and Nixon was standing, beaming in the spotlights, offering to prove that Agnew was, indeed, a man of his own spirit and direction. First the President and Agnew did what nightclub and TV afficionados would call a standup routine. The President propounded questions designed to show Agnew's utter freedom of expression and action. And the vice president answered with meek positive expressions, the personification of a yes man. Curtains behind them parted to disclose two upright pianos. Nixon wanted to show 


Box kite bugs controllers 
LINCOLN, Neb. (UPI) -Would you believe a 6 foot by 4 foot kite at 2,200 feet? 
Air traffic controllers didn't and neither did a few pilots who had to dodge the unbelievable thing. 
But Lincoln police did when they investigated d and found II University of Nebraska students taking advantage of gusty winds and dry weather to get the huge box kite airborne. 

Majority, was also up for an award, but lost. The something New was Goldie Hawk, MGM's newest smiling Syncophant. Upon 

rece1vmg the award, Miss llawk gushed for a solid half hour, providing a real mess for the janitors to clean up. 
The something borrowed was the brain of a chimpanzee, used by sexpot Rachel Welcher. Miss Welcher gibbered through fifteen minutes of introduction, bouncing around the stage and managing to drop her lines, three cue cards, and an oscar. 
Comedian Bob Hopeless again quipped his way through the presentation, in a performance marred only by a string of Woodrow Wilson jokes that seemed to be lost on the younger set. 
The awards also featured a dramatic reading by David Eisenhower and a song-and-dance routine by Circuit-Judge-turned-star G. · Harrold Carswell. It was interesting to note that both Eisenhower and Carswell received four votes for "best actor." 
Special awards were given to the fifty-three people who stayed through the marathon production. 
The awards, held late this year because of the oscar maker's strike, managed to honor every film made with a budget over $150.00. Included were: Lipth Thorenthon, who received the award as "most malicious cute five-year old," for his performance in "'Family Affront," the never-ending screen adaptation fo the revered television series: director Igamar Bird, ·•tho was "most graphically Obscene," in his movie, "I am Burple Purple," and director Sid Snerd, "least 
graphically  Obscene,"  for  his  effort,  
"Blind Man's Buff."  
"Champagne  Keeps  Falling  in  my  

Gizzard," won the award as best song, and the award for "most innovative film" went to "Birth of a Nation." 
now, here's Spiro 
that an administration that plays together stays together. 
After denying vehemently, as one of the Gridiron skits had maintained, that his administration had a Southern strategy, Nixon then attempted a series of piano duets with Agnew, choosing a medley of tunes which had been presidential favorites over the years since the New Deal. 
With each song, however, to the President's feigned shock, Agnew ended up playing "Dixie." 

They finally reached a point of musical agreement and played a thumping version of "God Bless America" which brought the staid audience to its feet, singing loudly. The Nixon-Agnew team closed out the evening with the Gridiron's traditional goodnight song "Auld Lang 
Syne." 

All of which was what the Democratic pros were talking about. How do you lick a piano act playing "God Bless America?" 

r 
THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1970

t 

I I 
I 


t Stalin's daughter weds American architect 
PHOENIX, Ariz. (UPI)­Svetlana Alliluyeva, the daughter of Soviet dictator Josef Stalin, said yesterday her marriage to a promin en t architect will being lier closer to American life and she hopes to become a U.S. citizen. 
Miss Alliluyeva, 44, who defected from the Soviet Union in 1967, married William Wesley Peters, 57, in a private ceremony near here Tuesday. 

At a news conference yesterday, the couple described their meeting only three weeks ago when Miss Alliluyeva came to visit Taliesin West, the 
Hair Styling
for N.D. Men the Continental W•y 
Razor Cutting & Style European Layer Shaping for Long Hair Have Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed serve & pamper you. 

Continental Hair Styling
306 Sherland lliJ_;: . . South Ben(\ Ind. 
STUDENT RATES
2340811 
ByAppt. 

architectural school of the late Frank Lloyd Wright. 
Peters is chief architect for Talesin Associated Architects, the organization which has carried on the. Wright Foundation's work. He had been an associate of Wright since 193 2 and was formerly married to the Wright's eldest daughter, also named Svetlana. She was, killed in an auto accident in Wisconsin in 1946. 
Miss Alliluyeva decided to visit Taliesin West and the Wright "family" after corresponding with another Wright daughter, Iovanna, who lives here with her mother. The Kremlin born Svetlana said she moved by the "unique quality" of Miss Wright's letters and the coincidence of the name of the sister who was killed. 
Called "Miraculous" Mrs. Frank Lloyd Wright, also a native Russian, told reporters she felt a "closeness" to Miss Alliluyeva from the moment they first met. 
Peters siad his decision to marry the attractive Miss Alliluyeva came about through the "almost miraculous circumstances." 
He recounted her defection from her homeland in protest against lack of freedom and said it seemed more than coincidence that she had found her way to 
Taliesin West. which he described as "the essence of American democracy." 
She said she felt it is "a hopeless dream" to try to bring her children by her first two marriages to this country. "But I hope some day we eventually will be reunited here," she said. 

The new Mrs. Peters said it will be "in God's hands" whether they have children of their own. 
Goldie Hawn 



given Oscar 
LONDON (UPI)-"My mo­
ther told me when I got the role 
that I was going to get an 
award," giggled Goldie Hawn. 
"Myself, I just didn't believe it 
at first, but now I do." 
She was the "surprise" winner 
of the Oscar for best supporting 
actress as the dizzy blonde in a 
love triangle in her first motion 
picture, "Cactus Flower." 
Didn't Believe It Miss Hawn 
told UPI during an interview at 
Shepperton Studios outside Lon­
don, "I didn't believe it, I didn't 
think I was going to get it. 
"You know, I was up against some pretty stiff competition and so forth and I went to bed. I woke up very excited and 1 didn't believe it." 
She said she first heard the news when "AI Newman from Columbia Pictures called me as soon as he heard. That was 6 a.m." 
"After thinking about it definitely believe it now, it's pretty nice. It's very important and it's a great thing and I feel very honored,"she said. 
"An interesting thing is that 
when I got the part and told mother, she said, "You're gonna win an award for that,' and I siad, 'C'mon mother,' 1 mean it's mother talking right. But she insisted and I said, 'Ok, we'll see' and left it at that and now look what happened. 
Goldie occasionally let out her now famous "scatter brained giggle" of the "Laugh In" television show, when speaking of her Oscar. 
"My husband says he's going to mount it on my car giggle. he said he's going to mount it on the hood long giggle, but he better not," she said. 
When she called her parents in Tacoma Park, Md., outside Washington D.C., she said her mother told her "I can't pull daddy off the ceiling." 

Return address needed on mail 
Brother John Schulte of the Notre Dame '"(reasury Off'ice has informed the Observer that his office has been receiving a large number of returned letters mailed by Notre Dame students without return addresses. 
Brother John requests that students indicate their names and return addresses on the envelope in order to insure proper handling of their mail. 

Month of May 
A Failable for Mav 4 4 bedroom huus~ sleeps 10 fireplace priJ!ate beach on Lake Michigan near Warren Dunes State Park 

Call Mr. Christiansen: DAYS, Niles 683-5300; EVENINGS. WEEK­ENDS, (616) 426·4174 
THURSDAY, APRIL9,1970 TilE OBSERfJER PAGE 7 



Mattingly's measles may mar moon miSSIOn 
CAPE KENNEDY (Un) -the measles in space if launched is delayed until the next launch crewmen, veteran James A. that they would get it." Space Agency officials said Wed­Saturday. opportunity, May 9, it . would Lovell and Fred W. Haise, were "The latest analysis indicates nesday they were considering co~t taxpayers $800,000, the found to be immune to German that command module pilot substituting a backup astronaut Delay Costly Space Agency said. measles, a' common children's Thomas K. Mattingly has no
.

for Thomas K. Mattingly whose disease. Alii three were exposed immunity to this disease," the susceptibility to the m1:asles If the $375 million expedition The other two Apollo 13 to the measles last week when Space Agency said in a mid daythreatened a one month delay in backup astronaut Charles Duke statement. "This finding creates 
the Apollo 13 moon landing! 
-fell ill with the disease. the possibility that unless there 
mission. 
Dr. Charles A. Berry, the is a change in Mattingly's condi­
Apollo medical director, said tion between now and launch
Public affairs officer Alfred 

Today's Agenda 
Monday that if tests ·on the he could develop German mea~
Alibrando said backup command 
astronauts' blood showed that sics in space.."
module pilot John L. Swigert 
was under consideration as a possible substitute for Satur­day's launch. 
Swigert, he said, appears im­mune to the measles and " is fairly well prepared" for the mission."Whether we go with him or not, that decision has not been reached," Alibrando said. Such a switch would mark the first time in U.S. space history that a backup pilot was called upon to fly a mission under such conditions. On one of the Gemini flights the two prime crewmen were killed several weeks before the launch in a plane crash and the backup crew flew the space mission. 
Doctors, however, were con­tinuing to make new laboratory tests to determine if Mattingly's condition has changed from tests run earlier Wednesday. Physi­cians said the tests showed 
Mattingly could become ill with 
Nixon .......• 'disappointed ' 
(continued from page IJ 
to integrate it, and his record as a judge whose opinions were reversed more often than is usual-summed up as "the mediocrity issue"-combined to defeat him. • 
Nixon put his political pres­tige on the line-and doubtless offended some senatorial sensi­tivities-when late in the contro­versy he accused Carswell's op­
The afternoon agenda is as follows: 
John Barkett, President of Morrissey Hall, Introduction. 
1:15 p.m. 

Jim Motschall, President of Fisher Hall, Description of a typical hall. 
Tom Suddes, President of Holy Cross Hall, What's 1:25 p.m. 
1:35 p.m. good about hall life. 
Reverend Thomas E. Chambers, Rector Morrissey
1:45 p.m. Hall, Role of the Rector. 
Reverend James L. Shilts, Rector Farley Hall, Role
1:55 p.m. of the Rector. 

Dr. John Houck, Student Life Counci'l Member,
2:05p.m. General Concerns about Hall Life. 
Reveredn Daniel Boland, Counseling Center
2:15p.m. 

Administration Building, Counseling and Hall Life. Reverend Maurice Amen, Rector Flanner Tower,
2:25p.m. The ideal hall. 

Orlando Rodriquez, Vice President Morrissey Hall, 
2:35p.m. 

Effects of drinking and parietal hours legislation. 2:45p.m. Reverend James Riehle, Dean of Students, Effects of drinking and parietal hours legislation. 
10 minute break. 3:05p.m. Rick Urda, Student, Judicial System. 
2:55p.m. 

Mike Lindburg, President of Breen Phillips Hall, Hall Government. 
Reverend Jerome Wilson, Vice President for 
3:15p.m. 
3:25p.m. 

Business Affairs, Hall Facilities. Reverend Ernest Bartell, Asst. Rector Flanner
3:35p.m. 

Tower, General Concept of Hall life. Ray Connell, Student, Individuality versus
3:45p.m. 

responsibility. John Barkett, President of Morrissey Hall,
3:55p.m. Summary. 

any of the pilots were without Berry said earlier that measles disease fighting measles anti-"certainly could" disable a bodies, "the odds are very high moon pilot. 
UN strives for peace 
(continued from page 1) for passage. MUN to "recognize that the When Kelly announced the government of the present appeal vote as 17-14 with 3 Chinese delegation represents abstensions not to hold the chair. the people of their respective the Israeli delegation called for a island known as the Nation of quorum check. Even though the Taiwan." necessary quorum of half the 
The amendment resolution member nations had not voted was passed 25-14. in the appeal Kelly ruled that 
The amended resolution was the vote was legal since the passed 25-14 amid controversy quorum call had come too late. over the number of required eye Since further business was im­votes and the quorum present possible, the session adjourned. 
and Red Chinese delegation was seated. Kelly had originally ruled that the resolution required a 
· two-thirds majority vote for passage, but an appeal resulted in only a simple majority needed 

For Sale 
Fender Super-reverb 
amp. and Gibson semi-· 
hollow guitar. 2 pick­
ups. 

Best offer phone 1754 
SH 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC AND CONYOCATION CENTER 


PLUS STATLER BROS.* CARL PERKINS CARTER FAMILY * TOMMY CASH 
ponents of challenging his con­stitutional authority to appoint 
Supreme Court justices. 
In the llouse of Representa­tives. lalk revived even before the Senate vote of impeaching Justice William 0. Douglas, at­ta<.:ked for his former links with 
a toundat 10n which hstetl a Las Vegas gambling casino among its sources of income. 
Impeachment proceedings were not considered a serious possibility. A House impeach­ment is comparable to a grand jur~ indictment. In such a case, the Senate would sit in judgment of Douglas. No justice has ever 
Only $2. 75 Upper Arena 

Open Discussion until 5:00 p.m. (All students
4:05p.m. 
invited.) 

Tickets Remain Tickets at ACC Box Office 
Applications now being accepted for: 


STUDENT UNION 
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR 
Due Thurs. April 9 
''Where Quality Counts" 

MINORITY STUDENT DIRECTOR 

TOMPSETT 


been removed from the 
Studio 

bench. 
122 N. Michigan 233-6157 

Sales Representative 

ACADEMIC COMMISSIONER 
Excellent current and long-range opportunity for 

SERVICES COMMISSIONER 
man with Art history or Art background. Previous sales experience desirable but not necessary. Must be 

SOCIAl. COMMISSIONER 
Due Fri. April 10
capable of dealing effectively with college students and f acuity. 

COMPTROllER (Treasurer)
Salary and commission plus benefits. Automobile provided. Extensive travel. Send confidential resume to: 

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY (Public Relations) 
Ferdinand 

In Application Include Reason Why You Desire Position
ROTEN GALLERIES 
123 W. Mulberry Street 

Send applications to: Robert Pohl (c/o Student Government) 
Baltimore, Maryland 21201 Box 427 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

--------------------------------·-·----· -----·~-----------' 
7118 OBSERUER. THURSDAY, APRIL 9. 1970 
First spring weekend a busy one 
This will be the first of many 
Baseball

busy spring weekends for Notre Dame athletes. No less than four varsity teams will be in action. Clarence J. "Jake" Kline's Also numerous club teams plan boys will travel to Bowling 
to battle over Saturday and Green for a two game series on Sunday. Friday and Saturday. The Irish 
JIM MURRAY 
Verdict First1 Trial Later 
<rJ 1970, LO$ An!leles Times 

To some of us, the commiSSIOner of all baseball had two 

choices--he had either to suspend Denny McLain for life; or 
legalize gambling. 
His decision is one of the classic under-the-rug sweeps of history. 

Even for baseball, it is a monumental equivocation, in fact, even for 
Alice in Wonderland. The verdict first, the trial afterward. 
The times call for compassion, he had said. The times apparently 

call· for carte blanche. Denny McLain got the kind of "punishment" 
you would expect for a curfew violation. · 
It's not that I think the punishment is too lenient. I think it's too 

severe. Clearly, the commissioner of all baseball does not consider 
buying into a bookmaking establishment any more serious than 
missing the bunt sign. I had an uncle who went to jail for it once, 
but, in baseball, it's apparently considered a legitimate outside 
activity--like posing for deodorant ads. 
I think this is what comes of putting a lawyer in as czar of 

baseball. Naturally, a good lawyer is never going to find for the 
plaintiff, or the state, or the government. He's going to find for the 
defendant. 
Under the adversary system of law, society is armed only with a set of codes it cannot understand, ambiguous at best, incoherent at worst. Compound this with a crafty counselor who holds that under no circumstances should an individual be held accountable for his own actions, that the blame should be shifted to the guy who left his key in the car, to society, to chromosomes, or to the atomic bomb, and you can see that, to the legal mind, what Denny McLain did or did NOT do was, at most, trifling. The cummissioner must really be irritated at Denny that he did not d(J something really serious so that the commissioner could really show his magnanimity. 
Retribution is in disfavor anyway with social scientists. They point out that it has not wiped out crime in 5,000 years, and it may be forgiveness will succeed where punishment didn't. 
They have a point there. Retribution has never deterred the 2% of the po;:mlation who turn to crime. Of course, what we do NOT know is, how many of the remaining 98% would have joined them had they not feared retribution? 
But, with the word "felony" fading out of the lexicography, baseball may have to substitute a statute titled "misdemeanor throwing-of-games" and note that it is punishable by being sent to your room or being forced to pick up the locker room towels for a week. 
I find it interesting that Denny McLain's teammates are as shocked by the pusillanimity of Denny's wrist slap as the Watch & Ward Society. Presumably, a couple of them have had occasion to throw a character in a pinstripe suit out the door a few times for waiving a fistful of bills under their noses and suggesting they drop a few fly balls or walk a few guys with the bases loaded. 
Maybe a jury of his peers would be less lenient with a suspected player than a man who is more concerned that the neighbors find out than he is with the mischief itself. 
I think some system of getting at the facts, and laying them before the public, would be better than the locked-door chamber confrontation with the emergence a few hours later with the announcement "Charlie says he didn't do it." 
The trouble with compassion is, it cannot be retroactive. So, on the day Denny McLain takes the mound again, let's, at least, lay a wreath on the grave of Shoeless Joe Jackson and the rest of the Black Sox, re-admit their records to the book, and put them in the Hall of Fame. After all, all they did was go in partners with a bookie, too. 
Suns at L.A. tonight 

There is only one divisional Saturday night in New York. semifinal left unsettled in the 
Division Semifina-ls National Basketball Association. 
Best of Seven Los Angeles and Phoenix will East need the seven games to decide 
W L Pet. the winner in the West semifinal. 
xNew York 4 3 .571 The seventh game was necessi­

Baltimore 3 4 .429 tated Tuesday night when the Lakers upended the upstart 
xMilwaukee 4 I .800 Phoenix club I 04-93. This will 
Philadelphia I 4 .200 be played this evening in Los West· Angeles. W L Pet. The winner of this series will xAtlanta 4 I .800 then meet the AtL.nta Hawks in Chicago I 4 .200 the Western final. In the East, New York and Phoenix 3 3 .500 Milwaukee have won their semi­Los Angeles 3 3 .500 finals and their first clash will be 
xClinches series on Sunday, however.

suffered a disastrous trip to in the Florida tourney with a Wayne State will provide theFlorida over Easter vacation and score of 314 over 72 holes at opposition for the Irish. Thethey'll be trying to get back on Cape Coral and Golden Gate. 
match will be held at the Stepan
the winning track in the north. Freshman Martin Best was next Bill Orga, last year's leading with 315 and carded 7 3 in the Center field. The varsity record is anhitter, and improved Phil Krill first round for ND's low single impressive 3-0. The cluL has(of Erie) have been the bright round score. 
survived two overtime rna tc:'es 
spots in an otherwise gloomy Other standouts for the Irish so far this season.
spring. were Robert Battaglia, 319; Kenny Lund, Tim McHugh,
The team record stands at l-5. Mike LaFrance, 321; Bill Cven­gros, 322; and Jim Dunn, 326. 
Bob Perry and Jerry Kammer have been a few of the moreTennis outstanding performers for the 
Irish so far this spring. 
Rugby

The tennis team, fresh off of a big win over Purdue will travel to Evanston, Ill. to play another The Notre Dame Rugby Club Track
was inactive over Easter break

Big Ten foe in Northwestern. 
this year but the ruggers did

Sophomore Buster Brown, The track team will partici­
Mike Reilly, Rob O'Malley, and add one victory before leaving pate in its second relays event 
for home. Penn State was the

freshmen Rob Schefter and Gil this weekend. Coach Alex Wil­
Irish second victim of the sea­

Theisson all registered victories son's squad will travel to Athens, 
son. The Nittany Lions were

over their Boilermaker Ohio to participate in the Ohio 
sent away on the short end of an

opponents. Relays. The netters record this season 11-0 count. The win came two The Irish have been hamperedweeks ago on March 24 at home.
is a promising 3-2. by some minor injuries to a 
Palmer Chiropractic School 

number of its runners and their 
will be the next opponent for 

success on the cinders is a bit 
ND as the two clubs will battle 

uncertain.
Golf 
on Saturday at Stepan Center. The record for the Irish now 

The Notre Dame golf team stands at 2-0-l. 
Football

will compete against approxi­mately 1 2 teams in the Bob The first big scrimmage of
lacrosse

Kepler Invitational at Ohio State the spring football season should this weekend, after taking 19th The Notre Dame Lacrosse take place Saturday afternoon at place out of 40 in the Gulf Club's varsity squad or first team Cartier Field. The skirmish will American Classic over vacation. has the weekend off. The "B" bring to an end the first week of 
Bob Wilson was ND's low man team or junior varsity will play drills. 
The Masters begins today 
AUGUSTA, Ga. UPI-Even Support for four time champ Gay Brewer: none of the men though it backfired last year, Arnold Palmer. who have won the Masters since Billy Casper plans to play it nice As for defending champion the Palmer Nicklaus string was and easy again in the Masters George Archer, 1968 champion snapped three years ago have golf tournament. Bob Goalby or 1967 champion had much to crow abput since. Casper, one of the all time greats of the '60's but never a winner here in 13 tries, came 
-Ted Green's trial 
within a stroke of winning the Masters last year after leading OTTAWA (UPI) Ted swinging battle with forward for three rounds. Green's (Boston Bruins defense­Wayne Maki of the St. Louis 
"There was nothing wrong man) lawyer expected to try a Blues. with my plan last year," the 38 double-barrelled argument to Crown Prosecutor John Cas­year old Californian insisted. "I prevent his client from becoming sels said he would argue that simply ran into a little bad luck the first National Hockey "consent" was not a sufficient on that final front nine and League player ever convicted of defense for an l!Ssault charge. didn't have enough time left to assault for a fight during a game. Referee Ken Bodendistel was make it up." Edward J. Houston, defending scheduled to return to the wit­
The Masters begins its 34th Green on a charge of common ness stand when court resumes. run over the par 72, 6,980 yard assault before Provincial Court Two photographers, Robert Augusta National this morning. Judge Michael Fitzpatrick, said Carroll of United Press Inter­
Since they weren't able to he would argue that the charge national and high school student practice yesterday afternoon, was invalid because hockey Ted Grant, were called to the the 83 entrants, including 16 players "consent" to the danger witness stand Tuesday to present foreigners and more than a of fights during games. photographs they took during dozen amateurs in a field weaker In addition, the lawyer said he the fight. than the usual PGA tournament, planned to produce a witness Carroll and Grant said they will take part in a pitch and putt who would testify that Green did not see tl1e alleged spearing contest on an adjoining par 3 was "speared" prior to his stick incident. course. 
The firing is scheduled to be­gin at 9 a.m. EST and, in keep­
MAJOR LEAGUES 
ing with a long masters tradition, 
National League American League
the first twosome off the tee will 
East East 
include 87 year old Freddy 
W. Pet. GBL. Pet. GB

McLeod, the 1908 U.S. Open w. L. 
Baltimore 2 0 1.000 ...
New York 1 0 1.000 ...

champion, and 85 year old Jock 
Philadelphia 1 0 1.000 ... Boston 1 0 1.000 ...
Hutchinson, the 1920 PGA 
St. Louis 1 0 1.000 ... *Detroit 1 1 .500 % champ. y,
Pittsburgh 0 1 .000 1 *Wash. 1 1 .500 Chicago 0 1 .000 1 0 1
The field will be cut to the New York .000 1 low 44 scorers, and ties, and Montreal 0 2 .000· 1% Cleveland 0 2 .000 2 anyone else still within 10 West West strokes of the 36 hole leader w. L. Pet. GB w. L. Pet. GB 
after the second round Friday. *Cincinnati 2 0 1.000 ... California 2 0 1.000 ... 
*Houston 1 0 1.000 y, Minnesota 1 0 1.000 ..>
The final two rounds, Saturday 
San Diego 0 1.000 y, *Oakland 1 0 1.000 ...
and Sunday, are being nationaly 
*Los Angeles 0 .000 1% Chicago 0 .000 1
televised CBS with no area 
Atlanta 0 .000 1% *Kansas CityO .000 1
blackout as prevailed here prior 
*San Fran. 0 .000 1% Milwaukee 0 2 .000 2 to last year. *night game not included 
St. Louis 7 Montreal 2

Three time champion Jack California 6 Milwaukee 1 
Cincinnati at Los Angeles, night

Nicklaus, only man to win the Baltimore 3 Cleveland 2 
Atlanta at San Diego, night

Masters two year in a row Oakland 1 Kansas City 0 (6th inn.)
Houston at San Francisco, night 

Detroit 0 Washington 0 (6th inning)
1965,66; South Africa's Gary Player, only foreigner to win here 1961 ; and non winning but long hitting Tom Weiskopf, who has been under par in his last seven Masters rounds, are figured along with Casper as this year's favorites. And there's always 
L_______________________________________________________________________ _ 







