Schedule for Communiversity see Pg. 2 


VOL. IV, NO. 126 
At 2:30 today 

Academic Council to hold meeting 
A spedal meeting of the A~:ademic Council of the Uni­versity will be held al 2:30 this afternoon to consider the Aca­demic Freedom proposal sub­mitted at last Thursday's general student meeting. 
The proposal would grant studt:n ts who wish to discon­tinue classes the option of laking either the h.:tter grade they presently hold as their final grade or a pass-fail grade. The proposal also suggests that in "classes where the pass-fail alter­native is chosen, that grading method will apply to all students wishing to discontinue." 
The decision as to which option would be taken would be decided by the individual faculty members in ~:onjunction with his class. 
The proposal will allow for the continuation of regularly s~:heduled classes for those mem­bers of the student body who feel a commitment to do so. 
As submitted to the student assembly Thursday, the petition stressed, "It is the purpose of this proposal to present an alternative, positive approach for the continuation of the educa­tive process at the University of Notre Dame, whkh will not hinder the a~:ademic freedom of any student but will also con­tinue activities in the spirit of the strike -con~:erning the Amerit:an military escalation in Indo-China." 
There will be a rally on the main quad at I:30 before the Council convenes at 2:30. 
Student Body President Dave KrJ.shna will int10duce tile speakers and voice Student Government support for the proposal. Bob Schmuhl will read the proposal itself. Jim Leary will discuss the campus-wide at:tivities that will he substituted fnr normal class routine. Steve Preston will attempt to explain the proposal in the wake of similar actions taken at other universities across the nation. 
Copies of the petition will be distributed at the I: 30 rally and will be posted in Library, Nieuw­land and O'Shaughnessy HaJls, the business and engineering buildings and in strike head­quarters in LaFortune for signa­tures. 
The members of the Council arc the President of the Univer­sity, the Executive Vice Presi­dent, ;,II other Vice Presidents, the Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs, the Chairman of the Faculty Senate, the Assistant Vice President for Academic Affairs, the Deans, the Diret:tors of the University In­stitutes, the Director of the Libraries, the Director of Ad­missions, all of whom are mem­bers ex-officio, and elected faculty members in number equal to that of the ex-officio positions. 
As of 6:00 last night, Schmul said, 1558 students had been contacted on campus. Of these 1382 signed the petition fav­oring the proposal. Schmul said, this means about 88% of the students contacked have signed the proposal. 

011/ege CiJIIImunity MONDAY, MAY 11,1970 

16,000 Sign 


Petition Goins Support 
by ~teve Effler 
Last night, Fred Dedrick out­lined the scope and future of the canvassing effort generated hy President Nixon's recent action in Indo-China. Dedrick ex­plained that although the can­vassers have so far collected approximately 16,000 signatures to Fr. Hesburgh's anti-war peti­tion, the long range plans will be less parochial in aim. 
College campuses across the country are becoming centers for the propagation of a bill in the US Senate sponsored by Senators Goodell, Hatfield, Bayh and McGovern. This effort has its National office at Harvard, and regional office here at Notre Dame. The bill would call for a cessation of Military funds for 

U of W Head Opts for Discussion 
MADISON, Wis (UPI) ­An alternative to closing the troubled University of Wisconsin campus were announced yester­day by Chancellor H. Edwin Young who said a total effort will he made to examine critical issues through rational dis­cussions.' The announcement came during the calm that settled over the campus during the weekend after nearly a week of violent clashes between antiwar protes­tors and law enforcement officers. Radical Abbie Hoffman, a member of the "Chicago Seven," was to speak last night at a rally denouncing U.S. inolvement in Southeast Asia and the killing of four Kent State University students last week. Young, who Saturday refused to close the campus in the face of threats to do so by radical students and a faculty minority, det:lared the week beginning today a "week of concern and involvement." He said he made his decision 
after receiving many suggestions on how to handle the crises and said he was "particularly conscious of the views of the faculty expressed on Friday." 
"Today and Tuesday I call on members of the university community, students and faculty, to devote themselves to examination of critical issues and take part in rational discussions Young said. "Academic pursuits which cannot be postponed may continue and others may be made up May 26-27." 
Young said the governor and congressmen will he invited to participate in campus events during the last three days of the school week. He did not say what those events would he. 
Young said a campus poll would be taken for individuals to make their views known and he was asking the faculty to reschedule any exams this week to a later date. 
Young said President Fred H. Harrington has also offered the use of all university fa~o:ilities to "carry highlights of the Madison t:ampus programs to other UW Campuses and people of the state." Young also said he was asking local radio and television time to elaborate on plans for this week as they evolve. 
The lull gave university administrators and student leaders a chance to discuss the situation Saturday night in a closed meeting. 
Afterward, UW Chancellor H. Edwin Young announced the 35,000 student campus would remain open despite moves by a minority of the faculty and threats by radical students to 
close it.~·--------------------, 
HARTKE TO SPEAK 
Senator Vance Hartke, dovish democrat from Indiana, will speak in Stepan Center this evening at 8:00. Bob Pohl, head of the Student Union, arranged for Senator Hartke to speak here. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh will introduce Senator Hartke. The Senator's speech will be concerned with the events of the last week. A question and answer period will follow his speech. 
Cambodian operations by July 
first of this year. All funds for 
Indo-Chinese warfare would end 
by July first of next year. 
With the change of emphasis, 
Dedrick said that the canvass 
would go on. Despite what may 
happen to the strike itself, the 
goal of canvassing the whole of 
South Bend's 43,000 homes and 
St. Joseph County's 83,274 will 
be pursued. 
In addition there will be leafleting campaigns downtown tomorrow urging attendence at the speech to be given by Senator Vance Hartke at the Stepan Center tonight at 8:00. Dedrick also mentioned an up­coming speech by historian Staughton Lynd but did not indicate any definite plans for its treatment by the canvassing group. 
When asked about the effect of the approaching end of the school year on the efforts of the group, Dedrick was optimistic about long term benefits. He claimed that most of the 20 organizers and the hard core of about 300 canvassers should be back next year. Dedrick said organization would be available for the support of Liberal candidates Hartke and Brademas. 
One important aspect of the campaign for those who don't come back next year will be the projected discussion of organiza­tional aspects slated for the end of the school year. The ex­perience of the group here at Notre Dame should be useful for those who wish to mount similar campaigns in whatever Con­gressional district next November finds them in, he said. 
In the massive effort of canvassing 25,000 homes so far, Dedrit:k said that project has had "the cooperation of a lot of great students" both in the office and in the field. In talking to some of the canvassers from Fisher, it seems that their reactions were equally favorable. One senior called it the "most important educational ex­meeting the famous "middle American" and showing him that the stereotype of the concerned student as lawless radical was not true. 

perience"  he  has  nad  since  
coming  to  Notre Dame. Others  
mentioned  the  satisfaction  at  

NDmldwest Info HQ for econ boycott 
by Tom Huffendick 
Notre Dame has been esta­blished as the Midwest Regional Clearing House for Information on the Economic Boycott. States in the Notre Dame region include Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Kentucky, North Dakota, and South Dakota. 
According to Mike Fallon, one of the Clearing House coordinators, at least 40 schools introduced proposals for an economic boycott last week, but NO, U.C.L.A., and Massachusetts' Clark University emerged to lead it. C'lark will coordinate the boyt:Ott national­ly, while U.C.L.A. will function as West Coast headquarters. 
Dick Gregory has been select­ed as Honorary National Coordi­nator for the effort. Gregory, who has long supported sut:h a boycott, was contacted Saturday night by two Notre Dame students, Mike Shaugnessy and Steve Raymond. 

The boycott's purpose is two­fold, according to the Clearing House. First, it is intended to exert economic pressure upon specific, youth oriented com­panics to gain their support in Congress for withdrawal of American troops in Southeast Asia. 
The boycott is also intended to encourage the curtailment of the purt:hase of items which 
Continued on page 2 

PAGE 2 711E OBSERIJER , MONDAY, MAY 11, 1970 



McGrath states opposition to Viet war 
by Jeanne Sweeney 

Father  John  J.  McGrath,  
president  of  St.  Mary's,  
addressed  the  SMC  community  
yesterday  afternoon at the sug­ 

gestion of the Academic Affairs Council and the students from the Strike Committee. 
First commenting on his own personal attitude toward war, Father McGrath said that during the first World War he had served and had not been a pacifist. He said "I didn't like the military service and I didn't like to see men killed." But he was convinced that what they' had done was necessary. 
After the Korean war of attrition he said "I felt we should never again get into a situation like the Korean war." 
Father McGrath said that he had been "against the war. in Viet Nam since it started. He also commented on our escala­tion in Cambodia as a mistake. 
He said that there was very little difference of opinion be­tween the strikers and himself concerning the fact that the war should be brought to an end as soon as possible. 
Concerning the situation at St. Mary's, he said "I am extremely pleased with several things." He approved of the non-violent nature of the strikers and said the community was doing things in an intelligent way. 
He said "it is remarkable the real intellectual conflict which has taken place." McGrath also said he was pleased that people have had an opportunity to express themselves. He added that it was unfortunate that people only become concerned in a crisis of this type. 
McGrath said that the college and the umversity were meant to be a place where America thinks and he added that what we are thinking is certainly getting attention. 
Father McGrath said that his obligation in times like these as 
... 
~­
'il'. ···~ 
. ~..(~ ..... 
....,.,._.. 
. . . ' 

~· ~;, 
10:00 and 
11:00 am 

president of a college was to keep this community open..He said "it is my first obligation as president to keep alive and in continuing dialogue." 
He added that it was impor­tant that we do not trample on the tights of our fellow students and faculty. Students who were committed to very strong action, he said must be free to do this, without fear of disiplinary ac­tions if they chose to withdraw from school for the rest of the semester. 
Concerning the cut policy Me Grath said he was not about to tell a professor what his policy should be or to interfere with his academic rights. Concerning some student's fears that their teachers will f1unk them because of their political views, McGrath said that he had .confidence that his faculty would not flunk a student who doesn't think that way. 
After talking to the students, 

McGrath answered questions 
from the students. Carol Cusick 
questioned McGrath about the idea of a Communiversity which is an alternative or supplemen­tary educational and cultural program centering on this national crisis which affects every citizen. lt would be an effort by the academic com­munity to discuss the Indo-China war issues and the communiversity will hopefully join with the outside community in their discussions. 
Concerning the St. Edward's proposal which would permit those who wish to strike to hold informal classes in the morning and in the afternoon go out into the community, McGrath said that such a proposal will be submitted to the Academic Affairs council emergency meeting. 
McGrath was also questioned on the possibility of a student and her teacher working out a special arrangement so that she could strike her classes for the rest of the semester. McGrath said that he did not intend to tell a faculty member what his policy should be. 

Father John McGrath, President of SMC 

Coca-Cola prime target of boycott 
believes that all youth-oriented
Continued from page 2 
industries should be boycotted.
yield substantial revenues to the 
The products of these industries
federal government for the 
include records, movies, cig­
fin. e ng the war. 
arettes, alcohol, and gasoline. 
The primary target of the 

Another facet of the boycott
boycott is the Coca-Cola Cor­
is intended to damage the
poration. In an interview last 
government through the banking
night, Fallon explained why 
system. Fallon said, "Students
Coca-Cola was singled out: 
are urged to close out all savings 
"Coca-Cola produces unneces­

and checking accounts by July
sary luxury items and 75% of its 
4. Savings bonds should also be
profits come from people under 
redeemed," he said.
28. The company also retains a 
Fallon also emphasized the
large lobby in Congress because 
importance of refusing to pay
of its foreign investments and is, 
telephone tax, which goes com­
basically, not a conglomerate. 
pletely to defense spending. He
Because it is not a conglomerate, 
indicated that if enough people
if we do hurt it, it will really 
decline to pay this tax, the
hurt." 
government will be unable to
Though Coca-Cola has been 

prosecute violators.
singled out, the Clearing House 
As far as the local boycott is 
concerned, coordinator Rich Li-circulated among the faculty of bowitz said, "We're in the both the College of Business formative stage." However, he Administration and the De­did mention that the bookstore partment of Economics. The will be picketed, mainly to petition affirms, ;, An economic discourage the sale of rec-boycott is firmly in the tradition ords. Another local acttvtty of the free choice of consumers will be Tuesday's picketing of purchasing in the marketplace." the South Bend Coca-Cola bott-The petition goes on to urge ling plant. Fallon said free RC the local merchants and mem­Cola will be distributed to the hers of the academic community students of the high school that to boycott "products which yeld lies across the street from the revenue for the federal govern­plant. ment to finance thewar effort." 
Three days of economic te-Fallon said 75% of the people ach-ins are also scheduled this approached with the petition week. On Tuesday and Thursday have agreed to sign it. teach-ins will be held in the When asked to predict the halls, and a more comprehensive . possible success of the boycott, program is scheduled Wednes" Fallon said, "I really think it will day. work. It gives the students a 
Meanwhile, a petition is being chance to go out into thecomm-
The Communiversity has been established so that the students, faculty, and the South Bend community 111llY interpret the attendant issues and activities of the strike, 
Film: Ajourney in Self and with hopes to bring clarity to an intense and qiffuse Madeleva-Building political development. All events are free and open to Carroll Hall S.M.C. the public. 
Rally: Academic Amnesty Main Quad 

Panel: Changes In The Univenity WEDNESDAY MAY 13 
Willis Nutting Tom Musial 1:00pmRay Flemming 
S.M.C. Courtyard 

Senator Vance Hartke 3:30pmStepan Center 
TUESDAY MAY 12 
11:111 1111 Conttitutionality of the War Don Kommers Dining Hall Quad, S.M.C. 7:00pm 
On the Nature of Violence Dr. Hutcheson Madaleva Lobby, S.M.C. 8:00pm 
Film: In tbe Year ef the Pig Engineering Auditorium 

Why Ghandi Failed Tim MacCarry Main Quad 9:00pm 
Sanctuary and Resistance Charles McCarthy Joanne Mulert Joe Mulligan 
History of Viet111111 
Rita Cassidy 
Dining Hall Quad, S.M.C. 
Panel: What IThink of the War 
Anton Chroust 
William Storey 
Donald Sneigowski 
Paul Messbarger 
Main Quad 
The University is a Cracker Factory 
Richard Bizot 
LaFortune Ballroom 
Panel: Economic Boycott 
John Houck 
Fr. Lewers Fr. Bartell· Peter Walsh 
Library Auditorium 
War and Existintialism 
THURSDAY MAY 14 
1:00pm 3:30pm 
7:00pm 7:30pm 8:00pm 
Seminar: StaughtM L... Talks to the CanVIIIIIi ­Main Quad 
Law and the War John Williams , (Panel to be announced) Main Quad 
Strike History of South. 811111 Ynll Webre Flanner Pit 
Guerilla Theater Mass Media Exhibition Dining Hall Quad; S.M.C. 
J-Ktnllldy Speaks LaFortune B2llroom 
FRH)AY MAY 15 
1:00pm  Film: In the Year of the Pig Carroll Hall (Madeleva)  
3:30pm  Panel: C.B.W. in Vietnam John Crump George Craig Dow Chemical Representative Dining Room Quad S.M.C.  
7:00pm  Racism and the University (Panel to be announced) Main Quad  


MONDAY, MAY 11, 1970 
711E OBSERVER
-----PAGE 3 
--~---------------·­
~~i~w~.~~ r s it~'"'":~~.~!~: ~E.~ .~·~ ~,! 1 ,h,,~? ~.,.~h~.~.~.~w~~ an~ i n g

'.Yale Umverslty President motivated morally," claimed a .sys~em recogmze this K1ngm an Brewster said response is "going to be heard SituatiOn. -. . yesterday that dissenting either inside or outside the T~e demonstratwns dunng
the past week were the result of
" . 1
a tota feelmg of malaise and a 
. 

total feehng that we do not have 
. .t. . , 

our pnon 1es nght, and what is needed is "some practical mech­anism" that will let the disse­
nters be heard added Father Hesburgh. Brewster, along with Universi­ty of Michigan President Robert Fleming and Father Hesburgh appeared on a special CBS show 
concerning the campuses and the recent crises moderated by Harry Reasoner yesterday after­noon. All 
three presidents 

agreed that the vast majority of dissenting students are dedicated to non-violence and working through the legislative channels and concommitantly the "system" has a responsibility to listen and respond. 
Father l!esburgh said the events of last week provided the " deepest, most-penetrating, all-embracing" crisis in history and the week was one of the most crucial" weeks ever on campus, but was for many 
Father Theodore M. Hesburgh 


Alumni Adopt Resolution 
by Ed Ellis against University President Fr. so far. The Alumni Senate, meeting 
Theodore llesburgh's statement Following Dedrick, the Friday in the Centl!r for Con­
opposing American involvement senators heard Richard Hunter tinuing Education. ht!ard 
in Southeast Asia, and on chairman of the Committee fo; 
lengthly arguments for and Saturday adopted a resolution Academic Freedom, who ex­concerning the statement. The pressed the dissatisfaction of his content of the Alumni reso­group at the closing of the
Letter Drive lution is unavailable at this time. University last Wednesday. In the morning session, Bill Hunter argued that the Univer­
Continues 

Locke, John Zimmerman, and sity should be a place of "free Since Thursday May 7, ap­other student leaders asked the and open discussion" and that proximately 2,096 anti-war let­
Alumni to consider a resolution the closing had limited this endorsing Fr. Hesburgh's state­discussion.
ters have been mailed from the 
ment. Hunter pointed out that hisheadquarters of the Keenan­In the late afternoon session group was not a pro-war group
Stanford letters organization to senators, representatives, bishops Professor Charles McCarthy of or an anti-strike group. They the Non-Violence Program spoke merely opposed University sanc­
and hometown newspapers. 
on the necessity for the Alumni tion of the strike on the grounds
The letters are form letters to gel behind the students and that such sanction denied the
that cite Fr. Heshurgh's recent 
to avoid the polarization pos­right for some students to learnanti-war statement and express sible in a situation such as exists if they so desired.
four requests. The demands are: in the United States today. According to Hunter, he hadI )that the Gulfof Tonkin Reso­
Referring to the situation in no argument against those wholution be revoked; 2)that any 
Southeast Asia, Prof. McCarthy canvass or those who leaflet, but
future appropriations for the stated, "One would have to be he thought that this could be
expansion of the war be wit­
blind not to comprehend the done in the students' apare timehheld; 3) that a complete with­serious consequences of this and did not warrant Universitydrawal he made from Southeast sanctiOn.
Asia; and 4 )an insistance upon matter in our country today ... 
At the luncheon session of the
People like you and I have to
Congressional perogatives in all Alumni meetings,' the Alumni
make every effort to understand
questions concerning the con­Senators heard Guy DeSapiowhat's going on."
duct of the war. 
speak on "What the Students
McCarthy then argued that
The organization is manned Expect of the Alumni." In a

by volunteers under the direc­the three principks of speech that was followed by ation of Doug Daher. Finances "Orthodox Catholic Morality" standing ovation, DeSapio told are maintained by donalions. that determine a "just war" are the group "It is necessary thatAlthough there arc over ISO lacking in the case of American you understand the sentimentsvolunteers, a request was made action in Vietnam. According to of the students on the campusyesterday by Daher's assistant, McCarthy, the principles of "just 
today."
Phil Schatz, for more workers to institution", "just cause", and lie spoke of the changes thathelp stuff, seal, stamp and do '"just rm~ans" are being violated have taken place on campuses all 
other important tasks. Schatz in Indo-China. 
over the country in the last I5also asked that typists bring Former Student Body Vice­years, and stated that the stu­
their typewriters. l'resident Fred Dedrick then dents of today have a "deepThe organization office is gave some of the results of the social concern." 
toea ted in the second floor study canvassing Ihat had been going In closing his talk to the hall of Keenan and Stanford on throughout Thursday and Alumni, DeSapio said that be­llall. Daher said they are work­Friday. He said that over 600 fore they decided to criticize the ing with a $200 budget supplied people had participated and that actions of students on the by contributions from students, nearly three-quarters of the city campuses, they should examine
of South Bend had been covered
faculty and alumni. 
themselves. 
of their lives." there arc too many bullets and The invasion of Cambodia and not enough ballot boxes." He the four Kent State slayings has endorsed the eighteen year
th k th t t th old vote.
were e spar a go e 
t t t k . The three presidents agreed
pro es s of 1as wee m motion 
b t . h that the intensely politically
u t e issues ere . 
, , c u i v e, , an d consciOus students and faculties
1m u 1a 
1 
and their insistence that the

"compounded" by the apparent 
universities lake political standsimpotence of the protesters said

Brewster. on issues posed a serious qucs-The last week "might be a lion to the concept of instilu­tiona! neutrality.
very good thing" and "we can Brewster said he [)c)1·eved
learn from the young" said Heshurgh. "Maybe we should "very deeply" in institutional 
, neutrality, which he considered 
say Thank God that young
Americans have that tender a the "essence of academic free­dom, hut that the indiv1"duals 1"r1
conscience, and may they always
keep it," he added. the university structure "cannot 
Brewster and Fleming con-he voiceless" and " cannot pretend h
curred that what was needed to we ave no convictions 
of our own." bring hack and hold the "We are just alienating a alienated and dissident students whole generation of young 
were actions on the part of the people by not speaking out," government and not merely said Fleming. conciliatory rhetoric,_ Hesburgh felt that the stu­
Brewster suggested that the dents could become politically 
President stop talking about involved without the university 
"victory and defeat" in Viet-becoming politicized, but :tdmit­
nam, a war in which the young ted this was a difficult task. 
he said can see no possible Fleming :tnd Brewster voiced 
benefit for the United States in understanding of the rationale 
continued participation. behind a student strike and a 
More access to the voting nation-wide strike, but consi­
process through the lowering of dered it an "irrational act" and 
the voting age to 18, limitations were not in favor of the idea. 
on congressional seniority, and llesburgh also was against a free television time for candi­strike and said he would not 
dates were also recommended by want the university closed for Brewster. 
the remainder of the academic 

At the risk of oversimplifica­year. The education gainedtion, Hesburgh said that the inside the classroom was deemedfrustrations of the young could by him too valuable to be lostbe summed up by saying that 

On the Strike 

The following is a statement given to the Observer by SMC Student Body President Ann Marie Trace.1_. 
termination date of a "strike" is After the initial registration of 
meaningless. It is merely an protest in union with other 
attempt to band people artifi­cially under a facade of unity.

campuses across the country, the 
perpetration of a "strike" as 
Furthermore, it will only serve such is a negative thing. Only by 
as another open avenue for supplementing it with concrete 
criticism from without. Students moves to change the conditions 
may be deeply involved in the responsible for its beginnings, movement, yet still take tests; such as canvassing door-to-door, 
consequently, the strike, as or the institution of an educa­
many sceptics maintain, is not tional lecture-discussion program 
total, yet in reality its worth and can it have profitable validity. 
impact can only he termed 

Criticism of -a system without successful. attempting to do something An imperative course that the about it only results in personal administration, faculty, and stu­
detriment and maintenance of dents must follow at this point is 
the status quo. 
to insure the condition that 

It is imperative that each colleges deem so important: 
student has the option of mak­academic freedom. Education is 
ing a personal commitment in an not uniquely a matter of class­
individual way. He or she can room experience. Students must 
either attend class supporting or, be free to follow the course they opposing Nixon's policy in Viet­desire, whether it be the right to nam, supplement classes with ·attend class, or not without Communiversity Activities academic penalty. Since only 
( occassionally or frequently three weeks are left in the ~ecessilating missing classes), or, semester and the bulk of the fmally, relinquish one's coarse work load is over, students load partially or completely to should be able to receive a involve oneself fully to promote pass/fail mark instead of a letter the realization of the strike's grade, not just be able to goals. 
withdraw with a pass, receiving Official declaration of the 
no credit for the course. 

Senior Week Finale Dance 
TONIGHT SENIOR BAR 
9:00--12:00 


FOll~D 

NEW JERSEY CLUB 
Nomination:; for 1970-71 Officers
A pair uf girls glasses in fwnt of 
Send to 149 Dillon 

Craftsmen in Optics"''
Washmgl on II:!II. 

or c<JII 1623 by Wed., May 13.
To reclaim: 
Call Steve X6:!Y 
f he Observer is published daily 

the NOW AND THEN SHOPPE 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET va<.atoons by students of the Uni· 
durong the colle!JC semester except 
Custom-made /,eatherette Fashions
varsity of Notre Ddme and St. Mary's College. Subscroptions may 
for Gt~ys and Girls 

J/(JIISC(JjVisioli (f.j~be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
3 29 Dixie Way North (Roselat~d) 
The House of Vision, Inc. 

Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
272-8334

paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERIIER. MONDAY, MAY 11,1970 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GA.ET ANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
DAVID C. BACH, -Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Editorial: 
Academic Freedom 
Thursday's decision to continue the strike was a recognition on the part of the striking students that, at times, one's position as a student, separa~e _f~~m the real world with its real problems, is a failure to accept the responstbthtles of citizenship. 
Our responsibility to become educated regarding the problems_ of our society and our concommitant responsibility to take that educatiOn and apply it to potential solutions of our problems goes beyond the class room. 
A vote to continue the strike was also a vote to take positive, constructive action which hopefully will culminate in the withdraw! of our troops from. Indo-China. The letter writing campaign, initiated in Keenan hall, and the canvass of South Bend businesses and residences in support of Father Hesburgh's declaration are but two such constructive actions. There are others, such as the proposal to recess classes before the November election to allow students to work for the candidates of their choice. 
The university Academic Council this afternoon will have a chance to legitimize this non-classroom education. It is entirely within its realm to do so. As set down in tpe Faculty Manual, two of the functions of the council are "to determine general academic policies and regulations of the University," and "to authorize the establishment, modification, or discontinuance of any academic organization of the University." 
We feel that in a time when our country is seething with anger, anger toward the Presjdent's policies on the one hand, and anger toward the critics of that policy on the other, it is time to sanction substantive and educative actions on the part of the academic community. 
We urge the Academic Council to support the resolution for Academic Freedom submitted to it today. The proposal requires no one to participate in these actions. It. merely recognizes the academic freedom of those who wish to participate in a wider education. 

---Letterto the Editor---­
Editor:  killing our men  in Vietnam. At  a  strict  Constructionist  to  the  
I went to the rally on the main quad, as did so many other hundreds of people, and I'm more or less trying to synthesize what thought I had given the matter before, what thoughts were generated by the speakers, and the thought which were espoused in one of my classes a half hour later. Rather than  best, you're a misguided youth. Don't miss my point-I'm not talking politics at the moment. It's the same if you're in ROTC-you're a baby-burner, a column in the Establishment's temple, a Mickey Mouse who can't think for yourself. · It's all rather pointless. Polar­ization has its place perhaps, but  Supreme Court, should be tragic­ally ending the concept of the balance of power. Just as I mistrust mass meetings because a crowd all too easily becomes a mob (inwhich, by definition, no individual exists), I also mistrust Nixon's misues of the Presidency because he deals with the people in the same way-as so many  
having THE answer, I have a few questions, which I hope is its own redemption. Beware the man with THE  it's ,the last thing America needs at the moment. Nixon's strong point-from a purely practical point of view-is that he is  sheep, who are either with him (and therefore the country!) or against him (and God, apple pie, and the girl next door).  
answer-listen to him closely. Rhetoric is the criminal of the  successfully using the ization process against  polar­those  Focus your attention on the Senate, and on people like Fr.  
day. Slogans lose meaning, and "Christianity" isn't the only term people are trying to come to grips with today. lt seems that everywhere you get caught up in the process of polarization. "Love it or leave it" is a nicely sounding phrase, or maybe it's an ugly one-I don't know. But in its context it says: 'G f  who legitimately question him. If I question the war, I'm not saying North Vietnamis my friend and that my parents are the enemy, because that's just not the way it is. But one of the speakers today hardly left that impression. I'm trying to focus on an important question. The presi­ Hesburgh (who holds more sway than most any other university president). Boycotting classes, while an idea nobly motivated, I doubt will have any real effect other than to polarize further and create a backlash detrimen tal to those whose fight is now more important. That's just an opinion, I'm not really sure.  
you're against  not me"  with and  me, you're that's what  dency is, perhaps, a sign of the technological age. Johnson  Richard Linquanti  
everyone tells you. Try it some­ couldn't  quite  come  to  grips  
time-if you're against the war, you're an irresponsible kid, smo­ with it, but Nixon has. It has struck me as a pertinent irony  The OBSERVER retains the right to shorten all letters.  
king pot, burning buildings and  that a man, so intent on naming  

Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer Photography Editor: Michael The opinions in the editorials, Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Murphy 
news analysis, and columns of Advertising Manager: Bruce Features Editor: T. C. Treanor The Observer are solely those of Barker 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields the authors and editors of The Campus Editor: Glen Corso Observer and do not necessarily
Night Editor: Glen CorsoNews Editor: Steve Hoffman reflect the views of St. Mary's
Layout' John Abowd,

SMC News Editor: Jeanne College, the University of Notre
Marilyn Becker
Sweeney Dame, their administrations,
Headlines: Greg Pudhorod·

Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, faculty, or student bodies.sky
Ann Conway Ass't News Editor: Steve lazar 


... 
Campus Opinion 
The following is a position paper on ROTC disputing tlze view 
set forth in an article which I published last week. It is written 
by Steve Massey, a Notre Dame student. 
The presence of ROTC units on the nation's campuses1 which Mr. Corso has endeavored to defend, is indicative of the extent to which both the university and the nation have lost sight of what they might have become. Gen. Woolnough's statement that students have a "right" to prepare themselves for military service in college, and his implication that the university should somehow respond to this "right" manifests a complete misunderstanding of what a university should be doing. Such a statement reveals that Gen. Woolnough completely ignores the possibility that complicity with the government in the training of its soldiers is simply not something that the university should be about. This crassly unquestioning attitude could only be adopted by a mind nurtured on that peculiarly American perversion of the concept of the university fostered by the government's intervention into higher education beginning with the Morrill Act of 1862 and continuing to our own day. The fundamental objection to this notion of the university, as Mr. Robert Hut<chins has pointed out, is that "it takes the society as given, with all its folly and pretentiousness, and asks the university to supply some of the facilities, most of the hands, a lot of the 
energy, and all of the ideas that will enable the society to achieve its mistaken goals." The university is not the service station of society. It is not an institution wavering like a reed before the fluctuating whims of the masses, nor is it the training ground for fut11re members of the establishment. It is, on the contrary, an institution with a strictly circumscribed realm, a realm which is determined by the id.ea which uniquely characterizes the university. And this idea is the development of the intellect and the critical faculties. Despite the fact that the cultivation of the intellect as the unique task of the university has been obscured' by decades of attempts to achieve the American Dream, this does not alter the fact that much of what is offered at this university, as well as at most of the others, is not ed~cation at all, but vocational training. ROTC is thus not only a prostitution of the individual's intellect in favor of the attainment of transitory and worthless goals, it also represents the debasement of the sole institution in society oriented toward the cultivation of the intellect. 
·Not only does Gen. Woolnough not understand the concept of a university, he also ignores th~ fact that the attack on ROTC is intimately related to a unilateral repudiation of the governmental priorities of the last two decades. During this period, the Military Establishment has been the instrument for the imposition of a foreign policy which desregards the desires of indigenous populations, and of a domestic policy which perpetrates· the enslavement of minorities in bondage since their arrival. Nixon's expansion of the war into Cambodia signals his continued intention to disregard the pleas that the war be terminated and a reaffirmation of the existing reprehensible policy. 
Considering how the Military has been utilized in the past decade, and from all appearances, how it will continue to be used, the ROTC units present themselves as a natural focal point of protest and cncerted effort for their removal. Somewhat later in the article from which Mr. Corso quote~, Gen. Woolnough states: "From the Army's hard business viewpoint elimination of credit could make the course Jess attractive to the type of student we want to recruit and therefore hurt the program." If the Military is apprehensive about efforts to remove academic credit from their courses, they would certainly be even more anxious about the complete disaffiliation of 
ROTC from campuses, especially in light of the fact that ROTC provides two-thirds of General Service Officers. The burden put on the Military Establishment by the complete sundering of university relations with ROTC units would be a suitable first step in the regeneration of the university, and because of the limitations it would place on the ability of America to expand its empire, perhaps on the country as a whole. 
MONDAY, MAY 11, 1970 THE OBSERfiER. PAGE 5 

L 

Let It Bleed=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::===:::::::::::=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
New myth an~ Old Reality 


There are few things more enjoyable than a good case of irony; and there's nothing more ironic than a good hypocritical shift of rhetoric. For years and years now the Constitution has been a symbol appropriated by conservatives, and never failed to appear in any speech or publication by the American Legion and such groups. Every Fourth of July the ol' time patriots dragged out the venerable document to he lauded endlessly, and dubs sponsored speech contests on why the 
U.S. Constitution is the best. Now -lo and behold -what to our wondering eyes doth appear, but...the anti-war demonstrators(of all people) appealing to the Constitution as if it were the Bible or Koran or something, and apparently in absolute anguish at the dastardly descration of our noble supreme law by the traitorous President of our nation. What a switch! 
Thomas Jefferson was a "strict contructionist", but he sent the U.S. Navy to fight the Barbary pirates without so much blinking at Congress. The story is told of Lincoln that at one War Cabinet meeting he announced the vote on a measure he approved "seven nays, one aye-the ayes have it". Congress received somewhat less attention than this during that war, in which the President acted throughout virt u<tlly as he pleased, on the basis of his power as comm<tnder-in-chief. Did Congress declare war in Korea -or does a liberal darling like the U.N. make unconstitutional actions legal? 
l.et 's fact it -the contention that Nixon has acted unconstitutionally is merely an indication that the anti-warriors are running out of objections to the war and out of excuses for their activity, and having been unsuccessful so far, are starting to grasp at the frailest of straws.ln foreign and military affairs the President is the leader who provides speed and unity of action, and this is why the Supreme Court itself has upheld Presidential prerogative in these areas (Wright-Curtiss, 1956). 
If you mother was dying from heart failure, would you want the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to be responsible for analysing the situation and recommending action? You'd probably end up with a compromise prescription to get a lot of rest and transplant half a heart. If a camel is a horse designed by a committee, then I'd hate to see a war designed by a Senate committee ("half wanted to attack on the right flank, and half wanted to attack on the left flank; so we compromised and ordered an attack on the center"). 
Why all tbese sudden appeals the the Constitution? Where were these shouts of "unconstitutionality" from the left when other, more liberal Presidents have done things with fewer precedents? (Franklin Roosevelt was defeated in the Supreme Court on several issues, but you can bet that public opinion among liberals was not outraged at the doubtful constitutionality of his proposals.) 
The problem with the present accusation is that they ignore the spirit and tradition of the Constitution, and employ even the letter rather doubtfully. In view of the weakness of this case, it should at least, if nothing more, he put forward with less righteous indignation. Calls for impeachment of President Nixon on these grounds deserve nothing but contempt. The use of these arguments to justify illegal activities such as draft-dodging should also be recognized as shallow. 
While it is true that many put forward accusations of unconstitutionality quite sincerely, it is nut surprising to find many who are only using them to confuse the issue, knowing full well that they are not justified. In the case of those who are merely uninformed there is hope that study will correct the situation. In the case of those who a.re so convinced that their correctitude that they use any means to attain their ends -including false arguments -it is more difficult to foresee a hopeful conclusion. 
Easy Writer =======:====::::::::.::::::::.-:===========::::::=:::::•:•:::•:::::::::::::=:=:=:::=:::=:=;=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=: 
The war 1s over, if you want it 

::=:=:=:=:::=:=:::::::=:=:=:::::::·=~=~='=·::::::=========:=========:=::::::::======:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: b·y Pete Peterson 
At that time, Jesus was teaching in Jerusalem, and a scribe came unto Him, saying, "Master, we know you teach the truth and have no regard for any man. Tell us, is it right to pay the pull tax?" 
And Jesus said unto him, "Show Me the coin of the realm." And the coin was brought. Then Jesus commanded, "Read to me the inscription about the head of Ceasar." 
And the scrihe read, "Ceasar Augustus, Emperor and God." 
Then Jesus said, "Take then your coin, and depart, for it is written 'I am the Lord thy God, Thou shalt not have strange gods before me.' Therefore I say unto you, no Jew shall do traffick with the Roman Empire, for they are murderers and idolators, and they cannot govern us." 
Then the Pharisees sent to Pilate, but whilst they did this, the Jews drew close to Christ, and he addressed them, saying, "We see about us the forces of oppression. Roman troops patrol our cities, Roman taxes take our money. The Romans are idolatrous imperialists. They kill the Gauls in Europe, and they kill our brothers here. They seek to extend their empire to encompass the Earth, to take gold and treasures from our brothers to the East. But we are not Romans, we are Jews. We shall rise up, a proud and noble people. Vinceramos!" 
Then Simon Peter, and !lames began to pass among the people exhorting them to sign their names to petitions declaring the Jewish nation independeant of the Roman Empire and vowing not tri pay the poll tax or any other taxes_contributing to the extension of the Empire. 
Then Jesus spake, saying, "I say this unto you. This land must be free. The Roman troops must be driven from this land, for I say unto you, though you shall have faith to move mountains, what shall it avail you if Roman soldiers walk through our streets'? Though you be at peace with your brother and God, what shall it avail you if you have naught to eat?" 
Then Judas lscariot passed among the people, taking up alms, that they might have money for the revolution. 
Then Peter addressed the crowd, telling them of raids that had been led against the caravans of the pharisees and James told them of raids against the Roman outposts. 
Then the people cheered, proclaiming Him the Messiah who would remove the scourge of Roman domination and make of them a mighty nation. 
But then the Romans arrived, and there fell upon the people a great slaughter, but the disciples withdrew to the house of Joseph of Arimathea and Jesus was safe. And after, He went out to the families of thOse who were slain, and praised their dead, saying, "This day shall they be with the Father in heaven." 



OBSERVER 

FEATURES 


The SMC and ND music departments · Burr.ul (which means .. song of Burana") will present a production of Carmina is concerned with the carelessness of fate Burana, a show of music, dancing and and man's constantly changing fortune, as 
lighting, of Thursday and Friday, May 14 well as •with such daily jl>ys as are and 15, at 8:30 in Washington Hall. There available: spring, drinking and love. Thus, is no admission charge. ·the work is both a lamentation and a 
Cannina Burana is the name given to a celebration and has been compared to collection of medieval poems assembled Hair in terms of its outlook: do your own at the Benedictine monastery of Beuron thing. in Bavaria and later discovered in Munich The music is alternately reflective and in 184 7. A group of the poems was used rousing, but is always characterized by for a contemporary musical setting by strong rhythm. The simplicity and 
cun­Carl Orff, a leading German composer. ning of the music is most impressive,The arrangement is for chorus, soloists, 
since Orff discarded the traditions of pianos and percussion instruments and 
conventional choral writing and sub­will feature the University Chorus. This 
stituted solid tunes and swinging meter. 
Carmina has been performed with increasing popularity in this country, but·group, the only mixed chorus on campus, 
is in its first official year and sang the usually only in a concert setting. The
Delio Joio Mass last Fall. ND-SMC version, however, will be staged, 
The work is being offered to the public danced and sung with costumes and
as a sign of growing cooperation between lighting. lt is believed to be the first
the two schools and departments. Al­performance in which the singers also
though the poems in Latin, French and make up the dancers and players on stage.
German are of ancient origin, they have The use of a color organ, strobe lights and
significant parallels to the contemporary projections also promise a diff':'~:::;t and
world. Written by wandering minstrels, interesting production.
traveling scholars, errant students and Soloists will be Deanne Bacon, David monks not in good standing, the thoughts Aderan te, Joseph Kelly, Bob DePuy, expressed are those of the protestors of Lloyd Simms, Barbara Treis, Carol the time who take pot-shots at society, Dzikowski and Susan Liddell. Scenic 
•the extablishment and the church. The effects will be directed by Bill Byrd, with poems were collected in a manuscript abstract projections by Margo Hoff, around I 225 and hidden soon afte;-. The costumes by Jane Shanabarger and wandering students themselves, called choreography by Charlene Shock. Susan goliards, were officially outlawed by the Stevens is director, Pamela Griffel and 
Council of Trent for their overly secular 
Ronald Morebello are pianists and Arthur activit . The central theme of Carmina Lawrence will conduc . 
PAGE 6 THB OBSERIIEit MONDAY, MAY 11, 1970 
Faculty Members OpenQuad Forum 
by Steve lazar 
With comments on "repres­sion," "resistance," and "moral decline," the local communiver­sity was opened yesterday with speeches by three members of the Notre Dame faculty out on the main quad. 
Paul Rathburn, Sam Shapiro and James Douglass told a group of assembled students their rea­sons for supporting the strike and the communiversity, which is dedicated to the memory of both the dead of South East Asia and those who have died for peace at home. 
Speaking first, Mr. Rathburn of the English Department said he has become convinced "that the protests in this country must go on and on and on." 
Referring to the Cambodian situation, Rathburn said he feared that once again · the president might be "chasing the mirage of a military victory." He cited the horrors of the Vietnam war by saying that there is nothing more shocking in "The Ris6 and Fall of the Third Reich" than in the report of the My Lai incident in "Harper's" magazine. 
Rathburn outlined what he called "an atmosphere of repression" in the United States that has been growing as the ciicism of the Vietnam war continue to mount. He said that the Nixon Administration has been trying to muzzle not only the press and the Protesters, but also the U.S. Senate and the Black Panthers. 

Sam Shapiro of the History Department spoke next on what he called "the moral decline and fall of the U.S. within the last fifty years." 
He said the increased killing of civilians by the use of mass murder weaponry since World War I has plunged the western world into "a downward trend of morality." "We have become a callous nation," he said. 
Shapiro read a number of figures to support his claim. He said that in World War I 10,000,000 people were killed, 5% being civilians. In World War II, he said, the toll rose to 50,000,000 dead with 50% from; the civilian populations. Then in the Korean War the civilian death rate rose to 84%. The Vietnam war. he said. is sure to 
surpass even this figure. 
Shapi ro discussed two accounts of mass bombings on the cities of Dresden and Tokyo in World War II. He said that in Dresden 135,000 people were killed, but the attack was judged a failure militarily. In one attack on Tokyo, he said, 334 bombers, each loaded with 2000 pounds of fire bombs, attacked the city, making it so hot that people seeking refuge from the fires in a creek were boiled. "This is against international law, this is against morality," he said. 
Concluding that this country now has a commitment not to life but to a ',way of death," Shapiro said that he supported' the student strike "as one way of bringing the build up of weapons of annihilation to an end." 

.. 
The time has come 
to take arealistic look 



at yourself... 
If you're about to get your degree, it's time to ask yourself some penetrating questions-the kind of questions many people never really face up to. 
Are you more interested in people, in things or in abstract ideas? Are you willing to make mean­ingful commitments to other people as well as to yourself? 
Itis worth thinking about. We at International Harvester also continue to critically examine our economic and social responsibilities. We are grow­ing in the United States and in 166 other coun­tries because IH products are making an impor­tant contribution to a better life. 
Trucks-from the scout utility vehicle to giant off-highway specialized vehicles. 
Farm & Industrial Equipment-from garden and farm tractors to loader-backhoes. 
Construction Equipment-from in-plant load­ers to powerful earth scrapers. 
Iron & Steel-from cold-finished bars to special alloy steels. 
Gas Turbines-from stationary generators to mobile power units. 
Aerospace-from specialized space vehicle com­ponents to complete systems. 
To help you plan your future, we invite you to stop in at your College Placement Office for a free copy of our book, "Your World of Opportunity." 

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER 
An equal opportunity employer 
Following Shapiro to the speaker's stand was James 

•Douglass of the Program for Non-violence. 
Douglass asserted that "the moral leadership of Notre Dame has been taken over by tne students." He then launched into his deeply Christian and philosophical address on the subject of "resistance." 
Douglass said that for man to resist the "forces of untruth" he must first abandon himself to the "wilderness" to seek "contemplation" just as Jesus had done in the desert before his public career. In the wilderness, he said, man can receive the "spirit" through solitude and contemplation. The spirit is necessary, he added, to make the sacrifices required for "living out the truth." 


SMC Sophs to fill posts 
Should sophomores "sail with the ship of experience" or play ball with "the team with new ideas"? This choice will face them Tuesday when they vote for class officers. 
Campaigning with Mary Jo 
Ferlini, freshman class senator, 
and Pat Haffey, freshman class 
representative on the student 
assembly, Sue Welte believes 
that "experience is the key." 
Defending this year's govern­
ment as "an effective social 
organization," Miss Welte plans 
to implement the present struc­
ture with academic proposals. 
She would expand class interest into academics with "gab-fests," between students and teachers, and an academic committe. Advised by a sopho­more student assemblyman, this committee would act as a "bridge between class govern­ment and student government." 
Billed as "the team with new 
ideas," Julie Webb, Joan Organ, 
and Kathy Kane also propose 
dialogues not only with faculty 
and students, but also with the 
academic commissioner con­
cerning academic requirements. 
Becuase of its "experience" with ND freshman class govern­ment this year, Miss Welte's ticker advocates that "social activities be conducted through hall governments instead of through the class senate." Her ticket also urges greater "utiliza­tion of the social commission" through introduction of sub-committees. 
Conceding that "the N.D. freshman senate was not as successful as it could have been in its social attempts with St. Mary's," Miss Webb would con­tinue to work with them. "We feel that class to class contacts are most workable," her plat­form claims. 
She would retain the small 
group activities and initiate a 
soda! commission. 
Although Miss Welte confines herself to social and academic plans, Miss Webb's platform includes proposals on class government and community relations. 
Besides continuing the class senate, she advocates a council of class officers representing all four classes to "promote better relations." 
In community relations, she 
proposes a "little sister program 
set up with underprivileged girls 
in the South Bend area. 

MONDAY, MAY 11,1970 TilE O&rERIIIIt PAGE 7 

ND beats MSU 
The Notre Dame track squad Hoffman finished second behind ~vened their dual meet season MSU's Bobh Karr who won with ·ecord at 1-1 Saturday by a 13 ft. 0 in. vault. vhipping the MSU squad 80-85. On the tfack Rick Wohlhutter rhe Irish relied on an turned in a double for ND by >verwhelming edge in the field capturing the 440 in 48.5 and 
vents to overcome the slight the 880 in I :54. The sprints -1SU edge on the track. MSU were particularly hurt by a 15 inished with a slight edge in mph wind that blew into the irsts, taking nine of the seven­runners. In the I00 a track een events. record assault was spoiled by 
Paul Gill led the field men this wind as Herb Washington vith a record-set! ing discus per­ran only a 9.9 to capture first. ormance. His· toss of I 9 I ft. 7 Larue Butchee finished second 
n. broke the Varsity record and to Washington in the I00, then he Cartier field record he had they reversed roles in the 220 et last weekend. Elio Polselli with Butchee winning in 21 .I. 
nd Joe Roe completed an Irish Wayne Hartick of MSU turned in weep of this event. In the a hurdles double by winning the hot it was Polselli and Roc 
High's in 14.9 and the Inter­tgain, hut this time going one­mediate Hurdles in 53.0. 
wo. In the High Jump ND again Pat Holleran of ND look first:rabbed first and second as Mike in the three mile run but MSU'svlcMannon went 6 ft. 2 in. and Ken Popejoy edged Mike Mc­lruce Corsello went over at 6ft. 

Cann of Notre Dame in the milel in. The Triple Jump was and his Spartan teammate Ralph111othcr ·Notre Dame sweep with Zappa captured the Steeplechase<.evin McAuliffe taking first (46 to give the Spartans an edge in't. 5 in.). Mike and Tom the distance events. The RelaysvlcMannon grabbed second and were split, Notre Dame winninghird to complete the sweep. ln the 440 relay on a disquali­the Long Jump Lloyd Bridges fication and MS U taking the 880took first for MSU and Mike
Joe Theismann (No. 7 in dark) was one of ten ND football players to receive a Hering award for his relay.
McMannon and McAuliffe

spring performance. Theismann was given the Outstanding Offensive Back award. Next weekend the Irish track
placed second and third for the team will travel to West Point,Irish. In the Pole Vault Pete N.Y. to meet Army. 

•

Ara announces Hering Award w1nners 
liead foot hall wach Ara Par­Bob Neidert received the member to receive an ''outstand­even more apparent. Joe Theis­Queens, N.Y. The best fresh man seghian has announced the win­honors as the outstanding defen­ing" award was Clarence Ellis, a mann, the junior quarterback on the scoring team was Bob ners of the JlJ70 Hering Awards. sive lineman. Bob is a junior sophomore defensive back from from South River, New Jersey, Creaney a big tight end from These awards are given at the defensive end from Akron, Ohio. Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
won the honors as the outstand­Towson, Maryland. The final dose of Cal'h spring training Next year's defensive captain The best performance register­ing offensive back. Theismann's award winner was John Damp­session for a players perfor­Tim Kelly won the outstanding ed by a freshman defender battery mate Tom Gatewood eer. This sophomore from Ker­man..:e throughout the spring. linebacker award. Kelly is also a during the spring was that of Jim took the laurels as the best mit, Texas was chosen as the This year's winners were not junior and he hails from Spring­Mus.uraca a linebacker from E. 
offensive receiver. Gatewood is a most improved offensive playersurprising renpients. field, Ohio. The other defensive Liverpool, Ohio. The final defen­sophomore from Baltimore, on the team. lie is a tackle. 
sive award, given to the most 
Maryland.improved defender, went to The Hering awards are given
N D golfers improve 

Rich Thomann who comes from Larry DiNardo, captain of the in memory of Notre Dame's firstAkron, Ohio. Thomann is a offensive unit, was proclaimed 
The Notre Dame golf team tqtal. After him carne Jim Dunn sophomore. the outstanding offensive line­paid football coach and athletic 

showed some improvement in ( 158 ), 13ob Battaglia ( 163) and 
play this past weekend but Marty Best ( 165). 
unfortun;;tely the team results The Irish have had their 
were all too familiar. The Irish troubles getting untracked this 
could do no better than tie for spring hut their play at Purdue 
third out of four teams at the made the team a bit h eful 
Purdue Invitational in West La­for the remainder of the season. 
fayette. According to Wilson, the team 
Purdue won the match by looked "much better than in 

edging Indiana 755 to 757. many previous matches but they 
Illinois and N D tied with identi­were simply facing too stiff a 
cal team scores of 770. IU and competition from Purdue and 
Purdue arc considered two of Indiana." 
the best teams in the Uig Ten. The next match for the Irish 
Bill Cvengros led all Notre will be this weekend as they play Dame golfers with a 36 hole host for the Notre Dame I nvita­score of 149. Team captain Bob tional. Captain Wilson felt that Wilson came in second for du "the Irish have a good chance of Lac with a 151. Mike LaFrance winning this tournament since it was close behind with a 152 will be played on their own 
13urke Memorial Golf Course." 

Netmen win at Oshkosh 

The Irish tennis squad lit Ue better with seven markers. continued their late season surge The Irish depth proved to be 
this weekend as they took top the big source of strngth as the honors in the Wisconsin State two, three and four nelters were I nvita tiona!. Northern Illinois most successful. Mile Reilly, Gil 
was a close second to the men Theissen and Rob Schefter each from ND. The tally read 26-24. won two matches for ND. 
The tournament. held at The netmen sec action again Oshkosh, Wisconsin, became a this week when they host two team affair after a while. Kalamazoo College. Coach Tom Host team Wisconsin State Fallon's charges face the finished last with only six points Michigan team at 3:00 p.m. and state neighbor LaCrosse did Tuesday. 

New York Knicks-NBA Champs 

Boston Bruins-NHL Champs 

director Frank E. Hering.
The offensive awards were man. DiNardo is a junior from 
IT'S ... IN STYLE, 
YOUR PRICE 
STORE ... AND TERMS 




lj®~lfel@l. 

KNIT SHIRTS 
Cool in comfort, cool in appearance...these famous McGregor cotton knits are indispens­able for warm weather action. Choose now from a good variety of colors and stripings at your Campus Shop. Use your account, it's open. 
$4 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DA 
PAGE 8 711B OBS£RIIJ1t MONDAY, MAY 11,1970 



Defense dominates Blue-Gold Game 
by Terry Shields were into a stiff wind. 
Observer Sports Editor In the middle of the second A number of things were quarter it looked as though the revealed to Notre Dame football Gold team was going to get back 
fans Saturday afternoon in ND in the ball game as they drove Stadium during the Blue-Gold 
from their five to the Blue 38. The drive stalled here when Jim
Game. The foremost among Wright intercepted a Steenberge
these is that the Irish appear to pass. This was the first of
have sufficient depth in nearly every department save the offen­
Wright's two interceptions. The junior from Sparta, New Jersey
sive line. The second team put up an 
also recovered a fumble to halt admirable struggle mainly on the 
another Gold team drive earlier in the quarter. 
strength of their defense. The The interception gave the
first team defense also was impressive as they set up the 
Blues enough momentum to first touchdown for the No.1 
move in for another score before unit and kept pressure on second the half. They covered 74 yards team quarterback Pat Steenberge in five plays with the big play throughout most of the after­coming on a 35 yard pass from noon. Theismann to Allan. Theismann It didn't take the first unit then kept the ball again and 
long to capitalize on the Gold ram bled 21 yards for the score. team's first mistake. When The score stood 14-0 at inter­punter Jim Roolf took a bad mission. 
snap from center he elected to In the third quarter the run with the ball but he was biggest star of the game entered. pulled down far from the ne­Bill Gallagher, a third halfback cessary yardage for the first from Philadelphia, did some down. Joe Theismann used tremendous running as he led Denny Allan as the bread and the · Blue squad to their third 
butter man of this drive as the 
score. The payoff was a Theis­junior halfback carried four mann to Bob Creaney ariel from eight yards out.
consecutive times to open the offensive for the Blue squad. 
The fourth quarter found the Theismann then hit Tom 

Blues able to push across two more TD's. One under the lim Wright (No. 40 in dark) played a standout game for the Blue squad. He intercepted two passesGatewood with an 11 yard pass 
gvidance of Theismann and the ~nd recovered a fumble to tum back three Gold drives.
to the twelve yard line. From final score under Bill Etter's the day was Gallagher. He There were a few minor afternoon. It was 80 degrees at
here Joe ran two keeper plays to capable leadership. totaled 107 yards on only ten injuries sustained in the final kick-off.
reach the goal. Bill Etter entered "to do his carries. One of these was a 69 action of spring drills. Steve Some players who played
This was all of the scoring thing" and the first play under yard burst. Ed Gulyas revealed Buches received a bad ankle particularly well were Wrightdone in the first period of 

his signals was a keeper good for s~me shifty moves from the sprang and missed most of the with his two interceptions and a
action. Neither offense was able 12 yards. After a long field goal other halfback spot and he ran afternoon's action. Buches was fumble recovery, Clarence Ellis
to amass much of a drive in this period but one impressive point attempt by Mike Eckman from for 70 yards in only nine carries. one of the starting offensive who seemed to shut every 
was the Irish punting game. 

49 yards went awry the Blue Although Joe Theismann. tackles. Tom Gatewood came up receiver that he faced, Tom Roolf handled the booting held the Gold for three plays scored two touchdowns and hit with a charlie horse and this Freistroffer, a freshman who chores for both sides and at and they then took the ball 48 on eight of 17 passing attempts hampered his fine receiving abili-played a standout game on halftime he was averaging a very yards for the touchdown. "Cis­for 79 yards he had possibly his ties. He was held to only two defense for the Gold squad, good 45 yards per kick. This is co" scored the game's final worst Saturday of the spring. He receptions. Willie Townsend, his Gulyas and Gallagher both ran even more impressive if one six-pointer from one yard away. was intercepted twice by the suh dislocated his elbow in the remarkably well, and both considers that many of his boots The leading ground gainer of Gold squad. second half. Steenberge and his sub Jim 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
After the game, coach Am Bulgm dis~ayed nice throwing 

.. 
It's your store.•. .•.Style, 
price + terms 
Pre-Summer 


QUALITY SALE 
of nationally advertised 

SUITS, SPORTCOATS, ALL-WEATHER COATS 
at savings of 

1/4 
1/3 
Quality appar.el at great savings is the key to this sale now in progress. 
You are mv1ted to stop and browse through the selections be 
convinced what we say is true. Use your account. ' 

Parseghian had a few comments arms. Chuck Zloch played well 
concerning spring drills as a in the gold secondary . whole. He felt that hte Irish are The entire Blue team defense farther ahead in more areas than turned in a grade-A effort for they were a year ago.He pointed the afternoon. to the offensive line as the major The big disappointment for rebuilding spot of spring training the spring as far as Ara was and he was still not satisfied concerned is that no one over completely with the depth here. seriously challenged Theismann 
He added that the team still for the quarterback spot. Bill needs a lot of work in most Etter is having difficulty with his places but the rather average shoulder and Parseghian felt that showing of the squad might be if he can recover he should attributed to the excessively hot provide an adequate replacement 
for Joe. 



MAJOR LEAGUES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE  AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East  East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  w  L  Pet.  GB  
Chicago  15  11  .577  Baltimore  21  8  .724  
New York  14  15  .483  2Y:.  Detroit  15  12  .555  5  
Philadelphia  13  16  .448  3Y:.  Boston  14  13  .519  6  
Pittsburgh  13  16  .448  3Y:.  New York  16  15  .516  6  
St. Louis  11  14  .440  3Y:.  Washington  13  16  .448  8  
Montreal  8  19  .286  7Y:.  Cleveland  10  16  .385  9Y:.  

West West Cincinnati 23 8 .742 Minnesota 18 9 .667 Atlanta 17 12 .586 5 California 18 10 .643 Y:. Los Angeles 17 12 .586 5 Oakland 14 16 .467 5Y:. San Fran. 15 16 .484 8 Chicago 11 17 .393 7Y:. Houston 14 17 .452 9 Kansas City 10 18 .357 8Y:. San Diego 13 19 .406 10Y:. Milwaukee 10 20 .333 9Y:. 
San Diego 5 Montreal4 Oakland 7 Boston 4 San Francisco 11 New York 7 
New York 4 California 3 Los Angeles 7 Philadelphia 0 Kansas City 9 Detroit 7 Cincinnati 7 Chicago 6 Cleveland 5 
Minnesota 4 Houston 9 Pittsburgh 2 Baltimore 7·4 Chicago 2-2 St. Louis 6 Atlanta 5 
Milwaukee 6·7 Washington 5-6 





