
IRISH SMASH PURDUE 
Story on pg, 8 Pictures pp, 6&7 



Hussein and Arafat sign agreement •
' 

pact provides for an end to fighting 

(By United Press International) the Joidania-n capital of Amman. government control under terms 
King Hussein, Palestinain The Middle East News of the agreement. It had been 
guerrilla commander Yasser Agency, the semiofficial voice of seized by the guerrillas in the 
Arafat and other leaders of the the Egyptian government, said first days of the nine day war. 
Arab world signed a peace agree-the agreement calls for the re­First shots in the fighting 
ment in Cairo yesterday to end lease ot all prisoners by both were fired Sept. 17. Hussein and 
the civil war in Jordan. sides with security to be main-Arafat agreed to a cease fire last 
The pact provided for an end tained under civilian adminis­Friday but fighting was reported 
to all fighting in the ravaged tration. after that. Dispatchrs yesterday 
kingdom and withdrawal of all The city of lrbid, Jordan's even as the :\mb chiefs met in 
troops-guerrilla and army-from second largest, is to return to Cairo told of new fighting in and 
'No Mideast war'-Nixon 
charged with riot jeeps. The po­ROME (UPI) --President Nix­taste of America's role as an lice picked up 50 young people on vowed last night in this heav­"international gendafl'lC." 
for questioning. 
ily guarded capital that Ameri-Saragat, bespectacled and Besides smashing the Ameri­ca's resolve will help assurethat balding, told the President he can Express building's windows,the Mediterranean "will not be was sure the long tics of the youths hurled rocks· at the the starting place of great wars friendship between Italy and nearby Spanish Embassy to the in the future." America would extend through Vatican, then scattered amongThe U.S. President was ser­the present "dificult period in strolles in the narrow, bustlingious-faced at the start of a nine which we are more interested streets on a pleasantly warm day' five nation tour which will than ever in peace in the evening.take him to the U.S. 6th Fleet in Mediterranea." 
Other leftists in this countrythe Mediterranean to remind Replied Nixon: "The where elections produce 8.5 mil­Russia of its peace-keeping Mediterranean is the cradle of lion Commnnist votes exploded purpose and to check mate many great civilizations in the a flaming gasoline bomb near a expanding Soviet power and past and we are determined it Brazilian bank and set fire to an 
influence in a region coveted by will not be the starting place of Americar, made automobile. 
Russians since the days of the great wars in the future." But the violence seemed sub-Czars. He said it was an "indispen dued in comparison to the de­
A fanfare of trumpets greeted sable" American policy to main­monstrations which greeted Nixon and his wife when they tain its strength where it was Nixon .in February, 1969, stepped from a U.S. Marine heli­needed. when he had occupied the Presi­copter on the vast cobbled Nixon will dency for less than a month. square of Rome's 16th century meet with Pope Pa~l VI today, The last time Nixon was here palace of President Giuseppe then visit the 6th Fleet, U.S. 119 Italians were injured in Saragat. ambassadors from the Medit.:r-riots. A student fell from a 
Only two hours before ranean nations, his Paris peace window whil~ fleeing police and Nixon's arrival, and despite a negotiators and the leaders of 1was killed. flotilla of police helicopters and Yugoslavia, Spain, Britain AND Following today's tradition an army of 12000 policemen Ireland in his second tour of laden meeting '.vith Pope Paul, and soldiers, Communist led Europen capitals since he assum­Nixon will undertake the saber demonstrates smashed the win­ed the Presidency 21 months rattling portion of his trip, dows of the American Express ago. spending most of two days re­office near the Spanish steps, a A wet:k<.md paradt~ and· protest viewing maneuvers by the 6th haunt of American toursits and by crowds cnanting "Hixon Go Fleet from the carrier Saratoga hippies of all nations. Home" preceded his arrival. One and the deck of the USS Spring­
Protestors marched in 34 march started at the Piazza Della field, the cruiser which provided other Italian cities, proclaiming Republica, a few blocks !rom escort protedion when Pres.i­their support for Jordan's Arab the U.S. Embassy, and enclun­dent Franklin Delano Roosevelt guerrillas and their general dis-tered a line of police, who (continued on page 3} 
Black aid scarce-Jackson claims 
on financial aid were required to money, saying, "We never give
By TDm Bornholdt 

take a Work Study Job in order anything to anybody without to be eligible to receive a Univer­need." She went on to state that sity grant. the University had 'several' black Last Friday, Mrs. John Mc­students who had economic Causlin, Assistant Director of backgrounds that disqualified 
financial Aid, denied that any them from grants. Norte Dame student who was Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, offered an assistance grant had Director of Financial Aid, who 
been denied one, excepting was present during the interview those who let the deadline pass. with Mrs. McCauslin, stated that 
"Nobody that I know of who the Notre Dame program of fi­was given an offer, had it denied nancial aid ranks highly among unless the deadline had passed," those of the nation's colleges. 
·she claimed. Referring the University's Black 
She said that if a student had students M1.."Carragher stated, let the deadline pass without "We have two percent of the notifying the University, the students getting 24% of the aid." Ernie Jackson, President of 
Financial Aid office gave him In ::greement, McCauslin and the Afro-American Society at 
another week then might have and McCarragher both said that Notre Dame, has charged that cancelled his aid package. $40,000 of the Cotton Bowl some Black students who were 
money was used for Minoritypromised financial aid have been 
Mrs. McCauslin commented Grants this year. The originaldenied it. He also claimed that 
on the policy of Minority grants, 
the majority of Black students (continued on page 3)
connected with the Cotton Bowl 
around Amman. guernllas must get out of the The agreement C:iiiH:: as the in­metropolitan centers. ternation implications of the The Middle East News Agency 
· crisis eased with the release of said the Arab chiefs shook hands 38 American hijack hostages the after the signing ceremony guerrillas had held for 21 days. which ma1ked the first face to 
Thirty two of them flew home face confrontation between Hus­Sunday via Cyprus, telling how sein and Arafat since the 
war they were ne:.rly killed in the started. crossfire raging around a camp The Arab leaders in Cairo also near Amman where they were appointed what was described as held. a "higher followup committee" Some of the Americans said to draft measures implementing an Arab mob spat at them as the agreement. Tunisian Prime they were driven through the Minister Bahi Ladgham was streets of Amman. named chairman of the com­The Cairo agreement was mittee which will include a rep­signed in a hotel yesterday by 1 0 resentative of the Jordanian gov­leaders, including Hussein, Ara­ernment and a representative ot fat and President Gamal Abdel the guerrillas. Nassar of Egypt after a relatively The Arab leaders agreed that brief-for Arabs-summit confer­the decisions of the committee ence. It began at l: 30 p.m. after would be binding on both sides. Hussein's arrival from Jordan, The guerrilla radio station and the agreement was an­based in Damascus, Syria, almost nounced about six hours later. immediately accused Jordanian A preamble to the pact said it troops of breaking the Cairo was signed "to save Arab blood­
agreement with an attack on
shed and safeguard security and 
Palestinian guerrilla bases in
safety of the Arab nation against 
southern Jordan. 
imperialist conspiracies and to 
"The forces of the revolution
bring stability to Jordan which is 
are currently subjected to heavy
now facing division and suf­
shelling with the aim of en­
fering. 
circling and exterminating them
Political sources said Hussein 
while they stand steadfastly in
dropped his repeated demands 
their bases along the front of
that the army should be per­
confrontation with the army,"
mitted free use of Amman and 
the guerrilla broadcast said. 
other Jordanian cities while the 
10 false alarms in Flanner Sat. nite 
from the students," he said. "We 
A Flanner hall council meet­
have a workable fire alarm
ing tonight will decide the fate 
system here and when the alarm 
of hall "kegger" parties follow­
sounds the students are sup­
ing Saturday night's rash of false 
posed to move. Why wait until
fire alarms which resulted in the 
you see fire or smoke. What is it 
hall's closing to non-residents. ' 
going to take, someone to get a
Flanner hall rector Father 
serious case of smoke inhalation 
Maurice Amen said he ordered 
before anyone takes it (the a­
stopped all hall parties, including 
larm system) seriously?" 
an ISO party, and America 
Several halls do not have fire
(Planner's coffeehouse) and 
alarm systems because the 
asked all non-hall residents to 
continued ·occurrences of false 
leave after the fire alarm system 
alarms made the system unwork­
was turned off late Saturday 
able, said Amen, and he did not 
night. 
want that same thing to happen
The hall was ordered closed to 
to Flanner. 
reduce the possibility of a tra­
Amen praised the Notre Dame 
gedy occurring if a fire did start 
Fire Department's prompt re­
said Amen. He blamed the 
sponse to the false alarms.. 
amount of drinking in the hall 
"They beat me. They are good
for "creating part of the enor­
and there i·s no sweat." 
minty of·the problem." 
He said that when an alarm is 
The possibility of banning 
pulled in Flanner the warning
"kegger" parties for the rest of 
sounds in the hall, in the campus
the year will be discussed to­
fire department's station, and in 
night at the hall council meeting, 
the South Bend Fire Department 
said Amen. He predicted that 
headquarters.
the residents would do some­
The South Bend Fire Depart­thing to prevent future nights 
ment then calls the Notre Dame like Saturday's for "they are a 
fire station to confirm the exist­little smarter than that" to do 
ence of a real fire and Amen nothing. 
feared that 'the minute lost byHe also voiced concern over this check could be tragic if a the lack of response to any of 
fire ever broke out inside the 
the fire alarms. 
Towers. Saturday night was the "When the first fire alarm 
first incident of this type this went off there was no response 
year, he said. 
Page 2 
THE OBSERJJER. Monday,Sept.28. 1970 


Ky cancels U.S. address 
from Sou-th Vietnam would be a WASHINGTON (UPI) 
press our gratitude to the whole 
.'". merican people." betrayal of the South Viet­South Vietnamese Vice Presi­
Ky declared he was not "a namese people, or with 
dent Nguyen Cao Ky said yester­
hawk or a dove." He said he had Mcintire's belief that a military
day it was the possibility of vio­
no intention of association him-victory was possible in Indo­
lence rather than any pressure 
self with any U.S. group, or to china. 
from the Nixon administration 
Moreover, said Ky, South 
which made him cancel his ad­interfere in the domestic prob­
Vietnam, with more than one
lems of any nation.
dress at a "March for Victory" 

H H million men under arms should 
0 0 rally here Oct. 3. .Also, Ky said he was not· 
be able to handle the w~r when 
v y The administration has been completely in agreement with 
all U.S. combat forces are with­
• HOY • HOY • HOY • HOV • HOY • HOY • HOY • HOY • HOY • HOY • HOY • HOY • , 
cool towards the scheduled Ky M_clntire's expressed views that' drawn. visit and many members of Con­the withdrawal of U.S. troops gress had called on him to cancelNotre Dame .. Saint Mary's 
the speech on grounds it would further divide Americans on the 
Penalties at SMC 
THEATRE presents 
Vietnam War. Ky was interviewed in Paris By Kathy Schwille 
by CBS and the taped interview The chairman of the Student make a plea before the Board70 -71 SEASON was televised on "Face the Na­RElations Board announced to­may do so. However, the Board tion" yesterday. day that a system of automatic then has the right to suspend Asked about reports that the penalties designed to increase sentence, find the student guilty Nixon admisitration sought to the efficiency of the board will or not, and issue a penalty that discourage him from making the go into effect i n the near future. may be more or less severe than
the Sea Gull 
speech, Ky said, "They were not Kathy Shelton, chairman of thd automatic penalty to which quite true." the SRB explained the reason
·~~~: ::e:~os:a::ekhov .... Oct. 16,17,18,22,23,24 :!iii teh student was originally sub­
However, he said he had been for the plan. "At the end of last ject. M N told that U.S. "peace groups­year," she said, "we noticedd A slight change of sanctions 

by Brendan Behan .... Dec. 4,5,6,10,11,12 the Little Foxes by Lilain Hellman .... Feb. 19,20,21,25 ,26,27 Lilian Oliver! by Lionel Bart .... May 1,2,6,7,8 ~l~l 
hippies" 'had asked permission to that the Judicial Board spent 2 has also been announced by the demonstrate against the March to 3 hours a night handling board. The penalty once referred for Victory, sponsored by fun­cases. Most of these cases were to as a "campus" is now termed damentalist radio preacher Carl all the same, such as forgetting a restriction and results in a Mclntire, and that he under­to sign in, forgetting to sign out. sign-in every two hours until hall stood "that friction-a fight" We felt that the simplest way to closing wilth all other normal could occur. handle these cases was a system 
freedoms allowed. A second Furthermore, said Ky, he un­of automatic penalties." of penalty, social proba­
type derstood that Washington Mayor Miss Shelton emphasized that 
tion, will remain the same, re­Walter Washington was worried automatic penalties will not be 
stricting the student to campusthat even 1he Army would be applied in all cases. Included in llll subscription price ....$7.00 flll needed to 'F .il disturbances and the automatic system are those with a sign-in every hour until so, "I saia w myselt, "that It is infractions against rules con­closing. 
not a good time and a good oc­cerning hours, sing-out, alceholk Miss Shelton added that the casion" for a Washingtl)n visit. heveragP.s and ,guest oolicies. board also has the power to His original purpose in going All students, she explained, restrict a guilty student to the 
to w;tshington, said Ky, was to retain the right to' refuse aP campus for an indefinite period present facts to the American automatic penalty. A student depending on the circumstances people and "to appear to say who feels that her circumstances of the case.
t.:·:·:·:·x·:::~::·:.::~:~::=J 'tfiaf'!ks' to the American people unduly strict or has any reason 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• were extenuating, her penalty 
on behalf of my people, to ex­
: ( I A~~ «'f !2 : 
!• HELP WANTED! :• Kent killings called unjustified 
At Jackson, Mississippi, where At Kent State in Ohio where
e : WASHINGTON ( UP!) A two students were slain when four students died aftc~ Ohio
• WE ARE STILL IN NEED OF • member of the President's Com-police fired on a women's dorm­Natrona! Guardsmen opened fire~ : mission oniCampus lJnrestlay it itory, Rhades said: on a crowd of antiwar demon­
• PEOPLE WHO WISH TO BE • yesterday~1deu the killing of six 
"We found people in law en­strators protesting teh U.S. move
• • student demonstrators last May forcement . . . who demon­
• MEMBERS OF THE ND SMC • at Kent State University and strated a remarkable, incredible into Cambodia, Rhodes said the• • • Jackson State College "was com-lack of concern for the human
• 
. com mission I heanll contrary

• 
JUNIOR CLASS COUNCIL • pletely unjustified." life of black people ... who testimony.


• • : The commission, which gave regarded the black people of "But the thing that I think: • President Nixon a report Satur-Mississippi as fair game for their was clear was that we found
: WHY NOT HELP OUT THIS YEAR-: day on the general problem of 
missiles, for their weapons and
e : campus unrest and what can be students who felt that ... their acted in seemingly totally un­campus had been invaded by the
•.• IT'S NOT TOO lATE. •. done about it, will issue scpa'rate professional ways, givern the cir­National Guard."
reports this week on its invest­
cumstances... " 
• : igation of the Kent State and :. OUR INVOLVEMENT WILL BE : Jackson State tragedies. The police, he said, were Although he said he joined 
• But 1oseph Rhodes, 1r., a "taunted more than anything the other members in condemn­
:. WHAT YOU MAKE IT : junior fellow at Harvard and, at else by the students and shot ing the violence and burning of e 22, the youngest member of the an ROTC building at Kent State 
• 
II G S · 6967 SMC J · e voer 300 times ... at unai:med which occurred before the

ca reg teptc -umors contact commissiort, said "we found that : • f d dl shooting, Rhodes said that it was

• 
for information Sust"e Way -4695 • on both cases the use o ea Y people, killing two, wounumg 


• 1 "not at all clear" that these
e force that was used was com-nine, for no obvious reason." 
• f " incidents led to the shootings.
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••·~~p~~~t;cl~y~u~n~jiuistiii~~di"=======================~======~ 
' 
BLUE GRASS FESTIVAL 5 days Sept. 30, Oct I ,2,3,4 
Larry McNeely, star of Glen Campbell (Fri. only) Jim and Jesse and the Virginia Boys Lester Flats and Nashville Grass Jackie Phelts, star from HeeHaw Berny Martin Clyde Moody Harold Bradford and many others. 
Be!t Bare.' Contest 
Cash Awards 
Harvest Valley-9 miles north of Attica, Indiana on U.S. 41 -follow the signs 
ADV.ENT LTEC AR 
THE ADVENTBOSE CONCORD 
LOUDSPEAKER CROWN 
DUAL 
The ADVENT loudspeaker is as
DYNACO 
GARRARD 
free of "coloration" as any speaker 
JBL 
we have heard. It produces deep,
MARANTZ PE 
undistorted ba"" into the 30 }b 
REVDX 
region with the best of the acoustic 
SANSUI 
euspenMion systems; the midrange
SCOTT SENNHEISER 
is clean and well defined, and the 
SHARPE 
highs are smooth, extended and
SHURE 
highly dispersed.
SONY TEAC THOR ENS 
The ADVENT speaker ou~rforms
HARFEDALE 
the mottt popular $250 system, but 
•ells for only $116 in oiled walnut. 
At RMS Audio you can compare the ADVENT with any of more than 15 

other speaker systems, ranging in price from $63 to $660. 
OPEN 3-8 M-TH
R M s_AUDIO___. 
1-4:30 SUNandFRI Phone 288-1681 
CLOSED SATURDAY 
1307 E. CALVERT 
Manday,Seot. 28,1970 THR QBSERIJBR. 

'Death' talks held soon chauman ot aepanmem oi reli­A series of lectures on fession in a discussion of "Con­gious studies at Saint Mary's,''Theology of Death", con­temporary Death" on Octobbr "Immortality and Resurrec­ducted by area educators and 20. Dr. Rita Cassidy, director of tion," December I; Rev. Johnprofessional leaders, will begin the African Studies department Dunne, C.S.C., associate pro­October 6 in the Architecture at Saint Mary's College, will dis­fessor of theology at NotreBuilding auditorium on the cuss "Death in African Litera­Dame, "Lifetime and Death­Notre Dame campus. ture and History" on October time," D•:cember 3; Suresh Ban­The public is invited to the 8 27, and Dr. Ivan Pangrac, chief galore and Philip D'Souza, gra­p.m. sessions and there is no psychologist of the South Bend duate engineering students,admission charge. Theodore W. Mental Health Center, is "Hinduism: Reincarnation,"Hengesbach, a gradt1ute teaching scheduled for November 3. December 8; and Rev. Josephassistant in Notre Dame's theo­0 ther speakers and their Paine, C.S.C., pastor of Littlelogy department, is the modera­topics include: Dr. George Flower Church, and Dr. Danieltor. Plaine, South Bend physician, Fowler, . pastor of First Pres­Dr. Harold Isbell, chairman of "The Surgeon and Death," byterian Church, both of Souththe English department at Saint November 10; Elizabeth Kubler Bend, "Death in Pastoral Prac­Mary's College, will discuss "The Ross, "On Death and Dying," tice," December I 0.  C.A.F. F LMS by fruffaut Mon Sept. 28 400 BLOWS Tue Sept. 29 SHOOT THE PIANO PLAYER Wed Sept. 30 JULES & JIM enalneerln& aud. 8 & 10 Steve Goodman ­free concert ­Thurs.Ocf.J,B:OO Wash.Hall  

Poet and Death" at the first session October 6. "The Bio­chemist and Death" is the topic of Dr. James Danehy, associate professor of chemistry at Notre Dame, on October 13. 
William Welsheimer, South Bend Funeral director, will pre­sent the perspective of his pro-
Scholarship tun• 
(continued from page 1) 
$160,000 given to the Office of Financial Aid is to be divided over a four year period. 
McCarragher felt that the publicity about the Cotton Bowl money gave minority applicants 
the false impression that if ac­
cepted they could " ...expect a 
full ride." This .he thought was 
responsible for the Minority 
Group members disappointment 
about the financial aid package 
th~v-were offered. 
Jackson, however claimed that, "some of the students who were promised a certain amount of financial aid are not receiving it, that specific amounts of financial aid that they were promised initially; it has been cut back. And the Work Study program has not ... taken care of all this." 
Jackson charged that Univer­
sity publicity about financial aid 
was "deceptive" and gave as an 
example "In last year's freshman 
class, three black students from 
New York City were promised 
that they would be on Martin 
Luther King Scholarships, and 
each would be receiving Martin 
Luther King scholarships, and 
what happened when they get 
here was that they took one 
Martin Luther King Scholarship 
and split it three ways ... So this is 
the kind of the thing the Univer­
sity will do... they will publicize 
that they have three Black Stu­
dents on Martin Luther King 
Scholarships, whereas they have 
three people on one scholar­
ship". 

Nixon in Rome 
November 18; Dr. Harold Weiss, Junior League Thntt ~hop over 30,000 items new and used furniture, clothing, houseward, etc. 
STEPAN CEI\ITER 
THURS. OCT. 1 \FRI. OCT. 2 
9 A.M. -6:30P.M. 9-12 (no~ml 
Use Cliff's Notes when you study literature­1t's like having a Ph.D. at your beck and call. (See list at right.) Cliff's Notes authors are 
scholars and have 
taught the works they write about... they know what you need to help you outside the class· room ...and you get it in clear, concise form. 
Get Cliff's Notes and get more out of your litera· ture courses. See your dealer today. 
Nearly 200 Titles Covering All Classics Frequently Assigned in College. $lEach 
at your bookseller or write: 
Free !PEED !lEADING Lessons! 
TODAY 4, 6& BPM. 
HCI IDAY 1!\!\ US. 31 NORTH AT TOLLWAY 
8 
£~,11/~ REAI1ING DYNAMICS 
The ~bserver is published daily during the college semester excep, vaca!tons by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The 9bserver, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage uaid Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
Pa@4 THE OBSERIIEit Monday,Sept.28, 1970 
On ,.,.. John .1. McGrath 







REFLECTIONS 
The first in a four part series by the Observer's St. Mary's Editorial Board, reflecting on Rev. JohnS. McGrath, President of Saint Mary's, who died this summer. The writers include Jeanne Sweeney, Ann Conway, Mary Chris Morrison, and Sue Bury. The first part is by Jeanne Sweeney. 
Saint Mary's lost a very im­
portant member of its communi­
ty on June 9, 1970, just after 
most of us had said our good­
byes to Saint Mary's for the 
summer. Unfortunately none of 
us got to say a final goodbye to 
the Right Reverend Monsignor 
John J. McGrath, our president, 
and quite possibly none of us 
have really paused to reflect on 
what this man meant to us and 
did for Saint Mary's College. 
Now that we have returned and 
the freshman are settled, the 
time is right to put into perspec­
tive the two and a half years that 
Father McGrath was here so that 
we can appreciate him and his 
contributions to the community 
and then finally to realize what 
we want in future presidents. 
Dr. Jack Detzler, appointed 
Vice President of the College a 
few month~ before Father 
McGrath arrived, recalls "a change in tone, a new vigor and joy in being a part of a tremen­dously important enterprise," when Father came in second 'semester, 1968. Father's back­
ground was in no way a woman's college background, but he did _ sense very quickly the needs of the stuuents, and again as Or. Detzler says, "he movl'd ahead with a feeling that these were his girls." As the leader of our community for two and a half years, his strongest efforts sought to maintain the tradition of Saint Mary's College while initiating changes in many facets of the college. He balanced the two, tradition and change, sur­prisingly well and Saint Mary's greatly benefited from his enthu­siasm and new ideas during his very short stay here. 
Father Raymond E. Runde, a 
close personal friend of Father 
McGrath's, makes clear that 
above all the president of Saint 
Mary's was dedicated to the con­
cept of Catholic education. 
Father Runde explains that he 
felt "a Christian atmosphere per­
meated the style of life for the 
people involved and he really 
believed in the Catholic school 
from that old standpoint, tc 
keep up the Catholic, Christian 
culture." One must understanc 
this in order to fully realize wh) 
Saint Mary's was so important tc 
Father McGrath and why h( 
would never forget Saint Mary': 
tradition of 125 years. 
Among the student body 
possibly only the senior clas 
realizes what an enormou 
amount of changes Saint Mary' 
has undergone since Fathe 
McGrath first came here thei 
freshman year. In addition t· 
the tales of the seniors, we hav 
many faculty and administratio 
members who will bear witne! 
to the fact that Presider 
McGrath was certainly not ove 
burdened with tradition. It 
just amazing how in a mere tw 
and a half years so much coul 
be done to keep Saint Mary's • 
tune with the times and to mai 
tain her status as a very uniq1 
intellectual community. D 
Detzler explains that Fath 
McGrath believed "rules at doing." Father McGrath pushed Trustees Committees. 
McGrath implemented a re­regulations were great, but if this idea because he wanted an During Father McGrath's 
commendation to vary the facul­
they didn't make sense, why effective working relationship to years here, steps were taken with ty. In addition Dr. Detzler ex­maintain them." With this kind exist bet ween all sections of the 
Notre Dame to make the two plains "the emphasis in recruit­of philosophy permeating the college. Father Runde recalls schools "subbtantially coeduca­ing faculty came to be placed on community, all three sections, "he was always very interested tional'·' with each other while 
securing persons with their for­faculty, students, and the ad­in the students and he had a maintaining Saint Mary's 
mal professional training com­ministration worked with the great rapport with them." In separate identity. "He really be­
pleted." McGrath realized the approval of the president to concurrence with this idea then, lieved in a separate identity for importance of keeping SMC modernize Saint Mary's. it was soon announced that the SMC," says Father Runde, "and 
financially solvent and while he One 'of the most outstanding students would hold voting posi­he believed that there were was president a developmentand progressive changes brought tions on all college committees enough differences between office was reorganized to solicit on Saint Mary's under Father concerned with student and 
what men and women wanted in funds for Saint Mary's. McGrath 
McGrath's initiative was that of academic matters, including the education to make it necessary encouraged the present Program community government. Father Student Affairs Council and the to have separate schools." There­Seventies campaign which was Runde explains McGrath's con­Academic Affairs Council. In fore Saint Mary's took on a launched in Chicago while he cept of a community govern­addition to having students on unique role, increasing her en­was alive. Dr. Detzler says "he 
•ment with students, faculty and these committees, which is a lot rollment in cooperation with thought the development and administration "who would all more than Notre Dame had at Notre Dame, and opening up the growth of Saint Mary's was work together and be openly the time, a further step also classes slowly but surely on both dependent in part on this effort aware of what the other was placed students on the Board of campuses to coeducation. and vigorously encouraged the 
Changes occured with a new campaign program." academic calender, a new grad­Many adjectives are used by ing system, dining privileges on members of the community talk­both campuses, and expanded 
ing about Father McGrath. He is shuttle bus service. This is all too 
described by Father Runde as much fo credit to one man, but 
"extremely bright, highly rest­it all happened under his leader­
less, old fashioned, tremendous­ship. 
ly honest, and surprisinglyIn his stay here at Saint enough lonely." Father Runde Mary's each of the various seg­says "he found being President a ments of the community were very lonely job and he missed effected. Students noticed a teaching." He adds that McGrath gradual decline in the number of didn't think a person should stay
regulations which burdened 
in one place too long, and he them. Also an attempt was possibly would have moved on made, which McGrath gave con­from Saint Mary's in a year or siderable impetus to, to increase two. Unfortunately we lostthe enrollment of Black students Father McGrath far too soorr 
at SMC. In Academics, he was but his spirit was always withinterested in opening up the Saint Mary's and shall remain at curriculum, but he was still SMC where, in compliance withcommitted to the core subjects. 
his request, he is buried. 
Concerning the faculty, Father 

························Letters to the Editor ······················· 
Editor: In regard to the article en­titled, "ABCW REQUESTS 

THE OBSERVER 
FUNDS", I should like to add 
An Independent Student Newspaper
just a few comments. To begin, the article was written in such a manner, as to 
DAVID C. BACH,Editor GAETANO M. De SAPIO. Publi.s.her
imply that the Black students are asking for charity and not the right to conduct themselves as students. We too, pay an 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
activities fee and therefore we 
are entitled to the right to parti­
cipate actively. 
Secondly, we are a legal body Editor: though the rationale upon which the flag, Father Burtchael!, by recognized and sanctioned by Allow me to clarify a point such a judgment is predicated is any method you choose. But student government and there­in Denis DuBay's story on slightly less clear, at least to a don't attempt to subjugate the fore entitled to any rights or the phasing out of the person who naturally associates military to your personal whims privileges that go with this recog­Communication Arts the flag with the military which or political fancies, or try, how­nition as an organization on the department. The story says has traditionally defended it. ever ineffectually, to divorce it SMC Campus. that the bulk of the present Divorce ROTC from the from• the flag which it must pro­Third, the choice of words of C.A. curriculum, minus certain Notre Dame community; separ­tect and which it therefore is the writer reflects greatly upon technical courses, will be ate and isolate the military from quite reasonably associated. her depreciating attitude toward transferred to the new the American society. But if the The people who participate so Blacks: "IneXpensive activities American Studies program. occasion should ever arise when selflessly in the Study Help Pro­for poorer students". The impli­Actually, some of the current your right to make decisions and 
gram, Mr. and Mrs. O'Brien, and cation of Miss Muller seems to interests of the Department­pass judgment, however ar­
Mr. and Mrs. Stepan, are un­be that we couldn't possibly bitrary, is threatened or in any
in writing, design, film, the doubtedly fine people. I applaud enjoy a normal price activity. arts-will be carried over into the choice of these people to
way questioned, Father 
Burtchaell, let Mr. and Mrs. Don­
Fourth, the point that this the core area of American raise the flag, but I challenge the 
ald O'Brien and Mr. and Mrs. Ed­
request was made as a supple­Studies, but only as they basic premise underlying the de­
relate to and help illumine ward Stepan seek the redress of
ment to our budget is com­cision to· select anyone other pletely overlooked. It would be the study of the national grievances to which you as Pro­than a military representation. impossible to bring "several experience. vost --and American citizen-are The military, whether or not 
speakers" here on $500 dollars. Ronald Weber entitled. you permit ROTC volunteersIn this context, of course, a
Finally, I hope, and I would Editor: here at Notre Dame to raise the
striking anomaly appears. The
appreciate, a little more tact and An article entitled "ROTC American flag, must invariablymembers of the Notre Dame
care being taken in the reporting Ousted" appeared in the Sep­defend it and the ideals itcommunity who have died in
of any further statement or re­tember 24th issue of The Ob­symbolizes. I ask you only totheir country's service, in any
quest on behalf of the ABCW. It server. It was stated that "Uni­broaden your obviously liberal war from World War I to the
is incidents such as these that versity Provost Rev. James T. thought, Father Burtchaell, if make it difficult to live in this Burtchaell had decided upon a present conflict in Vietnam, and only widely enough to recognizewhose bodies have been sym­
environment. new procedure to be followed in this simple fact and the tradi­
bolically covered by the flag-"NOW AIN'T THAT THE pre-game ceremonies." tionally close union it implies.
have not sacrificed their lives asTRUTH" The reason for such a decision representatives of the Neighbor­
Paula M. Dawning is certainly not obscure, a!-Tony Jeselnik1 
hood Help Study Program. Raise 


Monday, Sept. 2::!8,...:1.::..97:....:0:.__________________771.'E_Q_&£_'ERfla

__ _________________________.:....:Paga~....::..5 
Live Here at Notre Dame 
· vou know, the pragmatist


JOHN BARKEII 

A review by "Thank You very much and we hope you win the Game Tomorrow" 
Some groups are groups. Self-evident and easy. But then, you see, there are some groups that aren't groups at all, but bands. That's how you go about explain­ing what happened Friday night at the Convo. 
The whole thing was rather an enter­taining experience. I mean, when the music wasn't interesting the audience was, and vice-versa. It's the Great Notre Dame audience, the exact same people who are always there, the same mind, the same confusion, the same (he said, stick­ing his neck out) ignorance. In their finest Grand-Funk-Railroad-tradition, they milled about aimlessly from the very be­ginning, hoping to find some psych somewhere, looking hard for it where it wasn't there and missing it as it went by, seeing good music where it wasn't there and missing it when it appeared. It's all kind of embarassing, like when you take some poor chick to the Keg and she or­ders a cheeseburger or something, you know? 
The first act was a group from Toron­to, Bush, composed of the smae four guys that make up every slightly better ·than mediocre four piece rock group: the quiet, down-home looking guitarist, the skinny funky drummer, the slightly greasy but friendly and lovable bass player, and the open shirt-white pants self-appointed stud vo..:alist. Amiclst it all, Bush managed to lay down some pretty nice music. Most of their stuff was per­cussive and rhythmic, exciting but gen­erally not too interesting or impressive. But then, a few of their things c~ rne off really well ,among them two gospel-rock tunes (slightly reminiscent of Rhino­ceros), "Living My Life" and "I Can Hear You Calling". The potential for perfor­mance was obviously there, and when Bush failed it was chiefly because of their material. 
Well, afther the group and the manda­tory 25 minute-quarter hour intermission, then came the band. I guess the best way to understand the distinction between ad group and a band (well, actually, you do understand it, it's just that you might not know how or why or something) is to just sit around for a while and think about a band. I mean, you know what a group is, but a band is an entirely different thing all together (no, not altogether, all to­gether). 
All of this became perfectly obvious (didn't it) when Three Dog Night did their 1957 thing. with the shiny high school jacket and the lead vocal that ranges about 17 octaves higher than Mic­key Mouse's falsetto. That was the clin­cher, you see, the thing that makes you recognize all the other things, all those things like Chuck Negron singing with his hands in his pockets-his hands in his poc­kets! Not sliding up and down the micro­phone stand in an expression of seething sexuality, not clawing at his agonized face or tearing on his grazzled hair, but in his pockets! My God! Do you realize? When was the last time you saw a guy singing with his hands in his pockets? Or when was the last time you saw the guys in a group have a Coke-fight? When was the last time you saw guys who looked like they were having a good time making music: Or how about the last time you heard someone say, "Now Danny's gonna sing a song for you."? High school per­haps? The big Spring dance when your school went all the way and brought in the best teen band from the next city? Of course! You see, those are things that you do when you're a band; that's the kind of feeling a band gives you. 
Three Dog Night is a very successful group-they sell a lot of records. There are some things that are and have been hap­pening in rock music that are the reasons why. One of these is the thing that created Crosby, Stills and Nash (or, at least, their success) and the thing that is causing the current interest in Billie Hol­liday and Pay Charles and all the Roberta Flacks and Joe Cockers that follow 
them--that thing is the revival of interest in vocal music and singing technizue. For a long time, rock ignore the vocalist--all you had to do, man, was like shout a few words over this heavy instrumentation, and, man, like that was all there was -to it, you know? But now, things are different, because now people like to listen to pret­ty singing. Another thing is that there is just loads of good musical material sitting in the library of some Cleveland FM radio station that is just begging to be sweetened with a little commercialism and fed to the people who buy the re­cords with the big holes. Eli's Coming (Laura Nyro) and Mama Told Me Not to 
Come (Randy Newman) just to name a couple. 
But the big thing goes back to the idea of a band. People are, happily, willing once again to listen to bands. Many have just about had enought of listening to the heavies that lay out the truths of life­death-and-the cosmos-they're ready to listen to some good old songs. Like be entertained, you knw? So you take a 
band takes of all these 
.Photo by Jim Hunt 
Mike Lenehan 
things and what you have is some records that get bought and some concerts that are loved-that's what happens around Three Dog Night. And the loved it. 
Musically, Three Dog Night has some problems. For one thing, they really don't seem to be able to generate any original material, and they seem to mess up occasionally on the stuff that they get from elsewhere-Fee/in' ADright for ex­ample, their version of which falls far short of the subtle beauty, and seemingly, the intention, of Winwood's song. But I don't think that that is the name of this game. The name of this game is boung up somewhere in an encore song that chants a "thank you very much and we hope you win the football game tomorrow". It has something to do with entertainment and a good feeling, and how could I ever face my mother after panning a concert 
The other day Bass Rumore suggested that the Observer Features Page gather together all the farrwus people on Notre Dame and do biographies on them Since no one else had any better ideas, we all went along with it. Since John Barkett was the first guy we got aorund to talking to, the first installment ofLive Right Here At Notre name will be about him 
The ballots were httrdly counted· and Tom Thrash­er was hardly cold -in his grave when •speculation began to arise on the question of who would be the successor to Dave Krashna. _Bill Wilka's name was kicked around. So was Don Mooney's; despite his furiously passionate denials. Glen Corso's name was kicked around. So was Dick Terrier's. So were a whole lot of other people's. But John Barkett's name was kicked around the loudest, and the most often. 
So Barkett has not yet made a definitive statmetn about his candidacy. People will continue to kick his name around until he does. So, in an effort to make his ideas as easy to kick around as his name, the Observer Features Page presents the following capsule biography. 
-ed. 
by Ed Ellis 
When talking to Student Government leaders or indeed to anyone who has reached a position of prominence or responsibility in campus life one is inevitably impressed by a particular quality of life, one wich presumably is responsible for that person's rise to prominence. Thus one is impressed by Student 
Body  President  Dave  Krashna's  sense  of  outward  
calm,  his  deliberateness,  and  his  command  of any  
given  situation.  Rich  Hunter,  former  Stay  Senator  

and prominent campus political figure, impresses by sheer strength of intellect, and his eagerness ot get things done by any conceivable means. Observer Features Editor and campus Doctor of Sophistry T. 
C. Treanor is articulateness personified and he posses­ses an amazing sense of humor. John Barkett, two-term Morrissey Hall president and Chairman of the Hall President's Council is no exception to this 
rule. 
Barkett's native intelligence is something that is 
taken for granted. He is a junior, a government major, 
and a member of Notre Dame's Committee for 
Academic Progress (CAP), an organization which 
enables the most gifted students in the University to 
take extra courses and courses not normally open to 
students from other majors. He is an avid student, 
too, of Russia; its language and its people; and he 
spent part of last summer in the Soviet Union. He is 
currently considering a program of study in Moscow 
his senior year. 
Barkett's talent for administration is unsurpassed. "John Barkett is the most organized guy I know," said a fellow hall president, who proceeded to tell how in Russia, Barkett sat down from 8 PM to 8:30 every night and wrote and addressed exactly six postcards -no more, no less. 
And his grasp of student politics is efficient, deep 
and firm. His success in Morrissey Hall, where he won 
reelection last spring by a margin approaching three 
to one, testifies to that fact. 
Barkett is unquestioningly action-oriented, and as such has none of the psuedo-philosopher qualities one finds in former Student Body President Phil McKenna or former Grace Hall president Chris Wolfe. And lacking an overall ideological driving force, Barkett is far more pragmatic, and far less given to extreme emasures of symbolic importance but practical use­lessness. Thus we find him describing himself as a political pragmatist and a moderate. He opposes American involvement in Vietnam, terming it "a 
waste of time," because the Thieu -Ky government he 
contends has not-shown it has even the minimal 
support of the people. But he supported neither the 
October Moratorium nor the Student Strike last May. 
Barkett called the Moratorium "a sincere demon­
stration of people's feelings," but did not par­
ticipate because he could see no reason for him 
doing so. 
In last year's Student Body Presidential Elections. Barkett supported winner Dave Krashna, but by his own admission, he did not become extremely in­volved in the campaign. He did sign the statement released by the Krashna campaign opposing the 
Student Senate adn last year sat on the now-defunct 
Constitutional Revision Committee. It was his motion 
to abolish the Senate that passed 5 -4 at the last 
official meeting of the Committee, but now, as then, 
he cannot get too excited about the idea of dumping 
the Senate and says that were he SBP, he probably 
would take no action against it. Barkett also ackno­
ledges the value of the Senate as a check against the 
assumpt10n of excessive power by the executive 
branch of student government 
Talking about the Student L1fe Council, Barkett 
says "They get too bogged down in personalities." As 
with most legislative bodies at Notre Dame, the SLC 
has long been noted for its inaction, semi-action and 
total ignorance of what action really means. To a 
man, such as John Barkett, who orients his entire 
beeing to a.:complishing things and acting on prob­
lems, this is intolerable. 
In several cases where SLC action has been taken. 
the University Board of Trustees has vetoed the bills. 
Parietal hours and the Burtchaell Judicial Code are 
the most prominent cases. Barkett opposes such 
action strongly. Referring to the Trustees he says, "I 
don't think they should be in the position of 
overruling-the Student Life Council. Unfortunately,· such is the case." 
Barkett, like most Notre Dame men, is in favor of 
co-education with considerably more than "all deli­
berate speed." He realizes; however that the facts in 
the case make consideration of co-education without 
St. Mary's impractical. He sees complete co-educa­
tion, with both men and women on both campuses as 
a goal for which to work. 
John Barkett, in short, is a welcome anomol¥ to 
student politics at Notre Dame. An administrator of 
unquestionable ability, he personifies the type of 
leader that will perhaps gain most support for student 
goals in the near future. If a problem that he can act 
upon exists, he acts. Of a problem that he cannot act 
upon exists, he lives it to those who can zct. 
Uneccumbered by an overriding political ideology, he 
can afford to act pragmatically, in such a way as to 
get things done with minimal friction to all parties. 
He's no philosopher of any stripe. He doesn't talk. He 
acts. 


Half back Denny Allan breaks (or the hole, turns the comer, md sets hauled down by three Purdue Defenden. 

Defensive end Walt Patubki sets ready to eat Purdue's Joe cottrell ·we•re going to get you Veno' is written all over the face of Offensive Captain Larry Quaterback Chuck Piebes Dinardo 
HOMECOMING LOTTERY 
Sign up for lottery for motel rooms and football tickets tomorrow, 6:30-9:30 in the Fiesta Lounge. Dance bids sold before lottery sign­u_p_s for $8.00. 
Pick up bids and buy motel rooms & football tickets Thurs. Oct. 1 
Proof of
Open 
Age
12:45 
Required 
t:t:f:t 
SO ADULT... ONE 'X' ISN'T ENOUGH I 


Mike M':f'Phy Ouaterback Joe Theiannan, • in Reisman, aoea OYer the defeue for a ..... Jim Hunt
Tom Gatewood foDows DAn Novakov after one of t 2 receptions. 

So thiala what group therapy Is • ..,_t! Jim Hunt Joe Cottrell 
Defensive Halfback Ed Gulyas is brought down after intercepting a Purdue Pass 
Tom Gatewood cries uncle for thil Boilermaker, but it dida't lalt loaa• be lea•• 92 in the turf and rears for tbe prai8e of ArL Joe Cottrell 


I 
I 
~ 
I f 

I I 
I by Terry Shields 
I 
I Observer Sports Editor 
I At last Friday night's pep 
I f rally coach Ara Parseghian did something that had neyer been 
r done before. He promised a vic­tory over Purdue to the student body. On Saturday afternoon his carges went out and took that victory over the Boilermakers in a most certain manner. When the Irish had finished with the team from West Lafayette the score­board read an unbelievable 48-0. 
Purdue made their first return on the kick-off and incorrect choice of the day when fumbled. Dan O'Toole recovered they elected to defend the North · for ND. On the second play after goal with a 15 mph wind at their the recovery, ND gave the foot­back. The Irish then chose to ball back to Purdue when receive. Joe Theis mann quarter­Charlie Potts plucked a 
backed his sky-high teammates Theismann pass out of the air at on a 78 yard march that ended his own 22 yard line. in a Scott Hempel field goal from the nin•~ yard line. Kelly Halts Drive 
It looked like this was defin­
The Boilermakers then 
itely going to be the Irish day marched on their longest drive when Darryl Stingley was hit by 
of the day. They took the ball Rich Thomann after a three yard 
and moved 60 yards. On fourth 

More than anything else this picture sums up the destruction of the Purdue Boilermakers. Joe Theismann to Torn Gatewood. This combination clicked an astounding 12 times for 192 yards and three touchdowns, a truly All-American performance from both ends. 
Statistics-revenge and then some 
TEAM STATISTICS First Downs Rushing First Downs Passing First Down by Penalties TOTAL FIRST DOWNS Number Attempts Rushing Yards Gained Rushing Yards Lost Rushing NET YARDS RUSHING Number Passes Attempted Number Passes Completed Number Passes Had Intercepted NET YARDS PASSING Number plays Total TOTAL OFFENSE Number Interceptions Yards Interceptions returned Number Times Punted Number Punts Had Blocked PUNTING AVERAGE Number Punts Returned NET YARDS PUNTS RT'D. Number Kickoffs Returned Yards Kickoff Returned Number Times Penalized TOTAL YARDS PENALIZED Number Times Fumbled NUMBER FUMBLES LOST 
NOTRE DAME 10 14 7 17 48 PURDUE 0 0 0 0 0 
SCORING ND: Hempel FG, 19 yds ND: Allen 4 run, Hempel kick ND: Gatewood 17 pass from Theismann , Hempel kick 
ND: Gatewood 7 pass from Theismann, Hempel kick ND: Gatewood 20 p;~ from i neismann~ Hempel kick . 
ND: Hempel FG, 37 yds ND: Dewan 4 run, Hempel kick ND: Parker 63 run, Hempel kick 
NOTRE DAME RUSHING ATT Theismann 13 Gulyas 12 Allan 13 Barz 9 Minnix 7 Cieszkowski 3 Steenberge 3 Dewan 2 
PU  ND  
6  15  
2  12  
3  2  
11  29  
28  72  
114  358  
18  29  
96  329  
32  25  
7  17  
3  1  
48  304  
60  89  
144  633  
1  3  
0  18  
4  1  
0  0  
46  40  
1  1  
19  3  
7  1  
108  21  
3  10  
45  115  
6  3  
2  3  

YDS TD 
2 63 48 
44 37 14 5 5 
0 0 
1 0 0 0 0 1 
Parker 6 102 1 
Gallagher 1 3 0 
Nightingale 3 6 0 
PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TD 
Theismann 24 16 1 276 3 
Steenberge 1 1 0 28 0 
RECEIVING NO YDS TD Gatewood 12 192 3 Creany 1 55 0 Tereschuk 28 0 Barz 14 0 Allen 12 0 Trapp 3 0 
PUNTING NO. AVG. 
Yoder 40 
PUNT RETURNS NO. AVG. 
Parker 
3 
KICKOFF RETURNS NO. YDS. 
Nightingale 1 21 
PURDUE 
RUSHING Piebes Armstrong North Brown Danielson Kress  ATT 4 11 5 2 3 3  YDS 4 68 20 0 3 1  TD 0 0 0 0 0 0  
PASSING Piebes Danielson Jones  ATT 12 18 2  COMP 2 4 1  INT 0 3 0  YDS 11 34 3  TD 0 0 0  
RECEIVING Brown Stingley Armstrong Spellman North  NO 2 2  YDS 25 14 4 3 2  TD 0 0 0 0 0  
PUNTING Lougheed  NO. 4  AVG. 46  
PUNT RETURNS _Stingley  NO. 1  AVG'. 19  
KICKOFF RETURArmstrong Brown Stingley  NS  NO. 1 3. 3  YDS. 17 52 39  

yards. The best point about this
and two at the ND 19 Chuck for ND is that Purdue was
Piebes tried a keeper play but 
reputed to have a good defenseIrish linebacker Tim Kelly hung before the encounter.
him a yard short of his destina­tion. Defense Superb From this moment on, the 
The defense should not beball game was all Notre Dame. 
overlooked for its part in theTheismann drove the offense 82 game. They limited the Boileryards in five plays on the follow­attack to 144 yards and moreing series of downs with a 55 important a big goose egg on theyard strike to tight end Mike scoreboard. The front fourCreaney being the big gainer. 
played a great game. The pass
Denny Allan registered his rush was notably stronger thanfourth touchdown of the season the previous week's. The line­
minutes later from four yards backers fierce hitting checkedaway making the score I 0-0 at the Purdue ball carriers for thethe end of one period. 
majority of the afternoon. The
Purdue gave the Irish the foot­ball again on the kick-off when 
secondary also was heard from. Rick Schavietello fumbled and Clarence Ellis intercepted twice Tom Eaton recovered on and Ralph Stepaniak once as the 
Boilermakers garnered only 48
Purdue's 29. The Irish attack yards passing. 
was temporarily stalled when PU 
Another bright spot in theheld on downs at their own gloomy, rainy afternoon couldeight. Two plays later Otis Arm­be found in the performance ofstrong fumbled and after the second team offense. PatThomann's recovery the Irish Steenberge directed a Wish­could no longer be subdued. 
bone-T attack and accounted for tV:o of the Irish TD's. 
Calls Audibles 
Theismann who called an Theismann·Gatewood Praised unusual number of audibles against the Boilermakers stunt-. After the game Ara Parseghian 
ing defense, called a screen pass com men ted that this was one of for Tom Gatewood. The play the bigger wins of his carrier. He worked so well that Gatewood's compared this game to the blockers actually slowed him up. Southern Cal game of 1966 Nonetheless Tom had an easy which the Irish won 51-0. jog to the end zone. "Everything broke right for us 
This play set the pattern for that day much the same as it did what was to follow. Theismann today. The big question was was a master at quarterback whether Purdue would have an completing 16 of 24 passes for adequate passing attack. Bod 276 yards. Gatewood was on the DeMoss will have his quarter­receiving end of 12 throws and backs developed by the end of he crossed the goal line no less the season." than three times. This perfor-In the subdued Purdue locker mance puts him in the ND room Bob DeMoss commented, record books with five other "We looked like we hadn't had a men (Jim Seymour was the practice all season. Notre latest in this group) for most TD Dame is a tremendous team. passes caught in one game. We made mistakes and they took 
The other Irish scores came advantage." Both coaches paid on a twenty yard Theismann to tribute to Theismann and Gatewood aerial, a seven yard Gatewood. duplicate, another field goal by It was a truly amazing perfor­Hempel from 37 yards, a power mance by the Irish. The only burst by reserve Darryl Dewan regret was that it took four years from the four and an electrifying to happen. But the 48 point 63 yard sprint by Larry Parker. margin (largest ever in the 42 Parker was the leading rusher in year old series) wiped out past the game with 102 yards in but memories and left a great deal six carries. of optimism among Irish rooters 
All of this offensive activity everywhere for what may follow accounted for a fantastic 633 during the season. 
MAJOR LEAGUES 
AMERICAN LEAGUENATIONAL LEAGUE 
East w L Pet. GBEast w L Pet. GB 
I 87 Baltimore 104 54 .656
Pittsburgh 72 .548 76 4Y:.
Chicago 82 .520 New York 92 68 .577 13 New York 81 77 .512 5Y:. Boston 86 74 .535 19 
82 Philadelphia 72 86 .455 14Y:. Cleveland 75 83 .474 28Y:. Washington 70 88 .446 34 
St. Louis 75 84 .471 12 Detroit 77 .483 27Y:. 
Montreal 71 88 .447 16 
West
West Cincinnati 101 59 .629 
Minnesota 95 62 .605 Oakland 86 71 .548 gy,San Fran. 86 72 .545 14 Los Angeles 85 73 .538 15 California 81 75 .519 14 Kansas City 63 94 .400 32Houston 75 83 .475 24Y:. Atlanta 75 85 .468 25Y:. 
Milwaukee 64 95 .399 32 Chicago 56 102 .354 39Y:.
San Diego 62 97 .389 38Y:. 
Baltimore 4 Cleveland 3 
Pittsburgh 2 New Yprk 1 Kansas City 4 Minnesota 3 
Chicago 5 Philadelphia 3 Milwaukee 9 Chicago 3 
Montreal 1 St. Louis 0 11 innings New York 4 Detroit 2
Cincinnati 8 Los Angeles 5 Boston 10 Washington 1
Houston 10 Atlanta 7 
Sa,n Fran. 3 San Diego 2 All division titles have been clinched 







