

1970
.____v_o__L_._IV~·-N-o~·-7~9-:----------------------~S~c~rv~i~ng~t~h~c~N~f~lt~n~·~/~)~an~l~l'~al~ld~.~~a~l~·n~t~ft1~.~a~~~~·~s~(~'~v~flsc~~"[~'~(~(~ll~ll~n~ll~ll~ll~l~1'--------------------~FRIDAY,FEBRUARY 2 o, 
Dr. Spock: strong need for dissent 
by David Bach 
Terming the war in Vietnam "illegal, immoral and detri­mental to the best interests of the United States," Dr. Benja­min Spock, a noted pediatrician and an outspoken critic of the war, examined the state of the union and found that there was a strong need for dissent in the U.S. 
Before a ncar capacity audicnce in the Stepan Center last night, he admitted that his presentation would bt one-sided but noted that he "stopped trying to be even after my government tried to throw me in jail." 
His presentation did not go unchallenged as Joseph Szalay, the Chairman of the Support Our President For Peace Com­mittee, and a former Hungarian Freedom Fighter who lived 12 years under Communist dom­ination, asked a series of ques-
Norling resigns from SLC 
by John Simone 
contended.
Dr. Bernard Norling of the N orting expressed irateHistory Department has announ­
dissatisfaction with the
ced his resignation from the SLC Administration, blaming it for
in a letter to the Observer. 
abdicating its "rightful authorityNorling stated in his letter and responsibility to a myriad oft hal despite the many 
committees, commtsswns,
constructive accomplishments councils, boards, bureaus,brought about by the SLC, they forums and courts." He added,have been "overbalanced by "three more will make an even numerous futilities and chronic million. Their combined weighttime wasting." 
should soon cause the campus to"At various times this year, begin sinking slowly towards thethe SLC has attempted to center of the earth."
establish its competence to pass He stated in an interview lastjudgement on U.S. Foreign night that, "It is not the properPolicy, the activities of the Cl A business of students to legislate.
and Dow Chemical Co., ... the It is the function of theinvestment policies of the Board administration to run the place,of Trustees, and the activities of the faculty to teach and dothe Placement Bureau. By May, research, and students to studywe may well see an SLC and get themselves an educationsubcommittee patrolling the 
continued on page 7
Israeli-Egyptian border," Norling lions and claimed that he had "never heard a dedicated Com­munist speak out against America the way I have heard a great many persons born in this country.. .literally blast and tear our country apart from with." 
Dr. Spock also received crit­icism from Kathy Cecil, an SMC student, and other members of the Women's Liberation Front for his superior male conceptio~ of women's place in society. 
Beginning with the French Indo-Chinese empire, Spack traced American participation in the war and commented that the United States was never invited to Vietnam and actually entered in "a power grab." 
He criticized President John Kennedy for his part in adding to the problem by sending the first military "advisors" into Vietnam. 
But he claimed that what Kennedy did was "not anywhere close to what LBJ did." He termed President Johnson's 
continued on page 7 
Assembly 
by Prudence Wear 
The requirement of senior status for SBP was upheld last night after an anxious debate in the SMC Student Assembly. The vote was tight with nine repre­sentatives in favor of opening the office to sophomores and 
juniors, six opposed and one abstention. up the issue of the class 
requirement for the office of President of the Student · Body, Driscoll reviewed Roberts' Rules of Orders pertaining to reconsideration of a question in a session. 

keeps requirements 
Realizing that a group of representatives planned to bring 
"Unless a motion which has previously been considered lS substantially amended it cannot be reconsidered in a session," she said. Sophomore Anne Marie Tracey asked for the definition 
continued on pa~e 7 

•channeling',C.O., and the Resistance 
by Dave Lammers 
For the p"erson that is adamant in his objection to Vietnam, and refuses to cover up that objection through an occupational deferment, two means of expressing that objection arc consci­entious objection within the tav, and conscientious objection outside ~f or opposed to the law, that is, resistance by destroying the draft card, refusing to step forward or even to refuse registering for the draft. 
I don't think it is good to condemn people that "dodge" the draft by getting a teaching deferment or working in science research or by supporting wid­owed mothers. But we should all realize that, although they have internal objec­tions to Vietnam and may voice these objections to their friends, as far as the Pentagon boys are concerned, the system has done its job. Through the fear of gelt ing dra fled, the person has been "channeled" into a civilian position that "is important to our national security and well-being." It is through the meaningful expression of a person's objection, through resistance or by applying for a 
C.O. classification, that a person expres­ses his beliefs, that is, if he sees the Vietnam war as unjust. As long as the government can channel people into being high school teachers or engineers (not evils in themselves) by recognizing and using dissent for their own ends, then that dissent is meaningless and must come under the category "Saving Our Own 
Ass." 
After all, there is always the dumb slob who can't wait to get off the assembly line or the black who wants to leave the ghetto. We tell ourselves that these guys won't mind the war, that they will get 
some "action" and see the world and 
maybe get some discipline and maybe 
learn a trade they wouldn't have learned 
otherwise, and after all, only one out of 
I04 draftees gets killed anyway. Not such 
bad odds, we say. 

The rationalizations are not callous I 
hope, but they are rationalizatiom that 
result in the poor and the blacks gelling 
screwed while we are smart enough and 
rich enough to play the channeling game. 
It takes a certain amount of intelligence 
to play the game, to be able to see the 
perplexities and ambiguities of the war 
that the black man or poor man many 
t1mes cannot express but knows anyway. 
And this is the greatest challenge to the 
concept of the conscientious objection. 
The C.O. is still playing much the same 
game as the impressed high school 
teacher. He is saying, "I can't kill 
Vietnamese for you but I will go into the 
slums and teach the poor children for 
you'' Not that teaching poor children is wrong, but what if that person is only teaching poor children because of the threat of the government? What if one feels he can better serve society and himself by going to law school or studying painting or playing baseball? 
David Harris, California draft resister, calls the draft card the card of death, representing a system of death that must be opposed and resisted. By going to prison and accepting the punishment of the society, the resister is serving radical witness to his opposition to the war, he is somehow one with the suffering of the Vietnamese peasants at the hands of that 
same state. 

I suppose the argument between the conscientious objectors and the resistors comes down to the question, '~How can I best serve witness to my beliefs, how can I best bring about an end to war and violence, how can I best serve huml1"­ity?" The resister answers by saying tliat he must deny the system of death control over his life, that through his example the system will eventually be brought down or forced to reconsider its methods. And in fact, resistance in the San Francisco­Oakland draft board has become so widespread (figures run around 30%) that the system has not been able to meet its quota for many months. Also, the courts have been bogged down by the huge number of cases of resistance so that persons are not coming to trial, sentences are light, draft resisters are not called for induction. 
But San Francisco is not America, and David Harris is serving a three year term and the draft resisters at Notre Dame know that they are free men (in the legal sense) for a limited amount of time. Burning a draft card does not usually go unrewarded. 
The conscientious objector cooperates with the system not only because he does not want the tag "FELON" hung around his neck for his lifetime. We live in a system where the courts protect our right 
to  disagree  with  the  state.  (That  last  
sentence  sounds  ridiculous  after  the  
Chicago  scene,  but  I  have  hope.)  By  

taking the demand for conscientious objection based on personal morals to the courts, CO.'s have been able to expand the meaning of the law within the court system. (See the Seeger and Sisson cases.) It is important that the courts and the 
power of the law be henmd conscientious dissent, that is, dissent that is taken through the Selectivf' Service System and through the coUJts. In a common law system, the more people ti:tat voice their dissent with the power of the law behind 
that right, the more respect the law pays to the position of the dissenters. 
Dissent outside the law requires that the person be willing to accept a prison term and the problems in getting a job etc. It is good to note that the Notre Dame resisters underwent a long intro­spection and were aware of the conse­quences of their action. 
If a Notre Dame student thinks that his 
objection to Vietnam might be expressed 
through selective or total conscientious 
objection, he has the problem of finding 
out what he should do, what he should 
read, what he should write to his draft 
board, what court cases apply to his 
situation. Monday's article by Tom 
Hamson is about conscientious objection 
at Notre Dame, and provides the basic 
information to begin the processes 
involved. 
In these articles the various authors have been treating (within the limits of the space) the rel,ationship of conscience and war, with an approving eye to conscientious objection as a means of expressing objection to all war and the Vietnam war in particular. The primary question that the government has not been able to face has been "How can we respect the sincere demands of the consciences of the young men faced with a war that we admit is a collosal mistake?" 
PAGE 2 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1970 
~ ·• ' ~i , 
'Age of Vasari' facelifts O'Shag 

by Mark Walbran 
Yesterday afternoon as walked into the Art Gallery saw huge unframed canvasses, spread out on the floor, splat­tered with avocado green. Abstract stuff, I thought, until I looked up and saw someone busily rolling avocado green over the gallery's display panels. I stepped around the ladder, walked between a pair of saw horses, and approached a gentle­man holding a potted plant. Four identical plants were rest­ing on the floor next to his feet. I introduced myself as an Obser­ver reporter, and asked him if he knew where I could find Mr. Dean Porter, the curator. He told me that he was the man I was looking for and said, "Wait a minute," and he carried the plant to the other side of the room. When he returned, another man came up to him and asked him about burlap for window draperies. Porter sug­gested Sears, and then said to me, "Let's go downstairs where we can talk." 
Porter and an enthusiastic crew of profs and students of the Fine Arts Department are giving the corner in O'Shaugh­nessy a face lift for the Floren­tine art exhibit called "The 'Age of Vasari," which opens Sunday, 
February 22. This will be the first time in the United States 

that an exhibit has focused on the work of Giorgio Vasari, the 16th century master and arf historian. Porter said that both the Louvre in Paris and the Uffizi in florence have had special exhibits of Vasari's draw­ings, but he thought this would be the first time the 'artist's paintings would highlight an exhibit. 
Downstairs in his office Porter explained that "The Age of Vasari" exhibit has been in the making for four years. He and his colleague, Michael Milkovich of the State University of New York at Binghamton, have coop­erated in the work of arranging the exhibit of the 120 works gathered from the major collec­tions of North America. The ~xhibit will run until March 31 and then it will reopen again in 
April in Binghamton. Although the gallery opens for the exhibit SundaY., the grand opening is Sunday, March 
8. Then, Porter explained, the 250 page catalogue explaining Vasari's work will be available. The catalogue, he said, will h,•ve ISO illustrations. "It's more grandiose than anything we've ever done before," he said. 
Porter said that the University had contributed a considerable sum for the exhibit and that other money had been received from foundations. Aside from financial assistance, Porter said Reed, and Norman Denby.
~ get carried away when you come around... and we love it! Budweiser. is the only beer in America that~s Beechwood. Aged (But you know that.) ANHEUSER· BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONVILLE  would "like to offer any otherpaigns have not led to increased candidates an equal opportunitydiscussion and awareness, which in re-structuring the campaign."should be their purpose. Addi­Present plans call for thetionally it has often been found election to be held on March 11,that in the past, candidates have with the campaigning to startseldom talked with each other the 2nd or 3rd. At present it isabout the mechanics of the considered likely that both Tomcampaign. Therefore "I would like to offer an opportunitY to Thrasher and Dave Krashna will all perspective candidates to de­run. I termine among themselves the McKenna stressed that attend­mechanics and methods of the ance of t.his meeting was not campaign itself," he said. pre-requisite f<!( rupning: >·11~ : J f . :-. L~ •  
NEWS MEETING 5:00 pm TODAY  
Open Wh. Nites Sat. & Sun. 6:30 12:45 see both as late as 9:30 DO "'1\ ~..,.· ~~EY... '\, I DON'T,.,, ITHEY? ONLY -•­Must have legal proof ofage and NOTRE DAME ID Card.  


that the exhibit was poss1ble Spiro, assistant curator, have because of all the help he has together designed the exhibit. Porter said that a series of received from various faculty Other helpers include: Mr. Fred seven lectures has been arranged 
members and students. Mr. Rich­Geissel, Mr. Don Vogel, Thomas which should provide a better ard-Raymond Alasko, special Bower, James Hawthorne, Dave understanding of Vasari and his assistant curator, and Mr. Steven Ripley, Tim Mahon, Marilyn work. 
McKenna announces me~ting for presidential candidates 
meeting for all students interest­McKenna went on sayinglhatStudent Body President Phil ed in running for SBP, Sunday he had already talked to the two McKenna announced yesterday night at l 0 p.m. in his office. leading candidates and that theythat he was going to hold, a "have expressed an interest in
There has been some feeling 
the idea." He claimed that he

on campus that past SBP cam­
a 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20,1970 

711£ O&rUI1.IR 
PAGE 3 



Contemporary



Senate gets budget report 
Arts 
by Steve Hoffman 
stressed that the atmosphere of The Student Senate convened booklet for the second semester. 
Course and Teacher Evaluation 
the meeting would be relaxed, 

Festival 
being held in the Grace lounge,
last evening primarily to voice Coughlin said that there had 
and that the Senate should
been some doubt as to whether seriously consider its place andapproval upon a variety of 
topics, devoting greatest atten­or not the project could be 
function in the University struc­
afforded. However, the Senate 
presents
tion to the question of the 
ture. dent Union budgets for the mendation that the Senate allo­Student Government and Stu­voiced approval to his recom­
The operations of the SLC second semester. 
cate $300 from its own budget 
Dining Hall Committee were Upon recommendation by 
to provide for the costs of the 
Claude Lelouche's
revealed by Cavanaugh Senator
bookl!!t.
Student Body President Phil Ed Crawford. Crawford contend­McKenna, the Senate voted 
McKenna proposed that the ed that the Committee, althoughunanimously to leave the terms 



''to be a crook''
Thrasher-Fiala bill, which pro­reduced to four members has of the budget, as they were vides for an investigation into been active, but is hampet~d bydetermined at the beginning of 
the President-Chancellor system the apparent apathy of student 
Eng. Auditorium 
the year, basically unchanged. 
of University Administration, be help in the situation. 
Friday Feb. 20
lienee, no student group can voted on by the Senate. Accord­Crawford related that the 
7 & 9:30
expect any significant cuts or 
ingly, the Senators passed the Committee is currently workingadditions to their particular 
Admission $1 Patrons free
bill by consensus. with Dining Hall Director Ed­budgets. McKenna also announced to ward Price concerning long-range Speaking for the Student 
the Senate that they would meet proposals forwarded by the SLC. Union, Comptroller Jay Fitz­
in a special, informal meeting on Crawford concluded that the 

AMERICAN
simmons announced that the Sunday, March I, to discuss the Committee members were gene­Union financial system had future of the Senate, and to rally sympathetic with Mr. 
worked extremely well during 

BRASS
explore the discrepancy between Price's problems of being in the first semester, and that the 
what the Senate is doing and desperate need of additional efficiency of the system had help.
what it should be doing. He 

QUINTET
prevented major financial errors. Student Union Director Den­
Renaissance, Baroque,
ny Clark, in discussing the Union budget, claimed that the most 
Alumni Club changes 

Contemporary
relevant figure concerning the getbudget was the low percentage The 'Alumni Club is now "The main thing is to 
O'Laughlin Auditorium
completely under student man­students to realize that this is aof the total year's budget spent 
Sat. Feb. 21 8:00 pm
agement, new named manager private club and that it is theirduring the first semester. Since 
Admission $1 Patrons Free
Randy Harkins announced yes­club. It is available for semmars,
the Union has utilized only 30.6% of its alloted budget for terday. Prior to this the club had h 1chelor parties, wedding been under a professional man­parties, and showers. We do have 
the year, a substantiar amount remains for what Clark termed ager, with harkins acting as an an established happy hour from assistant. The previous manager 6:30 to 7:30, six days a week,"
"ambitious and interesting pro­left for other employment, he said. 
You never could wear so many
grams" to be implemented dur­Harkins claimed. Harkins maintained that theing the second semester. 

· great looks till now! 
The club, Harkins indicated, Alumni Club has "the lowestClark also thanked the Senate was having some minor financial prices in town."
for the confidence they placed difficulties. At present he "Even though many places do
in the Union regarding the 1 
claimed, it is running about even have 25 cent draft beer we'relatter's judicious usc of the with last year. Harkins said the only place that is seliing 12budget. Clark concluded by that the status of the club was ounces of premium beer," hesaying that the Union is looking due to a lack of patrons during remarked.
forward to an exceptional sec­




ttashes
the week. Harkins also announced upond semester with several new "Volume has heen slow on and coming events for theideas and approaches possible Monday thru Thursday. Our second semester. They include aenacted. 
general publicity work has been kickoff party for the new
The Senate thereupon approv­ed the original Union budget by lacking and the expense of a management, a St. Patrick's professional business manager celebration, and Senior Week, as 


Unlimited'
consensus. has contributed to, this," he well as an old timers night. 
Student Body Treasurer John commented. "This Tuesday night, as aCoughlin addressed the Senate 

kickoff for new management,
regarding the funding of the 
from six o'clock to eight o'clock 
byRevlon
were are going to have 10 centWemhoff resigns Observer staff Schlitz and free pizza from the Pizza Hut. "We have planned a 
Administration, and is from
Joe Wemhoff, business man­'Toast to the Irish', a week long
Roosevelt, Texas. 
ager of the Observer, announced festival in conjunction with St. 
Introducing the world's most wanted,
DeSapio alsv announced the
yesterday that he was resigning Patrick's Day.
appointment of business admin­
his position due to personal "On Wednesday we had a very 
most wearable high-fashion eyelashes. Plus
istration junior Bruce Barker,
reasons. successful Business Administra­
from Lansing, Michigan, · as 
Revlon's exclusive Automatic Applicator,
tion Senior -Faculty night. We
Observer Editor-in-Chief Guy advertising manager. Sophomore 

plan to have these fpr the other
De'Sapio announced that Bruce 
to slip lashes on almost as easy as lipstick. A 
John Maher, from Dayton, Ohio, 
colleges. We have issued a
Rieck would assume the posi­was named as accountant. Miss 
challenge to the faculty pool 
spectacular collection of lashes-the natural­
tion, effective immediately. 
Nancy Erdman will continue as 
tournament winners to play our
Bruce is a junior in Business 
looking kind only Revlon would go to such
secretary. 
champions. "We're going to have an 0ld 
lengths to perfect. ~Lashes Unlimited'-for
Timers Night. We'll bring back all the people who were respon­
every great look in the book! sible for the Old Faculty Club's Subsistence. 
The ~Lashes Unlimited' Collection
The OBSERVER needs news 
"Senior week will be held this year. It's a function of the 
by Revlon 
writers. If interested please 
Alumni Club for its members." he said. Harkins said that he was open
call the news editor at 1715. 
Available at: to improve the club and men to any suggestions at all on how 
St. Mary's College Bookstore
tioned that replies could be sen. to box 577. 

JOBS! JOBS! and more JOBS! Stu" -ProJt!ssional Singing Duo KOBERTS 'N' DOWNEY ( 1953) 
dents, Teachers. Stateside and Inter· national Jobs. Recreational Jobs· Year-round Jobs; Summer Jobs. All -Songwriter-Guitarest from N.Y. BRIAN JORGENSEN 
O(jCUpatlons and trades. Enjoy a vaca· tlon while you earn. Hurry! The best Jobs are taken early. Write: "JOBS", -N.D. Comedian DAN DILLON 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1. Lodl, Calif. 95240 


The Latin Sound of SOFT-PERSUASION
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations . by students of the University of Notre Oame and St. 

FLANNER

Mary's College, Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Friday Feb. 20 First act: 9 p.m. 

HALL

Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Saturday Feb. 21 Admission $1 .00
Ind., 46556. Second class postage 


BASEMENT
paid. Notre DamP, Ind., 46!\56. 

-----------~~--­
• PAGE 4 


7118 OBSBRfi6R. 
~-------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial 

St. Mary's has already begun to pay the price for academic merger with 
Notre Dame. Overcrowding on the shuttle bus, in the Dining Hall, and, as of 
next year, in the dorms has reached an unbearable point. And, on all these 
issues something should and must be done now. 
The increase in Notre Dame students taking classes on the campus has 
seemingly been disregarded by Saga and our admin i stration. On 
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays at 12 noon it takes a student 20 to 30 
minutes of standing in line to get food which the majority of students agree 
gets worse by the day. 

A bus meant to carry a normal load of 50 to 60 people has been forced to hold at times 40 to 50 more. In these cold temperatures the heat of many bodies is still endurable, if the discomfort is not. But South Bend spring humidity is only weeks away and as yet the administration has hardly seemed to notice let alone take some valid form of action. Nighttime bus increases are significant, but how many students have missed classes because daytime, classtime, runs were either too full or too late. A strange system of priorities is being revealed by the administration which purports academia as its purpose. 
Both of these issues are evident now for SMC, but one more vital has 
shown its head for the future. At the Open Forum held a week ago it came 
out that SMC is going to find itself tight for living space next year, that, in 
fact, a group has scrutinized at least Le Mans Hall in search of it. According 
to figures uncovered by the Committee for Off-Campus Housing, next 
September St. Mary's will have approximately l 00 students that it now has 
no rooms for. If the Off-Campus housing issue do~s not pan out, the one 
alternative is doubling up on rooms presently on campus. In other words, 
some of the bigger doubles will become triples; quads, quints; quints, sextets. 
With the need for utilization of every spare area, it does not seem reasonable 
that we will keep study areas. In fact, it only seems logical, priorities being as 
they are, that they will go first. 

Few seem to realize that the rooms we consider so spacious, the rooms 
which will become less so next year, once held less students, as any visiting 
alumna will tell you. Room 412 Le Mans, a comfortable triple, it was lately 
revealed to a senior by a family friend, was a double when she lived in it. 
Furthermore, the friend was appalled, wondering how the students could 
bear it as a triple. We pay for the privilege of coming here, but the college 
has not reached such a pinnacle of academic excellence that we can say 
"SMC education at any price!"-least of all, discomfort and displacement. 
Any student now living in a triple or quad or quint can attest to the 
difficulty of studying in her room. Add to people rumbling around in the 
room the increased noise in the hall ~nd you have the basis for a 
psychological project on the effects of noise on study habits. Studies have 
proved that noise is a definite factor in the achievement abilities of the 
student. And• with the study quiet areas of the dorms gobbled up as living 
space, this factor will become more apparent. 
Students have an obligetion to themselves to take issue with the people who are attempting to jam them here and there on the campus. These people can affect change, but, as we've learned so many times before, they rarely do so without much pressure and heavy door-pounding. 
There are people already working to get something done: the Off-Campus Housing Committee is meeting Sunday to further work out their program and procedures: Father McGrath has often told us that his door is always open to the students; the Board of Trustees is meeting March I st and many students have decided to air their grievances directly to them; other students, feeling that their voices, even in unison, do not carry well at SMC, have informed their parents of these problems and asked them to write to the members of the Board. 
An issue has finally arisen at S. Mary's which actually concerns and affects all of the students; it is long overdue. We feel that the students whould band together on this one issue, each in her own way, to get their problems solved, for the student body may just remain silent until they are populated out of a living area. P.H.W. 
The opinions expressed in theBusiness Mgr.: Bruce Rieck Sports Editor: Mike l'avlin editorials, news analyses, andAd. Mgr.: Timothy J. Dineen Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer columns of THE OBSERVER dreNews Editor: Glen Corso Photography Editor: Mike Murphy solely those of the authors and 
Asst. News Editor: Steve Hoffman Night Editor: T.C. Treanor editors of THE OBSERVER and
SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear Layout Design: Phil Barth do not necessarily reflect theAssociate Editors: Cliff Wintrode Layout: Dan Koppenhafer, Nan views of St. Mary's College, theAnn Conway, Jeanne Sweeney ' Kavanaugh, Jan Reimer, Buz Craven University of Notre Dame, theirLayout Editor: Mary Ellen Burke Headlines: Randy Young 
administration, faculty, or stu­dent bodies. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1970 . 

T.C.Trean~r 

The Lambasfing 
Complicity Week got off to a rather inau;,picious start last Wednt"<day, when thirteen significantly black-lwoded demonstrators demonstr..ted pictures designed to imitate a lamb being slaughtered, which was designated to imitate people being napalmed in Viet Nam. In literature this technique is called Mimesis, but when applied to the more real world of politics it is seldom dignified with an official term. In fact, the term used most commonly is an eight-letter anglo-saxonism denoting the excrement of a male bovine, but that's not a particularly important point. More important was the curious character of the Notre Dame New Left's latest effort to make us think. 
It was without a doubt the poorest political analogy of the year. It was an exercise in demagoguery that invited and received demagoguery in turn. Consider the situation: 
Before an expectant crowd of five hundred or so, black-hooded demonstrators paraded down the Administration building steps with their signs and their obsessions. One of the halloween-caricature polemists suavely assumed an unmanned microphone. He shouted sophistries at the audience, and the audience shouted sophistries back. The pictures were displayed. More demagoguery flowed back and forth. The demonstrators flung off their hoods. Emotional catharsis. High theatre. 
It was a show; a picture-show. As such, what did it prove? That the VietNam War was immoral? Hardly. Those pictures could have been take·n in World War II or World War I or in a Hollywood movie set with· dolls and red paint. The killing of babies (or men or women-the distinction is purely emotional) is a consequence of all wars. War is fought in spite of that consequence. This particular war is being fought to protect the principle of self-determination; a principk that will · bt> vibrant and important and fought for long after tht n, ·' 11fe of <!very baby born in the year of our Lord 1970 has concluded. 
But what did the picture-show prove? That Dow and Honeywell were complicit in an action presumed immoral? If so, Winchester is complicit in every murder performed with one of their guns. That the University implicitly approves either the war effort or the activities of Dow and Honeywell? Not unless the University gives implicit endorsement to the Anglican Church by allowing one of its ministers to speak on campus. That Dow, Honeywell, the Government, and the University are parts of a vast conspiracy designed to beat up on the third world? The quest grows ridiculous. 
But per_haps it wasn't designed to prove anything. The ! grammati~all_y misshapen diatribe that the thirteen flung out seems to md1cate precisely that. Culminating in the misuse or the word "efficacious", their lengthy statement manages to confuse Auschwitz and Viet Nam. They assert themselves as defenders of "burning, dying human beings" (one doubts that they would be as enthusiastic defending the pre--Castro Cubans from the effects of the re~olution), and indulge in other such sophistic idiocy. Rather than be1~? designed to "make you think", the tract seems to be basically 
antl-mtellectual in nature. 

Someday, when Mahoney and Roickle and MatCarry make their peace with rationality, we can look forward to a marathon debate on Viet Nam and University Complicity and Dow and napalm and black racism and white racism and everything else that is of issue. Hopefully, it will be on WSN D. But in the meantime all we can look forward to is screamir:•· and executioner's heads and picture shows. 
Perhaps they should have burned the lamb. It would have satiated some prurient interests; it would have fulfilled the obvious desire of the thirteen to shock. They could have sold tickets. They could have saved the lamb-burning until the end, thereby forcing a captive audience to listen to an hour or so of sophistic offings like the one they handed out. They could have called it Marat Sade. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1970 
7118 OBSERfJER. 
PAGE 5 




Afterthoughts on Medium Cool 
by John Stupp 
MEDIUM COOL was one of the most 
important films released in 1969 and it it 
difficult to understand why it proved 
such a box-office flop. In some cities, it 
came and left within a week. Even in 
Chicago, where it was originally filmed, it 
received less than ecstatic public acclaim. 
If you haven't seen it yet, don't hold 
your breath waiting for it to appear at 
any major theaters, probably you're only 
chance will be at drive-ins or at film 
society screenings. 
Part of the fault lies in encredibly baa publicity promoting the film-there was next to none of it. Aside from critical commentaries, the film received very little advance promotion-and when it did, it usually received announcements like "Go and see The Chicago Riots" and sensational headlines of that sort. Mr. Wexler, who has been at odds with Hollywood for scmetime, deserved a far better break than this. Few films have tried to deal with issues that are as important as the issues dealt with in MEDIUM COOL. 
IN the tradition of IN COLD BLOOD and ARMIES OF THE NIGHT, it brought the fictional, narrative aspect to a strict documentary situation. Certainly as was shown-the 35 mm color version of the riot footage can be every bit as chilling and "realistic" as the previous grainy newsreel a..:counts. Wexler has succeeded in bringing color into the streets-with amazing results. 
McLuhan has called black & white a "cool" medium-a medium wherdn objectivity easily lies, but color he calls a "hot" medium-one that seems to beg involvement and response. This was demonstrated in MEDIUM COOL and the film is important for setting this historical 
precedent. It is also important for its skillful use of what "violent" footage was available-as Wexler later said, only eight seconds of actual violence is shown-and certainly, all who saw the film will admit that its impact was great; and Wexler 
subjective. 
For if the watcher of the watcher shown There in the distant glass, should be watched too, Who can be master, free of others, who 
Can look around and say he is alone. 
These lines froin Thorn GunP crystalize sonic very complex vibrations, . he idea of watchers watching watchers-the last scene of MEDIUM COOL when the camera focuses on the audience-this is crucial to an understanding of the film. It puts 
managed to keep from pandering to the -everything in the viewer's lap. It ceases to 
perverted violence freaks at the same t1me. Somethmg that THE WILD BUNCH could not do. The vio_lence never got out of hand in MEDIUM COOL-an 
anti-violence film made with a minimum of violent footage. 
If for no other reason, it is also important in this respect; it portrayed a political event, and from a minority position-something rare in American 
films. Total political cinema is a repulsive thought, but Wexler underplayed it, and it was successful. He rarely overtly propagandized or stated his position (in the film)-rather, he let the audience decide. He penetrated the audience's objectivity and forced them to become be just a movie up there, it's you yourself up there-the audience can't hide in objectivity, can't claim "It's just a movie, it isn't real," wanna bet? 
Like LA CHI NOISE when Godard does the same thing, destroying the traditional audience/film relationship, forcing participation from people unused to participating. The idea of the camera boring in on the audience is also dangerous. Conjure images of rebot paranoia, of cameras monitering every human everywhere, no escape from the watchers. Something out of Orwell . .t:ven now, we're filmed in banks, stores, museums, etc. One can only imagine the next step. 

The attack of the Them 
flipped a card and revealed a queen-thir­by Gene Molinelli teen! Now a definite shade of blue, and 
George struggled to collect the worn with the added effect of gnashing teeth, cards into the deck. There was not much George turned over the next card. Nine; room to move even one's arm in that he busted! Frustrated and upset George booth without touching someone. Sounds ground poor Henry's fingers into the were exploding all around-the loud floor with a crunch heard above the roar heavy music from the radio booth, the of the crowds. It hurt him to see Them shouting dealers and players, and the taking the money, and what was worse he couples yelling sweet nothings in each detected a smile at the corner of the other's faces. The heat was so oppresive mouth of one of Them. They left. even Ban was wearing off, and it was so Breathing heavily from the conflict, dark that George found it hard to see the George demonstrated his hostility toward drawn face of the dealer lying right at his the retreating enemy by a simple gesture feet. of his hands. His pretty and faithful 
That was Henry down there, a good banker, Madeline, turned red but he friend of George who had collapsed from didn't care about such things any more. his trials over an hour before. George gave This constant hand-to-hand struggle was the body a swift kick to check if it beginning to wear him down, and showed twitched. It did -Henry was, at least, still on his battle-weary face. In a hoarse voice alive. George shuffled and, giving a weary he turned to Madeline, his pretty and glance at his pretty and faithful banker, faithful banker, and asked how they were Madeline (all bankers were pretty and doing. Madeline, his pretty and faithful faithful-George was a banker once), dell banker, said he was doin' lousy and he the next hand. oughta let her deal cause she knew how, 
It was all for charity. That's why and sticking her fingers into his eyes she George h~d spent ~o much t~m~ on the began to claw about, yelling that he was a booth -first bu1ldmg and pamtmg, now· no good loser and she wanted to deal. So dealing. But they didn't seem to under-George hit his pretty and "faithful banker, stand. They didn't seem to care. They and in the process of his backswing would come with their endless stacks of eliminated the pretty and faithful banker bogus bills and attack. They had no at the next window. And moving her mercy. They were evil. They never smiled pretty and faithful unconscious body and They never lost. next to Henry's he whispered tenderly 
Now George was facing two of Them that he didn't w;nt her to su"ffer from the and two nice people _with respectable agonies of the battle Besides, since she bets. In th1s small cns1s, George was had always liked Henry better than him confident bec~use his pretty and faithful anyhow, it was a form of poetic justice. banker, Madelme, had enough to cover Alone now but more comfortable the forty bills They each QUI down. having something on which to sit (Henry Resting his left foot on Henry's forehead and Madeline were pretty soft) George George smiled at Them he had an ace watched the approach of four of Them. 
showing. The two nice people each asked They fingered four inch stacks of fives for "hits" and prompting "busted." He and had fire in Their eyes. knew that I hey had the true spirit of the G 
. . eorge, surpnsmg ca1m since his 
thmg and he hked them a lot: too bad ·k· · h ·th M d r d I h d
the had to lose s lrmls WI a e me, ea t t e car s. Y · · He looked at his and saw twenty and. Now George turned to the first of laughing, he looked up; whereupon two 
Them. Their eyes met and passionately turned over Black Jacks, one successfully the other showed an eight and a three and doubled down, and the last split tens and doubled his bet. With his heart in his drew two aces. (leorge had just enough throat George gave him a card, then turned to the other. lie was "good" and Minor to perform (;eorge's heart jumped somewhere behind Brian Minor of Albany, Ind., will be his nose. George still had an ace, and a featured on the saxophone with the ten would save him. With bated breath he Contemporary Arts Trio tonight in the turned his other card-a two! Still holding Library Auditorium at H: 15 p.m. There is his breath and turnin6 a little blue George no admission charge. 
money but he never knew it. He was screaming, pulling out his nair and attacking the other workers in the booth. For a few seconds, there was a general melee with flying cards, floating money, and shooting paper clips, and as an added attraction a falling go-go girl; until by chance a displaced audio-light crashed over George's head in an explosion of colour and ended the riot. 
Unconscious, with hysteria frozen on his face, he was carried out of Stepan Center-a victim of Them-a defeated 
man. 
~ 
It may be dangerous, but Wexler is right in focusing on the audience-sensibilities have to change, there has to be some opting for action on the part of the viewer, some response. Are you here to see Faust or be Faust? 
But in exammmg the underlying struggle between subjectivity and objectivity let's go back to Thorn Gunn: 
Doubted myself. what final evidence 
Lay in perceptions or common sense? 
My cause lay in the will, that opens straight 
Upon an act for the most desperate. 
What are Gunn and Wexler hinting at? The artist/cameraman as voyeur, objective recorder. This is the enormous problem that MEDl UM COOL tries to grasp-should the artist or cameraman act 
instead of merely recording, does the lens 
or the pen shield him and absolve him of 
responsibility?Obviously both Gunn and 
Wexler think not. There has to be a. 
committment to action somewhere. But 
where? I doubt if anyon'? can properly 
solve this riddle but it seems that there 
are times (Chicago, Berkeley, Vietnam, 
Biafra) when degrees of objectivity ought· 
to be shunned. But how can one tell 
which times are too important for just 
standing around and watching? When 
should we act?fhere is not simple rule of 
thumb. The film provides only one 
example, one event, one man. The future .decisions are up to us. 
The film is incredibly ambitious in that it tries to touch on something for which there is no answer, for which we have no real conclusions. Certainly, seen in this light, MEDIUM ,COOL is the most ambitious (and perhaps important) film in terms of scope and applicability, released in 1969. Hopefully it will be recognized as such. Mr. Wexler has done the film industry a service. 
Improvisation featured at IUSB 
Something unusual in the way of audience participation will be a feature of a concert scheduled for Wednesday, Feb. 25, in the auditorium of Indiana Univer­sity at South Bend. 
Barton K. McLean, composer and lecturer in music at !USB, will give an improvisation-recital based on musical themes submitted by members of the audience. 
He will share the program with the University Brass Ensemble, conducted by Dr. Michael J. Esselstrom, assistant professor of music at !USB. 
McLean's share of the program will be a distinct departure from the traditional kind of recital, with its fixed composi­tions printed in the program. Instead, he will solicit thematic ideas from the audience and mold them into instant compositions on the piano. 
Depending on the nature of each theme he chooses to develop, he will compose in the style of Josquin des Pres, Bach, Beethoven or Debussy. Bach was pre-eminent in the Baroque period, and Beethoven in the Classical era. Debussy was an early 20th Century impressionist. 
by Donald H. White; "Shargan and Fugue," by Alan Hovhaness; and "Bodie Christus Natus Est," by J.P. Sweelinck. 
Barton McLean holds degrees in music from the State University College at Potsdam, N.Y., and the Eastman School of Music at Rochester, N.Y. He is currently working toward the doctorate in composition at Indiana University, Bloomington. 
He began composing in the eighth grade, and has written works for orches­tra, band, chorus and ensembles. Among his works is a chamber symphony. He wrote a series of nine compositions for band which have recently been published in the Gilver-Burdett Instrumental In­struction textbook series. 
Members of the Brass Chorus are Ray Davidson, Dan Balog, Patrick Heiden, Gary Barker, Alan Rupert, Robert Pascuzzi and John Fletcher, trumpets; Keith Bucher and Gail Thornberg, French horns; John Bendit and Brad Jordan, baritones; Kevin Howell and Mark Thorn­berg, trombones; and Robert Rusk, tuba. 
The concert is open to the public without charge. 
Des Pres was a 16th Century Franco-;;:===============:::::;.. 
Belgian composer. 
McLean chose those four composers for his improvisation-recital, he said, because "I am interested now in the way all these composers broke the bounds of formal restraint." 
The University Brass Ensemble, in its portion of the concert, will offer "Koum Susser Tod," by J .S. Bach; "Diversions," 
Saturday evening at ll p.m., the SMC Coffeehouse will feature mov­ies, with no admission charged. (Free) Classics such as The Mind Benders, The Mood of Then, 
Wolfman,  Hooked,  The  Mummy,  
Beauhunks,  and  others  will  be  
screened.  


FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 19~ 
,. 


letters------------~------~ 
Doctor Norling's letter 
Editor: 
In the past few years the University Administration has steadily abdicated its rightful authority and responsibility to a myriad of committees, commiss­ions, councils, boards, bureaus, forums, and courts. Three more will make an even million. Their combined weight would soon cause the campus to begin sinking slowly towards the cen­ter of the earth. 
In September, 1968, my peers sentenced me to a two year term in one of these bodies, the Student Life Council. Since that time the SLC has done useful work in such areas as the improvement of student hous­ing, securing permiSSion for seniors and juniors to keep automobile~, and upgrading of dining hall fare. This year the tougher task of improvi11g cam­pus security was tackled briefly. 
Unfortunately these construc­tive accomplishments have been overbalanced by numerous futili­ties and chronic time-wasting. Last year's highlight was the Pornography fiasc0, an intriging middle of shining insincerity and earnest self-delusion. This year we have had the Judicial Code, a set of procedures so complex a lawyer is required for their interpretation. Where the "de­mand" for it came from has never been clear. Probably not one ordinary student out of twenty on any campus in the land is interested in playing 

r-------------·--­
judge-and-jury with his fellow students, as was shown here most recently by the demise of the Honor System. Student politicians, however, find these games fascinating. 
At various times this year the SLC has attempted to establish its competence to pass judgment on U.S. foreign policy, the activities of the CIA and Dow Chemical Co., the employer­employee relationships of the General Electric and Honeywell corporations, the investment policies of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees, and the activities of the Placement Bur­eau. By May we may well see an SLC subcommittee patrolling the Israeli-Egyptian border. 
Last week the SLC recom­mended that the CIA be barred from recruiting on campus. For the last four or five centuries it has been an elementary fact of international life that major nations must maintain effective intelligence and espionage sys­tems since the relative efficiency of these has determined the outcome of many wars. It has long been equally obvious that to be effective these systems must operate in strictest secrecy. Hence one can only view with astonishment the sight of educa­ted people deliberately seeking to hamper recruitment to the intelligence apparatus of their own nation in the Nuclear Age. 
This week those who have 
heretofor~ considered "student 
life" to encompass U.S. foreign 
policy, Honeywell, et all sudden-

ignition keywarning buzzer  Nova's  
Nova's Magic-Mirror acryliclacquer finish  cigarettelighter  
Nova's  

choice of three standard engines: 4, 6, or V8 
Nova's 
room for five passengers and their luggage 

Nova's 
foot-operated parking brake 


Nova's 

bias belted ply tires 
Nova's 
wider tread front and rear 


Nova's 

four transmission choices 
Nova's got a lot to talk about. 
Because you get so much more value with a Nova. Things you just can't find on other cars anywhere near the price. 
Maybe that's why Nova is such a big 
ly discovered that it is NOT the proper concern of the SLC to establish standards for individual halls in the matter of parietal hours. This New Logic is too subtle for me. 
By now ,I have faithfully served seventeen months of my original sentence. In civilized countries time -off is allowed for good behavior. Moreover, the New Morality allows one to be the judge of his own case in questions of ethical conduct. Blending these two splendid principles I believe I am now entitled to manumission for the time remaining. My resignation has been submitted. Goodbye, SLC. 
· Yours sincerely, 
RP.rnard Norling 
Editor: 
In response to the article of one of the Observer's Associate Editors (Miss Jeanne Swee~ey) in the February 19th issue, we would like to take exception to: 
(I) the criticism levelled against the meeting of the Student Assembly; (2) the rationale behind the Associate Editor's support of a freshman or soph­omore SBP; and (3) last, but certainly not least, the "charis­matic" logic of this editor. 
In paragraphs l and 2, Miss Sweeney explained to us the major issue of the Assembly meeting: possibility of the elec­tion of an underclassmen as SBP. She also recaptured for us the tense vote (pregnant with class consciousness). However, in the emotion of the moment, Miss 
~ You could buy
MARK OF EXCELlENCE 

one of those small cars. 
But lookwhat you don't get. 

Nova's 
Nova's
glove Nova's
day-night
Nova's compartment more usable
rearview mirror
anti-theft with lock luggage 

Nova:America's not-too.. small car 
Sweeney overlooked certain facts (we would hesitate to use the term "distorted"). The implication is that this was the first such discussion of this issue when, in fact, this proposal was discussed and defeated in a meeting on January IS, 1970. When Miss Sweeney implies that Miss Beth Driscoll ("our Vice President") overstepped her authority in advising the abstain­ing senator and thus prejudiced the vote, this editor is, in fact, in opposition to Robert's Rules of Order which states that the chairman " ...should.. .inform members on points of order, and answer parliamentary inquiries relating to pending business when necessary to enable mem­bers to proceed in order." But perhaps again we may overlook these "minor" facts because as Miss Sweeney points out: ". .this is not the main point I would like to get across." 
"And thanks to Miss Sween­
ey's excellent transition, we can 
now move into our second and 
third points since it seems 
impossible to distinguish bet­
ween the reasons given in def­
ense of an underclassman as SBP 
and the rather mystical dialec­
tical process behind Miss 
Sweeney's conclusions. 
It is in paragraph 4 that the rather dubious logic comes through when Miss Sweeney says: "The possibility that a freshman or sophomore would be elcted president is unlikely.. .But this does not remove the need for o~1ening_up the elec­
capacity 


Nova's 
rear windows that roll up and down 

Nova's 
cargo-guardluggage compartment 

Nova's 
forward­mounted door lock buttons 

Nova's 
flush-and-dry rocker panels 

Nova's 
computer­
selected 
springs 


Nova's 
inner fenders front and rear 
seller. It offers what more people want. 
Along with a resale value that'll make 
some of those other cars seem even 
smaller by comparison. Putting you first, keeps us first. 

tions to underclassmen." We question what need the Asso­ciate Editor is referring to in these statements; perhaps the last part of this paragraph is intended to provide some sort of proof. We are given a description of the insensitivity of upper­classmen to the basic political needs of underclassmen, an insensitivity exemplified by the fact that the majority of juniors live in McCandless. But perhaps Miss Sweeney is again over­powered by her need to illus­trate the dire need of freshmen and sophomores for political self-expression and therefore again overlooks a few minor facts. Activities such as the Big Sister program and the freshman advisors are run predominantly by juniors. Marred though they may be by human limitations, 
they do provide a means for "interaction". A second fact which may deserve note is that the freshman and sophomore classes come equipped with representatives to the Student Assembly, whose function it is to provide other classes with just the sort of information Miss Sweeney implies· is lacking. Are we therefore to assume that these students are lacking in their capacities in the judgment of Miss Sweeney? Better than simply having only 1 or 2 underclassmen running for SBP, why not all the members of both classes? Then we could know what all underclassmen "feel." Why not the whole school? Think of the intellectual stimu­lation we could have reading all those platforms! Think of all the space tn the Observer that could be put to good use! 
The next 3 paragraphs intro­duce us to the "ideal" charis­matic SBP. We are not denying that this superwoman sounds impressive. We are taking excep­tion to the necessity of removing the class restriction. It does boil down to a question which Miss Sweeney aptly notes: " .whether experience really makes a good leader." Indeed, "charisma" is a valuable asset in any leader, but the emphasis which the Associate Editor places on this asset is dangerous. We are not implying that elec­tions in the past have degen· erated into personality contests; however, this is an unavoidable consideration. A consideration Miss Sweeney skillfully maneu.. vers around. We believe we are more than justified in stating that there is no substitute for experience. 
The implication that there was a rift between upper class­men at the Student Assembly meeting is not only a hindrance to the functioning of this organ .. ization, but a gross misrepresen­tation. The implication that Miss Driscoll overpowered the repre­sentatives is not only indicativ~: of a lack of understanding of the role of a Chairman, but also an indirect slam at the methods and! motives of Miss Driscoll. Surely when the future of our Student Government is at stake, other means could be found for a personal vendetta. 

Jn conclusion, we commend Miss Sweeney for her efforts and her obvious enthusiasm, but we suggest in the future she limit herself to a more just presen­tation of facts and consider the endless possibilities of alittle logic. 
Charismatically yours, Ann Reed '70 Sue Keres '71 
-


FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20,1970 PAGE 7 





Dr. Spock: Violence only as a. last resort-­
continued [rum page 1 
escalation of the war in Febru­ary, 1965, as "fraud." He noted that this was particularly galling for him because he had voted for Johnson in the 1964 election and even campaigned for him as the "peace" candidate against 
Barry ( ;oJdwater. 1 The problem he faced, he said, was "how could I live with 
my conscience'? Our government began wholesale violations of the laws of warfare," he claimed, "by burning crops and huuses and moving the people into fortified hamlets in what he termed 'clear vilations uf inter­national law'." 
"They've got a lot of nerve prosecuting me and four others for not taking part in this war," he said. "If we can put Germans and Japanese to death it must be all right for Americans to follow the same pattern." 
Spock then went on to criticize blind American accep­tance of the Jaw per se as good. He quoted from a pamphlet by Professor Joseph Sachs of the Michigan Law School, and stated that "people outside the Jaw assume that the law is integrated . . . but many Jaws are not enforced all of the time," he said. All too often, the prose­cution de.pends on the discretion of the police." 
He also noted that the law as established and interpreted by the Supreme Court can be overruled such as in the 1954 
Brown Vs. Board of Hducation decision which reversed an earlier ruling allowing segregated schools. 
However, he concluded, "no. society can get along without laws or respect for laws ... but we must not believe that they are an integrated whole." 
Then he went on to mention 
SMC Assembly 
continued [rom page I 
of "session" and Driscoll stated 
that it extended from May I st to 
May Ist of the succeeding 
academic year. 
Tracey with Robert's Rules in hand toQk exception, stating that a session extended from 2 to 3 hours. Driscoll found the definition which clarified her point. 
The chairman asked that the 

Assembly decide whether they wished to operate formally or informally under the Rules. In response to criticism railed at her for speaking out from the chair at the last meeting, Driscoll said that formally the chairman should relinquish the chair to another member before she remarks on an issue. 
"However," she said, "if we operate formally on one techni­cality, we should do so on all issues." The motion was then made and passed to follow Roberts' Rules on voting to pass legislation and motions and not on technicalities. 
At that point Jean Gorman moved that "class requirements for Student Body President and Vice-President be opened to present sophomores and jun­iors." She then a mended the motion to students who are 
sophomores and juniors at the 
times of election. 
Junior Anne O'Brien opened 
the hour-long discussion com­
menting that "the Sophomore 
Class has enthusiasm which 
seems to be squelched." 
As the discussiOn continued, Susan Turnbull who was sitting in on the meeting was recogni­:zed. "Keeping the requirement to the senior class will not guarantee the ideal candidates will appear," she said, "however, dropping it will not make that 
much difference. Yet, dropping 
it will guarantee competition 
and the SBP will not have to 
operate knowing that she was 
elected by only 22% of the 
student body." 
The proponents of the motion 
argued that individual students 
capable of handling the job are 
blocked from office by class 
restriction. A student sitting in 
on the meeting asked them why 
they did not then permit the 
possibility of freshmen having 
the same qualifications. 
After a short discussion of the 
point, Debbie Carvatta, Fresh­
man senator, commented that 
they should decide if they were 
making distinctions as to class or 
to individuals in their arguments. 
Noreen Jordan moved for a 
vote and the motion was, then, 
defeated. 
day, February 21. 
The dance is to follow the basketball game in LaFortune on the second floor. Admission for all is $1.00. 
Music will be provided by a new Chicago group, "The 

SMC elections 
Nominations for the SMC 

offices of Student Body Presi­
dent and Vice President open 
Monday morning and will con­
tinue until 7 p.m. Thursday. 
Though the office is open 

only to present juniors, next 
year's Vice-President may come 
from any class. 
This year, students are re­

minded that candidates must be 
on tickets. 
that "much of our progress has been made outside of legal means." He listed lhe Women's Suffrage Movement, the hbor movement of the I YJU's and the American revolution itself as examples. 
Then he went through some of the means by which citizens should carry through their dis­sent. The first method he men­tioned was simply writing let­ters. The second was working for candidates who reflected their opinion. He said that the people had enormous political power if they only used it. As an example, he said that the people forced LBJ out of office and added that "You never get 
anything by being polite ... The people who have power . . don't give up their power ... just because they are asked." 
The other means of dissent which he suggested were sit-ins and picketing. 
However, he stated that he would never resort to violence "except as an extreme last resort ... But I'm white and Middle Class and I haven't had to feel the rage of the black man." 
When Mr. Szalay asked why Spock and others were contin­ually criticizing the . United Stales, Spock replied quickly: "Because I love my country." 



SLC resignation 
continued from page 1 
in order to make something useful of themselves." As to the reasgn why he 

Professor Norling believed the SLC has failed in the way he cited in the letter, he surmised that it is due to "a small group of political and social activists who must keep the attention of the majority of the student body." However, he 
added  that  he  had  a  good  
opinion  of  all  the  members  
personally.  

"This week those who have heretofore considered student life to encompass U.S. Foreign Policy., Honeywell, et at., suddenly discover that it is NOT the proper concern of the SLC to establish standartls for 
individual halls in the matter of parietal hours. This New Logic is too subtle for me," he added in his letter. 
1\brling also launched into a criticism of the SLC recom­mendation that the CIA be barred from recruiting on 
Freshmen sponser mixer Saturday 
The freshman class Senate of Rhythm Method." that "the dance is open to all." SMC and the freshman social Though freshman sponsored, Planners are hopeful this first commission of ND arc jointly Lolo Stankus, SMC freshman freshman project of '70 will be a sponsoring a mixer this Satur-class president stressed the fact great success. 
Hair Styling the Continental Way-t'uropean Layer Cut, Hair Coloring and Straightening-Specials for students 
Our Motto: "Have long hair and be well groomed" 
For appointment call 234·0811 Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Bldg. Corner Michigan-Jefferson 
Certified Master Stylists The Baron and Miss Treva to serve and pamper you 


TH_AT "SUNDANCE KlD'~_ON SKIS! 
Drive south on Eddy Street 
Take Mishawaka Ave. cloverleaf 
Continue east to 30th St. 
Times­1:15 3:15 5:15 7:15 and 9:15 

IT'S A HIT 

[R1 I ~ 
campus. He stated, "For the last four or five centuries it has been an elementary fact of inter­national life that major nations must maintain effective intel­ligence and espionage systems since the relative efficiency of these has determined the out­come of many wars. It has long been equally obvious that to be effective these systems must operate in the strictest secrecy. Hence one can only view with astonishment the sight of edu­cated people deliberately seeking to hamper recruitment to the intelligence apparatus of their own nation in the Nuclear Age. 
As to the future of the SLC, Norling stated, "I doubt if in practice there will be much ' change." 
Professor Norling had served seventeen months of his two year term. 

This response dre; extended applause from the audience.. 
The 66-year old pediatrician stated that he would resort to violence perhaps if the President "suspended the constitution and started imprisoning tens of thousands of dissenters." Then he claimed he would join the guerillas. But he didn't know how much use there would be for a man his age. Jokingly he observed that they would prob­ably need ba bysitters. 

--------------------~~~==~==========~~ 
.. 

-
PAGE 8 THE O&rERV£R. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20,1970 
Violets prove tough to trample 
rebounds to account for his 21 intermission. The Irish enjoyed a and their fight the
oy Terry Shields play coupled with a cold inability to 
markers. 38-30 advantage at the half. Irish on the boards was the
Observer Sports Writer shooting hand gradually
After the Irish took an early One of the big plus factors for telling factor. Jones and Catlett
canceled this lead. Andy

The duo of Austin Carr and nine to four lead, a number of NO was the defensive job that repeatedly gave NO a second or
Chappell, a strong soph forward, 

Collis Jones combined for 51 N D miscues and some effective Sid Catlett and his sub, Jay third shot and the results were points last night as the Irish work on the boards by the Ziznewski, did on the Violets' started to warm up and he shown most prominently on the
virtually carried the NYU team

subdued a stubborn New York Violets put NYU in front by as high scoring Jim Signorile. scoreboard.
throughout their comeback

University quintet, 77-65, at the much as eight. The box and one Signorile had been averaging Carr once again came through Madison Square Garden. defense of Harvey Young on 23.4 ppg. but Catlett and effort. He finished tied for the with a new record as he has now 
Team captain Austin Carr hit Carr was giving the Du Lac team Ziznewski held the big center to lead in scoring honors for NYU attempted an even 200 foul nine fiel.d goals and 12 of 15 some trouble. With only four a meager five. with 19 tallies. Paul Dobleman shots. He has converted 82% of foul shots to notch 30 points in minutes left in the half NO had The Irish shot well and also hit for 19 as he played a these. a workman-like performance. just 18 points. The final four rebounded even better as the consistent floor game. The Irish trip to Fun City was The under-rated Jones did a minutes were quite a different second half began and with The Violets came storming not quite as impressive as some yeoman job on the boards and story as Mike O'Connell came about fourteen minutes left the back late in the game and when earlier performances by Johnny threw in an assortment of fall off the bench to move the club lead had been built up to 22 Rory Guma completing a three Dee's charges but they did away jumpers and follow-up for twenty more points by points, 62-40. A full court press point play to pull NYU within manage to stow away victory 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• utilized late in the first half and seven, the sparse crowd of 7,172 number 18 and this brings them 
throughout the entire second came to life. that much closer to a coveted half got the Irish their huge Hope was short lived for the NCAA berth. The bids come outJIM MURRAY 
margin. However, some sloppy boys from The City, however, the middle of next week. 
Red's Badge Mclain suspended by Kuhn 
will prcve to be unfounded." Kuhn, "this office will continue 
NEW YORK (UPl)-Baseball 
Kuhn said he could not at this · to cooperate with the enforce­
Commissioner Bowie Kuhn yes­
time indicate when that review ment authorities in Detroit and I • 


of Courage 
terday suspended Denny McLain 
might be completed. am assured Mr. McLain will do 
of the Detroit Tigers indefinitely 
"In the meantime." said likewise."
® 1970, Los Angeles Times 
from professional baseball. They should call him "Indian Red" Courage. "I have decided on the basis The good Lord never intended Ernie (Red) Lopez to be a fighter. of facts developed at these 
Green needs plate
There are certain things "born" fighters get-like fish get gills, and conferences that Mr. mcLain's birds get beaks. A flashy left hook, blinding speed, relentless involvement in 1967 book­OTTAWA (UPI)-Boston his skull, but we are going to put rhythm. Guys who don't have it get known as fighters who "can making activities and his associa­Bruin defenseman Ted Green is one in there, for protective take it." tions at that time leave me no completely recovered from head purposes, in the operation on 
The Lord probably had a pretty good idea somebody would tie alternative but to suspend him injuries suffered in his stick Friday," said Dr. Richard. He gloves on Jose Napoles some day. He gave him the sloping shoulders, form all organized baseball acti­swinging fight with Wayne Maki, said he had not decided whether the blurring punch, rope-sprung legs and the mocking gleam in the vities pending the completion of but he will have a plate implant­the plate to be used will be steel eye. my review of his situation" ed in his skull in minor surgery or plastic. It will replace the 
But the order blank on Indian Red probably said, "Fit him for Kuhn said in a statement. Friday :for protective purposes. piece of skullbone broken bysuffering." McLain, who appeared brief­Green's doctor, neurosurgeon Maki's stick and removed during Indian Red is a melancholy man. Life is a matter-of-fact ly, said "I haven't got much to Dr. Michael T. Richard, said subsequent surgery. proposition to him. Born on an Indian reservation in Utah, say. I'm going to Oakland and Wednesday news reports men­The fight, in a pre-season indifferently educated, the uselessness of complaint was drummed will hold a press conference tioning a steel plate being set in game, saw Maki and Green into him early. With the blood of Indians, Mexicans, Scotch and tomorrow or Saturday." the hockey player's skull after exchange overhead swipes with Irish in him, you were pretty sure he came from a long line of people Present at the meeting were the fight last Sept. 21 were their hockey sticks. It led to the who expected no quarter with life. They had to be people who the commissioner; McLain; his "invented." two being charged with "assault struggled across mountains on wagons in blizzards, or who sowed attorney William Aiken; Henry "There has been no plate in causing bodily harm." crops in the broiling sun or who shot buffalo from horseback. They Fitzgibbon, new security head were not men who went down and stayed down from the first left for baseball; and administrative hook life dealt them. assistant Charles Segar. When he came to L.A., he didn't head for the discotheques. He The suspension is the first couldn't dance anyway. He headed for a hammer and a box of nails since Leo Durocher was set and a job as a carpenter. He married his childhood sweetheart, not a 
down for the 194 7 season by A.
girl with a foot of cotton candy hair and a wad of chewing gum. 
B. "Happy" Chandler.
In another era, Red would have been a "club fighter," a guy good 
In the statement, Kuhn said
enough for. unscientific brawls on Monday nights at St. Nick's or the 
"it should be made clear that the
undercard at the Olympics. 

action taken today is based
Everybody Red fought had a pair of jacks showing. He always 
substantially on certain admis­
looked like he had a hand he should fold. But he got the break he 
sions made candidly to me by
never looked for. 

McLain and not on allegations
.. Howie Steindler has been running a gym since the days when a 
contained in a recent magazi"ne
guy would fight an ape for a donut, and his wise old eyes had seen, 
article, many of which, I believe, 
maybe, 3,000 fighters. There is an expression in the fight game for a man who looks around for his mother when he is jabbed in the nose. He is a canine, a cur. Of such, a disgusted manager may say, "He has so much dog in him, he chases cats." Or, "He trees cats." Or, "He 
DiMag is back 
has so much dog in him, he gets paid off in bones." Most of the 3,000 fighters Howie saw could have barked. SAN FRANCISCO (UPI)-Joe 
But Howie noticed right away that Red was dogged, not doggy. DiMaggio, the old Yankee He was as unemotional as a totem pole. "He would get up from a Clipper, is coming back to help train wreck," says Howie. "Courage is the great equalizer. It's like Charlie Finley and his Oakland bringing a gun in the ring." Howie was in a position to utilize this A's this spring. • quality for Red. 
DiMaggio served Finley as a
Red discouraged a dozen of flashier opponents. He showed the 
vice president and coach the last
public why the Indian word for man is "brave." 
two years, then decided not to 
Red, with Howie's help, made his way clear to a $40,000 title 
renew his contract. 
shot with nothing more than a sneaky right hand and a large, red 
"I didn't like all that travel­
heart. They put him in with Jose Napoles, a Cuban tough with a 
ing," DiMaggio said at the time.
brigand's moustache and a left he could chop cane with. Napoles 
Now, though, he will join the
knocked Red on his head with a left hook in the first round and 
A's in their spring training camp 
went back to his corner and began unlacing his gloves. 
at Mesa, Ariz., Friday and will
Two knockdowns and 14 rounds later, Indian Red was still 
stay with the club until the
standing there. His face looked like an explosion in a ketchup 
regular American League season­
factory. His chin looked like a baseball that had just been tripled off gets under way.
a wall. He had taken so many punches to the head, his legs had lost communication and were off on a journey of their own. "I'll work in every phase of 
Napoles, who fights just good enough to win, was content to close the game but only for the out the last round at long range. The twinkle was long gone from his duration of the spring training," eyes. Indian Red's play was to turn the last round, gratefully, into a Joe said. "This was at my own gavotee. He had made his fight. request and Charlie agreed." Second leading scorer Bob Hummell and his West Virginia team­
Red would have none of it. He waded in and threw a right which There is speculation that mates invade the Corwotomorrow night for the final home contest staggered Napoles. Napoles realized he had to call in the cavalry. He DiMaggio, a member of base­of the season. charged, and hit Red so hard and so often that Ernie's neck spun on ball's Hall of Fame soon will join the rope as he went down. They stopped the fight. But Red had died Baseball Commissioner Bowie like a Sioux-with an empty quiver and on a dead horse. Kuhn as a special aide. Joe 
In the locker room afterward, as ice was applied to his cruel:y refused comment on his future beaten body, Red grinned crookedly: "I was," he said quietly, "just plans, except to say that he beaten by a better man." wants to devote more time to 
I doubt it. business interests. 







