

Hamilton forms Biafra relief organ 
VOL. IV, No. 68 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1970 
by Glen Corso 
Observer News Editor However the idea of a mass 
Notre Dame freshman, Tom contribution from Notre Dame llamilton, announced the for­students took root, and from mation of the Students for Bia­there the concept mushroomed 
fran Relief, a national organ­into a nationwide student orient­
ization designed to funnel funds ed affair. 
to the Nigerian Red Cross, which Hamilton spent part of his 
is conducting relief operations in semester break in Washington 
Biafra. and New York, talking to Con­
"We are appalled by the con­gressmen and media people mak­ditions in the former Biafran ing arrangements for endorse­enclave. It is our objective to ments and publicity. help alleviate these problems. We More than a dozen Senators hope that everybody will write and Representatives gave their their legal governmental repre­strong personal endorsement to sentatives entreating them to the effort. Support for the or­
somehow institute a change. Es­ganization came from such di­timates have put the death rate verse figures as Sen. George of these 7,000,000 lbo tribes­Murphy from California and men at 5,000 per day. Certainly Senator George McGovern. this is reason for concern, es­"I want to commend the Stu­pecially because of the pre­dents for Biafran Relief for their cedent set by Adolf Hitler a­efforts to help millions of starv­gainst six million Jews," ing people in the area that was Hamilton declared. formerly known as Biafra," Sen. 
The initial idea for a national Murphy declared. organization was conceived An equally emphatic state­when Hamilton returned from ment came from Sen. George Christmas. He at first planned to McGovern, "I strongly endorse donate money to a relief organ­the efforts of Students for Bia­ization sending money to Biafra. fran Relief to bring much-need-
Hesburgh questioned on TV program 
tion. by T.C. Treanor Hesburgh said that he was 
Notre Dame President Father "definitely opposed to the con­Theodore Hesburgh praised the struction of a new football sta­Departments of Defense, Agri­dium". Hesburgh conceded that culture, and Just ice for their the new artifice might pay for "improved relations" with the itself in "a couple years," but Civil Rights Commission he felt that "the psychological ef­heads in an interview with three fect" of such an undertaking local reporters aired last Sunday would be negative enough to on WNDU-TV. counterbalance any financial 
llesburgh and the three gain the move might garner. reporters, Mike Collins of Hesburgh expressed fear that WNDU-TV, Joe McCkekken of investment in a stadium project the Ave Maria, and Dolores that would cost "six hundred to 
Lieberler of the South Bend 
eight hundred thousand dollars" Tribune, touched on fields of 
would bring charges that Notre civil rights, building, 
Dame's primary committment co-education, fieldhouse 
was to athletics, a situation which he termed "demoraliz­


ing." 
He was also very emphatic in his opposition to South Bend Mayor Lloyd Allen's proposal to annex Notre Dame to the South Bend area. "The Board of Trus­tees and I have given the matter much serious study," said Hes­
burgh,  "we  feel  that..our  res­ 
ponse must be 'no' ."  
Hesburgh  also  reitered  the  

Kerner Commission's warning that "until we have real equality of opportunity ... there will be the clear and present danger of 
creating two separate societies within the nation," and calledfinancing, alumni relations and alumni reaction to Notre Damethe possibility of an annexation minority programs and his activi­of Notre Dame by South Bend ties on the Civil Rights Commiss­on the half-hour interview. 
ion "generally good."
The eighteen-year University Commenting on co-educationPresident made a special point of Hesburgh again stressed his de~noting an anticipated building sire to maintain the "autono­slowdown. lie warned that the mous identity" of St. Mary'sUniversity would have to "go College while pledging to makeslow" in further construction SMC and Notre Dame "closeruntil some of the University's than ever before."

debt is eliminated. 
Hesburgh mentioned thelligh on llesburgh's building Brown-Penbrooke relationship aspriorities are: a chemical engin­"typical" of the kind of relation­eering building, a building to ship he envisioned between SMChouse an ecumenical institute for advanced religious studies, and a "flexible classroom" build­

(continued on page 2)
ing for academic experimenta­
ed assistance to the Biafran peo­and have communicated this porations to express their opin­ple. These tragic victims of war concern to Secretary of State ions in this situation, and I am and hunger deserve a humane Rogers and President Nixon ... pleased to lend my support to and generous response from "It has recently come to my this fine effort." their fellow humans in the Unit­attention that a student organ­Support also came from ·sen­ed States and elsewhere around ization, Students for Biafran Re­ators Stevens, Bayh, Harris, and the globe." lief has been organized and is McGee. 
Sen. Allan Cranston put his operating from the University of The appointments with the endorsement in the form of a Notre Dame. This organization various Senators and Repre­statement which he plans to read has been established to work for sentatives were set up with the to the Senate either today or the noble aim of assisting to save aid of Howard Glickstein, direct­tomorrow. The statement says in the millions of people who are or of the Civil Rights Com­part: still starving in Biafra. mission. Hamilton was refered to 
"As I have commented in the "Students for Biafran Relief Glickstein by Fr. Hesburgh who past I am deeply concerned over seeks to enlist aid from students, the tragic situation in Nigeria laymen, political leaders and cor-(continued on page 6) 


Nixon to visit Indianapolis 
President Nixon's desire to get conferences in Indianapolis and Great lakes. closer to urban and environ-Chicago are "precedent setting" The "traveling White House'. mental problems at the local and reflect Nixon's desire to is scheduled now to arrive level will bring him and most of conduct the business of govern­shortly after noon Thursday at his Cabinet members to confer-ment outside of Washington at Indianapolis Weir Cook Airport, ences in Indianapolis Thursday times and to get closer to pro-where they will be welcomed by and Chicago Friday. Mrs. Nixon blems at the local level. Whitcomb, Lugar and others. will accompany the President. The Indianapolis meeting of-Band concerts at the airport will 
the White House is believed to ficially is the 20th meeting of begin at 10:30 a.m. and at the have initiated both conferences the Council of Urban Affiars City County Building at II a.m. through telephone calls to the Cabinet committee which 
The President is expected to Governor Whitcomb of Indiana advises the President on city 
reply to the welcome at the and Indianapolis Mayor Richard problems. Lugar a and eight airport and to speak from a 
G. Lugar several weeks ago. other mayors of middle sized 
small platform on the CityLugar has confirmed that the cities who were invited to the 
County Building plaza after the President called him Jan. 1 meeting are expectded to speak 
motorcade arrives there. Then about a meeting with mayors of frankly about Nixon's "model 
the President and Cabinet mem­middle sized American cities on cities program" and about their 
bers are to go to Lugar's con­urban problems. problems. ference room 
for the executive Whitcomb did not confirm his The chicago meeting Friday is conference with the mayors.telephone call but other sources the Cabinet Committee on the 
Mrs. Nixon will visit a trainingsaid the Indiana governor was Environment, created Jan. 28 as center for retarded children andcalled at Seymour about three a forum for the large scale pro­a social service agency, and willweeks ago from the White House grams Nixon has promised to present an award to a volunteerand asked to contact governors initiate as a means of reducing social service worker. 
of the Great Lakes states for a air, land and water pollution. 
ex­conference on pollution. Whitcomb, who is to speak at At the council meeting, 
pected to last for one and oneChicago was picked for the site the Chicago conference, is a half to two hours, Dr. Daniel P.
of this meeting. former chairman of the Great Moynihan, counselor to the Pres­In Washington, Nixon's press Lakes commission, which as ident and an expert on urbansecretary Ronald Ziegler said worked for many years in an affairs, is to discuss Nixon'searlier this week that the effort to redece pollution in the 
national urban policy. Then the nine mayors are scheduled to

All Mardi Gras profit 
make their comments and pro­bable suggested changes. 

to be given to charity 
In addition to Lugar, the mayors include Jack D. by Mike Mooney "We decided to help the Malt ester, San Leandro, Calif.;
Mardi Gras fund with the 
Donald K. Enoch, Wichita, Kan.; 
Charity will be the only proceeds from the concert Lawrence F. Kramer, Jr., 

benefactor from this weekend's because we felt that Mardi Gras Patterson, N.J.; George G. 
Mardi Gras activities, as the was in dire need of profits," said 
Siebels, Jr., Birmingham, Ala.; Student Union announced today Student Union Director Denny 
Christian H. Sonneveldt, Grand that the proceeds from this Clark. 
Rapids, Mich.; Miss Antonina P. Friday's concert will be added as Student Union Social 
Ucello, and Walter E. Washing­a booster to the raffle, carnival Chairman Dave Vecchi 
ton, of the District of Columbia. and Kickoff Party returns commented that the sale of 
Albuquerque, N.M. Mayoralready destined for Notre Dame raffle books has allowed the Peter V. Comenici had been in­charities. raffle to roughly break even so vited by the White House butThis will be the first time in far. Several halls and a few was unabl~ to attend because ofseveral years that the profits students expected to sell a large an emergency appendectomyfrom the concert will be given to number of books have not made Tuesday.

charity. Previously, the proceeds returns yet and the Mardi Gras The council agenda also in­
had been directed to the Student committee is counting on these cludes a briefing from U.S. At­
government fund. returns to prevent a loss on the torney General John N. MitchellUnion officials met earlier (continued onpage 2) on the Law Enforcement Asist­
with Father Edmund Joyce, ance Administration. Mayor
C.S.C., Executive Vice-President Washington is to explain the
and director of the LConvocation Center to get 
President's anti-crime program in approval for the shifting of the 
the nation's capital. 

profits. Student Union has an 
Lugar and Indianapolis Police agreement with the ACC to Chief Winston Churchill are to remit all profits beyond a certain discuss citizen involvement in 
amount back to the ACC. That law enforcement. They are to be profit limit was reacJ..,.d with the joined by two Indianapolis re­
:j

last concert of the football sidents-Mrs. Margaret Moore, a season. Fr. Joyce and the convo newspaper reporter who is to officials agreed, however, to talk on a woman's anti-crime allow the profits from the Grand crusade, and Carl Dortch, ex­
Funk/David Frye concert to go ecutive vice president of the
l

into the Mardi Gras charity Indianapolis Chamber of Com­
fund. Denny Clark merce. 




McGovern wants fasterwithdrawal 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Senate ting troop involvement." Republican Leader Hugh Scott Nixon has warned for nearly a said yesterday that, barring a year now that any escalation of catastrophe, President Nixon the war by Hanoi would lead to would not replace troops he an appropriate U.S. response but withdraws from Vietnam -even has not said what it would be. if the Communists step up the Some assumed it would be a fighting. reinvolvement of U.S. troops. 
Scott assured the Senate For­The committee opened hear­eign Relations Committee the ings Wednesday on various re­withdrawal process was "irrever­solutions dealing with the Viet­sible." But opponents of the war nam War and is expected to waged their toughest attack on conclude the three day session present policies yet-suggesting Thursday. Nixon planned to leave a residu­Scott pleaded with the com­al force in Vietnam of up to mittee to back Nixon and relieve 300,000 men. Hanoi of "the delusion that 
Scott told the committee that American people are divided if North Vietnam increases the about this war." He portrayed level of fighting, it .. might in­Nixon as trapped in a "net of volve the resort to the use of fishhooks" which he must un­such American power to protect hook one by one. 
Americans as necessary." But Sens. George McGovern, Asked by reporters afterwards D-S.D., Frank Church, D­if that meant U.S. troops would Idaho, Vance Hartke, D-lnd., be sent back, Scott said, "I and Clairborne Pell, D-R.I., would not anticipate, barring joined in an appeal for faster some catastrophic occurrence­disengagement-one of the most 
the entry of outside nations­forceful made since Nixon's 
that the reaction of the presi­Nov. 3 address to the nation, dent would be in terms 
~Le§cala-
UPHN Wk. Nites ~~ 
6:30 __
,E.'"' 
~,,-~'f-.\."(') 
See both as late as 8:50 Wk." Nites 10 PM Friday and Sat. 
THE FIRST ADULT FILM ABOUT THE ADULT FILM INDUSTRY ITSELFI 
EXPLICIT LOVE LIFE OF 
THE 


DIVORCEE 
dissent from the antiwar bloc. He said the Vietnamization 
McGovern charged that policy, in which local forces take Nixon, through "the skillful use over the war as Americans leave, of national television and the was "a political hoax designed to 
politics of manipulation," had screen from the American peo­"isolated and intimidated Ameri­ple the bankruptcy of a needless can critics of the war while military involvement in the af­identifying American interests fairs of the Vietnamese people." with a regime in Saigon that is McGovern's assertions were despised by its own people." challenged by two Republicans on the committee who have of­ten spoken out in the past again­st the war, Clifford Case, N.J., and John Sherman, Ky. Case suggested that such words as "hoax" and "euphoria" used by Democrats Tuesday to describe the national mood about Viet­nam, be abolished from the hear­ings. 
IS only benefactor
Charity • 
(continued from page l) 
drawing. The only profits not going to charity will be the 15% cut of 
proceeds  retained  by  the  
sponsors  of  booths  at  the  
Carniva.  
"Any  student  with more  

raffle books to tum in can return them to the Bank at the Carnival and they will get credit toward the drawing," added Vecchi. 
The Mardi Gras Committee faces an uphill financial battle. There is a loss from last year's Mardi Gras of roughly $7500 and a goal of $30,000 was set for this year's gift to charity. With not quite $15,000 now collected, it does not seem likely that the weekend will hit its financial goal. 
however, if more patrons could counting on profits from the 
the Mardi Gras Committee is 
be found to donate prizes. This Kickoff Party and the concert to year, nothing was donated bring the fund more respectably outright, with the Union closer to the $30,000 mark. receiving only a I0% discount on Though the raffle is fighting clothes and a near-cost price tag for its life, the rest of Mardi Gras on the raffle car as their only , programs are healthier than ever. breaks on prizes. Though there have been rumors that the big weekend would be cancelled next year, only the raffle seems at this point in danger of getting the axe. "If anything goes, that (the raffle) would be the first to go," said Vecchi. The raffle is the single most costly item in the Mardi Gras program, this year's prize list costing $11,500. Vecchi felt that the man hours and the money are "simply not worth a program that only breaks even." The raffle would be retained, 
Hesburgh airs opinions 

(continued from page 1) 

and Notre Dame. When asked it and when Notre Dame students' 
wanted  co-education, 1-!esburgh  
replied,  "like  tomorrow  morn­ 
ing."  

Hesburgh also said that he wanted to maintain the Notre Dame freshman admissions rate at fifteen hundred a year, and he predicted increases in the law department and at SMC. 
Asked about the status of the fieldhouse, Hesburgh reiterated the pledge he made at the "save­the-fieldhouse" rally to give the 
,-,.~usc JU'si:ollji\L. 
Crdtsmen in Optics 
.•. \j FOR THE FINEST EYEGL.t-~SSES AND CONTACT LEI\J!;ES -­
' 

TilE SHERLAND BLJlG. 
' 

132 S. MICHIGAN ST. Central2·1468 
~tJJJSt. ofViSion ~. 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
fieldhouse committee until the 
end of the second semester to 
raise money to convert the sev­
enty-one-year-old building to an 
arts center. 

According to Hesburgh, no report on the status of the finan­cial search has been submitted to him as of the time of the inter­view, but "one lady did give me five dollars," for the cause. 
Hesburgh refused to criticize President Nixon's Supreme Court choices, saying that "al­though I may disagree with a few," he believed that the choices were made out of the President's "sincere and genu­ine" convictions. 
Hesburgh's interview was broadcast over WNDU on Sun­day, February the first, at three thirty p.m. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 



RAND FUNK RAILROAD DAVID FRYE 
"!Love Him; He's Good" R.M.N. 
"Hard Rock at its Best" J.B. 
See: Richard Nixon' Henry Fonda 
"They Exude Music, Sex, Ferver 
Lyndon .Johnson N~lson Rockefeller 
Tempo and Excitement" Observer Nov. 21 '69 
William Buckley Spiro Agnew At Their Best 
FRIDAY FEB. 6, 8 PM at the ACC 
Reserved seats now on sale at Also on sale 
A. C. C . The Cotton Mather Jazz Quartet 
will appear tonite from 9-12 Bookstore 

at Mardi Gras 
in the Dining Halls Tonight 
PRESENTED BY STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION AND ·~___________::ATHLETIC & CONVOCA T_I_O_N_C--=E=-::.N-=--T=-=E=R-=--__________J 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1970 
PAGE 3 



South Bend Draft Union provides counseling 

by John Simone 
"I am a trained and experien­Engl's personal interest in people want our troops out so "Nixon is counting on the The South Bend Draft Union, ced draft counselor and have draft counseling stems from the that they can determine their silent majority," he said. "What a ~ounseling service for those trained counselors for ND but fact that he himself is a resistor. own affairs. The NLF and their we need is more political aware­
seeking information on the nothing has materialized," he He left Stanford University of supporting forces will not be ness and increasing pressure." 
draft, has opened on 526 Hill said. California in 196 7, and has beaten, they communicate with Finally he said, "I hope some­Street. For financial support, Engl worked for Vista. He has turned the people and represent them." thing develops at Notre Dame, if "Our purpose," said James relies primarily on contributions in his draft card but has not anyone needs• help, I hope they 
been prosecuted. He also stated, "I think Nixon will contact me."
Engl, the founder of the South and his own personal savings. Bend organization, "is to pro­On the present draft system, Engl feels that the Vietnamese intends to win the war, which The phone number of the vide information and assistance Engl commented, "The lottery is people want the American means that we will be there for a . South Bend Draft Union is on the four basic alternatives to a hoax. They'll probably get to troops out. "The Vietnamese long time yet." 232-3275. the draft: deferment, resistance, 360 in every state in the coun­Canada, and conscientious objec­try. People are kidding themsel­tor status." ves if they think the present 
Appeals Judge Friendly to preside
"We will provide information lottery system has changed any­on these points and on what the thing. They're just avoiding reali­draft represents, how the govern­ty." 

over final Moot Court competition 
ment takes control of our lives "I wouldn't be surprised with and how to gain back control of 
the way it's going now, if all 2S deferments were dropped. It cer­The Honorable Henry J.
our lives," he added. refused further state financial competition and four ap(ft!llate 
Engl said the draft service was tainly could have revolutionary Friendly of the U.S. Court of assistance when they were ex­advocates advance to the Moot set up because "no draft coun­potential," he added. Appeals, New York, will lead a pelled from a private university Court finals. seling on campus is available this As to the extent of the ser­panel of distinguished jurists pre­for protesting mandatory chapel Judge Swygert is a 1927 
year to my knowledge." He add­vice, Engl said, "nothing we do siding at the Moot Court finals attendance regulations. graduate of the University of ed that the Union caters to the is illegal, and we haven't had any of the University of Notre Dame Established in 1950, the Notre Dame and formerly served individual's problems. 
interference." He commented, Law School on Feb. 21, it has Notre Dame Moot Court Honor­as chief judge for the Northern Although it has beerl in exist­"the more learned you become been announced by Dean Wil­ary Society invites 16 second­District of Indiana. He also holds 
ence for five or six months now, about the draft machine, the liam B. Lawless. year students to participate in a an honorary doctor of laws de­
Engl said that his efforts have better your chances of avoiding Joining Judge Friendly on the gree from the University,
series of competitive argumentsnot been entirely successful. bench will be Judge Luther M.
it." designed to train students in the awarded last June. 
Swygert of the U.S. Court of 
art of appellate advocacy. The The public is invited to the 
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, 
eight highest ranking partici­competition in the Memorial Li­
Chicago, and Chief Judge Robert

Nutting for president 
pants are selected for semifinal brary Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
J. Traynor of the California Su­
(continued from page 7) 
boards in O'Shaughnessy and preme Court. 
We also intend to contact Nieuwland Halls and the Engi­Four student finalists in the If you gotta go, various alumni interested in neering and Business buildings, 20th annual competition, all necessary university improve­as well as in both dining halls. third year law students at Notre ments. For faculty and students Dame, are James P. Harrington, why not go 
We are now beginning to cir­interested in actively joining the Butte, Mont.; Robert J. Quinlan, culate a petition asking all those campaign, we urge you to con­Reedsburg, Wis.; Robert P. 
Air Force?

who "Favor the creation of a tact us at Box 813-SM, Notre LaRusso, Jr., New York, N.Y.; Chancellor-Presidnet structure Dame, Ind., or call 284-4675; and Richard W. Slawson, and the serious consideration of we have both bumper stickers Rochester, Minn. 
If you have two years of college left (graduate or undergraduate) and you're high on the "fishbowl list", you can still go first class .•. as an Air
Father T. llesburgh and Willis D. and pins available for immediate The hypothetical case to be 
Force officer. Air Force ROTC has a two-year program that will pay you while you're still In school, and even offers free flying lessons (If you qualify). Find out what Air Force ROTC has to offer. Inquire
Nutting to fill these posts" to distribution. argued before the jurists con­
join us. these petitions are being Nutting for President Head­cerns the constitutional rights of 
about the two-year program today. See the Professor of Aeospace 
Studies on campus, or call 283-6635.
posted on the main bulletin quarters a group of students who were 
Army ROTC Prerequisites 

Two -Year Program for Enrollment 
The Army now offers college students the opportunity In addition to being a graduate of a junior college, or a to earn a commission in the United Stat~s Army after only student in a four year college who has completed all two years of participation in Army ROTC Training. requirements through the sophomore year, you must meet 
The Two-Year Program is designed primarily for junior the following prerequisites: college graduates and for senior college sophomores who 1. Be physically and mentally qualified. have not taken Army ROTC during their first two years of 2. Be of sound character. college. However, the program also is open to any student 3. Be at least 17 years old. who will have completed all requirements through the 4. Be recommended by a Board of Oficers. sophomore year at the time of enrollment and who has a 5. Successfully complete six weeks of summer camp minimum of two years academic work remaining training in lieu of the Basic ROTC course normally taken (under-graduate or graduate). as a freshman and sophomore. 
If you fit into one of the above categories and are sincerely interested in serving your country and fulfilling your military obligation as a commissioned officer in the United States Army, you are invited to apply for the Army ROTC Two-Year Program. 
DURING THE JUNIOR AND SENIOR YEARS OF YOUR ROTC TRAINING, 
YOU WILL RECEIVE A TAX FREE SUBSISTENCE ALLOWANCE OF $50 PER MONTH. 
IF YOU JOIN THE PROGRAM, YOU WILL BE A STEP AHEAD FOR 
THE REST OF YOUR LIFE 
--FOR INFORMATION, CONTACT Lt. COLONEL LAKE OR MSG.COOPER 
AT 283-6264 NLT 15 FEBRUARY 1970. 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

University Forum 
The University Forum embarks on its maiden voyage tomorrow and whether or not we reach the promised land depends a lot on the foresight of its participants. 
The potential of the ·group. is unlimited. Made up of every segment of the community, alumni, trustees, faculty, graduate students, and administrators, the Forum will provide ample opportunity for each of them to express their feelings about the direction that they feel Notre Dame should be headed. The Forum will also provide a tremendous opportunity for all members of the community to confront our leaders about the serious issues that face Notre Dame. 
There is much talk these days about the generation gap. Most people say that it results because of a lack of communication. The communication gap in turn is blamed for a myriad of evils. The Forum is a valuable step in trying to bridge the gap here at Notre Dame. 
We hope that the participants of all groups will be honest about their feelings. The Forum should be no place for politics. Politics may have a place in organs such as the Student Senate or the Student Life Council since many compromises must be made in order to assure the passage of bills in a form that will be acceptable to all parties. What should be sought for in the Forum however is an airing of the true feelings of all groups of the community about campus issues. Notre Dame is a university community and perhaps if all sides of an issue are brought forth at a time when all segments can hear and discuss them we can reach intelligent rational conclusions, free of emotions, about the best course that should be pursued. 
To argue that a frank presentation of all sides of the coin will produce unaminity about the course of action may be an exercise in unproductive wishful thinking-but if the idea can work anywhere, it can work at Notre Dame. There is a peculiarity about Notre Dame that doesn't exist elsewhere. We talk of community while other colleges talk of student power. We talk of the Christian value of the non-violent resolution of conflict while other schools talk of non-violence as a power tactic. When the war or the military-industrial complex is questioned the discussion has its basis in Christianity and the value of love. More than anything it is that unique spirit which will be responsible for making the University Forum work. 
In the end, success depends on the attitudes of the participants. If all are open to the various points of view, if they are willing to talk rationally with one another then the Forum will be on its way to becoming an important part of Notre Dame. 
Success hinges too on the degree to which the rest of the community is willing to work through the Forum. The discussions are open to everyone and we hope that people who feel that there are issues to raise will raise them in an arena that is less volatile than we are normally used to. 
But the journey can not end with mere discussion. The participants must have the zeal to follow up on their deliberations, to work for the improvements that need to be made. All too often the "communication gap" is a term applied in situations where discussions are held and the people in power go back to their rooms and close the door. Actions should follow up words-that is the basis for progress. We hope that the Forum members ha\ ~ the foresight to realize that. 
Joseph Wemhoff,Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso Asst. News Editor: Jim Holsinger SMC News Editor: Prue Wear 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney 
Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmons Photo Editor: Mike Murphy The opinions in the editorials, Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin news analyses, and columns of THE Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer OBSERVER are solely those of the Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode authors and editors of THE OB­
SERVER and do not necessarily Layout Design: Phil Barth reflect the views of St. Mary's Headlines: Frank Weigand College, the University of Notre Layout:Susie Bury, T.C. Treanor, Dame, their administrations, faculty 
Bro. Patrick Carney or student bodies. 


Famous last words: "Sell raffle books? What me? 1 don't have time for that stuff." 

Letter 
Open Letter to the Notre 
Dame Community: 
From time to time it is 
necessary to make some very 
basic changes in the structure of 
a university community. Such 
was the case in 1967 when Notre 
Dame moved to create a 
governing board with equal 
priest and lay representation (ie. 
"the Fellows of Notre Dame"), 
and also to give the newly 
organized "Board of Trustees" 
full control of the University. 
Out letter is concerned with an 
equally significant alteration: 
the creation of the post of 
Chancellor. 
Admittedly the two features most heavily emphasized in the education of a "Notre Dame man" are community and the subsequent creative dialogue: 
A Notre Dame student's energies are motivated by new attitudes acquired through the constant interplay of personalities in the Notre Dame community ... Notre Dame is a ·community of shcolars. The accent here is on community -a group of people bound 
together by common aims, 
working together in thecommon pursuit of their objective ... The important attitude characteristic of the academic community at .Notre Dame is creative dialogue. -Information for Undergraduates 1970-71 
It is on the basis of these university commitments that we find it necessary to seek the establishment of a chancellor-president structure at Notre Dame. As we view the years we have been associated with Notre Dame, it is clear that our President is more a member of the International community than our own: 
From the beginning of his career, Hesburgh has made a remarkable impression on the Establishment. Beginning with the National Science Foundation, Hesburgh began getting invitations to sit on the board and act as adviser to more and more of America's most powerful private foundations and Government commissions. Hr• accepted them with an appetite which can only be described as voracious. He is director of the Institute of lnterantional education, the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, and the Woodrow Wilson Fellowship corporation. A member of the 
U.S. Commission on czvu Rights, he recently accepted the chairmanship of this controversial and time consuming body. This is only a partial listing of the 30 boards and ommissions to which hf donates his time and energy. Hesburgh sees it as a unique opportunity to broaden himself and, through him, the university, "You don't find out where the action is by staying at home." . . . By his own personal estimate Hesburgh donates about 100 days a year to government and/or foundation service, and spends perhaps another 40 or 50 days on the road asking Notre Dame alumni to keep their checkbooks open. -New York Times Magazine, S-11-69 
To spend half of the school year away from Notre Dame is the life-style of the most vital 
link  in  our  academic  
community.  This  situation  is  
lamentable  from  both  sides,  
Father  Ted's  and  the  

community. Nevertheless, it is apparent that extended and frequent absence from the university community makes it difficult indeed to carry on any sort of creative dialogue. 
Clearly we do not intend to degrade the activities of our current President in the name of Not~e Dame. We realize and appreciate these accomplish­ments and their value. 
with this understanding, we are actively seeking the creation of the post of chancellor, to which Father Hesburgh would be elevated. Broadly speaking his activities and duties would remain the same, with one exception: he would no longer be required to deal with matters of strictly internal concern. The President, then, would be an officer actively and constantly within the community. 
It is our most considered opinion that Willis D. Nutting would best serve in such a capacity. Given his personal commitment to Notre Dame and his educational background as a whole one can easily appreciate the type of reform we are seeking in regard to the structure of the University of Notre Dame as a ommunity of scholars. 
To strive for the ideal community is the goal of Notre Dame, it is our goal as well. 
Peace, 
Nutting for President Headquarters 

PAGE 5 


Nash vi lie roots and California bloodlines 
by Michael Kelly John Stewart has been around for a long !)me. A few might recall him as the fellow who replaced Dave Guard in· the Kingston Trio when Guard, tiring of the Trio's commerciality, quit to form the highly unsuccessful Whiskeyhill Sing­ers. Those who were Trio fans will re­member that he wrote quite a few songs for the Trio that never really caught fire and was the member with the keen, 
"Had I been born in New York City, a New York City girl I'd know. Working in the concrete, not the sunlight. Living in that New York rain and snow. 
There's California bloodlines in my heart and a California woman in my song. There's California bloodlines in my heart and a California heartbeat in my soul. 
And just to think I might have never known you if I had lived my life in Tennessee ... " 
A song like Missouri Birds could well become a classic for that very reason. In that song he is singing to a girl, who I am certain didn't wait for him to return. 
"Missouri birds, flying over old St. Louis. Hear that song they're singing to me? Go into the world while you're young. 
But the preacher's words echo from the old church steeple. 
One song is sung just for other musi­cians who might be going through things that he's been through. "I often get the feeling that I'm talking to 
the wind No one listens in. Then I start singing songs and the whole world feels at horne. Sing a song and you're not alone. 
And I'm believing that even when I'm gone 
relaxed sense of humor (some of his song 'Stay here with the decent people. that some lonesome picker
The second cut, Razor-Back Woman, is
intros would run into two or three Settle down and marry while you're will find some healing in this song."the only song on the entire album that
minute monologues as he adlibbe' with young.' 
A nice touch used in the credits shows fails to stand alone as music. It is toothe audience and frequently the introduc­specific for most people to identify with. If I go into the world, Suzannah, how John Stewart prizes his fellow musi­tion surpassed the song that followed). 
Stewart is singing about one particular will you wait for me? cians. Rather than the usual perfunctoryBut John Stewart's been around even old woman and one particular man and If I go into the world, Suzannah. list of studio musicians on the hack of thebefore that, traveling throughout the the regionalism is too strong to be more I'll come back cover, he thanks them all by name duringcountry before he arrived in California. 
than description. Stewart, and tell you what I've seen." the last cut, Never Going Back, dubbing
When the Kingston Trio broke up a a however, 
doesn't ignore the fact that music-especi­each with a special nickname (I'd like towhile back, Stewart found himself in an ally his music-is fun to play. Songs like Despite the personal meaning of his song, know the story behind the nicknameunusual position-he had already done Never Going Back, Shackles and Chains, everyone can understand what is tearing "Bourbon-Britches White"). After singing the popular stuff for cash and had already and You Can't Look Back are simply for at him. about how he's "never going back tomade his bundle. Most singers grow away fun. They tell stories, but Stewart is Yet John Stewart is not out to air his Nashville" because of a girl who did himfrom their roots as they become popular singing them because he figures that the laundry in public. He wants to share his wrong, he thanks all the Nashville musi­and end up playing for other people. But people would like to hear them. This is life with the people who like his music. cians who played on his album. Then heJohn Stewart had it already. He had the needed for balance because when he When he is happy, he wants you to be laughs and savs. "This song is a lie. Nevercash. He had the reputation. So he went wants to say something it can be gripping. happy with him. In July, You're A going back?Oh, I'm coming back! Oneback to where he began, but he took with John Stewart is not a "message" singer. Woman he sings a floating and easeful day soon going back to Nashville!"
him a musical sophistication found only He is a singer and a songwriter who is out song about a girl simply because she's But perhaps the most successful songin the top professionals. 
to enjoy himself and have others enjoy with him and he enjoys that. on the entire album is the least likely. It
The result was the California Blood­
"I can't hold it on the road is the longest song on the album and ishim. This is the key quality of Johnlines album. 
Stewart. His songs may have stories to when you're sitting right beside me half spoken and half sung. Mother Coun­The first cut is the title song. More tell, but he is writing songs not stories or And I'm drunk out of my mind try is neither singing nor the traditionalthan just a praise of the state he loves parables. His songs stand as music and if merely from the fact that you are here. talking blues. It's just John Stewart sit­(God knows the Beach Boys took care of the listeners get something out of it that's And I have not been known ting in a recording studio with somethat long ago), it is a recognition of the 
alright too. friends telling you what his country is to
as the saint of San Jaoquin.
factors that created his life. 
him. Absent is the bitter anti-American­And I'd just as soon right now ism of the Jefferson Airplane and similar
r=========================================::=============~=======================================--:=:=:=:=:=========~============================================================================================~ pull on over to the side of the road 
quasi-political music groups. Also missingand show you what I mean.
:i:i Dan Shaw =~~ is the flag-waving and mindless patriotism of many country-western songs. What
July, you're a woman. 
there is is one man talking about an oldMore than any one I've ever known."
I Return to the MidwestI
N ~ lady who lived back at the turn of the century ("They was just a lot of people
It is difficult to translate the impress­
Returning to the shores of deux lacs Western Pennsylvania companions who doin' the best they could"), an old
ion of John Stewart's music to mere print
after semester break is not a trifling were as yet unaware of my undertaking photograph Jnd a horse trainer he once
because unlike someone like Bob Dylan,achievement. After spending a few rela­and who had just returned from the knew named E.A. Stuart and his prizeStewart's songs are made up of words andtively quiet and happy-type days away ladies' room. As it happened, they them­trotter, Sweetheart-on-Parade (Stewart'smusic and the words themselves will seemfrom the stench of burning brains, the selves had just gone through what they father was a horse trainer and despite the·cold and lifeless if you don't know theclutter of books, and the zinging of M-­considered a harrowing experience. It fact that he takes the trouble to spell
music.

F-from the windows of our hallowed seems as though they had been laboring S-T-U-A-R-T out in the song, I suspect
Something like She Believes in Me
halls, one hesitates, indeed recoils, at the under the misapprehension that walking that this may be the story of Johnmight appear almost maudlin in print, butthought of his imminent return. Many along railway tracks is strictly a lark. 
Stewart's father). He finishes his tale ofwhen put to life with the mellowness ofstruggle to remain aloof from the prob­Sadder but wiser after a simple flip of the E.A. Stuart and concludes with the re­his voice and the roughness of his music it lem. Others curse the flatness in and of little handle, they vowed never to tread frain, "0, Mother Country, I do love 
comes alive.

South Bend, some in print. But being the tracks again. My thoughts immedi­you." That's all. It's that simple. John unable to do the former, and having ately turned to those thousands of down "She believes that witches fly crazy 'cross 
Stewart loves the people and he loves the observed the failure of Marilyn Becker's home midwest lasses who would sneer at the moon, 
land. This may be what everyone else is crusade in effecting geographical, topo­such a display of dainty debutanteer She believes an angel hides in the corner 
missing these days. graphical, and/or meteorological changes, behavior. of her room, I resolved to discover a new method of Gazing triumphantly out the window She believes the ships come home singing It's all just Nashville roots and California re-entry. of the train my dismayed eyes beheld from the sea, bloodlines. The alternatives were scarcely encour­nothing but grey drabness. Struggling to aging. An attempt at exalting the merits hold back the tears I knew were soon to of our home away from home was come, I sank into a morbid silence. In aborted when I could muster only the old such a state my ears were barely able to Studebaker testing grounds (as an un­pick up a remark on the deplorably dirty matched object of beauty and tradition)' condition of the windows. Taking heart I and the tremendous sense of civic­soon saw the truth of the matter. Sud­collegiate cooperation here in South denly I realized that the eastern bus­Bend. Though thoughts of the former inesses controlling the Penn Central Rail­created a lump in my throat (thinking of way had purposely dirtied the windows 
it now I can scarcely go on), I was forced to obscure the beauty of the Midwest and to abandon this and several other alter­make it appear lifeless and dull. Now natives as impractical. beyond the slightest shadow of a doubt 1 
Turning to a more promising angle my knew that the monotony of this great fertile mind gave birth to the idea of region was a myth based on dirty win­belittling or inverting the so-called advan­dows. On the other side of those panes tages of living outside of the great Mid­lay the most beautiful country in the west. My first victory was a modest one world. as I uncovered such Southern set hacks as Suddenly I forgot my disappointment sunburn, tropical storms, and the pre­over the naming of the Grand Funk sumably annoying antics of figures such Railway as the Mardi Gras concert group as George Wallace, Lester Maddox, and and knelt in thanks for deliverance from Strom Thurmond. Gathering momentum Dow Jones and the Industrials, the Penn I seized upon the fact the California Central Railway, or any similar foreign would soon he only a memory and that interest. Even my worst memories of the other coastal areas would he the first Midwest weather and social sterility faded to he inundated by future tidal waves or into oblivion as I praised every ear of sea attack (or for that matter the Midwest corn grown in Iowa, every pig fattened on is as safe from attack as the North Pole that corn, each grain of wheat, drop of and for the same reasons). Ruthlessly I milk, slice of beef, and blade of grass ferreted out those New England snobs, grown in the now-illustrious MIDWEST. West Virginia hillbillies, and Rocky And now as my appreciation rose and the Mountaineers who avoided the tidal tears welled in my eyes, I stepped from 
waves and set them upon the geographical the train. Blindly I opened the doors acne of the world, hopeless prey to land which separated me from contact with and snow slides, not to mention high the air I longed to breathe. Disgustingly I flying migratory birds. pitched forward into a heap of slush, and 

Exhausted by my initial conquests I as I lay there sobbing the rain poured Album jacket of John Stewart's California Bit., dlines. sought relief in conversation with my mercilessly on. 


-

-----------------------------------------------------------------, 
7HB 01UZRfiEit 
AMERICA NEEDS 
Two hours of award winning experimental films Two nights only! Feb. 5 & 6 Thursday & Friday 7:00 & 9:00PM Engineering Auditorium 
$1.00 Students $1.50 General Sponsored by C.A.F. Patrons 
Red Cross and the second is UNICEF." 
those named promised support 
and coverage. 
If you gotta go, why not go 
co 

If you have two years or one year or no years of Catholic College left and are high on the "fishbowl list", you can still go as a first class Christian ... as a conscientious objector (or selective C.O.). 
c.o. has a two-year program that will pay you not only while you're still In school but for the rest of your life (mortal and Immortal), but unfortunately does not offer free flying lessons. Find out what 
C.O. has to offer -Life, for you and your neighbor. 
Be a man. Be a C.O. You're free. Say no (legally). Call Notre Dame 

·, 
countant, Historical Consultant, 
and Financial Manager, respect­
ively. Prof. Thomas Broden is 
serving as legal consultant, while 
Dr. Thomas Murphy is acting as 
business advisor. 
Hamilton said that the people 
in the organization were looking 
forward to a "very short ex­
istence" as they optimistically 
hope for a speedy relief for the 
problem in Biafra. 


I am 
proud! 
The Observer obtained per­mission from MacManus, John & Adams, Inc., a national advertis­ing agency, to reprint this mess­age. It first appeared in the December 12 issue of Time mag­azine as a part of an experiment in communication sponsored by Time. 
(According to MJ&A, the message so effectively captured the mood of the nation, that there has been a flood of re­quests for the ad.) 
"We are very pleased with the success of this ad," said Charles 
F. Adams, president of MacMan­us, John & Adams, Inc. "It was part of an experiment in com­munication sponsored by Time magazine. Time asked a group of agencies to turn their creative energy loose on any topic at all ... except a product. We enjoy­ed the challenge." 
Requests for reprints started coming in the day the ad appear­ed. By the day after publication, MJ&A's proofing run had been extended to 10,000. People from all walks of life, from all cross the country, including Can­ada, responded. Universities, schools, students and teachers were particularly responsive. 
The curious thing about the MJ&A ad was that it solicited no inquiries, had no call to action, ran no coupon, didn't exen in­clude the agency's address. All it did was touch a nerve. 
MJ&A Bloomfield Hills Crea­tive Director Ron Monchak de­cided to write an ad about America that would tell it like it is. Monchak's words hit home. Art Director Elaine Ohno's sim­ple handling of the words, in her own handwriting, brought them into an even more personal fo­cus. 
Asked how he happened to 
write the ad the way he did, 
Monchak said, "Quite frankly, I 
don't know. I just wrote it the 
way I felt." 
YOGA 
Class Monday-Friday 6:00-7:30p.m. 825 Notre Dame Ave. 
WAITRESSES excellent pay 



Hamilton 
must call 1185 today or tomorrow 
(continued from page 1} is a coordinating advisor for the organization. Hamilton also spoke before 
the assembled national direct­orate for the United States Nat­ional Student Association in 
Washington on the problem. The directors unanimously endorsed the organization, and promised aid and support. 
An ambitious publicity cam­paign is being mounted, in an effort to enlist the largest a­mount possible of aid and mon­ey. Letters are being sent to over 1400 college newspapers across the nation asking for full page advertisements to be run in an effort to solicit support. 
In addition, Hamilton talked with the heads of the news departments of UPI, AP, West­inghouse Broadcast System, and various TV and radio stations, including WNDU for both pub­licity in the form of advertise­mentnts and news coverage. All 

fJians to aid Biafrans 
The advertisement sent out to the college papers is in the form of a poster. It pictures two Biafran children, and headlines the fact that "The War is over but Biafra is losing 5,000 lives a day." 
The poster appeals for people to contact the President and their congressmen to put more pressure on Nigeria to supply more food to the area. It also appeals for funds for food sup­plies for the Biafrans. 
"We sent out those posters with two points in mind. The first is to urge people to write the President and their con­gressmen to put pressure on Ni­geria. We feel that there is a lot more people could do in this area. 
"The second point is to ap­peal for funds," Hamilton ex­plained. "At the moment there are only two organizations through which we can funnel these funds, one is the Nigerian 

-0.~ clvluL .Mt.7J.u.t~ 
~&~~ 
:j)v._ fo-.u-~ ikff01JYI.. 
Hamilton said that they have 
been getting some static from people for sending money through the Nigerian Red Cross, because of its alleged in­efficiency. 
"All I can say to those people, is that the Nigerian Red Cross is getting aid into the area, which no one else is doing," Hamilton stated. 
The students were originally going to work through the Americans for Biafran Relief which is based in New York. After talking with them though, Hamilton changed his mind be­cause he "saw the importance of making this appear as a purely student effort." 
As well as Father H,esburgh, Father Daniel O'Neil, International Students advisor, is also acting as a coordinating advisor. ND students Joe Daly, Joe Grables, Richard Escobales and Lawrence Johnston are serv­ing as Program Coordinator Ac­
/ 

TIIB O&rERUIIt 1 I 
I I I 
I I 
Advocate Nutting for President I 
by Dave Fromm 
Two students are leading a campaign to restructure Notre Dame's administrative frame­work to allow for a Chancellor and a President. St. Mary's jun­ior Karen Grabowski and Notre Dame senior Steve Raymond, along with other students, are suggesting that Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, CSC, be appointed "chief administrative officer" as Chancellor. 
They are further suggesting that Willis D. Nutting, Asoicate Professor, Emeritus, in the General Program, be anmed to the post vacated by Father Hes­burgh's elevation and have organized Nutting for President lleadq uarters. 
A mimeographed letter ex­plaining the campaign was distri­buted by Headquarters to faculty members yesterday morning and stated in part: " ... C'learly we do not intend to degrade the activities of our cur­rent Presidnet. .. Broadly speak­mg his activities and duties would remain the same (as Chan­ccll(lfJ, with one exception: he would no longer be required to deal with matters of strictly internal concern. The J>resident, then, would be an officer active­ly and constantly present within the community..." 
Dr. Nutting knew nothing ol the campaign to make him presi­dent until yesterday morning when he read the faculty letter. lie said that at first he thought the idea was a joke. But when he realized the honesty of the letter, he satd that he felt highly complimented by what people 
were trying to do for him. 
"You have no idea how astounded I am," he said. 
A Letter to the Editor, received hy the Observer from Nutting for President Headquart­ers yesterday, is printed in full 
GREAT 

DINNERS FOR GUYS AND DATES, TOO! 
You get a good feeling eating at the Black An­gus. The decor is pleas­ing, there's carpet on the rio or, music in the air but, more impor­tant the freshly broiled steak taste delicious. Crisp salads with your favorite dressing. Ten­der Texas Toast. All at prices mindful of a stu­dent's pocket book ... dinners $1.09 to $1.99. Hamburger platter$ .79. 

STEAK HOUSE 1516 N. Ironwood Dr., southeast of Convocation Center between South Bend Ave. and Edison Rd. 
the objective of the Nutting For possible about ( 1) the problems President Headquarters: involved in such an administra­
We have begun our campaign tive structural change and (2) by directly contacting Notre the qualifications of Father T. Dame's 600 faculty members. Hesburgh and Willis D. Nutting 
We · intend to continue our for filling the positions of Chan­efforts by providing the students cellor and President respectively. with as much information as (continued on page 3) .------------------------------, 
ND M.en Treat yourself to hairstyling 
with latest and newest styles for the co11eg guy. Specializing in long hair. 
For appointment 
Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Building 
caJJ 2340811 
South Bend 

Miss Treba and the Baron to serve you. Studied undllt' David Hansen of Chicago, foremost hair stylist for men. 
OPEN MON. THRU SAT. 

below. 
Editor: 
During the first week in Feb­ruary the members of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees have been contacted by the Nutting For President Headquarters in an attempt to gain support for 
(f 
restructuring of the administra­tive framework of the University to allow for a Chancellor and a President. 
President Theodore Hesburgh, Chairman of the Board Hdmund 
A. Stephan and the rest of the governing members of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac have been requested to join us in creating the post of chancellor, and appointing Father Hesburgh to serve in this position as "the chief administrative officer." The new Chancellor would be responsible for all of the exter­nal relations of the University, while the post of President would be redefined to deal only
with strictly internal affairs. 
Though the Scholastic, in zts January 16th "Presidential Port­folio" conspicuously overlooked Willis D. Nutting, the Nutting For President Headquarters intends to wage a vigorous cam­paign to gain the post for Dr. Nutting, who is being retired after 35 years of teaching at Notre Dame. To gain for willis 
D. Nutting the vacancy left by Father Hesburgh 's elevation is 
Irish clobber Peacocks 135-88
' 

by Jim Donaldson Observer sports writer scoring a record 51 points It seems everytime Austin against Depaul Jan. 14, Carr 
Carr takes the court at the ACC hooped 20 field goals, to surpass he breaks a record, and last night former Notre Dame great Tom was no different. Making his first Hawkins' mark for field goals home court appearance since during the regular season, 260 to 



JIM MURRAY 
-' 

By word of mouth 
~ 1970, Los Angeles Times 
JUNE LAKE-The first thing you have to do to go skiing, is get 
the proper equipment. 
Ordinarily, I go down to Abbey Rents and get just the right 
stuff-one crutch and a surgical cast autographed, "Better Luck Next 
Time-Jean Claude" or "Even the Slopes are Crying-Toni Sailer." A 
"Tough Luck-Robert Redford" can be helpful, too. 
You get only one crutch because hobbling about on one foot can 
be tiring, and, this way, you can switch feet from day to day. One 
crutch gets you just as much sympathy as two and, when 
questioned, you murmur with a sigh, "The tibia-caught it on the 
cornice at Alta. Damn bad show." 
I also load up on plenty. of cigarettes. I don't smoke, but you've 
all seen what happens on TV to this guy, sitting in a chair with a 
busted ankle, waving bravely to his buddies as they go up the T-bar 
in search of spiral fractures of their own. And this exquisite girl 
comes hobbling in and asks him for a cigarette. I usually carry a 
carton in case this happens to me. 
If some wise guy happens to notice you've got one foot in the air 
one day and the other foot the next, just look at him scornfully and 
say, "Don't you think I KNOW which tibia it is?" The only trouble 
is, the rest of the stay, DON'T switch feet. 
The crutch also permits you to, as the British say, "Jump the 
queue" at the chairlift. Nobody would keep an injured man standing 
in line, particularly if you smiled this wan little smile and say, "No, 
no, that's all right, I'm quite used to it. They've got the bone set 
temporarily and the operation won't be till morning. They think 
they can save the leg." 
But, as you know, I always come to June Mountain a few times a 
year to shake the smog and printer's ink out of my nostrils, and see 
snow on the fir trees and gulp in the air of the gold country of the 
Sierra. 
And, now, they're getting wise to me. I hold the record for hot 
wine consumption by guys on one leg at the June Mountain chalet, 
and, my pals, Dotti and Andy Oldfield at Boulder Lodge, KNOW I 
keep the plaster cast in the trunk of the car because, one day, I had 
to ask them how to spell "Paul Newman" and borrow a pen to write 
it on the toe area. 
So, I decided I would actually get on skis. I had to brazen it out, 
because I had to enroll in the June Mountain beginners' class. So, I 
rented equipment, and showed up and checked in with the young ski 
instructor. 
Now, all ski instructors look as if they should be carrying machine 
guns and chasing Paul Henreid over the Swiss border. I mean, they 
have these boots that look as if they were steam-driven. They got 
more valves and boiler-plate than some locomotives. They look as if 
they have to be put on a lube rack every thousand miles. 
My instructor was no exception: He looked at me coldly as if 1 was something he had just captured in the cellar of a French farmhouse. "Name?" he said coldly. "Murray," I told him. "First name?" he said. "Jean-Claude," I answered. 
"Ever skied before?" he barked. I bridled. "Skied before?!" I snarled. "Listen! I threw the powder so high at Alta meteorologists in six states thought they were tracking a blizzard. I was a forerunner at six Olympics and beat the eventual winner under three clocks. I've FALLEN more than you've skied, son." 
His lip curled in an Erich von Stroheim sneer. "Then, what are you doing in a beginner's class? Do you take me for a fool?" 
I gave him a heartbroken smile. "Listen, Helmut-it is Helmut, isn't it?-I'm phased out for the moment. Amnesia, you know. Got it at Biarritz. The Aly Khan crashed into me. Or maybe it was one of the Kennedys. I forget. It's beginning to come back to me in bits and pieces, but the medics recommend I go back to the beginning." 
I thought I saw a flicker of sympathy cross his face, but it was probably only the sun on his monocle. "Can you snowplow?" he demanded. "Well, yes," I told him, "but I'd rather ski." 
He looked at me strangely. "A 'snowplow' IS a ski maneuver " he instructed me. "Can you remember anything from your r;cing days?" I clasped a hand to my head. "NOW, I remember! Why when I used to come paralleling down the head wall, my skis used to click hke castanets. I was the biggest thing in the Alps since Hannibal's 
elephants!" "Then, take this little run here," Helmut said, indicating a grade 
257. Austin added four free throws, copping game scoring honors with 44, and was the outstanding performer for Notre Dame in the Irish's 135-88 romp past St. Peter's. 
Notre Dame also established four single game team scoring marks last night, steeing a record for points in a game, 135, points in a half, tallying 71 markers in the second stanza the most points scored in a home game, and combined with St. Peter's to set the record for most points scored in a game by both clubs, 223. 
The Irish played superbly, sinking 53.5% of their field goal attempts, passing and running well, and completely dominating the backboards, outrebounding the smaller Peacocks 81-3 2. 
The outcome of the free­wheeling, run-and-shoot contest was decided in the first half as 
the Irish, ahead 18-15 after seven minutes of action, out­scored the Peacocks 7-0 over a three minute stretch to open up a ten-point lead. Carr had three points and Meehan and Jones, a basket each, in the NO surge. 
The Irish lead swung between 12 and 15 points until another Notre Dame streak put the Irish out of reach of the outclassed Peacocks. 
Leading 47-34 with 4:12 to go in the first half, the Irish scored 13 straight points, six by reserve guard Mike O'Connell, to move into a commanding 60-34 lead. The Irish took a 64-38 advantage into the dressing room at halftime. 
The second half was even more wild then the first as both clubs utilized the fast break at every opportunity and shot almost as soon as they could get the ball down the floor. The Irish, despite liberal substitutions by Coach Johnny Dee, continued to get the better of the action and 
ST. PETER'S  FG  FT  
Ed Strong  6-17  0-0  
Rich Rinaldi  II-25  S-6  
Tom Schwester  6-18  0-0  
Ted Martiniuk  6-I2  2-3  
Tony Holm  6-IO  3-4  
Anton Guitano  2-3  2-2  
Harold Mahoney  0-0  0-0  
Gene O'Connell  0-1  0-0  
Doug Richmond  0-I  I-2  
Ed Sutor  0-0  1-2  

with a fine team offensive effort poured 71 points through the hoop, building up a SO point lead on several occasions. The Irish cleared the century mark on Austin Carr's bucket with 
8:31 left in the game. 
Carr connected on 20 of 34 shots from the floor, raising his season field goal percentage slightly to .575. In addition to his fantastic shooting, Carr con­tributed 16 rebounds and seven assists. 
Collis Jones was another top NO performer, netting 27 points and hauling down 24 reboudns. Jones' control of the boards negated somewhat the loss of 6-8 center John Pleick due to 
scholastic ineligibility. Pleick 
will be unable to play for the 
rest of the season. 

Three other Irish players scored in double firgures as Doug Gemmell, impressive in his first Convo start, tallied 13 points, and Mike O'Connell and John Gallagher chipped in ten points each. Jim Hinga came off the bench and just missed hitting double figures, finishing the game with nine points. 
Notre Dame's offensive prowess last night was aided by the fact that all ten Irish players who saw action scored at least a pair of baskets. 

TOTALS 37-87 I4-I9 32 88 TOTALS 60-II2 1 S-2I 8I 13542.5% 74.6% 
53.5% 71.4%
•



Swimming team WinS triangular 
other firsts. ND record in the freestyle but NO's swimming team hiked its Ball State handed ND its only it only lasted until Monday in 
dual meet record to 5-I by defeat Friday, 72-41, although the triangular. defeating Wayne State and Frank Fahey tied a Notre Dame ND pasted Bradley 63-41 Cleveland State in a triangular at record in the 200 yard butterfly back on January 16 in Rockne Detroit Monday. This double (2:06.8). John Sherk also set an 
Memorial. 

victory followed exam-time wins 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 over Bradley and Illinois State and a loss to Ball State. NO downed Wayne 65-48 and Cleve­

Ruggers open practice
land 73-23 and took eight firsts of 13 events. Freshman John The Notre Dame Rugby Club has just opened spring prac­Sherk broke two Wayne pool tice this week. Anyone wishing to join the Club is welcome records, timing 10:52.5 in the and there is no experience necessary. The Ruggerswill teach you all you need to know---and not all the teaching is done
I000 yard freestyle and 5:08.2 
on the field, much takes place in drinking establishments.
in the 500 free. Frank Fahey Freshmen, what you hear about the Ruggers isn't all truealso won two events, taking the 
but it isn't all false either. ' 200 yard free and the 200 but­Seriously, the Rugby Club has been one of the most suc­terfly. 
cessful squads on campus in recent years. This spring the 
Sophomore Doug Gemmell made his first Convo appearance as a regular a success, scoring I3 points. 
Statistics 

Rbds  Pts  NOTRE DAME  FG  FT  Rbds  Pts  
I2  I2  Collis Jones  II-24  S-6  24  27  
4  27  Doug Gemmell  S-7  3-S  7  13  
4  I2  Sid Catlett  3-10  0-2  s  6  
2  I4  Jackie Meehan  3-3  I-I  2  7  
I  IS  Austin Carr  20-34  4-4  I6  44  
2  6  Mike O'Connell  S-8  0-0  s  IO  
0  0  Tom Sinnott  2-3  I-I  s  s  
2 I 0  0 I I  Jim Hinga John Gallagher Jay Ziznewski  4-9 S-10 2-4  I-I 0-0 0-I  7 3 s  9 IO 4  

of about two degrees. I started down. My eyes crossed, my skis Club will travel to the Bahamas over Easter vacation. Prac­tice is at the Rock at 4:
crossed. I crashed. I pounded my fist in the snow and started to sob. 
Saturday, Notre Dame surpas­
"If only I could remember!" I wept. "Me! The toast of two 
sed Illinois State in the final
continents! The fastest through the gates at Chamonix!" I sneaked a 
event to pull out a 59-54 vic­
look up. They all had tears in their eyes. 
tory. The 400 year free relay
I~ t?e chalet later, I sipped my hot mead contentendly. "It's 
team of Craig Ferrell, vince
begmnmg to come back," I told a well-wisher. "My downhill ski is 
Spohn, Gene Krathaus, and John
still a bit lazy. But I should be ready by Sapporo." I gave him my 
Sherk edged ISU with a time of
autograph graciously. "Remember," I wrote. "Skiing is also mentaL" 
3:23.2. The Irish took eight 






