
Israelis, Egyptians battle 
•
1n raids over Suez Canal 
artillery positions for an hour. and ~.utomatic weapons. An 
( UPI) -Israeli jets blasted All Israeli aircraft returned Israeli spokesman said one Israeli Egyptian military positions in safely to base, the spokesman soldier was killed and another the southern stretches of the said. Israeli wounded in an earlier raid 
Suez Canal for nearly two hours In Cairo, air raid sirens along the central canal sector yesterday. On the ground Israelis sounded in the suburb of Heli­died Tuesday. fought Arab forces in gunbatlles polis at II: 30 p.m. but there In the south Jordan valley, across the canal in the west and were no reports of raiding Jordanian and Israeli forces the Jordan Valley in the east. planes. exchanged medium machine gun 
In Jordan, Arab guerrilla Israeli and Egyptian forces fire in the area of AI Maghtas, organizations called an "alert also fought fierce duels across four miles north of the Dead Tuesday night following the the. canal with artillery, mortar Sea. issue of a strict security clamp down on their activities by King 
SAC discusses AAC,
llussein's government. A series of decrees announced after a cabinet meeting presided 

propose Ombudsman 
over by the Jordanian king banned the carrying, firing and B R · 1 S ·i:t In reply to a question about Y IC 1 llll } the handling of present griev­
storage of arms, demonstrations, The Academic Affairs Com-ances, Locke stated that theparty activities and unauthorized mittee of the Student Senate various Deans have "power topublications. 
met last night to discuss a pro-censure in a vague way. They areThe decrees were issued fol­posed Academic Appeals afraid to do ro say anything tolowing Hussein's return from Council which would operate professors for fear it might beCairo where he had consulta­
somewhat like the Honor
tions with Egyptian President regarded as unjustified stepping
'Council, which has been ter-on toes."
Gamal AbJt:l Nasser and during minated. 
Next, the student ombud-Bill Locke, Academic Affairs sman, 1im Smith, addressed thethe absence from Jordan of 
several guerrilla leaders including Commissioner emphasized to the committee. He stressed the "ab­AI FaUth leader Yassir Aarafat committee members that the 
solute necessity" that the Griev­proposed Apeals Council would ~nee Council work both along who is visiting Moscow. 
A Tel Aviv army spokesman concern itself with problems in the lines of the Honor Councilsaid lsraelf planes Tuesday the academic area, while the and to include student com­carried out two raids lasting a present ombusman
student is 

total of 100 minutes on Egyp­plaints in its area of concern.
concerned with other problems,
tian targets in the Suez Canal's "We can't now hope to form a
such as student housing and 
southern sector. group with any real power ex­
security.
He said the Israeli aircraft first cept for recommendation,"
Locke said that there was a 

delivered an hour-long pounding Smith said.
definite need for such a body,
to Egyptian mortar and artillery Smith than outlined a possible
since student accused with 
encampments then returned in, alternative to the proposed Aca­
cheating or having any com­
mid afternoon to better Egyp­demic Grievance Council which
plaint has "no recourse, no out­
tian antiaircraft barriers and would consist of one paid om-
let for his grievances." 
Continued on page 6 

Concluding lecture 

Bree treats 'Camus and his Art' 
writing  was,  as  Madame  Bree  Madame  Bree  characterized  his  
By Steve Lazar Madame Germaine Bree, l'rofessor at the Humanities Institute, University of Wisconsin, and author of a book about Albert Camus, d,elivered a lecture yesterday at 2:0 pm in Washington Hall entitled "The Art of Albert Camus." Madame Brec prefaced her  expressed it,"the experience of sHence, that is uncom­m u nication, in his own childhood." His sensitivity to this "silence" which breeds ideological absolutism and injustice, is a constant theme in his writings. In the works he seeks "a love which might that silence."  literature by saying, "It has as its core human problems." He sought a "solidarity with the unfavored," but never did he stoop to sentimentality. Referring to Camus' technique of writing Madame Bree said that an undcrstanding Continued on page 2  
address  by  noting  the  great  
popularity  of  Camus'  works  
today, then years after his death.  
She  referred  to  the  Albert  
Ca;nus  Memorial  Conference  
held this week at Notre Dame as  
"a tribute to the living presence  
of  Albert  Camus  today."  She  
noted  the paperback editions of  
his  works  have  sold  millions  
throughout the world.  
The  essential  paradox  of  
Camus'  writing,  said  Madame  
Bree,  was  that  "he hid  deeply  
personal  opm1ons  under  the  
doak  of  impersonal  rhetoric."  
llis great emotion, expressed in  
an "estranged form", created the  
"tension" characteristic of many  
of his works.  
!lis  life,  "from  which  he  
suffered  greatly,"  included  a  
nearly  fatal  bout  with  
tuberculosis  at  age  17  and  
membership  in  the Communist  
Party at 21.  
But the event in his life which  

This oil on canvas painting of the Florentine Holy Family will be part of the art exhibit to open soon in the Notre Dame Art Gallery. 
To present acclaimed Florentine art exhibit 
Porter emphasized the quality of 
By Steve Hoffman these works in disclosing that The Notre Dame community, they are prime pieces and rep­due mainly to the ambition and resent the finest in 16th century enthusiasm of Assistant Profes­Florentine art. sor of Art Histor~' Dean Porter As an example of the stren­and the Curator of the Notre uous preparations required, Dame Art Gallery, will host an Porter related that a major 
art exhibit termed by Mr. Porter altarpiece in the form of a seven 
as one of the two finest exhibits foot Vasari panel from the in Notre Dame history. Chicago Art Institute has Serving as the focal point of demanded such elaborate pre­the exhibit, scheduled to be run cautions as the installing of between February 22 and March temperature and humidity con­31, is Giorgio Vasari, an artist of trols within the transport truck. extreme versatility, as well as The exhibit itself comprises being a figure of great immed­all the major artistic media of iacy, attractive to the contem­the Age of Vasari, including porary audience. paintings, sculpture, graphics, Preparations for the exhibit and medals. In addition, a series have been meticulously under­of eight lectures will comple­gone for the last four years, ment the exhibit, as will a prompting Porter to remark that 250-page catalogue explaining he has never "lost so much Vasari's work featuring 150 illus­
sleep." trations. However, his efforts have In commenting on the par-already been acclaimed by critics ( continued on page 2) on the East Coast where it is presently being displayed at the State University of New York at 
Bayh requests 
Binghamton. The exhibit boasts 120 works 

investigation

assembled 
Senator Birch Bayh (D-Ind.) has asked the United States Commission on Civil Rights to inVestigate an incident at the In­diana $tate Reformatory at Pen­dleton last fall in which guards wounded 46 inmates and killed one. 
In a telegram to the Rev. Theodore llesburgh, Chairman of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, Bayh said circumstances surrounding the incident con­tinue to disturb him and many of his constituents. 
"The investigations conducted to date have not been sufficient nor adequate to ensure that jus­tice is served," Bayh said. "Only a fair and thorough investigation of the incident conducted by an impartial body can assure the citizens of Indiana and the na­tion that a miscarriage of justice has not occurred." 
Bayh urged th.Jt the Commis­sion initiate an investigation and conduct hearings to "obtain a true and accurate account and 
The Annunciation, by Giorgio Vasari, is one of the paintings displayed in the exhibit "The Age of Vasari" thus put the record straight once
formed the backround for his 
at the ND Art Gallery. and for all." 
Exhibit will feature works of Vasari 

(continued from page 1) 
ticular significance of the ex­
hibit, Porter said that this is one 
show that students cannot 
afford to miss. 
He said further that the work of Vasari is contemporary in attitude, dealing with 16th cen­
tury problems prevalent in modern times. 
"Since the 16th century en­closed a period of political, reli­gious, and social turmoil, it is of a parallel to contemporary society," Porter observed. 
"The various works represent 
May use bounty. in 

I itter clean -up 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Remember when youngsters used to roam the roadsides pick­ing up pop bottles and turning them into the nearest grocery store for the deposit? 
The nonreturnable, no deposit bottle has changed that, but administration officials said Tuesday that ·President Nixon 

may propose a new twist, a federal bounty for each bottle and can picked up, to enlist children in a campaign to clean Rape of the Sabine Women up parks and highways of litter. 
t--__b_y_G_io_v_a_n_n_i_D_a_B_o_l_o_g_n_a_______________ 
St. Mary's SSO Presents : 

The Cardinal 
Thurs. Feb. 12 7:30 
O'Laughlln Hall 75C 
an individual speaking through Porter lamented the fact that art; an individual no longer sat­the exhibit could not span more isfied with his world," he said. than 38 days, but cited the 
Porter further noted that difficulty in borrowing such 
since the 16th century, like the valued pieces for a longer time, 
20th century, was a period of in addition to the fact that the 
enligtenment and experimenta­exhibit is slated to be transferred 
tion, the exhibit should be of to another institution in March. 
special interest to the university Porter anticipates a large turn­
student. out and is intent upon reaching 
Doesn't reveal cost 
every "student, regardless of aca­demic field, through a concen­trated publicity campaign. 
He concluded by maintaining that each student will find value in learning, through the eyes and intellect of Vasari, the glory that was Italy, and the tumultuous period of the Catholic Reforma­tion. 

Nixon in anti -pollution drive 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Pres­ident Nixon proposed yesterday an ambitious plan to clean America's skies and waters, rid the countryside of junk, open up more park lands and develop within five years a virtually pol­lution-free automobile. 
Except for his $10 billion, five year program of federal and state efforts to curb water pol­lution, the President gave no estimate of the total cost of "the rescue of our natural habitat as a place both habitable and has­pitable to man." 
But he made clear in a lengthy special message to Congress that everyone-government, industry and citizens-will have to pay 
the price for generations of 
neglect of the country's once seemingly endless natural res­ources. 
As an example, Nixon proposed requmng cities to charge industries user fees for treating their waste products. 
And for consumers, on the theory that a car's price ought to include the cost not only of its manufacture but its disposal, Nixon suggested a federal bounty, financed by an added excise tax on new cars, to encourage prompt scrapping of automobiles now abandoned as rusting eyesores. 
Sen. Edmund S. Muskie, D Maine, welcomed what he called Nixon's support for proposals he made last month. The Senate's leading champion of controlling pollution, Muskie expressed disappointment that Nixon did not propose attacks on trucks, 
buses,  aircraft  and  other  
nonautomotive  forms  of  
transportation.  

House Democratic leader Carl Albert said Nixon had failed to propose spending as much as the Democrats already had authorized to fight pollution. 
Sen. Gaylord Nelson, D Wis., said Nixon's plan "in, terms of dollars ialls short of the broad ranging programs that are promised." And Republican Sen. Clifford Case of New Jersey said Nixon's initiatives, as many as they are, "are still not enough." 
The Ford Motor Co. and the Institute of Scrap Iron and Steel pledged their support. 
Nixon told Congress his aim was nothing less than "the rescue of our natural habitat as a place both habitable and 
Continued on page 7 




Camus close to silence 
Continued from page 1 

of the atmosphere and climate style which he himself termed 
he creates is essential to the "organized myth." He used this interpretation of his works. format as a basis to express his Some of the artistic devices he often philosophical opinions on employs are darkness, water, a man and society. He viewed his metallic universe, and a writings as "an act of fidelity to sensation of choking much like his childhood." that he experienced from To conclude her remarks tuberculosis. Madame Bree Madame Bree described Camus' called his use of climate devices search for a positive way of life "an imaginative power, an in his final months. She emotional power." described his efforts to perceive 
She described Camus' style of the "reality that goes beyond writing as "cryptic." By creating expression" and reiterated his a careful and meaningful desire to "give warmth to the narrative Camus developed a encounter between human
1----------------------------'------------------------------,inquiry and. the silence of the 
LOOKING FOR A UNIQUE WAY TO SAY YOU KNOW WHAT TO YOU KNOW WHO? 
WHAT BETTER WAY THAN TO SAY IT WITH AN OBSERVER VA LENTINE? 
For only a dollar you can express your deepest sentiments to your dear one 
Just Right For: 
1. 
Announcing a Valentine's Day Engagement 

2. 
Telling the girl of your dreams that you never had the courage to face about your true and ever lasting love. 

3. 
That special someone to whom you would like to offer the world. 

4. 
The special guy in your life who you would like to thank for everything? 



Fill in your message here 
(12 words for one dollar) 
It will appear in Ji'riday 's OBSERVER in our special Valentines Day 
Yours Lovingly,
Edition (in-hearts and flowers, of course) 

THE OBSERVER 
Mail to Box 11 or stop by the OBSERVER office by Thursday noon. 
rS. For an extra quarter we will mail Friday's OESER VER to your hometown honey (or honies) 
world." 
Madame Bree's lecture, lasting slightly over one hour, was interspersed with readings from a number of his works. To these the lecturer added facts gleaned from her personal meetings with Camus. 
Foilowing Madame Bree's lecture was a symposium on Camus' view of the human condition. This event successfully completed the three day conference on Camus sponsored jointly by a number of campus organizations. 



Tonsor talks here tonight 
Professor Steven Tonsor of the University of Michigan will lecture tonight at 8 pm in the Memorial Library Auditorium on the topic "Is the Faculty Responsible for the mess in the U.S.?" 
Tonsor is a professor of Intellectual History. The lecture is co-sponsored by the Orestes Brownson Society and the Student Union Academic Commission. 
CORRECTION 
The Observer erroniously reported yesterday that the Board of Trustees has offered to meet with the hall presidents informally in a Michigan hunting lodge. 
Actually, as reported, Univer­sity Public Relations man Jim Gibbons extended an invitation to the hall presidents for a meeting with public relations people. He had noted the pos­sibility that one or more trustees may attend. 

THB OBJ'ERfllll 





Finance Club doubles grant as it plays the market 

By Don Ruane 
Within seven years the Fin­ance Club has doubled a ten thousand dollar grant given to the Business College Advisory Fund by an alumnus who "thought it would be a good idea," according to Anthony Scolora, chairman of the club. The money is used by the club for investment in the businesses of their choice. All profits are used for the continuation of the fund, said Scolora. 
The Finance Club meets every week or two for the purpose of changing, selling and purchasing stock. The club consists of approximately forty students who have selected finance as their undergraduate major. Sco­Gregware and Bill Goodyear along with sophomore Casimir Rejent as his vice-chairmen. 
This year the Finance Club has investments in approxi­mately twenty industries. Some of the major companies in which stock is held are: General Dynamics; General Electric; Abbott Laboratories; CBS; Fec­tand Dickenson (which has also been the most productive); Ash­land Oil; McGraw-Hill, and Pills­bury. The club is also exploring the possibilities of investing in the cosmetics industry and oil. The clubs by-laws forbid any dealings in foreign securities, but Scolora expects this to be revised by the end of the next semester. 
Scolora compared the club's success this year with the general trend of most professionally managed portfolios, which haven't been very successful. However, he believes that the club will be able to double or triple its capital, but not this year. 
Scolora described the purpose of the Finance Club as chiefly a "learning experience. The pri­mary emphasis is not to make money or increase the fund geo­metrically, but to provide some background for people who have chosen finance as their major. We're more or less trying to discover, through practice, the basic principles that underly investment analysis." 

lora stated that all stocks are r--==========:-::==-------------..J.._-------------------------~ 
traded by the chairman who is assisted by three vice-chairmen that form the club's executive committee. A three member fac­ulty board must approve any transactions the club decides to make. Scolora listed seniors Pete Start simulated market Monday By Greg Pudhorodsky Starting this coming Monday, Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents will have the opportunity to "play the market" with the chance of reaping some of its monetary rewards without the fear of its financial pitfalls. Larry Moser, a senior finance student, will direct a simulated stock market, which will be manned by members of the Finance Club acting as brokers. For a one dollar investment a student will be given two thou­sand dollars of credit with which he will be able to buy any current stock on either the American or New York Ex­change. The rules followed will be identical to those of the regular stock market with all of the financial options available. On March 16, the end of the first month period, the top three dealers will be given prizes of twenty, ten, and five dollars, respectively. The same proce­dure will fol.ow for the three most successf,,l in the next month period, tnding April 10. When the market closes on May 8 the financer who has accumu­lated the greatest amount of stock in the three month period will be rewarded with a trip to New York as a guest of the Thompson and McKinnon firm. The idea for the Notre Dame Exchange was gotten by Moser from a similiar program run two years ago by a '68 graduate, Russell Belleny, currently a broker with a Houston firm. Over the summer Moser wrote to fifteen stock brokers to sub­sidize this program and received three affirmative replies. Continued on page 6  
 
OfrCampus Student looking for a single room on campus Call: Mike at 233-9080  
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556.  

PAGE 4 
THB OBSERIIM 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Glen Corso 
Legislating morality 
After moving with a near brilliant precision on the subjects of car privileges, drinking, parietals and the like, t.he SLC. h~~ succumbed_ to the classic disease of so many "representative bodtes , that of taktng upon itself the legislation of morality. . 
The issue I refer to of course, is the recent move by the SLC m banning the CIA from recruiting on campus. As far a_s I ~m concerned they have violated the rights of the student body m domg so, and have overstepped the fine line that marks the boundary between majority will and inalienable rights. 
The CIA is a rather clandestine governmental intelligence organi­zation which was formed by the government to do the "dirty work" which a nation sometimes requires in its foreign dealings. This work is ugly, but I believe necessary. I do not want to_ go _into a justification of the CIA's activities since I do not constder tt as the focus of the issue. At stake is the entire question of recruiting. 
The members of the SLC have made a decision. They have decided that since the CIA will not engage in open dialogue with the members of the community, they "should not be allowed to use campus interview facilities." On the surface this looks like quite a reasonable proposition. After all, if they won't talk to the students then why should they be allowed on campus? 
I would like to know though, just who the SLC is trying to kid? They must realize that any person who is interested in working for the CIA is not going to sign up with them before asking their representative anything he is not sure about. If the answers are unsatisfactory to the applicant, he won't work for them, it's as simple as that. · . 
Since that takes care of prospective employees, just who does that leave? The obvious answer is those who are sharply critical of the agency's operation. They piously claim that all they wish to do is to ask the representative some questions in order to further disclose the nature of the CIA. 
This argument is so transparent as to be laughable. Anyone with half a brain knows that the primary objective of these noble student activists is to draw the CIA man into debate, and use every tactic at their command to embarass and humiliate him. They don't care for information. Our recent distinguished visitor, Sister Joanne Malone, knew more about the CIA than perhaps the CIA man did. 
Whose rights are being violated if the CIA comes on campus? Certainly not the right to information. If information on the CIA is being denied, then how did the radicals know enough to oppose the CIA. To oppose something you must know something about it. If you don't, then how can your form an opinion about it? 
The CIA did not come here to try to persuade students that it is following a necessary and proper course of action, rather it came here to talk to interested applicants about jobs. Since that is the primary function of the Placement Bureau, to provide a meeting place for applicants and interviewers, and since these interviews only concern those who want to work for the various agencies that come here, whose rights are being violated? 

On the other hand the Placement Bureau is a service provided for the students by the University, and thus is maintained in part by tuition fees. Since nowhere in the contract the student signs with the University does it state that the SLC has the right to forbid students access to any legitimate organization through the Placement Bureau, might not this action be considered a breach of contract? 
The real issue, as I see it, despite its concealment in rhetoric, is whether or not a small but vociferously vocal segment of the community can impose its standard of morality on the rest of us, through favorable votes by the "representative body". .If we as students allow this action to go unchallenged, then an extremely dangerous precedent will be set. The rights of a portion of the student body, whether it be majority or minority, will be violated in the guise of morality. 
It will be interesting to see what other actions the SLC takes in determining exactly what standard of morality, in their opinion, the 
On the Nutting Candidacy 

Due to an error by an Observer headline writer, yesterday's editorial on the 
Chancellor-President question and on Professor Willis Nutting carried the headline "Favor 
Nutting". The sentiment of the Observer staff was adequately expressed, we believe, in 
the editorial. We feel that the headline created some misunderstanding of our position 
and so we feel we should reiterate our feelings. We can not support Professor Nutting for University President since a much more thorough examination must be made first of his qualifications as well as the qualifications of others who were suggested as successors to Father Hesburgh. We think that the Nutting for President Campaign is a great tribute to the man and we wish to join in paying honor to him. In the same right, yesterday's editorial did not suggest support or opposition to the 
Chancellor-President concept. We feel, however, that the Trustees should make a 
thorough examination of the issue. 

Heart -warming Editor: I wish to express my pro­found and heartfelt thanks to His Excelency, Chancellor Kelly, for championing the cause of liberation of animals from the yoke of inhuman suffering and slavery (vegetarian lines in the dining halls). It warms my heart to know that my cause has been taken up by one in a responsible position in the student-political structure of Notre Dame. Sincerely and Humanely, John H. Leadley III 114 Walsh 

Nutting for nothing Editor: 
It is not without amusement that we follow the latest pro­posal for streamlining this Uni­versity and note its new entry 
into the "Christian-commit­ill ent-community-dialogue" jargon that conceals N.D. non­think. I refer to the clamor for Chancellor. 
All the hullabaloo seems to center on one thing: dissatis­faction with Hesburgh's domes­tic program (or lack of one). The remedy, we are asked to believe, is the installation of Hesburgh in the post of Chancellor with juris­diction limited to foreign affairs, and making the new President responsible for domestic mat­ters. A neat division, surely, and structurally feasible. 
But any political scientist realizes that structures are static only on paper. No student has yet addressed himself to the dynamic operation of the pro­posed new structure. Chancellor Hesburgh, in charge of foreign affairs, would no doubt be a 

combination PR man and fund­raiser: activities for which he is admirably suited. Taking the 
N.D. image out into the no· nonsense world of the "magmr. imous doner," he would have tu justify the domestic policies of the new President to the radical likes of J. Peter Grace, Richard Nixon, et al. Yet would he. It would be far easier to cajole the new President. The problem, you say, is that the visionary priest-president of two decades ago has become myopic. What you don't say is how the new Chancellor would have improved eyesight. 
Whether Bartell, Nutting, or anyone else were President, what resistance would he have against Ted's soft admonition: "You're going too fast, too far left." The whisper, amplified by a down­ward curve in donations and echoed by Hesburgh's cronies 
Walshe, Joyce, Wilson, McCarragher (all Officers of the University and Members of the Board of Trustees) --would be enough to hamstring a Johnson, let alone a Nutting. Regardless of how powerful the new Presi­dent would be constitutionally, 
i.e. structurally, his predicament would be analogous to that of the Kaiser: History indexes the Reich under "B" for Bismark­not under Wilhelm! 
For once, why not call a spade a spade? Aplaud Res­burgh for all that he has done, but respectfully recognize that he no longer can guide the momentum of change. Thank him for resuscitating Notre Dame, but bear in mind his fear of having created a Franken­stein's monster-and his deter­mination to keep that monster in tow (15 minute rule, injunc­tions, etc). 
Quite bluntly, fete him then get rid of him. He is not the kind of power holder that one simply "kicks upstairs." Having served 
N.D. for 20 years, Hesburgh has consolidated his power and influence over the Adminis­tration and the Board of Trus­tees into a force against which the new President will surely be impotent-whether Hesburgh is appointed Chancellor or Archi­vist. 
For the sake of a genuinely new Notre Dame: Nutting for Nothing; Hesburgh for Retire­ment! 
Ronald J. Deziel NDEA Fellow 
Ed. note-For those who may lurve been misled by the headline mistake in Tuesday's Observer, we would like to reiterate that we are not supporting Professor Nutting for the Presidency of the University. We merely would be adding our voice to those that are honoring him. Nor have we taken a position for or against the Chancellor-Presidency idea. 
We feel, however, that the ques­tion deserves serious examina­tion. 

The opinions e:<pressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of the ObservP.r are solely those of the authors and editors of the Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University "lf Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty, or student bodies. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11,1970 THE OBSERJJER. ..
Blow -Up and friends 
Most of this week has been taken up with a cinematic exploration into the film art and thought of Michelangelo Antoni­oni, Italy's greatest director, bar none. Some people have asked me-what is the purpose in exploring Antonioni? In other words, it struck these people as quite arbitrary to choose Antonioni over let's say: Godard, or Bergman, or even Fellini. Well, I think a number of factors are responsible for this festival. First, with so much conversation in the air these days about his current MGM release, Zabriskie Point, (originally intended for release in December), it seems pertinent to present a cinematic history of Antonioni's thought which led up to this current film. 
Zabriskie Point is Antonioni's view of America, much as Weekend is Godard's view of the the states. As natives of the United States we are sometimes too involved in the chaotic existence which has become our trademark-too involved to closely examine it, unprejudiced. Antonioni is examining our existence, examining us-as a relatively objective foreigner, having been brought up in a different culture, etc. 
Is he calling our way of existence into question? One can only wait and see (Zabriskie Point hasn't opened in Chicago yet), hut while waiting, we can look at Antonioni's past accomplishments and perhaps discover what emotion or what feeling he is after, what milieu he is interested in exploring, what kinds of "existences" or relationships most appeal to his cinematic tastes. In this way, we experience a man's evolving art as it was formed, as it developed, and as it finally touches our own culture and perhaps in some cases, our own lives. 
Most of his films prior to the cele­brated Blow-Up have dealt with some of the problems and nuances of his own experiences in post-war Italy. The rise of the industrial middle class, the newly found wealth, the ways of relating to individuals in this "new" setting, these provide the main springboard for Anto­nioni's early production. 
Implicit in his treatment of essentially his own society, is the presence of guilt and sterility, reminiscent of literature published after World War !-compari­sons have been made between him and 
T.S. Eliot's "Wasteland" for examp!e. 
In II Grido, a marriage simply dissolves in one morning, the husband wanders away into the fog filled valley and kills himself. In L 'A vventura, the fiancee of a wealthy architect disappears on a volcanic island, and after some futile searching, her girlfriend becomes the architect's lover. The mystery of the girl's disappear­ance hangs about them like a shroud. The guilt they feel at secretly hoping the girl is never found-all these mount to bring an unendurable pressure on both, until the man betrays Monica Vitti for yet another woman. The shallow relation­ships of the bourgeoisie on their yachts, 

Exclusive group for high IQ's 
Are you a mod brain? 
Think you can really IQ-it in the idea-incubation department? There's a way to find out for sure. And you might even learn that you're 
smarter than you think you are. If, as you perhaps are inclined to suspect, you've truly got super cells in your cranial cavity, you're eligible to membership in the most exclusive international intellec­tual group in the world. 
That group is called MENSA. The sole qualification for membership is that you must have an IQ higher than that of 98 per cent of the general population. In other words, you're in the upper two per cent brainpower bracket among the world's four billion population. 
It costs nothing to find out if you are. All you do is write to: 
MENSA 
Department C 
50 East 42nd Street 
New York, New York 
You'll be sent a preliminary intelli­gence test to take privately, without supervision. For a small fee, you'! be told your I.Q. With a qualifying score, you'll be given another test to show member­ship eligibility. 
Typical questions on the Mensa IQ tests are similar to the following: 
"Aggravate means the same as one of the following words: burden, enrage, in­fect, intensify, complain. 
"Autocracy means the same as: auton­omy, dictatorship, oligarchy, republi­canism, technology. 
"Green is to yellow as orange is to: blue, purple, brown, yellow, white. "Mark the word which does not be­long: iced, steamy, wet frozen, snowy." 
Mensa is one of the few societies that cuts across all social, political and economic barriers, and an exciting variety of socio-economic, occupational groups is represented in its membership. Members' ages range from 8 to 80, life styles vary from ascetic to opulent, occupations in­clude folksingers, doctors, farm laborers, corporate executives, housewives, stu­dents and belly dancers. 
For such reasons, Mensa meetings not only are informative but about as lively as anyone could wish. 
In a world where fulfilling, stimulating rapport with men and women of high intelligence is often unavailable, Mensa fills a void. It fosters a tolerant, receptive atmosphere for the fertile exchange of ideas and opinions. Besides being a source for many rewarding friendships, Mensa provides its members with an interested but critical audience for new ideas. Thinking, discussing, debating are key­note activities. 
Mensa is international. Active chapters in 14 countries provide a world wide membership of more than 18,000 people. Eighty local and national Mensa periodi­cals are published. It is a roundtable society -Mensa being the Latin word for table -in which there is no special precedence or privilege. Mensa Research 
One of the primary purposes of the society is research in psychology and the social sciences. Ms are often called upon to volunteer for psychological experi­ments ranging from studies on the inter­relationship between creativity and per­sonality factors to an examination of the effects of hypnosis on extrasensory per­ception (ESP). Community Service 
In addition to its research programs, Mensa is also concerned with the promo­tion of a productive life for intelligent people. Toward this end, some members have formed Mensa Schools for gifted children, while others have established Mensa University for adult education. Through the Mensa Friends Program, Ms throughout the United States offer per­sonal aid to intelligent inmates at correc-' tiona! institutions. 
Mensa Meetings 
Monthly meetings, usually featuring a qualified speaker, are held by Mensa groups throughout the world. Smaller study or special interest groups meet separately, and there are also informal social get-togethers at members' homes, restaurants, and coffeehouses. 
Members' interests range from gourmet cooking and needlepoint to fiscal policy and Slavic languages. Ms play stringed intruments, bridge, and softball. 
American Mensa's activities culminate in the Annual Gathering each spring. Held in a different city every year, the Annual Gathering attracts members from all parts of the United States and Canada. The Beginnings 
On a BBC radio broadcast in 1945, Sir Cyril Burt, Professor of Psychology at London University, originated the con­cept of a panel of highly intelligent people to counsel statesmen and toher decision makers. Mr. Roland Berril, a London attorney, ad ministered standard 
I.Q. tests to a select group of individuals, 
/ 

vacationing, mirror the general stark qual­ities of the island, of nature, of life itself. 
In Red Desert, Antonioni goes one step further. The slow, building insanity of Monica Vitti is exquisitely portrayed through a dazzling array of colors, muted, and controlled to produce a mood of acute schizophrenia. Again, it's the mid­dle class, the mobile people on the way up, who are explored in the new indus­trial state. The incapabilities of people to relate to one another, the separation of husband and wife from each other (often without consciously knowing it), this is all viewed with a touch of Pinteresque dialogue-the one-way monologues, the unanswered questions, the horrendous ambiguities of the simplest day to day existences-Antonioni has his finger on it. 
I've been mentioning, implicitly and explicitly, the fact that Antonioni is interested in creating this type of ambig­uous mood, this pressure building up, whether it's from guilt, insanity, or just plain sterility-anyway, he relentlessly ex­plores it, yet never creates it. It is there, waiting to be touched. He mentions in the introduction to his book Screenplays: 
Instead of imposing a story upon life 
to express the aimlessness and loss, I 
try to go to the thing itself-to get at 
the internal rhythm of the times. 
The alienation between people may arise without either one of them realizing it. This latent layer of feeling is important to Antonioni's concept of man/woman 7elationships: 
For example. A man is in 
love with a woman who does not 
reciprocate. The woman doesn't even 
know it. Nobody knows it. The man 
suffers in silence, without mentioning 
it to anyone, without letting out a 
single hint of what is happening insi.de 
him. His life goes along as though the 
feeling did not exist. I wonder whether 
it isn't true that the feeling doesn't 
exist until the time someone discovers 
it. 

The ambiguities in life, the fact that we are not defined in precise terms of reality or definition-inside we waver between clarity and insanity, around us we view our own environment in those same ambiguous terms. 
In moving into color photography with R«l Desert and Bl o.v-Up, Antonioni sought to define or portray the relation­ships of his characters to their envir­onments. His colors take on the texture of both observed reality and subjective fantasy, they are not mere background sets-but are essential extensions of the mood and personality of the characters, and the alienation they feel. 
Antonioni is involved personally in his frame and set coloring. In Red Desert he himself painted the fruit gray, and in Blow-Up, he spray painted the grass and shrubbery in the park green. The man­ipulation of nature, of the seemingly real world heightened the intensity of the mood; whether it be the building schizo-
and with the high-scorers founded Mensa within a year. 
Under enthusiastic leadership the elite group , rew steadily in England, and spread to the United States in 1957. In less than a decade this country had more than 1 0,000 members. Organization 
The Society is governed by an Inter­national General Committee, a group of eighteen elected officers and a voting representative from each member coun­try. The IGC convenes frequently in New York or London, and occasionally holds meetings in the Hague, Grankfurt, and other cities. 
There are more than 12S local groups in the United States, a dozen in Canada, and more than SO in Great Britain. Local groups, each coordinated by an elected local secretary, exist in many other coun­tries throughout the world. 
Of the American groups, about SO currently publish their own periodicals. All members receive the Mensa Journal and the Mensa Bulletin, the American phrenia of Monica Vitti, or the bizarre encounter with the illusionary of David Hemmings. 
Colors also involve people to people relationships. In Red Desert, with all the couples on a bed, the brilliant red walls of the room strengthen the paradoxically erotic mood of a scene where sex is only talked about. In Blow-Up a soft cool pastel orgy is enjoyed by Hemmings and two teenage nymphets on a muted purple background paper. 
The progression into color with both Red Desert and Blow-Up is one side of Antonioni's progressing consciousness-a consciousness that involves a grasp of the intuitive life experience in color. The abstract relationship of Hemmings to his artist friend next door is mirrored in the abstract painting of his friend. 
Antonioni's characters are all abstract expressionists with a peculiarly ambig­uous stance toward life. In the age of psychedelics and McLuhanism, color has been elevated to a plane of devil worship 
often in a shallow and artificial manncr.­Antonioni has .shown the world that few understand the nuances of color as well as he-and certainly in the cinema, he is its master. A color film by Antonioni is a study in the basic relationships of colors, in all their minute shades-to the psyche of man, it's a moving Rorschach test. 
Blow-Up is possibly one of the best films ever made, if not the best, certainly one of the most controversial. Critics have raged over the supposed reality or fantasy of the murder scene, the New York critics denounced the hedonistic portrayal of youth as "tragic" and "a superbly realized comment on the values of our time", the mysterious appearances of a mime troupe have triggered a wave of attacks by critics denouncing the ambig­uities of the scenes as "cop outs, creeping Marienbadism, etc."-at the same time other critics have applauded the mime troupe as an illusionary refuge in a world of reality. 
Whatever the consequences, it repre­sents Antonioni's last work (before Zabriskie Point), and it is the closest to our own frenetic culture than any of his other films. A culture where values are often only the negation of values, where form is the disintegration of form-as Jeff Beck bludgeons his guitar into his ampli­fier in Blow-Up, the ensuing absurdly purposeless chase, directionless to the point of building insanity-this is the world of Antonioni, and Hemmings, and London I 966. 
The complexities of the film defy description-this article has only scratch­ed the surface. Hopefully some further notes will be available at the screenings. Red Desert will be shown Thursday night, 7 & 9 p.m. in the Engineering Aud­itorium. Blow-Up will be shown Friday night, 7 & 9 p.m. also in the Engineering Auditorium. Patrons free. Admission $1.00, for Blow-Up, $1.25. We look forward to seeing you there. 
Mensa Committee's monthly newsletter, which includes features, members' articles and letters, personal advertisements, and an activities calendar. Membership 
Aside from Mensa's own qualifying tests, admissions may also be granted on the basis of previous tests, provided such evidence is satisfactory to the supervisory psychologist. 
The following is a sample of acceptable tests and minimum qualifying scores: 
TEST SCORE The Stanford-Binet I.Q.-133 
Wechsler Adult I.Q.-130 
The Army General 
140 Classification Test 
College Entrance Combined score Examination Board of 1300 Aptitude Test 
Graduate Record Exam Combined score Aptitude Test of l2SO 


• 
7118 OBSERIIEit

PAGE 6 
Most dangerous enemy 
Publisher says report was call for censorship 
LAWRENCE, Kan. (UPI)-The recent report on Crime and Vio­lence constituted "a definite and direct call for positive censorship of the press," publisher Eugene 
C. Pulliam said yesterday. 
Pulliam warned that "without ·a free press, man would face the 
actions of today's dissenters. 
"Have we really printed both

Slatesimulated market 
Continued from page 3 
-Since Thompson ana--Me-· Kinnon sponsored the last pro­gram Moser gave the nod to them. Beside supplying the trip to New York, the firm will also make available firms, recordings, and speakers which should prove beneficial to those with little knowledge of the market. 
Commenting on what value such a program offers to those participating Larry remarked that though it is just an "e­ducational game" orientated to the interests of business students that "those entering any field will probably have the chance to invest in the market and this opportunity can only be bene­ficial." 
Profits from the venture will go toward the Finance Club's treasury. President Joe Wemhoff hopes for a turnout of about three hundred dealers which should net the club after the expenses involved a profit of about one hundred dollars. 
Those who wish to participate in the market should register, on 
The St. Mary's Com­munity Relations Com­mission will hold its Vol­unteer Services Night. tonight from 7:00 PM to~ lfl:OO PM in the St. Mary's Dining Hall. Interested students can obtain infor­mation concerning many volunteer projects in the South Bend -Mishawaka commu.nity by attending tonight's meeting. 
MARTHA'S VINEYARD 
Summer 1970 Student EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES 
Hundreds ofJobs! 

Detailed descriptions ·including restaurants, hotels, shops. SEND $2.00 
APPLIED RESEARCH ASSOCIATES Dept. 57 
P.O. BOX 3903 
New Haven, Conn. 06525 

COLUMBIA AT HAS 
LOW 
PRICESTHEM 

KCS9700{18K00488"
18100726t/lll00728t 
The album everyo~e has or wants. 
Janis Joplin will w1pe you out withChlc•aolsa big'rockbandwlth "Piece of My Heart," "Bait andelectronlcs.Theirdebutalbumasblg 
Chain" and "Turtle Blue<
nthelrsoLmd-aspecially 
P,tceatwo·reeordset. 

CL ~~lo) I CS 'llU ,_....,_ 

' -­
"'\\'EilNESil~W [MOI~NIN(J, :~~\1-1 
SIMON,\ (J~\ItFUNI<EL I 


agonizing problems which plague Delivering the 21st annual the world today, practiClil.ly William Alen White Lecture to without a prayer." the School of Journalism at the 
Pulliam, publisher of the University of Kansas, Pulliam Indianapolis Star and the Indian­Said "as newspaper people-who 
apolis News and other news­always have insisted on objectivi­papers in Indiana and Arizona, ty and still do-we have got to ask received the William Allen White ourselves whether we honestly award for journalistic merit. have been objective in our cover­
age of the violent words and 
sides-or have we succumbed to the lure of printing essentially Monday, February 16, in the 
the sensational? lobby of the Business Building. 
"The health-and in fact the Starting Tuesday transactions survival-of this country demand will be taken there. A phone Ullit violence be stopped; and as hook-up has been made available the freest voice on earth, the and those wishing to phone in American press must face the 
their dealings can use the ex­hard fact that his job is squarely tension 3148. on our shoulders,"· Pulliam said. 

The Academic Affairs Committee met last night to discuss an Academic Appeals Council to replace the old Honor Code. 

Grace attacks surging crime wave· 
By Dave Lammers 
The Grace Hall Council met Monday night and formulated a new party policy in an attempt 
to eliminate vandalism, drunken­ess and related problems. The meeting was in response to a b.an on all parties in Grace by the rector, Rev. Edgar Whelan, who termed the party situation in Grace as "preposterous." A notice posted on the bulletin board in Grace on Sunday pro­hibited all parties under a 25 dollar fine per resident involved in the party. 
Father Whelan emphasized .that the purpose of his directive was to force the Hall Council to action and to stimulate interest among the residents in the pro­blems involved with the parties in Grace. Whelan said that the size of Grace Hall, some 500 residents, and the fact that the hall contains 20 separate sec­tions, caused many people from outside of the hall to roam the floors looking for action. Pro­blems with elevators, the general · mess "from the penthouse to the basement" after every weekend, and the fact that girls from South Bend, many of high school age, were wandering about the hall required some 

Commenting on Vice Presi­dent Spiro Agnew's recent criti­cisms of television and the press, Pulliam said, "All of us know that much of what Mr. Agnew said is true. Despite all disclaim­ers to the contrary. However, 
there  was  at  least  an  implied  
threat of  a. crackdo wn  on  net­ 
work licenses."  

Pulliam said he wanted "to emphasize the compelling re­sponsibility which newspapers have to defend the networks and TV in their program of covering the news. . .their fight is our fight, just as ours is theirs." 
"I would remind you," he said, "that in January of this year the task force of Dr. Milton Eisenhower's Commission on Crime and Violence dared to suggest in all seriousness, that the government set up a review commission to pass upon the. performance of TV and news­papers. It was a definite and direct call for positive censorship of the press." 
Discuss appeals council 
Continued from page 1 
budsman working with a faculty member in each department. Each faculty member would be appointed by the Dean and ap­proved by the Student Life Council and would have the power to decide a given case if 
definite action was not a direct result of Mardi Gras weekend, but had been present all year long. 
The Hall meeting, attended by many of the hall residents, came to the following positions on "the party situation." First, any party must be signed up with the resident assistant on the floor that the party is to be held. If any damage is done, the section is responsible for the damage, either collectively, or by re­quiring the person responsible for the damage to pay. After a party, the resident assistant is responsible to check for possible damage on his floor. 
To counteract party "crash­ers" from other halls and the problem of underage girls from South Bend getting drunk, the Council said that no uninvited guests are allowed in any parties. There are no high school stu­dents allowed at the parties that are under seventeen years old. If a person "crashes" a party, a Grace Hall resident may call upon "the aid of his fellow students" to bounce the person from the hall. 
Motions to invest a veto power in Father Whelan over "keggers" was defeated, as was a 
motion to make the host of a-, 
to talk to as amny students as
party responsible for the 
possible to get their feelings on
sobriety (or lack thereof) of his 
the idea. 
guests. 
Hair Styling the Continental Way-European Layer Cut, Hair Coloring and Straightening-Specials for students 
Our Motto: "Have long hair and be well groomed" 
For appointment call 234·0811 Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Bldg. Corner Michigan-Jefferson 

Pulliam said the recommenda­tion would result in out and out censorship. He said also that he was shocked and nearly incredu­lous that a small group of mem­bers of the American Society of Newspaper Editors is seriously proposing the establishment of a so called grievance committee of the society to review the perfor­mance of its members. 
Pulliam, long a member of the society, said, "Whether it is by the government, by the Ameri­can Society of Newspaper Edi­tors or by any other group I say with all the strength at my command that any organization set up for the purpose of censor­ing the press of this country-and succeeding in doing so-would be the most dangerous enemy the people of this country could possibly face." 
Pulliam recalled Thomas Jefferson'sstatement that liberty depends on freedom of the press and that it "cannot be limited without being lost." 
both if udent and teacher agree 
to submit the case. 
"It might be better to have one respected man than to create another nebulous commit­tee or group," Smith com­mented. 
Smith concluded his remarks by giving his approval to the ombudsman proposal over the Grievance Council: "the Aca­demic Council idea is relatively good. But I react to the setting up of another committee and I react even more to one in each department. The student needs one person, which would be more effective and there would be less collision between aca­demic freedom and t4e stude!nt complaints.We could solve prob­lems without trial court pro­cedure of the Honor Council." 
The idea of a faculty ombuds­man has been proposed to the Academic Council, where it was received with less than over­reaching enthusiasm. Committee Chairman John Zimmerman said that he had talked with Profes­sor John Houck, and had decided that the idea might be more acceptable if a report were drawn up and the idea passed by the SLC. 
The committee members then talked the idea over among themselves, with several mem-· bers expressing some disapproval of the idea, and the rest saying that, while the idea of an om­budsman or a grievance council was basically good, more re­search was needed. 
The committee ended the meeting with the decision to see interested faculty members and 
BOOKSTORE 

Certified Master Stylists The Baron and Miss Treva to serve and 
pamper you 


THE OBS£RUER 

PIan ned as start of revolution 
Arab terrorists cause uproar, leave one dead 
MUNICH, Germany (UPI) ­An Arab terrorist threw a bomb onto a bus at Munich's Riem Airport yesterday in an apparent attempt to assassinate the 25 year old actor son of Israel Defense Minister Mishe Dayan. One person was killed and 11 others injured in the blast and ensuing violence. 
After the attack, the terrorist fought his way through a gun­battle with police to an airport waiting room where two other explosions occurred. The ter­rorist and two other Arabs were arrested. 
The dead person was identi­fied only as a young Israeli passenger aboard the bus. 
Assaf Dayan, 25, the only son 
of the Israeli defense minister, 
was aboard the bombed bus but e;>caped unhurt. An airport spokesman said the bus was being loaded with ,passengers to be driven from the terminal building to a London-bound El AI Israeli jet when a "small, thin Arab" tossed a grenade inside. 
"Everything points to Moshe Dayan's son as the object of the assassination attempt," said Munich police chief Manfred Schreiber. 
In Amman, Jordan, a maver­ick Arab guerrilla organization, the Popular Democratic Front for the liberation of Palestine PDFLP claimed responsibility for the Munich attack. 
Bavarian border police at the airport opened fire at the ter­rorist after the explosion on the bus, but he ducked behind a vehicle and managed, while re­turning the fire, to make his way into the waiting room of the terminal building. As he entered, two explosions ripped through the room, injuring the Arab and others. Schreiber said the Arab was captured without further resistance. 
A second Arab, also injured, was arrested when found hiding in a women's rest room beneath the waiting ro·om. A third Arab was spotted standing on a roof­top observation deck. An airport 
spokesman said he tried to flee over a roof when the grenade exploded in the bus but slipped and fell 10 feet to the ground, injuring himself. He was sub­sequently arrested. 
Schreiber said the incident started when three or four men of "south oriental appearance" intermingled with the passengers as they were boarding the bus. 

Communists confuse troops with old, effective, weapons 
SAIGON (UPI) -Communist ground forces are using World War II vintage antiaircraft weapons to fire on U.S. helicop­ters and other low flying aircraft in' South Vietnam's rugged 
Central Highlands,  American  
mjlitary  sources  reported  
yesterday.  

The sources said the old, but effective, weapons have con­fused American pilots, many of whom were children during the last world war and have not come face to face with the less modern antiaircraft fire. 
Rounds of the Communist guns arc about 18 inches long and less than two inches in diameter, about the size of 20 mm and 40 mm guns used during World War II. They also are similar in size to the 2. 7 5 inch rockets fired by sophisti­cated U.S. helicopters used in Vietnam. 
"These weapons went out years ago," one American source said. The disclosure came in the wake of a helicopter crash that killed 12 Americans near the Da Nang air base Tuesday. 
The U.S. Army helicopter plunged to earth near "Dog patch," a shantytown on the edge of the Da Nang airbase. Cause of the crash was not deter­mined but officials said the helicopter, designed to carry only five passengers and baggage, was carrying four crewmen, eight passengers and baggage at the time of the crash. 
In war action, Communist gunners shelled 19 targets with rockets or mortar rounds in a 24 hour period ending at 8 a.m. Tuesday, U.S. spokesmen said. They said four of the attacks caused casualties or damage but 

Nixon attacks pollution 
no Americans were killed or wounded. 
Allied communiques reported continued light and scattered ground fighting in which 77 Communists were killed in clashes Monday and early Tuesday. American casualties were at least one killed and nine wounded. 
In Saigon, U.S. Defense Sec­retary Melvin R. Laird arrived Tuesday night for a fact finding· 

The  men  pulled  guns  and  or­ 
dered  the  pilot and co -pilot to  
stand still.  

The pilots refused and a fist fight erupted. The bus driver, fearful for the safety of the passengers already aboard, attempted to drive away but one of the armed men stood in the front of the bus with a drawn pistol. The driver stopped and then opened the hydraulic doo~s of the bus to allow the occu­pants to scatter to safety. It was then that the grenade was thrown into the bus. 
Hotels buried in snow 
VAL D'ISERE, France (UPI) -With a "sudden dreadful thun­der" as the only warning, a massive avalanche engulfed two alpine hotels under tons of show yesterday, crushing walls and killing dozens of young skiers as they ate breakfast. Scores were injured. 
Rescue workers said at least 48 persons were killed in the snow slide, the worst avalanche in France since World War II. 
Hurtling down 10,000 foot 
•high Dome Peak, the avalanche smashed through the dining room of a skiers' hostel where more .than 200 French, Belgian and German youths were break­
fasting  and  engulfed  the  Eidel­ 
weiss Hotel.  
Cars  parked  nearby  were  

swept 150 yards by the wall of snow. 
Blinding showstorms cut visi­bility to zero and thwarted efforts to find snow-trapped dkiers. Snow was still falling as darkness came after a day of frantic rescue work. 
Winds hit gale force of 50 miles per hour and piled huge drifts along roads leading to the disaster area. Some ambulances got through but others could not reach the scene. 
President Georges Pompidou dispatched Interior Minister Raymond Marcellin to help supervise rescue work. 
About 200 residents in the area of the disaster left their homes last night, fearing more avalanches. 
It was the worst single ava­lanche disaster in Europe since 1965 when 100 persons were killed at Garmisch in West Germany. Three months after the Garmisch avalanche another in Switzerland killed 88 persons. 
LEARN THE MOCK STOCK MARKET 
Monday Feb. 16 

tour of Vietnam ordered by ...--------------'---------------1 
Presidnet Nixon. Laird was ac­companied by Gen. Earle G. Wheeler, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
"The policy of turning over greater responsibility to South­east Asian nations is a policy which will be steadfastly ad­hered' to and cound not be called irreversible," Laird told news­men at Saigon's Tan Son Nhut Airport. 

FREE UNIVERSITY 
Students and Faculty: 
Do you have an interest, talent, or hobby that you would like to share with others? The Free University of Notre Dame -St. Mary's is presently compiling its selection of courses for the spring semester. If interested in teaching a course, please contact either: 
-
------------------------~ 

Continued from page 2 
1973 and particle matter, in­

Rick Libowitz Shawn Foley 
hospitable to man." 
Night Editor: Jim Holsinger
cluding lead, by 1975. 

c/o Student Government Box 179 
Layout: Dan Shaw, Mary

In all, the President made 23 -Federal regulation of fuel 
Beth Crimmins 
St. Mary's 

legislative proposals and ordered composition and additives, as 
Headlines: Rich Smith, Phil

14 steps by executive order or well as exhaust emissions, and 
Schatz

administrative action to improve required testing for emission inthe environment. Among them 
automakers' production models 1----------------l--------------------------~ 
were other provisions for: rather than voluntary testing of 
Grand Opening of

-Establishment of nation­prototypes.
wide federal air and water pol­
-the guitar and voice of
-Research aim'ed at findinglution control standards, inclu­ways to reuse more solid waste 


•' Chicago's beautiful 
ding for the first time intrastate rna terials and make others,as well as interstste water and especially containers, moreocean waters within U.S. boun­
RUTH JONES
easily disposable. 

daries. 
-A governmentwide review of-Violations of these stan­

-Hammond's wandering
current use of the 750 milliondards would subject industries or acres of federally owned land,cities to maximum court fines of 

WALT CRUCE
with an eye to converting or$10,000 a day, and the interior selling some of it for parks orsecretary would be authorized to 

-Moliere's SGANARELLE
recreational land, with emphasisseek emergency injunctions 

a one act comedy
on areas close to the crowdedagainst serious water pollution. 

directed by J.P. Mustone
cities.

-Tightening of federal con­-Ordering the U.S. Patenttrols on emission of carbon 
''AMERicA"
Office to give priority to appli­monoxide and hydrocarbons cations for pollution controlfrom automobile exhausts, with devices.

new curbs on nitrogen oxides by 
-ND'sown AUTHENTICALLY Nobody's Gotta Go 
··~ 

MAERRYWHETHRE 
.n 
FOOD-WAITRESSES-DECOR 
Flanner Hall Basement 
If you are a free man with high ideals, and If you think you can 
find the courage Friday February 13 First act : 9 pm
to live them, you don't have to go. Refuse death and violence, refuse hate and destruction disguised as love of peace. Live peace to all men. Be foolish: challenge reality In tt1e way of King Gandhi and Jesus; but realize that you may be Saturday February 14 Admission $1.00
crucified (Inquire about the government program for draft resistors-up to five years free room and board). There Is no program other than a 
(Bring your black cat 

life of love and giving. Everybody qualifies. 
or your Valentine

Choose life and freedom. Resist. Call 232-14 

PAGE 8 
7118 O&r£Rfl£lt 

Carr, Cattlet, Jones lead Irish over Red men 
by Terry Shields  
Observer Sports Writer At times he has been called "the sleeping giant" and a lot less polite names by the student body, but last night nobody could convince St. John's big center Bill Paultz that the man he was watching was snoozing. His man was Sid Catlett and "El Sid" exploded for 20 pts. (9 of  ing the Irish to an impressive 90-7 6 victory over a very repre­sentative St. John's team. Catlett wasn't alone on the court as his teammates hustled to one of their best efforts of the season. ND actually stowed the game away in the first half as they built a twenty-point margin by intermission. Strangely  Irish that brought about the onslaught. Collis Jones, the Irish second leading scorer for the season, was on the bench with three personal fouls after only three minutes of play. It was here that Catlett started to go for the basket for the first time this year and the results were quite pleasing to most of the l 0,463 in attendance. After a slow start Austin Carr  scored 13 pts. when he left with 6:46 remaining. It was at this point that the Irish really broke' loose adding l 9 tallies in the final six minutes. St. John's tried to whittle the margin down in the second half as their ace, Joe DePre, got hot and canned 21 pts. in the final stanza. He finished with 25. Mike O'Connell and Tom Sin­nott provided the Irish with  Offensive Eficiency Rating of 1.125 (i.e. they scored 1.125 pts. for every possession, a very good average). Onvj again the Irish shot well as they hit a torrid 56.9% from the field and 76.2% from the charity stripe. Another game like that should clinch the record for season shooting which was set in the 67-68 season. Last night was a big win for  
warmed  up  his shooting touch  good bench strength as the pair  the  Irish and  it should impress  
and he  was instrumental in the  combined for  12  big points to  tournament  scouts  quite  a  bit  
Irish rally as he canned 20 pts. by the half. The Irish captain finished with 33 markers for the  keep the (O'Connell nott four)  Redmen had eight  at and  bay. Sin­ (St. John's had a 13-5 record with -victories over Iowa, Villa­nova, and Davidson before last  
contest and this places him near the 11th spot in all time ND scoring. At halftime Notre Dame had hit on 51% of their shots  The most impressive thing about the victory had to be that the team turnovers were kept at a minimum until the game was  night). The overall play and Cat­lett's performance was very encouraging to ND fans. In the freshmen prelim, the  
and had but five turnovers.  out of reach. The Irish gave up  Leprechauns  beat  Valparaiso  
Another big factor that aided the Irish was that the 6' 10"  14 pts. managed  on errors but they to take back 18 from  87-66. Don Silinski was high for ND with 29 pts. Earlier in the  
Paultz had to cause of foul  be replaced be­trouble. He had  the Redmen. Another important stat showed that ND had an  year, the Crusaders crushed the Irish frosh.  
NOTRE DAME  FG  FT  Rbds Pts  ST. JOHN'S  FG  FT  RbdsPh  
Collis Jones  5-8  3-3  9  13  Joe DePre  12-19  1-2  6  25  
Doug Gemmell Sid Catlett  2-3 9-14  1-2 2-4  4 9  5 20  Ralph Abraham Bill Paultz  6-10 5-13  4-7 5-6  8 ll  16 15  
Jackie Meehan  2-4  0-0  2  4  Rich Lyons  5-6  2-3  0  12  
Austin Carr  12-26  9-9  4  33  Jim Smyth  l-8  1-l  l  3  
Tom Sinnott  2-2  l-2  3  5  Rich Gilkes  0-2  0-0  0  0  
Mike O'Connell  4-5  0-0  l  8  Greg Cluess  0-0  0-0  2  0  
Jim Hinga John Gallagher Jay Ziznewski  l-3 0-0 0-0  0-l 0-0 0-0  4 0 0  2 0 0  John De Vasto Mike Keilty TOTALS  0-l l-5 30-64  0-0 3-4 16-23  0 4 36  0 5 76  
TOTALS  37-65  16-21  38  90  46.9%  69.5%  
56.9%  76.2%  
Even Ranger  names tough  


NEW YORK (UPI)-If you he explains, the trio has pro­cate and is solid as a stone inAlthough plagued with first half foul trouble, Collis Jones still ever care to speak to them, it'd duced 164 points in 50 games. front of the enemy net.
managed to score 13 pts. and grab 9 rebounds against St. John's be best to simply call them Walt, Balon, referred to by Tkaczuk as "The key to this line is theirRedmen. 
Dave, and Bill. "the father of our line" in defer­short passing,'' explained Fran­Those are nice, easy names, ence to his 31 years, is only one cis. "You don't see them the kind the roll off your tongue goal shy of his career high of 24 attempting 20 or 30 foot passes.
Bruins still top poll 
without a hitch. Try to be more and Fairbairn has 17 goals. They move up and down the ice formal and you're almost certain 
NEW YORK (UPI) -It's still Iowa, which tops the big I 0 with All three players are remark­together with always two guys no contest that UCLA is the No. a 6-0 mark and is 11-4 overall, to make a mistake. ably aggressive and have a on top of the puck. One of the 1 college basketball team in the moved from a single lOth place For although Walt Tkaczuk, passion for digging in the cor­secrets to their success is their country, in the opinion of the vote a week ago into a tie for Dave Balon and Bill Fairbairn ners. Tkaczuk, called by Minne­ability to forecheck. In addition United Press International major 11 t~ place with Davidson. form the highest scoring line in sota General Manager Wren Blair to being the best scoring line in college board of coaches. In the close race for the No. 2 the National Hockey League this "the next superstar in the the league, they've also allowed 
season, their names are contin­NHL," is physically stronger fewer go~s than any of our
For the second straight week spot this week, South Carolina · the unbeaten Bruins received 34 received 19 second place votes, than his 185 pounds would indi-otherlines."
ually mispronounced even by those people who know better.

of a possible 35 first place 11 third place votes and five 'Ka chook,' Not 'Tay chuk'votes-349 of a possible 350 fourth place votes. In addition Take Tkaczuk, for example, apoints-to beat South Carolina to its o11e first place vote, Ken­
Bigger prizes for ladies 
by a wide margin. A different second year center who is third
tucky received 13 for No. 2, 12 

coach gave UCLA his second in the NHL scoring race with 24 
for No. 3, six for No. 4 and one 

place vote in each of the last two each· for Nos. 5 and 8. goals and 63 points. He may NEW YORK (UPI)-Lady to play more matches to reach weeks. break the New York Rangers 
tennis players are willing to com­the final.
NEW YORK (UPI) -The scoring recored of 88 points this 

UCLA, which has won 17 promise in their phase of a drive
United Press International top

straight games this season and 21 season, and if he does people spreading throughout the world In last year's U.S. Open, Rod 
in a row over the Iast two 20 college basketball teams with will be giving credit to someone among women who demand Laver picked up $16,000 aswon-lost records and first place named "Tay chuk."
seasons, remained the only un­equal rights with men. men's champ. Mrs. Court wonvotes in parentheses-! Oth week. "It should be pronounced 'Ka
beaten team in the country with They'd probably settle for $6,000 for beating Nancy a 66-56 victory over Washington Team Points chook,' like when somebody "half rights." Richey in the final. last Saturday. It was the only 1. UCLA (34) 17-0 349 sneezes," said the usually taci­
"Half would be fine," says2. South Carolina 1'7-1 294

game played by the Bruins last turn 22-year-old, who was born Wimbledon champion Ann Hay­
week. 3.Kentucky(1)17-1 274 in Germany of Ukranian don Jones of England. Sorin wins two 
4. St. Bonaventure 15-1 237 parents. "But I'm used to just

South Carolina, 17-1, was "Sixty per cent would be bet­
5. New Mexico St. 18-2 178 about anything."

second in this week's voting with ter, " says Margaret Smith Court 
6. No. Carolina St. 17-1 92

294 points and Kentucky, which Balon may be a little jealous of Australia, who won just about Sorin Hall's Rifle team won 
7. Jacksonville 1 7 -I 92

has received one first place vote of the attention his linemate is everything except Wimbledon their sixth and seventh matches 
8. North Carolina 14-4 65

in each of the last two weeks, receiving because of his name. last year. of the season on Saturday (they
9. Pennsylvania 19-1 55 

was third with 274 points. Ken­During another session Monday They're talking about prize are undefeated) over Howe and 
10. Drake 16-4 38

tucky also has a 17-1 record. he complained that a lot of money. Men players are getting Culver Military Academies. 
11. Tie Iowa 11-4 22 people get his name wrong too. The Irish totaled 1245 points

Trailing the top three, in roughly three times as much as
11. Davidson 16-3 22

order, were St. Bonaventure-It should be "Ba lone." the gals in all the major tourna­(out of a possible 1500) to edge
13. Houston 15-3 19

237 points, New Mexico State-Fairbairn, befitting his posi­ments and the gals aren't too out Culver whose shooters had 
14. Wyoming 15-4 17

178, North Carolina State-124, tion as a rookie, is the quietest happy about the discrepancy. 1224 points. Howe took third 
15. Tie Marquette 14-3 16

Jacksonville-92, North Caro­member of the silent three. He ''I'm sure no one thinks we with 1180. ND was led by Bill lina-65, Pennsylvania-55, and 15. Tie Notre Dame14-5 16 also has had his !roubles, since Elliot (263 out of 300) and Bob
should have equal pay," says
17. Santa Clara 15-3 13

Drake-38. "Fair bayrn" isn't the easiest of Eichorn (254). Culver's best
Mrs. Jones, a blonde lefty who18. Tie W. Kentucky 15-2 11

The second 1 0 was composed words when you're in a hurry. has been around a long time as scores were registered by Jim 
18. Tie Florida St. 18-2 11

of Iowa, Davidson, Houston, Called the "Bulldog line" by Hesselbart (254) and George
both an amateur and profession­20. Tie Ohio U. 15-3 9 

Ranger General Manager Coach Thompson (248), while Howe 20. Tie Illinois 12-5 9wyoming, Marquette, Notre al. "The men work much harder 
Dame, Santa Clara, Western Ken­Emile Francis "They can bite," than we do. They play longer was led by Jim Lind (263) and tucky, Florida State, Ohio Uni­matches and usually they have· Bill Davis (248). versity and Illinois. Pensylvania and Iowa made 
Wrong Picture 

the biggest gains in this week's ratings. Yes, you're right. The picture which mistakenly appeared in Tues­Penn, which leads the Ivy day's issue was not what it purported to be. To all of you who with ril!ihteous indignation stormed our office with letter and voice, my
League with an 8-0 record and 
deepest apologies. I wasn't trying to put anything over on you; I didhas an overall 19-l slate, moved make the msstake of not studying the picture carefully enough. 

from 14th to ninth place while 



