"Question of effectiveness" 
Hesburgh explains referendum delay 
by Dave McCarthy 
ln a news conference held yesterday Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, told newsmen why, when 21 colleges and universities {including MIT, Cornell, Vassar, Holy Cross, and Duke) have decided to suspend classes from four days to two weeks to allow student political campaigning, Notre Dame had postponed a referendum on the suspension until October 2nd. 
"Tbe whole question of effec­tiveness carne out," he said. "The reason we put it in Oct­ober instead of having it right away (May, 1970 at the time of the Kent-Cambodia crisis) was becuase a lot of things happen 
Vol. V, No.8 
over the summer, the political situation changes." He added that it was a time to test the candidates' reactions to whether or not they wanted student help. "That turned out to be pretty much of a mixed bag," Hesburgh said. 
When asked whether he fa­vored the suspension of classes Fr. Hesburgh replied, "I'd be inclined to take a long, long look at it; and I wouldn't say I'd be personally in favor;" but he add­ed, "Being for or against the idea is not the same as being for or against political activity .. .1 'rn very much in favor of the vote for 18 year olds and political involvement by students." 
He summed his feelings when he said, "I don't know how our referendum is going to come out. All 1 can say is that the feeling across the country is less enthusiastic than it was." 

When asked if he though fail­ure to suspend classes would result in campus unrest Fr. Hes­burgh said, "No. This is not a crucial point." 
He was asked what specifical­ly was being done at Notre Dame to quell campus disorder, and he answered, "Here you get some kind of consensus on what kind of place you want...And I think it's pretty loud and clear around here that people don't want violence, they don't want burning, they don't want peoples' rights trod on." 
Hesburgh's opinion reg;uding student unrest was sought. He said, "I think the current situa­tion is fairly bad for Universities generally. I think the net of much that has happened is that the general public is somewhat down on Universities; at least that is the reaction I get when I try to raise money for the Uni­verstiy. The general feeling is that things have gone to far, gotten out of hand." 
He also remarked about the image of the student saying, "The student has gotten an image that is untrue and very bad; but it's been ground into people ... and the whole reputa­tion of students, faculty, and administration has gone down." 
He denied extending security measures after terrorism at the University of Wisconsin, in 
which one man was killed. H. prescribed "nothing preventive 
(continued on p. 6) 


Friday, September 1~. 1970 


Jordanians battle guerrillas 
(UPI) -.1 or danian army troops, "prepared to evacuate" Amer­ties were not known, but guer­backed b , heavy artillery and icans from Jordan if necessary. rilla officials said Palestinians armored t nits, fought their way Palestinian guerrillas claimed were mowed down by the score. into Arn1:1an Thursday and Thursday night to have "liber­Speaking to reporters during claimed to have crushed the ated" Northern Jordan from ar­an awards ceremony at Camp Arab guerrilla movement there. my rule and set up their own Picket, Va., Defense Secretary The guerrillas denied the army government headed by Mah­Melvin R. Laird said the United had won and said they would moud Roussan, former Jordan­States is "prepared to evacuate 
"fight to the bitter end." Fires ian ambassador to Washington. Americans from Jordan if neces­burned in the city from the The statement was issued over sary." bombardment and a number of the guerrilla radio, the Voice of He said if the evacuation had homes and buildings lay in ruins. Palestine, and monitored in J er­to 1-~ carried out, the United 
BDI Wllka 

The United States said it was usalem. States could rely on the Jordani­
In a late night statement an army for protection. A Pen­issued in Amman, the guerrillas tagon spokesman said later that claimed they were in full control Laird's remarks were in the con­
Students May Sit On Council 
of the city, but that army troops text of previous U.S. statements · surrounded the capital. News re­and added "we have pre-posit­Wilka commented that sim­Congressional elections. The first porters on the scene, however, ioned certain ships and transport 
by Greg Pudhorsky 
iliar contacts have been made decision to be made on the sent dispatches to the outside aircraft" for possible evacuation. 

with each of the University's matter is whether or not the world through diplomatic chan­

The Academic Council will meet four colleges. At the present In Jordan, guerrilla leaders ap­
Council supports the referendum nels saying that Jordanian troops
this Monday to decide on a moment only the College of Arts pealed to Iraq to intervene in the 
and then the policy that would and armor blasted their way intoproposal which would provide and Letters have scheduled stu­fighting. Iraq has 12,000 to
be followed to make up for the Amman after 13 hours of fight­
for students to become members 15,000 troops in Jordan and
dent representation on its next last classes if the issue is put into ing.
of that body. The action comes both Iraq and Syria have sided
agenda hut the Academic Affairs effect. By late afternoon Thursday,

as a result of a rationale drawn with the guerrillas in their oppo­
Commissioner expressed the the Western reporters said guer­

up by Academic Affairs Com­The Academic Council will sition to Jordan's King Hussein
hope that the other three would rilla troops and army units weremissioner, Bill Wilka. meet this Monday to decide on a

soon discuss the possibility of and the military government in­
locked in what appeared to be
The basis for the proposal proposal which would provide stalled Wednesday. 
students on their Councils. 

the final showdown battle for
stems from a recommendation for students to become members The military. government
Also on the agenda for Mon­the city. The army's heavy gunsmade last spring by the Curricu­of that body. The action comes clamped an indefinite curfew onday night's meeting is the up­fixed around Amman pumpedlum Revision Committee which as a result of a rationale drawn Amman and sa.id anyone caughtcoming referendum which would salvo after salvo into the city. 

states that, "membership should up by Academic Affairs Com­on the streets would be shot.
close classes in order for stu­The exact number of casualbe encouraged on these com­missioner, Bill Wilka. 

Guerrilla spokesmen said thedents to work in the upcomingmittees in which this action Jordanian army is expected "to would be beneficial." In the attempt to surge into Amman rationale submitted to the during the night or in the morn­

Food problems discussed 
Council's steering committee, ing." They denounced Amman Wilka argued that the change radio broadcasts claiming the ar­would enable students and facul­by Glen Corso the seconds policy. "Over 50% One change in production my had crushed the guerrillas in ty to work together for aca­Observer Campus Editor 
of my people have been corning facilities done over the summer Amman as lies. demic affairs, . The problems of over­back for seconds," Majocchi was the centralization of the Western diplomatic sources in 
Wilka continued that the val­crowding and shortage of food claimed.. "We'd like to get them baking facilities which supply Beirut said they had received 
idity of students in such a po­that have been present at times reports that the American em­
(the students) in the practice of both dining halls, the Huddle,sition should be recognized and 
at the North Dining Hall since eating what they take. We're in the pay cafeteria and Corby hall· bassy in Amman had been hit cited such recent examples as the beginning of the semester better shape this year than last." in the North Dining Hall. Instead twice at roof top level, probably 
the Co-Educational Coordinating have, in the past two days, vir­One problem cited by of a total of three ovens though with mortars. They said, how­
Committee and the Curriculum tually disappeared, according to ever, that there were no casual­
Majocchi was the fact that the there is only one located in the Revision Committee as prime Richard Majocchi director of the count taken by his checkers was North Dining Hall. ties and no assessment of dam­
reasons. facility. coming out consistently greater The reason for the move, age. 
In the material given to the "The majority of my people than the number of people the according to Majocchi, was so Some of Thursday's toughest 
steering Committee, the sug­are freshmen," he explained, Dining Hall is supposed to that the baking facilities would battles centered around the Wah­
gestion was for nine student "arid it takes time to get used to handle. dat refugee camp, Amman's big­
be "more centralized to the stor­
members with full voting rights. what they want." gest, which holds about 31 ,000
"I feel that at present, until age area." The entire commis­Wilka emphasized however, that Majocchi said that the dining everyone gets the new card with Palestinians, guerrilla sources
sary store for all the food served 
all the rationale constituted was hall was "getting production set their picture and that f1ey are said. It was there that some of
by University facilities, except
a recommendation, which the up to where we can get rid of all re-checked showing t'1e facil­for fresh produce, is stored in a the Western hostages from three 
steering committee acted upon the lines." He added that "we ity that they are to dine in that central commissary located planes hijacked to Jordan were 
and whose decisions will be pre­may over-produce but we'll get we will continue to have people believed to be held. Their fate
under the North Dining hall,sented to the general meeting. 
to-the point where we won't usc the facilities that arc not Majocchi said. could not be determined. 
The Academic Council as a body have this." 
authorized. I say this because of This set-up however has The Voice of Palestine radio, will then be able to take action Another factor that the dining 
the number of people that I am 
(continued on p. 7)
on the recommendation. hall staff has had to adjust to is presently feeding," he said. (continued on p. 2) 


Page 2 


U) CUt~ 
. 
~outhBend 
TRUESOUN LIKE YOU'VE 
NEVER HEARD IT BEFORE AMIFM AND 
STEREO 
$149 
With free $30 headset 
Consider these features 
MODULAR COMPACT STEREO COMPONENT SYSTEM-Oiled walnut cabinetry, 2 speaker enclosures, solid state tuner-amplifier, Garrad full size record changer, tinted dust cover, 1-8" and 1-3" speaker in each enclosure, diamond needle, headphone socket, AC convenience outlet, 5 precision controls, flywheel tuning control, FM stereo indicator, complete radio services. Speakers (each) 14" high, 9" wide, 6"deep. Control Center 16 1/2" wide, 9 1/8"deep, 5 1/4''high. 
Stereos, Lower Floor, Wyman's Open Monday and Thursday till 8:30 

Our College Insurance Plan offers more Benefits... and service in 
every state after you,have gr~aduated 
Tito Trevino 


CALL THESE CAMPUS REPS TODAY  
Ken Gene Provost Bykjtra 815 E. LaSalle Phone 2343480 BILL RUITER GENERAL MANAGER  Bob Elua  

Military service, a career, family and possibly extensive travel await you after graduation. 
You need the broad coverage offered by American General's College Insurance Plan-and you need the service to go with it. You'll find an American General office always conveniently close in each of the 50 states and in many foreign countries. Ask your campus representa­tive today about American General's full coverage and full service. 
'THE OIJSERfJER. Friday, September 18, 1970 
American embassy damaged 
(continued from p. 1) 

monitored in Jerusalem, said guerrilla governors had been ap­pointed to continue civil admin­istration in northern Jordan of the area claimed to be under commando control. 
It said the "liberated" area stretched from J ara. about 22 miles north of Amman. Included in this area is the major city of Irbid and the smaller towns of 
Ar  Ramtha  and  AI  
Mafraq.  
Official  Amman  radio  said  

that by dusk, only scattered pockets of guerrilla resistance remained in the city. Both army and guerrilla announcements in­dicated there were many cas­ualities. 
The heavy fighting caused concern for the safety of 54 airline hijack hostages still held by the guerrillas, reportedly in scattered hideouts in Amman. President Nixon warned the guerrillas they would be held responsible for the safety of the hostages, most of the Americans, and the State Department de­clined to rule out the possibility of U.S. military intervention if necessary. 
Official Amman radio, which played martial music and broad­cast government announcements throughout the day, warned against outside interference in Jordan's "purely internal prob­lem." 
Iraq has 12,000 to 15,000 army troops based in Jordan, and both Iraq and Syria have sided with the guerrillas in their opposition to Jordan's King Hussein and the military govern­ment he installed Wednesday. 
Neither government respond­ed to the Palestinian appeal, but Syrian foreign ministry officials summoned the Jordanian ambas­sador in Damascus and told him "Syria will not stand idly by in the face of the massacres." 
In Tel Aviv, Israeli foreign ministry sources said Israel had no intention of intervening un-' less its own security was thrf;at­ened by the fighting. · 
"The army has taken all sec­tors of Amman except for some pockets of resistance whic~1 it is not clearing," Amman radio said at dusk, about 13 hours after the fighting erupted • in the capital and four towns in the north. The broadcast named 16 sections of Amman as being under army control. 
The Jordanian government, responding to an a.ppeal from the Arab League meeting in Cairo, offered the guerrillas a cease fire if they would agree to withdraw from the cities and leave the army in control of the urban areas. It offered to trans­port the guerrillas to points a­long Jordan's border with Israel. 
There was no response from the Palestinian Central Commit­tee, under which at least 11 guerrilla organizations were fighting. 
The guerrillas appeared to get the worst of it almost from the outset of the fighting, which began with several exchanges of small arms fire south of Amman at dawn. It spread quicklv when 
NSA meets nationally 
by Hilary Rhonan 
In August of this year the National Student Association (NSA) met in St. Paul, Minne­sota to discuss the various prob­lems which confront the student as an individual and as a citizen. Marilyn Mohrman, a junior at St. Mary's attended the l 0-day con­ference. 
NSA is composed of some 400 college and university stu­dent governments, and serves as a ·coordinator of information as well as an outlet for opinions and facts. 
Miss Mohrman said that al­though she had mixed feelings about the conference as a whole, she was very impressed by the intensity of the discussions and lectures. Some of the ideas which were discussed were the ' crisis in the universities, educa­tional reforms and American for­eign policy. Miss' Mohrman said that she believed that the stu­dents at the conference may not have accurately represented their student bodies but said that on the whole did not want to merely talk about the problems, but wanted to do something to came from Sr. Alma Peters, act­ing President of St. Mary's Col­lege. The reason behind such a meeting according to Sr. Alma is that "students tend to get pulled in two directions. The political recess is a good example. If one council votes to suspend classes and the other doesn't, then the one who suffers is the student." 

On the recess Sister stated, "I'm not in favor of it. I believe in student involvement, but it shouldn't take priority over the main purpose of college which is academic." 
As for the possibility of a merger of the two councils, Sr. Alma stated that there were "too many things that the indi­vidual councils must act in­dependently of one another." 
In the A.C.C. September 25, 
The Observer is published daily $4.50, $2.50 on sale at Gilbert's 
8:30 pm. Tickets, $5.50, 
during the college semester except Bookstore, AI Smith's Records, 
vacations by the students of the Don Keene's, Dining Halls, and 
University of Notre Dame and St. Student Union Ticket Office 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may (4-6 PM). Presented by Student 
be purchased for $8 from The Union Social Commission and 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
A.C.C. paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
perhaps alleviate the tensions 
which these problems produce. 
Miss Mohrman explained that 
some individuals were frustrated by the idea that perhaps what was being done by NSA would be ignored by those in power; some believed that the Congress in Washington would not take the resolutions which were being passed seriously enough and ·would tend to treat the whole 
matter as unimportant. 
Miss Mohrman feels that the 
value of NSA for St. Mary's lies 
not in the issues which were 
passed but in the other services 
which are connected with NSA. 
F1t~t mt t tin~ t'f t·t,mhitwd n'\mt·1~ 
by Ann Conway The Academic Affairs Coun­cils of St. Mary's College and Notre Dame have agreed to meet jointly September 27 at 3:00 
p.m. This marks the first such meeting of the two councils to discuss issues which concern both campuses. 
The initiative for this meeting Jordanian army artillery units began shelling Palestinian areas of the city and tanks and armor­ed cars rolled into its streets, The guerrillas fought back with machine guns and bazookas. 
Heavy fighting also was re-• ported in the cities of Zerqa, 13 miles northeast of Amman; in Salt, 22 miles to the northwest, and in Ramtha, 45 miles north­east of the capital, and the guer­rillas announced they had taken control of Irbid, 45 miles north of Amman. 
But there was almost a con­stant note of anxiety in an­nouncements and orders the Central Committee broadcast to the guerrillas on Damascus radio from Syria. 
"Amman is burning,"cried an. announcer on Damascus radio's Voice of the Palestine Revolu­tion. 
"The agents of the Jordanian army are shelling the populated areas everywhere. Liberals of the. Arab world, liberals of the whole world, stop the horrible mas­sacre that your people are facing in Jordan!" 

Friday, September 18, 1970 Page 3
_TI!E q~ER~ -· -·--··-····· 
Security adds students 
closely with Mr. Arthur Pears, because they have often been Changes in the Notre Dame Director of Security, Riehle accused of being inefficien1, security force, including the ad­when actually, the only function
stated. Riehle said that he is dition of student patrolmen and seeking other better qualified they serve is that of fire watch­the hiring of an investigator and men." Riehle said.
personnel, but added that hiring
other professionals, were discus­qualified professionals has not 
Ollt·m) hm~ J!t'lm
sed last week by Reverend James been successful because policeL. Riehle C.S.C., Dean of Stu­departments throughout the WASHINGTON (UPI) -Thedents. 
country are luring the young manufacturer of Oh HenryAccording to Father Riehle, professionals with increased sal­candy bars moved Thursday tostudents were first hired as aries, with which Notre Dame take its products off the marketpatrolmen last Spring on an ex­cannot compete. followin_g disclosure by the Foo(perimental basis. Riehle said that "A rookie in the South Bend and Drug Administration (FDA)ht believes that an increase in Police Department can start out that about one million barsstudent patrols will help the making $1000 more a year than might be contaminated withpublic relations of the security we can pay them," said Riehle. salmonella.
system also be a source of man­He also said that attempts have Salmonella is a bacterial germpower. 
been made to add younger hall which causes stomach upsets andOther changes in the Security monitors to the residence halls. diarrhea. An FDA spokesmanforce involve hiring an investi­"Older hall monitors have been said the salmonella type involvedGator and qualified professionals.
Rev. James Riehle C.S.C. the victims of undue criticism, in the candy rarely causes ser­
Three crewmen were injured 

Seattle Supersc,nics
Thursday when their light 
~ll~MJ~IN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSESl~i:
.. .. = 
*Jerry Sloan * Chet Walker* Lenny Wil~;ens *Bob Rult'l 
observation helicopter was shot 
down about I00 miles northeast 
of Saigon. Three more were 
injured when their attack 
5:15 p.m. Saturday Fr. Robert Griffin 
helicopter was brought down 
8:30 a.m. Sunday Fr. Thomas Tallarida
about 58 miles southwest of the 
9:45 a.m. Sunday Fr. Theodore Hesburgh
capital Tuesday, spokesmen said 
(Fr. Bartell, Homilist)

in a delayed report. 
11:00 a.m. Sunday Fr. David Burrell 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Fr. Bill Toohey 
Communist troops backed 

away from a U.S. aerial 
bombardment around artillery 
and American 

···············································••l
SENIOR BAR 
Open Fri. and Sat. 4 PM· 2 AM 
FRI. NITE 

SAT. NITE specia 15-7 PM first one free THURSDAY, SEPTEMIBER 24 
8 PM-ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTEH • NOTRE DAME12 oz. Schlit7 10<: to stag girls $3-LOWER ARENA $2-UPPER ARENA STUDENTS-$1 Off for Notre Darne and St. Mar~··s students 
TICKETS ON SALEI 
ACC BOX OFFICE. 8 AM-5 PM MON·FRI
SENIOR BAR CARD FOR GUYS 
SOUTH BEND: ROBERTSON'S DEPT. STORE GILBERT'S MEN STOREGIRlS FREE +AlWAYS WElCOME * ELKHART TRUTH READERS SERVICE BUREAU 
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~
.. ..~~~~~..................... 

The new investigator will work 
Artillery used for Ist time 
spokesmen said it appeared that Communists used artillery for
PHNOM PENH (UPI) North Vietnamese and Viet the first time since hostilities
Military officials said today it Cong forces were intentionally began last April. There was no
may take a week for a Cambodian relief column to 
disengaging from U.S. units in word on the size of the weapons, other parts of the country. but Communist forces in
reach 4,000 government troops trapped by the Communists Vietnam are known to be north of Phnom Penh who are in U.S. headquarters announced equipped with heavy howitzers need of ammunition and have in Saigon that 54 Americans of Soviet and Communist only enough food for five days. were killed and 337 wounded in Chinese manufacture. 
Vietnam combat last week, lowest casualties for any seven 

Early Thursday the day period in 4¥2 years. This was The casualties brought in Communists attacked the eight attributed to a continuing fall in Cambodian losses in the battalion Cambodian task force the level of Communist Highway 6 operation over the with artillery as they huddled in operations. past five days to 23 men killed their positions 49 miles north of and 144 wounded.
Official spokesmen said 

the Cambodian capital. Five 
attacks on U.S. bases in South 

Cambodian soldiers were killed 
Vietnam had declined from a 

and 20 wounded, spokesmen high of 5 I per cent of all such The task force left Skoun, 35 said. 
attacks in August of last year to miles north of Phnom Penh, 10 a low of 13 per cent in August days ago in an attempt to clear of this year. Highway 6 all the way to the It was the first time either the provincial capital of KompongViet Cong or the North The Communist attack in Thorn 45 miles beyond Skoun.
Vietnamese troops were 
Cambodia Thursday was aimed

reported to have used artillery in 
at el1!ments of the 4,000 man

the Cambodian War. 
task force which was caught in a 
It ran into trouble Tuesday
tightening vise along Highway 6, 

when Communist forces cut 
an artery cutting through the
In South VIetnam, the U.S. 

behind the column, surroundedmiddle of the country.
military announced that 
it and blew up several bridges in 
Communist gunners shot down 
The raid was regarded as a pincers maneuver that has two more American helicopters significant in that, according to prevented relief units from mov­raising to at least 20 the number 
m iii tary spokesmen, the ing up.of choppers which have been 
:!!!!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: 
downed in the past week. 
ious illness. 
Cultural Arts Commission Presents 
The President's Analyst 
Fri. Sept. 18 Sat. Sept. 19 Sun. Sept. 20 
7:30 and 10:30 Engineering Aud. Adm. $1 
NOTICE 
ALL OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
inte.rested in interhall football should put their name on the list in the OFF CAMPUS OFFICE As Soon As Pos­sible. 
The BUlL FII;HTS 

COME TO NOTR:E DAME 
@[til&&®® rnw~:~0 vs 
····~-====~~~-···························· 
~ ~ -------~-----­
Friday, September 18, 1970

Page 4 THB 0&\"EBVE& 
DIIIIG HALL SECURITY 
THE OBSERl'ER 
An Independent Student Newspaper DAVIDC. BACH, -Editor GAI:TANO M. De SAPIO. Publisher FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Tlte Soft,....===========================================:::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:===================:::::::::: 
The Basic Differenc:e 
=====================================================================================:=====::;:;::=======:=========:=====:===========:=======:===:==========================:=:=:=:= Glen Corso 
The racial question surfaced on Long 
Island this summer, through the guise of 
low cost housing for welfare recipients. It 
seems that the low cost housing shortage 
in Nassau county was so critical that 
county social service agency was forced 
to house people in motel rooms. 
A sub-crisis situation was reached how­
ever when the agency reported that by 
December there would be no motel 
rooms available. A proposal was put forth 
to renovate several buildings at-Mitchell 
Field, an abandoned Air Force complex, 
and house the welfare recipients there. 
Residents from the adjoining 
community of Uniondale appeared at the 
County Board meeting, where the matter 
was to be resolved, and protested the plan 
most vehmently. The arguements ranged 
from beliefs that the school system would 
be overloaded with the children of the 
welfare recipients, to fears that the 
housing complex would become ghetto. 
Glib spokesmen presented the arguements 
but one could hear comments from the 
rest of the people saying the recipients 
were "stupid and lazy", or how they 
refused to "get off their asses and get a 
job" or that they were "lousy incom­
petent workers." 
Listening to these people, who ob­viously believed the rightness of their comments, brought to mind a story told me by a black with whom I work. At the time he was explaining to me why he felt there was such a gap between the white middle class and the blacks. He said he didn't pretend to talk for anyone but himself, but had found that whites never bothered to think about why blacks are so poor. 
"The best way to show something like that is to use a graphic illustration, something that white people can relate to," he said. The story I use sometimes has two characters in it, Joe White and Joe Black. It's kind of simple, maybe a little bit childish, but it gets the point across." 
"Now take Joe White. He's 47 years old, he's got a college education. He's married, with two kids, lives in an exclu­sive suburb and owns his own electornics firm. He is not wealthy, but he makes out pretty good. His background isn't a hell of a lot different than most folks in this country. Joe's parents came over from the old country just before the first World War broke out. They scrimped and saved to buy two steerage class tickets to America. When they got over here they couldn't speak English and since both had lived on farms they found it tougl1 finding a job. Joe's father had some conststruction experience though and found a job laying bricks. Joe's mother meanwhile worked in a knitting mill. Things were tough, and there were times no money was in the house. 
By the time Joe was I 0 they had managed to move out of the ratty tenament to a better apartment. Joe was a pretty sharp in school and got good marks. He was thinking about college, but World War II came along. After the war, with the help of the GI bili Joe went to a decent college and graduated in near the top of his class. He went to work for a small electronics manufacturer. He moved up quickly and saved every penny he could so he would be able to buy his own business. He made some smart investments in the market and in the early 60's had enough to but a business. 

Most of the jobs in the electronics firm are unskilled and Joe has a lot of blacks working for him. Most of them are poor workers. They're absent frequently, they drink a lot, they're in constant trouble with the law and a lot of times they don't pay their debts. Joe can't understand this. After all he's "giving" them a job. These guys, he claims, don't want to start out at the bottom and work their way up like everyone else, they want it all right now. Joe has a pretty low opinion of blacks and he hates politicians who take their side. 
"Let's take a look at Joe Black, one of the guys who works in the electronics company. His background is similar to Joe White's. His folks came to the northern city from the old country, only in their case the 'old country' was Alabama. This Joe's father also had a tough time finding a job. Only his trouble lasted all his life. Whenever Joe's father tried to get a job in construction, or with a company that payed well, he was always told the job was filled. One day he got so desperate he pleaded with the foreman to give him a job. The fellow told him that he wasn't allowed to hire coloreds. He told Joe's father that he should look for a porter's job, cause that's all he would ever get. 
A few weeks later Joe's father start­
ed drinking. The schools Joe went to weren't so good. The teachers didn't know much more than the pupils. Joe got bored and quit. His father had disappeared by then and his mother was busy caring for seven other kids, so nobody was around to talk to Joe. The wa1 came and Joe was drafted. He was put in a labor battalion for the duration. After the war Joe finished high school. He went to a trade school and learned the electricians trade. When he got out he tried to join the electricians union, since he couldn't get a job unless he was a member. The man at the union kept putting Joe off and finally told him that he would lose his job if he let him in the union. Joe got a job as a porter. 
A few years ago he got the job in the electronics plant. By that time Joe had started drinking. When he tried to join the union again he was turned down with some vague excuse and told his schooling was useless." 
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Advertising Manager: Bruce Barker Campus Editor: Glen Corso 
News Editor: Jim Holsinger Asst. News Editor: Ed Ellis SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Features Editor: T.C. Treanor Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
Associate Editors: Sue Bury. Ann Conway, Steve Hoffman, Dave Lammers, Cliff Wintrode 
Night Editor: John Abowd Layout design: John Abowd Layout: Rich Maggi Headlines Rich Maggi, Jim Graif 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

~ 

~ ~ 
v'
·()
·C. 
The Snackbreaker 
Guy 0. Saplo ::::::::::=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:::::::::=:::::::::::=:=:=:::::=:=:::::=:::::=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=: 
Freedom of Speech 
::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
President Nixon received a warm reception at Kansas State 
University when he delivered the Annual Alf Landon Lecture on 
Wednesday. Not very interesting material for a column unless you 
consider the fact that today the President of the United States 
cannot be assured of being accorded at least a courteous reception 
everywhere he goes. 
There are alot of people who hate President Nixon. The President 
has traditionally been exposed to threats of physical violence and 
the insane actions of maladjusted individuals who vented their 
frustrations on the Office of the President. It didn't make any 
difference who the President was, it just mattered that there was a 
President. Periodically one of those maladjusted individuals would 
go out with the intention of killing the man. 
It is different today. There are alot of people who just hate President Nixon. Of course, there were always people who disliked individual Presidents. But there has never been a time in American society when so many people, especially young people, have been so violent toward the person of the man. Many young people have no respect for the man himself and there is open and wide-;<;pread depiction of the President in posters with obsene and derrogatory captions in college dormitories. It wouldn't be very hard to find a person who would talk seriously of the need for the President's death. 
The state of affairs is sad. The President can not speak at any American College or University unless it is "conservative" or "quaint." There were a few hecklers at Kansas State. They made delivering his actress less than comfortable, but with the majority of the 16,000 listeners willing to afford him common courtesy, he delivered his address. 
Kansas State is acknowledged to be a fairly conservative school. 
At least, that's what most journalists assume from the mere fact that 
it is situated in the Midwest. Let the President try to speak at any of 
the more "liberal" schools, the Eastern schools with "academic" 
reputatiOns, and the hecklmg would no doubt increase. Probably to 
the point where he wouldn't be able to continue to speak. 
The situation does not say much for the average American scholar. A true scholar would treasure freedom of speech, defending it against threats from outside the community as well as from within. He would understand that the only hope for 20th century civilizations torn by war and the ravages of their own waste lies in the firm adherence to some basic set of human values-a set of values which elevates man above all his shortcomings. Not the least of those values is common courtesy. Another is respect for every man's right to hold an opinion differing from others. But do most college students feel outraged at the fact that the men who lead this country can not come to universities to speak about and to be questioned about their actions? It seems not. 
Amazingly there are none on this campus who will say that the heckling of the President was justified. The President's rhetoric is intlamatory or his policies are ridiculous they say. But since when ha~ it been accepted practice in a truly academic community to refuse a speaker common courtesy for lack of agreement with what he has to say? 
American institutions of higher learning are gradually losing their most conveted possession; an atmosphere where free inquiry can take place. In the name of academic freedom, they have tolerated actions by members of the community which have made them more closed, then open institutions. In a time when student power is the demand it must be that power which is used to assure that the scholarly community will survive. Individuals who subscribe to any political philosophy must be free to speak on campuses. 
If the trend toward heckling speakers who are controversal is not changed, continued credence will be given to the arguments of those who typify students as closed-minded, crude, and anti-intellectual. 
And more regrettably, there will be little hope that this generation's actions and judgement of events will hold much weight with future generations who no doubt will look to see whether the principles we express to hold really meant anything to us. 
Friday, September 18, 1970 TJ!.£ O&fERrJER. Page 5 
BOY, -DOES NOTRE DAME 
EVER HUM 
M~.,~~ '""~t-================­
First Commuraion 

========= l'} Ft. R('l'n1 Ct·iffin 
One Sunday this summer, because as priest I felt lonely and isolated while offering a Sunday Mass in the vast, empty sanctuary of Sacred Heart Church, I invited the moppets and urchins of the congregation to join me at the altar for the Canon. 
Among the children who trooped up to the altar that morning was a dear, young thing named Eileen. She was as fair a child as her lyrically Irish name suggests she should be. She was so pretty, in fact, that a first-grade boy nearly busted a second-grade boy in the nose over who should stand next to the seven-year-old beauty to give her the sign of peace. 
At communion time, as I had said l would, I gave hosts to all the young Christians, and the fair Eileen twinkle-toed her way back to the pew to kneel down beside her mother, who was by now a distraught woman. There had been a mixup, you see: Eileen shouldn't have been given the host; she had never made her First Communion; in fact she didn't have any clear idea what Communion was alll about except that it was "a gift from God." 
Sad to relate, the host did not behave at all well for a gift from God; it got stuck in her throat, somewhere 
between the tonsil and the windpipe. One might have hoped that the living presence of Christ would be experienced as something more comfortable than as a damp, sticky paste for a little child to choke upon. 
Afterwards, speaking to her mother, Eileen announced her rejection of the entire Sacrament called Blessed: "It was awful, and I don't ever want to do it again." 
The priest was horrified to learn the news of the instant apostasy of the moppet-child whom he had nourished on the Saviour's glory. Within a few hours, he had half the nuns in Summer School praying that the fair Eileen would give the sacramental system another chance. 
The next day, he sat down with the child to talk of the mystery of love and redemption and God-with-us, and of the immensity of the Trinity tucked into a snowflake of wheat, and afterwards the child said she understood. Seemingly, for the child, there was no mystery left. 
Then they visited the Keenan-Stanford chapel, where they played a note or two on the organ, identified the Man on the Cross, and peeked into the tabemacle to wonder at the pallor and fragility of the l\.eal Presence of the Lord. 


·)nee again, I offered a fragment of wafer (unconsecrated) to the child, and once again -oh, grief! despair! -the morsel, infamous im its accidents, refused to behave; and the child, despairing of bread so resistant to swallowing, broke into tears. 
She was comforted only by the news that for her next Communion -for her first big Communion that would be marked down by the Church in a great book where people could read about it forever -we would send out to a baker for bread whose only ambition in life was to be allowed to be swallowed as God's gift by little girls like Eileen. And if bread refused to do the trick, I declared, we would tum to wine, and immediately poured muscatel into a cup where the light danced joyously upon it. Eileen tasted the wine, and she nearly danced too, because she now knew that Jesus could come in Communion, tasting like grapes that have laid in warm fields for long afternoons, ripening in the sun. 
I thought of Eileen today, because on Sunday morning she is coming to Mass in the Keenan-Stanford chapel at eleven o'clock as we resume the Family Mass begun in July for the children of the Notre Dame: limily. Hopefully, other children will be there, too -the urchins and moppets of students, faculty and staff. I am anxious that they should be there, for with children standing about the altar, I as priest can never feel isolated and lonely while offering a Sunday Mass. 

WITH ACTNIT'Y 
,

HUM 
•' • 

First, the circus! 



r 
Page 6 711E O&rERIIER. Friday, September 18, 1970 

Vilgot Sjoman's complete and uncut I Am Curious (Yellow) is a "remarkable film (which) has been playing for a long time to droves of Swedes, and to several million people almost everywhere. It is the story of a young girl who is, or was, curious about politics, nonviolence, Zen, commitment, socialism, other Swedes and, to be sure, sex. It is a serious film with a noble theme, and, in dramatic terms, it is original," says Look magazine. The Evergreen Film presented by Grove Press stars Lena Nyman. A Sandrews Production. ADMISSION RESTRICTED TO ADULTS. 

Last Week! Weekdays 6:20 9:20  Sat. & Sun. 1:40 4:15 6:50 9:20  
• ROSS HUNTER PIIOOUCTION AIReOAT BURT LANCASTER •DEAN MARTIN A UNIVERSAL PICTURE ~ ~  

Back Downtown and at 
a wadleigh-maurice, ltd. production technicolor® from warner bros. 
Unlimited 
FREE NOW
PARKING 
open daily 1:30 P.M. Feature at 2:00, 5:15, 8:30 
FOR THE FIRST TIME 

COME ANYTIME
IN HISTORY YOU CAN SEE'HELI.D.OOLLY!' 
AT POPULAR PRICES! 
111111 S1'IEISUII ·WIL1EIIIlTl'IIAU  
IIICBIEI. CUWFOID  
UGIIMI-1  __.,._  
11111.0 DOU.YI  ~--··-­ 

~10«> llllsi"'tiiii n iiiii m£iiii .;a~ .mw -':':'~ IGI-:==-+ 

FOR THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE! 
WINNER OF 4 ACADEMY AWARDSI 
Hesburgh discusses his roles 
(continued from p. 1) except getting rid' oCthe causes of protest." 
When asked whether the placement of Fr. James Bur­tchaell in position of Provost was done to "groom" him to succeed him as president, Father Hesburgh replied, "I don't think you can honestly put it in those terms...I would say that what we're trying to do is get a lot of new ideas and new people in top administrative posts...Who be­comes the next president around here is simply a matter of a de<; is ion of the Board of Trustees...they make all the presidential, vice presidential ap­pointments." 
Father Hesburgh did confirm that the position of Provost 
NOW THRU THE 22nd
"E IN "THROBBING" COLOR 
1p-MtJrHr~s 
ONLY FOR THE MATURE ADULT WHO UNDERSTANDS 
PROOF OF AGE REQUIRED 
NOW 

"BEST SINCE 'Z'!" 
-City East Magazine 

lightened his work load and re­sponsibilities saying, "I'd say they have been. Because there are a lot of things that used to jump from individual vice presi­dents or even deans, bang, up to my office. Now they normally go thru the Provost's office." 
To a question directed at him as head of the Civil Rights Com­mission which asked whether he thought the country was going more or less divided regarding priorities, Fr. Hesburgh said, "There are some areas where we're making progress, other areas where we're going back­wards." He cited that with pro­gress comes polarization, which he remarked, "is as bad. as I've seen in the past ten or fifteen years." 
"A lot of people are very liberal until their kids have to go to school with other kids of another social class or race, and suddenly they become illiberal because they talk a good game but they don't live a good game." 
When asked to comment a­bout change in the country he said, "A minority wants change." He termed it a creative majority and reminded those present that only a minority wanted to break away from Great Britain prior to the Revo­lution. 
"You rarely get leadership from the majority, but you sure have to some 'followership' from the majority." 
Regarding the leadership of the majority by the minority he said, "Part of the challenge of leadership in our day is to find out what change makes sense." 

Filibuster allowed 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Senate struck a hard and maybe fatal blow Thursday to a con­stitutional amendment to make everybody's vote for president count the same. 
Although the action came on a procedural question-to kill a filibuster-it definitely weakened if it did not altogether work chances for electoral reform in time for the 1972 elections. 
With a two thirds majority required to stop a Southern-led filibuster against the amendm­ent, proponents of reform could muster only 54 votes to cut off debate against 36 votes to con­
tinue it-six votes short. 
Times 3:45 7:45 

ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 
REDUCTION-SAVE $1.00 & Saturday (11 :00 AM) 
Frid~y 8:30 
Sat. 11:00 AM 2:30 8:30 
Sun. 2:30 6:30 

ALL t:E!_T_§ f(ESEP..VED  
•  ALL LOWER ARENA---------$4.50  
e  UPPER ARENA (SIDE)-------$3.50  
:  UPPER ARENA (END)--------$2.50  

• 
i 
• 

I 
• 
Dean Bernard Waldman, acting!• chairman of the department of computing science, and Dr. Ron­ald Weber, chairman of the de­
partment of communication arts and director of the American 
Most opponents of the amendment say it would give excessive electoral powers to a few of the most populous states and negate the influence of the small states. 
Sens. Birch Bayh, D Ind., and Howard H. Baker, R Tenn., chief sponsors of the amendment, immediately vowed to carry on the fight.
His hope lay in one of two courses: persuading the Southern bloc, aided by some small state Republicans, to let' the issue come to a vote on its merits after further debate; or to switch some of the senators who refused to force a halt in the debate through cloture. 
The 36 senators voting against cloture included 18 Republicans and 18 Democrats. 
Appointments 

They are: Rev. Maurice A­men, C.S.C., director of the sum­mer session; Dr. Willis Bartlett, acting chairman of the depart­ment of education; Rev. Bernard Clark, C.S.C., assistant to the director of the Mediaeval lnsiti­ute and Prof. Leo M. Corbaci, assistant provost and registrar. 
They are: Rev. Maurice A­men, C.S.C., director of the non­-violence program; Rev. Austgen, C.S.C., director of the summer session; Dr. Willis Bartlett, acting chairman of the department of education; Rev. Bernard Clark, C.S.C., assistant to the director of the Mediaeval Institute and Prof. Leo M. Corbaci, assistant provost and registrar. 
Also, Dr. Frank J. Fahey, director of the office for educa­tional research; Dr. Jeremiah P. Freeman, chairman of the de­partment of chemistry; Dr. Stuart T. McComas, assistant dean for research and special projects of the College of En­gineering; Rev. Michael J. Mur­phy, C.S.C., chairman of the department of geology, and Dr. John A. Oesterle, director of the collegiate seminar. 
Also, Dr. Errote A. Peretti, assistand dean of the College of Engineering; Prof. Charles E. Rice, acting associate dean of the Law School; Dr. Joseph W. Scott, director of the program of black studies; Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., acting chairman of the department of theology; 
studies program.

\ ........................................ 
THE 

Page 7 

Communists make truce offer 
PARIS (UPI) -The Vietnam­
offer looked to him like "new sador Pham Dang Lam told the 
ese Communists Thursday offer­
wine in old bottles." Viet Cong leader the Commu­
ed the United States a limited 
Terming the offers a major nists still kept asking for two 
cease fire and prompt talks on 
peace initiative and a clarifica­preconditions -the unilateral
the exchange of U.S. and Com­
tion of the past negotiating of­withdrawal of all U.S. and other
munist prisoners of war if Presi­
fers, Viet Cong Foreign Minister allied troops without commiting
dent Nixon agrees to remove all 
Nguyen Thi Binh said accept­themselves to a North Viet­
American and other allied troops 
ance of the scheme would help namese withdrawal, and the
from Vietnam by June 30, 1971. 
break the 19 month old dead­overthrow of the elected Saigon
Chief U.S. negotiator David 
lock in the Paris talks. government.
K.E. Bruce and South Vietnam's Her plan, while offering aPham Dang Lam, while prom­limited and vague cease fire toising to study the package offer, the Americans in return for asaid it contained nothing es­
Edmund Price withdrawal pledge, also called
sentially new. Bruce said the for formation of a new pro­visional coalition cabinet in Sai­gon.
Baking facility discussed ; 
Mrs. Binh said members of the present Saigon government who renounced the idea of a defense
New hamburger policy 
alliance with the United States and espoused the Viet Cong's(continued from p. 1) letes is adequate. I believe that "We used to get four ham bur-"neutralist" policy could becaused problems, since it entaifs they as well as the students are gers to tlie pound," he said, "but members of the coalition govern­transport of the foodstuffs from being deprived of the melils to now we'll be getting six. The ment. 
the central commissary to facili­which they would normally be student will be getting more But she specifically ruled outties all over campus. "I feel that entitled to. 
overall though since he will be inclusion of President Nguyenpart of our problem lies in the "I further believe that athletes getting two hamburgers." Van Thieu, Vice Presidentshortage of proper transporta­such as our football players Majocchi added that since the Nguyen Cao Ky and the Premiertion and personnel to drive it," should be given a diet different rolls will be smaller "the meat Tran Thien Khiem in the pro­Majocchi commented. than that appearing on our regu­will stick out around the edges" visional government.
"Eventually there will be a lar menus. I further believe that 
rather than be covered by bread South Vietnamese Ambas­
central facility," he said, "that a dining hall feeding just athletes will handle baking, meat cutting throughout the year can be de­and the commissary store," add­veloped in the Athletic and Con­ing that it was in the planning vocation Center, providing a 
stage. menu that will be conducive to At present practice of closing their necessities." 
off "F" line in order to feed the Majocchi announced a change football team causes some delay in the traditional Notre Dame as students on line are forced to hamburger. From now on in­shift over to "E" line in order to stead of getting one hamburger, eat. each student will be served two 
When asked if he felt that the the first time through the lines. present system for feeding ath: The size of the buns had also letes is adequate Majocchi been cut: down. For seconds 
replied "No I do not feel the however each student will be present system for feeding ath­
given one additional hamburger. 
MajOCChi resigns

by Mark Graham . . 
less food. Th1s 1s the normal

Edmund Price, Director of the Notre Dame Food Service, sta­occurrence. Up until this time, !iii 
ted yesterday that the manager however, the managers must ilil Presented by Notre Dame Student Union Social of the North Dining Hall, 
STANFORD LAW SCHOOL 

Mr. Keogh, Dean of Admissions for the Stan­ford Law S1::hool is sche­duling interviews for pro­spective stude!"1ts on Thursday, September 24 in the Business Building Room 205. 
Sign up for appointments out­side. room 341 O'Shau!tlnessv 

f~f! 

Commission li~ 
learn to adjust to the situation. i-·-·····:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:i;;:;;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::;:::::;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:::::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::d::
Richard Majocchi, is resigning as 
In about a week we should be -~··········fteeeeeeeeeeeeei•eeeeeeeeeee••••••••••••••eeeee,leee~.;. .le_..
better prepared. .-e
of Sept. 30. When asked for the purpose "we hope," he continued, : REFRIGERATORS FOR RENT : 
"that the students are able to e e ted, "Personal reasons. Too gain from the study and effort : : many irons in the fire and none of his resignation, Majocchi sta­which many people have contri-: Unlimited Supply : of it maturing. We have a lot 
buted in improving the food • "''""""""""""""'"" • 
more things to do. When they're service here. Once we can get • GT\ ~t • all developed, it will be a real students to side with us and not : -.ueCuta Of .f : fine operation. The reason we're take any more food and utensils : $7.00 per month : in business is to help the stu­out of the dining halls, we can e e dent." 
offer them more. : Share the cost : 
Price said "Majocchi will be "The ingredients to a good e e the fifth manager to resign from food service is here and must be :with your roommates : the North Dining Hall in the last given a thoughtful and consi-• e five years. The new staff there is derate chance by the student • $10 Damage Deposit Fee • sharp and I hope the stude~ts do body." • • nof act up arid run diem all off." fF;;;;~======~: (Refundab1e) : 
In answer to student com­plaints concerning the service at both dining halls, Price stated, "As you know we are trying something new this year in that we are now giving out seconds. We are having a difficult time, however, adjusting to the huge amount of food being consum­med. We're feeding 20% more food to the students. 
"I think the seconds will taper off. This is something new, and in the future students will take 
On Sunday, Sept. 20, at eleven o'clock in the Keenan-Stanford 

: PLUS Compensation for : 
Chapel, we will resume the Family Mass begun on the latter 

: Vacation Periods Additional ~3.50 refunded after each :
Sundays of July. This Liturgy will be structured with the needs and 

J· semester upon return of refrigerator. : 
interests of the children principal-' 

: Example: Have refrigerator for entire year J
ly in mind. Please bring your own balloons a1nd Crayons. The cele· 

• and we will refund the $10.00 plus an • 
brant will provide a puppy in 

I additional $7.00 · Like having 1 month : 
need of loving. 

• FREE. e
•
Robert F. Griffin, C.S.C. University Chaplain 

: You can rent or buy : 
~~~~~~~~~ ·--·•• De1ivery, Service, Maintenance, & Pick-Up ARE FREE ••
····-···-· .-.-.-.-.-·-·····-···-··

melt1ng pot : . 
friday, sept.18 8:30 • 11:30 $1.oo !• COMPACT COOL, INC. i• 
: another service of Student Services Commission :
remnants of first friday .> 
: Contact: DICK GORMAN :
magnifice nt 7 

: 7757 or 6723 : 
larry beechler sextet : 4th Floor LaFortune 4 -6 : 
•••~.rv;.~~!t~~~~.~~~ ••......•••••••• :• .........................'lr.!!,.f.~t!~r••••••••••••••••••••••••••;.• 
L---------------------~------~----~----------­
Friday, September 18, 1970 

Page 8 TilE OBSER.fJER. 
Irish must stop Daigneu, Pearson 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor It's the Wildcats and the Irish tomorrow afternoon and that says quite a lot. Notre Dame holds a commanding 27-7-2 record in this ancient series that dates as far back as 1889. Don't let that record make you think that there hasn't been some real ding-dong battles between the two Midwestern schools, how­ever. There is no reason to believe that this season's product should be any different in results. The Wildcats have some explosive credentials to put points on the board and since this is the first game of the season, ND won't have that tremendous press build up to frighten the opposition. The game appears to boil down to a matter of whose defense is the stronger. North­western's offense is potent. They 
rely a great deal on the running of Mike Adamle and A1 Robin­son. Both have good speed but there size is questionable. Both weigh in at about 190 lbs. They have a veteran offensive line to make holes for them but they will be going against a defense famed for its stinginess on the ground. 
It may be a blessing in dis­guise if the Wildcats are forced to pass. Quarterback Maurie Daigneau (DANE-yoo) has a sure throwing arm and his receivers are potential standouts. Jerry Brown is a split end with great speed and fine moves who has been showing brilliantly in the fall scrimmages. 
The real superstar on the team may be a junior flankerback named Barry Pearson. Pearson is fast and he is also lightening quick. Besides receiving passes he doubles as a punt return man. Clarence Ellis will line up on 


Maurie Daigneau (sounds like DANE-you) is the prime mover of Northwestern's new option offense. If the Irish can stop him they will halt the Wildcat offense. 
MAJOR LEAGUES 

NATIONAL LEAGUE  AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East  w  L  Pet.  GB  East  w  L  Pet.  GB  
Pittsburgh  79  69  .534  Baltimore  96  52  .649  
New York  78  71  .524  1%  New York  83  66  .557  13%  
Chicago  77  71  .521  2  Detroit  76  72  .514  20  
St.  Louis  72  78  .480  8  Boston  76  73  .510  20%  
Philadelphia  67  83  .446  13  Cleveland  72  77  .483  24%  
Montreal  66  82  .446  13'1:.  Washington  69  78  .469  26%  
West  West  
Cincinnati  94  57  .623  Minnesota  88  60  .595  
Los Angeles  80  68  .541  12'1:.  Oakland  82  68  .547  7  
San Fran.  79  70  .530  14  California  79  69  .534  9  
Atlanta  73  78  .483  21  Kansas City  58  88  .397  29  
Houston  71  77  .480  21'1:.  Milwaukee  56  92  . 378  32  
San Diego  59  91  .393  34'1:.  Chicago  53  93  .363  34  
St. Louis 9  Chicago 2  California at Minnesota  
Philadelphia 3  Pittsburgh 2  Boston at New York  
Houston at Los Angeles, night  Kansas City at Milwaukee  
San Francisco at San Diego, night  Baltimore at Washington  
Only games scheduled  Detroit at Cleveland Only games scheduled  

which ever side of the field that 
Pearson splits. This should tell 
th1~ tale of what kind of ball­
player Pearson really is. 
The Notre Dame defense must 

shut off Daigneau and North­
western's newly installed option 
offense if the Irish want to avoid 
an early season upset. The men 
that will probably take this re­
sponsibility are Walt Patulski 
and Bob Neidert at the ends 
(possibly the best tandem in the 
country) and tackles Greg Marx 
and Mike Zikas. Marx is a sopho­
more who bears watching. 
The lindbackers have been im­

pressive. There are five who will 
see plenty of action. Tim Kelly 
(captain of the defense), Jim 
Wright, Eric Patton, John Rat­
terman and Rich Thomann. All 
of these men have experience 
and even more important they 
are all MEAN. 
The secondary is headed by 

All-America candidate Ellis and 
Ralph Stepaniak, a steady starter 
from last season. Mike Crotty 
will probably get the nod to 
start at safety. Crotty is only 
5'9" but he is quick and a hard 
hitter. 
Northwestern's secondary is 

experienced and, with what they 
must face, they'll need all of the 
savvy they can muster. Eric 
Hutchinson and Rick Tleander 
were two of the Big Ten's better 
defensive backs last season and 
they will try to stop the passing 
of Reisman Trophy Candidate 
Joe Theismann. Jack Dustin and 
Mike Coughlin will also be deep 
to halt the South River Road­
runner's bombs. 
The Wildcat defensive line 

boasts two proven terminals but 
little else. Wil Hemby and Mike 
Morkin will try to cover for 
mistakes made by the new inter­
ior lineman. 
The Irish offense is a potential powder keg. A Theismann to Tom Gatewood completion was no uncommon sight throughout the spring and fall scrimmages and its a difficult thing to stop. Last year in the regular season this combo clicked 47 times. ND fans should expect more of the same this time around. 
The offensive backs are neither overwhelmingly fast nor big but they do get the job done. Senior Denny Allan was a depen­dable four yard per carry man last year and he may well im­prove on that this season. Bill Barz is a great man to have for short yardage situations. He rare­ly fails to get the necessary yardage. The other halfback will be Ed Gulyas. Gulyas saw a little playing time last year as a defen­sive back and return specialist. In the spring he impressed enough to be given a shot at the starting offensive position. 
Besides Gatewood, the line will feature Mike Creaney, a sophomore tight end who has fought hard to gain this position and there is little evidence that he will give it up. 
The rest of the offensive line has been a worry for head coach Ara Parseghian. Larry DiNardo 
lnterhall Tennis 
The lnterhall Office has an­nounced that they will sponsor a single elimination doubles tour­nament this Fall. There will be two divisions -novice and open. Novice is limited to those with no competitive experience. 
Deadline for entries is S~::pt. 

22. To enter sign up at the Jnterhall Office (C-4) or Inter­hall Issue Room at the ACC. 
and Gary Kos give the Irish two of the finest guards in the country buy everywhere else is a question mark. Dan Novakov started at tackle in the Cotton Bowl and he preformed credit­ably. He should duplicate that performance at his new position, center. 
Mike Martin has been plagued by injuries since he came to ND but the big man from Oregon has rebounded well enough to get a starting berth at one tackle. The other tackle is John Dam­peer, a soph from Kermit, Texas. He won the Hering award for the most improved offecsive player in the spring so he should be an asset to N D in the opener. 
The key to the game should ride with thedefense's ability to halt Daigneau and company. ND has the boys to put points on the board. Look for the defense to come through. NU may stay with the Irish for a half but the results will be similar to last year. Ara will give his old pal Alex Agase another lesson. 
Booters open Season 
The Notre Dame Soccer Club the Booters playing U. of Wis­will start their season this week­
consin, Parkside. Game time is end with two home matches. At 
2:00p.m.
1:00 p.m. Saturday the Irish The Irish play a twelve-game take on St. Norbert's of West 
schedule this fall. DePere, Wisconsin. Sunday finds 

The Irish Eye 
·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::pICkS 
This weekend nearly every major college team gets into act_ion and there appears to be a lot of interesting match-u~s. The _only big name missing from the slate is pre-season favonte Oh10 ~tate. The Buckeyes open next weekend against the Texas A&M Agg1es. 
The results should look something like this: 
Notre Dame over Northwestern: The Irish won't 'be caught looking ahead to Purdue. They have a lot of respect for the Wildcats but they also have confidence in themselves. 
Southern California over Nebraska: This is probably the top game of the week but in Los Angeles you have to go with SC. The Huskers will make a game of it but the Trojans have played in too many big games to choke up. 
I Georgia Tech over Aorida St.: After pullin~ off an up~et last week the Yellow Jackets are ready' to make believers of Its Southern opponents. . Texas over California: The Longhorns first attempt at defendmg their National Championship should be a successful one. Houston over Syracuse: The Cougars make their first attempt at setting even more offensive records. They shouldn't score a hundred points but they should get enough to win comfortably. Tennessee over Southern Methodist: This shouldn't be the Vols strongest team of late but they'll be strong enough to take care of Chuck Hixson and Co. LSU over Texas A&M: The Aggies hold the unique distinction of never having lost a ball game in collegiate competition. They have been out-scored on numerous occasions, how~er, and thi.< I'i one of those occasions. Missouri over Minnesota: Mizzou has another fine ball club and they should have just enough to get by the impr~ved Go~ hers Kansas State over Kentucky: Professor D1ckey Will hold his second lecture of the semester on the Purple Pride. UPSET OF THE WEEK ' Pittsburgh over UCLA: Laugh, scoff, and call me names if you might, but the Panthers have an honest to goodr.ess, re~ f~otb~ team this season and they will surprise the weakened Brums m P1tt Stadium. In other games across the country it looks like Penn St~te over Navy, West Virginia over Richmond, Army o~er Baylor, Flon_da over Mississippi State, Mississippi over Memphis State, Georgta ~ver Tulane, Clemson over Virginia, South Carolina to rebound agamst Wake Forest Alabama to roll over Virginia Tech, Oklahoma to squeak by Wisconsin, Boston College over Villanova, Purdue over TCU Texas Tech over Kansas, Iowa over Oregon State, Oregon over Illin~is Indianaover Colorado, Michigan over Arizona. Michigan State ~ver Washington, Air Force over Wyoming, and Arkansas to. get its first win against Oklahoma State . Last week 19 of 24 Season Percentagr. .792 
1 




