
Red Cross withdraws as negotiator 

(UPI) -The International ing behind only those persons· aboard the Swissair DC8. Eleven the guerillas intend to hold in­
Red Cross withdrew Sunday of them were crewmembers, the night from its role as negotiator definitely as hostages to back up others passengers -36 of them for release of hostages still held a series of ransom demands. from the TWA and five from by Arab guerillas from the three The Popular Front for the each of the other two planes. airliners they hijacked to Jordan Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), A PFLP spokesman in Am­
whose members carried out the
last week. man denied any knowledge of There were discrepancies as to hijackings and then dynamited the whereabouts of the 16 miss­the planes after evacuating them
how many persons the guerillas ing persons, saying only that 39 were still holding hostage. Guer­Saturday, originally announced were in custody. illa spokesman claimed 39, but it was holding 40 persons and Some officials said the dis­the airlines listed 57 persons as releasing all the others. crepancy could have arisen 
not accounted for. The PFLP freed another hos­through inaccuracies in the flight 
"It is now up to the govern­tage Sunday, a Dutch man, re­
manifests and that it is possible ments concerned to negotiate ducing to 39 the number it that the hijackers themselves directly with the guerillas while claims to hold. 
were considered to be among the the Red Cross task is humani­But officials of Trans World missing.
tarian and no longer diplomat­Airline, (TWA), British Overseas Officials sought to clarify the ic," said Red Cross press spokes­Airways (BOAC), and Swissair, status of the missing before re­man Michel Barde in brief the three airlines involved, said
a leasing any of their names. The 
announcement in Geneva of the Sunday a total of 57 persons International Red Cross said 
withdrawal from negotiations. originally aboard the planes had there six Swiss among them and 
A few hours before the an­not been accounted for. Of an undetermined breakdown of 
nouncement, a total of 254 pass­those not accounted for, airlines American, Israeli, and West Ger­engers and crew members from officials said 41 were aboard the 
man citizens. the three airliners flew from 
There were 414 persons a­Jordan to the Mediterranean is­TWA Boeing 707, eight were on 
board the planes when they were land of Cyprus, apparently leav-the BOAC VClO, and eight were 
hijacked and forced to land on a 
Princeton Plan discussed 
With the October 2nd refer· endum on the "Princeton Plan" now Jess than two weeks away, discussion is beginning to build around campus as to whether Notre Dame should close down for two weeks to allow students to work for the political can­didates of their choice. 
In a press conference last ThurSday afternoon, University Provost Rev. James Burtchaell 
SBP Dan Krashna
came out against the recess, say­SBVP-Muk -Wi.&inp ing that the university's prime 
and did tnmgs llKe teaching some viable alternatives, some concern should be study. 
people in town about the issues 
things for students to do."
Burtchaell also cited difficulties and the candidates." ( "As long as the students justin breaking up the school y;ear, 
Krashna, who last May 4 call­
get off and do nothing, then theespecially concerning co-ex­
ed for a general boy~ott of 
plan is a failure," Pohl siad. 
change students and the pos­
classes, calling for students to 
In discounting the possibilitysibility that St. Mary's would "stop, look, and listen and abso­of politicizing the university,not cancel classes. 
lutely say stop to the education 
Pohl said that "as long as there is 
The former head of the theo­we're getting at this time," told no coercion involved, as long ru;logy department suggested that the Scholastic editors that by working in campaigns is not astudents prepare literature on concentrating on _ South Bend requisite, then I don't think thatthe qualities of the candidates would be better than "the vast YOu're politicizing the univer­In an interview with the edi­majority of us going home for a sity."
tors of the Scholastic magazine, 
vacation and the rest of us get­
Chris Wolf, noted campusstudent body president Dave 
ting with poltiicians who might 
conservative, opposed the recess, Krashna expressed doubts about simply use us." 
saying "students should be herethe plan. 
Student body vice-president 
to study and learn, withdrawn"I started thinking about how Mark Winings exprrssed similar from the level of political activi­students on a grand scale could 
doubts concerning the recess. ty."
be used by politicians for their "Right now I would tend to Advocating the maintenancepolitical wants," Krashna said. 
vote no on the plan since too of the "ivory tower" concept of "Maybe it would be best if we many students would use the the university, Wolf said theconcentrated here in South Bend 
time to go off and have a good university should be a place of time." learning on the "theoretical lev­Activities Night When asked about the con­el." ­sequences of such a move on Also, Wolf said that he op­
The Blue Circle will sponsor a sincere students whose convic­posed the plan "on the pragmat­Notre Dame -St. Mary's activi­tions compelled them to tempor­ic level" since "the liberal can­ties night tonight in Stepan Cen­arily dropout to work for can­didates would probably get the ter from 7 to 9 p.m. About 35 didates, Winings conceded that most help." clubs will have tables and nearly "there are some students who Academic Commissioner of 3000 students are expected to would use the break construc­the Student Union, Jim Metzger 
attend. tively and who shouldn't be pun­strongly favored the rec.:ss, say'­
The event, which is open to ished." ing, "This is where the reality of upperclassmen as well as fresh­In reply to a question about what everybody's been saying men, is the only scheduled op­the possible politicization of the comes to. Everybody's always portunity this year for students university -a much-discussed said to work within the system. to talk with members fl all cam­often used in opposing the recess Now here's the chance." pus organizations in this manner. -Winings said "I think that the However, Metzger echoed 
students have to become politi­what seemed to be a common 
Junior Dave Lah of the Blue cized. Not the University, but theme among the other inter­Circle announced that WSND is the studetns." viewed parties in predicitng that planning to broadcast live from Student Union Director Bob frustration would be the almost Stepan Center tonight. Pohl said that he was in favor of inevitable climax of the process. 
the plan "as long as there are (Continued on page 7) 
desert air strip northeast of Am­Pope Paul VI met yesterday with 
man, but many were released PFLP officials to plead for the 
earlier in the week and began release of the remaining hos­
flying to Cyprus last Friday. tages. Front sources said after­
The TWA and Swissair planes ward that the PFLP asked the 
were hijacked last Sunday, the papel representative, Msgr. Jean 
BOAC on Wednesday, The air­Rodhan, to negotiate with Israel 
lines placed a total value of 24.6 for the release of 600 Pale­
million dollars on the three stinians held there in exchange 
planes, all of which were de­for the hostages. 
stroyed by dynamite blasts Satur­In Israel, state security agents 
day after the guerillas evacuated arrested more than 450 Arabs in 
the remammg passengers a series of weekend raids in the 
many of whom had spent the occupied west bank of the Hor­
week in the planes. dan and in the Gaza Strip. Al­
The guerillas also blew up a though declining to state the 
hijacked Pan American World motive of the arrests, officially, 
Airways 747 jumbo jet, valued Israeli authorities indicated that 
at nearly $25 million, at the they were made to pressure the 
Cairo airport last Sunday. PFLP into releasein its hostages. 
In exchange for their hos­Arab sources in the territorytages, the gueirllas have demand­occupied by Israel in the 1967ed the release of three Arabs Middle East War said Israel al­held in Switzerland, three in ready has informed the PFLPWest Gerrnany, and one in Brit­that it will deal sternly with itsain plus 600 Palestinians held in Arab prisoners unless the hos­Israeli prisons. 
tages are rreleased.
International Red Cross rep­The PFLP Sunday releasedresentatives were negotiating for one of the original 40 it said itthe exchange until suspending was detaining, Gerald Koning ofthe talks Saturday after the guer­Holland. A PFLP spokesmanillas blew up the planes 13 hours said Koning was released as a before the agreed deadline on result of the intevention of 
negotiations. 
Michael Adams, director of the The Red Cross in Geneva an­Institute for the Advancement 
nounced that it was demanding of Arab British Understanding in the release of all hostages and 
Amman. has sent another delegation to Amman to meet with the guer­illa leaders. In Amman, a representative of 


SMC seeks reps 
The Academic Affairs psychological effect of the new Council, composed of five com­grading on students," she con­mittees examining classroom tinued. life, hopes to be the key to a Adopting of the new system dynamic St. Mary's. should aid graduate school­
Duri~g the summer Carol bound seniors because trans­
Henninger, chairman, and her cripts carry only the letter grade co-chairmen have analyzed SMC received (A instead of A-). as a potential center of pro­
Curriculum committee mem­gressive education. 
bers Cathy Callan and Eileen "In dependently aggressive" 
Fitzpatrick also hope to revita­students to activate plans for lize freshman year studies with a 
SMC's 1970 Academic Affairs proposed humanities class incor­Council. are wanted. 
porating philosophy, theology"THis commission CAN be an 
and English. effective educational instru­
"In the past, the N .D' hu­ment," explained Carol, "if it is 
manities program has been veryunderstood and utilized. The 
successful with the few freshmen idea of progressive education as who have participated," re­the long-range goal of SMC re­
counted Carol Henninger. "This quires individual commitment 
experience should be extended 
preferably in one of the Coun­all -a
to SMC freshmen pro­cil's five committees and indivi­
gram for only a few to be dual involvement within depart­
accessible by all." ments in comprehensive senior 
They also are originating pro­departmental exams restruc­
grams for an All-College majorturing, teacher evaluation, and 
and inter-term study, "a Januaryrank and tenure recommenda­semester granting credits for tions. 
travel, research, directed read­"I need representatives for 
ings and other projects between these committees!" she added. 
semesters." Heading the Academic Stan­
As cultural affairs chairman,dards committee, Sherry Mar­
Marilyn Becker envisions an in­couiller and Mary Ellen Burke 
crease in the number of per­are proposing joint degrees, re­formances by "less costly, but visions of the Madeleva Scholar 
very valuable" performers such program and freshman year cur­as Butler University's nationally 
riculum. 
famous dance ensemble and "This semester we will also be 
local high school one-nightevaluating the new grading sys­drama productions.tem," revealed Sherry, "in which Besides inaugurating a pro­min uses will be substituted for gram highlighting the talents of the traditional plus grades." 
foreign students and continuing','Our concerns center on 
the successful !25th anniversarywhether professors will issue as 
lecture series, she also hopes that many minuses as they did pluses 
both Notre Dame and St. Mary's in previous years and the (Continued on page 6) 


Page 2 

TN£ OBSERVER. Monday, September 14, 1970 
----------------------------------~ 

Drug advocate Leary escapes from prison 
SAN LUIS OBISPO, Calif. was used," reported Watch Com­marijuana, but the verdict was
from Mexico in 1965. denim shirt and pants -and one
reversed on appeal. He was con­(UPI) Dr. Timothy Leary, the mander Quentin Heer. "He was of his socks were found a few 

not seen leaving and we don't He was serving a six months victed again at a retrial and
drug promoting guru of the hours later in a service station psychedelic generation, walked know what direction ·he went. to I 0 year term for possession of sentenced to I 0 years in prison. 

restroom about two miles south away Sunday from a minimum We have heard nothing about marijuana. Leary, his wife and Leary, his wife Rosemary 34 of the prison on U.S. I01, the security prison where he was him since the escape." son were arrested on December main north south highwazy.
and son, John, 20, wer~ ailserving a sentence for marijuana An all-points bulletin was is­26, 1968, in Laguna Beach for convicted last year in Orange

possession. sued after guards discovered him possession of marijuana and LSD Leary, 49, disappeared during missing during a bed check after their station wagon was County on possession charges The service station attendant 
growing out of the ALaguna

the night from California Men's ·shortly after midnight. He was seran.:hed by an officer who said told authorities he didn't see 
I smelled marijuana inside. Beach arrest. An officer testified Leary or anyone suspicious dur­Colony West, located four miles seen two hours earlier, fleer said. · he stopped to question them ing his alii-night shift. He foundwest of here on State Highway I Leary, a tormcr because their vehicle was block­the in restroom
-the "hippie highway" which The FBI was also notified of member of clothing the 
ing a road. lie said he smellee

leads north to the Big Sur re­the escape. Leary faced a I 0 the llarvard Ja~:ully, was an early about dawn and notified offic­
marijuana and noticed the

gion. year federal prison term for il­experimenter with LSD who be­ials after hearing of the escape. 
younger man acting strangely"He left alone and no force legal importation of marijuana came known as the "high priest" before he serarched the vehicle.

of the drug culture. The change of clothing seem­ed to indicate Leary was met
Leary was sentenced to six

He coined the phrase "turn outside the prison by an accom­
SUAC reforms 
months to I 0 years, while his

on, tune in,. drop ~ut'; .during plice after he scaled a 12 foot
wife was put on five years pro­

Academic Commission Chair­the mid-1960's and toured the chain link fence topped by two
bation and the youth was jailed 

man Jim Metzger has begun a 
country urging the use of LSD, strands of barbed wire. Prison
for three months. The California 

basic organizational restructur­mairjuana and other "mind ex­authorities declined to speculate
Adult Authority last months re­

ing which consists of "full par­panding" druf". on whether the escapee was
fused to release Leary after he

ticipation by SMC students," for picked up outside, but they said
had served six months and set

the forthcoming year. While the Leary, a slender six foot, ISO there were no complaints of
another hearing next August on 

content of the commission's pro­pounder with grey eyes, and stolen clothing from the
the length of his term. 
surroudning areas.

gram is yet to be fully confirm­hair, has been in and out of the ed, the program has been estab­courts regularly since 196S. 
The drug crusader,' who usual­

lished with the attitude of pre­Leary, the drug promoting
ly wore buckskins, beads and

senting a balan;;ed program in guru of the psychedelic genera­
He was arrested for. crossing headbands, prior to his imprison­
terms of the ileological spec­tion, was wearing the prison garb 
the Mexican--U.S. border at ment, had been working in the
trum. Metzger hopes to engage and a blue pullover sweater
Laredo, Texas with three half clerical pool sincce he was com­
himself in an attempt to en­when he escaped. The prison,
smoked mairjuana cigarettes in mitted March 18,1970.
courage more ~tudent involve­wihc holds 12SO men, is sur­
his car. Leary was convicted on a
ment with the :ommission and rounded only by the fence.· 
charge of illegally importing His prison clothing -blue
its invited guests Missy Underman, chairman of SMC's count<!rpart to the Aca­

Israel threatens retaliation
demic Commissio.>n, is considered by Metzger as the leading figure in the revision of the organiza­mission by teh Israeli occy..ition A PFLP spokesman in Am­
JERUSALEM (UPI) -Israel
tion. She is <;pending the next authorities. No furthe1 details man, Abu Maher, shrugged off 
few weeks in a training program has warned Palestinian Arab reports of mass arrests of Arabs
were revealed.

leaders in Jordan it will take
with the commission in order to Disclosure of the warning in the Israeli occupied terri­
stern measures against guerilla
gain exposure and experience in came as military sources report­tories. "We do not care what the prisoners unless hijacked air hos­Israelis do, because this is a
ed that 4SO Arabs were roundedits operations. In October, Metz­

tages are freed, Israel occupation 
different situation," he said. "Itup in weekend raids in the oc­ger plans "to have her assume authorities said. does not affect the hostages." 
the position of co-chairman." cupied west bank of Jordan aand 
Chairman Jim Metzpr Well informed Arab sources Iraq's Baghdad Radio, quotingthe Gaza Strip. The sources re­
Metzger said he wishes "to get NO campus monopoly on said the warning was conveyed military sources in Amman, said more girls involved in positions 
fused to comment on reportsevents." C to the leaders of the Popular Israel is massing troops along the of substance." For too long, he that the arrests were carried out

In response to last year's criti-Front for the Liberdtion of Pale­Jordan River cease fire line andto exert pressure on the PFLP to
feels, the SMC students have not cism of the Commission, Metz-stine (PFLP) in Amman Friday Israeli warplanes were carryingbeen involved in positions of ger has set out to schedule b; emissaries selected for the release the hostages. 
out "unusual activities" in bor­leadership. 
der areas. The radio said theMissy Underman projects "the military movements began after occurrence of more events at ther Arab guerrillas blew up the

Stapleton masses begin again 
SMC,_" instead of the apparent 

three hijacked jetliners and an­nounced they were holding some ~······························ .. passengers and crew members as
: WANTED E St. Mary's successful experi­celebrants on Monday, Tuesday, These celebrations for the en­hostages.ment with the liturgy at their tire community start tonight at
: : and Wednesday nights while The Israeli cabinet met for 
ETWO PURDUE TICKETS§ community concelebrations in l 0: 30 p.m. in Stapelton Lounge, 
Thursday nights a guest priest, five hours during the dya to
Stapelton Lounge will continue Le Mans Hall. 
who has been requested by the discuss the plight of the Israeli--again this year Monday through
5 DAVE: 8856 5 students, will be invited. Grad Students to Meet and other hostages being held by 
Thursday night. 

ittiiiiiiiiiJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJI.. the PFLP to back demands for The Mass, described by Peggy Father Roger Cormier of the A general meeting for all grad-the release of seven Arab guerril­
GLEE CLUB 

Aste, SMC Commissioner of SMC campus ministry, Father uate students will be held Tues-las held in Europe and a number Community Relations as "a William Toohey, director of the day, September IS, to establish of others in Israeli captivity. 

TRYOUTS 

friendly, informal get together," campus ministry at NO, and priorities for the coming year, Police and military sources presents a unique opportunity Father Joseph Schwab, the assis­Bill Lorimer, president of the described the weekend arrests ­Sign Up At 
for students from Notre Dame tant rector at Flanner Hall will Graduate Student Union an-300 in the west bank adn ISO in Activities Booth 
and St. Mary's to celebrate Mass be the three regular celebrants. nounced yesterday. the Gaza Strip -as the biggest together. The meeting is scheduled for ever made in the Israeli occupied Music, mostly guitar, will be 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering territories.
Tonight-Stepan Center 
The Masses offer a chance for 

provided by· the students and auditorium. Orientation for new The sources could not con­experimenting with the liturgy Miss Aste added that whatever graduate studetns adn a general firm reports from local Araband any suggestions are a! ways discussion of problems that may sources that many of thso;; ar­
Join the "Singing Irish" 

kind of music suits the students
welcome. 

or have arisen will be held, Lori-rested were relatives or friendsbest will be used.
Three priests will be regular mer said. of guerrilla leaders and were 


ND BOOK EXCHANGE 
A Service of Student Union Location 
Fiesta Lounge LaFortune Student Center Opening to sell used textbooks: 
Monday  Sept 14  I -4  
Tuesday  Sept 15  10-12&1-4  
Wed.  Sept 16  1 -4  
Thurs.  Sept 17  10-12&1-4  

For Further Information Call 283-7757 

I'''''''''''''''@''''''S~~~N~~UfJ~~@@''''''''''''i ;~i¥:·!:Jf::::~·:::~~ =:==.~.=.===~ N 0 RTH W E 5 T E R N :=~=.~_;;_=.~ ~~~~v~; ~t~~-r~~~~~e t~~tb~:~~
leader of the extremist PFLP 
~:! GAME if"' ;~~c~;;E """''~ 
19

~ Sept :::~~ ::~;: s~;~· ~!;~'~ross Hall liAN~RJ[E¥f~~RS!~
ill SALES: at 1st BANK TRAVEL BUREAU (on campus-~;~:: N.D. : ;~; basement of Badin Hall next to N.D. Bookstore) :~~~= TAILOR SHOP : 
=:= 


PARTY AFTER THE GAME ::~:: Hrs. 8-12 12:30 4:15: 
~:·:;::: ::::e 5 DAYS' A WL'£F •
AT BARAT COLLEGE ·:·:e ' w -1\. e ··· S15-GAME TICKET & TRAVEL ::::e Alterations done for aile j\j TentaliPe Sign-Up for the Bus Only ~~~~~occasions. Next to Washing-! ~; ALL SALES ARH F'/NAL ;:;:• ton Hall -Across from thee 
J!::======================:!J~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::;."::i~ ••••••••••••••:. 
Monday, September 14, 1970 


--------------------------------------------~Page~ 






Smith, Stevenson clash on Vietnamization 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Sen­ator Ralph Smith, R. Ill., and his Democratic opponent Adlai E. Stevenson Ill disagreed yester­day on President Nixon's Viet­namization policy and his hand­
ling of the economy as they appeared, seated side by side, on NBC's Meet The Press. 
Stevenson <:;ailed f<.?! ~ ne_go­tiated, political settlement and an orderly pullout of U.S. troops from Vietnam. But he said the 
U.S. "must make it crystal clear that we will not go on forever propping up that corrupt and autocratic Saigon government." 
President Nixon's Vietnam­ization program won't work, Stevenson said, because the pre­

sent Saigon government "cannot Nixon's program is one of 
win a war alone that it cannot "programmed withdrawal," 
win with 500,000 U.S. troops." Smith said, getting a certain 
That government will collapse number of troops out at a cer­sooner or later as U.S. troops tain time under a pre designed pull out, Stevenson said, leaving program. "I am quite sure that the U.S. in a position of seeing he [Nixon I has a program for everything we have fought for go getting us out of combat in down the drain or having to send Vietnam and then out com-troops back to Vietnam. jpletely ," Smith said. 
He charged the Nixon admini-On the economy, Stevenson stration with allowing U.S. poli-criticized the Nixon administr­cy to be made in Saigon. 1ation for "fighting inflation by 
Smith, asked whether Presi-throwing hundreds and thou­dent Nixon's policy wasn't ac-sands of men and women out of tually one of unilateral with-work." He said unemployment, drawal, said he understood uni-grocery bills, and interest rates lateral withdrawal to mean with-have climbed too high. drawal without regard to what Smith said he was briefed happens to the Vietnamese." Saturday by one of Nixon's 
Cambodia attacks Tong Kauk 
PHNOM PENH (UPI) A 4,000 man Cambodian task force carrying out CamboJia 's largest military operation of the war fought its way into the southern portion of Tang J.;:auk yesterday in daylong battle a­gainst Viet Cong troops. 
The Communists continued to hold the center of the city, 52 miles north of Phnom Penh, at nightfall. A Cambodian officer said some of them were in a pagoda that was spared from bombardment because it was sacred ground. 
American C 119 Shadow gun­ships firing machine guns sup­ported the Cambodian attack. 
In Saigon, military sources said heavy fighting had broken out around the besieged South Vietnamese firebase O;Reilly' 390 miles nort~ of Saigon. 
The sources said North Viet­namese gunners sh,elled the fire­base with at least )50 rounds of 82 mm and 120mm mortar fire Saturday and continued the bombardment at a slower rate yesterday. 
A battalion of South Viet­

namese brought in by helicopter clashed with a battalion sized unit of North Vietnamese south ut O'Reilly and reported killing I 0 of the Communists, the sources said. They said the gov­ernment unit suffered "light" losses. 
O'Reilly has been under seige 

since July 1, and some sources 
say government forces may 
abandon it. 
The battle at Tang Kauk was 

the first heavy engagement for 
the Cambodian task force that 
set out six days earlier from 
Skoun, 17 miles to the south, to 
drice through the heart of Viet 
Cong bases and bivouac areas. 
Brig. Gen. Neak Sam, com­

manding the operation, said five 
Cambodians were killed in the 
fithting and at least 25 wound­ed. Military officers said seven dead Viet Cong were found and many other dead and wounded were carried off. 
The Cambodians pinned down in an open rice paddy by heavy Viet Cong fire as they entered the city said the Viet Cong force was estimated to be 600, equi­valent to a reinforced battalion. 
The initial Cambodian assault was stopped just inside the city limits, but in the late afternoon following strong aircraft b<'mb­ardments the Cambodia1:s drove to with in 700 yards of the city center. 
The Viet Cong were in well prepared positions with over head cover of sheet metal roof­ing, concrete blocks and mud for protection against air strikes. 
For the first time, Cambodia used its own helicopters, on loan from the United States, to evacuate casualties~---­
The task force was without artillery support when it began the assault, but late in the day the Cambodians brought 122mm Russian-made howitzers to the front. 
Fighting was scattered else­
where  in  Vietnam  and  Cam­ 
bodia.  
American  helicopters  killed  

three Vietnamese civilians and wounded four others in an at­tack on two fishing boats in a restricted area on the South Vietnam coast 95 miles east of Saigon, the U.S. Command re­ported. 

ND prof gets .study grant 
faculty member who is directing University of Alberta (Canada)
Dr. Albert E. Miller, associate professor of Metallurgical Engin­eering and Materials Scienl'-'at Notre Dame, has received a $1500 grant from the American Society for Testing and Malerials (ASTM) to study single crystal growth of large single crystals of ra re-earth-<:obalt intermetallics of type RCo5. Rate-earth-<:ot•Jit intermetallic -compounds of this type possess magnetic charac­teristics that make them highly suitable for use in oriented -powder permanent magnets. 
ASTM annually presents its C. Lawrence Warwick Memorial grants to engineering and science schools to promote pure and applied research in materials or the properties of materials. Each school selects its own recipient of the grant. Then funds are placed at the disposal of the 

Garage for Rent 
On comer Notre Dame Ave., 
South Bend A ~~e. Phone 232­
6882 
,._ Observer II published dallY durlntl the college semester except v~~eatlons by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. 
~··College. SubKrlptloni!NY be purchued for aa from The ~. Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. 5econcl ce.. postage N141, Notre O.me Incl. 46551. 
the reasearch project and he may use them for eauipment or rna­
terials, or for the sui,PO•, of faculty or studrnt personnel en­
gaged in the project; 
A native of Albion Nebraska Dr. Miller received 'his metal~ lurgical engineer degree in 1960 from the Colorado School of Mines. He received the Harold Otic Boswoth .\ward for meri­
lurgical engineering from the Colorado School the year. He received his Ph.D. degree from Iowa State University in 1964. 
Dr. Miller was a research assis­tan! at the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission's Ames Laboratory and Iowa State University from 1960-1964 and was a postdoc­tara] associate there from 
1964-1966. He was an associate professor of metallurgy at the 

• HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • 
~ 
v 
H 
~ 
from 1965-1967. He joined the faculty of Notre Dame in 1967 
as ~n assista~t p~ofessor metal­
Iu~gical _engmeenng and mat-• 
enals science and became an associate professor this Septem­ber ( 1970). 
He is a member of the bono­rary organizations of Tau Beta Pi, Sigma Gamma Epsilon, Alpha Sigma Mu, Phi Lambda Upsilon, 

torious achievement in metal-and Sigma Xi. 
He is al:so a member of the American Society for Meta's, American Institute of Metallu­rgical Engineers, Americ.m Crystallographic Society, Am• r­ican Chemical Society, and F1.e National Society of Professio1•al Engineers. 
He has authored a number 
of papers in his area of interest and holds a patent on nonstoich­iometric rare-earth-Qxides. 
HOV • HOV 

H Craftsmen in Optics®
0 
v 
• HOV • HOV • HOV ' HOV • 
~ 
V 
H 
~ 

H 
0 
v 

H  SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLANO BUILDING. 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET  H  
: o v  JIPIISCP/VisiPJiThe House of Vision, Inc.  ~  : o v  

·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~· 
economic advisors and saw con­tinued indication that the infla­tionary spiral had bottomed out. He said there may be further slight increases in unemploy­ment and while grocery bills have not gone down, they have 
not continued going up. 
Smith, a lawyer from Alton, 
Ill., and former speaker of the 
Illinois House, was appointed to 
the Senate in September 1969 to 
fill the seat left vacant by the 
death of Sen. Everett M. Dirk­
sen. 
Stevenson of Chicago, also a 
lawyer, currently holds the of­
fice of Illinois State Treasurer, 
and is the son of the late Adlai 
E. Stevenson, II Illinois gover­
nor, Democratic presidential 
nominee and United Nations 
Ambassador. 
On the issue of viulence, · Stevenson said, "I have not changed my position on vio­lence. I have been against vio­lence of all kind, whether Black Panther violence, student vio­lence, or police violence. Vio­lence of all kind must be l·on­demned and perhaps espeically police violence." 
On civil disorder and domestic 
violence, Smith said there was 
"no question that this is the 
main issue of this campaign ir. 
the minds of IJlost people." He 
said in the "liberal sphere" of 
the democratic party, "you too 
often find thsoe who are soft on 
law and order and would protect 
the rights of an individual no 
matter what the effect on so­
ciety." 
Stevenson, asked how he would label himself within the Democratic party, said: "I reject labels. They are misleading. It makes more sense for candidates 

for public office to talk about 
what they stand for. If I had to 
label myself, I think it would be 
as a progressive." 

At another point, Stevenson 
was asked about extremists in 
the party and said, "I have no 
relationship with any extremists 
in the Democratic party. I don't 
think that there are any extreo­
mists in the Democratic party, 
not in my stat-e of Illinois. We 
are making progress toward open 
ing the doors of the party but 
not to extremists.' 

Asked directly what wa~ his 
stand on busing, Stevenson said, 
"I don't think force busi.tg is 
foing to solve any problems and 
in some instances is counter pro­
ductive to good relations be­
tween the races. We ought •o 
address ourselves to the central 
question of the quality of our 
schools." 

On campus unrest, Smith said, 
"The great majority of students 
go to college to learn. I have 
advocated getting those who are 
there to bum rather than learn 
off the campuses and leaving the 
other 95 per cent . 

Smith, asked whether he ex­
pects President Ni l{On to cam­
paign for him in person, said 
"Oh, I expect he will." 

Stevenson, asked whether he h-td the whole-hearted support ..,[ Chicago Mayor Richard J. Oaley, said "I certainly hope so." He said he has the support of all level Democrats in Illinois but most importantly "Demo­crats at the grass roots level." 
He described Daley as a major asset in his campaign. 
STAPELTON MASS 


YOU ARE INVITED 
Rev. Roger Cormier Rev. William Toohev Director of N.D. Campus Ministry Rev. Joseph Schwab Asst. Rector for Flanner Rev. James Buckley Thea Dept. 
MASSES 10:30 P.M. MONDAY through THURSDAY 
STAPELTON LOUNGE LEMANS HALL 

...•••••••••..••••••••--~•••••••••••••••••••"(!•
F R I sEPT 18THR u sEPT 2 

• : 
e 
: e : e : e 
: 
: 
• 
: 
• 
AlHL£TIC AND :•. 
co~u•~oc~• ...ON 

n lr1 Ill II' : 
CENTER : 
STUDENT REDUCTION-SAVE $1.00 : 
on Friday (8:30) & Saturday (1"1 :00 AMI e 
SHOWS ONLY Friday 8:30 : Sat. 11:00 AM : 
2:30 : 
8:30 • Sun. 2:30 : 
6:30 • 
ALL SEATS R.ESEnVED :
. 
ALL LOWER ARENA----$4.50 e 
UPPER ARENA (SIDE)--$3.50 : 
UPPER ARENA (END)--$2.50 e 


Nt•••,•••••••e4te•,••4••••••••4te•,••4••••••,••••••••4t•-• 

PAGE 4 







THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper GAETANO M. De SAPIO. Publisher 
DAVID C. BACH,lditor 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Jeanne Sweeney _______________ 
Registration confusion 
Praisers of St. Mary's College are often fond of enumerating the many advantages associated with having a small college with a relatively small enrollment. In a small community it is supposed to be easier to get something accomplished rather than in a large community wher e peop 1 e are referred to as 934567890. 
Last week's confusion at Registration is unbelievable when one considers how large universities carry on the same procedures much more efficiently and far more quickly. The most unfortunate aspect of registration occurred when the freshmen attempted to register and it is surprising that many of them didn't pack up and go home after that experience. 
Perhaps the mistake on many of the freshmen's schedules, giving them less than fifteen credit hours, can be dismissed as a unique computer joke which will never happen again. But there still remains much of the registration process which could be constructively criticized. 
The most obvious problem occurs in September when all of the freshmen, with all of their questions and troubles, are chanelled into only one office, the Academic Dean's. Freshmen advisers should be assigned before the freshmen come in September, and tbe advisers, preferably from the faculty, should be authorized to make changes in the freshmen schedules. This would make the add and drop procedure much easier and would leave the important and immediate problems, ·such as transfer students with no schedules, to the Academic Dean. 
The freshmen also suffer from lack of academic advice concerning what courses they should take, especially if they already know what area they will major in. Perhaps this suggested advisor, who would again be available to them before classes begin, would also avert this problem 
The ease with which the upperclassmen register and make changes in their schedules is primarily due to the fact that they can go to their respective department chairman and have him authorize their changes instead of the Academic Dean. As the freshmen class continually gets larger a more efficient method of registration should be developed. 
Finally, the fee to add and drop courses during registration is archaic and if ND can get by without charging students for this service, why cannot SMC. 

Peripheral Division 


High Country Soliloquy 
by T. C. Treanor 

Once upon a time, the prince of the High Country decided to visit his cousins on the lowlands. He had never visited the lowlands, and he was anxious to find how they differed from the People of His Kingdom. 
But when he got there, he was struck and saddened by the amount of war, sickness, and strife prevalent. 
This was very bad stuff indeed, he decided, and he went back to the High Country, badly beset. 
For three days he prayed and meditated; then, he made his decision. He went to the Wisest Man In the Whole City, and beseeched him, in earnest tones, to tell him how to bring peace to the world. 

A cymcal Jeer began to touch the face of the Wisest Man In the Whole City as the prince began to explain his early hopefulness, and the leer tolk progressively greater control as the Prince expressed his shock and horror with what he saw; but with a massive effort the Wisest Man In the Whole City composed his features as the Prince came to the -nd of his tale and asked his question: "How may I bring peace to the world?" 
"Well, the first thing you do, sweetheart," The Wisest Man In the Whole City said, pondering the question, "is divest yourself of your royal rainments. Wear these clothes, as I do, instead." He handed the Prince a pair of old jeans and a "Spiro Agnew is Mickey Mouse" sweatshirt. 
"Don't shave, cut your hair, or take a bath. Look as bizzare as you possibly can,"he continued. "Get a whole bunch of young people to go around with you; looking like you and acting like you. Be sure there's plenty of fornication in the group; that's good stuff and it'll blow all the warmaking minds. I want you to get everybody to smoke grass in public, too; that also will have quite an impact." 
"And will that bring peace to the world?" the Prince asked hopefully. 
"And that will bring peace to the world." The Wisest Man In the Whole City· sollemly assured him. Then he hesitated. "Oh-take this, too." He handed him a guitar. 
"But I don't know how to play a guitar" the Prince protested. "Loudly,"the Wisest Man In the Whole City assured him. So the Prince went down to the lowlands, 


~:----~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------------~~--------------------------~----~--~--~ 
gathered a band of other young people around 
him, and sang, fornicated, and got high in an 
atmosphere of festive joviality. Unfortunately, the 
people that were involved in all this war weren't 
paying any attention to the Prince at all, except in 
a most derogatory sense. All his publicity was 
adverse. People inGovernment and business were 
avoiding him like the plague. The were exchanging 
snide comments behind his back. 
After three years in the lowlands, the Prince 
returned to the High Country for another 
conference with the Wisest Man In the Whole City. 
"I don't understand it," the Wisest Man said, "we 
had music, drugs, and sex. What went wrong?" 
The Wisest Man pondered this for some time, 
and then finally said,-"Violence! You have to get 
those kids to defy their parents-something they've 
wanted to do for a long time!" 
"You mean like,'Y ou must leave your father 
and your mother and follow me?' " 
"No, more like, 'If you want to be part of the revolution, you must be ready to kill your parents.' " 
So the Prince went down to the lowlands, and he and his group once again gathered together. The Prince told his friends what the Wisest Man In the Whole City said, and they all agreed that that was a r.ood Course Of Action. 
So they all went among the people of the lowlands, singing and smoking and fornicating like before, but this time saying, "If you want to be part of the revolution, you must be ready to kill your parents." 
And lo! The people in the lowlands became very nervous, and one day the Prince and all his friends had their heads busted and were sent. to jail for seven years. 
A few days later, a courier ran up to tht High Country and spoke to the Wisest Man In the Whole City. "They have captured the Prince," he breathed, "and they are coming to invade the City!" 
The Wisest man did not have to think twice to know who "they" were. He prepared for the Gotterdammerung. 
"I wonder how he could blow it?" he asked himself, though, as plants he owned began production of peace medallions, guitars, and posters captioned-"The Prince-He Lives!"· 


Guy De Sapio------­
The Hijackings 
The Palestinian guerrillas have a hell of a lot of nerve. And that 
seems to be all that you need these days if you want to stop the 
world and make everyone feel that they want to get off. 
If you've got something you want and you don't have any 
scruples about the means you use to obtain it you can buy yourself a 
shotgun, a hand grenade, and a holster, and pick up some innocent 
bystander who doesn't have anything to do with your problem and 
threaten to kill or maim him. After all, if the world is treating you 
inhumanly, you might as well act like an animal to prove that 
everyone was right in the first place. 
So far the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine has 
succeeded in making living n·,iserable for close to 300 men, women 
and children whom they held as hostages and for countless numbers 
of relatives waiting for news of their condition. They've bullied the 
governments of Switzerland, England and the United States. Toyed 
with the International Red Cross and almost destroyed the Middle 
East peace talks which is their immediate goal; second only to their 
ultimate goal of throwing the lsrae!is out of Palestine. 
Saturday they blew up a 707, a DC-8, and VC-10 feeding the ulcers of the members of Lloyd's of London and the Chairmen of the Boards of Swiss Air, Trans World and BOAC. Pan Am had already sat amazingly watching newsreel films of their shiny new 747 crumble after explosives blew holes in her side. To one who isn't sympathetic to the financial giants of the world the loss of the planes might be taken in stride. But add to the destruction the fact that passengers on the 747 were only given minutes to run from the plane. Threats of blowing up the remaining planes with passengers aboard were almost kept as forty hostages were left on the three jets until I 5 minutes before the explosives went off. The word insane 
becomes too kind to apply ·to the guerillas. 
Wars have been started for a lot less than the actions that have 
surrounded the air piracy of the past week. An assasination ignited 
World War I; the sinking of a ship, the Spanish-American War. Of 
course, other conditions were just right too, but if the stage is set 
anywhere it is set in the Middle East. 
A 90-day cease-fire and the opening of peace talks using a U.S. plan for guidelines raised hopes that the situation could be rectified peacefully. Alleged Egyptian violations of the cease-fire and stand­still dimmed hopes a little but not enough to make the situation extremely tense once again. Things were going too well for the PFLP which will stand for no political settlement which would allow Israel to continue to exist. 
And so the plane hijackings, sporadic raids on Israel, and the instigation of a Civil War in Jordan. The hijackings are designed to prod the U.S. into getting actively involved militarily in the situation. One guerrilla leader stated that the PFLP hoped the U.S. would get involved so that they could take care of us like the Viet Cong are in Viet Nam. Only thing this time they won't be jumping out from behind bushes or down out of the trees, they will be lurking in every airport in the world and committing selective acts of terrorism here in America as well as abroad. 
Sporadic guerrilla raids in Israel are aimed in part at getting the 
lsmelis to retaliate against Arab countries where the guerrillas hang 
out. Such action forces the heads of Arab states to side mort' and 
more with the guerrillas. Moderate Arab leaders like King Hussein of 
Jordan who are willing to attempt to settle the crisis without a war 
are faced with guerrilla insurrections. At least three attempts have 
been made to assasinate Hussein by the guerrillas who want Jordan 
and the other Arab states to move against Israel. 
The only hope for the Middle East is for the major powers involved to remain calm and to try to keep their people from getting too wrapped up in the military emotionalism that situations like these engender. It is time too tor the Arab states to repudiate the guemuas and their tactics and for the International community to put pressure on the Arab countries which are reluctant to do so. Acts of terrorism and threats against civilians have to be stopped. 
The average person can only hope that someday the leaders of this 
world come to their senses. At least until then if they want to play 
war they can do it like human beings. 
. '. 

I 
Monday, September 14, 1970 THR OBSERIIBit Page 5 
The Blues Festival 



SO MANY ROADS 
"I can't treat your woman's hair. 
God knows, but I can treat her head" 
The blues fell at Notre Dame this weekend. Like some of the few guarenteed good things left these days (an album by the Band or Bullwinkle on the tube) the Chicago bluesmen put it down for all to dig. Playing for themselves more than anyone else the bluesman makes his instrument an extension of himself and what would be called music if someone else played it, is by the bluesman an expression of feeling, a means of release for the blues. The blues ain't music. The blues are a feeling. And because of that they're hard to write about or talk about. The best thing to do to dig the blues is to listen. Open up and g{"oove. _ 
'.; Of the two nights of blues Notre Dame had, Friday was the best. It started late and stayed loose. The men were playing for themselves and the crowd kept them cooking. And of course Fred McDowell. God, what can you say about Fred? Chronologically Friday's blues were cyclical, beginning and ending with Fred. Otis Rush was out of place in this scheme since h1s blues are tnose or a generation after. J. B. Hutto. Many people left Friday after hearing Otis not being able. to appreciate J. B.; Otis being close enough to the fake crap that white pseudo-blues players, not blues feelers, try to play (Led Zeppelin, Grand Funk, 
John Mayall, Eric Clapton, Johnny Winter, etc.). White blues players, like brown shoes, don't make it. Blues is black, black is blues. It's as simple as that. Sure, we can groove with the music, but how many of us can really feel it like the trumpet player for Otis Rush pushing hi!; horn and himself, trying to blow his guts out? How can you even begin to understand the closeness of man and instrument that allow Houndog's bass player to hold his axe out, hanging there, crying for him, while he shows us the oneness of the two of them saying: Look at me, look at me and my blues? 
Saturday night began close enough to eight to be considered on time and began with, who else, Fred McDowell. After having his mikes cut off by the management the night before-but still boppin' to a close with a bottleneck instrumental of When the Saints Go Marchin' In-he opened up Saturday with some delta blues at its best-not to mention the guest spots he was later to do with Houndog Taylor-a Ia night before with J. B. Hutto, and his ill-fated attempt at a duet with Lightnin' who wasn't going to let anyone steal his (excuse me) thunder. Not only did the announced bluesmen lay it down during the festival but also their sidemen were really working. (By working here we mean not putting on a show, doing a job, as B.S. & T. drily did, cranking out their sound and patter in return for not a few coin; we mean working out an emotion, trying to articulate, as best as a man can do, the blues.) Houndog's· bassman, Hutto's rhythm guitarist, Otis' sax and trumpet, they all put out. (Sammy Lay is not Rush's regular drummer. He was playing with him because things are tight in Chicago right now with a lot of places shut down. Unlike Houndog, who can get gigs any time he wants--he plays five nights out of the week-he could play seven-Sam Lay and the young bluesmen have a hard time finding jobs. So we got an extra bit of joy in hearing Sammy do 
McKinley Morganfield's "Mojo" and Williw Dixon's "Hoochie Coochie Man.") But, you can't talk about the blues, you gotta listen to it and feel it. That's why all that I've said doesn't say too much. 
And if you were there this past weekend I think you can dig that. So instead of jivin' anymore about these bluesmen I'm going to put down a list of records to hear and places to go (the better of the two) to groove with the blues. 
As far as discographies are concerned 

let's not even go into the recordings of 
the prolific Lightnin' Hopkins who, as we 
have already been informed, in that 
"I went into my room, bow down to pray, ... 



... I said the blues, now gimme your right hand. " 
astute article on world records, has been than Lightnin', Bull! on some umpteen thousand labels. Wowie Next in line, using album production as Zowie! It would be great if we really out norm, (our meager humble homage to could rate bluesmen by the number of the experts) is my main man and yours, their records; but things just don't work Fred McDowell. Like his appearances that way. Some of the best performers at everywhere in the festival, Fred has got at the festival, Houndog Taylor for example, least one cut on some twenty-odd have only one cut on one obscure album albums. It's not too much a stretch of the (American's Folk Blues Festival 1967, imagination to see him sidling into an fontana label). Ergo, as some would have album session or festival performance and us believe, Houndog is less of a bluesman . going into his thing. Representative 
byPerry W. Aberli 
albums for Fred are:Fred McDowell Vol II (Arhoolie Fl027):I Do Not Play No Rock And Roll (Capitol St 409); and My Home Is In The Delta (Testament T2208). Fed is undoubtedly the best bottleneck guitarist about and the hippest sextogenarian around, except maybe your grandfather. 
To the best of my knowledge J.B. Hutto and the Hawks have only a few cuts on a Vanguard series call Chicago/The Blues/Today. Jimmy Dawkins has one album on the Delmark label, a Chicago blues label. It's called Jimmy "Fast Fingers" Dawkins (Delmark DS-625). 
Dawkins is a typical example of the true bluesman-there tsn·t any trenzted gmtar playing and jumping about or throaty rasping vocals. Rather he just takes root on a spot on the stage and stares you down as he grinds away. Like most bluesmen, too, Jimmy was born in Mississippi (Tchula to be precise) and came to Chicago in 195 5. There he fell in with a group of bluesment including Magic Sam and Otis Rish. Only 34 we can hope to be hearing a lot more from "Fast Fingers." Incidentally, a new Delmark album is slated to be released by Jimmy in the near future. 
Otis Rush, two years older than Jimmy Dawkins, was born in Philadelphia (Mississippi, that is). He built his musical style by listening to Muddy Water, 
T-Bone Walker, Lightnin' Hopkins, and John Lee Hooker. Moving to Chicago when he was fourteen Otis went to work in the stockyards. In 195 3 Otis formed his first band and a few years later recorded his best song ever, "So Many Roads" for Chess. An interesting point about Otis is that he plays left-handed holding the guitar backwards and upside down, not reversing the strings to "correct" this. Unlike Albert King, who also plays this way, Otis hits the treble strings first, rather than the bass, giving his blues a unique quality not heard elsewhere. Otis appears on the Vanguard blues series already mentioned and also the following: Mourning In The Morning (Cotillion SD9006); Otis Rush (Python); Otis Rush (Blue Horizon (S) 7-63222); and Door To Door (Chess 1538). On this 
last album Otis has six cuts, including So Many Roads, while the ramainder are vintage Albert King. This album is a must! 
Sammy Lay, who played drums for Otis, has only one album of his own, which he considers "shitty", entitled Same Lay In Blues/and (Blue Thumb BTS-14 ). The only song on it Sammy likes is Mojo. The album was made with Mike Bloomfield's band and Sammy doesn't get much of an opportunity to work on it at all. A better album to hear Sam on and to dig some great bluesmen in general is the Chess double alhnm called Fathers and Sons (Chess LPS 12~) One of the discs is a studio job, and the other is a live gig at the Super Joy-Scout Jamboree. Playing on the album are Muddy Waters, Sam Lay, Donald "Duck" Dunn, Mike Bloomfield, Paul Butterfield, Buddy Miles, and that great man, Otis Spann. The superiority of Sam Lay as a drummer becomes blatantly obvious when he is replaced by Buddy Miles in the latter part of the nine minute version of Mojo. Buddy does his best to screw the song up. I'd like to write some more news and tales about the blues, but I've already wandered enough. (Like telling you about the new thl,rty album series by Chess of the vintage blues.) But really, unless the man is dead and gone like Otis Spann or Magic Sam the best thing to do is to make to Chicago and dig these guys in the natural habitat. Almost all of the men here can be seen any weekend in Chicago. Otis Rush can be seen at the Alex Club, Luther Allixon at the L. & A. Lounge, J. 
B. Hutto at Rose & Kelly's and Jimmy Dawkins at Duke's Place. Most of these places require good I.D.'s and you must be 21. The blues live! 
"An' I said: "Well I don't know, Honey, I ain't never hear you play the blues."" 
Page 6 THB O&SZRJIIIt . Monday, September 14, 1970 

Nixon seeks action on legislation package 
drastically amended, and about dences without notice in certain Chairman Emanuel Celler,
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Presi­isfy Presidential demands for leg­
and deten­

dent Nixon, who has complained half of the President's 13 point cases, "preventive Democrat of New York, of the islative action and lawmakers 
program has no chance of pass­tion" of criminal suspects in House Judiciary Committee has
repeatedly of inaction on his who want to adjourn to start crime bills, appears likely to win age. cases where judges feel they jurisdiction over most of the campaigning, scheduled a heavy p<!.ssage of his chief proposals The battle over the crime bills might commit more crimes if bills and he has strong reserva­work load this week plus day b~fore Congress adjourns this has been a long one and has released on trial. tions about some of them. He and night sessions in at least the 
year. aroused some strong emotions. Both of these provisions are in intends to see that some are Senate. 
They include bills to pro­Nixon made "law and order" a the District of Columbia Crime amended, and to let others die. Their prospects for success vide for broad attacks on "organ­majbr issue of his 1968 election Bill,the only administration pro­Celler said he plans a "crash appeared to hinge on two ques­ized crime, the growing narcotics campaign, but civil libertarians posal which has so far become program" to get the organized tions: problem, terrorist bombings in have bitterly assailed some of his law. Congress passed the bill in crime bill through a judiciary -Whether the Senate e would the cities, and mailings of ob­crime proposals as repressive and July. subcommittee this week and the end its prolonged debate over a 
scene materials, as well as a bill unconstitutional. All other presidential crime full committee the following House passed constitutional a­to provide grants to states and Among the most controversial bill,s except the one to provide mendment that would abolish
week. municipalities for law enforce­majors have been so called "no state and local law enforcement Celler said he may attach anti­the electoral college and prmlde ment programs. knock" provisions allowing po­grants, have passed the Senate for direct popular election of
bombing legislatiion to the crime 
lice with warrants to enter resi-and are awaiting House action.
But some of the bills may be bill. "The bombing bill has some presidents. controversial features, and if it -Whether the House would causes too many problems with finish its lengthy consideration
Military 
'scrounges' in N. M. 
the crime bill, we will tackle it of congressional reform legisla­
tion.

separately afterward," he said. House leaders argued that the
Warrant Officer Eugene D1·tn"ck . "L"ttl B ;; d The antibombing proposal is
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (UPI) 1945 1• l,n, ,-, . e oy_ an actually two bills which will be 91 st Congress could adjourn for -A building once us.ed to repair director of the museum at F t M D 1 d th th a an. Iesp aye . Wl e combined: One providing stiffer good by mid-October if the Sen­
Albuquerque's Sandi base. t d f
missiles here now houses what 0
wo _weapons are remm ~rs penalties for bombings and the ate did less talking and moreFor instance, Ditrick said the th t th dits director believes is the largest Honest John surface oto surface e Ime ey were_ use m war other intended to control explo-work. Senate Democratic leader 
public display of the nation's newspape~ headlines, a letter sives sales. Mike Mansfield, taking a similar 
nuclear arsenal. missile on display was found from the ch1ef of staff author-view, said he would try to cut 
And true to the tradition of lying abandoned on the base izing their sue and before and HEAVY WORKLOAD off. debate on the electoral issue 
the armed services, most of the ordnance range. after pictures of the city of week so the
this that Senate 

sophisticated hardware "When we learned it was Hiroshima. WASHINGTON (UPI) -Con­
was could move on to other busienss.

there," he said, "We went out, Across the room from "Little gressional leaders, seeking to sat­
"scrounged," according to Army 
put it on a truck, and toted it Boy" and "Fat Man"is a displayOPEN MEETINGS back to the museum." of the first thermonuclear device Even the museum building _ or hydrogen bomb -tested in 

Maddox: keep out to Nixon 
(Continued from page 1) was scrounged. Ditrick said it the Pacific Ocean in November, ATLANTA (UPI) -Vowing "If you do come;· Maddox groups will use O'Laughiin Audi-originally was designed as a mis-1952. to "meet you on the political said to Nixon, "I beg of you to torium for more functions. sile repair shop. Ditrick said the museum battlefield," Governor Lester spend two days with me." 
"Two other divisions, Admis-. "It had been used as a school hopes to acquire a bomber that Maddox wired President Nixon The Governor said he wanted sions and Scholarships and room, a motor pool and a store-was used during the first tests of and four Republican governors to tell the Administration how Teacher Education are still in house," he said. ''It. beca,e va-the H bomb. The old B 52 is yesterday asking them to stay the "federdl police state" had the planning stages," concluded cant last fall and museum just now based at Kirtland Air Force out of Georgia politics. caused Georgia to lose "millions Carol. sort of moved in." Base adjoining Sandia. Maddox, who won the Demo-of dollars in investments because 
To revitalize this network of The museum opeden October "It will become non-opera-cratic nomination for lieutenant of closed schools." academic committees, the com-6, 1969 and has had over 35,000 tional soon," Ditrick said, "and governor last week, sent the He said he wanted the Presi­mission is opening its meetings visitors since then. Among the it has been promised to us." telegrams after hearing reports dent to hear from disenchanted to all students and will subse-exhibits the museum has com-The goal of the museum is to that the White House had pro-teachers and students who are quently post previously confi-mandeered are full scale models get "one model of each nuclear mised to send GOP emissaries to "robbed, beaten and intimida­dential minutes of every of the two atomic bombs drop-weazpon" developed by te Uni-help Georg!a Republicans in the ted" and bused in some cases 40 meeting. ped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki ted States, Ditrick said. general election. miles a day to school. 
----------------------------------------------------·-·J~---·----------~_.... 
REFRIGERATORS FOR RENT UNLIMITED SUPPLY 
$7.00 PER MONTH 
Share the Cost With Your Roommates 

$10 Damage Deposit Fee (Refundable) 
PLUS Compensation for Vacation Periods Additional ~3.50 refunded after each semester upon return of refrigerator. Example: Have refrigerator for entire year and we IIIIiII refund the $10.00 plus an additional $7.00 -Like having 1 month 
FREE. 

YOU CAN RENT OR BUY 
De1ivery, Service, Maintenance, & Pick-Up ARE FREE 


COMPACT COOL, INC. 
another service of Student Services Commission 
Contact: DICK GORMAN 7757 or 6723 4th Floor Lafortune 4 -6 
or 123 Farley 


Monday, September 14, 1970 THE OBSERVER Page 7. 
Shuttle bus schedule is announced for year 

Well, all you horny-jocks-trying-to-jack-up-your-averages-by-taking-easy-St. Mary's-courses, the _M_qn:f.rL__ 2:15 1: 15 
2:30 1:45

bourgeoise group of capitalistic corporate swine that run the s.P.uttle bus company has just informed us 7:30 AM 
2:45 2:15with conspiratorial arrogance that the shuttle bus schedule fon this year will be the same as the shuttle 7:45 3:00 2:45bus schedule for last year. But since this revialation does little to assuage the doubts and feelings of 8:00 3:15 3:15

existential insecurity in the minds of those who did not take the shuttle bus last year, the schedule is 8:15 
printed below in full. 8:30 3:30 4:15 Also, there are 23 green and white signs and numerous co-eds that mark the bus stops. Watch for them 8:45 3:45 4:45 in peace. 9:00 4:00 Pl1 5:15 
9:15 

4:15 9:30 4:30 6: is 4:45 6:45
9:45



SCHEDULE 

NOTE: The Shuttle Bus has 23 stops along its route ­
5:15 7:1510:00look for the bu·s signs designating these stops. 

5:45 7:4510: 15 10:30 Leaves NO Library Circle: 

6:15 8:15 M.Qn!i~_-Fdlia.v 10:45 6:45 8:45 7:30AM 1:45 10:3(i 10:00 11:00 7:15 9:15 
7:45 2:00 11:00 10:30 11: 15 7:45 9:45 8:00 2:15 11:30 11:00 11:30 8:15 10:15 8:15 2:30 12:00 11:30 11:45 8:45 10:45 8:30 2:45 12:00 12:00 9:15 11: 15 
.S..a1~.SJ!1L_
8:45 3:00 12:15 PM 9:45 11:45 
9:00 3:15 12:00 AM Eti-..S.i.LNiw~_Q.llly 12:30 10:15 12:15 
12:30 PM 12:30 AM
9:15 3:30 12:45 10:45 
cri-=.Sa.LNig_ht§_O.nJy_
1:00 1:00AM
9:30 3:45 1:00 11: 15 12:45 PM
1:30 1:30
9:45 1: 15 11:45 1:15AM · 
2:00 2:00
10:00 4:00PM 1 :3Q. 12:15 AM 1:45
2:30 Sat-Sun
10:15 4:15 

1:45 2:15
3:00 Leaves SMC Parking Lot: 12:15 PM
10:30 4:30 2:00

4:00 12:45
10:45 11:00 5:00 11: 15 5:30 

5:00 11:30 6:00 
4:30 Students favor election recess 
5:30 
6:00 (Continued from page 1) Missy Underman, SMC Stu-nessy said, " and I think we c;;m
11:45 6:30 6:30 "Look at the Dow-CIA pro-dent Services Organization Com-do it again."

12:00 7:00 test. People sat down, ten were missioner, predicted that the ___.....,________"""" 

7:0012: 15PM 7:30 12:30 8:00 
7:30 thrown out of school. Did that plan would be defeated at St. * NOTICE * bring any change? None what-Mary's. When asked if many
12:45 8:30 8:00 
1:00 9:00 8:30 s?ever. Tha~·~ t~e way it's been students would take advantage 5 St SinCe the Clvil nghts mo_vement of the recess to go on vacation, ummer orage
l: 15 9:30 ,:00 
sta~ed.,lt always ~nds m frus-Miss Underman said, "At St. L
1:30 10:00 9:30 
trah_on, ~e~zgersrud. I Mary's definitely." ate Pickup Mon.2-5 
L1ke Wmmgs,_ ~~t~ger down-In saiying that the strike last p~a_yed the poht1c1zmg factor, year was the "greatest thing to at Fieldhouse c1t1ng the presenc~ of ROTC and happen at St. Mary's" Miss Un-$5.00 late fee
Personal contact is goal 
govemment recrUiters on cam-' · d d S 1 0 
pus. derman said she still favored the 
ms. coverage en e ept · speakers from the entire ideolo­writer alld Lee Hardwood, a "Anyone who wants to keep plan. gical spectrum. "Problems have poet. Senator George McGovern the university depoliticized is Mike Shaughnessy, head of 
Tues. SALE

arisen because "liberals" are is at the present time "an uncon-naive and an idiot. ," Metzger the Free University, said that he more abundant and willing to firmed speaker," scheduled to said, "and we can't punish those hoped that a communiversity 
from 4:00-5:30

speak,"' Metzger claimed. Those appear prior to the fall elections. who want to work." I could be established over the 
at Fieldhouse of

speakers of the "conservative" Metzger sees the need "to Metzger also dismissed two week period along the lines stance "have at the same time bring more events into the Burtchaell's objections saying, of the one set up last year. 
All LEFT OVERS 

usually more expensive fees." halls." He has been "urged to do "Father Burtchaell looks at the "Last year we experienced a The commission has confirmed this by the student government plan negatively since he is op-true liberal education," Shaugh­these speakers to appear on cam­administmtions of both NO and posed to it anyway. He just 
pus this fall: Otto Strassler, a SMC." He intends to present a looked for any objection. And political theorist; Wesley Marx, general appeal not only for they're always saying that we're an oceanographer; Alex Haley, a people for the staff, but also negative." 
"for students who would wish to In discussing possible ways toLBJ to speak meet personally with any desig-get the referendum moving, nated guest." He feels that in the Metzger suggested that "just six DALLAS (UPI) · F9r..,er Presi-past this "Jack of personal con-or seven people who worked on dent Lyndon B. Johnson wih tact with speakers has been the the strike last year get together 
greatest drawback to student in-d ·
speak tonight at a preconvention now an start gettmg the litera­banquet of the Texas Democrr-·· terest in the commission's pro-ture out, start getting the thing 
tic party. Johnson will be at the llgr1 m-"••••••••••111iimilioiiviiiniiglniiloilwiiil."••••••.. 
dinner as a SYI':bol of unity between the conservative and liberal factions of the state Democratic orga.tization, which produced a slate of all conserva­tive state wide candidates this year. 
Become involved in 
MANASA 
a1
11 

GAAND OPENING THE STU DENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
FOP.. ALL STUDENT EVENTS 
Open Daily 4 -6 pm Fiesta Lounge 
I I
For more info-call 7757 

~ 

Page£' 711£ O&S'ERII£R 
Monday, September 14, 1970 





Final scrimmage finds N D 'ready' 

Gatewood couldn't quite hang Northwestern will now be­rectly, they did have a 1 0-0 lead Ara was pleased! That should The soph's TD capped a 59 yard 
onto. Pass interference was call­come the topic of discussion for on the Irish in last season's. be a decent enough description drive . 
ed on the play, however. Power­Parseghian and his excellent contest). Reports of the NUconcerning the scrimmage in the The second tally came on a ful Bill Barz then went in from staff. The Wildcats are a much scrimmages show that they havestadium this past weekend. The Theismann to Mike Creaney three yards out. improved ball club over last seas­adequate offensive punch to givefirst team overwhelmed the re· aerial covering 33 yards. Crean· on (and if you remember cor-the Irish a great deal of trouble.
serves 45-13 in a 60 minute ey, who displayed powerful lim­Barz reiistered another score 
minutes later on a nine yard

workout. ning ability by breaking two 
The first was lep by tackles on his to paydirt. scamper. Two more completions
string way senior quarterback Joe Theis· should be a soph to watch. He: by Theismann set up the score. mann. Theismann threw two has been impressive throughout 
Jim Wright felt that the de­
JIM MURRAY Iense should not be content withtouchdown passes complement­the fall workouts and, since 
a mere shutout so he grabbed a

ed by three overland scores and most defenses will have their 
reserve team pass and hustled

a Scott Hempel field goaL Hem­hands full with Irish receiver 
forty yards for another touch­

pel's boot came from 24 yards Tom Gatewood, he may prove.a 
down just as the half was coming 


End of

away. tough one-on-one assignment for 
to a close. The score stood 35-0

The .number one unit opened opposing defensive backs. 
at intermission.

the scoring on a five yard run by The third score was set up on sophomore Dennis Gutowski. a 4 7 yard pass by Joe that The final first team score 
came on a play that ND fans 



A Charade 
hope will occur often this seas·· on. The under-rated Theismann hit Gatewood with a bomb of 68 

@ 1970, Los Angeles Times 
yards. 

TUSCALOOSA -Well, here we are just south of the United 
Pat Steenberge, a sophomore, 

States. Baja America. America's end zone. The University of 
and Bill Etter, a junior, co-engin­

Football. Alabamy-bound.
eered the only reserve team of­

The front-of-the-bus champions of the universe, the Alab11 rna 
fensive score. Steenberge hit Bill 

varsity, is kicking a habit. It's busting up the cotillion, that old gang 
Trapp with two tosses and 

of mine. The bedsheet-and-burning-cross conference is coming out 
Chuck Nightingale, a sparingly 

in the daylight of the 20th century. It's going to play against
used senior rambled 20 yards. 

you-know-what here in guess-where? Birmingham! ' 
This was followed by an Etter to 

It's finally given up on Bobby Lee, Jeff Dr.vis. The news of 
Trapp strike to the four yard 

Appomattox has finally seeped through. They've figured I 00 yerrs is 
line. John Cieszkowski powered 

long enough to give the Confederacy. The Southeastern Conference 
in from this point to markup six 

is handing over its sword. No one's heard from Gen. Hooker in years, for the shocktroops. 
and the Yankees must have captured Nathan Bedford Forrest. 
The other score came on a 20 

The "white only" signs have disappeared all over town and the 
yard pass interception by Pat 

football field was one of the last to go. The USC Trojans' front four 
McGraw. McGraw stole an Etter 

won't have to stage a sit-in at Legion Field Saturday night. They've 
playing for the

pass. Etter was been invited there. They don't have to be home by the time the sun 
varsity unit at the time. 

sets. They'll be trading nosebleeds with white, Ang]o-Srxon,
six interceptions

There were Protestant Southerners whose great-grandpappies would have bought 
in the entire contest. Two of and sold them. 

these came off Theismann. 

The Birmingham of Bull Run and Bull Connor is as long gone as Coach Parseghian wasn't dis­
the plantations of the Mississippi. It's as dead as Stephen Foster. It gruntled by these however. He lies rotting on the riverbottom along with the Monitor or the 
said that only one was a mistake. 

Merrimac. It is through fighting with the American ideal. It is 
On the others. the defense was 

coming to terms with history. It is asking for terms from a society it 
"executing" properly, accordirag 

sought to ignore.
:to the coach. 

You would think it would be an event all Alabama would draw 
The most notable remark a­

the curtain on-like a Yankee soldier riding in tho: courtyard. An 
bout this, the last contact scrim­

event to boycott, to pretend wasn't happening. 
mage before the season opens 

Guess again. You can't buy a ticket for it. They're all gone. They 
that the second

this week, was can't wait to see whether they got a real football team down here c 
team defense showed much im­whether they've been watching a 50-year charade. 

provement. and this proves 

Alabama would take the field against a team that permitted itsel 
depth for the many injuries that 

the liberty of non.(:aucasians-but always far enough away so the 
have occurred so far this season. 

natives wouldn't have to walk around it. . The USC team it faces Saturday is so massively integrated, it is f1eld-generalled by a black player. And even the 'Barna coach is
AP Poll 

running around trying to buy tickets. You could 5et rich with a
The Associated Press came 

dozen tickets in the end zone.
out with its first poll of the 

Coach Paul (Bear) Bryant is a rumpled old party who looks as if 
young college football season. 

he takes a shower with his clothes on every morning, then dries
This was a pre-season poll, thus 

himself rolling around the ground. He is a multi-millionaire who if
the past weekend's games were 

you saw him coming, you would cross the street for fear he wo~ld
not taken into consideration. 

panhandle you. 
The poll is based on total 

Old Bear looks reliever!.. His state has finally d•!cided to join
number of points awarded on a 

football. Paul Bryant was fixing to retire a year ago as soon as he
10, 9, 8, ... basis for the first 

found someone as good as himself to coach 'Barna. But, afte peering
place votes. This is the sports­

under a few managers, and quzzing an occasional group of three wise writers poll. 
John CiezSkowski scored the only offensive touchdown for the men on camelback, he decided not to count on any miracles ancl second team in Saturday's game condition scrimmage. Cieszkowski Seven different teams polled stay on the job himself.
has also been performing for the defensive unit as a linebacker at least one first place vote with I have the feeling a few black freshmen players enrolled at
besides being a reserve for fullback BiD Barz. pre-season favorite Ohio State Alabama persuaded Old Bear to stick around and see the fun. It will
garnering nine. Defending 

be nice to put his brass-knuckle team around a couple of boys who 
National Champion Texas was 

ran so fast througJ, the Alabama hills, the neighbors didn't get to see
next in line with seven. 

what they looked like unless the flashed a light on them in their

MAJOR LEAGUES 
Notre Dame was placed at 

sleep.
sixth in the voting. The dark­AMERICAN LEAGL/E horse Irish registered one No. I Alabama is coming out of its coccoon with a will, scheduling
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
tab. near-fut•Jre games with California, Washington, the big 10 and 
East w L Pet. GB East w L Pet. GB These are the top 20 teams nobody else that wants a busted nose. Bear looks to have a livelier Baltimore 95 61 .654
Pittsburgh 77 68 .531 with first place votes in paren­t1me than he did when he rassled the bear back in Fordyce
New York 81 65 .555 14
New York 77 69 .528 y. theses. Arkansa~, and, after I 0 minutes, the spectators couldn't tell which
Boston 75 71 .514 201
Chicago 76 69 .525 I. Ohio State (9) 646 was which. Rumor has it the bear's handler (the real bear's)
Detroit 75 71 .514 20
St. Louis 70 77 .477 8 requested that the next time Bryant be muzzled, too.
Cleveland 71 76 .483 24% 2. Texas (7) 599Philadelphia 66 81 .448 12 
Washington 68 77 .468 26% 3. Southern California (6) T~e Bear, baggy pa~ts, 200 pounds of wrinkles, looking like a
Montreal 64 81 .442 13 
551 walkmg laundry bag, Will be on trial on the sidelines Saturday night~ West 4. Arkansas (I) The Coach:>f-t~e-Decade complains that he lost last year's
West 378 
Cincinnati 93 55 .630 Minnesota 87 58 .600 5. Mississippi (I ) 361 defense which IS a good thing because last year's defense gave up 
Los Angeles 78 67 .539 13% *Oakland 80 66 .549 7% 6. Notre Dame (I) mor~ ground than Mussolini's Army-almost 400 yeards a game.California 7
San Francisco77 67 .535 9% 341 Bears defens~s used to knock you off that many in a season . 
69 . 528 15 7. Penn State 308
*Kansas City 57 88 .392 30
Atlanta 72 76 .486 21 8. Michigan 237 B.ut the pomt. of the game will not be the score, the Bear, or the
Milwaukee 54 90 .374 32Y,
Houston 70 76 .479 22 Trojans; the pomt_ of the game will be Reason, democracy, Hope. 
Chicago 53 93 .363 J4.) 9. Nebraska 216 San Diego 57 89 .31:!9 35 
The real wmner will be the South. It'll be their first since the .second *Second game not included II . Missouri <~ay at Gettysburg, or maybe, The Wilderness. 
I 0. Stanford 201 

Chicago 3 Pittsburgh 2 
12.LSU(I)

St. Louis 5 New York 4 (11 inn.) 
California 2 Milwaukee 1 
13. Houston

Houston 10 Atlanta 6 Chicago 8 Minnesota 7 14. Kansas State Montreal 4 Philadelphia 2 Washington 10 Detroit 0 
15. Florida

San Diego 5 Cincinnati 4 Clevelrnd 3 New York
Los Anoeles 5 San Fran. 3 (10 inn.) 16; Alabama 
Baltimore 13 Boston 2 
17. South Carolina 

Kansas City 8-4 Oakland 7-7 
18. UCLA

Second game in 6th inn. 
19. Arizona State, 




