Willis Nutting on Free City 
The ideas that make up the concept of the Free City came gradually over a long period of teaching. In that period many things that happened seemed good and many seemed bad. Most of this time was spent at Notre Dame. But behind this was 
the years of being a student, in this country and in England. 
As I taught at Notre Dame, I came to feel more and more that the teaching-learning process was caught and was being strangled by a most rigid form-the course-and-credit system. The only learning that "counted" was that which was connected in some way with the course. The student might learn very much outside of courses, but there was no way in which this could appear on the 
record.  He  might  have  read  a  lot  of  
history,  for  instance,  but  unless  he  
"took"  some  courses  in  history  and  

passed them, what he gained from this 

reading could not in any way be recognized. His extra-course intellectual growth might as well not have happened as far as the official evaluation of his accomplishment was concerned. 
And I, a teacher, was almost completely confined to my courses in my association with the students. This was intolerable cramping. There was so much teaching and learning that was possible at Notre Dame which could not possibly be channeled into courses. Then I remembered that in my experience at Oxford there had been no courses and no credits. You learned in every way you could, and the final exam gave opportunity to express all you had learned. 
The course and credit system was cramping in another way too. Since my contact with students was in courses which were only parts of education, I had no opportunity to help a student in his whole education, or even to know him as a whole man. And his acquaintance with me was restricted in the same manner. I felt completely frustrated as a teacher. Then the General Program was set up, and for the first time I could really know my students, and really teach them as men rather than as individuals taking a course in History. 
But the course and credit system 
was not the only hindrance to real teaching. There was the rather fierce competition among the teachers, first to get more of their own courses put on the required list, and second, to get their share of the student's time. If a student is taking five courses at once, then there are five teachers demanding his attention at once. And since the amount of attention is usually in proportion to the fierceness of the demand, each teacher was tempted to pile on work so that the student would give him what he (the teacher) regarded as his due proportion of attention. Thus the student was pulled apart by different teachers piling on work, and the greater attention was given not to the courses that were most profitable for the student but to the courses where the heaviest demands were made. This was particularly evident to me because my style of teaching is relaxed, low-pressure, informal and not demanding. I found that because I didn't pile on the work, the students were compelled to devote most of their time to other courses. I was faced with a choice: I could join the crowd in making fiercer demands and thus take part in tearing the student's life into pieces, or I could reconcile myself to having the student devote less time to my courses. I always chose the latter because 
(continued on page 7) 

• 
Discuss problems 
Jl!NIXON SENDS
~  .~  
I'  ,j  
U.S.  TROOPS  


INTO CAMBODIA 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-President Nixon announced last night that several thousand American ground combat troops have entered Cambodia to wipe out Communist headquarters for all military operations qainst South Vietnam. 
The President also announced he would provide "small arms and other equipment" to enable the Cambodian government "to defend its neutrality." 
"This is not an invasion," the President told the nation and the world in a broadcast from his White House office. "The areas in which these attacks will be launched are completely occupied and controlled by North Vietnamese forces ..." 
Administration officials, amplifying the President's remarks, said several thousand Americans along with some South Vietnamese troops struck at '/ p.m. EUT into a long held Communist sanctuary 20 miles inside Cambodia and about 55 miles northwest of Saigon. The President expects the operation to 
Trustees meet with SLC 
by Ed Ellis 
Four members of the Student Life Council and three hall presidents met with the Ad lloc Committee of the Board of Trustees yesterday and student leaders came away from the closed meeting confident that they had made an impression on the Trustees. 
According to Student Body President Dave Krashna, three major topics were discussed at the four-hour, closed meeting: parietal hours, hall life, and the recent letter from the Board of Trustees to the Student Life Council. In all these cases, Krashna said the Trustees, Chair­man of the Board Edmund Stepan, Dr. Thomas Carney, and Mr. Paul llellmuth, were very receptive to student ideas. llall Presidents Council Chairman Torn Suddes, President of lloly Cross llall, agreed with Krash­na's evaluation of the meeting, describing the Trustees as "very understanding." Sud des said that the main context of the meeting was that of the Trustees listening to the students describe their problems. 
One of the major develop­ments of the session was what 
Krashna described as "almost a now be associated with the 
commitment" on the part of the Notre Dame community. 
Trustees to improve conditions Krashna also said he had 
of hall life. Krashna said that the asked Mr. Stepan, Chairman of 
board wanted to get the "best the Board of Trustees, for an 
man in the country" for Direct­open meeting of the Board, but 
or of Student Residence and that this request had been 
that this individual would not (continued on page 9) 

McKenzie leaves CSC's 
MADISON, Wis. (UPI) -A renowned Jesuit theologian and critic of the Roman Catholic church hierarchy has asked per­mission to leave his order and live as a priest in the Madison dioceses, Bishop Cletus O'Don­nell has confirmed. 
lie is the Rev. John L. McKenzie, a Jesuit for 41 years and a scripture scholar in the University of Notre Dame theol­ogy department. 
O'Donnell said McKenzie will not actually work in the diocese, but will continue teaching and writing. It would be an admin­istrative assignment, although the bishop said nothing is final yet. McKenzie probably would teach at DePaul University in Chicago. 
McKenzie has recently dis­agreed with Pope Paul's claim that the decline in vocations to the priesthood was because of a desire for "soft living." McKen­zie said he has seen the Pope's limousine going down Rome streets at 40 miles an hour accompanied by a motorcycle escort. 

"Come off it, Your lloliness," McKenzie wrote. "You can read lessons to no one about soft living." 
Father McKenzie presently teaches a course on the prophets of the Old Testament. 
He is renowned for his disci­plined and self-sacrificing life among the Jesuits. 
Father McKenzie is the author of many books, including his powerful work on the New Testament, The Power and the Wisdom. 
last between six weeks and two months. 
Nixon said the actions were "in no way directed at the security interest of any nation." He warned: "Any government that chooses to usc these actions as a pretext for harming rela­tions with the United States will 
· be doing so on its own res­ponsibility and at its own initiative, and we will draw the appropriate conclusions." 
Nixon's speech was broadcast live nationwide and by satellite to at least a half dozen Far Eastern and Southeast Asian countries. The Voice of America carried the address worldwide, including the Soviet Union and Communist China. 
The President said his de­cisions were "indispensable" for assuring the success of his program to withcraw U.S. troops from Vietnam and to end the war rather than having it drag on endlessly. 
The President noted that I 0 days earlier, in his report to the nation on Vietnam, that he had warned he would take strong and effective measures to deal with any increased enemy activity in Laos, Cambodia or South Vietnam which en­dangered American troops. 
"Despite that warning, North Vietnam has increased its mil­itary aggression in all three 
areas-particularly m Cam­bodia," he said. 
"I have concluded that the actions of the enemy in the last I 0 days clearly endanger the lives of Americans who are in Vietnam now and would con­stitute an unacceptable risk to those who will be there after our withdrawal of 150,000" men over the next year. 
As if answering an outpouring of criticism from Capitol Hill over his decisions to further involve the United States in Southeast Asia, Nixon said, "I have rejected all political con­siderations in making this de­cision." 
He said he would rather be limited to one term in the White House "than to be a two therm President at the cost of seeing America become a second rate power" and suffer its first 
defeat. 
Criticism of Nixon's policies in Southeast Asia, which had been stilled for some time, resumed with a fervor Wednes­day when the United States disclosed it was allowing Amer­ican advisers to go into Cam­bodia with South Vietnamese units and providing air and other support for them. 
Nixon's statement that the 
U.S. involvement was on a far, far larger scale, triggered re­newed opposition. 
Administration officials gave 
(continued on page R) 




Birdwalk opens Free City 
by Jim Holsinger 
Today is "Free City Day," billed by its organizers as a day of learning and living in a free environment. Early risers began the day's activities with a 5:30 AM "birdwalk" with Professor Nutting, and the program is planned to continue all night with what the day's organizers termed "spontaneous activities" on the main quad. 
Early this morning, partici­pants were scheduled to wander 
in  the  countryside  east  of  
campus,  looking  for  birds and  
casually  discussing  education  

and the university experience. A free breakfast was to follow in 
front of LaFortune Student Center. 
The organizers of "Free City Day" say that they want to "illustrate the need for reform and better education." The title "Free City Day" comes from a book by Professor Willis D. Nutting of the General Program. Nutting's book The Free City presents his own views on free 
education  and  educational  re­ 
form.  
"A  lot  of the concepts and  

ideas for the day are based on Professor Nutting's book," a spokesman said. 
The day's organizers posted a schedule for the day's events saying that "though most of the 

N.D. extends apology 
As a student, and as a student leader at the university of Notre Dame, I must apologize for the total insensitivity of the students involved in Sunday night's "panty raid." Speaking to certain students involved, I'm convinced that the majority were appalled by, or unaware of, the extensive theft and personal assaults that occurred. However, even these people should have been responsible enough to prevent the actions of their cohrts. Student government will attempt to recover and return the stolen goods, and possibly make monetary restitution for the remaining loss. The Hall Presidents Council is working on this project now in
1
order to put direct pressure on those responsible. 
But apologies go but so far-then we must look at the deeper causes for what can no longer be regarded as a curious social phenomenon. This manifestation of both. misguided energy and sexual mis-conceptions is a direct product of the extremely unnatural relationship between our two student bodies. We must 
find ways to deal with each other in a genuinely human manner, the mossy monastic institutions on our campuses must be changed, and the social tensions and the inability of many Notre Dame men to relate in a truly personal way with a woman must be remedied. Jointly we must become sensitive to each others concerns and conscious of our mutual interests within our 
1 

community. 
I am not speaking now of a merger or of coeducation but ofl the potential abilities of individuals to express maybe a sincere 'hello,' or basically, of interacting in human fashion. This naturally precludes such polarizing labels as "sweating and excited males" and "the bitches across the road." So please let this serve as a sincere apopogy and as a call for us to begin building a truly human community. 
Sincerely, Dave M. Krashna student body president 1970-71 
activities in The Free City will be spontaneous, (for this is the way learning takes place in a Free City), here is a partial agenda for scheduled events." The agenda urges students to ''free themselves to participate" in a number of dialogues with Notre Dame faculty members on various aspects of educational reform, and to attend "educa­tional entertainment" on the main quad this afternoon. 
"Free City" has scheduled several musical groups and fine arts displays, and planned a free lunch of hot dogs and Pepsi on the main quad. 
Leaders of "Free City Day" expect a good turnout for today's events, and claim that they have planned on nearly a thousand persons for lunch. The day's events are open to every­one. A spokesman for the group told Observer reporters yester­day that all of the actlvities will take place in the fieldhouse if it rains. 
Organizers of "Free City Day" note that it is not a demonstration, and offer a long list of what a "Free City" is. They say it is "tuning in to nature and tuning in to what education really ought to be." It is "getting together and asking about God, Man, Society, and the universe." 
Steve Raymond, one of the day's organizers, offered a quote from Professor Nutting's book The Free City to explain the philosophy of today's activities: 
"The essential element in our institution of higher learning will not be a campus or a set of 
(continued on page 9) 


Profe11110r Nattinl 
Krashna comments on Trustee meeting 
by Glen Corso 
Campus Editor 
Student Body President Dave Krashna last night explained what he had to tell the Board of 
Trustees when he spoke to them at 9 o'clock this morning. Krashna said that he would like to tell the trustees "what he would like the Notre Dame community to become." 
He elaborated on this concept saying that he would include "the need for us to become co-educational as quickly as we can, the need to finance min­ority students' educations, and the need to investigate the whole trustee structure as best I can to tie this to the groups outside." 
Krashna said that his idea of an investigation of the .Trustee structure entailed the type of decisions the body made, and the structure of the body. 

HPC asks return 
We ask that the section released this statement to THE 
HPC Chairman Tom Suddes 

leaders, or any other interested OBSERVER last night persons, try to obtain any of the concerning the "Panty Raid." articles taken during the 
supposed "merriment" and turn 
The Hall President's. Council them into their respective hall wishes to stress once again that president-NO QUESTIONS the infamous "panty raid" of ASKED. The HPC will then turn this past week was not a grand them over to their SMC finale to An Tostal weekend, counterparts in the hope that . 
d ld lik h I

~:stor:e s~~~ of e t~~ 1~~ }~~n;i~h~!~~ Y~:~~r:dv~~~e f~~ confidence in the Notre Dame any assistance you may be able community. to give. 
Krashna also said that he would raise the "question of helping minority students and students who may potentially come here, creativity on campus and academic reforms." 
"Over all what I want to do is to stress why, I· -see the need of having an open hearing, or session of that meeting," Krashna stated. 
Krashna disputed the decision of Mr. Stepan, Chairman of the Board, not to hold an open meeting with the students. 
"The way the structure is now with the Trustees, they have given inputs to student opinions, 
e.g. the student representation on the Student Affairs sub­committee. The whole question is if they should have just committee inputs, or if they should have direct inputs by having students on the body," Krashna commented. 
When asked how he felt about a student rally outside the 
meeting  tomorrow  Krashna  
replied:  
"I'm in a  state  of  limbo  

because 1 would like to see an open session tomorrow, but if there isn't one 1 plan to represent the student with my appearance at 9 o'clocl<. 1 do not 
see it in a form of a rally which may develop into us taking over 
the meeting," he said. When asked if he felt there 
was a possibility of a student rally turning into a violent affair Krashnasaid:
"I don't want to take the chance of it on behalf of the student body at the present time. I am honestly going to prevent this from happening." 
(continued on page 7) 


FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1970 7118 OBSERriEit PageJ 

New Urban Studies program set 
by Reid lichtenfeld 
"Vie propose to he a resource to students-to let them know what is available-to sit down with them and work out programs of study that respond to their interest in Urban Studies," Dr. Thomas Broden said today. Dr. Broden is the director of the newly approved Program of Uhan Studies. 
Work Program. The Work Program will allow a student interested in Urban Studies to participate in community projects as an "intern", cooperating with such groups as Urban League, Migrant Workers Center, A.C.T.I.O.N., Inc., and the South Bend Chamber of Commerce. 
Dr. Broden was encouraged 
big picture in regards to urban concerns." 
A Program of American Studies was also approved by the Academic Council last Monday. Dean Crosson of the College of Arts and Letters explained that a major purpose in proposing the program was "to open up the 

S. Viet's attack 

number of options available to students seeking a field of study." 
The Program will be interdepartmental in accepting credit for courses from the departments of English, Government and History. Two new seminars will be taught by Professor Ronald Weber, director of the program. 
Dean Crosson said that the program will "attempt to draw together the historical, cultural and political components to focus upon a unified sense of the American experiencelt will also explore works "which fall between the chairs of the various departments." 
by the enthusiastic support"Our approach assumes that which has been offered thetechnology alone is not the program by both Universitysolution to urban problems, and departments and communitythat it woulu be a great mistake organizations. Cooperation ofto put all of our trust in both these factions is essential totechnological sources," he the program, since all credit forcontinued. 

study or work within the 

The Urban Studies Program Program will he given through will attempt to give the the student's individual ''personal and human department. Dr. Broden also dimensions" of community life a emphasized the service/learning "high priority" through Urban value of the community work as Studies Seminars and an Urban "allowing the student to see the 

Blackmun approval delayed 
W ASIIINGTON (UPI) -The Senate Judiciary Committee yes­terday delayed approval of Judge !larry A. Blackmun's Supreme Court nomination until Tuesday, but his confirmation still appeared certain and swift. With still no opposition in sight, one of Blackmun's supporters, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W. Va., asked for the delay on the vote, although the members of the committee were ready to approve him immediately. 
·•. . . In view of the delays that occurred on the last two Supreme Court nominations no nomination should he voted' on within 24 hours after the hear­ing," Byrd explained. "Every member should have a chance to read the written transcript. I want to see the fine print." 
In contrast to the bitter deliberations on Judges G. Har­rold Carswell and Clement F. flaynsworth Jr., the committee ended its public hearings on Blackmun's nomination after just three and a half hours Wednesday. 
Byrd was one of the 17 committee members who quick­ly went on record as assuring his nomination would be reported favorably to the full Senate. 


V.C. embattle town 
PIINOM PEN II (UPI) 
Cambodian paratroopers allempted yesterday to drive six miles from the embattled town to Angtassom, 40 miles south of Phnom Penh, to the provincial capital of Takeo but were forced back by heavily entrenched Viet Cong straddling the road. 
An eyewitness report said about ISO Cambodian 
paratroopers  launched  the  
unsuccessful  drive  from  the  
Angtassorn  area,  where  

Cambodian forces have been battling Viet Cong troops for the past week, and headed for Takeo, six miles to the east. 
UP! photographer Toshio Sakai said the paratroopers headed slowly toward Takeo along the main access road. But about a mile out they were pinned down by heavy small arms fire from an estimated 30 Viet Cong in deep bunkers on both sides of the road. 
The Cambodians exchanged small arms fire with the Viet Cong and called in mortar attacks on the bunkers. But the Communist position appeared too heavily fortified for the mortars to be effective and the Cambodians pulled back to their command post on the outskirts of Angtassom in late afternoon. 
Sakai reported that the Cambodian troops lost only one wounded in the midday battle that failed to drive a wedge through the Communist ring around Takeo. 
In Phnom Penh, a military spokesman said the Cambodian government "cannot approve" of the drive into Cambodia by South Vietnamese troops with United States support to wipe out Communist bases used to 
stage attacks on Allied positiOns in South Vietnam. "My government cannot approve because we are a neutral country," said the spokesman, Maj. Am Rong. 
lie said he would refer to the government of Premier Lon Nol, which seized power in a coup March 18 as to whether Cambodia would formally protest action. 

Cambodian border crossed 
SAIGON (UPI) A I0,000 
man South Vietnamese assault 
force whose commander said the 
operation would last ''many 
days" drove 25 miles into 
Cambodia yesterday and began 
closing a vice around an esti­
mated 15,000 Communist 
troops. U.S. advisers, air power 
and artillery assisted. 
Official communiques said tv.,.o Americans were wounded in the Cambodian foray, designed to wipe out North Vietnamese and Viet Cong bases in the so-called "Parrot's Beak" salient which juts into South Vietnam. The offensive began Wednesday. 
Four South Vietnamese army columns of about 2,500 men each, led by tanks, were coor­dinated in the attack with one of them rolling down Highway I against little or no resistance through the town of Chipou IS miles from the border and the racing on to Prasaut IS miles further into Cambodia. 
Two other columns branched off llighway I to sweep through Communist base camps while a fourth, knifing across the fron­tier from the Mekong Delta province of Kien Tuong about 51 miles west of Saigon, tried to cut off the Parrot's Beak salient. 
Three battalions of U.S. in­frantrymen from the 25th Divi­sion took up locking positions on the South Vietnamese side of the border and waited to cut down any Communists atte t­ing to escape the jungle cordon. 

South Vietnamese headquart­ers said more than 500 North Vietnamese and Viet cong had been killed through Thursday afternoon. South Vietnamese losses were placed at more than 50 killed and scores wounded. 
The commander of the South Vietnamese forces, Lt. Gen. Do Cao Tri, described the operation as a classic search and destroy mission of the type conducted over long periods in South Vietnam. 
"We will need many days to search the area thoroughly," Tri told correspondents as he led thousands of troops down lligh­way I toward Cambodian pro­vince capital of Svay Rieng in an attempt to clear it of Com­munist soldiers. ''We will try to control the area. to trap them inside and destroy them." "The Reds didn't expect us to stay so long or go so deep. They're avoiding contact except when trapped." 
Washington dispatches said President Nixon Thursday was assuring Congress that his admin­istration did not plan to involve the United States in a "long term quicksand operation" in Cambodia. About 100 U.S. mili­tary advisers were reported in­volved in the foray which was described as a mission "to save American lives." 
U.S. headquarters limited offi-
NEW ENGLAND CLUB 
NOMINATIONS-LAST TIME 
THROUGH TUESDAY, MAY 5 
CALL TOM at 232-1531 TOM at 6740 JACK at 6809 
Tlnn~. April 30 thru Sat. Mav 2 Lot ~outh of stadium 
FORD TOTAL PERFORMANCE SHOW 
-Jimmy Clark's 1965 Champion Indianapolis 500 Lotus 38-High Performance cars and parts displays -First Campus Appearance ever direct from Atlanta 500, Daytona and all major tracks. -High performance consultants-Formula F 

... 

FREE ADMISSION 10 AM -9 PM 

cial comment on the operation Thursday to a one paragraph communique which said two Americans were wounded and added, "There were no aircraft losses." 
Saigon communiques said the task force seized 135 Commun­ists weapons and more than 200 tons of rice and other supplies and destroyed 160 houses and 350 bunkers in base camps which North Vietnamese and Viet Cong troops have used as sanctuary for forays into South Vietnam. 



Bridgeto Justice 
The law~ a bridge-a connection-to help us, as a nation, reach our social goals and resolve the troubles that divide our society. 
The law spells out your rights and protects them. 
The law draws the line between your rights and the next man's. 
Without law there is no liberty, no freedom, no bridge. 

The nation has come a long way under law. Of course, there is still a considerable distance to travel. The road ahead is clear. It leads across the bridge-to justice for all. 
The bridge is vital to the journey to be traveled by you and your country. 
LAW 




DAYf MAYl 
-·-----­



Page4 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper DAVID C. BACH, -Editor GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Cambodia 

From the windo~s of The Observer office, as I write these words, 
I can hear the mustc of Luther Allison, singing the blues the songs 
of suffering in the American ghetto. ' 
In Flanner Tower, men are gathered to celebrate the mass in 
honor of the Suffering Servant of Israel. 
In South Vietnam and Cambodia, tens of thousands of men are 
eng~ged in . battle. The American forces are fighting, suffering, 
feanng, dymg. They have been sent by the President and 
Commander-in-Chief of our nation to eliminate the North 
Vietnamese and VietCong "sanctuaries." Our President we are told 
has been in anguish over this decision to attack. And at this moment' 
the enormous suffering of the soldiers that are dying and inflictin~ 
?eath upo~. other men must bear especially heavy upon him. If there 
IS a~y abiltty for men to empathize with the fear and pain and 
a_ngu1sh an~ dread that pervades men in battle, even though they 
ftght ~nd d_1e thousands of miles away from this campus, then this 
mght IS _a nt~ht of pain and anguish and sadness for many men and 
women m th1s community. 
Professor Charles McCarthy, the Director of the Non-Violence 
Program .~his year, _uses t~e phrase "allowing suffering to enter your 
presence to descnbe th1s empathy. For us, suffering is a difficult 
phenomenon ~o empathize with, for our lives have been carefully 
protec~ed agamst the mtense suffering that accompanies warfare or 
starvation or the death of a son or brother in battle. 
Once we have attempted to get a feeling in our gut for what is gomg _on m South Vietnam and Cambodia, once we have allowed suffenng to ~nter into our presence, what is our reaction? Right now, the_ feelt~g ~f. helplessness pervades. As Father Daniel Berrigan sa1_d. dunng h1s v1s1t here, he was "walking the tightrope between s~1c1d_e and insanity." His life, and the lives of many other men like htm, IS characterized by anxiety because he has chosen to care about the suffering of his brothers in Cambodia and Vietnam, and his concern has resulted in an action in Catonsville that will send him to 
pnson for many years. But this is not to judge Father Berrigan's actions as right or correct; they are simply his response to human suffering, and his r~sponse has resulted in taking great amounts of suffering upon hunself. Other men respond in other ways, but every man must respond to the enormous human suffering that pervades our world. Over the United Press wire now, the reactions of the dovish Congressmen are coming in. President Nixon's decision is termed :'gh_astl~ ," "a tragic mistake," etc. And if the past few days are any 
mdtcahon, the Congressmen will be ignored. The checks and balances theory is now defunct in my mind for the President has violate~ the wishes ?f t~e vast majority' of Congressmen by 
expandmg the war. Thts action should be iudged in violation of the Constitution and President Nixon should be impeached for violating the laws that he was elected to uphold. Congress should reassert its power by regaining some control over such consequential policy decisions. But we all know that these actions will not be attempted, and we have a sense that we are helpless, that the war machine rolls on impervious to the wishes of little men like ourselves. It is men of power that made this decision to attack. Men who control huge amounts of economic and political power, men who define their lives by how much power they control, men to whom terms like "victory," "American dignity," "America as a second rate power," etc., are ultimately meaningful. So meaningful that they will resort to any means to retain and enforce that sense of power. 
"Power corrupts," we are told. Restated, men of power will go to any means to gain and keep the power that they hold so precious. The infliction of enormous amounts of human suffering upon the powerless peasants of Southeast Asia is carried on because the men of power have decided it necessary to their existence as powerful men. Powerful men do not admit mistakes, they do not accept defeat, they do not accept humiliation, and they are willing to violate the lives of millions to preserve their sense of power. It may be impossible for our nation to extract itself from this war as long as such men of power are in control of our government. 
The opinions expressed in the  
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer  Features Editor: T.C. Treanor  editorials,  news  analyses,  and  
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck  Sports Editor: Terry Shields  columns of THE OBSERVER are  
Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker  Night Editor: Patty Lipscomb  solely  those  of the  au tJ-. _ · and  
Campus Editor: Glen Corso  Layout: Patty Cervelli, Daniel V.,  editors of THE OBSERVER and  
News Editor: Steve Hoffman  John Abowd  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  
SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney  Headlines:  Bill Dues, Pat Geary,  views of St.  Mary's College, the  
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode,  John Abowd  University  of Notre  Dame, their  
Ann Conway  Night Controller:  Joey and Tom  administration,  faculty,  or  
student bodies.  

FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1970 


But what worries me is that bald headed eagle standing on my finger!! 

Carrlpus Opinion 
:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:=:=:=:=:::=:::=:i:=:=:::::::::=:::::::::::::= Edited by Glen Corso 
Though the ROTC issue has faded into the backround on this campus, it still remains a real and pertinent issue-witness the recent firebombing of the ROTC building on the campus of the University of California at Santa Barbara. The move against ROTC is intimately linked with the entire left wing movement against the military establishment in this country. Many of the questions raised are legitimate ones. Critics doubt the academic legitimacy of the ROTC courses offered, and further claim that the military tradition of "blind obedience" is inconsistent with the questioning attitude of a university. 
For a defense of ROTC I have reprinted portions of a speech delivered to an audience at the University of Minnesota in March 1969 by General James K. Woolnough, Commanding General United States Continental Army Command. 
"Today, once again, the ROTC program is under violent attack on some campuses by a militant minority, aided in many cases by idealistic students and faculty members who, to quote 'TIME' magazine ·-in order to get myself off the hook--visualize the ROTC as symbolizing the University's complicity in alleged US militarism, particularly the Vietnam War. 
" ... The Educators to whom I have talked often have expressed the opinion that the crying need in colleges and universities today is for bona fide student leaders who stand for the views of the great majority of the students ... Since the primary objective of the ROTC program is to procure and develop for the Armed Forces future leaders who are well in formed and are motivated in the service of their country, I would think that it would be logical to look for the required leadership here in this group. 
" ... What would the nation do without ROTC-and where would if find the resources to fill its officer requirements? "Speaking of the army alone in the military establishment, West Point will gr~duate 760 new second lieutenants this year-to meet a total current army requirement of over 30,000. 
"The deficit might be made up entirely through officer candidate schools, and I would like to go strongly on record that the produce to these schools has been outstanding. But, as a group-because of their average eduational level-they do not have the potential for future development that the ROTC group has. From the viewpoint of the nation, do we want our entire officer corps made up of a mix of primarily OCS graduates, all of whom must enter this program through the enlisted ranks, and many of whom have only high school education, with just a small leavening of West Point graduates? Without the pressures of the draft, I wonder how many college graduates would elect to enlist for a period of 3 years, which is now required, in the hopes of winning a commission through OCS? Isn't it better to have an officer corps made up primarily of the cream of the composite product of our nations institution of higher learning, with the breadth of educational backround and social experience that this amalgation produces? 
"If ROTC is taken off the campus which is the goal of the more militant protestors, how about the rights of those students who prefer to prepare themselves for military service while in college, and to enter the service as a commissioned officer? Must they accept a forced entry at a lower level than their education and ability would otherwise make possible? 
"The military is a profession-the second oldest in the world according to some historians-and this leads to a discussion of why ROTC should be given academic credit. 
"Leadership training, which ROTC basically is , prepares the student for meeting the later demands of civilian as well as military life, as borne out by the statistics I quoted earlier. I would further submit that no course in applied psychology could exceed the intellectual stimulation of your practicalleadership training in summer camp, and I can assure you that if you later are good and fortunate enough to command a company in the Army, you will be at the post-graduate level of study in this field!" 
FRIDAY, MAY 1_, 1970 
PAGE 5 


Another swiftie by Ed Ellis 
A Modest proposal: to cope with Sultan Stephan 
In this second of a two-part article, Ed t:llis explains the rationale for his proposal to make all students at Notre Dame adopted sons of the Board of Trustees. 
Now at first one might doubt the 
logistical feasibility 1 of 15 trustees 
donating over 6000 progeny to the cause 
of their own egos. But I have provided for 
this contingency. Obviously no group of 
tired, old men (no matter how potent) 
could ever satisfy the~ needs of the 
Admissions office. I propose that we all 
become adopted sons of the various 
Trustees. 
The first obvious advantage we would notice> from this plan is in the psychological state of the Trustees. No longer would these mature, self-confident gentlemen have to resort to ego trips to gain respectability., The close 
·rclationsh,ips they would undoubtedly develop with their sons would enable them to substitute drug trips for those of the ego. ' 
Second, also along the psychic lines, is the fact that due to the expense of putting their sons through college, the gentlemen of the Board would have to curtail their naming of buildings after themselves. This would also probably help the ausc of quality architectureof buildings after themselves. This would also probably help the cause of qulality architecture on campus. 
·Second, also along the psychic lines, is the fact that due to the expense of putting their sons through college, the gentlemen of the Board would have to curtail their naming of buildings after themselves. This would also probably help the abuse of quality architecture on campus. 
Third, as parents, the Trustees would 
probably know more about the school 
than they do at present. Obviously, 
anything is greater than nothing. 
Fourth, since the students would be 
sons of the Trustees, they would have 
memberships in many golf and country 
clubs throughout the world. This would 
enable them better to live in the slums 
provided by their parents, for they would 
be well-versed in the use of 9-irons such 
as killed the rat on the third floor of 
Badin, or in the basements of Sorin and 
Walsh, and the use of the tennis racquet 
for the killing of bats (although it's 
rumored Tom Ehrbar used a broom) that 
fly around the halls on occasions. 
Although, as I have mentioned, this proposal is presented in all modesty, I feel it has it's merits, unlike those plans presented by Lyons and other halls (bastions of immature irreverence), which have been taken apparently for what they were-jokes. Do not speak to me or any of my learned peers of mature responsible action, for the Board of Trustees apparently has a monopoly on this matter. Let us not declare hall autonomy, or defiance of the law. The Board of Trustees, a group geographically, chronologically, morally, and intellectually removed from us, has decreed University Paternalism. The students around here arc, should be, and 
Jlave every right to be angry. But the detached group of country -clubbcrs who govern us make a semi-intelligent reply. 
Mr. Stepan, we don't want it now, we 
want it yesterday! 



How to score with a St. Mary's girl 

Now that you have met your Saint Mary's Girl, we are ready to proceed to the second part of our lesson: that crucial frist date. 
Arranging the Date: Now we sec the importance of remembering that last name. One look at the telephone directory and you will see the folly of attempting to locate a "Cathy" or a "Maureen". However, if by some oversight, you have forgotten the girl's last name, there is yet hope. She may have her picture in the Freshman Directory. If not, perhaps you will be able to find someone in there that appeals to you anyway. Once you have selected your intended date, you must make the phone call. The best time to call is around seven o'clock on a Sunday night for a Friday date or Monday night for a Saturday date. 
The girl has probably been waiting for you to call. In fact, as her roommate calls her to the phone, you may hear an audible expression of relief such as "Oh God, it's him!" i'l the background. Remember, however, that although the girl is aching to go out with you, Saint Mary's girls arc shy and coquettish, and she may try to test you with a game of "hard to get", inventing reasons why she can't go out that weekend. Relax, she is merely trying to test your devotion, and will be really let down if you don't show "spirit" and keep trying. The more she test you, the more incorrigible you must be. Some girls have been known to play "hard to get" for up to four years, only to fall into the male's arms at last, unable to maintain their deception a moment longer! Don't be discouraged, even if she tells you point blank to go to hell; remember, she is testing you. Above all, don't give up! 
The Saint Mary's girl wants above all to have a good time. Fun spots are her "bag"; take her to the Laurel Club, or the Mishawaka Conservation Club. But don't forget to allow time for a little tete-a-tete in your room towards the end of the evening. A few drinks, dim lights, soft music, these are the things that turn a girl on. But this is understood. The important thing to mention is the party or concert before hand, the scene apres will follow naturally. 
On the Uate: The Saint Mary's girl likes to maintain a "purity" image on the surface, but beneath that cool, distant external, she is a raging, fiery, sexual being, longing for some Prince Charming to sweep her away to his circular bed. Don't be put off, don't be fooled, if she doesn't appear to respond to your intitial attempts. Once again, she is testing you. She desires a strong, forceful manner, but the first few moves should have a refined subtle flair. One excellent move is, when sitting together, say at a concert or movie, to pretend to yawn and stretch, while in fact, utilizing the motion of the stretch to actually maneuver your arm about her shoulders! It is just such suave subtlety as this that the girl wili really dig! You can invent your own subtle ways of establishing physical contact, and originality scores big with these chicks! But a few tried and true moves can be employed such as: 
I. "Are You Ticklish?" 
2. 
"Arm Wrestling" 

3. 
"You Want To Read Something Neat?" 

4. 
"I Love to Just Lie Back and Listen to This Album" Once again, don't be put off by her apparent coolness. Perseverance pays off! The End of the Evening: After the First Date, you have it made. The second date is 


the Biggy, and there is no better time to ask her out than as you give her that good-night kiss (perseverance!). Don't waste one bit of impetus, ask her right away! This is the pay-off, the chance to get that second date, and SCORE THE BIG ONE! 
After you have set up that second date, you're golden. I hope that these tips will help you to get to that Big Second Date. And remember, some night, when the going is rough and the chick just isn't coming across, dig in, go in there, and win one for Joe Buck. Go Irish! 





OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
Senior Class Bunnies, maybe? 
The Senior Class lined up a few festivities for their last days at Notre Dame, festivities that may feature ­wonder of wonders -playboy bunnies at the Senior Bar. 
The announcement, from Senior Class President Jack Crawford, was a contin­gent one; and apparently the Senior Bar's financial status will have to be reviewed before the rather expensive lasses are imported. 
Originally, the Senior Class was going to sponsor the Playboy Bunnies. But Pete DuBois-he of "sell Sacred Heart" fame­made a personal appearance in front of Crawford, warning the Senior Class President that Women's Lib had already agreed to physically disrupt any festivities that featured the bunnies 
So Crawford informally surveyed the Senior Class, and found that the class was fairly evenly split on the question of 
Playboy bunnies. Patrons of the Senior Bar, however, were not. So the Senior Bar it was. 

Playboy Bunnies or not; there will be a whole lot of other stuff: On May the fourth, kickoff day, a Magnificent Seven dance. 
On the fifth, Wine and Cheese Night. 
Wednesday the sixth is Senior Fellow Night, time to get the lowdown on Lowenstein. The seventh is a dunes party with free beer. Need more be said? 
The eighth is SMC night. In reality, every night is SMC night, because SMC girls (along with, of course, the senior class of Notre Dame), are invited to all these things -contingent upon possession of a Senior Wck Card. But for this SMC night, Petula Clark is featured. 
Saturday is the Senior Ball. Also: the day of the Blue-Gold Football game. Sunday, as we all know, is a day of rest. And Monday is Bunny Day, finances permitting. To top things off, all the drinks are at half price. 

Paradox of the month 
Tom Broderick, a Sophomore in cash a check for $10 because he was Cavanaugh, lost his student I.D. To broke they refused to cash it until he replace it he needed to pay $5 for a new produced an I.D. card. 
I.D. and $5 for a new validation card. Tom was last seen wandering outside When he went to the Treasurer's office to the dining hall in search of reality. 

Page 6 THE O.&ri:RfiM FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1970 

Free City panel meets 
by Mark Walbran ues ... Liberal learning and the
Commission. The cool air of the Library Dr. Storey opened the discuss­
Gospel walk hand in hand," he Auditorium provided a pleasant 
said. young people adrift and that "Liberal arts demand a frater­
ion saying that our society casts 
atmosphere for the Free City symposium on "Christianity, they live separately from their nalism of the mind," said Dr. elders. Consequently, he said, Storey. He explained that it was
Community and the Intellectual the young are abandoned to necessary for the young and theLife" held yesterday afternoon. 
"peer group guidance." The old to come together becauseDean Frederick Crosson, Dean values of this peer group, he the irreverant, fresh questions ofof the College of Arts and said, are idealistic, abstract, the young prevent the old fromLetters, Dr. William Storey, harsh in judgement and short in getting a "hardening of theAssociate Professor of Theology, perspective. intellectual arteries." 
and Monsignor John T. Ellis, 
"Community is a coming
Associate Professor of History, "The generation gap," said 
together into unity," explained
were the members of the panel Dr. Storey, "is at once inevitable 
Dr. Storey, "a holy communion
mo,~erated by student John and meant to be healed." He 
Mo....... John T. EDis
of mind and heart."
Pepple. The discussion was the added that the school was the 
Monsignor Ellis said that a
second in a series of panel primary place to heal this gap. do we come to see that the Lord ~·community," and "intellectual 
factor "eating away" at higher
discussions on The Free City: A According to The Free City is the logos. That Jesus is logos, life," do not necessarily go Symposium on Higher Educa­by Willis Nutting, explained Dr. education in the United States he concluded, is to say that together. "Christianity implies was the egalitarian rage against
tion at Notre Dame, sponsored Storey, a Christian university is a Jesus is the sun to the world of community," he said, "but 
distinction and achievement giv­
by the Student Union Academic .. community of cherished val-understanding . neither of these necessarily im­
ing rise to anti-intellectualism. A 
Monsignor Ellis said that con­plies intellectual 1ife." But it is 
university he felt should fight 
formism was "hurtful to an possible for intellectual life to be this '"tooth and nail." 
intellectual community." Al­in a community, he said. 
"If a university is not a 
though he said he would not Dean Crosson said that the 
community of those who are 
advocate the cultivation of a notion of community is too 
learning and those who want to 
community of eccentrics, he said often used in an univocal fash­
. learn, I don't know what it is," 
that a premium should be put on ion. At Notre Dame, he said,he said. 
originality. "And when that goes there are many communities. As 
"I take it a community can be 
outside of custom," he said, ''let a postulate for discussion, he
formed around Christianity," 
it be so." said that "a community is based
said Crosson. To acknowledge 
on sharing." He added thatJesus as Lord, he explained, is to As a guest professor at Notre many things can be shared. 
acknowledge a tradition and to Dame Monsignor Ellis said that Sharing time and place, hebear witness to the Lord. he is often asked what he thinks said, is a community which is aA corresponding intellectual of this university. He said that necessary condition for "highercommunity may be formed with he replies that he has seen no communities." Other conditionsthe logos as the sovereign, he apparent denial of the Christian for a concrete community, hesaid. This is also to acknowledge character of Notre Dame. He said, are shared experiences, atradition and to bear witness. added though that there is shared history, shared tasks,As in both cases, what one is always room for improvement. 
shared commitments, and livingwitness to, is invisible. Dean Dean Crosson said that the together. All of these are presentDr.•._...., Crosson explained that only three terms in the topic of the at Notre Dame, he noted.
through persons bearing witness discussion, "Christianity," 

Radiation Chem articles published 
A new series of publications that an avalanche of research cle and the book, publishing summarizing experimental and publications, reviews, annual re-several comprehensive chapters theoretical developments in radi-ports, theoretical presentations in each volume, each less lengthy ation chemistry has been launch-and foreign language publica-than a book, but more compre­ed at the University of Notre tions has appeared since radia-hensive and general than an Dame, under the editorship of tion chemistry received its name article. Since the volumes of the Drs. Milton Burton and John L. in 1942. series appear whenever material Magee, director and associate Keeping up with the volume warrants it, chapters can be director of the Radiation Labor-of articles authored each year is. updated with greater frequency atory. impossible, Burton and Magee than could a book. 
Titled "Advances in Radiation point out, while books on The first volume of the series Chemistry," the series is intend-specialized subjects quickly be-was recently published by Wiley ed to reduce the amount of come outdated as new develop--Interscience, and it discusses material a scientist must read to ments occur. The new series is such subjects as the radiation keep abreast of current events in intended to steer a middle chemistry of water and radiation the field. The editors explain course between the journal arti-synthesis. 



r--------------------------=~~~~~~~~~~=-~~-~~ 
Type Biafra




SENIOR WEEK 
Students for Biafran Relief Director Tom Hamilton made a plea to the students for assist­ance in typing letters. 
May 4th -May I I th 
He said if a student only wanted to type one or two letters for the organization, this would be most helpful. 
If someone wants to help, he
Mon.-Kick-off Dance 
suggested you call one of the following people: 

Magnificent 7 & Hot Dogs 
Dan Maloney 283-1619 
Pat McGreeny 7900 
Alan Sondej 8767 
Tues. -Senior Fellow Nite 
Mishael Maduakolam 6981 
Dennis Willson 7865 
Wed. Wine & Cheese Nite 

Thurs. Dunes Party -Free Beer 
Patrick Hussey 8865 
Paul Bonitatibus 1878

Fri. Petula Clark -SMC Nite 
Jerry Bradley 1039 
Tom Sykes 1686

Sat. Blue-Gold Game -Senior Ball 
Joe Hiss 1795
Mon. ????? 
Steve Thomas 3247 Flora Daues 4605 Dan Sherry 1692 Don Giant 1353
ALL WEEK -DRINKS 1;2 PRICE 
Students of French -Study in France this Summer -Study at the Univ. of Paris (Sorbonnel, U. , 
* MUST HAVE SR. WEEK 
of Grenoble and also U. of Neuchatel in Switzerland -Con­

CARD TO ATTEND 
tact Roger Coonrod at the Morris Inn. 
FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1970 
Page 7 


Willis Nutting speaks on Free City Day 
(Contimu!d from page 1) 
constant use of the ideas learned m community.
intellectual life. It would have to be I thought it was best for the student's newly originated, because I knew of no reading and in lectures, so that these ideas And such a community must be free, own welfare. But I was sure that it would place where the examinations were remained bright and shining and used a~tonomous, not owned or finally be better if a student were responsible to honest, in allowing a real evaluation years after they were first learned. There drrected by anyone outside itself. If the only one teacher at a time, so that the adequate to the importance of the was a community in which dialogue was community were not free in this sense it teacher and the student, for that subject. A final best solution of the constantly going on, and students were could be, and would be, used by so:ne particular time, could carry on the growing in understanding all the time, outside agency, whether state or church
problem, for it would allow not only an teaching-learning process in the style that quite apart from what they were learning of social class or corporation.
honest evaluation of his entire period in 
suited them. I have never been able to from their teachers and from their ,
college, but it would also be in itself a
persuade the rest of the General Program "'readings. They were becoming skilled in f Put all these ideas (and a few l)'lore)
learning process in which his whole
faculty that this might be a good plan, the use of ideas, and in the focussing of together in an institution, and you have a
college experience could be organized and 
hut I remembered that such was the plan ideas on problems. It seedled that the community which I called the Free City
made real to him. 

at Oxford. central activity of a real teaching of .the Mind. It is certainly different from 
There was one place, however, that One of the great lacks that seemed to institution must be such a dialogue. This existing institutions of higher learning. Oxford fell down as badly as Notre me at Notre Dame was the absence of would mean that the community must be There IS nothing in it, however, that Dame. This was in giving an honest serious discussion out of class. Things are small enough to allo~ general would stand in the way of a person's examination in which a teacher could not as bad in this respect as they used to participation in discussion, so that coming to know and understand. really find out the intellectual status of be, but still activity in the classes seems everyone ,would have some understanding · Everything in in it would help a person to the student. Such an examination would to be the dominant form of intellectual of what everyone else was thinking. This come to know and understand. It is have to be detailed, and consist of many life. I remembered that in Oxford there would put an upper limit, say 200, on the suited to human beings where existing parts, so as to evaluate (he whole of the was constant discussion, constant arguing, number of students admitted to the institutions of higher learning are not. 
Krashna comments on J.P. Grace 
(continued from page 2) this situation it may develop in an open meeting with students certain groups going in their own 
and faculty to discuss the
Krashna went on saying, 
economic involvement of his
ways."

"Obviously I don't represent 
country with Latin America.
Krashna revealed that "Offic­every group here on campus. In ially I'm not supposed to go in. "I am very glad to see it came 
It was granted that I would go in over. It is very amazing the
Hasley published as part of the Student Affairs things I find as a student 
Committee." approaching them as people on aLouis !Iasley. professor of 
personal level. Mr. Grace and the
I· nglish at Notre Dame, has lie said however that "Mark 
other Trustees probably have
authored a poem and two and I will go in." He claimed 
many things they aren't proud
articles for publication in three that "there is a possibility of 
of ..." Krashna explained. 
journals. They are: 
having l wo more students to in "llumor in Literature: A 
to address the Trustees." 

lle ended by urging as many
Definition," which appears in "If there is an open meeting students as possible to come tothe February College English 
of the Trustees, I would like to the meeting. He felt it was moreAssociation Critic. 
sec the students come out and beneficial for other students to"Seminary Mass," a poem address the Trustees. If not I go, rather than just havingpublished in the January Catho­would like to represent the student leaders go. 
lic World. 
students in front of the Trus­Father James Reihle
An article on Hoosier writer tees," he declared. 
(;eorge Ade, to be published Krashna claimed that "Inin the March issue of Four 
0-C housing approved for frosh
another lime and another situa­Quarters. 

tion our means of action will
I Iasley is vice president of the 
probably be different. Right Yesterday the Dean of Stu­
Indiana College English Associa­
now, I sec this as the best thing dents, Father James Riehle,
tion and local program chairman 
we can do." announced that because of a
for the national meeting of the 
Krashna also commented on shortage of beds on campus next
College English Association 
the recent action of Trustee J.J>. year he is allowing some future
which was held at Notre Dame 
Grace, who has agreed to hold sophomores to move off campus
on April 24-25. 
•

O'Malley WinS AL teaching award 
The 1Y?O Father Sheedy A ward for excellence in teaching in the College of Arts and Letters has been presented to Francis J. O'Malley, professor of l•:nglish at Notre Dame for 37 years. l'articipating in the pre­sentation ceremonies were: Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters; Professor Joseph W. Evans, director of the Jacques Marilain Cente1 and 1969 recipient of the award; O'Malley, and Paul Henkels, l'hiladelphia, l'a., chairman of the University's Arts and Letters Advisory Council. The $1,000 award was established by an anonymous donor. 
Pangborn picks 
The returns were completed this past week, and Pangborn Hall has announced a new slate of officers for the coming school year. Tom Belle has been chosen to fill the post of hall president, while James "Beam" McCarthy and Mark Checchia will offer able assistance as hall vice-presi­dent and secretary-treasurer, res­pectively. 
The out-going officers are Cntig Williams, president, Tom Cronin, v-p, and Dave Anderson, scc-treas. 
The new officers will assume their duties on May I st. 

Questions: Cotton Mather 


AMERICA 
John Hurley Doug Morrow 

"to placateVince hgan 
the Masses Wally Longo is a task worthy of the gods" 
Answers: 
FAI &SAT, 1st &2nd 

1. Urban Folk 
BASEMENT of HANNER 

2. Classical 
9PM -1 AM 

3. 
Folk-Folk 

4. 
Jazz and/or original stuff 


next year. 
All those who are interested in moving off campus should "by May II have their parents send a letter directly to the Office of the Dean of Students stating they are giving you their permission to move off campus and, should you so desire, that they also give you their pernliss­ion to move into an apartment or a house .. As of this date, this is not University permission to move off campus. If permission is granted, it will be determined by the date we receive the letter from their parents, and they will be so notified." 

ATTENTION 

SENIORS! BECOME A MONTESSORI 

TEACHER 
Dt'MAND TWICE THE SUPPLY 
Next training program June 23rd -August 8th. IN CHICAGO 
LEADS TO NA TIGNALL Y RECOGNIZED AMS-CER Tif1CA TE 
Write; Midwest Montessori Teachers Training Center 
ATTENTION AMS 1010 W. CHICAGO AVE. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
60222 

Courses will be taught on the beautiful grounds ofRosary College. 

FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1970 
Page 8 




Senators shocked by Nixon action 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Pres­ident Nixon, already under fire for his policies in Southeast Asia, felt the full sting of congressional criticism last night after he announced that thous­ands of U.S. ground troops had invaded Cambodia. 
"He has bought this war," said Sen. Lee Metcalf, D-Mont., "This is not only the Nixon war, but it's a bigger war than we've ever had." 
The President had his sup­porters, but many of his own party rebuked him for his decision to widen U.S. involve­ment in Southeast Asia. 
"Ghastly," snapped Sen. Charles E. Goodell, R-N.Y., as he paced the marble floor outside a briefing room at the Capitol where he had watched Nixon's 22 minute address to the nation. 
"Unbelievable," said Sen. Mark 0. Hatfield, R-Ore. "A tragic mistake," said Sen. William D. Proxmire, D-Wis. Senate GOP leader Hugh 
Do your thing in Europe this Summer -Work in the country of your choice-$100 per month plus Room & Board -for more ietails Contact Roger Coonrod at 
he Morris Inn. 
Scott of Pennsylvania, however, considered a "hawk" on the commitment of American In advance of Nixon's speech, warned "that there has never Vietnam War, said "the logic of troops." the Senate Foreign Relations been a time when it is more the President's actions in Cam­But House GOP leader Gerald Committee expressed worry important to hold one's emo­bodia is unassailable ... It's not R. Ford had no reservations. about extended U.S. involve­tional fire and to trust the another Vietnam. It is Viet­"The President made the right ment in Indochina and the 
President who alone has all these nam." choice if we are to continue to House's usually near solid sup­facts." Sen. Daniel K. Inouye, bring American G.I.'s home port of American war policy fell Scott emphasized that the D-Hawaii, disagreed: "It is no from Vietnam," he said. "This apart over the U.S. supported operation across the Cambodian longer the Vietnam War. It's was a very courageous action on strike into Cambodia Wednesday 
morning.

border was temporary and "des­now the Indochina War." his part-an act of great states­igned to remove the deadly Sen. Robert Dole, R-Kan., manship. It took courage for threat to the American flank in 
generally a strong supporter of · him to take this hard, difficult Melvilles to Vietnam by depriving the enemy the President's Vietnam policy, and temporarily unpopularof sanctuaries it has seized from said "I wouldn't say now that I course. Actually, this may be a 
a neutral country." fully supported the President's great opportunity to shorten the give teach-in Sen. John Tower, R-Tex., decision. I'm troubled by the war." 
Art and Kathy Melville, ex­Guatemalan Maryknoll revolu­tionaries, will conduct a teach-in in the Grace pit at 7 p.m. tonight. The Melvilles also parti­
Americans enter Cambodia 
cipated in the burning of draft files in Catonsville, Maryland, and will begin serving theirWASHINGTON (UPI)-Amer­
communications and supply cen­"fishhook," a spit of Cambodian 
prison sentences in five days. · ican forces that entered Cambo­ter for the operations of Com­territory that juts into South Arthur Melville served as adia Thursday night Washington munist forces in South Viet­Vietnam as close as 65 miles Maryknoll Guatemalan mission­time are heading for the nerve nam. It also supplies general from Saigon. 
ary for seven years, his wifecenter of Communist fighting in guidance for the guerrilas, Penta­Forty thousand Communist served as a Maryknoll sister inVietnam, called the Central gon sources said. troops are believed to be based Guatemala for five years. BothOffice for South Vietnam The American forces were in Cambodia. Pentagon sources became deeply involved in the(COSVN). expected to destroy rapidly a gave no estimate of the number Guatemalan revolution andIt is the Communist equival­large part of the COSVN struc­in the "fishhook." 
assisted the revolutionaries dur­ent of the U.S. Military Advisory ture as many of its operations American casualties for the ing the latter part of their stay in Command in Vietnam (MACV), are above ground, Pentagon past several weeks have been Guatemala. Both nearly lostheaded by Gen. Creighton W. sources said. In contrast, Com­averaging about I00 per week. 
their lives several times duringAbrams. munist supplies and headquar­The Pentagon refused to specu­their involvement with the revo­The Communist MACV is a 

ters in South Vietnam are late how the new thrust into 
Fox's Extends 
SPECIAL PRICES to 
NOTRE DAME STUpENTS 

mOlt Important thing in buying a diamond 
--=:;;--.!,...-:. is knowledge. It tak• an expert to know the fine Points of cut, color and quality••• and what gives a diamond its value. Th•e's only OM way to bby a diamond...and that is by coming to a jeweler you can trust. DIAMONDS $50 TO $5,000 OPEN A CONVENIENT 
ACCOUNITMiiiii~-11!111111 

lutionaries. Arthur Melville was 

generally buried out of sight of Cambodia might affect them, 
expelled from Guatemala after 

American aerial observers. but some ·rise was seen as almost 
the CIA had investigated his 

COSVN is located in the inevitable. 
activities, and he was censored by the Church and by his order. The Melvilles married after theirD'Antonio named to committee return to the United States, and 
Dr. William V. D'Antonio, chairman of the department of sociology and anthropology at Notre Dame, has been named a member of the Congress Com­mittee of the First National Con­gress an Optimum Population 
Nixon speaks on Cambodia 
(continued [rom page 1) 
no information on what military units were involved in the latest offensive into Cambodia, which followed by nearly two days the South Vietnamese foray across the border with the help of U.S. advisers and air and artillery support. 
But Nixon said, "We take this action not for the purpose of expanding war into Cambodia but for the purpose of ending the war in Vietnam and winning the just peace we all desire." 
He again appealed for serious negotiations in Paris toward ending the war more rapidly, and said the United States would insist only that the h!ture of South Vietnam be determined by South Vietnamese themsel­ves. 
Need a U-Haul in June? 
.

Don't leave campus for serv1ce. 
Call Ted Price at 283-8408 or stop in at 305 Pangborn 

U-Haul: Better cause we wan 

Melville says that he considers and Environment. himself to be a married priest in spite of the censures of the
The Congress will meet in Church.
Chicago June 7-11 to set rea­For their activities at Catons­sonable goals for optimum popu­ville, the Melvilles recently stoodlation and environmental quality trial in Washington, D.C. as part.and recommend realistic pro­of the "D.C. 9." 
grams to achieve these standards. The· convention is planned and implemented by a concerned group of scientists and laymen, 

Computer draws 
including over I ,1 00 members of the Congress Committee for ma­Dennis McEnery, a graduate jor conservation and population student majoring in electrical planning organizations, religious engineering at the University of groups, scientific disciplines, the Notre Dame, has developed the educational community, busi­part-time hobby of creating ness, and the broadcasting and "computer art." Using the rela­
press media. Dr. Paul R. Ehrlich, tively small Analog computer in professor of biolo)!;y at Stanford the Engineering Building, he has University and author of "The 
created a variety of intricate Population Bomb". is chairman shapes ranging from pointed of the Congress Co-Committee.. elipses to butterflies and cylin­ders. His drawings are first
During the tour-oay cunvt:n­programmed into the computertion, over I 00 scientists and 

specialists will present major 

by means of a plugs and wires papers, while work groups will 
arrangement resembling a tele­evaluate pressing environmental 
phone switchboard. The com­problems and suggest possible puter then "draws" his concep­courses of action. 
tion on a plotter commonly used for scientific graphs. 


Sorin clarification 
It was revealed recently by Council had simply voted to Mike Cotter, President of Sorin keep the present policy of Sorin Hall, that, due to a misunder­Hall as written in the Hall standing, the Observer had mis­Constitution. Cotter did say that takenly printed that Sarin Hall the Observer was accurate in had, at a meeting of the Hall reporting that the Hall Council Council on Tuesday, April 21 , to decided to reject the recent install twenty-four hour parie­statement of the Trustees on hall tals. In actuality. the Hall life. 
ND-SMC 
TYPISTS 

AND "UNSKILLED LABOR" 
HAVE MONEY WILL PAY 
N.D. Student Union Publications 
3 to 12 hours per week. Pick your own hours. Call: Scott Braley 
283-1403 283-6637 
233-0842 283-6137 
Page9 



American Study Prog . announced 
Notre Dame's new Program in One re·t on for the slight Many schools offer masters and 
American_ Studies was discussed requirement in these areas is a doctoral programs in American 
last night by Prof. Ronald lack of suitable course offerings, Studies. 
Weber, the program's chairman. Weber said. He expressed hope Twenty majors will be accept­
Approximately fifteen students that the presence of a large ed by the program for next falL attended the "meet-your-major" 
undergraduate major in Ameri­Application should be made to 
presentation. can Studies would encourage the Mr. Weber today. Those who 
Weber stated that the new other departments to develop qualify will be notified by mail 
undergraduate major would re­more courses with an American next week. 
quire thirty credit hours for a focus. 
degree. Twenty-one of these The remaining six major cred­Douglass 
hours will be drawn from major 
its will be taken in American electives in American history, Studies seminars. The seminars 
to speak
will be taken in the first semester of the junior and 

literature, and government. 
Nine hours will be required in 
sophomore years. The class will (continued from page 2) o
one of the three areas. Six 
be designed to introduce the

credits will be necessary in each buildings or an administration.
Prof. Ronald Weber student to interdisciplinary
of the remaining two. All of The essential element is a group
study. It will also try to

these courses will be upper of persons among whom the
integrate the material from the

division courses. The Program in process of teaching and learning
other major· courses. The semi­

American Studies will publish a is going on. The educational

Trustees discuss HLB 
nars will be team-taught as much

list of the courses approved for process is personal; it is complex
as possible.

major credit, Weber said. of relations between human The position of the Ad Hoc 
Weber stated that he believed beings. The structure of our(continued from page I) Three credit hours will be the advantage of American Stud~­

Committee was that the Hall institution must above all elserequired in either sociology, ies to be the flexibility in course

refused for two basic reasons. Life Board, as an essentially allow and encourage these com­
First, Stepan argued that no­administrative body, should be philosophy, art, drama, or econ­selection. He said that the major plex personal relations to func­thing to be considered by the appointed by the administrative omics. These courses, also ap­is well suited to future work in tion freely and well."
proved for credit in American such fields as law, journalism,Trustees would be of interest to head of the University, Fr. 
This afternoon's activities are
Studies, will be published. urban atudiea, and ao-.emment.
the students, since corporate llesburgh. Krashna disagrees to include a dialogue titledinvestments would be the main with this reasoning, stating that "Christian University-Contra­topic of discussion at the meet-the members of the Board diction in Terms?" with Profess­should be appointed by the SLC,
ing. Second, Stepan felt that or William Storey of the Theo­
the legislative body of the

time did not perlllit the arrange­logy Department at 3 PM near
University.

ment of such a meeting. Krashna the statue of Father Sorin on the contended that anything at all, if main quad. "Why Not Abolish 
Krashna said that he brought

discussed by the Trustees, the Freshman Year?" is the title 
up the question of the recent

should he of interest to the of a planned discussion with
"panty raid" and cited that as

students, since it was the con­several Notre Dame faculty 
one of the symptoms of the

cept of University investment members at 3 PM in front of 
unnatural atmosphere created by

I '1at was under attack by many Alumni llalL 
the lack of both open parietals

students at this time. lie said the Professor James Douglass of 
and co-education on the campus.

very idea of having a Board of the Non-Violence Program is to Trustees was coming under close lead a dialogue titled "Resist­examination, so the students Fr. Maurice Amen, one of the ance and Contempt" at should he allowed to question SLC mem hers present, also said I :30 PM in front of the the Board directly. he considered the meeting quite Engineering Building. Other 
According to Krashna, there is satisfactory. scheduled discussions include still a possibility of there being "Learning Factory or Education­an open meeting, but the chan­Others present at the meeting al Place" and "The National ces were slim. were Professor John Houck University." A schedule of 
Another topic of discussion, SBVP Mark Winings, Bruc; events and locations was publish­said Krashna, was the llall Life Johnson, President of Lyons ed in yesterday's Observer and Board proposed by the Trustees llall, and Tim Mahoney, former­the agenda has been posted in their recent letter to the SLC. ly President of Keenan Hall. around campus 


SPECIAL OFFER



Forum schedule sef 
by Mike Chapin The meeting wili begin with 
NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S
be held in the Library
personal reactions of "Notre 

STUDENTS * FACULTY * EMPLOYEES
Auditorium. 
"The University Forum 1cally Dame as a Christian University" will not work if we do not have from the following speakers: 
On Sunday morning, Father
people there who are interested Charles McCarthy, Chairman of 
Hesburgh will concelebrate a
in the topic and willing to the Committee for the Study of 
Mass at Sacred Heart Church.
discuss it," said Professor Non-Violence, Dr. Thomas 
Father James Burtchaell, Chair­

FREE WAX
Carney, Trustee, Dean FrederickDonald Sniegowski, Chairman of 

man of the Theology Depart­
the Univeristy Forum. Crosson, College of Arts and 
JUST MENTION OR PRESENT THIS AD 
ment, will also participate. All
Letters, Mr. Richard MoranFather llesburgh will be there. 

members of the University are
former editor of the Scholastic:

Members of the "Notre Dame invited to this Mass.
and Mr. Richard Rosenthal,I 0" said they will attend. Some 

CAR
'NITH 
alumnus.

of the Trustees, including 
'NASH
EVERY

At 12:15 theForumwillhave a brunch and a private meeting I~dmund A. Stephan, are staying Later in the evening, 
over. And the President of Notre 8-1 Op.m., Theology Professor, to assess the ideas that have been
Dame's total Alumni Association William Storey, will chair an 
MONDAY

brought out of the previous
has written that he will be open session on the "Campus 
DURINGTHRU 
75C

meetings.
present. Ministry". This Meeting will also 
APRIL & MAYFRIDAY

All of them will be in the audience at the University Forum tomorrow and Sunday to 
STUDENT SERVICES 
listen and participate in the 
COMMISSION
topic, "Notre Dame as a Christian University", according to Snieg_owski. 
Applications being accepted for 
The Chairman was hoping that many students wouht attend the meeting tomorrow in the Library Auditorium from 2:00 to 5:30. 
Concessions: Positions: 
"If we can't get people to come I would wonder about the 
Ha11 Co-op Director 
MINUTES

future of the Forum." 
Donut Directory Mgr. 
Reusable Chamois & Powerful Vac A J!ailable
Art Students -Courses avail­
Food Paks (No Experience)
able in Art at the louvre in Paris and Florence, Italy; Contact 
Student Discount Book1et 
2322 E. Edison Rd.
Roger Coonrod for prices, time 
and credit at the Morris Inn. 
YzBiock E. of Ironwood 

________._______,___________________j___ 

Page 10 711B OBSUI.IM FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1970 
Symposium discusses the teacher 
profession who has acquired that
by Shawn Hill· 
degree in his youth, acquires it 
"Doctor of Philosophy, perhaps only as a union card to teacher of the love of wisdom. get into the profession, and will And a person in the teaching spend the rest of his life trying to live up to its real meaning, even though in the attempt he finds it more and more necessary to disregard the existing rules and standards of the profession which has forgotten the meaning and the holiness of the words engraved on the card." 




This passage from The Free City by Dr. Willis Nutting began the discussion "Teacher: Scholar, Midwife, Gadfly, Sales­man or Fellow Student?" in the library auditorium last evening. Involved in the three part presentation were Dr. Stephen Rogers, Assistant Prof. in the General Program, Sister Mary Francita Kane, C.S.C., Prof. in the education Department at St. Mary's, and Mr. Robert Meagher, Theology Department instruc­tor. The discussion was pre­sented as part of the Free City Symposium that is taking place this week. 
Dr. Rogers, in his talk, first reviewed the various roles of a teacher mentioned in the title of the discussion. He felt that it was "all right for a teacher to be a salesman, if he is an honest salesman, for a salesman is a good man." 
As for being a fellow student, 
Dr. Rogers stated that "I don't 
think that students would be 
satisfied if a teacher was merely 
a fellow student." He felt that 
students expect a teacher to be 
much more. 
As for teacher as scholar, Dr. Rogers said that "I don't under­stand why Dr. Nutting is so hard on scholars in his book." He felt 
en Nitely at 6:30 
Wknds at 
12:45 


that a scholar was someone who had "stuck tgo a certain subject for a long time, longer than most others". "Whether or not he is a teacher is," according to Rogers, "Another question." He did believe, however, that one could be both teacher and scholar and felt it was not valid to reject the role of scholar because of possible excesses. 
what he believed is a good test for one to determine what a true teacher is. He said the test is this: simply ask yourself "Who is it that you argue with when you are shaving or engaged in any other activity in which your body is immobilized and your 
mind  is  free."  He  felt  that  a  
teacher  thought  of  at  such  a  
time is a truly great one.  

He then stated that, like it or 
NOW thru MAY 5 

not, for good or bad, teachers are models for their students and as such have a great responsi· bility to be good ones. In her presentation Sister Mary Francita stressed that learning is a process and that both the teacher and the student are vital to this process. She stated that interraction is essen­tial and that "Both teacher and student have a part in a search that is rigorous." 
Sister Francity believes that knowledge is not knowing, but rather a way of knowing. She sees the teacher as responsible for guiding the student to the "way of knowing." 
Sister Francita then stated that a teacher does two things. He, if he is a great teacher, first exemplifies the process of learning in himself. Secondly he "creates a climate for learning." 

Sister then concluded her talk by comparing the relationship between a teacher and student to that between Dante and Virgil in The Inferno. A teacher is, in the words of Dante, "He who gives me eyes for journeying." 
Mr. Meagher felt that "A man is best seen in terms of his highest expectations." This is especially true of a teacher, according to Meagher. He saw "a spiritual complicity between the priest and the teacher-both work miracles." But, in Mea­gher's opinion, a teacher is an ordinary human who helps his students toward knowledge. 
He concluded his presentation by stating that a "teacher drives his students towards silence, that silence that fills a man after a great discovery." 
SMC Junior pet1t1ons 
Nominations for St. Mary's junior class officers will be accepted beginning today. Peti­tions, which can be dropped into the designated receptacles at the sign-out desks of each residence hall, will be accepted up until 
II :30 pm Sunday. 
Those nominated can begin collecting signatures starting Tuesday. Each nominee must have the signatures of at least 75 of her classmates in order to be a candidate. Sophomores can sign the petitions for two candidates for each office. Petitions must be returned by Friday, May 8. 
The actual campaigning will get underway on Saturday, May 9 and will culminate on Wed­nesday, May 13 with the election to be held in the Dining Hall during the lunch and dinner meals on that date. 

FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1970 Page 11
THE OBSE/WER 
•
Luther Allison appears 1n free concert 
The sound was slightly remini­favor. From blues freaks to heard to remark, "He's the Brothers." One lone dissonant by Pat Geary and scent of James Cotton, not casual passers-by, all were taken closest thing I've heard to voice was heard to remark entirely surprising, since Luther up in this rendition. The main Johnny Winter." Sophomore however, that "the Irish can't
Bill Dues 
Allison worked with James Cot­crowd was fringed with people Tom O'Hara who had left, and clap in time." 
Together. 
The freaks, the jocks, the straights, anybody who can dig blues, got all that they could want, as the Luther Allison Blues Band put it all together for them in their CAF-sponsored concert which became a free happening of 350 students. 
Luther Allison's group was scheduled to perform in Wash­ington IIall at 8:30 last night. Due to bad directions, however, the group found themselves in Indianapolis, instead. When they 
'finally arrived in South Bend, at about 9:00 p.m., the money had been refunded. Rather than disappoint the Notre Dame com­munity, it was decided to have them perform in a free concert, held on the steps of Washington IIall. 
Before long, students who had previously been heading for the library, their dorms, or any­where, found themselves amongst an ever-growing number of their fellow-travelers, all enjoying the sounds. 
ton in the past. However, his 
music can only be interpreted as 
his very own. Quite in evidf-nce 
of this was his rendition of 
''Soul Man," the old Sam and 
Dave hit. He took it, turned it 
around and inside out, and came 
out with something that was 
entirely Luther Allison. 
Probably the best to judge his 

music is to take the reactions of 
the crowd. This particular crowd's reaction can onlv be described as overwhelmingly in 
dancing. Soap bubbles floated over the group, created by a couple perched on top of a converted mail truck. The crowd was often punctuated by people rising, out of sheer exuberance 
and appreciation, to shout en­couragement or just to move with the music. 
Reactions of the individual members of the audience them­selves were no less favorable. They loved it. One observer was 
Expert to address E.E.'s 
Dr. Hans von Ohain, chief scientist at the Aerospace Re­search Laboratories at the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, will address a seminar in electric­al engineering at 3: 10 p.m. today in the Engineering Audi­torium. 
Von Ohain's talk will be titled "Recent Developments in Elec­trofluiddynamic Energy Conver­sion," and will explain that the characteristics sof electrofluicl­dynamic processes and magneto­fluid dynamic processes are of complementary rather than corn­petitive\nature. 
He won the Decoration of Exceptional Civilian Services in 1965 and the Goddard award in 1966. Von Ohain has served with the U.S. Army Air Corps since 194 7, performing research for the Department of Defense and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 
Rainbow coalition set ND visit 
Members  of  the  Rainbow  
Coalition,  a  co-operative  
community  organization  from  

Chicago composed of members of the Black Panther Party, The Young Lords Organization, and the Young Patriots Organization, will participate in a series of activities to be held in the Library Auditorium and nearby residence halls on Sunday afternoon and evening, May 3. 
At 2 pm an informal panel discussion will be held in the Library Auditorium followed by workshops and the public will have the opportunity to discuss in a casual personal atmosphere the Coalition's activities. At 7 pm there will be a free showing of the much-acclaimed film "American Revolution 2" in the Library Auditorium. 
All three groups co-operate regularly with the Poor People's Coalition of Chicago and point out that their objective is to satisfy the needs of the people of their respectivecomrnunities. 
The Panthers have established a free hot breakfast service for needy grade-school children of Chicago's West Side and a free neighborhood medical ·clinic nearby. 
The Young Lords, made up of Puerto Ricans, have opened up a children's day care center for parents who work. the Young Patriots have started a "People's school" which encourages drop-outs in the local Appalachian white neighborhood to return to school. 
There is also a possibilitY that 

members of the Black P-Stone Nation and the Latin American Defense organization may participate in the activities. Appearing guests are tentatively scheduled to meet with South Bend youth groups to discuss creative community activities on Sunday night. 
The Coalition's appearance is being sponsoreri by, the Student lJmon Academic Commission, The Afro-American Society, and the Program for Non-Violence. 
Student Union Academic commissioner Jim Metzger said that Sunday's program was the kind of activity that the Academic Commission was particularly happy to support. Metzger said that the idea for the program carne from a group of students who had visited the organization on a trip to Chicago for a class in the History of the American City. The students learned that groups which are generally considered militant radical organizations or just "street gangs" were actually engaged in community projects. 
"It's not the kind of thing that makes front page," said Metzger, "What makes front page are shootings, like Fred Hampton and Mark Clark." 
The purpose of the day is to educate the South Bend and Notre Dame communities about the true nature of these groups ­and their activities. 
•
Jones picks all-time Derby w1nner 
LOUISVILLE. Kv. (UPI) 
Who would be the winner of the all-time Kentucky Derby field a field composed of the 20 greatest horses ever to run for the roses? 
Jimmy Jones, who saw the first Kentucky Derby in 1917 and is the last trainer to saddle a Triple Crown winner, savored the question like a gourmet 
tasting a rare French wine. llis mind sped back over the years to ()mar Khayyam in 1917 and then came back through time reeling off the names of horses whose names make racing fans tingle. 
"You have to remember that I missed two Derbies since 1917," said Jimmy who is now director of racing at Monmouth Park in Oceanport, N.J. "But I think I've seen every horse who was in the Derby since 1917 run at least once." 
Before picking a sinner it was obvious that Jones had to pick a field and then handicap it. 
Beginning with Exterminator in 1918, the field Jones chose was composed of Sir Barton (1919), Morvich (1922), Black Gold (1924),s Bubbling Over ( 1926), Reigh Count ( 1928), Gallant Fox ( 1930), Twenty Grnd ( 1931 ), Cavalcade ( 1934), Omaha (\935), War Admiral ( 1937), Johnstown ( 139), Whirlaway ( 1941 ), Count Fleet ( 1943), Assault ( 1946), Citation and Coaltown, who finished 1-2 in 1948, Gallant Man, beaten by Iron Liege in 1957, Tim Tam (1958) and Carry Back (1961). 
"Johnstown, Northern Dancer, Count Fleet, War Ad­miral and Coaltown would be out there running at the front," he said. "Johnstown was a damn good horse and would be run­ning strong. 
"Coaltown would be running down the early pace -an excellent speed horse," said Jones, "and then there would be Citation laying back in the early going." 
"Citation would be fourth ­three or four lengths off the lead when they turned into the stretch," Jones went on. 'Then he'd go and get 'em. Citation would be the eventual winner. He was the greatest horse I ever saw. He could beat any horse when he wanted to. 
"He'd catch 'em and he'd go across that finish line the win­ner," Jones smiled. "I'd say War Admiral, Johnstown and Exter­minator would be the chief challengers late in the race but I wouldn't want to pick the second and third horses at the finish. 
"Let's just say ib would be Citation the winner and the rest of those fine horses right behind him spread across the track like West Point cadets on dress parade." 
then returned again said, "I just They may not be able to couldn't stay away. I was on my truly, but, at least in the case of way to the library, but.. " or the Luther Allison Blues band ''This is the best thing that they do know blues when they happened since the Chambers hear it. 
----·---­
-i··iu~~·""·mggl.ldra~-;:;-1 
lli  PARKING  MIIHAWAU AVI. AT JOTM.  Child 7511  I  
~.  -·  -FIRST_A~EA SHOWIN_G_  - 
"ONE OF THE  
YEAR'S 10 BEST!" 


-R•x R•ed, Holiday Magazine 
ROBERT REDFORD KATHARINE ROSS ROBERT BLAKE SUSAN CLARK 
"TELLTHEM WILLIE BOY IS HERE" 
JOHNNY C••• SAYS MAKE THE LATE SHOW TONITE • 
IT'S THE LATE MITE THING TO DO
Sun., Mon., Times at: 
Feature 
Tues., Wed., 

LAST M•A•S•H AT 
1:15 
Thurs. at 1tl:40 P.M.

3:25 
5:37 
1:45 4:15 
8:00 
6:459:25
10:45 


thir

May May 8th 8th
way to 


k 
...the movie 

711B OB.rUfiDt FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1970
Page 12 
Terry Shields :=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Voices from the crowd The Irish Eye 
Editor: 

the exception of perhaps a bit of ethnic implications of this "nick-.....·.····························.....-...................·.·························.....·.The Moose of ND 
In light of the recent atten­name," we still think there ·..·.·:·.····················································································
tasteless behavior in New Or­
tion the lacrosse team has might be a better alternative. We Note: In keeping the spirit of Free City Day the sports
leans during the fall, we have 
received due to the possibility of ask everyone with a suggestion department of The Observer would like to find out where the
been the model student-athletes 
varsity status, I feel it is to send them to: athletic department feels they fit into this new idea of the
in the true Grotto tradition. As 
necessary to announce publicly James E. Butler, Jr. university. The best place to find out this answer would be the
for the on the field play of thethat the Notre Dame Rugby rugby team, we stand by our 409 Badin Hall Director of Athletics. This is what Edward W. "Moose" Krause had Football Club has been com­
record. Due to this anomalous . A first prize of 10,000 season to say about the niche ofathletics on this campus. 
pletely divorced from Notre 
state which has been foisted hckets to the ~ugby Clubs "Edward 'Moose' Krause the only graduate ever to receive an
Dame by the Notre Dame "home" games will be lavishly . . ' 
upon us, we are in search of a 
. award from the Umvensty of Notre Dame as a scholar, an athlete
Athletic Department. We are no awarded to the wmner. .
name. Consequently, we wish to 
Sincerely and a gentleman." That's what Col. John J. Stephens (Ass1stant longer able to use the Notre announce a "Name the Rugby
Dame name or receive any of the James E. Butler, Jr. Director of Athletics) had to say about the man who is responsible
Team Contest." To this date, we 
club sport funds. It is obvious to for every facet of athletic life at Notre Dame. Although Col. 
are favoring the South Bend 
all that the rugby club has been Stephens is a close personal friend of Mr. Krause, what he says can
Niggers." We think this name more than partly responsible for Pia yoffs on TV be taken literally if one ever confronts the "Moose" of Notre Dame,
would add flavor to the coveragethis action. Since the club's 
we get from the Observer. 
inception our off the field 
Headlines such as "Niggers take NEW YORK (UPI) -The conduct hus been highlighted by 
clean sweep of Chicago" or "Nig­sixth game of the National uncouth, immature, and irres­
gers run all over Iowa" or "Nig­Basketball Association cham­ponsible action. However, this 
gers to tour east coast" would pionship series between the New year the ruggers' conduct has 
enable us to capture more public York Knickerbockers and the been nearly impeccable. With 
attention. However due to the Los Angeles Lakers will be televised by the American Broadcasting Company, if a sixth game is necessary.
MAJOR LEAGUES 
The game, if needed, will be NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE telecast nationally, beginning at 10 p.m. EDT, on May 6. 
East East w L Pet. GB 
w L Pet. GB 
.722
Chicago 13 5 *Detroit 12 5 .706 
8 .579 2% 7 .563 3 
Pittsbur~ 11 Baltimore 13 6 .684 
St. Louis 9 Boston 11 8 .579 2 Philadelphia 10 9 .526 3% Washington 11 8 .579 2 New York 10 9 .526 3% New York 9 12 .429 5 *Montreal 5 Cleveland 7 11 .388 5%
12 .294 7% 
West 
West Cincinnati 16 6 .727 Minnesota 12 
6 .667 Atlanta 10 11 .476 5% California 13 7 .650 *Los Angeles 9 10 .474 5% Oakland 8 12 .400 5 San Fran. 10 12 Chicago 7
.454 6 12 .368 5% San Diego 7 14 .333 8% *Kansas City 6 12 .333 6 Houston 7 14 Milwaukee
.333 8% 5 15 .250 8 *night game not included 
*night game not included New York 4 San Francisco 1 Minnesota 4 Cleveland 1 Atlanta 9 Chicago 2 
Boston 8 Oakland 7 


Houston at St. Louis, ppd. rain New York 1 California 0 
Montreal at Los Angeles, night Washington 12 Milwaukee 2 Chicago 6 Baltimore 3 Edward W. 'Moose' Krause, Detroit 2 Kansas City 1, 7th inn. 
Athletic Director 
IT'S ... IN STYLE, YOUR 

PRICE STORE ... AND TERMS 
The Famous 

Take them with you for good looks and comfort this summer. In crew, placket or mock turtle necks. Choose from a wide variety of colors and stripes. Gilbert's Campus Shop has an excellent collection. Stop in. 
ss to $7 
personally. He is every bit of all three. 

Krause never hesitated to give a full, complete and honest answ<er no matter what question was asked of him. Although most of the AD's answers were not surprising his manner of expressing them told you that he was sincere. There were a number of topics that Krause expounded on concerning the place of athletics here at ND. 
"Athletics is an integral part of the education here at Notre Dame. Not the most important part, obviously, but it does merit considerable appreciation. As Father Hesburgh has stated, and I agree, an ND education consists of three parts, academic, spiritual and physical." Krause backed this statement with various examples. "It may never occur to anyone who is here for a short time, but to some one who has lived here for many years it becomes apparent that when things are going well with oi.H" varsity sports they seem to effect every aspect of the school and everything is of a higher quality." 
Mr. Krause also felt that athletics as a whole keep the student body united. This goes beyond cheering at football games, it reaches nearly every student here in some way. Everyone is active. We have the finest intramural program in the country. Even though we have II varsity sports this only entails about one sixth of the student body. Through club sports and intramurals everybody learns about competition." 
"This spirit that evolves from the healthy competitive atmosphere doesn't end at graduation. We feel that what is learned on the playing fields and gymnasiums helps to make the Notre Dame man a success in later life." Evidently most alumni appreciate what Notre Dame has done for them. They contribute an average of $595 per year to their alma mater and this is the highest in the country. 
Speaking on a solely varsity level, Krause felt that athletes here do a tremendous job. He didn't think that the univeristy was asking too much for her men to be outstanding on the field and satisfactory in the classroom. "The record speaks for itself. Notre Dame is tied with 
Yale for the most graduate scholarships given to athletes (nine)." He also pointed out that last year's offensive line on the football squad had an academic average well above three point." (As a side note, the football team as a whole has an average slightly higher than that of the entire school.) 
Krause is also proud to point out the fact that "between 95-96% of the football athletes graduate from ND. This is because that most of these men realize when they come here that the education is the most important thing. Fr. Joyce (Edmund P. Joyce, Executive Vi~t:-1-1 ' l:.:nt) speaks with each boy to clarify this, before entering Notre Dame." 
Besides this, Mike DeCicco, their counselor, gets a report of his student's progress almost bi-weekly. 
Over-emphasis was the next subject that the former All-American talked about. "No, we don't over-emphasize athletics here. As a matter of fact we're trying to put more interest in athletics. Just because you have a winning football team dwesn't mean you're cheating or over-emphasiziJ]g." 
Col. Stephens added that athletics helps the univeristy as a whole. "Unlike many schools, all of the money that our varsity sports take in is funnelled directly to the university. The administration appropriates this money as it sees fit." 
Krause stated that the "NCAA is proud of NO. We proved that we can be competitive without lowering the quality of an education." An example of this was made clear by Col. Stephens. "You've probably heard that we can't seem to come up with a great running back. Well, we've had a chance to grab a number of good prospects but they simply couldn't meet our entrance requirements." 
Krause never heistated a moment when he was asked if Notre Dame ever thought about going back to the possibility of a physical education major at Notre Dame. "We wouldn't even consider it. This isn't a coach-making factory. After their days at Notre Dame we want our athletes to have something that will benefit them in later life." 
The "Moose" leaned back in his chair and gazed at the many pictures of Notre Dame legends on the wall in his Convo office. In that familiar deep but soft voice he said, "I guess if we had to sum up the place of athletics at Notre Dame you could say that it provides a healthy atmosphere for a total education." 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAM 







