
------------------------------------------------------------------~-------~ ---­

VOL IV N 99 S(·rvl'ng the Notre /)a me and Saii~_ar:l' 's College ('onmnmity FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1970
~~·~~·~0~.~------------------------~~~£-­
w ildcat post office strike spreads 
Howard Zion told a large audience last night that America rationalizes poverty, racism. and war. 
'Conspiracy of laws~ condemned by Zinn 
· Jacques Marcuse said that before the United States fights a "limited" war with "limited" aims, we should devise a "limited death." 

NEW YORK (UPI)-The nation's first postal strike which hit America's business capital by surprise and left it awash in its own paperwork, spread to 5 I New Jersey communities yesterday and threatened to spread to other parts of the nation. 
As the wildcat walkout of 14,000 letter carriers went into its second day, no negotiations were underway nor were any scheduled with officials of the Post Office Department to settle the long simmering question of higher wages. 
All mail service was suspended in the populous suburban counties of Westchester and Rockland, N.Y., and the equally populous counties of Long Island. Mail was trucked by the ton to Philadelphia for posting_ A backlog of 18 million pieces of mail piled in Manhattan offices alone. Some 67,000 postal workers were idled in the city. 
Marcuse questioned about life in China 
by Shawn Hill 
After fifteen years of life in China, Jacques Marcuse, French China correspondent and author, told of the poor conditions of life in Mao Tse Tung's China. Speaking before an audience in the Law Auditorium Thursday night, Marcuse related his exper­iences in hoth Red and Nation­alist China, with Red China coming out second best. 

Marcuse was first in C'hina in 1932 as correspondent for the no w-defuncl !lavas News Agency. A change in position took him to Tokyo in 1936 but he retur_ned to Shanghai China in 1937 to cover the war with Japan. lie covered the entire hattie of Shanghai and in 1940 he resigned his position with the !lavas News Agency. In 1943, he joined the free rrench as a war correspondent. 
In 1947 he was in Shanghai again as Far Eastern Manager for Agence France-Presse. He wit­nessed the takeover of Nanking hy the Communists and 1949 was unable to leave the country until 1950. 
The possibility was raised late yesterday that the strike could dose down the stock market at least temporarily if it lasted over the weekend. 
Leaders in the securities industry said it might be necessary for New York and American stock exchanges to relax their net capital rules temporarily to allow brokers to borrow the money that is normally allowed to finance daily operations because so much of their collections are tied up in the mails. 
Dollar amounts in business losses were inestimable as· public utilities and other creditors reported there was no way to pay bills. Messen~er 
services had a field day, Iaymg on extra help to make deliveries on foot and by bus and subway. 
Locals of the striking National Association of Letter Carriers in Pittsburgh, Buffalo, Boston, Cincinnati, Houston, Texas, and 
He again returned to Shanghai 
in 1962 as correspondent for 
Agence. France Presse, one of 
only three Western reporters in 
residence in China. 
He left China for good in 
1962 because he said he angered 
the regime and "they gently 
threw me out." 
As long time correspondent in 
China he gained much know­
ledge of the area, interviewing 
such people as Chou En Lai and 
Mao Tse Tun~ on various occas­
ions. Marc use described his 
position as resident corres­
pondent as one of the only ways 
to really learn anything about 
China, despite the severe censor­
ship_ 
He stated that visiting jour­
nalists see and hear only what 
the communist regime wants 
them to, and that they must 
report favorably if they desire a 
return visa. 
A question and answer period 
followed his talk. 
Marcuse said he thought it was "entirely possible" that the United States could have nego­
(cuntinued un page 6) 
--I 
1 

scores of Connecticut committees considered sympather strikes. Stamford, Conn., mailmen were the first to strike in that state. 
In New York City, where mail is the lifeblood of some of the nation's major corporations, many businessmen said they did not believe the government, which obtained a back to work order that 14,000 New York strikers defied Wednesday, would let the strike run into next week. 
"You can just have a negative feeling about this strike, nothing else," said an official at the First National City Bank. "It can't go on." 
But union officials, angered by six months of delay in Congress which must vote any postal pay raise, vowed to stay out "until hell freezes over." Sam A. Madonia, president of the union's Houston, Texas., local said mailmen were tired of being "stepchildren of the government, called on time and again to carry the burden while everyone else reapedl the benefits." 
Postal authorities said they had tried to meet with union officers several times since the strike began, but without success. 
Starting pay for letter carriers is $6,176 a year and climbs to $8,442 after 21 years. The strikers, who claim 3,500 mailmen are on welfare in New York in order to make ends meet, have asked for a 39 per cent increase. The Nixon administration originally supported a 5. 7 per cent pay boost for all federal workers to take effect July I but it has asked that this be deferred until next January. 
No one was prepared for the mail carriers' surprise strike vote Tuesday night and City Hall had not mapped any emergency measures. Deputy Mayor Timothy Costello, head of the Emergency Control Board, said he was "keeping in touch with federal officials." 
"The city really hasn't even 

SMC land sale denied 
by Ann Therese Darin Sister Olivia Marie, First Councillor for the Generalate of the Order, denied yesterday reports published in the South Bend Tribune that "The Sisters of the Holy Cross arc interested in developing and selling about ISO acres of land immediately north of the St. Mary's College campus to the Northern Indiana Toll Road." "We have no immediate plans for disposal of the property near the Toll Road," Sister explained. "We have had numerous inquir­ies about the land, but all of the interest was initiated outside the order." Although The Tribune noted that "the religious order would be interested in development for 
(continued on page J) 

begun to react," said Peter Gray a spokesman for the New York Chamber of Commerce. 
"No one had made plans. I'm not aware of any plan to cope on anyone's part." 
Coping for the P0st Office Department meant getting along with 1,176 supervisorv em-
by Dave Lammers 
Howard Zion, historian and political activist, argued last night that America presently suffers from "a conspiracy of laws" that is a rationalization for poverty, racism, and war. 
Zinn contended that the evils of our society,. such as the Vietnam war, the poverty of many of our citizens, and the racism of our institutions, is "self evident." Through our complex system of laws and salutes exploitation by the econ­omic and political elites has become "rationalized," Zinn said. 
"At the end of the assembly line come the victims, and we don't know who is responsi~le. The enemy is unidentifiable. We presently have exploitation that is more atrocious than in pre­modern times, and we don't know who is to blame. The laws have resulted in a mystification of power that goes under the name of rationalism," Zinn said. 
Zinn argued that "the modern era" does not actually represent progress over "the dark ages" because the economic and politi­cal power still lies in the hands of an exploitive elite. "The serfs knew who was enslaving them, but now we don't know who decides when we shall go to war, or who gels taxed, or who gets drafted." Zinn pointed out that 
Tile Federalist Paper No. 10, · written by Alexander Hamilton, explained why "the majority won't take too many things into its head." "The voters don't know what is going on," Zinn said, and contended further that there are only a few congress­men with any power. 
"In the colonial nations, force is naked, while in a modern nation there is an army of bewilderers" Zinn said. Zinn ployees here. They were busy diverting foreign mail to other ports, emptying out street mail boxes and putting "temporarily closed'! signs on them, inspect­ing packages for perishable material that must be destroyed, and locating lifesaving drugs for hospitals. 

,-~ i 
gave various examples ol' the effects of the judicial process to support his contention that the legal system is intended to support "the military, economic, and political elite." 
According to the Boston pro­fessor, "we are en~~:al!ed in terrible evils when the structure is functioning the way it is supposed to function. "The system is not now off-center, the system has not gone awry, as it did in the depression, for exam­ple. It is the non-corrupt politi­cian, that rationalizes evil through words, symbols, and the whole phantasmagoria of rules and regulations, that is the cause of the present ailment." 
Zinn concluded that revolu­tionary changes in attitudes and beliefs is necessary to make major changes in the structure. "The whole structure of law and opm1on which protects the economic and military elite must be called into serious question. Presently, law is designed to keep things the way they are." 
"The people confuse the Bill of Rights with the statutes that make up the economic imbal­ance, the governmental appor­tionments, and the military contracts," Zinn said. "The Bill of Rights has not been a very adequate protection of peopll' in real life situations," Zinn said. 
Civil disobedience to laws thai protect military and economil.: exploitation was considered by Zinn to he necessary for this revoJ.utionary change. "We must be willing to take risks. we must he willing to walk away from the scene of the crime. If we don't take risks, things will move along the way they are going now and we are presently moving toward disaster_" 



FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1970
PAGE 2 


MAD-t-UNNY-SAD LETTERS? 
Have you received a uclassic" te.tter from home (parental an­
• 
xiety, wisdom, advice about sex, 




Teach -1n features deBell

politics, lifestyle, etc.)? We'd like it for a social-psych project. An­onymity guaranteed! Send to Let­
by Steve Lazar 

Bell to speak at their teach-ins nature of environmental prob­has since become organized as a M n. 
ters, 1125 Mcintyre, Ann Arbor, 
With the theme, "The future on the same day. lems. / separate event. Currently the is the age of ecology," the April The activities for the day will Putman briefly outlined the students involved are being ad­22 Environmental Teach-in here include a number of panel history of the Teach-in here at vised by the Biology and Civil 

Anything Special Over 
at Notre Dame will feature a discussions and environmental Notre Dame. Primarily, he S!lid, Engineering Departments. Spring Life Mass, environmental workshops featuring memb.ers of it is the outcome of a local Putman emphasized that any­
Well, How About Doing 

workshops, positive the Biology, Geology, Econo­committee formed last fall one interested in the Teach-in Something Special Over Easter. . 
demonstrations and a number of mics, and Civil Engineering de­known as the Michiana Forum may gain information by calling keynote speakers. partments. Efforts are also being for the Environment. Tim Pine at 233-3767 or Chuck NOTRE DAME 
According to Chris Putman, made, Putman said, to have This group began organizing Racine at 283-3801. St. Mary's CIVIL RIGHTS PROJECT 
one of the student organizers of representatives of local indus­the Michiana Teach-in, he said, students may call Jeege Morti­to Hampton County, S.C. 
the event on campus, the high­tries present their opinions on but the Notre Dame Teach-in mer at 284-4680. light of the day will be a speech pollution and other topics. Mem­by Garret de Bell, the college­bers of the student body will
for further details 

Nixon broadens loans
dropout editor of a book of likewise be included on theCall Dan 6791 "A tractional four year college students now eligible•. 

1  *~I NEST  ""!"!I'!I'!!'P.I~:;;a ':'!frr.,. cncu,.  ecological essays known as Environmental Handbook.  The  speakers list. Topics for  discussion will be  WASHINGTON (UPI)-Presi­ program is not suited  to every­ 
TEAC, ALTEC, LANSING, JVC  ·  ; II  Putman noted that Notre Dame is very fortunate to get de Bell to speak because more than  pollution, overpopulation, a no growth economy, legal action against polluters, ur!Jan blight,  dent Nixon proposed yesterday that the government guarantee needy youths loans of as much  one," Nixon told Congress. "Our young people are not sheep to be regimented by the need for a  
oc;;;;_rPR_r__ 'dDU~t'{ON~__ _____CalL~~ -28 ___j  five hundred campuses across the country are trying to obtain outstanding persons such as de  recycling, and capitalism's rela­tion to the environment. The speakers will present these topics  as $2,500 a year, payable for as long as 20 years at low interest rates, to help finance their  certain type of sheepskin." The President  status bearing proposed in­ 
HEERLEADER TRYOUTS FOR ND AND SMC FRESHMEN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS SUNDAY, MARCH 23 ND -GRACE TOWER LOBBY 7·00PM SMC-REGINA NORTH  in ways varying from formal addresses to panel discussions to actual workshop demonstra­tions, said Putman. Other activities planned, Put­man said, include nature appreci­ation sessions, the establishment of a "peoples park," and demon­strations to expose the nature of pollution and environmental decay in the South Bend area. Putman said his group is trying to get the campus Sierra  college educations. Nixon's plan for revamping the federal student loan program to provide greater help for students from low income fami­lies was outlined in a special message to Congress. "No quali­fied student who wants to go to college should be barred by lack of money," he said. Education officials said the plan is designed to encourage  creasing the maximum size of a guaranteed laon from the pre­sent $1,500 a year to $2,000, even though officials said virtual­ly no student would need to borrow to the limit, and extend­ing the repayment period from I0 to 20 years. At the same time, the eligibi­lity guideling of $15,000 in annual family income would be reduced to $10,000 for a guar­anteed loan.  
•  BASEMENT  Club and the CPA interested in participating in the day's events.  needy youths to attend two year community colleges and state  An estimated 2 million college students would be eligible for  
He felt that groups like the CPA  universities,  where  they  said  guaranteed and subsidized loans  
would be particularly helpful in  $I,700  a year is usually enough  under  the  proposed  changes,  
matters concerning the political  to cover a student's costs.  compared  to  the  l.6million  


Tarr to favor volunteer army



hat? 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Curtis that manpower requirements York City, closed down in theW. Tarr won a quick committee could be met by inducing young Tarr, who was drafted intoapproval yesterday as the new men to join the Army the Army in 1943, said he would
Selective Service chief after he voluntarily. 
recommend elimination of

endorsed an end to college
St. Francis The 45 year old former college deferments this year
deferments and pledged the 
college president told the "unless something comes up to
draft would not be used to 
committee he supported the convince me I'm wrong."
runish antiwar demonstrators. 
concept of an all volunteer He said deferment of students
The Senate Armed Services 
Army and did not feel that only was unfair to poor people and
Committee approved his 
black Americans would enlist. "tends to induce some young
a Hippie? nomination unanimously after 
Even if that were the result, he people to go to college for the
the tall, soft spoken Californian 
said ''I'm not afraid of an all wrong reasons."
had testified for just over an 
black force." Tarr, who has vowed he will
hour. His name now goes to the
Not exactly. 
Tarr testified on a day that not follow in the footsteps of his
Senate for confirmation with a saw anti conscription controversial predecessor, Lt.
vote expected Friday.
But when St. francis began 
demonstrations across the Gen. Lewis B. Hershey, said the
Tarr said he opposed abolition draft board usc of the draft as punishment
of the draft

his Order he was rather anti· 
all 96 in New for civil violations took away thedemonstrated ..dignity"of serving in the armed


establishment. 
forces. 

SMC Academic Activities Organization 
"It's not my feeling that even 

Committee on Non-Violence 
though many people are not

St. Francis wanted to "do his own thing" and 
present 
inclined to enlist that it is a

go around doing good, living a life of poverty, 
privilege and not a punishment

WILLIAM M.
and telling everyone, especially the poor, the 
to serve... any attempt to make 

Good News-the Gospel. 
service a punishment is not the 
right thing to do."



KUNSTL.ER 
Violators of criminal laws­such as those who wreck 

St. Francis was not satisfied· with the estab­
lishment 700 years ago and set out to follow 
Selective Service offices-should

in the footsteps of another man who wanted 
be punished by the courts, not 

us to love one another . 
by the draft, he said. Hershey became a symbol of 
repression to a generation of young people partly because he 

If you would like to find out how you can "do 
your own thing" fHI in this coupon for more 
recla~sificd draft eligibles who

information. 
had participated in antiwar 
disturbances. the 76 year old 
general was kicked upstairs by 

Franciscan Vocation Office 
President Nixon. 

Post Office Box 1983 
JOBS! JOBS! and more JOBS! Stu•

Santa Fe, New Mexico 87501 
dents, Teachers. Stateside and Inter· na~lonal Job~. Recreational Jobs; 

I would like to find out more about how I can "do my 
Year-round Jobs; Summer Jobs. A'll occupations and trades. Enjoy a vac•· ' 

own thing" as a Franciscan priest or brother. 
tion while you earn. Hurry! The best I Jobs are taken early. Write: ".IOBS"j

Name 
1".0. Box 4 75, Dept. CP 163-1, LC'dl( :alit. 95_240 Address 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except

City ____ 
vacations by students of the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame and St.

State ___ 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the 

Phone No. _______ Age ______ Year _____ 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 



p

FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1970 7118 OBSERIIEit 
ours for the asking ...

Krashna accepting applications 
who want to work," he con­cia! Co-ordinator, Hall Life new administration. 
Applications are now being accepted for thirteen different Student Government Cabinet positions. Applicants must file 
by Tuesday, March 24. 
Dave Krashna, SBP-elect, and Mark Winings, SBVP-elect, will then make appointments based on applications and interviews. 
"Mark and I are looking for people who know what we want to bring about next year-an emphasis on the halls and their needs," Krashna said. 
"We are looking for people tinued. 
"Next year the research work for the Student Forum will be done by the Cabinet Commis­sioners and that is why they must be competent," the SBP­elect added. 
Positions open are those for Executive Co-ordinator, Res­earch and Development Com­missioner, Academic Affairs Commissioner, Off-campus Commissioner, Community Relations Commissioner, Public Relations Commissioner, Judi-Commissioner, Ombudsman Personnel, National Students Association Co-ordinator, Human Affairs Commissioner, Recruitment Action Chairman, and Students Against Racism Chairman. 
The last two positions were formerly part of the Human Affairs Commission in the McKenna Administration. But Krashna, who served as Human Affairs Commissioner under McKenna, pointed out that both will have seperate heads in his 
Rivers takes fight tow in view; blasts handling of My Lai case 
COLUMBIA (S.C.)-Rep. L. Mendel Rivers said yesterday he still believes the United States 
should fight to "win" in South­east Asia, and called the latest 
arrests  in  the  alleged  My  Lai  
Massacre  case  "one  of  the  
darkest  days  in  U.S.  military  
historv."  

• Rivers said a subcommittee of the powerful House Armed Ser­vices Committee which he heads, is investigating the Pentagon's handling the My Lai case and "at the proper time we will make a proper report." 
He said Tuesday's arrest of 14 army officers, including the superintendent of West Point, resulted from "indecision and lack of leadership at the highest echelon in the U.S. Army." "a tragedy of major propor­tions." 
The 14 were accused of failure to investigate and report 
"I have said before we are not going to sit idly by and see men indicted for crimes of war when you have no rules of engage­ment; when the enemy is savage in treatment of prisoners of war, and where men, women, child­ren-everybody is attacking their benefactors with hand grenades," Rivers declared. 
Rivers declined to name any­one in particular in his attack, and when questioned about the subcommittee investigation said, "We haven't finished yet." 
"At the proper time we will make a proper report on this spectacle of indecision and lack 
of  leadership  at  the  highest  
echelon  in  the  U.S.  Army,"  
Rivers said.  

Rivers, who was in Columbia visiting friends at the South Carolina legislature, recently de­scribed the My Lai case as a ·"fiasco" and said instead of 
Sister Olivia denies rumors 
(continued from page 1) 
industrial, commercial, and res­idential purposes," Sister re­marked that the order had merely appointed an investi­gative committee to explore potential uses for the property. 
"Many faculty members and students were distressed that the land developed by the Biology Department as a nature preserve would be <~ffected," Sister dis­closed. 
The South Bend Tribune's story h<~d described the land in question <IS "a portion of about 500 acres along the east bank of the river owned by the order and the college." The description 
. I

could apply to the bwlogy preserve in question. 
That property, however, is not under consideration, said Sister, who added that the land to be investigated bounded by Douglas Road is situated north of McCandless Hall near the Indiana Toll Road. 
Sale of a farm north of the college by the order to provide for investment for the sisters' retirement generated rumors that the order would soon dispose of more tracts of land. 
Sister M. Gerald, C.S.C., treas­urer of the Holy Cross Sisters, who was quoted in The Tribunes article is out of town and unavailable for comment. 
8:30 TONIGHT! 
THE SERVANT OF TWO MASTERS 
by Carlo Goldoni 
an italian comedy 
Saturday 8:30pm 
Sunday 2:30pm 
Little Theatre at St. Mary's 
Student tickets $1.00 
Call 284-4141 or 284-4176 


~,~ OBSERVER ~0 
~v STAFF MEETING~ 4:30 

Friday 


In the office 
phew 

jailing U.S. military personnel, the Army should spend its time 
publicizing  treatment  of  U.S.  
prisoners  by  the  North  Viet­ 
namese.  
Rivers  said  the  14  were  
"indicted  for  something  they  

didn't know about." 
"I don't believe my fellow Americans-these young men, these leaders, should be treated the way the hierarchy of the 
U.S. Army is treating them," Rivers said. 
As advertized in The Obser­ver, "applications should contain a statement of the applican conception of the various in the respective cabinet lions." They should be submit ted to Dave Krashna, Box 522 Student Government Office Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Today is the deadline f Student Union Director ap cations. As of last night only two students had applied: juniors Bob Pohl and Pat Weber Krashna said that interviews f the position would be held weekend and that an an ment of acceptance and appoin ment would be made on day. 
72 pages of color .•. with a "whole new world" for pipe and cigar smokers. We'll include a "trial run" ofourfamous3StarTobacco, 
For your free catalog and sample, write Dept. C, 
17 SOUTH WABASH AVE. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60603 
THE 


SHIRE 
Keenan -Stanford Coffee House
Featuring: 
The Morning-glory Brigade 
(he Incomparable 
Mike McKool 
Plus the return of 
1 00% American Dog 
Saturday 10:00-1:00 Keenan-Stanford Basement 


ND, SMC Freshmen, Sophs 
Theology  
"  Meet your Major  Night"  
7PM March 20  Friday 356 Madeleva Hall  

ND-SMC Joint Program in Theology and Religious Studies 
APPI..ICA·TIONS AR£ NOW 8£1NG TAKEit 
EOR TH£ POSITION Of 
STUDENT UNION DIRECTOR 
APPLICATI-ON MAY BE MAD£ aY atJIMITTING A fiATEMENT OF INTENT TO 
Dave Krashna box 522 Student Government office Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
The application should contain a statement of the applicant's conception of the role of Student Union Director. Applications must be filed by Friday March 20. Announcement of appointment and acceptance will be made on Monday, Mareh 23. 


PAGE 4 
THE O.&rUIIER. 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newsp~~per GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editot-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Jeanne Sweeney 
Valuable natural area 
It is fortunate that recent news releases disclosing that the Sisters of the Holy Cross were interested in developing and selling land used by the Biology Department are not correct. This would have been rather distressing news for our College because a valuable natural area: has been designated on this property by the Biology Department for the study of nature. 
It would have been a great loss to the college and especially to the science departments if this land were sold to industrial, commercial, or residential interests. The nature area is a designated natural area to be left undisturbed for teaching, research, and enjoyment. It was originally proposed by the Biology Department for the !25th anniversary celebration. A trail was established together with a trail booklet and a lot of work has gone into the collection of plants, making slides, and developing a herbarium. 
This nature area is essential for teaching courses in ecology, and many other courses such as Biology, Botany, Zoology, and even for the use of the Art Department. This is the only major undisturbed natural area on our campus which makes available first hand study of ecological relationships. This area has other advantages, the most important one being its easy accessibility from the campus. 
At a time when people are becoming more interested in the environment and in ecological studies, it would have been futile to have sold this valuable land. So much time and effort, mostly by the Biology Department, has gone into the planning of this nature area. Without this field experience it would be very hard for science students to learn environmental principles. To have lost this area to industry or a residential section would not have conserved the little bit of nature yet on our campus. Many other colleges would be jealous of such a wonderful asset to the education of Science majors and l'iberal arts students. 
The investigative committee appointed by the Sisters of the Holy Cross to explore the potentialities of the land should recommend that this area be preserved. Out of concern for the environment for its educational possibilities, and because of the Biology Department's efforts, it is important for the committee to protect this area. Dr. Dineen brings up a most important point when he says that "if colleges don't give leadership in nature preserves and environmental control, nobody will." Preservation of the environ­ment should begin right here on campus! 
FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1970 


Damn! I thought they were going to publish that ABSURDER every Friday. 
Business Mgr: Bruce Reick Ad. Nlgr. : Bruce Barker Accountant: John Maher News Editor: Glen Corso Asst. News Editor: Cliff Wintrode Business Secretaries: Nancy Erdman, Sarah Belanger SMC News Editor: Prue Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Jeanne Sweeney, Ann Conway Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer Photography Editor: Mike Murphy Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode Layout Design: Cliff Wintrode Layout: Mary Beth Crimmins Dan Kopenhafer, Brian Kelly 
Rich Maggi Headlines: Frank Weigand 
The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses and columns of The Observer are solely the opinions of the authors and editors of The Observer, and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty or student bodies. 
Letters to the Ed itor 
Faculty Cooperation? 
' 

Editor: 
Yesterday, March 18, the 
Faculty Senate soundly defeated 
a proposal that the Faculty at 
Notre Dame pay $10.00 a year 
for the registration fee for their 
cars. I feel the students chould 
be made aware of exactly what 
this refusal meant. 
Right now the students who own cars pay $25.00 or $10.00 a year automobile registration, de­pending upon whether they live on or off campus. This money is used for the maintenance, im­provement, and security of all the parking lots on campus, faculty and student alike. the proposal, made possible by the cooperation and interest of Pro­fessor Robert Anthony, asked the Faculty to help in this job of improving the present conditions existing in the parking lots. $10.00 per faculty and staff member at Notre Dame would have added approximately $8,000.00-$9,000.00 a year for the parking lots. 
It seems strange that the Notre Dame faculty, an intricate part of this University, would refuse to help improve the deplorable conditions of the parking lots. Vandalism has increased this year, a few lots have no lights or concrete base, and fences exist presently only 
in the C parking lots. These 
conditions could be alleviated 
with more money. the Univer­sity doesn't have it to give, the students' money can't possibly cover· the expenses of the needed improvements, yet the Faculty refuses to pay $10.00 a year for changes that will benefit the entire Notre Dame Community. It is hard to believe. 
Respectfully, 
Joe White 
Breen Phillips Senator 
337 Breen-Phillips 
Peace conspiracy 
Editor: Referring to the article "Cron­in speaks at NO" in the Observer of March 18. 
r was disappointed to Jearn 
that Dr. Cronin should be so concerned with the Catholic image which he feels should be radiated by Notre Dame Univer­sity. I was under the impression that although Notre Dame is a Catholic institution, it is fore­
most a place where an individual may come in the hope of finding a personal religion. 
According to the Observer Dr. Cronin stated that "th~ · faculty ought to be teaching the Catholic viewpoint on things." It is my belief that the student first 
War neurosis 

be given the opportunity to experience all sides of religion, Editor: md t~n ocly be ofured ilie Your cartoon depicting the "guidelines" of Catholicism. war as a neurosis peculiar to the Would it not be more meaning­American male in the March 18, ful and lasting for a person to be 1970 issue annoyed me. secure in those beliefs which he If you are indeed interested in 
has sought out himself? attaining peace, then a word of Here I feel that Dr. Cronin has advice: you will never achieve it made a premature judgment by antagonizing your opponents 
with your clever quips. War will become unpopular as soon as it is viewed as a profane 

activity as opposed to a patriotic one. Your humor only serves to 
•further postpone that time. Sincerely, John Spinelli 327 Dillon 
.~ 
We like Betty 
Editor: Yesterday you published a let­
ter from the so-called "Phantom Five Inc." of the fourth floor south in Fisher Hall. In this letter Helen, our maid, was wel­comed back after illness and our substitute maid was labelled asconcerning the Catholic spirit "inferior" and "third-rate."
and the Notre Dame student We here in fourth floor northbody. It is not a case of the in Fisher share the sentiments ofreligion dying out among the our neighbors in greeting Helen, students, but rather a search by and second their nomination ofeach one of us for those her for the mythical "maid ofexperienced, questioned beliefs the year" title. But-we feelwhich lead toward a more compelled to rebut the criticismsmeaningful religion. 
levelled at Betty, the substituteNancee Frawley maid.
St. Mary's College 
We would like first to point out that Betty had never before worked as a maid before coming to Fisher. Secondly, we must add that we felt her to be extremely conscientious, hard­working, and eager to please the guys on the floor. One of our number has taken the legs off his bed so that it rests directly upon the floor. He told Betty several times that she was not to make such a bed. But several times to his pained embarrassment, 'he found her on her hands and knees neatly putting his bed in order. Betty speaks English only haltingly. She would look up, 
smile solicitously, and say "Sir, Sir, I not mind; you like?" All we wish to say is "Yes, Betty, we did like; and we were happy to have you around." 
Sincerely, The Guys in Fisher Fourth Floor North Jerry Kammer Thomas M. Allen John Conley Andy Scantlebury Doug Smith Gary Hartwig Richard J. Wall, jr. Steve Cunningham Jack Row! Stephen C. Effie Sam Prisco Jim Hemlen 


711E OBSERfJER. FRIDAY, MARCH 20, L70
PAGE 5 
•

ND sen 1or tests campus security 
by John G. Broderick 
Picture the scene . . . last Friday morning, late as usual, I legged over to the parking lot to drive over to my 9:05 SMC music class. As the bright green color of my new car caught my eye, I ran across the lot, fishing for the keys in my 
coat pocket.  
You  can  imagine how  my  sleepiness  
was  instantly  transformed  to  bitterness  
when  I  saw  the  dents  and  scratches,  

engraved by vandals, defacing the side and rear of my car. I spent that day in red tape, reporting the incident to campus security and my State Farm agent in town. Saturday night, a friend and I spent an hour (II to midnight) patrolling the lots with iron pipes (for self-defense against knife wielding vandals) to no avail. It later occurred to me that no one stopped us for questioning. "Why are you walking through parking lots with iron pipes?" We surely looked suspicious! We were def­initely seen by the two student patrolmen hired by Mr. PeaN. But no one bothered 

Alumni to Perform at CJF 
by Steve Novak 
CJ F, to pick up where I left off yesterday, is here. The Judges Sympos­ium last night was a success. Although it is probably presumptuous -and certainly unfair-to try to summarize two hours of discussion in two lines of copy, I will. The consensus on the panel was that for some unfortunate reason, jazz has not enjoyed the success it should have in recent years, while predominantly white rock groups, borrowing and, as Willis Connover put it, 
"sometimes stealing"-what black blues and jazz musidans have done, have become popular sucl:esses. 
The syrnposwm was valuable and informative. But CJ F is not a seminar on the future of music-at least not a verbal seminar. The real purpose of the Festival is the music. In the next two days, 14 excellent groups of musicians will appear in Stepan Center. I'll mention four here which have a special relationship to Notre Dame and lhe Festival. 
A group called Grafitti will play this afternoon. The sextet is led by Dave Pavolka, who has been chosen "Best Trombonist" at the Festival three years in a row. Also in the group is last year's "Best Bassist", Wayne Darling. Grajltti can be expected to put on a fine show, in what will be the group's first performance before a live audience. 
Another of the headliners appears lonite. Two members of NO's popular First Friday Norm Zeller and John l'rendergast-join Festival Assistant Chair­man Nick Talerico, and three members of the Magnificent Seven, in forming the 
l.arrv /Jeachler Sextet. 
Talarico will appear on ptano, with John Buchanan (another assistant chair­man), Jack Leo and Pete Szujewski playing trombone, alto and drums. Zeller, who of course plays the guitar, dropped in on one of the group's rehearsals and decided to stick around. Prendergast is an old jazz hand. John toured Europe with the University of Illinois Jazz Band. On the tour-and on the album they cut while in Stockholm__:_John played Tuba ( down heat gave the album 4'h of a pos~ib!~ fiue :;tart). This weekend, he'll be heard on bass. 
Buchanan, Leo and Szujewdki, in addition to their work with the Magnifi­cent Seven, played last year with the Bill Hurd Quintet. Hurd and the fifth member, Larry Dwyer, graduated last June, but they will be back this weekend. llurd, "Most Promising Saxiphonist" in 
1966, returns to play with both the Big Band and the Combo from M.l. T. !'he combo appears Friday mght, the Big Band on Saturday. Also on Saturday 
SMC Coffeehouse 
This Sunday evening from 9 -12 p.m. the SMC Coffeehouse presents Bob Ewan, Olinda, Jim Moran, the Moreau Combo, and Roger Diaz. Admission is a mere quarter. 
us. 
My curiosity was aroused. Are the lots protected ... or do the security people merely show themselves periodically? There is a difference! 
On Sunday night I determined to test our security. I played the "let's steel your own wheel covers game." I dressed in dark clothing and carried my laundry sack and a flash light. At 10:00 P.M. I proceeded to steal the wheel covers from my own car in D-1. I was a noisy thief, and took. 15 minutes to remove them ... I did it twice. I never saw the security car. Plenty of students saw what I was doing . .. but only one student approached me. "What the hell are you doing? Changing all four tires at once?" he asked. 
"Ahh ... no ... ahh," I responded, "I'm changing my hub caps." 
The poor guy was obviously not sat­isfied and I hoped he would pursue the issue and protect MY car from an evident thief ... but he walked .away. 
Disgusted, I drove to D-3 (by the stadium) and parked by the sidewalk, in 
afternoon, Dwyer will perform with the University of Illinois Dixie Band. Dwyer was "Best Trombonist" in 1965 and 1966-before Pavolka began his reign­but this year he'll be playing piano. 
Saturday night, of course, is the climax of the festival. The three combos and three Big Bands selected as the best will perform that night. In the past, the judges 
chose a "Best Big Band" and "Best Combo", as well as a "Best Overall Group" from the Saturday night finalists. This practice, however, has been dis­carded. Festival Chairwoman Anne Heinrichs explained: "We were in contact with a lot of former judges and group leaders, and we determined that, by and large, most of them felt that choosing a single 'best' group made the Festival too competitive, and tended to make crea­tivity a risk. We feel that elimination of the 'best' awards in each class will allow greater emphasis on creativity and musicality." 
CJF is here again, as I said, and Notre Dame is better off for it. Jazz is the most creative form of music, and the perfor­mers assembled for the weekend are among its best young practitioners. 
At $4.50 for an all-session ticket, it 
comes to about $.50 an hour for the best rnusic you'll hear on campus this year. If you don't go, you miss a lot. If you do go, you'll enjoy yourself. So go! 



COI.I.EGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAI. 
Tonight & Tomorrow Night 
1:30 & 7:30 pm -Stepan Center 
Saturday night H lgh School Competition 
Tickets: $I 
$3-Evening 
$4.50 -All Sessions Available at door, at Gilbert's, the bookstore and in the Dining HaUs 
A Service ofStudent Union Social Commission 
full view at 10:17 P.M. Here I placed my sack on the sidewalk, lifted the hood and tinkered with a wrench and flashlight. In a few minutes the two student patrolmen approached. I caught their eye ... and looked away. They inquired about my problem. I. just mumbled something about a loose fan belt. They were sus­picious but did not ask me to show a registration or even to open the car to prove I had the keys. The two merely walked away slowly gla:ncing back every now and then. I figured they probably called the patrol car on their radio, so I .waited around for I 0 minutes. No one showed. 
I was furious. I looked for the patrol car. I drove around for a half hour ... no patrol car in any lot! Finally at II: 15 I saw the police driving around the convo. I sped to the other side before they got around. It was dark and deserted ... a thief's delight. I locked the car and opened the hood. Here I tinkered with my wrench and flashlight until the police lights approached me. "What's this ... a new Ford won't start?" 
"Well no ..." I said, "just a funny noise in the engine." (A terrible excuse for poking around a car behind the convo at that time of night, I thought.) 
"Start it up and let's see what it is," the officer responded. 


_.:_____ _ 
·--:::...,.... 
:::-· 
The Observer features staff, shown as they gathered this morning to wel­come the arrival of another beautiful South Bend spring. After frolicking among the trees, the happy group settled down for their annual cumquat picnic, followed by a joyous do-it-yourself music festival. 

Best three combos and best three big bands will perform. Individual performers will be awarded c• and instrument prizes and trophies. 13 bands from around Indiana will compete tomorrow in Washington Hall from 9 am to 4 pm. Admission $.25. 
-Afternoon Session 
(Great, I thought. He wants me to prove that I have the keys. He wants me to show him that I own the car.) "No, .." I said, "I think I can handle this myself. Thanks anyway." (What a stall, I thought. They have to suspect something now!) 
"O.K., then," they said. And they 
drove away. 
Oh my God! I couldn't believe it. In desperation I drove to C-1 (across from the library). For 10 minutes I clanked my hub caps. Nothing. The security car passed by C-1 and went into D-1. How could they do that, I thought. What about C-1? 
I went into the library for a few minutes and warmed up. There I saw my friends the student patrolmen out the window. I walked through the lot flashing my laundry sack. No questions. After they passed, I waited a bit and removed one wheel coyer and threw it on the pavement. Crash! They never came back to investigate. 
So here I am, at lunch on Monday, thoroughly broken (like my car). Yes, the security people drive through the lots, but they do not patrol them. 
Do not mistake my intentions for writing this article. Everyone mentioned here I'm sure is a competent person. Perhaps they are all using the wrong strategy, though. 

r 
; 

Fox's Extends 
SPECIAL PRICES 
to 

' 

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
most important thing in buying a diamond---=----is knowledge. It takes an expert to know the 
fine points of cut, color and quality... and what gives a diamond its value. There's only one way to boy a diamond... and that is by coming to a jeweler you can trust. 
DIAMONDS $50 TO $5,000 OPEN A CONVENIENT 
~..IR~T·A~C~C~OUN~TRT·O·D;A~Y~..~--~~ 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING 
7118 



Sacred 
by Mike Chapin 
A huge crowd of over 1500 people jammed Sacred Heart Church on St. Patrick's Day all hoping to walk out with some­thing other than the grace of God. The church was holging a one day "garage sale" of at least 1 ,000 objects which had ac­cumulated in the basement stor­age room. 
Brother James Dorson, C.S.C. explained the reason for the sale. "Over the years with the liturgy changes and the conce1ebrated masses there was a need for less altars. Also, there was a need for space." 
The altars were not sold, however. In fact, nothing of any memorial or historical value was sold. Many religious items were sold such as old pews, holy water founts, surplices, 175 misal stands, old communion railings,candles, wooden, bronze and brass candlesticks, pieces Jf wood, and materials from vest­ments Sacred Heart Church makes according to Brother James. 
Baskets of materials went fo or three dollars. Some candle sticks which were appraised at $300 were sold for $175. One 
· couple bought two of them after buying over $500 worth of other items, Brother James said. 
TAKEN FOR THE 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT CABINET POSITIONS OF: 
EXECUTIVE CO-ORDINA TOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONER ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COMMISSIONER 
OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSIONER PUBLIC RELATIONS COMMISSIONER JUDICIAL. CO-ORDINATOR 

HUMAN AFFAIRS COMMISSIONER 
Recruitment Action Program Chairman Students Against Racism Chairman 
HALL LIFE COMMISSIONER 

OMBUDSMAN PERSONNEL NSA CO-ORDINATOR 
APPLICATION MAY BE MADE BY SUBMITTING A STATEMENT OF INTENT TO 
Dave Krashna 
Box 522 Student Government Office Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

The applications should contain a statement of the applicant's conception of the various roles in the respective cabinet positions. The applicants will not be bound to one position. Your application for one position may be considered for another position. 
Applications must be filed by Tuesday, March 24. Announcement of appointment and acceptance will be made shortly after March 24. · 
FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1970 
Heart holds sale 
The surplices were sold for a quarter a piece to a home for retarded children. Brother James explained that the children will learn to dye the durplices many different colors. 
Brother James said that over 60% of the items sold was non-religious rummage. Trays dishpans, tools, nails, garden hoses, old captains chairs, flowerpots, decorations, lamp­shades, bookcases, chest of drawers, spotlights and pieces of 
wood were sold. The crowd was made up of decorators, faculty memhers, 
students, and parishoners of the Sacred Heart Parish. Brother James said many just came to look while others just wanted a "little something from Notre Dame." 
Brother James was not a liberty to tell how much money the church had made off the said but did state that "we made much more than we expected to." He commented that many times the administration has a tendency to cut off their funds rather than someone elses. The cash will be used to bolster the church in case of any cuts. 

Chinese life discussed 
(continued from page 1) 
tiated a settlement with the Chinese Communists in t)Je early days of the revolution. Many communist leaders, he felt, were anxious for friendly relations with the West. He said that he had interviewed Chou En Lai at the time of the revolution, who said he was desirous of a "free and democratic form of com­munism" and favorably inclined toward good relations with the 

u.s. 
Marcuse said that one of two things will happen in China after Mao's death, but he did not know which of the two it would be. If Mao is successful in his present effort to purge the party of pro-Soviets then China will become much more moderate, according to Marcuse. If Mao is unsuccessful then he feels that China would become a much 


threat to the West after 
TONIGHT Goes Classical 


AMERICA 
Dee Bacon, Voice (accompanied-Margaret Korschmar): Debussy, Benjamin Britten, Daniel Pinkham, Schonberg. Ruth Fisher, Piano: Chopin, Debussy, and her original compositions. Kay Kunzler, Voice (accompanied-Ruth Fisher): Poulenc, Faure, and Mozart Aria Janet Schindler, Piano: Beethoven-Pathetique Sonata Tcherepnin-Bagatelles Wally Longo, Guitar: Minuet in C by Fernando Sors, & others Kevin McKusker, Guitar: Malaguena, & others 


his death than it is now. 
Marcuse felt that the recent Sino-Soviet boarder clashes were not very serious and were mainly staged by the Chinese to "keep the people's minds off their problems" and improve morale and national spirit. 
When questioned concerning the influence of China in North Vietnam, Marcuse replied that the Vietnamese were quite nat­ionalistic and wanted little more than aid from China. He said that the Vietnamese fear that once China is deeply involved in their country it would be im­possible to get them out. 
In regard to our policy in South Vietnam, Marcuse apolo­gized for having to criticize our government but felt that before we fought a "limited" war with "limited" aims, we should devise some method of a "limited death". 


FRIDAY MARCH 20, 1970 711E OBSERVER 


New Mobe demonstrates 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Anti­war demonstrators marched yes­terday outside draft boards in cities across the nation. The protests generally were peaceful, but police reported arresting at least 210 persons for disorderly conduct. 
Selective Service officials in New York and California shut down many local draft boards rather than risk a confrontation with demonstrators, who had announced they would attempt to close induction centers for at least one day during "antidraft week." 
A group of about 400 per­sons, headed by leaders of the New Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam which
• 
W A Sill NGTON (UPI) -The White House said yesterday communist activity in Laos could affect future withdrawals of U.S. troops from South Vietnam. Defense Secretary Mel­vin R. Laird, however, said there would be another troop reduc­tion announced next month. 
Presidential Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler said communist activity in "Laos as it relates to South Vietnam" would be a factor in President Nixon's deci­sions on future U.S. troop reductions. 
Ziegler said the administration would be influenced by signifi­cant increase in communist infil­tration along the Ho Chi Minh trail in Laos, their main route for moving troops and supplies into South Vietnam. 
But he excluded recent fight­ing between North Vietnamese regulars and the Laotian army on the Plain of Jars as being directly related to the Vietnam War, thus ruling it out as a reason for slowing down troop withdrawals. 
Should communist strength in South Vietnam be measurably increased by infiltration through Laos, Ziegler implied, Nixon might be forced to reduce the rate of U.S. troop disengage­ment. 
last Nov. 15, had warned that demonstrators in more than 70 cities would engage in tactics of nonviolent civil disobedience, including sit ins. Leaders of the group predicted "thousands" of arrests. 
Forecast Unfulfilled 
Some violence occurred else­where, In Pittsburgh, Pa., six persons were injured during a City Court hearing for seven protestors arrested earlier in the day. Police said chairs were broken and furniture was over-
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
Present 

JOHN WAYNE 
In 

THE WAR WAGON 
with Kirk Dou~la.s Plus 3 Road Runner Cartoons 
Sat. March 21st I:30, 3:50, 7:00, 9:20, II :40 Sunday March 22ncl 2:30 & 8 Members Free Non-Members $.75 (We have a new screen) 
When you're home for Easter, Ask the bunny out for the PROM WEEKEND! 
HID P!HCE $10.00 Includes 
Prom Ticket -May I Grand Prix Tickets-May 2 Post Grand Prix Picnic -May 2 
Room Reservations & Co11cert Tickets available at time of bid sales. 
TICKETS GO ON SALE TIIURS. APRIL 9, 2D LaFortune 7:00 turned before order was re­stored. 
In Raleigh, N.C., police ar­rested two demonstrators who allegedly threw a plastic bag of blood against the steps leading into the local draft board office. 
Police in numerous other cities reported peaceful activi­ties. 
The protests were billed by the New Mobe, an amalgamation of more than I00 groups as the highlight of "antidraft week," which began Monday. 
PAGE 7 

INTERESTED IN lEARNING THE TECHNIQUES OF NEWSPAPER LAYOUT & DESIGN? 

A SPECIAL. WORKSHOP 
SATURDAY, MARCH 21st 

2:00 O'CLOCK IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE 
(TO THE RIGHT OF THE FIESTA LOUNGE) 
From the countrythat gave you, "I A WOMAN," 
"INGA" and "lAM CURIOUS 

THE OBSERfi!R. FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1970
PAGE 8 
Netmen seek return to prominence 
least mid season.
After two rebuilding years, Bernie La Sage: A junior from Short Hills, New Jersey. Letter­break into the top of the lineupThe Irish netmen have a
coach Tom Fallon's '1970 Irish Pasadena, California. Starred at ed and won some clutch matches this season. tennis team is ready to begin schedule consisting of ten home the number one position last last year. Bob Schefter: A freshmanmatches, eight away matches,
their return to the prominence year. Known for his great Buster Brown: A sophomore from Yakima, Washington. He and three tournaments. Each
they have held in past years. concentration and dedication. from Sarasota, Florida, was could be this year's surprise
match consists of six singles and 
Last year's eight .and eight squad "Boomer". ineligible last year. He could player as he attempts to crackthree doubles matches. It would
showed signs of an outstanding Jim Faught: A junior from move into the number one spot the starting lineup. 
take nothing less than spectacu­
team effort which is a necessary Short Hills, New Jersey. Started this year. Jay Cusick, Mike Lanahan, requirement for consistent sue-lar play on the part of the Irish and lettered last year. Serve and Mike Reilly: A sophomore 
and Greg Reid round out the to defeat the likes of Michigan

cess. volley game. from St. Petersburg, Florida, squad.
and Indiana. However, if the Tony Earley: A junior from Mike was tough at the number Coach Tom Fallon: A NotreIrish play to their potential they Garden City, New York. "The two slot last season. Possesses Dame grad. The winningestThis year's squad has added should be able to win at least Duke" will be working on his one of the most powerful serves coach in Notre Dame tennisstrength at the top of the lineup thirteen of their matches. 
second year of varsity play. in the collegiate ranks. 
history with a .770 percentagewhich last year's team was The Squad: Strong net play. Gil Theissen: A freshman from and an NCAA Championsllip inlacking. The 1969 stand-out Bob O'Mally: A senior from Greg Murray: A junior from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, will 1959.

Bernie LaSage is being pressed Miami, Florida, he has three 
this year for the number one valuable years of experience. 






St 1· C km e n o pe n t 0 m0 r r 0 W 
spot by sophomore Buster Noted as a steady player who Brown. Mike Reilly and Gil wears down his opponents. Af-Th · d t t t p f t' t I k "B . . · · steady defensively, simply need­
elssen roun ou as rong o ec 1ona e Y nown as oun-The lrl'sh stl'ckmen open their OhiO State, D_emson, M1chigan
f Th t f. 't1· ns re " C t · ing more experience to be more 
our. e nex IVe pos1 o a ce. o-cap am. spring season this Saturday after-State and Bowlmg Green, always adep-t in playmaking. 
a dogfight between almost equal-Tim Whitting: A senior from noon at 2._ 00 at Stepan Center the strongest teams on the l t d 1 . El G w· · "B d" Club President and Co-Capt.
ly ta en e p ayers: seruor co-m rove, 1sconsm, u against Cincinnati. schedule come after a home captain Bob O'Mally; juniors will also be working on his third Th d t f ber game against Cincinnati and a Jack Pierce anchors a deepT E 1 J. F ht nd f ·t t.t. At e eve1opmen o anum . defense with regulars Dave 
ony . ar ey' liD aug , a year o varsl y compe 1 lOll. of young players will be import-road tnp East to ~lay Georg~-Lando and Chris Servant helping Greg Murray; and freshman Bob present he has a hand injury ant to the success of the Notre town, Mt. St. M~ry s and B_ow1e out. If the rest of the defense-Schefter. Senior co-captain Tim which will cause him to miss the Dame Lacrosse Club this season. L~crosse Club. ~he _expenence men improve as much again as Whitting has sustained a hand first part of the season. Co-Wl.th the key men on offense gamed on_ the tn_p w11l b_e most 
· · d ill be out unt1'l at pt · h they have so far this season,
InJUry an w ca am. and defense in last year's club valuable m_ playmg. agamst t ~ there should be few worries at lr:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::;;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::· ~~~: :~~~~a~~d f0~~0 ~ear~~r~~-} ~~ ~~:0°0~~tsa~d t~is~~~:~st;0~~~ this position for a coupie of 
;:;:Jackson. 91 :,;:;: Wachtel-! 969 MVP), freshmen out the schedule. . _ years. Likewise is the goal :;:; :;:;: and sophomores will be called Four B-team games wlil giVe situation. Junior Jerry Kammer::.:; Sf 8 83 ::.::.: upon to fill the gaps. There are all the 35 freshmen and soph~-is the best goalie the club will th t see all season. Not only did he
l!~ • Ona• :;:;: still only six seniors on the team, mores on. e earn game expen­:;:; ;:;:; none on the attack, and seven ence agamst players that are lead the Midwest goalies in saves ·· ·· th · 1 1 last season, including a fantastic
:;:; ;:;:; juniors. Compared to last year, more on eu.own eve ·:;:; UCLA 93 ;:;~ the depth and athletic ability is A more balanced attack and 92% against Ohio U., but he 
.. ·· · d d f h Jd clears the ball better than any
:.:.:; ::.::.: much better, so until the young-an expenence_ e en~e s ou b t t b h nd N tre goalie Notre Dame has played
;!;~ :;!! er players are more experienced, e s ~ong pom s. e 1 o against. Frosh Jim Roller is:;:;: N M Sf 76;:;: these will be the key to early Dames success thts season. Jun-b-etter than Kammer was at the
:;::: ex ;:;: . ior Ken Lund and Soph Ed 
.·•· ··· season success. · t
:;:;: • • • j;;; Hoban on attack, along with same t1me wo years ago. ::;:; :;~ Capt. Tim McHugh and senior The Cincinnati LC is led by ···· Fred Bingle in the midfield each ex-ND captain and All-Midwest 
can produce goals regularly. The player Bill Joseph. They are aJIM MURRAY rest of the midfielders, all surprising team and will call for freshmen and juniors, are very ND's best effort. 
A Belated Green Greeting 
@' 1970, Los Anleles Times 

What could be more appropriate than for the newspaper of the Fighting Irish to print the St. Patrick's Day greetings from Mr. Jim Murray. Mail delay necessitated this column's appearance 
today, but the sentiments are the same. 
Well, 'tis that toime again-St. Paddy's Day, the saints be praised! 'Tis a day we honor himself, John L. and James J. and Cornelius McGillicuddy, and the Fightin' Irish, Knute Rockne, Mike Swistowicz and Doley Dancewicz and George Meiinkovich and the modern Irish like Leroy Kelly and C~lvin Murphy and WillieMcCovey. 
'Tis a day when you'll not be wanting to say, "Get the potatoes out of your mouth" in the corner p·ub or you'll be after needin' two hats. So, we furnish herewith our gloassary of translations from the Irish, remembering always the words of the little Irishman who gloomily surveyed St. Patrick's Day in New York as they all trooped by and then turned and spat: "Sure, they know full well the best av us were hung!" 
No matter. You still may need these helpful definitions: 
VICE-What you sing "Mother Machree" with. To "be in good vice" is something to be if you don't have the price of the drink yourself. 
BYE-A young male child. 
TOY -What you wear around your neck. 
BOARD-What has feathers and flies. 
CARE-What you ride around in. Cares are manufactured in Detriot. 
LOIN-Shortest distance between two points. Also what you are doing when you aren't telling the truth. 
BARE-Where you can buy a drink. 
MAIN-Intend. 
ISLE-What you spread on troubled waters. FEAR-Just average. Also, a tent show run by 
the county. · RITE-Civil disobedience. HOYDEN-Ducking the police. Concealing 
one's self. WAN-The number before two. VQILE-Despicable. HID-Where hair grows. PINT-To indicate with a finger, show direction. 
Some people have a pinted hid. 

POINT-Half a quart. TORN-Change direction. CORONER-What you torn when you change 
direction. FOYER~Something that lights up. BORN-What happens to something when you 
set foyer to it. PAIR-Just average, in sports, a "board" is one-under-par. PORPOISE-Intent or goal, when you do 
something on porpose, you really main it. MINI-A lot of. GRAIN-One of the primary colors. WAKE-l/52nd of a year. DYE-24-hour segment of a wake. 
Which makes me finally want to wish you all mini happy retorns on this wan Jye of the wake and the yare when we can have the wearin' o' the grain! Slainth! 
Senior co-captain Jack Pierce heads the defense for ND's Lacross£ Club. 
:::::::~===~=;~&:~:::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::!:!:::::::::::~:::::~:~:~:::::~:::::~:~:::::~:~:::~:::~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::~:;:~:~:~:~:::~:::::::::::~:~:::::::::~:::::~:::~=~=~===~===~=~=~:;:;:~=~=~=~=~=~:::~:;:;: 
1251bs. Ferrer-Griffin . 1351bs. Kurth-Gould 145 lbs. Partyka-Su.ddes :;:; 150 lbs. McNicholas-Kerrigan 1551bs. Canori-Pemberton 160 lbs. McGrath-Chamblee ~;;~ 
Bengal finals -·tonil!hf j~j) 
Heavyweight Allan-Etter :~;
1651bs. Servant-Ervin 1751bs. Connelly-Minnix •.•. 





