Happy Valentine's Day 
See pageS 

•

Fr. Berrigan of "Catonsville n1ne '' speaks 
by Tom Bornholdt dhist drawing in of one's stand even civil disobedience would
would intervene, since Fr. Ber-thoughts. 
on the survival of the world". not stop Nixon, the generals,Fr. Daniel Berrigan S.J ., rigan was violating the terms of In speaking of his fellow dis­In contrast to Berrigan's tran­and the rest of what he called

arraigned on the charge of des­his bail. He was completely sidents, Berrigan concentrated 
quil appearance and confidence, the Establishment. As an answer

truction of federal draft files, unphased by this prospect, how-on their similarities and down­spoke to a near-capacity crowd ever, and commented semi-played their differences. To him, he told the audience that there to his problem, he suggested 
was little to hope tor and that, patience, He said that if one wasin thes Library Auditorium last seriously that in case of trouble the Black Panthers and the DC "things would get worse before not prepared to act over a "long.

night. He contended in a lengthy he would plead that his speech ·Ten are drawn together. address that the radically disaf­was a sermon, legal under the; "They are all one," he de-they will improve. He claimed he (continued on page 2) 
felt that demonstrations. andfected, whether black or white, terms of his bail. dared. "There is a kind of Bud-Vietnamese, Bolivian,. or Amer­The gendarmes never arrived, ican, were bounded together in however, and his speech entitled their struggles. "Faith and Violence", went 

His speech was later than the uninterrupted. Sponsored by the planned start at 7:00 by more Department of Nonviolence, than a half hour. During the day Berngan quoted heavily from he had participated in a seminar Che Guevara, the deceased Bo­held by the Department of livian revolutionary. Berrigan
Nonviolence. 
didn't unfold any new doctrines Last night. his speech was or theories, but rather in a loose,marred by a rumor that the FBI witty style, ·ravelled off several 

SMC freshmen to vote 
by Ann Therese Darin senting the district equally and fairly, she may. approach one of 
St. Mary's College freshmen the three class officers who will will vote in districts this week­determine action. The officers end on the final draft of their have the power to remove the 
new constitution. senator from office. Originally slated to have been 
voted on at last Monday's class Revisions also guarantee that meeting, no action could take any class member may also place because of lack of a quor­belong to a subcommittee and um. be eligible for its chairmanship. 
Kathy Murphy, then, moved The committees are social that senators return the consti­agenda, and publicity. ' tution to their constituents[~;:­"Our officers need to know revision. that they're not standing alone," 

Business students aid Indians
commented Kathy . Murphy, Major reVJsions center on Holy Cross Hall representative.

absence of senators from meet­
"They have to have more sup­bY... Dan O'Donnell Under the plan two members
!_hrough Mr. ·Redbi!_d~ aJ~osebud . .

ings, representation, and sub­
port than just table talk at din­of the team would spend Easter
A group composed of Bus­Sioux, who spoke at the recentcommittees. 

ner." iness students and faculty mem­SUAC Indian Conference. break on the reservation to con-:According to the new pro­a so
bers is endeavoring to develop a ~~ct st_udy that they ca!l

visions, if a senator is absent "If the Freshman Class really The -RoSebud Sioux reserva­advise the lpdians in the areas of
wants to work and have some business enterprise for the Rose­tion is located among the bot-
from three regular Senate meet­
organization, marketing re­

ings, she will be ousted from the sort of expression as people, if · bud Sioux tribe, whose reserva­1om..Q!le hundred counties in the search, production and funding.
Senate. theysare seeking this, then they tion is located in Crazy Horse United States in te;ms o{ per Dr. Dow indicated that both the
If a constituent doesn't aren't showing themselves to be Canyon in southern South capita income, and male unem­Dakota... The ~roup intends to ployment is in excess of 70%. Small Business Administration 
believe her senator is repre-true to their word," she added. 
serve in an advisory _cap~i!V ~he tribe has a population of and the Office of Minority Bus­iness Enterprise would be con­
about 80,000. 
tacted for help in this last area.
The group, composed of grad~


Keenan residents agr~e to 
uate students Rich Adarnick, The initial funds for the trans­Tom Assoyo, George Kohler, portation and living for the week Les Larsen, Len Belcose, Dennis long study will come from an


hold referendum on parietals 
Toohey, Tom Connelley, Arie O'Brien Fund grant. The group Sharon and senior Gerry Griffin, will attempt to bring Mr. Rose­

wait for Monday when the Stu­tions, and the suspension of aKeenan Hall residents at a hall is being assisted by Prof. Freder­bud back to campus in the neardent Life Council will consider a hall's visitation privileges is ameeting last night agreed to hold ick Dow, who is serving as chair­future to discuss details of theproposal that would allow the possible penalty for failure to
a referendum on parietals after man. A. L. Soens, Assistant Pro­program.
proposals for changes in present individual halls to set their own comply with parietal regulations. fessor of English, Dr. Hughhours subject only to the ap­It was this threat that primarily
parietal regulations are presented Fui'ukoski, Chairman of the Mar­Dr. Dow commented on the 
proval of the Hall Life Board. blocked any changes now in
next Monday to the SLC by the keting Department, Father Ivo program saying that, "Its success 
If this proposal is passed, the their hours by Keenan residents. 
Hall Life Board. Thomas, General Program, and will mean a source of revenue 
Keenan referendum is designed A parietals referendum was
Any changes in Keenan's pari­Vl!tce_n_t R. Raymond, Assistant for ~ people that has practically
to establish concretely the form held in Keenan last December,
etal hours effective this weekend are no revenue, now."
bean of the Business School 

of parietals its residents want and a majority of residents indi­was thought to be precipitous by also aiding the committee'sand the new hours will then be cated a desire for an increase in
the residents of Keenan and He went on to indicate that
efforts. · 

could possibly have brought presented to the Hall Life Board the number of allowed hours he hoped that in the near future,
Currently the Rosebud Sioux

for approval. according to Keenan President
punitive action IJy the Hall Life two Notre Dame business gradu­
rely on what Dr. Dow called aTim Mahoney. 
_ates could receive Robert F.

Board. The Hall Life Board h~s juris­"cottage-type industry" wherein
Any proposals passed by the

Instead, the residents chose tor 
diction over any parietal viola-their handcraft and art is carried Kennedy Fellowships and spend
Student Life Council are subject 
on exclusively in the home. Dur­a year working on the reserva­
to the approval of the Board of 
ing the Indian conference Mr. tion with the Sioux. 
Trustees. Existing university reg­


Bat flies in Sorin 
Redbud expressed desire to set
ulations state that a hall may not 
up a production corporation Dow concluded, "What grati­

A misguided bat was observed Jim Crow, along with Andy ran have more than twenty-four owned by the tribal co-operative fies me is the involvement of
flying a holding pattern in room out of the room and prayed for hours of parietals a weekend and that could efficiently produce business students in projects of a125 Sorin on Wednesday night. the bat's departure. no weekday parietals are permit­and market arts and crafts. As a social nature." He went on to
The bat, apparently entering A security guard happened ted. 
result Soens contacted Dr. Dow point out that this advisory

through a hole in the floor, was along and after being asked for Parietal hours were first pass­
who opened the plan up to his council is just one part of a
first noticed by senior Andy help reportedly replied that "if ed last year, and the Hall Life 
students. larger program that Professor
Trujillo of 246 Sorin, who you can't get it out, what do Board considered the year long "The great thing about this. Soens has drawn up as a result ofsounded the alarm. you expect me to do?'' experiment largely a "success." 
idea is that it's student initi­the SUAC Conference on Indian
The residents of the triple; The bat, maybe unnerved by The SLC on Monday will con­
ated," said Dow. Affairs.

Ralph Bianco, Jim McConn, and all the noise, saw himself out. sider that evaluation. · 



FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13,. 1970PAGE 2 
THE OBSUfi.Eit Berrigan : "Things will get worse" 


Berrigan speaks on '' F aith and Violence" 
Last night in the Senate, ten bills were introduced?. three senators resigned. 
-1 
Me Kenna gives Sen.1t e report 
(continued from page lJ 
haul". the alternatives were 
either despair, or participation in t)le violence of the "Estab­lishment'. 
As an example of the "long haul" strategy he was in favor of, Berrigan cited the Norrh Vietnamese Communists. He said that the Vietnamese people had been oppressed for a mil­lenium, and were still fighting for their sovereignty. Very sympathetic to the cause of the North Vietnamese leaders, Ber­rigan promulgated, "We must go to the enemy to see the truth, for his struggle is ours." Later he added, 'The long term project in this land ... is equivalent to the task in Vietnam ..." 
While arguing for patience, 
c 
Like a snowball in Heaven is right! It takes the shape of fifty beautiful slopes ranging from beginner to expert, and our new aerial snowmaking system assures you of next-to-nature snow at all times. We have the finest in uphill transportation to provide you with the best in skiing recreation. We've accented this snowball with our Edelweiss lodge, trimmed from the game room to the fourth floor in passion red just for you indoor nature fans. Top all this off with a candlelight dinner or dance-side cocktail and you've got our version of a snowball in Heaven. Give us a call on our hotline for ski conditions and lodge reservations and see how quickly you'll melt. Phone 616 775-9984, 
Big


~~iiiRFAr M 
CADILLAC, MICHIGAN MANISTEE, MICHIGAN In the heart of the Manistee National Forest 

FOLK and CLASSIC 
GUITARS

Kevin Smith and John Fonseca 
Good selection of strings and music
Anou nee the Grand Opening of 

o~uJ#lM~gic
AMERICA 


209 No. Main St. 
SPECIAL 

Friday -February 13, 1970 "'EASY RIDER" POSTERS 
$1.75 

beads, incense, pipes 
Basement Flanner Hall-9:00P.M. 
Berrigan inveighed against organ­ized planning of the future: "I was asked 'What do you propose as an alternative ... what is your plan for tomorrow?' I don't have one." Berrigan went on to say that he ordained "five-year plans as dehumanizing, that they elim­inate the ·freedom of the indi­vidual. 
Berrigan was-sceptical of academic knowledge, which he once referred to as "raw sew­erage". He felt that learning was an unacceptable substitute for action. He felt that training in engineering and the Sciences could be worse than nothing if they are use4 for the support of the country's "death-minded policies". 
Consider,ing planning and knowledge as unacceptable solu­tuture. Berrigan postulated that tions, Berrigan proposed the one should work on helping a "sharing of lives" as an answer few people better their lives by to the question of man. He sharing it with them, than to considered this type· of inter­attempt a utopian project. He personal relationship, based on a used as an example of the bene­sense of life, as the hope for the volent influences one can have on a few people, tte fact that his attack on the Catonsville files, there have been fourteen non­violent sackings of draft boards. As a further example he declared that his activities had cau:>ed a turmoil in the Jesuits. 

INDIAN IMPORTS 

jennifer's 
119 w. colfax 
was taken up with organizational
by Shawn Hill 

duties and insufficient time was 
The official business of last left for discussion. He said he 
night's Student Senate meeting hoped that future meetings 
began with the Executive Report could be mades longer so as to 
of Student Body President Phil allow more discussion and airing 
McKenna. of viewpoints. 
McKenna first announced the McKenna then announced 
resignations of Senators Terry that the Finance Committee 
Malek, Rick L.ebowitz, and Ed would meet again for the Second 
McCartin. He then reported on semester. He reported that Mardi 
last week's meeting of the Uni­Gras was a financial success and 
versity Forum. McKenna con­that Student Government and 
tended that much of the meeting Student Union were within their 
FREE UNIVERSITY 
Students and Faculty: 
Do you have an interest, talent, or hobby that you 
would like to share with others? Ths: Free University 
of Notre Dame -SL Mary's is presently compiling its 
selection of courses for the spring semester. If 
interested in teaching a course, please contact either: 
Rick Libowitz Shawn Foley c/o ~tudent Government Box 179 St. Mary's 
.r 
budgets. 

Student Union and Student Government are the only ones to be reviewed by the committee. The other campus organizations received their entire grants in the fall and are not subject to fur­ther review by the senate. 
The senate then examined ten new bills. The only one voted upon and not referred to com­mittee study was a bill spon­sored by Stay Senator John Zimmerman. This bill read: "Be it resolved that the Student Senate of the University of Notre Dame offer its praise of the work being done by the Notre Dame-based Students for Biafran Relief. Be it moved that the student senate establish a committee to.go into the dining halls and collect money to be given to the Students for Biafran Relief to supplement funds al­ready colleGted for Biafra." 
Tom Hamilton, Chairman of the Students for Biafran Relief, spoke in support of the bill. He stated the purposes of the organ­ization and contended that they would work through the Red Cross to insure that any money collected would do the most possible good and would not be misused. The bill was passed by concensus of the ~enate. 
Jack Fiala and Tom Thrasher 
co-sponsored another bill to begin a study of the feasibility of the Chancellor-President administrative structure. This studysis to be conducted by the Academic Affairs Committee of the Student Senate, which shall confer with a number of Uni­versity officials, including pres­idential candidate Willis D. Nutting. 
Senator Alfred J. Guiffreda sponsored a bill calling for the legalization of automobiles for sophomores. This bill was ref~r-, red to the Student Affarrs committee of the Student Sen-a,te. 
continued on page 6 
The Observer is published daioly during the college semester except vacations . by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 1nd., 46556. second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46!\56. 
-~~----..
• 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1970 
THE OBSERJIM 






Biafrans are dying at a rate of 
5,000 PER DAY! 



1. 
WRITE PRESIDENT NIXON, URGING HIS INTERVENTION 

2. 
CONTACT YOUR CONGRESSMAN 

3. 
AMOUNT OF MONEY so THAT



C,UNTRIBUTE ANY
NOW! 
THE FEW ORGANIZATIONS OPERATING CAN STILL DO SO. ALSO: THIS WILL BE AN ESTABLISHED LINE OF FUNDS 
FOR WHEN THE RELIEF SERVICES RESUME WORK IN BIAFRA. 
SEND YOUR CONTRIBUTIONS TO: 
STUDENTS FOR BIAFRAN RELIEF National Headquarters P.O. Box 516 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

~---­
PAGE 4 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial 

Biafran relief 
Notre Dame Freshman Tom Hamilton has organized a national Students for Biafran Relief whose purpose is to raise funds for the needy in Biafra. Hamilton has made extended efforts to get the organization off the ground. He has enlisted the help of Father Hesburgh and has embarked on a national publicity drive by getting in touch with college newspapers and the national media. 
Through contacts provided him by Father Hesburgh, Hamilton was able to get to see many Senators and Congressmen in Washington and New York in an attempt to enlist their aid. His efforts gain the usual political touch of letters of endorsement by politicans and statements read into the Congressional Record. 
If the organization is to be successful though, students must begin to rally to its assistance. The most important · need of course is for funds to go to the people of Biafra. 
There are many worthwhile causes for today's young stud~nt to participate in. Certainly the cause for aid to Biafra must be high on the list of priorities. Since the national student movement had its roots in Notre Dame we hope that the Student Body will give the group its aid. 
letters to the Editor 
company or organization which 
which he thinks he can dictate 
refuses to meet in pubbc_
Thoughts on Corso the moment at which David
dialogue to discuss or at least 
Frye should have paused in his
·bring up issues when students
Editor: imp~sonation of Jack Benny~r
request it should be prohibited 
where he should have "played it The recent column "Legisla­from recruiting, like the CIA has in a low key." What if Frye hadting Morality" by Mr. Corso been. If they still recruit, with kept his voice low and did not seems to be quite contradictory. authority of the administration, ',shout" the lines he enjoyed?
He calims that "any person who the students and faculty must I'd wager Brogan would be the is interested in working for the enforce the prohibition. 
first to charge that the puncltCIA is not -going to sign up with This is not a question of lines weres not emphasizei:lthem before asking their repre-morality, but a question of enough. 
. sentative abything he is not sure protection of the students. The I think if Brogan were to ' about." This "takes care of pro­CIA was not ordered off because look for a few good things about spective employees." it was immoral, but because it a concert and mix his comments 
refused to meet with the
Then later on, "Our recent with a milder, more intelligent
students. It should have been
distingu.is.lJ..~d vwtor, Sister. criticism, he could improve what 
thrown out, as should any
Joanne ;Malone knew more little journalistic skill he has. A 
company which is challenged
about the CIA than perhaps the candid critic should have a 
under the provisions of the
CIA man did." subtle spunk about him. This 
Senate bill, whether they make
Doesn't it seem that an quality in a good critic has to benapalm or rosaries.
interviewee, according to your admired, but what can be admire · 
Christopher Barlow 

statements, would be better off, in such observations as " ... their 
310 Fisher Hall 

informationwise, by talking to overall effect was somewhere 
Sister Joanne or to both her and 
between devastation and 
the recruiter? Might this be the Who is Brogan, anyway? boredom.", or "The most purpose of the required public 
horrible, the most wretched, or dialogue? Might it not be nice if Editor: 
simply the worst." th·e facts discovered and I would lik~ to know who 
Let me clarify that I am an emphasized by both sides be the hell Jim Brogan thinks he is.· 
avid Frye fan. In fact, I didn't heard, rather than just the one I would like to know what he even attend the concert~ I was 
side heard in an interview? thinks ·it is that gives him the prompted to write this letter by For the protection of Notre right to· grossly degrade singing Brogan's inane concept of good • Dame students from later groups and comedians. Is it that editorialism, recollection of his surprise, both sides should be he is a second-rate editorialist on previous concert critiques, and heard before the private a paper of the caliber of the the disgusting impact of "Grand interviews are allowed, if some Observer? I hope-his position has Funk Stunk ... " had on me. 
other side, from among the not somehow elevated him to a Ed Selego students wants to be heard. Any peak of godly omniscience from 411 Lyons 
Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin  
Business MSJ".: Joseph Wemhoff  
Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer  
The opinions expressed In the  Ad. Mgr.: Timothy J. Dineen  
edltorlllls, news analyses, and  News Editor: Glen Corso  Layout Design: Buz Craven  
columns of thes Observer are  Alit. News Editor: Bill Carter  Headlines: Randy Young  
solely those of the:; .. uthors and  
SMC News Editor: Prue WeBir 
editors of the Observer and do  
not necesuriiY reflect the views  Auocietit Editors: Cliff Wintrode  Layout: Marilyn Becker,  
of St. Mvy's College, the Unl­ Ann Conwav,  Dan Koppenhafer,  
-•lty of Notre Da!IW, their  Jeanne Sweeney  C.. Bach,  
administrations, faculty, or  t.vout Editor: M.., Beth Crimmons  Buz Cnwen  
,student bodies.  Photo Editor: Mike Murphy  Night Editor: T.C. Treanor  


Thoughts on Russell 
Editor: 

"But whenever the question of peace or war is relevant, the merits of either side become insignificant, in comparison with the importance of peace. In the nuclear age, the human race can­not survive without peace. For this reason I always side with the more peaceful party in disputes between powerful nations..." from Unarmed Victory. 
Ten days ago Bertrand Russell died. And I have been waiting, perhaps foolishly, during those days for something to come forth to the effect that he was ever alive. Of him was said: "a man possessed of one of the finest minds of our time -of any time." A mathe'matician when that term was synonymous with philosopher, a historian, critic, logician, etc., he was per­haps a man who will be ignored now that he is dead. His was the "horror that mankind will perish in a nuclear Armagadon." 
To this end, in 1967 he con­
vened the War Crimes Tribunal, 
where allegations of American 
atrocities in Vietnam greater 
even than those at My Lai were 
expressed. Yet the stories of this 
were relegated to back pages of 
newspapers, which effectively 
said that a hater of all American 
was at it again. Perhaps if this 
country had read the transcripts 
of the Tribunal, at which former 
Gl's testified, we would not have 
been so "shocked" when told 
about what American boys were 
doing in that country. Rather he 
was dismissed until almost three 
years later. 

. Yet no one, not even the Mathematics Department (and modern mathematics owes him almost as much as to Descartes, Leibeniz, Newton, etc.), ac­knowledged anything about his death. The Observer didn't avail itself of the A.P. to remark about his funeral. Rather, things of such pressing importance as the Window Watcher, CYO, Slert feud fill areas that need filler. Or, of course, Brogan's polemic about our bad concerts have precedence. 
It is perhaps fittingly ironic that the Albert Camus Confer­ence be held one week after Ru~sell's death, After the Symposium, when I was talking to Madame Bree, I asked her about the two men. She re­marked that while the two dif­fered radically on many points, 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 19i'0 
the courage-of-BertranORusieu, and his rich individualistic style was something that would have appealed to Camus. Despite their differences, they were, existen­tially, great men. 
My question is .now: "How long will it take to get a reaction to Russell?" It took me ten days to make mine known; it took this country three years to react to something which was, or should have been, common knowledge because of him; in ten years will Notre Dame hold a dual symposium -on the twen­tieth anniversery of the death of Camus, and on the tenth of Russell? 
I hope not. We, meaning everyone in the world, can ill afford to delay even another day. Possibly. in his dr.ath, Rus­sell will accomplish something which he1 as well as countless others, was unable to do. 
Sincerely yours, 
Walter G. Secada 
414 Flanner 

Brogan in Opera'! 
Editor, 
I am writing about the im­competent and asinine review in your paper of the Grand Funk Railroad Concert. Mr. Brogan is obviously not very well acquain­ted with rock music or the wise spending of money. He and some of the rest of the audience were not very wise in buying tickets to hear a group they knew nothing about. Many peo­ple complained that they didn't like hard rock, but the concert was billed as hard rock. The people should have listened to the album or gotten an opinion of the band from someone else who had. 
If Mr. Brogan thought the songs were repetitive, he is a _ poor judge of music. He did not listen well to the words or tunes. His "best cut" on the album ­"Time Machine" is actually the most boring song on their frrst 
L.P. Mr. Brogan must have been in the bathroom, when Don Brewer played his fantastic drum solo. They don't bill themselves as the next "Cream" and they didn't trY to play like them. Grand Funk has their own SJPe­cial sound. Please, Editor, let Mr. Brogan go back to reviewmg those sweet opera singers. 
Yours in Christ and Notre Dame, Kevin Casey 351 Cavanaugh 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13,1970 
PAGE 5 
HAPPY VALENTINE's DAY 
Happy Valentine's Day-Jim and Pat. You lucky Dogs-Linn and Lo 
To my attorney, 
I hit you with my program, 
You hit me with your heart. Now 
we are together, Nevermore to 
part. 
Love, 
Quack 
You robbed me of my heart-you touched home plate with mel 
To a special girl, Tige, I.L.Y. Mike 
Happy Valentine's Day to the Bopper. 
To Lakeview's cabin-
one from the guys in cabin five. OH WOWI OBVIOUSL VI OH, BUT OF COURSE I 
Betty-Je t'adorel All is forgiven. Please come back. -J.X.B. 
To Pingpong, Don't always hit it straight. Love, The Gumpper 
To Miss Erin Moore, Happy Valentine's Day. Love, Phil 
To Miss Linda Herzog, 
Happy Valentine's Day. 
Love, 
Tom 

On the I'd's of Fib-Mutiny and lntrique on the Pie Seas. 
Dearest Fox, 
Gatorade party. Holiday Inn. 
Charge it please. 
Love, 
Your Mainsqueeze 
"If you'll be our Valentinas, we'll 
be your concubines." 
Love, 
Queen's Court 
To Easy, Happy Valentine's Day from ·your friends in Room 39. 
Lyons Grinds, We fell for you HOOK and LINE. Strange Bedfellows 
SPLASH 
Mary Jane, Two children are enough; join Zero Population Growth. Joe 
To Montana Mary, whenMII' you are­The Ark-Traveler 

Marsh mellow, 
You're my Count the days Maybe?  lover until  always. Easter.  
My Dearest Muffin,  

Be my Valentine forever. I love you, Your Paul 
Happy Valentine's to the Sun., Tues., Wed. headline writer-for the Observer, you know from-the one and only. 
Nip it: 
"You've made me so very happy"...but I don't understand why. 
TAHP 

Kris A Valentine Today Is Just My Way To Say 
I Love You Dave 

To Mary, To whom I need not say 
anythin(J. All my love, Cubbie 
To MKBJBJFPO, Thanks for making car 
stuffing so much fun. Love, Link 
John admires Jan not for her looks or bod but her mind ... 
Tory, You are my everything. 
Happy Valentine's, To our Past, Present, and Future lovers. The Timid Ten 
Glee Club: Thanks for the appreciation. 
Do it again soon. Love, Cher 
Dear Bullet Head Kate, I have ·loved you for three years. Jack 


"Rahl Rahl Happy Valentine's Day Annie!" 
Let's announce the date Iii' 

d. Perpetually Yours, Love Harry 
Happy Valentine's Day to 

Carleen and Ann theresa. Love, Tom and Marty 
Dead ducks when struck THUD ...  in by  Lake an  Michigan, icicle, go  
Therese,  

Happy Valentine's Day. love, Chuck 
Corrupted Prince, You're an easy Valentine!! Your Buddy, Snow White (ha hal 
To: Cindy Williams­
"Happy Valentine's Day to one of the wonderfulest persons in the world!" 
-Gary Batchelor 
Happy Valentine's Day to Little Pooch, Medium Pooch, and Big Pooch\ 
Flimsy 
Dear Joannie, Sometimes I grow so tired. 
Be my Valentine! Openly, Barry 
Deer Little Miss, Thank you for letting us be ourselves. Section D 

To CMR: 1308 days to go. Can't wait! I love you. PDM 
Pour Monsieur le Phantom­un petit baiser-ta petite toute de suite. 
To Jim McGraw, A "Prince" of a guy! We love you, McCandless 
I love you, Neil Obstat. You make me so very happyI 
Happy Valentine's Day to 5th floor Regina. 
love, 
The Painters Union 
Though our minds shrink, our 
desires stink. 
(We crave your bod!) 
SMC 
Heads off to the executionerI Your Valentine, Scarlet 
To Cindy-to form a more perfect union-S.F.H. 
To Mike Bolger, Your favorite D.E.D. Your secret love 
Goofball, Frisbee found, hung 
around. Hands are to hold, kiddol Love, Pocono 
To laura Ann, the girl I'm in love with. Happy Valentine's Day. Welt 
De• lynn: You are wonderful, sexy, beautiful, etc. I love you, Dennis 
To my idol John Pleick­love, VIcki 

Kitten, No matter what happens I will always love you. Your Punkinhead 
Schweitz, Duke, Hug, Luke, T., 
Sugarbear: 
Felice Valentine. 
Affetti, 
Vostro Amore 
120 Walsh: What can I say? Thanks. Happy Valentine's Day. Love, 
T 
To the gorgeous creature from the lagoon, or the biggest meatball. Wolf 
Linde ... What is life? ... without you it is nothing. Love, 
T 
Kasey, roses are­violets­ba mine. (only get 12 words) love, Dismas 
Dear Kathy-Pickle-Pony, I pickle love pickle you pickle. "Pickle Poopsie" 
To the DesMoines Schoolteacher (M.T.): Other half dozen is on its way. Bob R. 
To my favorite person in remembrance of Happy Holidays. Tom Michel 
I love you despite your glamour. Please let's stop hitting with hammers. 
Main Woman: The duck and I say hi I Love, The Professor 
Gina, 
I  love  you  more  than  
yesterday  but  not  as  much  as  
tomorrow.  
love,  
Rich  



Happy Valentine's Day to TomTomTom from Kathy Kathy Kathy 
Bob Welly, I love you, even though you do wear skirtslll 
For Kat, in the tradition of white roses, Happy Valentine's Day. Frank 
Some llka it hot, but we'll •ttle 
for berndt nesbit. Joe Mike lomis lovelies: Happy Valentine's Day. Steve 

Happy Valentine's Day Jenine­My Kosher Kitten-one girl I can't passover. John 
Happy Valentine's Day to my Ralfy. love you Poopie Doopie, -WGY DGY 
Happy Valentine's Day Cassie and 
Maureen. I love you both. Love, Jabo 
Dear laurie, Cead Mile Failte. In lace 
curtain or shanty. Love, -Kelly 
Electric Woman: You can't short circuit me. Non Conductor Man 
Janet, Ego amo te, lch Iiebe dich, Je 
t'aime beaucoup. love, Michael 

Tom Jamieson Is in love and is loved. 
Shar, To a girl who won't,from a guy who wants. -number 1 
Marcella: On Valentine's Day let's do 
what bunny rabbits dol love, John 
Nita, What beauty there is who suffer the burden of love. Pat 
Peggy, 
Wish I could be with you for 
Valentine's Day. 
Love, 
Pete 

Maureen, I'll still love you when the ball game's over. 
K.O.D. • 
PAMB: 
Roses are red: tulips are gold, my love for you will never grow cold. 
Your Mother, Dodo 

Goldie, Closer by day to tomorrow's ponderous question. Je t'aime. Humphrey 
Luv me, P. Hollis, cuz I luv you. -Your little chlchadee 
Dear Monique, I love you a whole loti Paul 
HI, ye Kidl
---------"-\ 
NEWS MEETING
LEARN THE MOCK STOCK MARKET 
AMERICA loves YOU 

MONDAY, FEB. 16 
. FRIDAY AT 5!00 


FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1970 
Mardi Gras winners annouced 
The 1970 Mardi Gras Prize winners were announced yesterday by the Mardi Gras Committee. The prizes that were given out included a Buick Riveria, a Triumph Mark III, trips to Bermuda, Color T.V.'s shopping days in South Bend, gift certificates from Bonwit Teller, andgift certificates at Gilbert's. 
The winners of the prizes are: Buick Riveria-Mr. John Kutcher from Ohio; Triumph Mark 111-Denis O'Leary of Pangborn Hall; Bermuda Trips-Michael Curry, Thomas Oliveri, George Rebecca, Ken Savage, Timothy Chuck; Color T.V.'s-To·m Plavac, Dennis N a vish, Richard Wisterheide, Terry Madden, Joseph Chiafair; Shopping Day in South Bend-Tom Plavac, Mary Bruch. 
Incentive prize:; for the best salesman on campus, and the top salesmen in the five districts across campus were also given 
out. 
The top salesman was Tom Plavac of 1107 Flanner. Tom sold 158 Chance books. By 
doing so he won himself a trip to Bermuda, as well as a color T.V. and a shopping day in South Bend. 
The top salesman in the district received a $1 00 gift certificate at Gilbert's, while the other top salesmen received $50 gift certificates. The top salesmen for: district l were-Robert Cardone, JoJo Cassini, Ray Jones, and Leonard Kovac; District 2-Dennis Navish ($1 00), Jerome Kashinski. Ken Knevel; District 3-Chuck Reilly ($100), Jay Ziznewski, and Rick Love. District 4-Frank Laddonio ($100), Mike Becdi, and Vincent Reale; District 5-Daniel Carroll, Ray Connel, George Niachas, John Mateja. Debbie Dishinger of Holy Cross hall won a gift certificate at Bonwit Teller. 
new bills 
continued from page 2 
Before his resignation Ed McCartin sponsored a whole passel of bills that came before the Student Senate last night. 
The first of these called for 
the University to pay a "just 
wage" to its employees. The 
Human Rights committee is to 
study this one. His second bill 
asked that Article I, Section 3 of the Constitution of the Student Government be amended so that representatives of the Afro­American society and Interna­tional Students' Organization be included. The senate decided to refer this for study to the Stay senators. His next bill called for the university to apply the same standards to rooms in the resi­

ow to tap a 

dence halls that apply to private residences. Under these stan­dares the only ones who could enter or search a student's room
(and tie into the best reason in the world to drink beer) 
without the student's permission would be police officers with lawful warrant. The bill was ref­erred to the Student Affairs Committee. 

McCartin's last three bills con­cerned various aspects of aca­
2Just before the party begins, tap 
demic life on campus and were 
your beer. First, make sure the 
1 
referred to the Academic Affairs beer faucet is closed (you wouldn't 
Committee for further study.
Pick up a half-barrel of Bud~ 
The Senate's last action ot the
want to waste a drop of Beechwood (good for about 245 12-ounce cups 
night was to elect Alfred Guif­
Aged Bud!). Then, insert the faucet­
freda as Stay Senator to fill a
... with foam) and the tapping equip­and-pump unit into the upper valve 
recent vacancy.
ment on the day of the party. Just 
of the keg, give it a quarter turn set the beer in a tub of ice to keep clockwise, and lock it in place by 
-..If she's really 
it cold. 

tightening the lower wing nut. 
your valentine 
take her to 
AMERICA 
3Next, insert the lager tap 
9 p.m. Friday or Saturday in the lower valve of the 
FLANNER BASEMENT 
keg and give it a quarter turn. Now, set the keg upright in a tub and pack ice around it. 
4You're now ready to ciraw beer. Pump presst· ~ ro the proper point for good draw, usually about 15 lbs. That's all there is to it, but there's no rule against samplinA just to make sure everything is perfect. Ahhhhhl It's no wonder you'll find more taverns with the famous "Bud on Draught" sign than any other! 
4 for $1 
Send $1 Cash-No C.O.D.'s To: IIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
D&R Novelty Company P.O. Box 3144 
U. City, Mo., 63130 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS 
Name __________________ 
Address-------------­City -------::;-;----------­
State Zip 


FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1970 

THE OBSERVER. 
Nixon opposes busing 
W ASIIINGTON (UPI)-Presi­
dent Nixon yesterday endorsed 
the concept of equal enforce­
ment of school desegregation 
laws in all parts of the country. 
At the same time he opposed 
busing of students as a means of 
achieving racial balance. 
A message, distributed to a 
few Republican senators, was 
interpreted on Capitol Hill as 
backing for a Southern sponsor­
ed amendment to apply the 
same desegregation yardsticks in 
the North as in the South. 
The memo to the senators 
said the so-called Stennis amend­
ment has the "full support of 
this administration" to the ex­
tent that it would "advance 
equal application of law." 
At the Florida Whi~~se, 
Nixon's Press Secretary R_onald 
L. Ziegler, read to reporters por­tions of the message, in slightly altered form. 
The part on "full support" of 
the Stennis amendment stated to 
the extent that the amendment 
would "advance equal applica­
tion of the law, the administra­
tion would be in full support of 
this concept." 
Asked if the President felt 
that Stennis' proposal as an 
amendment to a pending school 
bill, would indeed "advance 
ell ual application of the law," 
Ziegler said: 
"I am simply addressing my­self to the over all concept with­out applying this administr­ation's position to the amend­ment." 
strange madness 
CIIICAGO (UPI) Vice President Spiro T. Agnew last night attacked "supercilious sophisticates" who advocate policies of "open admissions" to the nation's universities. 
"By somesstrange madness," Agnew said in a Lincoln Day address, responsible educators arc advocating thaL teachers and students in the universities should be chosen "by consid­erations other than aptitude either for teaching or learning." 
Reading program open to students 
Find yourself struggling to keep up with those massive read­ing lists? 
Late registration will be pos­sible for the Developmental Reading courses this spring according to Professor Richard Willemin, director of the pro­gram. There are nine sections available to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in any year. The sections offer a fairly wide range of times. 
The benefits of this course are, according to Willemin, "increased reading efficiency and the development of compre­hension skills, study~ skills, and vocabulary." It is possible, he stated, to pick the area in which you feel you need the most help. It is also often possible to use your assigned reading in most liberal arts courses as the prac­tice material in the course. 
The techniques taught in these courses should be a "very effective way of saving study time." If you are interested get in touch with Prof. Willemin at Room 309, Administration Building. 

As for busing, Ziegler said Nixon had consistently oppo~cd busing of school children to achieve racial balance. 
"The President feels that to the maximum degree possible, in efforts to eliminate dual school systems according to the man­date of the courts, we should not use busi!_lg," Ziegler said. 
"And also, to the maximum degree possible, it is the feeling that we should do everything to preserve the neighborhood school system." 
The Stennis amendment states in part that school desegregation standards "shall be applied uni­formly in all regions of the United States without regard to the origin or cause of such segre­g<Jl ion." Opponents contend the 
LA appeals order 
LOS ANGELES (UPI)-­School officials here, faced with 
a Superior Court order to begin full integration of the 622 Los Angeles public schools by next September, yesterday reviewed avenues of appeal. 
The school board, not sched­uled to meet until Monday, was expected to approve the recom­mendation of Board President Arthur Gardner and Superinten­dent of Schools Dr. Robert E. Kelly to appeal the desegrega­tion order "to the highest court 
in the land if necessary." Superior Court Judge Alfred 
E. Gitelson, in a I03 page opin­ion handed down Wednesday, found the school district, the second largest in the nation, had deliberately perpetuated segrega­tion of its 674,357 youngsters through board policies on school construction and boundaries. 
Acting on a suit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalfsof 12 Mexican Ameri­can and Negro students, Gitelson 
ordered the school board to sub­mit a master plan for desegrega­tion to his court by June I and to begin putting it into opera­tion by next September. 
By September, 1971, he ruled that all schools within the 71 l square mile district must have a 'lim is to ease pressure on deseg­regation in the South. 
he Nixon memo was said to have grown out of a meeting by Nixon with Attorney General John N. Mitchell and Secretary Robert H. Finch of the Depart­ment of Health, Education and Welfare. 
U.S. Education Commissioner James E. Allen Jr. had expressed oppositions to the Stennis amendment last week, saying it would have serious effects on enforcement procedures. 
Ziegler said Allen was "speak­ing as a member of the admini­stration" and expressing the view of his office but that he was not, necessarily expressing the President's view. 
minority composition not less than l 0 per cent nor more than 
50 per cent. 

Compliance with the order, 
Kelly said, "would mean the 
virtual destruction of the school 
district." 

He said studies indicated bus­ing of some 240,000 students daily was the only feasible means of carrying out desegrega­tion, at a cost of at least $40 million during the first year and an estimated $180 million in the next eight years. 
"Appeal is necessary," Kelly said, "if for no other reason other than to establish, once and for all, what governmental poli­cy shall be with respect to man­dated racial balance." 
"If the federal government, speaking through the U.S. Su­preme Court, is going to say that school desegregation is the No. l priority issue, then government is going to have to be prepared to assumes the costs," Gardner said. 
Gitelson said the board has "slavishly" adhered to a program of building neighborhood schools "within racially imbal­anced, segregated and ghetto areas knowing and intending" that the schools would be racial­ly imbalanced, Gitelson said. 

flowers. 
ALUMNI CLUB 
ANNOU.NCES 
HAPPY HOUR 
Starting Tonight ·6:30 -7:30 
Membership Cards Available $4 
-----------------"""""'1 
PAGE 7 
REAT STATES T 
_,.....,..... 
1:153:1U:15 7:15•..1:15 
IF YOU LIKED "THE GRADUATE" YOU'LL LOVE "Bob and Carol and Teel and Alice" 
SHOWTIMES 
1:30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:30 
A town turns into a time-bomb MGM prcsenls ARa:ph Nelson Film 
.••fi(k.•.fi(k...fi(k.•. 
slorring Jim Brown... George Kennedy Fredric March 
MIIHAWAKA AVI. AT 30TH, 
THAT "SUNDANCE KID" IS ON SKIS! 
TfJHN/COlOR •APfiRAMOUNr PICWRE_~ __ 
ROBERT REDFORD 
• Drive south on Eddy 5 Take Mishawaka Ave ell Continue east to 30th st. 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
Presents 
''WAIT UNTIL DARK' 
WashinJ!ton Hall 7:00 & 9:00 Mon. Feb. 16 & Tues. Feb. 17 $1.00 A drnission 
MARTHA'S VINEYARD 
Summer 1970 Student EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES 
Hundreds oflobsl 
Detailed descriptions including restaurants, hotels, shops. SEND $2.00 
APPLIED RESEARCH ASSOCIATES Dept. 57 • P.O. BOX 3903 New Haven, Conn. 06525 
TWIRP is coming ... 
ARE YOU READY? 
Hair Styling the Continental Way-European Layer Cut, Hair Coloring and Straightening-Specials for students 
Our Motto: "Have lung hair and be well groomed" 
For appointment call 234-0811 Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Bldg. Corner Michigan-Jefferson 
Certified Master Stylists The Baron and Miss Treva to serve and 

PAGE 8 


FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1970 
Frosh tankers -record every meet 

by Bruce Kennedy Jan. 30, 1970, at Ball State: Both had high school All­hams set the pool 100 mark, Victories were over WesternObserver Sports Writer Sherk sets an ND record in the -American mention, Gene being 48.5, which Gen.'! has a shot at, Ontario, Bradley, Illinois State,500 freestyle with 5:10.0, 
selected in the 50 freestyle, and in addition to Notre DLame's Wayne State, Cleveland State,Beneath the hollow erasing Jack Stoltz's 5: 20.9 of John receiving honorable 49.6 set by J. May in 1968. and Marshall. Losses were dealtthumpings of ball-on-wood 1965. 
mention in the 100, 200, and As a personal goal, Gene is by Ball State and Kent State. In at the Rock, much record­Jan. 31, 1970, at Illinois 400. From Buffalo, Gene won working toward an NCAA quali­ND's own six-team invitationalbreaking has been going on State: Sherk equals his new the New York 50 championship fying time. As for John, he says, relay tournament, the Irishat the Rock pool. Bruce record in the 500 free with his junior and senior years. John, "In high school I shot for All­placed third behind Ball StateKennedy reports on ND's another 5: 10. 
from Dearborn Heights, American. Now I'm shooting for and Western Michigan. 
best swimmers, freshmen Feb. 2, 1970, at Wayne State: Michigan, set several records in a good education." Tomorrow at 2 p.m., St.
John Sherk and Gene Sherk rewrites the record book With six meets remaining, the
the Detroit area. Bonaventure will meet the IrishKrathaus. again with a 5:08.2 in the 500. 
swim team holds a 6-2 record.
What influenced them to at Rockne Memorial.
He also beats the ISU pool mark Dec. 13, 1969 at Rockne 
come to Notre Dame? "You
of 11:15.5 with a 10:52.5.
Memorial pool: John Sherk sets 

can't swim forever," says John,
Feb. 6, 1970, at Kent State:• a Notre Dame and pool record in 

so he dicided to go where he felt 
Krathaus breaks his won 50 free the 1000 yard freestyle with a JIM MURRAY
he could get an excellent educa­tion. Gene visited the campus last year and found it to his liking. 
The two are satisfied with 
Hello, and a 9 · iron 
their decision new, but are some­what displeased with the emphasis on swimming at ND.
OBSERVER 
"The pool is difficult to swim in", says John. "The team's ability &s hampered by the © 1970, Los Angeles Times 
work-out facilities. Swimming.isn't treated like an important sport. We can't choose our won a work-out times. And only one swimming shcolarship is given a U.S. or British Open or other major tournaments. But, in 1956, he 
SPORTS FEATURE 
time of 10:39.1. Rick Strack year." Gene believes that a new had a more elemental ambition. He aspired to be a human being.

mark with a mark of 22.2.
held the old ND mark of They've only been here a pool would greatly increase the What was laying in the bed in the hospital at Detroit hardly

11: IJ.7 set in 1967, and M. 

team's potentiaL qualified. It could barely frost a glass. It couldn't see, talk, move,semester, but already freshmenMurray of Western Michigan had Owning both 1000 records feed itself, breathe without help, or control any of its life functions. 
freestylers John Sherk and Gene set the pool record of 10:48.6 
and the varsity 500 mark, John It had so many tubes running out of it, it looked like a switchbo::ud.
Krathaus are making themselvesone year ago. 
now can shoot for the pool 500 It was the former Pete Brown. 
part of Notre Dame swimmingJan. 16, 1970, at Rockne record, 5:08.8, set in 1968 by D. To his friends, like the crack Negro golfers Bill Spiller, Charliehistory_ Owning ND's 50,500,Memorial: Gene Krathaus beats Solomon of Ohio University. Sifford or Ted Rhodes who came to inquire about his condition, the and 1000 yard freestyle marksa Notre Dame record in the 50 after only Gene has a chance for th.e pool doctor said: "Let's put it this way: he needs a 1 on the 18th to makeyard freestyle by timing 22.5 two months of 50 mark, 22.1, recorded in 1966 it -and it's a par-S uphill all the way." 
competition, the two are lookingseconds: Mike Davis's previous by R. Abrahams of North-Pete Brown's predicament was so dire they couldn't find it in any toward a successful stay at Notremark of 22.7 was set in early western. That same day Abra-of the medical books. His weight slumped from 195 to 126. At first, Dame.
1968. 

the doctors thought they were just treating a massive case of stage fright. Pete had just come to the big city from the kerosene-lamp country of Mississippi, and he was so shy he wouldn't even pet strange dogs. When paralysis set in, they knew they were dealing
Roosevelt, Seymour tops 
with an old opponent -polio. Pete w,as dead every way but medically. Four other teams also clung slipped somewhat. Michigan City When his eyesight began to return, Pete managed to focus them
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)-East 

Chicago Roosevelt and Seymour, to their lofty rankings-Elkhart was demoted from third to fifth on his toes. One day, incredibly, he saw them move. He didn't FEEL the two major unbeatens i'n a in seventh spot, followed, in aft~r losing at East £hicago them move, he saw them. The medics came in, grabbed his legs and field crowded with would be order, by Richmond, Muncie Washington and Huntington began to bend them back. The first sound Pete uttered in almost a upsetters, continued to pace the Central and Evansville Memorial. from fifth to sixth following its year was a scream. The doctors broke into smiles. They weren't Indiana high school basketball The latter, however, had to share 4 point loss at Peru. sadists, they just knew Pete was on his way out of the coffin. A few 
elite Wednesday, well in front of 

lOth place with Jasper, which weeks later, they were able to take a few of the long-distance trunks their closest pursuers. regained a "Big 10" berth, mov­Kokomo Haworth Jed the sec­out of Pete and he was ready for speech therapy. You see, he had While these two powerhouses ing up from 14th position. ond 10 in 12 spot, followed by forgotten how to talk. When it came back to him, his first words 
ran 1-2 in the UPI coaches' Shortridge, a 17-2 for the Fort Wayne Snider, winner of its were, "Get me a 9-iron." board ratings for the lOth week season and probably the best last 13 games and guest of Hunt­Pete was born Earlie Brown, the son of a share-cropper, and ne 
team in the Capital City, climb­
in a row, Indianapolis Short­ington in one of Friday's top started to caddy on the Jackson, Miss., municipal golf course at such 
ed from fourth to third and East
ridge, state tourney runnerup non conference matches. a tender age he had to tie a knot in the bag strap. He rescued a S-iron
Chicago Washington from sixth
only two years ago, moved up to Unbeaten small town p'3wer from a pond one day and began to hit at squirrels in the back yard third spot, its best showing this to fourth. Darlington made its season de­of cabbage patch. When he began hitting them, the word got around, 
4 Two other "status members" but tied for 25th place.
season. and a dentist friend began to drive Pete (his nickname derived from But nobody, barring a king the fact that the family mule was also named Pete) to New Orleans size, late season upset, appeared where he played a municipal course against the cream of the Negro
Blacks reinstated
to challenge the two top front hustlers. · runners for their "status seats." He went on to the Lone Star Ber Open, a Negro tournament in
220, long jump and 440 relay
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.
Both were favored to advance to champion, will be with the track Houston which he was to win four times, but the first year Spiller
(UPI)-Coach John Pont has an­
the four week state tourney with team in the spring and will miss won it.
nounced that five undergraduate 
20 game winning streaks. spring football practice, schedu­He was second in the Negro National in Detroit when his crackup 
·varsity football players who par­
In balloting for games through led to start April 6. Pernell also came. After a year spent motionless, Pete returned to the Jackson
ticipated in a black boycott of
last Saturday, Roosevelt received may compete in track. Municipal where he cleaned clubs, cut greens, and wrapped woods.
Indiana practice last fall and
18 of 20 first place votes for 198 He became the best moonlight player in Mississippi. If the U.S. Open
were suspended from the squad
points, just 2 short of a perfect is ever held at night, it's a cinch to be won by some ex-caddy from 
will return for spring rehearsals. 
Wrestling

score. Seymour, which beat off Mississippi. __
"These five young men have
Scottsburg Saturday, 61-59, got Pete's normal speaking voice is audible all of two inches away. It
each informed me of his desire The Notre Dame wrestling
the two other first place votes has been described as a cross between a mouse cough and the sound 
to participate in Indiana's foot­team absorbed their sixth
and a_!otal of l?2Y2 points. fog makes coming through the trees. He's as shy as a nun.
ball program," Pont said. "In setback in eight dual meets Pete won the Waco Turner Open at Ardmore, Okla., in 1964,1. E.C. Roosevelt (18) 198 keeping with my decision of last Wednesday, absorbing a 30-5 beating Dan Sikes by a shot, but this milestone event went largely
2. Seymour (2) 172~ fall, I have told each student trouncing.: at the hands of unnotiyed because it was -while a regular tour event -a3. lndpls Shortridge 135 athlete that he is welcomed back Western Michigan University in semi-satellite to the more highly-publicized Tournament of4. E.C. Washington 123 for competition." Kalmazoo. 
Champions at Las Vegas. Charlies Sifford was more universally5. Michigan City 100 The five are defensive half­The Irish were plagues by hailed when he won his Long Beach Open even though it was only a6. Huntington 66 back Larry Highbaugh, Indiana­weight problems and several 54-hole event. . _7. Elkhart 61 polis; halfback Bobby Pernell grapplers were forced to wrestle Pete is not much to worry about credit, anyway. Besides, a8. Richmond 58 and fullback Greg Harvey, both in a higher weight class. As a postparalysis ailment left him with a back that was as unpredictable. 9. Muncie Central 55% of Cincinnati; guard Gordon result, only Tom Ciaccio ( 118) as pond ice.
10. (Tie) Evansville Memorial 20 May, East St. Louis, Ill., and and Phil Gustafson When he won the Andy Williams San Diego Open the other week(Tie) Jasper 20 linebacker Don Silas, Indiana­(heavyweight) were able to score it was a signal victory, though, for a long-suffering minority-group __:12. Kokomo Haworth 16; 13. polis. points. 
the poor devils who lay in hospital beds for months silentlyFort Wayne Snider 13; 14. The five were part of a boy­Ciaccio notched three screaming .. with undi;tgnosed ailments, people whose greatest• Southport 10; 15. Gary Roose­cott by 14 players. They and points by winning a 12-2 ambition in life is to be able to say "Hello" out loud. 
velt 9; 16. Tipton, South Bend five others among the 14 de­decision and Gustafson added a Adams 8; 18. Lebanon, Jeffer­clined the opportunity to return pair of tallies by wrestling his sonnville, Terre Haute Gerst­to the squad at the time. The opponent to a tie. meyer 4; 21. South Bend Cen­remaining four accepted Pont's The Irish take to the road ual, Indianapolis Attucks, Val-invitation to return after missing again this Staurday, traveling to 
~ paraiso 3; 24. Calumet 2; 25. one practice and played the last Cincinnati to oppose the U. of · Silver Creek, Darlington, Heb­three games of the season. Cincinnati Bearcats. ron, West Lafayette 1. Highbaugh, the Big Ten 100, 







