


Vol. V, No 33 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Monday, October 26, 1970 

Goodell holds firm on Senate bid; battles against Agnew and polls 
Senator Charles Goodell speaking at Notre Dame last year. 
NEW YORK (UPI) Sen. Charles E. Goodel,(R-N.Y.), re­pudiated by Vice President Spiro 
T. Agnew and running behind in the polls, said last night that he will remain in the New York Senate race and will not let any­one run him out of the Repub­lican Party. 
"I have stood for election to the U.S. Senate and I shall con­tinue to stand for election to the 
U.S. Senate~'' Goodell said in a televised speech. "I think I can win." 
Goodell said earlier in the day his television address would be "extremely important," setting 
Problems in coeducation discussed at St. Mary's 
By Ann Conway 
Speaking to an SRO crowd in Carroll Hall Friday afternoon, Student Body President Ann Marie Tracey and Academic Affairs Commissioner Carol Hen­ninger sought student opinion on the future direction of St. Mary's College, especially in re­gard to coeducation with the University of Notre Dame. 
Coming on the heels of a leak­ed report last week that Notre Dame would go coed indepen­dently of St. Mary's, student opinion was heavily in support of a move toward coeducation. According to Miss Tracey, "we can't keep going the way we are now." If Notre Dame were to go 
coeducational independently of St. 
Mary's, there would be a definite 
effect both on the number of ad­
missions and the quality of stu­
dent. 
Discussion centered around 
the work of the coeducation re­
searchers, Dr. Rosemary Park 
and Dr. Lewis Mayhew, hired 
last year to examine the future 
of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
This report to be published De­
cember 25, 1970 will analyze 
the social and academic areas of 
the two schools and the effects 
of coeducation upon the two. 
After spending the past two 
weeks meeting with the stu­
dents, faculties, and administra­
tions of both schools, the re­
searchers found "profound irri­
tations." Dr. Park stated, "There 
are many problems here al­
though many are on a small 
scale. A lot has been accom­
plished, but a plateau has been 
reached and a new vision is need­
ed." 
She also stated that "there are 
three ways to view the present 
situation. First, there is a move­
ment toward cooperation and a 
growing mixture of the sexes on 
the two campuses. Secondly, 
both schools are in financial cri­
sis, and thirdly the young people 
want variety in their educational 
opportunities." 
According to the researchers, if Notre Dame went co-ed inde­pendently of St. Mary's, within three years SAT points at St. Mary's would drop and there off speculation that he might withdraw from the three way race as the only chance of defeating White House favorite James L. Buckley, the Conserva­tive Party candidate. 
Goodell said some had sug­gested he withdraw and support _ someone else, but he said he would not because "I've bee.n a Republican all my life." 
"Whatever happens in this election I'm not going to let any­one turn me out of the Republi­
can Party," he said. "I say to you that I have lots of counsel and I've anguished over this," Goodell said. "I be-
would be an eventual drop in people. If however, St. Mary's went co-ed without Notre Dame, it would have a rough time attracting people competing 
with a "brand name." 
Dr. Mayhew said coeducation would have several advantages. "There would be a minimum of friction between schools, greater efficiency, and a consistant pol­icy of student life." He sug­gested that perhaps the best sol­ution would be a reorganization of Notre Dame as a grouping of several colleges with St. Mary's 
forming  one  college  in  the  
grouping.  
Carol  Henninger  stated  that  

when this idea was presented to a meeting of the SMC faculty 
Panthers charged with conspiracy 
DETROIT (UPI) Fifteen per­sons who barricaded themselves in a house, described as a Black Panthers headquarters, for eight hours following the fatal shoot­ing of a Detroit policeman were charged yesterday with first de­gree murder and conspiracy to commit murder. 
At the same time, the great restraint used to handle a situa~ tion that could have been "a holocaust. . .1967 again and more" was commended by city and state officials who grimly re­member the riot here three years ago. 
Three youths-Ben Fondrun and David Johnson, both 19, and Eron Desaussure, 18-who remained in the near West Side house until police used tear gas to flush them out, were held without bond. 
The four young men and eight women who surrendered volunt­arily in the company of com­munity leaders including Acting Mayor Mel Ravitz and State Rep. James Del Rio, were held 
on  bonds  of  $10,000  to  
$25,000.  
A hearing for all  15  was  set  

for Oct. 30. 
Of eight others arrested near the scene, one was charged with assault and battery, one with destruction of property, five were released and another faces possible arson charges in the burning of a police car. The trouble began Saturday evening when two policement tried to break up the sale of Black Pan­ther literature. Police said the sidewalk was being blocked and persons were refused passage unless they took the literature. A scuffle followed and the offi­
cers called for help. 
One of the cars responding brought patrolman Marshall Emerson and a colleague to the scene. Emerson was shot in the hand, treated at a hospital and "the majority seemed to like the idea of SMC being the liberal arts college of the University." 
The disadvantages of coeduca­tion discussed by the students present at the meeting centered around the loss of St. Mary's identity; the loss of prestige of the degree from St. Mary's for graduates once it became part of the University; and the teaching assistants program at ND. According to Miss Henninger, "One reason for not merging is the teaching assistants program at Notre Dame. They have more interest in the graduate courses that they're taking than in the material for the courses they're teaching. We have no graduate 
(Continued on page 4) 
lieve it would be very wrong to let the forces of the right have their victory. 
"What they want most of all is to destroy me. What they want most of all is to see that I'm not elected. I'm going to fight those forces. My roots are Republican." 
Agnew has listed Goodell as one of many liberal Senators who have been "obstruction­ists"to President Nixon's pro­
grams. Goodell, who was sent to the Senate two years ago to fill the seat of the ~ate Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, said he was proud of 

his record and believed the Re­publicans needed diversity among its members. 
"I believe very deeply that the President needs progressives coming up with ideas," Goodell said. 
The speculation of Goodell's withdrawal also was prompted by his poor showing in the New York Daily News straw poll re­leased yesterday. In the poll he was running third behind Buck­ley and Rep. Richard Ottinger, the Democratic candidate. 
It was believed if Goodell withdrew his votes would prob­ably go to Ottinger, a liberal, and would enable the Demo­cratic candidate to defeat Buck­ley. 
"Now the News poll says I will lose," he said. "This is in the face of all other polls I have seen in the last three weeks. 
"The Daily News poll is im­portant, even though it's been two out of the last three 
''Ait:Q'.tl.l-= 
W'~' 

elections, including predicting Gov. Nelson Rockefeller would lose in 1966." 
Goodell's show began with a film of Agnew denouncing him. Goodell then appeared before the camera, standing casually and holding a pipe in his hand. 
"Freedom has died many ways, gloriously on the battle field, died in the halls of politics, selfishly in ambition and avarice of man," he said at the show's closing. "The most ignominious death of all is when freedom dies in its sleep. I've tried to provide 
leadership  to  awaken  our  
people."  
The  poll,  which  has  chosen  

the winners in 26 out of 30 elec­tions since 1928, gave Buckley 37 per cent of the vote, Ottinger 30 per cent and Goodell 24 per cent with 9 per cent undecided. The first of three surveys before the election, it was based on a 
(Continued on page 4) 

released. 
The 15 persons then bar­ricaded themselves in a nearby house. As officers arrived to iso­late the area, police said a gun blast from the house struck pa­trolman Glenn Smith in the head. He was dead on arrival at Detroit General Hospit:'l.l. 
Black leaders~ including Del Rio and Nadine Brown, a colum­nist for the Michigan Chronicle, a black newspaper, spent several hours trying to coax the occu­pants out of the house while po­lice looked on. 
The first 12 finally surren­dered "because Chuck Holt the Detroit leader of the National Committee to Combat Fascism, said the community around their house would be jeopardized if they didn't," Miss Brown, a petite, middle aged woman with an Afro style hairdo, said. 

Police Commissioner John Nichols then delivered an ultima­tum to the remaining three occu­pants before directing police to fire tear gas into the house "be­cause the situation in the peri­pheral areas was becoming tense." 

Detroit police lead a Black Panther party member to a waiting p-olice van late Saturciay after Black Panther party members barricaded an inner city house ~ar where one policeman was shot and killed and a second wounded. (UPI) 

Page 2 

~Jt ()Jir~~~~~~-------------------------------------~M~o~n~da~y~·~O~c~o~tb~e~r~2~6~·~1~9~7~0 



Foreign Study Program proves beneficial 
--· 

Around the campus at ND-SMC 


Northern Indiana Children's Hospital on a trick-or-treat spree ' 
Hallaw­in the surrounding neighborhood on Halloween Night. A party is 
Members of the Benjamin D. Foulois Squadron of the Arnold Air Society at Notre Dame, and its sister group the Angel Flight from St. Mary's, will be 
STUDENT TEACHING 
Any St. Mary's -Notre Dame student eligi­ble for student teaching during second semes­ter 1970-71 should complete application in Room 3 21 Madeleva. 
Application Deadline -Friday, October 30. 
planned afterwards at the Hospital. 
The Arnolds and the Angels will be helping the youngsters make their costumes during the preceding week. 
Arnold Air Society is a national service organization consisting of juniors and seniors 

NEED YOU 
FOR WORK AT NOTRE DAME 

ON ELECTION DAY 
TUESDAY,NOVEMBER 3 
VOLUNTEER YOUR TIME 211-1718 or 


Election Day 
by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St.


is One Week Away 
CHICAGO 

Mary's College. Subscriptions may 715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENU<; 
be purchased for $8 from The TEL: (312) 944-7500 ·ZIP: 60611 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage

Don't Blow ltl 
Sales fax where applicable 
paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

in the Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps (AFROTC). The Angel Flight is a national organization of college women sharing similar goals. Both groups provide services to the local community, the University, and AFROTC. The Halloween project is one of several planned by the Benjamin D. Foulois Squadron this year. 
Chris Karrenbauer, a junior at SMC from Canton, Ohio, and Bill Herbert, a senior at Notre Dame from Emerson, New Jersey, are the project heads. 
let. 

Ictus, the magazine put out by students in the Program of Non-Violence, will be published at least four times this year, with the first issue due in two weeks. 
This past June a memo was issued from Rev. John Walsh, who was at that timeVice-president for Academic 
Affairs, saying that Ictus would not be published this year. 
Dennis Lundy, John O'Reily, and John Dwyer, the editors of the magazine, went to see Rev. James Burtchaell, who assumed Fr. Walsh's duties when he was appointed University Provost. 
Fr. Burtchaell could give the editors no reason for the magazine's suspension, except to cite the University's financial troubles, and then gave the 
magazine approval to publish. 
According to Lundy, Ictus will undergo substantial changes this year. Besides being slightly smaller in size, the editors plan 
to avoid publishing political articles and to center around personal experiences instead. 
As an example of their new 
' representative to the Student 

direction, the first issue will 
contain an article by David Darst, member of the catonsville lJ who was killed in an automobile collision last year. 
Also, the. magazine will feature an article about Fred Schwartz, a former Notre Dame student who was killed in Africa while working for the Peace Corp. The article will consist of letters and other mementos compiled by Schwartz's mother. 

Two seniors from Saint Mary's College, Miss Nancy Kavanagh and Miss Maureen Meter, have been nominated for Danforth Fellowships, it was announced by Dr. Dorothy Feigl, associate professor of chemistry and Danforth liaison 
officer. 
Danforth Fellowships in support of Ph.D. studies are awarded to students on the basis of scholarship and intention to 
engage in college or university 1 e v e 1 t e a c h i n g . T h e announcement of Danforth Fellows will be made in early March. 
Miss Kavangh, a history major, has been active at Saint M a r y • s a s a s t u dent 

By Steve Kane and Art Ferranti 
The overall opinion expressed by those associated with the Sophomore· Year Abroad Program is one of continual praise. The director, various deans, and the participating students agree that for­eign study has proved beneficial for all. 
The program began in I964 in Inns­bruck, Austria, spread to Angers, France in 1966 and has since expanded into Tokyo, Rome, and most recently, Mexico City. The Innsbruck program is con­ducted at the University of Innsbruck (Leopold-Franzens Universitat), Angers' at Universite Catholique de !'Quest, and Tokyo's in the city itself at the Jesuit Sophia University. Rome is connected with no university as such, but is the ex­tension of the Saint Mary's campus in Italy, and Mexico City has the Univer­sidad Anahuac. 
It should be noted that the participat­ing students are still officially enrolled as members of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College; and, that they receive no extra credit for going abroad, but are taught the required courses in order to achieve their necessary credit-hours. 
The program was created for the bene­fit of the individual as a student and as a person. Being educated abroad, it is felt, does not take anything away from a 
Cliff's Notes... always the right prescription when you need help in understanding litera­ture. Prepared by educators. Easy to use. Titles available now cover nearly 200 frequently 
assigned plays and novels. 
Look for the 

Cliff's Notes "First Aid" Station wherever­books are sold. Only $1 each. 

Lincoln, Nebraska 68501 
Notre Dame education, but rather widens perspectives, allowing students to see their own culture from the inside. 
There are many advantages to be accrued in foreign study. Since the aca­demic and social programs abroad are less structured, the student tends to have more time for reflection and independent exploration. He also learns to understand and appreciate his own country and cul­ture. 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 
The director ot the Forei~n Studies__ 
Program (F.S.l'.),. Rev.. Lawrence Broestle, attributes various factors to the programs' apparent success. First, the immediate purpose of foreign study has been accompolished. Students return, having a more defined concept of their own community and the larger commu­nity about them. Secondly, they have . 
mastered another language, and thereby learned another means of communica­tion. Thirdly, and probably the most 
satisfying to Fr. Broestle and the faculty members involved, is that the students have been pleased, and regard their for­eign activities as quite enjoyable and re­warding. 
Robert J. Waddick, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, also 
praised  the  program.  He  said  that  the  
courses  plus  the  experience  of  being  
abroad  are  extremely  important  and  

valuable to the student. He believes that the F.S. P. provides a new outlook for the individual and gives him a firm grasp of a foreign country's language and customs. 
The only drawback to the program, according to Waddick, has been the in­adequate counseling the student receives abroad. But this is being remedied this year, he pointed out. 
Another plus is the program's place­ment in the sophomore year -thereby letting the student get his required courses in before declaring a major and having to devote a great deal of time to that major. 
Dean Thomas Murphy of the College of Business explained that foreign study can also be very helpful to the business major. Students have a chance to observe comparative economic systems, different equity financing, stock exchanges, and monetary systems, he said. Students can also see how American banks and insur­ance companies operate abroad. Dean 
Murphy considers the program "highly successful" and encourages greater stu­dent interest _and participation. 
Freshmen become interested in the program for many reasons. Some find for­eign study useful in the fields, such as diplomatic relations, sociology, or lan­guage, which they intend to pursue after college. 
Students who wish to go next year and those who have returned this year said that they wanted to get similar things out of the program. Both groups wanted to receive a grasp of a foreign language superior to that which is available in an American classroom, and both groups wanted an opportunity to travel to other countries. 
Dan Doody, a freshman hoping to go to Jnnsbruck next year, wishes to meet' new people, and is curious as to the re­ception he will experience both as a for­eigner and as a member of the minority group that the Americans will be in lnns­bruck. 
Kelly Cushing, who returned from lnnsbruck this year, enjoyed the F.S.P. and its freely structured program, which allowed him to travel from Spain to Greece through Yugoslavia and as far north as Belgium. He agreed with Dean Waddick concerning the counseling ser­vice abroad, but said again, that it is being remedied. 
Monday, October 26, 1970 THE OBSERVER Page 3 






Frosh lose, Irish rally falls short 
by Vic Dorr dence Saturday. Brown tried in vain to get the passing, and quickly moved the got the ball back, and tried Observer Sportswriter Neisen led the Spartans to Irish offense untracked during NO offense down to the MSU several desperation long gainers. their first touchdown midway the first half. Halfback Grey four. Mark Dunn, on his only Cecil Boot gained 14 yards on an
Michigan State quarterback through the first period. After Hill, who carried the ball ten carry of the afternoon, scored end around, but the Irish hopesMark Meisen and his band 1of having been stopped by the Irish times, was the Notre Dame from there. Again, Brown kicked were doused when John MartinSpartan teammates wasted very defense for three downs, Michi­workhorse. The rugged Spartan the point after, and the score intercepted Brown at midfield.
little time Saturday in asserting gan State lined up to attempt defense allowed him very little was 24-14. At this time, there Despite the score, the freshtheir superiority over the Notre what would have been a 41 yard running room, however, and was still plenty of time remain­turned in a creditable perform­Dame Freshman Team. The field goal. But Neisen, who was Hill's ten carries netted him a ing, and the crowd of 4,000 was ance. They gained 261 yards inSpartans sprinted to a 21-0 half­the holder, took the snap from 29 beginning to entertain notions of total most which

time lead, and then survived a mere yards. The other Irish offense, of 
center and rambled some l 5 backs found things equally un­a Notre Dame comeback victory. came through the air. Brownbelated Irish comeback to claim yards for a first down at the comfortable. But while ND was Mark Meisen, however, had completed 17 passes in 31a 24-14 victory in the season Irish II. Four plays later, full­struggling to get its attack off other ideas. Reinserted at qb, he attempts for 146 yards. Butopener for both teams. 
back Paul Manderino scored on a the ground, the charged-up Spar­drove the Spartans to three several phases of the game will 1While scoring this rather con­one-yard dive, and the Spartans tans rolled to still another first crucial first downs, and, in the have to be improved before thevincing triumph, the Spartan had a lead that they never gave half touchdown. The key play in process, used up large chunks of Volunteers of Tennessee invadefreshmen also did a thorough job up. Following an exchange of this drive was another bit of the remaining time. Notre Dame South Bend next Saturday.
of embarrassing the Michigan punts, MSU drove for their Michigan State deception.
State Sports Information De­second tally. With but seconds Neisen pitched out to his runn­TEAM STATISTICS MSU NDpartment. Mid-week press re­remaining in the first quarter, ing back, Walter Simpson. Simp­leases from East Lansing com­Neisen dropped back to pass. He son started around right end, but First Downs Rushing 12 4plained that the MSU frosh were threw a strike to his flanker, Joe pulled up short and fired a pass First Downs Passing 5 7"short on numbers and practice Ransom, who had gotten free at to Ransom, who made a diving First Downs by Penalties 1 1time, lacking in balance, and the Irish five. Ransom scored reception at the Notre Dame TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 18 12suffering from a short supply of easily. ten. Following a quarterback Number Attempts Rushing 70 36big lineman." None of these Notre Dame signal-caller Cliff sneak, halfback Bruce Anderson Yards Gained Rushing 225 122supposed weaknesses were in evi­
swept left end for State's final Yards Lost Rushing 40 7 touchdown. NET YARDS RUSHING 215 115

JIM MURRAY 
The Irish ball club seemed to Number Passes Attempted 13 31 come alive in the second half. Number Passes Completed 7 17 The defense stiffened visibly, Number Passes Had Intercepted 0 I 
and allowed the Spartans only NET YARDS PAS SING 85 146 one score -a 24 yard goal -dur­Number Plays Rushing and Passing 83 67 ing the final half of the game. TOTAL OFFENSE 300 261

Richie's 
But the biggest change was Number Interceptions I 0 

apparent in the Notre Dame Yards Interceptions Returned 0 0 offense. The Irish frosh put to­Number Times Punted 8 7Romance gether their first sustained drive NUmber Punts Had Blocked 0 0 
of the afternoon immediately Punting Average 37.5 35 following the MS U field goal. Number Pun.ts Returned 4 4 @ 1970, Los An1eles Times Gary Diminick, who caught NET YARDS PUNTS RT'D 48 
9 The first thing you have to understand about Richie Allen is, he back-to-back passes to keep the Number Kickoffs Returned 2 5 never murdered anybody. He doesn't go around sticking up trains, attack alive deep in Spartan Yards Kickoffs Returned 37 81 territory, capped drive
he doesn't turn into a wolf in a full moon. the by Number Times Penalized 8 5 
He eats with a fork, is good to his mother. He's just a good\ spinning over from the four. TOTAL YARDS PENALIZED 70 37 old-fashioned American boy. Oh, he drinks a little and he bets the Brown kicked the point to make Number Times Fumbled 4 2 races, but no one has had to help him into a cab lately and he bets it 24-7. The greater part of the NUMBER FUMBLES LOST 2 2 the races at the windows, not the phone. 
third, and most of the fourth This is important to know because, when a guy can hit a basball period was highlighted by the the way Richie can and starts to get shipped around the league like a defensive play of both teams. pinstripe suit that's not moving, you have to think Richie Allen does Neither offense was able to get NOTRE DAME 0 0 7 7 14 something The Sporting News doesn't know about. Or that Mrs. any kind of drive started, and MICHIGAN STATE 14 7 3 0 24 punts were exchanged several
Allen doesn't know about. 

This is impossible for two reasons: I) Wherever Richie plays ball, times. SCORING every doorman in twon would know him on sight and might be on Michigan State replaced MSU: Manderino, I run; Anderson, kick the phone to the front office before Richie got to the olive -Neisen with Mike Holt, and the MSU: Rall§om, 28, pass from Niesen; Anderson, kick Richard Allen has about as much chance to play around as Richard Notre Dame greeted the new MSU: Anderson 6 run; Anderson ,kick 
State quarterback by forcing a MSU: Eiden, 24 Field GoalNixon; and 2) Richie dresses as inconspicuously as the lead in "Tannhauser." 

fumble. The Irish recovered at ND: Diminick, 4 run; Brown kick the Spartan 34. Brown came out _ND: DUnn, 3 run; Brown, kick

Take the other night, for example. The Dodgers brought him down to Baltimore for a pre-contract session, and I would have to say Richie's costume was early-pirate. Brown bell-bottom trousers, bouffant ruffled blouse of pongee silk with balloon sleeves, brown 

Ali defends "people's title" 

Elizabethan vest -he looked out of place without a sword or a ring in his ear. "I'm the one who owns the
ATLANTA (UPI) -Cassius 
Sonny Banks -testify to hisRichie looks at the world through lilac-colored glasses and he people's heavyweight title," Clay

Clay answers all the questions of 
ability to avoid getting hit. 

always looks as if he's having a struggle not to laugh. Baseball is a said. "That new tramp, or I
whether he can come back after 
"Somebody said I'd never game in which they like to frown a lot. In fact, if you get caught meant champ, Joe Frazier,

being inactive for 3llz years by 
been tested," Clay quipped,smiling after a one-run defeat, the manager is liable to throw knows he's gotta beat me before

risking "the people's heavy­
"and that Quarry could test me.

coldcuts at you. he owns any title."
weight title" against Jerry 
They said I'd never been hurt orIt all began in Philly where Richie says "I won Quarry Monday night in a I 5 The winner of the Quarry­marked up in almost 200 fightsRookie-Of-The-Year and they offered me $1 0,000." Richie implies Clay bout is certain to be

round fight. 
as an amateur and pro, and thatthey thought he was also the Rube-Of -The-Year but Richie had al­Frazier's nextopponent. Frazier

Gov. Lester Maddox has 
Quarry could hurt me. Well, any­

ready begun to buy a thoroughbred stable. called Monday a day of mourn­won the vacant crown in a series body has many
who had thatThat's another thing about Richie. Other guys put' their money in of elimination bouts. 

ing for the state, but Clay says, 
fights and never got tested orchancy things like U.S. Steel and real estate, but Richie prefers safe, "Mourning? I don't know what Clay figures to make a million hurt must be pretty good, and if dependable investr.~ents like race horses. He'd rather go to horse that word means. It's my day of dollars, perhaps more, from the I'm that good there's no waytraining than spring training. Baseball would prefer Richie collect rejuvenation, but if he wants to live gate and television, which is Quarry can hurt me."

buttert1ies. say it's a day of mourning I'm being shown live around the Quarry, however, is dependingThe Philadelphias said Richie wanted to play the game where criticize He's world and for the first time in
not gonna him. somewhat on his Irish temper. 

somebody knocks on his door, the one with the star on it, and calls saying what he believes, and I Russia. Clay gets 42Yz per cent "Clay said he was going to let out "Five minutes, Mr. Allen." of the revenue, and Quarry 22Yz
respect his beliefs just like I 
me take my best shots and thenRichie came to the Cardinals last year for a $90,000 outfielder would hope people respect per cent. Odds makers have beat me," Quarry said. "I told(who never showed up, to put it mildly) and a $5 0,000 catcher. mine." made Clay a 5-2 favorite to beat him he only has to let me takeNow, he's come to the Dodgers for an infielder and a minor-league Despite the controversy sur­Quarry. 

one shot and it doesn't necessar­catcher. Clay is unbeaten in 29 conse­

rounding Clay's comeback be­
ily have to be my best one. He'sThe· Dodgers are a club that conduct themselves a little like the cause of his refusal to serve in cutive pro bouts and his un­been trying to beat me with hisHouse of Lords. They consider themselves the best organization in the Army, a full house of 5,000 marked face and record of being mouth, and no man alive can dobaseball. They are efficient, punctual, polite, have a strong sense of fans, most of them paying $1 00 knocked down only twice ­that. I use my fists." 

duty to the empire. They're old school tie and very quickly get rid a seat, is expected to fill the long ago by Henry Cooper and of anyone who doesn't fit the image. They have a superiority com­municipal auditorium. plex which neither defeat nor victory can shake very much. They Maddox called for a boycott 
Zllltnlblea bundle Mundelein 

take the position any other team in town is a bunch of gypsies. of the bout, but local veterans They're Eton and Harrow. Everybody else is cockney. organizations said they have no Even though Zahm couldn't scored all five TO's and was re-~ It will be interesting to see if Richie Allen becomes a Dodger or a intention of demonstrating. field a team for the regular inter­sponsible for 12 illegal use of the 
·transient. The mere fact the Dodgers tapped him is taken in some After refusing to go into the hall league the Zahmbies were hands penalties against the oppo­quarters to be proof positive that underneath that bad reputatjon Army 'in 196 7, the 2 8 year old able to muster enough athletes sition. lurks Jack Armstrong or Orphan Annie. · -Philadelphian was stripped of for their traditional rivalry with Coach Mike "Willie" Williams 
Tune in next year for the fascinating next chapter in The the title and banned from box­Mundelein College of Chicago. admitted after the game that Romance of Richie Allen. Will Richie find love in the Dodger club­ing. Atlanta was the first city to The Zahmbies pulverized the even though the score wasn't to .,. house? Will the Dodgers change Richie? Will Richie change the Dod­give him permission to fight but hopelessly "out-manned" Mun­close the team from the North gers? Is Los Angeles big enough for the two of them? Or will it just New York has followed suit by die Bundles 34-6. Al Fontinini Quad definitely had its hands turn out to be Philadephhia with palm trees? granting him a license. was the big man for Zahm as he full. 
Page 4 7HJ!. OBSERIJER. Monday, October 26, 1970 
~~-----------------------------------------------------------­


SMC coed plans studied 
(Continued from page 1) which the college occupies. On program and therefore no 'teach­paper the school is separate, but ing assistants. Consequently we the order owns the buildings and are taught by professors for all property. Other factors consid­courses." Approximately I0% of ered by the student convocation all courses at Notre Dame are 
were the selection of a new pres­ident for the college, and the re­

presently taught by teaching action of the Board of Trustees
assistants. Another problem of going co­toward coeducation. According to Miss Tracey, "although weeducational is the effect of the have a president, she's only act­move on the Holy Cross Order ing and this creates a problem ofwhich maintains its mother stability. One recommendationhouse and owns the grounds 
Fonda plans discussed 
By John Powers 
Arrangements for the speak­ing engagement of Jane Fonda on November 8, at Stepan Center are now under discussion according to SUAC Co-chairmlll'\ James Metzger. Metzger said that he was discussing the speaking engagement of Miss Fonda with SUAC Co-chairman Missy Underman as well as Student 
• union Director Bob Pohl, whom Metzger said is not in favor of Miss Fonda's appearance on campus. 
A contract with Jane Fonda's agent has already been signed by SUAC, and whether or not Miss Fonda appears at Notre Dame, she will be paid. A final decision on the matter is expected tonight. 
Opinion has varied on Miss Fonda's scheduled speech. Stu­dent Body Vice President Mark Winings thought that "she might have something interesting to say," and that he would "let the people be the judge." 
Professor Norling of the His­tory Department remarked that she "was not a very rr,Qmising selection. (Sl\.e was) picked not because she knows very much, 

Missy Underman 

IES comes 

Tuesday, October 27, a re­presentative from the Institute of European Studies will be on St. Mary's campus to discuss with interested faculty and students the Institute's program for study in Europe. Many students have participated in the program over the past few years. The representative, Mr. T. Tucker Glaser, said he hopes to encourage greater participation for the future. Mr. Glaser will be available for consultation in the Great Hall of LeMans from I0:00 a.m. until early afternoon. If you are interested in studying abroad, plan to see him sometime during those hours to acquaint yourself with this pro­gram. 
Night Editor: Don Ruane Layout: Joe Abell 
Headlines: Tim Burke 
Controller of the Night: R. Smith 
but because there is a lot of publicity about her. People like this don't add anything to the intellectual atmosphere· of the place, nor do they have anything that's worth listening to." 
Chris Wolfe thought that Miss Fonda was asked to speak was because "she typifies what a woman should be and do to­day." He added that "she is awfully sincere, she's just ignor­~nt. She's the latest in a long line of people who are totally dissa­tisfied with society." 
Wolfe is confident that Miss Fonda will draw a "huge crowd." "Everyone knows what she looks like," he said. Miss 
Fonda  has  starred  in  recent  
a ward  winning  films  such  as  
CAT  BALLOU,  HURRY  

SUNDOWN, THEY SHOOT 
HORSES, DON'T THEY?, and 
BARBARELLA. At the same time, she has actively involved herself with minority groups like the Black Panthers and the American Indians. She has also set up a Washington, D.C. office with ·lawyer Mark Lane to handle complaints from G.l.'s who have been disciplined for expressing rights guaranteed under the First Amendment. 
of the coeducation committee was that whoever we got as pres­ident should be willing to work 
closely with Notre Dame." One 
problem brought up was how 
the lack of stability of St. Mary's 
present situation would affect a 
candidate's willingness to accept 
a position which could be dis­
solved by coeducation or merger 
with the University. 
On the question of the re­
action of the Board of Trustees 
toward coeducation, Miss Tracey 
said, "We can realize that if 
there is unity behind the pro­
posal which we finally present to 
them, they'll have to recognize 
the problem and act on it." 
Finally, Miss Henninger stated, 
"The talks are proceeding very 
quickly and I think that Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's together 
will have a definite proposal 
soon for Drs. Park and Mayhew 
for future structure of a St. 
Mary's -Notre Dame collabora­
tion. 



Goodell 
(Continued from page 1) 
statewide sampling of 4,870 
voters. 
Earlier polls had given Ottin­
ger the lead but the standings 
were clouded by Vice President 
Spiro T. Agnew's intervention in 
the campaign. 
Agnew has repeatedly at­tacked Goodell as a "radical liberal" and all but endorsed Buckely, while President Nixon withheld his endorsement for · Goodell and praised Buckley for 
supporting administration policies. Goodell is a leading Senate critic of Nixon's Vietnam policies and has sponsored legis­lation calling for a unilateral withdrawal of U.S. troops. 
HURRAH Ov•The Hll 
will be held again Wednesday night-FREE 
presented by Student Union Social Commission 
H 
0 
v 
H 
0 
v 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING. 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
H H 
v v 

0 JlouseofVisioli om 0 
H 
0 The House of Vision, Inc. 
v 
ABORTION COUNSELING, INFORMATION AND REFERRAL SERVICES 
Abortions up to 24 weeks of pregnancy are now legal in New York State. There are no residency restrictions at cooperating hospitals and clinics. Only the consent of the patient and the performing physician is required. 
If you think you are pregnant, consult your doctor. Don't delay. Early abortions are simpler and safer. 
If you need information or professional assist­
ance, including immediate registration into 
available hospitals and clinics, telephone: 
THE ABORTION INFORMATION AGENCY, INC. 
160 WEST 86th STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10024 
212-873-6650 
8 A.M. TO 10 P.M. SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 
MOST COMPLETE ATHLETIC STORE IN THE AREA 
Adidas -Basketball, Soccer & Trac~ Shoes 
Northland Hockey Sticks 
Bauer Hockey Skat~s 
N.D. Jacket & Errblems 
T-Shirts Imprinted for any organization 
MIDWEST ATHLETIC EQUIPIIEIIT 117 N HILL IT COIIND 10 BEND AVE a HILL IT 
tel: 212..... 
open 
Proof Daily 
ofage 12:45 
required 





PAPARAZZI 
P\ \.).J t:> ~\... '\) {> ~ ~ \ ·z.. \\. ~~ £ 
\~t\Gt:.'S t:>{-St,\JN\)5 


