Nixon sends troops to post office 
(United Press International) 
President Nixon, declaring a state of national emergency, yes­terday ordered 2,500 servicemen to help deliver mail in New York City and promised to send troops to other cities unless the mailmen end their wildcat strike. 
Eleven hundred Army troops at Ft. Dix, N.J.. immediately started for New York by bus but one postal union official said it 
would take nine months for the Gls to learn the job. 
Nixon authorized Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird to call into active service for an indefi­nite period "any or all units of the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard" necess­ary to restore normal mail deli­veries. 
In South Bend, the mail ser­vice continued as usual except that delivery to embargoed areas have been held. Among areas completely embargoed are the entire New York City metro­politan area, most of New Jer­sey, all of Connecticut; and parts of Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wis­consin, Minnesota, and Illinois. 
All 2nd, 3rd and 4th class matter was under embargo for the Chicago area, but Post Mas­ter Granville Ziegler, in an article in the South Bend Tribune, said that first class mail was not being affected. 
But the 2,500 men ordered to New York late Monday after­noon were regulars from Ft. Dix, McGuire Air Force Base, N.J., and Marines and naval person-

SLC passes proposa favoringOmbudsma 
by Bill Carter cessful use of an office of Om­
The Student Life Council last budsman on over 40 campuses 
night passed a proposal calling around the country including 
for the council to advocate the Michigan State, Chicago Univer­
establishment of an official posi­sity, SUNY at Stonybrook and 
tion of Untversity Ombudsman. Berkeley. 
The council agreed to recom­"We feel there is a need for 
mend the formation of such an this office to serve every mem­
office to the Faculty Senate and ber of the Notre Dame commun­
College Councils, and to work ity," Houck said in presenting 
with those bodies in determining the rationale for the proposal. 
the details for the method of "We can't establish the office 
selection and specific duties of ourselves but we would like to 
the position. see the council go on record as 
The Council also discussed the encouraging other bodies on 
proposed changes in the body's campus to debate the issue and 
by-laws and successfully amend­examine the possibilities of such 
ed and passed the first section of a proposal and its difficulties." 
the new document before the In outlining some of the possi­
adjournment time. The remain­ble functions of the office, 
der of the changes will be taken McKenna noted complaints aris­
up at the first meeting after the ing out of questionable grades in 
Easter vacation. a course, disputes over schedul­At the outset of the meeting, ing of courses, and a system of Chairman James Massey intro­examining of t'he
some reasons duced three new members to the behind student cheating instead council. Joseph J. Weisenstein of mere disciplinary action. He was added as a representative of also mentioned the possibility of 
the law students, and Stanley turning the academic problems Liberty and Richard Humbrecht over to an Academic Grievances were seated as representing the Committee as a means toward graduate students. All three will eliminating some of the work to have speaking privileges but will be done by the Ombudsman, not have a vote on the council. because most of his work would Before beginning the official entail non-academic problems, agenda, Administration represen­such as those closely involved 
tative Philip Faccenda, Special with student life in general. Assistant to the President, was The proposal was unanimous­asked to report on the proceed­ly passed. 
ings of the recently concluded The remainder of the meeting Board of Trustees meeting in centered upon the report of the Key Biscayne, Florida. Faccenda By-Laws Committee with their said the Trustees had discussed three page revision of the Coun­the student life proposals and cil's by-laws. The committee, report of the council and had set which included Mr. Faccenda up a committee to draft a state­and Prof. Charles Allen, was ment for presentation to the headed by student representative council. He said the statement Guy De Sapio. De Sapio in will be ready for the April 6 speaking for the document, meeting of the council. pointed out the major changes in 
The Ombudsman proposal the old system of the council's was co-l>ponsored by Phil Mc­structure. Most of the significant Kenna and Prof. John Houck. changes focused on questions of Both expressed the idea that membership and the tri-partite there was a need for some sort nature of the council. The com­of service on campus to which mittee advocated a regulation 
students and faculty alike could calling for a 2/3 presence of the appeal and expect some kind of entire membership as constitut­action while avoiding the mass ing a quorum rather than a of red tape that usually accom­necessary number from each of 
panies any sort of formal com­the representative groups. It also plaint. McKenna cited the sue-(Continued on page 2) 
nel from various areas in the return to work, but union lead­other major cities, I will not New York area. They were un­ers said the advent of troops in hesitate to act..." armed, but dressed in working the city would only stiffen the Senate Republican leader fatigues. resolve of the National Associa­Hugh Scott, briefing reporters 
Nixon issued the proclama­tion of Mail Carriers and sym­following a White House meeting 
tion declaring the national emer­pathy strikers to remain off the of congressional leaders on the gency and the executive order job until wage demands were strike, said Congress would not authorizing the call up of guards­met by negotiation. act to raise postal wages until men simultaneously with a seven At issue, the President said in the wildcat strike is ended. 
minute radio-television broad­ordering the troops in, "is the "Congress is not going to act cast to the Nation on his action survival of a government based under compulsion," he said. to deal with the postal strike. on law. Essential services must Although Scott insisted Con­
About 168,000 postal work­be maintained." gress would take no action as 
ers, most of them in New York, New York, said Nixon, "is long as the walkout continued, Philadelphia, and Chicago, stay­where the currently illegal stop­House Democratic leader Carl ed off th~ job yesterday in the pages began. It is where the mail Albert said he would talk with walkout over wage interests. The has been halted the longest, and Senate Democratic leader Mike strike, opposed by union leaders, it is where the resultant prob­Mansfi'eld to see if Congres~ began Wednesday in New York lems have become the most a­could speed a postal pay bill to and quickly spread to other ma­cute. the White House. Both he and jor metropolitan areas. "If the postmaster general (Continued on page 7) 
Nixon urged the strikers to deems it necessary to act in 
Phillip Faccenda, Special to t, told the yeste~day . _r~ of Trus­tees had reached a decision on its parietal hours proposal. J ne Hoard will present 1ts dec1s1on to the SLC on April 6. In the meantime, the Board will be working on a rationale for the decision. 

St. Mary's Staff Students: 
'An impossible situation' 
by Ann Conway m " to sickness or failure to report to gra · work. In the new contract stu-St. Mary's staff students are 
Although the staff program is being gradually phased out at dents would not be compensatedcurrently engaged in a dispute SMC, the new contract affect for this time. Under the presentwith the administration over the approximately 32 students. program, if a girl is sick theterms of new contracts pre­Under the new contract these nurse reports her ill and the girlsented to the students recently. 
students would be allowed to gets earning credit. Staff stu­This contract represents the first 
dents fear that changes in this written contract for the program continue in their respective pro-policy might endanger the health 
which has been in existence for grams (ranging from a 30 to a I 5 of other students. If staff stu­the past 40 years. hour work week), but would be 
dents fearing loss of earning timesubjected to new policies.
In an interview Friday even­would report for work sick and ing, two staff student representa­One of the contract changes possibly contaminate the food tives, Chris Wedryk and Sue would deny staff students the or infect other students. 
Spanos, contended that the new right to count time spent eating · Selection of student super­contract jeopardized the staff their meals during their working visors by the Food Service Direc­students' academic life at SMC. periods as earning time ..Under tor has also come under attackThey claimed it was also in the new contract, a girl would by the Staff Students. They feeldirect contradiction to a promise lose 5 to 6 hours of pay a week. 
that the administration is takingby Msgr. John J. McGrath, SMC "It would be impossible," ac­away their right to be student­president, at a staff students' cording to Miss Wedryk, "for a supervised by those that theymeeting before Christmas. girl to take a class load of I 2 elect. Under the present verbalAccording to Miss Wedryk, hours a semester (minimum load contract, these staff officers are"Father McGrath announced to be officially designated as a in charge of meals and super­that the staff program would be student) and work for this addi­vision of the girls' activities. 
discontinued and assured us that tional period." "This action Although the staff studentsthere would be no changes in would increase the number of originally requested a written our present program. When we years it would take for a staff contract because "We wantedtalked to him at our last meeting student to fulfill academic re­something in writing to avoid aand reminded him of his quirements to at least 5 years," misinterpretation of our jobs,"promise, he said that the new claimed Miss Spanos. 
the administration-written con· 
contract was a correction of an Another provision of the new abuse, not a change in the pro-contract deals with time lost due (Continued on page 2) 

TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1970
PAGE 2 
THE OBSERVER. 

Scholastic editor named 
Steve Brion assumes post 
by Mike Mooney Steve Br~on, a Junior English Major from Lindenhurst New York has been named the new Editor of the Scholastic. With the exception of Man aging Editor, the other editorial positions on the Scholastic are yet to be filled. The newly named Managing Editor is freshman Phil Stark from Poughkeepsie, New York. Brion's first issue as editor-in-chief will be the May 8th edition. That edition will be the first regular issue of the Scholastic fallowing the Easter break. The course evaluation book will be published between Easter and May 8th. Brion's application for the position was accepted last week by the magazine's Board of Directors consisting of Associate Economics Professor Father Ernest Bartell, Communications Arts Associate Professor Ronald Weber, and senior William Mitchell. Brion noted that the essential defference between the ,Scholastic and the Observer was the gre;~ter freedom afforded to 
the Scholastic by its magazine format. 
"we have alot more freedom to cover things in depth," said Brion." "A magazine can go behind to seek out motives." 
The new editor viewed favorably what he considered a shift in outlook in this year's magazine under Rich Moran from the previous editions. "Rich tried to cut down the polemics," Brion stated. "He tried to offer a form of cultural expression." He added that there "will be times when the magazine will speak out," but he was opposed to letting the Scholastic "slip into easy polemics." Brion saw his principal problem as "getting people into the magazine." He admitted that the relatively large amount of copy in each issue "scared some people away," but felt that the subject matter of the magazine required longer 
stories. "I don't want to sacrifice the quality of the magazine to 
achieve  a wider audience," said  
Brion.  "The  problem  is  to  
widen  the  audience  without  

Hardin favors legal abortion 
by Mike Chapin 
"I would'rather not be born. than to be born without human dignity." This was the theme of 
Dr.  Garrett Hardin's lecture on  
the  subject  of  abortion  which  
has  been  "brought  out  from  

undern-eath the taboo where it had been for a few hundred years." 
Dr. Hardin, professor of biolo­gy at the University of California at Santa Barbara, delivered the first of his three lectures in the 1970 Nieuwland Lecture Series in Biology last night in the li­brary Auditorium. 
Dr. Hardin will give two other lectures this week. Today at 4 
p.m. he will give a lecture titled "We Must Choose" in the Librar­y, an application of the general principles gleaned from the abor­tion movement to broader prob­lems involving life and death. Wednesday he will give "The Courage to End Life," the dan-

NOTICE 
Students planning to student teach during First Semestet; 1970 7l must report by April 10. 
St. Mary's College students go to Room 320, Madeleva Hall. University of Notre Dame students go to Room 110 East, Memorial Library. 

gers of a gerontocratic society. 
A proponent of population control, Dr. Hardin said that in 1963 he could not even say the word abortion easily in a speech. Today, it is only a matter of a · few years before abortion will be legal everywhere in the United States, he said. Hawaii has legal­ized abortion almost without restriction. Also, Arizona, Vir­ginia, Maryland and New York are all in some stage of legalizing abortion, Dr. Hardin said. 
"The second thing that has come in to make people far more sympathetic to the idea of abortion than they used to be has been the growing concern with the tragedy of unwanted children. We once had a pleasant myth that once a woman had a child she automatically loved it and wanted it and treated it tenderly from then on. We know now that this simply is not true," Hardin said. 
He explained that there was a "Battered child syndrome" in the United States where many children are beaten and mal­treated sometimes with the par­ent not even being aware hecause he is not wanted. Planned parenthood and abol­ition of compulsory pregnancy would eliminate the unwanted child from our society, accor­ding to Hardin. 
(Continued on page 6) 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500· ZIP: 60611 
1os ing your integrity as a writer." 
As for future subject matter, Brion commented that the magazine would continue to speak out on the University's priorities and felt that he was in "basic agreement" with the position this year's editors had taken. 
The new Editor saiji he would like to use more graphics to break up the copy, but added that graphics are expensive. 
Brion also said that he believed the magazine had a duty to serve the students. For this reason, he saw a continuation of the movie guide section of the magazine and continued publication of the Scholastics Course Evaluation booklet. 

H PC selects committee reps. 
by Pat Dermody 
The Hall President's Council met last night to elect three presidents to sit on the Constitu­tional Revision Committee for Student Government. They chose Phil Defliese, Flanner Hall President, Mike Lindburg of Breen-Phillips and Tom Suddes, 
President  of  Holy  Cross  and  
Chairman  of  the  HPC  to  the  
committee.  

Next the presidents came to an agreement regarding room as­signments for the departing resi­dents of Carroll Hall. They agreed to give room selection priority to the present Carroll residents only after all resident undergraduates have chosen their rooms in the respective halls, but before the university­wide room picks conducted by the Office of Student Accounts. 
The group also agreed however, that, at the discretion of the individual halls, seniors to be from Carroll could receive consideration before hall resi­dents of younger classes. Thus some halls might decide that a Senior to be from Carroll Hall could pick after the seniors of the hall but before the other classes. 
In addition to this, Rev. Edgar Whelan, Director of Student Residence, noted that "the uni­versity will be 200-300 beds short next fall and this will allow juniors and seniors to be to seek off-campus housing with written 
Steve Brion 
parental consent." 
However, this estimate came only from the figures compiled by the hall presidents and is not necessarily final. If there is a greater shortage, provision may be made to allow Sophomores to be to move off campus. 
It was also decided that stu­dents returning from study abroad will be given the same priority as Carroll Hall residents. 
Following this, the group dis­cussect hall security problems re­lating to the Alumni Hall inci­dent last weekend. They also decided to take steps to stop town children who have been looting rooms and taking charity donation containers. 
John Barkett, Morrissey Hall president, was named to head the group which is to draw up the rationale for Hall Life to be presented to the Student Life Council. 
Concluding the meeting was a brief word of thanks from Tony Scolaro, the Muscular Dystrophy representative. He said he was very pleased with the $750 col­lected thus far, and he told of plans to give a Hall by Hall ace ount of donations after Easter vacation. 


Diet control 

"Dietary Control of Choles­terol Metabolism -A Study in Microbial Ecology," will be the subject of an address delivered at 
12:30 p.m. tomorrow in Room 141 of the Radiation Research Building. 
Dr. Thomas F. Kellogg, pro­fessor of microbiology, will ex­plain how tiny micro-Qrganisms in the intestines help control levels of cholesterol in the blood, and the relationship of diet to the functioning of these microbes. The seminar, spon­sored by the Department of Microbiology, is open to the public. 

Lose compensation 
(Continued from page 1) 
tract was surprising. 
"Never before have we been handed an ·ultimatum," Miss Wedryk explained. "It's always been discussed first with us be­fore changes in the program were finalized. We feel that when two parties enter a con­tract, both parties would be 
Council discusses by -laws revision 
(Continued from page 1) In concluding the meeting, called for a lowering of the total the council members voiced an membership from· 24 to 21 to expression of appreciation to de­help limit discussions and speed parting SBP and SBVP Phil up the action of the council. McKenna and Fred Dedrich who 
The first section of the revi-were sitting at their last meeting sian, concerning the duties of as ex officio members of the the chairman and secretary, council. The members wished to reached discussion and was re-recognize the sincere and con­worded many times before being scie'ntious efforts of the two passed unanimously·-The rest of student leaders throughout their the committee's report was tabl-tenures of position on the coun­ed until the Apri! 6 !P-~eting. cil. 
When you're home for Easter, Ask the bunny out for the PROM WEEKEND! 
BID PRICE $10.00 Includes 
Prom Ticket -May 1 Grand Prix Tickets -May 2 Post Grand Prix Picnic -May 2 
Room Reservations & Concert Tickets available at time ofbid sales. 
represented and should be in agreement. We're aware that the staff program is a great deal. No one else on campus gets to eat on work time or has sick time off. But no one else has an agreement as we do. We're a unique group." 
In commenting on the Staff student changes, Msgr. McGrath stated that in the past three or four years many abuses have entered the program. "The food service was very bad, and the girls refused to cooperate with the manager. So, I called the girls together and announced that the program was ending. I stated that I would fulfill my­contract with each of them, but that they must fulfill their part also. It is an impossible situa­tion." 
The entire program is being stopped because it is too expen­sive but the girls presently on the program will be allowed to stay on the programs they signed up for until they graduate. 
"It is not a change in the program, but correction of abuses which have entered it," Msgr. McGrath emphasized. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by students of the Unl· versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may 

be purchased for $8 from the TICKETS GO ON SALE THURS. I Observer, Box 11• Notre Dame, 

'--------~=A:d:d:f:ift:y:c:en:ts:f:o:r:sh:ip:p:in=g=p=/u=s=so=l=eo=t=ax==w=he=r=e=ap=p=/i=ca=b=/e~------_j~------------APRIL9, 2D LaFortune 7:_0_0 . ~---~:_?_J_.4 __
__________________ _~-~-~-~---~-~-~-~-~-~-~_;_~~-P-4~-~-t;_~r, 
TUESDAY. MARCH 24, 1970 
PAGE 3


7118 OBSE/WER 
•

Investors show gain 1n Mock Stock Market 
by Mike Chapin 
first period of the Mock Stock
Suppose you had $2,000. lf 

Market Contest. 
you had given it to junior Brian 
The Mock Stock Market will
Nagle to invest for you in the 
have three periods. Winners will
stock market one month ago, 
be declared for each of the first 
you would have an extra $248 in 
two periods. Brian Nagle, James 
your pocket already. 
Raley, and Pat Gibbs received
Out of 245 people, Brian was 

$20, $10, and $5 for being the
the top money winner in the 
top three money winners of the 


Computer seminar held 
first period. At the end of the third period, the investor with the greatest gain for all three periods will receive a round trip ticket to New York City. The prizes were donated by the Thompson and McKinnon Brokerage firm in South Bend, Moser said. 
Nagle said he used a very amateur analysis in choosing his ~tocks. He said he looked at past records and trends and consulted Stock Market was to "educate people to the flows of the stock market." 
"There is a vacuum of knowledge on campus about the stock market. Most stulents after graduation get a little money and do not know how to invest it." Moser said that he hoped the contestants would "learn what fluctuates the stocks" by watching them closely. 
Moser mentioned that public while France's dealuation of the franc might have a negative effect. 
There are two ways of making money with the stock market according to Moser. One way ~ to do some long-term buying and wait for the stocks to nse before selling. The other is to sell short. Selling short is if one knows a stock is falling, one can sell it and then buy in again when the price has gone down. 
A week-long seminar on 

"computing for the Non-Com­
puter Expert" will help Notre 
Dame alumni catch up on new 
trends in computer time-sharing 
this June. 
Sponsored by the College of Business Administration, the short course is designed for those alumni who were gradu­ated before a formal program in computer usage was instituted at Notre Dame. Although priority will be given alumni, and inter-· ested persons may apply. The course includes a minimum of theory, and is planned to help participants become confident, knowledgeable users of com­puters in the shortest possible time. The programs employed are short, simple and closely resemble conversational English. The serpinar will run from 9 
a.m. to 9 p.m. for five days, and will include lectures by exper­ienced professors, and actual programming and problem solv­ing using two General Electric computers based in Buffalo, 
N.Y. and Dartmouth College. Course topics include an over­view of computer usage ih business; the potential of time-sharing; basic computing languages; programming tech-
Lamanna speaks on Community 
J>r. Richard A. Lamanna, associate professor of sociology, will speak on the "Black Com­munity in South Bend," at 8 
p.m. tonight in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Lamanna will discuss the social history of the black com­munity, and present statistics on average income, education and family structure for both blacks and whites. In addition, he will describe the growth pattern and general status of the community. llis talk, sponsored by the dep­artment of history, is open to the public. 
Lamanna is editor of "Res­earch Reports in the Social Sciences," a biennial publication of the Social Science Training and Research Laboratory at Notre Dame. He has studied minority groups, including Mexican-Americans in Texas and the Midwest and urban blacks; and has done some research on the nature and effects of racial prejudice. He is a member of the Urban Studies Planning Com­mittee, the Advisory Committee of the Urban League of South Bend and St. Joseph County, and a program participant in Head Start teacher orientation: 
lOBS! JOBS! llna more JOBS! StU' Clents, TeAchers. SIAteslc:te and lntet'­RA~Ional Jobs. RACrutlonal Jobs; VeAr·rouna Jobs; Summer Jobs. A'll !occupations and trades. Enjoy a vAc.. 1tlon while you earn. Hurry! The best :lobs "" t•ken e•rly. Write: ".lOBS"' 
".0. Bo>e 475, Oept. CP 163-1, LNU 
:auf. 95240 
niques; business problem solving, a few sources. Raley said he and statistical routines on time­played some hunches. He had sharing. been watching two stocks and knew that they were down. He
Three seminars will be offered 
bought in and when the stocks
in the Center for continuing 
reached their evening off point
Education from June 8-13; from 
he sold the stock for a nice 
June 15-20 and from June 
11.9% gain. 
22-27. Applications are available 
Organizer, Larry Moser, said from the CCE, Notre Dame, Ind. that the purpose of the Mock 
attitudes may affect the market. Pollution control stocks are nsmg now, for example. If a nude girl were to walk down W a II Street, people would probably start selling stocks like mad because the morals of the nation were degrading, Moser said. Similarly, a peace move could have a positive effect Either way one makes money. 
Even though the university refused to give the students use of their 1107 computer, the whole system has been computerized. Moser explained that the Bendix corporation has donated over $900 worth of computer time to the Mock Stock Market. 

For the price of a stamp, we'll clue you in on the British scene. Naming names of the spots only we local folk are "in" on. 
We'll tell you about our native haunts. The pubs. Coffeehouses. Dis­cotheques. Boutiques. And the like. 
We'll tell you where you can bed­down for $2 a night, breakfast in­cluded. And chow-down for $1. 
We'll tell you about the "doings" in the theatre. So you can see Broad­way hits long before they break on Broadway. (Tickets: 90f.) 
We'll tell you about a crazy little $30 ticket that'll buy you 1,100 miles of rail and boat travel. 
And fill you in on all kinds of tours planned especially for the college crowd. 
We'll even show you how to make it through Shakespeare country. Even if you couldn't make it through Shakespeare in class. 
We've got hundreds of ideas. All wrapped up in our free book: Great Young Britain. 20 pages big. With over 50 color photos. 
It's yours for the asking. Mail the coupon. And see your travel agent. 
r------------------------,
British Tourist Authority Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10017 
Send me your free book: Great 
Young Britain. 
Name 

College__________ 
Address 

CitY----------­
State Zip_·--·-­
L------------------------~ 
L------------...J..._-------------·--·-----------------------------' 


PAGE 4 

THE OBSERVER 
An lndtpendent Student Newspaper 
GAE.TANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-In-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE OAME, INDIANA 
Editorial: 
Staff Student problem 
l11e Staff Student Program at St. Mary's is a unique program which has been in existence for the past forty years. It has operated during this time on a verbal agreement between the college and the student allowing the student to work her way through school with no financial hangover when the student graduated. 
The new contract which the college has presented for the student's signature is in Msgr. McGrath's terms "a correction of an abuse," and in the eyes of the Staff Students a "correction of one abuse with a larger abuse." 
While we agree that the Staff Program is too expensive to be continued, and should be gradually phased out, we also agree with the students' objections to parts of the proposed c"bntract to be used in the interim. 
The first student contention that the proposed contract 
jeopardizes the student's academic life appears valid both 
for the student and the college. By cutting down the 
number of hours the student is able to carry, the staff 
student must stay at St. Mary's longer, causing a financial 
burden on the academic life of the staff student, and thus 
extend financial burden on the college. 
Secondly, the question of not allowing students to 
include sick time in their earning time appears to us a 
danger rather than a correction of an abuse. It creates an 
opportunity for students working on staff who fear loss of 
earning time to come to work and cause possible con­
tamination of food and possible infection of fellow 
students. 

Finally the college's demand that the students no longer 
elect their own student supervisors seems unreasonable and 
of no useful purpose. It would seem that if a student 
supervisor is necessary, then it should be someone whom 
the staff students would respect, could work with, and 
who is in the same situation. Therefore the most equitable 
situation would be for the girls to elect their own 
supervisor, rather than someone appointed by the Food 
Service Director. 
Therefore we feel that the complaints of the Staff 
Students at St. Mary's are valid ones worth considering. 
The contract as it is proposed contains no job descriptions, 
and seems an ambiguous attempt on the part of the 
administration to control a situation which has existed for 
the past forty years. 
A.M.C. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1970 
1'1£'t-rne11 
~AIM 
Noll ~L. .."ET 
I'IOA. • • • 
j..~tzl> 

Judy, call Dick and tell him I'll leave for the airport as soon as I find my white scarf. 
L.effers 
Rational attitude 
Editor: 
Last Saturday I attended the lecture of Mr. Kunstler prepared to be shocked and dismayed at some of the revelations and atti­tudes that he brought forth. To my edification, however, Mr. Kunstler showed himself to be a reasonable man, sincerely con­cerned with the future of our country. Nevertheless, I did come away shocked and dis­mayed-at many_ of our Notre Dame students. 
In particular, I am speaking of that point in the lecture in which Mr Kunstler prophesied to what dire resorts the people will be driven to if the judicial and legislative bodies (;Ontinue to be as unresponsive to the needs of the nation as they now seem to be. As he described the grim procession from picketing the courthouse to finally 'burning it down, I looked up in disbelief to see many clapping and shouting their approval-louder with each succeeding step. Rather than shuddering at the thought that such means should ever become necessary and wondering how that might be avoided, a good portion of the audience was voicing loud enthusiasm for the violence being described. 
Can this be called a rational attitude? I agree that there is a need for change and I see that violence may become a neces­sary evil in obtaining it. But neer will I stand up and cheer the name of violence. Even Mr. Kunstler felt that the day when courthouses must be burned to the ground has not arrived and need not necessarily. But if the attitude that I sensed last Sat­urday is prevalent among even our college students (and I pray that I am mistaken), then that day is much closer than you think, Mr. Kunstler! 
Bob Florek 
Lapses 

Editor, 
On Saturday, I went out on the Stepan Center Field to watch our Lacrosse team play against the Cincinnati Lacrosse Club_ Most of the spectators went away with a good feeling, as N.D. won in overtime. For those of us who had to go by way of the east side of the field however, another example of th~ "Notre Dame Man" ruined the victory. A number of "NO Men" and their young ladies were treating the fans to a great show of that favorite NO pastime, irresponsibility. Beer bottles (at least 24, to my count) with cartons, of course, were neatly scattered all over the sidelines. When asked to pick up their tidy mess, the NO Men gallantly said "Do it yourselves!" 
Informing the security guard of the incident, we were told "We'll do something about it." The security guards now have the license plate numbers of the NO Men. What will happen to the trash remains to be seen. Sunday afternoon, it was still there, making Notre Dame even a more beautiful place to be. 
Sincerely, Jim Lehner 
Irresponsibility 

Editor: 
In the February 2nd issue of The Observer, under the byline of Tom Hampton, there appears this statement: " ... in WW I the penalty for conscientious objec­tion was death." 
Are you sure? I am not. I was around then and I can't believe I would not have been sensitive to such extreme measures, espec­ially since I once was assigned to interview a conscientious objec­tor for the military. I was impressed by the consistency with which he represented his scruples and attested his sincer­ity to pertinent authority. 
I am certain that my recall of this incident would be much more vivid if his life had been in jeopardy. If The Observer is cor­rectly informed, then I am guilty of a shocking lapse of memory. 
I won't presume to suggest the degree of editorial irrespon­sibility if Mr. Hampton's asser­tion is false. 
Sincerely yours, 
D.C. Grant 

Editor's.Note: Sorry the reply is so long in coming. According to Conscience in America, a book edited by Lillian Schissel (publ­ished by E.P. Dutton and Co. Inc., New York, 1968}, 17 death sentences were handed down through courts marshall pro­ceedings to conscientious objec­tors during World War I. None of the sentences were executed however. 
The information is found on page 31. The book quotes State­ment Concerning the Treatment of Conscientious Objectors in the Army (Washington, D.C. 1919) by the Secretary of War as the source of its original infor­mation. 

News Editor: Glen Corso  Murphy  The opinions expressed in the  
Asn. N'ews Eciiter: Jim Holsinger  Ad Layour. Jim Flanagan  editorials, neyvs anal-.(ses, and col·  
SMC News Editor: Prue Wear  Night Editor: Dave Bach  umns  of  THE  OBSERVER  are  
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode,  Layout  Design:  Mary  Chris  solely  those of  the authors and  
Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney  Morrison  editors of THE OBSERVER and  
Layout Editor: Mary Ellen Burke Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin .ffi"Ures Editor: Dave Stauffer  Layout: Patty lipscomb, Therese Darin, Tom Law  Ann  do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Ma'rv~, College, the University Ill Notre Dame, their  
1»hotography  Editor:  Mike  Headlines: Jim Graif  administration,  faculty,  or  stu·  
dent bodies.  

PAGE 5

TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1970 THE OBSERfiER. 
'' A Servant of Two Masters;'' great fun 
by David Allen Edmonds 
The Feminine Liberation Movement just got a big shot in the arm from the unlikely source of a sixteenth-century Italian playwright. Carlo C.oldoni's The Sert'llllt nf Two Masters explored this phenomenon and other h umerous areas of current interest in last weekend's remarkahle production by the ND-SMC Theatre. 
(;oldoni's work is the typical contrived comedy. The plot is terrifically impro­bable, full of complications and sub-plots, and mistaken identities. But it is also very easy for the audience to predict what will happen next: boy and girl are in love, a crisis separates them, they're reconciled and everybody gets married. You have seen all these things happen before, but for the same reason they are still funny. 
The reason that it is still funny, and extremely funny, is that the Director, Miss Karen Huber, perfectly understood the mood of the play, and directed it to further that mood. It is a comedy full of motion, interesting characters and inter­woven actions. Her cast is always moving, always acting and reacting. Gaps or pauses in the script have been filled with takes, glances, asides and sight gags. Even the stage hands have personalities that are carried out whenever they appeared on stage. The author has written a play that wanders all about but reaches a conclu­sion that leaves no loose ends. Miss Huber's production follows that same idea in that it never lets up -the action is continuous from beginning to end. ller characters are alive and energetic. 
The production began with a panto­mime set to music that, if watched closely, revealed the major actions of the play. This was extremely effective, for it set the tone of the play as light and happy, and function, as it ended in a freeze with the opening characters in their place, ready to go. Another techni­que that was good because it sustained 
action and mood was the scenery and the way it was changed. Six large triangular flats, called periaktois, were painted to make up the three scenes of, the play, each face being painted differently. When set up, they accurately portrayed the scene, and could be revolved to show the new scene in a matter of seconds. The actual changing of the scenes deserves mention, for in this play they related to the entire production, and instead of being a, necessary evil they were some­thing to be enjoyed. The Waiters and the Porters all had specific personalities, and as the play progressed, the audience began to anticipate their entrances, and forget the fact that they were performing the essential task of changing the scenery. As a dramatic effect it worked, for the speed pf the play was not diminished, and the level of humor was retained. 
It is hard to find the adjectives necess­ary to describe Rick Homan's perform­ance as the Servant Truffaldino. It was a combination of gra'ce, energy and flawless timing that made it perhaps the best I've seen on this campus. He was always in character, whether delivering a line, mak­

'King' to be screened tonight at Was.h. Hall 
He was a Baptist minister. When he talked, you knew it. He was fire and brimstone. He was a magnet that drew millions to him. 
He started in a little town in Alabama. And touched every corner of this white and black continent. 
lie had a dream. But he was no dreamer. He moved. Where no man had moved before. 
He had a courage that men dream about. . He had a wife. Children. He was warm. When he smiled it was ear to ear. Like when he listened to Mahalia sing "Jer­icho." If he had run for president, it would have been interesting. 
But he didn't want to be president. He wan ted to be free. 
Let my people go. 

It's hard to measure what a man loves most in this world. His wife, his children, his people, his God. But one suspects for King, it was his country. 
One night in Tennessee, it ended for· Martin Luther King. Everybody looked around and said, "When will there be another like him?" Perhaps never. Martin Luther King was an original. 
Today at 8 PM in 1000 theatres across 
the country, a movie about this incred­
ible man will be shown. 

Tickets are $5 .00, and all the money goes to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Special Fund for the war against poverty, illiteracy and social injustice. All the money. With no deductions for any kind of expenses. You pay $5.00-$5.00 goes to the Fund. 
This is the only time the movie will be seen theatrically. It is a film of power, impact, warmth, emotion. Like the man himself. You will never forget it. Because it is something more than a movie. It is an experience. Since it is only for one night, you should act quickly in purchasing your tickets at the boxoffice of a theatre near you. And join with millions of people across the country to say to all the world, "This was a man!" 
See it at Washington Hall tonight at 8 PM. 

ing an aside to the audience, handling a played by Zack Brown. Zack was good in 
prop or turning cartwheels. His winks, the part, and together they posed like takes, hand and facial movements were china figurines obnoxiously in love. just perfect. Miss Sue Maher played the liberating 
roles of Beatrice and Federigo Rasponi. ItIt was a pleasure to watch this play, for is hard for a woman to sustain a male rolethe rest of the cast was superb. They used but Miss Maher did admirably well. Hertheir hands and voices well, and generally lover, Aretusi,
stayed in character. The main point how­Floridino was Raymond 
Berndt, and I was impressed with hisever is that everyone enjoyed being in the handling of a primarily straight character.
play. The actors were having an infectous Pete Peterson made the most of akind of fun that poured onto the audience. 
rather weak character as Brighella, andThis is important especially in this type Lois Jamieson's Smeraldina started slowlyof play where the lines are anticipated, but built up towards the end of the play.
and the audience knows what is going to 
The Sen•ant of Two Masters just might
happen. 

have been the best ND-SMC production I James Boland played Pantalone, and have seen. Everything worked because it 
gave his character a voice that stood in fit so well together. The acting was crispperfect contrast to Tom Broderick's Dr. 
and the costumes bright and colorful. Lombardi; their scene together reminded Most importantly, however, it was fun. me of a Laurel and Hardy short. Boland's 
There were no great, relevant points to timing was especially good, and Broderick be made, but the audience and cast gave by far his best performance to date. enjoyed it. My only regret is that more Nancy Bartoshesky played Clarice and people didn't get to see it. It's a shame 
was excellent. Her mincing steps and that this production couldn't have been batting eyes completely captured the given the advance publicity that it de­essence of the part. Her lover, Silvio, was served. 
Trotters appear after record year 
The 44th edition of the fabulous Har­Going into this season, the "Magicianslem Globetrotters will present their one­of Basketball" played 9,85 I games ­of-a-kind basketball show at the Athletic 7 I 26 of these in North America, the and Convocation Center on April 11. 
other 2,725 overseas. They've won 9,529.
The patented program by the magi­Highlights during the best-ever 1968-69 cians of the hardwood, witnessed by campaign included new attendance rec­more than 60,000,000 fans in 87 coun­ords in many parts of the United States;tries throughout the world, combines new games on 54 college campuses, an all-timeinnovations by the talented cagers along high for one season; a turnaway crowd atwith a topnotch variety show. 
The Forum in Los Angeles, which raised"On the heels of our greatest season in more than $70,000 for charity; a returnhistory, we have exercised extra care to New York's Madison Square Gardenputting together the 1970 package," says after an eight-year abse nee; a four-gamegeneral manager George Gillett. "Our stint at the Great Allentown Fair, making team, we believe, is the best ever and their first fair date, and many more.
entertainers for the pre-game and half­A crowd of 75,000, a world's recordtime shows have been selected to please for a singe game, watched them performevery member of the family." 
in Berlin's Olympic Stadium in 1951.
The huge two-in-one program, which Their largest U.S. turnout was 36,256, atpits the Globetrotters against the New the Los Angeles Coliseum on April 8,Jersey Reds in the cage feature, starts at 8 
1953. 
p.m. 


TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1970
PAGE 6 
711B OBSUWit 

Affidavits obtained in Barz incident 
room facilities. Residents must sign for the equipment. The pool Director of Security Arthur 
balls had been signed out on Pears said yesterday that an offi­Barz's I.D. cer has obtained from the coun­When the youths finished, ty prosecutor's office affadavits Barz said he took the balls and 
and warrants in conjunction went upstairs, and that some of with Friday night's fight in the youths stayed downstairs. Alumni Hall. 
After Barz returned the pool Affadavits will be filled out balls, he said he stood in the by Bill Barz and his father relat­
hallway outsiQe his room with some of his friends and talked to
ing their version of what occur­two of the youths.
red in Alumni on Friday. Warrants of arrest could be 

Barz said that he considered the conversation friendly, and
issued based on the affadavits that a few minutes later the rest
and the identification of a possi­of the group from the basementble suspect or suspects, Pears came upstairs to participate insaid. 

the conversation.
One person was arrested and An Alumni resident said thatthree were injured and taken to the youths had gone upstairsthe hospital as a result of the after a Notre Dame securityaltercation at Alumni and at the guard had told the people fromCircle early Saturday morning. 

town that they could not playThe student taken to St. Jo­pool because of a hall rule andseph's Hospital was Michael asked them to leave.
Johnson, 19, of 1112 N. John­The resident had asked theson St. He suffered hand cuts. 

security guard to go downstairsThe two non-students taken to and ask the group to leaveMemorial Hospital were Earl because he was "worried aboutRichardson, 21, of 301 S. Chica­the possibility of trouble."
go St., released after treatment Barz claimed that he and onefor an elbow cut, and A.D. · of the group began to needleCross, 21, of 1057 Laurel Ct., 

each other about the relativewho suffered wrist injuries. 
merits of South Bend and Chica­
Cross was arrested by the po­go, Barz's hometown. Barz
lice on a charge of disorderly conduct outside of Alumni Hall, claimed that the youth, then, 

and subsequently released on "sucker-punched" him in the face. Barz said that he felt that
$100 bond. He is scheduled to the argument never became v­

appear in city court on March ocallv :1ntagonistic and that the
25. 

punch came as a surprise.
Pears said Barz will be asked Barz said that he wrestled hiswhether he can identify his assailant to the floor and wasassailant, and he added that then grabbed by some friends ofBarz's father may also be asked the youth. At this point, friends to identify his assailant. 

of Barz who had been standingIn an interview, Bill Barz said beside him joined in the fight.
that he was playing pool with his Barz's two brothers and hisfriend's brother in the basement father who were in his roomrecreation room of Alumni, and rushed out to help. There werethat several youths from town approximately eight South Bend were also there. When Barz and youths ~nd five others includinghis partner stopped playing, the Barz in the fight. 

youths asked if they could play. 
Witnesses said the actualBarz agreed, but remained in punching lasted for only about the basement. 

thirty seconds as others in theNormally, only Alumni resi­hall stepped in to try to stop thedents are allowed to use the rec fracas. 
According to Barz, the youth that hit him had left the immedi­ate area. He claimed that he 
yelled for someone to stop him. 
Witnesses said that Barz's father was yelling that the assail­ant should be arrested. When he 
MUST HAVE I LEGAL PROOF OF AGE AND STUDENT I.D. 

called the St. Joseph County Sheriff's department. 
Is the embryo human? 
Director of Security Arthur traps" and "logical ploys" in

·(Continued from page 2)
Pears was called later, but by the trying to replace rational discus­
time he got to Alumni from his bryos?" 
sion with the ambiguous phrase house in South Bend, the The original fertilized egg is "sanctity of life." 
sheriff's police had already left. merely an information bank, Hardin said that the ideal that pointed to the youth, he was hit by one of the youth's friends. Other hall residents who were now on the scene attempted to help break up the fight. 
According to Security Direc­tor Pears, the security guard on duty had decided when the fight broke out that he could not stop the fracas and so called security headquarters to ask for more men. 
Two more guards were sent to the scene. When they arrived, there was much confusion in the hall. Hall members were attemp­ting to keep both sides apart. According to witnesses one of the security guards moved into the group using Mace in an attempt to quell the disturbance. 
The other security guard 

Witnesses said that when the Hardin explained, just like the sheriff's department arrived, blueprints for a house. If you they came in a door behind the destroy the blueprints for a crowd and pushed through the house you are not destroying the gap that had been established house. between the Alumni residents 
Dr. Hardin next attacked the and the South Bend youths. 
theological and ethical argu­Four of the sheriff's men ments against abortion claiming stayed in the gap while the that the chun;:h uses "theological 

Senior Editor Jim Burke presents the Business Review Award to Joe Druecker for the most outstanding article in the current issue of the Business Review. 
c II
0 e c t .I o· n nets $1 ,025.87 
Students for Biafran Relief 

announced last night that the 
collections which were taken on 
campus last week realized 
$1,027.87. The drive was held at 
St. Mary's on Wednesday night, 
while Thursday evening saw the 
canvassing at "DuLac." 
In addition to the solicitations money, SBR received $1,000.00 from the Student Government's Charity Chest. The charity chest profits resulted from the good turn-out at this ·year's Mardi ·Gras. Student Bodv Treasurer John Coughlin presented the check to SBR yesterday morning after the Student Senate approv­ed the recommendations of the Charity Chest Committee at the 
Sunday night meeting. 
It was also announced by SBR 

Public Relations Director, Dan 
Sherry, that next week would 
see the transfer of approximate­
ly $5,000 by Students for Bia­
fran .Relief to Mr. William Dab­
ney who is Deputy Director of 
Remember Harlem Globetrotters at the ACC on A i1 II 8 PM 

-~-------~~-------_J 
others, which witnesses said were approximately twenty in number, moved throughout the hall to clear the hall of non­students. 
One of the four policemen who remained demanded to know which one of the youths was responsible for starting the incident. The youths objected to the question. 
In an attempt to clear the halls, sheriffs were walking down the Hall asking students to get in their rooms. When they ap­proached Junior Rick Ames, standing outside Sophomore Lee Fort's room, an argument en­sued. fort was inside his room. Father Joseph O'Neil, rector of 
Alumni Hall, said that when 
Rick Ames told the policeman 
"f-you" he was handcuffed. 
Fort protested the action and 
was also handcuffed. 
The two handcuffed students were taken outside and put in the backseat of a police ca/ Father James Riehle, Dean of Students, arrived at this time. He was told about Ames and Fort's arrest. 
Father Riehle has said he went to see Elmer Sokol, St. Joseph's county sheriff, and ex­plained that the two persons that were handcuffed were stu­dents. Sokol released the two students to the responsibility of Riehle. 
"we should never destroy life under any circumstances at all has led people to think that contraception was the destruc­tion of human life. 
"But of course being con­cerned is hardly enough once you realize that there are at least a hundred million spermatazoa in each sexual ejaculation you realize that you are absolutely stymied. You simply cannot ad­here to this doctrine of never killing or allowing life to be killed. No matter how pious you are you simply cannot dream of having a hundred million chil­dren every time you have rela­tions with your wife. This is beyond the means of the most devoted wives." 
In conclusion, Dr. Hardin said that it is impossible to draw the line when in the period of preg­nancy abortion should not be allowed. 
He said that most scientists do not believe that the zygot is a human being. "If we call an embryo a human being then why can't we call human beings em-
the League of Red Cross Socie­ties in Geneva, Switzerlam:l. A number of organizations and in­dividuals in the United States and Europe have suggested that the money will be presented personally by SBR National Director, Tom Hamilton, to the Red Cross in Geneva. Hamilton pointed out, however, that this would occur only if some gener­ous soul donated the round-trip ticket to Switzerland. 
The National Committee of the American Red Cross has invited Students for Biafran Re­lief to represent the student con­stituency in the U.S. at the annual convention of Red Cross­es in Chicago. The convention, which convenes on May 17th will host representatives from almost every Red Cross society in the world and will provide SBR with much needed publi­city. At that time an official presentation of the funds raised for Nigerian relief by SBR will be made; even though the money will have exchanged hands long before the occasion presents itself. 
The group which had its begin­nings at Notre Dame is now the international headquarters for the effort, with its first overseas chapter having been formed at the University of Geneva. The organization is in the process of contacting the National Student Associations of Great Britain, France, Germany and Japan with hopes for large student movements in those areas. 
Recently, a long list of new endorsers to the student organi­zation was compiled. This list included among others, Sam Brown, the Director of the Viet­nam National Moratorium Com­mittee. 
A plea was also issued by the group for assistant in their en­deavors. This would entail not only financial aid but logistical involvement particularly with the huge amount of clerical work which is essential to the operations of any international movement. Anyone who would be able to contribute their time (or any portion thereof) during Easter vacation or after the holi­days was asked by Sherry to contact the Biafran Relief Office and leave their name and phone number. The numbers are 283-2141 and 283-1966. 
----~ ----------------------­
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ----------------,.~~ ~ 

Tom Kronk said yesterday that he is optimistic about the progress of the University Art;"' Council to convert the Field House into a center for "experimentation" in the arts. 
King film shown tonight 
Three campus organizattons have combined to present a special documentary film on the life of the late Martin Luther 
King, Jr. The film, King: a 
filmed record, Montgomery to 
Memphis, will be shown tonight 
only at 8 PM in Washington Hall. 
The profits from the film, 

being distributed nationally in 
over I000 theaters, and expec­
ted to be viewed by over one 
million people, will all go to the 
Martin Luther King Jr. Special 
Fund. 
Jim Metzger, Associate 

Commissioner of the Student 
Union Academic Commission, is 
the local organizer. He read of 
No wage raise during strike 
(('ontinued from page 1) 
Mansfield said Congress might have to skip its scheduled Easter recess to work on the postal pay bill that has been jammed up for several months. 
But Vice President J. Stanley Lewis of the letter carriers union said, "It would take nine months for a serviceman to be trained to be efficient." 
"It's not just a matter of putting a sack of mail on your back and delivering it to houses," said Lewis. "It has to be routed to the right street and the right houses. You have to have a knowledge -or who has moved out and where," Stanley said. 
But Daniel Z. Henkin, assist­ant defense secretary for public affairs, said he understood the servicemen would initially be used only to sort mail and drive trucks-not deliver it. They would work at the beginning, Henkin said, in the main Man­hattan·post office, the Brooklyn Post Office, and the Church Street Post Office. 
Postmaster General Winton M. Blount said the Gls would not require any immediate intensive training and what instructions they do need will be provided on the job. 
He added that the first objec­tive would be "to restore essen­tial mail services," such as move­ment of welfare and social secur­ity checks, but estimated it would take "several days before meaningful services are restored" in New York. 
the project in the New York Times. When he found no thea­ter in South Bend was willing to show the film with its $5 admis­
sion price, he called the pro­ducer of the film, Ely Landau, in New York and obtained permis­sion to show the film on cam­pus. 
Metzger then obtained free use of Washington Hall under its agreement with SUAC. The Program for Non-Violence signed as a co-sponsor of the event and Students Against Racism has picked up the adver­tising costs. 
Metzger commented that "It's really amazing to see the number and the varied types of people that have gotten together to support this project nationally. And the same applies locally. We have drawn great response from the media in the immediate area and from the people here on campus. I think the cooperation needed and obtained for this project is a very suitable tribute to Dr. King." 
Publicity for the film, Metzger said, has been in the South Bend Tribune, local television and radio stations and was even announced in the pulpits and bulletins of most of the South Bend churches. 
The film, which traces the work of Dr. King from 1955 until his death in 1968, runs for 2Vz hours and was put together by Landau with the aid of TV stations and news media across the country. Many parts of the film are rare, such as a tape of 
the meeting before King's first 
momentous desegregation at­
tempt in Montgomery, Ala., and have never been distributed nationally. 
The film has no commentary, but selected passages will be performed by a group of stars including Harry Belafonte · 
) ' 

Charlston Heston, Burt Lan­caster, Paul Newman, Joanne Woodward, Sidney Portier and Anthony Quinn. 
Many of King's own speeches, including the memborable "I have a dream speech" delivered at the 1963 March on Washing­ton, are inlcuded. 
UAC feels optimism Festival successfu I 
by Steve Lazar 
Tom Kronk, chairman of the 
University Arts Council, yester­
day described a "new optimism" 
which has overtaken the UAC in 
its drive to convert the field­
house into a center for the arts 
on campus. 
His optimism, he said, is based 
on the "fantastic" success of the 
recent Student Arts Festival held 
in the fieldhouse. 
"The student response and interest has been so strong that we feel the entire University is coming alive to the arts. The Notre Dame artist is finally get­ting the recognition he truly deserves," he said. 
Kronk said he remains opti­mistic even though the UAC must raise 1.6 million dollars by June I st to meet the deadline set by the University. Barring any extensions, if that amount is not reached, the fieldhouse will be razed. 
He stated that the UAC has made at least fifty requests for funds to various foundations favorable to the arts and progres­sive education, and that only four of these requests have been rejected so far. He added that members of the UAC will be making contacts over Easter in order to gain additional funds. 
Kronk explained that one of the difficulties in meeting the June I st deadline is that many foundations make grants only once each year, and that this date often falls after June I st. An extension on this deadline would possibly eliminate this problem, he said. 
The University has been very 
cooperative in the UAC's dnve, 
Kronk felt. He said that the 
administration did not fully un­
derstand the "concept of pro­
gressive education" that is 
behind the UAC's action, but as 
long as the money required 
could be raised there would be 
no problems. 
He described the future arts 
center as a place where the 
professional artist, the faculty 
member and the student could 
come together for the maximum 
education of the student artist. 
He said it will be a place "for the 
student," a place where he can 
come to express himself and be 
criticized by his peers. 
He emphasized that the arts center will be an ideal place for artistic experimentation. "The student can have a one man show here. This is the place to have a flop -if it has to be " he said. ' 
Most of the 1.6 million dollars required, he thought, will be spent in refurbishing the interior of the existing structure. Plans include rooms for film 'screen­ings, music, exhibits, workshops and a distinctive theater in the round, he said. The amount of money used on the exterior and the foundations of the building depend on the results of archi­tectural studies, he noted. 
Kronk said that the next pub­lic activity of the UAC may well be a "Festival of Lights and Life" to be celebrated later in the spring. • 
In closing, he noted that even if the fieldhouse must be des­troyed the University Arts Coun­cil will still be around next year. 
Gabriel to give lecture in Reims 
Professor A.L. Gabriel, direct­or of the Mediaeval Institute of Notre Dame, has been invited to the 95th Congress of the French Learned Societies to be held later this month in Reims, France. 
Dr. Gabriel, an internationally known specialist in mediaeval education, will preside over the March 24 session and speak to thP-Congress two days later on "The Method of Teaching at the Faculty of Canon taw at the 
Mediaeval University in Paris." 
The theme of the meeting is the eluding drawings of Vasari, "History of Universities." Rosso Fiorentino, Jacopo 
Dr. Gabriel will also go to Zucchi, Taddeo Zuccaro, Lelio Milan, Italy, to continue the Orsi, and Parmigianino. Vasari· photographing of art material in was an influential artist of the Ambrosiana Library, a project 16th Century Florentine "man­supported by the Samuel H. nerist" group. Kress Foundation. At a recent,---------------, open house at the Mediaeval Institute, materials relating to the Notre Dame Art Gallery's.1 exhibit "The Age of Vasari" and contained in the 15.000-item Samuel H. Kress Photographic Collection were on display, in-


Craftsmen in Optics® 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHEilLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
RouseufVisiuli a 
The House of Vision, Inc. 
JUNIORS! JUNIORS! LATE JUNIORS! 
Make-up Days Available for Your Senior Portrait for the '71 DOME 
TUESDAY ONLY TODAY 
PHONE or COME TO: Rm 2C LaFortune 
YOUR LAST CHANC 
·~-/1#~~·11/_l 
(,{fQYJ'Jl.f11UitJ 

j~Jmall 
tcl,~-tkrtJ!I.J.. 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (31:2) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Pl&ase add 1al•• tax wh•r• applicabl• 
TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1970
711E OBJ'EIW!1t
PAGE 8 

Maple Leafs dominate league JIM MURRAY 
Today·a

capture title game 8-3 . . . 
final period. Brekken converted Ted Targonskl, Bnan H1ckey, Stiller Town 
by Stan Urankar 

on perfect passes from Mofi'at and Jerry Hill. Goalie Dave Se­and McPartland, and Simmons cord has proven himself as one "Today, the road all runners come,
The Maple Leafs of Captain 

added his second goal to cap the of the best in the league, and "Shoulder-high we bn"ng you home,
Gerry McPartland climaxed an 

scoring. Tom Sherwood and Mike Ban­"And set you at your threshold down, 
undefeated season last night 

Certainly instrumental in the kowski have helped with bench "Townsman of a stiller town."
with an 8-3 shellacking of the 

Leafs' success this season has strength. The Leafs finished -A.E. Housman, "To An A
Red Wings. the win gave the been their solid defense of Hay, 13-0. You did not know Bill Jenkins. But you knew a thousand likeLeafs the Interhall Hockey him. Bronze-blond hair, skin the color of burnished copper, level,championship in two straight steady brown eyes that could narrow into a "Don't push me too far" games. 


McGuire claims team 
look if the occasion demanded, he wore the blood-red football suitBy far the most solid team in and helmet of the USC Trojans. He would have been an All-Coastthe League, the Maple Leafs cornerback this year. 
fielded two of the best lines in 

could have won NCAA 
He was 6-feet-3, weighed 195, and he sat on the bench most ofthe league. With McPartland, the Rose Bowl last year, although there wasn't that much to chooseMarshall Moffat, and Mark Brek­NEW YORK (UPI) -"I felt NIT that a lack of height doesn't between him and the guys getting their uniforms dirty.
ken on the first line, and Paul we could have won either the bother them. Marquette doesn't have a player over 6-6, but the He was a typical Trojan, a typical Californian, the breed thatSimmons, Bobby Lepeska, and NCAA or the NIT," outspoken made the state athletically famous. The big leagues wanted him forDan Shank on the second squad. AI McGuire declared. He was club has almost. perfect balance baseball. The pros wanted him for football.
Last night's game was no con­taking a trophy home from New and plays the tenacious defense that always has been McGuire's The last time I saw him, he was flying down the wall of Junetest from the start. The Leafs York this weekend, but you'll Mountain on skis, his powerful young legs carving grooves across thedominated the first period, as a never ocnvince him that he trademark. 
slope that looked to me as steep as the side of a skyscraper. He waspair of goals from McPartland, shouldn't have been· taking home ••It's the best defensive club 
a trophy from College Park, Md. I've ever played against," St. keeping up with a Helmut or a Werner or one of those Austrianand one by Simmons gave them McGuire's smooth Marquette John's Coach Lou Carnesecca types who had been born on skis, even though he himself had
a 3-llead. 

team destroyed St. John's, said after coaching his final col­abandoned the slopes for the flatland sports for several years. 
McPartland clickl!ld again early McGuire's alma mater, 65-53; lege game before joining the When my son hit a tree up on the timberlines edge of thein the second period on a pass Saturday to win the 33rd Na­New York Nets next year. But mountain that weekend, it was Bill Jenkins who helped tie him infrom Brekken to pick up the hat tional Invitation Tournament Carnesecca was still proud of his the basket and slide him down the mountain. Someone, maybe ittrick. Paul Kimball got his sec­and wind up the season with a club's performance in its fare­was Bill, popped the dislocated shoulder back in place.

ond goal of the night for the Wings to narrow the margin to 26-3 mark. It was an impressvie· well because, "the kids didn't He came from a long ·line of people who knew what to do with 4-2, but Fenton Hay's unassis­win that bolstered McGuire's die out there." machinery, how to survive in a wilderness, how to squint across a ted slap shot ended the second contention that his team is much St. John's fell behind, 13-2 prairie or sense a Sierra blizzard. His father, Maynard, a giant of a 
and 28-12, and trailed, 35-25,
stanza with the Leafs in control, better than it is being given man, knew every cog and cable on that mountain. His mother, Jane, 
credit for. at halftime and 53-39, with
S-2. knew every gas jet or piece of cutlery or unbussed tray in the lodge 
Lepeska, displaying beautiful Of course, no one will ever eight minutes left in the game 
kitchen and still found time to organize a letter-writing campaign to stick handling with three assists know how far Marquette could but rallied to narrow the deficit whole regiments of lonely troops in Vietnam. She was very proud of 
to five points, 54-49, with four
for the night, slipped one past have gone in the NCAA, but the the son she looked too young to be the mother of. Rich Sherman at 13:49 of the Warriors certainly proved in the minutes left. A long jumper by Spring training was to open April 4 at Bovard Field. And Bill was 
Jeff Sewell, who was the high 
ready for it. There would be one more Rose Bowl, he told meCelts out scorer with 22 points, started confidently, as he sat over a cup of hot chocolate in the lodge and he 
Marquette rolling again. 
chaffed me about my timid tumbles on the Bunny slope. This time,
Joe Depre was St. John's lead­

he promised, No. 11 would be at the corners for the Trojans. Maybe 
N BA playoffs begin 
he held to

ing scorer, but was there would be an intercepted pass, maybe a game-saving tackle. This 
five free throws in the game time, there would be a national championship. 
(UPI) -The 1969-70 Na­Jerry West at his undeniable fouled out early as Marquette But, first there was the mid-winter carnival at June Lake. Onetional Basketball Association best. With the veteran Wilt held him in check. 
more ride up the No. I chair, one more torch light ski down theregular season ended Sunday and Chamberlain sidelined most of In the consolation game Army face. Bill and some buddies drove up. On Saturday, th.ere was an the 82 game campaign marked a the campaign by injury, West's completed a 22-6 season with a errand to do -a simple drive down to the powerhouse and back on "changing of the guard" year. shooting, passing and leadership 75-68 victory over LSU, which an empty road. Bill piled his young brother and a friend into the car. 
For the first time in 20 years, almost pulled the Lakers all the was playing without injured Pete As always, he was in a hurry.
the Boston Celtics, rulers of pro way to the title. 
Maravich. Jim Oxley paced the He needn't have been He had the rest of his life to make that trip.
basketball, failed to make the So completely did the top 
defense-minded Cadets with 28 There was a high speed spin, a soft shoulder -and Bill Jenkins was league playoffs. Without Bill four teams dominate the league, 
points. crushed, broken and thrown 30 feet onto a boulder. He bled to Russell, and with the toll -of that the drop off to Baltimore in Maravich had a frustrating end death in a hospital 30 miles away. years finally making that extra the East was I 0 games and nine 
to his college career in the NIT The Trojan football team made it's first road trip of 1970 this step drag just a trifle too much, games to third place co-holders as he was held to 77 points in week, SO of the finest football players in the land. The 51st was not the Celtics finished a dismal Chicago and Phoenix in the 
three games and limited to just on the team bus. He rode ahead in a vehicle of his own. He was 20 sixth in the Eastern Division, at West. years old. 
20 by both Georgetown and
34-48 for a .415 percentage, 26 "And early though the laurel grows 
Marquette.
Playoff action begins this

games behind the division king­"It withers quicker than the rose . ..
Maravich finished with 3,667

week with intra-division clashes
pin, New York. "And round that early-laureled head 
points in his career but McGuire,
between first and third place
But the emergence of the "Will flock to gaze the strengthless dead 
outspoken to the end, had the
finishers and a series betweenKnicks at the head of the divi­
"And find unwithered on it's curls 
last word as usual. "I'll take my
second and fourth place finish­
sion and indeed at the top of the "A garland briefer than a girl's" 
guy 'Dean Meminger over Mara­
ers. All series are best of seven
league standings with a remark­-Ibid
vich up in Harlem anytime."
with the division playoff winners able 60-22 for .732 may in meeting for the championship
itself be transitory. The blister­ing start which put them beyond sometime late next month. • 'The Eastern Division playoffs
the reach of all others faltered 

Lanier goes first 1n draft
shape up with its first place New 
near the end, although their York meeting Baltimore and se­
talented· center Willis Reed was NEW YORK (UPI) -Bob Cleveland was the first of the Angeles Lakers took 6-5 forward 
cond place Milwaukee facing
chosen as the Most Valuable Lanier of St. Bonaventure, consi­expansion teams to select and it Jim McMillian of Columbia and
Philadelphia. The Western play­
Player and the smooth machine ·dered by pro scouts as one of chose 6-3 guard John Johnson of the Hawks, drafting for the hand-tooled by former General Iowa.
offs are a little more compli­the best big men ever to play second time in the first roundcated since Chicago and Phoenix
Manager Eddie Donovan never collegiate basketball, was select­Portland, another expansion tapped 6-2 John Vallely of the really was in danger of falling all finished the regular season in a team took Prirlceton's Geoff
ed by the Detroit Pistons today national champion UCLA 
the way back to the pack. tie for third place. A coin toss Petrie, a 64 guard.
as the first choice in the 1970 Bruins. 
was held yesterday, with the
Yet, the Milwaukee Bucks National Basketball Association The Baltimore Bullets got Buffalo, the third expansion
Bulls winning the toss and the
could not be ignored, and the Buffalo's first round pick from 
shadow of Lew Alcindor is al­right to meet first place Atlanta. 
ready falling over the dominance of the New Yorkers. 
Final NBA STANDINGS 
Alcindor went through the 
East 
usual rookie apprenticeship, but 
w L Pet GB 
that apprenticeship was quickly 

New York 60 22 .732 
served, and by ~cason's end he 

Milwaukee 56 26 .683 4 
had led Milwaukee to a second 
50 32 .610 10
place finish in the East, and the 
42 40 .512 18
second best overall NBA record 
36 46 .439 24 
at 56-26 for .683, only four 
34 48 .415 26 
games behind the Knicks. 
31 51 .378 29
The Western Division pro­duced a champion in the Atlanta 
West 
Hawks, who with the indomi­
w L Pet GB
table Lou Hudson, held off the 
48 34 .585 
Los Angeles Lakers to win by 
46 36 .561 2 
two games. In the process, the 
39 43 .476 9
Atlanta team posted a winning 


hoenix 39 43 .476 9 
season series over the Knicks. 

Seattle 36 46 .439 12 For Los Angeles, it was a San Francisco 30 "'>2 .366 18 bitter year, but one that showed San Diego 27 55 .329 21 
college draft. team, went for 6-7 forward John 
The San Diego Rockets, who an earlier trade and selected Hummer of Princeton, Milwau­were expected to go for 6-5 All George Johnson, a center from kee tabbed Gary Freeman of American guard Pete Maravich, small college power Stephen F. Oregon State and the New York passed over the Louisiana State Austin. Knicks concluded the first round University hotshot in favor of The Phoenix Suns took Greg by taking 6-3 guard Mike Price 6-8 forward Rudy Tomjanovich Howard of New Mexico, while of Illinois. of Michigan. the Chicago Bulls tapped guard 
Little Calvin Murphy of Nia­Maravich, the most prolific Jimmy Collins of New Mexico 
gara, a three time All American, scorer in major college history, State. 
was the first man taken in the was grabbed by the Atlanta The Philadelphia 71: .~rs took second round by the Sand DiegoHawks, who got the San Francis­AI Henry of Wisconsm, the Los Rockets. 
co pick as payment of a trade made between the two teams earlier this year. 
The Boston Celtics, getting their highest choice in 20 years, chose Dave Cowens of Florida State. The Cincinnati Royals chose 6-9 Sam Lacey of New Mexico State. 
Seattle chose fotward Jim Ard of Cincinnati as its first choice . 







