' 

VOL. IV, No. 67 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi(v WEDNESDAY FEB. 4, 1970 
Forum to discuss demonstration 
by Marty Graham 
Dow-CIA Demonstration." At 
Notre Dame's University about 4 p.m., the meeting will Forum, first proposed by then be open to the public for a President Theodore Hesburgh continuation of the discussion last May, will hold its initial on demonstrations. It will take 
meeting this Friday at 3 p.m. in place in the Auditorium of the the Center for Continuing Center for Continuing Education. Education. 
An ad hoc committee of Faccenda stated that the Philip Faccenda, special assistant Forum will meet periodically to the president, Student Body during the year in order to 
President Phil McKenna, Alumni discuss those issues which are of President James Cooney, and most concern to the University Facully President Joseph Tihen community. He added, however, decided upon the Agenda for that it will have no legislative, this meeting. judicial, or executive powers; 
It will take place in three but it will refer ideas it resolves phases. The Forum will first by concensus to already existing decide upon certain procedures groups, such as the Student Life 
which the remaining meetings Council. will follow. The ad hoc McKenna said that the stu­
committee came up with ten dent members of the Forum will items which they felt should be meet Thurdrsday night in order discussed in this portion. to discuss those points which The second phase will be the they hope to stress in Friday's 
discussion, between members of meeting. the Forum, on the topic The ten items which the "Implications and Causes of the Forum will decide upon. prior to 
Dow protest subject of Council's statement 
by Don Ruane 
which drafted the statement "As an intitution devoted to included Dr. James J. Carberry, the intellectual and moral 
Professor of Chemical 
development the University of 
~ngineering; Dr. Bernard D. Notre Dame must insist upon an 
Cullity, professor of 
atmosphere free of Gnostic metallurgical engineering; Dr. 
coercion.", is the conclusion Donald A. Linger, chairman of drawn in a recent statement the department of civil issued by the Engineering engineering; Dr. Julius T. 
College Council concerning Hanchero, chairman of the "Dissent and It's Manifestations 
department of chemical
on the Notre Dame Campus." 
engineering, and Dr. Wayne F.
The statement was 
Echelberger Jr., associateoccassioned by last November's 
professor of civil
hl'1ckade of a Dow Chemical engineering.
Company recruiter. The Council feels that this The Council further defined "recent incident" was a result of the University as "the sole a misunderstanding of the bastion of objective scholarship, "nature and meaning of the contemplative learning, University." the twenty member speculation, and teaching free of council set forth four premises the impulsive, the polemical; in it's statement, that it feels are indeed, research, learning and descriptive of the University's teaching in an atmosphere function. They are: relatively detached, not from the 
I. We view the University as a issues, but detached from the structure, a framework, within prejudices which sadly mark which students benefit, in areas current issues. of established disciplines, in According to the Council's consequence of both formal and statement, the University should informal instruction by the not be used to support " teacht~r scholar. immediate and particular 
II. We view the socio-political goals", nor should student-teacher/scholar it be a "sociological gymnasium" relationship to be essentially where students and/or teachers authoratative, not authoritarian, may "exercise their thing to the 
detriment of their primenot, certainly democratic. 
purposes: learning, teaching, and Ill. We view the University research." 
structure to he one which not The council judged anyonly tolerates hut invites, statement that denies dialogueindct:d, entertains diverse and and assumes a dogmatic posture, controversial reasoned opinions, as a "declaration and/or actioninquiries and in response, at variance with the letter andreasoned answers supported by spirit of the principles longsholarship, not feelings. 
recognized as essential to the lifeIV. We view the community of a university.
which exists within the The second half of theUniversity fram~work to be one statement was devoted tomarked by decent respect for defining the use of thethe reasoned opinions of Placement Office. The Council 
mankind. 
reiterated the stand taken by The statement was approved several administrators since the 
by the Council, which represents Dow incident and that is the the 83-member faculty of the Placement Office may be used or College of Engineering, on rejected at the discrl't ion of the January 21. The committee student. 
the discussion of the demon­stration include: the selecion of a chairman who will act as a meeting leader, the appoint­ement of a student secretary who is not a member of the Forum, selection of a permanent format, a decision on the loca­tion and dates of future meet­ings, and the invitation of both speakers and ideas from the University community. 
The student members of the Forum arc McKenna, Junior Mike Shaughnessy, Senior Mike Kelly, and Sophomore Joe Cot­trell. Faculty members are Tihen, associate professor of biology; Donald Sniegowski, assistant professor of English; Sister Suzanne Kelly, assistant professor of philosophy; and William D'Antonio, professor of sociology and anthropology. 
The representatives of the The only present meuwer 
Both Faccenda and McKenna from the Graduate Student
administration are Hesburgh, stressed the importance of pub­Union is James King. Others will 
Faccenda, Associate vice Presi­lic participation in the Forum. 
be added, however, before Fri­
dent for Academic Affairs Rev. "The University Forum day's meeting.
Ferdinand Brown, and Dean should give everyone the oppor­In case an administration or
Lawless of the Law School. tunity to discuss the major issues trustee member cannot attend
Those representing the Alumni facing this community with the any meeting of the Forum,
are Leonard Skoglund, William major leaders of the University~" alternates will take their places.
Cotter, Jerry Kearns, and Luther Faccenda stated. Bellin5 er. Members from the "I hope," McKenna said
Faccenda stated that of the Board of Trustees are Chairman trustee's only Stephan will "that students will take advan: Edmund Stephan, Thomas Car­attend Friday's meeting, due to tage of the open nature of the ney, George Shuster, and Oliver prior engagements on the part of forum, for that is its 
most Carmichael. the other members. important purpose." 
Grant temporary injunction 
by Shawn Hill On January 23, Judge Nm man Kopec in the St. Joseph Surerior Court granted the University of Notre Dame du Lac a temporary injunction <'gainst the defendants, Fred Dedrick aTJd Brian Mcinerny, "individually and as representatives of all others acting in consort with them."  Mr. Philip Faccenda, Special Assistant to the President, answered various questions concerning this injunction. Concerning whether or not the University would seek a permanent injunction he stated that that is what the University originally sought when confronted with the demonstrations and that the restraining order and this  Faccenda went on to say that he believes that such an injunction is the best manner of handling illegal demonstrations and is a viable alternative to calling the police onto campus. He cited the success of similar injunctions on other campuses across the nation as proof of this. Fred Dedrick, one of the defendants in the injunction,  
This arose  temporary from the  injunction Dow-CIA  temporary injunction are steps the Jaw requires to obtain an  gave said  his side of the story. He that at the hearing he and  
demonstration  on  Nov.  17 and  injunction.  Brian  Mcinerny  were  asked  
states  "That  the  defendant~.  He added that the injunction  whether  or  not  they  would  
Fred  Dedrick  and  B:-ian  could  be  dropped  by  the  promise  not  to  disrupt  any  
Mcinerny and the class which they represent and all persons acting in concert with them and all other persons receiving notice of this injunction whether acting individually or in consort be and they are hereby restrained and  university at the next hearing if the university and the defendants could resolve their differences concerning the operations of the Placement Bureau. Faccenda said that the reason the university sought the  future proceedings of the Placement Bureau. Both he and Mcinerny said that in conscience they were unable to make such a promise since they had no way of knowing the circumstances surrounding their future  
enjoined until further order of this Court from congregating and assembling in the Placemel)t Office in the Administration  injunction disruption operation Bureau as  was to prevent of the future of the Placement occurred during the  behavior. The university and the court then proceeded with the injunction.  
Building on the campus of the 'University of Notre Dame or in any area near or adjacent thereto or in any corridor, stairway, doorway or entrance thereto in such a manner or in such a number as to disrupt or interfere with the normal functions conducted by the Placement Office, and they are further restrained and enjoined from blocking, hindering, impeding or interfering with ingress to or egress from said Placement Office or areas adjacent thereto, and from interfering with the faculty, administrators, students, employees or other guests of the plaintiff in said Placement Office or areas adjacent thereto."  Dow-CIA demonstrations. Faccenda also explained how the injunction would work. He said that any person violating the terms of the injunction _«ould be held in contempt of court. He pointed out, however, that this was not an automatic occurence and it was up to the university whether or not to petition the court for a contempt citation. For example, he stated that even if a future demonstration was in direct violation of the injunction, it was still up to the university as plaintiff to decide if the violation was serious enough to petition the court for a contempt citation.  lie said that he was most disturbed to be named in the injunction. lie feels that he was in no way a leader in the demonstration against Dow and the CIA at the Placement Bureau. Finally he stated he could make no further comment on the case without prejudicing his position as defendant in future hearings. Whether or not a permanent injunction will be obtained or even sought is uncertain at this time. It wiJI all depend on the findings of the St. Joseph Superior Court and whether or not the university and the defendants can resolve their differences.  


r 

WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 4, 1970
PAGE 2 

Judicial Code and Parietals to bediscussed 
executive action. Thus, a "real have the natural right to ask any This lack of an underlying a. A statement of possible legitimacy has led to the issuing legal consequences 
Next week the Student Life and present danger" to the friend up to their rooms. Fur­of eleven letters of warning. If b. Procedures for protecting
Council will take up the issues of community will be solved by thermore, even the more hesi­efforts are not made in the "collective rights" due process in the Judicial Code separation "from the commu­tant show no desire to turn in warned halls towards self c. "The judgment based onand the revision of parietal nity pending a later trial". The their neighbors. 
improvement, privileges will be experience that most collegehours. The discussion 'of the kind of danger he visualizes is One of the worst aspects of 
suspended. students when they arrive at a
Judicial Code will be initiated by that of assaults or threatened the situation is the amount of After consideration of its university are experiencingletters of suggestions from assaults. How suspension would wasted time and effort that has almost full freedom for the firstFather Hesburgh and the keep a person from returning to gone into the present set of research, the Board made two time and are in need of guidanceChairman of the Council, Profes-assault his victim is not made rules. Sign-in desks have been suggestions to the SLC. 
until they can judge as well as

sor James Massey of the Engin-clear. hard to keep manned. Hall 1. Start now on a realistic respect the rights of their fellow cering Department. The parietal Massey released a letter to governments have found the appraisal of co-education at students."
discussion will start with consid-cover his forced absence at the issue to be both divisive and Notre Dame. 
eration of the report by the Hall Life Board. 
Father. Hesburgh had seven suggestions concerning the code. He thought the code somewhat cumbersome and overreliant on " the Language of Civil Law". He made further procedural comments such as advocating the reliaPce on simple maj·ority 
votes in the place of certain requirements of specified major­ities. He would like the appeals section clarified and the court to 
seat a member of the Law F acuity at all times. Besides these procedural con­
siderations,  Hesburgh's  main  
substantive  points  are  that the  
Dean  of  Students  and  the  

President are not given the power that they now hold and should hold. These objections are couched in terms of possible emergencies requiring prompt 
1 
ND Men Treat yourself to hairstyling 
with latest and newest styles for the college guy. Specializing in long hair. For appointment 
Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Building 

call 2340811 
South Bend 

Miss Treba and the Baron to serve you. Studied under David Hansen of Chicaqo, foremost hair stylist for men. 
OPEN MON. THRU SAT. 
Engineers, Math and Science Majors 
meeting. He agreed with Hes­burgh on most of the procedural points although he did not see 
how the code could avoid being "sof!iewhat legal in tone". He suggested that Hesburgh write into his approval of the code whatever powers must be reserved to make his necessary approval possJ"ble
· 

On the subject of parietal hours "the board has no illusions about the majority of the residents seeing any positive 
purpose behind the parietal 
hours procedure." This is the keynote in the report of the Hall Life Board consisting of Fr. Whelan (chairman), Fr. Amen, Prof. Ja"mes Carberry, Ron Mas­trianna, and Phil McKenna. 
There have been widespread violations of the rules stemming from the fact that the student b d t b r th t th
1

0_Y_s_ee_m_s_o e_e_v_e a e_y 
time-consuming. The tenor of opinion among the students is that they have 
not been consulted. The Univer­sity is putting these rules upon them for some unstated reason. 
Dr. Carberry of the Chemical

2. Emphasizing repeatedly 
Engineering Department found

that there may be legal conse­
it necessary to file a Minority

9Uences to visitation by minors, 
Report. While approving of the

the SLC would offer three 
present parietal hours and

guidelines to halls submitting a 
emphatically approving of future

proposed code: 
coeducation, he stated that he 
d 
could not "endorse any program 

Mouse leukemia f0 un which escalates visitation privi-
Lobund Laboratory-Notre 
Dame's renowned center for germ-free research-doesn't have 
any mice that are totally
germ-free. Elaborate techniques for 
delivering small animals by caesarian operations into sterile chambers have produced germ-free rats, monkeys, guinea pigs and chickens, Dr. Morris Pollard • professor of microbiology and director of the laboratory • explained. But the baby mouse is born already 
_, contaminated with a leukemia 
virus-and Lobund researchers see no way to remove the infection. They have now learned that all IS strains of mice examined carry the agent of leukemia, and that it is transmitted from mother to baby in every case. " 
However, the infection at the traditionally germ-free laboratory is by no means a tragedy, Pollard continued. 
"We are interested in studying leukemia-and in the mouse we have a naturally-occuring disease," he said. 
In addition, the mouse may become a doubly valuable model for the study of cancer in the light of speculation froni. the National Cancer Institute that a single virus underlies all human cancer, and is passed from mother to child with genetic material. 
Scientists at Lobund first suspected the mice were not virus-free when they began doing studies on the effects of radiation several years ago, Pollard said. In a contaminated atmosphere the pure effects of radiation are difficult to study, he explained, as the rays destroy the animal's defense system and pave the way for a host of unrelated infections and diseases. In a germ-free environment, no other infections are present which might disrupt the study. 
However, when researchers irradiated supposedly germ-free mice, the animals developed leukemia. The scientists immediately suspected that the mice were carrying a virus, since the air, food and bedding were unquestionably sterile. 
leges beyond those now estab­lished." He maintains that his position comes from the fact that a university is a place that must be primarily devoted to learning. 
Dr. Carberry contrasted his views on the matter to McKenna's. He feels that McKenna thinks the university places too much emphasis on academics. Carberry on the other hand expressed potential regret over the student who might tell him at some future time that parietal hours had hindered his studying. 
Resignation from 

Holliday, Breen 
Observer Publisher Don Hol­liday announced yesterday that he would be leaving his position. 
Holliday stated that he was leaving his position for academic reasons. 

Holliday had ·taken the posi­tion of Publisher in September after Editor-in-Chief Tim O'Meila resigned. At that time the position of Editor-in-Chief 


WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 4, 1970 THE 0Bf1RfJDl PAGE 3 

Okay requirement change 
stated above. Also, the required sequences, by Steve Effler 2) Those who will be juniors, presently including Biblical seniors or fifth year undergrad­Theology and Logic, are being 
At its meeting on January 20, uates in the academic year reconsidered by planning 1970, the Academk Council 1970-71 will be required to committees in the Philosophy voted that "there be a fulfill the Theology and Philoso­and Theology Departments. University-wide undergraduate phy requirement as stated in the Also at its January 20 requirement of at least six hours catalog and in effect at the time meeting, the Academic Council credit in Theology and they entered their college or discussed the other Philosophy in consultation with department. recommendations of the the deans of the undergraduate The reason for this decision is Curriculum Revision Committee colleges." This requirement to allow the Arts and Letters which are yet to be finally acted reccommended by the College to gradually change over upon. These recommendations Curriculum revision Committee, and provide more courses and include: goes into effect in stages sections outside of Philoslphy I) Elimination of Saturday beginning in September of 1970. and Theology. classes and retention of 
The general principle is that If the requirement were 50-minute class meeting periods ea~.:h undergraduate completes reduced to six credits next year on Monday, Wednesday, and l he requirements in Theology for all students, there would be Friday in addition to the and Philosophy stated in the 36,000 free credits, assuming introduction of 75 minute n1lalog when he enters to college that no students took more that classes on Tuesday and Thursday or department of his choice. the required six hours. Once the where possible. This means specifically: requirement is dropped to six 2) Establishment of the grades 
I) Those who will he hours, the planners reasoned, the C-plus and B-plus, with grade freshmen and sophomores in the freshman and sophomores would points of 2.5 and 3.5 academic year 1970-71 will tend to postpone the respectively along with the come under the new policy requirements to later years. dropping of the grade FA 
Juniors and Seniors would have {Failure on account of absences) already fulfilled the six hour and AX (Absent from the final requirement and would tend not exam).
SMC presents awards to faculty 
to take additional Philosophy 3) A pass-fail system whereby Honored for excellence ~n of black students and other and Theology courses. each undergraduate during the
St. Mary's Student 
teaching were Dr. Brnr P. ethnic minority groups at the The phasing out procedure junior or senior year may file governments presented its Schlesinger, professor of College. In October 1969 he was will reduce the initial shock with the registrar at the time ofannual awards on January 19 in humanistic studies; Dr. Mark A. named special assistant to the 
increase of students in the other registration his decision to takerecognition of some of the Bambenek, associate professor president for inter-cultural 
Arts and Letters departments. continued on page 7 
college's outstanding faculty of chemistry; and Lemuel M. development and was given members and administrators. Joyner, assistant professor of responsibility for academic, Teach in Ghana or N i~eria-? The awards will be presented art. social, and individual programs 
/. Have a Bachelor's Degree; preferably a Master's Degree.
each year to one faculty member for these students. One of the
Recognized for their 
2. Have at least 30 semester hours credit in one of these; a) 
or administrator in each of two most popular of his new
outstanding contribution to 
physics b) chemistry c) biology d) mathematics e) 
categories: Excellence in programs, designed to increase
student life were Mr. Joyner, 
arts f) french g) geography h) home economics, or i) b
Teaching and Outstanding knowledge of and respect for the
Joseph J. DiGiovanna, instructor education.Contribution to Student Life. cultural heritage of various
in philosophy; and Miss Naomi 
3. Desire to teach at the secondary school/eve/. 
ethnic groups, is the course
The initial presentations of Kellison, associate hall director 
4. Are in good health; single or married (without children).
Creative Soul. 

the awards were made to three of LeMans Hall. 
Both spouses must teach.
All persons receiving
persons in each category in an As the only person to receive
attempt to get caught up with recognition in this first annual WRITE: TEACHERS FOR WEST AFRICA PROG 
an awa 19 in each category, Mr. 
will be awarded
persons whose activities have ELIZABETHTOWN COLLEGE
Joyner is also being honored for
merited recognition to date. ELIZABETHTOWN, PA. 17022
his dedicated efforts on behalf 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Editor-in-Chief GAETANO DE SAPIO 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Go back across the road 
Another chapter in the continuing saga of the co-educational sham was written Monday and Tuesday as Notre Dame converted Father Lange's old gym in Brownson hall into a center for Saint Mary's registrations. Brownson Hall which is behind the administration building was the first stop in the process. For those girls that had class changes, or "adds" or "drops", that they wanted to make the university had all the appropriate St. Mary's Deans and Department heads situated in O'Shaughnessey Hall. 
One has to wonder what the entire move was meant to prove. Apparently Notre Dame and St. Mary's are fully on the road to co-operation or merger or whatever you would like to call it. In principle we agree wholeheartedly with the co-operation efforts. We feel, however, that co-opera­tion does not mean that everything has to be done together at the expense of inconveniencing the faculty and administration of both schools. 
It seems silly to force all the St. Mary's girls to come over here to register. It might make sense to cut down on registration costs by having both schools use the same computer programing system and eventually possibly the same registrar. But the ego of the computer could have been readily satisfied if the girls were allowed to fill out their cards over at St. Mary's and if someone (perhaps a coeducational team of a boy and a girl) could have brought them over. There was no need to ask the girls to make the trip over to Notre Dame, especially in the cold weather. Nor is it justified to ask the professors or other members of the St. Mary's staff to set up quarters in exile on this side of the road. 
We support the concept of cooperation between the two schools and hope to see an expansion of the co-ex program and other mutual social and educational ventures between the two schools. We ask however that the administrations of the two schools take into consideration that it is the people at both schools that we are worried about -not some nebulous concept of co-ecucation. Co-education would be good for the communities because of the way that it will effect the people who make up Notre Dame and St. Mary's. For that reason we feel that the two 
.:;.chools should try to avoid situations like that which occurred on Monday and Tuesday. It didn't do that much for co-education and it certainly inconvenienced a lot of people. 
$5 to change courses? 
It is interesting to note that St. Mary's college hasn't improved its class scheduling procedure much since the fall. The college continues to maintain the same ridiculous policy of levying a $5 fine for each course that a student adds or drops after she files her original registration form. 
Such a procedure serves as a deterent to girls who feel that they wish to move out of a course that they had selected or pick up another. It is silly to place such an obsticle in the way of making a university curiculum flexible enough to meet the needs of the students. 
A student who comes to Notre Dame or St. Mary's is paying enough for their education. The cost of the paper work under the Notre Dame computerized registration system is minor and certainly does not come anywhere to equally five dollars per class change. The cost certainly could come out of the tuition that one pays. Students should not have to pay a tax if they should change their mind about the direction that they wish their in-class educational pursuits to go. 
Joesph  Wemhoff,  Business  layout  Editor:  Mary  Beth  
Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso Assistant News Editor: T.C.  Crimmons Photo Editor: Mike Murphy Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer  The opinions in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of THE OBSERVER are solely those of the authors and editors of THE OB­ 
Treanor SMC News Editor: Prue Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Win­trade, Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney  Night Editor: Jim Holsinger layout Design: Marty Teiber Headlines: Rich Smith, Phil Schatz layout: Marilyn Becker, Mary  SERVER and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty or student bodies.  
Ellen Burke, Dave Bach  


Letters to the Editor will be accepted for publication provided that they are no longer than two double spaced type written pages. The Editor reserves the right to edit any part of a letter which he deems libelous, or to withhold an entire letter from publication. Letters may be addressed to: The Observer, Letters to the Editor, 
Box 11. 
Editor: 
Now that coeducation has become a distinct possibility here at the University of Our Lady, I think it is necessary that we take the time to reflect upon the dangers involved in such an educational system. 
In our pagan times, it is difficult enough for the average Catholic male to lead a truly Christian life. Young men have enough to do to keep their minds fixed on their books and on acquiring the knowledge and good habits they will need later on, without having their attention divided and weakened by interest in the opposite sex. Just because sexual attraction is so strong, and in the time of youth, has the added charm of novelty, if we yield to interest in girls, to certain girls in particular, while still in school, 
we  can  easily  become  so  
absorbed  in  them  as  to  be  
seriously  handicapped  in  the  

performance of our other more important duties. 
This might sound absurd and ridiculous to those whose judgement t is already biased by. interest in girls. Therefore, in order to keep our heads clear, let our interests still be directed chiefly towards school, home, and church affairs, our sports and boy friends; and until we are old enough to think of marriage, let our contact with girls be only casual and of passing interest. 
We realize, of course, that a majority of the young college men across the United States attend coeducational u-niversities, and regularly associate with young women. But the· fact that something is being done by the majority of people does not make it right. A million people can be wrong. At the time of the deluge the whole world except Noah and his family were wrong. 
In conclusion, let us remember hat our bodies are truly temples of the Holy Spirit, and therefore, are not to be exposed to anything wkich might jeopardize their purity. Remember as the Holy Ghost tells ~s: "He that loveth danger shall perish in it." 
Yours in Christ, 
Skip Gilmartift 
Martin McFadden 
719 Rex St. 
South Bend 
Editor: 
This is not an outright condemnation of Notre Dame's society nor is it a condemnation of society as a whole. But this is a letter directed to some of those fellow "people" who attended the Titicut Follies on Saturday afternoon during the semester break. This was a true to life look at mentally disabled people at Bridgewater State Hospital in Massachusetts. 
To those who laughed at those "dummies' and considered it very entertaining I would like to hurl you to the depths of hell. You are the sick 
ones.  You  pseudo-humans  are  
revolting  and  should  be  
confined.  

To those who understood the picture, I simply say thanks. Larry Overlaw 

Campus liberals form SLERT 
In answer to the growing stagnation of religious life at Notre Dame, three noted campus liberals have joined to form a Student League for Enlightened Religious Thought (SLERT). Michael Kelly, head of the Model U.N. and the Senior Fellow Committee, Chris Wolfe, Grace Hall President and former SLC member, and Tom Thrasher, Stay Senator and Chairman of the Senate lluman Affairs Committee, will lead SLERT. 
In SLERT's statement of purpose, they claimed; 
In the face of changing times and shifting coalitions, we arc forced to sadly concede that Notre Dame is not with it. ll is essential that our Christian community of authentic people be truly where the action is. If Notre Dame is to he where it's at, everyone concerned must be willing to make a sincere personal 
commitment. We, representing the progressive thought within our Christian University, call upon the entire community-the students, the faculty. the 
students, the administration, the students, the alumni and the students-to commit themselves totally here and now to a meaningful dialogue. 
Without this free and open dialogue we must declare that our university is no longer valid. 
In recent months the validity of Notre Dame and the relevancy of its students has come into question. Fierce and open debate has filled the pages of The Scholastic concerning the University's compliance in the Grape Strike, Fr. Ilcsburgh 's blatant indifference to the struggle of the Woman's Liberated Front, and thestate of Grace on the Board of Trustees. 
The Student League for Enlightened Religious Thought wishes to state firmly that it does not consider existing conditions likely. On the contrary, we feel that there is nothing which can stop an idea whose time has come and we will stop at nothing to find that idea. We must battle all rigid, dogmatic, fundamentalist 

and  immutible  values  in  the  perpetual  
revolution  for  a  huma nist,  flexible  
value-system.  


SLERT will attempt to rid Notre Dame of the Huddle's death machines. 
ISteve Effler Bridge 
: 
NORTH Spades-AQ63 2 Hearts-Axxx Diamonds-1 0 Clubs-Qxx 
WEST EAST Spades-974 Spades-10 
llearts-Kx Hearts-QJ xxxx 
Diamonds-AKxxx Diamonds-QJ x 
Clubs-Jxx Clubs-xxx 
SOUTH Spades-KJ xx llearts-x Diamonds-xxxx Clubs-AK IOx 
This collection of 16 new films made 
~····················································································· 

w N 
Pass I Spade 
Pass 5 Diamonds*** 
Pass Pass 
Opening Lead: Diamond Q 
Five Diamonds? 
Late at night, North having claimed he still remembered the Blackwood Conven­tion after a long lay off from bridge and a beer or two, thought he was confronted with it. Somehow taking South's 4 Spade bid as a call for Aces, he counted up from there and called 5 Diamonds for two. South took it as a cue bid showing first round control of Diamonds, a heavy hand, and an interest in slam. Bidding his 4-4-4-1 hand with Club controls and a 
E  s  
Pass  4 Spades  
Pass  6 Spades  
Pass  
when it  held, continued  with the Jack.  

North trumped and stopped for a count. Needing twelve tricks, he decided his only hope lay in a dummy reversal and a 3-3 dub split. Accordingly, he played the Ace of Hearts and trumped a heart. He led a diamond from dummy and trumped. Returning with the King of clubs, he trumped the last diamond with the Queen of spades. After playing the Ace of trump, he led to dummy's King and Jack. Upon successfully splitting the clubs, North had 4 clubs, 3 trump tricks, 3 

We call on our brothers and sisters to join the revolution. Our victory is inevitable because, in the words of the noted theologian J. Richard Rossie, "we got soul, baby!" 
Power to the privileged! 
(signed) 
Michael Kelly, 
SLERT Chancellor 
Chris Wolfe, 
SLERT Vice-Chancellor 
Tom Thrasher, 
SLERT Minister of Defense 
The statement was drawn up at 
SLERT's private booth in Louie's late last night. When originally drawn up by Kelly it contained only the first two paragraphs, but Wolfe kept shouting, "Write on, brother! Write on! so he added the remainder. 
"This will show those reactionaries 
where we stand!" Thrasher hissed, 
flicking his cigar ashes at The Observer 
photographer. 
The S LER T leaders then unveiled their 
nine-point program for second semester; 
I 
) Removal of the "death machine" from the Huddle which remains a symbol of the University's blithe participation in the military-industrial complex (when told of the second shooting gallery recently placed in the Huddle, Kelly pounded on the table and muttered incoherently about "proliferation!"), 

2) 
A campaign to extend the Grape Boycott to include grape juice and raisins in an effort to break the back of the capitalistic farmers, 

3) 
Picketting of the upcoming SUAC Camus Conference because, as one SLERT loyalist stated, '"lle symbolizes the epitome of Papal boot-licking!" 


4) An end to what Vice-Chancellor Wolfe called "the stifling aura of intolerance at Notre Dame" by the following means; 
a)University-financed chapels and University-hired chaplains for every religion represented at Notre Dame, which at last count would include Lutherans, Buddists, Followers of L ao-Tse, Presbyterians, Shintoists, Anglicans, Christian Atheists, Methodists, Baptists, Hindus, Moslems, Christian Scientists, Mormons, Jews (Orthodox, Conservative and Reform), Objectivists, Followers of 1-Ching and eighteen sects of Pentacostals. 
b)Establishment of special non-meat lines in the Dining Halls for Vegetarians (although Thrasher conceded that vegetarians could find little offensive under the present set-up) and a Kosher line. 
c)Establishment of a special infirmary for Christian Scientists. 
5) Establishment of a Department for the Non-Structural Resolution of Human Values, offering courses such as the new morality and the myth of original sin, 
6) That Sacred Heart Church be given to the people, 
7) That preclass prayers be abolished and replaced with one minute of private contemplation on "Soul on Ice", 
8) A public challenge from the leaders of SLERT to Billy Graham to debate him anywhere, at any time, on any topic, and 
9) That Father Duck be restrained from feeding the ducks and that those breadcrumbs be sent to the starving in Asia. 
In conclusion, Chancellor Kelly said threateningly, "If Notre Dame don't come around, we'll have to burn Notre Dame up!" 
CAF to screen 'Genesis II' 
"Genesis II", a two hour program of award-winning short films will be shown Thursday and Friday, February 5 and 6, at 7:00 and 9:30p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
!by student and independent filmmakers from across the country will be presented by the Contemporary Arts Festival as an 
exclusive feature in this area. In addition to some wildly experimental techniques
= 
used in making several of the films, social documentaries, dramatic screenplays, and comedic styles of expression are repre­sented. The program as a whole is a representative cross-section of what is happening in motion picture production and in avant-garde filmmaking. 
Among these 16 films are a number of film festival prize winners: "Demonstra­tion Movie I", "Project I", "The Tem­pest", and "Campus Christi". The entire "Genesis II" program was featured in the San Francisco Film Festival in October as a special premiere attraction. Proceeds from nationwide screenings of the pro­gram will aid participating filmmakers in gaining exposure and financing for development of new projects. 
With over 80,000 students enrolled in film courses on campuses across the country, new developments and tech­niques are being made in film faster than the traditional movie industry can keep up. The Genesis program presents these exciting new developments to the public long before they find their way into commercial production. 
This particular series features one film in which two Notre Dame graduates participated as actors. Bill Siska and Ned Allen Buchbinder, class ef '67, collab­orated in the filming of "Campus Christi". Ned Allen portrays Satan. Bill Siska was the head of Cinema '67 at Notre Dame. 
roughs in his own hand, one in dummy, A scene from "The Tempest," by Frank Olvey and Robert Brown,
stiff heart, South took the invitation. East opened the Queen of Hearts, and, and the Ace of hearts for 12 tricks. to be seen in Genesis II program. 
Fulbright starts Viet hearings 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Sen. involvement in Vietnam, 
J. William Fulbright (D. Ark.) Fulbright toned down his attack opening hearings on Vietnam, on American policy as his Senate said yesterday there had been Foreign Relations Committee 
began a new assessment of the"signal improvement" in U.S. 
situation.
war policy but that it might be a Deescalation policies begun 
good idea to negotiate a prompt by former President Lyndon B. 
end to American participation. Johnson in March 1968 and 
Long a critic of U.S. continued by President Nixon 
If you gotta go, 
why not go 
Air Force? 
If you have two years of college left (graduate or undergraduate) and you're high on the "fishbowl list", you can still go first class .•• as an Air Force officer. P.ir Force ROTC has a two-year program that will pay you while you're still in school, and even offers free flying lessons (if you qualify). Find out what Air Force ROTC has to offer. Inquire about the two-year program today. See the Professor of Aeospace Studies on campus, or call 283-6635. 
were "far preferable" to previous military buildups, Fulbright said. 
However, he questioned whether "it might not be judged as safe and wise to negotiate a 
prompt end to American 
participation i n the war, leaving the Vietnamese factions to fight it out among themselves." 
Sen. Charles E. Godell (R. N.Y.), urged the committee to approve his bill requiring total 
U.S. withdrawal by Dec. l. He said the measure would be "shock treatment" to encourage the Saigon government to negotiate with the Communists. 
For the time being, Fulbrights said, there is considerable sentiment within the committee to give the administration more 
. time to end the war. 

Need a part time job second semester? 
THE OBSERVER 
needs Assistant Business Manager Advertising Salesmen Earn 15% commissions Circulation Personnel Earn$$ nterested? Questions? Stop by the Observer office or call 7471, 8661 or 1557 
GRAND FUNK RAILROAD DAVID FRYE 
"/Love Him: /J(' 's Good" R.M.N.
"Hard Rock at its Bcst''J.B. 
See: Richard Nixon Henry Fonda
"They F.Htde Music, Sex, Ferver 
Lyndon Johnson Nelson Rockefeller
Tem1w and Excitement" Observer Nov. 21 '() 9 
William Buckley Spiro Agnew At Their Best 
FRIDAY FEB. 6, 8 PM at the ACC 
Reserved seats now on sale at Also on safe in the Dining Halls 
A. C. C . tonight and Thursday Bookstore 
PRESENTED BY STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION AND ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
Photos by John P. Kelly 

NO opposes Marquette Saturday; Sellout seen as tickets going fast 
Tickets for Saturday's Notre Dame-Marquette basketball game are selling at a brisk pace, so any student who wishes to see the contest should stop at the Convocation Center soon. This warning was issued yesterday by Donald Bouffard, ticket manager. 
bouffard estimated that as of yesterday, there were only three hundred tickets left unsold. He wanted the students to have a first chance at purchasing seats, before the general public. He felt that the students were not aware of the ticket shortage, and feared that many would be unable to see the game by waiting until the last minute to byuy seats. 
He emphasized that tickets will probably be sold out some time today. Marquette, one of Notre Dame's more formidable opponents, was ranked 7th nationally before falling to Loyola in the first half of the double header at the Chicago Stadium in which the Irish toppled Big Ten leader, Illinois 86-83. An NCAA at-large berth may be at stake in the game. 

-

Despite a bruised shoulder, Jim Hansen pinned his opponant (1 58) at I: 30 of the first period. 
It was pin or no count last night at the Convo as NO's matmen scored a 29-13 victory over Wabash College in a match that included no less than 6 pins. Notre Dame 2 on 4 of the 6 to get the bulk of their points. A crowd of over 400 attended the meet, by far the best of the year. 
Tom Ciaccio pinned Cyril Welter in 2:50 to start things off for the Irish in the 118 lb. class. Keith Giron also flattened his opponent, Rob Lempke in 126 lb. at 4:33. Jay McCollough of Wabash registered the first defeat against the Irish as he pinned Dave Griffith at 4: I 0 in 
134. Ken Ryan came back for the Irish and decisioned his man Ira Rouse at 142. In ISO Bob Habig outpointed Phil Sidebottom to add 3 more tallies for ND. Jim Hansen pinned his man in short order as Don Lawson fell in I: 30. The men from Wabash finally scored again as Gordon Dempsey decisioned Tom Powell. Bill Hasbrook decisioned Wayne Middendorf to put icing on the Irish victory cake in 177 ob. Randy Leigh pinned Notre Dame's Todd 
Grapplers overwhelm Wabash 
Abernathy leaves Chicago without testifying 
CHICAGO (UPI) 
The Rev. Ralph D. Abernathy passed up a chance to testify in the riot conspiracy trial yesterday. A defense attorney read a purported message from the civil righst leader criticizing the court's refusal to hear him Monday and calling the defendants "brothers on trial." 
U.S. District Court Judge Julius Hoffman called the Ahernathy statement "vilifying" 
and "a pretty horrible thing." The judge refused to explain Abernathy's failure to appear to the jury lest he make himself the target of "another vilifying tirade" by Willian M. Kunstler, the chief defense attorney. Kunstler Monday accused the judge of presiding at "a legal lynching" after the judge ruled the defense had to abide by an agreement reached with the prosecution Friday and rest its 
case without presenting another witness. 
Hoffman reversed that decision late Monday after the government protested its case had been prejudiced when Kunstler embraced and kissed the leader of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference in open court with the jury present. 
But Abernathy left Chicago Monday and Kunstler read in 
Pope outlines his celibacy position 
VATICA.N CITY (UPI) ­Pope Paul VI hinted yesterday he might reluctantly consider the first limited change in the Roman Catholic Church's Jaw on priestly celibacy since its enactment 900 years ago. 
The change would allow married men of mature years with good family and professional reputation to become priests in areas of the world where there arc extreme shortages of priests. 
At the same time, the Pope the first time in centuries a pope has even hinted that some married men might be acceptable as priests-other than the handful of former Protestant ministers who have converted to Catholicism and been ordained with papal consent. 
Msgr. Fausto Vallainc, the Vatican press spokesman, said he believed the Pope was referring primarily to Latin America in raising the possibility · of ordaining ma-ried J:nen ff)r certain areas. "Above all this possibility does not concern Holland," he said. 
Only Sunday the Pope strongly defenced the celibacy law and said discussion on it was closed. His language Tuesday suggested he would regard ordination of some married men for restricted areas exception to the law, as is the ordination of former protestant ministers, rather than an actual amendment. 
ordered Roman Catholic bishops ,.----------==-~~-=-=,-------=-----------1 of the Netherlands to reconsider En S Thursday proposals for wider changes in the celihacy law that have brought the worldwide controversy over the subject to a boil in recent weeks. 
The Pope outlined his position in a 2,000 word letter to French Cardinal Jean Villot, the papal secretary of state. 
The pontiff expressed "grave reservations" about the possibility of ordaining married men for areas where there arl' shortages of priests and said it could only be done, if at all, by bishops of the world acting in union with him -presumahly at a synod of bishops. 
lie expressed doubts that such a change, if adopted, could in practice be restricted to local cases. 
llis hint of willingness to ..:onsider this change. was expressed in extremely cautious language, and he did not indicate that any immediate 
consideration was likely. Even so, observers said it was Carey at 6:22 to get the last canvas for the final points of the points for Wabash at 190. With evening. his teammates screaming for a this win evened the Irish dual pin Phil Gustafson responded by meet record for the season at pressing Don Shelbourne to the 2-2. 



Requirements changed 
continued j'rom page 2 
one elective, non-major course per semester on a pass-fail basis. 
4) Extension of the period during which a course may be dropped to October I 5 during the first semester and till February 22 in the second semester provided the student's remaining course load does not fall below the minimum of 15 credit hours and he receives from the class instructor a statement of satisfactory progress, or that the "drop" be recommended by the university 
.physician for reasons of health. 
5) The abloishment of the grade WF (withdrew failing) with the grade W or F being made available to the student on withdrawal. 
6) The expansion of the counseling and advising program in the areas of central counseling, sophomore counseling, and faculty-student meeting places. 
7) The increasing of the diversity in academic programs .and the implementation of a "highly motivated, independent study," and a work study program on an experimental basis. 
The establishment of a residential co-educational cross-college program to experiment broadly in innovative academic methodology, and to test new educational procedures. 

court Tuesday the "regrets" which he said were dictated to him by telephone from Clarksdale, Miss. 
Kunstler quoted Abernathy as saying he left Chicago with "a heavy heart." He said Abernathy said he had traveled through "sleet and snow to tell what I knew, only to be refused the right to do so because I was 16 minutes late." 
"My heart goes out to my brothers on trial," Kunstler read from the statement. 
The statement said Abernathy had "just returned from abroad as an ambassador of good wul for this country." 
"When I was asked difficult questions about my country's system of justice and equality I groped for words to explain that both existed," the message said. "When foreigners said 'You have no democracy, no justice in America' I attempted to prove that we did. 
"After my experience yesterday in this court I can no longer defend my country against such attacks." 


PAGE 8 
THB OBSBRII£It 
Illinois upset highlights break action 
Carr led Irish rebounders with the third round. Bob Olson, the already holds all four indoor and 
Hockey

11. top Irish linebacker this year, outdoor, long and triple jump
Basketball 
N,D 86 -Illinois 83 and Mike Oriard, the walk-on records, won the Long Jump. The Irish gained revenge for Making amends for last center, went on thr fifth round, The Hoosiers took five events, an early season overtime loss toND 82-Duquesne 66 year's 91-57 shellacking at the the former to Boston and the incliding a sweep in the 60-Yard the Ohio State Buckeyes with aNotre Dame lost an hands of the Illini and for the latter to the Kansas City Chiefs. Dash, won by Larry Highbaugh pair of hard-fought victories overI 1-poin t first half lead, then MSU · debacle, the Irish upset Terry Brennan was chosen by who once defeated ND's great the weekend of Jan. 16-17. Bothrallied to blow the Iron Dukes highly-ranked Illinois at Chicago the Philadelphia Eagles in the Bill Hurd last year. The only games were very physical andoff the court at Chicago Stadium Stadium, Saturday night, seventh round. event the two schools failed to were highlighted by exceptionalSaturday night, January 17. 
January 31. Doug Gemmell The Irish football take was the Mile Run where goaltending by Dick TomasoniJohn Pleick and Collis Jones started in place of Sid Catlett, coaching staff will be slightly Purdue finished 1-2. (Friday) and Chris Cathcarthelped the Irish to a 38-32 scoring five points, and Austin realigned this spring. Wally (Saturday). Opening night,halftime lead; then A us tin Carr Carr was his usuai superb self More, a former freshman coach defenseman Bill Green and teamcaught fire in the second period 
Fencing
with 36, but it was reserve Mike and an assistant line coach this scoring leader John Noble eachfor 21 points as the ND margin O'Connell who sparked the Irish. year, has been appointed scored twice as ND ran up a 6-1reached as much as 18. Carr 
offensive line coach. He will be
Despite blowing a 9-point first Mike DeCicco's swordsmen lead and hung on to win 6-3.
finished with 35 points, Pleick 
aassisted by a 1963 grad, Brian
half lead and falling behind finished the break with a 6-0 Tomasoni made 30 saves. In the13 and Jones 12. Gary Nelson 
Boulac. Freshman coach Mike
led a balanced Duke attack with 60-5 5 in the second half, ND record, adding three victories second game, Jim Cordes and 
Stock will be in charge of wide
utiIized solid rebounding over the holidays. On Saturday, Paul Regan picked up two goals14. 
receivers next season, while
(especially by Collis Jones) and January 17, ND thrashed the apiece after a scoreless firstMSU 85-ND 82 
assistant frosh coach Denny
It was billed as a clutch one-and-one free throw Purdue Fencing Club 23-4 as the period for a 7-1 rout. Cathcart 
Murphy will take over Stock's
shoot-'em-up between ND's shooting to win. O'Connell starters fenced only one match turned away 20 shots. Austin Carr and Spartan Super 
played an excellent floor game job. apiece. The epee squad made up Coach Lefty Smith then took -and scored 13 points. Rick for its previously poor perform-his charges westward against
Soph Ralph Simpson. AC from Howatt led Ilinois with 29 ance with a 9-0 whitewash of the Colorado College and Air ForceDC won the battle, 39 points to 
Track
points, I 9 in the first half when Boilermakers. The Irish JV's Jan. 30-Feb. 3. After dropping a35, but all-around rotten Irish he was 9-13 from the floor. defeated Culver Military 5-4 decision to CC and walloping
play led to the loss of the war. Coach Alex Wilson's Academy in an accompanying the cadets, ND gained revenge
The Tuesday night, January 20 game was decided by these indoor squad opened their match. Twelve days later, the with a 5-4 win over CC last
Football 

winter campaign with the first Irish posted another 23-4 win, Monday night. John Noble and
curcial statistics: foul shooting annual Notre Dame Invitational this one over Illinois Institute of Paul Regan gained two goals(ND 18-29 for 62%, MSU 21-24 The annual professional Track Meet on Saturday, Technology. On Saturday, Jan-apiece. Regan contributed thefor 88%) and turnovers (ND 15, football draft was held on January 31. The Irish and uary 31, the fencers hit the same winning one at 4:09 of the thirdMSU 7). Carr was 14-24 from Tuesday, January 27. ND's Indiana easily dominated the numbers for the third straight period on an assist from Rickythe floor (58%) and 11-13 from mamoth defensive tackle, Mike meet in which team scoring was time, humbling Indiana Tech Cunha. Dick Tomasone made 33the line. Simpson's percentage McCoy, was the second collegian not kept but trophies were 23-4. saves.
was lower from the floor, but he picked (after Lousiana Tech's 
stellar qb Terry Bradshaw), : New, more stringent measures are going into effect this se-:
Hurdle Relay in record time
a tremendous job on the boards going to the Green Bay Packers. : mester at the Rockne Memorial in an effort to cut down on :
(0.29.1), the Two-Mile Relay,
as the game's leading rebounder ! unauthorized use of the building,particulary by high school !
The Buffalo bills tabbed 
and the Distance Medley Relay.
with 15 despite being only 6-4Y2. -students. It is advised that persons wishing to use the Rock •
offensive tackle Jim Reilly on 
Soph Mike McMannon, who 
facilities bring their ID cards, as guards will be on duty. 
Buy now ... pay next June, July and August 
canned 11-12 foul shots. He did awarded. ND won the Shuttle ~·••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••m

No service or carrying charges added. Stock up during the SALE and save 1/4 1/3 SU ITS/SPORTSCOATS/TOPCOATS The selection is great... choose from the colors, fabrics and styles you want... and save BIG! Pay next summer when it's more convenient the Campus Shop way. Your account Is already open ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME  
Irish wrestlers crush Wabash See story on page 7  




