HPC wants compromise constitution 
The Hall Presidents Council met last night and discussed at length and in depth the role designed for them in the Krashna Administration's pro­posed new Student Government Constitution. Emerging from the conference with Krashna and SBVP Mark WiningS was a realization, in the words of HPC executive Coordinator, Tim Mahoney "that the answer is not this constitution or the Senate, but somewhere in between." 
In closing the meeting, it was decided by Council Chairman John Barkett that the presidents would make informal recom­mendations to Krashna on the type of participation that would be acceptable to them, sinct! the idea of a "Presidents Council" as expressed in the original draft of the new charter did not set!m to appeal to many of the presi­dents. 

The entire question of HPC participation in the constitu­tional referendum and the Senate elections on Wednesday came about as a result of a proposal made at the last meeting of the group. Last Thursday, Executive Coor­dinator Mahoney said that since he thought the Senate elections had not attracted enough candi­dates in many halls and since the expected turnout in some halls was "about 10%", the hall presidents themselves should run for the office, including their vice-presidents or some endorsed candidate if their hall had more than one seat in the Senate. The Senate-HPC thus created would then set up an interim govern­ment to discover the "best possible solution to the pro­blem." 
On the whole, the presidents rejected the proposal but en­dorsed the idea behind it, i.e., that the answer is not in either extreme of the issue, but in some idea not yet given official endorsement by any group. 
The first order of business was the determination of the extent of action received on Mahoney's 
proposal. Most of the presidents seemed willing to go along with their halls in the matter, with only a few endorsing candidates and no one running himself. Mahoney then summarized the situation, "We've generated some kind of interest in the election. The questions have 
been asked. I would only ask for some open-mindedness. It's not a clear-cut case of for or against 
the Senate." 
One of the major considera­tions of the presidents in discus­sing their new role was the element of time that would have to be spent away from their respective halls. SBVP Mark Winings said that the time would be great enough that "all the elements of hall government would have to be strong." 
But he also said that the time would be at most about ten or eleven hours in budget consi­derations. 
Some of the presidents com­pared th~ new body to the Senate, expressing the fear that it would become "as ineffective as the Senate." 
Winings said that he did not forsee such a development and that the composition, meaning "the personalities and presidents" involved would act against this. 
(continued on page 4J 



SLC fails to. decide on proposed Judicial Code 
By Bob Hi\fgins 

In a meeting highlighted by sion on the proposed appellate In an attempt to resolve the President Phillip Faccenda pro­taped by NBC's "First Tuesday"the presence of NBC television proceedings by requesting a conflict between the SLC and posed that the motion again be film crew who plan to use the cameras, the Student Life Coun­caucus for the purpose of the Board of Trustees over the tabled because of what he segment as part of a presentationcil Monday again failed to come deciding exactly how the maned­appellate structure of the Judi­termed the continuing confusion on life at Notre Dame on the to a decision on the major issue ment should be worded. After a cial Code, Winings proposed an in the intent of the amendment. December I show. 
of appellate procedures in the lengthy debate on the legality of amendment which granted the . SBP Dave Krashna and student In oether business, Carolproposed Judicial Code. Winings request, SLC Chairman Dean of Students the power to Representative Glen Corso ob­Handley, a political science ma­Student Body Vice-President Professor William Eagan granted appeal a verdict of innocent jected strongly to Faccenda's jor at St. Mary's, was appointedMark Winings began the discus-the five minute rece~. 
beyond the Hall Board. The bill motion claiming that the propo­permanent secretary, replacing called for the creation of a sal was clear enough and a vote 
GSU representative Rick Um­five-member appeal board con­should not be put off any 
bre<.:ht who had served as tem­sisting of three students, one longer. 
porary secretary.faculty member and one admini­The vole to table ended in a 
Dean of Students Father strator. This board would receive tie which was broken by Chair­
James Riehle proposed an appeals from either the prosecu­man Eagan's vote in favor of the 
amendment tp the judicial code tion or the defense in a case motion, preventing a vote on calling for establishment of an upon request. A simple majority Wining's bill for the second time. 

appeal board consisting of two would be empowered to over­Following the meeting, Win­SMC and two ND students to tryturn a guilty verdict, and four of ings tt:rmed the council's action, appeals of parking violations five would be required to over­"A cowardly way to go about incurred by one school's stu­turn a verdict of innocent. business." He contended that "A dents on the other school's 

After a long discussion, a vote should have been taken campus. The amendment was motion was presented to table today." 
passed and will take effect 
the proposal because of the 

Portions of the meeting were immediately.
confusion caused by the lack of a printed copy of the amend­ment for each member of the 

Krashna disappointed
council. The motion carried and the proposal was tabled. Later in the meeting, Winings' 


with trustees 
amendment was recalled from 
"My reactions to the meetingSBP Dave Krashna expressed
the table at his request. After 
were not very good" Krashnadisappointment with the reac­
further debate, University Vice-

said. "I thought that the Trustees the report he presented to them 
tion of the Board of Trustees to 

were not really honestly apprais­a l a meeting last Friday. Krashna ing what we had done."

Riehle gives gambling warning 
felt the Trustees had been Krashna's main complaint especially unreceptive to his centered on the specific ques­By Cliff Wintrode of any response to the article kinds" of gambling operations in proposal calling for increased tions thrown at him by the from the South Bend police or S~uth Bend, and he assumed funding for minority recruit­Trustees which he was not Dean of Student Father James the Indiana Stale Police but that the students were picking ment, claiming that the Trustees prepared to answer. K rashna said 
Riehle said yesterday that The expected that some feedback up the betting cards from these were not accurately assesing the the Trustees had instructed him Observer expose of gambling would be apparent. operations. need for assistance to the Minor­to keep the report as general as rings on campus involving stu­Likewise, Riehle said he had ity Student program. possible and so he was not ready

People in some halls; rectors,
dents apparently has "sub­not talked over the weekend to rector assistants, and students, to discuss each detail of the stantially corrected" the situa­any members of the Board of had communicated to him that report in depth.

tion, but warned that the univer­The report concentrated onTrustees about student gambling students gambling was heavy this ·­sity would step in if this was not and he did not know whether what Krashna termed the three

year, but Riehle said their
the case. 

they discussed the issue among main concerns of his administra­
accounts did not indicate that
"From what I can gather as of themselves. tion: student social life,

the gambling was part of a ring.
this moment pending subsequent He said that he had known for He said that he mel with these minority recruitment and a investigation, the situation seems two weeks that some students revitalized University Forum.

informants and the group de­
to have been substantially cor­were selling gambling tickets but cided to collect more informa­Though two of the ideas re­rected by Friday's article in The that he was unaware of the ceived some favorable comment

tion before embarking on a
Observer," he said. '"I know that 

scope of the operations as course ol action. J'fze Observer from the Board, Krashna's some people involved have got­detailed in The Observer. From expose interrupted their col­minority student report came ten scared and are quitting." 
information he had received he under heavy criticism from the
lection Riehle said, and he
However, he added that if said he "assumed it was a small expressed the hope that the Board members. 

reports from hall rectors, rector thing." Krashna refuted the major

article would suffice to stop the
assistants, and other students "A few students passing out gambling. objection of the trustees which indicate that the "fear" gene­gambling cards to his buddit:s at Riehll: said the penalty he claimed dwelt on a dispropor­rated by The Observer article has no profit to himself" was the assessed to a student caught tionate percentage of minoritynot been enough to stop the way he had pictured the campus involved in a gambling ring funding. Krashna felt the 26%gambling, then he would become gambling scene. The possibility would depend on the gravity of figure of percentage of minorityinvolved in correcting the situa­of tics with gamblers in Chicago his involvement and his status as aid in total university aid wastion. 

was new to him Riehle said. a student; whether he was on misleading. "26% is not enoughHt: said that he was not aware He said that there were "all probation or whatever. if you have a low total amount. 





camDus 1nreRv1ews 

NOVEMBER 2, 1970 

1

We'D LIKe TO TaLK TO YOU aB0UT 
••• career opportunities that match your interests and education ••• our long-established management training program ••. our diverse and growing corporation ••. our nationwide facilities 
•.. our corporate philosophy of caring about people 
Now's the time to sign up at your placement office for an interview with the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course recruiter. This could be the start of something big! 
And just what IS the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course? It's our management development pro­gram for graduates with bachelors' or advanced degrees. 
Bethlehem loopers spend four weeks at our home offices in Bethlehem, Pa. Then they report to the appropriate plants or departments for their first assignments. From there, anything is possible. 
Where would YOU fit into the Loop Course? Check your de~1ree or the one most similar to it: 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING-Engineering or me­ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING-Steel plant, fabricating chanical maintenance departments of steel plants, fabri­works, mining operations, and shipyard. electrical en­cating works, mining operations, and shipyards. Fuel gineering, construction, and maintenance departments. and combustion departments. Supervision of production Technical and supervisory positions in large production operations. Marine engineering assignments in Ship­operations involving sophisticated electrical and elec­building Department. Also: Sales or Research. tronic equipment. Also: Research or Sales. 
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING-Metallurgical de­MINING ENGINEERING-Our Mining Department op­partments of steel plants and manufacturing operations. erates coal and iron ore mining operations and lime­Engineering and service divisions. Technical and super­stone quarries, many of which are among the most visory positions in steelmaking departments and rolling modern and efficient in the industry. This 10,000-man mills. Also: Research or Sales. activity offers unlimited opportunities to mining en­
gineers. Also: Research.

CHEMICAL ENGINEERS-Technical and supervisory 
positions in coke works, including production of by­NAVAL ARCHITECTS AND MARINE ENGINEEIRS­product chemicals. Fuel and combustion departments, Graduates are urged to inquire about opportunities in including responsibility for operation and maintenance our Shipbuilding Department, including the Central of air and water pollution control equipment. Engineer­Technical Division, our design and engineering organi­ing and metallurgical departments. Steelmaking opera­zation. Also: Traffic. tions. Also: Research or Sales. O"THER TECHNICAL DEGREES-Every year we recruit 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING-Positions in steel plants, 
loopers with technical degrees other than those listed fabricating works, shipyards, and mines. Engineering 
above. Seniors enrolled in such curricula are encour­aged to sign up for an interview.

and maintenance departments. Supervision of steel­making, rolling, manufacturing, and fabricating opera­ACCOUNTANTS-Graduates in accounting or business tions. Also: Sales. administration (24 hours of accounting are preferred) 
are recruited for training for supervisory assignmentsCIVIL ENGINEERING-Fabricated Steel Construction in our 3,000-man Accounting Department.

assignments in engineering, field erection, or works 
management. Steel plant, mine, or shipyard assign­OTHER NON-TECHNICAL DEGREES-Graduates with 
ments in engineering, construction, and maintenance. degrees in liberal arts, business, and the humanities are 
Supervision of production operations. Sales Department invited to discuss opportunities in the Sales Department. 
assignments as line salesman or sales engineer (tech­Some non-technical graduates may be chosen to fill 
nical service to architects and engineers). openings in steel plant operations and other departments. 
WHEN YOU SIGN UP be sure to pick up a copy of our booklet, "Bethlehem Steel's Loop Course." We think you will like what we have to say. 
BETHLEHEM STEEL 
1~
ST EL

An Equal Opportunity Employer 
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Election recess vetoed at SMC 
By Ann Therese Darin 

The St. Mary's Academic Affairs Council vetoed an aca­demic alternative proposal to the recently defeated twelve day election recess, but then appa­rently opened the same avenues to students who wished to campaign. 
The defeated proposal "re­commended" that students ,1c­gotiate written agreements with teachers to arrange their work loads during their ten-day ab­sence. The teachers then could instigate no punitive action against students. 
However, the Council mem­bers suggested that students who wish to absent themselves from classes and campaign but have doubts about their academic plans, should try to work out written agreements with their teachers. 
In defeating the proposal by a 4-2 vote, the Council felt that it was superfluous to already exist­ing policies. They also stated that no amount of legislation can change a teat:her's dassroom po!icy, and that the proposal incorrcdly assumed that the fat:ulty would be 1mduly puni­tive to students. 
Students would not have had to show any proof of participa­tion in a political campaign to be eligible for the special arrange-men t. 
"It's unfortunate," said Ann Marie Tracey, student body president, "that the Council failed to take a definite stand on the issue; however, with the consideration of the at:ademic freedom of the faculty, its position is understandable." 
The ambiguity of the attend­ance system and difficulties that arise in the exercise of the function of the Community Relations Board came up in discussion on the proposal. 
Although both Notre Dame and St. Mary's have 'no cut' policies," said Carol Henninger, Academic Affairs chairman, "Notre Dame generally inter­prets it's rule so that its students can attend or cut classes at will. St. Mary's policy is interpretted as compulsory attendance. This ambiguity must be changed." 
Miss Tracey said the role of the Community Relations Board, which is to rule on student-faculty or student-ad­ministrative disputes, will be "hard to do because of the abstract basis for possible issues such as grades or 'unfair' deci­sions." ~­



,1~1! I~~~!~l~M%J ~~~~ 
Selection Team will be on campus from 13 to t 6 October 1970, in the Dining Halls during noon and cvenin meals. 
Page 3 


USC onlyTop Ten team to lose 
"1 t's been a long time since route to the Rose Bowl when games since 1952, emerged as a eyes·, gammg their third win
the Stanford Indians left the they beat an old tormentor­solid contender for the Pacific Saturday. 
without a loss, blanked Michigan
farm to visit Pasadena but Coach Southern California. Eight Conference title and the Top ranked Ohio State, the State, 29-0, in Ohio State's BigJohn Ralston's football force; Stanford, which hasn't played Rose Bowl host role that goes favorite to be the visiting team Ten Conference opener. Nextmay have turned the corner en in the granddaddy of all bowl with the crown by upsetting the in the Rose Bowl, also advanced opponent for the Buckeyes infourth ranked Trojans, 24-14, as expected Saturday. The Buck-Minnesota. 
USC was the only team in United Press InternationaJ's top ten to lose during the past 
weekend. 

Sports Shorts 

Second ranked Texas rolled to its 24th consecutive triumph, the Longhorns walloping arch rival Oklahoma, -41-9, and third 
Joe Theismann and Tom Gatewood, the latest in Notre Dame's rated Notre Dame ran up the series of great pass-catch combination, have added their names to the highest score ever recorded long !ht uf Irish players who have excelled in the Army -Notre against an Army team, crushing Dame series, one of the great traditional battles in college football the under-manned Cadets history. 51-1 0. The Irish, unbeaten i~ 
The South River Roadrunner hit on 20 of 29 pass attempts four games, face Missouri next against the Cadets, good for 277 yards and three touchdowns, in Saturday. leading the Irish to their fourth straight victory. 
Gatewood, who gave the Cadets fits last October in Yankee In other games last Saturday Stadium, presented an even greater tactical problem to the Army fifth ranked Nebraska dumped Saturday as, despite double coverage, he gathered in eight Missouri 21-7; sixth rated Missis­Thdsmann aerials for 136 yards, a touchdown and a two-point sippi rallied behind the leader­conversion. The nation's leading pass catcher with 36 grabs, ship of Archie Manning to stop Gatewood is a sure All-American selection and appears well on his Georgia, 31-21; No.7 Air Force way to breaking .lack Snow's single season pass reception mark of Academy defeated Tulane, 24-3; 
60, set in 1964. eighth rated Michigan blanked 
The 4uestionable status of All-American guard Larry DiNardo cast Purdue, 29-0; No. 9 Auburn a shadow of gloom over Saturday's victory celebration. A knee crushed Clemson, 44-0; and No. injury on the fourth play of Notre Dame's first scoring drive has 10 Arkansas beat Baylor, 41-7; 
made the status of DiNardo questionable for Saturday's important Elsewhere, II th ranked Arizona encounter with Missouri in Columbia. Mike Martin also left the field State stopped Washington State, limping in the first half and the Irish attack will be seriously 
37-30; Oregon upset 13th ranked UCLA, 41-40; 17thhampered if these two line stalw'!rts are not able to play this ranked Tennessee beat 15thweekend. 
ranked Georgia Tech, 17-6; No.
The upcoming battle with the Missouri Tigers shapes up as a big 18 Colorado trounced Iowagame for the Irish. Fifth-ranked Nebraska took the measure of the State, 6I-IO; and 20th rankedTigers in a hard-fought contest last Saturday while the 7th-ranked San Diego State downed South-Air Force Academy Falcons !opped Mizzou three weeks ago in St. 
ern Mississippi, 4I-14.
Louis. An impressive victory is a must if the Irish are to lay dairn to the natim~'s No. I ranking. The Notre Dame defense will have to be "up" for this game as the Tigers, with the nation's No. 3 running back in '69, halfback Joe 

lnterhall has three ties 
Moore, and a pair of receivers, Mel Gray and John Henley that Next Sunday's games will
by Bruce Kennedy Off-Campus 0
tallied 13 TO's last year, can put points on the scoreboard. 0 2
feature Alumni vs. Off-Campus,Observer Sportswriter 
The Irish specialty squads have not distinguished themselves thus Walsh 0 I I
Zahm vs. B-P, Sorin vs. Dillon,
far this season. Notre Dame has yet to "spring" a punt or kickoff Morrissey romped over Holy Sorin 0 I 0
and Farley vs. St. Joe's. AJso,return, while the opposition has recorded several long run backs. Cross 30-0 Sunday and tied Morrissey vs. Pangborn, Grace vs.
A man to watch when the lrisq kick off is No. 47, sophomore Badin for the lead in Interhall LEAGUE III
Keenan, Lyons vs. Badin, and
Him Musuraca. He's been getting in some solid· hits on opposing football's League One. In League W L T
Stanford vs. Flanner.

returners and is a sure tackler. Two, Alumni won its second Breen Phillips l 0 0 Everytime I hear Coach Pagna speak I am more impressed with without a loss, topping Sorin STANDINGS Cavanaugh I 0 I the man -as a speaker, a coach, and as fine a representative of the 14-0. St. Joseph I I 0 
LEAGUE

University of Notre Dame as anyone could ask for. Three games ended in 0-0 ties Farley 0 I I It was a real pleasure for me to hear Don Miller speak at Friday as defensive battles prevailed. w L T *Zahm 0 I 0 night's rally, too. F!anner and Keenan finished Badin I 0 0 * Zahm has dropped from the Morrissey
The Cadets, both on the field and in the stands, showed a great deadlocked, as did Walsh and I 0 0 league
Pangborn

deal of spirit and competitive drive. Though out-manned and Off-Campus, and Farley and I I 0 Holy Cross I
outclassed they didn't quit. Cavanaugh. St. Joe's beat Zahm I 0 LEAGUE IV 
Lyons

Toward the end of the Army game my mind began to wander and by forfeit. Zahm's team has 0 2 0 w L T I pondered these puzzling questions: Just which cheerleader speaks disbanded. Grace I 0 0 LEAGUE II
over the "mike" and, since ND and SMC are drawing ever closer Stanford defeated St. Ed's Keenan I 0 I together, when will we have a co-ed stripper? and Pangborn triumphed over w L T Stanford 1 I 0
Alumni

Scott Hempel is working his way into the record books from a Lyons be identical I 4-0 scores. 2 0 0 Flanner 0 0 I
Dillon 0 0 I
number of angles. This past weekend he booted five conversions St Edward 0 2 0 giving him a total ·Of 141 career points. This places the senior placekicker in the tenth position of all-time Irish scorers. He moved ahead of Nick Eddy who previously held the tenth position with 140 
Ruggers remain undefeated 
points. 
~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::iXo by J.W. Findling 


MISSOURI FOOTBALL TICKETS 

STUDENT UNION 
TICKET OFFICE 3rd Floor laFcrtune 

Observer Sportswriter Irish ruggers were, however, enough to defeat their next foe, dissatisfied with some of their the Palmer Chiopractic Rugby
Notre Dame's A and B rugby 

offensive play. They plan to
teams both registered impressive Club. The game is next Sunday shutouts against Indiana Univer­wmk hard this week on their in Davenport, Iowa and the Irish sity this Saturday behind Stepan backfield passing in order to ruggers agree that this should be Center. The "A" team won their generate more offense in their one of their toughest opponents. 
next game.

third game without a loss 3-0 The ruggers season record 
Three points will not be now stands at 3-0.
against a Hoosier team that was last year's Big Ten champions. The "B" team won 16-0 to not 

Irish boot Michigan
only remain undefeated but also to remain unscored upon. 

Combining a new offensive
The only Irish score came the ball to Schoemaker in the
alignment with a two-goal per­
with ten minutes left in the center of the field and Schoe­
formance by Hugh Schoemaker, 
game. With the ball on the maker drilled a shot past the
the Notre Dame soccer team
Indiana 20-yard line, Tom Her­Michigan goaltender from 30
handed the Michigan Wolverine
lihy reversed his field and feet out.
hooters a 2-1 setback Saturday
pitched back to Bill Berry. Berry The Irish scored what proved
morning behind Stepan Center.
made a beautiful pass to Herbie to be the winning goal in the
Notre Dame had been using a
Giorgio who carried the ball into third quarter with Tom Shriver
5-man offensive front but
the end zune for the try. The picking up the assist on Schoe­
switched to a 4-man front
conversion was missed, but it maker's second tally.
against the Wolverines and the
didn't rna tter as the Irish defense Michigan notched their lone
strategy paid off in the second
held on for the shutout. score late in the finaJ stanza.
win of the season for the Irish.
Charley Blum, Bill Choquette, The Irish hooters play one
:)))\ TUES. ~ -6 PM )))) They now boast a 2--I-2 mark.
JLm Hagenbarth, and Phil Krause game this week, traveling to
Notre Dame grabbed the lead
(son of "Moose" Krause) all Goshen College for a Wednesday
in the first quarter of play as Jim
played well for Notre Dame. The afternoon encounter.
Patton, taking a free kick, passed 

J========================================:=:~;;~::R:;;:;:::::::1;=;=~=;=;=~=;===E=~==============================::===:==J 

------------------~----------­


Counseling program discussed at St. Mary's 

By Mary Dalheim 
The counseling program at 

St. Mary's College was one of the most extensively discussed issues at the meeting of the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Trustees Friday morning, according to Carol Henninger, Academic Commis­sioner. 
Directors Miss Mary Martucci and assistant director Miss Wheaton made presentations of their guidance and counseling program at St. Mary's. Miss 
the Sea -Gull by 
Anton Chekhov 
Washington Hall Oct. 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 -at 8:30 PM ·and Oct. 18 at 2:30 PM 
Tickets $1.50 Information 284-4176 
Wheaton, who directs Career Planning and Placement, stated that she wanted to reach under­classmen as well as upperclassmen, and try to make them aware of the possible careers open in their major fields. Miss Wheaton also handles job transfers for alumnae and student palcement in part-time jobs. 
The ND-SMC recruiting pro­
gram was also discussed. As it stands, St. Mary students re­gistered with the placement bureau will be able to attend recruiting sessions and interviews held at Notre Dame. A proposal suggesting that Notre Dame students be allowed to attend recruiting sessions at St. Mary's, primarily in the field of educa­tion, is under discussion. 

.....n 
2 hours a night -3 nights a week $10-$15 
Steady Job -Guaranteed Hours Each Week 
Call and leave message: 
Scott Braley 
283·6637 

Miss Martucci, explained the their work, but given academic udents aren't reached by the goals of counseling as well as the · credit as well. Th'e Educational counseling program, so the Edu-Student Advisor Program. She Policy Committee recommended cational Policy Committee 
proposed that student advisors that this proposal be accepted. recommended that the be .not only compensated for 
She pointed out that many counseling _program be improved 
Illness unrelated t(> diseased food 
establish a causotory organrsm." schools as well as 16 of his 32 Dr. George D. Colip, Univer­The medical director went on assistants were presently suffer­sity Medical Director of Student to say that nearly ten percent of ing from this intestinal flu. 
Health, yesterday refuteq ru­the students in South Bend mors that an outbreak of gastro­intestinal disorders was the re­Kroshno''s constitution reviewed 
sult of a diseased portion of 

(continued from pdge 1)
food served by the dining halls. Addressing a gathering of 

John Barkett, wanted the HPC to Several presidents, includingnearly 300 students gathered in 
chair its own meetings, opposed Joe Stankus of Holy Cross and Flanner Hall's "pit", Dr. Colip 
to Krashna's proposal, which modifying the Senate before said that "we in no way can link gives the SBP the chairmanship. they decided to abolish it 
the campus illness to the food This point was nevt?.r resolved. outright. Mahoney added the service. There's no pattern to it 
Barkett asked Krashna and question of whether size was the 
and we have not yet been able to Winings if they had considered problem with the Senate . 
St. Mary's Soplts to sponsor Founder's Day 
The story of Saint Mary's College has been one of con­tinued advancement. Sister M. Raphaelita recalls the historical occasion when members of her class were finally allowed to date those exhalted men from across 
sponsored by the Sophomore Class and co-ordinated by Pat the road. This meaningful event and other past <tchievements, both social and academic, will be 

explored  on  October  13  in  
celebration  of  Saint  Mary's  
Founders' Day.  

A program in honor of one hundred and twenty-six years of education for women will be 
Student Rates 
A SIMsh hit! In W•sh.,, D.C. 
Now South Bend .... 
Enroute to 

ar....,••, 
GEORGE SF•OTA and MARC MEil!SON 
Present 

JAMES WHITMORE 
IN 

"WILL ROGERS' U.S.E.' 
Ad11pted by PAUL SHYRE 
A M.O.RTIN GOODMAN PRODUCTION 
TICKET'S 10N SALE: l~ ~-:· 6~f~c~.m. 
See PreJ~iew on "60 111inutes", Tuesday Night. WSBT-TV Oumne! 22 
Alii seats reserved 
Sharkey, Mitzi Tracy, and Susan Welte along with their class advisor, Sister Miriam Patrick. 
An open house will be held in Bertrand Hall from I :00 to 4:00 displaying the many archives which have made up the history of Saint Mary's. At 7:30p.m. an informal get-together will be' held in Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall . 
Various guest speakers include Sr. M. Concepta, Associate Pro­fessor of Education, Sr. M. Franzita, Professor of English, Fr. John Cavanaugh, chaplain in Le Mans Hall, Sr. M. Raphaelita, Director of Admissions, and Miss Carroll, Exccu tive Director of the Alumnae Association . 
Following their remarks and ll n open discussion period, there will be refreshments provided by the AI umnae Association. 
TYPING 

Any. material, any length, charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 PM 
1•• OCT. 18 
l'~>rtnrmance 8:30PM 1r~ PER~GN 






