Parietals statement due from Trustees next week 
by Charlie Myers 
A statement from the Univer­sity's Board of Trustees concern­ing parietal hours will hopefully he issued next week, said Dr. Thomas Carney, l'hairman of the Board's Student Affairs Sub­Committee. 
The committee met yesterday in the Center for Continuing Education to revie .y a presen­tation hy facult'' and students on hall life. The Board of Trustees is also expected to release statements on co­education and drin'jng at Notre Dame in the near f11ture. 
The documents, prepared at the full Board's !·:aster meeting in Miami, were to be released this week, but the transcription of these decisions has caused the delay according to Carney. 
The highlights of the closed morning session of the Board were presentations by the 
Swigert to sub 
for ailing moon 
pilot Mattingly 
CAPE KENNEDY (U~) ­
Substitute astronaut John L. 
Swigert performed well in yes­
terday's drills with the two 
healthy members of the Apollo 
13 team ami the flight crew 
director said "we think we are 
still go'. for laum:h to the moon 
Saturday. 
An eleventh hour substitution 
of Swigert for measles-prone 
moon pilot Thomas K. Mattingly 
was the only chance of avoiding 
a month's delay in the $375 
million lunar lllJsston. Final 
work was expected early Friday 
afternoon. 
Swigert's "fine" performance 
in a spacecraft trainer buoyed 
official hipcs that Saturday's 
launch date could he met, 
in formed sources said. 
Swigert drilled with Apollo 
13's other two prime pilots, 
James A. Lovell and Fred W. 
liaise. all day to sec if the 
backup command module pilot 
had the "rapid and close coonli­
nation" with the others to carry 
out the critical moon flight 
maneuvers. The tests will con­
tinue today. 
"We think we arc still go, 
said Donald K. Slayton, director 
of flight crew operations. "If we 
had run into any stone walls, we 
would have stopped. 
"But we have a lot to look at 
to sec if it is realistic to consider 
flying on Saturday." 
The dedsion on whether to go 
with Swigert Saturday or fly 
with Mattingly May 9 was 
expected to he based primarily 
on Lovell's assessment of Swi­
gert's ability to replace Matting­
ly with so little practice. 
Swigert. 3X, a native of 
Denver, has been working with 
the command and service mod­
Nutting-for-President issues such as parietals were· just organization and the University one of many concerns which the Arts council. Board took into consideration. In the afternoon discussion One member noted that the session, little was said concern­board has the right as well as the ing the Nutting presentation. Dr. obligation to look into all Carney did note that, until last aspects of student life. The week, many of the Board mem­members stated that the Board bers knew little or nothing about of Trustees does not determine the campaign. regulations such as parietals, hut Concerning the Arts Council, rather makes judgement on the Dr. Carney declared that there rcc om m endations presented 
.would he a "moratorium on them by the respective campus destruction" i.e. th fieldhouse, committees. 
The students countered this From left to right at yesterday's Trustees meetina; Mr. J'A.
until a more ·comprehensive studey could he made by the statement by noting that in Van C:orghum, Mr. Leonard Sloglund, and Fr. Charles Council. He did feel that, at (Please turn to page 2) McCarragher. present, there was no argument to support the destruction of the field house. 

Solotaroff to keynote SLF 
Although the afternoon session lagged behind schedule, by Bob Meyers expression. He has both the 
Born in Elizabeth, New Jer­
the meeting was opened at 4 Opening and concluding this preception and sensitivity to 
sey, M.. Solotaroff holds a 
p.m. for those students wishing years Sophomore Literary Festi­recognize and deal with these 
bachelors degree from the Uni­
to attend. The open portion of val will be two outstanding and people and their works while the 
versity of Michigan. In 1956 he 
the session included presenta­unique individuals. Theodore New American Review.. provides 
received his Masters degree in 
tions by students on such issues Solotaroff stands for the "New the medium for introducing the 
English from the University of 
as the judicial system, black Principles of Literature" shaping · public to their creations. '\1­
Chicago. He was associate editor
concentration, hall government, the style of today writers. Tom "1 don't know that one 
of Commentary and editor of
and student individuality and Wolfe represents their fulfill­could find in print now a 
Book Week before helping found
responsibility. ment. better collection than this of . 
NAR in 1967. His own literary
Mr. Solotaroff will present the sensible literary minds on the
At the conclusion of John endeavors have appeared in such 
keynote address of the 1970 loose, determindly confront­
Barkett's summation, the notable maiazines as Comtrtent­
Sophomore Literary Festival ing the sundry wild revolu­
meeting became a question and ary, New Republic, Book Week 
Sunday at 4:00p.m., April 12 in tions around us." 
answer period. (Please turn to page 2)
the Library Auditorium. · -TheN. Y. Times Book Review 
Despite a few initial queries The aspiring young authors of the 70's will look toward Theo­
into the possibilities of lay 
Kirk violates court 
rectors, the major thrust of the dore Solotaroff for inspiration and acknowiedgement in their
discussion centered around the promising careers. As editor of
Board's decision-making powers. 

d.~_segregation order·
the New American Review, Solo­Beginning with the topic of taroff is a pivotal figure in the BRADENTON, Fla. (UPI)­the desegregation of Manatee County schools.
pa rictal hours, concerned search for an American interprl'­l~ov. Claude Kirk, leaving behind students confronted the hoard tation of modern fiction and a newborn son and a trail of Likening himself to Mohandas with the charge of trying to non-fiction. llis magazine brings colorful mixed metaphors. flew Gandhi of India and the federal "legislate morality." The to the world of literature the here yesterday to personally government to a vengeful phar­
mcrnb!!rS of the Board denied dynamic talent of young writers confront federal marshals who aoh, Kirk left a Tallahassee this accusation, noting that with novel ideas and modes of arrested the aids he sent to halt hospital telling newsmen: "We will resist force with force effort with effort. ' "We do not get pushed around by bullies, whoever they might he," he s~itl, adding a threat to arrest fcdt•ral officers ii they break a state law. Questioned whether he was offering himself for arrest, the governor snapped: "TlJere ain't nobody better put a hand on ol' Claude Jr." He added he expected the l.l.S. marshals to respect the sover­eignty of his office. Kirk suspended Manatee County school officials late Wednesday for the second time in three days and planned to take personal l·ommand of the schools yesterday morning. But he had to turn the job over to aides anti set aside affairs of state to rush his wife, Erika, to Tallahassee Memorial llospital,


MUN condemns intervention 
for the birth of their second child, a I 0 pound son named
hold on Laos and that the U.S. verts."
by Tom Hufendick United how­Erik.
could conceivably threaten the The Kingdom, "The world can live without
A resolution censuring both integrity of every other nation in ever, subsequently proposed an me for 40 minutes, that's all."
North Vietnam and the United the world. amendment under which the the governor told newsmen at
States for their violation of This stance was emphatically resolution would ccnsun• North 
Laotian neutrality was over­supported by a delegate frqm Vietnamese involvement in Laos the hospital before rushing to his 
whelmingly approved in last the People's Republic of China as well as that of the U.S. This plane. 
night's session of the Model (Red China) who commanded amendment was opposed by Three of the governor's aides. United Nations. "in the name of God" thai the Rich Hunter. sclf-prodaimcd accompanied hy Manatee Sheriff The original resolution. intro­Americans leave Laos. King of Poland. who dl·nounced Rihard Wcitlcnfcld. six dcputks 

ules of the moonship ever since his test pilot days at Nort American Aviation Inc. now  duced hy Byelorussian SSR, referred only to American al"l ivi­ty in Southeast Asia. The Byclo­ Albania also agreed with the resolution. In fact, one of the Albanians referred to the United  it as a "diabolical Western plot" to make tin· rl'Solution unaCl"l'pt­a hk· to t hl' Fastl'rn pOWl'I"S.  plus I:! slate troopl'rs with riot equipment showed up early yesterday to Sl'C that Kirk's  
North American Rock well Corp., the comp<my whid1 built  russians United  main taincd that States is seeking  the to  States as an insane l·ountry, and hl' added that the American  Both tin· anwndml·nt and till' amt'IHkd resolution passed,  wishl'S Wl'l"l' carried out and that the court ordered dcsl'grcga lion  
the craft.  impose  its  oppressive strangle- people  arc  "a  hunch  of  per­ (1'/cl.l.H'  tum  to  [Wgc  3)  did not take place.  


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1970
THE OBSERVER
PAGE 2 


Tom Wolfe scheduled for SLF 

~~~~~~~~IUKappler wins !Howard presidency 
Sunday at 4:00p.m., April 12 in 

(Continued from page 1) the Library Auditorium. and Atlantic Monthly. He will soon publish a collection of There is nobody in his milieu personal criticisms entitled A -no one in the sense, sound and Sense of Direction (Atheneum). shock-value comedy bag like Surely, Theodore Solotaroff will Tom Wolfe. He is the main pop inspire this direction in the proponent and from 1965's authors of the future. Kandy Kolored Tangerine-
Flake Streamline Baby to 1968's Mr. Solotaroff will present the Pump House Gang (both collec­keynote address of the 1970 . tions) and the mad Ken Kesey Sophomore Literal}:'_ Festival book, The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, he has placedhimself
gentle John 
at the pinnacle of the new 
jcmrnlll.Ism's jumble of talent. 
~~ contributing editor to Now 

FONSECA 
A floating song or two· 
York magazine, he has edited a forthcoming anthology of the New Journalism which promises 


AMERICA 
ICECAPADD 
Wed. April1_5 
to 

Sun. April19 
Student Discount 
For Thur. 8 pm Sat. 2pm 


Sun. 6 pm 
"l I t f i '~ , 
~ 
Only $1.25 tix Remain (Reg. $2.50) 
For full price shows some $4.50 and $2.50 tix remain 
Fox's Extends 
SPECIAL PRICES 
to 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
most important thing in buying a diamond 
---...~ is knowledge. It takes an expert to know the fine Points of cut, color and quality•.• and what gives a diamond its value. There's only one way to boy a diamond... and that is by coming to a jeweler you can trust. 
DIAMONDS $50 TO $5,000 OPEN A CONVENIENT 
B ACCOUN~T~T"O~D~A~Y~~~~---­
to fill a long-realized gap which has existed between the tradi­tionalists and the now-dominant new breed of. writers. 
Wolfe was born in Richmond, Virginia, and educated at Wash­ington and Lee, and Yale. He distinguished himself in I 961 with reporting for the Washing­ton Post on Cuba and the 
Senate's civil rights filibuster. He moved on to the New York Herald Tribune and its successor, The World Journal Tribune. The only survivor of the demise of the publication is New York, which ranks as the foremost of the new regional magazines, due in part, to Wolfe's contributions. 
On April 16 at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall, Tom Wolfe will speak on "The New Journalism -and How It's Shaking Up the Literary World". You will find· then why Karl Shapiro, in Book W'Orld, calls him "more than brilliant, ... a goddamn joy." 
The team of Rick Kappler and Mike Martinelli, swept yester­day's presidential election in Howard Hall from two other teams headed by Ron Chamak and Steve Martinek by &n 8440-11 vote. Kappler won on a "community involvement" ticket and strongly backed pro­posals for a student forum. 
In  the  hall's  senatorial  elec­ 
tion  sophomore  Kelly  Flynn  
from  Indianapolis  ran  unoppos:'  

ed to fill the seat vacated by Senator Russ Stone who was recently elevated to a stay-sena­tor position. 
Summer Jobs 
How hard can you work? Earn $2000 to $6000 Call Chas 7604 
12-Strung 
Jim Balcerski sing along 



AMERICA 

JI=~!.!=,===""""=-=-="!!!Q.r...l!,------------------------, present since there has been no 
Hair Styling
for N.D. Men the Continental Way 
Razor Cutting & Style · European Layer Shapingfor Long Hair Hqve Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed serve & pamper you. 
Continental Hair Styling 
306 Sh.erland Dit~,S . South Bend Ind. STUDENT RATES 
2340811 
By Appt. 




STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
IS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITIONS OF: 
Assistant Social Commissioner 
Collegiate Jazz Festival Chairman Special Projects Chairman Homecoming Chairman 
Grand Prix Chairman Mardi Gras Chairman 
Applications should be submitted by April 15 to: Social Commissioner Box 427 Notre Dam lnd 
Commenting on his stance 
with regard to Student Body 
President Dave Krashna's ideas 
concerning the student forum 
and the student senate Kappler 
said: "We're really pretty much 
behind Dave's proposals. The 
student senate should be abolish­
ed." 
Kappler said the theme under­
lying his term of presidency will 
be "community involvement, a 
kind of esprit de compangnon" 
that will give Howard a new 
atmosphere and a new image 
President Kappler said he 
intends to add more social 
events to the hall's activities as a 
means of fostering student invol­
vement. He plans to intensify 
the Hall Fellows Program in 
Howard and expand the tutoring 
and test filing programs as other 
means of promoting the acade­
mic side of life in the residence 
hall. • 
Newly elected senator Flynn said his most important task in that position will be to represent the hall's opinion regarding the future of the senate. 

Ticket Manager Concert Chairman 
" 

Promotion Director Business Manager 
"I see my job as collecting all pertinent information concern­ing the questions of the aboli­tion of the senate and the implementation of the student forum, including the advantages and disadvantages of each, and disseminating that information to the people in the hall. I see my duty as representing their wishes through the senate," Flynn said. 


Trustees meet 
(Continued from page 1) 

effect the· final yes or no on 
decision-making lies in the hands 
The Board concluded its 
remarks by contending that 
what it enacts is in the sincerest 
interests of the students, and 
that it attempts to evaluate 
matters as objbctively and as 
honestly as possible. 
The etlect that this specific 

meeting will have on any legisla­
tion is unknown. Dr. Carney 
stated that this committee is in 
no position to make any decis­
ions or recommendations a 
time to meet with the Executive committee of the Board. 
This was the last meeting of the Student Affairs Sub­committee for this school year. 
Two of the Best 
PAUL GUERNSEY JIMJMORAN 
combine at 
AMERICA 


,___________________________________________ 
PAGE 3 
THE OBSERVER.

FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1970 
Muncie American 
PhiJ Orth

Senate Con -Com holding meeting 
Keeps the Ball Rollin'
require either a two thirds vote

by Mark Walbran plans. 
halls havu1~' up to 450 residentsof the senate or a majority of 
Sat. AMERICA
Thrasher said that there was a

The Student Senate's special are represented by three senators
the student body in favor of the 
real need for a new constitution

committee charged with the task and those with more than 450
amendment to pass.

of writing a new constitution for as the present one is both residents are represented by four 
FOLK and CLASSIC 
One of the controversial 
complicated and contradictory.

student government decided senators. If the hall presidents
topics which the committee will

Wednesday night to prepare However, he said that he would make up the Student Forum 
GUITARS
examine is the dissolution of the 
reserve judgement on a Student

copies of the present constitu­then each hall wiU have only one
Student Senate. Krashna is in 
Forum until after the hearing. 
Good selection of

tion along with recent amend­representative, regardless of the
favor of the senate's dissolution 

ments for all committee mem­"I believe that the senate number of residents. 
strings and music
and has proposed the idea of a 
structure-wise is perfectly work­

bers to examine and evaluate. Giuffrida said that the only
Student Forum. 
able," said Stone. He added that

The committee will hold an fair way to decide the issueHowever, according to the 
he would like to see the Senate's

open hearing next Wednesday would be for the students
four stay senators, the commit­
represesen tation increased. 

evening so that all ideas concern­themselves to decide whether ortee seemed in general agreement 
Weber felt that students 
a/u~M~If!

ing the future and direction of not they want to abolish thethat the question of the senate 
would be losing representation if

student government may be senate in favor of a Student
vs. forum was not an "either-or" 
the Student Forum were made

aired. The hearing will be open 
Forum. 209 No. Main St.
situation. The committee is 
up of the hall presidents as

to the student body and all generally interested in how stu­
Krashna proposed during the

interested students will be able dent government can better be 
campaign. Under the present run. In an interview yesterday all 

to give their views. 
system, he explained, halls hav­

TRIP TO RUSSIA
Student Body President Dave four stay senators said they were 
ing 150 residents or less are committee. Other members in­
Krashna is chairman of the dubious of a Student Forum represented by one senator, 
$655 incl. jet fare, room and board. June 4-25. Register clude: Mark Winnings, Student because they had not yet been those having up to 300 residents 
NOW. Prof. A. Rubulis, G-22. Evenings: 288-9783. Body Vice-President, Phil De­
presented with any concrete are represented by two senators, fliese, President of Flanner Hall, Mark Lindburg, President of Hrecn-Phillips Hall, Tom Suddes, President of Holy Cross and t hamnan ot the Hall l'reswents Council, John Barkett, President of Morrissey Hall, and the four 
The time has come
stay senators, Tom Thrasher, Russ Stone, Pat Weber, and AI Giuffrida. 
Following the hearing the committee will prepare its pro­posal to submit to the Student 
to take arealistic look
Senate. Thrasher explained yes­terday that the new constitution will be handled by the senate as an amendment in toto, and will 
at yourself... 
Russkys rebuked 
If you're about to get your degree, it's time to 
(Continued from page 1) 
ask yourself some penetrating questions-the 28-16-8 and 35-10-7, respective­
kind of questions many people never. really ly, 
face up to. Although they were of little 
Are you more interested in people, in things or consequence in this particular 
in abstract ideas? Are you willing to make mean­debate, the activities of the 
ingful commitments to ·other people as well as to Russian delegation is of special 
yourself? note. At one stage in the 
It is worlh thinking about. We at International proceedings, the delegation led 
Harvester also continue to critically examine our an extended celebration in 
economic and social responsibilities. We are grow­honor of the hundredth anniver­
ing in the United States and in 166 other coun­sary of Lenin's nativity. Mike 
tries because IH products are making an impor­Kelly, chairman of the Model 
tant contribution to a better life. UN, responded by temporarily 
Trucks-from the scout utility vehicle to giant rescinding Russia's right to 
off-highway specialized vehicles. speak. 
Farm & Industrial Equipment-from garden
The ensuing reaction of the 
and farm tractors to loader-backhoes. 
Soviet Union was something new 
Construction Equipment-from in-plant load­
to the United Nations in that 
ers to powerful e.arlh scrapers.
they verbally and physically Iron & Steel-from cold-finished bars to special
harassed a Norwegian delegate. 
alloy steels. · 

Kelly severely reprimanded the Soviets, calling their hooting, 
Gas Turbines-from stationary generators to calling, and throwing of paper 
mobile power units. wads "childish." Kelly also 
Aerospace-from specialized space vehicle com­
noted that he hadn't thrown a 
ponents to complete systems. 
paper wad since his school days. 
To help you plan your future, we invite you to stop in at your College Placement Office for a free
WEAVER WINS 
copy of our book, "Your World of Opportunity." 
Sophomore Bob Weaver was elected President of St. Edward's Hall yesterday, defeating sopho­
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER 
more Dan Hyde by a vote of 
An equal opportunity employer 
64-25. Weaver will replace the current SBVP, Mark Winings, as President. 
AMERICA AMERICA AMERICA AMERICA AMERICA 
~====:;;:::;::;;;===
*~INEST IN STEREO:;i 
fl:'AC, /1L'/'U', 
LANSING, J VCI ('ofur TV sets ' JVC i 
JOSS PRODUCTION Call 23Z·2804 I
-. . 
·s published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
PAGE 4 FRIDAY. APRIL 10. 1970 
THE OBSEilfl£4 
-~-------·--·----··· -··'·--.. ,...

---·. _. 
-----·--·-..::'··--------~. ------..--::.::::~~·:'~~-~ ----'!"'"'­
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 

DAVID C. BACH, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 


Contract Buyers League 
Howard Zinn, in his lecture here at Notre Dame, spoke of what he viewed as "the conspiracy of laws and statutes that preserve the exploitation of the economic and political elites." The Home Contract Buyers League in Chicago is a classic victim of that exploitation, but it is also a case of the poor employing the judicial system to correct previous wrongdoing. 
ln 1958, the West Side of Chicato was a neighborhood in flux; blacks were moving in as the panicked white residents left in droves. Joe Frazier is one of about 4,-00 Chicago blacks that were taken in by a group of about thirty Chicago realtors. In 1958, Ames Reality bought Frazier's present home for about $15,500 from a white person. Two weeks later Ames Realty sold the home to Frazier for $27,500 under a land contract arrangement. Under the contract, the realtor gave Frazier a 45 year term to pay for the house, at 7% interest. The realtor, meanwhile, put down $1000 on a mortgage at 3% interest with a local bank. Because the FHA and the Chicago banks had "area write offs', one of which was Chicago's West Side, Ames Realty was collecting twice as much from Joe Frazier as they were paying to the bank. 
In 1968, some Jesuit seminarians and 11 students (including Bill Ryan, now a senior here at Notre Dame) moved into the West Side, discovered the situation and began looking up contracts and organizing the residents. When confronted with the nature of their predicament, the blacks were enraged and embarrassed by their ignorance. Ames Realty was soon confronted by a group of informed and angry blacks who demanded renegotiation of their contracts. The realtor refused, claiming everything was legal, which it was. His office and house were picketed, and Ames Realty eventually agreed to renegotiate. 
Other bigger realtors have refused to renegotiate, notably 
Universal builders of the South Side. Last December, the League 
organized 500 families that have placed their house payments in 
escrow. Sheriff Woods was. unable to make the subsequent evictions 
as League members would carry the furniture back into the house, 
or would block the entrance of the deputies. The situation became 
crucial over the last two weeks, when over 200 Chicago police and 
sheriff's deputies cordoned off entire blocks and evicted 16 families. 
Last weekend, five hundred blacks amassed at City Hall and 
demanded that Mayor Daley exert his influence as a mediator 
between the county and the realtors. As a result, the evictions have 
halted, the evicted families have returned, and the League awaits the 
deision of the Illinois Supreme Court next month. 
The Court will treat the Contract Buyers League case as a class 
case, so that the decision will be applicable to all similar cases of 
housing exploitation. 
The blacks in Chicago have formed a power base seemingly 
capable of standing up to the realtors. The Contract Buyers League 
may be strong enough to resist the banks, the police, and the 
realtors. Fifty Chicago lawyers have assisted the League, and the 
Jesuits have given much help in the way of money and men. The 
blacks in Chicago may win this one fight, and the Illinois Supreme 
Court could pave the way for similar redresses. 
All this leads one to believe that reform has been effective, that the poor are being assisted on a massive scale, while that is far from the truth. The twenty seven million Americans that live in families that have an income below 3700 dollars a year are still being exploited by landlords, realtors, and grocers on a massive scale. The federal and local tax structures still allow the rich to <get richer while the poor picket and plead for justice. 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer Campus Editor: Glen Corso Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck Ad Mgr.: Bruce Barker 
Managing Editor: Mary Chris Morrison 
News Editor: Steve Hoffman Sports Editor: Terry Shields ' Ass't News Editor: Floyd Kezele Features Editor: T.C. Treanor Associate Editor: Cliff Wintrode, Photography Editor: Mike Murphy Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney Night Controller: Joe Becker 
Night Editor: T.C. Treanor Layout Design: Cliff Wintrode Layout: John Abowd, Glen Corso, 
Steve Hoffman, Dan Kopenhafer Headlines: Randy Young 
Letters 
"Here we go round the prick­. ly pear at five o'clock in the morning" 
Supposedly starting with that 
quote should impress you that I 
read T. S. Eliot (or nursery 
rhymes.) Actually, writing about 
Freshman hours puts me in a 
mood that is both childish (l001 
ways to beat the system) and 
"hollow" (What good will it do? 
This campaign isn't directed at 
you. The rule seems pretty 
empty right now to me.) And I 
had to start somewhere. 
I could let the system speak 
for itself. (A Freshman girl sign­
ing out for Chicago couldn't 
return until dorm opening-6 
A.M.--tell your parents that 
they're forcing you to spend the 
night with the guy.) Maybe the 
condition of Regina at 2 A.M. 
would be better (definitely loud­
er.) Or the blinking lights of the 
north lounge giving the "all clear 
signal" (couldn't resist it.) 
There is the syndrome (2 
A.M. could be considered "late") that you're only good till 2-so use every moment of it (wonderful for developing re­sponsibility.) Of the couples, turned down by the crowded shuttle at the grotto, trekking back to late minutes. (Is that why judicial board exists?) Ig­nored sign-out cards would stress the double standard. (If I decide to stay out, no one will have to sign me in; if "an emergency happens," tell me later.) The situation grows trite, ridiculous and maddening. 
Movements through Freshman 
Senate, student government 
committees, and petitions have 
only been frustrated. (This isn't 
the time or place, who cares?, 
you're "immature," there isn't 
that much to do in South Bend 
after 2 A.M., parietals "end" at 
l.) 
Parental permission cards 
allow SMC upperclassmen no 
hours. If SMC is acting "in loco 
parentis," what about girls who 
have no hours at home? Building 
on parental support, Ginny 
Zuccaro and Mary Beth Cash­
man are trying again. They de­
sire to hear from the parents 
themselves -taking the results 
directly to Sister Immaculata, 
Dean of Students. 
A proposed form-letter would 
leave many options: "I think my 
daughter should have no hours, 
no hours second semester, no 
hours once a month.... should 
have hours, but I could see 
letting other Freshmen have the 
privilege of none.... " 
The grumbling goes on-but 
Regina will run bedcheck every 
weekend night and sporadically 
through the week. 
Only a whimper? Jan Reimer 201 Regina North 
• The opinions expressed in the edi­torials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely the opin· ions of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's Col· lege, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations_, faculty, or stu­rlent bodies. 

"I have the answer to that question on parietals here on 
tape sorr.ewhere.. .';­


Campus Opinion 
Edited by Glen Corso 
The controversy surrounding abortion has risen to new heights this year with several states passing or seriously considering bills that would allow for greatly relaxed rules for abortion. There is a vocifeous segment of the population who sincerely believe that abortions is nothing but murder. On the other hand, there are those who feel that abortions is a natural right which state laws are denying mothers. They argue that the decision to have an abortions is a personal one that each person must reconcile with her own conscience. 
Certain polls that show sentiments for liberalized abortion laws are near majority levels. However most Americans are not yet ready to go so far as to allow abortion to become a matter strictly between mother and physician. A recent Gallup poll cited in Newsweek shows that only 40% would favor such action. 
A poll taken by the American Opinion Institute taken late last year showed that 56% would condone abortion if the child were a result of a rape, while 55% felt that an abortion should be allowed if there was a good chance that a child would be born defective. Close to 71% favored allowing abortion if the life of the mother was endangered. which is the only condition under which the Catholic Church will permit an abortion. 
The American Civil Li erties has long been an ardent proponent of the complete abolition of abortion laws, arguing that abortion is a private matter between patient and physician. A spokesman for the ACLU recently said that abortion laws are "grossly repressive legal prohibitions" that are "unconstitutionally vague." 
"They deny to women in the lower economic groups to equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the fourteenth amendment, since abortions are now freely available to the rich but unobtainable by the poor," he claimed. 
Opponents of liberalized abortion statutes, while admitting that 
they are basing their opposition on moral grounds, place abortion in 
the same category as homicide. The Roman Catholic Church has 
long opposed abortion relacation on such grounds. Its strong 
opposition was considered instrumental in the defeat of the relaxed 
abortion bill that was considered by the New York State legislature 
in 1968. 

The spector of Nazi policy is raised by opponents who liken to 
the philosophy behind the drive to appeal abortion laws to that 
followed by Nazi Germany in regards to "people unwanted by the 
state.'' 

Professor Charles R. Rice, when he taught at Fordham Law 
School, testified before a NY Senate committee which was 
considering a relaxed abortion law. "If you pass this law you are 
saying that a human being can be killed because his existence is 
inconvenient or uncomfortable to you," he said. 
The rights of the mother are also disputed by opponents. While 
conceding that she does have certain rights regarding conception and 
child-bearing, they maintain that she also has certain responsibilities 
to the unborn child that she carries within her. Merely because 
another child would cause the mother discomfort, or force her to -economize to pay for the upkeep of the new child, is no reason to allow her to snuff out its life, opponents charge. 
Since the number of criminal abortions are now running between 
200,000 and I ,000,000 annually, there is a pressing need for some 
type of action concerning abortion. Either there must be a massive 
crackdown on illegal abortionists, with an aim towards restoring 
respect for the present abortion laws, or the laws must be relaxed. 
A bill which emraces the middle course in the controversy has 
been suggested by the prestigious American Law Institute. The 
model penal code they suggest would permit abortion when the 
patient's doctor and a hospital abortion committee agree that the 
pregnancy is endangering to themental or physical health of the 
mother or when the pregnancy results from rape or incest, or when 
the child is likely to be born· withserious mental or physical defects. 
The bill allows physicians wide latitude in determining if a patient 
should have an abortion, however it does provide for a measure of 
control, which would not be present if the abortion laws were 
merely repealed. 



PAGE 5
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1970 
Observer 
by Dave Stauffer 
suppose Guy DeSapio's main diffi­t:ulty in being editor was that he was fort:ed to adjust to a great t:hange in the operation and role of the Observer (a change whit:h could perhaps be called maturing.) During his 101 issues as head or co-head of the staff, the Observer 
l )quite reluctantly became a business rather than a hobby, and 2) became potentially the most powerful student mouthpiece for affecting change at Notre Dame. 
DeSapio didn't want the Observer to lose its informal, relaxed operation; he in fact tried to convince himself and his staff that it wasn"t. But the change which came was inevitable and in retrospect, 
obvious.  There  was  something  very  
business-like  in  the  way  DeSapio  and  
publisher  Don  Holliday  requested  a  

$1 2,000 allocation from the Stullcnt Senate, were turned down, fought the decision editorially and politically, and were then granted the full amount. This event marked the turning point in the four year life of the Observer; it marked the end of informality and the beginning of a rather systematic newspaper opera­tion. 
As a result of the $12,000 grant and a rapid growth in retrospect as a widely read campus publication (largely due to past editor Bill Luking), the Observer began to publish eight page papers three or four times a week. From December 9 (issue no. 54) until March 25, forth-eig .t consecutive eight-page papers were pub­lished, along with two twelve-page edi­tions. 
This represents what may be the most phenomenal growth of any college newspaper in the country. On October 27, 1966, the Voice folded. The Observer was born soon after, and published thirteen times under Steve Feldhouse and Robert Anson. Pat Collins took over in '67-'68 and (if nothing else) employed a blaring style to gain readership. This four-page paper was published two and later three times a week. 
Last year Bill Luking quieted down the style hut ambitiously adopted the seem­ingly insane policy of daily publication. As a result, Luking was forced to expand his staff beyond the four or five people who, like it or not, operated and controlled the paper. Surprisingly enough, the Observer published two specials and several eight-page editions during the second semester. 
Taking over after Tim O'Melia's brief command, Holliday and DeSapio decided to continue expansion The idea originally was· to publish three eight­P<~gers and two four-page editions a week, b:1t later an eight-page daily was the gc1l. The decision made, the Observer >v"as [t•rced to become a departmentally and (relatively) efficiently run publication. 
With Holliday concerned largely wHn 
business and exterior operations (as well 
as another ambitious project: hockey and 
basketball specials), it was DeSapio's responsibility to somehow procure and then organize the manpower necessary to publish 3000 inches of copy a week. tn looking back on how he managed to do this, it appears that his dramatic and even 
emotional appeals for help must have ' 
-ations: 

Life under DeSapio 
-..i.. 

been contnved. This is, of course, 
doubtful, but in any event they were quite effective. Over forty peopie res­ponded to a single (somewhat exagger­ated?) plea for aid. 
The major task then was organization. Sports Jnd features, almost completely separate from DeSapio's rule, provided some reduction in his responsibility for production. But he was still faced with I) i'l large but very inexperienced news department, 2) a business staff which 

changed personnell like a chamelion 
chauges colors, J) an edttonal stall whtch 
had only four members with .a year or 
more experience, and 4) the editorial 
page. 

Under the dirction of Glen Corso, the 
news staff made up in efficien~ and 
Brown to play Beethoven 

SMC will host 'Campus '70' 
by Sue Bury 
St. Mary's College is hosting "Campus '70," a conference on P.ducation, June 16-20. One thousand vis· Jrs from Catho­lic and Protestant wllee;es and universities throughout the country are expected to participate. Right now, the St. Mary's "Campus '70" committee is seeking SMC students to serve as the college's delega­tion. This group will be participating in the conference activities and acting as host delegation to the out-of-town ·guests. Notre Dame students arc welcome to attend the events and to help acquaint the visitors with the ND-SMC campuses. 
The conference is sponsored by the Council of Protestant Colleges and Universities and the National Catholic Educational Association. Conference planners feel that an effective discussion will result only if all sectors of education take part. They have invited students, faculty, administrators, and trustees to attend the conference events in order to get a wide range of opinions and experiences. Among the current sugges­tions is an open student-faculty exchange, which will he possible durin~ th<> 
, conference period 
"Campus ·7u·· ltas hCt:•l organized iuto three concurrent commissions that will cover a major part of the four days. The individual topics will he I )undergraduate education, 2)governance and decision­making. and 3)colle~e and society. Each commtsston will deal with specific prob­lems and the delegates may work with the commission of their choice. 
The Commission on Undergraduate Education has planned six sessions in which they will investigate current anti-traditional trends and evaluate their relevancy to the needs of the students. Some of the specific considerations will be the need for faculty to learn as the calibre of students and the educational situation change, an evaluation of the grading system with the possibility of an alternate system, and an ir"P.stigation of the effect of the "instituttu.. " on individual student growth. The commis­sion chairman in Fr. Andrew Greeley, Program Director of the National Opinion Research Center of the University of 
Chicago. 
Many people would agree that a college 
community can not exist only for itself. 
However, the means by which the college 
can enter the activity of society are very 
much m debate-especially church-related 
schools. The Commission on College and 
Society will study the twofold task of 
establishing a resp<msibility for commu­
nity problems and developing this same 
responsibility and sensitivity in the 
students. Dramatic presental•vll~ a .. u rote 
playing will allow the participants to 
investigate the psychological factors of 
problems in this area. Also, there will be 
an opportunity to talk with people 

involved in action programs such as the 
Urb?1 Coalition. 

Along wtth turmou m educatiOn goes turmoil in policy-making· on campus. In the case of religious institutions, the problem is twofold: governing methods must be sought that will foster both educational development and religious aspects of the particular college. There are indications that church-related schools are including more students in policy-making capacities. The Commis­sion on Governance and Policy-making will discuss this problem, making use of the most recent studies. Chairman of this commission is Dr. Rafael Alan Pollack Dean of St. Mary's College, St. Mary's: Californi:< 
The number of group sessions has been limited so that other optional activities can be included in the conference program. Among the possibilities are a film festival, discussion sessions around topics such as women's liberation, ses­sions for non-verbal expression (planned by the Arts committee), and an open-air coffee house on the SMC campus. Short term workshops have also been suggested to deal with the role of sensitivity 
tr .unmg m htgner educatiOn and the role 
of the college in community coalitions. 
St. Mary's needs students to act as its 
representatives in the conference. The 
quanuty what tt somt:tm•es lacked m 
quality. However, it is a tribute to all 
concerned that twenty-five pages of news 
were published each week. .l 
Michael Patrick O'Connor's night 
editor concept was expanded under 
DeSapio to become a night staff concept. 
Unity and harmony made the idea 
functional and desirable, and in some 
cases even reduced the advancing business 
atmosphere of operations. This is prob­
ably the most significant development in 
Observer production under DeSapio. 
The editorial page was DcSapio 's 
greatest constan I headache as editor. I 
hesitate to call it his greatest failure-this 
could he said only because by his position 
he was responsible for any failing. In this 
case it was the editorial hoard which 
even after DeSapio 's promoting, failed t~ 
achieve any consinuous collaboration on 
its editorials. As a result, the burden fell 
upon DeSapio and was at various times 
manifested in triteness and irrelevancy. 
As I mentioned previously, under DeSapio the Observer became potentially the most powerful student mouthpiece at Notre Dame. Pot en tiallv. There were three times during the c~urse of the year that the Observer proved its newfound power. The first was in the fall when through editorials and plain fact, th~ Observer managed to reverse the thinking of the student senate (and apparently many students) in gaining its $ 12,000 budget allocation. The second was the brief but highly effective push for investigation of Notre Dame's security department. It is thys type of decisive and forceful editorial policy which was neglected the remainder of the year. The third and most recent proof of influence was in the incidents surrounding the SBP 
campaign and election. The Observer became the center of controversy and emotional ever-reaction because, for better or worse, it had attained under DeSapio a position of power and respect at Notre Dame. 
An afterthought: the Harvard Lam­poon parodies Time Magazine; Time accepts the parody as recognition of their position of influence. 
Sunday afternoon at 4:00 in the Little 
Theater of Moreau Hall the SMC Music 
Department wil 
Sunday afternoon at 4:00 in the Little Theater of Moreau Hall the SMC Music Department will present a recital by Thomas A. Brown from DePaul Univer­sity. The all-Beethoven program, the bicentennial anniversary of the compos­er's birth, will include: Sonata in B-flat major, Op. 22; sonata in E-flat major, Op. 81, "Les Adieus;" Sonata in D minor, Op. 31, No. 2; and Sonata in A-flat major, Op. 110. 
Brown received his master's degree from Harvard in European History and his Ph. D. from the University of Wisconsin in Musicolgy. The public is invited to hea.r his performance. 
SMC delegation will be involved in seve:al functions. First, of course, will be participation in the conference activities along with visiting delegations. This is the most important aspect of the job. Also, these students will be acting as hosts to the out-of-town guests. Part of this task will be to aid the conference planners in finding facilities for the activities they have organized-for example, a location for the coffee house. It will also involve locating entertainment facilities in the South Bend area, a challenging assign­ment. 
H you can be in South Bend June 16-20, and are interested in participating in an innovative look at educatiOn contact Fr. Downs, 5377. ' 

FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1970
PAGE 6 
. . 

to AMERICA 
From BaD State Friday only 
Rich _Mathys 
Month of May 
A vai/able for May 4 4 bedroom house sleeps 10 fireplace private beach on Lake Michigan near Warren Dunes State Park 
Call Mr. Christiansen: DAYS, Niles 683-5300; EVENINGS. WEEK­ENDS, (616) 426·4174 
Nixon: Next judge fromNorth 
1-------------.L..----------=------., ted to vicious assaults on their intelligence, on their honesty and on their character. They have been falsely charged with being racists," he told newsmen, 
HAIR 
pumping and ringing his hands. "But when you strip away all 

Student Trip Saturday Night 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Presi­dent Nixon announced yester­day that his next Supreme Court nominee will be a conservative but will be selected from outside the South because the Senate, "as it is presently constituted," will not approve a Southerner. 
The President said he would make his choice known "in the very near future" and he pointedly asserted his belief that "a judge from the North... will be confirmed by the Senate." 
Nixon made his views known in a brief personal visit to the new White House press room and in a written statement after he conferred with Attorney General John N. Mitchell. When he spoke to newsmen, the usually composed President appeared to be grim "to the point of barely concealed anger. 
He accused opponents of both his rejected court nominees, Judge G. Harrold Carswell of Florida and Judge Clement F. Haynsworth Jr. of South Caro­!ina, of "hypocrisy" and "mali­cious character assassination" which he said was unwarranted. 
"Judge Carswell, and before, Judge Haynsworth, have submit-the hypocrisy, the real reason for their rejection was their legal philosophy, a philosophy that I share, of strict construction of the Constitution, and also the accident of their birth, the fact that they were born in the South." 
In words clearly aimed at the South, Nixon said: "I under­stand the bitter feeling of millions of Americans who live in the South about the act of regional discrimination that took place in the Senate yesterday. They have my assurance that the day will come when men like Judges Carswell and Haynsworth can and will sit on the high court." 
Nixon obviously chose to make the issue now, with partic­ular appeal to the South for forebeatance, in his effort to 

tF==============fl appoint someone to fill the Abe
April11 
Fortas vacancy who would
AMERICA 

Limited number of tickets available 
Is what you make it, 

SMC site of festival 
call Peter Van Brunt 1504 Make it great,
Start this weekend 
Over 200 young impressarios

~~~~~~~~=B~e~tw~e=en~7~an~d~l~l~to=n=•~·~~t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ will gather in Moreau Hall on the Saint Mary's College campus tomorrow for the Northern Indiana Music Festival. Pianists, vocalists and dancers from Michigan City, Angola, Indianapolis and other cities will 
I DOtJ'rCARE WHAT 

compete for ratings and awards during the morning session. 

Tt-\E ODDS I\RE1 
Selected students earning the 
superior rating will displaY their

l W~Nl RICHMOND 
Balcerski * Moran Fonseca* Clinton Guernsey * Orth 
Mathys t More · 
AMERICA 


restore what he terms "balance" to the Supreme Court. 
The President said his next nominee "will be from outside the South and he will fulfill the criteria of a strict constructionist with judicial experience either from a federal bench or on a state appeals court." 
Some Southern members of Congress, including Sens. Allen 
J. Ellender (D.La.), and Howard 
H. Baker Jr., (R.Tenn.), agreed with Nixon's arguments. "It's all right with me as long as he gets a 
good  man," said  Ellender.  "I  
don't  give  a  damn  where  he  
comes from."  

Sen. Strom Thurmond (R.S.C.) said the "issue" is not whether the nominee is from the South. "It is more important that the new Supreme Court justice be a conservative who is a strict constructionist and who will balance the court ." 
talents during an afternoon program in the Little Theatre. 
Serving as judges for the day's events will be Saint Mary's faculty members: Dr. Willis Stevens, professor and chairman of the music department; Sister 
M. Dolorosa, assistant professor of music; Monte K. Floyd, assistant professor of music; Pamela Griffe!, instructor of music; Arthur Lawrence, assistant professor of music; Janetta McNamara, instructor of physical education; Franklin Miller, assistant professor of music; Ronald Morebello, instructor of music; and Susan Stevens, instructor of music. 

Collegiate Diamond lrrporters 
announce the appointment of 
The 
NotreDame 
Bookstore 
as official Notre Dame Dealer for CDI Diamond Jewelry 

CDI gives you guaranteed quality and savings of 20% to 40% on diamond jewelry. 
Get outta town without leaving campus. Dial Direct. 
CDI imports diamonds from major diamond markets. Working directly with diamond resources in these areas
The lowest long distance rates are in effect every 
avoids unnecessary middleman profit. Additionally, the cost 
school night and all day Saturdays. 
of your diamond doesn't include "plush" jewelry store 
expenses. CDI sells the finest diamonds to collegians only, at 
the lowest possible prices. Come see us for complete details. 
Come in for your free copy of COl's "The Romance of the Diamond"­32 pages of diamond history and romance, descriptions and illustrations 
on all popular shapes, plus tips on how to select and care for your diamond. 
@ Indiana Bell 

0 DIAMOND JEWELRY 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
PAGE 7 
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1970
7118 O&rERVER. 

Notre Dame Band
'Notre Dame Liberation'claims 
rPOPS' CONCERT
credit for window bombings 
Friday, April 10 8:15pm
Cherry bombs were used to call. He described the voice of done to the administration destroy several windows in both the caller as "husky". Treanor building, but due to darkness, the laundry and the front of the opined that the caller was they did not see the broken administration building. This disguising his voice. windows. 
ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION 
was disclosed by Director of The anonymous person, ac­About I:30 a.m. The Obser-Secuirty, Arthur Pears, in two cording to Treanor said, "This is ver staff again received an 
CENTER 
interviews this week. The win­Notre Dame Liberation. We have anonymous phone call Trom a 
d • f 
dows were destroyed shortly just bombed the laundry and the similar husky -voiced caller. This t------------....:a=...==-=.::.::..:::..:.=..:I:....:O~n.:...._.:....!!r....:e~e~-=-------------l before the Easter vacation. Pears administration building." The time the man complained that 
NOTRE DAME KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
said that security had, as yet, no mysterious voice went on to say Notre Dame Liberation "didn't 
present

leads for the bombing except that "Arthur Pears' office" may like the way The Observer was that they had received an anony­be messed up a little as well. The covering them," and warned that mous phone call after the bombs last thing the phoner did was to The Observer's office may be THE GREAT RACE had detonated. issue a warning, "the next time the next target. with 
On the morning of March 25, it might be dynamite." 
Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis, Natalie Wood The Observer had received an The Observer then contacted anonymous phone call around The Observer staff immediate­campus security, which told 
plus 

1:15 a.m. T.C. Treanor, a ly dispatched two reporters to 
3 COLOR CARTOONS
them not to worry and that they

member of the staff, took the see if there was any damag~ too had received an anonymous 
telephone call. 
When informed of this Pears 
said that he doubted whether 
there was really such an organi­

WASIIINGTON (UPJ) -The everything possible for my state. zation as Notre Dame Libera­
wife of Attorney General John I am from Arkansas. It is my tion. He had no previous know­
'Crucify' Fulbright 
N. Mitchell telephoned the Ark­home sta tc. Fulbright doesn't ledge of the existence of any ansas Gazette at 2 a.m. P1ursday 
represent the state." "Notre Dame Liberation." He and urged the newspaper to To this, Fulbright retorted: "I felt that the bombings should• "crucify" Sen. J. Willaim Ful­don't believe she's in touch with not be taken lightly and that 
bright (D. Ark.) for l1is vote the people of Arkansas. She was whoever security apprehends against the Carswell Supreme born in Pine Bluff, but she's will be forced to pay for the Court nomination. been away from there for 20 or broken windows. The Little Rock paper, largest 30 years. She's a New Yorker." in Arkansas, quoted Martha 
AMERICA
The Gazette has stronglyMitchell as saying: supported Fulbright, whose term 

UNLEASHES

"It makes me so damn mad I docs not expire until 1974, andcan't stand it. lie (Fulbright) editorially opposed the Carswell 
PAT CLINTON

could have done a great deal for nomination.
the whole vote ... l want you to 
this weekend

crucify Fulbright and that's it." Fulbright, chairman of the 
ACADEMY AWARD WINNER!

Senate Foreign Relations Com­
mittee, made a rare break with 
BEST PICTURE -BEST DIRECTOR! 


WINNER
his Southern colleagues Wednes­day when he voted against confirmation of Judge G. Harold Carswell for the high court. 
"EPIC BATTLE OF THE SEXES."
Carswell was rejected on the 
-VIncent Canby, N.Y. Times
51-4 5 roll call vote. When informed of Mrs. Mit­
"HAS THAT YOUTHFUL
chell's phone call to the paper, 
RICHARD 

ACCENT WHICH PLACES IT IN A
Fulbright smiled and said, "Mrs. 
Mitchell has become a kind of 
BURTON 

LEAGUE WITH ZEFFIRELLI'S 
'ROMEO AND JULIET.' "
character around here." 
GENEVIEVE 

-John Mahoney, FM and Fine Arts Mag.
The attorney general's wife, who is a native of Pine Bluff, 
BUJOLD 

"AN INSTANT CLASSIC •• .''
IN THE -Archer Wlnsten, N.Y. Post
Ark., was quoted as informing 
HALWALLIS PROOUCfiONthe paper she had talked to three 
or four "very influential" people 
"A PERFECT MOVIE ••• RICHARD
from Arkansas who said they 
cAilllt~ 

BURTON, CHARMING, ROMANTIC.
·ould "disown" Fulbright be-· 
GENEVIEVE BUJOLD, FLIRTY.
t/te 1tiousaq~. Dertcause of his vote. , 
THEY'RE GREAT TOGETHER!"
"lie is not representing the 
AUNIVIItSAlPICTUIII·IICHHICOIO~I!D.pANAVISIONtllm @i 

~.--____________________;-Cosmopolitan Maeazlne '
people of Arkansas," she said. "I love Arkansas, and I want 
~~ll.ll.lllllllfiiiiliiii.III.HIH.IIIII.Qiiiiilldiiiii.IIIII.III.HIIIII.IIl!IIDnl•nm•lllllll~ 

tf you're 18 or over make the
i CLOSE . "idults 1.7s}

Govt. closed? 
• FREE Child 
751 
; PARKING r;;-,;:,--..
MIIHAWAU AYI. AT 30TH..

A meeting to discuss the FEATURING GIG YOUNG
various aspects of the recently 
announced cutbacks m the liov­
Winner of Best Supporting Actor Award ernm.·nt Department will be held Sunday evening at 7:00 
p.m. in 104 O'Shaughnessy. 
Mr. Brinkley, Department Chairman has recommended that all government courses be re­
..BEST 


Open Week days Must have 1 legal and C.A.P. students. Therefore, 
stricted to government majors 
6:30 proof of age and Sat. & Sun. Student ID Card
John Zappala and other govern­
PICTURE 
12:45

ment students have called this 
meeting to discuss possible solu­
OF THE YEAR!" 

Now thru April 14 
-Nar•onaf Board of Rev1ew

tions and to draft a statement 
which will be presented to the administration next week. 



BLOOD DRIVE 
A LPIIA Pill OM.t:GA 
April 14 !J-4 Stepan Center For info: Bob Miko 
283·1031 
AMERICA 
Food & Entertainment Every Fri & Sat 9 pm -I am Ad $I 
..BEST 
ACTRESS-. 
JIIE FOIDII" 
-New Yorl< Film Cnr•cs 


See both as late as 9: 15
PHONE 288-8488 FOR SHOW TIMES 
-ASUB~IOIARY Of Til AMERICAA BROADCASTING COMPANIES. INC. -OISIRIBUTEO BY CINERAMA REI.EASING CORPORATl(JI 

PAGE 8 FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1970
THE O&rUJIM. 

ND Crew, a girl •1n every port 
They say a sailor has a girl in every port but one member of the Notre Dame Crew Club would be forced to disagree. Mainly because this particular sailor is a girl herself. She is Barb Walker, a junior of SMC, and she is only one of many unique aspects of the Crew Club. Besides having one of only two girl coxswains in the United States the crew travels in a rather unique style, hitch-hiking is their main mode of transportation. 
It wouldn't be too bad if the club was only traveling to Elkhart or Osceola but their junkets have included stops in Virginia, Philadelphia and Poughkeepsie, N.Y., this amounts to about 2,400 miles. 
When the club travels they must leave their own ~'shells" (the type of boat used) in the St. Joe River and rely on the host team to furnish it with a boat. Since the club doesn't have its 

Terry Shields 
THE IRISH EYE 
The Professionals 
Remember when we were kids how excited we would get when New Year's Day would come and we could see four football games in one day. Somehow I just can't get up for January I anymore. 
The reason why this happens is quite obvious. Any fall Sunday the average fan can flick on his tube and see four games. "So, big deal, I like football," may be your response. With exposure like this, 
. however, I doubt if anyone could keep a deep interest. 
.. · This is just one of the many points that need criticized concerning professional sports. The charge should not stop with just football. This is far from the greatest fault with the "pros." 
Perhaps professional sports reached its height of absurdity just in the past few weeks. Somehow I just don't think Sam Lacey (he played for New Mexico State's basketball team, if you weren't aware) is worth $1.4 million, yet that's what he received from the draft. 
Basketball made a joke of the draft. It seems awfully hard to believe that these players are truly receiving as much money as is reported. Yet the fan must believe what he reads. 
The next question you may ask is "Well, so what if these players get all that money, this won't bother me will it?" Don't bet on it. Prices paid to see nearly any professional sport are outlandishly high 
to say the least. Another factor that riles my Irish is expansion. All of the major team sports are guilty of this. Once again the only person getting hurt is Joe Fan. Baseball was the first to begin "the great enlarging movement" and all of the others were quick to follow. Certainly there is nothing wrong with letting more of the country see major league sports. The point is, because of expansion none of the country is seeing true "major league" sports. Except for people from the fair city of San Diego, th ~re are few 
of even the most avid fan who could name more than three starters for the Padres. If one doesn't even know the naliles of the players it is unlikely that he will go out and pay the prices that the owners are 
asking to see these "heroes." Expansion was simply an unrealistic undertaking. Too much came too fast! 
This is not too say that we don't have good athletes now. Surely man is improving physically through better food and medicine, etc., each year. Also, there are probably more of these great athletes than 
• ever before. The point is, there are simply not enough to fill the huge void left by expansion. 
Whos is to blame for this'? Apparently there is only one group to accuse. The owners and management of each professional club have displayed an overwhelming amount of greed. Everybody wants a 
piece of that big professional pie. Their creed seems to be "get that juicy tv contract, sign those one or two big name rookies and then make our customers pay out the 
ear." 
A possible solution to this problem might be the type of thing that the American Basketball Association has initiated (e.g. Carolina Cougars). That is, start to make regional teams who will play their home contests at a number of sites. 
This way a number of the problems might be solved. There would be fewer teams therefore there would be fewer (but higher quality) ballplayers in the leagues. The owners would be appeased because nearly every game would draw fine crowds (since the number of appearances would be limited.) 
Another thing that should be curbed is the tremedous overexposure that pro sports (and now college football) is receiving on television. This has already be proven by baseball that unless the fan is kept hungry for sports on the television he will tend to lose 
interest in many of the games. So professional sports definitely show glaring weaknesses. The worst part of this is that the spectator is the one that is feeling the 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (UPI) -An Indiana University survey on relations between blacks and whites in athletics indicates there is room for improvement in communications. 
Results of a four month inves­tigation are contained in a four page report made public Tues­day by a faculty committee headed by Dr. Edwin Cady, chairman of IU's athletics com­mittee and acting vice chancellor Dr". Herman Hudson for Afro­American Affairs. 
The survey was made follow­ing dissension among black var­sity football players last fall that led to a boycott of l 0 players in mid-season. Only last month, coach Johnny Pont announced that three black players -Larry Highbaugh, Bob Pernell and Gor­don May -were dropped from the squad because of "negative" attitudes. 
The faculty report said rela­tions between black and white athletes "tend to be good," but emphasized that the root of the problem in a multi-racial society was the "extreme difficulty blacks and whites have in com­municating effectively with each other" and in "respecting their different cultural values and styles." 
"On occasion, things were said and done which black players with good cause consi­dered offensive," the report stated. "Other incidents which might have been ignored or dis­missed as misunderstandings among friends or members of the same race group were inter­preted in a different way by the black football players." 
The report cited the boycott as a dramatic means of bringing 

communicate with each
black players' grievances to the 
other. .." the report said.
attention of the coaches and to 
The committee also recom­

the university in general. 
mended the addition of Negro
"Unfortunately, what w.as in­

coaches to the athletic staff. It
tended as a one day demonstra­
now has one, assistant football
tion got out of hand because of 
coach Trent Walters, a former IU 
the inability of both sides to 
~far. 
Green Case rests 
OTTAWA (UPI)-Two prose­cution witnesses yesterday sup­ported Ted Green's argument that St. Louis Blues' winger Wayne Maki "speared" the Bos­ton Bruins; defenseman during their stick swinging fight Sept. 21. 
As the common assault case against Green bogged down after two days of legal arguments and plodding testimony, Judge Mich­ael Fitzpatrick adjourned the trial until May 27. He said he hoped the hearing could he wound up in two more days. 
During the first two days of the trial, referee and linesmen testified they did not see any 
spearing by Maki but admitted 
they might have missed it while 
watching the puck. Two other 
crown witnesses, a sports broad­
caster and the Ottawa Fire 
Chief, said they saw Maki poke 
Green with his stick. 
The issue of the alleged 

spearing raised the curious possi­
bility that both participants in 

the fight might be able t.o claim 
self defense. Maki was acquitted 
March 5 by J udgc C. Edward 
Carter on grounds of self de­
fense, and defenst, attorney 
Edward Houston indicated in his 

opening statement he would 
seek to demonstrate self defense . for Green too. 
MAJOR LEAGUES 
National League  American League  
East  East  
w  L  Pet  GB  w  L  Pet  GB  
Philadelphia 2  0  1.000  Baltimore  3  0  1.000  
St. Louis  2  0  1.000  Detroit  2  1  .667  
New York  1  1  .500  Boston  1  1  .500  1%  
Pittsburgh  1  1  .500  New York  1  1  .500  1Y:.  
Chicago  0  2  .000  2  Washington  1  2  .333  2  
Montreal  0  3  .000  2Y:.  Cleveland  0  3  .000  3  
West  West  
w  L  Pet  GB  w  L  Pet  GB  
*Cincinnati  3  0  1.000  California  2  0  1.000  
San Francisco 2  1  .667  Minnesota  2  0  1.000  
*San Diego  1  1  .500  1Y:.  *Oakland  1  1  .500  
*Atlanta  1  1  .500  1Y:.  • Kansas City  1  1  .500  
Houston  1  2  .333  2  Chicago  0  2  .000  2%  
*Los Angeles  0  2  .000  2%  Milwaukee  0  2  .000  2  
Baltimore 13 Cleveland 1 New York 4 Boston 3 Oakland at Kansas City, night 


effects of mistakes most heavily. If something isn't done soon, then the sports may bury themselves. This may not happen in the near future but it is a very distint possibility in the coming decades. 
Lacross on Saturday 
There was an error in yesterday~· weekend sports' summary. The Notre Dame /,acrosse Club had been reported to play on Sunday afternoon. The game, however, is scheduled for Saturday afternoon at 2:30 p.m. un the Stepan Field. This is a "B" game only. Wayne 
• State of Detroit will provide the opposition for our stickmen. 
Stollenwerk, Bill Toffler, Will Wolverine Lake. McLaughlin and Jay Radovich in Some of the big races the club positions two through eight. will be involved in are the Cliff Losh is the varsity Midwest Championships at coxswain. Marietta, Ohio on May 2, and 
This weekend the Crew Club the Dad Vail Championship in travels to Detroit to race against Philadelphia (including 35 Wayne State University. The schools) on May 8 and 9. race will ocelli" on Saturday at · 

Communication poor at IU 
own boats to work with, the conditions are a iittle adverse. This might explain the varsity's record of l-3 so far this season. 
In crew, the oldest collegiate sport which dates back nearly 130 years, there is only one winner so a teams record is not always indicative of their strength. 
Besides a varsity crew of eight members, there are junior varsity and freshmen squads. 
The race itself 'consists of a 2,000 meter haul which is usually traversed in about six and one-half minutes. Club president and coach Paul Weathersby feels that this takes a lot of conditioning to accomplish and the Irish just haven't had enough time to prepare for the season due to the poor weather in South Bend. 
The losses this year have been to the University of Virgmia, Temple University and Marist College. The lone victory came at the expense of Virginia Commonwealth. 
Members on the varsity squad include Dan Mechenbier in the bow, John Sellinger, Charles Krebs, Tom Powers, Tom 
Links open 
The John Burke Memorial Golf Course is now open for use by students. The course is open from daylight to dusk. There is a $1.50 green fee for students. 
The snack shop and golf shop are both opened from 7:00 am to 4:30 pm. The golf shop can furnish all equipmci: t necessary for all NO duffers. 

St. Louis 7 Montreal~ San Francisco 7 Houston 4 Philadelphia 5 Chicago 3 Pittsburgh 2 New York 1 Cincinnati at Los Angeles. night Atlanta at San Diego, night *Night game not included. 
Minnesota 6 Chicago 4 





