
Vol. V,_ No. 37 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. College Communi(l' Friday, Octoher 30. 1970 
Organizations confront Trustees 
Students charge mismanagement of funds 
Questions challenging the order of Uni­versity priorities and limitations on the Black Studies Program monopolized the public session of yesterday's meeting be­tween the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees, Student Govern­ment leaders and representatives of the Graduate Student Union. 
The representatives kept the topics closely related as they sought recommen­dations for the reordering of priorities to channel moneys from non-profit organi­zations in debt or those not serving an educational purpose to minority recruit­ment and the Black Studies Program. 
Two G.S.U. representatives presented an example of each case. Ed Isely told the group that the Michiana Telecasting Cor­poration received a total of $1,073, 876 in advances and investments from current unrestricted University funds during the fiscal periods of 1967-68 and 1968-69. "I do not consider this a contribution to education," said Isely. One of the Trus­tees commented that he was informed that the corporation operates at a profit. 
The president of the G.S.U., Bill Lori­mer, provided another example of mis­direction of funds. He said the University Club is presently operating at an, esti­mated annual loss of $20,000 and added that when he was allowed to look at the official financial records, the club, book­store, ACC and the Morris Inn were included under one figure. Lorimer said the ACC and the club were losing money that could be directed to the Black Studies Program and recruitment. The Money profits made at the bookstore and th e Morris Inn are used to pay the other organizations debts. 
The problem raised by Lorimer's ex­ample concerns the constant refusal by the financial affairs to Jet student repre­sentatives view their records. Student Body Vice-President Mark Winings added 
._ 


MeBB. Van Go11hum, Scoglund, and Fr. McCarragber, members of the Board of Trustees. 
that $100,000 from last year's Cotton 
Bowl profits has not been accounted for 
by the University. 
This refusal to open the books to student leaders is one of the obstacles in their attempt to present complete pro­grams and arguments to the Trustees and other bodies. "We're asked to give facts 
·when we come in here," said Lorimer, "but we~re told it's none of our business when we try and we come in here with pighly-touted rumors." 
The lack of details prevented the Stu­dent Affairs Committee from accepting a recommendation to expand the Black Studies Program. The recommendation called for an increased increment of Blacks on the rate of approximately ten per year. It also called for $12 million dollars over the next ten years to finance the program. 
According to the plan, the budget would be broken down into three phases. They are: I) $1 00,000 for a ten year recruitment program; 2) $11.295, 600 for a minimum ten year financial aid pro­gram, and 3) $4 7 5,000 for the Black Studies Program. 
Committee Chairman Dr. Thomas Car­ney said the program lacked sufficient details to be presented to the December meeting of the Trustees. "We aren't going to make up programs as the Board of Trustees. We ask questions of the pro­gram and assume someone will get the answers," said Carney. 
Student Body President David Krashna said he would submit a program to the committee before December first fat presentation at the Trustee~ meeting. He said the Black Studies Director Dr. Joseph Scott would probably direct the drafting of the progra.,m. 

Afro-American Society President Ernie 

Jackson asked Carney if the University 
could "shift priorities" and solicit for 
specific minority funds. · 
Carney replied that"funds are supplied by specific scholarships from the bowl game profits and an alumni club. Jackson then asked for an "exerted effort on a major scale," adding that bowl funds are not dependable sources of minority finan­cial aid on a year to year basis. 
Krashna agreed with Jackson that a special drive or reordered priorities are the only possible solutions. 
It was also noted that aid provided by government and foundation grants has decreased because th funds are being directed more towards the social priori­ties such as poverty and ghetto slums than educational needs. 
Carney was challenged by one of the eight students who attended the session, about the ordering of University priori­ties. Carney said they are determined in the administrative chains of caommand to the Trustees for approval. 
~pprovals are based on the honor of reports by the various Trustee subcom­mittees. The Trustees take no initiative in determining the priorities, said Carney. 
Present 
proposals for 

millions 

The Student Affairs Branch of the University Trustees met in closed session yesterday morning to consider proposals from three organizations. Proposals were submitted by the Graduate Student Union, the Minority Students Recruit­ment, and the Committee for. Social Understanding. 
Speaking first before the board were the GSU representatives, President Bill Lorimer, and Ed Isely. They presented a three point memorandum:"!) The estab­lishment of formal academic due process for graduate students at the university level, with graduate student participation in the establishment process, 2) The establishment of a joint committee of all concerned parties, including graduate stu­dents, to carry out a public examination of graduate education and its future at Notre Dame. 3) Representation of gradu­ate students on a selection committee for a replacement Dean of the Graduate School, should the current Dean resign as is currently rumored. ';The Student Af­fairs Committee requested that the GSU return before December 1 with specific written proposals. They then will take those proposals before the Board of Trustees. Next to speak before the Students Affairs Board was Carl Ellision, director of the Recruitment Action Pregram. He presented the board with a $12 million program extended over a ten year period. It contained three phases breaking up the Minority Student program into recruit­ment, financial aid, and the Black Studies program. Allotting $100,000 over ten years for recruitment, $11,295,600 over ten years for Financial aid, and $475,000 for the Black Studies Program. The pro­posal totaled $11,870,600. Their document stated, "The minority student and his programs have been pro­gressing slowly. Each year new monies 
(continued on page 6) 


ND pollution is crucial campus issue 
One of the major concerns of our society is the maintenance of ecological equilibria. Notre Dame has also been caught up in this activity. This concern is manifested by recent action on the part of university administrators and investiga­tion on the part of the academic com­munity of faculty and students. 
The study of the ecological situation at Notre Dame embraces many fields. The Departments of Biology, Civil Engineer­ing, Architecture, and Geology are all involved. To achieve a fuller understand­ing of the attitudes among faculty mem­pollution c·ontrol." 

In connection with the recent contro­versy over the cockroaches at St. Edward's Hall, Dr.' Craig pointed out that to rid the hall of the pests, "r;.')sidual sprays of hard pesticides" had to be used -although when sprayed inside they are not as dangerous to the atmosphere as the spra,ys used on, for example, campus trees. 
-----------------­
Observer Insight 

bers, the Observer interviewed four aca--------,-----------­
demians. They are Dr. George Craig of 
the Biology Department, Professor Wayne 
Echelberger of the Gvil Engineering De­partment, Professor Patrick Horsbrugh of the Architecture Department, and Mr. 
Edward Riley' the Environmental Health and Safety Manager. 
The concensus of opinion among the men was that the University's efforts in this field were by and large satisfactory. 
.
One of the rru.yor accomplishments of the 
University was the eliminatiOn or the use of DDT on campus. 
Dr. Craig commented, "They (the University officials) have been wise about their insecticide choice." He went 0~ to observe that the present chemicals are "not as efficient and more expensive, but that s the price we have to pay for 
Another area of concern has been the quality of the water in St. Joseph's and .St. Mary's lakes. Mr. Riley explained that 
Coloform tests are made constantly from the early spring until late fall. He explain­

ed that they were practically free of human waste."Both are well below the accepted limits, and <1r:~ safe for swim­ming", he added. Mr. Riley also cited the weekly water 
ch.ecks that are carried on by his depart­ment on the drinking water of the campus. 
The solid waste on campus that is particularly evident on football weekends is efficiently removed, according to Mr. Echelberger. He observed that the Univer­sity deposits its waste at South Bend's sanitary land-fill. There was also mention 
of chemical and bacteriological waste 
disposal procedures as being quite ade­
quate. The waste is disposed of in an area 
nottheast of the campus. 
Although •the University is doing an 
exceptional job in the field of pollution 
control, two major offenses were men­
tioned. The more obvious is the thermal 
pollution of St. Joseph's lake. 
"The lake could be made to support 
more desirable fish life. In general, the 
biological life of the lake is affected (by 
thermal pollution), Mr. Echelberger de­
clared. 

The pollution arises from the practice of cycling the lake's water through the power plant. The water is used as a cooling agent. This greatly increases the temperature of the water, cutting down 
-the variety of life able to subsist there. Mr. Echelberger also expressed the o­pinion that the high temperature was also an aesthetic drawback. 
The other major problem exposed was the air pollution from the smokestacks of the power plant. Mr. Echelberger said that here "it was clear to see 'what can be done." He said that the larger brick stack was polluting the air, while the smaller metal stack had been equipped with air pollution devices. The furnaces are the same size for each stack, he observed. All that would have to be done is to equip the larger stack with the same anti-pol­mtion device that the smaller one has. 

In addition to the major problems, other actions of importdnce were suggest­ed. Mr. Echelberger suggested that the water supply of the campus be chlorina­ted. 
"The water should be chlorinated for bacteriologically safe water. There is some potential for disease outbreak." . 
The  chance  of  disease  outbreak  is  
reinforced  by  the  slight  chance  of  si­ 
phonage  from  chemical  and  biological  

laboratories, according to Mr. Echel berger. 
A final suggestion was made by Pro­fessor Horsbrugh. He observed that all the halls on campus had their backs facing the lake, and, in effect, misusing the natural beauty of the lakes. 
"At many newer universities, lakes form a center piece for the campus," Mr. Horsbrugh noted. The reason for this placement is that lakes have been proven to have psychological value -even arti­ficial lakes in an urban environment. This fact has led to the study, according to Mr. Horsbrugh, of urban hydro-therapy. 
"This campus is exceptional among universities in its park-like atmo­sphere ... (and) the lakes are the principle feature of the park. This University has such an exceptional inheritance -it has to be maintained and cared for," Mr. Horsbrugh said. 




' Fridav. October 




NOW PLAYING 
CALL 288-8488 FOR TIMES-DIRECTIONS 
" 'M :::A:==s::: H' is what the new freedom of the screen is all about." 
-Richard Schickel, Life 

~:-l\...1....fi~$.,~~r-IMII 
An lngo Preminger Production d,RI Color by DE LUXE" Panavision® 

I'll.,
NOW 

233 "BLOOD OF DRACULA 1:30 :45-5:05-8;25 
2 BRAND N INC 
B .. OOD-CUR~L-INC SENIITIO-NI! 
DOUBLE TE 






liDI 
Starnng JOAN CRAWFORD 

.IOE NAMATH 
as C.C.Ryder 

ANII·MARG-T 
as his girl loving, brawling and bustin' it up 

in~~JIIII· 
eGIIIIPA~~Y; .·· 
Color by Movielab AN AVCO EMBASSY RELEASE I 


_..IE 
~[SJ 
TIIUD 


II.ACULA 

Starring CHRISTOPHER LEE 
TECHNICOLOAII F•om WARNER BROS. ~<!l]l> 
TIMES: 2:00-4:00 6:00-8:00-10:00 

Grad may 
Daniel J. Klein is in peculiar situation. He is running as a Republican candidate for state representative from St. Joseph county and he is also in the U.S. army. 
Klein filed for the nomination last March while still a civilian. He finrshed second among a field in the primary, receiving 7600 
• votes, which was only 400 be­hind the top vote getter and I 200 ahead of the third place finisher, 
In·. July, Klein received his draft notice even though he was already at Fort Knox Kentucky ... in an ROTC program. Due to a complication Klein's application to the ROTC . program was de­clared invalid, and thus Klein was inducted into the army. He has been serving in the finance center at Fort Benjamin Harris. Until the past week Klein's cam­paign has been limited to week­ends, however he is now on leave 
Placement lntenle•• 
Nov. 2-S 
For seniors and graduate students prepare for the interviews 
Nov. 2 MOI'JDAY 
Atlantic Richfield Co. Bechtel Corp. Bethlehem Steel Corp. Environmental Science 
Services Adm.­
Comm. Officer Corps. Diebold, Inc:. Irwin Management co., Inc. Kerber, Eck, and Braechel Krannert Grad. School 
of Indus. Admin.-·­
Purdue U. 
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Travelers I nsur. Co. 
U.S. Army Audit Agency westvaco Co. 
Nov. 3 TUESDAY 
Allegheny Ludlum Steel Co. • Altschuler, Melvoln and Glasser Brown Company Dept. of the Navy Foster Wheeler Corp. * 
Nalco Chemical Co. * 
U.S. Industrial Chern. Co. 
Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery 

*Cancelled. Contact this employer via correspondence. Visit the Placement Bureau for additional information. 
Nov. 4 WEDNESDAY 

Amer. Cast Iron Pipe Co. 
Amphenol Components Group * Bendix Corp_ FMC Corp.-chicago Pump 
Divison* Gillette Co. -Toni Division * HEW Audit Agency Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery Standard Oil (Cal.) and 
Chevron Research Co. General Electric co. 



wtn• dischar 
and will be able to campaign up to election day. 
If he wins Klein would be honorably discharged from the service. He said that some people tend to look unfavorably on this but he pointed out that such occurances had many predicents. 
A life long resident of South Bend, Klein is a 1969 graduate of Notre Dame with a B.B.A. in 
Accounting.  Last  year  he  at­ 
tended  the  Notre  Dame  law  
school.  

Klein urged other people to get actively involved in politics. He said that he had learned alot from his• involvement. He said that he had been pleasantly sur­prised by the support he has received from middleaged and older people, explaining that they recognize the need for new young ·people with fresh ideas. 
Klein pointed out that at the present time all five seats in St. Joseph county are held by 
Nov. 5 THURSDAY 
Amer. 011 co. and 
Amoco Chern. Corps. General Services Admin. General Electric Co. Hallmark Cards,· Inc. Hamilton Standard • IRS (Internal Revenue) Long Island Lighting co. 
M & T Chemicals, Motorola, Inc. Shell companies-Eng. & Science Shetl Companies­Business  Inc. . •  •  
- 



Top Artists! Maior Labels! Get Your Favorites at Big Discounts! 

TUESNOV 3 
7:30PM 
FLANNER WELL 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations bY the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 465S6. 
Daniel Klein 
Democrats. The country has been a Democrat stronghold for the last twenty to twenty-five years. However Klein is optimis­tic, saying that this year he hopes the Republicans will be 
sending at least one Representa­tive to Indianapolis. He feels that the fact that he is young :md that he is in the service makes him unique amoung the ten candidates who are running for the five seats. 


CO--FEATURE 

Friday, October 30, 1970 Page 3
711£ OBrEilfiER 



Inter Cultural Office to hear mi-nority student com-plaints 
In an interview yesteday after­
noon, Lemuel Joyner, Director 
of the Office of Inter-Cutural 
Development on the St. Mary's 
campus outlined the background 
and the future direction of his 
office. 
The Office of Inter-Cultural Development was inaugurated under the late SMC President Monsignor McGrath as a clearing house for all problems and griev­ances of ethnic minorities and needy students in dealing with the SMC administration ad­justing to St. Mary's campus life. 
It was also set up as an office to try to bring the student body together so that there could be meaningful dialogue betwe_en students of different cultural back-grounds. It offers a chance for students to grow in aware­ness so that when they leave the campus and go out into a multi­-racial society they will have a start at least on this part of their education. 
As stated in the Precis for the program, "Part of the college's responsibility is to create an environment in which students may work toward the proper end of an education, that is, resourceful and responsible indi­viduality proparing students for the world in which they live." 
"To achieve this goal in a college community which in­cludes individuals of various eth­nic backgrounds, the college must be prepared to unify its student body through a com­mitment of cross-cultural devel­opment" Mr Joyner listed this aim as the general purpose of the Office of Inter-Cultural Devel­opment. 
The specific goal is to assist the Blacks, • etfinic minorities, and other needy students to participate effectively in St. Mar­y's campus life. "To fulfill this 
goal Joyner said, "we are work­ing in many areas, including changing stereotyped attitudes; eliminating the communication gap between black students and the faculty and administration; providing counseling, tutorial and financial assistance pro­grams; and involving the South Bend community in the welfare of minority students on cam­pus." 
"Implementation of our goals first started with recruitment. We worked with students who didn't score high on the SAT tests, the regular admissions route into the college, and those who qualified for college train­ing but would have been pro­hibited because of financial, home, or ·personal cir­cumstances," Joyner added. 
"In placement-the guidance and. selection of courses and instructors is my respon­sibility-we 11ttempt to get the students into courses with tea­chers who have a commitment to cross-cultural awareness. 'l 
The academic programs of the office include a comprehensive I e cture-film-exhibit series paralleling existing "Black Stu­dies" courses. The Creative Soul class is an ~xperimental course that grew out of the Office of Inter-Cultural Development. 
Creative Soul tries to relate to the student in a different man­ner from any of the other Black Studies courses on either cam­pus. That is, from experiencing an environment:. this way stu­dents are able to learn how they themselves feel and how they fit into this environment. 
After experiencing the Black church, the Black art and folk­lore, students, when they read about the areas in the 
Afro_-American history books, will have experienced part of it ' and it will all be more meaning­ful for them. 
For the community involve­ment the Office includes a "family adoption" plan whereby the freshmen are adopted by a black family in the community. 
It gives the students a "home away from home" where they can talk with adults, relax, and · get away from the pressures of the campus. This will be ex­panded to other members of the 
SMC student body. 
"I'd like to emphasize that in order to establish a program like this I had to have authority to implement it"Joyner explained. "This is why I was made Special Assistant to the President-so that I would have the authority, without _going through commit­te.es and all the administrative offices before I could get an answer as to how I could solve the problems facing the Office.'' 

the ND-SMC STUDIO THEATRE 
presents 
THUUEil A LA CARTE 
a chamber theatre presentation ofworks by 
James Thurber 
STUDENT UNION COrlTEMPORARY ARTS FESTIVAL presents 
Second City Players "It's Cooler Near the lake" 
Sat. Oct. 31 -O'Laughlin Auditorium -8:30 P~1­Admission $2 CAF Patrons -FREE 
(Costumes Welcomed) 

MY GIRL•s FIRST LOVE: 


SPECIAL PRICES TO r~OTRE OAJI.1E STUDENTS ON DIAMON,DS AT ALL FOX STORES 
DlnECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
.()V'c-JEWELERS
F A-S SINCE 1917 
DOWNTOWN TOWN & COUNTRY SOUTH BEND SHOPPING CENTER
• 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat.  Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
8:30 a.m..Sun.  Fr. Daniel Curtin, C.S.C.  
9:45 a.m. Sun.  Fr. James Buckley, C.S.C.  
11:00 a.m. Sun.  Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B.  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.  






1971Graduates: 
Engineering, Science, Business Administration, Marketing 
The Xerox Representativewill be on campus 
MONDAY, NOV.t 
Sign up at your placement office today. 



XEROX 
An Equal Opportunity Employer (m/f) 
XEROX IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF XEROX CORPORATION 

ColtY's 
HEAD AND LEATHER SHOP OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK CORNER OF SOUTH BEND AVE & NOTRE DAME AVE 

Page 4 
71.l~ ()Jlr~~~~~--------------------------------F-ri_da~y~,_o_ct_o_be_r~3~0~,~19~7~0 
"' ........... -. '¥ 
..... .._..·)


THE OBSERVER 
\ -· 

An Independent Student Newspaper 
" r->­

1'7'~ ~ 

GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Chief JOHN E. KNORR, Executive Editor 
// •-<\) Dt/)~
s 

BRUCE RIECK, Business Manager 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 


Ticket Crisis 
The University's prdent obstinate refusal to allow underprivileged South Bend kids to use donated student tickets to the Georgia Tech game is as stupid and as unreasoning a decision as has been rendered on this campus in some time. The Observer ;incerely hopes that it will be reversed by Father Joyce in the days to come. 
It had been all set up, and set up well. Student Government would collect student tickets, and distribute them to the kids 
111 culture them bastids if it kills 'em! from South Bend. Student Government would maintain an accurate check of the tickets, so that they could be returned to their rightful owners before the next game. Ticket donations would be precisely that -donations. There would be no coersion involved. Ushers from the Neighborhood Study Help program would supervise the kids. .... The kids had been looking forward to it for a long time. Most of them had never seen a i:i: 
Bob Schueler "'''"''"''"""''"""'"'_,,,,,,.,"''''"''"•"'1
college football game. Or three consecutive nourishing meals, for that matter. What they f had seen was a lot of dirt, a lot of disappointment, a lot of misery, a lot of heartbreak.:::: But this would be different. It would be an act of real friendship by the people of a :i:i Arms Race @University which had beamed its Christian Humanism bright and loud and clear -·· 
something to counteract the mistrust and suspicion that had played such dominant roles 
in their lives. There would be no problem. But there was a problem. The University refused to allow the transfer to take place. 
J1hy? 
The reason was a stupid and petty beaurecratic process. The reason was a little note on the tickets saying that "Transfer or sale of this ticket shall result in confiscation." The reason was blind inflexibility. 
Father Joyce now has an opportunity to reverse the decision. It is the hope of this publication that he do so. It is also the hope of this publication that in all times hence, the principals that justify this University's existence take precedence over the pedagogurey that runs its institutions. 


LEIIERS 
Continued best wishes to you 

concerning an ad for ab.ortions 
and The Observer for a success­
in New York. They all con­
Letters to .the Editor should 
ful, meaningful year. 
demned the Observer for pub­
be typewritten and double 
Sincerely, lishing this ad on the grounds

spaced. The Editor retains the 
Michael E. La Bosky 

that it constituted irresponsible
right to shorten any letter at his 
Executive Director journalism, this is a Christian

discretion. No letter can be 
Big Brothers of St. Joseph 

University, etc. But is these
returned Letters should be 
County, Inc. 
people can rise above their own
addressed to The Observer, Post 
beliefs for a minute, they might
Office Box 11, University of 
spend time thinking: why did
Notre Dame, Notre Dame, 
Abysmally bad the Observer publish this ad'!
Indiana, 46556. · 
Because they needed the money from the advertising? Unfortu­The Agony and the Ecstacy nately' there is a more important
Editor: reason-in fact, a large number of

The article appearing in the 

SMC-ND couples find themselves
October 16 issue of The Obser­
"in trouble" and frantically
ver dealing with the lecture at
Anytime reach for a solution.
the University by Ti Grace 
If all of you are so horrified at
Atkinson is in abysmally bad 
the tact that someone wou1a 
taste and goes far beyond the 
even consider abortion (as I am) Editor: limits of decent and informative I suggest we all direct our ener­
journalism. The prominence
Special thanks from our gies not at the Observer adver­organization to you and your given the article suggests an ef­tising policy but at making it staff for your excellent coopera­fort to shock; but the reaction possible for a couple to consider tion in listing various announce­can only be one of disgust. 
alternatives other than abor­ments in The Observer regarding No responsible newspaper, in tions. 
Big Brother activities including my opinion, would have report­There are many things that the benefit performance of ed the rantings of this crude and can be changed including the "Doc" Severinsen at the ACC on noxious female in the way in school's attitude towards unwed 
Friday night, October 23rd. We which The Observer did. The mothers and fathers, "illegiti­appreciate sincerely your assis­Notre Dame community has a macy,~ the propriety of the girls tance in the promotion of our right to expect a higher standard attending school during preg­worthy cause. of performance than you have nancy, reprisal of financial aid. · Through this medium, I wish exhibited on this one. 
It things like this can be worked to thank publically those Notre Very truly yours, 
out, the environment would be Dame students that are involved Edmund A. Stephan 
more condycive to solutions actively as Big Brothers in our 
other than abortion. program. Their humanitarian Alternative Pick Sincerely, spirit in befriending a fatherless 
Karen Grabowski lad in our community is ac­
711 West Colfax knowledged gratefully. 
So. Bend, Indiana We have a great need for SMC Senior 
additional Big Brother volun­Editor: teers. Interested students may I read with interest the Letters call our office (234-1691) for to the hditor m the l hurs., more information. October 29 issue of the Observer 
It is becoming fashionable on college campuses across country to unconditionally attack the U.S. military ment. One daim is that our defense system is now large en<JUg)tl to defend the cow1try against any eventuality. 
Consequently, many students and other citizens believe 
the government should spend les~ on defense projects and 
spend more on remedies for ·our domestic ills. However, many 
their arguments are based on incorrect information about 
status of our defense systems. 
How knowledgeable are you on these matters? Here is a short 
quiz that will test your knowledge and may add to your store of 
information. 
1. How would you rate the U.S.'s defense against ballistic 
missiles? Excellent Good Fair Poor 
2. Which country has the largest amount of deliverable atomic 
weapons-in megatons? U.S.A. U.S.S.R. 
3. Which country has the largest submarine fleet? 
U.S.A. U.S.S.R. 

4. Which country is still producing subsonic and supersonic strategic born hers? 
U.S.A. U.S.S.R. 
Now, here are the answers: 

1. Poor. In fact, the U.S.'s defenst: against ICBM's is non­existent. The first anti-ballistic missiles won't be in place in the 
U.S. until 1974. By contrast, the U.S.S.R. already has 64 ABM's in place and has spent $9 billion on the system. 
2. 
U.S.S.R. Russia presently has a lead on the U.S. of about 20%. 

3. 
U.S.S.R. The Russian submarine fleet is larger the the fleets of the U.S. and all its allies combined. 

4. 
U.S.S.R. Russia is still producing large numbers of strategic bombers. By contrast, the last U.S. strategic bomber rolled off the assembly line in 196 2. The mainstay of our bomber fleet, the B-52, was designed in 1948 and was first produced in 1952. Thus, the U.S. is defended by what is essentially a 20 year old aircraft. How many 20 year old automobiles or 20 year old commercial airliners do you see today? --All is not really that bleak. Our defense against a Soviet missile attack is based on the policy of detterance. As long as the U.S. is capable of delivering a nuclear counter-attack of Armageddon proportions, it is not likely that the Soviet Union will test us. In addition, our missiles are somewhat more accurate than the Soviet's. thus negating their mega tonnage lead. 


Our submarine fleet, although smaller than the Russian fleet, 3till has more missile-firing capacity and more total firepower than does the Russian fleet, although this lead is fast disappear­ing. 
So while the situation is not really as bad as it may appear at first glance, the overall trend is clear, and perhaps ominous. 
Now I am in favor of diverting some defense funds to help cure our domestic problems. However, I am against those who advocate drastic cuts in the defense budget in the belief that we already have enough weaponry to destroy the world many times over. 
The safety of the world depends on the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. fearing each other enough to prevent either one from launching an attack on the other. Once either one of the world powers believes it can destroy the other without being badly harmed in return, it may be tempted to do so, thereby placing tne ntire world in jeopardy. This is the course of action that many people would have our country follow. l cannot, in good conscience, agree with them. 


Friday, October 30, 711£ OBSERfJER. Page 5
1970 

A letter from N.D. grad Rick Libowitz in Israel 

The following is a letter that I received from Rick Libowitz, who is presently in Isreal studying to be a rabbi, despite the ironic fact that he got a "B" in Jewish theology at Notre Dame. Rick was one of the more colorful people on campus last year, besides being a very intel­
ligent and compassionate person. I got to know him through our mutual interest in the non­violent life style and opposition to the Vietnamese war. The change is Rick's personality since he went to live among the Isrealis seems evident from this letter. It might be interesting to people who are interested in the Middle-East dilemma and who desire the "personal· side ofthe conflict, to compare this letter with that article that Paul Said wrote in the Scholastic of last week. 
D.L. 

Dear Dave, 
The frustrations I felt nearly six months ago at the "Model U.N." are magnified today. The same empty ~hrases are being mouthed by most of the politi­cal leaders in the world and war is moving closer every day. 
Because my Hebrew is still struggling, you probably know more about Numbers et. al. than I do. I see one English-language paper and it is far from the best. What I do know is the feeling of the people, for living here, the feelings are common. With one exception, there is no resigning of the people to "Fate." The one exception is the feeling that 1ews are always chosen ... to stand alone. The United States provides words without suppor­ting them-lovely phrases. Mean­while, the United Nations is despised. The many U.N. vehi­cles here are usually seen car­rying tennis players and their 

.. 
.,.,. 


families here and there. 
The "cease fire" was greeted with deep skepticism-as events proved, that doubt was well-­deserved. I don't know what it takes for the U.S. to realize this. The new missile sites are posi­tioned in such a way to cause the carnage the Israeli Army's quick actions prevented three years ago. 
I am certain that Israel's best hope is to strike first-a strange statement from one who did so much to fight the military ac­tions of the U.S. when I was there. The hate and disgust of war is still within me; however, no one wants to place his head on a chopping block. Right now, Israel stands alone--her leaders learned long ago that this was how it must be. There are many here (including the head of my ulpan or language school) who possess the most powerful re­minder of the fact: that we Jews 

Dr. Willis Nultln' 
'But if the fundamental tendencies in th modern educational world are wrong i having led to the disruption of the unit of knowledge, in having splintered th truth, then the people-scholars and ac ministrators-who have attained eminenc in the educational world as it is, are th most unlikely people in the world to bring about a thorough-going reform They are efficient leaders leading in th, wrong direction, and the more successfu they are, the farther along the wrong roac 
education finds itself.' 
from 'The Free City' 
by Willis Nutting 

These are times of anguish for all those who are concerned with transmitting the Christian religion to the younger genera­tion. Not only does this younger genera­tion tune out its teachers, so that there is little communication, but the teachers of these teachers-the theologians and the philosophers-have lost their certainty as to what should be taught. Everything, from the "eternal verities" down to the correct way of receiving communion, is up for discussion. The old precise answers which were the glory of scholastic theolo­gy apply to questions no longer asked, and the validity of precision in answering any question is doubted. 
I nts crumoung ot accepted certainties h?s panicked many people, includin.,; btshops. Where can we make a stand? We want to say that it is only the non­essentials that are changing, but when we are asked what are the essential things that are not changing we find it hard to name anything. All is being discussed, ne_w ways of looking at everything are betng proposed, so that nothing remains as it was. 
If you are a pessimist this looks like the end of everything. If you are an remain a race? apart--the blue tatoo of the Holocaust. 
There are many--so many--young men here bearing the 'proofs of war, in scars, eye patches, false arms and legs. Yet I don't want to paint total black­ness-the land continues to be 
reclaimed from its inertia; the green of 'trees is everywhere, the haunting beauty of the Negev seems beyond compare and the spirit of the people--as I said before-is anything but resigned to. submission. to the ancient pride in the Law has bee'l added a self-pride; an awareness that we can stand alone (if we must) and survive physically, as we have survived spiritually through the ages. As you can see, the pride is contagious. 
1erusalem is destinctly 1erusa­lem-furtheD description is dif­ficult and rather superfluous. I have to admit I miss Notre Dame and so many of the friendships I formed there. I.f I did not always 
act especially close to the people, well, it was just my way. l hope you'll send my greeting to all the "special people "-for that's how I regard them. Thanks mainly to Pat Mc­Donough's letters, I've been able to hear a little about what goes on-ditto with Mark (Winings). What happened to Charlie Mc­Carthy? 
There is a curious feeling of helplessness in my mind-frustr­ation really-because of the limits of a letter. Hope to hear from you soon. 
Peace, 
Rick Libowitz Wipe your hands clean Pontius Pilate 'cause you can find no wrong in him. You're only the governor of all the people and the pressures pressed on you are too much to bear. Yeah that's how it aiways has been. You can't have saints without pressured men and men can't be martyrs if nobody kills 'em and unless martyrs die we can never be cleansed. So clamour for blood and kill all the weirdos and put lots of pressure on the men af the top and make sure their hands are put into water, and the future will thank you for giving them saints and by the blood of the dying the world will be cleansed. -Whose fault is it? ---Whose world? Whose planet? What? -Too many martyrs and the tired courtrooms are filled fat once more. This isn't new . This isn't new. There are old demons in our bellies and we cough them out like vomit. And we force them out like shit until they bury us.. Until they are in us and on us and everywhere. --Like a cancerous planet their cells propel them into gelatinous tidal waves of poison, circling their prey in diminishing orbits, getting warmer towards the center, closing in (stench heralded and eyes wide open) ready to envelope all and bury and burn all like belching Vesuvius.­In the city's silver symbols they stand rhinoceros-tongued, groaning m deaf sky channels. OFF. OFF.--And the whole thing's coming down like mud, sliding a"'d slopping and always coming and always covering. And covering in Kent and Canada and Madison. And it h::s ?een and it will be, because it is. And it is coming. Frown, drown, JUmp around and say the pledge of allegiance. Say it backwards and rip the flag off your head. --The birds of the air are a chorus of harpies. --Zoroastrian fire monster on my dung heap. --Barf lade! clunking on clean carpet. -Phony faggot mouth spit outside my windo_w. ~-Winking grunt voice in my garden.--Rough seas washing scurf m hfe chasm. --Blind cop chasing griffins on Pegasus' back. ­Gas devil sends stench to red cuba. --Tobacco eaters cough pox on paint can. ---Vishnu's wand gone, tune in next week. Watch it all see it all in clotted color and laugh and smile while it sneaks in the door and sits on you. With a bomb in my pocket I turn into paper and on me are written the lies of the day. --AAAFGH! --It ain't too funny. Rea~ly it's quite serious. ---What? -Silver crash in sleepy shovel offtce. Death? Fill in the rest. ................................ . 

Have you noticed in the South Bend Tribune all the old ladies who are writing in to say "Let's stop this 'trick or treat' nonsense, it's silly, it's a nuisance, etc." 
Remember when you planned out a month ahead of a time the costume you were going to wear, and when you got sick from too much chocolate, and when your sisters and brother stole part of your candy (or so you thought)? Remember? Remember, later on, when fire-crackers and water balloons were the thing? And, even later, when you had to walk your little brothers and sisters around the neighborhood? 
And now, here we are, almost all grown up, but not quite, not quite, not quite. On Saturduy night, the witches will fly, and vampires will leave their caves, blood curdles. Protect yourselves 
lfrom the demons. Beware! 

Christian educators 

.: of Christianity. But is you want to hand on Christianity to your children the problem remains: what is it, amid all this turmoil, that you hand on, and how do you hand it on? 
Let's put it this way. My union with Christ, and through him with the Father, my experience with the Spirit and with the fellowship of his Church in its wor­ship and sacraments -all this is what I value most in my life. This I want to share with all men, and especially with those that I love most. But how? In the sum total of the education of all these people I want to include this most pre­cious thing. But how? 
In former generations people thought that they could transmit the religion of 
. Christ by giving information and by conducting argument. Hence the cate­chism and apologetics. What this method accomplished was the production of in­formed, but not necessarily committed, Christians, loyal members of a Christian cultural group. "If you go in for reli­gion", a man once said to me, "You gotta 
be a Catholic, because that's the true 
religion." To be an Irish-American or a 
Polish-American or a German-American meant to be a Catholic (or a Lutheran),
and the catechism-plus-apologetics know­
ledge was a part of the knowledge of your cultural group. But this cultural religious knowledge did not regularly lead to any serious commitment as a servant of
Christ. 

But now, in the present turmoil, these cultural loyalties are fast falling away. We don't any longer consider ourselves as Irish-Americans or German-Americans or Polish-Americans. There is no pull toward Christianity in that direction any more. Cultural and conventional Christianity is disappearing. Soon the only kind of Christ~an left will be the thoroughly comm1tted one. That is all to the good. There ~as_ be_en much dead wood clinging to Chnshamty. But how can we lead people to become cot?mitted Christians? W~at. can. th~ educatiOnal process do in thts duechon. . . 
When I look at the begmmng of my own conversion I find this situation: There was the initial enlightenment that here was something wonderful! Then I wanted to learn all about this wonderful thing. I lapped up all kinds of informa­tion about it. Soon I asked to teachit in Sunday School. There wasn't~-much I could say about that original spark that had been enkindled in me, so I concen­trated on the information, and I found of course that the children couldn't care less about it. I think I learned something from this experience. Giving religious infor­mation to people who have not got the spark, who are not converted, is useless labor, and anatagonizes most people. 
How then can we enkindle the spark? That i~ the great question in religious educatwn. The theological answer con­firmed by experience, is that we ca~'t. It 
is a gift of God. Well then, is there
anything we can do to make it more 
likely that the spark will be enkindled?
Are some environments better thlm others for the Spirit's action? It seems 
that the Spirit most often works through persons. Therefore the best environment f
or conversion would be a community of genuinely committed Christians. Now I will stick my nect out. It is better for the teaching of Christianity that +":-teachers of every subject be comr ed Christians than that specifi­call~ hristian subjects be taught. To refta •u the title of this essay, the primary place of religion in educati9n is in the teachers. . Let me explain further. There is such a ~ thing as an isolated field of knowledge. a discipline. You can rightly say that physics is physics. It can be defined and its limits delineated. Physics can be con­si~ered this way. But it can't be taught thts way, because the teacher is not only 
a physicist. He is also a man. And when a man teaches he teaches his whole self ' 
what he believes and what he does not believe, what he. holds important and what he holds contemptible; what he reverences and what he laughs at. He teaches everything that he is. He does it · by the tone of his v:oice, the smile-on his face, the lift of an eye brow. Therefore the physicist whq is a Christian is 
teaching his students Christianity along with Physics, and the one wno ts a non-Christian is teaching non-Christianity along with physics. He can't help himself. And the same with all the subjects in the curriculum. Each one of them as it is taught, can help or hinder the enkindling of the spark. 
-The teachers, then are the primary locus of religion in education. 


f 
Page 6 




This "patch'' 
identifies 
JEFFERSON IIOBILE HOMES


the world's best 
Wanted: full-time manager and part-time help for downtown pants bvutique. 

beer drinkers! 
open 11 AM .. 8 PM 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 

call 211 8214 for appt. 
LOOKING FOR THE GREAT PUMPKIN? 
TRY LOOKING AT "AMERICA" ... 

You'll find ''MELTING POT'' 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHTS 

ALL GIRLS ADMITTED FREE!! 
all othen -SI.OO 
7Hl!. OBSERfJER. Friday, October 30, 1970 
Trustees meet organizations 
(Continued from page 1) 

must be scraped from other parts of the budget to finance such programs as black orienta­tion and minority student re­cruitment. True, the University did go to the Cotton Bowl in 1969, but are we each year going to depend upon a successful football team to finance minori­ty student programs? Hopefully the answer is no." 
After the meeting SBP Dave Krashna stated that the board will recommend to the Trustees that all financial aid and recruitment funds be expanded for the next few years. About the possibility of the $12 million allottment passing the Trustees, Krashna said, "I hope it does because what we asked for was the bare minimum." 
The Committee for Social Un­derstanding presented their ·pro­posal next through their Execu­tive Secretary, Tim Connor. Be­sides their two main proposals
concerning -renovation of LaFor-. 
WHY PAY MORE FOR USED FURNITURE & APPLIANCES? 
CALL BILL; 232-2646; SELLING & BUYING. 

ROCK CONCERT 

8:30 pm til l 
tune and the Fieldhouse and changes in the Dining Halls, Con­nor hinted at the idea of creating between St. Mary's and US 31 a "campus mall".Professor Rich­ard Bizot, a member of the Committee noted that the Trus­tees showed "signs of interest," to the proposals. 
Krashna said that the board was "favorable, but that a lot of study was needed in this area." The board has agreed to look into real estate in that region and look deeper into conversion and renovation of buildings. Doctor Thomas Carney, Chair­man of the Student Affairs Com­mittee indicated tliat the dining hall proposals showed promise. He said that an exchange meal program between ND and SMC is something which could be 
"handled easily and quickly." 
The Observer wishes to apolo­gize for any liberal tendencies which may pervade Friday's or Monday's papers due to the fact that Glen Stuart Corso Is vaca­tioning In Massapequa, New York. 

-------~-----~--------------~------------------------~ 
Friday, October 30, 1970 THE OBSERVER. Page 7 
One side unarmed •

1n showdown 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. -Marshall Dillon vs. the Sundance Kid ... 

Is it Philadelphia or the wild, wild West? Kennedy Stadium or the O.K. Corral? The 20th cen­tury or the I 9th? 
It is Philadelphia, Kennedy Stadium, and the 20th century but the shoot out is on for Saturday, October 31st at 1 :30 
p.m. (EST). 
New Quarterback 
To snap a six-game losing string, Navy sends Ade Dillon, the "Marshall" from Appleton, Wisconsin, against an Irish de­fense that is on everyone's "Eleven Most Wanted" list. Notre Dame counters with Joe Theismann, described in press releases as an Irish version of the Sundance Kid. Theismann is a top gun who has already carved five notches in his handle this fall. 

Dillon, a sophomore who made his only other start in the Washington game, played the en­tire second half versus Syraucse last weekend and put the Mid­shipmen's only points on the board with a six-yard toss to senior Scott Monson. For the afternoon, Dillon was 8-of-22 for 79 yards. He was intercepted twice. 
"Ade moved us for a touch­down and was able, on several occasions, to scramble away from pressure," Coach Rick For­zano says. "Dillon presents Notre Dame wiht some defensive problems from the standpoint of containment. He is probably our most mobile quarterback." 
Mobility will be a necessity against an Irish defense that has surrendered only four touch­down in five outings. Notre Dame has shut off its five oppo­nents with an average of 211.6 yards per game. At South Bend this fall, ND bottled up the Navy attack, limiting the Midshipmen to 93 total yards -19 rushing and 7 4 passing. The final was Notre Dame 47, Navy 0. 
Forzano describes the Irish defense, best in the nation after games of October 17, as "awe­some." The Theismann-guided attack struck for 2,667 yards in 


The Irish Eye 
Picks 

IRISH EYE-TEM-There is quite a piece of prose printed in the Ohio Stave student newspaper The Lantern. Their sports editor wrote a column about Ara Parseghian and his effort to scedule a game with OSU. It is uncomplimentary of the Irish to say the least. Among other things ND is referred to as not quite worthy to play the Buckeyes (we don't rank in the Top Two). If permission can be received from The Lantern the column will run next week in the Observer 
Last week was a pretty good schedule for picking games and if I hadn't made a schedule-reading mistake I would have gotten 24 out of 30 picks right. Unfortunately Texas A&M does not meet Arkansas until this weekend so I'll have to be content with 23 of 29 for a ledger. 
Notre Dame over Navy: Navy lost to Penn State by 48 points. The Nittany Loins then feel to Colorado by 28 tallies. Colorado was whipped by Missouri with a nine point. bulge and Notre Dame handed it to Mizzou with a 17 point victory. Does that mean the Irish will beat the Midshipmen 1 02-0? 
Pitt over Syracuse: It wouldn't be the biggest surprise in the world if the revamped Orangemen upset the Panthers but we're hoping the Pittsburghers can come to The Stadium 6-1. 
Nebraska over Colorado: The Huskers are breathing down the neck of Notre Dame in the polls. Stanford over Oregon State: Mr. Plunkett can smell nothing but the fragrant aroma of Roses. Alabama over Mississippi State: The Tide and the_Bear ~n play 
the spoiler role later this season against LSU. If they stay true to form they'll probably go to a bowl with a 5-5 record. 
Toledo over Miami (Ohio): The biggest test of the season for the nationally ranked Rockets. They should c~me out without a pink slip deficiency. 
Texas over SMU: The Longhorns could strengthen their No. 1 ranking in AP this week. Chuck Hixson would have to be a miracle man to beat UT. 
Auburn over Florida: The Tigers should return to the win column in fine form. 
Georgia Tech over Duke: A questionable pick. The Blue Devils are nobody's patsy this season but the Yellow Jackets have started another win streak. 
UPSET OF THE WEEK 

Northwestern over Ohio State: This is more wishful thinking than 
anything else, especially with the game being played in Columbus. 
The Buckeyes have really showed some weaknesses, however, so it 
should at least be a close game. I'll be waiting for the result of this 
one with a great deal of interest. 

In the other feautred collegiate encounters this weekend I like 
Boston College to hammer the Army, Air Force to remain unbeaten 
against Arizona, Penn State in a close one over West Virginia, 
Tennessee in a cake walk over Wake Forest, Clemson to run over 
Maryland, North Carolina over Virginia, Kentucky over North 
Carolina State, Purdue over Illinois, Michigan State over Indiana, 
Michigan over Wisconsin, Minnesota over Iowa, Oklahoma over Iowa 
State, Kansas over Oklahoma State,. Missouri over Kansas State, 
Arkansas over Texas A&M (for sure this week), Georgia over South 
Carolina, Texas Tech over Rice, Oregon over Washington, San Diego 
State over Fresno State (major college?) and in the big one in the 
Ivies, Dartmouth to outscore the Yales. 
Last week 23 of 29 Season Percentage .764 
wins over Northwestern (35-14), Purdue ( 48-0), Michigan State (29-0), Army (51-10), and Mis­souri (24-7) -an average of 
533.4 yards pe game. 
"Notre Dame has all of the things a football team needs," Navy coach Forzano says, "in­cluding more plays than the pros. I am convinced that Ara (Parseghian) must put in some formations at the half. The dif­ferent looks that they give you are just amazi_ng." 
Must Stop Gatewood 
An item of special concern for Notre Dame foes is Tom Gate­wood, a junior from Baltimore who was the nation's leading receiver after five appearances. Gatewood has pulled down 44 passes for 679 yards and five touchdowns. "We'll have to use the same approach on Gatewood that we did on Ernie Jennings of Air Force," Forzano siad. "We're stunned at the different ways he can get loose. We will be forced to a lot of double and triple coverage and hope they won't throw to another re­ciever." 
For the third straight week, Navy' s : sophomore-dominated defense kept its mistakes to a minimum vs. the Orangemen. Aside from a 24-yard scoring pass on the first play of the game and a 17-yard TD run in the third period, Syraucse' s at-. tack was limited to the instep of kicking specialist George Jako­wenko, who converted three field goals and added a pair of conversions. 

"Since the Washington State game, our defense has played exceptionally well," Forzano said. "They have started to come together as a unit. They are getting used to one another and learning each other's moves." Last weekend, Syracuse's norm­ally devestating ground game was choked off with 131 yards 
well below the Orange's 203-yard average of the first four outings. 
44th Meeting 
This is the 44th consecutive game in the Navy-Notre Dame series, longest continuous inter­sectional rivalry in college foot­ball. The Irish have captured 33 of the previous struggles, Navy nine, and there h·as been one tie. Notre Dame won 47-0 last fall for its sixth straight in the rival­ry_, Navy's last victory wa~ a 




NBA greats to be honored 
Ade Dillon, who has replaced Mike McNaUen as the Navy signal cal­ler, will be out to "arrest" the Irish tomorrow 
I 
35-14 triumph at South Bend in 1963. Saturday's game will be the sixth between the two teams in Philadelphia. ND has won four at Kennedy Stadium and 
Navy one. 
Four of Notre Dame's return­ing starters were on the Navy. All-Opponent team a year ago. Ariiorig the best 22-football players they saw all of last year, the Midshipmen listed wide re­ceiver Tom Gatewood, offen­sive guard Larry DiNardo, quarterback Joe Theismann, and defensive back Ralph Stepaniak. 
Senior quarterback Mike McNallen of Navy was in for only two plays last Saturday (both field goal efforts) but he distinguished himself with a great defensive effort on Syra­cuse's return of an abortive field goaL McNlllen is the man that hauled down the Orange's Tom Myers after a 68-yard return. The saving tackle prevented a Syracuse touchdown. 
Rick, Ara Alike 

Opposing coaches Rick For­zano of Navy ana Ara Parseghian of Notre Dame have very similar backgrounds. Both are from the same hometown -Akron,Ohio -and graduated from Mid-
American Conference schools. Parseghian is -a product of Miami, Ohio, University while Forzano went to Kent State. The Notre Dame coach played for Paul Brown with the Cleve­land Browns, a man furzano coached with at Cincinatti. "I drive a Ford, too," Forzano says. 
Quick note on Navy middle lineback Chuck Voith of San Antonio, Texas: 
"If we were 6-1 instead of 1-6," Coach Rick Forzano says, "Voith would be in the running for an All-America team and would have made 'Lineman of the Week' at least once." 
The entire 4,300 man Bri­gade of Midshipmen will journey to Philadelphia for the Notre Dame game. . The Brigade will march into Kennedy Stadium and form on the field prior to kickoff. The pre-game parade 
starts at 12:30 p.m. (EST). 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Dolph Schayes, Bob Cousy, Tom Heinsohn and Richie Guerin ­all current coaches in the NBA­are among the 25 n·ominees named today for the National Basketball Association Silver Anniversary team. 
A 1O-man squad of nonactive league greats will be honored at the 1971 NBA All Star game in San Diego, Calif., Jan 12, 1971. 
Commissioner Walter Ken­nedy revealed the complete 25 man list. It contains an array of stars who kept the NBA thriving through the years of adversity when recessions held attendance down in many cities and point fixing scandals rocked the col­lege basketball scene. 

In addition to the aforemen­tioned quartet, those named are Paul Arizin, Bobby Davies, Bob Feerick, Joe Fulks, Larry· Gal­latin, Tom Gala, Neil Johnston, 

The Irish lacrosse team will be in action this weekend for their second contest of the season. The stickmen will be facing the University of Michigan Wolve­rines this Saturday afternoon on the Stepan Center fields. Game Sam Jones, 1il Ma~auley, Slater Martin, Dick McGuire, George Mikan, Vern Mikkelsen, Bob Pet­tit, Jim Pollard, Bill Russell, Bill Sha'rytan, the late Maurice Stokes, Bobby Wanzer, George Yardley and Max Zaslofsky. 

time is set for I: 00 p.m. 
The Wolverines should present a big challenge for ND, who have trounced an out-manned Knox College squad 15-0 so far this season. UM has defeated the Chicago LaCrosse Club who con­quered the Irish I 0-6 last season. 
Page 8 

fewer Guards on campus 
The Security Office is ex­perimenting with the idea of not keeping a security guard in each hall. The dual reason for this is to "try to cut' comers in the budget," and to comply with the requests of some rectors to dis­continue the practice in their respective halls, according to Director of Security Arthur Pears. 
The Security Office "could not justify a man working in every hall all night," according to Pears. The guards are now being shuffled around, a situa­tion necessitated by the scarcity of employment prospects. Fish­er, Pangborn, Keenan-Stanford, and Carroll Halls are presently without regular hall monitors. An attempt is being made to obtain a security man for Plan­ner. 
A number of the halls are "doubled up", with one monitor serving two halls. 
Security tries to keep a man in each of the larger halls, unless the rector wishes otherwise, stated Pears. 
Those halls without a regular monitor can depend on security assistance when a problem arises. These problems, and those that the regular guards face, involve "helping the rector maintain decor;" the primary duty of the regular man, according to Pears, is "while the students are asleep, making sure outsiders are kept out." The monitor must also report fires, larceny, property damage, disorders, serious in­juries, and other offenses, as outlined in the Regulations for Hall Security Guards. 
Dming vacations, Security can lock up unoccupied halls. At these times, the guards can work inside and outside. 


; Mon. thr•• Fri. 8:30 : Sat. 6:30 & 10:30 : M"l'!t. Wed. 2 P-M• 
•
:
• 

I• • I: 
:• 
I 
•

+ Group Sales: Phone : Mary Merll~, 641-5933 
• BLACKSTONE THEATRE 

···········~~~········ 

Interested in a 
Teachinc Career??? 
Any St. Mary's-Notre Dame student who may be interested in the possibility of teaching as a t>rofession is strongly urged to attend an orientatim1 meeting to be held on Thursday evening, October 29, in room 249 Madeleva. This meeting wi!i begin promptly at 7 o'clock and will last appro·~imately one hour. 



Friday, October 30, 1970 ' 
ROMA'S RESTAURANT 218 N. Mlchla•n Pizza, American-Italian Food, Beer, Wine, Liquor DELIVERY SERVICE RIGHT TO YOUR ROOM FOR ND-SMC; DISCOUNT ON DELIVERY DAILY BETWEEN 4-7 p.m. (WITH THIS AD) Music Friday and Saturday 2143218  
FREE COFFEE. At the STUDENT UNION RATHSKELLER L•Fortune Student Center OPEN: Mon.-Thurs.. 12~12:00 Enter the coffee drawing and win 2 $5.00 Sergio Mendes concert tickets! Deadline November 4 9:00PM.  
c...-u18tl••i BUCK & BETSY ON YOUR MAIUliAGE OCTOBER Jl, 19J8  
BODY SHIRT a THINGS 10% DISCOUNT to ALL STUDENTS SHOWING I.D. CARDS Sjj;Q,TH' Ellt"'ND. tNQIA"NA lftfilQ;"I!il'lAMI S':'FRE-&T •ll'fi'N.r..··:nr~:,.,sat:a DAILY 12 -9 SAT JO-6  













