
SLC fields wide range of questions 
by Don Ruane and John Abowd The SLC fielded questions assumed that it would be the for an offiCial party that could ment served the following two Presidents Council as the major yesterday on everything from University's policy "to maximize number . close to 50 persons. functions: 1) It will put all ~tudent government body. "This South Bend to Dallas. profits from the Cotton Bowl as Fa cenda called it a "very student life matters into the 1s not a legislative body but a Questions ranging from the they attempted to do last year." Spartan thing." hands of the SLC and 2) It will coordinating body that will in Cotton Bowl profits to the He explained that most bowl One of the most discussed place emphasis on hall autono­es_sence, congea-l student annexation of the University by games are actually financial topics of the meeting concerned my and government. opinion," said Krashna. He the city of South Bend and an losses for the schools involved the referendum Wednesday on The new constitution calls for added that students get involved audit of Student government because of contract require­the new constitution. Krashna the abolition of the Student in "political games" and the new books were fielded yesterday ments and the pagentry involv­explained that the new docu-Senate and establish the Hall 
(Continued on page 8)

afternoon by members of the ed. Some contracts, according to Student Life Council in an open Facenda, require a participating session. 
school to bring its band and have 

Alma hits Abortion Panel
The question early in the representatives at various affairs. 

meeting Student Body President The University spent $50,000 to by Ann Therese DiuinDave Krashna was asked to send the band to last year's Yesterday at the St. Mary's president Sister Alma restating panel which was held at Notreclarify the confusion over the Cotton Bowl and minimized 
Health Committee meeting the complaints that she said she Dame and was not connected instudent government debt by a other costs by paying costs for Sister Immaculata, dean of stu­received after the commission's any way with St. Mary's and our
fellow member of the council. 
only two members of the admin­dents, read a letter to the com­"Abortion Panel." sex education panel. Abortion atKrashna said the present debt istration instead of the expenses mittee members from acting In the letter, Sister Alma our conference was only alluded began three years ago during the contended that many students, to," stated one member.

Richard Rossi administration. 
faculty and parents had express­The committee decided that"Since April we have not been ed disapproval at the panel for to continue to write the acting
Cotton Bowl
operating at a debt and we now not emphasizing the Catholic president letters would not helphave financial stability," said point of view. At a faculty meet­the situation. Instead, they willKrashna. 

proceeds undecided 
ing in November, she stated, "At invite Sister to meet with the
Director of Student 

Saint Mary's College, an institu­committee to clarify the situa­
Residences Fr. Thomas E. 
tion of higher education, there tion.
Chambers asked Krashna if there by Art Ferranti program as it did last year. But, as with any functioning opera­should be room for, exposure to, "Before we can proceed with are any plans for an outside The decision as to the alloca­and discussion of many positions our other projects, we need anaudit of student government tion of proceeds for the Cotton tion, more money is needed. 
but in the final analysis, the understanding between ourselvesfunds. He replied that his admin­Bowl is still undecided, the Ob­Krashna, though, believes that position of the Catholic Church and the administration," claimedistration is willing to submit to server learned yesterday, but the in the future, money should must be emphasized. Concern another member of the commit­an outside audit if someone else administration and the student come for the minority students and care for the entire academic 
would pay for it. Student Body body president appear to agree through normal university funds tee. Vice President added that the that the funds should go to the and not "special projects" like community must be exercised in "The faculty was confused as 
the light of Christian values." . to the intent of our panel andonly objection to an audit is that minority students as was the the Bowl games. If this were so, According to the minutes of referred to it as an 'aborttonthere are not enough student case last year. that Bowl games produce the the meeting, "This statement panel', " stated one observer. 
government funds to pay for Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, funds for the minorities then referred the "Confusion was compounded byone. C.S.C., executive vice-president, Krashna asserted, we wdu!d a!~ particularly to Abortion Panel which caused the Notre Dame abortion panel"Wr; are more than willing to said that the administration ways have to depend on an misgivings and concern among which was detrimental to us. 
put ourselves under the same would not meet for a while (the excellent football team for 
date as but he many faculty members anci stu­With this information, Sister
scrutiny we would like to see the yet undecided) funds. Rather, Krashna feels that dents." Alma is in effect saying that ifUniversity under," added felt that the money would pro­the recruitment and education Because members of the com­that's what you're doing (hold­Winings. He said the student bably be given to the Minority of those students should be mittee felt that this innaccurate ing back the Catholic position),
government books "are and Students Fund. treated "routinely," that is remark would be detrimental to then, desist."
always have been open" to the Student Body President Dave quietly with respect and dignity, their further work, they unani­Another spokesman at the
said an and publicity. Said Krashna,
students. Krashna would like to Krashna in interview no mously requested a clarificatipn meeting, Father Roger Cormier, see an audit reciprocated especi­that, while he has no authority "We have to stop seeing the 
ally in regard to Cotton Bowl in the matter, he would like to minority students as special. The of the statement by Sister Alma. associate director of the campus 
This letter disturbed commit­ministry, believed that the issue moneys. see the minority students receive perpetuation of institutional tee members because "Sister is much broader than the panelVice President and General the Bowl proceeds. He felt that racism is increased by special mistakenly linked the abortion
Co u neil Philip J. Faccenda the money would accelerate the 
projects." 
(Continued on page 6) 
New members see no change 
for Academic Council 
ting a total education."

by Ed Ellis 
Schaaf sees. this integration as The seven recently-chosen stu­the major concern of the Aca­dent members of the University demic Council. 

Academic Coucnil, the first stu­Schoaf said th~t the problemdent members of that organiza­was one of forming the man as tion, agreed yesterday that while well as the mind, and he said he their membership on the Council feels that this has not been done 
would not "significantly" affect thus far. Mike Keeber 
Tom Kenny John Donahue
the balance of power in the 
As far as the recent controver­numerical sense, their presence 
sy over the Computer Science would certainly provide an es­program is concerned, Schaaf sential voice of student represen­said that there was certainly the tation on the body. necessity of taking some action, 
Tom Schaaf, who is a member. although exactly what that ac­of the Student Life Council in tion is remains uncertain. Possib­addition to his duties as College ly a consolidation or reorganiza­
of engineering representative to tion of the program under the the Academic Council, said that electrical engineering. depart­he saw the chief concern of the ment should be considered, said Council as "the problem of in­Schaaf. tegrating the academic life, the Ed McCartin, Arts and Letters social life, and the hall life, so representative on the Council you don't spent time in three says his main goal will be repre: different ways; you spend all sentation of his "constituency." your time being educated. To­He said that "there is a lot of day if you spent time on your potential at Notre Dame that Ed McCartin Frank Palopoli Tom Schoaf 


social life, you feel like you must be directed in the areas of more emphasis is placed on the the cure-all many people ap­irked by is the one of the of should be studying, and if you the arts and sciences." AL school. parently believed it to be. "The arbitrary power. On the one give time to talking to guys in He cited the recent financial Frank Palopoli, representative real question of student repre­hand, representation is not the the halls, you feel like you and manpower problems of the of the professional schools on sentation,'' he said, "is one of answer, but on the other hand, should be giving time to your Government Department as the Council, sounded a novel how the authority in a Universi­representation is a very good studies or going out with a girl. being indicative of the fact that note by pointing out that while ty is responsible to the Universi­thing. It makes the students in-Somehow these have to be in­the Notre Dame students can be representation was certainly ty as a whole. The question, I (Continued on page 6)
tegrated so you spent itme get-
better served by the university if good for the students, it was not feel, that the students are really 



Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Tuesday, December 8, 1970 
Students vo1ce op1n1ons on Co-Education (first in 
a series) 
dently.

by Glen Sorge like the rat-race of their social 
There were two major cate­life or the unnatural atmosphereOne cannot seriously consider gories among those questioned. 


Tracey
of having a "token" boy in a the topic of coeducation at 28% wished to see St. Mary's class or being a "token" girl in a At the present, there are noNotre Dame without reference merge with Notre Dame. The 

class. 

formal programs at St. Mary'sto St. Mary's College. For several hopes expressed were that it As one young lady stated, "I aimed at coeducation with Notre
years, St. Mary's has afforded would result in a greater ex­Notre Dame a limited inter­change of sexes in classroom, a don't like the reputations SMC Dame, according to Ann Marie change of the sexes on campus. more varied curriculum, and the girls have at Notre Dame." "It's Tracey (S.B.P.). Miss Tracey her­not our fault that the social self is waiting for the results of
Thus, S.M.C. girls have come to idea of having women living on consider themselves a part of the N.D. campus and men .on the situation is so messed up, it's the the Parks, Mayhew Report on school's!" Coeducation in January. How­
Notre Dame and most have very S.M.C. campus. The point ever, having read several of thedefinite opinions on coeducation stressed by these girls was that reports published in favor of
at Notre Dame. although they wished to see Observer Insight coeducation (Stanford-Keenan
A poll taken to indicate the greater interaction between the girls feelings on the subject sexes, they did not wish to and Prof Runde's), she is pre­
The most disheartening thing sently in favor of turning St.
offers some interesting, if not change the presently lopsided astounding results. 99% of the male-female population. about gathering these opinions is Mary's into a liberal arts college 
more than 150 girls polled had However, a whopping 66% of when a girl asks "will this do of Notre Dame. She also hopes 
anything?", she expects a nega­for coed resident halls in the
definite opinions on the subject. the girls polled said (that) they Only 5% of the girls were satis­not only wanted to see Notre tive answer. Almost without future. Miss Tracey does not 
fied with the present level of Dame merge with St. Mary's but exception, the girls I spoke to at believe we will have coeducation 
coeducation at Notre Dame, wanted N.D. to increase its S.M.C. feel that change (especial­earlier than fall 197'2, but would ly in regard to coeducation) is
leaving 94% unsatisfied. Not a acceptance of girls to the point like to see it sooner. 
is endlessly student
single girl polled wished to retain of a one-to-one ratio. something that When asked about 
talked about but never accom­

S.M.C.'s identity at the cost of The overall reaction was one opinion, Miss Tracey stated, "co­
plished.

Notre Dame going coed indepen-of discontent. The girls didn't education has not been a chief issue over the years." She conti­nued, saying "The freshman came here expecting coeduca­ion almost immediatly." Miss Tracey indicated that feeling was 




icHJ&D 


HEAD AND LEATHER SHOP 
high, hut had only come about 
DS-50088 THREE DOG NIGHT "NATURALLY" 
A contemporary wonder, Three Dog Night's string of gold records rivals Fort Knox. Coming right off the top of all trade charts with a hit single, Three Dog has another sure­fire goldie with this album. What more can we say? 
CREEPIN' ONE MAN BAND 


Hit Records at N.D. Bookstore 


Ann Marie Tracey is not hap: py with the male-female ratio at 
N.D. and S.M.C., saying "It's not fair to Notre Dame!" She main­tains that Notre Dame should go coed independently even if St. Mary's chooses to retain its pre­sent status. If such a case oc­
curs, she hopes the N.D., S.M.C. relationship would be main­tained. If coeducation does come about, Miss Tracey would like to see a 1-1 ratio but feels 3-1 is more realistic. 
When asked if she saw the trustees as an obstacle, Miss Tracey cited, as a case in point, her off campus proposal. It has passed every case of acceptance up to the trustees and then was vetoed by them. She fears the same may occur with any at­tempts at coeducation. However, Miss Tracey said she was some­what comforted by Sister Alma, who assured her that the trustees will make a fair judgment. 
When questioned about the dismisal of the two S.M.C. pro­fessors, Miss Tracey said she did not think their activities on be­half of coeducation were the cause. She fdt there were unex­posed troubles between the ad­ministration and the professors. 

Krashna 
In ~n interview last week, Notre Dame SBP. Dave Krashna stated, "I expect some form of coeducation in the near future." He continued,"! would say fall of next year is unrealistic; may­be spring.'' However, he also indicated that the recent rumors of coeducation are probably baseless. K rashna puts more stock in the forthcoming coedu­cation report being compiled by Bill Wilka and Tim Conner and the work being done by the committee for Social Under­standing. This committee is now trying to institute coed eating arrangements and is inves1igating the possibility of constructing a mall on route 31 for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
Krashna would like to see Notre Dame increase its enroll­ment to include women as sson as possible. He also supports the idea of coed residence halls. Al­though Krashna would like to have St. Mary's become a part of our coeducational university, he recognizes their reluctance to do so. He would therefore support a move to go coed independantly of St. Mary's 
Speaking on the recent dis­misals of Professor Runde and Professor Hickemeyer, Krashna stated, "On pure speculation, it seems there was some connec­tion between their efforts on behalf of coeducation and their dismisal." He also said the stu­dent government would soon is­sue a statement on the subject. 
Concerned 

About Pollution? 
Enroll in CE 213 
"Man t::nd His 


Environment" 
A University-wide course 
available to all ND-SMC stu­
dents-Sophs imd above 

'I 
durl119 tiM col.._ Mmllshlr except v.cetlons bY tiM students of the University of Notre Deme .net SL Mary'l Col..... Sullilet'IPtiOM may 11M pun:ha•ct for •• from The Ob­.,.,Box 11, Notre Deme. Incl. 46556. 5ecOIMI ctea p.u.e paid, ~ Deme, Incl. 46556. 

Tuesday, December 8, 1970 THE OBSERIIBt Page 3 




Student Government Constitution continued 
ARTICLE IV: (Judicial) 
Section I: All Judicial pow­
ers granted in this Constitu­
tion will be vested in the Ju­
dicial Council. 
Section II: The Judicial 
Council will be composed of: 
a) The Student Body President, who will serve as chairman voting only in case 
of a tie in the regular voting . 
b) The Ombudsman. 

c) 
The Judicial Coordinator. 

d) 
Four (4) undergraduates of the Notre Dame student body appointed by the Student Body President with the consent of the President's Council. Appointments will be made upon the recommendation of a 


screening board consisting of 
Student Body President, 
Judicial Coordinator and 
three members of the 
President's Council as elected 
by that Council. 
Section Ill: The Judicial 
Council will make rulings on 
questions of violations of the 
Student Government 
Constitution. 
Section IV: The Judicial Council will carry out all other duties and proceedings as provided in the bylaws. 
ARTICLE V: 
(Administration) 
Section 1: The Student Union Director will be appointed each year by the incoming Student Body President with the consent of the President's Council within a period not exceeding two 
(2) weeks after date of Inauguration. 
Section II: The Student Union Director will be a member of the student body president's cabinet. As Union Director, he will be impowered to regulate the operation of all areas within the Union, with the approval of the Student Union Board of Directors. 
Section Ill: The Student Union Board of Directors will be composed of: 
1) the Student Body Presi­dent, serving as the Chairman. 
2) the Student Body Vice President. 
3) the Student Union Di­rector. 
4) the Vice President for Student Affairs. 
5) the Student Govern­ment Treasurer. 
6) one (1) faculty member 
Section IV: The Student Union Board of Directors will 
meet  at  least  once  (1)  a  
1]10nth.  
Section  V:  The  faculty  

member on the Union Board of Directors, will be elected each year by the current poard. 
Section VI: The Student Uniqn Board of Directors, witH the consent of the Presi­dent's Council will formulate the administrative policy of the Student Union. The Stu­dent Union Director will re­port to the President's Coun­cil lit least once (1) each month and will execute the policy of the Union Board. 
Section VII: The Student Union will cohsist of at least the following areas: 
a) 
the Academic Commis­sion. 

b) the Social Commission. 

c) 
the student Services Commission. 

d) 
the Student Union Press. 


Section VIII: The Student Government Finance Com­mittee will be composed of: 
a) 
the Student Body Presi­dent, serving as Chairman. 

b) 
the Student Body Vice President. 

c) 
the Student Body Treas­urer. 

d) 
the Student Union Di­rector. 

e) 
The Student Union As­sistant Director. 

f) 
the Vice President for Student Affairs. 

g) 
one ( 1) professor of the Business College. 

h) 
three (3) president's council members as elected by the President's Council. 

i) 
the off-campus Presi­dent's Council representative. 


Section I X: The Finance Cpmmittee will submit to the President's Council the sum­mar budget and the semi an­nual budgets of the opera­tim's of the entire Student Government of the University of 1\Jotre Dame. 
ARTICLE VI: (Initiative, Referendum, and Recall) Section I: A petition bear­ing the valid signatures of 250 members of the under­graduate student body will 
c~use the President's Council to consider a specific recom­mendatio'n. 
Section II: A petition bear­ing the valid signatures of 750 members of the under-

Jr.-Parents Week­
end set for Feb. 
Junior Parents Weekend, will be held Friday, Saturday and Sunday February 26, 27, 28, 1971, Chairman Tom D' Aquila announced yesterday. 
Tim Taylor, Co-Chairman of the Weekend said that the pur­pose of the weekend was "to · involve the parents in the life of the University community with accent on the academic program and the contemporary issues and ideas confronting the Notre Dame student." 
Invitations were mailed to all junior's parents and sho~ld have been received during the Thanks­giving vacation, D'Aquila said. He encouraged all juniors to remind their parents of the January 15th deadline for con­firmation and to urge them to attend. He went on to say that any junior who has not received an invitation may procure one by calling 1266. 
Final ticket sales, seating arrangements and confirmation of reservations will be held at the LaFortune student center on January 25, 26, and 27,1971. 
·~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=~~-,;:;:;:;:~:~::t;;;:;:::~:::~::8!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::8.::~a~:~'*-~~ 
~i~I  ROGERS OPTICAl .  llllI  
~~~~  Complete Spectacle Service  1~1~  
:;:;  Glasses Duplicated  ;:;:  

graduate student body will cause the President's Council to conduct a referendum on a specific resolution. 
Section Ill: A petiton bear­ing the valid signatures of 35% of the electorate will cause the President's Council to hold an election on the re­call of the Student Body . Preside11t of tb.e Student t Body Vice President. For the petitions to bear valid signa­tures, they must have the full first and last names of the signer, his address, the ex­pected year of graduation, and his I D number. Any member of the undergraduate student body, who is in or has gone through their second semester at Notra Dame, may sign the recall petition, and all members of undergraduate student body may vote in the recall elections of the student body officers. The Permanent E I ection Committee must verify the constitutionality of the Petition before its circula­tion. The recall election must be held within two (2) weeks of the presentation of the valid petition to the Presi­

dent's Council. The election will be such that other per­sons will be allowed to thusly run against the officer in question. In order to remain in office, the officer must re­ceive a plurality of the votes; if he does not, his office will be filled through the same means of this constitution. A new officer may be elected by receiving a majority of the votes in this same election. 
Section IV: A Permanent Election Committee will run all University wide elections, whether regularly scheduled or referendum, and recall, and impeachment. The com­mittee will be composed of: 
a) 
the Student Body Presi­dent. 

b) 
the Student Body Vice President. 

c) 
the Executive Coordi­nator of the Student Govern­ment. 

d) 
three (3) President's Council members chosen by the President's Council. 

e) 
one (1) Student Life Council member chosen by the undergraduate Student Life Council members. 



If any member of the Committee is the object of a recall drive or impeachment, he will be suspended from said committee pending the completion of the election. The Committee will make all the rules for University/wide elections and will verify the constitutionality of wide peti­tions. The Committee may ap­
point  a  non-member  to  be  
Election  Coordinator  for  a  
specific election.  

ARTICLE VII: (Impeach­ment) 
Section I: A bill of im­peachment may be initiated by a petition containing the valid signatures of 750 under­graduates. 
Section II: The President's Council will try the individual under the bill of impeach­ment with a majority vote of the President's Council send­ing the bill to referendum. 
Section Ill: The impeached individual shall be removed by a majority of the voting undergraduate student body-provided that the total vote exceeds 60% of th.e un­
(Omtiltued on page 8) 




*Student Billing Card 
With this card, a dorm resi­
dent may make long distance calls 
with the privacy of the dorm room 
phone and get an individual bill 
once a month. 

And even take advantage of 
Direct Distance Dialing . . . the 
faster, easier way to call long 
distance. 

Your Student Billing Card 
is waiting (if you haven't already 
picked it up) at the Indiana Bell 
Business Office. Just ask. 
@ Indiana Bell 
~:~: Your Doctor's RX Filled :~ 
~~l~ Laraest selection of .. wires" ~ 
~ J 
:::: 214 S. Michigan (next to State Theatre) 289 7809 ::;:
« N 
.... -=-= 
i:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~;;:::::::::;::::::~:~:~:~:~;;:::~;;:~:::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::i 
Tuesday, December 8, 1970

Page 4 THE OBSERVER. 




THE OBSERVER 
Aft l....._...t ltu._ Ne ......., GLEN S. CORSO, Ectitor-in-Olief JOHN E. KNORR. Executive Editor BRUCE RIECK, Business Manap F8UIIJED IIOVEMIER J, 1-NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Don't mess up our Campus 
Why are you destroying your halls? 
The Notre Dame dormitories, never to be confused with Frank Lloyd Wright creations in the first place, have rapidly deteriorated over the last five years. The reason? Prime among them is the geometrically rising number of incidents of vandalism. 
There is no excuse for the incidents. No excuses are offered; only vague and tortured mutterings about the murderous quality of life at this University. But vandalism serves not to remedy conditions, but to make them worse. Damage to the hall often goes uncorrected for days, and acts of damage may leave permanent scars. 
Father Amen, in Planner Hall, has apparently been forced to limit keggers because of the damage done to halls. Now, how in God's name does vandalism wreak revenge on the University for the real or imagined ills? 
Yet the mutterings continue. Vandalism is judged to be a reaction to the repressive on-campus social atmosphere. Breaking windows, however, has never been considered much of an alternative to sexual gratification. 
Vandalism is alleged to be a reaction to the ills of the outside world. Since there is war, poverty, and racism, the contention goes, we will go out, get smashed, and punch holes in the walls to escape. Some escape. When the drunk comes out of his stupor, war, poverty, and racism are _still there, but now there's a hole in the wall. 
No, there are no excuses, and no higher reasons. Vandalism is the result of men who wish they were animals acting like animals. And animals belong in a cage. We suggest potential vandals keep this in mind. 
Peripher a I Divis ion ;*'*'*'*'*'*''*'*'*'*'H*H'#H'#HH*'*'H'*'*HH'#HN•u••••.c-••••,• 
Why the New Constitution Must Lose 

What a sad disaster the proposed student corruption in office, and failure to uphold this Government Constitution is! It's really too bad, constitution." Other than that, not much. too, that March's bright promise to return power What else can the Student Body President do? 
to the halls has been so unthinkingly abrogated. Article III, Section lii says he will "Act upon the The present monstrosity, when it's lucid enough to resolutions of the President's Council," but that say anything, says with a dull monotony that doesn't mean he'll have to obey the mandate of power should go back to LaFortune, back to the Council. Wadding all the Council's suggestions LaFortune, back to LaFortune ... up into a little ball and throwing them in the 
The syndrome makes itself evident right after wastepaperbasket is just as active as implimenting the Preamble, an awful but necessary piece of those suggestions. So he has the power to ignore sophisty. All legislative powers will be vested in the Council. 
He gets to preside over:

the Student Life Council as contained in its bylaws with the exception ofbudgetary and other internal (I) The President's council procedures concerning student affairs, says article (2) The Judicial Council I, Section I. But what are the "other internal (3) The Student Union Board of Directors procedures?" What is an "internal procedure" 
( 4) The Student Government Finance anyway? Well, it's something that concerns 
Committee "student affairs." Is Parietal hours an internal 
( 5) The Student Government Election procedure? It certainly concerns "student affairs." Committee. How about the dining halls, or the laundry? Does All power to the President! 
the new constitution bar the SLC from considering He also gets to fire the ·Student Union director, them? and it would take 2/3 of the President's Council to Article II is the much-hooplahed "President reinstate him. That means that the President can Council's" Article. But what powers have been play political football whh the important post of 
designated to the Hall Presidents? Well, they can Student Union Director, and it would take sixteen chew through the budget, as the Senate has been hall presidents to stop him. doing for years. And they "may express an official In addition, he gets to "Enforce the Student 
opini()n on any issue pertaining to the hall life of Government ·Constitution, it's bylaws" (honest to the students of the University." It was nice of God, that's what it says) be on the SLC, and student government to give that to them, but it "Have all powers necessary to carry out the 
really doesn't differentiate them from any other provisions of this Constitution and to delegate any group of vocal people. Where is the President's of the above powers to any department or agency Council's effective voice in Student Government? 
of Student Government." This Where is the guarantee that the diverse and elastic-clause-and-a-half, if stretched to its limit, broadly-based student opinion that the Hall could reach Chicago, or at least Michigan City. It Presidents represent will form the important would most certainly envelop most student student government reports that are sent to the political activities on this campus. SLC and the Trustees? And who will represent the But who would try people for violations of this student body, the elected President's Council or Constitution? Why, a Judicial Council people the Student Body President and his appointed by -get this-the student body president, the 
Cabinet? Ombudsman (an appointive post) the Judicial 
Don't hold your breath. Article III, Section III, Coordinator (an appointive post) and four Notre says: The Student Body President will: a) Serve as Dame Undergraduates-you guessed it-appointed an official spokesman of the student body, by the Student Body President after 
representing it in matters affecting its interests and recommendations from a board made up of the welfare. So much for the President's Council, and 
Student Body President and Judicial Coordinator, the "official opinion". in repeat performances, and three members of the 
What else can the President's Council do? Well, President's Council elected by that Council. Aha! they can run campus-wide election, establish their Some Hall Presidents! -making up a little more own operating procedures, and impeach people for than half of a once-removed body that only makes such specific offences as "derelistion (sic) of duty, recommendations anyway. 


'Today Jordan claimed It shot down 14 Israeli fighters -that's 3 more than Israel has!' 
;::;::;:;::~:~:::::=::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::~:::::::::=::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::;:;::;::::::::::::~:::::::::W.:f::· 
1Buz lmhoH I 

~~j~-New Constitution jjj~ 
~iii The following is the fifth and last in a series of articles by ~l~l 
;:;:student government leaders on the proposed new constitution.:::: 
:~:~Mr. Imhoffis the president ofBadin Hall. :~:~ 
There has been a lot said in the past few weeks about the proposed Constitution. And I honestly wonder what I can add to the mountains of verbiage, for and against. Of course, the most 
notable feature is the abolition of the Senate and the transference of its powers to a "modified" Hall President's Council. This move, in itself, might appear as a meaningless shift of power or responsibility from one worthless Student Government body to another. But upon closer inspection, I think I detect a sincere attempt on the part of campus government to realign its priorities and bring meaning to hall life and government. Specifically, tl"\e Student Body President chairs the "new" HPC and his cabinet sits as non-voting members in an advisory capacity. This, I feel, is the most noteworthy element of the document and one of the few structural changes that merits any mention at all. 
Once a week, those directly responsible for co-ordinating the activities of their hall, the presidents, would have the opportunity to meet and discuss any aspect of university life they felt was relevant, with the one student best able to implement change, the Student Body President. For too long this campus has floundered with no real meaning behind its governmental structure. Campus and hall governments have operated separately with no co-ordination between the two. In this Constitution is a chance to form a meaningful liaison that would hopefully result in a unified campus where all would be happy to live. In no way is it possible for either of the two systems to alone build the community we need at this university. On through unification and co-ordination can the student body's needs be best served. 
My primary objection with the proposed Constitution involves, not the document itself, but rather this late date at which it's being presented to us for ratification. I am told that the framers of this noble document worked through the summer, feverishly trying to ready it for a September unveiling. Well, undoubtedly the shortened semester had something to do with the tie-up, but my primary concern is this: there is less than two months of the school calendar left in the present administration, and might not action this drastic wind up saddling those who assume office next year with an unfairly, unfamiliar system and the responsibility to "smooth the rough edges" during their terms? Or might it even thrust a new system on one who didn't support its establishment and, had he the choice, would not even have initiated such action? 
To be frank, I don't know what to think of the new Constitution. It definately has its flaws, as so many have pointed out already. But I imagine I'll vote to accept it this week bec~use its potential good far outweighs its liabilities. Whatever the case, we've got to begin to get out of this rut. All we have accomplished during the last couple of years has been for nothing if we just sit here and stagnate. 

We need a new constitution. We need one that will bring power and money to the halls. But this year's student Government pressed for more money to Student Union, instead of more money to the halls. This year's Student Government never comes around unless it wants something from you, like it will tonight. And this year's constitution has lost all of the vision we so distantly saw last March. We want to see it again. 
_T~ue~s~da~y~·~D~ec~e_m~b_er_,s~,-19_7_o___________________________________~Jl~ ()Jlr~~-----------------------------------------------Pa~g_e_5 
T. G. Knoles .~::::::::::&:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;~ Mike Lenehan 
;l;~ 


Jesus Christ Superstar ~\~\ Reviewing contrasts 
::::: 
~~~ 

Jesus Christ, Superstar was released with a tremendous hype from Decca, the same company that brought us Tommy, not without publicity of its own, herald­ing the age of the rock opera. 
The rock opera has failed more often than it has succeeded. Witness Mercury's The Naked Carmen, and one Capitol put out about the Civil War, the name of which I can't even remember. 
Tommy itself wasn't the first of its kind. The Beatles and the Stones had both experimented with extended forms, and the Who itself had tone similar experiments even before Sgt. Pepper. Traces of songs from The Who Sell Out can in fact be heard on the later Tommy. 
I liked all of those things. They were experiments; the bands were trying to see how far they could go. And they weren't pretentious. The music was always only as serious as you wanted it to be. But people have wanted to make rock every­thing 'serious' classical music is, and more, and that includes pedantry. From this came Jesus Christ, Superstar. (the illegitimate son of Tommy and Naked Carmen?) 
the music of the opera was written by Andrew Lloyd Webber; the words by Tim Rice, who we understand are two record company executives. It was 18 months in the making, cost an enormous fortune, and utilized the City of London Ensem­ble (an 89 piece orchestra?) plus a load of rock sessionmen. (Ian Gillian of Deep Purple, Chris Mercer, formerly sax for John Mayall, Chris Spedding of the Battered Ornaments, etc. etc.) 
The problem is, though, that the whole thing really doesn't come off. Part of the trouble is that huge list of people; they are not used to playing together (the Who is) and so the music always sounds sort of cold, no matter how emotional it is. There is also another almost insurmount­able problem the Who didn't need to face. This is a problem of idiom. Tommy is purely a rock work. The songs, while 
I stare at my face in the mirror I cannot stay still I make faces try on different smiles and frowns tug at my hair light a cigarette and wonder what, in future days, this face will look like. 
One particular word is meaningless the word must create a flurry of thoughts and emotions that must rush in to give it meaning. 
strung together, are quite seperable, and most of the action is described in the third person. Besides this, there is no real dialogue: Daltry and Townshend sing all the characters, and no real attempt is 
made to keep the thing together like a 
radio show. In Tommy you get an idea of 
what is happening from what is going on 
around the action. 
But in Jesus Christ, there is actual 
sung dialogue, and even a chorus as in 
Greek tragedy. That is something which it 
is proving almost impossible to do in 
rock, because while songs can be extreme­
ly personal, they are never reflections of 
the singer himself. 
There is also the historical problem. People simply are not used to hearing things like "one thing about Jesus -He's cool!" and so it seems very self-conscious. The only place, a direct historical inten­tion seems to work is in a case like that of Donovan (Atlantis) or Cream (Tales of Brave Ulysses) where the effect is sort of a trippy beautiful days of the past thing. (Those were the days, miracles every­where, where are they now?) 
But Jesus Christ is too serious for that. It laughs at itself (Pontius Pilate), but it is funniest when it isn't intentional (Two direct musical lifts from Tommy and the line, Bleed me, Beat me, Kill me, Take me.') 
I hesitate to pan the album because many people like it, it seems, but I think it is liked more as a 'thing' than some­thing which will be of permanent value. I do know that musically, it is OK but neither amazing nor original. The perfor­mances often resemble the pseudo-rock you hear on TV, and no one particularly stands out. Even the engineering is nothing to brag about. The voices are mercilessly standoutish. I think what I am unhappiest about is the fact that with enough advertising, it doesn't really matter any more about the quality of the work, as long as it is adequate. And Jesus Christ is adequate. 
I cannot properly focus. When I stop, too many thoughts crowd in battling for attention. There is no goal no place that I am going to but to stop is impossible 
I read once that the human mind cannot concentrate upon one particular thing for more than q second before moving on. 
Down by the river the water flows by but the whirls and e(Mies the floating, bobbing leaves and cans are all that I can see 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Once upon a time there was a priest. And every Sunday and every holy day the priest and his 
t. 1 b t d th

congrega ton ce e ra e e Holy Eucharist. At every cele­brat ion he preached about the love of God. And the people 
dearly loved him, and spoke well of him. They even raised his salary, and said they hoped he would stay a long time. 
As the weeks, and the months, and the years rolled by, the Priest began to preach more about how God's love should make a difference in how his 
people responded to injustice, and to their afflicted brothers. 
And the people -well, of course they still loved their priest. And yet, "perhaps: Father needs an extended trip to help 
him relax. He's awfully serious-minded these days.'' But the priest only preached 
harder to his people about their job to the poor, and to the suffering, and to the needy, and 
about how they must all work harder to change those systems which caused oppression. "That is how love works," he said. 
And the people still came to the Eucharists -at least some of 
the time. And of course they still loved their priest -at least they appreciated the sermons he used to preach. But "the world's 
problems are just too big and 
too many to do much about." And "Father should go back to 
preaching about God's love. That's what we used to hear." And then one day it happened. 
The priest finished the Prayer of Consecration of the Bread and Wine. But instead of giving Communt'on to the people, the 
priest took the Chalice from the Altar and solemnly walked to the head of the chancel steps. And there, amidst the audible gasps from the people, the priest slowly poured the Sacramental Blood of Christ on to the 
carpeted floor. 

The people were indignant. "Father has poured out the Precious Blood of Christ. He has 
defiled the Sacraments. We can­not have a priest who does such 
unholy things. The Church cannot tolerate such horrendous acts. The Bishop will hear about 
this. Such disrespect for holy 
things is unforgivable." 

Lost: In the vicinity of .)'tepan Center. One (I) cosmic theme tying together the following impressions, gleaned from a weekend of Voice Recitals, "concerts", Uncle John's Band, and cold coffee with campus folk hero R. Clinting. Reward. Contact M.L, c/o Observer. 
St. Mary's college ... Senior voice recital...Miss Dee Bacon singing stuff by 
J.S. and C.P.E. Bach, Richard Strauss, Samuel Barber. You get the idea. St. Mary's Little Theater is such a right place to be for anything, and all the right people arc in attendance, like hip deep tone faculty resplendent in oh-so-free mottled scarves, unattractive but "nice girl" music students, and the whole thing is so elegant. There she is in long white dress, book in hand, singing all the right notes, not well, nor (God forbid!) good, but beautifully, magnificently. When you sing Bahc etc. you don't sing well, just beautifully or magnificently. Beauteous! 
Meanwhile, just a shuttle bus ride right. No value judgment or anything, just a little foreign to the TV generation. 
Which isn't to say that rock is any better. Why is there so much bad rock? Why do people eat that stuff up? Well, first we have rock in its -common sense, the great boyd of music that lays it all out, tries to put all the emotion love hate beauty and ugliness in the world on the downbeat. The beat has been an interesting thing, but it ain't art .. .I mean after you've screamed at the top of your lungs and turned the amp all the way up to "10", what else is there? Then we have the beat music in your historiclcal sense, like Creedence, and that's nice ... but the really good rock isn't rock at all, because rock didn't get good until somebody said "screw the beat." You see, when they screwed the beat, that's when some real nice things got done, The Beatles The Byrds, Buffalo Springfield. And then there's the new interest in folk and jazz, or at least, the old interest gaining a 
away, Rare Earth and Blood Rock. My, broader base. Most of the best stuff now 
God, the contrast! It's like the two ends of the earth. To see either one of these concerts, I mean to really see them, you had to see the other one. You will never see what rock is, exactly, until you see a rock concert right after a voice recital. Elegance, dignity, propriety.......... .. Rock!...Sex! ... Violence! Voice major walks out on stage .woo properly, while across the road brute animalistic rock vocalist with shirt off leaps onto the organ in an orgasmic display of seething 
emotion! 

At the Little Theater we listen very intently to hear her voice over the oboe; 45 minutes later we walk into the door of Stepan and are immediately assaulted by a wall of noise, only about half of which is coming off the stage. Amazing! The South Bend kids in all their ostentatious simplicity do it again, and across the road 70 people sit quietly in padded seats just like they didn't know what's going on over there! 
Now this voice recital and this whole classical music thing ... doesn't quite seem right does it? I mean, just picture it. Here are thf.!.~e folk, listening to this music that was written 200 years ago. 200 years ago! Listening, clapping, talking, being like people were 200 years ago. Only thing is, 200 years ago it was now and · now it's then and where is that but nowhere? 
Another thing about the voice recital thing ... to the relative newcomer to the world of "serious" (note the angular 
elevation of the nose) music, it seems like what you're supposed to do is sing the notes. Sing the notes, just like whatsisname wrote them down there. Does that seem like something of a perversion of the human voice, which has got to be s, the most personally expressive of all musical instruments? And the people, they II sit out there and listen,listen to make sure all the notes are isn't rock at all, just music. 
For every phony classical music person there's seven phony rock people; there are a Jot of people paying too much attention to the cultural niceties, whether they be cocktail pahties or red day-glo peace signs. It's not good that way. 
WNDU director responds to Walshe's criticisms of show 
Editor: 

Professor Peter Walshe has been kind enough to bring to our attention certain remarks, directed to The Observer, criti­cal of a recent presentation of a program called Wanderlust which dealt with South Africa. I would like to make a few observations on Professor Walshe's 
comments. 
As clearly stated at the beginning of the program, Mr. Burrud, the host, in­tended to deal solely with the European 
influence on South Africa. The title of 
the episode, "The Voortrekkers," clearly 
indicated that the program's focus would 
be upon the civilization and culture creat­
ed by the European immigrants to South 
Africa. As is the case with all travelogues, 
Wanderlustsought to creat an attractive, 
tourist-oriented portrait of the country. 
To suggest that such a portrait might 
be unrealistic is to acknowledge the fact 
that all travelogues are somewhat 
pointed, and to propose that a program 
such as Wanderlust undertake a more 
detailed examination of a country's poli­
tical and social problems is to misunder­
stand the program's scope and 
limitations. 
Sincerely, 
Wm. Thomas Hamilton 
Executive Vice President and 
General Manager 
...... 

But the priest asked them to sit down, please, and to be quiet. He asked God's mercy on his own foolishness. Then he asked 
them wht they had become so indignant. This was, after all. only a ceremonial spilling of the Blood of Christ. 

He had been telling them for five years about the real spilling of the Blood of Christ -in cities, among the poor, and the oppressed, and in the proud war. 
. · · 

Where was theu indtgnatton then?Was their love and faith and moral sense only a cere­
mony, which could respond only to ceremony? 
And he hoped they would not take the wine stain out of the carpet -because perhaps it could 

remind them of the real blood spilled every day in a hundre ways and in a thousand places. No, their indignation did not bother him; he only wanted to 
see it re-directed to the righ 
things. 

And the people -well, the supposed Father had a point. But he didn't have to make it
h f 
t at way • a ter all! In fact. they
'd "F · 
sat • ather has been here a

1 · h · 
ong tlme; per aps it was time
f h f 
or im to move on to ' ields of 

greater service.' " A d 
n every Sunday and holy
d h H 
ay t ey celebrated a oly 

Eucharist. And the new priesttold them about the love of God. And the people loved him dearly, and raised his salary, and siad they hoped he would stay a long time ... 
r Tuesday, December 8, 1970
~p~~e~s~--------------------------------~21.1.~~=-0~ 



Flanner-A major victim of vandalism 
bv Steve Kane Like most everything else Flanner Tower isn't what it used to be; that is, a year and a half ago when it was brand new. Some of its physical grandeur has now disappeared because of the damage, breakage, and mistreatment of its structure and facilities; Housing college students would put a strain on any building, its elevators, plumbing, heating, electrical de­mands, etc. These difficulties can be calculated and resolved; the added problem of vandalism cannot be. 
sitors are to blame for much of the vandalism." He referred to the recent situation in which many false fire alarms were pulled. He pointed out that the majority of these pranks were done with the fire alarm near the front exit, which "could easily have been pulled by a visitor as he left the hall." 
Within the sections them­selves, weekend misconduct and the resulting damages "can be predicted," he said. "In other words, the weekend before the Thanksgiving holiday will usual­ly experiem;e more vandalism than the weekend before final 
Observer Insight 

Vandalism in Flanner appears to be no more evident than in other halls; however, almost every physical scar and deface­ment can be readily detected, since it is still relatively new. Elevators and lobbies are the most obvious .victims of damage, and this leads many to blame visitors and outsiders for the destruction. 
When asked about acts of 
vandalism in Flanner, Father 
Maurice Amen, the rector of 
Flanner Hall, replied,"It's ques­
tionable whether students or vi­

exams." 
Father Amen estimates that damage this year is less than in the last. He regretted that last year it was necessary for him to threaten an entire floor with 
paying for all future damage. As to his role as rector, he stated that he is "not going to patrol" the bad sections, but would ra­ther hope to see the problem resolved within the section. Amen's main concern with van­dalism is the "casualness with 
which minor destruction is done." He added that hall part­ies with beer kegs can be directly correlated with the amount of damage that occurs and for that 
*WALNUT CABINET 
reason, students must seek his permission if they wish to bring kegs into Flanner. 
Joe Cassini, president of Flan­ner, views hall vandalism as more serious than last year. He listed holes in walls, damaged ceiling panels, the theft of a wall clock, and the breaking of the glass doors which enclose fire extin­
guishers  as  just  some  of  the  
destruction exper ienced  by  the  
hall thi~ year.  

Some students "think about 

themselves too much" and are blind as to what effects their actions have on the property of others, he said. He conceded the correlation between alcohol and vandalism, but then referred to the many students who fail to clean up their mess the following day, whether it be litter in the hallways or food on the rugs. 
According to Cassini most of the destruction has gone un­checked this year. He said that the Judicial Board has not met once this year, simply because no students have issued complaints. The reason for this, he ex­plained, is that many students 
are  "apathetic" and  don't  care  
about the problem.  
Cassini  concluded  his  

comments by saying that most students are concerned about the physical appearance of their rooms, but often fail to manifest any pride or regard for the hall itself. 
Comp-Sci to be discussed 
(continued from page 1) 

ter Science shutdown. He said terested in the problems of run­
that he would push for more ning a University." 
information. 
Palopoli also deplored the 

John Donahue, from the Col­lack of information provided for 
lege of Business Administration, the members of the Council, 
said that his goal on the council saying that it was insufficient for 
was "to express his ideas on making a decision on a matter of running the University."such importance as the Compu-
Like most of the other mem-

Placement Bureau lists summer jobs 
by Dave Coleman The Notre Dame Placement Bureau announced that Summer Job placement information for several thousand job positions in "diverse areas of interest" will be available at the Placement Bureau by December 14. They also announced that 125 
If you care enough, maybe 
you can meet the Paulist 

challenge ... 
It isn't easy, being a Paulist. Bridging gaps between young and old, black and white, past and future. But it is a challenge. 
The Paulist mission is to people ... individually and in all the societies in which they live ... to discover Christ wherever he is acting ... to be attuned to the needs of the present, yet to form a vision of tomorrow's world. 
If you are interested in finding out more about the Paulist priestly challenge, write to: 
Rev. Donald C. Campbell, C.S.P. Vocation Director 
'Paulisth

'Pat erG 
Room 111 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 


educational institutions have requested teachers and/or administrators for summer and the regular school year. 
The jobs are classified according to three major areas: Engineering and Science; Business and Liberal Arts; and General Employment. Requests for N.D. students to fill summer positions have come from 58 major firms as of this writing with 350 major firms still to be heard from. Bulletins with names and addresses of the reporting firms will be found on the various bulleting boards around campus. 
The requests from educational institutions included many to fill teaching posts in Canada and various other foreign countries. There is also an increasing demand for Public Relations and development personnel from many schools across the country. 
The summer jobs available besides teaching included "on the job trainirtg and research work, counseling and camp work, forestry, accountants, and administrative training." Details on any of the job areas can be found at the Placement Bureau, Room 222, main building. 
bers, he expressed doubt as to the importance of the students in the numerical sense, but thought that "getting the stu­
dent opinion heard" was the key 
element of the plan. 
With regard to the Computer 
Science Program, Donahue said 
that he had not formulated an 
opinion as yet, but felt that the 
people ought to discuss the sit­
uation with the students in the 
department before any action is 
taken. 
Thomas Kenney from the Col­
lege of Science defined his goal 
on the Academic Council as 
"trying to improve educational 
opportunities here at the Univer­
sity for the students." He wants 
to get more communication be­
tween the students and the fac­
ulty and the administration. 
He said that the student mem­
bers of the organization would 
probably be "on trial" for the 
first year. He hopes that by 
careful research and discussion 
of the various problems the stu­
dents will be able to come up 
with some good solutions to the 
problems they will be facing. 
Student Government Academ­ic Commissioner Bill Wilka said that he hopes that the students who have problems that relate to Academic Council work will contact their respective represen­tatives and discuss their prob­lems with them. 

Unruh speaks 
Jesse Unruh, speaker of the 
California house of representa­
tives and a recently unsuccessful 
candidate for governor of that 
state, will speak at 8 p.m. today 
in the Memorial Library Audi­
torium. 
ex-Ed wanted at SMC 
(continued from page 1) 
had suggested. who must authorize a $500 budget for continuation of the sex education program. "1, personally, would be con­cerned if it were one girl or ten," said one committee member. "But statistics seem to impress them over need. We may have to poll the students to demonstrate the concern over this rna tter." Kathy Murphy, Fr. Dunn, and Dr. William Giantonio are pre­paring the next phase of this program, a questionnaire to chart the interest on both campuses in a sex education program. Father Cormier also asked the committee for the policy on unmarried pregnant girls. Although administrators attending the meeting stated that there was no policy, they have given a student permission to stay. Later, the girl changed her mind. Father is concerned about the allegedly unhealthy psycho-sexual atmosphere at the school. 
"A program of educa­tion in human sexuality is ur­gently needed and long overdue at St. Mary's. Vatican II declared five years ago that students should be given positive sexual education." 
"Therefore, I am toubled by our administration~ failure-to provide the health committee with effective leadership," he continued, "and direction in this matter. This neglect of a need so crucial for student growth within our Christian college community is a serious conse­quence." 
There is a dearth of course offerings on sex because present­ly the only classes on the subject are offered in the theology department and limited to IS students, he stated. He also cited the need for an interdepart­mental course on human sexuali­ty cooperative with the philo­sophy, psychology, and theology departments, and the need for a professional consultant. 
Tuesday, December 8, 1970 THB OBSUVM. Page 7 







Young Irish grapplers place fourth 
-

by Terry Shields was the lone standout. Everyone In the 167 lb. class freshman
experience of the squad. The Notre Dame was heavyweight AI 
Observer Sports Editor else made mistakes.' Brian Duffy was the only Irish­
Irish placed fourth in a field of Rocek. Rocek registered no pins Notre Dame's young wrestling eight other teams. The Universi­in the three matches that he won Captain Tom Ciaccio placed man unable to place. 
squad journeyed to New York ty of Akron won the Tourna­but each fall was a decisive over the weekend to compete in ment. Akron totaled 92 points victory. Teammate Bob Habig
the New York Tech Tournament to the fourth ranked ND 69. commented that "AI just looked and the results mirrored the in-The lone first place winner for tremendous in each match. He 
Fencers rout three foes 
third for the Irish as he lost a close overtime decision in the second round, 3..:..2. 
Freshman Steve Moyland was impressive in his varsity debut. He managed a second place fin­ish among eight competitors. Moyland wrestled in the 12.6 lb. class. 

Dave DiBacco was another grappler who could do no better than fourth place. DiBacco wrestled in a tough I 77 lb. division, however. 
Rick Aslage took sixth place in the 190 lb. group. Rick could only manage one win in his three bouts. 

Commenting on his team'sRick Esposto looked good in

smashing victories, as each was Fencing coach Mike DeCicco performance, coach Terry Math­
placing third in the 134 lb.

by Joe Passiatore 
6-0 in individual competition. reacted to last Saturday's wins er stated, "The inexperience of
division. Esposto won his first

Observer Sportswriter The epee team was 8-1 against "We squad factor.
by saying, were quite match, lost the second and won our was a big The Notre Dame fencing team all three opponents, while the pleased with the results of this There were six matches decided
the third to garner the third

opened their season in fine style, sabre weapons registered 8-1 past weekend's meets and hope by one or two points and these
place position. 

Saturday, Dec. 5, as they wins over Purdue and Tri-State that we can continue our victor­were caused by mistakes that
Mike Kemp made a few mis­

chillked up easy victories at the and a 7-2 margin over Indiana. ies on our trip out East. The shouldn't have been made. With
takes in finishing fourth. Mike 

expense of Tri-State College, Poi! meanwhile, .was close to only fear I have is that the more experience they wouldn't
competed in the 142 lb. class.

Purdue University, and Indiana perfection as they shutout Pur­vacation may interrupt the mo­possibly the have."
Bob Habig was

U. The team's 3-0 record re­due and Indiana, 9-0. Only· an mentum we have succeeded in The road doesn't appear much
biggest disappointment in the

sulted from such awesome vic­8-1 win over Tri-State kept the building." brighter in the immediate future.
entire tournament and no one

tories as 24-3 over Tri-State, a foil team from having a perfect As for the teams biggest Big Ten member Purdue will
would be quicker to admit this

win by the same score over day. strongpoint Coach DeCicco re­invade the Convo's auxiliary
than Bob himself.

Indiana and a 25-2 trouncing of The team will not compete marked, "The depth that we gym Wednesday night for a
Habig managed only a fifth

Purdue. again until they journey East to have this year, especially in foil match with the Irish. According
place finish. He lost in the first

Notre Dame's tri-captains fence the likes of NYU, Prince­and eppe, was demonstrated Sat­to Mather, "Purdue will be
round but came back to register

John Lyons-foil, Rick (Rip-De­ton, CCNY, Pennslyvania and urday and augurs well for con­tough, they are basically the
a pin and a decision over hisladrier-eppe, and Doug Daher-sa­

Navy. All of whom have excep­tinued success." same team as last year and they
next two opponents. Habig

bre, all led their weapons to tionally fine teams. Coach DeCicco also expressed beat us badly then. We took
wrestled 150. 

the belief that the addition of only three points and that was
Ken "Scrambler" Ryan took 

Coach John Bishko would prove by Tommy Ciaccio. They are
fourth in the !58 lb. class. The 

extremely beneficial to the supposed to have a rugged man
"Scrambler" couldn't shake any

team. Bishko is a former All­at 118 this year and that's where
of his opponents after the first 

-American foilsmen from Notre we have Tom. It will be quite a
match. 

Dame. test."
Sports Shorts 
Voices from the crowd
:::·:·:·:·:·:::::::::~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:~:~:::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:=:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Sports Editor: them, to us, partly because we meaning of Notre Dame.
Devotees of the hardwood sport got their first look at Notre Well, it's all over now and Mr. were them,... they were us ... We thought about my falseDame's highly-rated basketball team last Saturday night in the Dan Glenn of Gary, Indiana lost went to the rally anyway ... ambitions that would ultimatelyConvo but the Irish cagers didn't put on much of a show. 
a bet across the board. Joe We were early because the be satisfied by something asThe visiting South Carolina Gamecocks are the nation's 'No. 2 Theismann didn't win the plane was late ... There were few material as a nationalteam and a victory over SC would have been quite a feather for the Heisman and Notre Dame isn't murmurs among so many championship ... Those ambitionsIrish to put in their cap. Despite a poor shooting performance in the the number one football team in people, perhaps 4-5,000. The fell away from me so quickly. Ifirst half that left chm down tern points at halftime·, the Irish were the country anymore. Sorry cheerleaders were back early, felt true joy in my heart for theable to overcome that deficit and tie the score with ten minutes left Dan, ... be this presumptious or arriving by different mode of realization that striving in a teamto play but they let the Gamecocks pull away to victory. The Irish not, r guess you'll just have to transportation. They tried a effort, a community effort wasjust didn't have it with the pressure on. 
cry in your beer, ... but it won't cheer ... no response ... blank more important than achievingAlthough the Irish did hold a slight rebounding advantage over the be the last time, so let wail. .. stares, just blank stares ... for the value of achievements istaller Gamecocks and committed only six turnovers in the game the And then it happened! Met by
You know, ... it was just about only as good as the reason whichcombination of poor shooting and poor defense was too much for a deafening roar, the warriors
six years ago when a similar motivates the striving towardsNotre Dame to overcome. The Irish were .outshot 37-16 on the foul thing happened at Notre Dame. '1 were-back home. The din was so those achievements. It was nowline as the Gamecocks converted 29 charity tosses to Notre Dame's was a naive great that you could barely hear that was
terribly senior, apparent there12. Fouls are often the result of poor defense and such was the case the band playing the Notre
interested in football and ROTC something behind, somethingSaturday night. 
Dame fight song over and over

(Spiro Agnew take note) and not hidden but something untilCertain mem hers of the Irish squad weren't too sharp offensively lastly, grades. Things for me and over ... But then,...that's the that time unexplained, ... some­either. Collis Jones missed a number of key scoring opportunities way it is at Notre Dame ... 
have changed considerably since thing unifying and intangiblefrom close range and hit on only 6 of 20 shots from the field. John then, partly as a result of what Then, Jim Carroll, you about the reason we . werePleick was also sub-par from the floor, convertingjust 3 of 10 shots. 
remember him, All American

happened at that time ... seeking a nationalThe Gamecocks were giving Jackie Meehan a shot from the top of After three years of dismal Captain of this team, a real championship ... And thatthe circle and lost nothing by this strategy as Meehan hit on just I of Notre Dame Man, .. .Jim got up
Notre Dame football ('61, '62, something was so inexplicably6 shots. His ball handling left something to be desired also. 
to face the audience ... this time,

'63) and records like 5-5, 5-5, greater than the goal. It wasTom Sinnott, who replaced Meehan at times, fared only slightly deafening silence. With red
and 2-7, old Notre Dame under a something inexplicable all right,better in the shotting department. Normally a sharpshooter. Sinnott 
hit on only 3 of 9. new coach was headed straight cheeks, and face drenched with yet it was something that was tears .. .Jim Carroll spoke just
towards its first national understood by all because we all championship in approximately nine words: "Just to be back at 
Austin Carr, when he found shooting room, was performing his 
usual magic but the Gamecocks remebered how Augie hurt them last could feel it. But, all of us, being year in the Sugar Bowl tournament and geared their defense 15 years. Like a juggernaut we a place like this" ... Again, a individually different and 
deafening roar, followed by the

especially to stop him. The Gamecocks gambled that Carr's rolled on, each week's success unique, had felt it in different 
devastating the band's playing of the Notre that pep
teammates couldn't convert often enough to beat them and they more than ways ... until fatefull 
last ... until ... 28 November Dame alma mater... The rally was rally six years ago today, whenwere right. 
I 9 64 ... South ern C a !ifornia over ... we all could see, realize and
Doug Gemmell did a solid job, sinking 5 of 7 shots, but was in foul trouble early and this hampered his effectiveness. Trojans 20 -Fighting Irish Men I can remember on this recognize that feeling in each Sid Catlett turned in a fine performance, coming off the bench to of Notre Dame 17. Gamely we Monday my reflections that other. It is no wonder that we 
night, for after the rally, I

replace Pleick and, on the basis of Saturdya's game, ·deserves the fought on the field, in the had "come together"... 
walked alone in the crisp air
starting nod over Big John against Northwestern Thursday Stadium. stands, and at home in front of Michael G. Mathis ('65, 
millions of T.V.s. Gamely we thinking, feeling for more of the '67)
If the Irish had been outclassed Saturday night, their loss would have been easy to accept but it's always disappointing to see a team lost... lose a game it could win. The Irish face a number of top notch Now, if you had been a naive 
ND tankers take third
oppoments this season and should fare better in future weeks than senior, your world might just as they did against SC. There is too much talent on the squad for the easily come to a cataclysmic Ball State walked, er. . ., Krathaus, Joe O'Connor, Doug Irish to again play as they did Saturday. close. In fact I would venture to swam off with the Notre Dame Free and Mark Wilcox comprised 
There are some mighty fine looking players on this year's say that perhaps, just perhaps Invitational Relays by splashing the lone Irish front-runner. freshmen hoop club. Six-foot-eight-inch center John Schumate looks your life did _so, and you were to a convincing 43 point victory Ball State set three meet rec­like he can play ball with anybody. Gary Novak, 6'7", netted 21 not even a Notre Dame senior ... over their closest competition. ords in piling up the big margin 
points and hauled down 14 rebounds in the first year men's victory But Notre Dames are rare Drury College was runner-up' of victory. The team from Mun­over Ball State. places ... Certainly, the pep rally with 62 points and the Fighting cie smashed the existing marks Ball handler John Valibus threw some nice passes and contributed scheduled for Monday 30 Irish of Notre Dame was a close in the 400 yard I.M. with a time 
nine points. He bears watching. November 1964 in the old field third with 61 tallies. Valparaiso, of 3:53.6, the 200 yard Back­
If one can pick a favorite player on a team after seeing him just house on the campus of our Oakland and Wayne State com­stroke with a I :46 and the 200 once though l think I've found "my man" on the freshman squad. lady, that rally scheduled before pleted the field in that order. yard Medley in I :42.9 Tom O'Mara, 6'6'', scored 19 points and prabbed 6 rebounds against the Thanksgiving holidays, most Ball State took a first in six of Notre Dame did not compete 
Ball State-but it was not really what he did but the way he certainly that rally would not be the nine events in the team in the diving competition thus conducted himself that was most worthy of notice. O'Mara was the cancelled ... Not at Notre Dame ... races. Valpo, Drury and Notre they received zero points for victim of some overly zealous defense by Ball State and suffered a No one really wanted to go .. .l Dame each managed a first place this. If they could have com­couple of unnecessarily hard shots to the body. Yet O'Mara mean, we didn't want to spot also. peted they might possibly been remained cool, and did his job. He played hard, but didn't resort to embarass the team. We knew, we Notre Dame s!victory came in able to garner enought points to any cheap tactics. The boy's got class. could feel what it meant to the 400 yard freestyle. Gene move ahead of Drury. 
Tuesday, December 8~.Q_

Page 8 
THB OBSERJIER. 

SLC discusses spring elections and Soph cars 
Erratum 
The remarks attributed to Ed McCartin in yesterday's Observer concerning his appointment to the Academic Council and his 
feelings  on  the  Computer  
Science  department  were  not  
entirely accurate.  

McCartin said that "It is questionable whether computing science merits departmental status. It may be that the value of computing science lies in its application to various existing departments in all four of the colleges. I did not intend to assert that the students in computing science were pursuing an invalid objective or trying to impose my personal value system on them. I was merely trying to question the value of their study as a major field. My remarks are not intended to indicate the way I will vote in the Academic Council for I am still undecided. I intend to vote as a representative of the college and not merely on the basis of my personal opinions." 
The Observer wishes to apologize for the error and hopes this clarification will clear up any misunderstanding resulting from it. 
(continued from page I) 
government would reduce these games to a "bare minimum." 
While on the topic of the new constitution, Krashna said he hopes centralize elections and have new officials begin their terms at an earlier date. Depend­ing on the vote Wednesday, he said there is a possibility that this spring's elections may be moved up because of the semes­ter break and the new SBP 
would  take. office  before  the  
customary date, April I.  
The  present  debate  over  the  
record  co-op sponsored by  the  

Student Union also came under discussion Monday and quickly 
expanded to include the prices of textbooks. There is a possibi­lity of a special meeting next week at which the problem will be discussed. Prof. John W. Houck requested that data on the operation of the bookstore, 
particularly the second floor operations be available at the meeting. Doubts that this mater­ial could be compiled by then were expressed by several mem­bers of the council. 
Faccenda · said "that there probably isn't any cost account­ing between the first and second t1oors." He noted that bookstore profits in the records he had seen did not distribute the over­h cad between the different 


Const. Completion 
(Continued from page 3) 
dergraduate student enroll­ment. ARTICLE VIII: (The By­laws) The President's Council will have the power to pass 
bylaws  consistant  with  this  
CONSTITUTION.  
ARTICLE  IX:  (Amena­ 
ments)  
Section I: Amendments to thi$ Constitution will be in­


tiated by: 
A petition bearing the valid signature of 550 members of the undergraduate student 
body. Section II: Amendments to 
this Constitution will be made having been voted on 
not more than twenty days and not less than ten days after its presentation to the President's Council: the pro­
departments. Faccenda thought 
that the bookstore is operated 
on a more or less "cashbox" 
basis. 

Prof. Eugene W. Henry report­ed that his committee on sophomore cars was still re­searching the financial problems of the proposal. He said the Office for Business Affairs is still to be contacted. Another mem­ber of the committee, Rich Tarrier, said the sophomores were asked to research certain financial problems three weeks ago but Jlad no(comoleted the 
JOb as of Monday. A single pro­
posal will be presented regarding 
the feasibility to the council 
next Monday if a special meeting 
is called. 
Faccenda explained obstacles to the proposed annexation of Notre Dame by the City of South Bend. He said South Bend claims it will make money due to the larger rebate in state taxes as a result of counting Notre Dame students as city residents. He noted that it would cost the city two dollars for every dollar in extra revenue to provide the public services it provides to private citizens. 
Speakers tonight on New Constitution Halls Time Speakers Alumni 9:00 -9:45 Carl Ellison & Don Mooney Badin 10:00 -11:45 Dave Krashna & Bob Meyers Cavanaugh 7:00 -7:45 Jack Candon Dillon 10:00 -10:45 Tim Connor & Dan Moore Farley 10:00 -I0:45 Bob Pohl Fisher 10:00 -10:45 Mark Winings Flanner 11:00-11:45 Mark Winings & Bob Pohl Grace 11:00 -11:45 Bob Oh1emiller & Bob Meyers Holy Cross 7:00 -7:45 Dan Moore & Bob Ohlemiller Howard 10:00 -10:45 Jerry O'Connor & Steve Flavin Keenan 7:00 -7:45 Tim Connor & Denny Conroy Lyons 9:00 ' 9:45 Steve Flavin Morrissey 10:00 -10:45 Orlando Rodrigues & Rich Urda Pangborn 11:00-11:45 Dave Krashna St. Edward's I 0:00 -I 0:45 Dan Hyde Sorin 8:00 -8:45 Steve Novak Stanford to be set up Eric Andrus Walsh 9:00 -9:45 Dan Hyde & Denny Conroy Zahm 9:00 -9:45 Jerry O'Connor & Bill Wilka Breen Phillips 11:00-11:45 ·Jack Candon & Orlando Rodrigues  
The Cultural Arts Commission presents BLOW UP Oec. 8 7:30 & 9:30 'lee. 9 7:30, 9:30 3t 11:30 Engineering Auditorium '3eneral Admission: $1.00  
-=  


pose,d amendment having been read at a meeting prior to the date set for voting on it and having been published at least five days before the date for the voting on it. 
Section Ill: Passage will consist of: 
a) a majority of the under­graduate student body voting· -provided that the to­tal vote exceeds 60"/o of the undergraduate student enroll­ment. 

on IJecember 10, 11, 12 at 8:30 in '\las!lington Hall. 
b) by a 3/4 vote of the 
President's Council.

Tickets $1.50. Info: 284-4176 
Only Honeywell offers a computer course designed exclusively for college graduates. Our postgraduate program for managerial candidates. 
No matter what your major was. If you can qualify, you'll be ready to learn computers from one of the world's top computer manu· facturers and leading educators, Honeywell. 
You'll find yourself ready for the fastest growing industry around. An industry that doubles in size and opportunity every five years. 
Which could make your future pretty bright. All you have to do to light the fire is mail this coupon. 
,----------------­
Admissions Officer-Postgraduate Studies 
I Honeywell Institute of Information Sciences 
La Salle Wacker Building 
221 North La Salle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60601 (312) 368·0688 
D I would like additional information on yourI program.I· 0 I would li.ke to arrange an interview 
y· on at-----·
1 (date) (time) .... 1• Honeywell will call you to confirm this date and ::::1 time.
t Name: ____________ 
I College: ______________ 
I College Address:_ Phone: ______
I 
Home Address: __________ ·.".•:..________Phone:_ _ 
________A~:v~ ~ ~~a~.J 
The Other Computer Company: Honeywell 
!''. 
• 






