

VOL. IV, No. 65 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt M_ary 's College ('ommuni~J' THURSDAY,JA+JUARY15,1969-frlcJ
• 
Poll shows co -education favored 
Notre Dame's Student Body is  ly by all classes. Freshmen and  felt  that  it  was  important that  
overwhelmingly  in  favor of the  sophomores,  the latest students  St.  Mary's  have  a  separate  
university  opening  its  door  to  to  enter  the university, led the  identity.  
women, an Observer poll shows.  list  with  87% and  88% of the  Most  Notre  Dame  students  
Results  from the poll, which  students  responding  being  in  foresaw the demise .of St. Mary's  
appeared  in  Monday's  paper,  favor  of  the  move.  Seniors  if ND goes co-ed. 56.7% felt that  
show that 84.1% of the Student  sported  the  lowest  percentage,,  it  would  be  impossible  for  St.  
Body feels that Notre should admit women.  Dame  favoring the switch with only 80%, while the juniors were next  Mary's to continue when women were admitted to ND. Again  
Although it is often argued that Notre Dame's standing in the academic community would go down if it immediately open~d up its doors to women, over 88% of the Notre Dame Student Body felt otherwise. Such sentiment, however, was prevalent basically among those who sought co-education. Of those that opposed co-education 56.7% feared that the academic reputation of the school would suffer if girls were admitted.  in line with 85%. A total of 296 students out of Notre Dame's 6194 enrollment, or 4.8% responded to the poll. Over 5% of the Freshmen, Sophomore, and Junior Classes returned their questionnaires, while only 2.9% of the Seniors responded. (91 Freshmen res­ponded or 5.5%; 84 Sophomores or 5.5% and 81 Juniors-5.2%.) Lose SMC image  only a small percentage, 23%, thought that it was important for SMC to remain as an institution. The comments on the ques­tionnaires seemed to show that most Notre Dame students think that St. Mary's has little identity outside of Notre Dame right now. "What identity does St. Mary's have other than being "the girl's school next to Notre Dame?" wrote one ND man.  
The lack of women in the community seems to have been a problem that has been in the back of the minds of many students. An amazing 72.3% of  The feelings of St. Mo.ry's girls closely parallelled that of the Notre Damers. 74.5% of the St. Mary's students responding felt that Notre Dame should admit  Some of the questionnaires displayed the age old feelings that Notre Dame men have held because of the social imbalance.  
the Notre Dame men who responded stated that at some­ them. Dame  66.6% felt that if Notre did, however, St. Mary's  Husband hunting  
time they had thought about transferring to a school that was co-educational.  would lose its identity as a college and would be forced to merge with Notre Dame or  "They don't have anything to begin with," commented one ND student. "Their entire deve­ 
Recommend merger The desire for co-education seemed to be held almost equal- disappear altogether. The majority of St. Mary's girls felt that the loss of identity would not matter. Only 33.3%  lopment hinges on Notre Dame. That's why they come here: to get a good Catholic husband. God knows they could get a  

Rites for Fr. Lange set 
Funeral services for the Rev. He is survived by a brother, In addition to the two bache-Bernard H. Lange, C.S.C., a Joseph, of Valencia, Pa. Burial lor's degrees from Notre Dame, retired professor at the Univer-will b~e in the community ceme-he received an M.A. from the sity of Notre Dame who died tery at Notre Dame. University in 1924 and a Ph.D. yesterday will be at 3:30 p.m. from St. Edward's University, next Friday in Sacred Heart Born in Danzig, East PrussJa, Austin, Texas, in 1931. Betvreen Church on the Notre Dame Germany, on August 8,1888, 1917 and 1935, when failing campus. Father Lange was brought to the eyesight ended his classroom 
• . The wake will begin at I p.m. United States as a child when his career, Father Lange held vari­today in Sacred Heart's Lady parents settled in Oil City, Pa. ous teaching posts at Notre Chapel and will continue up He was graduated from the Dame and St. Edward's in the until the time of Mass Friday University of Notre Dame in fields of biology, comparative Father Lange, known to several 1912 and returned to the cam-anatomy and physical anthro­generations of Notre Dame men pus as a Holy Cross novice the pology. through his interest in weight-following year. He studied lifting, died in the Notre Dame theology at Holy Cross College When he left the classroom, infirmary following an apparent in Washington, D.C., and was he took up in earnest a sport heart attack. He was 81. ordained in 1917. which had engaged his interest 
for some time -weightlifting. In his combination gym and car­pentry shop, he trained thou­sands of Notre Dame students in body-building techniques and became internationally known as a priest who was also a cham­pion weightlifter. 
Father Lange organized and coached the Notre Dame weight­lifting team during the six years of its existence, including the 1953 squad, which won the national intercollegiate cham­pionship. More than one football player has also benefited from rigorous physical training given by Father Lange. The priest himself could still lift a 400­pound barbell at 70. 
His body-building exercises were combined with the craft of carpentry, sometimes directly when he hand-carved weight­lifting trophies. In his shop he built hauling wagons, taber­nacles, missal stands, and altars, infolluding two for the very chapel where his body will lie in state. 



much better education some­where else." 
Other comments, though, ex­pressed the sentiments of the majority. Tradition seemed to mean little to most in the light of the need for co-educational institutions. "What has identity got to do with education? The point is that both schools can benefit academically and social­ly. Education is important, not the name of your school." 
Tradition is the question in a lot of people's minds when they discuss the possibility of girls attending Notre· Dame. What would happen to the fllbulous Notre Dame spirit? 
To try to guage the impact The Observer asked if Notre Dame students felt that co-education would have any impact on the "sp.ir~t of Notre Dame". , 
School spirit safe 
Surprisingly, 7 4. 9% of the Student Body felt that the spirit would not be hurt. In fact many of those students who felt that it would suggested that the Notre Dame spirit of "masculinity" as it exists now "needed" to be 

. hurt. 
However, of those that op­posed co-education many did so on the grounds that the school spirit would be hurt. Of the 47 students out of the 296 that responded who opposed co-edu­cation, 72.7% felt that spirit would go down if girls were admitted. 
Co-residential living 
Surprising indeed were the general Notre Dame attitudes toward the prospect of co-resi­dential living. Lyons Hall has submitted a proposal on the issue and other halls are working on them. 
83.9% of the students respon­ding from Notre Dame favored the establishment of an experi­mental co-residential dorm at Notre Dame. Of the 263 stu­dents that felt that the project was needed, 231, or 87.'S%, said that they would be willing to live in the residence. 
St. Mary's girls on the whole were in favor of the project too. 87.3% said that they would like to see one of NO's resident halls made co-ed. Out of that group 79.2% said that they were willing to take the risk and actually cross the road to live at Notre Dame. 
Live at SMC 
Although many Notre Dame students said that they would live in co-residential facilities at Notre Dame a smaller percentage 
(continued on page 6) 

N D seeks injunction 
Among the people subpoenaed toThe University of Notre give testimony, are Fr. Riehle,Dame goes to court I oday in an Mr. Faccenda, and Dr. Costello.

attempt to get a permanent There is a possibility that Mr.
court injunction against the Pears will al~o be called.
disruption of The Placement Bureau. The University has only Rick Libowitz, said in an a temporary restraining order as interview yesterday, that there of now, and must acquire a was a reasonable chance of temporary injunction before it blocking the injunction, since can have a permanent injunc­the court was required to hear tion. It is the temporary injunc­both sides. Libowitz would not tion that Fred Dedrick, Brian comment on the nature of the Mcinerny, Tim McCarry and arguments they plan to use, but Rick Libowitz, those named in he did say the students' attor­the restraining order, are con­ney, Paul K us bach, would be testing in court today. "running the show". 
The trial was scheduled to Libowitz summed up the start at I0:00 am in the second feelings of himself and his division of Superior Court with comrades as, "We feel that, Judge Copech presiding. Mr. basically, that the University is Chapleau is the attorney repre­in error, and we are going to senting the administration. show this in court".
.. 

-----------------------------------------------, 
THilRSnAY .JANUARY 15. 1969
PAGE 2 

THE OBSERUBt 
Ed Roickle 

The University and Selective Service 
Obviously,  since  it  is  clearly  the  Selective Service Regulation 1622.2Sb  boards  of  changes  in  status,  conversly  
registrant's  responsibility  to  notify  his  defines  "academic  year"  as:  "the  there is no regulation requiring the boards  
In order to help clarify the issues in the  local board of changes in his status, the  12-month period following the beginning  to accept the white cards sent in by th1~  
recent controversy concerning the notifi­ University is performing  a  disservice  to  ofhis (the student's) course ofstudy."  University  in  September and  February. 
cation of draft boards by the University, I want to bring to .light information concerning the regulations which p'ertain to the notification of local boards concerning changes in status. I did the research on this some time ago, and wish to apologize for not bringing up this question sooner, since it afff'cts so many people. The present policy of the University concerning notification of draft uoards seems not to be in the best interests of the students. The University notifies local boards within 30 days (often sooner) if a student leaves the University, voluntar­ily or otherwise, or if a student is carrying less than 12 hours of academic credit. A look at the present regulations governing 2S (student) status, and a registrant's responsibility to inform his local board of changes in his status, reveal that the  those students who may wish to deal with their local boards themselves. This is particularly true in light of the fact that the methods of procedure for local boards differ widely from board to board. It is the right of each registrant to decide for himself how he wishes to deal with his local board. The criteria for receiving a 2S classifi­cation is found in the Selective Service Regulation 1622.2Sa, and is as follows: "In Class 2S shall be placed any registrant ... who is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a college, university, or similar institution of learning ... " Selective Service Regulation 1622.2Sc states: "A student shall be deemed to be satisfactorily pu,-suing a full-time course  Therefore a student who leaves the University. for any reason during the year may still be capable of fulfilling the requirements of SSR 1622.2Sc, or may have already fulfilled them. Such students would be entitled to their full 12 months of 2S classification. An example of the former case would be a student who leaves school for a semester, but attends summer school. He may still fulfill his obligation to obtain 25% credit toward his degree in an "academic year". An example of the latter case would be a student who has accumulated sufficient extra credits toward his degree to fulfill the requirements of SSR l622.25c, and who wishes to take a semester off before continuing his studies. These same cate­gories apply to those students who wish to take less than 12 credit hours in a  As "punishment" for the University's failure to cooperate, a local board can require each student to request a form I09 from it. The student would have to go to the appropriate administrativ1~ office (usually the registrar) and have th1e form filled out, validated, and returned to the local board. Notre Dame's argument seems to be that they would rather hav'e the speed and efficiency of the present system, despite the fact that it could deprive students of deferments they deserve under the present regulations. I haven't yet brought up the question of why this "Christian University" cooperates at all with the St:lcctivt! Service System. Perhaps Notre Dame should reflect for a moment on what the SSS does, specifically that it provides the manpower to a killing system. A glance at  
University is under no legal obligation to  of instruction when, during his academic  semester and who still meet the require­ SSS  directives  concerning  manpower  
pursue its present policy of notification.  year, he has earned as a minimum, credits  ments  of  SSR  l622.25c  because  of  channeling should even shed doubt on the  
In fact,  as will be indicated below, this  toward his degree which, when added to  accumulated extra credits. In all of these  appropriateness of the system's peacetime  
policy  often  prematurely  deprives  a  any credits earned during prior academic  cases  Notre  Dame's  notification  policy  (??) activities.  
student of his 2S classification, which he would have a legal right to under the present regulations. The present regulations place the burden of notification of local boards on the registrant. Section IS (b) of the Military Selective Service Act indicates the registrant's responsibility: "It shall be the duty ofevery registrant to keep his local board informed as to his current address and changes in status as required by such rules and regulations as  years, represent a proportion of the total n-•mber required to earn his degree at least equal to the proportion which the number of academic years completed bears to the normal number of years established by the school to obtain such a degree. For example, a student pursuing a four-year course should have earned 25% of the credits required for his baccalaure; ate degree at the end of his first academic year, 50% at the end of his second academic year, and 75% at the end ofhis  does a disservice to students by alerting local boards needlessly. The University continues to cooper­a.e with the Selective Service System in order to avoid the unofficial, but effective retaliation which the SSS has at its disposal. If the University fails to notify the local boarJ uf changes in a student's status within 30 days, then the SSS can deem the University uncoopera­tive. Just as there is no regulation  It seems that for the sake of a smooth-~;unning operation, the University is only too willing to be complicit with Selective Service and the rest. of the' killing system it feeds, even when such complicity proves to be directly detri­mental to its students. If Notre Dame refuses even to consider the welfare of its own students, it isn't to see how it can take such an inhumane attitude towards its complicity with war corporations and  
may be prescribed by the President. "  third academic year. "  requiring  Notre  Dame  to  notify  local  government  assassination  agencies.  

Notre Dame barbershop may have to close 
by Tim Treanor  mouths of a minority segment of the firSt and second worlds.  has accelerated this year. His opinion is by no means unani­ Neither barber bore any ani­mosity towards peonle with long  might revive business. Borsch, however,  disagrees.  
mous,  however,  as  barber Carl  hair.  "It's  the  barber's  fault,"  "Our supplier, teUs  us  that the  
Student  Radicals,  committed  The Notre Dame barr'!rshop,  Borsch  contends that the slow­ said  Borsch.  "They  originally  problem  is !universal, including  
to putting food into the mouths  which has been operating on  a  down  began  as  early  as  1964,  pushed long hair styling on  the  coeducational  colleges.  In  fact,  
of  the  underprivileged  of  the  more  or  less  consecutive  basis  "with the Beatie phenomenon."  premise  that  it'd  make  them  he  tells  me  that  the  worst­ 
Third World, may inadvertantly  for  the  past  hundred  years,  more  money.  Well,  the scheme  looking guys 'inevitably have the  
be  taking  bread  out  of  the  might have to close at the end of  Both  barbers  believe  that  the  backfired,  and  everybody's  best-looking girls."  

next year because of student business slowdown is a result of losing money. On some people it Borsch has so.me rather in­apathy. both the current fashionability looks good." teresting speculation with re­
1st Anniversary 

of longer hair and the rapid "I don't like the way it gards to the outcome of the Joe Dangelo has worked at influx of unlicensed student looks," said Dangelo, "hair trend. "As tdday's long-haired

Appreciation 

the Notre Dame Barber shop for 
barbers. down to the shoulder is pretty anti-establishment student fourteen years and has managed offensive. But moderately long graduates, he bec9mes part of

Special 

the place for four, and to him Borsch had a few words about 
hair looks all right. It's certainly · the establishment. Is it not· the situation looks rather bleak. student barbers: an individual's right to deter­possible that some future anti­
"We've had to cut down from mine how long he wants to we~r establishment student might
Enjoy fine steak dinners 

ten barbers to seven," Dangelo "They're cutting hair for his hair." Dangelo speculates start a trend by cutting his hair
broiled to your order. 

said in an interview yesterday, spending money, which is fine. 
that accelerated coeducation close to the scalp?"
Dine in comfortable and 

"and we may be down to five in . It's always good to have an extra attractive surroundings. 
a couple of weeks, We could ten, twenty dollars in your Our thank you for a 
operate for a year or so on five a pocket. But we're cutting hair wonderful first year is the 
week, but that's about it." for a living, and this is hurting second steak dinner at 
us." Cutting hair professionally Dangelo said that the slow­without a license is illegal in the
half-price. Regular prices 

down started two years ago, and state of Indiana.
just $1.09 to $1.89 for steak Dinners 
1111111111111111111111111111111 






OPEN SESSION
COUPON 
on 

tLAC« ANfll/1 


CO -EDUCATION 
with the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees 
4:30 CC£ Auditorium 
STEAK HOUSE 


SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
1520 N. Ironwood Dr 
PRESENTS 
South of Campus between 
Long haired radicals way force the closure of the Notre DameSouth Bend Ave. & Edison barbershop.
Rd. 



''IN COL.D BL.OOD'' 
SKI CLUB MEETING
$1.00
Coupon for Second Dinner 
of Same Value at Half­
Patron Card Holders $.75 
TONIGHT
Price 

7:00 Room IC LaFortune
Washington Hall Thursday, January 15
Good Thursday, Jan. IS 
.v~OO and 9:30p.m. Friday, January 16 
all Caberfae people must attend
thru Sunda Jan. 24 



THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 1969 PAGE 3
711E OBSERfiER. 

GOP organization rema1ns active 1n off year 
by Bill Carter 

conference, the republicans also sponsored a panel discussion on Undisturbed by the fact that Blacks in political parties and a 
this is an off-year as far as lecture by Indiana State Trea­nationally influential elections surer John Snyder on the role of go, Notre Dame's College college students in state and 
Republicans organization is very much alive and well on the campus. Taking the absence of November election in stride, the Republicans have kept busy with their speaking and lectures program and are currently looking ahead to some of the important primary races in the spring. 
Junior John Gaither, chair­man of Notre Dame's chapter of the College Republicans, out­lined some of his groups recent activities and plans for the future in an interview at the Observer office yesterday after­noon. Gaither pointed to the leadership training conference held at Notre Dame this past semester as an example of the group's recent efforts in what he 
Gaither described the purpose called "the educative aspects" of 
of the organization as many­political involvement. The con­
faceted. "I think the club can be ference was held under the 
both an educative, learningauspices of the Midwest Federa­
experience and also an exercise tion of Republican Organi­
in practical politics. The club zations and Gaither emphasized 
gives people a chance to expressthe importance of the meeting as 
their views and make them felt an opportunity to evaluate the 
through generally accepted programs of the other mid­
channels. The stress is really on western clubs. 
studying how things work,"The whole conference was a examining and understanding great experience," Gaither said. 
the functioning of political"We learned a lot about what 
systems."the other people are doing that 
The club's membership now will help us make up our own numbers about 175, a decrease plans for future activities." 
from last years total that is In addition to the leadership explained by Gaither as the 

Martin Luther King, Jr. honored on birthday 

result of the natural drop-off Andre outlines the newsletter's address itself to relevant campus after a presidential year. The function as threefold. It serves 
issues as well as the national chapter is augmented by the to publicize the club's activities 
ones. An interest in the broad group from St. Mary's which and events, offers the oppor­scope of politics certainlynumbers something around 25 tunity to any member to present shouldn't rule out reponse tomembers. Gaither shares his his comments on campus issues, important specific issues moreduties as chairman with St. 
and focuses on some of the 
closely at hand."

Mary's sophomore Maryanne 
action taking place in other Maren. Club Secretary Larry Ptasinski 
College Republican groups and echoes Gaither's sentiments
on the national Republican level. 
The Republican's have concerning the educative aspects monthly meetings devoted in In speaking of the pervading of campus political involvement. 

part to the club's business affairs philosophy of his organization "I think the mere exposure to abut always open to discussion of Gaither claims Notre Dame's political environment is a greatissues, campus and national, by College Republicans encompass learning experience;· Ptasinskithe group's members. Gaither a wide range of political persua­said. He also pointed out thedescribes his group's financial sions. "We certainly have ele­obvious social benefits to be status as "sound, or at least ments of both ends of the derived from any organizedsounder than most campus conservative-liberal index. It's environment, especially oneorganizations." Finances for true that we tend to have a more which offers opportunities for projects and activities are mostly conservative balance but we are group involvement in activities. 
funded by membership dues, by no means a one-sided organi­football game hotdog sales and a zation. I think we bear the label The College Republicans have number of other ventures. Republican more or less because a number of projects on their Gaither believes the club easily the R.epublican candidates have schedule for the future. Ptasinski 
gets back to the members all been the most appealing." has organized a tobaggon party they contribute and often more. for the first weekend after
Gaither also feels campus 
semester break. Dick Foltz,The club also sponsors a political clubs should not di­Lieutenant Gov. Of Indiana ismonthly newsletter edited by vorce themselves from campus scheduled to come to Notre Rich Andre and titled Thrust. issues. "A political club has to Dame as guest speaker at the club banquet later next semes­ter. The club will also be 
represented at the Midwest Federation's meeting at Indiana­polis. 

New judicial code 
by Shawn Hill 

In interviews yesterday Prof. 
The group's big goal•for the James L. Massey and Mr. Philip future is however, participation Faccenda helped to clarify many in the important upcoming aspects of Fr. Hesburgh 's hand­Republican primaries, particu­ling of the proposed Judicial larly in the race to determine an Code. Both Prof. Massey and Mr. opponent for Sen. Hartke when Faccenda were members of the his seat is up for grabs next committee that drew up the new November. judicial code. 
Massey explained that the Student Life Council had passed 


JUNIORS

the new judicial code October 29 and presented the finished Mr. James L. Massey draft to Fr. Hesburgh on the 
SENIOR

cular feelings one way or the
13th of November. On the 24th 

other about the code and is 

PORTRAIT
of November, Fr. Theodore M. 

simply making sure that !he
Hesburgh sent a letter to the 

code is thoroughly researched
Student Life Council informing 

before he approves or rejects it. 

SIGN-UP FO

them that he would need more·· 
Faccenda further stated that
time. Prof. Massey said Fr. 


DOME '71

Hesburgh did notify the Student
Hesburgh's reasons for this were 

Life Council about the code
the length, scope and complexi­
within the two week deadline.
ty of the new code. 

He said that Hesburgh had acted 
ATE: JAN 12-16 "I will require more than the on the matter by asking for 
LACE:

usual amount of time to decide more time to make his decision. whether I will approve or reject DINING HALLS 
Faccenda is confident that this code. I will advise you as ME: 5:30 -6:30
Hesburgh will reach a decision soon as I am able to make a within the next week or two. decision," wrote Hesburgh. 
Prof. Massey then stated that he hopes that Fr. Hesburgh will reach a decision and either approve or submit the judicial 
GRAND PRIX ?•
code for revision by the Feb. 2nd meeting of the Student Life Council. 
Faccenda said that Fr. lies­
Students of Notre Dame: 
burgh has taken as long as he has because the new code is very 
As of right now, the future of Grand Prix is in 
long and constitutes a sweeping change in many areas. He stated 
grave doubt. Unless proof can be shown that that Fr. Hcsburgh has no parti­
there is a genuine interest in this event, the HPC' will withhold approval and the Senate will not approvr its budget, causing definitePlaywrights. or any01w cancellation. Do you want a grand week inintl'rl'stcd in l'\pcrimcntal 
May, or not?
IIll'atcr. 

I urge that any of those who participated lastContact S. X I 56 year, those who wish to participate this year, 
( Ul'l)-The nation yesterday prepared to pay tribute to the memory of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. on the anniversary of his birthday with a round of memorials seldom accorded a dead private citizen. 
Officials ordered schools clos­ed today in several cities, includ­ing New York, Baltimore, Kan­sas City and Harrisburg, Pa. 

Several governors-among them Nelson Rockerfeller of New York, Kenneth Curtis of Maine and Frank Licht of Rhode Island-declared the 41st anni­versary of the assassinated civil right's leader's birthday "Marlin Luther King Day." 
The Martin Luther King Meiil­orial Center-a projected cultural and spiritual mecca for Ameri­can Negroes will he officially inaugurated ncar King's new Crypt and the Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta where he was co pastor. 

King's hody was removed 
Tuesday from Southview Ceme­
tery and rein terrred near the 
church in downtown Atlanta. 

The Georgia Senate's Busi­
ness Trade and Commerce Com­
mitt~c passed a resolution Wed­
Friday -the day after the 
birthday anniversary. 

The Rev. C.K. Steel ot Tampa, Fla., first vice president of the Southern Christian Lead­ership Conference which King headed, said he would ask Florida Gov. Claude Kirk and Tampa Mayor Spurgeon Camp to proclaim Thursday a holiday. 
"At this point it is highly unlikely since the cabinet has already set the state holidays," a spokesman for Kirk said. 
Observances were planned around the nation by such diverse groups as the SCLC, the National Urban League, the Black Panther Party and the: New Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) planned to participate in some cities. 
"Nothing would be more fitting as a recognition of black achievement than to observe a~ an official holiday the birthday of the man who symbolized the great moral force behind the historic movement back toward black equality and black dign­ity," Whitney Young, director of the Urban League, said. 
or anybody who just plain wants a week of memory for the slain Negro 
nesday to make Jan. 15 a day of 
social events in May, to please contact their
OBSERVER 
leader. But under senate proce­
hall presidents befor\! Monday night, Jan. 19. 
dure, the measure won't reach 
It is your support that will be thl' determining
BUSINESS
the full body for a vote until 
factor. MAKE YOUR WISHES KNOWN! 
The 01,.,_ is published daily 

STAFF MEETING
during the college wmester eJCcept w-tions by the students of the 
M.G. Ciannone 
University of Notre Dame and St. 
Chairman, GP 1970 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 

4:30pm Friday, January 16
be purch~ for $8 from The Otnerwttr, Bo" 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second d-post-ue 

Observer Offices 
. 
peid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

Questions ? . Call 1408 
PAGE 4 711J! OBSERfJER THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 1969 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
OONALD C. HOLLIDAY. Publisher GAETANO DeSAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Co -education 
Results from The ObserPer's coeducation poll and other surveys on coeducation taken on both campuses indicate what has been accepted as truth the past few years: the Notrf Dame and St. Mary's academic community is overwhelmingly in favor of coeducation. 
Today the student representatives on the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees will present to the Committee an academic, financial, and social rationale for coeducation with the support of the vast majority of the community behind them. 
We hope that the trustee members on the Stud~t Affairs Committee give proper credence to the findings of the students and give recognition -of the undeniably accurate favorable sentiments toward coeducation expressed by the academic community. 
The student representatives on the Committee have the responsibility of presenting logical and convincing arguments for the establishment of coeducation. We have faith in their ability to do so. 
No longer can anyone sensibly harbor any reservations about the acceptanC';! by the entire academic community of .coeducation. Students on both campuses have indicated that the co-ex program is beneficial academically and have urged that the program be expanded. Tenured faculty members have indicated the feeling that the lack of females in the classroom impedes the intellectual development of the men. 
We feel that a restating of the academic argument for coeducation is necessary to reassure the minds of those for coeducation and to refute the defense used by those against coeducation on academic grounds. 
Women unquestionably have a different perspective than men on almost any issue. The addition of this viewpoint is never more valuable than in the classroom and especially in the liberal arts where the aim of the courses is an exchange of opinion. One only has to look at philosophy courses to see the validity of this argument. The absence of a woman's ideas is a critical loss. 
Women are often cited as being academically inferior to men and therefore undesirable in class with men. Even a light examination of high school graduating classes, SAT scores, and National Merit tests reveal clearly the fallacy of male intellectual superiority. In fact, women often rank ahead of men. 
The Board of Trustees is known for their sometimes overriding concern about the financial status of Notre Dame. The financial analysis of coeducation made by the student committee concludes that it will be financially necessary for St. Mary's and financially advantageous, if not necessary, for Notre Dame to become coeducational. 
We hope the Trustees seriously consider the grim predictions of the futures of Notre Dame and St. Mary's when making adecision on coeducation. A survey of students accepted at Notre Dame but who chose not to come here shows that 30% made this decision because Notre Dame was not co-ed. 
Princeton, once an all male school, admitted that 43% of its "best" applicants did not go to Princeton because of a lack of co-education. Perhaps we should also admit that Notre Dame is losing some of its finest potential scholars at a disastrous rate. 
The Board of Trustees has steadfastly concerned itself with the problems of the students while at the same time they expressed little concern over the necessity of a satisfying social life while at school. 
They might remember that conditions which do not permit a social life of a pleasing nature cannot avoid adversely affecting one's performance in other areas, notably academic. 
Furthermore, the intention of the university is to provide an environment conducive to the total growth of the individual student. Obviously, a life style devoid of women is not conducive to his overall growth and does not prepare him for a post graduate life where he is expected to have matured socially. 
The trustees today have an opportunity to show their understanding of the academic, financial, and social need for coeducation. A favorable response would be a gesture that would demonstrate the depths of their concern for the students. 
If they choose instead to ignore the wishes of the academic community and reject coeducation, then the burden of proof for their position rests on their shoulders. 
David Breen, Business Manager  Photo Editor: Mike Murphy  The opinions in the editorials,  
Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr.  Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin  news analyses, and columns of  
News Editor: Glen Corso  Features Editor: Dave Stauffer  THE OBSERVER are solely those  
Asst. News Editor: Bill Carter  Night Editor: Jim Holsinger  of the authors and editors of THE  
SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear  Layout Design: Phil Barth  OBSERVER and do not necessari- 
Asociate Editors: Clift Wintrode,  Layout: Dan Shaw, Susie Bury,  ly reflect the views of St. Mary's  
An Conway, Jeanne Sweeny  Bro. Patrick Carney  College, the University of Notre  
Layout Editor: Mary Beth  Headlines: Frank Wiegand,  Dame, their administrations,  
Crimmons  Rich Smith  faculty or students .  
.  


Do I want coeducation? Do birds fly? Do fish swim? Is the Pope Catholic? ... 
Letters 
Editor: The subtle attempt at canoni­
I am writing from my tem­zation of the Notre Dame Ten in porary exile in response to the your Jan. 12th article sickens me Observer's Thursday editorial to no end. You speak of a "To Engender Respect," one change and how ten students 
which seemed overly slanted and ("awakened members of our also naive. community") have spoken for 
The item took its cheapest the "voiceless masses." You then shot with the "conjecture" that proceed to condemn institutions it was not anything like moral such as Dow and C.I.A. -upon courage that made the Ten defy which you state our laws are the IS-Minute rule, but merely built. our lack of belief that the First of all Dave, I very Administration would carry it seriously doubt that these peo­through. So, the logical pro­ple acted for the "voiceless cedure was to bust the demon~ masses." What they did and why 
strators and "show them." That was a bit law and orderish, 
wouldn't you say? If you cry so much for "rational persuasion," why so hasty to bring the club down on fellow students? Cer­tainly there are not arbitary bounds beyond which the use of that persuasion is abandoned and the repression sets in. 
There is validity in arguing for 

consistency in policy from an Administration which has lacked this at crucial times in the past. they did it was more for But shouldn't we also hope for a satisfaction of their own person­community which is not hesitant al motivation: a fact that was so to question those policies which very clearly stated to me at that seem anachronistic to a sub-fiasco of Nov. 18th. stantial segment of the students And what about the "change" and faculty? Was Father Riehle's that you infer should come 
decision a wise one, or merely about. You speak of non-violent the functional action of another means at the end of your article. structured administrator? There If that act of blocking students was a choice, of course, between and pushing them away was doing as he did or going a bit non-violent, then let's make further and calling the feasibility Tom Hayden a saint. of a IS-Minute rule into dis­cussion and asking that the Lastly Dave, if Dow, C.I.A., larger problem of recruitment be and other such elements are so explored also, as was done in a corrupt, non-personal, and im­similar incident at Holy Cross moral, then this country should College last month. have folded many years ago. At 
I am hesitant about placing least that's the impression that I confidence in any body, such as· receive when you state that our the University Forum, which can laws are built on them. Take a only discuss and cannot initiate long hard look at a few law action. "Dialogue" is necessarily books, and you'll find that the a precursor of action, but can individual is by far the most become meaningless, dis-imtJortant element in our socie­illusioning, and frustrating if ty. divorced from concrete results. Finally, you say you don't This is not to criticize a body agree with Glenn Corso's state­which has not even had an ment: "that the lines have been opportunity to meet yet, but drawn and the swords sharpen­rather to be apprehensive of · ed." In answer to that, all I can another pacifying paternalistic say is that people such as the innovation which just will not Notre Dame Ten (and maybe serve Notre Dame students' real even yourself) have driven pea­needs. ple such as Glenn and myself to 
James E. Metzger that extreme. Ours is a defensive action; defending something that's been around for 200
Another_silent majority 
years! 

Editor: (To Dave Lammers) Peace and victory, 
Again, Dave, I feel your Tom Mignanelli
column cannot go unanswered. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 1969 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 5 
--------· 
The final grind 





t! 




~T' .• 


photo essay by 
Mike Murphy (;__: . '!JIFA 


THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 19691
PAGE 6 
TilE O.&rERIIER 

Poll shows co-education favored 
(continued from page 1) 

to that which exists in their dated, 87.2% said that they had course. Of those students 96.1% 
perked up the classes academ­
home town. 42.9% of St. Mary's dated a St. Mary's girl at least felt that the experience was
felt that they would be willing ically, while others only stated 
students also felt the same way, once. 12.8% of them, however, worthwhile. All of the guys felt
to live at St. Mary's-even if in a that it provided a "better atmos­
although almost an equal num­said that they had never gone that the program should be
co-ed dorm. 80.1% said that phere".
ber felt that the over 6:1 out with a girl from across the expanded.
they hoped St. Mary's would set boy/girl ratio at· ND/SMC pro-road.
up co-ed dormitories. Only Fairly Accurate 
vided a better social atmosphere
64.1% of them, however, felt Co-ex system 
than at home.

that they actually would move The figures show that 83.5% 80.5% of the NO guys said The small percentage of stu­into them. 
Although 75.6% of the Notre
of Notre Dame students felt that that they found it hard to meet dents that replied to the pollStudents presented a wide the social atmosphere was infer­Dame students had participated makes the accuracy of the 
range of opinion on whether or students from SMC. St. Mary's
ior to home as compared to only in a course that was marked results questionable to a certain 
not their parents would approve girls, a greater percentage of 
42.2% of the SMC girls. 40% of "co-ex", most of them com­degree. Only 4.8% of the Notre 
of the idea. Equal numbers of whom take classes at Notre plained that the course wasn't
the St. Mary's girls felt that the Dame student body responded
students thought that their par­Dame than guys take classes at 
social atmosphere was superior really that at all. One student while 4.4% of the SMC girls did. 
ents would be adamantly op­SMC, stated that it was less 
to home while a meager 3.8% of said that he had taken three To argue that the figures obtain­
posed as said their parents would difficult to meet guys. Only 51% 
the guys believe that to be the "co-ex" courses in the last two ed are representative of the true
be wholeheartedly in favor. The felt that it was hard to meet a semesters but hadn't been in a feeling is not necessarily statis­case. 17.7% of the girls thought
majority of the responses show­Notre Dame student. 
class with a girl. Many students tically correct although in mostthat the social situation was on aed, however, that most parents expressed similar sentiments. cases the results closely parallelpar with their's at home whilewould care one way or the only 1 0.6% of the guys said their 94.5% of the St. Mary's girls There was a variety of opinions those of polls taken by otherother, but trusted their sons to home social environment was who bothered to fill out the over the value of having girls in groups which would suggest thatmake the right decisions or were questionnaire had taken a co-ex classes. Some mentioned that it they are fairly accurate.
equal to what they found atopen minded enough to "under­Notre Dame.
stand" if their sons explained the worth of the venture. 
14.3% of the 296 Notre Dame 
1ssues warn1ng
Gynecologist • • 
A large majority from both students who responded saidschools, 81 .3%, felt that the that they had never dated sinceschools' reputation would not be 
sterile by birth control pills!"hurt if co-ed living was permit­
they came to Notre Dame. Of WASHINGTON (UPI) had been greatly improved and 
one shouted. Another was preg­
the classes 33.9% of the fresh­A gynecologist warned Con­can now be used by women who ted. men said that they had not gress yesterday that 9 million nant. have not borne a child. The new Another witness, Dr. M.
dated since they had been here. American women were gulping "loop" -smaller than older Social atmosphere The percentage declines, though, birth control pills like "chickens models --is effective 99.5 per
James Whitelaw of O'Connor Hospital, San Jose, Calif., said
through a student's stay. 12.3% eating corn," unaware they may cent of the time, Davis saHl. of the sophomores claim that cause cancer, blood clots, dia­
oral contraceptives make some
Currently, most Notre Dame Dr. David Carr of McMaste1r
women permanently sterile.

they have never dated; 11.1% of betes and artery disease.
students feel that the social University, Hamilton, Ont., said 
the juniors; and 7.5% of the "The widespread use of oral "How many American males
atmosphere is terrible compared a chromosome study of 227 
semors. contraceptives, such as has deve­would be willing to take oral 
miscarriages showed that amongHOUSE FOR KENT loped in the United States in the contraceptives if they risked just women who became pregnant4 Bedrooms past I 0 years, has given rise to one of the side effects-loss of with-in six months of discon­
Across the road 

2 Kitchens 
health ha7ards on a scale pre­sex drive and libido?" Whitelaw tinuing oral contraceptives, there
viously unknown to medicine," asked.
2 Full Baths 

was a "clear increase in one type
Of the Notre Dame students Dr. Hugh J. Davis told Sen. Sen. Thomas J. Mcintyre, D.,
Wall to Wall Carpeting of abnormality which leads to. 

who responded that they had Gaylord Nelson's Senate small N.H., asked Davis whether
Completely Furnished miscarriage."


business subcommittee on Congress can "depend on theRecently Redecorated Marvin S. Legater, a Food andmonopoly. medical profession to fullyClose to Campus Drug Administration FDA
LOST 

The crowded hearing, Con­advise women" of the alleged research official, said "anContact AI Brasseur gress' first probe of "the pill," hazards. 
exhaustive study such as carried
Munich American High 

was interrupted by three
289-2463 

"These people are busy," out with cigarette smokers
School Ring 

members of the Women's Libera­
233-2673 

Davis replied, referring to would be required to indicate a
Call Bob-2187, 

tion Front, a militant feminist 
doctors. "They read the possible relationship betwen oral
Grnrf Students Onlv 

group. "One of us was made
$5 Reward 

materials which the drug houses 
Engineering, Math and Science Majors 
IBM will be interviewing on campus February11 
Ifyou're interested in a career in science and engineering, programming, or marketing, sign up atyour placement office. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

contraceptives and cancer." 

pump into them ... so even the Because of a "long latent 
physician is not fully informed." period," Legator said, it would 
He said sequential birth con­take "I 0 or more years, and 
trol pills and ones high ill even ... generations in the case of 
estrogen should be banned for a mutagenic response" to tell 
contraceptive use. whether the pills cause cancer or 
He said the intrauterine device genetic defects. 
Open forum to discuss Trustee meeting topics 
was no special reason for theMonday night the Executive meeting. The Executive Com­Committee of the Board of mittee meets bi-monthly as aTrustees met at the home of Dr. 
regular practice, if not more
Thomas Carney in Chicago, often during the school year.
Illinois. Mr. Faccenda, Secretary Further meetings can be ex­
of the committee, said that there 
TYPING OF TERM PAPERS, THESES, ETC. 

Experienced typist, elite electric typewriter, will supply paper, carbon, folders, etc. Will do color carbons for dissertations, etc. Charge: $ .50 per page of typing; $1.50 per page of charts, graphs, etc.; plus cost of materials. 
Call Connie Deck: 272-1842 (home 6-10) 
pected in March, May and June. 
Students interested in what the Board discussed are en­couraged to come to the audi­torium of the Center for Con­tinuing Education at 4:30 this afternoon. This open-to-students meeting will cap a day-long conference. The principal topic will be an extensive analysis of the pros and cons of coeduca­tion_ The condition of the black studies program and the situa­tion of the Teaching Asistants will also be treated. 
'na.Uusc JYt'stoll.l"" . 
·Crpftsmen in Optics 
• 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGL~SSES ANDCONTACTLENSES-­
T//H SlfERJ.AND B!.J)G. 132 S. M1CII/GAN ST. 
Centra/2-1468 
7:1.JiOJJSe o}ViSiOJt ~ 
Main Office: 135 N. 'Nabash Ave.·-Chicago 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 1969. PAGE 7
THE OBSERfiiR. 

Student problems aggravated by overcrowded dorms 
This is the second in a series of articles reporting the results of the research done by Saint Mary's Committee for Off-Campus /lousing. Th~ co­authors, Carol Cusick and-Irish McNamara, are expressing the views of students at SMC who oppose the pre.Yent system of forced on-campus living. In this article they outline some of the psychological and social argu­ments relevant to the issue of Off-Campus housing. -ed. 
In the midst of radical change, where is St. Mary's going'! It is possible that we can construct­ively channel our potential ener­gy rather than merely react to I he pressures of many inconse­quential and impersonal condi­
There exist tensions in any environment. Generally, a·n in­coming student chooses an aca­demic environment based on his personality development at that point, and therefore, a college tends to attract people who will be satisfied with the campus life style. At times, due to substan­tial growth or lack of foresight, he finds the environment unsuit­ed to his temperament, in which case, increasing tension dictates that he either escape from or adjust to the demands of the surroundings. 
Personality development, a process that is intensified in an academic commmunity, will be stifled if an individual is forced to adjust to an environment that is incompatable with his life style. There exists aspects of institutional living that cannot offer fulfillment to some stu­dents. If the community is to concern itself with individual growth, it must meet the needs of all, and if it allows a minority to become stifled and frustrated in a confining environment, the academic community can in no way claim to be intellectually open. 
An overcrowded dormitory will simply aggravate conditions resulting in students having difficulty maintaining individual identity. The problems accom­panying overcrowding, the strain and accelerated pace, can lead to an increase in psychological disturbances. 
Pent-up emotions create prob­lems for the institution as well as the individual. The minority will grow in size. If conditions are not changed, we will lose whole­

some, productive women whose 
contribution  could  be  invalu­ 
able.  
St.'  Mary's  College "encour­ 

ages individual responsiveness for self-growth and the enrich­ment of one's community, na­tion and world. Believing educa­tion to be the stimulus in this process, St. Mary's emphasizes those disciplines basic to liberal education... " (1969-70 S.M.C. catalogue, p. 5) A liberal educa­tion, involving a diverse acade~ mic experience, is ideally an education of the person as such and as a member of society. A significant off-campus experi­ence, one that provides living among the general public, can uniquely broaden this education. It will not only satisfy personal needs and encourage creativity and responsibility, but also 
strengthen diversity in the acade­mic atmosphere of the commun­ity. In explaining off-campus living as a concern of liberal education, Vassar College pro­mulgates a philsophy in which "the accent is on freedom, flexibility, experiment, respect for individual difference, and social concern." 
We must anticipate the future. The character of our student body is changing; we must meet and direct that change. Present undercurrents of discontent with the limited opportunity to vary our living atmosphere hint that current conditions arc inade­quate. If we can accomodate all of today's creative women, per­haps we will attract students from more wide-ranging back­grounds; perhaps we will attract students from all backgrounds.

THE OBSERVER. THURSDAY, JANUARY 15,1969
PAGE 8 

JIM MURRAY 
Who's little? 

NEW ORLEANS-Once upon a time there was a game called "pro  
football" and it belonged to a lot of guys named George Halas and  
Bert Bell and George Preston Marshall. And they used to get their  
refined product at great expense to the taxpayer for no expense  
whatsoever to them. They "drafted" football players like the Army.  
They called their teams. the "Monsters of the Midway'. or the  
"Big, Bad Bears" and they leaked the word to the press that they  
were the best practitioners of football in the whole universe. To  
prove it, they heat up a college team every year in Chicago.  
Once in awhile, a bunch of rich guys would get together and form  
a pro football to.urnament of their own but the gJ,"andfather teams  
would just yawn and say "well, we'll wait till they go broke and then  
we'! help ourselves to one or two of the best franc~ises." They not  
only cannibalized colleges, they also cannibablized their own kind.  
In 1960, a whole bunch of rich kids from Texas said "Hey,  
include us in. My daddy will pay." But the crusty old owners who  
had organized themselves by now as the NFL said, "Well, sonny,  
first get a football."  
So, the kids did. And they drove the cost of doing business way  
up. They threw money out of taxi windows and they signed players  
with big reputations. And they formed a funny little league where it  
was widely be!ieved to be illegal to intercept a pass or make a tackle  
or fall on a fumble. It was a league where everybody ran 80 yards or  
passes were completed from one end zone to the other and the  
scores were all 65-60.  
And the old established league said, "My word, you don't call  
THAT football, do you? Why don't you put up baskets?"  
And then, one of the television networks underwrote the funny  
.little league even though it made everybody laugh at Toots Shor's  
and one day, they challenged the old established league. And the old  
league said, "Well, OK, but if the Humane Society interferes,  
remember it wasn't our idea."  
So the old established league and its chief ogre, a guy named Vine~ Lombardi, beat up the funny little league like they beat up  
the college kids. And everybody said "See?"  
But, then, something funny happened. The funny little league got  
in the playoff game in Miami in 1969 and looked across the line of  
scrimmage at the tough guys, the monsters, the big bad,  
establishment anu said to each other,. "I know you'! think this is  
crazy, but they look like a bunch of fat old men to me."  
And they went out and beat them up.And everybody said, "Well,  
these accidents do happen. I mean, aye you going to believe me or  
your eyes?"  
So,· the Funny Little League joined the Monsters of the Midway  
and they began to beat the old, established fat guys, 50-14 and  
42-10, but everyone said, "Well, really, you don't count exhibition  
games, do you'!''  
So, they said to the Funny Little League, "I'll tell you what. Our  
•  league gets all worn out playing four playoff games while you guys only have one. So, we'll pit the best team in your Funny Little  
League against the two second-best teams and then you'll be all  
worn out in the big game (whie-h by now they called the Super  
Bowl), too."  
So, what happened was that the second best team in the Western  
Conference of this Funny Little League won this cockamanny  
tournament while, over in the REAL league, a team that went  
arou!ld beating people, 51-3. won out.  
Well, now, Sunday the Fynny Little League ran out on the field  
•  against the Monsters of the Midway and points west and the Establishment had "SO'' on their epaulets to indicate their league  
was a half-century old. So.,t4e Funny Little Leaguers came out with  
"1 0" on their shoulder patches. · ·  
And they beat these fat old parties again, 23-7. They are now  
increasing their edge by 7 points a year and, by 1980, the scores  
should be 70-0.  
The Funny Little Leaguers left very little doubt about the  
difference between the two leagues. There was no department of the  
game in which they were not I) younger; 2) faster; 3) better; 4)  
smarter.  
The Monsters of the Midway looked like a bunch of sandlotters  
by comparison. When the Establishment won the first of these super  
bowl games in 1966, the victorious Establishment coach, Vince  
Lombardi, allowed as how the conquered team would warm up a  
real team in ·his league.  
Kansas City's Hank Stram was more kind when he had the Super  
Bowl trophy and the call from the President. "They (the other guys)  
were a real fine football team," he said ... well, sure they !teld the  
second-best team in the FLL to a 16-point win, didn't they?  
Down in the locker room, Mike Garrett, who cried all night when  
he signed with the Kansas City Chiefs (because he had set his heart  
on playing for the Los Angeles Rams) said it all when he observed  
"the NFL controls this country. That's why we built a great team  
without anybody noticing it."  
He also suggested that ego played a part. "They (the monsters of  
the other league) are great athletes. They react quickly. That's how  
we were able to score. I was so surprised to find myself in the end  
zone. The color is different down there and I thought 'my goodness,  
this play hasn't worked all year but it worked against these guys."'  
Said Hank Stram: "I told our guys we would just have to be  
patient."  
Therr is a lesson to be learned here. The next time a guy beats his  
chest and roars and tells you how lucky you are he doesn't throw  
you over a building, before you hand over 24 million dollars to him,  
give him a feint and throw the right. He may be a sucker for a  
•  right-hand punch. He may be just rich, not good. And never mind  
"Paper Lion." © 1N9, Los Angeles Times It may be a paper league.  

God bless Austin Carr 
by Terry Shields 

games. This momentum will scoreboard. Observer Sports Writer come in handy because they One loyal Notre Dame fan are entering the most critical Joe Meyer, who had 29 pointssummed it up best as he filed 
part of their schedule. for the visitors, tried to keep his 
out of the Convocation Center Duquesne, MSU, Illinois and ·dad's team in the ball game last night. "God bless Austin Marquette will not fall easily but throughout. the second half. He Carr." The Irish captain was if the hish perform like they did played an excellent game but 
nothing short of unreal as he led last night they will be awfully this fine performance was great­ND to an extremely well played tough stop.
to ly overshadowed by the fabulous 
96-73 victory over a well-coach­The first half was a slow Carr. ed DePaul quintet that simply moving affair with both teams could not match Carr's bril­working for the good shots. Austin was held to a "mere" liance. Carr had 51 points for a Even with decent shooting posi­1 7 points at the half but in the 
new school and convo record. tion neither squad could really second stanza he just couldn't (Larry Sheffield held the old score with much consistency. At miss. As the game wore on the record of 45 poin.ts.) He hit on the half Notre Dame was shoot­
previously subdued crowd of 20 of 29 field goals and a poor 
ing 37% and the Blue Demons 7, 1 80 were on their feet scream­
(by Austin's standards) II of 17 posted an anemic 29%. The . ing for the man from D.C., to free throws. He is now averaging battle for rebounds was even at keep throwing them in. Carr 
34.5 ppg. at 56.0%. 26 apiece as Ken Warzynski wasn't about to let them down. 
The Demons played a solid fought off Sid Catlett, Collis The Notre Dame captain was fundamental game but they'were Jones and John Pleick. not who
the only man playedoutclassed by a more talented The complexion of the game well for coach John Dee. No team. The Irish came close to a changed immensely once the who the "other guard"
matter team scoring record for a half as second half began. It was (Tom Sinnott, Jack Meehan or they poured through 64 markers "bombs away" from the start as Mike O'Connell) was, he playedin the second stanza. 
Catlett and Jones got into the well. This point is reflected in If Notre Dame can continue scoring act. These two along the number of turnovers for the this style of play for the with "Big John" began to contest, 14, which was one of 
remainder of the season they 
dominate the boards and the the lowest in this category for should lose few if any more result was quickly seen on the the season. 
Statistics 
DEPAUL FG FT Rbds Pts NOTRE DAME 
FG FT Rbds Pts Ken Warzynski 9-20 2-3 12 20 Collis Jones S-16 1-1 10 
13 
Sevira Brown 1-7 1-1 3 3 Sid Catlett 6-11 0-1 9 12 Paul Pomplun 4-8 0-2 11 8 John Pleick 3-9 4-S 9 
10 Tom Tracy 2-5 0-0 0 4 Tom Sinnott 3-4 0-0 4 6 Joe Meyer 13-28 3-3 2 29 Austin Carr 20-29 11-17 7 51 Ed Goode 1-10 0-0 2 2 Jackie Meehan 1-2 0-0 2 2 Tom Hunter 2-S 2-2 7 6 John O'Connell 0-1 2-2 3 2 John Lawler 0-0 1-1 0 1 Jim Hinga 0-1 0-0 1 0 TOTALS 32-83 9-12 42 73 John Gallagher 0-1 0-0 0 0 Doug Gemmell 
PERCENTAGE 38.5% 75% 1-1 0-0 1 2 
TOTALS 

39-75 18-26 56 96 PERCENTAGE 
52% 69.2% 

Old man Rupp rolling along 
ATLANTA (UPI) -Adolph "We were more than glad to
averaged 1 9 .I PPG last season Rupp, the Old Man River of beat them on their own court,
was a serious blow. Mike was our college basketball, keeps right on by any score." 
quarterback."

rolling along. It might be noted here that
But th'e Wildcats quicklyRupp is 68, ailing and in his although Rupp doesn't have
showed their mentor they could win without Casey. They have
40th season of an unparalleled Casey at the moment, he does C'lireer as coach of the Kentucky have two truly outstanding bas­
had only two really close calls Wildcats. But the victories keep ketball players in 6 foot 8, 237
while running of 12 straightpiling up. victories -pound Dan Issei and 6 foot 4,
that game with Notre Rupp hasn't tried to hide his 217 pound Mike Pratt, both
Dame and Monday's 72-71 hope that this might be the year seniors.
heart-stopper at the Universityhe gets that fifth NCAA cham­Even if he doesn't get that
of Georgia.pionship which has eluded him Rupp insisted he was happy fifth NCAA title he wants so for more than a decade. badly, he'll leave behind one
to have the one point victory . That title is more pressing "It was a viciously fought record that could stand for as than ever now for although long as colleges play basketball.
game," he observed. "You've got Rupp stood alone when he won to remember that Georgia had Rupp came into this season his fourth national crown ,n just won at Vanderbilt and at with 810 victories, now has that 1958, UCLA's John Wooden hds Auburn and then they beat total up to 822 and should be passed him by winning five in Tennessee at home the other approaching the 900 mark if he the past six years. night. does continue through the Ironically, UCLA and Wooden 1971-72 season. con tinue as Kentucky's biggest roadblock. 
Yale receives positive ruling
The top-ranked Uclans (1 0-0) and the 2nd-ranked 
WASHINGTON (UPf)-Yale ruling, announced Tuesday, was
Wildcats ( 12-0) have been University proclaimed a major the subject of a stormy two hourwaging a two-team battle for the victory today in its revolt against special meeting of the entiretop spot in the polls since the the Eastern Athletic Conference ECAC during an otherwiseseason began. Kentucky was No. 
"establishment," which sought peaceful National CollegiateI for three weeks but slipped to suspend it from major sports Athletic Association NCAA con­hack after UCLA routed Notre events for 18 months. vention here.
Dame a week after the Wilcats The Ivy League school• After the suspension orderedged the Irish by only two successfully forced th~ powerful was revealed, the ECAC voted topoints. 
ruling body of the 11 9 college ask the executive council toRupp insists the pollsters· ECAC to withdraw a previously reconsider its harsh move against"were mislead by Notre Dame voted ruling suspending Yale Yale, a founding member of thewhich has been as high as No. 7 until June 30,1971, because it conference.
this season had had a week's rest approved sending basketball After a second secret meetingwhen we played them; but player Jack Langer to the night,
UCLA caught them at the Tuesday the council 
Maccabiah Games in Israel last agreed to pull back its suspen­tailend of a tough five game road summer. sion, reconsider its action, take atrip." 
The ECAC's executive council new position and report it to theRupp feared, before the sea­voted the 18 month suspension next meeting of the ECAC inson began, that the automohile 
in a secret meeting Sunday. The February.
accident that sidelined Mike Casey for the season would cost him his shot at the NCAA crown. 
"We expect to have a fjne team, anyway," Rupp said at the time. "But losing Casey who 





