
------~ ---~­

Vol. IV, no. 84 
Prof. Houck, F11ther Whelan and Mr. Frick at Security Forum 
400 expected at Soph parent's weekend 
Sophomore Parent Weekend­
will be held at Saint Mary's this 
weekend. It will bring parents of 
some 200 students to the cam­
pus. 
The schedule provides for 
registration at 3:00 p.m. on 
Friday, February 27, to be fol­
lowed by a sophomore skit, 
written by Diane Shahade and 
entitled "I Hope I Meet a Foot­
ball Player," which will be held 
in O'Laughlin Auditorium from 
9 to 10 p.m. The skit is open to 
the public and there is no admis­
sion charge. Early arrivals are 
also invited to vist open classes 
on Friday. 
On Saturday, the College residence halls will be open and campus tours will be organized throughout the day. A panel discussion entitled "Saint Mary's -Present and Future" will be held in O'Laughlin Auditorium from I to 2:30p.m. followed by the Presidential Tea at 3:00p.m. A cocktail hour and dinner will he held in the College dining hall and will be followed by a dance in l~egina Hall from 9 to 12 p.m. 
On Sunday, Reverend Ray­mond Runde will celebrute Mass in O'Laughlin Auditorium. A brunch will be held in the Col­lege dining ahall following Mass. 
Sophomore Ann Jones is ser­ving as General Chairman of the Parent Weekend. The President of this year's sophomore class at Saint Mary's is Suzie Way. 
The theme of the Parent Weekend is "Thank Heaven for Little Girls" and is com-
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1970 
V.P's council, SLC,at odds 

on campus security 
by Floyd Kezele 
In an attempt to acquaint the began by stating the position of S.L.C. felt only Director of students of Notre Dame with the the Student Life Council on Security Arthur Pears was aptly problems of Campus Security, campus security. Whelan placed qualified to study the situation, an open forum was held last the blame for the "Jack of action but that because of his work night at the LaFortune Student in this area" on the multitude of with security, a possibility of a Center before fifty students. committees he considered inef­"Jack of objectivism" might be Vice-President for Public Rela­ficient and unqualified studying present. Fr. Whelan said that tions James Frick announced the problem. He further stated after studying the various as-that security consultant Paul that of these six groups, the 
continued on page 2 
Powell's report had been accep­ted, although the university has no further plans for continuing 
Peil talks on Racism 
his employment. According to Frick, this is due in part to the by Mike Mooney following steps which the univer­
what he considered "anti-blacksity has initiated: a study of the undertones" in their translations
Charging that the real trouble
security system of Duke Univer­sity, lighting and fencing at with Christianity today is that it of servants as "slaves," govern­hasn't been Christian, Fr. Daniel 
ment fees as "poll taxes," and
various parking lots, and the Peil adressed a light audience last tribes or relatives as "clans."
hiring of a Security Investigator The pastor further noted thenight in the Library Auditoriummemorated in an attractive pink along with the recruitment of continuing association of blackon "Racism in the Church." Fr.
and cranberry brochure which more qualified campus police. 
a with sin, death and immoralitywas produced by the Parent Thus, citing a need for a concer­Peil's speech was part of of continuing series of lectures in the rubrics and vestments ofWeekend Committee. ted and joint effort by their sponsored by the History Dep­the Church,while contendingAnn Jones has been working respective branches of govern­artment on racism in the United white has historically been asso­on Parent Weekend since last ment, the panel which included States. ciated with holiness, eternal life year when she worked with last Frick, Fr. Edgar Whelan, Direc­ANTI-BLACK and salvation. 
year's Sophomore Parent Week­tor of Student Housing; Fr. 
UNDERTONES "The Church has been guiltyend chairman Cathie Gallagher. James Riehle, Dean of Students; of seeing itself strictly as white,"Committee chairmen for this Prof. John Borkowski of the Fr. Peil, pastor of St. Augus­Peil stated. 
weekend include: Connie Psychology Department; Prof tine Church in South Bend,
Blanchard, Daisy Duckworth, Robert Anthony, of the depart­CHOSEN PEOPLE 
opened his actress with a criti­
Kathy Eglet, Priscilla Louris, ment of Physics; and Student To support his contention
cism of what he called theLife Council member Steve
Ronie Rogers, Pinky Schoen, a
"insensitivity" of some modem that the Church had racistAhern, began the forum by
Sue Shutrump, Ann Stoy, Kayth outlook, Fr. Peil reviewed
scriptural translators. Such trans­presenting their positions.
Sylvester, and Ann Marie lators, according to Peil, were Church history, emphasizing
After opening remarks by
Tracey. guilty of "blithely ignoring" what he considered racist bent in
moderator Ahern, Fr. Whelan its missionary activities. Peil argued that bolstered by a "chosen people concept" toward
Senate passes ombudsman bill 
their Christianity, missionaries by Shawn Hill Campaigning officially begins vote in the Student Government were too often paternalistic 6 p.m. Tuesday, March 3 and election. After moderate debate toward the natives of the coun­The first order of business at will end at 2 a.m. March II. the Senate voted to send over­try, high-handedly trying to last night's Student Senate Campaign expenditures cannot seas students official ballots so bring "culture to a nation who meeting was an Executive report exceed $300 with an extra $45 that they will be able to take had it hundreds of years before by Student Body President Phil allowed for mailing costs (for part in the election. they did." McKenna on this year's election example, to reach off-campus 
students.) Guiffrida Bill "PIE-IN-THE-SKY"
rules and procedures. The rules governing this year's Presidential Election day will be March The Senate also considered a Moreover, Peil contended, the election are various. II, with balloting taking place in bill, introduced by Fred Guif­Church was guilty of preaching a 
To qualify as a candidate the halls. Off-campus students frida, that stated: "Be it resol­"pie-in-the-sky" morality that McKenna reported a student may vote on the ll th from 9 ved, that classes be recognized as 
discouraged action against any must present a petition for can­a.m. until 5 p.m. at the Off­independent organizations. 
of the squalor of their condition didacy that has been signed by Campus Office. These classes have the right to and encouraged patience andI00 students. These petitions In order to win, a candidate form their own governments, long-suffering in the hope of an may be obtained starting must receive 50% plus one of the and accordingly, the responsi­eternal reward. 
Sunday, March I, at 7 p.m. at votes cast. In case no one candi­bility to supervise their own Fr. Peil also argued that his­the Student Government Uf"fice. date receives a majority, a run­elections. Each sophomore class torically the efforts of Christian­The signed petitions mllft be off election will be held on has the responsibility to super­ity were often hindered by the
returned to the Student Govern­March 13. vise the election of the incoming ment Office by 5 p.m. Tuesday The Senate next voted upon a freshman class." This measure continued on page 2 March 3. bill to allow overseas students to passed by concensus. 


Universities becoming 
by Steve Tapscott 
This the third uf six installments in The Observer in which members of the Nutting fur President committee answer the fundamental question of why should any change be made in the existing power structure ur why change the people now in power. --ed. 
With the rise the last few years in American universities of cultural and community self-consciousness, there has been a simultaneous sense of schiz­
ophrenia. Splits between ideals and realities, between orientation and res­ponsibilities, between students and ad­ministrations and sources of income, have tended to polarize, often super­ficially, all those involved in the uni­versity. The students of Columbia, for instance, having recognized the univer­sity's responsibilities to the communi­ty in which it lives and functions, successfully articulated the necessity for a reevaluation of the university's function, and hence structure. The price for such a second sight. however, was·-the danger from defenSive baci<-=­Jash from those who felt threatened. Berkeley's moments of glorious Un­revolution have been Juore than amply paid for by the new anti-intellectual­

ism  of  Ronald  Reagan,  California's  
Regents,  and  Spiro (the  Vice  Presi­ 
dent) Agnew.  

The result of such tensions has been that administrators have naturally found themselves racked between de­mands on one hand from frustrated students and faculty and on the other from alumni and other potential sour­ces of income. ("It makes me sick . .J am terribly disappointed with Fr. Hes­burgh ... " N.D. Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., I 970) Whether or not this schizophre­nia and tight-rope walking on the part of administrators is a well-deserved 

schizoid 
result of their own indecision or inept­itude is a moot point. The fact is that universities are split between their external functions and their intern"al necessities, and it is now the task of ·administrations to try to reconcile both functions without compromising either view. As an American university and legendary center for free thought, Notre Dame does have responsibilities to South Bend, to Clay towrtship, to the 30-some committees on which Fr. Hesburgh serves, to the government (dissent as patriotism); and most im­portant, to her students. In order to exist and to meet those. responsibilir 
continued lHI page 2 


Peil calls Church racist 

C_!!ntinued from page 1 

nationalistic ties of the mission­aries. He said that a friend once · cynically suggested that the mis­sionaries were used to "soften­up" the natives before the inva­sion of foreign troops. 
HORIZONTAL CHRISTIANITY ____"Only recently," asserted Peil, "has the-Church worked to 'd(JVe,: lop a native clergy." The pastor suggested that to­day the Christian must have an 
idea of "horizontal and vertical Christianity." Instead of viewing one's relationship with God as a straight line, Peil referred to view the relationship as a tri­angle, with the interaction bet­ween men as the base. 
"The ordinary way to get to God is out through other peo­ple," said the speaker. 
In suggesting future action for the Church, Fr. Peil emphasized the need for "attitudinal change," and the importance of Church involvement in the af­

fairs of the communities in 
which they exist. 
Fr. Peil asked those who were 
working for reforms to stay 
within the Church "to help 
make the Church become what 
you criticize it for not being." 
HYPOCRISY AND RACISM 

He urged his audience to see the hypocrisy and racism that exists in the established struc­tures today and to condemn all 

forms of violence, "violence against the spirit as well as pro­
EN61NEERIN6 6RAOUATES 

perty." 
Fr. Peil accused Christianity of fostering racism
"Christianity can work by 
when he appeared before a sparse crowd in tlh.e
making it work," said Peil. 
Memorial Library Auditorium last night. 

TUESDAY, MARCH 3 
It's find out time! Time for you to find out the role you might play in the company that has designed or constructed over 8 billion dollars of fossil fuel, hydroelectric and nuclear plants. 
There's never been a more exciting time to join Ebasco. Forecasts call for electrical power systems three times the size of our present 
national systems. As an engineer at Ebasco, you'll be in the forefront of this activity. Ebasco 
englnelrs always have been. 
See your Placement Director soon to arrange a Q&A session with the Ebasco representative on the above date. If this is not convenient, write to College Relations Coordinator, Department 122, Ebasco Services Incorporated, Two Rector Street, New York, New York 10006. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 


EBASCO 

Reihle calls for student-secu1rity cooperation in open foru1n 
continued from page' I 
Jl!!_£ts of t_Jle problem the S.L.C. passed a resolution which called on the university to select a "professional committee" to study the situation further, and 
report  back  on  its  recommen­ 
dations.  
Following  Fr.  Whelan, Frick  

presented the Vice-President's Council position. According to 
Frick, the University is already in the process of implementing eight of eleven Vice-President's Council proposals, and would act on the other three at a meeting to be held on March 3. Among the proposals acted upon were, "the increase of pay for campus police, recruitment of discharged Shore Patrol and military police as campus police, with a view towards them con­tinuing their education here, and the soliciting of the . editorial support of the Observer, the Scholastic, and WSND in a drive to upgrade the status of campus 
~e~Prity. 
At this point, the discussion turned towards hall security. Frick announced that the univer­sity was studying the imple­mentation of a $180,000 Honey­well system to safeguard the students against fires in all 
THE TASK 


0£ UNIVERSITIES IN A CHANGING WORLD 
Center For Continuing Education Feb 27,28 
Today -Feb 27 -2:00 pm: 
THE PEACE CORPS IN THE 1960s 
HARRIS WOFFORD, Former Deputy Director of the Peace Corps 
THE PEACE CORPS IN A NEW DECAD JOSEPH BLATCHFORD Director, the Peace Corps· 
All Conference Sessions Open to 
Interested Faculty and Students 

buildings. He cont~;:ml_ed th_at the point of agreement between the system was electronically moni-SLC and the Vice-Presidents tered, and thus would require Council was that unless the the use of fewer night watch-students exhibited some amount men, but Father Whelan announ-of respect for the campus secur­ced that the hall rectors over-ity the problem of enforcement whelrningly vetoed this idea. will always be present. Fr. Whelan seemed to echo the sen-Riehle called for student self timents of his fellow rectors in criticism, stating that any direc­saying that, "I sleep better at tive he could issue on the subject night, knowing that the human would only go unnoticed, but element is present." that the students would listen to 
Perhaps the only definite other students. 

Agency heads toshow 
Directors of government ser­vic~ agencies will join university and business leaders in a discus­sion of "The Task of Universities in a Changing World" at the Center for Continuing Education this weekend. 
The conference, third in a series sponsored by the Commit­tee on International Relations will focus on Peace Corps and other international agency activi­ties, esp_ecially in the emerging 
nations  Stncients  and  faculty  
members  may  attend  sessions.  
without cost.  

Harris Woffard, president of the State University of New York, president of Bryn Mawr College, a former deputy di-­rector of the Peace Corp will review the accomplishments of the agency at 2:00 this after­noon. ~ ·--. __ _ 
Four regional directors of 
Peace Corps will appt~ar at a Saturday morning ,session to re­port on actions of their agency in "Meeting the Needs of a World in Turmoil." They include Robert White, Latin American; Walter Carrington, Africa; Bill Dyal, North Africa, Near East and South Asia, and Joseph Kennedy, East Asia-Pacific. 
SJ: 1kers at the first confer­
ence l n the Notre Dame campus 
last April examined the genel:al 
problems of universities, mainly 
in North America. 


Senior Fellow poll ti.e 
"For the fitst time In 127 years we have a tie in the ballot­ing for the Senior Award," Mike Kelly, senior fellow chairman. announced. "Leonard Bernstein and Arthur Goldberg tied, with Allard Lowenstein a handful of votes behind." 
Kelly expressed himself ru. surprised by the results of the election. Although it is empow­ered to do so, the executive committee of the Award decided not to take it upon itself to select the award recipient for this year. 
"Because of the closeness of 

IARE YOU COMPETITIVE? 
WATCH STANFORD FOR: FOOSBALL 
the election w... committee. decided not to make an exec­utive decision, but rather to hold a second election on Monday.. That election will list Arthur Goldberg, Allard Lowenstein, and Leonard Bernsteir>. I(elly said. . 
~ The award, · .•._Jl is given out annually, was until a few years ago termed the "Patriot of the: Year Award". However last year the nature of the a ward changed, and it was re-named the "Senior Fellow Award". The last person to receive the "Patriot of the Year" award was General William Westmoreland. Last year's recipient was Senator Eugene McCarthy. 
Kelly said that the polling would be held in the same places it was for the first election, and that it would be held during the 

t-.-===-==--..,......,...==-.._,...,,...-.....,....--p"'-!.!inner hour. JOBS! JOBS! 11nd more JOM(sru. 
. The Observer Is pubiiSheG dally dents, Tachers. Stateside 11nc1 Inter· 
·'during the college semester except
1vacatlons . by students of tl\eNtlon111 Jobs. Recre11tlona1. , Jobs' University of Notre DAme 1nd sl.

Var-round Jobs; Summer Jobs. Ali 
M11ry•s College. Subscriptions may tiQn while you arn. Hurr'JI The best 
OCjCUPatlons 11nd trades. Enjoy a vac:a­be purchiiMd for sa frot'l'l The 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,jobs are taken arly. Write: "JOBS",) 

Ind., 46556. 5eeol1cl class s•ostat~e Calif. 95249 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1. Lodt, 
Pillet. Notre Dame, Ind., 46"!~56. 


Nutting: The need for a Resident President 
ty) find themselves virtually Ignor-ed(continued from page 1) . university. (Th~ black athletes' sue-d" t b t . ..... id t
cessfui blackmail last year at the ·open-Irec or u on a uruver..uY pre~ en_, and powerless. Hence attempts to stopties, find ac-ing of the Convocation Center is evid-who should be devo~mg
however, we ourselves t~e man hiS disgruntlement through stop-gap mea­
countable to the loyal capitalists who ence of the admin"st t" , f f time and total concern to the mtemal ~ 
0 sures: curriculum changes compromis­
finance our existence-the Trustees, b d b .·: · -_I ra IOns ear functions of the university. I 
ed almost to non-existence; tokenism Ithe Keenans, and the Planners and the a pu ~tctty .) The popular fact that A structure which thus demands of student and faculty representation
Graces. And of course the primary ~urf p~ets~dent must spend more than that a president be both leader of I 
on committees and forums which can
responsibility of the university is to . a 0 . e yea~ away_ from the campus internal progress and mediator bet-I 
talk and vote but cannot appreciably Ithe education and life of her student~. }s not necessarily evidence of his wil-ween the university and the outside influence university policy; the contra­Recent history of Notre Dame inc;, ull neglect of the campus. It is rather world simply demands too much of diction of a "university community"cates that we do, indeed, suffer from proof . tha\hNotr~ D~m~'s President that individual. "Working double which is still subject to dictatorialthis schizophrenia. (It is no cohci re~?t~n~es e ~nbiilv_e~sity s social and shifts" is not an adequate answer pronouncements (e.g., the "15 minu­dence that the latest issue of tlie '{ p~ I 1~ responst thes (as interpret-however much that solution may testi: 
0 te".letter of Feb. 17, 1969)-from a·
Alumni magazine contains 20 • !S e ' c.o~rse, by t~e. presi?!!nt ~im-fy to Fr. Hesburgh 's devotion to his 
self). Thts IS the admmtstrative schizo-. b G' h "b"l"t" president only half involved in the 
more coverage of the Cotton BowI phrenia, that the president must serve J~ . tven sue responsi 1 1 Ies, some university.
than of the trial of the Notre Dame both i t all d t all "Y hterarchy of values must emerge and And still the basic power structureI 0. The university feels it must speak don't f~ edm ty ahn exthern .Y · . obu some considerations must be placed 
. f th ., . ) m ou w ere e actiOn IS y d U f . remains, a structure personalized into 
m terms o e a1umnt s mterests. stayt"ng h , h d (N secon ary. n ortunately, the mtemal
"d h orne, e cone1u es. ew f . one individual who must orient him­
TMH , after 18 years as prest ent, as York Times, May 1 1, 1969) a fatrs at N_ot~e Dame at present se~m self in many directions and struggle toaccomplished much from the view of These involvements added to his secondary m Importance to the roam-maintain integrity and even his health. 
civil engineering and financial progress. responsibilities to justify the ways of tainence of the university's image and The split is clear, and any functionalSuch dedication, however, must mean Notre Dame to her (prosperous) endowment. ~eft thus to fend for administrative structure should adapta necessary orientation toward favor-alumni, would more than exhaust any themselves without power delegated itself to its situation and its responsi­able public opinion and good public single man. Unfortunately the de-from the presi_dent, the remaining 2/4 bilities.
relations with potential donors to the mands are not on a public relations of the umverstty (students and facul-r---;N~O;:::;T~R~E~D"7AM~E~K::::N:-:":I~G:-::-:H~T~S-:Q~F~C-O_L_U_M_B_U_S__-. 
PRESENTS
Ind. med students may train 
MURDERER'S ROW 
with DEAN MAR TIN.
in n-ew Notre Dame program 
ANN-MARGARET 
In an interview, Dean Bernard at the resident universities the 
LOUEY KRA VEST
tained. 
Waldman, head of the Depart-students would also spend time Academic Affairs Vice Presi­
PLUS

ment of Science, announced the in the local hospitals. Eventually dent Father John Walsh haspossibility of training medical each school would be expected 
SPEEDY GONZALES DAFFY DUCK ROAD RUNN
formed a committee, headed bystudents from Indiana University to accomodate up to twenty 
Sat., Feb. 28 at I :30, 4:00, 6:30, 9:00, 11:30
Doctor Morris Pollard to lookat the University of Notre Dame. students. 
into the matter. Their findings 
Sun., March 1 at 2:00a.m., 3 & 8 p.m. should be available in about a 
The establishment of a partial In their third year the candi­
medical school in the South dates would return to Indiana­Bend area would come as an polis before finishing their edu-month's time, Waldman said. 
STEPAN CENTER
outgrowth of a recommendation cation in the branch areas. Citing the enormous costs of a commission established by Despite the fact that most of the associated with the running of a 

-DANCE SPECTACULAR­
Indiana's Governor Edgar Whit-traini1111 was received in the medical school, Dean Waldman FEATURINGcomb to find solutions to the auxiliary schools the students contended that whatever future pressing need existing in the would nevertheless be designated course is taken it will be taken in 
THE JAGGERS 
"THE RAPPER" ities. Other sites being consid-Indiana Medical School. recent separation of medical state for medical training facil-as graduates of the University of conjunction with the state. The 
AND. ered for similar programs are In commenting on the pro-• school from unrversity ~t M~­

THE ONE-EYED JACKS 
Fort Wayne, Gary, Muncie, posed program, Dean Waldman quette and St. Louis are growing PLUS 
Terre Haute, Evansville, and contended that some sort of proof of the fact that the uni­

BRAND X
West Lafayette. action is necessary. Currently IU versity itself cannot support The program as proposed at Indianapolis, the sole medical such a vast complex, Waldman 
Friday -Feb. 27, 1970 8:30 to 12:00 p.m. Adm. $2.50
would initially have about six school in the state, is teaching said. stu~nh hom t~ Ind~n~o~ two h~dred md ~m~~w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
campus sent to each of the seven students, one of the largest en­
~KINu TUUK t:SLANKt I
branches for the first two years rollments in the nation. Wald­of their medical training to take man contended that with the BRING SOMEONE TO SHARE IT WITH or,such courses as microbiology, present facilities straining, hem otology, and advanced anat-expansion is necessary if ade­SHARE IT WITH A LONELY LASS THERE omy. In addition to their courses quate training 'is to be main-
BUT, ABOVE ALL DON'T MISS THE 







DREAMS
OBSERVER STAFF MEETING 

Sat. Nigh I X:JO Slt•pan < 1'1111'1. 
l'n'.\c"/1/c'd /11· s/1/dcn/ Ill/inn 111c lcll 'cl///l//1111<~11 
<FOR ALL PERSONNEL) 
today at 4:20 


INTERESTED IN WORKING FOR THE OBSERVER? 
-

EUROPE $22.9 A WORKSHOP WILL BE HELD FOR ALL THOSE INTERESTED 
.llUle 24 to Ausust. 18·-· 8 w­
-
DelmiY'-!!.ndon/Oetroit 

IN NEWS AND FEATURE WRITING. 
RO.UND TRIP JET 

TOPICS WHICH WILL BE COVERED INCLUDE: 
N.B. -hut olgn·up by March 31 ­
fln•vrrsi,Y"l:~an•I"T-~.,,. 1'71lht Sen•• 

STRUCTURE OF A NEWS STORY 
......llr ,.... U.., II. ...,.., -511...11 ......llell 
lwtr.., ~wop.-11uct.i ch.rtw fll•t t.o.. ktp'

o•~ stop Jet INTERVIEWING TECHNIQUE 
NSA IM:~ti-.. !·D. Cwdl
pen bar and compl•t• ••b 

Lra.il ..,d ..tr.U·p•..•• THE ROLE OF INTERPRETATION IN A NEWS STORY. 
letrool depa,.rcs from neor•by llletro Airporf 
Auto ,urchu•. rwwtal1 Md Ia....
SO tkpo1lt, final payooml in March 

THE QUESTION OF OBJECTIVITY.
Cot..ctinl rrownd lind -'' t~.... 
IJIJcellalwt~ pri'llile1•• wttil day of depgrture 
Tram.,~. O.edt1 o•pleu ,.,.,. of travel services 
l•clltiontat ""''' 

lt..e.nt prh:.d hot•l bookinJI A London oMn to Mrve yow A •Ide w•l.r:y or ftl ...t• to chooM ftam DATES: Mon.-March 2 
Owr Ann Arbor offlco can book you Into 1tudent priced hetoll ~,. rou la•v.. , en4 our LA!~tdon •"'• wHI leok aft• aU yeur need• wttlla,... •• In Eur..,.. 
Wed. -March 5 

Open Oftly to Notre OQifte Gild St. Ma,.Y's students, facultY, staff and immediale familieS' $50 Deposit R;_Seats TIME: 7:30-s:oo 
Phone or ltap In: ... o-Shltl•l s.wtca c-laalll or . St. ,..,;, c.tlcl £. Lafortune Student Center St. Mary's Student Servicu PLACE: 356 O'Shaughnessy 
13· 7757 Oiianization 

CaJJ 1715 for in formation 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Letters to the Ed itor 
m1cropnone. Several times 1 re­quested politely, (and I might
ities at Carroll to be "all large 

add the women involved, lacked
Classes on War rooms." While Carroll does have 

politeness throughout the day),
several large triples, it should be 

that the women relinquish the
Editor: pointed out that the majority of 
microphone that others might
The Moratorium Committee the so called "large" doubles 
utilize it. Never did I say the
complains that students at Notre measure a mere eight or nine by 
"protest was 'none of my con­
Dame seem unconcerne<• seventeen feet. The referred to 
cern"', as these gentlemen con­
unaware, or ignorant of national kitchen facilities were removed 
tend; indeed, I am concerned
issues, such as the Vietnam War. by the students two years ago to "The University of Notre Dame is located on the outskirts of South
with it. Additionally, to com­
The usual complaint is that the make room for a lounge which Bend, Indiana, 90 m~es east of Chicago on the Indiana Toll Road." 1
pare any remark which I may
typical student cares more about the University promised to grades and classes than a relevant build, but didn't. There is no have made to those of the 
Democratic Chairman in Chica­
issue. If that is all true, then the parking field behind the hall, 
. go, 1968, is totally unjustified. 
Mike Kelly

ND Mobilization ought to find and no easy access to U.S. 31. new, imaginative ways to arouse We would also like to ques­Moreover, I even agree witn the sensitivities of the students, tion the University's priority many of the contentions of the rather than assembling flaming system in giving the graduate women involved in the move­'No, No, Flakey Foont'speakers, marching en masse, students choice of on-campus ment, but again, in all justifica­burning symbolic lambs, and the housing over undergraduate stu­tion to my responsibilities to the usual "educational" methods dent. We ask the University to program being conducted, it was A bit has been said in recent weeks concerning the value of the out -on the quad. Instead of consider who should be Her necessary that "I concern myself McKenna-Dedrick administration. This is to be expected what with attracting the unaware, these prime concern, Her own stu­with the audience of 2,000, not the Student Body President election coming soon with at least one methods only provide a dents or the less University­4, who happened to be standing of the candidates running as the LaFortune heir apparent on the self-gratifying experience for orientated grad students. We ask at the microphone for an basis of the "accomplishments of the McKenna administration." those involved. Her to reconsider before She extended period." It might be Defenders of the reign of Phil and Fred are at a loss to fir.d any 
splits up the residents of this hall well to note that these gentle­concrete improvements in student life coming out of the activities of and undoes three years of hard men began their letter with the the student government, so they have taken to vague praise of their earned hall unity. admission, "As we cannot judge. building "the Christian community at Notre Dame." I, for one, 
Respectfully, .." -how then do they justify remain unimpressed. Rory McHugh Dave Kirch judging me prior to knowing the Even if one concedes that the purpose of student government is to Greg Bitz Bill Lind facts surrounding the incident, foster a sense of euphoric brotherhood and joy here at Notre Dame, 
Chuck Liddy or for that matter objectively rather than the more mundane tasks such as improving the living viewing my position in it? Iden­conditions and academic offerings of the individual student and Although The Observer article tified with the Left on many hopefully allowing joy and brotherhood to come of its own volition
....I in question did erroneously re­occasions, it is easy to speculate from the individuals here (which, for argumentation's sake, I shall late that Carroll Hall had a kit­as to why the tag 'emotional' is concede for the present time), I'm afraid that Phil and Fred have chen and parking facilities, our placed on the Left. failed even at this. facts were taken from the Patrick J. McDonough The fact that Phil McKenna marched in a Morotorium procession; Graduate Student Union ques­Student Union Academic the fact that Fred Dedrick had an injunction slapped on him (that he 
Why not take the war issue tionaire. We are at fault for not Commissioner may or may not have deserved); that fact that someone scrawled the into the classrooms where ti:te varifying the statements that the P.S. As a general notice to all Resistance Omega on the doors of the Huddle, does not hring us any unconcerned supposedly are questionaire made. Our apolo­concerned: "SUAC" is a mis­closer to a Christian Community. hiding. In the chemistry gies. -ed. nomer -the correct reference is Or as R. Crumb would say, "No, No, No, Flakey Foont. A beard department, the chem major "Student Union Academic Com­doth not a Mr. Natural make!"
Emotions & SUAC 

could approach his instructor mission". A movement to liber­A community means togetherness. This past year has served to 
Editor:

with readings he has done on the ate the nations from the dol­push Notre Dame farther apart, not to bring it together. Student I feel compelled to respond to
nature of bio-chemical warfare. drums of abbreviations would be government has served to give The Observer press copy and to use up Ask the professor to consider most fitting. the student activities fee, but outside of Denny Clark and Tito
the criticism levied by Messrs. 

discussing these one day, if it Farmer, Kelly, Machen, and Trevino's Student Union (an autonomous body), it has had no eff~ct Mooney (February 24, 1970)
was all right with the class. In One More Time on the student as an individual. After the turbulent year under I<.ich
against the Student Union Aca­the English department, one 

Editor: Rossie and Chuck Nau the Notre Dame campus had a feelingdemic Commission, and myself.
might suggest a discussion of As financial manager for Stu-interwoven tension. Whatever one thought of the colorful
Evidently, these gentlemen arepeoms written on war, Vietnam 

uninformed, or misinformed, dents for Biafran Relief, I would personalities in LaFortune, one was affected by them and forced to or otherwise. Theologians and like to personally thank through respect them (this respect ran from grudging admiration tofirst of all, in light of the fact
philosophers have always 
you the thoughtful and con-breathless idolization, but was nearly universal) as a result of a series
that the Women's Liberationconcerned themselves with the cerned people-students and of impressive concrete accomplishments. Phil and Fred havepeople in question had a sub­problem of war. Wouldn't we non-students-that have seen fit achieved neither the identification nor the results of theirstantial amount of time (I%want to examine the issue in this to contribute their time or predecessors. In fact, Chris Murphy, Jim Fish, Minch Lewis and Johnhours) in an afternoon meeting,broader context. Professors money or both to help stop the Garein all did better jobs than Phil McKenna (I don't know aboutto voice their opinions. Please,often complain that ND students needless starvation of thousands before them). Under McKenna and Dedrick the campus drifted intodo not misinterpret the preceed­never read or research when they of innocent children in Nigeria. a growing indifference as The Scholastic and Student Governmenting statement as a naive conten­are given the opportunity for But, despite the generous sup-smiled benignly at each other and almost every real leader in Studenttion on my part in thinking thatdiscussion. Perhaps, this is too port of these few people, the Government, Student Union and class government resigned in aI% hours was sufficient time tomuch to ask, since it requires starvation continues at a sick-sense of futility. The campus turned elsewhere for interest andsettle this issue, or any issue ofwork. Nevertheless, the problem 

ening rate. And compounding leadership.
importance; rather, I am speak­of Vietnam is not merely the problem is the lack of news Of all the failures of the present administration two stand out.

ing in terms of the relative num­political. It hits us through the coverage the problem is getting First, the McKenna administration was so eager to be relevent to theber of issues on which Dr. Spock draft, through economics, because of the ending of the great issues of our time that it became totally irrelevent to student

spoke, and the amount of timethrough life and death. If we 

war. I would like to say that this life at Notre Dame. 
ailotted on the day that he wasapproach it in this way, perhaps Christian community has done Secondly, the McKenna administration was simply bori11g.

here.

we can end a terrible war sooner 
than the Nixon administration Secondly, I am not in a posi­all it can, but I cannot. JP======================================================= 




tion to defend or criticize Dr. Therefore, I personally-notcan discover a means to prolong Spock's position, however, I am necessarily as a member of Stu­it. 
Sincerely, "Bitter Harry" Cancelmi 905 Grace Carroll Comments  able, indeed, to defend mine. My responsibility as moderator for the lecture, as for any moderator in any event, was to pT-ovide for the best possible program for the audience in attendance, while  dents for Biafran Relief, but as a Headlines: Randy YoungNews Editor: Glen Corso concerned human being-am Asst. News Editor: Steve Hof­appealing to this community to fmann The opinions expressed in thedo that little extra that can . SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear editorials, news analyses, and col· collectively add up to so much. Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, umns of THE OBSERVER Try to give that extra nickel, , Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney solely those of  
Editor:  simultaneously providing for the  dime, or quarter that you find in · Layout Editor: Mary Ellen Burke editors of THE OBSERVER and  
We,  as  residents  of  Carroll  welfare  of  the  speaker  and  your pocket or  that extra hour Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin do not necessarily reflect  
Hall, would like to take excep­tion to the article on graduate student housing which appeared in Wednesday's Observer. James King described the housing facil­ majority in attendance. Being that there were over 2,000 present, I could not justify, under any circumstances, allow­ing the women to dominate the  you find you're wastin in day. Thank you. Lawrence A. Johnston 418 Walsh Hall  the Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer views of St. Mary's College, the Photography Editor: Mike University of Notre Murphy administration, faculty, 01r Night Editor: T.C. Treanor dent bodies. Layout Design: Buz Craven  

Business Manager: Joseph Wem­Layout: Dave Bach, Glen Corso,
hoff 
Buz Craven, Steve HoffmannAd. Mgr.: Timothy J. Dineen 

are the authOI'1; and 
the 
Dame, their stu­


---, 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27,1970 

PAGE 5 
Weekender's Guide: Knowing Notre Dame 
The first critical manuever must be
by Dave Stauffer 
handled upon arriving back on campus. If 
Realizing that no features page is com· you live on the south quad, you get out plete without a Friday supplement to of the car at D-1 parking lot; residents of point out the high points of the upcom-the north quad _preferably should walk to ing three days; the Ohserver is proud to their dorms from the ROTC building, but present its very first "Weekender's the circle will do if you can't get the car Guide", in the hope that through its on campus. The purpose is obviously to suggestions on conduct and activities you be noticed by as many people as possible, may benefit to the fullest from your free who will gaze in the admiration of a real days on the campus. The installment Notre Dame man as you pass with two below concentrates on Friday at Notre caset· of Schlitz malt clunking together in Dame, for a good beginning is essential to your arms. a fun weekend. Members of the features Evening. By now you should have staff will evaluate student response and played B-ball at the Rock or the Convo lend Saturday and Sunday insights if (the Rock is cooler) for at least an hour, demand for further guidance is deigned downed your first beer in two minutes, necessary. and gone to dinner looking as sweaty and 
Afternoon, before you can kick-off fatigued as possible. another big weekend, it is necessary to be A weekend bonus at the dining hall is noticed, and to be cool while being the Scholastic. Being of good taste and noticed. As you finish your lunch, push trying to impress others, you open the your chair back from the table, slouch magazine to the editorials. After glancing slightly, shake your head and then say at the titles, you skip to the cover story, with resolution: "The hell with my one-complain that there is too much copy and fifteen, no one should have to go to class it's all just so much bullshit anyway, and with a weekend coming up." turn hurriedly to the sports article, which 
This of course is the clue for those at you read carefully and discuss intellect­your table to take orders for several cases ually with your roommates. Before laying of beer. Volunteering to accompany your the magazine in your macaroni and neighbor who owns a car, you proceed to cheese, you look at the movie reviews, the A&P. It is wise to avoid anyone you hoping in vain that the Avon is screening know until you are standing in the an "art film." check-out line with two cases of Schlitz Back in your room, you cooly sit at malt. At this time only you give a cheery your desk for five minutes, sigh, and hello and the finger to any student you' proceed to the refrigerator for beer num­have ever seen. By this tactful delay in ber 2. About half-way through it, you greetings, people will by convention be · realize it is too quiet-not just in your forced to say: "Planning some kind o' room, but over the entire quad. So at weekend, huh?" to which you reply with least one speaker of the stereo is placed in a slight laugh: "Naw,just a few beers and the window, and the full-volume strains 
.••~.fe)'{.l?i~t~-::. ..... . . qf Led Zepplin or Jimi Hendrix fill the ~=r·-·.;:;.·:-=·:·=~:·:·=·=-=·=:,:=·=·=·=·=·=======================================================:===:::::=======8=====:=====:=;=;=·=·=·=·=;=·=;=;=;=;=;=;=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·:·=·=·=·=~~£; 
\\\\ Tom Ehrbar f~ 
~j\j The bat comes from helll~l 
i I 
We killed the bat. just coasting above capture. Cringing, we 
We killed the bat this morning (I think would leap and scream and cover our faces it was this morning. It was at least closer and necks. The next moment the taunting to this morning than it was to, say creature would be gone, arching into a yesterday morning, or even to tomorrow low p;;,rabola, or rising up in a steep morning.) climb. Gone. 
Time, the old trickstrix, is forever The bat never uttered a cry. All that pulling these awful pranks on me and I could be heard (we often were hushed get so frustrated I just don't know what and nervously still) was the fluttering of to do. I'm not real good with things like wings, menacing, soft and fleshy. time. Or people for that matter. Or bats What a pitiful lot we were. I was bold for that matter. in talk but no more worthy than the rest. 
Bats. Some never left their rooms, peering 
Those eerie creatures of caves, of dark­through transoms, whispering an oath est nights, of strange and lurking evils. before a lit candle. Such rot it was. Those There is nothing uglier than a bat. Noth­of us who joined in the bat-hunt were at 
ing more foreboding. Nothing spookier. least Christians, whatever our failings. Fly away bats. That alone we could hold pride in. 
This morning (the time may mean That alone was all we could hold pride something to you -to me I could care in. With our bed-post torches, our tennis less) we killed the bat. Before this morn­rackets and golf sticks, our waste baskets ing none of us, me too, had ever seen a and beer bottles, our blankets and pillow bat, much less pursued one, much less cases -we were a pathetic army with killed one. Oh we are vampire-movie­pathetic weapons no less. We ran and lovers one and all; we have read and scampered from the bat more than we re-read our Mysterious Adventure comics; advanced toward it. we have sweated out our share of goulish D.E. wore a catcher's mask. nightmares; we have dared a haunted J.B. said "I read where a bat likes to house or two; we have even known death. bite you in the neck and suck out all your 
But none of us had ever run up against blood." His tone was reverent and that vile bird of pure and black horror -solemn. the bat, alive and in our midst. Until this J.H. said "The bat brings death and morning. It was such a delight. pestilence." 
We d1aM.:d the bat. We chased it up­J.F. said "The bat comes from hell." stairs, downstairs, around corners, around B.S. said "Eek, kill the bat." phonebooths, once even into a john. We We were fearful and we were not failed in our hunt. The flying creature, ashamed of our fear. haughty and disdainful, eluded us in a I was shaking with terror. I had no circle of mocking futility. We knocked on control of my emotions. But it was I who doors, we woke up sleepers (how could killed the bat and I think I killed it this they sleep with a bat in the hall), we morning. strengthened our number, we increased I killed the bat after making the Sign our weapons, we resumed the quest. of Zen. I killed the bat and the dead but 
The black-winged god was eager for us. still fearful creature was carried off by We could only gape and marvel as the bat some timid soul who now worships the swooped and dived and twisted in un­bat as it floats in a bottle of alcohol on canny curves of flight. He, or it, driven by top of an altar between two black candles some seemingly deranged guidance sys­in an incense-filled room. Many students tem, revealed no purpose or strategy in its drop to one knee as they pass the door. manuevers of escape. Did it really hope to I killed the bat but not before the bat escape? What was the destiny of the bat? had bitten the necks of thirty students 
One moment the god would come and sucked all the blood from their rushing wonderously within our reach. bodies. 
air. 

heers, you swing into full gear. The real After two more beers, the expected fun is only beginning! Leaning or sittingcomplaining about the excessive noise against a hallway wall with your compan­greets you from the sidewalk below. The ions, you gross out any girls who happen second critical moment has arrived. With to walk by. This is only done when you one hand on the volume control, you are with a group of friends, not onlybegin to fight back by turning down the because you demand an audience, but recording during your own witty obsceni­also because girls just seem to be soties, but flipping it quickly to its peak stuck-up when you talk to them goodwhen a reply is made. Everyone on the naturedly.
quad will listen in awe as you overwhelm As the flow of people ebbs, it is time the complaining passer-by with your re­for other bits of humor, such as turningsourceful manipulations and forcefuf vo­in a false fire alarm, taking the doors off cabulary. 
the stalls in the john, or making phoneUnfortunately, even this great fun calls to rooms occupied by the girls who grows tiring. But perhaps this is one of have walked past you previously. Resi­those lucky weekends a ~·movie is being 
dents of Grace and Flanner are further . screened in everyone's favorite theatre, 
entertained by the elevators, which can the Engineering Auditorium. If so, you be destroyed in any one of a number of know that your quick and clever mind 
easy and fun ways. However, it is advis­
will be challenged by the best of Our able that one elevator be left in operating Lady's corps of Friday night warriors. condition for your own use. With no fear of being outdone, you hurry The climax to a wonderful Friday to a seat in the back of the auditorium, (although it is now Saturday) is reached where each word you scream wili be 
outdoors. Showing utter fearlessness as heard by all present. 
well as an accurate aim, you can break a Of course the good time is not over 
variety of glass anywhere on campus when the movie is. On the way back to 
(with enough tries). Lights, doors, win­the dorm you can play rugby with a 
dows, are the most obvious targets, but with a sparkling Notre Dame ingenuity
friend's hat, you can swing around the and determination, maybe the Golden
flag pole by the ropes, and you can also yell obscenities at anyone who happens 
Dome itself can be shattered. In pursuit to have his stereo in the window. 
of a Friday night and a weekend of unbounded satisfaction -you try it.
Back in the dorm, and after a few more 
'American Scene' opens 
should be an interesting and relevant
by David Allen Edmonds 
comparison to today's racial unrest. The 
The American Scene of Edward Albee 
cast of Bessie Smith appears strong,will be presented by the Notre Dame-St. 
including: Missy Smith· as the Nurse, Mary's College Theatre this weekend and 
Warren Dowles as the Orderly, Jean-Paul next as its initial production of the Mustone as the Intern, Jim Hawthorne as 
semester. Director William T. Byrd has 
Jack, Richard Gross as Bernie, Carol taken two short plays of Albee, and will 
Riordan as the Second Nurse, and Robert show them consecutively form the 
Rossi as the Father. 
American Scene. The American Dream 
American Scene promises great things
and The Death of Bessie Smith are 
comments and statements onexcellent plays individually, and together American life from two points of views,they make a poignant comment on one light and funny and the other deadlycontemporary America. 
serious. There ought to be plenty for the
The first play, The American Dream, is 
audience to absorb.
a comedy, and some say it is Albee's 
funniest. It is set in an apartment in From what I know of the production, Middle Class America, and in its it will use some very interesting charecters are traits that can be techniques in staging that add greatly to appreciated by everyone in this t~e show's impact, and will be 
community. The costumes, settings and worthwhile to see and hear in their own multi-media techniques employed by respect. Amqican Scene will play in Byrd should add to the overall comment Washington Hall, and will run this Friday of the plasticity and absurdity of and Saturday at 8:30 and this Sunday at American life. Jean Marie Meier and Fran· 2:30, and next week Thursday, Friday 
Donovan will play the roles of Mammy and Saturday at 8:30. Tickets are $1.50 and Daddy, and will be supported by Rita and reservations can be made in advance by calling 283-7054.
Gall as Gramma, Christine Hall as Mrs. Barker and Charles Amato as the Young A note to all you latent actors and Man. actresses: tryouts for Bertolt Bretht's 
The Death of Bessie Smith will be musical-drama The Good Woman of entirely different. It is a serious drama, Setzuan will be held the second and third based on the death of a Negro blues so give the Drama Department a break singer rluring the 1930's. This work and try-out. 

7118 OBSDlfJEit 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27,1970 
Mrs. Olivarez.. to serve the poor 
from her lack of education. · 
·People would only listen to her three-part series on Mrs. Grace so far, he said, only to a certain degree., After that they would 
This is the ·third in a 
Olivariz who this spring will 
question her background and in­
become the first woman ever to 
telligence. He suggested she go
receive a Juris Doctor degree 
to law school, not only because
from the Notre Dame school of 
it would open many more doors
Law. 
for her, but primarily because one of the major problems ofShe met Hesburgh again one the Mexican-American com­day in 1966 in O'Hare airport. 
munity was the shortage of law­He sensed her frustration and yers who were willing to get intothey spoke a moment before their planes departed. Soon 
.the civil righ,ts movement. He afterwards she received a letter 'invited her to come to Notre from him in which he explained Dame to study law, waiving the that her frustration stemmed normal entrance requirements. 
Later she received a letter from 

SMC sponsors lecture 
The philosophy Department University of Chicago and the of St. Mary's College presents University of Texas. He has writ­Dr. Nicholas Wolterstorff in a ten for numerous philosophical public lecture this afternoon at journals and is the author of a 
3: 30 in Carroll Hall. The title of book soon to be published by 
the lecture· is "The Ontology of the Chicago University Press, On Universals: An Essay in Onto­
Art" 
logy. 

Dean  O'Meara  who  said  that  
although  he  doubted  if  she  
would  make  it  through  law  

school, he was willing to give it a try. 
"I may not always agree with some of Father Hesburgh's ideas," Mn. Olivarez said, "but I would defend him with cape and dagger." It was a brave move for him, she said, to invite her to the Notre Dame Law School. Ken­neth Galbraith, she said, asked why she was going to Notre Dame to study law." You're not built like a fullback," he said. But he never invited her to Harvard. 
But then Mrs. Olivarez was reluctant to accept Hesburgh's offer. From January to June 1967 she continued to think about the offer as she commuted between Phoenix and Los Angeles serving as a special con­sultant to O.E.O., the Labor Department, and the H.E.W. De­partment. Why did she n~ed an education, she asked herself, in a 
country where it was said you active with the Model Cities Pro­gram and the Indiana Program for Migrant Workers. Her national activities include mem­bership on the Democratic Party's Polley Council, the National Committee of the American Civil Liberties Union, the Skilled Achievement Insti­tute Board, and the National -·coffimitl:'eeof--Household 
Employment. 

Mrs. Olivarez was one of the 
main forces behind the change 
made last fall in university faci­
lities for women. As a result of 
her efforts today women grad­
uate students receive health ser­
vice and enjoy recreational privi­
leges at the Convocation Center 
and the Rock. 
Counsel for the Poor 

After Law School Mrs. Oli­
varez is unsure of her plans. She 
has received three offers from 





o.c. to 
Washington, from the Depart­ment of Labor, the Civil Rights Commission, and the Urban Coalition. However she has never forgotten the poor of Arizona and eventually plans to return there to continue her work. Like many law students her main conern after law school is the Bar examination. 
Wherever Mrs. Olivarez ·goes 
after leaving Notre Dame one 
can be sure her work will contin­
ue to be witll the poor. She 
wants to bring the law to the 
people. "The Constitution is 
great," she says enthusiastically, 
•"it's just so often poorly inter­preted." A picture of the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy with a child in Appalachia well reflects Mrs. Olivarez's own intention. Soon Mrs. Olivarez will begin her new career as 
-counsel for the poor. · 









Dr. Wolterstorff is professor by Don Ruane 
could get anywhere with just
and chairman of the philosophy 
hard work. She soon realized 
department at Calvin College. He that although she herself had A phone survey designed to was educated at Harvard Univer­
succeeded so far without even a determine why students move
Staff meeting: 4: 20 
sity and has taught at Haverford 
high school diploma, there were off campus will run from Satur­College, Yale University·~ the 
limits to the extent to which she day until Thursday of next could help the poor. week, according to Off-Campus Commissioner Bernie Ryan.
elcome SMC Sophomore Parents 
Comes To South Bend 

Assisted by Carol Cusick of 
SMC, Ryan and fifteen to
On July 10, 1967 Mrs. Olivarez 
twenty other Notre Dame and 
came to South Bend. She and 
SMC students will conduct the
Hope you have an enjoyable weekend at 
her son Victor moved into the 
survey from their rooms during
University Village. In September 
SMC -Notre Dame 
their free time.
she enrolled in the Notre Dame 
The survey consists of thirty­Bernie Ryan Law School. 
nine questions and is directed at prove the residential commun-·
Like to keep on top of what's going on 
She disliked law school very 
all undergraduates living off ity; to get some idea of where
much at first. It was very diff­
here during the year? 
campus. Ryan plans to put a'· .;tudent government is lacking in 
icult for her and she had never 
survey thro_ugh the Hall Presi-communication and where the
The Best Way to do it is with a copy of the OBSERVER 
developed serious study-habits. 
dents Council to get the opin-university is lacking and to try
Contracts and Corporations held 
ions of the und'ergraduates resid-to get a better perspective of the
her interest very little. But now
It brings the news to you everyday. 
ing on campus. problem," said Ryan.
she enjoys law school veryJust drop us the following with your name & address: 
According to Ryan, the "pri-The survey is tri-sectional and 
much. It is very easy for her to 
mary objective of the question-covers the reasons for the move
see the relevence courses in con­
(Special rate until the end of the year-$2.50) 
naire is to find out why people off campus; the responsibilities
stitutional law and civil rights 
move off campus and particu-of student government and the
have for the poor in the South· 
larly to try and get some idea of univesity to the off campus stu­west. 
name 
how much influence dorm life is .. dent and the advantages, quality 
Extracurricular Activities 

to living on campus." Ryan con-and expenses of living off cam­
Mrs. Olivarez, besides going to 
tends that the prime reason stu-pus. Other questions cover such 
law school, is very active in
address 

dents move is a dissatisfaction things as restrictions set by land­
"extracurricular activities". 
with dorm life. The survey will lords, consideration of returning.
Lo<;~!J. she is on the board of 
try to find the reasons for the to campus housing and recom­
city 
Action, the South Bend anti­

dissatisfaction. "We want to find mendations for or against fresh­
povert~ program, and she is 
out what can be done to im-men living off campus. 

Fri. Feb. 27 FJanner Basement 


STARTS TONIGHT 
Sat. Feb. 28 

ENTERTAINMENT GEARED TO PLEASE THE SOPHISTICATfD ADUL. T
9:00PM Admission $1.00 
The Return of JOHN BACHMANN from Detroit Sgnarelle's JIMMY BOLAND: Monologue-Beyond the Fringe 
Edward Sheehee (Fri. Only) Pat Pattisson (Sat. Only) From Terre Haute 
The Incomparable Morninglory Brigade 
Extra Added Attraction: Student "Power" by DON BU 


FINALLY, THE DREAMS COME TRUE The Original Sounds of the 


DREAMS 
TOMORROW NIGHT, SAT FEB 28 
8:30 STEPAN CENTER 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR 
Must show legal proof of age
Presented by Student Union Social Commission 
and Notre Dame ID card 


FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1970 7118 OBSERIIEit 
PAGE 7 
•

3 decry Carroll conversion 
is gravel and has a pothole. On top of that the--roilcf is neverThe Carroll Hall students yes­plowed in winter."
terday voiced opposition to the 
proposal to change that dormi­
Bill Lind, a sophomore, stated tory into a graduate student 
that the kitchen facilities that residence. 
were reported have been torn out for over two years now.

Gret Betz, Bill Lind and Rory McHugh went on to say that theMcHugh contended that the pro­rooms were not as large as someposed change would solve noth­grads might suspect. "The aver­ing and that it would also create age double is approximately 9disorder for the relocated stu­feet by I 7 feet. The larger roomsdents. 
are triples and since the reason Commenting on the facilities that the grads want to be on 
that Carroll had been cited as campus seems to be to allow having Betz said, "The grads them time to study triples seem have been told that there are unfeasible." parking facilities. Well, there are, 
Betz was quick to say thatbut for only I0-15 cars." 

since "triples won't be popularMcHugh said "They say that with grad students the universityfhere is easy access to (Highway) will have empty beds and they31, but that isn't true. The road 

King statement change
-
As a result of a meeting Wednesday night, James King, president of the Graduate Stu­dent Union, announced certain changes and clarifications of the information on graduate housing which had previously been re­leased. 
In this meeting with adminis­tration representatives Fathers William Botzum, Charles McCarragher, James Riehle, and Jerome Wilson and Carroll Hall Rector Fr. Rev. William Hund, King learned that the proposal to open a parking lot at Carroll opening to U.S. 31 would be opposed by the County Commis­sioners. 
This board controls matters of traffic and entrances to the high­way and would object to an intersection there without the protection of a traffic light. There is also a barrier which 
would prevent a southbound turn by anyone leaving the pro:' perty. 
King however plans to join with a committee to negotiate these points with the county authorities. 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING TAKEN FOR THE 
POSITION OF EDITOR OF THE OBSERVER 
THE POSITION IS OPEN TO ANY STUDENT 
OF NOTRE DAME OR ST. MARY'S 
APPLICATION MAY BE MADE BY SUBMITTING A STATEMENT OF INTENT TO 
THE BOARD~F DIRECTORS 
c/o·Gaetano M. De Sapio, Editor-in-Chief 
THE OBSERVER Box 11 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The statement should contain a resume ofqualifications as well as a statement of the applicant's concepts of the role and direction of THE OBSERVER. 
Applications must be filed by March 4. The applicant will be required to meet with the Board for a personal interview. 
Announcement of appointment and acceptance will be made on Friday, March 13. THE OBSERVER'S last publication date under the present editor will be Wed­nesday, March 25. Publication of THE OBSERVER will resume under the new editor on April 7. 
With regard to the actual ac­comodations of Carroll Hall as a dormitory for graduates, the ac­tual number of rooms available was found to be forty doubles and ten singles. Thus only ninety will be able to be accomodated. 
According to King, the ad­ministration representatives also pointed out that the former kitchen will not be reconverted into a kitchen for the grads. Thus they will be without the kitchen facilities for which they had planned. 
Today is the final day for graduate students to indicate their interest in on--campus hous­ing for the coming year. The committee studying this stresses that they hope to open the hall to all gmduate students includng law 'students although these lat­ter do not technically come under the Graduate School. 
The university's committment of a graduate dorm is contingent on the G.S.U. being able to produce at least ninety people who would like to live in these accomodations. 

will lose money anyway." 
HcHugh summed up say 
"Besides the reasons that we've 
pointed out to show that this 
wouldn't be a good graduate 
hall, we question the university's 
priorities in giving grads choice 
over undergrads who are more 
active on the campus. There is a solidarity and autonomy here in Carroll Hall which exemplifies the concepts of hall autonomy that the university preaches. It's like a family here. We're far away from things and most of us are here to study so we like the quiet." 
Greg Betz concluded "The 
only vandalism we have here is 
the grafitti on the bathroom 
walls. We can go on campus 
when we want or we can come 
here for quiet. We have our own 
gym, football, and baseball 
fields. The South quad interhall 
· h Th. ld

tearns practice ere. IS wou be impossible if this proposal comes about. In short, we feel that moving grad students in here won't benefit grads as many of the supposed advantages are non-existent and tha,t this reloca-' tion will seriously harm the~ people now in Carroll Hall.. 
Observer-SG 
Poll to try again 
Due to printing difficulties, the Observer-Student Govern­ment poll was not ready for distribution yesterday. The poll has been printed however and will be in the halls and at the off campus office during the lunch and dinner hours. 
The poll is extremely exten­sive and touches upon most of the major issues that concern students. The results of the poll will be tabulated as soon as possible, and will be announced in the Observer. 

TONIGHT! 
8:30P.M. at Washington Hall 
THE AMERICAN SCENE OF EDWARD ALBEE 
Students $1.50 
Tickets sold at the door {llso Saturday
t-------------.....;.------------1 St. Mary's SSO Presents: 
Cary Grant & 
•

Audrey Hepburn 1n 
''CHARADE'' 
Tonight 7:00 & 9:00p.m. 
CARROLL HALL $.75 
r--~-----------------------1 
;(~ C~-iA Y-S TAfe·s-T-HEAT-R t; S~~~\E,;rs,~ 
· . ~...._.,. --~ ~~ i;· ~ . •. ·. · ! ··... 1:15 ;,,, 
. ! 1 · · · t , · . 3:15 I
5:15 •;j 
7:15 jj

0 .1 9:15 
1 
NOMINATED 
FOR 
·9ACADEMY AWARDS 
INCLUDING 
BESTACTRESS 
JANE FONDA, 
BEST SUPPORnNG 
ACTOR 
~GYOUNC 
..BEST PICTURE. 
OF THE YEIRI"I 

-. . . -. . . . . . . .. . . . . . 
CLOSE PHONE! 
FREE 288i
RIVER PARK
. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 8488
PARKING
,."__.....__ ·, MUHAWAKA AVE. AT 30TH. TONITE OPEN 6:45; SAT & SUN OPEN 1:15 
-

Take Eddy Street to Mishawaka Ave. Cloverleaf. Take Cloverleaf and continue east on Mish Ave to 30th. 
20 -5 Irish face balanced Flyers 
by Mike Pavlin ertime victory is absurd. 
Observer Sports Editor At any rate, the Irish will get a-chance to revenge last year's loss at the hands of Mid-Amer­
With an NCAA big in their ican Conference winner Miamipockets and Sid Catlett back in of Ohio. Dayton willingly ac­the fold, the Irish finish their cepted the back-door bid to the1969-70 regular season tomor­NCAA Mid-West Regional atrow at Dayton. A week from Fort Worth, Texas. Thus the citytomorrow, ND will be back in of Dayton finds itself in thethe Flyers' new arena for the interesting position of hostingopening round of the NCAA 
the tournament while its
tourney, probably against Ohio city-team plays in the same tour­University. 
nament hundreds of miles away. 
Marquette coach AI McGuire, The Flyers sport a 17-7 re­never one to let such a chance to cord, including a 76-63 loss lastcomplain go by, blasted NCAA Monday night to Western Ken­officials for putting his team in 
tucky, who faces Jacksonville in
the Mid-West Regional. He im­the other half of the Mid-East
plied that judging his Warriors double-header. The Ohio hoopla
third-best behind Jackson~ille of recent years is largely dimin­
and Notre Dame in the Mid-East ished with the departure of Donon the basis of ND's double-ov-
JIM MURRAY 
CJ 1970, Los Antelts Times 
A two -bit pitcher 

The thing about Dennis Dale McLain, the former star of the Detriot Tigers, is that he was a two-bit pitcher. Well, he might even have been a six-bit pitcher, but that, of course, depended on the opposition. This put McLain up in some pretty good company. Not exactly Sandy Koufax, to be sure. Koufax was a 90-cent pitcher. 
There never has been a dollar pitcher. And, before you get the idea I'm putting down Denny McLain, you should know that Willie Mays was only a dime ballplayer in his best days-and that Henry Aaron is the only other dime ballplayer around. Mickey Mantle was a nickel ball.(llayer. . . 
All this small change has to do with why the comm1sswner of all baseball had to unfrock Denny McLain the other day. My friend, Jimmy (The Greek) Snyder, who will make you a price on the end of the world, patiently explained it all to me. 
Jimmy the Greek is the guy who makes the Baltimore Colts 17 points over the New York Jets. Jimmy doesn't book. The govern­ment ran him out of that pastime by taking 1 0-cents off the top of every buck and telling him he had to do with carrier pigeons who stayed in the state line. So Jimmy makes a line for newspaper men which is kind of like Keats and Shelley doing cigaret jingles, but oddsmakers have more respect for government than college kids­-and if I were a college kid I'd give THAT a lot of thought because that would indicate to me the government was an out price against anybody who didn't have his own army, and maybe against somebody who did. 
Jimmy explains that betting in baseball is on the pitcher. "You make a be t, you designate the pitcher. You say, 'I take the Dodgers if Drysdale goes.' With Drysdale, you had to lay 60 or 6S-cents. That meant you had to bet $1.60 against $1.00 on an otherwise even game. Only, bookies don't mess with bets under $100 usually. So, when we say '60-cents,' we're talking about $60 -minimum. When we say a guy bets 'SO dollars' we mean $S,OOO." 
This is not to be construed as a betting manual. The point to be made from all this is that the news that a pitcher even KNEW a bookmaker could send baseball's pulse soaring. The suggestion that Denny McLain was in partners with one could cause it to faint dead away. The last ballplayers to go in partners with a bookmaker were the 191 9 Chicago White Sox. Arnold Rothstein, who died from an overdose of bullets I 0 years later, cut them in on a parlay he was running on the '19 World Series. 
You can see where, if the gam biers figure the other ballplayers, even the sure Hall of Famers, can contribute no more than a nickel's worth to the price where a pitcher may double the punters' ante, a pitcher would be a nice guy to have in your pocket. It's like having a horse who can talk. 
What puzzles Jimmy The Greek in the McLain case is that, usually, by the times authorities act, it's an old story to the books. Chances are, they have closed the books on the guy in question years 
ago. But Jimmy The Greek heard nothing worse about Denny McLain than that he was an even-money organ player. A guy who wins 31 games would seem to be of little use to a handbook. Now, guy who could LOST 31 games ... ! Denny hasn't told his side of the story yet-although teammates point out Denny hasn't kept this silent this long since he had his tonsils out. Looking at Denny's books, he looks like an easier hit than a country bank. Either the guys were past-posting him, or his clockers were on Daylight Saving Time. Anyway, the guys down on the corner were pretty sure Denny wasn't booking. You got to get a federal license to deal that game. And, while you might figure you could handle baseball's action, you
.. 
can't lay off J. Edgar Hoover's play. 
May, but this year's edition of the Flyers is a well-balanced contingent. 
Dan's younger brother Ken leads Dayton with a 16.6 scoring average from his forward posi­tion. George Janky is right be­hind May at 16.3 and George Jackson stands at I 2.S. Four other Flyers carry averages of better than six points: forward Tom Crosswhite (8.S), guard Jim Gottschall (8.0), guard Pat Murneri (8 .0) and guard AI Bertke (6.2). 
Coach Johnny Dee has ac­cepted Catlett's explanation for his absence during the Butler 

game, and his addition pushes the Irish roster back to eight. Mike O'Connell is still in doubt­ful shape with his injured ankle. Although ND, and particularly Collis Jones, responded superbly to the small roster problem at Butler, it will be nice to have Big Sid back in the line-up, especial­ly the way he has been playing lately. 
Austin Carr has now scored SO points or more in three of his last four outings and owns 36.7 average with a .SS8 shooting percentage. Jones' 40-point spree last Monday raised his average to 17 .8. This twosome has also been devasting on th~ boards in recent games. 
Team shooting has continued to flirt with the 50% mark and now it stands at .484, far above the record of mark of .453. Only Jim Hinga has a percentage of less than 40%. 
Undoubtedly, the Irish will be tempted to let up against Day­ton tomorrow, but they are at the peak of their form. Since the Michigan State debacle and the return to form of Catlett, ND has been a powerful ball club. A win against Dayton would mean a 21-5 regular season log, and the best win-lost percentage since the 19S7-S8 squad went 22-4 during regular season play. 
Yazsays hitting's the thing 
by United Press International to do something about it. 
Carl Yastrzemski, the Boston "My goal this year is to com­Red Sox's $!2S,OOO a year slug­bine power and average," said ger, wants to prove this year that Yastrezmski, "I showed in 196 7 he's no .25S hitter. that I can do that." 
Yastrzemski's .25S average in The other big news in the Red l 969 was the lowest of his nine Sox camp was the signing of season major league career and shortstop Rico Petrocelli for an he made it plain in the Red Sox estimated $S S ,000. Second base­Winter Haven, Fla., training man Mike Andrews is now the "~mn Werlnesdav th:~t he intenrl~ Red Sox only holdout. 
Show -• •
t1me 1n NYC 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Pete 
Maravich can make or break the 
33rd National Invitation Tour­
nament. 
The floopy haired sharp­
shooter from Louisiana State 
University, the leading scorer in 
college basketball history, is the 
only "name" player guaranteed 
to sell tickets and television ex­
posure for the NIT this year. 
The NIT Selection Committee Wednesday named four of the 16 teams-LSU, St. John's, Mar­-quette and Georgia Tech-for 
this year's tournament, but LSU 
and Maravich are the main at­
traction. 
The tourney opens on March 
13, but LS U is sure to be saved 
for a national television contest 
on Saturday aftem.oon in its 
opening game. If Maravich could 
propel the Tigers 17-8 to the 
semifinals or finals, the NIT will 
be guaranteed a lot of excite­
ment. Without him, the NIT 
could lose a lot of luster since 
tenth ranked Marquette (19-3) is 
the only team in the top ten 
likely to be in the NIT this 
season. 
While Maravich may be good 
for the NIT, it's also true the 
NIT could be good for Maravich. 
The S U senior has never had a 
chance to show case is talents in 
New York with all the resulting 
exposure to the national media. 
One or two 60 poir~t, record breaking performances at Madison Square Garden might boost his price in the bidding war between the NBA and the ABA. 
"I've always dreamed of play­ing in Madison Square Garden," Maravich said, "the people in New York really appreciate bas­ketball and I think we can really put a show on for them." 
Marquette was an automatic NIT choice because it rejected an NCAA bid on Tuesday. Mar­quette was disturbed because it was asked to switch from the Mideast to the Midwest Regional in the NCAA. Marquette, a loser in the NIT finals in 1967 to Southern Illinois, could be the NIT favorite. 

St. John's will be trying to give Lou Carnesecca the same kind of farewell lit gave Joe Lapchick in 1965. The Red men won the tourney in Lap chick's last game before retiring. This will be Carnesecca 's farewell to St. John's before he joins the New York Nets. St. John's has appeared in the NIT 18 times and has won it four times. Both marks are records. 
Georgia Tech will be playing in the NIT for the first time and made itsouw other post season basketball appearance in 1960 when it played in the NCAA. 
Hank Aaron reported to the Atlanta Braves' West .Palm Beach, Fla., camp and hit a ball 
-
out of the park on the third pitch thrown him. He hand't swung a bat all winter. 
Pitcher Bob Humphreys, whose 20-10 eyesight is the best on the Washington Senators' squad, said he tries harder be·· cause Manager Ted Williams calls the pitchers "dum'dumb and non-athletes." 
On other fronts: First base­man Lee May, who hit 38 hom­ers last season, signed with the Cincinatti Reds for $42,000. 
Don Mincher and Frank Fernandez signed with the Oak­land Athletics but Reggie Jackson, a 4 7 homer hitter in 1969, and the club remained far apart. 
Richie Allen, Lou Brock and Steve Carlton all key players, were missing from the St. Louis Cardinals' workout. 

Tomasoni to be tested in 2-game set 
Irish goalie Dick Tomasoni will be in for a rough weeken~ as Colo­rado College comes into the Convo for a weekend set. CC IS a mem­ber of the Western College Hockey Association, to which ND has ap­plied for membership. The Tigers and Irish split 5-4 g~mes Olll Jan. 31 and Feb. 2. CC is led by Bob Collyard, an All-Amencan last year. It should be a series of high quality hockey. Tickets are on sale b~·· fore the games. 






