


VOL. IV, NO. 125 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College ('olllmunity FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1970 
VOTE ST 

By Dave Lammers Steve Preston presented a plan for academic amnesty for strik­
Rich Smith 
ing students. "The proposal

Bill Carter 
would protect strikers and In a tumullou. and confusing non-strikers alike," said Preston. 

rally in the Stepan Center last The proposal presented three night, striking students voted to options. First, that striking stu­extend the strike until Friday, dents could discontinue their May 15, so that Notre Dame courses and receive the same students and faculty can con grade that they now hold. 
tinue to oppose President Second, that a pass-fail optionNixon's policy in Southeast would be available to students Asia. 
who do not attend classes.
David Krashna opened the Third, that non-striking studentsmeeting by proposing that the would simply continue understrike be extended until Friday, the normal grading system. TheMay 15, so that students can proposal is to be wnsidered bycontinue to rally support for Father Walsh, the faculty senate,'Father llesburgh's statement to and the deans of the colleges. No(>resident Nixon, and so that a faculty meeting is presently"com muniversity" can he planned, anti one faculty mem­created which would continue ber asked, "On Monday, what teach-ins. write-in campaigns, am I going to do?"

and allow studtmts to work in After the original proposalthe South Bend community. As had been presented, an alternate Fred Dedrick said, "Go into the proposal was presented. Bernie halls and chapels, and ask if the Ryan, Pat Dowdall, Phildiscussions that are going on McKenna, Ed McCartin, Billthere are comparable in quantity Locke, and others, proposed
and quality to anything you've though f.hey also opposed that actions over the weekend, decision, as many of the crowd 
that a dedsion on the continua­

ever heard at Notre Dame." United States' involvement in such as a statement by President shouted "Vote now!" Many of 
tion of the strike be delayed

Dedrick's remark, and his speech Southeast Asia. Nixon tomorrow night at his the supporters of Krashna's 
until Sunday, May I 0. This

supporting the continuation of ·•we think its stupid for press conference at 10:00 p.m., original proposal registered 
group criticized what they

the strike, was met with over­people to make a decision for could alter the present situation. strong objections to his decision. whelming approval by the stand­viewed as "mass psychology" the next eight days," Dowdall A statement by the group said Several blacks rushed to the ing room only crowd. and "political masturbation," said. The students contended that the primary issue of the stage and consulted with strike, U.S. intervention in Krashna, objecting that racism Cambodia, :'has been clouded by was not a secondary issue, as subsidiary issues: racism, sexism, Dowdall's proposal claimed. militarism, imperialism, and even Fred Dedrick, obviously upset, by the strike itself." The group shouted "This unilateral decision proposed that canvassing in is going out the window!" There 
Program Committee to 
South Bend be carried out, that was confusion among the hall an alternative proposal for presidents and caucus leaders as

plan special events 
A Programming Committee over the duration of the strike. activities listed above. Mr. Kahn commencement exercises by to what the students were tohas been initiated by David These special events are organ­will meet today at 2:00p.m. at considered, that extensive cam vote on. After the caucuses hadKahn to establish featured cul­ized into the following activities: strike headquarters to draft paigning for Congressmen be left the Stepan Center to decidetural and educational events for I) Film organizers for the committee. 
conducted this summer and fall, as to whether the vote would bethe Communiversity set forth by 2) Lectures Mr. Kahn has stressed a need and that a university symposium held then or on Sunday night, athe Krashna proposal at the mass 3) Seminars and Hall Dis­for involvement of faculty, SMC on the role of the university in decision was made to hold themeeting last night. cussions students, as well as Notre Dame national affairs be held the vote then. The caucusesThe Programming Committee 4) Music Events strikers. 
weekend of May 15th. adjourned to determine whetherwill function as booking, solicit­The Committee is in desperate "Where are the S.G. Bureau­Booing and shouting against to continue the strike until Maying and receiving agent for all need of volunteers to serve as crats who gab at mass meetings. 
the proposal brought Phil 15, as Krashna had proposed, toapeciaJ eveot.a to be sclleduled PfOIUilmmen in the various We need organizers. We need McKenna to the microphone. hold another meeting Sunday
relief. Why can't Pat Dowdall 
The ex-SBP said, "The impres­night, as Dowdall had proposed,
work with us rather than pro­
sion is that if you don't strike or to end the strike. 
pose to us," said Kahn last night. 
you're not opposed to the After of
The Programming Committee a half-hour discus­
invasion of Cambodia, and god sion, the caucuses reconvened.
will begin its reception of 
dammit that's not right!" Fred 250 students voted to end the
program ideas, suggestions, and 
Dedrick asked the crowd in
bookings Saturday May '} from 9 strike. 
return, "Did we ever say you
am to 5 pm. I ,013 voted to suspend the 
were a traitor if you did not decision until a Sunday night
David James will be coordi­
strike?"
nating Music events in conjunc­rally.
After some debate, Dave I ,30'} endorsed Krashna's
tion with the committee. 
Krashna surprised the meeting
Programming would relate to proposal to continue the strike 
by saying that the vote would be
the issues of the strike. Sunday until May 15. 
postponed until Sunday night.
marks the first day of formal (continued on page 3)
Confusion followed Krashna'sevents. 
set

Economic boycott 
At the National Strike Head­Raymond, local organizers, were special delivery on Monday. quarters at Brandeis University, put in contact with Clark Uni­
Shaughnessy said, "Violent

last night a meeting was held to versity which was operating a 
demonstrations will solvesimilar program. It was decided

determine what items would be 
nothing. We have a definitethat since Clark was only 40

boycotted in student-led ec­
economic power we can wield."

miles from Brandeis, Clark
onomic strike. would be established as the Another spokesman, RicnClark University in Worcester, National Headquarters. 
Libowitz, said, "The strike is

Mass., has been set up as the 
A spokesman for Clark em­more than staying out of classes.
national co-ordinating center for 
phasized that they were aiming We're not going to play games
the strike. Notre Dame has been 
strictly for "youth oriented" when so many people are being
established as a regional clearing 
products such as soda, records killed. High school and collegehouse for information. 
and clothing. She added that the students will buy essentials 
Initially the National Student final decision as to the specific only-we don't really need much Association made Notre Dame tiems would be nationally pub­more than food. We know that the national headquarters for the licized by the National Strike we are a major part of many boycott because it wished to Headquarters at Brandeis some­markets and if we aren't rich, handle only the cashing in of time today. there are enough of us, working savings bonds. But last night, Steve Raymond said that the together, to put a dent into the Mike Shaughnessey and Steve information would arrive by system responsible for this war." 
Both speaken and students await tabulation of the vote on one of the strike proposals presented at last night's strike hearing. 

PAGE 2 7118 OBSERfiER. FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1970 

n 
~ 
z 
~ 
-
z 
ST.LOUIS NEWARK LOS ANGELES 
. -HOUSTON
u ~~. 
Corby Tavern 
Under 
NEW Management 





GRAND OPENING 


SMC Faculty caucuses; strike proposals drafted 
SMC faculty met yesterday to determine their college's involvment in the current strike activities. 
Although a "strike" banner flew outside Carroll Auditorium inside, reaction to a student strike was mixed. 
Three resolutions passed at the meeting prior to the student forum reflect this disagreement. 
At the meeting, they agreed to support Fr. Hesburgh 's Indo-Chinese declaration against President Nixon's policy. they instructed their officers to register this protest with members of Indiana'~· congressional and senatorial rep res en ta ti ves. 
Another resolution expressed sympathy for the student strike. Within this resolution, faculty expressed their sentiments about students wishing to "absent" or ''withdraw" themselves from classes for the remainder of the semester. 
They affirmed the prerogative of students to "absent" themselves from classes without fear of discliplinary action as long as they do the required work. 
If a student wishes to "withdraw" from classes for the remainder of the term, she may do so without fear of retaliatory actions. She forfeits, however, all academic credit for the courses she is taking this semester. 
Faculty may also use class time to discuss the Indo-Chinese 
situation  as  long  as  the  
objectives  of  the course  are  
fulfilled.  

Up against the wall 
GREENVILLE, S.C. (UPI) ­The four students killed at Kent State University "got exactly what they were entitled to," the president of Bob Jones Univer-
Assembly planned vow non-violence 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Or­ganizers of Saturday's war pro­test vowed Thursday they would instigate no violence but they insisted they would demonstrate across the street from the White House although a federal judge ruled it off limits to them. 
"We want to be nonviolent 
because we are about something 
far more serious than fun and 
games with the police in the 
streets ... far more serious than 
side show violence," said David 
Dellinger of the Chicago Seven 
and one of the organizers. 
Nevertheless, the New Mobili­
zation Committee, New Mobe, coordinator of the protest, said it would go ahead with plans to assemble thousands of persons in 
LaFayette Square, a tree-lined 
park directly across Pennsylvania 
Avenue from the front of the 
White House. 
If there is any violence, spokesmen claimed, it would be initiated by police, and they warned it would endanger mem­bers of Congress who would be in the forefront of the demon­stration. 
AMERICA OPEN friday &Saturday 0Price After Pet 
sity told students at chapel yesterday. 
''I'm all for the police shooting to kill when anyone is in mob violence attempting to destroy property and attack law enforcement officers," said Dr. Bob Jones. "More power to them." 
''While I grieve for their families, I say those young people got exactly what they were entitled to, and what they should have expected and what they ought to get out at Berkely, too," said Jones. 
"I wish they would bring some mortars. in and restore order at Berkely," Jones said. "It's time the government took a firm hand in dealing with this thing." 
Jones, son of the late Dr. Bob Jones, Sr., a widely known evangelist and founder of the Fundamentalist, non-denom­inational university, became president after his father's death in 1968. 
The school, surrounded by a high fence, permits no student dissent and issued a statement several years ago taking pride in being called "the nation's squarest university." 
Keenan Writing 
A Jetter writing campaign to Senators and Congressmen, urg­ing that troops be immediately removed from Southeast Asia, is in process in Keenan Hall. The letters are being typed by Keenan residents, and a copy of Father Hesburgh's speech of last Monday are included. Students that would like a letter sent to their Congressmen and Senators should call Bernie Buescher at 3286 or Tim McGinn at 3307. 
After the faculty meeting, the devisiveness which prompted these resolutions could be detected from different members' comments. 
''The question is whether colleges and universities are here to prepare students or people. If you're going to be educated you have to get involved not just as a 

student,  teacher,  but  as  a  
persor.,"  claimed  one  ,faculty  
member.  
Agreeing  with  involvement  
but  only  after  classes,  Dr.  

Anthony Black stated, "Don't ill)pose your will on everyone else. Remember that just .because you claim that you are moral does not make all of your opponents immoral." 

Dr. Charles Poinsette worried about the rights of students who wish to attend classes. "I think that a lot is wrong," he com­mented. "But, I've never felt lower in all of the years that I have been teaching. It doesn't matter whether the educational system has any value. You've decided to tear the whole thing down." 
Only 46 of the I00 faculty mem hers attended the special meeting. According to Dr. Mark Bambenek, moderator of the student forum following the faculty meeting, however, the resolutions· will be honored by all of the faculty. 



Canvassing continues 
Canvassing of South Bend business and residences is con~ tinuing today and throughout the weekend. The canvassing began Thursday with I 70 stu­dents participating and more students indicated they would help at the general assembly meeting last night. 
The students plan to ask the South Bend area residents to sign Father Hesburgh's state­ment, and will give the residents copies of Allard Lowenstein's bill to restrict appropriations, Senator Charles Goodell's tele­gram to Father Hesburgh, and a four page fact sheet that Profess­or Twohey compiled on the war in Vietnam. 
The map of South Bend has been divided into areas so that every house can be contacted. Students interested in participat­ing over the weekend should call Bernie Ryan, Larry Landry, Peter Kelly, Fred Dedrick Steven Novak, or Stev~ Raymond. 

The idea for the canvassing project was originated after the march and rally at Howard Park on Wednesday. 

ZOO PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS 

THE FROST 
SUNDAY MAY 10 8 PM to 11 PM 
AND 


PURE SMACK 
THE ZOO -M -139 IN BENTON HARBOR, MICH. AOMISSI ON -$3 
~~-RI_D_A_Y,_M_A_Y_B_._19_7_o__________________________~--~~~~~ 0~ PAGE 3 


Strike activities calendar set 1309 favor week strike extension 

FRIDAY, MAY 8 
S M C Academic Affairs 

(continued from page I) Dave Krashna took the for an economic boycott which
Classes are scheduled to be Committee Meeting, 7:30 p.m. 

Supporters of the Dowdall podium and acknowledged that is being staged nationwide by
held as usual at both schools, 

An anti-ROTC caucus will proposal indicated their general there had been confusion over the National Student Associa­
however, a number of professors 

meet tonight following Nixon's approval of the vote. Phil the voting, hut said that he had tion.
have indicated that they will not 

address this evening on the McKenna asked that the com­acted in "good conscience" and A telegram from The Daily
penalize students for boycotting. 

second fluor ballroom of La­munity "allow the suffering of that "it is clear that I reaffirm Princtonian was read by Bill
Pickets were set up this 

Fortune. the 3000 people that die in my original proposal." Locke which presented a plan
morning at classroom buildings 

Proposals to abolish ROTC Southeast Asis every week to for a revised schedule next fall
and will be maintained all day. One student suggested that 
will be discussed. enter our Jives" and said that
At one this afternoon, a everyone write to their draft so that students can campaign 
"we can't ask people to support 
for divish Congressmen. 

general meeting to discuss the board and request Form 
something they don't believe."
goals of the strike will be held in SA'I1JRDA Y, MAY 9 SSS-150 for Conscientious Ob­
Support for the Keenan Hall
Saint Mary's SBP Ann Marie
the SMC little theatre. jection. Others suggested that 
letter writing campaign was
There will ba a peace march Tracy doubted that many girls
There is a meeting scheduled students request information on
beginning at I p.m. sponsored would strike next week, even requested by Tim McGinn, who 
for 2 p.m. today on the second the lottery several times a day. 
asked for typists and contri­
by the I.U.S.B. Coalition for though the girls present at the
floor of LaFortune to organize A Walsh Hall meeting for
Peace. The march will begin at meeting voted in favor of butions for stamps and envel­
students interested in leafleting II :00 p.m. was announced to 
opes.

Leeper Park. A permit has been · Krashna's proposal. The Saint
UAW shops in South Bend in organize supporters for"dovish" 
The decision to continue the
granted and police cooperation Mary's activity largely depends
preparation for Saturday's peace Congressmen. 
strike was summed up by Fred
has been assured. on the reaction of the faculty to
march. 

At I :30 a.m. Saturday morn­the striking students. A meeting Other speakers presented Dedrick, who asked in his 
Posters advertising the march 

ing there will be a candlelight of the SMC students is planned plans for action. Michael speech, "How can we go back to 
with a speech by UA W president 

march originating at the SMC for I :00 at the Little Theatre. Shaughnessy explained the plans business as usual, while the 
Walter Reuther attacking 

President, with your bodies and
dining quad to the Notre Dame
Nixon's decision to send troops 

1.5.0. ventures a success with your money, perpetuates
campus terminating at the ad­
into Cambodia on the flip side 
murder on a mass scale?" 
are intended for distribution by 
the leafleters. 
A peace mass will be con­celebrated at three this after­noon on the SMC dining quad. Father McGrath will be par­ticipating if possible. 
For those interested in getting the University calendar changed next year to allow students time to campaign for the November 
·lections, there will be a meeting 
1t 4 p.m. at Grace Pit. 
An open invitation is ex­tended to all who canvass to gethcr at the main quad be­ginning around 7:-30 p.m. The purpose of this is to relate with the South Bend community, and to fortify the canvassers for the Saturday canvass. There will be a 
·epeat of this Saturday evening. rhe South Bend community is' invited to participate in tltis Sunday night. 
ministration building. Support from Notre Dame strikers is urged. 
SUNDAY, MAY 10 
There will be a meeting for all SMC Strikers in the Little Theater at I I p.m. 
There will be a meeting at I I 
p.m. in Walsh Hall for all those students who arc interested in campaigning for Vance Hartke and John Brademas. 
The students of architecture announce the cancellation of the Beaux Arts Ball. Due to the events of the last few days, we feel it is inappropriate to hold it this year. 
Troops find enemy complex 

There was an end of the year party on Saturday by the I.S. 0. held in the honor of graduating seniors and to mark the opening of a new international lounge in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. Prominent among the honored seniors were Cathy Burke, Mike Otto, Tom Heiner, and Fred Voglewede. This party was described by all present as the best ever held by the J.S.O. Among the people present were The Student" Body President, the President of the members of the I.S.O. are full of hope and enthusiasm and now realize the great need for inter­na tiona! exchange and fellow­ship. The I.S.O. has expanded its membership and by next year there may be an automatic membership for all foreign stu­dents. 
An important J.S.O. general meeting has been planned for I 
p.m. on Saturday, May 9, to take place in the International Room in the basement of LaFortune. 
Tonight 
PETULA CLARK 
8:30 
JANUARY RAIN (THE THYMES) 
SOCK IT TO YOU 

A'merlca 

Pan American Club, the Human 
Pinal Performances

Affairs Commission, and Stu­dents from Harrat College, and 
The Good Woman of Setzvan

Purdue University. Earlier in the afternoon an 
O'Laughlin Aud. SMC 

l.S.O. basketball team had a 
May 7, 8, 9 

game with Flanner Tower in 
Curtain: 8:30p.m.

which the former lost 40-34. Initial success of the party gives the J.S.O. an optimistic 
N.D. BOOKSTORE 

future. Specifically, internation­al students weekend has been 
Ret·ord Sale 

planned for next year. for the first time in many years the 
Starts May 11 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The 
White House confirmed Thurs­
day that U.S. troops moving into 
the "Fishhuk" area of Cambodia 
had uncovered a "major sophi­
cated enemy base comples." 
Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler 
said the complex was larger than 
any discovered so far in the area 
where Communists forces 
operating in South Vietnam had 
set up their top military head­
quarters. The top headquarters 
known as the Central Office of 
South Vietnam -COSVN to 
Americans. 
Ziegler sais the complex, un­covered by U.S. troops ordered into the area last Thursday by President Nixon, cuudl be one of the base areas used by COS VN. 
He emphasized however that the Communists headquarters group had several such base areas which they used from time to time, moving from one to the other to keep their whereabouts secret. 
Ziegler, commenting on a Reuter's news service report from Cambodia, said the head­quarters contained larger and more permanent structures and 
EDWARD SH[EHY FEELS HIS MUSIC 




America 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11. Notre Dame, Ind., 46::,56. Second class postage Paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
some commumcations equip­

MIKE McCAULIF 
ment. 


& DAVE WOODS
He said the Allied operations into the North Vietnamese sanc­ctuaries in Cambodia were gen­



America 
erally "going extremely well." 


ATTENTION 
SENIORS! BECOME A MONTESSORI 

TEACHER 
DEMAND TWICE THE SUPPLY 
Next training program June 23rd -August 8th. IN CHICAGO 
LEADS TO NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED AMS-CERTIFICATE 
Write; Midwest Montessori Teachers Training Center 
ATTENTION AMS 1010 W. CHICAGO AVE. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
60222 
Courses will be taught on tl!e beautUiJ! grounds of Rosary College. 
the NOW ANO THEN SHOPPE 
featuring 
BELL-SLEEVED SHl RTS PANC'IIOS 
FRIEKY VESTS CROCHETED DRESSES 329 Dixie Way North (Roseland) 272-8334 
Fox's Extends 
SPECIAL PRICES 
to 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
ma.t imporunt thing in buying a diamond
--..:;..--.!"""""" is knowledge. It takes an expert to know the fine Points of cut, color and quality...and what gives a diamond its value. Th.-e's only one way to bby a diamond..• and that is by coming to a jeweler you can trust. DIAMONDS $50 TO $5,000 OPEN A CONVENIENT 
~ljiiijTIAiCicjouNITMTiOjDiAiv_......... 


THE OBSERJJER. FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1970
PAGE 4 


THE OBSERVER An Independent Student Newspaper GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Cditor-in-Citief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA  
 

letters fA the Editor 
legal Research 

Editor: 
Re: Your statement in yes­terday's edition of the Observer, which l quote. " ... but a risk that is taken without the con­sultation or the consent of the Congress which is charged with the responsibility of waging war." 
A statement like this leads one to belive that the editorial staff of the Observer would rather believe the inanities of such noted experts on Consti­tutional Law as Senator Full­bright, than to do a little research. Since no one at your office has bothered I, being the shining example of good citi­zenship that I am, have done it for you. In Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution are written these words: "The Congress shall have the power to declare war .. ." Note that the Constitution says that Congress can declare war. This is a fact that most everyone knows. But also please note that nowhere in the powers of Congress is granted the authority to wage the war. Let's look next at Article II, Section 2, which says, "The President shall be Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States when called into the actual service of the United States." Note here that the people who wrote this document make no mention of the Congress' having to put their two cents' worth into the procedings. Congress approves treaties, not conducting a war. Since your intent was obviously to present an emotional ar­gument why not have quoted the I Oth Amendment justifying the argument that you base on it by pointing out that nowhere is the power to fight an undeclared war granted to the United States and denied to the States. The implication that one could draw from the fact that the people are in a position to decide whether a war should be fought or not would be more in line with what I think you had in mind. If I've 
misinterpreted the statement in your editorial I'm sorry, but I felt that a mistake as obvious to me as the one I read today should not go unnoticed. 
Floyd Demmon 
133 Stanford 


Scholars Arise! 

Editor: 
SCHOLARS RISE TO THE 

OCCASION 
The universities of the Middle 

Ages called students scholars and 
rightly so for a scholar partici­
pates, labors, and contributes to 
the wmld of ideas within the life 
of a university, and these ideas 
ought go out to a hungry world 
who supports a scholar. 
May Notre Dame not be 

known across this land as a 
university of dissent, but as the 
acropolis of creative thought, 
the source of wisdom and 
discerning change. 
This is the work of scholars from hours of research, delibera­tion and dialogue. It is most often the product of pleasure time sacrificed. 
What options can we offer for serious consideration of our chambered leaders? Options fortified with data and re­search-the resources of the university. 
Let those be whose talent and vocation make marching and demonstration appropriate. But let scholars be faithful to their work and role in creating and sending forth ideas, proposals, systems to a groping world which could gain hope and joy at rediscovering a citadel of wisdom and knowledge. 

Notre Dame scholars, should we propose the Asian crises be submitted to the Hague Tribunal for final judgment? Best we pause for study before we speak and analyze other alternatives as well. 
May open-minded scholars representing various disciplines and schools of thought unite to focus on geopolitical solutions for the good of the world family. 
Caritas et Veritas, 
Rev. John T. Hiltz 


Sieg Hiel? 
Editor: 
Just what has been going on at Notre Dame for the past few days? Merely a strike protesting the extension of U.S. military activity into Cambodia? Maybe, but maybe more than that has been going on here since Mon­day for amid all the moral indignation, cheering, singing, fist-raising and sign-painting characterizing our recent campus assemblies, one can discern a forbidding thread slowly weav­ing its way throughout the NO community-the thread of mob irrationality. 
Now, I don't care who you 
are, or with which political 
adjective you describe your­
self-you have to admit that one 
part of Monday's get-together on 
the main quad ran counter to 
the principles of orderliness and 
rational dialogue. I'm speaking 
of that segment of the program 
during which hundreds of stu­
dents repeatedly chanted 
"Strike!" while raising clenched 
fists. Such a scene will bring 
back old memories to connois­
seurs of World War II film 
clippings; simply substitute "Heil, Hitler!" for "Stike!'' and the Nazi salute for the raised fist, and what have you got? 

Mob irrationality, that's what. Obviously, the purposes behind NO's gathering and one· of Hitler's pep rallies are so dia­metrically opposite that they seem to belie any comparison. s not go i 
However, our assembly might .ative of the people acting on their 
have been similar to a Nazi mob 
own that makes a better world, and
in a result it could have pro­
in so doing makes better -people."
duced-the removal of the indi­
vidual's responsibility through his incorporation into that neb­orurn ulous, collective entity, the crowd. You know as well as I that a person in an excited mass of people might well be stimu­



Campus Opinion 

lated to do something he would never do individually, because he would know that he couldn't be 
Edited by Glen Corso

nailed for any harm that the crowd might bring about. The following is in reply to my column that was published yesterday. It was written by John Banks-Brooks from Morrissey
And that's my point in 
Ha~ · 
speaking about the perils of mob action: once the individual frees himself from his responsibility as Wow! Mr. Corso, your editorial was so brilliantly one sided. But I a man an
by losing himself in agree with you anyway, Mr. Corso, and I'm not even a conservative. excited, mindless gang, he ceases Yes, looking at events in the past few days I shudder too. "We grow to be a man. Such a condition is frustrated when the government doesn't instantly respond to our totally incompatible with the wishes ... " You.'re right just as Nixon says we can't push integration modern spirit of individualism in schools to fast even if the Supreme Court ruling has been known that prevails on most campuses since 1954, and heck, didn't the Vietnamese War start just the other 
today, and I would hope that 
day? those of us who truly wish to be And boy, Mr. Corso, you hit the nail right on the head when you our own men will recognize the wrote, "We seek to negate or circumvent laws that we don't agree dangers of throwing in our cards with." Think of all the examples, the governor of Florida refusing to 
co-operate with the federal government or the governor of Georgiawith a crowd that seeks to ··crossing state lines not only to incite and enflame but even taking axchange the wor~d immediately. 
handles with him! It makes me shudder. · " ...and tum to mob action and violence in attempts to intimidateI'm not saying that Notre existing bodies into following the course of action dictated by the
Dame is about to be swamped student voices among us." How true. Remember those adults who
and disrupted by mob rule. But I turned over and mauH:d the school bus in South Carolina? Makes mesaw traces of it Monday after­shudder.
noon, and anything is possible
when feelings run as high as they "In our blindness we venerate individuals who in an ear~ie~ day have this week. In short, the .. would have been branded for ~hat they were, common cnmmals. -tl lk. because they espouse the same Ideals many of us hold" What were
students are presen y wa ·mg a h , · · 
tightrope-and it isn't strong . t ose J~~ys names_ who Illegally boarded E_ngli~h ~hips, looted enough to hold an irrational the tea and threw It overboard? And people Idohze It, makes me throng. shudder! 
Thanks for your time, "We seem all too ready to accept statements as facts, without 
Tim Westman questioning them as long as they come from people who agree with us." Why, Mr. Corso, some people are ready to make "facts" up. Remember President Nixon's denouncement of college radicals as bums? President Agnew's unjustified attack on Yale's president?

lucky 'bums' 

And look at all the adults who probably never went to college, all too eager to lick the "facts' up. It makes me shudder. Editor: 
"We crow about immediate withdrawal from Vietnam, without 
President Nixon's recent even bothering to think about the consequences." You know, like verbal attack on college students the already 40,000 Americans killed or simply the astronomical was regrettable, because he is number of people killed or maimed. Makes me shudder. President, and of course "We crow about how it is good that this country is undergoing a ridiculous. According to Mr. near defeat in S.E. Asia without bothering to face up to the painful Nixon the "kids on campus" are fact that the strength of America is the only thing that blocks the the "luckiest people in the Russians, Chinese and Cubans." Of course this especially upsets U~S. world", and they're"bums", business corporations who see Russia, China, and Cuba blocking U.S. whereas the men fighting in Asia economic, money interests. Yet I realize this view is not in vogue are strong, brave, patriotic, etc. I with the establishment today so I shall rest my argument. won't disagree with him about You're right, Mr. Corso, if you're thinking that the evil on one the men in Asia, but it must side does not justify it on the other, but I merely wanted the other 
amuse my brother in Vietnam side to be seen. (who was "bum" for five In conclusion, may I qoute you? "I wish I could extend as
a years) to hear how vastly optimistic a feeling as was exhibited by one of the greatest superior he is to me. Americans recently when he said 'I know that my Redeemer liveth.' David Barrett For our generation I fear there will be none"-simply Mr. Corso, 215 Dillon 
because there will be no one left at all. And that makes me shudder. 
The opinions expressed in the 

Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer Features Editor: T.C. Treanor 
editorials, news analyses, and 

Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
columns of The Observer are 

Ad Mgr.: Bruce Barker Night Editor: John Knorr 
solely the opinions of the authors 

Campus Editor: Glen Corso Layout Design: Mary Chris Mor· 
and editors of The Observer and

rison
News Editor: Steve Hoffman 
do not necessarily reflect the 

SMC News Editor: Jeanne Layout: Daniel V., John Abowd 
views of St. Mary's College, the 

Sweeney Headlines: Bill Dues, Pat Geary, 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, John Abowd 
Ann Conway Night Controller: Joey 
sturlen t bodies. 

FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1970 THE OBSERriER. PAGE 5 
An observation by Steve Lazar 



Dance to the Music 
Bods! Ever-lovin' epidemics! Lips, hair, heads, guts and faces falling all over each other, people mashing hip into hip and shoulder into shoulder, the low-down libido beat blasting bursts of energy into the crowd. It's a party! 
The heavy studs keep hunkering in, moving like a hot current through the sea of all those bods. The bods, two kinds, male and female He made them, parting like marbles as the pack of heavy studs shoot through. The pack look from side to side; nail innocent-looking girls to the wall with one glance, moving sideways and forwards, swirling onward toward .. . the beer! 
Every stud has a glass of beer. lie grips it like he just found the Holy Grail, takes a mouthful and then lurches back into the crowd. That's when he spots them ­the wenches. 
This is it! The Encounter. Man and Woman meeting for the first time. Pride, shame, heavy overtones of primitive
f f · ·r ,
orcc, ovcrton_es __ o pnnu IVC •••sex. 
-~~~~~~~~~~~X~~~~~&~~~~~~~~~S~~~»»~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wa~t to ~ana. He ju~y~ands there 
~:~: Easy Writer by Pete Peterson :~:~smiling at the wench in the short dress as ;:;: :;:;she kicks out her legs and rolls her;:;: C 1 S :;:;shoulders. Wench turns green and crazy
:::: 0 d nap :::;stud moves away smiling and bouncing ::::(a deeply meaningfullliterary effort):::;hisballbetweenthetwistingbods. 
Things are warming up now, the party's becoming a giant metaphor for The Encounter. Stud meets wench, eyeball meets eyeball, the brain passes judge­ment. Stud gets the picture; either they got the goods and they're not giving, or he's got the goods and they don't want 'em. The stud moves on and the pack follows, moving, looking side to side, the primitive urhe welling up -the hunt. 
The wenches drag on their cigaretts, every wench has a cigarette in her hand, or at least a purse. The wenches like how things are going, all according to the rules, the primitive rules, the hunt -and the game. 
But something's wrong. Some type of stud comes moving through the crowd, 
getting the feel of things, moving throughthe swill of beer beer and the smell of cigarette butts putrifying the air; but he's 
not doing the stud thing, he's doing
something anti ~ Encounter, he's. . .taking notes! Crazy stud, what's he think he's doing'? Why, if he were acting like a
d . h. h
stud the wenches coul give 1111 t e 
Holden Daedalus stepped out of the door of Pearse Hall into the chilling blast of the Mid-Western winter. The wind-whipped snow crystals bit like tiny needles into the back of his neck, and he paused, juggling his books as he pulled the collar of his fleece-lined jacket up. The snow drifted across the sidewalk like the shifting sands of the Kalahari, ever changing in their pattern. 
lie tucked his books under one arm and jammed his hands into his tight pant's pockets. God, it was cold. He. glanced up at the clock on the administration building, which glowed through the driving snowflakes like an out-of-season harvest moon. Seven-thirty. A sudden blast of wind made him wince. God, he thought to himself, it hasn't been this cold since the blizzard two years ago. His mind raced backwards in time as he recalled that wintry afternoon, the afternoon he had met...Pamela. 
That had been right near by, across the quad from where he now walked. He peered through the blinding snowfall. There, by that tree was where he saw her fall as she ran to catch the bright red bus that plied the road betwen St. Patrick's College and the College of the Blessed Virgin. He hastened to help her gather her books. 
"Arc you all right'?" he asked, worriedly, as he extended his hand to help her to her 
feet on the icy pavement. 
"Yes, I'm all right now," she said softly, her words escaping in icy puffs of vapor. 
llolden handed her the stack of books he had gathered from the sidewalk. "Pretty cold, eh?" he asked, brushing the snow from the edge of the uppermost book, "Listen, I was about to go get a cup of coffee at the Union. Join me?" She smiled softly, slapping the snow from the back of her coat. "I'd love to," she said, tossing her long blonde hair with a soft laugh. 
Things just grew after that, llolden mused as he passed under a streetlamp, glancing upward at the swirling 11akcs, Hocking around the naked bulb like a 11ock of Tuna moths. It started naturally, with dates and afternoons in the skating rink, but quickly evolved into something great and beautiful, a love that blossomed in the Indiana winter like the first spring crocus peeping out of a forgotten March snowdrift. Holden and Pamela were suddenly everywhere together; hand in hand walking by the lake, running together through the fields of wild grass, bicycling down the quiet paths of Looper Park, making love in the massy glade they called their own, where the warm sunshine filtered through the blanket of overhanging leaves in a dancing mosaic. 
Another icy blast made Holden wince, tucking his chin furtlu~r into his jacketfront. The summer had brought parties, and he had worked days not far from where Pamela's family had their cabin, and had spent every evening in the pleasure of her company. There were parties every weekend on the sand bar in the river, and it seemed that the parties started when Pamela and Holden pulled up in the bright blue boat with the twin mercury motors. His days off were spent lolling on the quarterdeck of her father's twenty-foot catamaran. 
She had laughed the first time he saicl "I love you," embarassed by his words, but then she smiled and kissed him as they lay there on the beach by the red coals of the dying driftwood fire. As they lay there afterward, looking at the endless, boundless summer sky, she reached over and touched him. "I love you," she breathed softly, and laughed again, ''I'm almost afraid to say that, much less feel it." 
Holden stared at a large white star directly overhead, "sometimes I'm afraid to hear it, when I look out there." 
Pam grasped his hand, "You know, I'll bet that on some planet out there someone is lying by a fire, looking at our sun and saying 'I love you'." They laid there silently then, searching the sky that glittered down at them. 
Holden glanced up into the clouds as the snowflakes flew into his face. He had thoug]lt of that night often since then. He thought about those stars as he watched the altar boy light the two candleabra in the little chapel. llow limitless it had seemed then, until that night. He had breathed the heavy odor of the 11owers in the funeral home, smelling a mockery of the flowers that had bloomed in the mossy dell. Afterwards, he stood at the graveside, as the autumn wind drove rattling oak leaves like pieces of parchment over her casket. 
lloldcn shivered and pulled his collar further up as he walked beneath the cold golden glow of the administration building, cursing the Indiana winter and the barrenness of his own fruitless life. 
castating glance. But he's not-he's doing s€'mething else and the wenches are helpless. The crazy stud sits crosslegged on a couch, smiling and staring and taking notes. The wenches are self-conscious, the studs get suspicious. 
But the low-down libido beat blasts on and everybody soon forgets the crazy stud. The party moves into its second phase -tragedy. There's always a tragedy at a party. Either stud drops wench or wench drops stud or respectable wench gets bombed or beer runs out or something. Then everybody empathizes. Stud takes swig of beer, wench takes a drag of smoke, both close their eyes, nod a bit, and for a second or two everybody does some really heavy empathizing. 
But then it's time for phase three ­
dance. The beat comes on so strong the floor starts vibrating and so do all the people on it. Studs and wenches pair off for the first time. The Encounter comes alive. Then here comes the crazy stud 
again, this time bouncing a tennis ball and d d . lb ... h k h" 
o gmg e ows anc• rears as e wor s IS 
wa throu h the bods. Craz stud doesn't 
It's all so crazy -hasn't this happened before? Maybe so, but you can't stop it now, it's time for phase four -the attack. Hunter makes his move on the game, eyeball meets eyeball uneasily, three basic plans of attack emerge: (I) stud rushes up to wench, loud voice, jokes, labored familiarity (2) stud deftly enters conversation and woos wench with pearls of philosophy (3) stud slobbers up to wench and pleads for help to his room 'cause he's so bombed he can't make it alone. 
The results are always the same; some make it, some don't. Those that do enter the next phase -conquest. Those that don't go back to the first stage -beer. It's all happened before. 
The party presses forward, the air gets fouler, beer runs out, bods get sluggish . New pack of studs move in but nobody to play the game. Things are breaking u Sad, it's sad to see it go. Primitive forces regressing back to civilization, a person now without identity as either stud or wench mutters what a mess. Sad. 
And the crazy stud still sits there crosslegged on the couch while other people in the room, a couple necking on the couch across from him, look slyly out of the sides of their eyes and wonder what the hell the whole thing is about. 

All the studs and wenches have departed, have become numbers and names once again. The wenches have gone home to take their gimmicks off, the studs to finally take off their jackets. 
And the crazy stud, what did he write down on his notepad? "Blessed are they who expect nothing, for they shall never be dissappointed." 
Let It Bleed by Ed E Ills 
The Darker Side 
I a student am upset. I'm sick and I'm tired and I'm angry. 
I:m sick of 'people being killed, be it at Kent State or Cambodia. ~·m _sick of th~se being killed, those doing the killing, those who canonize the dead while lifeless bodies get warm, and those who say, "They deserved it." . 
I'm tired of the Viet Nam war, because no war, no crusade, no struggle agamst any menace, Communist, communist, or otherwise, can be justified if the price of victory is the death of the nation. For in such a case will it be said that we conquered the 
world but destroyed our soul. 
I'm tired of this war because it has split our nation. We are no longer Americans. We are young Americans or we are old Americans. We are black Americans or we are white Americans. We are "American imperialists" or we are "damned dirty hippies." If we are one, we are hated by all others. None can win. 
I'm tired and pretty damn sick of funny tasting water coming out of my spigots. I'm told it's pollution. I'm sick of that. I'm sick of scum and filth covering the rivers and lakes of our nation. I'm sick of tons of dead fish on Lake Michigan. I'm sick of oil-covered ducks and marine animals, killed by man's stupidity and short-sightedness. And I'm sick of my lungs, which tighten and hurt me when I try to breathe deeply on a pollution-filled afternoon. 
And I'm angry, good and angry, at the vested interests of our country. Those despicable, vile, corrupt voltures who have given us nothing but the garbage and scum-covered bones of a once great nation. They have preyed upon the personal greed of our politicians for their own gain. And we, the people of the United States, get polluted rivers, polluted Jakes, and great piles of pollution all over the country. We also get a political system so clogged with this pollution and the money that causes it that it is incapable of feeding babies, caring for the poor or even listening to the people whose very lives are chartered by the great bird of prey. ­
At this I am angry. But I am angrier still at those mistakes ot n·ature who tell us that our society cannot work, and ought to be destroyed. These people speak of impossible ideals and conveniently ignore inconsistencies in their own thought. I'm glad that our society was designed to be sluggish, in order that men of this type may not get power. 
I'm mad at Richard Nixon, tt..o. I'm mad at him and the gaping, flaming horse's ass somebody elected as his partner in narrow-minded stupidity. Let the Great Silent Majority speak now or forever hold its peace. If they refuse to come out of hiding, let them be ignored. But I'm mad at those naive pseudo-intellectuals who bastardize their oversized cerebra in pursuit of their own egotistical vested interests. Theirs is the truly closed mind. 
Sure. I'm sick and tired of a Jot of things. I'm mad at a lot of people. But most of all I think I'm mad at myself, because I honestly don't know where I stand, or where I should stand. 
I do know that Mr. Nixon had better wake up to the fact that many people, and many, many brilliant minds, disagree with him. If they want change, they must be given it. In politics, the people always get what they deserve. Let them have it. Good or bad, they deserve it. 
I also know that this country had better wake up to the 1970's, or else there won't be a country in another few years. If our foreign enemies don't destroy us, rheto.ric-filled revolutionaries, who have found an audience because of everybody else's stupidity, will. I don't know who can get us together. I know Mr. Nixon can't. I know Gene McCarthy can't. I know Eldridge Cleaver r~n'• •· · r can Barry Goldwater. Whoever can better do it soon. 
The above is the j!.rst in a series of columns written by members of the Observer Features Staff on sorr;e of the more important national issues. The opinions expressed here and in other Let It Bleed columns do not necessarily express the policy of the Observer or its editor, or the editor of th? Features Department. 



FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1970
PAGE 6 
7118 OBS£Rflllt 






SMC students meet to discuss strike 
SMC students met yesterday to discuss SMC's involvement in the student strikes. 
At the student forum, which followed a special faculty meet­ing where some of the faculty endorsed both the strike and Fr. Hesburgh's May 4 pronounc­ement, as well as deciding not to penalize students for absenting or withdrawing from classes, 
DESPITE THE STRIKE ....... . AMERICA WILL BE OPEN FRI & SAT Karen Weller, one of the coor­dinators for the strike, an­nounced that discussion would be confined to Indo-China, U.S. 

separation  of  power,  and  the  
Kent State catastrophe.  
Although  Miss  Weller  re­ 

quested that discussion stay on these topics, it ·centered on a debate over the rights of students. Do they have the right to strike? Do those wishing to attend school during the strike have that right? 
"My education is preparing me for life," stated Pat Me­
· Cusker. "I don't want to be denied my education. This isn't going to be the only political crisis that I will deal with in my life." 
Opposmg this view, Carol Cusick remarked, "The Faculty did a good jub, but time is limited. I propose that if 50% of the students vote to strike, then we should receive no grade and only academic credit. The strike should be a positive thing." 
Gail Connelly suggested some 
Tracey appoints officials 
Appointments to various stu­will be responsible for the the administrating of campus 
positive actions. "My phone taxes go directly to war. Don't pay that tax. Refuse to smoke cigarettes, to drink liquor, or to buy jewelry which all have high luxury taxes. By controlling the tax money, you control the war." 
She also added that burning down draft boards doesn't help. "instead, write a letter to the selective service, signing it with your first initial and your last name. Pretend that you are a boy. They'll never know the difference and you can mess up and bother them. 
Boston is united and so is 
New Haven. They're waiting for the rest of the world to catch up," she added. 
To most of the students at the meeting, however, it was evident that SMC is not united. 
Prudence Wear, a senior, summarized the debate. "We're factionalized ," she said. "Don't fight among yourselves. Stick to one issue or don't bother at all." 

Phone -288-1727 & Phone -674-8252 
1st RUN HITS & WOW!! 

AWORLD WHERE 
LOVE HAS NO INHIBITIONS••• 
HAYDEE POLITOFF 
·CORRADO PAN I 

·DORIS KUNTSMANN 
[!!]~···
" Co-Hit Extra Hit 
ADAM & EVE" + "NAKED IN THE DEEP" 
In-Car Heater 24 hr Answering Servi<.'e 
PART BY PART •.. PIECE BY PIECE ..• FROM LIVING HUMAN FLESH! 



dent government offices were budget and monetary needs of annnounced by Ann Marie all of the branches of student Tracey and Jean Gorman, SBP ·government next year. The new and SBVP, this week. The Student Body Secretary will be 
remaining positions will be an­Martha Coyne, a sophomore. nounced Monday night. The Student Services organi­Appointed as Student Body zation director for next year is 
was Carol who Diane Shahade. Her office entails 
TIME IS RUNNING O~UT 
for application to the 
ir Force ROTC 4-year program 
if you are: -a freshman or sophomore -interested in financial assistance -in good academic standing -physical!'/ qualified 
The door is open to make up 
missed semesters 
CONTACT 
Dept. of Aerospace Studies 
ROTC Building  MEET AMERICA'S NEW MANAGER  
PHOfdE 283-6635  LISTEN TO JOHN  
HURLEY  
But Hu  ! Time is runnin  out.  

CLASS of '72 ELECTIONS TODAY PLEASE VOTE EXPERIENCE 
GREG STEPIC DICK ROST JIM STROM 
PRESIDENT V-P SECRETARY 

services and co-ordinating all the commissions activities in the SSO. 
The SSO contains many com­mittees including the Academic Activities, Community Rela­tions, Social commission, Stu­dent Development, and Publica­tions. 
The commissioners for three of these committees were also announced. In charge of Aca­demic activities will be Missy Underman and the new Com­munity Relations Commissioner is Peggy Aste. In charge of public relations for the SSO will be Carey Friday. 
To the Space Allocation Com­mittee, which determines how all areas in the buildings will be utilized, were appointed two student representatives, Barb Ramon and Ann Meuleman. 
Rose Ann Wolfe was ap­pointed Fire Safety Captain and she will be the chairman of the Fire Safety Committee. 
The Presidential Committees were also filled this week. Mary Ellen Satullo was placed in charge of public relations, Ann Siebenaller will head the Drug Committee, Kathy Eglet, the Sex Education Committee, 
Nancy  O'Neill,  the  Student  
Rights Committee  and  for  off­ 
campus, Kathy Barlow.  

' Ann Marie and Jean chose these girls after interviewing them and they said the main criteria was a specific interest in the subject. 



FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1970 THE OBSERJJER. 
Student liason man 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The 25 year old liaison man between the Nixon administration and the nation's students quit yes­terday to protest what he ~:ailed high official's implied approval 
of  ''even  the  most  vicious  
tactics"  against  legitimate  dis­ 
sent.  

Anthony J. "Toby" Moffett, appointed last September to head a new Offi~:e of Students and Youth by Education Com­missioner James E. Allen, said his resignation was prompted by "what I fear is a very dangerous attitude in our country." 
"The recent remarks by the !'resident wncerning student protestors were most instru­mental in my decision," Moffett said. 
"For they confirmed what thousands of students have be­lieved or suspected for some time: namely, that the President and his most trusted advisors do 
I DoN'T CARt WHAT 
T~E ODDS I\RE1 1 W/1.NT RtC\-\MOND 


postpone all entertainment 
not view themselves as leaders of all the American people; that they do not have the best interests of youth in mind; and, most tragically, that they will sanction even the most vicious tactic against young people and other legili mate political dis­senters." 
Moffett said the "Increasingly repressive character of this ad­ministration" continually under­cut his efforts to convince young people to work for change through channels. 
When Allen appointed him, the commissioner described his job as that of "an advocate for youth within the Office of Education." 
But Moffett said ''high rank­ing officials" of the Department of Health, Education, and Wel­fare were "often more con­cerned with protecting what they perceived to be the political interests of the President" and other ad ministration officials 

·~---------------~---­
SMC COF'Ft,'E HOUSE 
PAGE 7 

than with problems of the 
indefinitely since we are now 

young. He did not name the officials, 
serving as the strike headquarters. but made it clear he did not refer to either Allen or HEW Secretary Robert H. Fim:h. He said that in a conversation with Finch yesterday morning, "I 
NOW SHOWING LAST WEEK

sensed ... as I had sensed before 
CHARLTON HESTON

that he is very, very troubled 
JACK HAWKINS

indeed about what he is going to do." A Syracuse University grad­uate from Suffolk, Conn., Mof­
MON.-THURS.
fett said he made his decision 
7:30 after the President's move into 
FRI.-8:00 Cambodia and after Nixon re­
SAT. -SUN. 
ferred to student protestors as 
1:00-4:30-8:00 ubums." He said it was a "very personal kind of decision" and that none of the other 11 members of his staff planned to Ad1lts $1.75 resign, although the entire staff Child 75o "has been doing a great deal of reflecting" about the effective­ness of their efforts. 
In support of the strike, we

for Nixon resigns 
"ONE OF THE YEAR'S 10 BEST!" 
ROBERT REDFORD KATHARINE ROSS ROBERT BLAKE SUSAN CLARK 
"TELL THEM 

THE OBSEIWER. FRIDAY, MAY 8; 1970
PAGE 8 

Irish take two, near .500 mark 

by Steve O'Connor 

and scored with Roemer on
pitching perfect games through

Observer Sportswriter Horan's singk After Krill's
four innings. They each lost 

Big innings in two games Wed­ground out Bill Orga singled in
their no-hitters in the fifth and

nesday and Thursday brought Horan to close out the scoring in 
then in the sixth the Irish

the Irish record to lO-ll as the this frame. 
batsmen destroyed the dual

diamond men crushed Hillsdale it more
shutouts. Tom O'Connor opene<,l In the eight!~ was of 
13-0 and Detroit 7-4. Wednesday the same as the team batted
the frame by striking out, but a six-run sixth and a seven-run 

pitcher Phelps got things started twelve men in the inning. Phil eighth provided the difference Krill started things with a walk,
with a single. Rob Voitier

and Thursday a three-run fourth then singles by Orga (who was
followed with a double to put

sparked the win. out trying for two). O'Connor
runners on second and third for

Wednesday, at Hillsdale, Jim and Phelps scored two. After
Nick Scarpelli who scored them

Phelps, a senior lefthander Voitier struck out, Scarpelli
both with a single. Bob Roemer

sparkled, pitching a five hit walked, Roemer singled and
kept things alive by doubling to

complete game shutout with Lucke walked to load the bases.
knock in Scarpelli with the third

thirteen strikeouts. Both pitch­Consecutive walks to Horan and
run. Rich Lucke then singled

ers dominated the early going Krill scored two more before Orga again closed the scoring with two RBI's on his single. 
JIM MURRAY On Thursday Notre Dame fell behind at the outset l-0 tied it in the second and grabbed a 4-l lead in the fourth that theyThe "3" Horse never relinquished. They added a single tally in the fifth to stay
.a lmlLes .....,_ Tillnls' 

ahead 5-4 following a three run LOUISVILLE-The "3" horse won the ninth race at Churchill 
Detroit sixth inning rally and Downs racetrack Saturday. He paid 15-1. No one claimed him. added two insurance runs in the It was the 23rd race he's been in in his life-so you know they seventh. don't pamper him none. He's only won seven of them-so you know Mickey Karkut another senior he's not Cavalcade. He's gone off as high as 62-1. And ran like it. lefty survived two different visits He was the only horse in this field who would come to Churchill to the mound by Coach Jake Downs for anything but a Kentacky Derby. He's been here in $7,500 Kline and two-run homer by maiden races. And finished out of the money. Greg Tolston in the sixth to goThree-year-olds that run 23 times a year-and win just enough to to the route. Detroit drew first buy their oats-don't usually get loaded into the gate at the blood off Karkut in the first, Kentucky Derby. They usually get vanned to Caliente and are asked scoring run three singles.
a on to try to keep up with a lot of sore horses or indifferently-bred 
The Irish were out in order in second stringers. 
the first but Rich Lucke gotNever mind. Dust Commander now gets his name in gold on the things started by leading off the doorways of this creaky old race-track along with Omaha, Gallant 
second with a walk. Chuck Fox, Citation, Swaps and the other great studs of racing history. 
Horan struck out and Krill His time wouldn't guarantee to get youout of a burning barn on 
popped a foul before red-hot Bill time. He caught a greasy track that most of the rest of the field 
Orga drove in his 16th run of the seemed to find trouble standing up in, never mind running. Most of 
season with a ground-rule double them looked like a guy learning to ice skate. 
that narrowly missed carryingThings got tougher one rider couldn'T stay on his horse. A 
out in right-center. Tom 
shadow jumper named Holy Land took a mandatory eight-count on 

O'Connor struck out to end the 
the far turn. Fortunately, he was running so lousy at the time that inning.

only a couple of horses had to jump over him, or the Derby might 

Karkut again put the leadoff have crept up on Indianapolis for one day fatalities. 
batter on in the fifth but a slick If you were to average out Dust Commander's finishes over the 
d 

aroun 
the horn double play
year he has been running, he would bii. a bad bet in any field over 

cleaned the sacks. Sweeny
three horses. He has lost to such immortals as a colt called Hard popped out for the third out. 
Work who was hard put to win a $5,000 race at Churchill this day in The Irish added a run in the The ND nine led by one run game to left-center giving him a race written for non-winners of other-than-claimers. He has been bottom of the fifth on going into the seventh but Bill the club leadership in RBI's with beaten by 11 lengths as recently as a month ago, but he was the only Scarpelli's double, a wild pitch, Orga_ aga_in came through . to 18. With this breathing room one in this field who didn't consider he was slumming at Churchill .t . k d provide his team some breathmg Karkut sharpened up I·n the fin,·Il
and an error. Detrm pic e up . Downs. It's possible he thought the Kentucky Derby was just three in the sixth on a walk, a room. With two outs ~nd run-two frames to shut off Detroit. another run around the track for nonwinners of $5,000 other than 
claimers. It's possible he was right. His owner was off shooting tigers while he was conditioning for 

do\}./~~k ~n d~ ~P"~rl; OCaIenda r 
the race, which, in my book, beats throwing bricks through cathedral windows-but not by much. I have to think tigers should Lacrosse-The stickmen, havebit intercollegiate

get the same chance to die or old age as hunters. Baseball-The Irish will try to bf competi­had their game with Ohio StateDust Commander now joins the select company of horses who get over the .500 mark for the tion, the University Skeet and cancelled due to the studentfirst time this season. Thet travel Trap club has journeyed to Iowawill never get chained, claimed, put in a circus ,or eaten. He was the strike in Columbus. 
to Cincinnati for a Saturday City. Iowa for the Midwestonly horse in the field who didn't look as if he was crossing the 
doubleheader and a single
Delaware River on ice. He finished so far ahead of his field, the play regionals. 
game Sunday versus Xavier.
second horse couldn't have communicated with him by pigeon. 

Football-The third annual
The first thing his rider had to do was ring up his wife and tell her 

MAJOR LEAGUES
Blue-Gold Football Game will be
"Guess who won the Kentucky Derby?" It was a local call. Mrs. 

held this Saturday afternoon in
Mary Manganello, Mike's wife, was not in anther part of the country, NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
the stadium. The first team
she was in downtown Louisville. She wanted to watch the race on East 
East

offense and defense will com­
TV because, at the track, she gets about as good a view of it as the w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB
prise the Blue squad and the Chicago 13 10 .565
jockey in the lead. Baltimore 16 8 .667
second team wilJ. be the main­New York
Mike Manganello comes from a part of Hartford, Conn., where 13 12 .520 Detroit 14 9 .609 1Y:. Philadelphia 12 Boston 10
hardly anybody has ever hunted tiger-but they do squash bugs. stays on the Gold (white jerseys) 13 .520 13 .565 2Y:. team. St. Louis 10 12 .455 2Y2 Washington 13 12 .520 3Y:.
Mike's dad worked for Arrow, Hart&Hegeman for 30 years. Days, ruggers travel to Pittsburgh 11 14 .440 3 13 3Y:.
that is. Nights he worked someplace else. Rugby-The New York 14 .519 
Montreal 16 9
Charlottesville, Virginia to take 6 .273 6Y:. Cleveland 14 .391 6Y:.
Mike went ot St. Peter's Parochial school til he got to be a big, 

part in The Commonwealth Cup. 
strapping 5-footer and weighed so little he got him penny back on Track-Michigan State's Spar­
the drugstore scale. He sold papers, shined shoes. He went to the West West 
tans will invade the Cartier track 
sports editor. Art McGinley, to get a job on the track. Cincinnati 22 6 .786 Minnesota 15 8 .652
this weekend. MSU will prove
Hartford not only doesn't have any tiger hunts, it doesn't have Atlanta 15 11 .577 6 California 15 9 .625 Y2 
tough to handle in the track Los Angeles 13 12 Oakland 12
any horses. But Manganello found out after one year in High School .520 7Y2 14 .462 4Y:. 
events on the strength of their San Fran. 14 Chicago 11 .458
that he wasn't going to make the Stock Exchange. The only thing he 13 .481 8)12 13 4Y2 
fine sprinters led by Herb Houston 12 15 .444 9Y2 Kansas City 8 16 .333 7Y2
knew about horses was from the matinees in the Strand Theater 

Washington in the I00 yard San Diego 10 17 .370 11% Milwaukee 6 20 .231 10)12
but he also knew that, at 98 pounds, he was never going to get a job dash.

with the Green Bay Packers. 

Tennis-The netmen are in New York at Oakland, night
Arrow, Hart & Hegeman lost a great propect the day they hoisted Cincinnati 5 Chicago 2 
action in the Badger state this Washington at California, night
Mike Manganello on a race horse. He has ridden alot of racetracks San Francisco at Montreal, night Boston at Milwaukee, night
weekend as they compete in the 
Los Angeles at New York, night
where a $1,500 claimer is the Saturday feature and the number of Minnesota at Detroit, night
Wisconsin State Invitational. 
San Diego at Philadelphia, night
$100,000 races he has won comes to exactly one. But 10% og Golf-N D's golfers have their Kansas City at Baltimore, night
Pittsburgh at Houston, night
$ 127,800 is enough to put a fellow on the spoor of his first tiger. no scores available for night games
last away match of the not-too­
Of course, with the Manganello's hard life, if they shot a tiger, the 

successful season. The match is 
first thing they'd do is make stew out of it. 

the Purdue Invitational 
Like Dust Commander, Mike has been 15-1 all his life. From now 

Crew-Coach Paul Weathersby 
on, they'll have to bet him down. If the tracks come up glassy, this Phila­

horse who took a year to win $25,000 may only take four weeks to has taken his carmen to 
delphia to take part in the Dad
take down $375,000. That's pretty good for a horse you could have 

Vail Cup. 
claimed for $7,500 a year and five days ago. That's pretty good for a horse you could have claimed for $107 000 in fact. Skeet & Trap-In their first
' , 








