
MONTREAL (UPI) Fearing stuffed in an auto trunk Satur­for his life, British diplomat 
day night, and Cross. The police James R. Cross pleaded with 
d~clined to say what informa­police yesterday to call off their 
tion led them to issue the arrest orders for the two men.
search for him but authorities Rose, who wears a Fidel Castro
issued kidnap warrants for two style beard, has visited Cuba two
men charged with abducting times. Little was known of theCross and slain Quebec provin­background to Carbonneau.
cial minister Pierre Laporte. 
A warrant has been out sinceA shaken Prime Minister the Cross kidnaping Oct. 5 forPierre Elliott Trudeau met with Jacques Lanctot, 25, a taxi dri­his federal government cabinet ver who has been a bail fugitivefor two hours then flew to Mon­on a charge arising from antreal to map out the next step in attempt in March to kidnap thethe crisis with Quebec Premier Israeli commercial attache here.
Robert Bourassa and Montreal Terroists of the Quebec Lib'h­Mayor Jean Drapeau. 
ation Front produced evidenceQuebec provincial police is­that Cross was still alive-twosued nationwide warrants for notes from the diplomat saying
teacher Paul Rose, 27, and cah­;·r:. .., driver Marc Carbo_nneau, 37, his life was endangered by the 
search for him.
OTTAWA: A lone woman attempted to walk with a "Vive Qiebec Libre" sign on Parlimanet HiJJ here charging them with kidna:pinJ1i 
. The government offered hisbut a man grabbed the sign from her, threw it on the ground and tore it up. (UPI). . Laporte, whose body was found 
abductors a one way ticket to Ct:ba, and said they should turn the diplomat over to the Cuban Consul on a bridge over the St. printed a letter received by their you were deaf to the pleas that A void police ego trips and l:!eroic Lawrence River, where a heli­
Radical faction discovered 
By Greg Pudhorodskv 
office which told of a "radical provoked them." antics because we know best copter waited for the first leg of Both the South Bend Police political faction~ who because The four points stated in the what its capabilities are. their journey to Havana. When "Fourth, it would be ex­
Department and the South Bend of "past non-violent pleas for letter were: they landed, the government Tribune have released informa­sanity falling on deaf ears," find "First and foremost, if you tremely advantageous for heads said , the Cuban Consul would tion concerning the presence of their last alternative in revolu­are the recipient of a bomb of major institutions to inform free Cross. a Weatherman faction in the area tionary violence. warning, be sure to do exactly as their subordinates of the possibi­It was the same bargain of­and the threat of an oncoming The letter, which the local you are instructed. We will pro­lity of a bombing and to con­fered just before midnight Satur­trend of "domestic disruption FBI has labeled as being con­vide information as to evacua­vince these people that any day at the same time police were and property destruction.'' sidered authentic, went on to tion procedures and a safe time bombwarning should be given pulling Laporte's body from the South Bend Police Chief give a detailed four point proce­span for their execution. strictest attention." trunk of the car. The terrorists Loren Bussert stated last Satur­dure to be followed in order to "Second, make no attempts "The Weatherman," closed by have demanded release of 23 day that his department was minimize personal injury. The to defuse the explosive device reiterating that his group had no political prisoners, free transport 
aware of the alleged presence of author of the letter, who signed should you encounter it, because desire to harm innocent people for the kidnapers and the prison­the political faction and added himself as "The Weatherman," to do S9 would needlessly en­but rather a hope of preventing ers out of Canada, and $500,000 -that an increase in personnel stated in the text that he has no danger the Jives of police officers various present and past suffer­gold. 
have been mobilized to keep the desire to hurt innocent people and other authorities. ing by "alternating the path The savagery of Laporte's suspected persons under sur­and emphasized the importance "Third, do not re-enter any along which modern America is murder sent waves of revulsion veillance. of listening to the born b warn­buildings allegedly containing careening.'' and shock through Canada. Two 
The Tribune yesterday ings "even though, tragically, explosive devices for a 'period of The letter offered no alterna­dozen French speaking Mon­one hour after evacuation. If the tive to the destruction claiming trealers said yesterday morning device fails to detonate as pro­that, "unfortunately for all of the death was shocking and out­grammed, we. will inform the us, it is far too late for con­rageous.
LaPorte originally 
police department, within one cerned and apprehensive Ameri­"Pourquoi, pourquoi -why, hour, of its exact location in the cans to do anything to prevent why?" one waitress said, her premises and the correct techni­this upcoming show of eyes brimming with tears. Funer­
a liberal reformer 
ques to implement defusing it. strength." ( continued on page 3) 


MONTREAL (UPI) nap hostage, British diplomat Pierre LaPorte, slain by urban James R. Cross, whose fate is guerrillas committed to the vio­still uncertain. 
Senators to push reform 
lent separation of Quebec from The abduction of LaPorte no Canada, was himself once an only shocked but also angered By Dave McCarthy be instructed and constitution-ourselves to figuring out what ardent French Canadian many Quebeckers, for he was At least two newly elected ally mandated to represent the we'r about; I'd like to find the nationalist who advocated a seen as one of the few legitimate student Senators, T.C. Treanor Senate position on matters that different functions the Senate "special status" for Quebec. reformers in the province's (Badin Hall) and Steve Novak concerned the SLC. He would could serve.'' He continued, "I'd 
In 1963, as a member of the troubled history. In a recent (Off--campus) intend to push not be a free agent but an agent like to sec the Senate actively reform liberal government under television interview, LaPorte said hard for both Senate reform and of the Senate." working to check the executive Premier Jean Lesage, LaPorte French Canadians would "not increased Senate power it was He also prescribed introducing branch of the government." said the province he envisioned succeed through separatism' learned yesterday. a bill allowing one Senate repre-Novak cited the existence of would have "nearly all the pre­"They will succeed by doing "I'm the only person I know sentative from each dorm. "To at least two Constitutions: the rogatives of an independent what the Germans did, the not pushing to save the Senate insure proportionate representa-one that Student Government state." Japanese did, by working hard but reform the Senate," said tion," he said, "each representa-operates under at present, which 
But since 1968 LaPorte un­to build the economy ... the Treanor,. He cited Senators tive would be able to cast a Novak termed "pretty rotten, .. derwent a complete metamor­more we will succeed in this, the Robert B radke and Frank number of votes equal to the but it's not all that bad;" the phosis. He allied himself with more quickly the separatists will Devine as two who have taken number of people voting in the other that Krashna's Cabinet Prime Minister Pierre Elliott disappear.'' stands against the continuation last Senate election in his hall. drafted earlier in the year (pro­Trudeau's "One Canada" stand, As a crusading journalist for of the Senate. He added, "In this manner Sena-viding for abolition of the Se-and at the time of Trudeau's the Montreal French language In explaining the problems of torial races become actual select-nate). election almost three years ago daily Le Devoir, LaPorte was a the body Treanor said, "The ions of the best candidates ra-"There is a third alternative," said he saw Quebec as "a mem­constant thorn in the side of the Senate, as it exists, has no power ther than elimination contests of Novak said. "That is committing ber of the Canadian com­and hence no ability to attract the worst." Treanor continue, "I the Senate to investigating itself. 
repressive Duplessis regime that
munity." good men. I propose that it be would make each Senator stand I lean in the general direction of
ruled Quebec from 1944 to
This sudden change earned given powers." for re-election at the beginning this study thing."
1959.
LaPorte the epithet of "traitor" Novak's reaction was similar. of next semester so he would be In answer to why he deemed
And after 1960, when he be­
among the province's national­"As it stands now, the Senate forced to defend the record of reform necessary Novak replied,
came Municipal Affairs Minister
ists, particularly the extremists. has no real power over the his work du~ing this semester." "When the SLC was created
in the liberal government of Le­
LaPorte thus was a marked Cabinet or the President." The Badin Senator cited a (two years ago) the Senate was
sage, LaPorte was a leading fig­
man in the eyes of the Quebec Treanor proposed a number need for "good people " in the faced with a situtation in which
ure in what has been called the
Liberation Front FLQ which of reforms saying, "I propose a Senate. "These are reforms that it didn't know what role it was
province's "quiet revolution," a
kidnaped him just after 6 p.m. new Constitution in which the attract good people," he said. to serve; and it has never been
brief five year period of acceler­
Oct. 10. Senate elects a member of the Novak explained that he in-determined. I'd like reform to
ated reforms in education, elec­
Minutes before, the govern­SLC in place of the SBVP, (an tended to seek reform via "inter-determine the relationships of
toral practices and economic de­
ment had refused the ransom ex officio position) to represent nal legislation." He said, "l 'd the various little structures' to
velopment.
demands for the FLQ's first kid-the Senate as a whole. He would like to see us (Senators) commit each other." 
Page 2 7ll~ (l~~~-·------------------------------~M=o~nd=a~v,~O~c_to_~__r_19~,_1_9_70_ 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY Connecticut 
Dean Bruce D. Scherling, Assis· 
Reflections on sophomore election
tant Dean of Admissions at Connecticut Law School is 
scheduling interviews for prospec­tive students on Thursday, Oct. 22, in Room 205 Business Bldg. 
Sign up for appointments out­side Room 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
AN UNUSUAL OPPORTUNITY 
Earn $100 to $300 a month in your spare time. Be your own boss. Unlimited earning potential. No experience re­quired. You could ~uild a business of your own m JUst a few hours a week. lf you're interested the next move is yours. Call 233-5597 nights. 
By Jack O'Neil 
As Sophomore Parents Week­end approaches· and the Sophomore Class has taken over 
responsibility for the Parents Weekend Finances, Hotel arrangements, etc. it's time the paying public knew the truth about one of the greatest of all A;nerican ideals: the Spoils System, and its presence in the Class of '73. In May of this year1 as in most Mays at Notre Dame, class elections were held. But the fad that the Strike was raging and many students had t1ed for home, or were too busy to be bothered by silly class elections, is the main reason for 
Hair Styling 
(or ND men the Continental Way 
Razor Cutting t. Style Enropean Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
Have Long Hazr <'fc Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed Serv.e & Pamper You 
Continental Hair Styling 
306 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind. Student Rates 234-0811 
By Appt. 
Give the cold shoul~er to winter in a Woolr1ch Norfolk Jacket. 
t~: 
pockets. Get into it and light someone s f1re. S1zes. 36 to 46. 
one of the poorest election turn­out in Student Union history. 
The two most important candidates for Sophomore Presi­dertt were Steve Palucca, known intimately as "Pumpkin", and Mike Ruffer. Palu~.:ca ran on a slate with Rich Richea, Gary Little and Kevin Muse, and the entire ensem hie was directed by (lary Caruso, Campaign Manager (and part-time Stooge). Speaking of his campaign, Paluc~.:a recalls, "It started out as a practical joke; then it turned into an a hsurd joke; then it wasn't cvc1: a joke anymore and now, well l d~n't wanna even talk about it.'' 
Running on a ticket to abolish Class Government were Vlark Lawrence and John Hession. Other candidates included Mike M·~nez, .Jeff Lobosky and Bud Carpenter for President and Steve Mlinac, Rick Kuenster and 
Bill McCarthy for Veep.  
Election  day  came  and  
showed  only  25'}'(,  of  the  
Sophomore  Class  turning  out.  

Palucca beat Ruffer, his closest competitor, by 4 7 votes. All of Palucca's ticket rode to victory on Steve's X-large coattails ex­cept for his Vice Presidential candidate, Richea. John He:ssion was victoriaous there. 
But there was an apparent 
misunderstanding in the pri'lting of the ballots. Mark Lawrence had been left off the Ballot Apparently, Lawr~'nce had slid his Nomination Petition with the 50 needed signatures •mder the Student Union door and then came hack and put an additional 12 names in the office. Mrs. Patricia Molinero, Student Union Secretary, never received the fifty and twelve signatures 
Observer Insight 
·----­
were not enough. Also there had been a mix-up in the Class of '72. A box load of late votes, from where else but Flanner, turned a one vote victory into a one vote defeat for the Vice­Presidency. 
A major meeting was held in the basement of Breen-Phillips hall to correct the mishaps, and was wnducted by Senior Class President James D'Auora. It was decided to leave things as they were and declare the elections valid. Then Vice President for Student Affairs Father Charles L M cCarragher also felt that to avoid an unneeded hassle the elections should be left as official. 
Palucca contacted Hession and asked whether or not he wanted to remain in the govern-

OPL'NJNG TODAY 
THir CRYPT 
Discount Reconts 418 Lron• H•ll 
List $4.98-$3.10 List $5. 98-$3.60 
OPI~N 4 -8 Weekdays 1 -4 Saturday 
"'D -IIIC Student IUnion Calendar 
Oct. 20-Sonata Da Camera (String Quartet) 8: 15 pm Oct 21 -"Fail Safe"-Engineering Aud. 7:30pm Oct. 22-"Sea Gull"-Washington Hall 8:00pm Oct 23-Class '72 Mixer-LaFortune Center 8:00 
-Luther Allison Concert-Stepan Center 8:00 -"Sea Gull"'-Washington Hall 8:30 -Doc Severinsen -A.C.C. 8:30 
Oct 24-Sadie lllawkins Dance 8:30 
MOST COIIP1£1T£ A THLI:TIC STOJR£ 
~IN Til£ AREA~ 
Adidas -Basketball, Soccer & Trac~ Shoes 
Northland Hlockey Sticks 
Bauer Hockey Skates 
N.D. Jacket & Errblems 
T-Silirts Imprinted ./(Jr any organization 
MIDWEST A1HLETIC EQUI••EIII 117 N HILL IT COIIIID 10 BEND AVE a HIILL IT 
tel: 212-1110 
ment as the V.P. Feeling that Hession would be hipocritical if he took the office, Palucca encouraged Hession to "abolish'' himself. But Hession felt that the matter needed more thought and he postponed his decision. The matter was never settled last year and over the summer Caruso, now the Executive Co-ordinator of the Class, had the letter heads printed up and exduded Hession's name. Mean­while Palucca was busy appoint­ing ;ther mem hers to his new regime. Loser Richea was named as Social Affairs Co-ordinator and loser Mike Ruffer was named as the Executive Secre­tary as well as the appointment of Caruso. Richea, also known to many as "Cretin", failed to retain his scholarship and is now 
attending  a college in Ohio.  As  
Caruso  says,  "He's  sort  of  
coordinating out there."  
This year Hession  finally  let  

Palucca know that he figured Father McCarragher had thrown him out and that he could not fulfill his responsibilities as vice president. 
So ends the terrible and sad story of Pumpkin and Cretin and America and du Lac and how class government maybe should have been abolished. Yes, it all started out as a practical joke .. 

Representatives of Volunteers In Service To American (VISTA) will be on the Notre Dame campus Monday and Tuesday (Oct. 19-20) to interview area students who are interested in devoting a year or more of their careers in service to Americans. 
Information centers will be located in the lobby of Memorial Library and the Huddle snackbar and will be staffed from 9 to 5 
p.m. 
each day and 7 to 9 p.m. on Monday only. Informational movies will be shown in the LaFortune Student Center at 4 

p.m. 
both days. 


WIN A FR££ 
lecause we want as many people as possible to hea he ADVENT loudspeaker. we are making the folio\\ ng !:>pedal offer: Come in to RMS Audio this wee or next Sunday before 4:30) and say you read th Jb:oen't'r and want to hL"ar the advent speaker. 

Vc'll put your name mto a computerized random stlectio nocess wh1ch will pick twelve winners. Each winner will gt'l ·hoice of two excellent 1ecurd cleaning devices by Cecil Watt .td. -a $6.50 "Dust Uug~ (for manual players) or a $4.0 'Preener'' (for automatic changers). There's absolutely no COl u obligation. 

RMSAUOIO 
1307 E. CALVERT Pho"" 288-1681 
OPEN J.-8 M-TH 1-4o30 SUNandFRI CLOSED SATURDAY 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Monday, October 19, 1970 
Funds requested by MECHA 
By Don Capshaw 
Last Thursday afternoon, 
an organization representing 
the Mexican-Amnican Student 
Movement of the Southwest 
went before the Finance Com­
mittee of the Notre Dame Stu­
dent Government for an appro­
priation of funds. 
MECliA, a Spanish acronym for the Mexican-American Stu­dent Movement and title of the organization, is comprised of approximately 25 students. Armando Alonzo, head of MECHA, went to the Finance Committee in an attempt to the $ I 025 appropriated for this minority movement. "I found there was a centain amount of interest in our movement," said Armando. "But the Committee said they would not be able to give me a definite answer for ~pprozimately a week." How­ever, Armando feels that the money will be granted in view of the fact that other minority groups have been successful in recent years. 
"We feel the Mexican-Ameri­
can has been neglected on cam­
pus and that it is time this was 
changed," Armando stated. He 
said that MECHA had a two-fold 
purpose: (I) To provide infor­
mation for Mexican-American 
students on campus ( 2) To help 
increase enrollment of the 
Mexican-American students in 
future years. 
"The main problem thus far," said Armando, "is to differen­tiate our needs from other minority groups on campus." He believes if MECHA can become a distinctive organization, the stu­dent body will become 
Canadians search 
(Continued from page 1) 
al music was broadcast by Que­bec radio stations and flags low­ered to half staff. 
The two week kidnap crisis brought declaration of all out war against the FLQ by Lime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau. He invoked extraordinary legisla­tion sanctioning sweeping police powers of search, seizure and arrest, and said "the guns pointed at the heads of these men have FLQ fingers on the triggers." 
Trudeau yesterday expressed the "shock and consternation that all Canadians must feel as they learn of the death of Pierre Laporte, who was so cowardly assassinated by a band of mur­derers." 
Armed with emergency powers-giving police the right to arrest without charge, hold without bail and search without warrant-the government rounded up more than 2SO suspected separatists sympathizers. The Emergency Act, suspending civil liberties, had never before been invoked in peacetime. 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
Duke University 
John C. Weistart, Assistant Pro­fessor of Law, Duke University Law School, ·is scheduling inter· views for prospective students on Oct. 22 in Room 205 Business Bldg. 
Sign up for appointments out­side Room 101 O'Shau 
.TYPING. 
The Observer os pub oshed ao y during the college semester except vacations bY the students of thE University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College.. SubsLriptions rna~ 
·be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre_pame, Ind. 46556. 
interested in the Mexican-Amer­
ican Movement. To get public 
interest, MECHA will sponsor 
lectures on the problems of the 
Mexican-American society 
throughout the United States. 
If appropriations come ihrough, MECHA will establish an office on campus for students intt{rested in working for this movement. Armando added that MECHA has employed the ser­vices of two advisors, Dr. Arthur Rubel and Dr. Julian Samona, experts in the fields of Anthro­pology and Sociology, respec­tively. He wished to thank these two men publicly for their t re men do us· contributions in getting the Mexican-American Student Movement on campus, off the ground. 
Fellows chosen 
The Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost, and the Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, C.S.C., vice president for student affairs, have been formally elected Uni­versity of Notre Dame Fellows and trustees. Father Burtchaell's election as a fellow and trustee was ex-officio. Father Blantz was elected a fellow to fill out the term of the Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C., former vice president of student affairs, whose resignation as a Fellow and a trustee was accepted with commendation. 
The 12 Fellows, divided equally between Jay persons and members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, have certain basic powers including those to elect trustees, to adopt and amend the statutes and bylaws of the University and to approve the transfer of a substantial portion of the University's physical pro­perties. All other powers of governance have been delegated by the Fellows to the board of trustees, which currently has a membership of 34 lay persons and seven Holy Cross priests. 
Night Editor: Don Ruane Layout: Joe Abell Headlines: Tim Burke Controller of the Night: R. Smith 
·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~· 
'o H 1 H o 
v v 
H 
H 
0 0 
v v 
H H ·a 0 
v
'~H SOUTH BENO.:. THE SHERLANO BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET H 
: Jlouse ofVisioli ol) : 
o The House of Vision, Inc. o 
v v 
• HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • 
Sadie Haw"lns Dance 
s.-.,,October M 8-I 

with THE SYMBOL 
How busy people earn better grades 
Cliff's Notes-rcmemher the name-it can mean a lot in better literature grades. Cliff's Notes are famous for fast, straight·to· the-point help. You get expert scene-by-scene or chapter-by-chapter commentary. You get valuable, easy-to-understand discuss·ion of major charactt""rs, development of theme and plot, plus a helpful review section. Don't fight literature 
-learn to understand it with Cliff's Notes. 
NEARLY 200TITLES $1 EACH 
HE~: 
COMMUNITY NEWSTAND 121 W. WASHINGTON SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
46601 
STUDENT TRIP SIGNUPS 
Senion -Tues., Oct. 10 Frosh, Sophs, & Jn -Wed., Oct. 11 
1:30 -•~ Coke B•r L• Fortune Center B•e•ent 
Plane Seats (only) Available at Reduced Rates 
LUTHER 
ALLISON 
is back! 
8:30, Friday, Oct. 23 
Stepan Center 
Tickets $1.50 ·Oi1 Sale at: Bookstore, Student 
Union Ticket Office 
(hours -12-1, 4-6 ), 
Dining Halls (Wed. & Thurs.). 
3 


H£ CONOU£R£D TH£ HILLS, PI£C£ 8YPI£C£1 
A WOMAN" 
Proof of age required 
bverS lane 
JADE 
EAST 
Distributor 

THE OBSERJJER. Monday, Octobe!.....1_~ 1970
Page 4 
• • • but beware of a wounded Tiger 
by Terry Shields effort and held the mighty Irish came in the first period on a 22 offense plagued the Notre Dame and a ten point lead. This play Observer Sports Editor to a mere three point lead at the yard placement by Scott Hem­attack throughout the first half. ruined the Mizzou momentum The Friday night sports report half. Notre Dame's three points pel. Errors and an inconsistent Joe Theismann, who played a­and virtually insured a victory 
nother brilliant game, was inter­for the visitors. 
on Channel 8 in Columbia, Mo. 
cepted twice but both of these After the game Missouri coach contained nothing but praise for came on rather freak plays. The Dan Devine was asked how close the Notre Dame football .team 
first was a batted ball that hit Stuckey came to getting the ballthat was to invade Missouri. 
three men before it was corralled and his reply was "Not closeHowever, at the end of the by Pete Buha on the ND 40. The enough. I won't second guessrep~rt the announcer had one other was a good pass stopped him for the decision. He andfinal remark that was a lot more by a tremendous effort by Hen­everyone else played a greatominous than most people ex­ry Stuckey. game. We need a perfect game topected. "Beware of the wounded Tim Kelly had made a great beat Notre Dame and we got itTiger!" 
play previously picking off a in effort but not performance."
For two-thirds of the foot­
Farmer pass to halt a sustained Devine also praised Theis­ball game the following after~ drive by Mizzou. Kelly played a mann and called the Road­noon this comment became in­standout game for the Irish as he runner, "the best quarterbackcreasingly forboding for the led the defense to their fifth I've seen in a long time. He can5,000 ND fans in attendance at good game of the season. In throw from any position and heMemorial Stadium. With 13:18 modern college ball, if you hold is a good leader." Perhaps theremaining in the third quarter your opponent below two TDs best way to describe Devine'sMissouri scored on a Mike Far­its a good game. reaction to Theismann was his mer to Mel Gray pass from the The Tigers came out of the comment concerning what Miz­ten yard line and for the first locker room ready to rear in the zou needed in the second half.
time this season the Fighting second half. They stopped the "If we could have gotten a breakIrish trailed. The standing room Irish cold in the initial series and then, the game might have beenthrong of 64,200 (largest crowd then marched 52 yard$ in only a little different. You know, a ever to see a sports event in the three plays for their only score fumble, a big penalty or maybestate of Missouri) was going ab­of the afternoon. The big play if Theismann would have gonesolutely berserk. 
here came on a 41 yard bur~t by to the bathroom at the time ofOn the ensuing Notre Dame James Harrison, a 240 pounder one of these fourth down situ-drive, however, the Irish showed with very good speed. Harrison ations."
that a wounded animal was in­was the leading rusher of the Ed Gulyas scored his seconddeed no match for an insulted afternoon with 99 yards in 11 TD to close out the Irish scoring Irishman. ND drove 76 yards for attempts. The farmer to Gray in the fourth quarter. He a touchdown and the crowd was pass completed the drive and it plunged from one yard out afterquiet for the first time. 
was looking as dark for the Irish Tom Gatewood had taken a 28The game was a real thriller as it was for the ABC color yard aerial from Theismann.
for the first three quarters and it cameras which were covering the Gatewood kept his nation-lead­may have been even more of a late afternoon contest. ing stats up in the ionospherenail-biter if a Missouri defensive When the Irish took the kick­with 8 more catches good forback had been a step quicker on off it looked as though they 123 yards. He now has 44 recep­a scoring play in the third quar­
might be stymied once again. tions in five gamr.ter. 
But Theismann, who was tre­Even though the Irish did
Missouri entered the game mendous on third and how and commit five turnovers theirminus seven regulars but the Ed Gulyas turns and heads for his first touchdown after fourth and pray situations all showing on national TV mustcrippled Tigers put up a heroic eluding Henry Stuckey. 
afternoon, complete an 18 yard still be considered impressive. pass to his fullback Bill Barz and They came back after being this may have been the key play headed for the first time this
Statistics-if anyone is beHer••• 
of the game. It came on a third season. They showed great TD and nine situation. strrngth in the line even without
TEAM STATISTICS MU ND RECEIVING NO YDS First Downs Rushing 8 17 Gatewood 1 The ND defense stiffened up All-American guard Larry Di­
8 123 
First Downs Passing 4 9 Barz 6 56 0 and du Lac took over once again N a r do. Joe Theismann did First Downs by Penalty 0 1 Gulyas 30 1 but deep in their own territory nothing to discourage writers TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 12 27 
following a 64 yard punt by and fans alike in their view of 
Number Attempts Rushing 31 73 
Jack Bastable. The highlight of who should get the trophy that 
Yards gained Rushing 164 293 
AVG the 92 yard march that followed names the best player in the
Yards lost Rushing 36 13 PUNTING NO. 
· was the scoring play itself. On country. He kept his percentage
NET YARDS RUSHING 128 280 2 31 5
Yoder 
· fourth down and four from the near 62% with 15 completions in 
Number Passes Attempted 27 24 Number Passes Completed 8 15 NO. YDS. Mizzou 30, Theismann threw to 24 attempts. 
PUNT RETURNS 
Number Passes had Intercepted 2 2 Ed Gulyas on an "out pattern" Maybe Dan Devine summed
Schlezes 2 20 NET YARDS PASSING 80 209 and when Henry Stuckey, the up the Irish best after the game. 
Number Plays Total 58 97 KICKOFF RETURNS NO. YDS. Tiger defender, went for the ball "Well, I don't really want to gel TOTAL OFFENSE 208 489 
Crotty 2 19 and came up with an armful of involved in the argument about 
Number Interceptions 2 2 
Allan 1 15 air there was nothing but the who is Number One, but if there 
Yards Interceptions Returned 43 0 
Minnix 1 3 bumpy stadium between Gulyas is anybody better than Notre
Number Times Punted 6 2 
Dame, I don't know... " 
Number Punts had blocked 0 0 PUNTING AVERAGE 40 31.5 Number Punts Returned 27 20 Number Punts Returned 2 2 NET YARDS PUNTS RT'D. 27 20 MISSOURI Number Kickoffs Returned 3 4 Yards Kickoffs Returned 63 37 Number Times Penalized 3 5 
RUSHING ATT YDS TD
TOTAL YARDS PENALIZED 55 49 
Harrison 11 99 0Number Times Fumbled 0 3 Farmer 10 20 0NUMBER FUMBLES LOST 0 3 Mauser 5 17 
0 Gray 3 
-1 0 Roper 2 
·7 0
NOTRE DAME 3 0 7
14 24 MISSOURI 0 7
0 0 7 PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TD
SCORING 
Farmer 18 4 1 33 1 NO: Hempel 22 fieldgoal 
Roper 9 4 47 0 MU: Gray 10 pass from Farmer. Bastable kick NO: Gatewood 5 pass from Theismann, Hempel kick NO: Gulyas 30 pas f 
RECEIVING NO YDS TD
ND: Gulyas 30 pass from Theismann, Hempel kick Henley 2 33 0NO: Gulyas 1 run, Hempel kick 
Gray 2 28 1 Walls 3 20 0 Mauser 1 -1 0 
NOTRE DAME 
RUSHING ATT YDS TO 
PUNTING NO. AVG. 
Barz 17 62 0 Bastable 3 46 
Allan 17 79 0 James Harrison was the leading ground gainer with 99 yards in
Farmer 3 34
Theism ann 14 56 0 only 11 attempts. 

Gulyas Cieszkowski Gatewood Parker  15 6 1 2  48 22 4 6  1 0 0 0  PUNT RETURNS Gray Fink  NO. 1 1  YDS. 17 10  
Dewan  1  3  0  KICKOFF RETURNS  NO.  YDS.  
Walls  1  9  
PASSING  ATT  COMP  INT  YDS  TD  Gray  10  
Theismann  24  15  2  209  2  Fink  44  


