


VOL. IV, No. 77 Serving the NotrelJame and .':)aii11 Mary's Colle}ie Community WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1970 
Faculty Senate submits proposals 
By Steve Hoffman and Shawn Hill 
getically to stimulate more active recruiting on this campus by public and private educa­tional institutions for employ­ment or graduate study, and by organizations directed primarily 
"That the Placement Bureau provide facilities where students interested in using the Bureau can meet with other members of the University interested in providing information con­the Faculty Senate. 
The fifth recommendation of last night's meeting reads "That the Placement Bureau expand its services relevant to summer employment by attempting to 
sort . mentioned in recom­mendation 2. Examples of such employers are Vista and CILA. In a continuation of the trend 
toward co-education the Faculty 
Senate recommended "that the 
to the alleviation of social illsThe Faculty Senate met last and to the improvement of theevening in extended session general quality of life in ourprimarily for the purpose of society.
considering and deciding upon The Faculty Senate's thirdresolutions proposed by the proposal begins by stating thatSenate committees on Student "the University must maintainAffairs and on Administration of its position as a forum for thethe University concerning the free exchange of ideas. To thisplace and the function the end, it must insure that spokes­Placement Bureau has in the men from both sides of employ­University. 
ment issues can be heard in aAfter exhaustive debate and reasonable and civilized manner.
compromise upon the relative Therefore, it is recommendedmerits of the proposals of each that the Placement Bureau seekcommittee, the Senate passed out opportunities for suchfor recommendation ten resolu­exchanges and allocate funds for tions defining the function of this purpose." 
the Placement Bureau. 
Furthermore, the Senate asksThe first rccom mendation that any organization recruitingstates: "That the Placement on campus answer any questi6ns Bureau be retained as an activity that may be submitted by aunder the jurisdiction of the student faculty committee. IfVice President for Public Rela­the organization fails to suffi­tions and Development. It shall ciently answer the questionsbe his responsibility to sec that posed by the committee, fundsthe Placement Bureau is directed may be made available forin a fashion responsive to the research and publication ofchanging needs of the students findings by the committee. 
and to the standards of the The last provision of thisUniversity. The faculty senate recommendation requests "Thatfelt that the abolition of the funds should be provided forplacement Bureau at the present study into implementing Fr.
time would be both unjustified Burtchaell's proposal to createand precipitous. 
an independent agency to eval­The second recommendation uate the social contributions ofasks that the Placement Bureau firms and organizations."
move immediately and ener-
Nutting for President drive gains momentum 
By Jim Hayes underway in the Nutting for 
The Nutting for President President campaign. According Campaign is gaining momentum, to Steve Raymond, "Informa­according to Steve Raym(md tion is being distributed in the and Karen Grabowski, two of its dining halls." leaders. The campaign has pick­Other activities include the ed up support among not only distribution of bumper stickers students, but faculty and ad­and buttons. An indicator of the ministrators as well. interest shown in the campaign 
The only complaint the Nutt­is that both stickers and buttons ing organization has voiced is have run out and more have had that "some people have taken to be ordered. things the wrong way." To Nick Scarpelli has also started support this, they point to two· organizing a fund-raising dinner misconceptions as reported in for the campaign in early March. The Observer this past week. To "Letters have been mailed to a reports that they wish to retire number of alumni asking for their Fr. llesburgh, they reply, "This opinions of the Chancellor-Presi­change is not an attempt to dent structure as well as Fr. upseat or retire Father Hesburgh llesburgh," continued Ray­as President; rather it is an mond. It has also been learned attempt to elevate Father lies­that the next issue of the burgh to the post of Chancellor Alumnus will contain an article and install Dr. Nutting as Presi­about Dr. Willis D. Nutting. dent." They continue to empha­The Nutting Campaigners sized that they "have no ax to wish to emphasize that they grind, but the office duties are have no gripe with Fr. Hesburgh, too big for one man." but they feel that "a more 
The second misconception perfect community" would re­about their campaign is that it is sult from a change in the present "ambiguous". Karen Grabowski, administrative structure. a spokesman for the Nutting Within the next few days, campaign, replied to this criti­campaigners for Dr. Nutting cism: "The President-Chancellor promised to present literature on structure is possible." The Chan­Dr. Nutting from students, facul­cellor takes care of University ty and administrators. This will affairs off campus, the President, be distributed around campus in on campus affairs. She continu­the near future. ed to explain, "Research shows The campaign has recently some of the best schools in the put up a Petition in the Huddle country use it, for example, the and O'Shaughnessy Hall, inter­California State Universities. It is ested persons are asked to sign in the universities' best interest." to express their support of the 
Several activities are currently proposed change. 
cerning the corporate activities increase the number of pros­University of Notre Dame and of employers using the Bureau" pective employers utilizing the Saint Mary's College explore the is the fourth recommendation of service, particularly those of the (Continued on page 2) 

Iilll 
....-:..--­

The faculty Senate met in extended session last night, and passed resolutions calling for, among other things, the continuation of the Placement Bureau. 
SMC student senators assemble, to consider new election policy 
Pat McCuster, LeMans senator. 
Re-vote Denied

Despite the opposition's argu­
By Ann Therese Darin 
Denied a revote by Driscoll on
ment, a majority of senators, the grounds that it would have
notably from the freshman andSMC senators met in student been superfluous to vote twice
;ophomore classes, voted for the
assembly last night to discuss on the issue, Tracey proceeded
resolution with a 9-6 vote.
changes in student government to move for adjournment. Upon
DepartiQ.g from the underclass
regulations before upcoming stu­defeat of this move, Tracey left. 
bloc was Irish McNamara, sopho­
dent elections. The most import­With her absence, senators decid­more senator.
ant issue of the evening was a ed to postpone discussing a bill
In a hotly-contested debate
motion to drop all qualifications co-sponsored by her concerning
about voting procedures, the
for student body president and a restructuring of student gov­
motion was defeated because it
vice-president. Instigated by Ann ernment.
did not pass with a 2/3 majority. 
Marie Tracey and Louise 
Brought up again after voting on
McGrath, the proposal would 
Will Tape Meetings 

a bill allowing academic discuss­
permit freshmen and sopho­
ion in the student assembly,
mores to run for SMC's highest Other action at the meetingTracey asked for a revote.
elective student offices. 
centered on tickets in elections,
"The chair has not acted as a 
committee assignments for stu­Underclass SBP chair, but as prime debator," she dent body president, vice-presi­
accused. "It is time for under­
Among the assenters for the dent, and academic commission­
class votes to be considered."
bill was sophomore senator Ann er, coverage of meetings, and
With the absence of Irish
Marie Tracey. "If an underclass­permission of student assembly
McNamara, there was a possibili­
men is allowed to run, she is 
ty of passing the motion. (Continued on page 2)
going to be here and will have to face up to the students next year if she does a poor job," Tracey 
Wild riot in Seattle protests
commented. "Other schools, such as Notre Dame and St. John's, have no 

against the conspiracy trial 
class requirement for presiden­tial offices," she added. SEATTLE (UPI)-A thousand men were hit by rocks and by 
Debbie Carvatta, freshman 
demonstrators charged the U.S. pink and blue paint hurled by the demonstrators. 
senator, also favored the bill. "A courthouse Tuesday in a protest girl who would be a junior ~ext against the Chicago riot conspir­A hand grenade with the pin year would have pull with both acy trial. They battled police, intact was thrown through a classes," she argued. threw rocks through windows second floor window. and lobbed tear gas into the At least two women were building. among mor~ than two dozen
No Time for Study 
Police closed in on the 
arrested oand included in the screaming protestors from two demonstration' were about aOpposing arguments dealt 
sides, swinging clubs and making dozen saffron robed members ofwith potential harm to cumula­arrests. 
the Hare Krishna religious sect.
tive scholastic averages, friction 
Police burst from behind the
between upper and lower classes, The tear gas hurled into the
locked courthouse doors as the
and experience. "I can't see a court house sent employees
mob ran across the lawn toward
girl getting into a major and running to the upper floors
the building, and other officers
having that, too," commented where they bathed their eyes
who had been waiting across the
Beth Driscoll, student body with wet towels.
street in the Seattle public
vice-president. 

library closed in from behind. After the initial charge the club melee a demonstration broke up and at
Friction Between Classes In a swingin~ 
number of demonstrators were least· one • large group set off "It will create friction in beaten and arrested, and plain­toward the center of the finan­clothes and uniformed police-cial district, breaking windows.
junior and senior classes," added 
PAGE 2 7HB OBSERfiER. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1970 

Faculty Senate recommends that 
organizations answer tf.~.!.~!!?!~.,w'" 
(Continued from page 1) protests of Profe_ssor Paul forwarded by Professor Joseph possibility of consolidating their McClain of the Enghsh Depart-Brennan of the English Depart~ 
placement activities into a single ment, countered that the Senate ment. office or at least of establishing is not empowered to make value His first resolution, which recipr~city in the use of facilities -judgements. for the com-calls for the right of official and services." mun i ty, and also contended representation of the Student 
A seventh recommendation, that the refusal of recruitment Senate to speak before the stipulating that the Placement implies condemnation of the Faculty Senate without special Bureau be required to prepare particular recruiter. Further, It parliamentary machinery, was brochures summarizing its ser-was stated that such prohibition favorably referred to the Senate vices, procedures, and policies would in effect pass judgement Executive Committee. ' for distribution to all members on the organization and would His second resolution, also of the University community, make the University vulnerable passed, recommended that grad-including alumni, passed uncon-to any and every such plea that uate students should have access tested. protests some organization. to a personal dossier of letters of 
The eighth recommendation Therefore, the SAC recom-recommendation and similar provides for the decision of the mendation was defeated and academic credentials when they administrative officers of the replaced by that of the Commit-should have need for them in Placement Bureau concerning tee on Administration of the such situations as returning from the implementation of the ten University which does not bar service or temporary employ­Senate recommendations. Ac-organizations from campus, but ment to enter graduate school or cording to this provision, such stipulates that if complaints some other occupation. 
evllluation would be made avai-against any organization are !able to the Senate before affirmed by either the Faculty August I, 1970. Senate, the Student Senate, the The recommendation receiv-SLC, or the Graduate Student 
CPA fills ing the most debate and dis-Union regarding failure to dis­agreement dealt with the ques-close and discuss information 
By Greg Pudhorodsky 
tion of whether or not organiza-concerning the organization's tions which deny the possibility activities, then the Placement In coordination with Com­
of open discussion should be Bureau will notify the employer plicity Week, February 16 to 26,permitted to recru!t on campus that a record of that action a1 d members of the Coalition for 
with the permission of the the reasons for it would be made Political Action are making avail­Placement Bureau. available to all students seeking able literature outside of the 
The Senate Student Affairs interviews with that employer. 
placement office which they feel Committee endorsed the earlier The final recommeq.dation of will fill the "information gap"SLC contention that such the Senate proposes that the which exists for students con­
organizations, expressly the CIA, Director of the Placement cerning corporation recruitment be prohibited from such recruit-Bureau invite all organizations to on the Notre Dame campus. 
ing. They reasoned that the CIA, send representatives to partici­The CPA's primary selection in rejecting discussion and with-pate in open discussion "with is a pamphlet titled "Misplace­holding information, should not members of the University. 
ment at Notre Dame." Compiled be allowed use of campus In other business, two resolu­by their research team over facWties. tions one concerned with the 
semester break, it contains the Hc{wever, a number of Place,ment Bureau, the other 
group's basic statement on Com­Senators, spearheaded by the with student speaking privileges 
plicity Week. Also included is a list of the thirty companies which will recruit in the ten day
Discuss election policy 
period, with notation concerning (Continued from page 1) popularity contests." those which have Notre Dame Senators agreed to permit trustees as directors or whose
to discuss academic affairs. Presidential and vice-presiden­WSND to tape their meetings. stock is owned by Notre Dame. 
They also unanimously voted to The rest of the brochuretial candidates will be permitted 
to run,on tickets in upcoming 
seat the student body president consists of an index which lists elections. "One ticket versus on the student affairs and the corporations according to another," explained Driscoll, 
academic affairs council. She such classifications as chemical "may make SMC elections be­
will also chair the student and biological warfare, racial come · issue contests and not assembly discrimination, and economic 

Dr. Albert E. Miller, as8istant professor of metallurgical engineering and material scienes at the University of Notre Dame, performs a demonstration for his engineering materials co_urse. The 70 students taking the class can observe every . detail of the experiment, as projected on the large screen of the closed-circuit television. 


'information· gap' 
imperialism, and an individual any "legitimate corporations" 
analysis of seventeen of the would be allowed to recruit at 
companies concerning these pro­Notre Dame. The aim of the 
cedures. booklet is to point out various 
In order to defer printing facts and practices of these 
costs the pamphlets sell for corporations which "expose 
prices which range from one their illr.gality" as institutions. 
dollar for company recruiters, a One of the two ~ccruiters for 
quarter for students, a dime for Dow Chemical was approached 
interviewees. and asked for a statement 
Other literature is also avail­concerning the current protest. 
able which came to the CPA Though not aware of the exis­
from such sources as the D.C. 9 tence of the CPA's pamphlet he 
Defense Committee, the Non­felt that the current protest was 
Violence Committee, and the somewhat senseless for the 
South Bend Chapter of the New action will not stop Dow from 
University Conference. The lat­currently recruiting on over 200 
ter also co-sponsored the main campuses. He saw that their real 
work. objection was with the war, 
Those me1~bers manning the which he himself opposed, and 
desk stated that the material was thought they should stem their 
moving rather well and that it energies in that direction. 
had been obtained by members Though he would not speak 
of the administration and fac­for company policy on the 
ulty, as well as students and morality of the use of napalm 
recruiters. which Dow produced, he was 
Those distributing the litera­willing to express a personal 
ture stated that they have opinion. He stated that the 
experienced no adverse reaction "actual morality" in the issue 
to their action, and that they was "in the decision of the 
expected none. The tables and corporations on whether they 
chairs that they were using were were going to use the techno­
Tonight! Important Ticket Sales Junior Parents: Son Weekend 6:30· 9:30 
Wed., Feb. 18 -Tom Dooley Room -LaFortune 
Tues., Feb. 24 -Blue-Gold Room .. LaFortune 
Wed., Feb. 25 -Blue-Gold Room -LaFortune 
provided as a result of the Student Life Council's recom­mendation of February 9, urging such facilities for such purposes. 
When asked what purpose their action promoted, a spokes­man for the group referred to Father Hesburgh's statement at the initial meeting of the Univer­sity's Forum, which said that logical Ifotential they had avail­able to save American lives. The answer he said was apparent. 
The recruiter also stated that th~ only reason that Dow was not currently producing napalm was that they had lost the governmental bid and would try in the future to secure the contract again. 


Open Sat. & Sun. Wh. Nites 12:45 6:30 

TICKETS FOR 
Plus Thar She Blows 
Presidential Dinner 
Saturday Luncheon 

SEE BOTH AS LATE AS 9:30 
Communion Breakfast 


PAGE 3
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1970 

711E OBSERIJM 
Dr.JohnH.Yoder Theology and Conscientious Objection 
The author is a leading Mennonite theologian and teaches "The Theology of War, Peace, and Revolution" at Notre Dame. 
All a brief article can do is to itemize the variety of possible ways in which one can come morally to a conscientious objector position. We would have to argue at great length if we were to seek to measure to what extent any one of these positions is "valid" or "right". We would even have to debate what criteria could probably or possibly measure such "validity": should it be a measurement of legality according to the Constitution and, laws of the country? or should it be some kind of ideal law, what ought to be according to the American dream? or should it be the internal criterion of consistency with one's own commitment? or should it be the measurement of whether a position fits the permanent valid teachings of the historic Christian community? Such a debate must be set aside, and having set it aside for the present, we must be satisfied with a catalog. 
There is a morally honest conscientious objection based upon what the U.S. Selective Service law calls "religious training and belief." Numerous small Protestant denominations (Mennonite and Amish, Society of Friends, German Baptist and Brethern, several different movements called Church of Christ, Church of God, and Pentecostal), teach as their official position that a member in good standing in their fellowship will not accept military service. Respect for the religious liberty of these groups underlies the actual legislation currently in effect in the U.S. This legislation does not ask where such groups get their particular teaching or whether they are theological­ly valid. The argument for religious liberty is the only ground for privilege of exemption from military service. It i~_ assumed by the law that such sects will not be large or numerous enough to threaten the existing order. This under­standing of conscientious objection, though it is historically speaking at the 
origin of the present legislation, is not 
immediately relevant to anyone not a 
member of any such group, as the average 
Notre Dame student is not. 

There is the position of "absolute ·conscience." The very concept of "con­science" includes its autonomy. The understanding of conscience which has developed over recent centuries interprets the integrity of conscience as not necessarily responsible or accountable to any other authority outside itself. It needs no proof for its own integrity, which no one, not even any public authority, has the right to violate. This conception of the absolute authority of the individual conscience, for such individuals as make such a claim, is at the root of the label now currently accepted for the "conscientious" objector. It is at the root of the British practice of conscientious objector recognition. It is also the basis for a proposal made by Prof. Ralph Potter of Harvard, according to which the conscientious objector claims to be recognized by the Selective Service should be based not upon the particular denominational membership or doctrinal conviction of a person but only on a measure of the sincerity of his conscience. Such an understanding of the integrity of conscience is also present in CO claims of many today for whom the present law (as u~ually interpreted by local boards) does not make room. 
There is conscientious objection based upon the honest study of particular cases. Without considering it my business to reject all thinkable wars, or to stand in judgement upon all past wars, it is possible for me to recognize a moral duty to evaluate in a given situation the pros and cons of a military undertaking, projected or real. If I find that a given war is being fought for an unjust cause or being fought with weapons which are uncontrollable, then that war is wrong and it is my moral responsibility to refuse to participate. This is the position which is coming to be called "just war objection"' or "selective objection". In principle it ought to fit under the heading of "conscience", because !!n individual who makes such an evaluation is exercis­ing his individual moral responsibility in a conscientious way. In principle it should also come under the heading of "religious 
training and belief", for a Catholic or a Lutheran should have been taught that it is the position of his church to refuse to participate in an unjust war. Some local draft boards apparently will respect this kind of position as fitting in with the intent of the law, although it does not fit the strict meaning of the law. This is a position which major church bodies have recently spoken· to defend: the American Catholic Bishops' Conference, the Luther­an and the United Presbyterian denomin­ations, and the World Council of Churches. This is one position which any honest Catholic must take very seriously, since it is the honest application of traditional Catholic teaching in a new situation. 
There is also the conscientious object­ion which is derived from revolutionary disavowal. Whereas the positions charac­terized above rest on a decision about what is right or wrong for me or for the situation, this position expresses an opinion about the legitimacy of the social order. It is because the system is proclaimed to be illegitimate that one refuses to obey it. The wrongness of the system demands that I say no to it regardless of whether I am in a position to replace it by a better alternative. This concept that it is possible to declare a government illegitimate. can be traced back through the French and American revolutions into earlier Catholic and Protestant thought about legitimate gov­ernment. Today this kind of refusal to fight is represented for instance by the I yippies. It can, by definition, not expect 
Jo be respected by the authorities. 
The varieties listed above-vary from one another in the way they think about the framework of morality. It would of course be fitting to turn as well to the variety of actual moral value commit­ments which can lead to the rejection of war: 
(I) There i~ the concentration upon the sanctity of life or the dignity of the person. One reason for rejecting Waf · that the life or the honor of my neighbo is an absolute value which I have no right to destroy. Such an understanding may be founded upon a literal reading of the Ten Commandments or upon a modern understanding of the dignity of man, or upon some other conception of why the person of my neighbor is the bearer of divine value. 
(2) 
It is possible to reject war because one rejects the pride, the self-affirmation, the violence as wrong in itself. It can be argued it was as by Gandhi that truth itself is the only true power, so that he who uses violence instead of truth has thereby disqualified his cause. It can be argued as it was by Martin Luther King that violence is essentially self-defeating, so that he who uses violence destroys th-e end he claims to serve by the means he chooses. It can be said, as by Jesus, that as he came among men to be a servant rather than a lord, so His disciples should be servants rather than lords. In these and many other ways, the rejection of war can spring from a moral rejection of the means, quite apart from a calculation of how much harm it does. 

(3) 
Or the definition of value might be in a particular human community. It might be as with sectarian and monastic groups, a refusal to take a given set of national interests very seriously because it is on a smaller scale that what needs to be done really happens. Or it may be, as with Pope Paul VI at the United Nations, because one looks beyond the nation to a wider world community which is morally more important than the defens~ or the special interests of a nation. 


Each of these ways of locating the value for the sake of which one challenges or rejects war has its limits theologically, but also each has a real validity. Each of them is at least sufficiently valid to oblige us to deny that one should in all circumstances without limitation be will­ing to serve any national government in, war. 
Tomorrow: Part Four 

The Academic Affairs Committee of the Student Senate will



Fear conspiracy jury may be hung 
CHICAGO (UPI)-A govern­ment source said Tuesday chan­ces of a clear cut prosecution victory might be lessening as a federal court jury deliberated the fate of the "Chicago Seven" 
Hope to start gram soon
prO 
The Desserts for Breakfast Program, which was originally proposed back in October by Prof. Charles McCarthy, is al­most ready for implementation. The plans, which are currently being finalized, will be presented to the administration later this week. The food for the breakfasts will be purchased with the money gained, by the students running the program. Hopefully it will be distributed to approximately five com­munity action centers. At first, organizers claim, they may not be able to distribute the food to all five centers, but they eventually hope to do so. 
If the program is accepted by the administration, organizers for a fourth day without signs of a verdict. 
The defendants and their lawyers in the riot conspiracy trial debated in Cook County jail, where the seven antiwar militants were serving contempt sentences, when to move for a 
mistrial and discharge of the jury as deadlocked. The 1o women and two men, who deliberated 30 hours during the first three days after they retired, went back to work before 9:30 a.m. CST Tuesday under the usual tight security curtain. There was no word from 
U.S. District Judge Julius J. Hoffman that he planned to call in the jurors to check on their progress. 
The government source, who would not permit use of his name, said that as time went by it "looked worse" for the prosecution and his apprehen­sions of either a hung jury or a divided verdict were "rising." 
The source said the prosecu­tion had expected the jury would return a verdict by Monday night on the charges hold an open meeting tonight at 7 o'clock in the Fiesta Lounge. They will discuss the academic grievance committee and thethat the defendats conspired to ombusdman service. 
incite riots during the 1968 Democratic National Conven­tion. 
After a forenoon conference with their defendants, chief 
Grab your bobby sox... 
defense attorney William M. Kunstler addressed a rally of Chicago ~even supporters at the 
Take him to TWIRP Federal Building Plaza and attor­ney Leonard I. Weinglass went to a law library to do research. 
Friday Feb. 20 9:00 PM -1:00 AM Tickets $350 at SMC Post Office
He said "political" defendants in the future "are not going to 
and Reignbeaux 
be supine and passive." He said 
~----;iiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiiliiiliiiiliiiliiiliiiiliiiiliiiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiililiiilliiiiiil--l
they "will stand up and should 
1 

stand up like Dave Dellinger did 
many times and say' 'I'm going 
to be heard. If you're going to 
lie about me, I'm going to be 
heard." 

Henry L. Pitts, president of the Illinois Bar Association, at a news conference accused the defense lawyers of "a bold and deliberate assault upon the judi­cial system itself." He called for an investigation leading to possi­ble disbarment of the pair. 
FLY

hope to start it by the beginning~-_...:__ _::_____________________ 

of March. A plea was issued by the organizers to those 2400  Senior Faculty-Senior Night - 
students who did sign away their  
desserts for the afternoon and  
evening meals not to renege on  
their promise  Your NaVIII Aviation Information T•m will be on campus  
At the AJurnni CJub Wednesday: 8:30 Buy your Prof a beer  Date _ _:F:..e::..:b::..:._1_8~,_1_9....:.,_2..;..0______ Place _ Contact Placement Office __:_::_______________  
The Observer 15 published dally during the college 5emester except vacations . by students of the Univer511Y of Notre Oame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purcha5ed for $8 from The Obterver, Box l l, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Damt>. Ind., 46!\56.  


PAGE 4 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1970
THB OBSERflllt 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
0 O~'T ~NOW vJ HO 6H~ IS, SOT w,.._s I':TT~C.k~D SY SDM.~ "A"I 0 ~~N wliH /4. ~~'\V~\..-A111..-.n~'l\ 
Editorial 
Student participation in security 
Since the beginning of the year The Observer has been pushing for.. improvements in the Security Department. Obviously there is much that. needs to be improved. Our efforts we feel were influencial in bringing about the various investigations conducted by both the Student Life Council and the Student• Senate and also the investigation that was performed by a consulting firm at the request of the Vice-President's Council. 
The consulting firm's report is in and since the contents remain to be released we can only say that we would hope that the University implements those suggestions that would best be able to insure that there is adequate protection of life and property at Notre Dame. We know that Mr. Pears has already taken steps towards improving the protection of the parking lots. Much remains to be done though as can be evidenced by the fact that last week the aerials were snapped off of no less than 1 0 cars which were parked close together in D-1. 
It is obvious that some o( the vandalism that occurs is the result of non-students who come to campus with malicious intent or from organized rings of thieves who pilfer the parking lots. Some of the vandalism however can be attributed to a source closer to home. Notre Dame students themselves. The elimination of that part of the problem rests more on the shoulders of Notre Dame men than on the Security Department. 
Some of the vandalism that is done in the parking lots can be attributed to students who are looking for kicks when they come back drunk at night after parties or a round or two at the local bars. The new arm on the shuttle bus gate on route 31 has been broken over twenty times since it was installed according to the driver. We feel that it is the responsibility of students to insure that the minority of students who persist in such childish actions are not allowed to have their way. Cases of vandalism and malicious actions should be handled through the Hall Judicial Boards or reported to Security. Unless the Student Body intends to take care of its own offenders it is hard to demand that the Security Department handle the problems. 
We realize that there is much that the Security forces can be criticized for. At the same time though we feel that the students must make some attempt to acknowledge the job that the current under-staffed department is doing. The SLC investigation into the Security Department brought out one startling fact. The Security Department has been trying to recruit better and more competent personnal but often losses new recruits because of the abuse that many of them take from students while they are on duty. 
A middle aged recruit who was spending his first night on a beat walking around campus took so much verbal abuse from students that he never joined the. force. Often the guards at the gate have to put up with the arrogance of a minority of students who feel that they are better than the rest of the student body and deserve a right to drive on campus. Some stop for a second at the gate, make a wise crack or two, and then gun through, while others don't stop at all. 
The abuses just mentioned are by and large the product of a minority segment of the student body. We feel, however, that the majority just can't sit by and tolerate it. If we want a fine Security force we must go half way. We don't think that that is too much to ask. 
,j~. 




,.... 
....~.,. 
letters to tile Editor 

"American Way of Death"? able. Is this unreasonableness and prejudice (love of neighbor) Editor: that which the Engineering Col­With regards to the Engin­lege Council finds undesireable? eering College Council's state­Am I the one who iS really using ment: "An institution devoted the university to support to the intellectual and moral "immediate socio-political development" which "Not only goals?" Am I one of "those who tolerates but invites would unthinkingly trifle with reasoned answers supported by the survival of the University as scholarship, not feelings" is one of the few open societies living (or dying, in the specific left to mankind today", and case of, perhaps, Notre Dame) a against whom Fr. Hesburgh lie. "Moral development," the recognizes the "right to protest . 
manifestation of which is called 
.. and resist as well"? And this "feelings", which does not have, by virtue of my love of my or can not have, an effect upon neighbor as opposed to blind how we answer the "diverse and faith in "the American Way of controversial opmwns, (and) Life (death)"? inquiries" facing us is, in fact, no moral development at all, and 
Do those things, rather, which "moral development" remains as really threaten the University asa propaganda device. To say that we have known and loved it,a university is dedicated to come from outside the univer­scholarship alone and not also to sity? Do Dow Chemical and the"feelings" (morals, respect for C.I.A. (and the economic andothers-either because we see political system of which theyourselves in them or because we are indicative) represent "the see God in them-love, hope, reasoned opinions of mankind"?
etc.) is to say that Universities Are the "prejudice,s" of thesehave no committments to those two systems so favorable that wethings which "feelings" can help not only neglect to exercise anyso much to bring about, i.e., 
critical function over these sys­cooperation, understanding, tems, but actually coo~eratewisdom, peace. I believe that with and avidly seek the favor ofmost Universities have com­these systems? If our compliancemitments of this nature and that with these systems is consistentthis is entirely consistent with ' with ..the ends of our commun­the idea of a university. Of ity, then we should encouragecourse, this dedication is better even closer bonds with them; ifreflected in the answers a univer­the business of the destructionsity offers (or the manner in and exploitation of our fellowwhich it attempts to answer) human beings and the politicalthan by the first page of the manipulations which facilitatestudent manual. 
this business represent the rea­The Engineering College soned opinions of mankind, andCouncil says that our com­not just the desires of a powerfulmunity is "marked by a decent minority, then I am withoutrespect for the reasoned opin­reason and request to have myions of mankind". They also say recent suspension overruled onthat we should be detached, the grounds of my insanity. 
"not from the issues, but de­Sincerely yours, tached from the prejudices Mar~ Mahoney
which sadly mark current issues. "These are not bad statements, but what are the "reasoned opinions of mankind" and what are these "prejudices"? If I were PLEASE NOTE that the to identify myself with my Placement Bureau is hardly the neighbor and refuse to partici­central issue in the Dow-C.I.A. pate in his exploitation or debate: it is merely the final destruction, I think that this manifestation of the compliance 
would be a reasonable, though of the university with the
Joseph Wemhoff, Business Mgr. Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer The opinions expressed in the 
not purely rational, and quite "socio-political" goals of its
Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. Photography Editor: Mike ed[torials, news analyses, and 
l'llews Editor: Glen Corso M!Jrphy 
columns of The Observer are 
surely a prejudiced stand. Per­outside "constituency". I see 
Asst. News Editor: Don Ruane Night Editor: Jim Holsinger 
solely those of the authors and 
haps it is because I oppose the little sense in eliminating the
SMC News Editor: Prue Wear Layout Design: Marty Tieber 
editors· of The Observer and do 
university's complicity with placement bureau, actually, and
Associate Editors: Cliff Win-Layout: Mary Ellen Burke, Ann 
not necessarily reflect the views
trade, Ann Conway, Jeanne 

certain political and industrial though I find arguments for its
Therese Darin, Dan Shaw 

of St. Mary's College, the Univer­
Sweeney 

structures which, though very existence to be interesting, they 
Layout Editor:Mary Ellen Headlines: Rich Smith, Phil sity of Notre Dame, their adminis· •· 
"legal", exploit and destroy my fail to touch the real issue of
Burke Schatz trations, faculty, or student Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Proofreader: Phil Stark bodies. 
neighbor that I am not reason-complicity. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1970 
PAGE 5 
'Damned' director answers questions 
Luchino Visconti, one of the great many places. The danger is everywhere­directors of all time, has crowned his Greece, America, Italy, France. I see brilliant career with one of the most people like Nasser and Papadopolous and widely acclaimed films of recent years, extremist groups in this country like the "The Damned," wi~h which he probes Ku Klux Klan-and I want young people deeply into the German soul as the Nazis to see "The Damned" so they know what were seizing power. happened back then. 
Visconti directed "The Damned" from Q. In "The Damned," one of your a soreenplay he wrote with Nicola characters says, "It does no good to raise Badalucco and Enrico Medioli that your voice when it's too late." What are meticulously dissects the emotional lives your feelings about the right and of the members of a German munitions necessity of protest? dynasty in those terrible days of 1933-34. A. Everyone-yes, everyone-has that Dirk Bogarde, Ingrid Thulin, Helmut right. Sometimes there is violence. It Griem, Helmut Berger, Charlotte Ramp­might be the result of people trying to ling and Florinda Bolkan head the cast of discredit the protest. and it might be a the Technicolor drama. natural result of protest when people feel 
Visconti, who is formally known as there is no other way. I don't recommend Count Luchino Visconti di Modrone, paid it, but it is necessary sometimes. It is only a two-week visit to New York before the valid, however, if you have a plan to American premiere of his new film, substitute for the thing you're against. during which he had many meetings with When violence affects the innocent, such the press, including college journalists. as in the recent bombing in my native Following are some of the questions put Milan, I am very much against it. to Visconti and his direct answers: Q. You have worked extensively in 
Q. Why did you make "The Damned" both the theatre and the cinema? Which 
now? do yoti prefer? 
A. The truth is that "The Damned" is A. Films. Film is the strongest way to late. It should have been made on the day make a point. Lenin and Mussolini both World War II ended. It should have been realized this-Lenin first and then, as made every day since then, and it would usual, copier that he was, Mussolini. have been late on every day that has Goebbels made a number of propoganda passed. But it had to be made. I have felt films for Hitler, but they were very bad the continuing need to make it. That is cinema-bad quality, bad storylines; the because we must see to it that what best propaganda film to be made in Nazi happened in those days in Germany must Germany was the one on the '36 not come again. Olympics. 
Q. Do you think then that there is a Q. What events led to your first film? threat of fascism anywhere today? A. I entertained the idea of film­
A. I see the potential for fascism in making for some time. Then I met Renoir
r"'"=""@"'_,,,..~,,~.....~., 
~ Dave Stauffer I 
l1l1 All for Nutting :~ 
I can see it now. Willis D. Nutting, the internal," there would be unlimited the of Notre
President of University over who handles what in any
' confusion 

Dame du Lac; Theodore Hesburgh, 
certain situation. 

Chancellor of the University of Notre A Dow-CIA demonstration like the Dame duLac. one this fall for example: It's external because it concerns recruitment of potential employees by companies out­
Students have been baffled for years side the university structure. No, it'sover who holds the reigns of power at internal because the physical protest itself Notre Dame. Prior to last year's Porno is on the campus, in a university building, Conference who had heard of Phil performed by students --members ofFaccenda? Afterwards, who hadn't? -­the college community. 
he was the "administration man" during Think of the excitement when thethe semester-long controversy over sin­fifteen minutes is up (if the rule is still ema and MACE. Then, toward the end of valid): Students could bet even money onthe year, Fr. Edmund Joyce, who some whether a Chancellor person or a say hibernates between Anniversary President person will appear, and couldMasses, locked up a few hundred copies also bet about 5: I on any certain member
of Vaciline. 
of the administration. Fun .... and con­Not to be outdone, the Great Chief fusion, too! All in one big game ofannounced amid the flash of cameras his chance. And all this without consideringfifteen minute bit. And when it was the greater dilemma which always seemstested early this year, who should appear to follow the confrontation itself. 
under the Golden Dome but James Riehle (I guess the whole confusion about theand Spiro T. Pears. 
division of powers between a ChancellorPast Observers bear the faces of more and a President arises when you assert theadministration power-people connected understanding that the Chancellor willwith incidents and decisions not quite so not be a public relations man. In the casefamous as those above. In a second Notre Dame presents, one wonders justsemester 1969 edition of the Scholastic, exactly what he will be.) 
Joel Connelly and Tom Paine extensively reviewed the power structure at Notre 
I notice that a letter to the Observer 
Dame, and showed how confusing it from Nutting Headquarters states that actually is. However, the article also "Anyone who has researched the concept recognized the hard fact that Father at length knows that the Chancellor­Ted is ultimately the big man; or what President structure is employed with might be called "Overseer" of the con­great sucl·ess at some of the best schools fused power structure. 
in the country;" etc. I think it is hardlyConfusion? I'm afraid the word will legitimate to argue that because some­have to be redefined to allow for the mess thing works elsewhere it will work here a Chancellor-President arrangement also. Many members of the communitywould cause. I wonder if Chancellor realize that following this type of llesburgh would take his current staff argument has been detrimental to aca­with him (as many football coaches do) demic reform at Notre Dame. To quoteand make them all Vice-Chancellors and Professor Willis D. Nutting (Observer,Special Assistants to the Chancellor. or if Feb. 6, 1970): "It would be disastrous he would leave them for President for Notre Dame to try to copy the other Nutting to worry about and create a universities." 
completely new staff to carry out the 
A final question: lsn't it ironic that day-to-day duties of being a Chancellor? 
Hesburgh 's fifteen-minute rule, the direct Instead of six or seven power-people in result of what could supposedly be called the administration, the students would . an internal affair, almost by itself led the probably be faced with at least ten. With (cur;rent) President into the "external" 
a division of duties as nebulous as limelight, giving birth to an active "Chancellor takes the external and Pres Chancellor-President campaign? 
in Paris. I became his assistant on a Damned," I try to explain, in the 
picture. After that, I began to realize that development of the family, the parallel of I wanted to express myself through the what happens in all Germany and later in medium of the cinema. all the world. That's all! try to say. 
Q. After World War II, you were Q. Would you like to make a film innamed with Rosselini and DeSica as the United States? 
Italy's "Big Three" in film-making. Now A. I believe I would have to live here you are still one of the Italian "Big for about ten years before I sufficientlyThree," grouped with Fellini and Anto­understood the Americans to make a film nioni. How would you classify your style with a plot set here.
of cinema, compared to the others? 
Q. What film will you make next? 

A. I'm a realist. Fellini is involved with A. I expect to start Thomas Mann'sthe construction of dreams, while Antoni­"Death in Venice" in that city in March. I oni concerns himself with trying to wrote the script with Nicola Badalucco,understand difficult relationships­who also worked with me on thealienation. I admire them both. 
screenplay of "The Damned." Dirk 

Q. Why do so many of your films Bogarde will star for me again in "Death 
center on a family? "The Earth Trem­in Venice," playing the central role of a bles" and "Rocco and His Brothers" were German who develops a strange admira­about insurgent poor Italian families, tion for a Polish youth he meets in "The Leopard" and "Sandra" about Venice. I will use Gustave Mahler's music decaying wealthy ones. in the film, mainly because I understand 
A. I like to have in all my films a that the inspiration for the story was cellula of humanity, a family. In "The Mahler himself.
II 

Bridge 
by Steve Effler 
North 
s -­
H-XXX 
D-Qxxx C-KQJxxx EastWest S-JIOxxxxS-KQxxxx 

H-XXX

H-AJx 
D-XXX

D-XX 
South 
C-x

C-XX 
S-A H-KQxx D-AKxx C-Axxx 

West North East South I Spade p 2 Spades 3 Spades Double p p Redouble 
p p p 
The takeout double and its big brother partner's pass as giving him the choice of ) the cue bid are extremely handy ways of the contract. Since he was completely getting into the bidding after your neutral, he threw it back in North's lap opponents have opened. For a takeout with a redouble. North being an utter double one ought to have 4-4-4-1 shape, fool passed up the cold 6 Club bid to let with the singleton in the bid suit. One his vulnerable partner take a 2200 point should also have the equivalent of an bag. opening hand. This bid is sometimes stretched to make a double on a hand 


Choir to perform

that only has· two out of the three possible suits your partner might bid. 

at Bethel

Generally one tries to cover the unbid 
major. All doubles made of low contracts The Concordia Choir of Concordia before your partner has bid are inter­College, Moorhead, Minnesota, under the preted as a takeout, forcing your partner direction of Paul J. Christiansen, will to give his longest suit unless he can perform this Friday evening, February expect to set the opponents. 20, at 8 p:m. in the Goodman Audi­
The Cue bid (bid of opponent's suit) torium, Bethel College Campus in Misha­ideally has the same shape with 17 or waka. more points or first round control of Tickets may be obtained for $1 :'SO for opponent's suit. In today's hand South adults and $1.00 for students by calling had a beautiful hand and was interested the Bethel College Fine Arts Office, in game in any suit e"xcept Spades. Since 259-8511. The performance of the choir the double by East gives South another is part of the Bethel College Music­turn to bid, South interpreted his Lecture Series. 

Keep those cards and letters co min' --or I'II bl-1-ast ya'!! (Yosemite appears courtesy WNDU and the rabbit conspiracy.) 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18,1970
PAGE 6' 


7HB OMI'.RWR. 
Letters to the Editor-~~­
"Napalm a Lamb" 
Editor: 
Your February 16 issue car­ried a report on the plans of a group of students who intend to "napalm a lamb" in front of the Administration ·building. It seems that burning a lamb would contradict all the principles which they are supposed to be defending. Since the burning of a lamb is a lesser evil than the burning of a human being, it is understandable that they should be allowed to perform this act since the government is allowed to perform their even greater holocausts. Let them not, how­ever, assume they are performing this rite to enrich the Christian community around them. They seem merely to be rationalizing a 
totally  unChristian  act  by  
playing  the  role  of  gods  and  
dealing  out  their  own  kind of  

destructive justice. It seems it is not the conscience of the Notre Dame student that has become desensitized but rather the con­science of those few students and "their complicity with the forces of death." 
David Henner 418 Keenan Hall 
"Of Lambs and Men" 
Editor: 
At this writing, 'a group of students intend to go ahead with their plan to napalm a lamb .on Wednesday, Feb. 18, at 12:30 P.M. 
After reading about this atro­city in today's Observer, I find that my feelings toward it are twofold. My initial reactions were those of shock, disbelief, and anger at the idiotic, inhu­mane and futile aspects of this plan of action. These reactions were followed by a horrible feeling of frustration brought about by my trying to under­stand what these students are trying tQ prove while at the same time keeping in mind the reality of human nature. Obviously, they are against the seemingly senseless killing of innocent people, courtesy of the Vietnam conflict. Apparently, they hope to bring the horror of such killing tQ the immediate atten-
Rossignole -Strata skis for sale. 207 centimeters. Brand New. Still in wrappers. No binding holes. Cheap. 
Call 8017 
tion of the students as well as the Administration of this uni­versity through the sacrifice of an innocent animal. 
To these students and others like them I say this: "I am sure that the members of this com­munity fully realize the horror and senselessness of all wars as well as the killing and suffering they entail. I cannot believe that they enjoy war or find it a desirable thing. These people don't need to smell the burning flesh, hear the scream of excru­ciation pain, or see an animal writhing in pain as it slowly burns to a charred pile of bones and carcass. I would ask you to reconsider what you intend to do this Wednesday, despite the frustration that I'm sure you must feel about the war, and to try to realize that though human conflict is immoral and against the Christian philosophy of life, it has and will continue to occur because of the pathetic yet inherent and persistent desire of men to force their opinions, beliefs, and way of life on their fellow men, regardless of the cost. Foi a concrete example of the kind of men (?) I am talkirig about, you need look no further than yourselves." 
Sincerely, 
Ken Taylor 
105 Stanford 
"Humanists"? 
Editor: 
I would like to condemn the method which is proposed to be used tomorrow in opposition to the Viet Nam war. The concept of napalming any living creature is certainly apalling and grotes­que. I .would like to point-out to these sadistically perverted "humanists" that will do everything in my power to thwart their attempts at this kind of example. A great num­ber of other students have also expressed this opinion. We will not allow, under any condition, this type of insane action to become a part of the Notre Dame community or any other community over which we have some control. What could pos­sibly urge these perverts to pursue a course of action such as napalming a living creature? Are 
they so inane as to assume that the horrifying death by chemical warfare of this innocent lamb 
will alleviate the same method being instrumented in Vietnam? 

f-___,rr-.,---=-.=----:-.---,..-~-~..,lf""T."trh-e.:.y..,.a,...re__so:-:-:w_il7li--:n:::'g:-::-=:to~s-e_e1Hair Styling the -Continental Way-European Layer , Cut, Hair Coloring and Straightening-Specials for students • 
Our Motto: "Have long hair and be well groomed" 
For appointment call 234~0811 Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Bldg. Corner Michigan-Jefferson 

Certified Master Stylists The Baron and Miss Treva to serve and 
pamper you

f-..--~..:...:._:_...::...___________________, of the NFL and the AFL. We 
propose a solution similiar to
The OBSERVER 

that· used by football today. All 
engineers who wish to work in 
industry will submit their names 
and a short resume including a 
transcript, to a central draft 

Needs News Writers . 
Anyone interested m reporting cal1 1715 
JOSS! JOBS! and more JOBS! Stu· dents, Teachers. Stateside and Inter­national Jobs. Recreational Jobs; Year-round Jobs; Summer Jobs. All occupations and trades. Enjoy a vaca­tion while you earn. Hurry! The best jobs are taken early. Write: ".lOBS", 
and ask for the News Editor 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163·1, Lodi, Cal1f. 95240 
something die of napalm burns or suffocation then I suggest that they ask for a volunteer-as absurd as it may seem to them, 
· they probably didn't even wish to consider self-mortification in an effort, to enlist the sympa­thies of others; SATY AGRAHA is the only approach to the solution. 
Again, as much as violence is appalling, we shall use it in order to combat the sick mechanics of the minds of the opponents of those in "complicity with the forces of death". 
" ...he laid down His life for us..." was never meant to read: ". . .they laid down His life 
for us..." Thomas S. Hamilton 418 Walsh Hall 
-M ,
"Government erger 
Editor: 
As concerned members of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's commu­nity, we are sympathetic to the plight of the St.Mary's students concerning their student govern­ment. During the past few years an increase in apathetic feelings has been obvious. We believe that this state of affairs exists not through any fault of the· individual students. Rather, the present situation is a result of the division of the two college communities, with St. Mary's forced to play a secondary role. 
To rectify this rapidly degen­erating condition, we feel that the student governments of both communities, in the spirit of co-education, should follow the example of the Sophomore Class Government and other campus organizations, and merge. 
Such a move couldn't help but extend the feeling of cooper­ation and would certainly pro­vide St. Mary's students with a strong, functioning, governing body. The administrative pro­blems of such a proposal can easily be overcome if the initia­tive can just be taken. 
Sincerely, Tim Connor Mark Zimmerman 
"Engineer Draft" 
Editor: There has been much furor and petty squabbling over the issue of a placement office on campus, especially in light of its 
use by such immoral organiza­
tions as Dow Chemical Co. and the CIA. Our community has been rent asunder by this con­troversy and we feel that we 
have come up with a viable solution which should ,be placed before the rest of the com­munity. 
The present system of recruit­ment is outmoded and costly to the companies since they must pay outrageous starting salaries to unproven engineers. This situation is analagous to the one which existed before the merger pool. Then each company will receive a list of engineers avail­able, and they will draft in reverse order of their corporate earnings of the previous year. Companies will be able to trade engineers already employed either for established engineers or draft choices. The draft will continue until the draft pool is 

empty, but a company need not draft every round. Then the companies will negoti:fte con­tracts with the engineers they have drafted. The companies will also be able to sign free agents, those engineers who did not make themselves available in the draft pool. If an engineer does not wish to work for the company which drafted him, then he must sit out for one y,ear and then he is free to negotiate a contract with any company as a free agent. 
This solution offers innumer­able benefits to the Military-Industrial Complex bu( it will also be of great value to the community since it will remove one of the major stumb­ling blocks which hinders a rapproachment between the rightist and the leftist elements on campus. We urge each stu­dent to write letters to the companies he owns stock -in urging them to adopt .this program. 
Sincerely, 
Bob Masenga 
Carl Mehrback 
1116 Flanner Tower 
"Exhibition of Absurdity" 
Editor: 
The conscience of Notre 
Dame students is no longer 
desensitized by its "lack of 
awareness of the human suffer­
ing going on in Vietnam." This is 
the statement a group of stu­
dents would like to be able to 
make after having napalmed a 
lamb on February 18, 1970 at 
12:30. Need a killing occur before we are "aware"? Another group of students have organized and feel this killing is not necessary and would only serve to antagonize. A lamb is symbolic of the victimization and slaughtering of innocent people in a war-torn, small, Asian country. Whether it is the supression of dissenting ... national ideas of Americans, or the fear and suffering inflicted on a culturally foreign people. the United States and its institu­tions have indeed become hardened and blind to what they are really doing. But Notre Dame students are still limited in their real awareness of the absurdity of such politics and killings. The burning of a help­less lamb may in fact further stir students' consciences, but at what price? An animal is slaughtered .in order 'to have a demonstrative impact on men with regards the "sickening 
smell" of war, supression, and death. This fact is one which is in immediate need of being 

realized by those of a Christian 
and concerned community. 

But why . kill, and thereby make February 18, 1970 only another day on which lives have been lost in an absurd death, at the hands of Americans? Na­palming a lamb may show many students' disapproval of Dow and Honeywell's war contribu­tions; but it also demonstrates 
the continuation of an attitude 
of violence and submission. If 
the lamb be spared, it is at least 
a start in a common realization 
of the inhuman and absurd 
committment this country is 
involved in. 

The lamb should not be 
spared solely because of non­
agreement with a demonstration 
against Dow and the War, nor 
because one feels morally guilty 
for killing an animal. Beyond 
these contentions, the lamb 
should be spared because of the 
realization of the misappropri­
ation of American money and 
efforts for napalm, the terror of 
human flesh (not animal) burn­
ing with no hope of relief, and 
the realization of the absurdity 
of submitting an innocent lamb 
to the purposes of a few. Any 
one, or a combination of, these 
motivating factors in sparing the 
lamb, expose the extreme action 
of a few as unnecessary to make 
other "aware". It is more 
symbolic and representative of a 
firm desire to end these injus­
tices by sparing the lamb from _ 
slaughter, and display an inten­
tion to end the absurdity. 

Dow and Honeywell are pres­
ently being criticized for "their 
complicity with the forces of 
death," through their actions which result in the "violence of . a corporately organized mur­
der." The intentions of students 
to speak out in this regard --by 
slaughter of the lamb --may 
be to kill the last remnants of 
innocence left to a blinded 
nation. It is a desperate hope 
that th~ conscience of Notre 
Dame students might be sensi­
tized by its awareness of the 
human suffering. going on in 
Vietnam, by sparing the lamb. 
If Notre Dame can be made 
aware of the pain and suffering 
of a foreign people by preven­
ting a slaughter, then a killing 
becomes a mere extreme and 
unn'ecessary exhibition of absur­
dity. .... 
Don Wich 
Farley Hall 

"Grand Funk Rolls Again" 
Edito,r: 

Kevin Casey is absolutely 
correct-Grand Funk has thei. 
own special sound and they 
deserve" a lot of credit. There 
aren't many groups around to­
day that can build a whole 
concert (?) around four chords, 
two drum patterns and the 
encijess repetition of three guitar 
riffs, all the while sending such 
an artistically discriminating 
audience as the South Bend High 
School set into a joyful frenzy at 
the mere uttera-nce of "anyone 
who doesn't clap is a queer." I 
never thought I'd feel compelled 
to leap to the defense of Jim 
Brogan, but a teast Brogan knew 
they were bad, even if he didn't 
know why. This other guy has 
reached heights of ignorance and 
artistic insensitivity unparallelled 
even by the Great Whip himself. 
Mike Lenehan 
119 Holy Cross 


WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1970 771£ OBSERfiER. PAGE 7 



Initial MG figures show raffle biggest success 
By Don Ruane 
Mardi Gras Chairman Dave Dewan released a rough approxi­mation of profits from this year's Mardi Gras, early last night. lie estimated that five to six thousand dollars will be donated to charity. 
Only approximations of the profits were available to Dewan at the time because the Finance Committee had not completed its report. He expects this report to be finished in two weeks, and the final figures released shortly afterwards. , 
Dewan revealed that of the four major parts of the pre­Lenten festivities, (kick-off, roncert, mffle, and carnival), the raffle was the most profitable. It grossed approximately $20,812 
mg e nonunee o campus.
broad spectrum of public figures .--=-=-:.:.:.:.:..:.::~_ _.::.._:_-=.:.:.:.:.:..:.::.:......_-=:.____:______.!..__.:_________________~ 
I 

and incurred about $12,378 in expenses. This leaves a rough profit of $8,500. The carnival produced a net profit of $7,500 after grossing $13,711 and expenses of $5,964. Dewan made a point of the fact that not all expenses have been paid and this could lower the net profits of each, hy one to two thousand dollars. Figures for the concert were not available. Along with a loss of $1 00 from the Kickoff party, the Mardi Gras Commit­tee spent about $530 on inci­dentals. 
Dewan thinks that the raffle "should and can be continued." lie added that it would need "radical restructuring with an arrangement that will substan­tially eliminate expenses." Dewan suggested · that this ar-
ROBERTS 'N' DOWNEY (1953) 
-Songwriter -Guitarist from N.Y. 

BRIAN JORGENSEN 
-N.D. Comedian 

DAN DILLON 
'The Latin Sound of 

SOFT PERSUA TION 
FOOD-WAITRESSES-DECOR 
Flanner Hall Basement First act : 9 pm Admission Sl.OO
21 

who they voted for would evep 
ence for New Politics. In Janu­
come," he said. "This year tlley 
ary of 1968, he was charged
have open participation in bring-
along with four other men of
th " 
rangment be with businesses and industry in the South Bend community. The raffle provides the biggest cash flow for the Mardi Gras, but unfortunately most of the cash flows into expenses for the entire Mardi Gras. The raffle would be a "guaranteed success" if everyone sold all their chances said Dewan. 
A special committee will de­termine which charity or chari­ties will receive the Mardi Gras profits. Dewan added that the donation will be approximately nine to fourteen thousand dol­lars less than the committee originally hoped. He attributed this to the need for the Student Union to pay off the debts from this year and the substantial losses incurred in recent years. 

Participants at the "Local Church of Tomorrow" conference on the campus of the University of Notre Dame, Feb. 10-14, discuss the changing role of the parish priest in a changing society. They include: left to right, Thomas O'Dea. professor of religious sociology at the University of California; James O'Gara, editor of Commonweal tilagazine; the Rev. James Burtchaell, C.S.c.; chairman of the· Dt·partment of Theology at Notre Dame; Dr. Jon Regier, associate general secretary of the National Council of Churclres in New York; and the Most Rev. Remi De_ Roo, bishop of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. 
Seniors able to elect Class Fellow 
This ycar's· Senior Class will he able to choose from among at least six, and perhaps eight, 
nationally prominant Americans
who have already agreed to 
corne to campus.
Mil:hael Kelly, Chairman of the Senior Fellow Program, explained the new system used in the selection of the Fellow. In the past, the Senior Fellow Committee drew up a list of names they felt would interest the class and held an election. After the election the committee would then go down the list of 
names in order inviting the
nominees. Often the nominees could not come and many years
the final recipient of the Senior Class award was the class's third or fourth choice. 
This year Kelly has estab­lished the procedure of inviting a 
Hengesbach 
to talk 


tonite 

Theodore W. llengcsbach, in­structor in theology at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, lndian:.t, will he the initial speaker at the College's Uepart­rncnt of Religious Studies lec­~ure series on Wednesday, Febru­ary 1X, 1970. 
Mr. llcngcshach will speak on "Karl Raimer: Orthodox lleretic" at R:OO p.m. in the Madeleva Building's Carroll llall. The meeting will be open to the public with no admission charge. 
This Weekend 
Professional Singing Duo 



,, ,.• 
. 'ANtlit4, 
·v 

Friday Feb. 20 Saturday Fehrua 
from many fields before the 
election to see who would be 
able to come to campus for a 
stay of at least two days', during 
which he would lecture in Senior classes, dine with Seniors in the d · 1
dining halls an meet wtll 
S · t · I t K lly' ·t
entors a mg 1_. e s comnu ­
· ht 1
t d I · t 
ee contacte t 1lf y-etg peop e 
· f J J k 
rangmg rom esse ac son to L d J h f T
yn on ° nson, rom om 
k. f
H d t Ed d M
ay en ° war us te, rom 
· B k
Barry G0 ldwater to Erme an s. Of tl tl 
· t · ht tl · 
lose ur y-etg , 1e 
foliO · h d t me
wmg ave agree o co 
f. h b 1
to Notre Dame i c osen y t 1e 
class; :senator Abraham Ktbtcott (D C ) C d t C 
-onn. ' on uc or-omposer
Leonard Bernstein, Astronaut 
Frank Borman, writer and his­torian Arthur Schlesinger, Con­gressman Allard Lowenstein (D-NY), and fscmer Supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg. Stt"ll ttncertat·n are Senator 
,. · t 
Barry Goldwater (R-Ariz), · writer-lecturer William F. Buck­ley Jr., and civil rights leader Dick Gregory. The Senior Class
is now in contact with these men 
trying to finalize their availa­hility. The final sla.te will be announced later this week. The entire Senior Class will be able to vote on the selection of which of these nominees it wishes to bring to Notre Dame. The election will be held February 24 in the Huddle and dining halls. 
,
Kelly said that he was very pleased with the work of this year's Senior Fellow Committee. 
"Every previous class has either had no say on who the nominee would be or no assurance that 
I 
• 

Mardi Gras Chairman Dave Dewan estimated Mardi Gras profits at between five and six thousand dollars. 
Doctor Spock will talk on 'Dissent and Social Change' 
Uoctor Benjamin Spock, the conspiring to counsel young men world's best known pediatrician to evade the draft and along and an outspoken critic of the with three others, was found 
draft and U.S. Vietnam policy, guilty in a subsequent trial. They will speak on Thursday, Febru­appealed the court's verdict and ary 19, at 8:00 p.m. in Stepan on July 11, 19o9, the U.S. Court Center. This address entitled of Appeals for the First Circuit 
"Dissent .and Social Change" is 
reversed Spock 's conviction and 

of fifty cents per person. 
Educated at Phillips Academy and Yale, where he rowed on the crew which won the 1924 Olympic ga.mes in Paris, Dr. Spock received his M.D. from Columbia University in 1929. I le pmcticed pediatrics in New York City for many years with a special interest in its psycho­logical aspects before working 
on the staff of the Rochester 
Child Health Institute and the 
Mayo Clinic. 
Ilis Baby and Child Care first. published in I 946 has sold over twenty-two million COpies and I has been translated into twenty­six languages. Dr. Spock has written for magazines and is the author of three other books. The l latest, published last month, is entitled Decent and Indecent: Our Personal and Political Behavior. 
Doctor Spock has served as Co-Chairman of the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy and the National Confer­
'Which One 
is the 


Cfilulist? 
It's easy to tell a Paulist. Just 
talk with him. 
The first thing you notice is 
that he's contemporary. He 
lives today, hut plans tomorrow 
with the experience and knowl· 
edge of yesterday. That's a 
Paulist characteristic: the abil­
ity to move with the times and 
to meet the challenges of each 
era. 
A Paulist is also the mediator of his age: he tries to bring to­gether the extremes in today's world and the Church, !he lib­erals and the moderates, the eternal and the temporal. 
Next, he is very much an indi­l'idua/. It sets him apart imme­diately. He has his own partic­ular talents and abilities-ami he is given freedom to 11.1'<' them. 
If you arc interested in finding 
out more about the Paulist dif­
ference in the priesthood, ask· 
for our brochure and a copy of 
our recent Renewal Chapter -Guidelines. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 
'Paulisth

Pat erG 
Room 300 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 
other defendant, trials for the other 

-
sponsored by the Student Union that of one Academic Commission and open 
ordering new to the public. Approaching a two. crucial stage in their budget, the Commission has found it ncces­sary to charge an ad mission fee I : .· 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18,1970
THE OBSERIIIIt

PAGE 8 



All comers challenged after Frazier whips Ell •
IS 
~-­
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
NEW YORK (UPI)-The gesture took onlv a second. Jimmy Ellis made it so quickly in his dressing room after the 
fight that it was so easy to miss. 
Angelo Dundee, his manager, was busy talking but he didn't miss the gesture becaus~ he's much sharper and much more understanding than most fight managers. 
He felt Jimmy Ellis tap him on the right elbow. Ellis was saying thank you, Angelo Dundee, for what you did out there tonight and thank you for making it possible for me to fight another day. 
-
Ellis' failure to .answer the bell for the fifth round against the murderous, brain scrambling punches of Smokin' Joe Frazier at Madison Square Garden Monday night wasn't his idea at all. It was 
entirely Dundee's. Benumbed and befogged as he was, Ellis wantc<d to keep placing his head in front of that Frazier buzz saw, but Dundee wouldn't permit.it. 
"Why?" Dundee asked, repeating a question put to him. "Because he wasn't doing his thing, that's why. The other guy was cookin' on him and it was too much one; way. Look at Jimmy now! I have a fighter, not a cripple. That's the way I work." 
"I tested him with 20 questions," Dundee said. "I was banging him on the knees, throwing cold water, rubbing the back of his head, every thing. I asked him 'Why aren't you boxing?' He didn't give me an answer I liked. So I just said, 'Forget it!"' 
What did he say? 

"He said 'No, no, no, no.' I said, 'Not no, yeh, yeh, yeh.'" 
~nd so the fight was termin?ted and despite Jimmy Ellis' protestations, he should be glad it "' 'S. If ever a fighter graphically personified that movie now showing "Take the Money and Run" -Ellis did between the fourth and fifth rounds Monday although, of course, the $250,000 or so he'll probably end up with for the licking he took was the last thing on his mind at that point. 
Ellis, clubbed to the floor twice by the bone jarring Frazier, could only remember being knocked down once when it was all over. Moreoever, he walked into the wrong dressing room -Frazier's instead of his own -following the post fight interview. 1 
"I still remember everything," the loser insisted when he got back NEW YORK (UPI)-Joe Fra­his "decision" to retire and was 
zier holds the whole boxing challenging all comers. But the 
world in the clenched left fist problem now is to find someone 
that destroyed Jimmy Ellis. who can be sold to that small, 
But now what worlds can he wary group of diehard boxing 
conquer in search of another big fans as a genuine threat to the 
payday? champion. 

Frazier's destructive left slam­"I'll fight anybody who med Ellis to the canvas twice thinks he can get in the ring with Monday night and left Jimmy so me," said the bull-necked 205 dazed and helpless he was unable pounder. "I hear about some of to come out for the fifth round. these guys like light heavyweight For the first time since the title Bob Foster or Mac Foster who was stripped from Cassius Clay want to fight me, but I tell 'em 32 months ago, boxing has an if they don't mess with me I "undisputed" heavyweight won't mess with them. That's champion. probably the luckiest thing that 
"I gonna retire," joked the 26 can happen.to them." year old Philadelphian as he was Lefthanded praise for left surrounded by his court in the hooking Joe .came from tl).e man dressing roC3m. "I'm gonna wait who had the title taken away for that bigmouth Cassius Clay from him for refusing to be to come back, and then I'll whip inducted into the Army 32 him just like I whipped his months ago. "I think he.'s a lot sparring partner."_ greater than I did before," said 
In less than a minute, how­Cassius Clay, "but he'd still only ever, Frazier had recot)sidered be a sparring partner if I weren't 
II!!IJIIUJ'l.II~IIIIWWIIIJUIWIIIIIDllJlll.lllU IllUUIIJlllUIIIIIIII~II 




sport~ parade 
By Milt Richman, UPI sports columnist 
retired." still Frazier pursued. There was 
Ellis, who actually had been less than a minute left in the Clay's sparring partner once, round when Frazier caught Ellis held the World Boxing Associa­again, and then he stood there tion version of the heavyweight smiling as Ellis flailed back. title when he went into the ring. 
"Ellis caught me with the

The other half of the title, hardest right he's ever thrown in
recognized in six states, includ­his life in that round," Frazier

ing New York, belonged to said, "and I just laughed and
Frazier. Suddenly, in the third told him 'you done threw your
round, it became clear to every­one that would best shot, and now it's my turn.'
Frazier soon own the whole world. 
Then I came across with that left hook." 

With only a minute gone in With little over two minutes the third round, Frazier threw a gone in the fourth, Ellis was hit left hook that jolted Ellis back with another left, and he crump­into the ropes. Ellis tried to led slowly to the canvas. He stay­escape, circling to his right, but ed there in his own corner not moving for three seconds and then slowly rose to his feet at eight. 
But after that first knock­down, it was all over for Jimmy Ellis, a 29 year old from Louisville, Ky. Ellis survived another 40 seconds until Fra­zier's left struCk again, and this time Ellis hit the canvas hard. He got to his feet at nine and was helped to his corner after the round had ended. 
Dundee hit Ellis's knee and asked him a couple questions, and the responses were so slack he refused to let his fighter come out as the bell rang to start the fifth round. 

Unbeaten UCI.A still number one 
NEW YORK (UPI) -UCLA, unbeaten in 20 games, remains the nation's No. 1 . college basketball team, but the battle for No. 2 has turned into a real dogfight. 
UCLA, which beat Washing­ton State twice and Washington once last week, received 33 of the 34 first place votes cast by the' 35 member United Press International Board of coaches today. One coach did not vote. 
Less than 100 points separate the next four teams in the balloting. Kentucky moved up into second with 272 points, 67 less · than UCLA, and South Carolina slipped to third with 
239. 
St. Bonaventure remained 
fourth at 237 while New Mexico 
State held fifth with 188. 
Jacksonville, 122, was sixth 
followed by Pennsylvania, North 
Carolina State, Iowa and David­
son. 
Florida State moved up to 
11th, followed by Drake, North 
Carolina, Houston and Marquet­
te, Notre Dame and Utah tied 
for 16th, Western Kentucky 
took 18th, Utah State captured 
19th and Columbia took the 
final spot in the top 20. 
UCLA, which edged Wash­
ington State 72-70 in its first 
meeting of the week, bounced 
back with a 95-61 drubbing in 
their second meeting. The Bruins 
clubbed Washington 101-85 to 
run their record to 20-0. 
Kentucky had little trouble 
boosting its record to 19-1 with 
easy victories over Mississippi 

The United Press Interna tiona! top 20 major college basketball teams with first place votes and won-lost record in patrentheses this week. 
Team  Points  
1. UCLA 33 (20-0)  390  
2. Kentucky I  (19-1)  272  
3. So. Carolina  (19-2)  239  

to his own room. But then he showed he really didn't by saying, "L 4. St. Bonaventure (17-l) 237 didn't know I was down twice, I thought once.'' 5. New Mexico St. (20-2) 188 Ellis, unmarked except for a tiny mouse under his left eye, sighed 6. Jacksonville (19-1) 122 sofily as his trainer, Luis Sarria, applied alcohol to his face. 7. Pennsylvania (21-l) 83 
"After all the talk, the guy is a pretty good fighter," he said of 8. North Carolina St. (18-3) 69 Frazier. "I ain't going to put him down." 9. Iowa (13-4) 56 Neither did Angelo Dundee in front of all the newsmen when he 10. Davidson (18-3) 42 said, "this Joe Frazier would have licked anyone in front of him." 11. Florida St. (20-2) 35 
Later, though, Dundee said his old fighter, Cassius Clay, 12. Drake (17-~) 30 "would've slapped him all over the joint but wl).at am I gonna do? . 13. North Carolina (16-5) 26 Cop out by saying that in front of everybody right after he beat 14. Houston (17-3) 21 
Jimmy Ellis?" " 15. ~arquette (17-3) 17 As Sarria worked on him, Ellis talked about the fight and the way 16. T~e-Notre Dame (16-5) 12 Dundee had ended it. 16. Tie-Utah (16-6) 12 "He says it's a good move. He's my manager and he looks out for 18. Western Kentucky (17-2) 10 
me. I'm not going to criticize him. He took me to the championship. 19 · Utah St._ (I S-4) 9 
So if you ask me whether I think he shoulda stopped it, I say I think 20. Columbia (18-3) 7 he made the right move for me." 
Others receiving votes: Santa

Sarria was just about finished. Jimmy Ellis put on his bathrobe 
. Clara, Ohio Univetsity, Vil­
again and walked out of the shower enclosure into the main part of 
lanova, Oregon, ·Duquesne,· Cin­
his dressing room. It was at that point he touched Dundee on the 
cinnati, Pacific, Louisville. 
elbow and said what he felt inside. Thank you, Angelo Dundee. 
State 86-57 and Florida 11 0-66. 
now 19-2. 
The Wildcats received the only 
first place vote UCLA did not 
capture. 
South Carolina sandwiched an 

Loyola La. 96-75 to advance to

a 19-1 mark. 




