
Joseph Scott to head Black Studies 
Dr. Joseph W. Scott, an University at Mount Pleasant, associate professor of sociology Scott received his M.A. and at the University of Toledo, has Ph .D. from Indiana University.· been named an associate profes­He taught at the University of sor of sociology and director of Kentucky for two years and was 
the new Black Studies Program a visiting professor at Michigan at the University of Notre Dame. State University before joining The 35-year-old sociologist the University of Toledo faculty will head the Black Studies 
in 1967. His research areas Program recently established include social organization, devi­
within the University's College ant behavior, social conflict, of Arts and Leiters and urban problems and race rela­scheduled to start next fall. The tions. 
appointment was made by the In I967 ht' was principal Rev. Theodore M. l-lesburgh, investigator of the Kentucky C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. Training Project of the U.S. 
/1. native ·of Detroit and a Department of Health, Educa­
tion, and Welfare, and last Junegraduate of Central Michigan 

Claim the war unjust 
In this affair, this country does

by Rich Smith 

not have the slightest idea of Four professors and a gradu­what it is trying to do." " 
ate student talked about the Saying that the moral law had legality and the morality of war lost a great deal of influence in in general and the Indochina the modern world, Father conflict in particular, in a panel McKenzie maintained that the discussion yesterday afternoon ethic of the just war was equal in the LaFortune Student Cen­to the "ethic of adultery, where ter. all other means have been · 
Rev. John L. McKenzie, S.J., exhausted, there is a proportion 
began the program with a talk between the means. used and the 
on the relationship of the just ends desired, and there is a 
war ethic to Indochina. Saying reasonable hope of success." 
that the just war theory was Fath.er McKenzie then went 
philosophically as relevant as the on to describe the American War 
question of how many angels· ethic as "when your enemy is 
can fit on the head of a needle, down, you kick him." He said 
Father McKenzie outlined the that the .war in Indochina had four billie qualificatiolll used in "violated about every canon of international law,:' and, in refer­

ence to rationalizations concern­ing the alleged massacre of My Lai, "I do not believe that if we let the enemy set the ethical tone that we are any better than they." 
In concluding his address, Father McKenzie termed the Vietnam war "a totally immoral operation. For anyone with a conscience, the only thing to do is to stop it." 
Next, Professor George Wil­liams of the history department talked on the legal aspects of the Cambodian invasion. Citing a list of past occasions when U.S. Presidents have used military forces without previously con­sulting with Congress, Williams 

said that the current attempts by · "The national welfare of the Congressmen to cut off funds United States is in no way 
judging the justice of a war. 
for any further operations in 

threatened by anyone in Viet­Cambodia were "merely expres­nam, except possibly some of sions of intent and disapproval, our own citizens," he said. "I since there is already enough therefore do not believe that we money and supplies over there have a sufficiently grave reason to support another operation. In 
to be there." fact, there is no way to limit the In the area of proportional President's power except by means, Father McKenzie said impeachment, censorship, a 
that if we were to make the plebiscite, or the power of the violence we inflict proportional oress." Williams then outlined the
to our reason for being there, 
Nixon doctrine, which concerns
"we should arm ourselves with 
U.S. promises to honor commit­
slingshots." 
ments to foreign governments,
Father McKenzie said that the 
to extend a shield over South­
third condition of the just war 
east Asia, and to provide Asian
theory, that all other means of 
governments with war materials
solution had been exhausted, 
upon request.
had not been met because "It is 
Maintaining that in interna­
not clear at all to me that all the 
tional politics any statement by 
means to resolve this conflict 
a "responsible" statesman is
have been attempted." 
taken as that government's pol­
Finally, McKenzie pointed 
icy, "regardless of how unsound 
out that for Vietnam to be a just 
it may sound to the citizens." 
war we must have a "reasonable 
Williams said that we have been
hope of success." "You must 
know what you're trying to do. 


served in a similar capacity for the Crime ahd Deliquency Pro­ject of the Toledo Model Cities Program. Scott is fluent in Spanish and was a Fulbright professor to Argentina in the summers of 1967 and 1969. His publications have appeared in a variety of professional jounals, including the American Sociolo­gical Review, the American Jour­nal of Sociology, and Tran­action. 
Under the Notre Dame Black 
Studies Program, a student will 
pursue a double major, one in 
Black Studies and one in a 
regularly established department 
of program of the University. 
The director will certify both 
the courses taught within the 
Black Studies Program and those 
already offered by regular de­
parments but qualifying toward 
a Black Studies major. 


HaII efforf''Si"f:esSeCf'"" in frosh orientation 
by Don Ruane the transfer from a high school the problems that will affect the 
society to a college society," freshman, socially and scholas­
Encouraged by a three week said Rodriquez. He added that tically. 
span between the arrival of next the Human Affairs Commission The HAC is stressing an 
fall's freshman and the first will act only as a coordinator informal orientation according 
home football game, Human and in a "secondary" way to the to Rodriquez. The commission 
Affairs Commission Orlando halls during orientation. will distribute an introductory 
Rodriquez and his freshman The Hall Presidents' Council brochure and an informal read­
orientation director Jack Can­has been asked to submit ideas ing list to all freshmen. The list 
don said yesterday that the chief for the orientation period, said will not be a departmental or 
responsibility for freshman Candon. He described the reason required list, but a list that the 
orientation will lie within the for this as "twofold." The first commission hopes will show the 
halls. part is to be sure that the halls freshmen that there are other 
Rodriquez and Candon said are making plans to help the problems at a university besides that the three week period freshmen adjust. The second half scholastic ones. would give freshman a "much of the reason is to provide a 
Cantlon said the commission better chance to get their feet on coordinated effort to bring has suggested a mandatory meet­
the ground." By working groups from both on and off 
ing between freshmen and their through the hall presidents and campus along with freshman 
rectors. It was also recom­residents, it will be quicker and professors into the halls on an hold sec­
mended that rectors easier for the freshman to "make informal basis to speak about 
tional meetings with the fresh­.nen and that a hall-wide nucleus of volunteers be formed to deal
Survey reveals uncertainty 

with collective freshman prob­lems. Social aspects of the orienta­

Nixon's policy questioned 
tion, like the other parts, will be directed by the halls. During theNEW YORK (UPI) -An The 44.7 percent who either 
first few days of orientation,
unusually large number of Am­said they had no opinion or which begins on Saturday Sep­ericans appear undecided as to declined to answer were asked to tember 5, Saint Mary's freshmenwhether they support or oppose account for their positions. The will work in cooperation withthe United States move into responses fell into four major six as yet un-named Notre DameCambodia, the Sindlinger survey categories: halls. This will provide a once inreported Thursday. 
-Don't understand the war or a Notre Dame career one to oneA poll conducted by the 
what the President is trying to

Sindlinger organization over a ratio for a portion of the new
do: 17.9 per cent.

period of four days, May 9-12, class. After the SMC hall leaders indicated that as many as 25 -U.S. troops should be sent have met individually with their million Americans felt they still new charges, lists will be sup­
home immediately: 4.3 per cent. were not in position to make a plied to all Notre Dame halls. It sound judgement. -Want to see more Senate will be up to the hall president The poll was conducted by reaction: 6.1 per cent. and hall leaders to help tht telc"phone from the Sindlinger freshmen coordinate social activ­
-Not aware of all of the facts,

headquarters in Norwood, Pa., ities.
or not capable of reaching a

and posed the question to 1,65.1 
sensible decision: 43 per cent. Rodriquez stressed that the persons around the country in halls will bear the responsibilitythese terms: Albert E. Sindlinger, president 
for the informal orientation and
"Do you agree or disagree of the market research firm, said asked that any hall residentwith President Nixon's decision this latter 43 per cent projects to interested in helping contact his

announced last week on Cam­about 25 million adults. 
hall president. It will serve as a
bodia?" "This," he said, " is the first chance for those men to show
Agree 32.6 per cent time that I recollect so many 
that a hall community can exist,
Disagree 22.7 Americans admitting that they he said.
No opinion 16.6 didn't have sufficient facts to Refused to answer 2~.1 make a sensible dc..:ision." 

Page 2 
NEW JERSEY CLUB ELECTIONS 
Sunday, May 17 
Room 1-E La Fortune 
6:30-8:00P.M. 
N.D. BOOKSTORE 
Record Sale 
Starts May II 




ATTENTION 
SENIORS! BECOME A MONTESSORI 

TEACHER 
DEMAND TWICE THE SUPPLY 

Next training program June 23rd -August 8th. IN CHICAGO 
LEADS TO NA T!ONALLY RECOGNIZED AMS-CERTIFICATE 

Write; Midwest Montessori Teachers Training Center 
ATTENTION AMS 1010 W. CHICAGO AVE. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
60222 
Courses will be taught on the beautUul grounds ofRosary College. 


~ get carried away when you come around... and we love it! 

FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1970
7118 

Discuss war crimes, History of conflict 
committed to the defense of 
Vietnam since 1950 
Williams summed Up his case by saying that we are committed "on moral grounds to defend a nation when it is aggressed against," and that we "must 
defend our credibility before the 
other nations of the world." 
Therefore, Williams said, "Viet­
nam is a keystone to our 
credibility and security and 
defense of the rest of the 
world." 
Edward Isley, a graduate stu­dent in economics and a former soldier in Vietnam, talked on war and international law, detail­ing the types of crimes and the principles involved in such a Iaw. 
Isley said that the three crimes in international law were crimes against peace, war crimes -such as waging war unjustly, and crimes against humanity­such as gas chambers and con­centration camps.. 
The purposes of this law are first to reduce the suffering in war and secondly to ease the transition to peace by alleviating tensions and hatreds built during conflict. 
Isley admitted that "we have 
committed many atrocities," but 
said, "I can see how they came 
about." 
Hoping to spur discussion. Isley finished by saying that he believed that participation in an unjust war did not make one a war criminal and that napalm was not an unlawful war weap­on and that Dow Chemical, on~-time manufacturer of napalm, could not be accused of 
war criminality. 





Budweiser. 
is the only beer in America that's Beechwood Aged 
(But you know that.) 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONVILLE 
Professor Robert Betchov, a physicist in the Engineering
d

Department, condude the pro­gram with a talk on the need for an international body to keep the peace. 
Giving  a  brief  history  of  
conflict,  starting  with  fights  
between  individuals,  then  be­ 

tween families, and finally be­tween states, Betchov pointed out that only enforceable laws have been effective in deterring aggression. 
"It is American federal Jaws that have kept the peace be­tween states," he said. "Pre­sently, there is no international law that is enforceable. We have 120 Supreme Courts all over the planet. Which one is supreme, really supreme?" 
Betchov then talked on past attempts at international peace keeping organizations, beginning in 1900 with The Hague Court, "which is now covered with cobwebs." After both World Wars there were "waves and hurri~anes of indignation over war" Betchov said, "but privateinte~ests and nationalism inter-

TMH seen as 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A Democratic congressman sug­gested to President Nixon Wed­nesday that he appoint Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame, as chief U.S. negotiator at the Vietnam peace talks in Paris. 
The proposal came in a letter to Nixo11-from Rep. James M. Hanley of New York. Hanley described Hesburgh, currently chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights c'ommission, as a scholar, a trouble shooter and presidential !adviser. I He called Heshurgh a man !who "has the confidence and the 

Communiversity 
fRIDAY, MAY 15 

1:00pm 7:00pm Racism and the University 
Film: In the Year of the Pig Carroll Hall (Madeleva) 

Walter Williams 3:30pm Art MacFarland
Panel: C.B.W. in Vietnam John Crump 
Lee Fort Larry Davis 
Ernie Jackson 
LaFortune Ballroom 
Dr. Browne 
Dow Chemical Representative (James Weldon) Dining Room Quad SMC 
SATURDAY,MAY16 

1:00pm Discussion on The New Congress 8:00pm Free Folk-Rock Concert 
(summer programming, fall Fieldhouse 
moratorium) 
Bob Loeb LaFortune Ballroom 
SUNDAY, MAY 17 
3:00pm The Christian in Uniform Fr. Amen Cdr. Calhoun. USN LaFortune Ballroom 
The film ..In The Year of The Pig" will be shown in tile 

Engineering Auditorium on Sunday, May ·17, at 7 and 9 pm. Noam Chomskey heralded the documentary as the "best film ever made about Vietnam." 
Composite poster for next week's events is forthcoming. 

Senior academic awards annou need 
president of academic affairs. 

Leo A. Lensing, Lake Provi­
Lensing, a modern language~

dence, La., and James J. 
student with a perfect 4.0 

O'Connell, IJI, Newport, R.I., 
average will offer the valedictory 

have been named valedictorian 
address at the Senior Day

and salutatorian for the Univer­
Exercises on Saturday, June 6. 

sity of Notre Dame's 1970 June 
O'Connell, a sociology major

graduating class, according to 
with a 3.97 average, will deliver 

Leo M. Corbaci, assistant vice-
the opening salutatory address. 
Professor WiDiam~ 
vened and destroyed the at­tempts." 
Comparing the present United Nations to the League of Na­tions in 1935, Betchov con­cluded that "we must take a little of our precious national sovereignty and concentrate it in an organization with the power to maintain world peace, and with the power to decide what constitutes a threat to world peace. That is what the next United Nations will do." 
A question and an::wer period followed the presentations. 


head '" Paris 
respect of all Americans, young and old." 
The chief negotiator's post has been vacant since late last year, when Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge retired. Serving in an acting capacity has been carrer diplomat Philip C. Habib. 
Hanley said appointment of a man of Hesburgh's stature to the job would immeasurable en­hance chances of success at the talks, which are presently dead­locked. 
Father Hesburgh's office said 
yesterday  that  he  was  out  of  
town  and  was  unavaila ble  for  
comment.  



Page 3
FRIDAY, MAY 15,1970 

711B OBS£Rfi£R. 
Canvassing continues 
21,000 signatures obtained • drive 
by Tom Bornholdt 
Canvassing for signatures in support of Rev. Theodore Hesburgh's declaration in opposition to President Nixon's actions in Cambodia should be finished either today or tomorrow, according to Fred Dedrick, a member of the com •1ittee in charge of canvas­sing. He said yesterday that about 21 ,000 signatures had been obtained. An additional 4,000 were expected over the weekend. 
Dedrick said that Hesburgh would probably be taking the signatures, or perhaps only the total number, to a Nixon advisor some time next week. 
Dedrick also said that the totals would be transmitted to Indiana Senators Birch, Bayh and Vance Hartke, and Repre­sentative John Bradcmas at the request of their respective offices. 
In general, Dedrick fell, the canvass was successful. He wanted particularly to commend his fellow committee member!\ . 
John Rudolf, Steve Raymond, Mike Nerlie, Bill Driscoll, Gary Gereffi, and Bill Walters, for their diligent work. 
He considered student in­volvement, with the high of approximately 600 canva..sers 





Enter Cambodia again 
SAIGON (UPI) -A U.S. supported column of South Vietnamese tanks thrust into Cambodia Thursday and opened an eleventh front in the allied offensive against Communist sanctuaries. The two-week cam­paign so far has sent the American casualty rate to its highest level in eight months (168 dead). 
The new allied thrust across the border in the Central High­lands region came as U.S. Infan­trymen moving through jungles of Cambodia's Fishhook area reported finding a computer "readout sheet" and other evi­dence of the long sought Com­munist field headquarters known 
as  COSVN -Central  Office  for  
South Vietnam.  
"I  think  we  have  found  the  

area where a part of COSVN used to he," Maj. Gen. Edward Bautz, commander of the 25th Infantry Division, said of the zone which President Nixon has ordered destroyed. Bautz said the find was about I 0 miles inside Cambodia and 90-95 miles northwest of Saigon. 
Deeper inside Cambodia, North Vietnamese and Viet Cong troops were reported hes­eiging the province capital of Takeo 45 miles south of Phnom Penh and preventing relief forces from rea<.:hing the <.:ity. 
A Ph nom Penh newspaper said U.S. B52 air raids in Cambodia had killed lluynh Tan Phat, prime minister of the Viet Cong's Provincial Revolutionary 
(;overnmcn t. 
The new front across the Vietnam border into Cambodia was opened Thursday by several thousand men of the 22nd Division of the South Viet-
FOUND 
A po1i1 ot girls 
glassr~ in front of Waslungton llall. 
To· reclaim: 


I he Observer is published dally durong the college semester eKctJpt vacations by students of the Uni­versitY of Notre Uame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46!>!>6. Second class postage .litir1 Notre Dame, Ind., '165!>6. 

namese army. Official coHt­muniques said they drove at least I 0 miles over the border in a mountainous region west of the central highlands 215 miles northeast of Saigon. 
The South Vietnamese Def­ense Ministry said the area is about 15 to 20 miles south of the Se San River basin west of Pleiku province where U.S. and South Vietnamese forces first drove last week. 
U.S. headquarters said no American ground forces were 
involved but that U.S. heli<.:opter gunships, jet fighter bombers and other "logistical support" were behind the South Viet­namese. 
participating Friday after the was estimated that by today, a rally, good. On the average, total fo $220 would have been between 75 and I00 students spent-$ I50 on paper, $50 for canvassed every day. Dedrick phone bills, $I 0 for stencils and said that the recent heavy rain $10 for miscellaneous expenses. reduced the number of people, Steve Raymond remarkde so that yesterday only three cars that the committee was very were sent out. An estimated unsure on how they were going 1000 students, at one time or to pay, but commented that another, canvassed in Stouh they were accepting donations, Bend and St. Joseph County. selling posters with the words, 
Money has been a problem "War or Pea~:e, the choice is for the canvass committee. It yours," an.:l tryin!l to set up a 
r---------------------------­
IT'S 

YOUR 

STORE ... 




14®11~~@1. 
KNIT SHIRTS 
· Cool in comfort, cool in appearance•..these famous McGregor cotton knits are indispens­able for warm weather action. Choose now from a good variety of colors and striping.'! at y<mr Campus Shop. Use your account, it's open. 
$4 
musical benefit next week to help meet expenses. 
Until today, thf' canvass com­mittee has been using the Stu­dent Union offices. A committee member said that permission for this was issued by Bob PohL The offices are also being used by the economk boycott committee which, though there is a consi: derable overlap of people and resources, is a separate organ­ization from the canvass group. 
... IN STYLE, PRICE AND TERMS 

r-----------L-_______O~N:..__:_'I'~H~E CA~PUS ... NOTRE DAMR 
NO 
EXPERIENCE 



NECESSARY! 

Nope. All you need is a willingness to spend next years' spare time in an interesting and meaningful manner. We are looking for people; the type of people who like to know whats happening on campus, but more important those who want to 
make things happen at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's. 
If you are this type of person, the Promotion Department of the Student Union Social Commission wants you. We need people interested in newswriting, advertising, layout. graphics, and distribution. We also need artists, photograp!ters, idea people, and others just willing to get involved. Especially welcome are interestl'd Saint Mary's 
women. 

No, you don't need any experience. All you need is desire. Call Matt Kubik, 8865, or write c/o Student Union Box 427. 
FRIDAY, MAY 15,1970

Page 4 THE OBSERUER 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
DAVID C. BACH, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
:=.::::::::::::::~:~:;:~:~:~:~:=:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~~~=~:::::::::::::::::~~:
'I Campus opinion I 
·:::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::;:; 
This statement ofRepresentative James J. Howard, Third District, New Jersey was presented during consideration of Military Procurement Authorization Bill on May 6, 1970. 
Mr. Chairman: I rise in support of the Leggett Amendment; the 
amendment that will assure that this country and this Congress has 
no intention of widening or prolonging this frustrating war. . 
The Leggett Amendment will in no way endanger the ground 
combat troops that have already unfortunately, been deployed into 
neutral Cambodia. Its effective date is July I, 1970-a date by which 
the President himself asserted yesterday that all of our troops will be 
out of that country. 
But the Leggett Amendment in many ways goes beyond its stated 
purpose. It gives this Congress the opportunity to fulfill its 
Constitutional responsibility to the American people. It gives us the 
opportunity to go on record against continuing senseless killing of 
other human beings, both ours and our enemies. It especially will 
show to the young people of America that there is indeed an "other 
way" to be heard. 
Mr. Chairman, during periods of social upheaval, when people are 
faced with horrendous challenges, they either rise to the occasion, 
face what must be faced, and do what must be done, or else they 
collapse, and go looking for scapegoats. 
In my opinion, a large percentage of our older generation has 
failed to rise to the occasion, cannot bear to face what must be 
faced, or do what must be done, and has wholly collapsed, seeking 
only the necessary scapegoat, to satisfy its wounded pride. And the 
scapegoat it wants to tear apart, most especially, is the politically 
active element in the younger generation. 
Let me explain, so there won't be any confusion about it: I am 
not speaking in favor of the ones who burn down college buildings, 
intimidate school officials, break the laws, and interrupt the 
operations of soeiety, just for the sake of causing a sensation. In 
every generation there are people like this-fragile, anguished, in 
psychological pain-who can only express their feelings by adopting 
the worst of the world around them. The wounded-in-soul are 
always with us, but I am not talking about them. 
. Rather, I am talking about those who have seen us as we are, and 
taking us to task. They may enrage us by asking us just the questions 
we want least to hear, or disturb us with the depth of the perception 
of our failure. But they are righ:t, and there is no getting around it. 
I am speaking of the young people who question the moral 
justification of a terrible war; who want to know how we can travel 
to the moon, but so pollute our water and our atmosphere that our 
life becomes endangered-young people who wonder aloud at our 
turning this nation into one huge traffic jam-young people who 
question why we insisted on teaching them about the Constitution 
when as a Nation, we have absolutely refused to abide by its 
requirements in regard to men :of different color. They call attention 
to the hypocrisies by which we live-our talk about National ideals 
shrouded as it is by the shadow of materialism; our pretention~ 
about religion, coupled with the practice of dog-eat-dog, five days a 
week. · · And what can we say in response? What do we sav in resnonse? We say they are ungrateful. We gave them everything money could buy. They were the first generation raised in affluence, receiving all the material things their parents and grandparents worked so hard to get for them. And here they are, telling us it is the wrong kind of everything. Perhaps it was the affluence. These kids, raised without the need to go grubbing for pennies in the street, had the time and opportunity to think; and some of their thinking, apparently, concerning that wonderful abstraction': the meaning of life. We gave them so much education, so many opportunities to travel; we were so candid with them about our frailties; we encouraged them to explore. And what have they become? Wiser and kinder and more deeply commited to our own ideals than we ever were. There is an interesting parallel here, between the days of the Kennedy Administration, which captured the imagination of American youth, and the present era, which infuriates American youth. In one case, we had a country full of hope, determined that problems w~uld be solved. Under the current regime, we have a hopeless policy, dedicated to retreat from reform and retreat. from reality. It_ is time to summon the courage to face the facts. Those bright, passwnate, clear-eyed young people should not be ignored, or locked up, or betrayed, or shot by a Nation that needs them as no nation ever n~eded anybody. We parents have never brought up a generatiOn of children so well before. They have turned out wise and ~trong, with a ~~ssion for life and a quality of humanity blinding in Its shee_r magmf1cence. Somehow, we have raised an extraordinary generatiOn of good people. Now they are in peril. They are under attack as revolutionaries and most of them are nothing of the kind. They are denounced a~ wreckers of the world because they speak against the wrecking of the world. It is entirely possible that they h~ve, in fact, become the guardians of the "impossible dream," of democratic triumph, and to attack and destroy them and their hopes now under such circumstances, well could be the greatest catastroph~ of American political history. 

letters 
Editor: 
St. Thomas Aquinas, hope­fully of somewhat not too distant memory at Notre Dame, specified certain necessary and jointly sufficient conditions for a just war. In his Summa Theologica, 11-11, q. 40, a.l, c., St. Thomas wrote: "In order for a war to be just, three things are necessary. First, the authority of the sovereign by whose com­mand the war is to be waged. For it is not the business of a private individual to declare war, because he can seek for redress of his rights from the tribunal of his superior. .. Secondly, a just cause is required, namely that those who art: attacked, should be attacked because they deserve it on account of some fault... Thirdly, it is necessary that the belligerents should have a right­ful intention, so that they intend the advancement of good or the avoidance of evil. . . Hence Augustine says Contra Faust, xxii, 74: The passion for inflict­ing harm, the cruel thirst for vengeance... the lust of power, all these are rightly condemned in war. 
To be sure, it would be presumptuous to simply main­tain that such a version of a "just war" theory is correct, and precarious, if not fallacious, to base a case solely on argume­ntum ad verecundiam. Nonethe­less, I believe applications of such a theory to have proven workable in the past, and remain consistent with the tradition of Christianity. Moreover, it seems manifestly clear that the first condition is violated, and the requirements of the second and third conditions most dubiously satisfied in the case of the present war in Southeast Asia. 
Given such considerations, how is it possible that some 134 faculty members found the Hes­burgh declaration of May 4th unacceptable? 
Sincerely, John Donnelly Assistant Professor Philosophy 
Editor: 
As one who worked for the Academic Freedom Proposal from its birth at 6:00 Am in St. Ed's last Thursday, until its final acceptance (in a revised form) by the Academic Council on Monday, I must say that I am quite disappointed in "The Ob­server" for recognizing Steve Preston as its organizer. Steve was quite helpful as were many others. However, the student who deserves I 00% of the credit for its passage (and I'm sure I speak for all those who worked for it), is Bob Schmuhl. If Bob got over 15 hours sleep in the past five days I'd be surprised_ I've never seen anyone more dedicated to working for a cause, during my entire three years at Notre Dame. Bob is presently devoting his time to setting up the Informal Classes suggested in the original classes. 
I think Bob deserves a vote of thanks from all of us here at Notre Dame. Let's give credit where credit's due. 
Name withheld 


1t's JUSt like then, only now the good guys are in the South . .. well not any more ... well, the good guys are winning ... anyways, the bad guys still wear black. 

The Strike 

Mant"people arc questioning where the Strike is right now. Before going ahead, I must remark that only after a while will we be able to adequately appraise last week's actions-there is no need to attempt that now. However, probably the most important aspect of those actions must be commented on now. That is, the initial purposes of the Strike must be reiterated. 
First of all, the Strike was called as a symboli~.: protest to the expansion of the War in Indochina. Secondly, because we were in a state of turmoil both nationally and locally-evidenced by the April panty raid, the Alumni Hall incident a few weeks earlier, and the recent meeting of the Board of Trustees. I saw the need to say "Stop. Let's see where we are." To a large extent, we've done this already-for probably the first time at Notre Dame. Naturally, theWar issue took precedence, but subsidiary issues like Racism, Sexism, and Militarism have also been examined. 
Again, Where are we now? 
As far as the Strike goes, we are in a state of transition. The emotion and elan of the past week has subsided, and with the recent Academic Counci) decision, we are in a state of limbo. 
As I see it, Student Government activities will go on as they have for the last few weeks~but will never be the same. An awareness of the issues raised in the last week, both national and local, has infiltrated the spirit of Student Government, and will continue to do 
so through the next year. 
Student Union activities, which were fo~.:used on the activities of the strike, will be refocused to the planning of next year's activities.· But as with Student Government, business will never be as usual. After students negotiate their courses with their Professors, the Strike should take on a new light. Hopefully students will become involved in the two main a~.:tivities, Canvassing, and the Communiveristy. Also, many students are becoming involved in the economic boycott, in letter-writing, campaigns and work-stoppage movements. In addition, we have become regional and state directors for various strike activities. This work must go on, with hopefully some innovations to sustain these activities. 
Student Government will take on many aspects of the Communiversity, for largely the communiversity is everything I talked about in my campaign. There is no need for a definite enunciation of a continuation of the Strike as such, because the University, through the Academic Council has in a large way determined the directions we can and will go in. 
A few thoughts on the Academic Council's decision: I see the Council as being very progressive at a previously Conservative oriented University. But the Student Body should not take advantage of their decision. This is not the time to pack for the summer, nor the time to abet our academic averages, but a time to commit our persons to the enormous tasks of our times-anything less would be hypocritical and dishonest to the good faith shown in 
the Council's decisions. 
Again, last week's events will be studied in the future, but I sincerely believe that because of the deep moral, :juestioning on the part of many individuals during those days, Notre Dame can only be~.:ome a better community for it. 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer Sports Editor: Terry Shields Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Asst. Features Editor: John Advertising Manager: Bruce Abowd 
Barker Night Editor: Patty Lipscomb Campus Editor: Glen Corso Layout design: Mary Chris Mor­
News Editor: Steve Hoffman rison SMC News Editor: Jeanne Headlines: Pat Geary, Bill Dues Sweeney Layout: Daniel V., Patty Cervelli, 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, John Abowd, Rich Maggi Ann Conway Ni!tlt Controller: Joey 
Features Editor: T.C. Treanor 
THE OBSERVER. t'age 5
FRIDAY, MAY 15,1970 

The Strike on other Catholic campuses 

Everything is running smoothly now at Notre Dame. Students, faculty, and administration have agreed that the current national situation is serious enough to merit a suspension of normal activities. The community and the politicians are being made aware of our feelings. The university is alive and constructive. 
At other Catholic universities in the midwest the situation is much different. Marquette University (Catholic-coed, Milwaukee, Wis.) has been shut down because of bomb threats. One Marquette student said that an alarm-clock hooked up to a Linko bottle filled with chemicals was found on the fourth tloor of McCormick "Beer Can" Hall. TI1e campus has been hit by other forms of vandalism as well. One resident hall had its sprinkler system turned on, causing extensive damage and making it impossible for anyone to live there. Some students arc sleeping outside, others have left and are afraid to come back. 
The president of Marquette had previously refUsed to work out any compromise with the strikers. No one knows for sure, but it seems highly probable that the incidents are related to his stand. 
Loyola University (Catholic-coed, Chicago, Ill.) was closed on Thursday and Friday last week. So far, the administration has tried to repress the strikers. The students were thrown out of the strike headquarters in the basement of Mertt Hall and the phones were disconnected. The striker~ have since moved back in. These students have also given space to organizing high schoolers of the area. Loyola strikers of the area. Loyola strikers also have students representing them at the Art Institute of Chicago, the headquarters for coordinating all Chicago colleges. 
Meanwhile, rhe Young Republicans are passing out literature at Loyola calling for the faculty to flunk the strikers. To add to the mess, three nights ago a small firebomb 



From Bad to Worse to Politics 
=========================================================================:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::========================·by Pete Peterson 
I ran into my old buddy, Frank, the other day in the Huddle. We had had a couple of classes together freshman year, but after that things h~ppened and we sort of drifted apart, and it was really good to see him again. He had grown his,hair in, had about half a beard, and was wearing an army shirt and a headband. 
We got ourselves the table with the six-for-a-quarter Juke Box and put on some 
music. 
"So, Frank, what have you been doing'!" 
"Oh, jeez, Pete, I've been working my tail to the bone. Biafra, grape boycott, 
anti-draft work, moratoriums, GE strike, Dow protest, complicity week, you 
know." 
"Wow, that's quite a schedule. You staying in school all right?" 
"Well, I'm hanging in Okay. I've got about a 2.7." 
The guys in blue jeans and tennies walked in and sat down near us. One of them 
said something to the other, who turned to look at us. They chuckled and turned 
back to their cokes. 
"Dumb jocks," Frank snorted, "give them a Frisbee and a copy of Playboy and. 
they're set for the semester. I swear to God, Pete, half the people around here 
don't know there's a war on." 
"Well, maybe they've got other things on their minds," I replied lamely. 
"What minds?" Frank retorted, "No joke Pete, I've spent the last week passing 
out pamphlets and canvassing, and these Tarzan types won't even give you the time 
of day." 
"Say, Frank, why do you bother?" 
"Why do I bother? Jesus Christ, Pete, look around you! There are people being 
killed every god dam day, and nobody here cares! These stupid screwed-up idiots 
don't care about anything but getting drunk and smashing up things. They never see 
past the next weekend!" 
"Looks like you've got your work cut out for you." 
"Yeah, it's an uphill battle getting people to stop and think and start living like 
they say they do every Sunday." 
"Yeah, I guess so. Listen, Frank, so what else have been you been up to?" 
"Man, like I said, I've been busy as Hell." 
"You been eating and sleeping too, haven't you?" 
"Well, yeah." 

"Well, whatever happened to that chick, Chris?'' 
"That'~ kind of a long story. Chris kind of messed up last summer. She's gone, 
man." 
"Wow. What happened?" 

"Well, we were getting a lot of hassles from her folks and my folks. You know, 
about grades and bolting and dope. So we just split, and did a thing in Chicago, and 
her folks found out and came up and started screaming about cops and I told them 
where to stick it, and so she got dragged home. Then I went down there and did 
some more yelling and then split again. So then she started hanging around the 
beach at home and somebody laid some bad acid on her, and now she's off in a 
hospital somewhere." 
"Bummer. So you two aren't getting it on any more?" 
"Hell, her goddamned parents are reading her mail and they call me up to tell me 
to .stay away about once a month and I tell them to go to hell." Frank glanced 
down at his watch. "Hey, listen, I've got to go. We're having a teach-in at the 
flagpole. Why don't you come along?" 
"Sure. What's the topic?" 

"Christianity and pacifism. It ought to really get some people thinking around 
here." 
was thrown into the ROTC building. Some militant student groups have threatened over the underground radio station to burn the school down unless the students are allowed to strike. The faculty will vote on what to do but are expected to give only minor concessions. 
The Blacks at Loyola and Mundelein (Catholic-girls, Chicago,lll.) are organizing extensively for the strikes. At Loyola, the Blacks joined the strikers yesterday to protest the Augusta, Ga. deaths. Six Blacks were shot in the back and one beaten to death in fail. Mundelein Blacks have asked their faculty to make a statement about this. 
Mundelein, like Notre Dame, has united and become extremely active and construc~ive. They are ~aving 35 seminars in the new university which arc open to the commun1ty. TI1e scmmars range from "Revolutionary Literature" to "How to Convince the Pollack Workers," according to one of the strike leaders. The strikers here as well as at Barat College arc doing extensive community work. Besides door to door _canvassing, Mundelein is sending groups of four to talk to church groups, P.T.A. mcetmgs, etc. Each group is comprised of a Theology major, a Political Science major. someone who knows Constitutional law, and an Economics major. 
After looking at the turmoil of feelings on these campuses, I find it hard to figure out how the Christians who run Marquette and Loyola can be so insensitive to the moral convictions of some of their students. Can they really believe that the violence and dissention that erupts from student frustration is preferable to whole communities trying to save a troubled society through constructive actions and education? Notre Dame, St. Mary's, Mundelein, and Barat College have not closed down. Marquette has. 
Why have the Jesuits at Loyola not empathized with the slaughtered Blacks in Augusta, the slaughtered Vietnamese, the slaughtered American soldiers, and the slaughtered Kent students? Maybe the clergy feel it is not proper for the elite followers of Christ to take a moral stand in a society where they hold a privileged position. 
Maybe their kind of complacency is the major reason America has slipped so far in to trouble. · 
The best thing since the Golden Dome in a rear-view mirror 
school! Real honest-to-goodness Latin,
by Franklin Devine 
and a generous sprinkling of German aad "You want me to review Carmina French for good measure. 

WHAT? ... 
The language isn't even a barrier, if "Hut I don't know a damn thing about anything it enhances the show. 

choral music and besides I've got a The acting and zest of the cast carryhumongous amount of things to do off the performance beautifully. Josephtonight like ... ah ... like having to ... 
Kelly mugs his way through the role of ah ..." 

the lecherous abbot with personal delight I was trapped. Being a poor liar, I and a fine barritone. David Aderante sings dragged myself off to Washington Hall, the male romantic lead remarkably well. 
determined to sulk my way through two 
Carmina was played by Deanne Bacon. She is beautiful, talented and convincing.

hours of black suits and long black dresses (with white ruffles at the necks) Her performance was absolutely breath­stiffly singing foreign languages at a cold, taking. bored audience. When you come right down to it, 
though, it was the ensemble itself that 

I was wrong, dead wrong. In fact, the 
stole the show. I can't believe how well University Chorus's performance of they worked together. Never before have Carmina Burana was the best thing I've I seen a chorus that enjoys what it's 
seen since the last time I looked at the performing. They mug, they outrageously 
Golden Dome through a rearview mirror. mug through a drunken party. They are 
Burana is a 13th century happening! able to share their electricity with the 
The whole thing had all the wild audience. When they run through the dizzying images, irreverence and joy that aisles, mixing with the audience or giving the contemporary stage seems to capture. out flowers, they draw the viewers in. Carmina had every bit of spontaneity that When the cast of Hair uses the same sort Hair pretends to have. And the music was of technique it seems contrived and even hummable. ritualistic ... but at Carmina ... well it 
The show is taken from a series of 13th might sound hokey but .... they really century poems discovered in a Bravarian meant it. The performers seemed to enjoy monastery in the early 1800's. The whole the audience, they seemed to be happy to thing was set to music by Carl Orff in share their talents. 1936. The program guide informs me that The scenic effects arc the products of this is a "scenic cantata for soloists, large William Byrd. They are great! Once again chorus, and orchestra" whatever the hell Mr. Byrd has mixed slides, lights, and 
that is. What is is ... really is ... is a wild special effects to create an environment group of talented people sharing their that enhances and highlights a produc­music and their fun with an audience. tion. He'll be sorely missed next semester 
Man, from six trillion places at once, when he leaves Notre Dame. Susan you're flooded with lights, slides, musi<;, Stavens' direction was unbelievable. She color until you wish you knew the words was able to give the show coherence and a 
so you could rush the stage and be part of reasonable blocking pattern without 
what's going on. The most wild part of killing the spontaneous aura of the show. 
all, the weirdest, most zonked-out thing I guess I should mention the nude 
about the show is that most of the thing scene. Considering that the whow is free, is in Latin. Yeah, Latin ... just like Sister I'll let the male chauvanists find out for Mary of the Pascal Candle Three-themselves. 

Poetry Reading 

by Dan O'Donnell nings, Pat Moran, Marilyn Reed, Vince Sherry and John Stupp. In l!ddition Tom
Professor Jon Matthias has announced Kronk will display his experiments ina poetry reading by his creative writing concretism, a relatively new genre com­class scheduled for Sunday, May seven­bining form and content to express theteenth, at three P.M. in the Library artist's message.
Auditorium. 
The reading promises to be the bestFeatured will be Michael Patrick 

O'Connor, Rob student exhibition of the year. All are.
Barteletti, Steve Brion, invited. There is no admission fee. 
John Hessler, Rory Holscher, Ken Man­

r 
Page 6 FRIDAY, MAY 15,1970
711B OBSERfiEit 




Historian Lynd praises ND strikers enthusiasm 
by AI Defrees 
Yesterday at one o'clock Staughton -Lynd, historian, spoke at a Communiversity semi­
nar  on  canvassing  at  Notre  
Dame.  Mr.  Lynd  presently  
teaches  at  a  school  for  com­ 

munity or511nizers in Chicago. 

ATTENTION ALL 
SOPHOMORES 
Sophomores may start placing ring orders NOW 
'Hours: 1:30-4:30 Monday Thru Friday m office on second fJoor of ND Bookstore 
PRIVATE, IF You WANl TO TALK TO\ \VASHINGTON, DlA~\ 
1 AND AREA CODE 202
-

Get outta town without leaving campus. Dial Direct. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night and all day Saturdays. 

@ Indiana Bell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
Lynd said that canvassing has been very important to the strike because it represents a constructive effort on the part of the students. He noted that in many areas there has not been the enthusiasm that is seen in the Notre Dame-South Bend area. "There is more reaching out to the community at Notre Dame than in any part of Chicago," said Lynd. 

Lynd felt that the strike has brought many results; the most significant of which is the mass turn-in of draft cards. "More draft cards were turned in last week than in the past two or three years." 
example of labor unions and 

Also he thought that it was strike "when the Administration very important that this move­is most vulnerable." ment should not die out, but Most of the seminar was become a "Pep Rally" for the devoted to students who wanted Congressional elections of next to talk of the feelings they had year. when they were out canvassing. 
Lynd also promoted the idea They talked of "frustration," of better planning in the timing "closed doors," "arrogance" and of demonstrations. He said that other things they found as they most demonstrations of impor­were out working. One of the tance occur in April or May students said that he went out when there is very little time left trying to teach, but instead to bring about anything con­found that learning should be structive. Students must take the the primary goal. 
Labor strikes discussed 
by Mike McCarry 
Senior Phil Webre spoke 

about the history of labor strikes 
in South Bend to a small group 
of students last evening in 
Flanner Hall. The presentation 
was part of the current Com­
muniversity series. . 
Webre focused primarily on 

the Bendix Local No. 9 strike of 
1936. This was, according to 
Webre, the first sit-in, stay-in 
strike in the United States. 
The strike was the result of 
"horrible working conditions," 
and the company's unwillingness 
to recognize the union as the 
sole bargaining agent. 
The striking workers stayed in 
the factory for a week. During 
this time, the he~t was turned 
off, despite the November 
weather. Guards prevented any 
entry to the building. 
lWebre said that food and blan­kets could only reach 1 h,· strikers through factory win­dows. Recognition of the union was the only resolution. 
Th.e. meeting was publicized to the local unions, and Webre expressed disappointment that there were no workers in atten­dance. He said there is a possibility that his presentation might be given at future union meetings. 
"If there are going to be any important changes in this 
Fox's Extends SPECIAL PRICES 
to 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
rr101t irnporUnt thing in buying e diamond 
----..,......-Is knowledge. It takes en expert to know the fine Points of cut, color end quality.•. end whet gives e diamond its value. Th•e's only on. way to bby e diamond...and that is by coming to e jeweler you can trust. DIAMONDS $50 TO $5,000 OPEN A CONVENIENT TODAY 
country, they are going to have to come from the black and white working· classes," Webre said. 
"The I people are mad. They are dissatisfied with their present situation. I think it is important that they are made aware of their very proud history of working for reform." 
Webre stated that it was important that this educational process was also extended to students. He feels that the groups have some common inter­ests, even though their concerns are not identical. 
"It is rather obvious that a graduate who goes into indus­trial management has different interests than the workers. But there are certain goals, such as the end of the war would benefit both groups." . Anyone interested in~,working with local labor ull\ion~ should contact Webre thrQugh ,st~ike headquarters. · · · 

Addresses EE's ,_ 
Dr. William A. Porter, profess­
or of electrical engineering at the 
University of Michigan, will 
speak at 3:f0 p.m. today in the 
Engineering Auditorium. . 
Porter will address a seminar in electrical engineering on "Topics in Nonlinear System Theory." The public is invited to attend. 



FRIDAY. MAY 15,1970 


~__THE OBSERriM 
•
SMC faculty rece1ves awards 
The President of Saint Mary's College, Msgr. John J. Ml:Grath, hosted a dinner for the fawlly Wednesday evening in the Col­lege Dining Hall. The dinner was the Ol:l:asion for the official announl:ement of fal:ulty pro­mot ions and of the winner of the Spes Unica Award. Presented annually sinl:e 1958, the Spes Unil:a Award is bestowed on a h1y or religious fawlly member in rel:ognition of eminent servil:e to the College in some particular aspect of its development. 
Rel:eiving al:ademic promo­lions arc: Dr. William llickcy, assistant 


Plan campaign committee 
(;ovemment professor John Roos is organizing a Notre Dame Committee for a New Congress as a part of a nationwide movement originated at Prince­ton to work for peace candidates in the fall Congressional elec­tions. 
According to Pat McDonough and Pat Dowdall, two of the student organizers, the Commit­tee will hold an organizational meeting Sunday night in Wash­ington llall at 1!:00 p.m. 
The' purpose of the meeting, the two said, was threefold. First to .get a commitment from students and faculty to work for certain candidates over the sum­
mer and next 'fall. Second, to place them in campaigns that are crucial in the peace movement. And third, to provide informa­
tion and training for the people r----:::::-:=:--::--:=--=-=-==-------1 
on campus in relation to their potential work in the campaign. 
In the remaining few weeks of the school year, the group hopes to establish a series of seminars on campaign techniques. A sec­ondary emphasis will be on voter registration. Some of the things being covered in the seminars will be speechwriting, map sys­tems, conducting polls, precinct organizing and working with the media. 
professor of biology, named full professor. A member of the St. Mary's faculty since 1964, Dr. llickey received his B.S. from King's College and his M.S. and 
Ph.D.  from  the  University  of  
Notre  Dame.  Involved  in  re­ 
seardl  on  the  population gene­ 

tics of the Aedes acgypti mos­q uilo, he was named a U.S. Public llealth Rcseard1 Fellow and has ~.:o-authored a mono­graph on insect-borne disease for the World llealth Organization. 
Dr. Josephine Barallat, assis­tant professor of Spanish, named an associate professor. A grad u­ate of the University of Bar­l:elona with bachelor's and master's degrees, Dr. Barallat received her Ph.D. from the University of Salamanca, Spain. She taught in Spain and at Villa Madonna College, Covington, Kentucky, before joining the St. Mary's fawlty in 1965. 
Dr. Thomas G. Conway, in­
structor  in  history,  named  an  
assistant  professor.  Dr. Conway  
received  his  bachelor's  degree  

from Loyola University in Chi­cago, his master's from Southern Illinois University and his Ph.D. from Loyola University. A specialist in the social and economic history of England, he taught at Loyola University and Chicago Teachers College before coming to St. Mary's in 196 7. 
Mr. Donald Miller, instructor in mathematics, named assistant professor. A member of the St. Mary's faculty since I 967, he 
was formerly on the faculty at the University of Notre Dame. A 

FINAL 7-DAYS 
An lngo Preminger Production 
Color by DE LUXE • Panavision® 

STAR TODAY 
"You recall skinny Laurel playing against fat Hardy as abow plays against afiddle, and you think of the gay, ingenious music.'' 
-New York Times Editorial 

"Playboy ofThe flapper Age" · 



·e·ivER...PifFii< 
................... 
MISHAWAKA AVI. AT 30TH. 
graduate of Kent State Univer­sity 'with a B.S., Mr. Miller rel:eived his master's degree from the University of Notre Dame. 
Miss Isis Judith Quinteros, instructor in Spanish, named an assistant professor. Miss Quin­teros holds a bachelor's degree from Liceo de Ninas in Talca, Chile, and her M.A. from the University of Chile. Prior to joining the St. Mary's faculty in 1966, she taught in the Peace Corps Program at Rutgers Uni­versity, at the University of Notre Dame and in Chile. 

. a master at the game! ...........""-··· 

.Jfl.He hungered for the hunt ...the AN IMAL... 
--destroying A every decent girl MOSTEST With PRODUCTION INDECENT LOVE•. 
Released by JERAND FILMS, INC. cO-H it 



' 

Star11ng ALICE LINVILLE W. B. PARKER AUDREY CAMPBELL LAHNA MONROE Produced by Burton BRADLEY W111ten and Otrecled by Joe SARNO Aloteare Product tons Relme 
BONUS-FRI-SAT ONLY 
The heat of the 
summer 
came •.. 
and exposed 
all the bold 
and secret 
passions of young 

• I 
•
mnocence .•• 
24hr 


.. 
A n~w erin Serv i(·e 
STARTS TODAY 
ANTONIONI's 
EDm~~a 
~ll.jn~ 11~51U[II 
maaarm 
•n•ln~llllii 
m:. .1II'.D:. a Dllr:r.rJ 
II~'~IUI' II lUll II 
Open Daily 6:30 ~ Sunday 12:45 


Irish athletes wrap-up seasons 
-


by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
Baseball 
The Notre Dame baseball team will attempt to bounce back from its first setback in six Course. Other teams participa­ting in this annual classic are Ball State, Southern Illinois, North­ern Illinois, Western Illinois, Miama (Ohio), Central Michigan, Eastern Michigan and Cincinnati. 
Perhaps Fr. Clarence Durbin's boys can finish the season on a feature a very strong field squad led by the record setting discus man Paul Gill and Elio Polselli, the shot putter. 

The track squad is also capa­Kenny Lund. Lund has receivedLacrosse Club on Saturday and Midwest recognition as one ofthen play Lake Forest in a the top three scorers in theSunday afternoon encounter. 
ble  of getting  some  points for  
the  Irish.  Some  of  the  more  
valu able  runners  are  Joe Quad­ 

Midwest Lacrosse Conference. 

The stickmen have been led all season by their attack ace, 
JIM MURRAY 
games when the Irish take on Wayne State of Detroit this afternoon in a single game. The game is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. at Cartier Field. The ND nine will also play Wayne State tomorrow afternoon in a double­header starting at I :00 p.m. 
The Irish are carrying a 12-1 2 record into this weekend's acti­vity and if they can sweep this series from the invaders from Motown they will assure them­selves of a winning record for the season. The only games remaining will be Monday with Northwestern at home and a final road game on Tuesday at Valparaiso. 
Although their record is not the best in the country, the squad showed a lot of pride coming back from a dismal 1-1 0 record at one point in the 

..... 
season. 
Tennis 
The final two regular season tennis matches of the spring will be held this weekend and both of them are on the Notre Dame courts. This afternoon Tom Fallon's netters face Bowling Green at 2:00 and tomorrow· Ball State from Muncie, Ind., will provide the opposition. 
ND's ledger shows a 13-6 mark. Their play of late has been improving and a few more victories will make the season a success. 
Golf 
After one of their roughest seasons in history the Notre Dame golf team has come home to host its own tournament. The match will be held this Saturday 
.on the Bur~e Memorial Golf bright note by capturing the title to their own tournament. 
Sailing 
The Sailing Club travels to Bloomington, Indiana for their biggest and most important regatta of the year. Chuck Taylor's sailors must place in one of the top two positions if they have any ·hope of gaining national acclaim. Only the first two teams in scoring will be able to compete in the National tournament in June. 
Track 
The track team will compete in its final dual meet of the season. Alex Wilson's team has traveled to West Point, N.Y. to meet the Cadets of the U.S. Military Academy. The Irish erer in long distances and Rick Wohlhuter in middle distances. 

Rugby 

The rugby club will seek revenge this weekend when they take on the Chicago Lyons Rugby Club. Lyons won the Midwest rugby tomnament two weeks ago and the Irish were banking on taking that champ­ionship. Mike Peterni, club pres­ident, would like nothing better than for his boys to "wipe up" 
on ND mid the theam that spoiled bid to be kings of west.  the the  
lacrosse  

The lacrosse team will also be m Chicago this weekend. The Irish will battle the Chicago 
MAJOR LEAGUES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE

East 

East 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GBChicago 16 13 .552 

Baltimore 22 9 .710
New York 16 16 .500 1Y:. 

Detroit 15 14 .517 6St. Louis 14 15 .483 2 New York 17 16 .515 6Pittsburgh 15 18 .454 3 Boston 14 16 .467 7Y:.
Philadelphia 13 19 .406 4Y:. 

Washington 13 18 .419 9Montreal 10 20 .333 6% Cleveland 10 17 .370 10 
West 

West
Cincinnati 24 9 .727 

California 21 10 .677
Atlanta 18 13 .581 5 *Minnesota 19 10 .655

Los Angeles 17 14 .548 6 Oakland 16 16 .500 5Y:.

San Fran. 17 17 .500 7% Chicago 13 17 .433 7%Houston 16 17 .485 8 "Kansas City11 18 .379 8%San Diego 15 20 .429 10 Milwaukee 11 21 .344 10 

St. Louis 11 Pittsburgh 7 San Francisco 1 Los Angeles 0, 1st inn Minnesota 5 Kansas City 2, 5th inn. 
New York at Chicago ppd. rain *night game not included
Montreal at Philadelphia ppd. rain Houston at San Diego, night Only game scheduledOnly games scheduled 

Your store in style, price & terms 
our 


PRE-SUMMER SALE 
offamous name, quality 

SUITS, SPORT COATS, ALL-WEATHER COATS 
at savings of 

114 11121 1/3 
A great opportunity to stock up and save on fine, university-styled apparel. .. you'll fin<J names you know and rely on; you'll find a fine selection of fabrics and colors; you'll find the prices you like. 
You 11 also find the terms that fit your
.. 
budget . .. your Campus Shop account is open. 
ON THE CAMPUS
.. !___________________________________ __ NOTRE DAME 
The Only Way to Fight 
© 1970, Los Angeles Times 

In this country, all you get out of a pre-fight buildup is a Jot of hokey stories about the challenger's new "secret punch," rumors that the 10-1 underdog has been working out in secret, and reminders that nobody ever gave Gene Tunney a chance either. 
The champ will save a cat from drowning, or stop a team of runaway horses, or lead an old lady out of a burning building; so that the public should buy tickets to a mismatch just out of gratitude to his being such a good guy. 
As to the workouts, you can get as much information out of the all-night poker games in the press room as you can out of the sparring sessions. The management usually hires a bunch of powder-puff punchers or has-beens whose nose has been broken so many times, you know they couldn't get away from a punch if it was delivered in a box. There was once a heavyweigl1 t challenger so out-of-shape they had to BRIBE his sparring partner, when television came round to the training camp, not to knock him out. 
Consequently, Ruben Navarro and his manager, Johnny Flores, were in mild shock when they went to Japan in the summer of 1968 and found that the old American gamesmanship did not apply. The Japanese have a unique system in which they give the gam bier a break. He doesn't have to sit in a tree outside the training camp with binoculars or bribe the camp cook or wait outside the champ's dressing room and count the KOs. The Japanese bring all the fighters on a card together at a given site and time before the fight, invite the press, the bookies, and assorted interested parties-and then ASSIGN the fighters house sparring partners. 
They run the risk of ruining the card, to say nothing of the visiting fighters, because the assigned sparring partner is under no restratnl to make the headliner look good. In fact, some of them regard it as their golden chance. Ruben Navarro, one of the world's best lightweights, was assigned a predator in 12-ounce gloves whose name 
was "Jaguar" for his test. He should have done like that pug in the Searle cartoon who interrupts a contract-signing to say, "Wait a minute. My boy says he don't sign till he finds out precisely why they call him 'The Bushwick Assassin.'" 
Because Ruben shortly found out why they called him "Jaguar." "I was lucky he didn't eat me," said Ruben. "If it weren't for the 12-ounce gloves, it would have taken them a month to scrub up the blood from the "workout." · 
Ruben was to fight the junior lightweight champion, Hiroshi Kobayashi, in an even-money fight; but, after the sparring session, "Jaguar" peeled off his gloves and announced that Ruben would win. "How do you know?" someone asked Jaguar. "Because 1 can beat Kobayashi," coldly announced Jaguar. 
This is a laudable Japanese attempt to introduce some valid criteria in this sport, which should be of some valuable use to guys who have to hang out a line on events. But I don't expect it to make much headway in this country. I mean, 1 can't forsee where the state could assign exercise boys for miming workouts on Derby candidates, or batting practice pitchers to World Series lineups, or live tackling dummies to Super Bowl squads. If we had put somebody to follow the Lakers during the warmups before the seventh game last week, we could have all gone to the movies. Including the Lakers. 
But Ruben's training methods for his fight with Jimmy Robertson at the Olympic Thursday night have returned to the old Barnum methods. He works out only with punching bags. Some of them hang from ·chains and some of them have gloves on. 
But none of them answer to the name "Jaguar" or "Leopard" or Wildcat." 
In Manila, they have an even better method of testing you. Ruben beat Kobayashi, allright, just as Jaguar had predicted, but, in Manila, he fought another junior lightweight claimant, Rene Barrientos. The referee showed up toting a pistol. So did the judges. So did 
Barrientos' handlers. "Is this a duel or a prize fight?" Ruben asked. "It depends," an official told him, "on how the fight goes." Ruben could see the headlines: "The Way Ruben Navarro Won The Junior lightweight Championship Of The World Here Tonight. The Funeral Will Be Wednesday." He won the fight-but not by much. To his intense relief, they gave the decision to Barrientos. Under the circumstances, this was an act of genuine hospitality. R_uben is ~ 2-1 favorite over Robertson this week without having 
to frght a gnzzly to earn it. He didn't have to rescue a kidnapped child. And, if he knocks Robertson down, he won't have to take c?ver. His main problem is going to be to keep from yawning all 
nrght. 








