


__._v_o_L_._IV...:';...N_o_._,_,_a______________;.S;;.;'c:..:.r..:.v.::..:in.:lig~.the Notre /Jamc a11d Saint /l.Jary 's College ('o,nmwtiiP FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 19l0 
ELECT SLC REPRESENTATIVES 
South Quad 

by Don Ruane 
Mark Zimmerman and Chris Otten­weller defeated their nearest challenger by 163 and 141 votes respectively as they won SLC seats from the South Quad in yesterday's SLC election. Dick Tarrier convincingly won the Off-campus out­lying halls seat by a margin of II 5 votes. 
Zimmerman and Ottenweller achieved their highest total in Dillon. Ottenweller won 71! votes here as Zimmerman secured I 0 I votes from the members of his hall. 
Tarrier. wbo lost only in Holly Cross, 


Chris Ottenwefler 

scored his highest vote on the Off-campus hallot with a total of 63 votes. Tarrier had a total of I 59 votes, while Zimmer­man won 4X4 votes to Ottenweller's 463 votes. 
Ottenweller was "very pleased" with the election, ami added that Zimmerman was a "very good choice." lie considers the issue of doubling the student representation "very important." He said that this will he one of the many things he will "push" while in the SLC. The new SLC member also said that he will talk with Student Body President, Dave Krashna and his vice president, Mark Winings "to get the feel of things." Ottenweller has one other major goal to accomplish before the end of this academic year and that is to "establish a working base with the people already in 
The Grand Prix race, scheduled for next Saturday, and all the time trials were cancelled yesterday afternoon by Grand Prix chairman Mike Giannone because of insurance problems. 
All the other activities will continue according to schedule. 
Giannone said that he was called into the office of Rev. Charles McCarragher, Vice-President for Student Affairs, yes­tenlay and informed that he had until 
5:00 yesterday afternoon to get the carts out of the halls. He was told that the
~ 
carts were being stored in the halls in violation of the University's insurance contract. Giannone said they were con­sidered fire hazards and the insurance wmpany threatened to cancel the entire university insurance policy. 
AI the same time he was informed that h<! would have to obtain full insurance coverage for thr time trials and the day of liH' race. l'n·viously, Gianonne said, waivns had been signed by the parties involved waiving the liability of the university for any injuries. However, these waivers arc not legally binding. 
As a result, Gianonne said, the Grand Prix committee would have had to pay about $150 a day for the nine days of the time trials and the day of the race, which he said was exorbitant at this date. 
Towers 



Off-Campus North Quad 
by Mark Oay 
Collins, who lives in Cavanaugh Hall, received 556 votes for t.he high total;

Pete Collins and Tom Schoaf from the 
Schoaf of Breen-Phillips was next with

North Quad and Glen Corso from the 
491. The other candidates, Stave Flavin

Grace-Flanner District won positions on 
and John Hurley, trailed with 410 and

the SLC in last niabt's election. 
347 votes respectively. 

.. 
Pete Collins, a junior from Rochester, Michigan, when contacted shortly after the election, was celebrating with some of his supporters. "We tapped the keg at 7:00 and were waiting for the results in good humor, be they good or bad," he said. 
"I tried to run this campaign in a different manner from most around here," he said. "I saw as many people as I could, and those I didn't I hope were contacted by my friends who could tell 
, them something about me." 
He went on to say that he was disappointed in the small turnout of voters. "Perhaps in the future the SLC will be able to inspire more people to 


vote in its elections. It now seems like a powerless body to many people, but I 
1~A 

PeteColilll 
will try to do something about that," he continued. 
"I invite the trustees, administration, and faculty to advise and counsel us. But the final decision for the day-to-day lives must lie with the students. Perhaps some day the Free City will be a reality at Notre Dame," he concluded. 
The other winner from the North Quad, Tom Schoaf, was unavailable for comment. 

In the Flanner-Grace District, Glen Corso of Flanner Tower captured 248 Mark Zimmennan votes, while his opponents, Jirn the SLC." O'Gorman and Bob Ohlemiller, received 
After his eelection, Ottenweller asked 148 and I I I votes. 
the student body to he "more active and Corso, a sophomore from Massepequa,vehement" and to support hall auto­·New York, said after the election last nomy. He said that it is the "best thing night, "I want to thank all the students for a hall to declare aaaautonomy and who supported me during the election. Istudent responsibility." 
think this definitely indicates a mandate Tarrier was disappointed by the for change."

"apathy" in the election, but impressed "My opponents, Jim and Bob, both ran by his victory. He believes the SLC is a good campaign. I'm sure they would've "starting to reach the students," but in worked for the same things I will." 
his opinion, it still "has to be reoriented." 
"Now that I'm on the SLC, the first 

(continued on page 7) thing I'm going to work for is the fulfillment of my campaign pledges. Both minority recruitment and university priorities must be considered by the SLC.




Grand Prix cancelled 
It is the only body that can do the The insurance problem came as a necessary research to present intelligentcomplete surprise to Gianonne who said proposals to the Administration to work that up until yesterday morning every­on. If the SLC doesn't do it, then no one thing was proceeding normally and that will." 

the event was actually $1200 under "I will work with the newly elected budget. 
student representatives and Dave"If the news would have reached me 2 (Krashna) and Mark (Winings) to effect a or 3 months ago, we could have made badly needed change for Notre Dame." 

other arrangements," Gianonne said. 
Nixon abolishes most deferments 
WASHINGTON (UPI) President predict whether or precisely when con­granting of all job deferments, mcluding Nixon abolished virtually all future 'scription could be ended. 
farm work. Young men currently holding occupational and fatherhood deferments The Pentagon said the draft law should such deferments will keep them and those who applied for them before Thursday
from the draft yesterday, sought author­be extended for at least two years, 
ity to induct college students and moved meaning an all volunteer force would not will remain eligible. There are 500,00 
to perfect his four month old lottery be created at least before mid-1973. But persons with these deferments, most of induction plan. · Nixon said that to start making the armed them teachers, policemen and others in At the same time, the President services more attractive for potential community services. Ordered a similar halt to the granting
announced steps he said would eventually volunteers, he was asking Congress for a of all paternity deferments, except inlead to an all volunteer Army but rejected 20 per cent pay increase for all enlisted 
for economy reasons a proposal by a men with less than two years' service, cases where a local board determined that presidential study commission that con­effective next Jan. I. drafting a father would create an extreme scription be ended by June 30, 1971. For a private recruit that would mean a hardship on his family. As in the case of "From now on," Nixon said in a boost from $124.50 a month to $149.40, job deferments, the elimination of pater­message to Congress, "the objective of plus food, housing and other benefits. nity deferments is not retroactive. this administration is to reduce draft calls For a sergeant with less than two years' Asked Congress to repeal a provision it to zero, subject to the overriding service, it would mean an increase from wrote into the 1967 Selective Service A!:t consideration of national security." $275.40 a month to $330.60. that guarantees to every college student a Because of the Vietnam War and other Meanwhile, the President: deferment for four years or until he is 24 
(continued on page 6)

factors, he said, it was impossible to Ordered an immediate hall to the 




PAGE 2 
NEWS MEETING 4:30 

Fox's Extends 

SPECIAL PRICES to NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
moat important thing in buying a diamond 
----.~· Is knowledge. It takes an expert to know the fine pglnts of cut, color and quality•.. and what gives a ~Iamond its value. There's only -way to boy a diamond•.. and that is by coming to a jeweler you can trust. 
DIAMONDS $50 TO $5,000 OPEN A CONVENIENT 

~~iRiEjT~A~CiCO~UNiTRTiOjDiA'-Y..~~~~~ 

FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1970 

SMC sta 
students Negotiate new contract 
by Ann Therese Darm 
Cafeteria workers will meet 
again with Msgr. John J. 
McGrath, SMC president, today 
to settle differences on their new 
contract. 
When the contract was pre­sented to the girls before Easter vacation, it contained points changing the system. These changes, however, would break Msgr. McGrath's alleged promise to the girls at Christmas not to change the program. 
Among the most important changes are: (1) revoking scho­larship credit for eating time; (2) no allowance for sick time; (3) appointment of student super­vision by Saga. Staff students had strong feelings about the changes. 
On election of officers: "We felt in theYirst place that there is no reason why the staff students cannot elect their own officers. Saga doesn't seem to have any complaints about the present system. Neither do the students, who are supervised by an adult anyway." 
On sick leave: "Is it better for us to serve food when we are ill or to stay in our rooms in bed? Regardless of how ill we are, we could not afford to miss work under the new provisions." 
On eating time: "We realize that we have received an un­usually good deal on this matter: this is not the issue. This is the program we originally agreed to which the administration prom­ised we would graduate under. The change would force us to work approxima tely six addi­tional hours a week. We can't afford to spend that that much time in the dining hall." 
Instead of signing the con­tract, the girls went home for Easter vacation and inducecl their parents, former staf members, and some presiden' of SMC alumnae clubs to wri' letters of complaint to Msg•. McGrath. 
But no action, not even acknowledgement of the letters, was taken until last weekend's meeting of the SMC Board of Trustees. 
In considering the problem on Friday morning, th"e student affairs committee, chaired by Mrs. James Meagher, suggested 
that Msgr. McGrath drop points 3 (eating/sick time) and 5 (election of officers) from the contract related Chris Wedryk, staff student representative. 
Voting on this committee, Ann Marie Tracey, SBP, and Karen Schultz, academic affairs commissioner, expressed con­cern at the contract. 
"It seems almost on the point of absurdity that the adminis­tration is bringing up the con­tract trow," commented Miss Tracey. "The whole thing isn't even going to be a problem in the next two years when the 
program is phased out." 
"Although Fr. McGrath maintains that he is correcting an abuse, he is really changing the program. Why make things so hard for the girls when the program is ending anyway?" she continued. 
Administrators, however, view the problem Jifferently. They feel, for example, that they should not pay the girls to prepare the food and then to eat it. 
FRIDAY APRIL 24 
KISSING MARATHON -I DARE YOU 
starts today at noon at the flag pole on the Main Quad. Only the lips will be allowed to touch-as soon as the lips become disengaged or any other part of the body touches, the couple will be eliminated. 
The attempt being made here is to break the recently set world's record of 8 hrs. 45 mins. set in South Africa. 
The prize for the longest kiss will be a carved wooden sculpture called "The Modern Kiss." The runners-up will receive a year's supply of Certs and other prizes including Ultra Bright toothpaste, Lavoris, Right Guard, and Chapstick. 
SATURDAY APRIL 25 
11:30 -1:00 FREE PICNIC 
1:00 
BED RACE 

1:00 
LOG PADDLING 


1:30 WATER BRIGADE 
2:00 PIE EATING 
2:30 TUG OF WAR 
3:00 PIANO SMASH 
3:30 COW MILKING 
4:00 TOUCH FOOTBALL 
4:30 PIG CHASE 
-At Holy Cross Hall Lawn -Beginning at R. 0. T.C -Bring Your Bed -4 People Teams -Logs Provided-Bring Paddles -Ten Guys or Eight Girls -Maximum of25 Couples -10 Men or 15 Women-Women Won Last Year! -Football Team vs. Basketball Team 
-Drink Up! -ND VS. SMC -Sign Up With Hall President 
(Sign up for all but Pig Chase on Saturday at An Tostal Field.) 
10:30 -BOOKSTORE -· BAND and FREE PIG SANDWICHES PROVIDED 
In maintaining this program for girls who might not be able to get scholarships, the admin­istration believes that the girls have taken advantage of the program. 
At the associate board meet­ing Friday afternoon, members vetoed the proposal and gave the 
administration  a  vote  of con­ 
fidence.  
They  also  suggested  at  a  

meeting Saturday morning that representatives from the admin­istration, Saga, and the students meet to settle contract differ­ences. In a letter to Msgr. M(:Grath, the girls also requested a meeting which took place Wednesday. 
"There Msgr. McGrath said that the staff students should sign the contrads as they were originally written," stated Miss Wedryk. 
Although Miss Wedryk would not reveal their plan for to­morrow, she did say, "We are united and will remain united until the contract is settled." 
Barkett wins 

SMC COFFEE HOUSE OCTO PUSS jazz and Rock Band Sun 8:30-12:00 pm $.75  
Att'n: Contact Lenses Wearers Have You Lost Yours? Contact Kirven in 301 Sori11 * FI:\EST 1:\ STEREO * TL\C. ALTEC L-\:\Sl:\G. J\'C Cu!or Tl. Sers. 1 u· ZOSS PRODUCTION Call 232-2804 11M OblerWr II puiiiiiMO tllllv during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 465!>6.  


~-------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSER.fJDt 
PAGE 3 

Pollution lecture given 

by Shawn Hill Stressing that "people must be willing to pay for a clean environment" and "the need for proper land use", Mr. William Matuszeski, of the President's Advisory Council on Environ­mental Quality, addressed a small audience yesterday after­noon in Washington Hall. His talk was given as part of the "Earth Week" activities sponsor­ed by the Environmental Teach-in Committee. Matuszeski first discussed what he feels is a common misconception by many people concerning environmental poilu­tion; that pollution is the result of industrial greerl and govern­mental incompetence. He stated that "industry must change, it must learn that it will have to clean up its messes". He pointed out, however, that before industry can put an end 
co the pollution they cause, people, as consumers, must want them to. Be said that they must also be willing to pay for sud1 a clean-up, through higher prices 
and  Jess  demand  for  some  
products.  
Matuszeski  also  felt  that  

government was not to blame for pollution. He stated that from Congress down to local governments there is little pres­sure to do very much about pollution. For example, he said that the Corps of Engineers dredges harbors along Lake Michigan and dumps the sedi­ments from this dredging into the middle of the lake because no one is willing to have this waste disposed of anywhere else and there is no pressure on the Corps to discontinue this prac­tice. 
He then attacked what he called the "Apollo Syndrome, 
Lewis Mayhew and Rosemary Park named University consultants on co-education 
The presidents of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame and neigh­boring St. Mary's College today announced the retention of two academic consultants to study the direction of future collabora­tion between the two institu­tions. 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hes­burgh, C.S.C., of Notre Dame and Msgr. John J. McGrath of Saint Mary's said that Dr. Lewis 

B. Mayhew, professor of edu­cation at Stanford University, and Dr. Rosemary Park, former pres­ident of Barnard College in New York City, will start their study of both campuses before the end of the current academic year. A consultant in the area of finance will be named later, they said, as a third member of the study team, which is expected to present recommendations to the trustees of both institutions no later than December 31, 1970. 
Mayhew, a past president of the American Association for Higher Education, received his doctorate from Michigan State University in 1952 and taught there for 12 years before joining the Stanford faculty. He was assistant director of the Ameri­can Council on Education coop­erative study of general educa­tion and director of the North Central Association study on liberal arts education. Miss Park, whose doctorate is from the University of Cologne, Germany, was president of Barnard College from 1962 to 1967, when she became vice chancellor for ed u­cational planning :.md programs 
Sorin. rejects statement 

Following the lead of Lyons llall, Sorin has voted to reject the recent statement of the Board of Trustees on Hall Life, and instituted twenty-four hour parietal hours, ie. women will be allowed in the hall at any time. This was decided in a meeting of the Hall Council on Tuesday night, April 21. The Observer was notified of this change by Mike Cotter, President of Sorin llall. 
The twenty-four hour parie­tals hours instituted by Sorin and Lyons Halls are in clear violation of the minim11m guide­lines suggested by the Trustees. Unlike Lyons, Sorin College has not issued any formal statement on the issue. 
for the University of California at Los Angeles. She is past president of the Association of American Colleges and has held numerous positions on national organizations in the educational field. 
The appointment of the consultants grew out of a joint meeting of the executive' com­mittees of the boards of trustees of both institutions last month in Florida, the first such joint meeting in the history of the schools. 
At this meeting, the executive committees of both boards of trustees also: 
-Approved in principle the current sharing of facilities and resources, including the ex­change program which this year has seen I,500 Saint Mary's students enrolled in nearly 2 , 300 Notre Dame classes and I,600 Notre Dame students in 2,368 St. Mary's classes. 
-Set guidelines for faculty -Made available to St. Mary's recruitment which call for con­the services of graduate student sultation between "departments teaching assistants from Notre Dame. ' 
of either institution basically concerned with undergraduate 
-Continued the appointment instruction" before making ap­
of the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., of Notre Dame as chair­
pointments. man of the inter-institutional
-Cited the combined Notre coordinating committee and
Dame-St. Mary's Speech and named a St. Mary's member of
Drama department as the model the committee, Sister M. Alma
for merged departments, with Peter, C.S.C., to be vice chair­
one institution having primaty jurisdiction and overall control man. 
that all you need is a lot of money anti advanced technology and you can solve all your problems." lie said that many of the causes of pollution are very complex and difficult, often impossible, to solve. 
Matuszeski then concluded that the responsibility for fight­ing pollution ultimatdy lies with the people. lie said that "Any serious attempt to control pollu­tion will result in someone getting hurt." ''Before pollution 
can  be overcome,  people  must  
be  willing  to  pay  for  a  clean  
environment."  

Matuszeski next addressed himself to "the need for proper land use". He felt that "what pollution comes down to is land use and what land means to people." "The Great American Land Ethic, that we have un­limited land and unlimited power over that land, is a major problem facing environmental­ists," according to Matuszeski. 
He spoke next of the failures of Urban Renewal and the rape of the land by "suburbia". He said that "the attitude toward suburbia will be the hardest one to crack since people are convinced that it is good." 
li·Ie concluded that before the land can be properly utilized, people's attitudes must be changed. 
He ended his talk with a question and answer period during which he defended both hiss own and the government's position on the environment. 

of faculty and budgets. -Said standards of faculty 
Back By Popular Demand!I 

competence and salaries for both institutions would be "compar­able," while emphasizing that 
FIRST FRIDAY

the St. Mary's faculty "is pri­
marily committed to undergra­Movin' and Groovin with their
duate education." Greatest Songs ... Newest Tunes. 
-Urged departments to coop­erate closely in planning course offerings with the aim of econo­mizing in the use of staff and 
TONIGHT-AMERICA -a:JoP.M.

eliminating unnecessary small classes at both schools. 

MARK OF UCELL£NCE 

-Doyouputa
higher price onan OICisttian wedo? Our own surveys indicate that quite a few people think an Olds costs a lot more than it really does. Result? Many people buy an ordinary car and end up with a lot less car and value for their money. It's so unnecessary, too, because Oldsmobile has many models that are priced right down with so-called low-priced cars. See your Olds dealer. He'll prove that you're closer to Olds than you think. 
Cutlass S: The sporty Olds-one of nine Olds models priced under $2995'­names. But Cutlass really widens the ~iJiill.IIIIJ!!!!!II___:value gap with" standard features like these: Regular-gas Rocket V-8 0 Nylon-blend loop-pile carpeting 0 Foam-padded seats 0 Deluxe steering wheel 0 Bias­belted tires 0 Door side-guard beams 0 Recessed windshield wipers 0 Hidden radio antenna. 
M 
Oldsmobile 4-4-2 Indy Pace Car 1970 
OLDSMOBILE 
Escape from the ordinary. 
·Manufacturer's suggested reta11 pnce includes federal excise tax and suggested dealer new-car preparat1on charge Oesllnat•on charge. state and local taxes and opt1onat equ1pment are add111onal 
~---~~-~----:------------­
FRIDAY. APRIL 24. 1970

PAGE. 
-
. :.<· 
''-.'• 

'­
El Cid starred in the Campaa Athletes' triumph lut neaina aad fifty-foot slide for Gentle over a good St. Mary's team. as a prelude to Slide and the Family 
I~ 
A noaae baUt oa cans is probabiJ more stable than a ltoaae baUt oa •ad, bat who taew It laat aqht? 



FRIDAY, APRIL 24,1970 
PAGE 5 
WAS GE 
TLE 


THURSDAY. TODAY IS FRIDAY, IN 
CASE PEOPLE ARE AS YET UNAWARE OF THIS Gentle Thursday, of course, is nothing more than a thinly disguised excuse for mayhem. lt'seems ironic that the day ~s so inaptly 
named-it features dunking people _ into a decidedly unpleasant 
your choice, and container of water, bribing the campus Jocks to jail the enemy of 

a booth especially designed so that people can throw pies at other people-but that's the way it is. Way back when An Tostal was an infant, Gentle Thursday was reseiVed for gentle things, such as they were-mostly, it seemed, people rocking back and forth in place-but times have changed and the world, the flesh, and the devil have all claimed their rightful places in the festivities. 
But that was yesterday; nothing remains of it save vestige beer cans of a stacking contest, the court where SMC once took on Mike McCoy with boxing gloves, and a plethora of pictures observable below, behind, and beyond. Today is Friday, with another slate of events scheduled for today-principally a Kissing Marathon and what is obsiquitously known as an Irish wake. 
Of particular interest, it appears, is the Kissing Marathon, probably the first contest in history where Grantland Rice's admonition that "it's not whether you win or lose, it's how you play the game," will be observed. The thing starts at noon and could go on forever. The rules are: The lips, and the lips alone, may touch. The prizes are: a kissing statue for first and a year's supply of Certs for second. The fringe benefits are: obvious. The kicker is: it's probably less risky (that's spelled correctly) than a sleepout on the quad. 
The Irish wake is something else (as one might indeed expect it to be.) Back in the old days, before Christianity touched the Errerald Isle, the Irish used to celebrate death in a rather bizzare manner. Participants would get bombed out of their respective minds, and about the third or fourth day (these things lasted a month, or however long it took for the cadaver to become sufficiently offensive) people would drag the remains of the lamented deceased from wherever it was reclining and dance with it. The proposed Irish Wake will have all these elements save perhaps the cadaver, and it will be held from eight-thirty to eternity at the National Guard Armory. It costs a buck to enter, and booze is a dime a draught, but other than that, it's free. 
Saturday, like Friday, is neither Gentle or harsh, but rather some form of compromise-like ridiculous. A bed race is slated for one o'clock-a lass from St. Mary's will pilot a bed powered by four gentlemen from du Lac. All will be attired in pajamas. Great. , . . . Fifteen girls oppose ten men in a Tug of War in a mud pit at two-thirty. Four-people teams paddle ac~oss ~t. M~ry s lake at one. SMC ~rrls will feed Notre Dame men m a pie-eating contest at two. Ten gentlemen or eight young maidens form teams to compete i~ a contest _to fill a ftfty-ftve gallon water drum wtth a two a_nd one-half gallon w_ater bucket. Five members of the varsity football team face the varsity basketball team m a ptano-smashmg contest at three PM. People chase gr~a.sed ptgs for fun and proftt at four-thirty. Some philanthropist is providing free food for an eleven-thirty to one picnic on the grounds around Holy Cross Hall. It may be dmmg hallleftovers-l_ook out_ for Nicuraugean beef. A six-man Notre Dame football team faces an eleven-girl SMC team in a game of tw?-h~nded plenty-of-~ouch. A free bl_ock _party ~ages from ten-thtrty at mght till two in the morning. To top things off, teams from the various halls at ND and SMC hunt greased ptgs m the mud-that II be at four-thtrty m the afternoon. Sunday everybody will go to church. 
BELIEVE IT OR NOT 
BASS AUMORE is not SAM RUMORE 

INSTHA D, THEY A A E TWO 0 IFF E A E NT PE 0 PL E! 
Our apologies to Sam and Bass for the inconvenience we may have caused. 
Executive .Editor: L)ave Stauffer Features Editor: T.C. Treanor Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Sports Editor: Terry Shields Advertising Manager: Bruce Bar· Night Editor: John Knorr ker 
Layout Design: Mary Chris Campus Editor: Glen Cor'iO Morrison 
News Editor: Stave Hoff nan Layout: Rich Maggi, Jphn Abowd SMC News Editor. Jeanne Headlines: Jim Graif, John Sweeney Abowd 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ad Layout: Steve Dollinger Ann Conway Night Controller: Joey 
All the Observer Features writers are growing old, and dying, and fading away, and graduating ... 
We need people! Fast! Before it's too late! 
We need: movie reviewers book reviewers, play reviewers, 
concert reviewers. freelance writers... 
Doors will open at your feet! Free tickets will be yours at the asking! You will be known and respected throughout the campus! Wow! 
All you have to do is attend a meeting in the Observer office at 4PM 
tomorrow. 
So write on with· FEATURES! 
There's only one man I fear-REDM AN! 
-THE STILT 
FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1970

PAGE6 
TIIB OBSERIIDt 
Dance to the Music.... 
Festival Winners 

MAGNIFICENT SEVEN 
IN A SOUL-JAZZ DANCE CONCERT 
AMERICA 

is a short beautiful walk from your room. 
SATURDAY, 8:30p.m. 


College deferments going 
(continued from page 1) would ask Congress to repeal a the White House, the Selective provision of law requiring loc::l Service System and a special 
years old, whichever comes 
quotas. He then would authorize commission headed by formerearlier. 
the Selective Service System to Defense Secretary Thomas S.
Should Congress remove the 
issue monthly national calls. Gates Jr. 
stricture, Nixon said he would 
Thus, for example, all youths
promptly issue an executive Although a key congressional 
with the sequence number 185
order that would bar student figure, Rep. L. Mendel Rivers, D
would be inducted, regardless of 
deferments except for youths S.C., chairman of the House
how few or many were taken 
holding them as of April 22, or Armed Services Committee, was
from the community, until the last Wednesday. Those students out of town and unavailable for
military's total monthly require­would be covered as before. comment, Nixon's proposal ap­
ment was met. Students who acquire defer­peared to have enough Republi­ments after April 22-such as The Presidential's message was can and liberal Democratic sup­those planning to enter college the result of draft and volunteer port to indicate chances for next fall-and are ultimately army studies by the Pentagon, approval were good. selected for the draft would be permitted to complete the sem­ester before they are inducted. 
Counsel gov't majors
Students enrolled in ROTf: pro­gram could postpone their active 
The government depart-The sessions are a "concrete military service until after grad­ment at Notre Dame will be result" according to senior uation. 
sponsoring pre-registration coun­government major CharleyThrough a combination of a seling sessions for all new Zappala of the earlier meetingscongressional and presidential government majors and all between faculty and students in action, Nixon will try to resolve government majors who are not the government department. 
some of the confusion and 
graduating early next week. "More personal contact in inequities in his lottery plan. 
New government majors are terms of counseling" was recom­To produce a more "equit­
· cordially invited and they can mended by the committee of able" method, Nixon said he 
expect help on what kind of faculty and students formed to . courses to take, how to set up a correct the problem. 
government program, and other The sessions will be next 
academic necessities. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednes­All government faculty mem­day from I0-12 in the morning 
bers with senior government 
and from 2-5 in the afternoon majors assisting will be available 
in rooms 314 and 345 of for consultation. O'Shaugnessy.
Wf.-\Ai DO You THtNK 
MV CHANeES ARE OF 
STUDENT SERVICES REACHING 4-\ot..t.VWOoD? 
COMMISSION Applications being accepted for 
Concessions: Positions: YooR CHANCE.S ARE.( .... 
Cookie Hall Co-op Director Cake Directory Mgr.

E'tCE.LL.E:Nl; VALER \EI'· 
Donut (No Experience)

IF You DIAL 1 AND 
Food Paks

AREA CODE. it-'3. 
Student Discount BookJet 

CONTEMPORARY ARTS FESTIVAL PRESENTS 
THE LUCAS HOVING DANCE COMPANY 
in residence 
Sat., -ApriJ 25 -2:00 p.m. 
FREE LECTURE DEMONSTRATION MAIN QUAD (weather permitting) or Wash. Hall 

Get outta town without leaving campus. Dial Direct. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every 
Sun., -ApriJ 26 -8:30 p.m.

school night and all day Saturdays. 
DANCE PERFORMANCE 
WASHINGTON HALL

@Indiana Bell 
CAF Patrons Free Students-$1.00 Adults-$2.00 

Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
lfyou saw Murray Louis don't miss Lucas Hoving, 
lfyou didn't see Louis, now's a chance to see what you missed. 



7118 OBSERJJER.
FRIDAY, APR L 24, 1970
I 
I 
I Jorling lectures on law l I and environment 

by Tom Hufendick Thomas Jorling, lawyer-"This committee is now in tee on Rivers and Harbors an -ecologist and member of the the process of rewriting a '1965 enemy of the ecologically Senate Committee on Public water pollution act as well as a minded because it serves as a 
Works, introduced yesterday's 1966 air pollution act," Jorling rubber stamp for the Army Washington llall audience of 25 said. lie indicated that the two Corps of Engineers. This corps is (that's right, 25) to the politics present acts arc weak as a result infamous for pursuing their duty 
of ecology. of the congressional compro­of flood protection without mises they were subject to. 
regard to ecologically unsound In his opening remarks, Jor­side effects. 
Although Jorling commended Public Works the most active in 
Jing called the Committee on the Subcommittee on Air and Jorling went on to citeWater Pollution, he was quick tothe Senate. The Committee's another problem in the legisla­note that the Subcommittee ondegree of activity, he added, is tion of anti-pollution acts. He 
due largely to the amount of Rivers and Harbors is also said improved control of pollu­work done by Senator Edmund included in the Committee on tion means more expense for Muskic's Subcommittee on Air Public Works. 
industry and, as a result, deletor­and Water Pollution. Jorling called the Subcommit­
ious effects on the community. Among these harmful effects are unemployment and, possibly,
Free City Day 
decreased wages. Friday, May I, has been be considered. Lastly, the effect 
In concluding his talk, Jorling
declared Free City Day. Stu­of grades and competition on urged the public to assist in thedents and faculty concerned learning will be discussed by the anti-pollution drive. Jorling de­with academic reform and faculty, administrators, and 

clared, "Congress is a small.
interested in Dr. Nutting's ideas students present. 
group of individuals working the 
ENTERTAINMENT GEAitED TO PLEASE
on t~ducation, as expressed in 
public will as they see it.
Faculty and students inter­
Nulling's book The Free City, 
Therefore, ultimate responsibi­
THE SOPHimCATED ADULT

ested in working on the prepar­
plan to "turn Notre Dame into a ations should call 232-7232 or 
lity lies with the public."
free city for a day," said Jeannie 233::6728.
Easterly, a spokesman for the The public needs a greater 
MON. THRU FRI. AT 6:30 

group. sophistication in politics if they 
SAT. AND SUN. AT 12:45

"We'[e going to discuss Dr. are to help, Jorling maintained.
Tarrier on S)C 
2NEW FEATURES EVERY WEDNESDAY
Nutting's ideas on what Notre First of all, people should realize 
Dame could be like. For one that action ensues after they
(continued from page 1)
day, using Dr. Nutting's ideas as attack personalities, not after 
For1illnCall255 1&17after &p.m.

~he major problem for the 
a base, we're going to demon­they attack things.
SLC at this time, as Tarrier sees 
Fl•--I.Qectlllllrl pi• ,_,...-..
strate what Notre Dame could it, is the Board of Trustees' Jorling provided the anti-warbe like if it were a free city. 
power to use a veto over parts of movement as an example. HeNutting's book describes a student life. lie said a new said, "It didn't pick up momen­community of students and 
SAT., MAY 23rd

"definition of student life is 
tum until after our action in
teacher-students, who through 
needed." 2 Performances Only
Vietnam was termed Johnson's
dialogue, investigate what it 
Zimmerman did not have any Mat. 2:30 • Eve. 8:30
War. Politicians are sensitive to
means to understand. In this reaction to his election and 
this type of thing."
community grades and re­reasoned that it "really hasn't 
OST ACCLAIMED MUSICAL!

quirements have nothing to do 
hit me yet." He added that he ,-'liililjjiijijiiiliijjij.jjll H~ROLD PRINCE
with becoming a wise person. 
"enjoyed the campaign and the IThe free city integrates formal chance to get out and meetlearning and the education that people." 
BOB CARROLL

goes on outside of the class­The first thing Zimmerman 
room. Nutting is critical of IN
would like to achieve is aeducation that is basically job breakdown in the "factionalism"training, or liberal arts courses in the SLC. Zimmerman wanted 
JiddlertheRoof

that are merely collections of to thank the students thatfacts. 
BQSf41 on Sholom -Aiekhem's storits

supported him and asked thatThe group plans to have they "stay behind the peoplediscussions on four general areas, 
~...,.y JOSEPH STEIN
they elected."

complemented by drama and possibly a hot dog lunch. The 
~~.~. ~, JERR'< BOCK

discussions have been tentatively 
OPEN SENATE MEETING 
planned to cover four general LJ"'H~ S"ElDON ~~RN\CK areas, all related to the idea of a There will be an open meeting university as a free community. of the Student Senate -Student 
"> 

First, the possibility of turning Affairs Committee, at seven JEROME ROBBINS
•sst011.,Arnold Perl 

the residence halls into edu­o'clock Sunday, April 26. The cational communities will be purpose of the meeting will be MAIL ORDERS HllW •. considered. Second, the relation to discuss the Trustees' Jetter, ALL SEATS RESERVED of academics to the community and parietal hours in general. Make Checks Payable TO: ,· . . will be discussed. Third, the The meeting will be held in the MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM · . . · , responsibility of the educational Student Government cabinet 211 N. Michican Sl 46601 community to the society will offices. EIICL4tH Self·Addressed Envelope 
PLEASE ENCIRCLE PERFORMANCE -PRICE -LOCATION 
PRICES -MATINEE PRICES -EVENING 
ORCH. MEZZ. BOXES $5.00 ORCH., MEZZ. BOXES $6.00 MAIM FL, 1st Bal. $4.00 Main Fl., 1st Bal. $5.00
NOW SHOWING 
2nd Bal. $3.00 3rd Bal. $2.50 2nd Bal. $4.00 3rd Bal. $3.00 
STUDENTS -$1.00 DISCOUNT -ALL PRICES -MAT. ONLY 
..Without adoubt the 
THE SOPHOMORE LITERAR'Y FESTIVAL
funniest service comedy I have ever seen.'' 
-Judith Crist, NBC·TV 

IS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 1971 FROM
An lngo Preminger Production 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS FOR
Color by DE LUXE• .-rnl 
THE POSITIONS OF CHAIRMAN, ASSOCIATE
Panavision8 ~ 
CHAIRMEN, AND COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN (FINANCE, PUBLICITY, SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS). SEND A BRIEF RESUME AND IDEA OF THE FESTIVAL TO
-Special Late Show­
Sun., Mon., Tues., 
BOB HALL, 327 GRACE TOWER. NO APPLICATIONS
Wed., Thurs., at 
Friday &Saturday WILL BE ACCEPTED AFTER APRIL 30th. 1:45 4:10 
Features at 1:15 3:25 5:37 8:00
6:45 9:25 The last Mash -10:44 

~--------------------------------------------------­
7NB OBSEIWM FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1970 
PAGE 8 
Tarzan Brown would have liked· it 
by Terry Shields ND contingent were McGraw the four hour mark than ever Matt started out running a­some Gatorade and oranges. 
(2: 59) who finished at about the before. round campus with the intention They were just great!"
Observer Sports Editor 
200th spot, Homeyer close be­Even with these adverse con­of keeping in shape but he met Everyone that enters the "They were the worst running ditions the ·Marathon was run in Homeyer who was a four year Boston Marathon has different
hind at 3:03, Jerome made it in conditions since 1939 when 3:29 and Rycyna was also in the a record two hour and ten veteran of this spring pheno­reasons for entering. Some ex­Tarzan Brown won it!" That is minute time by Ron Hill of menon known as the Marathon. pect to win, others just try to
low three's but there was no the way Matt Carden, a junior at accurate time available for him. England. This was not the only "Tom talked me into making the see if they can finish. (It was Notre Dame, described the con­major feat accomplished. The trip with him. He would have rumored that the Corby Street
With rain pelting down 
ditions for his first try in the top l 00 finishers ran the course finished higher but he hurt his Striders weren't in either of
through a whipping wind and 38 
Boston Marathon. in under 2:45. knee and it tightened on him these groups.) Matt just wanted
degree temperatures, these ele­Matt was just one of eleven with only a few miles left in the to see if he could run the race
ven and I ,000 other runners of "The participants aren't ex­
Notre Dame men to enter the race." under four hours. He finished in
assorted shapes and sizes set out actly what I expected. Most of 
arduous race. The other runners The spectators in Boston 4:15, but that wasn't bad for his
on Monday morning with the the runners were older than who attempted to jog this hope of making the sprint to college age. They averaged about really love this event and they first Marathon. guelling 26 mile 385 yard course turn out in huge numbers every Like most people who enter
Beantown inside of the magic 28-30 years old. The oldest guy 
were: Ed Jerome, Jim McGraw, year. Carden stated," They lined the race, Matt plans on returning
four hour time, (if you can do was Ted Corbett. I think he was 
Tom Homeyer, Steve Rycyna, up all along the course even in next year. "If you go once
this then you win a certificate of in his 70's," said Carden a 
Jim Coolahan, Fred Bingle, Paul that kind of weather. They yelled you're hooked. You just gotta
some sort.) business major from Buffalo,Hollis, Dennis O'Connor, Mike Another record-breaking fact New York. encouragement to us and gave us go back!" Murphy and Joe Branciforte. 
about this year's Marathon wasThe best finishers among the that more people finished under 
Knicks dominate defensive team 


and guard Walt Frazier-on the well of Atlanta and JerryNEW YORK (UPI) -The team. Sloan of Chicago. 
New York Knicks and the Los The Los Angeles repre"senta­The balloting was done by the
The Irish Eye 
Angeles Lakers, who will meet tive was guard Jerry West, who 14 NBA coaches with Frazier for the championship of the 
was also the leading scorer in the being named on the first team 
National Basketball Association, league besides being a defensive by 13 of them. DeBusschere was 
placed four of the five players ace. The fifth player named was the second highest vote getter 
on the NBA all defensive team. 
forward Gus Johnson of and West was third. 
There will be a noticeable lack of "tix for sale" signs in The The Knicks, who stressed Baltimore. In closer balloting, ReedHuddle next football season. The reason for this is quite simple, defense while posting the best Named to the second team edged Alcindor, 15-11. The there will be no tickets available to sell. record in the league during the were forwards John Havlicek of scoring was done on a basis of According to ticket manager Donald Bouffard there is going to be regular season, had three of their Boston and Bill Bridges of two points for a first place vote a new policy as far as parent tickets are concerned. "There will be five starters-forward Dave De­Atlanta, center Lew Alcindor of and one point for a second place only one game available for the sale of parents' tickets. This game Busschere, center Willis Reed Milwaukee and guards Joe Cald-vote. 
will be the Pittsburgh contest on November 7. Applications are being sent to all parents including next year's freshmen. Up to four tickets may be purchased per application." 
The reason for this change in policy is obvious. There was increasing pressure from the alumni for more tickets. Bouffard stated that the ticket office was left with two options. It could either take away seats from season ticket holders, "some of whom have had tickets for the last 30 years," or dip into the parent allotment. . 
The deciding factor in this decision was based on the fact that "52% of the student. body is on. some type of financial aid, therefore the parents aren't co'ltributing as much as might he expected." 
:aouffard added that this was the only deciding factor. Although many parents don't actually use the tickets and some students use 
. 
-/' -,.

these tickets for "scalping" purposes, this was not taken into consideration when the decision was made. 
The Pittsburgh game was chosen as the only game for which tickets will be made available because of the demand for tickets for Purdue, Army and LSU. Pittsburgh is one week earlier than Georgia Tech and weather conditions would make the Pitt game more practical. 
Since the Pitt weekend is the only one available for the parents to come en masse, there is a possibility of making this a special weekend. "I talked with Fr. McCarragher about this and we may make it an annual affair," stated the ticket manager. 
When asked about the situation with visitor's tickets, Bouffard said that ND allots 5.000 seats and this is the same number that Irish fans are granted for away games. In some cases Notre Dame is granted .an even larger allotment, for example last year's Pitt game. 
Calendar ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Besides the Pittsburgh game, parents will receive applications for 
Football-Saturday afternoon
the Northwestern, Navy and Southern Cal away games. No 
at two o'clock in the stadium
applications will be available for the Missouri and Michigan State 
there will be another game­
MAJOR LEAGUES.
games. 
condition scrimmage. 
Even the alumni are limited to these latter two games. Only those NATIONAL LEAGUE 
AMERICAN LEAGUE

Baseball-The Irish will
of close geographical range will be granted tickets. 
try to increase their current win East EastBouffard also stated that there was no possibility of the capacity streak as they play Toledo in a w L Pet. GB
of ND Stadium being increased in the near future. "Right now we w L Pet. GB 
single game this afternoon and a ,
are spending $1 million to strengthen the existing structure. The Chicago 8 3 .727 Detroit 9 3 .750
doubleheader on Saturday at
funds aren't available to do anything more." The Stadium was built .692
Pittsburgh 9 4 Baltimore 8 5 .615 1~ 
in 1930 and these are the first improvements made since that time. one. 
Track-The track team has St. Louis 7 4 .636 Washington 6 6 .500 3
The question may arise as to why alumni are being granted so traveled to DesMoine:1., Iowa for New York 7 6 .538 2 Boston 6 6 .500 3many more tickets. The answer is obvious. Money talks! "Our first 
the Drake Relays, one of the 
Philadelphia 5 8 .385 4 New York 6 10 .375 5
commitment is to the alumni because they have contributed over 
more important meets of the
$20 million to the university. This is the only tangible way to say Montreal 1 9 .100 6~ Cleveland 3 8 .273 5%
spring.

thanks." In order to receive ticket applications, alumni must have 
West
Lacrosse-The Irish will West contributed in the previous year. 
host Michigan State this Satur­Cincinnati 13 4 .765 Minnesota 8 3 .727 y,
Mr. Bouffard does expect some form of protest to reach his 
day afternoon at the Stepan San Francisco7 8 .467 5 California 10 4 .714
office, but there will be little he can do to ease the minds of these Center Field.
people. So far there has been nothing said about the situation. Los Angeles 6 7 .462 5 Oakland 7 7 .500 3
Rugby-Notre Dame 
Bouffard attributed this to the fact that there has been few notices Houston 7 9 .438 5% Kansas City 6 7 .462 3%
travels to Iowa City to play the 
made of the new policy to the public. "I definitely expect to hear 
Hawkeyes in both "A" and "B" San Diego 6 9 .400 .6 Chicago 5 8 .385 4% 
from many people about this but there is nothing that can be done." 
games. Atlanta 5 10 .333 7 Milwaukee 3 10 .231 6~
Once again the university was put on the spot and they had to Crew-The oarmen t~ ke This will be the scene once again tomorrow afternoon when Ara leads his charges into the half-way point of spring drills. This is the first team defense against the second team offense. 
follow their source of income. The only difference this time is that ·on Lincoln Park and Culver 
Pittsburgh 8 Atlanta 6 Chicago 7 Minnesota 5 
they hit where it hurts most. Everybody wants to see the football Military in their final home meet games! Cincinnati at St. Louis ppd. rain New York 11 Washington 6 
of the year. The action will take 
Mr. Bouffard added that although this is a difficult situation to be 
place on the St. Joseph River, 
in it is better than "being gut on the streets peddling our tickets like 
Saturday afternoon. 
some schools are forced to do. We have our bad times, too." 
Sailing-The sailors have a 
One final note that js worth thinking over, what if the Pitt 
big regatta over the weekend at 
Panthers come up with a good team this season? Since the game is 
Iowa City. They will compete
scheduled late enough in the year to decide who is top ranked the 
for the right to represent the 
alumni might just miss one of the big games of the season. All it 




