
Vol. V, No. Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Commission report urges leadership 
Budget could be just the bureau­
The U.S. Civil Rights Commis­cratic watchdog recommended
sion, under the chairmanship of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
by the commission. OMB Direc­president of Notre Dame, has 
tor George P. Shultz is "com­concluded that the federal 
plete"Iy ·sensitive" to the civil government, despite a whole rights problem, Hesburgh said. arsenal of civil rights laws, has 
The commission recommen­done a "disappointing" job in 
ded establishing a permanent b1e past 20 years in helping end civil rights subcommittee on the racial discrimination. 
President's Domestic Affairs In the most extensive analysis 
Counc·il and bringing more in it~ 13 year l1istory, the minority employees into top commission said, in a 1,115 page government jobs. 
report issued Monday in ·· The best progress in elimina­Washington, that a sluggish ting racial discrimination has bureaucracy and uneven presi­been in the areas of voting dential leadership were largely rights, public accomodations, responsible for the nation's con­hospital services and education tinuing racial problems. tho commission said. Hesburgh The commission urged Presi­praised Nixon for "courageous 
dent Nixon to exercise "cour­moral leadership" in helping 
ageous moral leadership" in bring about the relatively non­behalf of racial justice and to set violent des~.gregation of many up committees in the White southern public schools this fall. House to oversee the enforce­But the report noted little ment of civil rights laws. progress in en forcing housing 
The enforcement failure, and equal employment regula­Hesburgh said, "did not origi­tions. It criticized the Justice nate in the current administra­Department for "lack of suf­tion, nor was there any substan­ficient civil rights staff, inade­tial period in the past when civil quate priorities, ... and an overly rights enforcement was at a c>~utious approach in taking civil 
uniformly high level of effective­right issues to court. ness." Father Hesburgh indicated, in 
Hesburgh said President response to questions that the Nixon's leadership had been White House had sought to delay "uneven--very good in some release of the report until after areas and poor in others." the November elections. But the Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy commission did not consider·it a and Johnson didn't do mud: political document and went better, he added. ahead with its plans, he said. 
Hesburgh praised Nixon for The commission was estab­reorganizing the government's lished by Congress as an inde­executive branch and said the pendent agency in 1957 and has new Office of Management and issued dozens of reports and 

Seniors will take part in degree nominations 
Senior President
by Greg Pudhorodskv The Class 
then outlined the procedure for 
In an effort to involve the the nominations. Studcilts with graduating seniors to a greater suggestions should forward them degree in commencement excer­along with a short resume on the sises, an honorary degree will be nominee's qualifications to P.O. bestowed this year on someone Box 459 by Wednesday, October selected from nominations made 21. by the students. The narrowing of the nomin­
In past years the degrees were ations to the final three which given solely to those individuals will be submitted to the Bo~rd selected by the Board of Trus­of Trustees will be performed by tees working on nominations by a selection committee made up the respective colleges within the of five seniors and five faculty University. In a letter received members representing the indivi­from James T. Burtchaell C.S.C., dual colleges. The faculty mem­Provost, on September 17 Senior bers are: Professor Walter Nic­Class President James D'Aurora gorski (Arts and Letters), Dr. was notified that permission had Frederick W. Dow (Business been received from the Board of 
Administration), Dr. Emil T.
Trustees to confer on a senior Hofmann (Science), Dr James P. 
selection. 
Kohn (Engineering), and Pro­D'Aurora said that· any mem­fessor John Broderick (Law). 
ber of the senior class is eligible The student members on the to make a nomination. He committee include: Steve Ahern,emphasized that the individual chairman, (Arts and Letters),does riot necessarily have to be a Ray Offenheiser (Arts and Let­person who has reached a ters), Pat Weber (Business Ad­position of prominence in his ministration), Pat Bell ( Enginee­profession. The only criteria is 
ring), and Jeff King
that he has somehow contri­(Pre-professional).
hutt'd to the betterment of his Ahern expressed the hopefellow man. D'Aurora added that the senior-selected degreethat the selection could be from would be the most important atwithin or outside of the Univer­the commencement. excersises
sity community. It is this facet which differentiates it from the (continued on page 2) class fellow program. 

hooks on the civil rights prob­lem. It can investigate com­plaints of discrimination but has no e!'forcement powers. 
Thr Civil Rights Commission is composed of six commis­sioners and a staff director, all appointed by the President with the consent of the Senate. It differs from the numerous special commissions appointed by Presidents recently in that it is permanent, with a full-time staff. 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh 

SuHers 16 stitches . 
Grimmer injured preventing theft' 
by Jim Graif The thieves came out of the cut Grimmer as the others began room and began leaving by kicking him. When Madden and
Notre Dame junior Ed Grim­
different stairways. Marut asked the other hall residents arrived mer suffered a 16 stich wound one of them what he was doing )n the scene the assailants across the upper arm and chest in the hall. He told Marut that )acked off enabling Grimmer tolate Monday night as a result of he was looking for someone in get up. Grimmer walked about an incident which occurred in the hall. However the name he two steps before collapsing.

and outside of Alumni Hall 
gave Marut was ficticious. Marut Father Madden began to attendinvolving the theft of a radio, became suspicious and told sev­to him while another member ofclock, and electric shaver by a 

eral mem hers of the section. 
the hall called Notre Damegroup of South Bend youths. 

They immediately began to secunty. They remamea torShortly before midnight, follow the youths. several minutes taunting theGrimmer, a third f1oor resident Upon reaching the first floor Alumni residents until the secur­of Alumni, passed the adjoining the hall members met Not'e ity officers arrived. They then rooms of third floor R.A. 's Rev. 

Dame junior Tom Goertemiller fled in the direction of theMike Duffy and Rev. Dennis 

who said he'd seen one of the 
stadium.

Madden and noticed the youths 
suspects go out the front door. 

going through the drawers in the 1 Goertemiller and Grimm~r Eight members of the hall rooms. A few minutes later 
caught up with the youth and followed the youths up the road Grimmer spoke to Soph Mike 
noticed something sticking out which runs between the stadium Marut who said that he had seen 

from under his jacket. When the and the interhall practice fields. the youths trying different doors 
two demanded that the thief However all the suspects ducked 

in the section. 
return the article, the youth into an alley and lost their took a swing at Goertemiller and pursuers. On returning to the ran in the direction of 0 'Shaugh­campus the group was met by a nessy Hall. While in flight he South Bend policeman but their slipped on some wet leaves and combin~d efforts couldn't locate 
fell, Grimmer jumped on the any of Grimmer's assailants. youth and began holding him 
Grimmer was taken by Notredown. 
Dame security police to St.
In the meantime Father Mad­
Joseph's hospital where his
den and two other hall residents 
wound was treated. Although
had stopped two of the other 
still a lit! le weak and sore
thieves near the bus stop and 
Grimmer was able to attend 
had recovered the stolen radio. 
classes yesterday. 
However they did not detain the 
Security director Arthur Pears 
youths. The pair headed over to 
said that groups of "local 
where Grimmer and Goerte­
hoods" usually send out scouts 
miller were holding the other 
to check out areas on campus.
youth. 
Normally there are a few extra 
Suddenly, two of the youths 
hanging around so that should
attacked Grimmer from behind 
one get into a fight with a Notre
while one of them hit Goerte­
Dame man he will get help from 
miller i:1 the back of the head. 
one or more of his friends. 
Jim D' Auror~ 
One of them pulled a knife and 



Tollaksen warns of drug dangers 
In his address to tire meeting Tollaksen observed, "If last campus. The most effective type of the Drug Education Commit­spring is any indication, they of center would allow the tee at St. Mary's College Monday . don't know what they're get­student to drop off the drugs night, guest speaker Tom Tollak­ting." anonymously and pick them up sen, chairmaan of the Student Last spring, Tollaksen and his with an analysis of content 48 
Drug Information Center, warn­crew collected ten samples of hours later. ed of the constant danger being A pilot project of the Drug
black market merchandise and presented by drug use on college Education Committee to combat
found some of them to contain campuses. "There are more ignorance on the issue is a
anything but what they were people using drugs who are subject of a panel discussion to
guaranteed. Dangerous combina­opening themselves up to the be held October 27. Speaking
tions of drugs such as LSD and strychnine were and perhaps still
possibility of a bad trip," he will be Miss Ann Clark of the said. SMC philosophy department,
are being sold under the pretense of pure pharmaceuticals.
"Very few people on the Dr. Lappin of psychology, Dr. campus," Tollaksen continued, Tollaksen went on to explain Bambanek of the chemistry "are up on drugs. One man does that the ideal situation to ward department, and a representative all the analyses for Indiana." off the effects of impure drugs of the .legal profession yet to be About the students on dru~s. would be an analysis center on .fcontinued on page 2) 

'THE OBSERfJEJt 


Painti.-ng-s---=f,-o-m----=F-----ishe-rfound mUtilated 
A. mutilated oil portrait, be­. d to 1 • one of two paintings
1
1~evt Th ~sday t'rom the lobby ~t ;i~her ~<~ll, was found Friday morning in the Commerce Build­ing, Security Director Arthur 
erday.
P e led
ears rev a 

BECOME AN OBSERVER AD SALESMAN 
$20. $30 • week Is yours for 8-10 hours a week 
Contact Bruce Barker 283-7471 or 282-2216 or' come up to the Observer office 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY CAR NEEDED 

Meetln& Wednesday, Oct. 14, 1970 
4:30 -Observer Office-Jrd Floor Lafortune 
--· 

l'ear_s ~aid the -~ortrait may b.e Hall Rec,tor,, Re.v. Jero~1e M. that ot Fred J. hsher of Detroit Boyle, C.S.C. 1 he theft was but this could not be verified. called "childish and silly" b~ The eyes. were "punched out" Rev. Boyle. and phenc!l m ~rks were scdr.atched No_ valueb was ·hplaced on the o,n t e sur1 ace accor mg to p.a:IJll n1gst· but t ehy are con­
1 

1ears. SIL cret1 o e wort a 1arge sum 
'fh . f F' h d h' t'
e portraitS 0 IS er an IS 0 money. wife, Martha, were stolen some-A. mysterious person or per-time before 4:30 a.m. last sons called S.A..D. is bdieve' Thursday acwrding to Fisher responsible for the theft. A.
• • ~ I k 

FemIn1st P ans ta 
Ti Grace Atkinson, president of the National Organization for Women (NOW), will speak at 4:30p.m. Thursday (Oct. 15) in O'Laughlin Auditorium on the Saint Mary's College campus. 
Miss Atkinson's address sponsored by the Notre Dame: Saint Mary's Student Union 
Academic Commission, io open to the public. She succeeded 

Mid-Week Blues • • 
Try "Over the HiU" 


TONITE FREE 

Featuring "The Symbol" 
LaFortune Ballroom 

10:00-12:00 

Betty Friedan, author of "The Feminine Mystique." as presi­dent of NOW, and was instru­mental in declaring A.ugust 26 "Strike for Equality Day." 
A founding member of The Feminists, she has served as a board member and finance' chair­
man for NOW, and as president of its New York chapter. She is presently writing her doctoral thesis on "The Concept of Fundion and the Concept of Institution in Class Analysis and Political Theory," as a candidate for a Ph.D. in philosophy at Columbia University. The feminist leJder has also written and spoken about feminism and humJn rights as it relates to women as a class, created documentary films about women, and appe<~red on national television to p l'Omote the Feminists. 

series ~f notes signed by S.-A..O. were g1ven to the Observer and to Rev. Boyle before the theft. . The notes had one paragraph mh common. ~~-rea~.: 'Throu.gh t e poyrta1.s w!nch hsher bothes pass, ou ve JUSt seen Fred and 
•t .

1v artha fOf the last.'. One note delivered to the Observer said 
S.A D. would prese·nt a list of demands over the weekend. No demands or messages were 
received over the weekend. Rev. Boyle ruled out ransom as a possible motive. Therefore the finding of the mutilated picture and the absence of any demands may indicate that S.A..D. has decided it can't wi its demands

11 or 11 18 also possible that S.A'.D. mutilated the picture to em­phasize the theft and will pre­
Sen•"ors .•.~elect 
J 
(C'ulllinued from page I) 

and that the Board of Trustees 
would approve the final sel­
ecUons in the order of pre­
ference and with regard to 
availability. He pointed out that 
one of the requirements for an 
honorary degree is the presence 
of the recipient at commence­
ment. 

Professor Broderick expressed an optimistic attitude on the initiation of this new policy. "To my knowledge this is the first time that the students have been able to select recipients for honorary degrees on any campus in the country. I feel that it is another instance of recognition of the responsibility of the students to select representatives of their ideas and interests." When questioned on the type of representative he felt should be selected by the students , Pro­fessor Broderick commented, "the whole purpose of this program is to give students the voice and the choice; the less the facufty has to say the better." 
IPre-L.aw Society 
St. Louis Univorsity -School of Law -Dean Richard J. Childress and Assistant Dean Peter W. Galsich, Jr. are scheduling interviews for prospective students on Monday, Oct. 19, in Room 205 Business Administra,tion Building. 
Washington University -School of Law -St. Louis, Missouri ­Dean Dale Swihart, Professor of Law, is scheduling interviews for prospective students on Monday, Oct. 19. Check outside Room 205 Business Administration Building for exact location. 
SIGN UP FOR APFUNJMINIS a.mJ/Jt'RWl1101 O:')JJAU(l}fj£m' 
H£ CONOIJ£R£ll) TH£ HILLS, PI£(£ BY PI£C£I 



TOBJlC~ ROC~DY 
ADULTS ONLY Color 
Plus 
"TH.E PLEASURES 
F A 1W()MAN" 
Proof of age required 
TYPING 
Any material, any length, charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden .289-0177 after 4 PM 
N + WForeign Auto Wrecking 
Need a cold weather project? 
We  have  a  large  selection  of  
rebuildable  sports  cars.  Every­ 
thing from Alta to  Volvo.  Large  
selection  of  parts.  All  inquiries  

ans. promptly. Calls credited to 
purchase. Locator Service. We 
buy wrecked, rundown sports and 
foreign cars. We ship nation wide. 
126 s. 16th St. -N. Castle, 
Indiana -5298886. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
sen~ its ?emands at a, later time. 
Secunty N1ght Commander Sgt. Eugene Nova said Friday that several leads had been establ1dshed. So far the leads have ~ot 1e to further developments 111 t11e case, according to Pears. r~~---~ ~ 
~ ~ODS 1..
od
Senate t  ay  
Senate  elections  will  take  
place  today  during  the  lunch  

hour and at dinnertime in the halls and in the Off-campus office in LaFortune Student Center. Candidates have filed petitions in all halls except Holy Cross, St. Joseph's, and Flanner B. 
The major issue this year has been the existence of the Senate itself. As a result of the contra­versy brought into the race by the recent actions of the llall Pre~ident's Council, a fairly large turnout is expected at the polls. 
Tbe votes will be tabulated Wednesday night by the election committee and announced at the Student Center immediately aftl'r t·~bulation. 



Drugs discussion slated Oct. 27 
(continued from page J) 
announced. As an experiment, the session will be open to student advisors only, but a similar project is expected to be presented on a campus wide basis soon. 
One aid to the area drug problem has already been estab­lished by a Notre Dame student. 
John Kwicien has formed a drug hotline in South Bend that operates on the same principle as the suicide hotline. Qualified personnel are on hand to aid any user in serious trouble. At present time, Notre Dame does not have the equipment or trained personnel for such an operation of its own. 

Wed n"sday, October 24, 1970 THE OBSERJJER. Page 3 
Mike Creany: getting an education 
•

McNally stars 1n third win 
. .
e_nd for the ln~h-fres~~en m the t1ght end position.. I he. young man's name ~as Mtke Creaney. 
"I. was hop1~~to . get . a shot at light end, sa1d <reaney, whi!~. reflecting ~n the change o_f pos1t10ns that has_ made ~1m a starter for the Insh vars1ty at 
18. "In high school I played · d ff · 
both dcfens1~c an (~ enstve end. They tned me at t1ght _end there, but I was te~nble at 1t. I was trying to play tight end and defensive end at the same tin:te. 
"S_o [ sta~tcd as. a defenstve end tor the freshman team here; bu~ re~lly, I'm too small to P_lay delens1ve end for the varstty. And besides,_ I would have been playm~ behmd (Walt) Patulsk1 and (hed) Swendsen, and they­'re both really good. n 
• 
Mtke took the change In stride, and assured himsel~ of a startmg ?erth b~ comple~mg an outstandmg spnng pr~ctlce. In fact, his efforts dunng t~ese pre-~eason tune-ups rated h1m a 
Hermg Award. . . 
"Really, I thmk bemg a sophomore has helped me, T_he other guys kind of look out for 
me, and tell me what I'm doing
(L ) D.N d ·· 1 
wrong, arry 1 ar o especta ­
I I u might say that 
y. guess yo · 
he's taken me under his wing Larry has really been . a great · h I " 
e P·
M.k h · d t d"l
I e as Improve s ea I y as
h '70 h d
t e season as progresse · 
H. d b t t N thwestern was 
IS e u a or
th. I than outstandt"ng
some mg ess · This was mostly due to the fact that the majority of Notre Dame's offense that day was directed to the "weak side", or away from Creaney. Again'st Purdue he opened the way for the first of six Irish touchdowns by snagging a 55 yard bomb early in the first period. Mike had what he considers his best blocking game against the Spar­tans at East Lansing, and last 
. . .

S<~turday he reg1stered h1s first touchdown. 
"Really," he pointed out, 

''there's no reason to try to 
throw to me when Tom (Gate­
wood) is gettin_g o?en all d_ay. 
And when you constdcr the kmd 
of ground game that we have, 
the tight end can't expect to run 
I'd h

too man~ patterns. . say t at 
R5% of my time IS sp~nt 
blocking,_ rather than .. gettmg 
involved m pass patterns 
Creaney wi~l be th~ first to admit that h1s blockmg ga~e n~~ds th_e w_ork that the Insh ott,?nse gt~es 1_t. 
Blockmg IS the ~eakest part of ~y ga~e. I ve ~~t the confidence m my, ab1hty to catch a football. Strangely enough, Mike feels that he will see more and more use as a receiver because of the excellent performa?ces, that ,have come to charactenze 1om Gatewood. 
"Jus! having Gatewood out the_re 1s enough _to worry t~e defense. S~metlmes they ll ?ouble and tnple cover To,m and JUst forget about me. That s ~ow I caught the long one agamst 
Purdue." . .
As the fust halt of the season 
. -. 

nears 1ts end Creaney and hts
' . 

teammates are lookmg to the 
.

Missouri contest With grim seriousness. "Missouri has some fine athletes on their ball club, and will be the toughest opponent we've faced so far. But I think that we're a pretty good team. The defense has lived up to all expectations. They gives us the ball in good field position, and the offense is able to take it in from there." He continued, 'one of the big reasons that we've done anything at all this year is our 
unity. We know that we must
pull together as a team. We know that you can't beat unity. "It's the people who go beyond being good who will . y u together and keep

1
;~~g to~ether. Tak~ DiNardo. He's the first one in line for a 
d . th f t t b d t 
11 0 0

tn t' e Irs ohne fe rea ty s ar a new p ase o prac 1ce,
and the first one to clown 
around when it's time for that 
sort of thing. And then there's 
Ara He's the most impressive 
rna~ I've ever met. I have 

complete confidence in him. Joe 
(Theismann) is the same way. 
We look for him to come up 
with the big play, and he does, 

time and again. When it's third 
and eight, we look to Joe and 
Tom. When it's fourth and one 
we look to Larry. They're th~ 

type of people who love this. 
They lift up the whole team." 
Mike Creaney did not come to Notre Dame just to play foot­ball. A pre-professional major, he was impressed by Notre Dame's people first, and by her football program second. 
"I guess I could have played football at other places ' the admits "but the attitude ~f the
' 

people here impressed me. Yot! 
.

could say that 1t was the people
h . d t t 

w o convmce me o come o
Notre Dame." 
Miek was speaking of Joe Theismann 's ability to convert third and long yardage situations 
when he sai; "It never entered my mind that we might not be able to make this ..." Ifs just 
possible, however, that he was speaking for the whole team, and was speaking of the goal of a National Championship too, when he said it. 
"ll never entered into my mind that we might not be able to make this ..." 
by Vic Dorr 
Observer Sportswriter 
When Dewey Poskon and Tom Lawson graduated after the 1969 football season, they left the tight end position practically vacant, and posed a potentially serious problem for Coach Ara Parseghian. In his search for talent with which to fill the vacated spot, Parseghian decided to experiment. Midway through 1970 spring practice, he pl~ced a young man who had prev1ously played nothing but defensive 

Mike Creany is learning a lot. Here he gets ready to block on an Irish punting situation. He feels that blocking is one place that he must learn a little more. Off past performance!> Cr~anv p··oved that 
he learns well. 
Sailors tie for second 
The Notre Dame sailors any of the races. They also finished second last weekend in registered a number .of first place the University of Michigan Re­marks. gatta at Ann Arbor. Ohio Wes­Poor weather conditions ley'm copped top honors and plagued the regatta from the Michigan State finished in a dead start and this required the use of 
heat with the Irish for second 
a heavier crew than usual. The place. University of Michigan second place finish for du Lac placed fourth in the big Midwest represents an impressive showing event. since there were I l of the best 
Kevin Hoyt finished as the sailing crews in the Midwest runner-up skipper in the "A" involved in the races. boat. Neil Barth served as the This weekend the Sailing Club crew for this boat. In the "B" will host the Notre Dame Re-' division Will Donelan was the gatta at Diamond Lake, Michi­first place skipper. Tom Willison gan. This will be another well was the crew for Donelan and represented field of Midwest sail together they managed nothing boats. The regatta will take place less than a second place finish in Saturday afternoon. 
I,_MiSSO"lJ'RT'**-''''"m""1 

~ FOOTBALL ~ TICKETS 
STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 3rd Floor laFcrtune 
WED. 4-6 PM 
BALTIMORE (UPI) -The charging Baltimore Orioles par­layed another sensational game by Brooks Robinson and Dave McNally's grand slam homer-the first by a pitcher in World Series competition-into a 9-3 rout Tuesday over the dazed Cin­cinnati Reds ·and a 3-0 lead in the series. 
The Orioles, who've now reeled off 17 consecutive vi·c­tories since their last loss on Sept. 19, can close out their second four game series sweep in the last five years with a victory on Wednesday. 
Baltimore's first two victories were close but this time the Reds never were in the game. The 5 I, 77 3 Oriole partisans-a crowd slightly short of capacity-roared at the play of Brooks Robinson, McNally, Frank Robinson, who snapped out of an 0-9 slump with three hits including a homer, Paul Blair, who had three hits, and Don Bufford, who hit a solo homer. 
But the standing ovations were saved for Brooks and McNally. 
After each game in which Brooks made a standout play, mrnager Earl Weaver always says, "Watch tomorrow and hell make another one" -· and sure enough, he does. 
Brooks made one sensational play with a dive to his right on Johnny Bench's l·iner in the sixth, added several merely superb ones in the first four innings and had two doubles ­driving in the Orioles :first two working with eight days off ­runs off Tony Cloninger in the didn't have his best stuff and first inning. was touched for nine hits while 
Ironically, McNally -who was going the route. 
Harriers seventh 
Four strong individual perfor­
mances enabled Bowling Green to capture first place in the 15th annual Notre Dame Invitational Cross Country meet Friday afternoon, October 9. Bowling Green's domination of the meet was reflected by the fact that they had runners finis.h fourth, fifth, seventh, and eighth in the meet. Notre Dame was among 28 other schools who were . unable to match the balance of Bowling Green, as the Irish 
finished seventh. 
Western Michigan, a pre-meet 
co-favorite with Bowling Green, 
finished a distant second. How­
ever, W. Michigan sported the 
individual champion of the meet 
as their man Harris covered the 
five-mile trek in the time of 23 
minutes, 59 seconds. This year's 
winning time was a full ten 
seconds off the NDICC record of 
23:49, set by Jerry Liendenberg 
of W. Michigan last year. Bob 
Bertelsen, Ohio; Sid Sink, 
Bowling Green; and Dave 
Wattle, Bowling Green; posted 
times of 24:09, 24: 18, and 
24: 19. respectively. 
Other teams finishing ahead 
of Notre Dame included Eastern 
Michigan, Illinois, Pittsburgh, 
and Ohio. The Irish were solidly entrenched in seventh place, 34 points in front of Illinois State. · Notre Dame did attain consis­tency, placing a quartet of runners in between the twenty­eighth and forty-second posi­tions. These were: Holleran, 28th, 25:22. Desch, 34th, 25:27, Bell, 41st, 25:32, Dunne, 42nd, 25:33. • 
UPI Poll 
NEW YORK (UP!) -The United Press International top 20 major college football teams with first place votes in paren­theses. 

Fourth Week: Team l. Ohio St. (18) 3-0 .............. 326 2. Texas (13) 4-0 ................. 298 3. Notre Dame (3) 4-0 ........• 286 
4. Nebraska (l) 4-0-1.. .......... 225 5. Mississippi 4-0 .................. 193 
6. 
Air Force 5-0 ..... , ..........: 131 

7. 
Michigan 4-0 ........ ; ..·········118 

8. 
Auburn 4-0 ... , ..............•. 107 

9. 
Stanford 4-1. ·······-... ; ...... 97 

10. 
Arkansas 4-l.. ................. · 42 

11. 
Arizona St. 4-0 ............... 31 

12. 
Sou. Cal. 3-1-l.. ..... _ ........ 25 13. Colorado 3-1.. ................ 10 


14. 
South Carolina 3-1-l.. ... _ 3 

15. 
(tie) Ga. Tech 4-1. ........... 2 (tie) Houston 2-l...........~. 2 (t!e) Tenn. 3-1 ............ ,..:. 2 (t~e) UCLA 3-2......... ...... 2 


19. ( tte) San Dgo. St. 5-0 ...... . (tte) West Va. 4-1. .......... . 

~ 
~ 
f f f f 
f I I 
f 
I I I I I I 
Page 4 711£ OBJ'ERVBt Wednesday, October 14, 1970 
r=~~F.~;;;=~-..iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..-~-----·-------·--·-··-----------------_:____ 
• ..... 
2 hours a night -3 nights a week $10-$15 
Steady Job -Guaranteed !-lours Each Week 
position filled 
W•shlnaton University School of L.. 
A Representative of the Wash­ington University School of Law (St. Louisl will be on campus Monday, October 19, to talk to students planning to enter law school upon graduation, or think­ing about it. Make appointments outside 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
r~e~~or"'"" 
AMERICA 
the Sea-GuU by 
Anton Chekhov 
Washington Hall Oct. 16, 17, 22, 23, 24-at 8:30 PM·and Oct. 18 at 2:30 PM 
Tickets $1.50 Information 284-4176 
YOU 
Peace Corps Memorial library Concourse ·Recruiting· Thru Thursday (Oct. IS) 

Specl•l needs for MBA's. Nurses Architects , Civil Enalneers. BAlBI Sciences /1 
New book says Viet war 
opposed for selfish 
Americans generally oppose the war in Vietnam for selfish rather than moral reasons. 
So write the authors of 
Vietnam  and  the  Silent  
Majority:  The  Dove's  Guide,  
recently  published  by  Harper  
and Row. They are:  
Milton  J. Rosenberg,  Profes­ 

sor of Social Psychology at the University of Chicago; 
Sidney Verba, Professor of Political Science at the Univer­sity of Chicago, and 
Philip E. Converse, Professor of Political Scit;nce and Sodo­logy at the University of Michigan. 
The authors say that people oppose the war because it is intruding into their lives and hurting them in ways that are very close to home. They char­acterize this sentiment as fol­lows: "I wish the damned war would just disappear. It is really messing up our lives and messing up this cDun try." 
One major reason for opposi­lion to the war is probably based on an economic pinch. It could be said, the authors wrote, that the opposition to tht~ war among the general American public is closely related to the dtcline of the economy or the rise in the cost of living. 
An early study of attitudes toward the war revealed that many more Americans were willing to accept several hundred American casualties each week as a price of continuing the war than were willing to accept a rise ln taxes, the authors say. 

When the Gallup poll asked in 1967 about a "suggestion" that "income taxes be raised to help pay for the war in Vietnam," 70 per cent of those' answering were opposed. 
The authors contrast this to the public's general reaction to reports of the My Lai massacre. According to a Harris poll in 1 anuary, 197o, ror example, the reaction can perhaps be best described as bland, the authors 
~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:~ 
iiif LJFE C}\~~ BE llll 
I A PAIN I 
reasons 

feel. 
This does not mean that there is no opposition to the seeming­ly never-ending destruction in 
Indo-China  within  the  general  
American outlook,  the  authors  
say.  

Another source of opposition to the war, fhe three say, may oe the growing feeling among Americans that the war is affecting the "quality of life" in America. They report that in the mind of the typical American, student riots, violence at home, and the growth of a counter­culture all tend to be seen as part of a general deterioration of American life. 
Motivations are varied for opposing the war and wanting its swift end. Perhaps most Amen-cans derive their feelings from the way in which the war has intruded upon their lives • 
b •
House mem er s group to meet 
On Thursday, October 15, a group of Notre Dame students supporting Democratic congress­man Allard Lowenstein of Long Island will organize their pre­election campaign activities. 
Lowenstein is a leading House 

liberal and is in a tough fight for reelection. The organizers of the group being formed to help him hope for a large turnout for this meeting. Lance Corey, Ed
I ::::.=-I
Davey, and Dennis Duggan are 
:~:~: ::::: the organizers. 
~.f.:l!. C•ll the Omlbudsm•n for rttllef. ::i:l Pre-Law Society Case-Western 
:;:;: Reserve Franklin Thomas Backus 
1.1 2-S weekd.,s 

7'638~ ;g~:::~~§:;.:~:;g
,... ;:;: October 20, in Room 205 Busi­
~========================~~@:!:.:=::::::::::;::::::::::::::;::::::;::::::::::::;:;::::~;:;~:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:::::;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::_:::::::_::::::.:::;:~::::_::::::,::::::::::::
.. ======~ 
Very specl•l selllna-
White Stag TURTLENECK SHIRTS 
EXACnY ,ll/21 PRICE 
These lon9 •leeve, 100"/o cotton shirts have the full turtleneck, choose from 9 colors. For wear alone, or under suits and sport coats. Stop in, stock up and save one-half! 


We're YOUR store for suits, sport coats, sweaters, shoes, belts, accessories, outer coats...and the brand new, wide stripe Gant shirts in hold. BOLD new colors. Come in and browse. 

P•y n•~xt J......,,, YOUR Store 
Februltry and Ma1rch
In style, price with 110 
~.....•_n_d__:t:.....:e....:..r....::..:m=-S-=-----O-N_THE CAM_P_U_rs_._·._N_O_T_RE_ I_n-=-teret~__ .. _D_A_.M_E____ 
a~o you w•nt • future? 
Lowenstein (0-N.Y.) INeeds You 
leading Hodsc dove environmentalist legislative refonner 1970 Senior Class Fellow 
Meeting to organize will be this Thursday, Oct. 15, 
7:30 PM in Room 127 Nieuwland 
Lance Corey 234-9632 Dennis Duggan 8205 Ed Davey 6889 
~:::::;:::::::;:;:;::::::::::~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::;:::::;:::::;:;:~;:::;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::1t: 
.~~~: Snovv-mass at Aspen ~~~~ 
:::: sk· T · ::::
t 1 r1p I: 
I Notr:::~~::.•::ub 
January 9·16 $185 
lncltules transportation to and ji"Om Chicago, 
Lod[;ing, Ski tows. Transportation and 
arrangements provided by Continental Air Lines. 
For info cal1 Student Union or Continental 
:m~ Campus Representative John Donohue 8930 :;~: 
~lt:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::;:::;:;:;::i 




