
VOL. IV, No. 1!_§ Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1970 
Chicanos blast Hesburgh 'policy 
by Dave Lammers Church, concerning the plight of you discuss. The only problem is solving the University of its denas points to Father lies­the Chicanos. Cardenas wrote one of finances, since what you social responsibility for change burgh's statement in The South Two hundred Chicanos met Father Hesburgh last January 28 are talking about would cost as well as its moral responsibility Bend Tribune, where llesburgh 
last weekend in the Continuing and pointed out that there are several hundred dollars and the said, "Until we have real equal­Education Center of Notre only about twenty Chicanos University is already $900,000 for change as well as its moral ity of opportunity there will be Dame and drew up a list of attending Notre Dame, and only in arrears in this year's operating responsibility toward Chicanos the clear and present danger of 
demands which call for the one Chicano professor. Car­budget. If you have any idea as Catholics." creating two separate societies resignation of Father Hcsburgh denas, in his letter to Hesburgh, how this extra money might be Cardenas contends that there within the nation. The status of as head of the Civil Rights asked what the University policy raised to mount a program such is a great divergence between the nation's six million Mexi­Commission, increased support of the college was concerning its as you suggest, I would be very Father Hesburgh's public state­can-Americans is even worse of the Chicano cause by Notre commitment toward recruitment happy to hear from you." ments and his contribution to than that of the twcn ty million Dame by il\lf!&:asi.ng Chlcano of Mexican-American in the Cardenas contends that Fa­the Chicano cause as head of the Blacks in the country." enrollment, and establishing South Bend area, and listed ther Hesburgh ignored his list of Civil Rights Commission and as 
(continued on page 3)
greater interaction bct~ecn suggestion for increased Univer­suggestions for increased Chi­president of Notre Dame. Car-Notre Dame and the local sity action in the Chicano cause. cano enrollment, and questions Mexican--Amoric~m population. Fr. llesburgh replied to Car­regarding university policy and 
Gilbert Car~as, a Chicano denas' letter on February S, commented only upon the prob­from Los An&tliCJC anti a graduate saying "I read your letter with lem of finances. Cardenas says, student at Notre Dame, strongly great interest and must assure "Hesburgh took the familiar but condemned the inaction of Fa­you that there is no ·divergence traditional position that the ther Hesburgh, the University of or disagreement between your burden of change rests upon the Notre Dame, and the Catholic ideas and my own in the matter Chicanos themselves, thus ab-
Biack athletes dissatisfied 
with publicity on black aid 
Three black athletes yesterday the black athlete to give the they truly are." expressed dissatisfaction with impression that the black stu­In another prepared state­
lhc university's publicity con­dents arc receiving financial aid ment, the group said, "In effect, cerning financial aid to black needed." we feel the university is actually· students. He went on to say that "the lppressing the Blacks by: I) 
In expressing their dissatis­fact is that we are grouped in as giving them insufficient fundsto faction, Tom Gatewood, Bob one big happy family. I thing cover all his expenses;Minnix and Clarence Ellis noted that if facts are going to be 
(continued on page 11)
that the university claims that given, they must be statesd as 91% of all black students receive aid, the total aid being $174,460. However, approxi­

Ecology panel considers population dilemma 
mately $43,000 of that aid goes by Dennis McCoy Dr. Liu called for an awareness adding "Everything might be all cultures and awareness that allto 14 black athletes. 

that "No matter how much right now, but within ten years of the panel commented uponA brochure prepared by the "If indeed conditions worsen, money you put into it, you we might have a nightmare." lead to a question from theAfro-American Society states somebody will make decisions at cannot solve a problem by using Griffing stated that although audience concerning how all ofthat "The black athletes consti­the point in time when they will technical means." He noted that the problem would seem to be in these factions might be broughttute 18.8% of the black students be necessary and then you might the problem could not be viewed other countries, that the United together.
on financial aid, and they receive as well forget the strongholds of freedom that you cherish." from any one discipline because States was using resources "at Both Dr. Liu and Dr. Griffing the largest average amount of aid of the great "interrelation of the expens~ of the rest of the -said that the method was not-$3,100, which is also the With these words, Dr. Thomas factors." world." known.

largest total amount of aid Griffing summed up the In his initial comments, Dr. de Underlining the basic

offered any black student. Even discussion that had just taken But Dr. Nutting did call for 
place in the Law Auditorium. Silva commented that not all complexity of the problem, Fr. "research and active programs
though they constitute only 17.6% of the entire black com­The two hour discussion nations realized the importance Sheedy said, were "The deep, against academics sitting around 
of the population problem and hidden first principles that rule
munity, they receive 25 .I% of included Fr. Charles Sheedy, Dr. contemplating their navels." all the aid given to the black Willis Nutting, Dr. William Liu, that in some places "today a our thinking more than the One point of minor
large population may still mean arguments we use."
Dr. Falvio de Silva, and Dr.

student." controversy was brought up by
power." Dr. Nutting agreed The difference in ideologies,
Ellis said that "the Adminis­Griffing. Fr. Sheedy when he disagreed tration is coming up with facts Although there were no with the practice of abortion that arc misleading. I think the heated · arguments or major from a moral standpoint calling 
Fr. Gropp; calls for 
facts tend to give the impression disagreements among the it "killing of unborn human that the black-non-athlete has it participants, there were life." He made it clear that he·
relevancy in Church 
easy. I take a personal view particular themes that were was not speaking from a
......,...... ...., ....... ..... by cadi. Ia partkulu, by Dave McC11rthy noting, "the position of the "legalistic" viewpoint and that
priest is with the people he the issue in the final analysis
Last night in Washington Hall 
pretends to serve." 

Fr. James Groppi, social activist must be left up to the
He condemned an educational individual.
and pastor of Milwaukee's 
system in which, for years, black 

"inner core" parish, St.. Commenting on Fr. Sheedy's
children have been exposed
Boniface, addressed himself to 
almost exclusively to studies of comments on abortion, Dr. 

"The Church and Social Nutting noted that "there was
white history, white culture, and 

Change." Speaking, "as an no telling what populations of
white religion. At present he and 

individual" he attacked the other countries would be
his six assistants, one of whom is 

Church for moving away from without abortions." He cited the 
black, are striving to "make the 

slum areas saying "we're running examples of Chile and Northeast
gospel relevant to modern man." 

away from the problem." To Brazil where he claimed that
(continued on page 10)

emphasize the Church's "policy fifty percent or more of the of abandonment" he contrasted 
births had been aborted. his over-crowded, undermanned, 
There was a general agreement 
predominantly black parish with 
that the other two types of birth 
those in " the affluent white 
control, namely contraceptioncommunity." 
and sterilization, were relatively
Fr. Groppi, who received 
unobjectionable morally. 
1\ational recognition during 
When the question of zero
1967-68 for his participation in 
population growth was brought
over two hundred consecutive 
up, Dr. Liu expressed doubt,
days of marching for local fair 
saying, "ZPG already knows
housing chastised those clergy­
what is good for us. I'm not sure
men who "taught people to be 
of that."

long suffering instead of teach­ing them to rebel against an Dr. Griffing countered that unjust society." He stressed the this would inevitable have to idea that the modern priest come about either voluntarily or should be socially involved through legalistic means. 



THE OBSERfiER. THURSDAY. APRIL 23, 1970
PAGE 2 





'Polarization' prevalent on SLC 
by Steve Hoffman 
Observer News Editor 

Amidst a steady stream of debate and compromise, the 
SLC  resolved  in  yesterday's  
special  session  to  transmit  a  
statement,  drafted  by  student  

member Rich Meckel, dealing with the Trustees' recent letter on hall life, to an ad hoc committee of the Board of Trustees as a preface to the Trustees' meeting on Thursday and Friday of next week. 
Although Meckel's statement was not approved on all particu­lars, the SLC voted to support the "priorities" of the state­ment. 
Fr. James Burtchaell opened the meeting with a series of remarks to the effect that the SLC has worked important and noticeable' changes over several Council members during the previous two years. Specifically, Burtchaell mentioned that such members as Mr. Faccenda and Fr. Riehle have been moved by their experiences on the Council to a better awareness of student life. 
' 
However, Burtchaell claimed that a polarization of blocs on the c'ouncil has become evident the past year. 
"We have felt no persuasion among ourselves this year, and have allowed conviction to slip away," he stated. 
He observed that Dave Krash­na's resolution to reject the Trustees' letter indicates this polarization since the resolution failed to convince faculty or administration. Contending that these men are just as important as the students, Burtchaell pro­ceeded to offer his conception of the feasability of hall autono­my. 
Citing student drinking prob­lems, vandalism, the failure of Student Government to recon-

Hair Styling· 
for ND men the Continental Way 
Razor Cutting c\ Style , . Euroi>can Layer Shaping fQJ Lon,u:taif 
Have Long Hazr & Let Miss Treva & The Baron . Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper You 
Continental Hair Styling 
306-Sherland Bldg. 
Student Rates
South Bend, Ind. 
234-0811 
By Appt. 
cile racial conflicts in Alumni Hall, and general campus disar­ray, Burtchaell concluded that students don't face up to these problems. 
"Students will not obey ruJeg of their own making," he de­clared, "No one at Notre Dame 
is autonomous. Everyone must answer to someone." 
Burtchaell reasoned that con­tinued conflict within the SLC would accomplish nothing, nor would the repeated exchange of documents with the Trustees. He moved that a special committee be appointed to meet with the Trustees for the purpose of a direct discussion of student concerns, but was ruled out of order by the chair. 
Responding to Burtchaell's remarks, Meckel maintained that even though he recognized the subordination of the SLC to the Trustees, he must propose rejec­tion of the Trustees' letter 

" regarding parietals and hall life since seven of the eight student members, representing students in general, reacted against the Trustees' action. 
Quoting Fr. Hesburgh as say­ing that "the SLC voice is one I must listen to," Meckel argued that student opinion must be heard. 
In reading from his prepared statement, Meckel agreed to Burtchaell's designation of cam­pus problems, and stated "we're 
THE SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
IS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 1971 FROM NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS FOR THE POSITIONS OF CHAIRMAN, ASSOCIATE CHAIRMEN, AND COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN (FINANCE, PUBLICITY, 3PECIAL ARRANGEMENTS). SEND A BRIEF RESUME AND IDEA OF THE FESTIVAL TO BOB HALL, 327 GRACE TOWER. NO APPLICATIONS WILL BE ACCEPTED AFTER APRIL 30th. 
blind if we believe students making rules is the only solution to these problems." 
He stressed that these prob­lems must be dealt with by looking at their causes, not simply their results. Pointing to a definite misunderstanding be­tween the SLC and the Trustees 


Rich Mecklf. 
on hall life, Meckel stated that the subordination of SLC to Trustees cannot be regarded as ''carte blanche" acceptance of everything the Trustees dictate. 
Meckel observed that the urgency of the students regard­ing the establishment of a viable hall life was not satisfied by· the letter. He termed it "unfor­tunate" that only one paragraph in the letter dealt with hall life, that it concerned itself primarily with control and regulation, and that it failed to treat the causes of hall problems. 
Accusing the Trustees of of­fering a "simplified view" of hall life regarding the function of rectors, the qualifications of resident assistants, and the imp­lementation of a judicial system, Meckel contended that students will not accept rules and regula­
tions  only  bacause  they  have  
existed in the past.  
"You  are  denying the  capa­ 

city of students to act in the best interests of the hall, and your response reflects tradi­tional, punitive responses to hall problems," he quoted from his statement. 
Regarding parietals, Meckel maintained that in setting limita­tions, the Trustees have failed to 
justify them to the students. He blamed the Trustees for refusing to confront a true philosophy of the residence hall. 
Meckel concluded his state­ment with three proposals to be directed to the Trustees. 
He presented plans for a study of a residence hall philosophy, for a study on the improvement of hall staffs with financial increases, and for a philosophy of discipline which would make the student of primary, and an abstract concept of Notre Dame of secondary, importance. 
Fr. Burtchaell countered Mec­kel '>y reminding him that the Council would be divided o .. several issues enumerated in the statement. 
Faculty member Professor Houck, while upholding· the spirit of Meckel's statement and points of emphasis, declined to endorse the statement in full because he felt "hesitant to charge another body with high crimes and misdemeanors." 
Meckel replied that he could 
have drafted a "safer" state­
ment, but felt that in such a case 
the real issues would fail to be 
recognized. 
Special Assistant to the Presi­
dent Philip Faccenda suggested 
that, instead of corresponding 
through letters, it would be 
more effective for the SLC to 
convey a response to the Trus­
tees before the official meeting 
next week. 
Meckel agreed that the state­
ment would better serve as a 
preface to a call for a meeting 
with the Trustees. 
Therefore, a committee con­
sisting of two SLC student 
members, one faculty member, 
one administration member, and 
two hall presidents was proposed 
for the purpose of directing 
Meckel's statement, the priori­
ties of which were approved by 
the Council, to the Trustees. 
After further debate and com­pla~nts, the motion for the above actiOn was passed by a vote of twelve to nine. 


THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1970 THE OBSERIJER. PAGE 3 


Biologists speak at pollution teach-in 
by AI Defrees 
Y cstcrday afternoon's "Earth Day" activities included a teach­in on the Main Quad. Three of the speakers were Dr. McAntosh, Dr. Adler, and Dr. Pleasants. 
Dr. McAntosh, professor of Biology, talked of the pollution of Earth by industries, harmful chemicals, automobiles, and common litter. lie said that the waste that is created by mankind has reached an intolerable level and that if action is not taken immediately, there will be no hope for Man. The reason for this, says McAntosh, is our increasing productivity: "The Gross National Product of a country can be measured in the number of tin cans that litter the countryside." Dr. McAntosh stressed the importance of individual conscience in the fight for a cleaner world. 
"When you arc faced with problems of environmental improvement," Dr. McAntosh believes that individuals must act because "We are dependent on Man's manipulation • of the Earth." 
Next to speak was Dr. Adler, also a professor of Biology. He spoke on the problems created by the population explosion. 
"We must simultaneously attack the population problem and other environmental prob­lems" said Adler, "for the one 'aggravates' the other." 
He pointed out that one of the major threats arising from our increased population is the problem of "noise pollution ". The maximum decibel level that a human being can under-go for long periods of time is 85: an idling bus is 90, a motorcycle is 
Ill, a jet at take-off is 150, and a sonic boom from the proposed Super-Sonic Transport would be 160 ( 15 Decibels over the pain level). 
Dr. Adler said that noise pollution not only puts hearing in jeopardy, hut it is directly linked to serious heart desease. 
"Time is needed, to come up with solutions to the population problem, but with the present population doubling in the next 30 years, there is not much time," he warned. 
He said that sending people to other planets would not be practical because we would have to export 70 million people a year to keep the population at its present level. Another prob­lem that is created by increasing population is the greater 
.Mexican-Americans criticize Hesburgh
../ 
(continued from page I) 
"We arc charging that Rev­crend llcsburgh is contributing to the creation of two separate 
societies within the nation by
representing an institution that 
discriminates against Chicanos," 
Cardenas says. "We are demand­
. . 
mg that llcsburgh rcs1gn from 
Us C..1 R' ht C . . 
thC , lVI 1g S ommlSSIOn and that a Federal and Congres-~ sional investigation of the racist, economic and discriminatory practices by the University on the Chicano community be undcrtaken." The Chicano conference last wcekend endorsed three de­mands. First, that admission policies be modified so that Mexican-American students who may not meet formal academic standards, but who show promis­ing potential and motivation, be admitted. "This involves provid­ing ncl:essary financial support, providing counseling and orien­
tation, seeking, training, and appointing a Mexican-American administrative assistant, and ini­tiating a Chicano studies pro­gram that gives proper attention 
to  aspects  of  Mexican  civiliza­ 
tion  in  the  Western  Hemis­ 
phere."  

Secondly, the Chicanos feel that the University must foster a greater interaction between Notre Dame and the local Mexican-American community, 
i.e. permanent residents and 
Welcome 
Race Fans 
Grand 

Prix 

Ticket Sales Tonight in the Dining llalls 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations bY students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer. Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
migrant farmworkers. "The Uni­versity must develop supportive programs to educate the aca­ needs and demands of the Chicanos, that is, if he claims to be a Christian.  prise the remammg applicants. "The amount and distribution of funds including program pri­ 
demic community' i.e. students, personnel, and faculty as to the needs and problems facing the Chicano community."  More than I00 minority stu­dents have applied for financial aid for next year. Of these at least 90% are black students.  orities indicate the necessity for aggressive self defense on the part of the minorities, especially the Chicanos.  

depletion of natural resources. Already essential substances such as Mercury, Tin, Tungsten, and Helium arc becoming scarce. Helium, which is very important in Nuclear Reactors is being lost because natural gas companies do not take the time to remove the Helium before it is used. Dr. Adler believes that only through environmental awareness will man be able to overcome these problems. 
Dr. Pleasants, professor of Microbiology, talked of the food shortage present in the world today. 
"Only 30 years ago", said Pleasants, "food shortage was only a speculative problem. Today, hunger is world-wide with the United States being an 'Oasis of Plenty'." 
* I I \ I S I I \ " I I I< I 1 >* 
I I ,\( . AI II (. I \\:SI'\(,.1\( 1·tJ/,,,. I I .\, " ./I c ZOSS PRODUCTION 
Call :.132·:.!804 

Third, that the University set Puerto Rican, Mexican-Ameri­up through the Urban Studies cans, American Indians, and 
Program a Chicano information Spanish surnamed students com-
center that would serve the 
. ,.----------==-------+
M1dwest.
C d . 
ar enas pla~es h1s demands on Notre Dame •.n t~e context of the m.oral obhgah?.n of the Catholic Church. These de­mands arc not without founda­tion. They reflect the growing Chicano sentiment toward insti­tutions of higher education, especially those that purport to be Christian institutions. 
Cardenas indicated that he hopes to meet with Father llesburgh in the ncar future to 

''Where Ouaiity Counts" 
discuss the actions of the Chi­cano convention last weekend. 
TOMPSETT 
"Father lleshurgh has no alter­
Studio 

122 N. Michigan 233-615/
native but to respond to the 

An Tostal Events 
Thursday Friday 
C.A.F. ANIMATED FILMS 
Thurs.-Award winn in~ shorts 
Fri.-Disney's "Alice in Wonderland" and "A World is Born", sequt'n(·e of Fantasia 
Both nights -7and 9 PM -Eng. Aud. Patrons free -others $1.00 


April23-25 Saturday 
Noon-Kissing Begins  
11:30 GENTLE LUNCH  9-1 IRISH WAKE  11:30-1 FREE PICNIC  
3:00 PLAYSouth Quad  Busses leave Circle 8:30  1 PM BED RACE  
3:30 TRIVIA BOWL South Quad  8:50  1 PM LOG PADDLING  

4:30 BASKETBALL Behind Boolcstore 
6:30 FLAGPOLE South Quad 
7-12 BAND NORTH QUAD CANSTAKING DUNKING BOOTH JAIL BIRD PIE THRO~ SLAVE AUCTION THREE LEG RACE FLOUR BLOWING 
Thursday-Friday 
Giant Slide 

9:10 1:.3() WATER BRIGADE 9:30 
2:00 PIE EATING 
(Leave SMC 10 min. later) 
2:30 TUG OF WAR 
3:00 PIANO SMASHING 
3:30 COW MILKING 
4:00 TOUCH FOOTBALL 
4:30 PIG CHASE 
(Si~n up for event on Saturday) (Be at An Tostal field early) 
Free Block Party 
10:30 PM-2 AM 
At Bookstore Free Pi~ Sandwiches Given 
I 
1 
~P=A=GE=4==============================ZM==~==o=~======~r~~~------~--~--r-~~~~ 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DAVID C. BACH, Editor GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
A Forum ::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::=:::::=:=:::::=:::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:= 
Campus Opinion 
Edited by Glen Corso 
This is a position paper on abortion that was submitted by Professor Charles Rice, of the Law School. When I researched my column on abortion I was unable to find any material in various news magazines or in the New York Times that set forth the case against abortion with any sort ofclarity or rationality. In keeping with the efforts of this forum to present both sides, I asked Professor Rice to w.rite a paper_ ex[lressing his views. 
The basic principle of the abortion movement is preCisely the pnnc1ple that underlay the Nazi extermination of the Jews. It is the principle that an innocent human being can be killed if his existence is il)convenient or uncomfortable to others or if those others deem him unfil to live. 
The unborn child is in fact a human being from the moment of his conception. This could easily be demonstrated at length. It is so clearly a scientific fact that we teach it as such in our schools. As the fifth grade sex education text in the New York City school system flatly says, "Human life begins when the sperm cells of the father and the egg cells of the mother unite." When the child in the womb weighs only I/30th of an ounce he ha3 every internal organ he will ever have as an adult. On the eighteenth day after his conception his heart starts beating. At eighteen weeks, he can suck his thumb, scratch himself and even cry, although he makes no sound because there is no air in the womb. He can feel pain. Even if you somehow do not believe that the child in the womb is a living human being, you ought at least to give him the benefit of the doubt. 
Incidentally, it is increasingly clear that the fusion of the abortion and population control movements involves the implicit coercion of welfare clients and other poor persons to undergo abortion. The overtones of coercion are unmistakable when welfare caseworkers "suggest" that their pregnant clients consider abortion to resolve their problems and to ease the taxpayers' burden. The idea seems to be to eliminate poverty by eliminating the poor. Of course this is a form of genocide. Instead of working constructively to alleviate poverty, the abortion proponents turn to the mindless and cruel solution of death for the helpless child in the womb. Moreover, the experience in Japan, Sweden and Hungary indicates that legalization of abortion does not decrease the number of "back-street" illegal abortions. 
People sometimes support abortion because they do not realize what it is. Until the 
twelfth week after conception, a common procedure is dilation of the entrance to the 
uterus and curettage. Dr. Alan Guttmacher detailed this method in the Clinical Obstetrics 
and Gynecology Journal: 

"A sharp curette is then inserted to the top of the fundus with .very little force, for it is during this phase that the uterus is most likely to be perforated. Moderate force can be safely exerted on the down stroke. The whole uterine cavity is curetted with short strokes, by visualizing a clock and making a stroke at each hour. The curette is then withdrawn several times bringing out pieces of placenta and sac. A small ovum forceps is then inserted and the cavity tonged for tissue, much like an oysterman tonging for oysters . . . In pregnancies beyond the seventh week, fetal parts are recognizable as they are removed piecemeal. " 
When Dr. Guttmacher mentions "fetal parts," he means an arm, a leg, a head and other 
parts of what moments before was a living, though small, human body. 
Beyond the fourteenth week of pregnancy, the child can be killed in two ways. One is 
to inject a salt or glucose solution into the womb. As Dr. H.P. Dunn described it, "The 
baby can be felt to make a few convulsive movements, and within a few minutes it dies. 
In about twenty-four hours labor starts and the already disintegrating baby is delivered." 
By this means, of course, the baby is simply pickled alive. The other technique is 
hysterotomy, where an incision is made in the mother's abdomen and the child is lifted 
out. Mrs. Jill Knight, a Member of Parliament in England, described an abortion of this 
type which she witnessed in Sweden. Her description reminds us that an abortion climate 
generates a callousness toward life: 

"In Sweden, if th~ -child has not been killed by the operation, they drown it in a bucket like a kitten. The child will kick miserably until it dies. "They also do experiments on aborted babies. Put them in simulated wombs and feed 
them through the cord, poking them now and again to see if they are still alive. 
"Why not, I was told -no one wants these babies. " 
If an innocent human being can be killed. because he is too young, that is, he has not 
lived nine months from his conception, there is no reason in principle why he cannot be 
killed because he is too old. Or too retarded. Or too black. Or too politically undesirable. 
The philosophy is Nazi Germany's. And this nation is adopting it. 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer Features Editor: T. C. Treanor The opinions expressed in thei3usiness Manager: Bruce Rieck Sports Editor: Terry Shields editorials, news analyses, and
Advertising Manager: Bruce Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode Barker 
columns of THE OBSERVER are
Layout Design: Phil Barth, Guy 
Campus Editor: Glen Corso solely those of the authors and
DeSapio
News Editor: Steve Hoffman editors of THE OBSERVER and
Layout: Susie Bury, Rich
SMC News Editor: Jeanne do not necessarily reflect the
Smith, Guy DeSapioSweeney views of St. Mary's College, the
Headlines: Frank Weigand,
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, University of Notre Dame, theirAnn Conway Rich Smith administrations, faculty or stu­Photography Editor: Michael Ad Layout: Steve Dollinger dent bodies.

Murphy 

Night Controller: Scott Braley 

"You Better Put In a Bigger Landing Strip for Me" 


economy of death :2 
:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Almost two-thirds of the Pentagon's budget goes to the so-called "General Purposes Forces," which includes all the men and equipment in the military establishment except those with the duty of assuring the nuclear annihilation of Soviet and Chinese societies. These forces, which now cost in the vicinity of $60 billion each year, have been steadily increasing since 1961 and now number approximately 3,000,000. , 
In the event of atomic warfare, the General Purposes Forces would be of little use. Then why does the U.S. need to maintain a permanent military force of such size? 
The military budget is based on the premise that American armies must always be prepared to fight three major wars ("contingencies" according to the generals) simultaneously: a war with the Soviet Union in Europe, a communist-backed revolution in Latin America, and a Chinese invasion in Asia. 
Despite the more moderate language in President Nixon's foreign policy statements and despite the rising uproar among hitherto acquiescent or somnolent members of Congress, it still seems that the three war objective is basically unchanged. 
U.S. forces are prepared to meet two types of wars: conventional war-where one nation attacks another; and counter-insurgency warfare-where the U.S., as in Vietnam and Laos, aids a government in putting down a revolutionary challenge. 
The United States has made commitments to 42 countries to defend them against outside aggression. Except in one or two cases, the interests of the American people in these commitments has never been publicly debated. They were all undertaken years ago under radically different circumstances. 
Based on these assumptions-that-the U.S. has pledged to defend 42 countries from external attack and that we must be ready to fight three wars at once-the present military budget is much too low. It is not large enough to win the war in Southeast Asia, much less to carry on two more at the same time. 
Planning for three wars at a time justifies unlimited military spending and costs the taxpayer more than fifty cents of each tax dollar. 
But the fact is that the greatest part of our General Purposes Forces are maintained not to defend our allies from outside attack but rather to defend their governments from their own people. 
Two prime examples may be cited. In Vietnam our massive intervention has failed, politically and morally. Yet in Nixon's first year, we spent $28.8 billion, up from $26.5 billion in Johnson's last year. All in the name of American security. 
And for more than 20 years, the United States has carried on a global campaign against revolution and native insurgent movements, conducting a major military campaign or a CIA operation in an underdeveloped country about once every eighteen months. 
The premise of this effort is simple: when revolutionary movements overthrow corrupt, oppressive governments, U.S. security is somehow threatened. What we fail to see, due mainly to 
our obsession with the Red Devil and the Yellow Peril, is that if a country in Asia, Africa or Latin America "goes communist," the Soviet Union or China does not necessarily benefit. Communism to­day is not a unified world force. 
We are presently acting like the Policeman of the World. Or, as 1ohnson euphemistically put it, the "Guardian at the Gate." The time has come to ask just how vital to American security is our military "presence" in Asia, a ring of military abses around the Soviet Union, a five ocean navy, and a world-wide counter­-insurgency program. Our "defense" budget is now based on a strategy suited to the world of the 1950's. It must be changed. Now. 
PAGE 5

THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1970 
TIIB o.&rERI1.£It 
-AN ECOLOGY WEEK SPECIAL-


Ecology for liberals 
l'rofc:ssor Manier is from the philosophy department. 
"Philosophy precedes ecology." We have Normna Cousins' word for that. An altogether amazing thing to say about a discipline (philosophy, not ecology) that has lately come to pride itself on being of absolutely no usc to anybody, at any time, or at any place. Cousins probably has some terribly loose colloquial mean­ing for 'philosophy' buzzing around in his head. 
Or the editor of 8atu•day Review may not he interMted 1;n. professional philoso­phy any more ttJa11 y~u are. "Everything begins or ends -. 'with a view of life. If supreme value is given to life, it will not be impossible to create and maintain those institutions that arc requircd to serve and sustain man... What is most nccdcll today arc new realizations about man's place in the universe,...a new joyousness in the possibilities for essential human unity, and a new determination to keep this planet from becoming uninhabitable." Identify supreme values, stir up joy and determi­nation philosophers just don'I do that kind of work these days. A leopard can't change his spots just because of a little surv-ival crisis. 
I do not want to imply that there arc more things in Earth Day than arc dreamt 
however, that philosophers arc more i• expert at analyzing the meanings of 1 'nature' (we usc single quotes to indicate : that we examine wonls, not things) than ! ~ at documenting the interdependence of : man and every other living thing. So be !i on your guard. We have it on Plato's 1 authority that there's no Idea of mud 
8 

(and that goes double for all sorts of : 
offal). Presumably, Platonists oppose : 
pollution, hut their basic aim is to escape i 
the ('ave, not clean it up. : 
For a change, existentialism isn't right !i 
on top of things either. Radical indivi-i 
dualism, the irrational leap, the dcvastat-1 
ing critiq uc of all sorts of essentialism ­
I 

including the thesis that man's evolution-' 
ary history provides him with reliable 
guideposts to ethical action -these are 
hardly the raw materials for a handhood 
of ccotactics, or a constructive environ­
mental ethic. 
The philosophies which seem to be 
most in tunc with Earth Day I! 
panpsychism (all things are alive, be-
souled, and conscious) and romanticism : 
(which can exalt the state of nature, : 
unspoiled before the advent of tech-: 
nology and civilization) -arc available if : 
you believe in picking a philosophy to : 
match the topk of the day's discussion. : 
Before we launch a new Teihard renais-E 
sance, however, we should look very : carefully at the political condition that : _precedes the union of all in Omega. 5 

111111111111111 111111111771?11711111111 
Somehow it strikes me as well adapted, thoroughly organized, neat, dean, and non-polluting -pretty much like an ant hill. 
Perhaps that's the basic philosophical problem of Earth Day, at least for the select few who share my moral and social predilections. How do we reconcile the 
central dogma of liberalism "There is no ultimate goal so valuable that all men should devote their freedom to achieving it" with the kind of submissiveness to central authority and single-minded scientific planning that the new bio-politicians seem to require? 
At least philosophers should know that nobody has a corner on wisdom. There's no particular reason to be awestruck by a biologist who says, "In the long run, voluntarism (concerning procreation) is 
J'he iron and steel claws ofAmerica gave lip service yesterday to a well deserved day of rest for our ravaged environment, but it is business as usual today. 
The ma$_nitude of our crime against nature defies understanding and com­prehension by most people. 
With misunderstanding, comes false hopes and false solutions. Business is being pinned with the villian tag, but ironically business is also beinK chosen as the savior of the race. 
The villian is us. Each individual who is always looking for the cheapest bargain, who is completely mes­merized by the plethora of gadgets available to him and can only demand more in the name of "progress. " 

Selfdiscovery is a long and painful process. Selfdiscipline is a rigorous course. But man does not have precious time to come to an under­standing with himself 
If we are to survive as a race, we must accept our guilt now and act to remove that cancer before it becomes incurable. 

we on 
insanity. The result will· be continued (continued on page 9/•••••••••••••••••• uncontrolled population growth." Nor by 
d 

one who thinks, "Two people cause much Th • t J• t• 
more than twice as much damage to the environment as one person." Counter examples arc not hard to come by. There is evidence that affluent American women, completing their childbearing years since 1964, have voluntarily had fewer children than the 2. 13 rcq uired to 
of in philosophy. You should know, IIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIt
• 
_ ---~-i 
··• • 
i: 



Edward Manier 
replace the parental couple, given current mortality rates. There is also reason to think that two people can he more than twice as effective as one in combatting pollution, if they want to be. 
Obviously, this is no argument against Zero Population Growth _ it is simply a skeptical slant on a new cult and its liturgy. The population control approach to the world's problems has the allure of all neat, manageable solutions. But do we really want the agents of an international 
C.I.A. putting contraceptive chemicals in the Chinese water supply? It would be nicer than nuclear or overt C & 8 warfare, 1 know. And 1 do believe in cutting your losses. But this approach also has the seductive appeal of a minimal investment of resources and of intelligence. Why should spend tens of billions 

e enV 1r0 nmen 0 n p0 I ICS 
::::::::::::=~=~=~:·:~:;:::::::::::~:~=~=~===~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:::::::::·:::~:; John Roos 
Professor Roos is from the government department. 
The last two years has seen the emergence of the environment as a political issue of major proportions. From the bitterly divisive issues of the sixties, the war, poverty, civil rights, we move into a new and different age in which 
1
Richard Nixon and Abbie Hoffman stand : together to defend the environment',·_, •against pollution. The prospects are startling. In 197o America might achieve for the first time a true coalition.government. Spiro Agnew is President, Martha Mitchell is vice-president (having won the liberal vote by requesting the 
1
New York Times to "crucify" polluters.) I Jerry Rubin is appointed to a New 1• Cabinet position, Secretary in charge of 
Radical Environmental Concern. 
Sarcasm aside, there are serious qucs­I tions which must be asked of the political : aspeets of the legitimate concern over our! environment. In this brief article I will 
J I simply attempt to raise some of these 

Save the Earth 

~ questions. First, we must consider the mass .character of the present movement.
1

~ I Admittedly the enormous grass roots
1 

-
I involvement in both gratifying and5 necessary to move the government to action. The problem, as in most democra­
-
-tic decisions, is that information and
-
-
-understanding arc unevenly distributed
-
-across the population. This coupled with
-
--the fact that pollution controls involve
-
-many complex technical standards, raises 
-
-
-• the specter of popular demands which-cannot be translated into reasonable 
-
-
legislation. The example of the ABM issue --
is instructive. Grass roots pressure was 


strong, but because of misunderstandings of the issue much of the protest was circumvented (i.e. by moving sites away from cities). Similar problems will cer­tainly arise with respect to pollution. For example, what is an acceptable definition of "clean" water and air? What should be the trade-off between incremental re­moval of pollutants and sharply rising 
costs? 
It would seem that at some point 
leadership must emerge which can remain responsive to grass roots demands and yet have the leeway to translate demands into workable legislation. Events such as the teach-in can help considerably. But the qualified technical people must take a lead in articulating the issues in such a way that meaningful debate can take place. Our democracy is plagued with the contrary demands of technical compet­ence and mass participation in decision-making. At some point the environment movement must balance off these demands. 
Second, we must consider the question of priorities. The sarcasm of the opening paragraph was not entirely in jest. There is some charge that concern over the environment will preempt other issues which perhaps more justly call for our attention. Education, poverty, racism, foreign involvements, all these arc issues which remain unsolved. I would contend that there is no need to slacken efforts in these areas. that available resources are sufficient for solution of all these problems. Financially, these may be true. But these is a tendency in politics for human and political attentions to be concentrated. Some politicians seem to be already aware that by playing upon the safe issues of the environment, they can neglect or mute their stands on other issues. Perhaps the environment move­ment must consider the alternative that any efforts in their cause must be in addition to rather than instead of efforts towards solving the basic issues of social justice which confront us. 
Third, the environment movement must attempt to critically evaluate the substantive status of its protest. There is much evidence that the present protest falls into the same pattern, as most protest in America. This pattern involves 
the apposition of obvious wrongs, but the failure or inability to articulate substan­tive standards for the society. The New (continued on page 7J 
PAGE 6 THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1970
THE OBSUfiEit 
An ecolo~y week special 




PSYCHIC POLLUTION 
Royce Lanier 

Mr. Lanier is a graduate student of Notre Dame and a member of the environic design program .in the department ofarchitecture. 
Scientists, engineers, politicians and the host of other specialists spawned by our technological society may be on the way toward alleviating the horrors of polluted air, befouled water, and ravaged land. At least it must be acknowledged that a great deal of reassuring rhetoric has been directed toward convincing the public of this nation's capacity to "clean up our environment." 
Efforts thus far are hardly convincing, however. Isolated phenomena have been approached with the same techniques of analysis and decision-making which ori­ginally produced the problem, not as a direct objective, but as the result of a piecemeal analytic process we reverently call the scientific method. The concept that physical (natural) phenomena can be isolated and manipulated apart from their total context is the basic fallacy of western thought. Such a distorted con­cept of the world can only lead to the chaos we now endure. 
Hope?-there really isn't much. Only re-education of the entire society could eradicate the psychic pollution which has warped the mind of western man into a distorted view of life. The concept of an anthropocentric universe has lead to a quest for power. Domination, manipula­tion and control characterize the ultimate objective of the western value system. Attitudes remain unchanged whether the objective is exploitation of natural resources to acquire personal economic benefit or to fuel the consumption mania which propels American Society at supersonic speeds down a congested freeway leading nowhere. The path of mass consumption can only lead toward devastation of the natural environment and dissipation of human energy. Recy-


An economist's reflections on Earth Day 
James Rakowski 
Professor Rakowski is from the economics department. 
We must take immediate action to safeguard the air we breathe and the water we drink and to prevent the very light by which we work from being obscured by man's foul waste materials! But I find upon inspecting my office here in the Library basement that the air I breathe is supplied by a small vent on the 
--Our­
ceiltng whiCh functioned quite dependably even before I became concerned. The water I drink comes from an electric fountain fifteen. steps down the hall which seems -secure enough. And even if all my _pipe-smoking colleagues were to drop in at one time, I doubt that the light beamed forth from the floure­scent lights on the ceiling would be dimmed below reading intensity. Other­wise, l do notice that a certain amount of noise pollution drifts in from the faculty lounge across the way, but that is at most a minor annoyance. And so I suppose I really do not understand what all the rhetoric is about. 


It seems to me that we should face the 

fact that we live for the most part in an 
artificial, controlled environment and not 
a natural environment. And I wish to 
suggest that we not overemphasize the 
value of an untainted natural environ­
ment. 
I wonder how many of my readers can say as they read these lines from which direction the wind is blowing outside. Someone who truly lived in a natural environment, say a sailor or a hunter, would be as aware of this as we are of the 
day of the week. · · 
On thl! other hand there are. in nature. many things of beauty which we value highly, but not inestimably. And it is also true that we have introduced into our 
environment many hazards, some of them 
Earth-

not fully understood, which we would prefer to be free of, but not at any cost however high. I am not convinced that people who are unwilling to pay the nuisance cost of fastening their auto­mobile seat belts will or should collective­ly be willing to bear large costs to purge the environment of any trace of poten­tially hazardous pollution. 
And it is certainly true that many of our essential natural resources are be­coming scarce. But the economist, trained to think in terms of allocating sc:arce 
resources to competing needs, is not alarmed by scarcity. Our society has developed tolerably workable ways of rationing our scarce goods. Thus, for example, salt is scarce, but we find that a sufficiently high price on salt will allocate the salt available to roughly its most valuable uses. Now that we perceive that pure water, for example, is a scarce commodity, society must be about the task of rationing it. It is hardly necessary to put flat prohibitions on the use or pollution of water for industrial purposes; we do not forbid the industrial use of salt. On the other hand we do not hand over salt to industry for free, and we should not allow industry to appropriate for itself our water resources. Many firms, when forced to pay for the resources they cling can only be a partial answer-a reprieve allowing time for changes in consumption patterns. The inevitable destination of our current course is social crisis, spiritual deprivation and environ­mental chaos. 
Any hope for significant change in social attitudes is truly slight as institu­tional education itself is permeated by 
use, will be forced to raise the prices of their products. But, if the charge for industrial use of water is set rationally, 
(continued on page 8} 

the fatal tendency to compartmentalize knowledge while ignoring the concepts of wholeness. oneness, and interdependency which art~ essential to environmental understanding. The educational potential of mass media has served to direct public attention toward the issue while provid­ing limited information. Yet, systematic programming geared to re-orient basic social values seems an unlikely under­t<..~ing by an industry within the control of those economic interests which depend upon continuation of existing patterns of mass consumption. 
An optimist might interpret the emer­gence of courses, curriculums, programs, organizations and entire institutions wav­ing the banner of environment as a sign that education may yet address itself to basic issues of environmental husbandry. A close analysis does not support such optimism however. Most of the courses have only assumed new titles while retaining a discipline-oriented approach to one particular aspect of the environ­ment. Many supposedly new curriculums offer no new approach to education and no revised viewpoint toward the man­nature relationship. Those few programs offering significant new directions are confined by the rigidity of existing academic structures and the tendency toward self-perpetuating bureaucracies. The inertia of educational institutions as well as their natural tendency toward support of the status quo, leaves optim­ism only to those who feel that destruction of the existing order will lead to the emergence of a higher state or to those who cannot see through the screen of their own psychic pollution. Any chance for success rests with enlightened individuals who work toward achieving thru scientific research, a better under­standing of the environment and at the same time toward the re-orientation of social attitudes. 


Population and pollution: 
:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=================:::: R1c hard LaM anna 
Professor LaManna is from the sociology department. 
The recently aroused public concern with the quality of the physical environ­ment is a long overduedevelopment that hopefully will lead to a reevaluation of the way we use and misuse our natural resources. It is unfortunate that the discussion to date has been so dominated by people whose idealogical commit­ments and emotional involvements seem to take precedence over their scientific objectivity and respect for facts. In their eagerness to promote their cause they have frequently distorted, misrepresented and grossly misunderstood the problems they have discussed. I do not wish to engage in polemics but I do feel that it is important to call public attention to some of these issues if the real problems are to be dealt with intelligently and reasonably. 
H0 W 

First, Jets take the fashionable notion that virtually every soci~l and physical ill of the society is a result of population growth. Paul Ehrlick, for example, claims every thing from garbage in the environ­ment to rising crime rates and riots are "caused" by "growing population." He said an oversimplification of the realtion­ship of population growth to social problems would be laughable 1f it were not that it is taken seriously by a Jot of people. Ehrlick's lack of sophistication as regards social problems is easier to understand than his oversimplification of the causes of pollution. Barry Commoner in the Saturday Reveiw (4/4/70) notes that nearly all the stresses that have caused the current environmental crisis ~ smog, detergents, insecticides, heavy use of fertilizers, radiation ~ began but 20 to 25 years ago. That period saw a sharp rise in the per capita production of pqllu­tants. For example, between 1946 and 1966 total utilization of fertilizer in­creased about 700%, electric power nearly 400%, and pesticides more than 500%. In that period the U.S. population increased by only 43%. Commoner notes "this means that the major factor responsible for increasing pollution in the 
U.S. since 1946 is not the increased number of people, but the intensified effects of ecologically faulty technology on the environment." It would appear 
then that biologists like Ehrlick might better spend their time examining ques­tions like why we come to accept so widely these new products; what can be done to protect the public from a reoccurance of these disantics? What alternative products can be developed that would have the desirable but not the undesirable effects of these innovations? , rather than how to attain a zero population growth, a subject on which they do not appear to be too well informed. 
Ehrlick's organization ZPG advocated limiting families to two children in order to acheive a stationary population but even a demographer can tell you that a two child limit would not result in a 

Long-

stationary but a declining population. Today an average of just under 2.2 children per completed family is required for replacement. 
One wonders if these advocates have seriously considered all the consequences of even a stationary population. A stationary population with an expecta­
(continued on page 9) 

THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1970 THE O&rBRfJ!R. PAGE 7 
An ecology week special 
Idiocies on population and pollution 
Donald Barrett 

Professor Barrett is a member of the department ofsociology. His special concern is tlze population explosion and what can be done to curb it. 
In case you didn't know, you are polluting the earth by your mere presence. Further, if you plan to have any children, you arc guilty of high crimes and misdemeanors against the "laws of nature." And not only is the new-born baby the bcte-noir of the argument, but population growth generally is allegedly the cause of the abuse and destruction of our planet. Consequently you rational beings become the only unintelligent animals on the face of the earth. 
Such arc the ideological conclusions and arguments now cluttering the urgent concern and needed protests about abuses of the environment. It seems important to list conclusions first, and arguments uud evidence later, because facts and demographic scientific analyses tend to he selected and abused to back up such conclusions. 
But note clearly that the issue here is not that rapid population change and environmental destruction are unconnect­ed. They are connected, as can be shown later. At this point the basic question should be framed in terms of the quality of the arguments. No educated man should accept purported "facts" and lines of reasoning without demanding proof. Significant doubt must be attached to the citations of "experts," especially where such people are working outside their field of expertise. Mr. Finch of HEW, for example, appears to think that birth control is THE answer to all problems, the growth of the economy, inflation, poverty, the ghetto, abyssmaUy inade­quate schools in slums, foreign aid and everything else. 
Special caution must be attached to accepting the interpretations of the "technician-become-humanist". Anyone, including the demographer, the medi-cal 

doctor, the engineer, the ecologist can 
and should be concerned about human 
values and the human condition. But such 
an expert can more readily overwhelm 
the uncritical citizen with strident, 
abstruse data to "prove" a conclusion 
without consideration of values outside 
his specialty. Leadership given to special­
ists thus becomes hazardous to the full 
round of societal values. Just such 
an importance is attached to 
human and social values that we make a 
set of pentagon generals subject to a 
president (hopefully), .a non-specialist, 
who must submit to constant national 
judgement. On these grounds it would be 
vital in the present controversy to listen 
also to social philosophers and political 
scientists concerned with the freedom so 
hard-won in the history of mankind. 
Technicians in good conscience would 
often rather run pell-mell toward authori­
tarian programs which would force 
"ignorant" and "stupid" people to 
conform to the new gospel, regardless of 
consequences. 
Is the Population Explosion the Issue? 
There certainly has been and continues to be a population explosion. We are all famili.ar with the data of national populations doubling, since 1800, in I 00, in 30, and in less than 30 years. Let us assume this knowledge here. But to assume that the growth-of-population curve remains an unretarded, exponential curve is an absurdity, completely rejected by population specialists. Rather, demo­graphers speak of a logistic curve, a "lazy S" curve, in which there is a time period of very rapid population growth, and then also a levelling off in time. Also, we know that unquestionably the levelling 



The environment and politics 
technology, and choose "nature" instead. But the only definition we can give to
(continued from page 5) 

nature is that which is statistically given, Deal put bread on the table. But it also untouched by man. At some time, we paved the way for some of our present must consider where this nature is to go. turmoil by failing to articulate what in At least in part "nature" must be principle was to be just for the society. understood as being in man's service. It 
Ad lloc improvements in civil rights seems then that we must talk not only during the 40's and SO's improved about those things which are ecologically conditions for some, but presaged the unhealthy, but other "unhealthy" rela­violence of the 60's by failing to tionships to the environment. announce in word and deed a stoveland Much of the active concern about the of real equality. The radical movement at environment is rooted in these other 
concerns. One reason for the return toprl·sent is probably right in much of its primitive nature is the abhorence withcritique of evils in American society, but what man has done to nature. Dirty wateragain fails to answer the most crucial is connected somehow with progress gone political question: ··what, in fact, are we wrong. It is not open to us to simplyabout?" The environment movement is retrace the steps however. A dismantling too clearly right in most of its protest. 
of our technological society and a returnBut if the movement is to adequately to nature, even if possible, still leavesrespond to the real aims of man's relation unanswered the question of what the newto his material world, there must be some direction might be. To do this we must
attempt at articulating what a positive understand nature in a broader way, a
relation between man and "nature" might be about. At present, we abhor way which includes ourselves. 
off at the top of the curve is attributable 
to human free decisions in the more 
economically developed countries which 
have had the time to move toward 
fuller-term of growth. The concern 
focuses on those developing countries 
where cheap, effective death control has 
blown the lid off the culturally-endemic 
methods of population control (all 
cultures limit births, but these are 
ineffective when deaths plummit drasti­
cally). They have a shorter period of 
time, in regard to population growth and 
scarce resources, in which to pass through 
the "lazy S" transition to a levelling off. 
Must they experience economic and 
social catastrophy, widespread starvation 
and premature death, before they develop 
effective birth control methods? 
The extremist argues that population 
growth in the United States poses such a 
threat that earth-abuse is an inevitable 
consequence. Hardly. If the apodasis (last 
part of proposition) were caused by 
population growth, then an appropriate 
explanation is that we are having too few 
deaths and too many immigrants each 
year. Why? The facts show: I) we have 
the lowest crude birth rate (over the last 
3 years) in the history of the country, 
including the depression of the 1930's 
(17.7 per 1,000 mid-year population); 2) our recent death rate has remained at a low level since 1950 (19 .5 per I ,000) and thus more people survive to older ages than in any previous historical period; 3) our net civilian immigration rate has moved upward sharply since World War II 
(0.6 in 1942 to 2.1 today, i.e. 83,000 to 406,000 net immigrants). A more refined birth rate, the GFR (General Fertility Rate, i.e. number of births per 1 ,000 women 15-44 Yrs-) has been falling radically since 1959, 89.2 in 1930, 123.0 in 1957, 86.6 in 1969 -unquestionably largely due to "the pill". The GFR 
_broken into 5-year age cohorts shows that 
I) older women, 35-39, have the higher fertility and they will shortly be out of the fecundity years, and 2) younger women, 20-24, have much lower rate. Note that the median age of the woman at her first birth is about 21-22 yrs. and at her last birth is about 25-26 -this compression of fertility time gives greater meaning to the lower GFR of 20-24 year olds. Finally, we may mention that the Catholic birth rate has been plummeting quickly since 1962 (the pill) and even the qgregate baptisms (total numbers) have declined considerably. 
Connections: Population and Pollution 
In this country this connection can be adumbrated in a number of ways, but space in this essay forces limitations. Urbanization is one connection. Clearly the primary reasons for the recent and massive internal migration to the cities are to be found in the extensive and rigorous commercialization of agriculture with its attendant technological (machines, pesticides) evolution, and the urgent need for economically depressed rural peoples (rural non-farm too) to flood the city in search of jobs in industry, trade and services. 
Historically it is important to notice that there is no "natural law" or necessary connection between rapid urban expansion and earth-abuse. The experience of The Netherlands and other counries shows otherwise. County govern­ment in rurual areas has tended to be weak, so with rapid depopulation the larger, more powerful commerical farm­ers, as industry, simply would not confront pollution and misuse the land, unless it had profit-value. Similarly municipality government, in central cities, has been confronted with the "flight" of wealthier peoples to the suburbs and the invasion of poorer, less revenue-producing peoples. On this basis many city governments find it nearly financially suicidal to prosecute their major industries for pollution practices, since it could force these revenue-producing concerns to flee the city also. Suburban peoples resist moves toward "UNIGOV" or county-wide or multi-county control of abuses. So long as peoples in metropolitan areas are divided and so long as many state 
governments remain over-represented by rural delegates, it will take herculean efforts to induce individuals, communi­ties, governments to take effective action. 
Thus, despite the strident voices to the contrary, I reject the notion that fertility is the necessary cause. I reject the notion that the baby for whom I stood last Sunday as godfather in baptism is herself a pollution. There is no excuse for sloppy thinking . or dangerous advocacy based on illreasoned ideology. Conservationists, like William Vogt in the early 1950's, have been warning us quite rightly for decades about earth-abuse, but their "population kick" is misplaced nonsense. Even the allegation that the United States produces 50 or 60 percent of the world's pollution (clearly unprovable use of 
figures) demonstrates no necessary con­
nections. The problem is to effect a vital change in human priorities and this will be badly done if based on false premises. 
Other nations have confronted the population growth question and are resolving it. The Soviet Union is ideolo­gically opposed to discussion of birth control as solution to the population explosion. Rather changes in the poli­tico -e conomicstruct uresareneeded everywhere toward the ideal of Marxism and then population will presumably take care of itself. But de facto the Soviet Union has faced the issue and today experiences massive control best estimates show that there are over 5,000,000 abortions per year in Russia. 
Developing nations, like Columbia, are 
facing not only rapid population growth, expecting to double in 35 years or less, but also are experiencing very rapid urbanization. Inexperienced, unstable, weak, and sometimes corrupt govern­ments make it almost impossible to weld divergent ethnic stocks into a single nation. Strength and unity of purpose among the political, economic, religious sectors are difficult to achieve and rarely perduring. International meddling by United States aid programs and private enterprise further complicate the prob­lems. Thus, there are more poor people than ever before in the history of the world (also there are more non-poor). To blame such a complicated mass ol problems on the birth of a baby, on fertility, is dangerous over-simplication. 
Blacks and Chicanos in the United States have fertility rates 20 to 25 percent higher than Anglos. Large pro­portions of Blacks and Chicanos have remained poor in our segregated and discriminating society. Is poverty, then, 
(continued on page I 1} 

• • \,~ 6p~ t' yw. Or"\ 

~
o. most '""-portG.t\J-... 0."'... 
~.-­
THI O&rERV!'Il . THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1970
PAGE 8 

An ecology week special 
The ethics of population and pollution 

Professor Hauerwas teaches ethics at Augustana College in Rock Island, Illinois and I will be visiting here this fall teaching a course in Christian ethics. This paper was I written primarily for presentation in the form of a talk, rather than an attempt to 
investigate all the ramifications of the issue. He is attempting to correct what he
I 
considers a flaw in the ethical argument surrounding population control. 

For many today the only ethical ques­

f· tion involved in the population-pollution issue is what is the most efficient means to stop the rapid growth of the world's population. Once the issue is put in this stark way, however, the natural reaction of many is one of shock and then a determined resolve that something must be done about the coming crisis. The primary assumption often behind this response is that survival is the main value at stake and that all steps necessary must be taken in order to reverse the current trend. It is a corollary of this assumption that any means can be justified in this situation in order to achieve the end of reduced population growth. For example there are only two ways to reduce population growth -increase the death rate or decrease the birth rate. Most of those who assume that survival is the one value presupposition involved in this question endorse some 
rather extreme and coercive ways of controlling the birth rate. However they also often assume that it is appropriate to 

use certain techniques to increase the ', i,Y • 
death rate. They are, for example, im­pressed by the statistic that shows tho most effective way to institute a sudden and dramatic drop in the birth rate is to resort to widespread abortion ( and abor­tion is a death increase strategy; it is not birth control). 
In such a context abortion is simply viewed as a means to a morally good end -no longer is the question of abortion considered as an issue in itself, the ques­tion of the viability of the fetus is often not even raised -it is simply assumed that the already born have a claim to life that is greater than that of the fetus. 
However, as this argument now stands one must ask what prevents the same kind of reasoning from being used as a justification for the destruction of aD unwanted infants before they reach their first year. That way we could separate the wheat from the chaff with greater preci­sion. Or given the logic of the argument one must not ask why the proponents of abortion as a means to solve the popula­tion crisis do not recommend that all those over 65 be eliminated in the name of the good of the whole. (Of course that is not efficient since they are past the time of child rearing). 
What I want to illustrate by these examples is that the form of the argu­ment that is often used to discuss the population crisis is the classic utilitarian argument that the good of the whole justifies and dictates the right moral policy -and the good is identified by the quantitive satisfaction of the individual desires of the greater number. But as soon 

·· · C\. rt\O.S\:. l.Mi>C~ .. 
a.h. . . . ~I.A.b·~ct_.........-. • . 

as the argument is stated in this abstract form we can ask some rather important questions about it: I) what is the content of such a good; 2) who is to decide what such a good is; 3) who is to suffer for the good of the whole; 4) and finally are any means justified if the desired end is achieved. 
As soon as such questions are raised it becomes clear that the moral issues in the population-pollution crisis are more com­plex than simply the question of survival -that is, they are more complex if we are interested in surviving as fully human beings -otherwise we may simply be willing to survive at a cost of employing measures that would make us less than human. It is to recognize that human life is not an end in itself if it is divorced from the moral values that make human life worthwhile. 
Often when someone railes these kinds 
of questions that challenge the reigning orthodoxy surrounding the population issue the questioner is accused of being 
more concerned with the quantity of life than the quality. For example Robert Ardrey is a recent Life article says, "The humanist preoccupation with the num­bers game has sacrificed human quality 
for human quantity. Life must be pro­longed, whatever agony it presents to the dying. A child defective physically or mentally must somehow be saved to join the breeding population," he goes on to conclude, "That we will find out one day overprotection of human beings will pro­duce a genetic collapse in the most compassionate population." 
While I do not wish to attribute Ar­drey's views to all who follow this line of reasoning I do think that it makes clear the logic of the position. But it must also be pointed out that contrary to Ardrey's assertion it is those who adhere to the utilitarian argument that are concerned with the numbers game as they assume 
that all men can be treated as strict numerical entities to be added and sub­tracted as inorganic units. It is not finally an issue of quantity versus quality, but rather diffe~ interpretations of the 
-----==--=-=----=--=::-;;-::-:=--:-:--::::~::;;:::::=:;;;;:-::;-~===::=:--­
4 
,..,.,.'"""""',., 

4, •"' ---. 
· ··i.'-•· 
« · 
... 

; .·t.. 
An economist's reflections on 
(continued from page 6} 
rather than foreboding catastrophe for 
the consumers, this rise in prices is an 
indication that society's use of resources 
is being brought in line with its member's 
true desires and that welfare is increased. 
Of course, rationing our air and our 
water is in practice a great deal more 
complicated than rationing our salt. Salt 
is a private good which is sold in the 
marketplace. Clean air and water are in 
many respects public goods for which 
government is responsible. In our political 
system the public must support legisla­
tion, and it is in its role of informing the 
public that Earth Day serves a useful 
purpose. But more important than 
crusaders are people who are willing to 
commit themselves to the drudgery of 
mastering the tools which with to attack 
the problem: chemists and biologists who 
can assess the extent to which an industry 
"uses up" our resources when it releases 
pollutants into the air, economists who 
can device tax systems to provide proper 
incentives and disincentives, politicians 
who can formulate well-aimed legislation. 
(In this regard, Senator Proxmire has 
proposed an "effluence tax" which many 
economists seem to find appealing.) 
And what we do not need at all is a 
"witch hunt." I notice that in Chicago 
student activists, seminarians, and other intensely sincere types have taken to wearing buttons proclaiming "Com Ed Kills!" Now this strikes me as a silly way of approaching the problem. I suppose that Commonwealth Edison (the local electirc power company) does contribute its share to the multitude of hazards Chicagoans face every day. But it also 
contributes  immensely  toward  making  
life  more  pleasant and  more  human. If  
the  public really  want  to embark upon  

expensive projects to completely elimi­nate pollution, Commonwealth Edison, as a regulated monopoly practically assured of a reasonable profit, is in an excellent position to take the requisite steps without endangering its corporate exis­tence. In fact, in so far as it is resisting the pressure for absolutely clean air at any cost, Commonwealth Edison is probably representing the interests of Chicago's poor, whose banner has apparently been laid aside by the young activists. I doubt if Chicago's poor would choose to pay 25 or 50 percent more than they do now on their electricity bills and for the electricity content of the goods and services they purchase so that every trace of noxious material can be eliminated from the air over Chicago and its North Shore suburbs. 
But it seems that modern American man chafes under economic restraints. Is there not another way of ·coping with scarcity? Can we not reduce ecce or limit the number of people competing for our scarce resources? It is indeed true that, because of what economists call the law of diminishing returns, when a doubled amount of manpower is applied to a fixed amount of natural resources, output of goods and services will not double. Thus, for example, the economist might delineate two of the many possible alternative situations in which the United States might find itself in the year 2000. 
Situation A: Thanks to population con-· rrrol measures, there are only about 200 million people in the United States, the 
quality of life. 
In this connection I must admit that I am a bit concerned how some understand "quality of life" that take up the popula­tion issue in this country. For I some­times think that they are more concerned with preserving a certain kind of middle class standard of living than moral quali­ty. This is probably an overstatement but we must be on our guard not to use the population issue as a support for our own self-interest. In this respect it is interest­ing to note that some black Americans are extremely suspicious of the popula­tion argument as they perceive it as a possible attempt at genocide. Moreover, much of the third world views the at­tempts to regulate their birth rate as but a different form of Western imperialism. 
Population, Self-Determination and Community In the light of these questions I should like to suggest that the moral issues raised by the population-pollution crisis are best understood in relation to the dialectical values of self-determination and com­munity. By self-determination I do not 
(continued on page 9) 

Earth Day 
same as in 1969. Since the rate of growth 
of cap.stock and technology has continued 
at the level indicated in the 1960's, 
percapita GNP in real terms (which 
mcludes services comprising the "good 
life" as well as inductrial output) has 
increased from $4594 in 1969 to about 
$9000. 

Situation B: The population is 400 
million, which means that there are twice 
as many people to enjoy life as in 1969. 
Aggregate output has certainly not 
doubled since 1969, but it has certainly 
increased somewhat. Per capita GNP, 
particularly if measured with an index 
sensitive to deterioration in quality, is 
consiaerably below the $9000 of situa­
tion A but very likely somewhat above 
the $4594 of 1969. 
The economist can be helpful in 
delineating alternative such as situation A 
and B, but he has no special competence 
to tell society whether A or B is the wiser 
choice. In choosing society must bring to 
bear its own deepest values. I note that 
some on campus, the proponents of 
"Zero Population Growth," see their way 
clear to choosing situation A over 
Situation B and, apparently over any 
other possible alternative. As an econo­
mist I can not dispute the wisdom of 
their choice, but as a man I am troubled 
by the priorities implicit in such a value 
judgment. Personally, I rather think that 
given a vote between situations A and B 
only, I would vote for Situation B. I 
would wish to vote in a way that would 
express my desire to extend my hand and 
open my heart to all my new fellow 
citizens and to say, "Welcome to life and 
to what beauty there is left on earth, 
brothers; for we are, I think, what it is all 
about." 

' 
7118 O&m~W~t PAGE 9 
An eco1ogy week specia] 
The ethics of population and pollution 
(contitiued from page 8) 
mean just the possibility that men have to 
determine their futures through their 
beliefs, intentions and choices. Such abili­
ty is of course a prerequisite for the value 
of self-determination, but it is not the 
normative principle itself. Normatively 
self-determination embodies those aspects 
of our moral existence that allows us to 
determine, rather than be determined by, 
the natural. This is the reason that the 
value of self-determination is so basic in 
any consideration of human behavior. It 
is that aspect of our lives that insures the 
possibility of human creativity and free­
dom and this human significance. Because 
we arc self-determining we are able to 
form our liws in accordance with our 
perceptions of good and right, which 
provides the basis for our assumption that 
we can he held accountable for our 
beliefs, choices and actions. 
The value of self-determination is re­

lated to many different kinds of our 
institutional behavior. For example, it is 
the primary value underlying the personal 
nature of human sexuality and propaga­

tion. As humans we think it important 
that we claim certain rights in regard to 
our responsibility for regulating our 
sexual activity. In this sense it is also the 

value to which those adhere who advo­
cate birth control as they assume that 
what it is to be a man is to shape rather 
than be shaped by his sexual "nature." 
But equally important for human be­havior is the value of community. Men cannot determine 1hcmsclves in a vacuum for the content of their self-determina­tion comes from their social groups. This is not just a recognition that men are basically social animals, but it is also a normative prerequisite for significant human experience. To be human is to be other regarding. It is to recognize that our self-determination must be limited in accordance with the rights of others. 
This aspect of our moral being is institutionally and concretely determined by sets of expectations that allow us to be able to count on and trust the others. These expectations can be thought of as boundaries over which we cannot go it we are to maintain our existence together. Such boundaries of course can and do become perverted to serve causes that are detrimental to the human group, but such perversions do not cancel the basic signifi­cance of such sets of expectations. In this respect however it is extremely important to denote the kinds of communities to which we belong, for as men we will be as limited as our most inclusive communi­ties. 
What is interesting of course about these two sets of values is they are not necessarily consistent. Often the value of self-determination is stressed to the ex­tent it is destructive of community; or human community can be made so exclu­sive a value it results in the oppression of human creativity. No abstract balancing of these two values can solve the hard historical problem of striking the proper balance between them as this must be worked out in the contingencies of our concrete existence. 
It seems to me that it is just this kind of problem -that is balancing the values of self-determination and community ­that the population and pollution crisis is occasioning. The central issue I think both are calling forth is the question of community, for both force us to ask if part of the cause behind this crisis is not due to the fact that many of us have been working with too narrow community loyalties. For example the issue of pollu­tion forces us to realize that our com­munities cannot just be limited to our immediate families and localities. It re­veals that we are ecologically tied to­gether in a network of interdependence. Unless we recognize this and work for a 
genuinely common good, a good that is not identified with each of our individual satisfactions, then we may all have to live less wholesome and healthy lives. 
In a way this problem reveals beauti­fully that if self-determination is to be sustained it depends on adherence to a community loyalty. We must com­munally decide to limit our individual potential as pollutants or we will find that we have not gained more self­determination hut less. In a sense this problem is calling us to consider the importance of the idea of the com rnon good for the criterion of governmental action. 
This is even more to the case in respect to the question of population, for this problem is forcing us to sec that in reality, not just in ideality, we arc in a community with men everywhere. We in America cannot morally afford to ignore this as a problem for all the world for we are bound up with the destiny of the human community. In more personal terms this problem is forcing us to see what has always been true about human sexuality, hut what we have often ignored -that is that procreative behavior is an individual and communal right. Our sexuality is not an inherent right that cannot be balanced by the demands of others -in fact if it is to remain our right at all we must learn to limit it for the good of the community. 
Thus the population-pollution crisis does raise serious moral q ucstions but it is not alone the q ucstion of survival, but rather it is the question of what kind of human communities do we want to 
(continued on page 11) 

Population and pollution: some neglected considerations 
(continued from page 6) 
tion of life of 70 years has as many people over 60 as under I 5. The median age would be about 37 years. A society with such an age structure is not likely to be receptive to change, and indeed would have a strong tendency towards nostalgia and conservatism. When the population is stationary, there is no longer a reasonable expectation of advancement in authority with age, since the number of SO year olds is little different from the number of 20 year olds. Zero growth is inevitable in the long run, it is highly debatable whether it is desirable now. As Onsley J. Coale, President of the Population Asso­ciation of America, noted in his Presiden­tial address, it does not "seem certain to me that the earliest possible stationary population is the best choice today." 
(Population Index Oct-Dec. 1968). 
Ehrlick, to note one other point, 
virtually dismisses the possibility of the 
world being able to feed itself. "The 
battle to feed all of humanity is over" he 
claims. Some time between 1970 and 
1985 the world will undergo vast famine 
-hundreds of millions of people are 
going to starve to death. However, the United Nation Food and Agricultural Organization's "Provisional Indicative World Plan for Agricultural Develop­ment" presents a strategy whereby the food/population expansion would be brought into balance between 1975 and 1985. Moreover, recent developments such as the high yield "miracle rice" has already created problems of over-produc­tion of rice in South East Asia. Ehrlick's 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::
Ecology for liberals 
(continued from page 5) 
pollution control, the war on poverty, and the improvement of our educational system, if we can achieve the same effect by spending millions on population control? 
Let me insist that I thoroughly agree with Rene Dubos that, "We human beings exist and enjoy life only by virtue of the conditions created and maintained on the surface of the earth by the microbes, plants, and animals that have converted its inanimate matter into a highly integrated living structure. Any profound disturbance in the ecological equilibrium is a threat to the maintenance of human life as we know it now." But man's social organization is an essential component of his ecological equilibrium. We can be sure that if man adopts the social organization of the ant hill he will obliterate that distinctive ecological niche which de­pends upon the versatility and free creativity of its inhabitant. 
(loOll ecology is just as pluralistc as 

good liberalism. 
Neither good ecologists nor good 

liberals can be content if we save Lake 
Michigan and condemn black childre1. ~o 
summers on melting pavements and 
vacant lot-dump yards, and to winters 
with underpaid teachers who hate their 
guts. Neither good ecologists nor good 
liberals can be content if we take the easy 
route of trying to solve our problems by 
replacing educational efforts with coer­
cive authority. 
Let there be no mistake, however. The sort of freedom this liberal is interested in has nothing to do with your keeping a car on campus, big oil's offshore drilling, a GNP curve inflated by wasteful consump­tion, or the autonomy of Thieu's dictatorship. Some stupid, trivial things like autumn leaf burning, mud paths between the library and wherever you're headed, and pop-top beer cans (use returnable kegs!) can be dropped without remorse and without delay. Punitive fines or taxes should insure that they are. 
But the big offenders are smarter than most of us, and it's going to take considerable ingenuity to prevent major 
polluters from passing the cost of the day of reckoning brought on by years of exploitation right on to the consumer ­and adjusting the profit curve upward by selling pollution control devices on the side. 
Few philosophers since Thales cor­
nered the olive market have been much 
good at economics, and with tongue in 
cheek 1 defer to the experts in this 
matter. However, all the talk about tax 
incentives for investment in pollution 
control makes me a little edgy. It's too 
much like rewarding GM for its past 
foot-dragging conspiracies (current .prac­
tice justifies loose use of this term; but 
this use is not loose). Something like a 
spcdal excise tax levied on specific 
brands that lose industry wide competi­
tions for pollution free products might 
put the mechanisms of private enterprise 
to work in a benevolent fashion. Polluters 
would have to cut profits to meet price 
competition; non-polluters would have 
the traditional incentive of relatively 
higher prices. But what philosopher can 
say that this would work given our present economic system'? 
One final word for Paul Ehrlich and company. It's just a flat cop-out to say that population control is something a biologist can address with scientific expertise, but that price, wage, and general economic control are outside his :;'ield of competence. 
I suppose that's why relatively few philosophers claim to be wise men or prophets these days. At least we know what goes with the territory. 
What the territory demands, in the long run and on the academic side, is a rationale for inter-disciplinary research on problems that involve such historic constraints as the aspirations to individual freedom and social justice. The existing channels of communication between the relevant fields of research don't seem to be very good. In particular, biology and sociology have a tendency to regard each other as opponents in debate, and not as partners in a co-operative enterprise. Philosophy may have a small part to play in facilitating the requisite inter­-disciplinary communication, if philoso­phers can ever bring themselves to look at what scientists and politicians are actually saying, instead of what they ought to say to make a really juicy issue out of the mind-body problem, or something like that. But nobody should expect that philosophy will appear on the scene with a store of correct definitions, insightful value judgments, and inspiring myths. When philosophers work between estab­lished, professional disciplines, they just have to hope that the dedicated amateur can still make some contribution. 
unsubstantiated certainty · is in sharp contrast to the view of careful students of the subject like British environmentalist Stanley Johnson, who notes in connec­tion with his close observation of this problem over the year that ·~1 have been astonished at the remarkable sswings of opinion which occurr from month to month, even from week to week, when agricultural prospects for the next ten, twenty, or thirty years are under discussion. This, it seems to me, is a subject over which about nobody can agree. There arc too many imponder­ables." (Vista, March-April 1970.) 
What we need are commitment and understanding based on careful study. Discussions, teach-ins, and slogans, useful as they may be are no substantiate for formal education and specialized know­ledge that unfortunately comes only with hard, disciplined work. The Jesson of recent years with, for example, DDT, the birth control pills, cyclamates, etc. is that we should be extremely cautious in accepting the widespread application of technical and chemical innovations that may have serious unanticipated con­sequences. The lesson applies equally well to social and political innovations such as the proposed penalties attached to fertility and other techniques for bringing population growth to a sudden stop. The cure may be more disasterous than the alleged illness. 

THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1970

711E OBSERVER
PAGE10 

Student Forum attacked at meeting 
by Ed Ellis concerning constitutional Re-,overnment by artifiCial means. Hunter also argued that, year, ana student apathy. In 
The Constitutional Revision vision, due to the absence of He labelled the proposed Forum "You're removing your hall order to get respect, Hunter Committee, meeting last night three of the four Hall Presidents as such an attempt. President from his natural con-proposed action on the part of for the third time, heard test-on the committee. He criticized the use of Hall stituency." He said that Hall the Senate. 
imt'>ny from Rich Hunter, for-Hunter, former Senator from Presidents on the Forum Presidents should be elected on He argued, "To change the mer Stay Senator, who opposed Breen-Phillips and Stay Sena-because, he said, the Senate the basis of hall issues, not structure does not necessarily Student Body President Dave tor, who resigned last October, deals with problems that the campus-wide issues that are mean to get respect... The way to Krashna's proposed Student said that over the past three Hall Presidents do not. He said currently dealt with by the get respect is to produce. The Forum, and then adjourned years, he had seen an attempt to that during the opening weeks of senators. primary responsibility of any without reaching any decisions create student interest in student the school year, when the Senate For example, he said, no hall body, no matter what you call 
------was researching the budget, the President from Flanner should it, is to produce. The you'll get 
Grad Student Union Presents 
"good" Hall Presidents were be elected on the basis of what respect." busy setting up their halls and he thinks of black He also cited the placing of a getting freshmen involved in hall concentrations in Dillon. He Hall Presidents Council member life. claimed that this would be the in the SBP Cabinet as a possible
''La Gambade Au Printemps" 
"The place of the hall Presi-state of affairs should the method to get student govern­dent is totally immersed in the Committee approve the Forum, ment back to the Halls. 
hall" he said. and in effect, he said, each Hall Finally, Hunter addressed TYPING WANTED Presidential election would be a himself to the question of Dave Essays, dissertations or manu-miniature SRP election. Krashna's election being a "man-
Saturday Apri1 25 9PM-IAM 
lzaak Walton League Clubhouse 
scripts. Experienced, accurate and As reasons for the failure of date" for the Forum as proposed reasonable. Can pick up and· the Student Senate to gain the in the election campaign. He 
Music by the Circuit Open Bar 
deliver. respect of the students, Hunter contended that the election was Couples $5 Guys $3.00 Girls $2.50 
cited ineffective leadership on a mandate "to get the students 
Call: Mrs. Jean Motsinger 259-1304 the part of the SBP for the past interested." If this could be done under the present system, Hunter said he felt Krashna had the obligation to do this. 

After Hunter's speech, SBP Dave Krashna countered some of his arguments. First, he stated the past SBP was not ineffective. Second, he questioned the research value of the Senate, sonce he said Cabinet members could do this. 
He stated that maybe the existence of Hall Presidential elections as "small SBP elections would better emphasize the importance of these elections. He also defended the Forum as enabling the Hall Presidents to bring back the "feelings of the HalL" 
As for the "mandate" issue, Krashna said he wanted emphasis to be placed on the halls, and there's the rationale behind the Forum. 
To these arguments, Hunter countered that the Senate would be elected people doing research, 

'\§r. Groppi speaks 
on social change 
(continued from page 1) 
Because he believes it psycho­logically healthy for his black parishioners he hopes to leave soon and be replaced by a black. 
A pastor obviously very sympathetic to his parishoners, Fr. Groppi has seen a fair housing bill voted down four times by the Milwaukee City Council, some members of whch he considers to be racists. 
For his activism Fr. Groppi 
has been constantly harrassed by the police and jailed. He said that jail was "a very dehumaniz­ing place ...jail is hell." He also likened the presence of the police in the black community to that of an occupation army and blamed it for much of the violence in that area. 
In calling for more profession­al training and higher salaries to alleviate the tension, he noted that the atmosphere is the "inner core" during the summer disturbances of 1968 as actually one of celebration where looting from easy credit "gip joints" was

You only go around once in life. So grnb for all the gusto you can. 
thought of as just restitution. 


At the end of the seventy minute talk Fr. Groppi was greeted by a standing ovation. 
Even in the beeryou drink. Why settle for less? 
When you're out ofSchlitz, you're out ofbeer. 
DON'T FORGET AMERICA 
IS GOING TO THE DUNES 
MAY 10! 

© 1970 los. Schlitz Brewtng Co., Milwaukee and other great cit1es. 
, 

THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1970 TilE OBSERUER. PAGE 11 
vldiocies on pollution and popul~tion 
(continued [rum page 7) 
the implied connection between popu­lation growth and pollution? I doubt that any liberals will argue this road in the 
United States 
today, at least in public. Then, how can the same argument be used in regard to povcrty in developing nations? Just 
perhaps there arc some culprits among irrcsponsible landlords in slums, among staid cd ucational administrators in school systems, among industrial employers who just "don't give a damn" about the communities in which their employees have to live, among ourselves wno Will not pressure our government reprcsen­

earth-abuse. To conClude, hastily because of space limits, it must be made clear that this essay neither advocates nor derides birth control. Quite pointedly it has stressed that earth-abuse can and should be resolved by placing control of the 
fe~~~~c~~ :nevi~~~7~n~el~~v: th~hr::::i~ 
evidence by conservationists and the evidence of our senses, this country is becoming each year a more dangerous place to live. Population growth is not THE cause thereof by some "natural law" • but our individual and group decisions (or lack thereof) are irrespons-
Growth has the merit at a certain adaptability limit within a closed ecologi­cal system. The United States is neither a closedsystem·; nor-can anyone de-mon-= strate that Americans have reached the apex of their potentials in adapting their 
environment, e.g. farmers of the Pennsyl­vania Dutch are more fertile and produc­tive than when their ancestors located i!1 
that "natural" environment. Conserva­tionists have lashed out at earth abuses in and by cities, certainly an "unnatural" (physical environment, but we must remember that through history only city life has meant civilization, the freeing of the human spirit and potentials in knowledge and control of natural forces. 
''""' to etT/E:~~·;~;' ~~~tollp ·~·~~: ;;'~'~ th: ~'d Po~~o~ ~~;~uj i~~ 
We moy moum, but life 
9
(continued from page ) 
live in. 1t seems to ihe' that we would want such communities to at least allow for the significance of men's self-determi­nation as it can be ordered to the common good. Society serves as the enhancement of our self-determination not as it defeat. 
In this respect as we go about meeting the necessity of reducing population growth we should place a premium on birth control rather than death enhance­ment. This means I would favor if neces­sary extreme coercive birth control measures before I would resort to abor­tion. Moreover, this means that we would try to use those methods that would as much as possible preserve the voluntary nature of the propagative process. Thus 

the importance and responsibility of be­coming informedQ_Q these issues is to be stressed. Bevond information such steps the society can take to encourage small families such as tax breaks should be encouraged. Also better infimt care should be stressed (especially in under­developed countries) as a way of making clear that large families are no longer a necessity. It is important in this respect to understand the wide range of possible ways to reduce population growth as a 
way of increasing our ethical option. 
Each of the methods I have suggested above are designed to encourage the growth of community responsibility, but the question arises what if there is not time for voluntary family planning to work, as it would seem already the case in 
Earth Day across USA 
(UPI) Hundreds of thousands of Americans took part Wednesday in demonstrations for a cause affecting the lives of every one

l of them-keeping the earth 
~) livable. It was Earth Day, an occasion for Americans of all shades of belief to unite in a determination to stop the spreading pollution of the earth, waters and atmosphere which, some scientists have warned, threatens the very existence of life on this planet. 
Congress was closed down 

while senators and 
representatives spread across the 
country to address mass rallies. 
Thousands of colleges, 
universities and high schools 
took an ative part, with the gas 
burning automobile a major 
target of attack on many 
campuses. Students blocked the 
four main gates of Syracuse 
University and manned 
barricades at Iowa State 
University to keep cars out. 
New York led the nation's cities in demonstrating mounting concern over the threat of pollution. The city's Union 
\/Black athletes tell their dissatisfaction 
(continued [rum page I) 
2) decreasing the amount administered to them whil" they raise their prices for tuition and every other thing wfth a price tag attached to it; 1) 
intensifying this indebtedness by 'loaning him to death;' 4) giving him a job that entails too much of his valuable study time; 5) dismissing black students by cutting off their financial aid; and 6) putting the black stu­dents in debts what will take years to get paid." 
Minnix said, "As a matter of 
fact, some of the black students 
will have difficulty in returning 
because of lack of funds. The 
university cannot remain insensi­
tive to this gross injustice. They 
must come out with the true 
figures of the financial standing 
of the black student. This is 
critical. Black men's educations 
and lives depend on it. 
Gatewood added, "Being 
black, it is important for me to know what's going on at Notre Dame and since I was directly involved in obtaining the money which supposedly Gatewood 
said, "I feel that the figures that 

Studies Program are disillusion­ing because the financial aid given athletes is included and it shouldn't be.._.Being black, it is important for me to know what's going on at Notre Dame and since I was directly involved in obtaining the money which supposedly backs this program. I feel that the administration and those who have set up whis program should in some way make all the black students aware of where the money is going." 
Dewitt Flemming, Minister of Campus Affairs for the Afro­American society added, "We've gone to Brother Kiernan Ryan twice -first with our grievances about financial aid and the other time with the proposals which he asked for as a solution for the alleviation of our financial burdens. Presently he is giving us the run-around." 
/'OR 7RA11S MAKE SPll L7A L MOTHER'S DAY GIFTS 
Pencil -Charcoal -Color 
Bv appointment only-From 4
photoorlife-284·423 ­
arc ·projected for the Slack .~___P~r:..:.ic:..:e:..:.s_R_e_a_so_n_a_b_le_____ 
Squ-are was made spotless by about 300 persons, aged 8 to 80, who showed up at dawn. Then an estimated 250,000 persons converged on the square to listen to speeches, watch a stage show, and stroll on nearby 14th Street, which was closed to traffi. 
Gas masks were sold out in Omaha, Neb., because students throughout the city chose to observe the day by wearing them. 
..........____ 

goes on. We today make our own environments, quite rightly so. But it is 
· equally imperative that we heed the ecologists who propose that we are destructive of those links in the chain which are essential to human life. The "good life" is shaped in other ways. 
For such reaons I can I )favor the slowing of population growth for all 
·nations, 2) believe in the proposition that man will control his population, espe­cially as developing nations become stronger and more purposeful, 3) urgently espouse control of the physical environ­ment so that we irresponsible people, and venal governments, and also the powerful profit-makers do not destroy our heri­tage. But beware of me, become human'­ist? In a slum on the mountain above Bogota, a lonely, unmarried Maria is starving, as are her 3 children (one spastic, one with epilepsy). I feel that Maria's freedom to choose pills or no pills is fundamentally more important than my attitude set as to what is good for her. Who is to say before her God and my God? I happen to believe that Maria is a beautiful, holy God-child. 
lfANAGfi' *AM(RICA* 
next year? CaJJ 8357 or 1185 

MAKE MONEY! 
BE AN OBSERVER AD SALESMAN 
$20-$30 per week for 4-5 hours work 
Contact Bruce Barker, Ad Manager 283-7471 
Need a U-Haul in June? 
Don't leave ·campus for service. 
Call Ted Price at 283-8408 or 
stop in at 305 Pangborn 
I B
U-Hau : etter cause we want t 

• 
... 
---. 
• 
.. 

some underdeveloped countries. It may be that more coercive techniques are necessary in such situations, but jf ~o 
they m~st be justified in terms of the common good. Such coercive strategies should be used as much as possible to enhance human freedom and encourage responsible community behavior. For it may well be that survival is the question at stake but let us make sure· we survive as humans -that is as men who are free to determine themselves in accordance with the need of the other. 


THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1970
PAGE 12 

711B OBSBRIIM 
Improving netmen up their record 

improvement and sparkling play Cherry Blossom Tournament.
by Jack Schaefer at the number two singles Notre Dame came out on the
Observer Sportswriter 

position by Bernie LeSage. short end of a 7-2 score in D.C., The Notre Dame varsity Bernie, who is a junior letterman but the team's improvement
tennis team upped its season from Pasadena, California, has over the past three weeks makes record to 8-4 by winning two 
really started to put his game them a definite threat to upset out 'bf three matches which were together in winning back to back the vaunted Hoosiers. played over the past three days. singles matches against Michigan Monday, April 20, ND 5~ Despite the fact that this was and Michigan State. Toledo 3¥2 at Toledo. perhaps the most grueling part Coach Tom Fallon has given Number one singles playerof the schedule the Irish did his men a couple of days rest Buster Brown got the Irish notl!!!tg_ but enhance their . before their big match against rolling with a tough three set 
chances for an exceptionally fine powerhouse Indiana at home victory. Mike Reilly (no. 3), gil year. next Tuesday. The Irish played Theissen (no. 4), and co-captain The brightest aspect of the last Indiana over the Easter holidays Bob O'Mally (no.6), followed three matches has to be the down in Washington D.C. at the suit with singles victories to move the Irish to within one point of victory. The thirdJIM MURRAV doubles team of Greg Murray and Bob Schefter provided the clinching point. Each team wasGeneral Richie Knew awarded a half point when the second doubles team of Bernie LeSage and Mike Reilly was deadlocked in the first set at
C 1970, LOS Anweles Tllllfl 

15-15 and darkness started to 
There are times when every good general relishes an enemy attack. fall. Hitler's Guderian must have been glad to see the cavalry in Poland 
Tuesday, April 21, Michigan 6 coming out after thi this tanks. The Indians were probably praying 
ND 3 at Ann Arbor. Custer's horse soldiers wouldn't get the measles or something on the 
Despite the fact that they lost way to Little Big Horn. The Americans at Bunker Hill must have to Michigan the Irish gave a good Bernie LeSage has been the hottest of a number of sizzling Notre prayed nothing would come up to persuade the Briti~h to turn back 
Dame tennis players. The Irish are coming on strong after a so-so and they even held their fire hoping not to discourage them. is one of the country's strongest start and their record stands at 8-4. LeSage is one of the men Wellington WANTED Napoleon at Waterloo. 
account of themselves. Michigan 
college teams, yet ND needed responsible for this fine showing. Thus it was a good deal of a surprise for a lot of us when Old Wednesday, April 22, ND 6 Spartans. After losing at the last
only a few points in some crucial 
Blood and Guts Guerin, the coach of the Atlanta Hawks basketball MSU 3. two singles positions, the Irish
situations and the results might
team, went around appealing almost all the way to the Red Cross The Irish captured the first came back to take the first two
have been different. 

when, with his team one point ahead Friday night, he went into a four singles matches against the doubles matches for a sweet 6-3 panic over what seemed to us an, advance by a pop-gun, a spiked victory. cannon, a water pistol. 
Here was the situation: "Mr. Clutch" was on the bench. "Mr. 
Golfers coming up to par
Choke" was on the foullinr. Richie Guerin should have had every reason to believe it was the Charge of the Light Brigade. 
The golf team improved its Battaglia with 149, Marty Best with 773, and Purdue in fourthWilt Chamberlain's range with a basketball popularly believed to status weekend and Jim Dunn with 153, and Bill with ND was
be four-to-seven feet. The foul line is 15 feet away. He has scored over the by place 781. next 
placing second out of four at Cvengros and Mike LaFrance with 790, and the ten remainingmore than II ,000 baskets in his life but, laid end-to-end, they Ball State's Invitational Satur-with 154. teams had scores up to 829 inprobably wouldn't make a good walk or a tall building. 
day, and securing fifth place in a Monday's tourney was played the windy quagmire. 
Wilt is one of the most devastating machines ever to play any 15 team tournament at Miami of in heavy rain and winds up to 50 Cvengros totaled 156 and wasgame. His strength is so prodigious, he probably could carry a sports Ohio Monday. miles an hour making an already low for ND in the tourney,car around under his arm. When he goes up for a dunk shot, it IS Bob Wilson fired a 69 at difficult 7370 yard course although Wilson had the bestconsidered unwise to get a hand or an arm in the way, because you Muncie's Greenhills Country (Heuston Woods in Oxford, single round with 76, following amay go through life thereafter knows as "Wingy." 
Club in the second round of Ohio) even rougher. Indiana · first round 82. Battaglia andBut this Samson gets his hair cut at the foul line, this Achilles champion Ball State's tourney, won, totaling 770 strokes, with Dunn also totaled 158, andbecomes a heel. This mighty monarch becomes a 7-foot, 2-inch making him NO's low man with Big Ten counterparts Ohio State freshmen LaFrance and Bestgoiter at the free throw line. 
144. Close behind were Bob and Michigan State close behind carded 1~ 1 and 168.
Wilt chamberlain goes to that free throw line like a guy goes to the electric chair. They should give him one call to the governor and a chaplain to read him the 23rd Psalm. 
Voices from the crowd 
Why, then, did Richie Guerin, the Gen. Patton of basketball, 
peopte wnu lake the status these behave as if a Bill Sharman or a Big O.had suddenly materialized at Editor: guys have earned for Notre the worthirless of this request· 
then just make it a point to go

the line? You would have thought he would have behaved more like "No work-no food" seems to Dame for granted may come to
to a scrimmage and watch the

Gen. Montgomery at El Alamein when he heard the Italians were be the attitude that prevails at the realization that there is a lot
team in action. I'm sure it won't

attacking-with a "Good. Letthem come." Notre Dame concerning the of hard work and energy in­
take long before you are as

But Richie Guerin knew something ... football players rights' to train­volved which calls for some
convinced as I that there should

Wilt Chamberlain has a reputation as a bad free thrower the way ing table. but, strange as it may compensations to be made. 
be some changes made. 

Sam Snead has a reputation as a poor putter-because the rest of his seem, sometimes even when they Sincerely,
I'm writing this letter with the 

game is so impeccable, that part of it looks twice as atrocious by do "work" this privilege is A Concerned Sports Fan
sincere hope that a few of thl!

comparison. Yet, you know when a Snead shoots a 59 in a denied to them. toymament, he CAN putt. Right now the football team And when you know Wilt Chamberlain holds the all-time record is practicing at least four times a 
MAJOR LEAGUES 
of 28 free throws made in a game, you know he CAN shoot. week and scrimmaging' on Satur­NATIONAL LEAGUE 
AMERICAN LEAGUE
wilt Chamberlain scored I00 points one night in 1962, 28 of days. They begin at 4:00 and them from the line. That night, he only went to the line 32 times. It finish as late as 6:00 each day. has become common practice for the lilliputs of the league to four All this practicing is in prepara­East East Wilt going through the lane. That would be good strategy even if he~ tion for the spring game on May w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB
Chicago .721

were a .900 free thrower,_instead of a .450. Yo_!! would still get a 9 -a game all of us are anxious 8 3 Detroit 9 3 .750 
-Pittsburgh 8 4 .66/ Y:.
to see. Baltimore 8 5 .615 1%
10% break in the law a averages. Because Wilt under the basket is a St_ Louis 7 4 .636 1
Its very easy to sit back and *Washington 5 5 .500 3
I 00% shooter. New York 7 6 .538 2 Boston
say the athletes here get more 6 6 .500 5
Philadelphia 5 attention than they deserve -*Montreal 1 8 .111 6 9 .357 5
The Boston Celtics seldom fouled Wilt when Bill Russell was 8 .385 4 *New York 5 
abroad on their court. I once asked the coach why. "Because Russell Cleveland 3 8 .273 5%
many students probably even
can't block a foul shot," he said. The Celtics had greater luck against 
resent the few training table
Wilt precisely because they dian't give him J-chances a night to meals they are entitled to now! West Westmake some free points. 
But, these are also the same Cincinnati 13 4 .765 Minnesota 8 2 .800
Richie uuenn also know that Wilt Cnamberlam used to throw free San Francisco7 8 .467 5 *California y.
students that enjoy boasting 9 4 .692 
throws out from under his legs like a guy heaving an anvil. With Houston 7
about "their team!" 9 .437 5% *Kansas City 6 6 .500 3 
Wilt's reach-100 inches or so-the overhead toss he now attempts San Diego 6 9 .400 6 *Oakland 6 7 .462 3%
I feel football players are 
can make the throw as much as four feet shorter. Tl}e old *Los Angeles 5 7 .417 5% Chicago 4 8 5
entitled to 3 training table .333 
under-the-leg way made it practically a mid-court basket. Richie also Atlanta 5 9 .357 6% *Milwaukee 3 9 .250 6
meals, 7 days a week. Believe it 
*night game not included

has been around long enough to know only two active players have *night game not included 
or not, after the scrimmages on 
more free throws made than Wilt Chamberlain, and only four in the Los Angeles 6 Montreal 1 (7th inn.) Kansas City at Oakland, night
Saturdays in the spring and
whole history of the game. New York 2 San Diego 1 Milwaukee at California, night
games in the fall there is no 
Philadelphia 6 San Francisco 1 Minnesota 3 Chicago 1
All good generals suddeijly get a premonition when an attack training table. Training table is a Chicago 7 Detroit 5
St. Louis 5 Cleveland 0 
should not be invited. I think Richie suddenly realized Atlanta was 
privilege no doubt -and if the Pittsburgh 6 Houston 1 New York 1 Washington 1 (13th inn.)
going to get burned again. 

boys who work so hard to make Boston 5 Baltimore 2 
ND the football power it is andA pro shoots in the pool room always has been don't deserve this privilege, who does? If Jack White, renowned pocket Admission is free. Mr. White has extension of training table privi­billiard star and trick shot artist been a touring pro for over 41 leges is. too much to ask, maybe 
.. 
will appear in the La Fortune years, and has appeared on a having a number one football pool room and the Senior Bar number of TV shows. Student team is too much to expect. today from I: 30 to 3:00. Union is sponsoring the event. If you have any doubts about 






