
Chicago 7 guilty, receive five years 
CHICAGO (UPl) -The jury the day after the landmark trial R. Froines, 30, and Lee Weiner, in the marathon and tempes­began, on Sept. 24 last year. The 30. tuous trial of the "Chicago case had been in the jury's hands Those convicted face possible Seven" today found all the de­since Saturday. sentences of five years in prison fendants innocent of conspiring The jury of I 0 women and and $10,000 fines. All of the to incite riots during the 1968 two men returned guilty verdicts defendants arc presently held Democratic National Convention against defendants David T. Del­under contempt sentences, rang­but convicted five of them of linger, 53; Rennard C. 'Rennie" ing up to almost 2Yz years, im­crossing state lines with intent to Davis, 29; Thomas E. "Tom" posed Saturday and Sunday by incite riots. Hayden, 29; Abbott H. "Abbie" U.S. District Court Judge Julius 
The jury returned its verdict Hoffman, 32; and Jerry C. Ru­J. Hoffman. after more than 41 hours of bin, 31. Hoffman today refused to deliberations and 21 weeks to Ordered acquitted were John grant bail on the trial sentences 
themselves, saying "I have deter­mined they are dangerous men to have at large." 
It was almost inevitable that a trial which ranks as one of the most tumultuous in U.S. judicial history should end with more outbreaks and shouted emotion. 
Moments after Froines was acquitted, he cried "It's not fair, it's not fair." 
Earlier, the wives of Rubin, Hoffman and Weiner were evicted screaming from the courtroom on the motion of Assistant U.S. Attorney Ric,hard 
G. Schultz, who said the 'trial had seen "miniature riots." 
Anita Hoffman as she was led out screamed: "The I 0 of you ­the eight original defendants and their two lawyers -will be avenged. We'll dance on your 
•

Lamb protest IS symbolic 
by Jim HoL"itnger coercive dramatic actions. The The pictures showed the mutilat­
A crowd of nearly seven promised lamb-burning did not ed bodies of Vietnamese child­hundred people gathered in occur, but the protest was dra­ren piled along a blood spattered front of the Administration matic. road. A caption in large red Building yesterday expecting to Before there was any sign of letters quoted the preliminary see the napalming of a live lamb. the protestors themselves, nearly investigations concerning the 
The crowd saw no violence, but seven hundred people had gather murder of babies at My Lai. witnessed instead a simple, around a single microphone, "Q. And babies? A. And straightforward protest against which stood on the front step"!> babies." the presence on campus of em­of the Administration Building. The crowd displayed mixed ployment recruiters from the Ten minutes after the scheduled reactions to the photograph. Dow Chemical Company and the starting time for the demonstra­Some people stood gaping while 
Honeywell Corporation. tion, the two front doors of the others laughed or taunted the A group of Notre Dame stu­building opened. demonstrators. Someone in the dents issued press releases to The Thirteen students and faculty crowd yelled, "Hey, that's not Observer last week, and distri­wearing black hoods and funn." "No, the whole thing's buted leaflets on campus which moaning and chanting in unison kind of sad. Why don't you get claimed that a live lamb would slowly walked out the doors and out of here?" another onlooker he napalmed at yesterday's halfway down the stairs. No yelled. "That might be a family some day." another voice yelled. 
demonstration in the hope that lamh was in the group. One of the thirteen approached the The crowd's laughter, shock,
the burning flesh of the lamb microphone. and taunts continued for a short
would communicate anguished yet unheard cries of those who "The real lamb is dead, and time as none of the protestors 
have suffered and arc presently for the proof, behold. We have moved or spoke. Finally the killed the real lamb, and for the thirteen threw down their pos­
suffering in Vietnam. After the lack of positive stu­proof, look." ters and hoods in disgust, and 
dent response to the last Dow 
The other twelve students walked away. protest, the group vowed to then unrolled large reproduc­The crowd had begun to stimulate the consciences of the tions of a photograph of the disperse when one of the pro­
Notre Dame students with non-recent alleged My Lai massacre. testors returned with a live lamb. As he gently fed and petted the lamb he told onlookers, "The lamb's already dead. There's not going to be any spectacle here today." 
Someone in the crowd asked where he had gotten the Jamb. The demonstrator answered, "In Vietnam, Biafra, places like that." 
One of the demonstrators later explained that the group had originally planned to napalm t:1e lamh. "First we seriously thought of going through with it, napalming it. Monday night we had a meeting, then we thought we were going to na­palm a dead lamb, the then we realized that it was unnecessary. 
(continued vn page 3) 


grave, Julie, the judge and on the judge and prosection while the grave of your pig empire." government was restricted, by 
Chief defense attorney Wil­judicial canon, from using such liam M. K unstlcr denounced tactics. Hoffman's order to clear the "It's hard to play when one courtroom and deplored the ver­side plays by the rules and the dict as a "compromise." other uses blackjacks," he said, 
He said Schultz's request was 
In the hall outside the court­"the last crowning indignity in a 
room, Jerry Rubin's wife, trial that has become a shame. Nancy, smiled after the verdict 
At this time, no man should be was delivered and said: "The alone." jumped the track a little bit but Of the verdict, he said, "I the railroad went pretty much as 
wish it had been hung. I feel this expected." It was a reference to is a compromise verdict." repeated defense charges during 
U.S. Attorney Thomas A. the trial that the defendants ·Foran said the conviction of five were being "railroaded" to jail. of the defendants proves the First Hears Motions ·American system of justice is The judge will not enter a 
working properly. judgment of c~mviction_ until "Every time a jury returns a 
after he hears defense motio_ns_,verdict it proves our system is made before the trial started,right," he told a news con­that some government evidenceference. But Foran complained should be excluded on theabout the defense tactics during grounds it was obtained by wire­the trial of holding frequent 

tap.

news conferences to deride the 
(continued on page 7) 

Program seeks to aid Indians in education 
by Bill Carter One of the direct results of 
last month's Indian Conference has been the initiation of a program aimed at aiding the educational efforts of both tribal and urban American Indians by the Notre Dame School of Busi­ness. The project has grown out of the general concern of the University faculty for the prob­lems expressed during the con­ference. Prof. A. L. Souens of the English department, is cur­rently handling the adminis­trative details of the project and 


he outlined some of the pur­Professor Souens 
poses of the project in an inter­view yesterday afternoon. the Indian representatives who 
"Our ultimate aim is to form attended the conference. The some kind of Indian center here implementation of the work will at the University, the kind that not begin until the Indians re­would train people, get out and spond to the proposals and offer work with the tribes, and per­their corrections and sugges­haps teach at the local Indian tions. Community colleges that are go­"We still face one of the basic ing to be formed," Souens said. problems rooted in the experi­
He emphasized the fact that ence of the American Indian, of 
the whole project was still not course," Souens said. "The Uni­quite in the active stage since versity is very much a part of the only proposals had been sent to (continued on page 7) 

r--------------­
PAGE 2 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1970
THB OBSERIIER 
How to apply for conscientious objection 
by Rick Smith 

The present Selective Service Act pro­vides for conscientious objectors who qualify to substitute civilian work for participation in the military (1-0), or to serve in the military without handling weapons (1-A-O).sTo qualify for either of these deferments one must object to participation in all war "by reason of religious training and belief." Recent court rulings have tended to widen the interpretation of the "religious training and belief' clause. 
Registrants may request the special CO form (form 150) at any date. If the claim is made before an induction order is issued, the board will reopen the regis­trant's classification and consider the registrant's claim. If the desired class­ification is rejected, the registrant has both the right to a personal appearance before the board and to appeal the classification to the State Appeals Board. 
The form should be completed within thirty days of the date it was mailed to the registrant, although filing the form late does not invalidate the request. 
It is on the basis of the answers to Form 150, and the material attached to it, that the local board will decide whe­ther or not to recognize a registrant's CO claim. The board usually classifies the registrant solely on the basis of the written forms, but some CO's are called in for interviews. The questions on the form are provocative and difficult to answer, and the registrant should have thought out his answers in advance, and should have collected the material which he will want to send in. 
In the form, the registrant applies for either 1-A-0 or 1-0 classification. The board will not necessarily respect these claims. Frequently it will "bargain" by classifying 1-A-0 where 1-0 was request­ed. 
On the form, there are four questions intended to determine the nature of the registrant's religious training and belief, including the sources of the belief, the reasons behind one's objection to treating sick and wounded members of the Armed Forces, and the extent to which the registrant has given public expression to his views. 
If the board rejects the CO claim, it will send the registrant a classification, even though the classification is unchang­ed. To find out the reason fer the board's action, and to ask for a changed class­ification, the registrant should personally appear before his local board and argue his case. The registrant should request the personal appearance within thirty days from the time the classification card is mailed. 
The personal appearance, apart from written material in a man's file, is the most important step in Selective Service administrative procedures. Indeed, given the .. difficulty many draft boards have with written materials, the personal ap­pearance may be the most important step. 
Prior to the appearance, the registrant may be granted a preliminary interview with the board. This interview is just as important as an appearance since the board is likely to make up its mind at the interview. 
Also, before the appearance, it is wise to see the government appeal agent at the local board. At this meeting, the regis­trant should try to convince the agent that he is a CO and solicit any advice the agent may have. 
At the personal appearance the regis­trant should outline his position, list the evidence already submitted in favor of his classification, point to any additional evidence, and, most importantly, ask the board why they did not grant him the classification he requested, thereby shift­ing the burden onto the board to state why they feel the registrant is not qual­ified. 
After the appearance, as after an inter­view or a visit with the government appeal agent, the registrant should write a detailed dialogue account of the meeting, including the length of the appearance, who was there, and any non-verbal behav­ior by board members which indicated hostility or lack of attention. The regis­trant should file accounts of all meetings in his file. This account will provide the best grounds for attacking the board's decision at the appeal level or in court. 
After the appearance, the registrant will receive another classification card. If the board did not change its mind, the registrant has thirty days to appeal to the State Appeal Board. The request must simply have the words "I appeal" and include a list of any errors made by the board, all positive evidence submitted by the registrant, and a copy of the account of the registrant's personal appearance, since the Appeal boards base their de­cisions solely on the basis of the regis­trant's file. 
In the event that the State Appeal Board rejects the request, the registrant may appeal to "the President" on the condition that at least one member of the appeal board dissents from the class­ification given. If the decision of the appeal board was unanimous, the regis­trant himself cannot appeal, but the appeal can, be taken by the State or National Director of Selective Service. It is not uncommon to get the State or National Director to take such an appeal when one can persuade that substantial injustice may result if the registrant is ordered for induction. 
In any event, the first thing anyone considering a request for deferment as a conscientious objector should do is seek advice from an experienced counselor, or possibly a lawyer. Each man must choose his own course of action. He cannot choose intelligently unless he knows: both the alternatives open to him and the consequences of his acts. This knowledge is best provided by a counselor. 
•

Cotter triumphs 1n Sorin presidential race 
By considerable margin, Mike President for Sarin Hall, hex dropped out of the race due to Mike Cotter ran as a conserva­One student, a Cotter re­Cotter won the office of Hall esday afternoon. His two tive candidate, and it is felt by porter, expressed this sentiment, ..-------------......, opponents were Mark Mahoney disinterest and lack of many that his election indicates "I voted for him because I know 
JOBS! JOBS! and more JOBS! Stl!' dents, Teachers. Stateside and Inter· 
and Phil Stark. enthusiasm. Cotter gained an that we'll have a swinging time if 
a slight move to the right by
national Jobs. Recreational Jobs: 
early lead in the ballotting on he is elected." 
Year-round Jobs; Summer Jobs. All 

The election campaign was both Sorin and the rest of the 
oc;cupatlons and trades. Enjoy a vaca· 
one of mild intensity, with only University. Cotter is a leading
Tuesday, the day Mark Mahoney received the second
tlon while you earn. Hurry! The best 
jobs are taken early. Write: "JOBS", 
Cotter putting on a strong push. Mahoney, one of the Notre largest number of votes. His 
P.O~ Box 475, Dept. CP 163·1. Lodl, 

cadet in Army ROTC, and isDame Ten, made his candidacy 
official. often critical of the campus' voters were generally considered more liberal groups. to be those who were dissatisfied 
Despite no previous 
with Cotter's conservatism. Phil 

campaigning, Mahoney collected Other people, however, sug­approximately as many votes as gest that his election was due Stark, a freshman, ran a very low Cotter, after his announcment. more to Cotter's friendly per key campaign, with a fairly Due to his earlier lead, however, sonality and a "party promise" liberal philosophy, finished a Cotter still won readily. than political philosophies. distant third. 
With the official tabulation of

,._J(,usc JVt"st:oa j"'· 
the votes, Cotter became presi­


dent of Sarin Hall immediately.

Cl'!'ftsmen in Optics 
The former president of Sarin,

FOR THE FINEST EYEGL~SSES 
AND CONTACT LENf.ES -­Jerry O'Shaughnessy, afterwards 
THE SHERLAND BLJlG. 132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
expressed confidence in 1Cotter's 

Centra/2-1468 
ability to govern and guide, though Cotter and himself have

71.cJltiiJ$e of JILSiOJt 3nc· 
dissimilar views of what a hall 

Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.·· Chicago 
should be and do. 


COLUMBIA AT
t 1 •• 
' . ~~<~*~' ~'~~; EVERYDAY 
Plus Thar She Blows HAS 
CHICAGO 
rM .. MAN/KlMttliQ'~ 
"'""""' 
USTfN/UIIOATION
STARTS FRIDAY 


THEM 


DO~·~~*
~~EY... I~~ 


KCS9700116KOCM88" The album everyone has or warrts

DON'TTHEY? v·n 
Janis Jophn Wilt wipe you out with

, Chieago!sabigrochbendwlth 
"Plea of My Hurt," "Ball andONLY -" Chain" •nd ''Turtle Blue"'
electronlcs.Theirdebutalbumllblll 
asthetrsound......... spec•ally
Sat. & Sun. 9:30 
Pllcec!two·rec.ordnt. 
-

Week nights 9:25 

·WEIJNESJ)~W 
i'10J~NJN(;, :~~\1'1
I 
SIMON,\ 
-





BOOKSTORE
MUST SHOW LEGAL PROOF OF AGE AND NOTRE DAME 10 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1970 THE OBSEIWER. 
PAGE 3 

Nixon urges end to Cold War and negotiations 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Presi­
dent Nixon proposed an end to 
the Cold War and a new "era of 
negotiation" with the Soviet 
Union yesterday, starting with 
joint efforts to end the Vietnam 
War and avert a nuclear confron­
tation over the Middle East. 

Nixon expressed concern in a 
special foreign policy message to 
Congress over growing Soviet 
missile advances, and promised 
appropriate U.S. responses to 
meet the challenge. 

But he made clear that Ameri­
can combat troops were no 
longer to he sent rushing from 
one crisis to another around the 
globe. l-Ie specifically rejected 
future U.S. commitment of 
ground forces to Vietnam style 
guerrilla wars, short of outside 
aggression, over conventional 
a t t a c k or a clear threat 
vital American interests. 

In defense and economic assis­
tance, Nixon said, "We will help 
where it makes a real difference 
and is considered in our inter­
est." 
Grand Design 
The President's grand design 
for U.S. foreign policy in the 
1970's. contained in a 40,000 
word, 119 page document, drew 

praise from Democrats as well as 
Republicans, although some 
questioned Nixon's assertion 

that "we have no intention of 
withdrawing from the world." 

In the first Soviet reaction, 
Motschall wins 
Fisher election 
lleavy balloting in a hotly­
contested race yesterday capped 
a surprisingly spirited campaign 
that catapulted Jim Motschall to 
the Presidency of Fisher llall. 
Motschall, a junior history 

major from Grosse Pointe, 
Mich., captured 57 (54.7'fc,) of 
the IOS ballots cast, defeating 
two other candidates in a race 

that focused on the issue of 
greater governmental communi­
cations with the residents of 
Fisher. 
Ron Spann, a junior from 
Chicago, ran a strong second in 
the race, receiving 3H votes. 
Paul Simmons, a freshman from 
llillside, Ill., collected eight 

ballots. The remaining two votes 
were write-ins. 

Motschall's campaign em­
phasized the importanct of 
improving the flow of com­

munications from the hall 
council to individual section 
members as well as the necessity 
of broadening the base of 
government and involving mon: 
residents in meaningful hall and 
section activities. 

"Hopefully, we can shore up section identity and involve people at that level," Motschall stated. "If we can motivate resi­dents in this way, the enthusiasm should bubble over and lend cohesion to the hall at large. 
"When this happens we'll finally he able to make larger religious and social strides in a residence hall that has been largely apathetic in the past years," he added. 
Residents of Fisher noted the campaign was sharper and more vigorous than that preceding last year's election in which Rich Wall won a lopsided victory over Randy Lintz, a junior from Prescott, Ariz. 
Wall, a Kansas City sopho­more, did not seek re-election this year. 

the official news agency Tass fairs advisor, Dr. Henry A. Kis­should dictate the future to less Hanoi's growing difficulties and said that despite a call for a new singer, is the first of an annual powerful nations." some progress in turning more of approach to the problems of series the President plans to He accused the Russians of the war effort over to South peace, Nixon's basic theme was make on foreign policy. failure to show "practical and Vietnam. that "the United States con­Chides Soviets constructive flexibility" in talks The key to peace lies in tinues to lay the accent on mili­Although mostly philosophi­on the Arab-Israeli conflict and Hanoi, he said. "We shall be tary force as the basis of Ameri­cal in tone, Nixon got specific of a course that would "make flexible and generous when can foreign policy." when he appealed to the Rus­great power rivalry more likely" serious negotiations start at 
Senate Democratic leader sians to abandon dangerous pow­in the Middle East. last." Mike Mansfield said he was -er politics in the Middle East, On Vietnam, Nixon said, the Looking to the future, Nixon pleased that Nixon stressed ne­which he said would draw both Soviet Union " bears a heavy held out hope for world peace in gotiations and partnerships nuclear superpowers into the responsibility for the contin u­the limited agreements reached rather than American:s position Arab-Israeli conflict. He also ation of the war" by refusing to so far with the Russians, and in of predominance in free world chided the Soviets, a major sup­curtail its was supplies to North the arms control talks that will affairs. plier of North Vietnam, for fail­Vietnam. "This cannot help but resume in Vienna April 16. 
Sen. George D. Aiden of Ver-ing to persuade Hanoi to bargain cloud the rest of ou relationship "Peace does not come simply mont, the ranking Republican seriously for a peace settlement. with the Soviet Union," he said. with statesmen's smiles," he on the Senate Foreign Relations "The United States would Administration officials said, but in "fair and busi­Committee, said that message view any effort by the Soviet denied Nixon was issuing a "war­ness-like" negotiations taking in­"represents a complete change in Union to seek predominance in ning" to the Kremlin on the to account each side's self inter­philosophy of the United States, the 'Middle East as a matter of Middle East. His aim, they said, ests and inherent differences, as a change much for the better." grave concern," he said. "I be­was to encourage mutual self­well as the knowledge that con­
The message, drafted largely lieve the time has passed in restraint as the best hope of a flict is no answer. by Nixon's national security af-which powerful nations can or settlement and to avoid a con­"We hope that the coming 
frontation of nuclear powers. year will bring evidence that the 
Encouraging Signs Soviets have decided to seek a

Lamb not napalmed 
The President reported no durable peace rather than con­
breakthroughs toward peace in tinue along the roads of the 
Vietnam, although he said there past," Nixon said, referring 
were some 
in specifically to the Middle East.
Protest non-violent 
(continued from page 1) commented on its meaning and WANTED: SALESMEN "We decided that we couJd 
success. "I think, personally, it cameget our point across without napalming anybody, without off in real good humor, with 
Q Looking for a unique way to apply Q 
seriousness. They had assuredanti-personell bombs, without 
u your salesmanship ability. u
me that there would be no viola­tion of any university rules, or destroying anything. Last night, 
Sell part-time to students and local 
we decided that through the 
I I 
any state laws or civil Jaws, and 
merchants.

signs, through leafletting the that there would be no embaras­campus several times that we 
c c
For further information

sment to the university. Theycould get our point across with­
K please contact: K
did this. "They accomplished it in out any destruction of property, 
without any violence." The demonstration was 
good humor. Like they say, they organized by no particular poli­got their point across, I believe, Bill Hodreck 
Dave Bachtel
with sincerity. And that is, that
tical group, but by a group of concerned students led by Bill wes can be overly concerned 283-8905 283-1586 
about smaller things and are not
Ryan and Mark Dellamano. The demonstration was aimed 
willing to sit down to discuss 
12 Fri. morning

freely and openly the importantat the corporations now recruit­
10 Thurs. night

ing on campus who make wea­issues of the " pons for the war in Vietnam. Honeywell Corporation makes a personell bomb which explodes and sends metal fragments flying in all directions. Dow Chemical Company is the former producer of napalm, an incendiary bomb. 
The last demonstration against Dow resulted in the suspensions of the Notre Dame I 0 for violation of the fifteen mini... rule. 
Father James Riehle, Notre Dame Dean of Students, was present at yesterday's demon­stration. He said that he was informed of the nature of the demonstration beforehand, and 

Dr. Bartholomew authors book 
A two-volume work describ­ing the powers and limitations of the federal government under the constitutiort is the most recent publication of Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of government at the University ·of Notre Dame. 
Volume I of "Ruling Amer­ican Constitutional Law," bears the subtitle "Governmental Institutions and Powers," and describes the powers of federal and state governments. Volume II is subtitled "Limitations on 
Government," and deals with the rights and privileges of How would you feel if your father smoked pot? 
persons. The set is published by Littlefield, Adams and Co. of 
If it were all right with him, would it be okay with you? 
Totowa, N.J. 
How okay? Anytime he's home? What about while driving? What about at work? 
The Observer Is published dally" Even if he's a pilot? If pot should be legal, can anyone smoke it? during the college semester except 
Including the President? The Supreme Court? What about your kid sister? 
\tacatlons . by students of thl! 

University of Notre Dame and St. How about your mother? Think about it. Mary's College,.Subscriptions may 
A message to stimulate thinking 
be purchased for $8 from The 

Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, from NoDoz-the pill that helps you think when you're tired. Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
Niillaz keep alert tablets. 
paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46S56. 


PAGE 4 THE OBSERfiER THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1970 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
editorial: 

Use of toxins 
The President's action on Sunday banning the use of toxins is another step in establishing a sensible position on the part of the United States towards disarmament. 
On November 25 the President stated that the United States would not use biological weapons offensively. The use of toxins, the name given to a group of agents somewhere between chemicals and biological weapons, was not mentioned in the announcement. White House officials have stated that it was ommitted because of a slip-up. Slip-up or not we feel Sunday's announcement was necessary and are glad to see its inclusion in American policy. 
Sunday's announcement when coupled with the November pronouncement has improved the American stance on biological and chemical weapons. War itself is regrettable and the loss of human life senseless. The use of chemical and biological weapons is a worse atrocity. 
The United States has a long way to go though in taking a truly humanitarian stance on. the use of such weapons. The Senate has yet to approve the 1925 Geneva Convention outlawing the use of chemical and biological warfare. The International Convention on Genocide signed by President Truman in 1948 but never ratified by the Senate remains to be acted upon. 
We encourage the Senate to move swiftly on the two measures and ask the President to come out in full support of them. 

Jeanne Sweeney 
Class or experience? 
As the Student Assembly flamed back into reality last night a very hopeful idea for the future of SMC was squelched by the upperclassmen of the Asembly. The proposal was very simple. The class requirement, which does not allow anyone except a junior to run for Student Body President, was to be removed. Debate over the issue immediately broke down into two factions, with the seniors and juniors against the sophomores and freshmen with one exception. 
When time for the vote came the chairman, the Vice President of the student body, took over. She asked _for all those in favor of the bill and nine hands shot up. Then she asked for all of those opposed and five hands went up. There was still one girl remaining. Altogether there were fifteen members present and two-thirds or ten affirmatives were needed to pass the proposal. The Vice President looked ?ver to _the one girl who had not raised her hand. The representative was obviously going to abstain and If she did whether she knew it or not, her vote would go for the majority and the motion would pass. But our Vice President decided to announce, before she took votes for abstentions that the abstention would go to the majority. Thus the girl, a junior, decided to go along with her class :nates and added her vote to the negatives. Squelched. Needless to say, the actions of the VP as chairman of the assembly was completely out of order and it was not her prerogative to give advice in the middle of the vote. 
But this is not the main point I would like to get across. The proposal will probably be brought up again tonight at a special meeting of the assembly. It is my hope that the seniors and juniors have reconsidered their approach to the proposal because their actions and discussion at the meeting on Tuesday night demonstrated an increasing hiatus between the upperclassmen and underclassmen. SMC is changing with its increasing enrollment and I think there is a consensus of opinion that the sophomore and freshman classes are very different from the junior and senior classes. Because of this change and for many other reasons which need to be opened up to the upperclassmen, a change is needed now in the requirements for SBP. 
The possibility that a freshman or sophomore would be elected president is unlikely. For example how many underclassmen have been elected at Notre Dame, which has no class restrictions on SBP? But this does not remove the need for opening up the elections to underclassmen. If freshmen and sophomores were allowed to be candidates I think the elections would take a new course at SMC. More issues and awareness of what the underclassmen want could be brought out to the seniors. Very often there is much too little awareness among the upperclassmen as to what the underclassmen are thinking and doing. For example how much do the juniors, secluded over in McCandless by their own choice, really understand the freshmen and sopohomores who live in different dorms. I'm not knocking down their right of wanting to live with their classmates. But now I believe they must make a special effort to listen to the underclassmen. 
The charge has been made that a junior as president is not experienced enough to run the community. But suppose you have a junior who has been in student government for only one year or maybe not at 
all. You do have candidates with this kind of qualification, and it would be far better to have a sophomore running who might have two years of experience. Then of course there is the question of whether experience really makes a good leader. It would be more valuable to get a girl with enthusiasm for the job or someone with good ideas and good relations with the student body. Charisma seems a far more important quality when dealing with the students and the administration than does experience. 
A senior questioned whether a junior SBP would create friction with the senior class. It seems hard to believe that the seniors would feel this way. And if they did, it would probably be more than negated by her great relations and greater understanding of the classes below her. As a junior the SBP would know the wants of an upperclassman and be at the same time closer to the underclassmen. 
With tl].e problem of a heavier academic work load for the junior SBP, this is a very great complication that any underclassrn:m should really think out before she runs for the office. If an underclassman decided to run, she would have to make a personal decision to lighten her work lead. There is also another good possibility that the problem could be altogether alleviated if the SBP would go to summer school while at SMC during the summer. Her summer school courses would considerably lighten her academic work during the year. 
It is also interesting to note that Sue Turnbull our present SBP supports the elimination of the class restriction. Sue feels that academics are important but not a major factor. If someone is qualified it does not matter what year she is in. Sue said that the academic grade point restriction which was removed a few years ago it far more important than the class qualification. She did not think it should be a major consideration. 
Finally I hope the assembly can respond to the needs of a growing SMC community and that the ideas for the future will not be frustrated again. Total envolvement and enthusiasm should measure a persons qualifications and not class distinctions. 
The Lurning of the Bamb. 



Mike Mooney 
The issue is life 

"You know why they didn't kill it? 'Cause they had all these people here, that's why. They were afraid of us, that's alL" "What happened?" "Nothing, they didn't do a thing. God, am-I pissed off!" 
Ya, what a disappointment. All those disappointed people. All those people promised a barb-b-q and forced to be satisfied with only an 8\12 by 14 sheet explaining why they didn't do it after alL Babies in Czechoslovakia notwithstanding. Or babies in :song My. Or babies in Auschwitz. ur babies in Hue. Orsbabies in Hiroshima. Or babies in Leningrad. 
The issue, afterall, is people, not animals. All those onlookers so eager to smell burning lamb's flesh, so insensitive to burning flesh on the other side of the world. So eager to prevent the roasting of one small mute creature yet so complacent in their non-Qpposition to a system that, if it does not encourage at least does not discourage the killing of humans. The issue is not democracy nor communism nor fascism. The issue is life. 
Oh, there will be philosophical criticisms. There will be laughing fingers pointing to the futility of the action or toward a supposed fear in the hearts of the demonstrators. Most of all, most trustratingly of all, there will oe bewilderment. '"Whar was It all about?" The spectators who laughed when one sign was held upside-down ("And babies?" -"And babies.") will be most bewildered. And disappointed. You see, the issue is life, human life. Those who laugh, those who scorn, those who cry excuses ("Let's hear it for the babies in Czechoslovakia!) miss the issue. For all our laughing, for all our scorn, for all our excuses, we cannot avoid the issue. We cannot escape the fact that as history will j4dge the morality of our nation, so it will judge our silence. 
This is complicity week ( com/plic/i/ty: n, association or participation in or as if in a wrongful act). It is not only Dow or U.S. Steel or Goodyear that must be judged accomplices to a fact; we, too, must stand for judgment. We must stand to be judged not for sins of commission but of ommission. We must be damned for our forgetting the sanctity of life, for our easy silence, for our blind complacency. The judgment that history saves for us will be at best that we are ignorant butchers, at worst knowing cowards. 
The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and col­umns of THE OBSERVER are solely those of the authors and editors of THE OBSERVER and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administration, faculty, or stu­dent bodies. 

Business Mgr.: Joseph Wemhoff Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer Ad. Mgr.: Timothy J. Dineen 
Photography Editor: Mike News Editor: Glen Corso Murphy Asst. News Editor: Bill-Carter 
Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode SMC News Editor: Prue Wear 
Layout: Marilyn Becker, Ann Associate Editors: Cliff 
McGowan, Sue Banker Wintrode, Ann Conway, 
Headlines: Bro. Patrick CarneyJeanne Sweeney 
Ad Layout: Barb DuensingLayout Editor: Mary E. Burke 
Night Controller: Randy Ernst Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1970 711B OBSERJJa PAGE 5 
The dating game •• how to lose 
by Sue Uury 
Jack caught the shuttlebus, paid the eight-dollar fare, and settled back to enjoy the new route-NO library circle to Notre Dame Avenue to Angela to down­town to Lincolnway out through Mish­awaka and hack to St. Mary's by way of Indianapolis. He walked into McCandless lobby and looked around for the interhall phone. After much questioning and per­severance, he discovered it in a corner of the room-in usc, with a waiting line of approximately ISO people. 
Dutifully, he took his place in line and waited for 4S minutes, cringing under the omniscient eye of the dorm director at the desk and the scrutinizing gaze of his comrades in the lobby. Suddenly, he saw a familiar face-a friend~ 
"Hi, Bob." 
"IIi, Jack." 
(Fifteen-minute pause.) 
"Where're ya' going?" 
(Ten minutes.) 
"Show." 
"Where're you going?" 
(Five minutes.) 
"Show, too." 
Conversation began to speed up to an almost unbelievable tempo. 
"Who're ya going with?" 
"Jane Smith." . 
A gleam of recognition came into 
Bob's eyes that brought a catch to Jack's throat. "Well, see ya," Bob walked away smil­ing. 
(Five minutes.) 
"Yea." 
When, at last, he was able to use the phone, Jack lifted the receiver gratefully and dialed Jane's extension. 
Jane allowed the phone to ring the appropriate two times before picking up the receiver. "Hello," she said softly in an !-wonder-who-this-could-be voice. 
"It's Jack. Are you ready?" 
"Yes, I'll be right down." 

She picked up her coat and started to put it on. But then she changed her mind and folded it over her arm in a manner that screamed CASUAL. She walked to the elevator and pressed the button. Eighteen minutes later, the doors opened. (Someone on fifth floor had decided to re-do her hair and had pressed the "hold" button on the elevator to keep it at her 
conveniene.) 
Jane stepped on and rode down to the first floor. 
Jack had meanwhile weaved his way over to a huge iron door marked "NO MALES BEYOND THIS POINT" in the blood of a sacrificial boar. In a few minutes, Jane stepped demurely through and they made their way to the desk where IS other girls were attempting to s1gn out for the evening. 
Dutifully, Jane wrote down the time she was leaving, and the time she could be expected back, where she was going, the name of her escort, and left complete sets of both their fingerprints (in case of emergency.) 
By this time, all the other males in the room had mentally undressedand dressed Jane seventeen times and were snickering­ly exchanging their evaluations of the happy couple. Jane slipped into her coat and, as they departed, the homey scene the srutinizing multitude formed a human arch for them and sang three choruses of "Hey, look me over." 
Jane and Jack began a delightful even­ing by waiting for the shuttle along with 7S other couples and discovering that the route had changed between 8:00 and 
8: IS busses -meaning that they would have to walk to the Gazebo to get a ride. 
As they stood in the sub-arctic temper­atures, Jack attempted to amuse his date by telling her of his favorite sport calling randomly selected SMC phone numbers 
at 4:00am. 

Observer granted exclusive interview with Larry L.amb 
hy Pete Peterson OBSERVER: Mr. Lamb, what was 
(/,awrence C. l.amb has become a focal your rt~action to today's demonstration? point of campus politics since his recent LAMB: Well, I was of course a little involvement in Complicity Week. We disappointed that it went as smoothly as interviewed Mr. Lamb in his p;mthouse it did. We were hoping to spark a little fold in downtown South Bend, atop the more kinetic tension than we really did. /.aSalle 1/otel.) It seemed like kind of a waste of an awful 
Unique arrangement in filmmaking 
An unusual alliance between a major university ami a leading motion picture company in a film-making program has been announced by Davidson Taylor, dean of the Columbia University School of the Arts, and Fred Weintraub, vice­president for creative services of Warner Bros. 
Warner Bros. will finance and distri­bute a series of short films produced entirely by students in the Film Division 
'American Scene' to be multi -media 
"The American Scene," two one-act plays by Ed ward Albee, will be a multi­media production, it has been announced by director William T. Byrd, Jr., who will stage the plays February 27, 28, and March I,S ,6, and 7 at the University of Notre Dame's Washington Hall. 
Byrd, who was recently given the award as Outstanding Director of the Year by the South Bend Civic Theatre, plans to usc original slides and film clips throughout each presentation. In "The American Dream," slides will take the place of traditional scenery, establishing the setting in which the play, a comment on American values and attitude's, takes place. 
"The Death of Bessie Smith" centers 
around the death of the well-known blues 
singer, and the incidents leading up to 
that death. In this production, slides and 
film help to set each scene, add to the 
mood of the moment through rapidly 
changing views, and often act as an 
independent comment on the action. The 
play itself says some strong things about 
racial prejudice and human pride, while at 
the same time introducing the audience 
to some very real people. Byrd feels that 
the projections used in his production 
will increase the understanding and appre­
ciation of both the characters and the 
play. 
"The American Scene," the title under 
which the two plays are known, will be 
presented by the Notre Dame -St. Mary's 
Theatre in Washington Hall at Notre 
Dame on February 27, 28 and March S, 
6, and 7 at 8:30 p.m., with a matinee at 
2:30 p.m. on Sunday, March I. Tickets are $!.SO for all students and teachers, and $2 for all others. Seats may be reserved by calling 284-4141. 
of Columbia's School of the Arts. The 
students will receive course credit to­
wards their master of fine arts degrees. 
Calling the Warner Bros. action "a bold cultural initiative," Prof. Arthur Barron, chairman of the School's Film Division, said that "Hollywood is now opening the door to young talent and we at Columbia Univeristy are enthusiastic about it." 
Warner Bros.' action, he said, "will allow the students a freedom from worry­ing about laboratory and other practical expenses in addition to the experience of working on a real film and gaining a professional credit while working toward their MFA's." 
Mr. Weintraub said that "Warner Bros. looks forward to getting exciting new product and to having an opportunity to find gifted young people." 
At least two films will be made this year for Warner Bros. by Columbia stu­dents. They will be conceived, written, produced, directed, photographed, scored and created entirely by students, under the supervision of a faculty member and subject only to an initial approval of subject matter by Warner Bros. 
The first short will be a color film about the contemporary Mohawk Indians who specialize in high-altitude construc­tion work. The film, which will utilize montage and other devices, was described by Prof. Barron as "asort of ballet of danger." 
The Columbia School of The Arts offers a two-year graduate program lead­ing to the Master of Fine Arts degree in 'film, theatre arts, painting, sculpture, writing and music composition. 

"I prefer to think of myself as a symbol of the great silent majority." 

lot of animosity. There hasn't been such a collection of pure, apolitical, social hatred since the anti-military ball two years ago, and it seems a shame that it couldn't have been put to better use. 
OBSERVER: Such as? 
LAMB: Well, obviously I wasn't up for 
getting burned. We had a ,double waiting in case it came to that. But a good half hour of "Save the lamb" shouting was all that could have really had some effect. 
As it was, it turned out to be sort of anti-climactic. What shouting there was showed more stupidity than malice. And Father Riehle didn't have to be so under­standing and tolerant. 
OBSERVER: There has been a lot of 
talk about what you stood for. Com­
ment? 
LAMB: That was pretty far out: I mean, the anthroporro rphic respects were distorted. Lamb of God and all that, you know. I prefer to think of myself as a symbol of the great silent majority, and they're getting worse than napalmed. But it boils down to just so much sheep dip.' I'm just a normal, middle class lamb, and that in itself is pretty meaningful to me. 
OBSERVER: Do you see the demon­stration as having any long term effects? 
LAMB: Yes, I certainly do. The demonstration brought to the surface a lot of latent hostilities. The left has been gradually gaining more and more toler­ance, not only politically, but socially, but this really outraged a lot of people. At the same time, it didn't provide a real outlet for their aggressions, so I think we are going to see an increase in weekend violence directed against the left. This will not only take a lot of pressure off the black students and university property, but it will help bring back the esoteric mystique that the New Left has two years ago, a return to the old paranoia that made having long hair so much fun. 
OBSERVER: You view that as a good time? 

"Father Riehle didn't have to be so understanding and tol­erant." 
LAMB: Yes, of course, If we can fan 
the spark of social bigotry, we will drive a 
lot of these namby-pamby peaceniks out 
of the movement. They really slow things 
down by adding a sort of acceptibility to 
the r~volution. You know, Hair was the 
worst thing that ever happened to the 
peace movement, next to the conspiracy 
trial. 
When people start to accept the move­
ment, when the movement starts working 
through channels, that's when it starts 
losing its effectiveness as a catharsis for 
the people involved on both sides. I 
mean, when you get to the point of 
actually being able to call a person your 
friend who doesn't accept your politics, 
the whole thing gets bogged down in 
dialogue and petitions and crap like that. 
Hell, if we aren't careful, we could 
conceivably rally enough supporters to 
actually end the war. Then where would 
we be. 
I mean, the peace movement can be two things, either a real, concerned effort to bring about an end to the war, or a great source of sublimation with fistfights and confrontations and everything. It's all a question of goals and methods. 
OBSERVER: Any plans from here? 
LAMB: Well, I have been approached 
by the anthropomorphic party about the possibility of running in '72 as a vice­presidential candidate with Pigasus head­ing up the ticket, but that presents a few problems. We're both from the midwest you know, and that isn't too good: politically. 
I've got some speaking engagements lined up for next month, and I'll be publishing a book this spring on grass­roots politics. 
OBSERVER: Any parting comments? 
LAMB: I just hope that the commun­ity will continue my work in building up hostilities. Remember, this love and peace thing only goes so far. 

"If we aren't careful, we could. end the war. Then where the hell would we be?" 

711E OBSERfJER THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1970
PAGE 6 

Letters to the Ed itor 
'We have lost' 

Editor: I just returned from the demonstration where they were to slay a lamb with napalm. Of course they were to slay no lamb today for 1000 students had gathered vowing to stop them. And as they gathered they began to feel the safety of their number and the tenor of the crowd changed. Few of those there to save the lamb were there to listen to and sptJlk about the emotions /nd principles that obviously stirred so many to come this afternoon. 
They jeerec;l; they laughed; they would show those "sadistically perverted 'humanists'." I heard the change as well and saw it: "I guess hippies get front row seats;" "Look at that ugly hippe broad." Some feared that unless everything started on time they would miss lunch. Others wanted it all on film for their growing scrapbook-"my years at Notre Dame." 
And after it was all over, and there was no lamb to save, and everyone turned away, and no one kad been a hero, they all agreed how asinine it had all been. The ideas behind the feigned sl' •tghter and stalwart abjection Nere trampled in the piled snow and lost amid the sporadic jeers of the afternoon. I too was disappointed in the "demonstration." But even before one black hood was seen on the steps, I was disappointed in, or disallusioned by, our "defenders of the lamb," our sensitized student body. Something important or at least the potential for something important had been missed and aborted. 
Walking back to my hall I heard the inevitable stereo pounding from some room inside. At least those at the administration building had come. All agreed it had not been worth it but they had come. 
My question is who make the demonstration a "hoax" as I heard it dubbed. Who aborted and wasted it? There were no burners and no hereos, but many of us lost a great deal this afternoon. We all showed how much we have lost. 
Chris Bache 
216 Pangborn 
Married faculty 
Editor: 
I was rather surprised in reading Kathy Carbine's interesting column, "Sparkly Diamonds," that she did not mention one of the most ob­vious ways in which Saint Mary's is encouraging "the continuing intellectual development of its graduates who choose marriage." I refer to the goodly number of married women on the teaching faculty. 
To mention only a few, I single out Mrs. Grace McGuire (Education), Mrs. Margaret Dineen (Business and Eco­nomics), Mrs. Julia Loomis, Mrs. Rosemary Doherty, Mrs. Anne 

\\... ho are DREAMS ? Where are DREAMS ? 
Murphy, Mrs. Linnea Vacca (English), Mrs. Suzanne Corbett Mrs. Anne-Marie Poinsatte, Mrs: Frida Grosser (Modern Languages), Mrs. Jean Oesterle (Philosophy), Mrs. Helen Withey 
(Religious Studies), Mrs. Patricia Pilger, Mrs. Eve Simson (Sociol­ogy). 
In addition there are married women in the Library. Married women serve in the Book Store in the Health Office, in· Execu~' tive Housekeeping, as hall direc­tors. 
Many of these women, and others not listed, could be of genuine help to students and a stimulation to their intellectual lives, giving students "some in­sights into how to beat these frustrations (of educated and/or career-oriented womt in the role of housewife), how to chan­nel such restlessness into con­structive outlets." 
I repeat, I was surprised! 
Sincerely yours, 
Sister Maria Assunta, c.s.c. 
Chairman, Department of Re­ligious Studies 
Greater good 
.. 
STUDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION 
presents 

DR. SPDCK 

' 
TONIGHT -8:00 STEPAN CENTER 

ADMISSION $ .5U 
Be sure to arrive 
early so Dr. Spock can 

begin speaking promptly at 8 

rights. 
The search of the greater good seems obviously to lead to the stopping of companies who don't respect life even if it is at the expense of a student trying to find how much money a particular company will offer him. Perhaps the protestors will have to use force in order to have their rights recognized much like the labor unions and the blacks had to. 

If the University would get over its paternilism and stub­harness and recognize the need for change here, people wouldn't have to get busted in trying to live at Notre Dame. The first steps would be the removal of Fr. Riehle and Fr. Hesburgh. Their departure would start the ball rolling but probably the Mock Stock Market would buy the President'soffice and offer change to the highest bidder. 
Larry Overlan 
1233 Notre Dame 
Mardi Gras 
ations, there have been gross 
misrepresentation of the true facts. 
To explain the situation as it exists at present: 
I) With respect to the raffle, revenues are about $21,000, ex­penses $12,600 
2) Carnival: revertue of $13,700, paid expenses: $6,000, encumbrences of approximately $3,000 
3) The kickoff party showed a net loss of $1 00 
4) The $530 which was termed as "incidentals" includes a substantial amount of the over­all publicity expense which has yet to be apportioned. 
First of all, the reference to the Finance Committee of the Student Union has nothing whatsoever to do with the com­pilation of the Mardi Gras finan­cial report. The reference made by me to this committee was with respect to the final disposi­tion of last year's Mardi Gras debt of $6869.32. 1) It was decided that last year's debt would be paid by this year's Mardi Gras receipts. Secondly, it should be emphasized that the figures represented in the Ob­server were taken from costing sheets which in no way consider outstanding encumbrences. 
In addition, I should like to clarify that the Sutdent Union this year is not by any means in debt, and that the only debt which has been incurred in the past which must be paid is last year's Mardi Gras debt. 
Finally, I should like to ex­press on behalf of the Mardi Gras staff, our thanks and appre­ciation to the student body for their participation and support of Mardi Gras. Without this en­thusiasm Mardi Gras could not have been the success that it was. 
Respectfully, 
David M. Dewan 
Chairman, Mardi Gras '70 

Warns of peril in crossing ice 
Edward A. Riley, Environ­ther. There are periods dunng mental Health and Safety unusually warm spells in the Manager, issued a warning to winter and during the spring students yesterday concerning thaw when the ice becomes the safety of crossing St. Mary's questionable. Those students Lake when it is frozen over. using the short cut should be 
"St. Mary's Lake is used as a aware that at times the water short cut during the winter level drops under the ice reduc­months when the ice appears ing the safety of the ice from safe. No doubt the ice is safe lack of support from the water during the extremely cold wea-below. 



...

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1970 7118 OBSERfJER PAGE 7 
•
Business, Law Schools aid 1n lnd ian program 
(continued from page 1) 
white culture and the Indian has heard nothing from the white man except what he is going to do for the Indians. Not only is this irritating but it doesn't usu­ally turn out to be what they want." 
Souens described some of the things the Indians have been doing to improve their educative possibilities which would be as-
Conspiracy Seven 
(continued from page 1) 
If the JUdge determmes tne case was tainted by wiretap material, he presumably would have to set aside part or all of the verdict. 
The verdict appeared to skirt the most controversial element of the indictment under which the "Chicago Seven" were tried. It is the provision of the antiriot amendment to the 1968 Civil 
Rights Act which makes it a crime to conspire to cross state lines with intent to incite riots. 
The law had never been tested in court. Some legal experts had questioned the constitutionality of the concept of "conspiracy with intent" and had predicted it could well be overturned on 
appeal tf the detendants were convicted. The jury's surprising verdict of innocent on the omnibus con­spiracy count appeared to erase the possibility of such a test. The defense undoubtedly will appeal the other convictions on other grounds, and those grounds will include Hofman's condud of the trial. The defense repeatedly has accused lloffman of rulings pre­judicial to the defendants. It already is appealing to the U.S. 7th Circuit Court of Appeals the contempt sentences meted out by Hoffman. The government still must deal with Seale, who was severed from the case and sentenced to four years for contempt after stormy outbursts in which he demanded the right to represent himself and repeatedly called the judge a "facist pig," a "Hitler" and other epithets. On the judge's orders, the Panther national chairman was shackled and gagged in the courtroom for three days but he still succeeded in bringing the trial to a halt until Hoffman declared a mistrial in his case. Hoffman is scheduled to try Scale on the conspiracy charges this spring. At the moment the jury reached its decision, the defense was demanding that the panel be dismissed and a mistrial declared on grounds that the jury could not reach a decision. But the jury did reach a ver­dict and 1t was one which possi­bly skirted the most controver­sial clement of the indictment under which the "Chicago Seven" were tried. This clement is contained in the antiriot amendment to the 196X Civil Rights Act which makes it a crime to conspire to cross state lines with intent to incite riots. Tlw law had~1cwr been tested in court before. Some legal ex­perts had questioned the consti­tutionality of the concept of "conspiracy with intent" and predicted it could he overturned in an appeals court if the "seven" were convicted under it. But the jury's verdict ap­peared to erase this prospect. 
sisted by the Notre Dame project. He indicated that the Indians have already established several two year co lieges in the 
area with which the Notre Dame program would cooperate on an advisory basis. 
"In addition, the Sioux tribe at Rosebud has set up a com­munity college for their people 
and they want help in the form of consultation. I have already 
get five years 
The convictions are bound to be appealed, however, on other grounds, including Hoff man's conduct of the trial. 
The defendants were brought to court without knowing a deci­sion had been reached on their fate. 
sent a letter hack asking for the 
specifics in the kind of assistance 
they need." Souens said. 
He pointed out that the entire program had been set up on a very informal basis with no set organization beyond that set up by SUAC during the Indian Conference. Bill Kurtz is the chairman of the organization set up by SUAC which remains the only formal organization in­volved in the project. Souens stated his duties were at present mostly administrative ones be­gun after the general sentiment of interest in the project in­creased among the fac.1.dtv. 
The specific involvement of the Business School entails a system of educating the Indian students in business policies and encouraging them to return to their tribes to initiate the kind of economically stable enter­prises that would improve the social and financial condition of the Indians. 
The law school is also in­
volved, actively seeking out ap­plicants from among the tribes and encouraging the large seg­ment of the Indian population now living in urban areas to get back to school to earn their 
degrees and take up positions advisors and teachers in the In­dian community schools. 
Souens said Notre Dame had a special reson for establishing mr­ther ties with the Indian culture. "Notre Dame is one of the few schools with something of a good reputation among the In­dians. Not too many people know it, but this school was originally founded to help edu­
cate the Indians and during the last century Notre Dame has done some good work with the Indians. They remember that." The actual plans for the fu­
ture of the project are still some­what indefinite since nothing can be done until the responst to the project's proposals comes from the Indians. Sou ens said he believes this will arrive sometime during the middle of next week. 
The project has already been in contact with Paul Losen the director of the Tri-University Project at Nebrasks University which has also been doing exten­sive work with the tribes. Souens said some sort of University Consortium involving tribal members, lawyers and teachers is currently one of the prominent idt:as. 



THB O&r£RUI'It 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19,1970
PAGE 8 

Say, how would you like to start? 


by Terry Shields Observer Sports Writer On the last morning of final exams Doug Gemmell woke up to a phone call. On the other end of the line was coach Johnny Dee. "How would you like to start in front of 18,000 people this Saturday?" This came as quite a shock to Gem­mell, who previously was far down the list of reserves on the Notre Dame basketball squad. As if finals weren't enough to enlarge his bald spot (Doug's pet conversation piece is a tiny ab­sence of hair on the crown of his head), he now had to worry about a rugged Illinois team and all those screaming Chicagoans. The kid from Jersey (Irvinton, N.J.) loved it, however. "Sure I was scared, but this was my big chance. All Austin (Carr) had to do was say 'let's 
1 ~~~c~a~~ ~~~'~Iirr~a~J~t r~~p:~~~
Up from the bench, Doua Gem-coach Verducci; he was like a mell has displayed a hot shooting father to me. He seemed to favor touch at forward. Notre Dame, so I chose this 
Last minute goals 
by Mike Pavlin Thanks to his remarkable ef-Observer Sports Editor forts and superb play by Gordon 
I'm not sure exactly what McCosh and big Rick Allan, caused Bowling Green's hockey BGU came from behind to sal­team to change a nine-game lo~-vage a 4-4 overtime the last ing treak into an 11-game night at the Convo. winning streak, but I'll wager For the Irish, who definitely part of the reason is the goal-looked sub-par and who were , ......u ...'"''of Paul Galaski. saved by some equally amazing go' and I felt like jumping through the roof." 
Although Doug meant this figuratively, one sometimes wonders if he couldn't actually do it. At six feet-three inches he certainly isn't the biggest for­ward in the country but he makes up for his lack of size with a tremendous jumping abili­
ty. (He can pull a ball off of the rebounding machine at the Con­vo up to a height of ten feet eight inches.) Gemmell doesn't feel that his size is a handicap. He thinks .J:hat he can make amends through his quickness and hustle. This fact is backed by his offensive statistics. He has enabled himself to work free often enough to maintain a 57.5% shooting accuracy and has jumped high enough to haul in an average of nearly six re­bounds per game since joining the starting five. Although he has come on as a surprise to ND fans and the opposition alike, his record would indicate that he is just playing his average game. Gem­mell was all-city, all-Essex county and third team all-state during his senior year at Barrin­ger High School Uust outside of Newark). He was recruited with a lustful eye by Wake Forest, St. John's and the University of Georgia. All of these schools looked fairly promising with re­gard to national prestige but Doug's high school coach, Frank Verducci, asked him to consider Notre Dame. Gemmell liked what he saw when he visited the campus, particularly the fresh­man team ahead of him. The day after he signed with the Irish, he was contacted by Marquette 

Gary Little (above) helped Bill Green give ND a 2-0 lead last night with a fine screen on BGU goalte Paul Galaski, but the Falcons came back to salvage a 4-4 tie. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS FEATURE 
The coaches respected his got a chance to play more 
opinion and they gave me a Everyone is trying to help one chance." He also said that Jones another." Doug feels that the was a great aid. "Playing along team has an excellent chance to side Collis gets me open for a lot obtain a NCAA berth. "If we of corner shots. Practically no­keep playing the same type of body has heard of me so they ball that we have been over the sag on him. As a result I get last few weeks I think we have a 
shots like in the beginning of the great chance. With Austin's scor-
Wrestlers bounce 
Led by Tom Ciaccio, Dave classes. Captain Keith Giron won 
Griffith, and Phil Gustafson, the a 5-2 match in the 126 pound Notre Dame wrestling team class, freshman Bob Habig (!50) defeated Wheaton College 27-9 earned a 2-1 victory, Jim in a match held Tuesday in Hansen registered a 14-5 
Wheaton, Ill. The victory was triumph in the IS 8 pound class, the third in nine starts for the and Bill Hasbrook ( 177) earned a 5-2 win.
Irish. 

Ciaccio (I 18), Griffith(] 34 ), The Irish were never headed and Gustafson (Hvywt.), each in the match as Ciaccio, Giron, recorded pins in the match for and Griffith copped the first 
Notre Dame. Ciaccio pinned his 
opponent in 5:58, Griffith Winning not enough 
decked his man at 4:41 and Gustafson nailed his opponent in Despite seven firsts in 13 
I :59. events, the swim team dropped a 
Notre Dame also won deci­
dual meet to Western Michigansions in four other weight 
save tie for BGU 
play by goalie Dick Tomasoni it 
was their first tie of the season, 
leaving them l 7-8-I. they had 
the contest sown up, but the 
Falcons, who were bombed by 
ND 10-3 last December, scored 
twice in the final 90 seconds to 
deadlock the struggle. 
Bruce Rascob got the Irish 
going at I :59 after some fine 
work by captain Phil Whittliff. 
Controlling a face-off to the 
right of Galaski, Wittliff skated 
toward the net, then hit Rascob 
infront with a perfect pass. 
At 5:32 defense man Bill 
Green let fly with a shot from 
the right point and Gary Little 
screened Galaski, who never saw 
the puck until it was by him. 
That finished the scoring in the period as the fans were treated to a fine display of netminding by both sides. Tomasoni turned away 13 shots, one a low sizzler from his left which he couldn't possibly have seen until the last moment. Galaski was creditted with nine saves, but it seemed as though he ·spent the entire period thwarting 
the Irish drives. 
The outstanding goalie play 
continued in the second stanza 
( Tomasoni stopped Falcon 
Bruce Blyth on a breakaway), 
but lapses on defense enabled 
Bowling Green to tie the score. 
With both teams short a man 
at 4:06, McCosh picked up an 
easy goal in front of the Irish net 
due to a mix-up in defensive 
assignments between Tomasoni 
and his protectors. Thirteen act­
ionpacked but fruitless minutes later, winger Mike Root out-wrestled Mark Steinborn for the puck, carried it behind the net, and shoved it past Tomasoni from the goalie's Jeft side. 
Lefty Smith's boys then ap­peared to wrap up the contest, scoring early and late in the third stanza. Scoring leader John Noble rammed in a rebound from a Kevin Hoene shot at just 
0:56 with each team minus a man. After more splendid goal­tending, Paul Regan scored from an "impossible" angle to the left of Galaski at 16:32 when his shot carommed off the post. 
But the Falcons weren't ready to concede and they narrowed the gap to 4-3 at 18:37 when McCosh tipped in a shot by Rich Allen (who must be one of the tallest and toughest centers on the collegiate scene). Then BG U pulled Galaski and scored at 
19:33 when Owen Freeman, stopped on a point-blank shot by Tomasoni earlier, forced one between Dick's skates and the goalie's left-hand post. 
During the I 0-minute over­time period, Tomasoni stopped a closein blast by McCosh, but Notre Dame squandered a penal­ty advantage which began with 
2:10 left. At the final buzzer, Regan and Allen exchanged blows at center ice . 
ing and Sid (Catlett) starting to do his thing we should be a real threat." 
Like most members of the team, Gemmell doesn't have any preference as to who the Irish face if they do get a berth. "We just take 'em as they come. wouldn't mind crushing Purdue, though. I'd really like to get back at Kentucky, too." He doesn't place any one team as truly outstanding. "No, there isn't any one team that will dominate the tourney, not even UCLA. We could go as far as anybody, with a little luck." 
Evidently Doug has let his boyhood idol, Mickey Mantle, influence the way he thinks. He has as much confidence in ND as The Mick did in the Yankees of old. "He was the greatest! He had more guts than anyone. That's what it takes to make a winner." Off of the team's per­formances in the close games of late the Irish have shown a Jot of guts themselves. If Gemmell is right we can start buying bus tickets for College Park, Maryland. 
back 
three bouts to spring Notre 
Dame into a 13-0 lead. The 
Wheaton matmen were able to 
register just three wins, all 
decisions, in the match. 
Notre Dame will travel to 
Wheaton again this weekend to 
participate in the Wheaton 
Invitational Tournament on 
Friday and Saturday. 
on Tuesday, 67-46, lowerif)g their season record to 7-4. · 
Sophomore Frank Fahey broke his own Notre Dame 200 butterfly mark by timing 2:05.8. His previous 2:06.8 was set in last year's Motor City Invitation­al and tied this season versus Ball State. 
Freshman freesty lers John Sherk and Gene Krathaus con­tinued their fantastic pace by notching two firsts apiece, Sherk in the 500 and I000, and Krat­haus in the 50 and I00. Both also swam with Craig Ferrell and Vince Spohn in the winning 400 freestyle relay team. John Cox took the three meter diving event for Notre Dame. 
The squad travels to Purdue Saturday for a dual meet, then returns to host Central Michigan Feb. 24, and Cincinnati Feb. 28. 
Track 
Twenty-four schools partici­
pated last Saturday in the Michi­
gan State Relays as the Irish, in 
individual events, were held to a 
third by Mike McMannon in the 
Broad Jump, and a second by 
Elio Polselli in the Shot Put. 
Irish relay teams took third in 
the Two Mile Relay and fifth's in 
the Distance Medley and Shuttle 
Hurdle Relays. 
The Central Colegiates .Meet 
will be held this Friday and 
Saturday in the ACC. Preliminar­
ies will be held beginning 5: 30 
p.m. Friday and the Finals at place. Now I couldn't be hap­pier." 

The wiry soph feels that play­ing with Austin Carr and Collis Jones has helped tremendously. "Austin is the greatest. He helped me get into the starting lineup because he felt we could use a bit more speed at forward. 
Marquette game. If I come through it helps the team." 
When Gemmell hits these shots his confidence keeps build­ing. This confidence is not only a personal one but it overflows to belief in the team as well. "We're a lot smoother unit this year. I didn't otice this until I 







