J 


FAIDAY, ~ANUARY 16, 1970 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Cmim!Unity VOL. IV, NO. 66 
Subcommittee: 'study' for co-e d 
Committee 
hears report 
The Open Session of the Student Affairs Subcommittee opened yesterday afternoon

by Rick Smith 
when the Research and Devel­

The Student Affairs opment Commission reported 
Suhl:ommillee mel yesterday in the subcommittee's deci~;ion to 
closed session and disl:ussed the conduct an extensive sutdy into 
mul:h-talkcd about issue of coeducation. Zimmerman said 
Coeducation at Notre D<Jme. that the study that the suhcom­
The Subcommittee ~·oncluded ntittee h<Jd recommended should 
<Jfter its day-long meeting that f<Jcilitate progress and make it 
since there was not enough easier for the University to go 
information on the issue, a study co-ed in the best way. 
on the implications and Dr. Thomas C'<Jrney. chairman 
consequen~:es of the t•xpansion of the subcommittee, said th<Jt 
of the Co-ex program, lht· the meeting had failed to come 
introduction of Co-t•ducalion, to any more concrete recom­
and the direction of I he mendation due to the subcom­
University in thai area should be mittee's lack of knowledge 
undertaken. about the University's direction. 
The meeting began with lie said that he hoped that the 
discu~sion about the alleged study would investigate the 
discrimination against female financial implication~ of the 
graduate students at Notre Dame co-ex program. Further, Dr. 
and the possibility of graduate Carney said that the University 
students being placed on the had no intentions of eliminating
Academic Affairs gave the co-ex program and the
Student Life Council. Black co-ed housing. lie concluded St. Mary's. subcommittee an overview of possibility of admitting female
Studies and the teaching with a recommendation for a The first question concerned the academic implications the students to the University. lie
assistants' problem were also co-ed dorm on the campus. the University's position on the committment that Notre Dame suggested a study of the co-ex
topics on the morning's agenda. Father Amen, rector of possibility that St. Mary's would has presently to St. Mary's program and of co-education.
After the discussion, members Flanner Tower, followed with a lose its identity. Dr. Carneyregarding co-education. Father Whelan, Director of
of the University commur:ity talk supporting Father Whelan's replied that he did not tnink Next, Father Wilson, Student Housing and Rector of
were brought in to the meeting pos1t10n and g1vmg some that St. Mary's had to he Vice-President of Business Grace Tower, talked about the
to give thcir ideas and opinions personal experiences in sexually eliminated "to have what you
Affairs, presented an overview of possibility of women living on
on the issue of coeducation. integrated housing. Fatht:r Amen want." the financial implications of the campus and the implications of
Father Walsh, Vice-President of felt that co-ed living 'improved The next question concerned 
the dormitory atmosphere, not the possibility of St. Mary's 
only in relation to student becoming an obstacle to Notre 
dating but also to students Dame's going co-ed and the


Funk, Frye, at Mardi Gras 
studying and learning together. consequent possibility that Mr. William D'Antonio, head Notre Dame might have to cause Dewan issued a final plea to to a wide group, would provide of Notre D<Jme's Sociology the demise of SMC. Dr. Carney by Glen Corso the students that they take time more than enough ent~:rtain­dcpartmt:nt, talked about the said that he did not want to 
Observer News Editor ment. difficulties ht: has encountered make a commitment now hut
out during their semester break, in attempting to merge his
and attempt to sell their I wo The concert is scheduled for would decide on the basis ofDave Dewan, chairman of hooks. Friday, February 6, at X:OO P.M. department with the Sociology certain things St. Mary's doesMardi Gras, yesterday updated Plans were also finalized yes­in the Convocation Center. department of St. Mary's. Mr. and docs not do in the future.
the current status of the event, terday regarding the annual Ticket prices have not been D'Antonio concluded that lie said that N0 would not goand released the latest informa­Mardi Gras concert. Social Com­announced yet, but will he less despite the obstacles the two co-ed if SMC's enrollment evertion on raffle collections. 
missioner Dave Vecchi revealed than admission to the fall departments should be :nerged. reached 2500, thus providing theDue to exams, there will be that the fine hard rock group, concerts. three to one ratio considered by
(continued 011 page 7)

no additional formal raffle col­
Grand Funk, appearing with the (continued on paKe 6)
lection period until the evening very popular political impress­of Feb. 3. To date, Dewan has ionist, David Frye, will be the 
SUAC reveals semester events
received approximately $3XOO, 

attractions. 
or slightly better than I 0% of 
Vecchi related that definite

the designated goal. 
plans were so inordinately late in
However, he reserved th~ 
being announced due to several
hope that many students have 
problems of communications
been unable to sell their chances 
with various groups, and the fact
due to the great amount of 
thai many groups will be on tour
study time necessary for exams. 
or on vacation during early
In addition, he felt that several 
February.
students are presently holding 
Such groups as Credence

out large amounts of money in 
C'learwatcr Revival, Sly and the
their struggle for top salesman 
Family Stone, and other groups
with the trip to Bermuda riding 
listed on a previous So<.:ial 
on the outcome. 
Commission survey were unavail­
Dewan also noted that stu­
able for a variety of rcaso11s.
dents will be able to turn in their 
Vecchi also noted that, where­

wllections during the carnival 
as he could offer the groups as
itself. which is scheduled to 
many as five av:Jilahlc dates for
begir nn Thursday. February 5. 
aprcarances during fall concerts,
In an effort to stimulate stu­
he was limited to only one date
dent interest. the Texas Club is 
over Mardi Gras. 
running a concerted campaign 
Concerning Grand Funk,

to sell chances in South Bend on· 
Vccchi remarked that the Com~
Saturday. 
mission had been 1iming at hard
The effort is not limited t.. 
rock for some time now. and
Texas Club members alone, hut 
that he is quite pleased with the
is open to all students interested 
sdection, as he is with the
in the Mardi Gras campaign. The 
selection of David Frye.
normal l:Ommission for the sales 
He further observed that the

will be awarded to the Texas 
two acts, appearing for an hour
Club trcasur1, with a sufficient 
each, would ~ppcal to most
amount available to go towards a 
students. lie added that such a
party for those who assisted in 
well-rounded concert, appealing
the drive.• 
Camus conference heads list 
Associate Student Union somt: of his reflections concern­list of upwming SUAC Commissioner Mike Lynch ing theology, philosophy, and sponsort:d events for the first announced final plans for the politi~al science. Also to be three months of the new upcoming Camus conference, to discussed is the art of Camus as a semester. On Feb. 5th, llarrie be held February Xth, lJth, and writt:r." Vanderstappen, authority on 
lOth. At tht:. same time, SUAC Some of the men lhat arc Asian <Jrl, will give a lecture on 
head Pat McDonough announced scheduled to appear and lecture his specia Ity. upcoming events for most of tht: arc: Fr. John Dunn~:, formerly A series of films sponsored by second semester. of ND, now at Berkeley, and Black Maria Cinema group will 
"This year is the IOth anniver­author of Search fen (;od in he held February 9t(l through 
sary of Camus' deal h," Lynch Time and Memory; t:dward announced, "to commemorate Gargan, professor of history at it, we are holding a conference the Universi y of Wisconsin, on Camus on February Xth, lJth, author of tl.c research paper and IOth. The purpose of this Innocence of Camus; Professor conference will be to study some Germain Bray, who teaches of the questions and problems rom<Jnce languages at the Univer­raised by Camus' work, and sity of Wisconsin. Professor 
LAST ISSUE 

With this issue the Obst:r­vcr terminates publication for the semester. The Observer staff wishes to ofj'er all of you good luck over the final ·exams. We will reappear on the dining hall tables begin­ning February 3. 
Germain will present a lecture on tht: art of Camus. 
Besides these teet urcrs the conference will also include an exhibit on Camus, from the French cultural agency in New York, several student participation symposiums, and the film The Stranger based on Camus' book of the Slllllt: name. 
Pat Ml:Donough announced a 
(continued Ollflagc 8) 

Faculty awards 
St. Mary's Student Govern­ment will present ist first annual Awards for Excellence in Teaching and Outstanding Contributions to Sutdent Life in O'Laughlin Auditoriulll next Monday at I: 15 P.l' '· 
Studcnt Govern l!len t of­ficials voted on the recipients last night and have intimated that the results will be most surprising. 
Therefore, they have asked for the attendance of the .:ntirc St. Mary's community 


7118 OBSER.rJER. FRIDAY, JANUARY 1970
16,

PAGE 2 
~~~~~~~~-----------------------­
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
PRESENTS 
jjiN COLD BLOOD'~ 
$1.00 Patron Card Holders $.75 
Washington Hall Friday, January 16 .v.:OO and 9:30p.m. 
~-......;;'"'""~~-===-~~'"'-::-:-m:::=::e=s-~==-~~-='~~~--~--l class governments this year. 
HELD 1:15-3:15-5 : 15 STATE' 
OVER! 7:15-9:15 
McQ___ ueen acts as he hasn't be•ore 
I' 


Technlcolor 
1--~...::...::....:o..L--=~'----------~---~-----~--j 



FRESHMEN 
VOTE FOR FRESHMAN REPRESENTATIVE AT PARIETALS DESK 
5 -7 FRI. 
...For credit or pleasure The Department of Architecture will be givmg a course for credit on Greek, Roman, Early Christian, Byzantine, Romanesque and Gothic architecture around the shores of the Mediterranean. Combining on-ship illustrated lectures with on-shore study of architectural monuments, the cruise course will visit the following between June 30 and August 4: Italy, Corfu, Crete, Egypt, Rhodes, Greece, Yugoslavia, Turkey, Mallorca, North Africa, Malta, Sicily, as well as Switzerland, and Portugal, France and England. The cruise course is open to all students, and is especially expected to appeal to those students who will finishing or beginning the Department's Rome Program. The cruise course will be led by Assistant Professor J.. Daniel Selig of the Department, who will instruct on art history at special museums to be visited as well as on aspects of architectural photography. Enrolled students may, in addition, audit one of the other courses being given aboard, which include Music (Indiana University), History of Ancient Civilization (Western Michigan University) and Photography (Rochester Institute of Technology). . .. 
Because the program is combined with other umvers1t1es, an especially attractive all-inclusive cost is offered, $1098 (plus $29 tax) from New York. For those wishing to join the program in Europe, the all-inclusive cost is only $823 (plus $29). For further information, contact the Secretary, 
Department of Ext. 6137. 



WANTED 
FUR ASSAUIJ;ARMED ROBBERYAND COMMfTTING ALEWD AND IMMORAL DANCE WITH ACHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

to hear specific recommenda~ions on policies and procedures of the Placement Bureau from any interested members of the Notre Dame community. In addition, the Committee is interested in documenting any accusations of unfair practices by the Placement Bureau in dealing with students and organiz;ttions desiring its services. Written statements will be accepted and appreciated. 
Class leaders join to blast SG 
by Cliff Wintrode 
Observer Associate Editor The four class presidents in an open letter to Student Govern­ment and the Student Union, charged that their "repressive and un-cooperative" attitude towards the classes has been responsible for the failure of the 
The lack of finances from Student Government and the discouraging or banning of 
proposed class activities by Student Union have been the 
critical factors in the classes' poor performances said Junior Class President Jack Crawford. 
"If class governments are to remain the same with no legislative powers and no financial backing from Student 
Government then they might as well be done away with," Crawford said. 
"As class governments are right now, I do not think the students could care less, because 
the classes do not do anything, primarily due to a shortage of funds," he added. 
Crawford indicated that the .financial crises facing the class governments is very acute and could forseeably cause the class governments to fold. 
"The financial situation of the classes is in such a serious condition that without immediate help, class governments will be dissolved by this time next year," warned Crawford. 
Crawford felt the financial crises and the future of class governments will be resolved next fall when the Student Senate considers appropriations. 
"If the class governments fail to receive the necessary financial backing from Student Government, then the governments will die out gradually. Everyone I know will quit," commented Crawford. 
Crawford mentioned .that a 

bill has been introduced in the 
Senate which would absolve the 
Senate of all class debts, a 

change in the past policy of 
paying off the debts. 
Crawford did not fel!l that these payments were too much of a financial burden for Student Government and provided just cause for a change in the policy. 
PUBLIC NOTICE THE SLC PLACEMENT BUREAU COMMITTEE WILL HOLD AN OPEN HEARING Monday, Jan. 19 at 7:00 p.m.
. 
Text of the Presidents' Letter 
Class government has failed to fulfill its obligations to the students. We feel that this is not a result of a lack of capable and imaginative people among the respective classes. The classes have been unable to operate effectively because of the repressive and un-cooperative attitudes of both student Government and the Student Union. 
Student Government is in the process of gradually phasing out the class governments. By a reluctance to grant any financial aid, they have forced the classes to curtail many planned activities. 
In numerous cases, the Student Union has either discouraged or altogether banned the proposed activities of the Sophomore and Junior Classes.· Concerts planned by the Class of '71 and parties and trips organized by the Class of '72 have been forced into cancellation by the Union. · 
Is this continued effort to dissolve the class governments in the better interest of the student body? Seniors have their own particular interests; 
i.e. marriage, job placement, graduation, the "Senior Bar," etc. Freshmen are more concerned with orientation problems and with meeting girls from SMC. Sophomores and Juniors have more time and energy to devote to social action projects. · 
Could not the vast manpower resources of each class be put to good use? A Student Government Research and Development Commission, now staffed by seven members, could be turned over to a Sophomore Class government of fifty members. 
Class government is also one of the few places where underclassmen can exercise administrative abilities, without waiting to "rise up in the organization." 
In light of these considerations, we feel that class government should be maintained, but only if the following steps are taken: 1) a small amount of each student's activity .fee be allocated to the class governments; 2) the classes be allowed to assume greater responsibilities, now being operated by Student Government; and 3) both Student Government and Student Union adopt a more cooperative attitude toward the classes. 
Jack Crawford-Sr. Class Pres. Barry Doyle-Jr. Class Pres. Joe St,_.nkus-Soph. Class Pres. Denny Wilson-Fr. Class Pres. 

"Compa_!ed to the debts -of Student Union, class debts are minimal," he said. Crawford felt that the de-emphasis placed by Student government on the importance of class governments could be traced back to the Richard Rossie administration. "Ever since the Rossie and McKenna administrations, student governments have made an effort to discourage the traditional organizations on campus and redirect their energies toward political and social action organizations," said Crawford. He felt that the class governments "should not be considered a political outlet," but it definitely could be used "for social action projects." However, he did view the primary purpose of a class government as a "combined social service" organization to 
FAMILIES WELCOME 11 o.m. to 
12 p.m. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. NotreDame, Ind., 46556. 

fulfill both the social needs and -the service needs of the students. 
"I think as long as we do not have coeducation, and as long as South Bend is the way it is, then the social needs are quite important," Crawford said. 
Crawford felt that Student 
Union hurt primarily the 
sophomore and junior classes by 
not granting them permission to 
hold concerts, parties, or trips. 
He pointed out that all groups planning to hold an activity have to get an "activity permission" slip signed by Student Union to hold the even, permission which has not been granted in some past instances. 
Crawford cited as past 
examples of Student Union 
disapproval their refusal to let 
the Junior class sponsor a James 
Brown concert and their refusal 
to let the sophomore class hold 
two trips to girls' colleges. 

In the open letter to Student 
Government and Student Union, 
the four class presidents 
proposed that the various SG 
commissions employ the large 
available use of manpower in the 
class governments, especially in 
the freshmen and sophomore 
class governments. 

They compared the present 
seven man staff of the research 
and development commission to 
the possible fifty man staff from 
the sophomore class 
government. 

"The members of the class 
governments want to do 
something in an administrative 
post and they do not have an 
opportunity to do so," said 


In the Farley Hall Basement Lounge hcr::::o::aw~fo~rd:'!'!._~~~-, 

PAGE 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1970 THE OBSERfJER 




Find references at a glance! 
ACCENT...WITH READ-THRU COLOR 



Referendum to be sent out 
Conditions and prices in the pay cafeteria head the agenda for this afternoon's weekly meeting of the Graduate Student Union. 
Since the majority of the graduate students eat at least one meal there each day, it is 
thought that the GSU should concern itself with the situation in the hope of improving the fare. 
Glee Club sings 
Last Sunday the Moreau Chorale, St. Mary's Glee Club and Notre Dame's Glee Club sang the Delio Joio Mass at the newly renovated Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. the group was invited by the cathedral to help celebrate its re-opening. 
Norman Delio Joio, composer of the Mass, directed · the SMC-ND choir group and was accompanied by Arthur P. Law­rence at the organ and the brass ensemble of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. 
After Sunday's performance, Delio Joio remarked, "Although the Mass was written to be sung by over I00 voices, the chorus did an excellent job with only eighty." 
The Mass was composed for a mixed chorus, brass instruments, and organ. Prayers set to music in English include: the Kyrie, Gloria, Credo, Sanctus, Bene­dictus and the Agnus Dei. 




FIRST AID IN 
LIT SEE OUR 
Other items of business will include the referendum which has been mailed to each graduate student of the University con­cerning authorization for a fee of one dollar per semester to go towards the operational ex­penses of the organization. 
Although it had been sug­gested that this fee might well be included in grants which pay all fees, it has recently been dis­covered that since it does not come under an academic fee, the students will generally have to pay it out of his own pocket. 
Delegates will also get a chance to review the opposite 
Coffeehouse gets 4g's 
The figure $25,000 was men­tioned by Father Wilson inHow'd they do it? With regard to the costs of othermirrors? blackmail? How was possible methods of completingFlanner Hall able to get $4,000 the room.
from the University to finance Father Wilson pointed outthe construction of their coffee­that the Flanner representativeshouse, "America"? 
had felt that the idea is oneFr. Jerome Wilson C.S.C., 
which will provide somethingVice President for Business Af­useful for the students. He also
fairs, offered a simple explana­mentioned that he felt that the
tion to this perplexing question; students, in terms of time and
economic opportunity. effort, would probably end up
"The room being used is an investing as much as the univer­
unfinished room which the Uni­versity would have had to 
sity in the room. The primary reason behind
complete eventually," he said. "The cost could have been 
the move is that it gets the room anything, so I felt that this 
finished and at a cost below would be a good inexpensive what it would otherwise have way to do it." been. 
side of the financial picture when the budget is submitted to them. Approval will of course be contingent on the acceptance of the referendum proposal. 
Finally, a report is expected from the group which met with the Committee of Student Af­fairs of the Faculty Senate regarding representation on that body. 
Any graduate students with interests in any of these matters are urged to make their opinions heard by attending the meeting at noon today in the Library Auditorium. 
OBSERVER 
BUSINESS STAFF MEETING 
4:30pm Friday, January 16 
Observer Offices 


GRAND PRIX ?• 
Students of Notre Dame: As of right now, the future of Grand Prix is in grave doubt. Unless proof can be shown that there is a genuine interest in this event, the '· HPC will withhold approval and the Senate will not approve its budget, causing definite­cancellation. Do you want a grand week in May, or not? I urge that any of those who participated last year, those who wish to participate this year, or anybody who just plain wants a week of social events in May, to please contact their hall presidents before Monday night, Jan. 19. It is your support that will be the determining factor. MAKE YOUR WISHES KNOWN! 
M.G. Ciannone Chairman, GP 1970 

Questions ? Call 1408 
~any-have moved"' 
but the ~ulists 

StarOn... 
The Paulists arrived on the West Side of New York City in 1858. In 1895 they moved into San Francisco's China­town and into the fringes of Chicago's Loop in 1904. They're still there. Times change. Neighborhoods change. Sometimes they go up. Sometimes they go down­but through it all the Paulist stays. As long as there arc people to b.: served the Paulist will be there. The Paulist may be in the same old place but he con­stantly docs new things. That's one of the characteristics of the Paulist order: using their own individual talents in new ways to meet the needs of a fast-changing world In the col­leges ... in communications ... in the ghettos. 


If you have given some thought to becoming a Priest, write for an illustrated hrochure and a copy of our recent Renewal Chapter Guidelines. Write to: 
Vocation Director 
'Paulisth

'Pat erS 
Room 200 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019

At the Notre Dame Bookstore 

PAGE 4 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
•


SMC Off-campus housing 
A large number of St. Mary's students have taken issue with the college policy of forced on-campus living. A student committee was formed to research the feasibility of off-campus living for the college. Their findings, printed in an Observer series this past week, have shown that the prospect is not only possible, but virtually necessary for the future progress of the institution and its students. 
As of August 31, 1969, Saint Mary's was operating on a deficit of $469,015, a sum which is nearly half of that of Notre Dame. In an appempt to augment its income, the college will be admitting more students than can be comfortably housed. If its ultimate goal is to admit enough students to stave off the possibility of Notre Dame opening its doors to women, then St. Mary's must either build new dorms, discover other facilities, or lose its 
-autonomy when Notre Dame houses SMC students. The college cannot afford to do the first, and the third would occur only with total merger. Off-campus housing would allow for an increase in the number of tuition-paying students, and therefore a decrease in the deficit. Financially, it seems that Saint Mary's has no other option. 
Saint Mary's has been striving for diversity among its student body, bringing in students from other cultures, exposing its students to new types of curricula, and, for the most part, encouraging the individual to foster personal responsibilities. It should not, now, back away from permitting its students to undertake the most enriching experience it could offer-having them learn to live independently in the world that they must ultimately deal with. The positive returns to the college atmosphere and community in terms of opinion and perspective are unlimited, and far outweigh any argument against the issue. 
Any argument concerning the potential immoralities precipitated by the measure invalidates itself, not because there are not greater opportunities, but because the college institution docs not now, have and never should have had, the right to legislate morality for the individual. Freedom of conscience, the basis of Catholic morality, means freedom of each individual to do what he believes is best for him, not what someone else believes is best for him. 
The argument that off-campus living is unsafe for the St. Mary's student is thoroughly without basis in fact. The majority of the South-Bend-Niles residential areas should 
' be much less suspect than St. Mary's where just tllis past
" 
Christmas Campus Security was unable to halt the nightly theft of 30-foot trees, and where numerous assaults, attempted and completed, have occurred each year. The Saint Mary's campus is frighteningly accessible to anyone even slightly desirous of entry, and, as the home of 1300 women, an obvious attraction for a sick mind. None of the arguments against off-campus living for 21-year-olds holds any importance in reality. To progress at all in a world where experience is becoming the mark of the truly knowledgable person, Saint Mary's must begin to anticipate all the trends of the future and make the benefits of those trends accessible to those students who desire to be exposed to them. We urge all those involved in deciding this issue to open to the students their rightful opportunity to grow and mature in the atmosphere they sec most fit. 
David Breen, Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso Assistant News Editor: Steve Hoffman SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, An Conway and Jeanne Sweeney Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmins 
Photo Editor: Mike Murphy 
The opm1ons in the efitorials, Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
news analyses, and columns of THE Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer OBSERVER are solely thoSt• of the Night Editor: T.C.Treanor 
authors and edicors of T~-E OB­Layout Design: Buz Craven 
SERVER and d1 not necessarily Headlines: Dave Bach 
reflect the views of St. Mary's Layout: Dan Koppenhafer 
College, the University of Notre Night Controller: Joe Becker 
Dame, their administrations, faculty or student bodies. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 16; 1970 


''BUT WHAT DO THEY ME.AN? WHER.E DOTH~! COME FROM? WHY WON'T you SAY ANYTHING.•.. ? 

==Letters 
trying to please ND in order to

SMC and coeducation 
keep our brother school from 

co-ed on its own because of the An open letter to the Saint detrimental results to SMC. Mary's Community: Appeasement is the name of the 
game we're playing and no one is The question of coeducation admitting how it may end. and the possible merger with I favor coeducation and its Notre Dame has been the implications. I want to see the $64,000 question for the four 3-1 ratio achieved as soon as years that I've attended SMC.• possible. What I object to is the 
My personal experience with this problem began freshman year when I was chosen by the "Crux" editor to coax :t statement from Sister Mary Grace on the ultimate goals of the co-exchange progm. That interview seems to have set the pattern for all · succeeding attampts to define the direction of the co-ex program~ EQUIVOCATION. I was informed that we were "cooperating" and that was all. In the 1969-70 school year we 

_..-·-X 
/ ·U 

.I
... 
have witnessed the "coeducation" of our freshman classes. When I probe for greater detail on what plans for the future exist, I am told that-there are no long term plans and that we shouldn't be concerned with them for they may scare someone, namely the SMC faculty; and this by the Chairman of the ND-SMC Coordinating Committee, Father Sheedy. In his own words, "We'll cross each bridge as we come to it." 
SM C is becoming a victim of the unwillingness of its administration to formulate a strong policy and stick by it. The SMC administration is lack of honesty and logic in the handling of these issues. SMC is a very different place now than it was four years ago and no one then seemed to know that we would be where we are now. This year's freshman class has no 
idea and certainly no guarantee of what kind of an institution they will be graduating from and they have a right to know. 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Plan as articulated by Father 
Hesburgh and Father McGrath last summer is "The Christian education of youth." They suggest that we not follow anyone's lead but (and I quote), "We are doing our own thing." BUT WHAT IS OUR OWN THING? That is the question the Saint Mary's College Community demands to be answered. 
Sincerely, 
Susan Turnbull 
Student Body President 
Editor (to Glen Corso): 
Congratulations on your excellent article "Notre Dame Ten." 
Perhaps you would like to publish the following remarks~ "If you don't like the Stars in 
Old Glory "If you don't like the Red, White, and Blue "Then don't act like the cur in the story "Don't bite the hand that's feeding you." Sincerely, 
L.A. C. South Bend 

7/IE OBSERIIER. 

In search of a (truly) meaningful dialogue 
by Dave Stauffer 
While conscientiously going about the work of putting· together a features page last night, I realized what was missing from my life experience. After two and one-half years of college, I had yet to engage in a "meaningful dialogue." Worse yet, I didn't even know what a meaningful dialogue was. Determined to correct this tragic emptiness in my young life, I immediately set out not only to discover the meaning of "meaningful dialogue," but also to successfully engage in whatever it happened to be. 
Not wishing to fool aroung with incompetent pseudo-dialoguers I decided to proceed at once to the ultimate authority. Then I remembered that Joel had graduated last year. Crestfallen, but nonetheless optimistic, I fully explained to the editor (who has seen and done everything). 
"At a great university such as this one," he explained, "the truth flows from only one source ­the office of ,the Student Body President." I was overjoyed to say the least. After hurrying through the Fiesta Lounge, I timidly entered through the giant door lettered "Student Body President." To my dismay, no one sat behind the long, high desk. The desk top was quite empty, with a few papers upon it slacked neatly in a corner. It appeared in fact that no one had been in the office for many weeks, and I dejectedly walked back to the office. 
This time I related my problem to the publisher, who was in his dark back office, poring over the ad layout for the next basketball special. 
"My boy," he began, not looking up from his work, "the answer to undying problems such as these can be found only through an unending quest in the world around us. Go forth from the protective walls of LaFortune and discover the meaningful dialogue you seck." 
Inspired beyond description, I charged down the stairs, and only paused a moment at the glass door, where I buttoned my coat and was stupefied by the full implications of my mission. 
Stepping onto the icy sidewalk at the south side of the Student Center, I was forced to make a frantic dive into the snow to avoid a distressing collision with a golf cart. Recovering quickly and retuned to my 
' endeavor, I gave chase. Between Walsh and Sorin and tiring quickly, I made a desperate lunge for the back rail, grabbed it with my fingertips, and successfully pulled myself into the seat beside the operator, who although quite large, was hampered by a cast on his left leg. 

Still fighting for breath, I explained my great search for a meaningful dialogue, and asked if he could help me in some way. After explaining the meaning of 'dialogue,' I received only a mumbled "Talk don't mean a thing,'' and concluded that this 
1 would not be the source of an acceptable answer. 
' Jumping from the cart and into the snow, I laid motionless, convinced that the meaningful dialogue e:tisted somewhere on campus. Shuffling onto the main quad, I was greeted by the sound of obscenities echoing off the walls of Dillon Hall. Spotting the author of the remarks leaning from a window in Howard, I stood beneath him and interrupted, once again inquiring as to the nature and form of the meaningful dialogue. The only reply I received directly was in the form of a direct command one which at that time was impossible to obey. ' 
By now I was walking in a daze, disillusioned and disappointed. But at the sight of an approaching figure, I regained both my composure and conviction. This individual was quite interesting: dressed in striped bell-bottoms and faded blue shirt, his hair (including the beard) dropping shoulder length, he carried a green cloth bag and wore a button with what appeared to be an simple drawing of a jet on it. 
For the fifth time I related my problem. After hearing a fifteen minute monologue on the necessity of meaningful dialogue, I explained that I wanted to know what it was. But my quest was only complicated by more terminology, and I walked away as he spoke of relevance, rationality, and doing my thing. · 
Virtually acknowledging failure, I started back to LaFortune, but was soon presented with a final chance for success. A girl approahed, wearing smooth calf-high brown boots, patterned hose, and a fur hat and fur-collared coat. Curiously enough, written in bold letters on her face was "St. Mary's College." Doing my best to disregard this, I introduced myself and, after a long explanation of my dilemma, found myself delivering an emotional appeal for aid. 
However she continued her fast-paced journey not even breaking stride, and didn't utter a sound. Dumbfounded, I at last stopped and watched her walk away. As she disappeared into the night, I could swear I detected a metal key protruding from her back, but in the blur of tears I couldn't be sure. 
My head hung low, I kicked a small lump of snow back to the door of LaFortune, climbed the stairs, and sank into the faded gray couch in the Observer office. Soon after, I conscientiously went about the work of putting together a features page. 
The toilet was flushed, the ----went down 
Black Humor 
by Tom Ehrbar 
Friday, I had a date. Because Tuesday I 
was groping under my bed for the male 
of a maroon sock with a hole in the heel 
and .. , 
Somebody, a phone muffled in his two 
hands, yelled "Hey, chicken * * * *, you 
want to get fixed up'!" I am known as 
chicken ****. I know not why. I suppose 
someone is trying to tell me something 
about my choleric temperment, the look 
of derring-do I carry always on my mug. 
Anyway, when this fellow said "lley chicken ****, you want Ia get fixed up?", I thought he meant drugs. I said "yes". "Hashish or mainline?" I asked. No one answered my question. So I got my date. 
The date was with a girl across the road. Which made little difference to me. I'm in the stage now where girls really don't make it with me, they're out there somewhere in the periphery of my interests. But, I was horny. I was also in a hurry. 
I was in a hurry because only one toilet stall has a door in the john on the fourth floor of my dorm which is where I live. On the fourth floor, not in the john, I mean. 1\ome ~uy does live in that stall though. Or so I was convinced last Friday when I was fixed up. 
The girl across the road told me 8 o'clock was fine: I had picked that hour for god knows why. I wanted to have plenty of time. At 6 o'clock I decided to get ready. That should he plenty of time. I showered, I slunk to the john with a 
towel curled around my waist, I crept to the stall on the far right. My eyes held a narrow gaze. I don't know why, there's just something ingratiating, almost obscene about a toilet that isn't hid behind doors. Like how a small child feels when he looks at a nude statue, that's about how I feel. 
The john on the fourth floor of my dorm has four stalls. Why three of them 
are without doors is not an easy question. Call it wanton maliciousness call it no respect, call it a perverted, inverted 
degeneralion or whatever. I don't like it. Besides, it smells bad. If I should ever find myself vis-a-vis with the perpetrator of such a vile malevolence, I would take my forefinger jab it insistently against his chest and say "You stink." 
One time·, on the way to my snug and protective haven, the stall at the far right, though my vision focused straight ahead like twin laser beams, I was aware of an intruder using a nearby faCility. I said to myself don't look. I looked. The seated figure was obscurred by a folded-over copy of Hsquire magazine, this month's; and his pants were rumpled around his ankles. The page of Esquire facing me was a series of photographs which showed a man in sequence removing his trousers. This was no mean trick, since his legs were bound by chains. This is the kind of thing you find in Esquire. I like Esquire. 
I was astounded by the dexterity, the utter wherewithal of this, to me, hero. Anti-hero, the movie people would say. 
I sat down on the john floor. I approached a kneeling position. I squinted at the photographs and copy before me. llow does he get his trousers off with the chains on? I had to know. Intently, my mind swept across the page memorizing each minute and brilliant strategem. Then, the figure whose hands held the Esquire dropped the magazine I'J his lap and stared at me. 
llis glare told me more than get out. It told me I had exactly one-quarter of a second to bury myself in a snowdrift somewhere and await the spring thaw. I got the message. Maybe this is another reason why I get all neurotic about 
bathroom  stalls  that  have  no  doors  on  
them.  
Friday,  as  though  I  were  guided by  

blinders, I wasted no time, no glimpses about me, in getting to my sacred cubicle. The door was shut. I bent down and glanced beneath the door. I saw shoes. 
Back to the room to shave. Back to the john again. Still, the shoes. The clock said that in five minutes it would be 8:00. I told my roommate about what was going 
on. He said "How the hell do I know? Maybe the guy's writing a novel on the inside walls." 
I said "Oh." 
Back to the battle field I bounced, thinking to myself of Britain's darkest hour. This was my darkest hour. 
I afixed myself just beyond the door of The Stall, my face getting redder by the minute, not to mention other physical discomfitures. Ten seconds more is all I would give him. Ten seconds passed. I wanted to say something witty, something devastating, something overwhelming. I said "What the hell are you doing in there -writing a novel on the inside walls?" 
From behind the greendoor came no reply. I said a few things which I have seen before on bathroom walls, and nowhere else, thank God. 
At 9: l 5 I heard a guy laughing and chuckling and wheezing about how he had planted two shoes in the one bathroom stall that had a door still hanging to its hinges. I did not laugh. I did not chuckle. I did not wheeze. I was not even horny anymore. I was late. 

The speedometer needle of my car was like a badminton birdie batted between 85 and 100 as I carommed around corners, destination across the road. A man with a snow shovel and wrapped like an eskimo saw the wild dance of my headlights and dove into a snow pile as I swerved not to hit him. Within seconds the super-charged engine of his own '70 sports coup, four on the floor, tape deck, the works, sputtered and coughed in his garage. After the Keystone Cop chase he forced me to the curb and made a citizen's arrest. 
One the way to the police station and city jail, he lectured me. His tfrade was about "wanton maliousness" and "no respect" and "perverted, inverted degeneration." He grabbed my by my collar and said, "You stink". 
The sergeant at the headquarters No. 3 or 4, I forget, towered over me and asked if I had anything to say. lie did not call 
me chicken ****. "Yes", I said, "the other three doors in the john on the fourth floor of my dorm should be attended to, should be redoorcd." 
"Anything else?" the sergeant blasted. "Yes," I said, "somebody should tell the girl across the road." 

Irregulars form at N D 
Notre Dame is finally paying tribute to the most-famous fictional(?) character in all world literature. 
Don't worry, fans, Sherlock Holmes is still alive and well keeping bees upon the Sussex Downs. We are simply announcing the formation of our own chapter of the Baker Street Irregulars, an internationally famous Sherlockian Society. An organ­ization which boasts such famous names as Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Christopher Morley, and Basil Rathbone. All dedicated followers of the Eternal Sleuth. 
Sherlock Holmes is for everyone; man or woman, fan or fanatic, but especially for those captivated by the life and deeds of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson. 

Call Tom at 1274 for membership details, or ask the laconic Mr. Holmes himself, put it: Call at once if convenient -if inconvenient call all the same. 
SMC coffeehouse 
Tonight from 9-12 p.m. the SMC Coffeehouse will present David lluezo, Ellen Zuicker, Jim Moran, Mike Holmes, and Tom Henehan. The admission charge of $.25 will be for the scholarship fund. 
r 


PAGE 6 7118 OBSERVER FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1970 

JUNIORS 




Carney: nOpossibity excluded 



STEAK HOUSE 
1520 N. Ironwood Dr 
South of Campus between


501 DIXIEWAY NORTH, 
South Bend Ave. & Edison Rd. 
Coupon for Second Dinner of Same Value at Half­


SOUTH BEND 
Price 

SENIOR 

(continued .from page 1) 
many experts to be ideal. In reply to a question about what kind of facts the subcom­

PORTRAIT 

SIGN-UP FOR 
mittee wanted, Dr. Carney said that he wanted to know whatDOME '71 the cost of operating the two institutions was, what the cost of the co-ex program was to
PATE: JAN 12-16 
each of the two institutions, the differences in the two faculties,

!PLACE: 
the building programs of each


DINING HALLS 
school, and the different courses offered.
TIME: 5:30 -6:30 
The difference between co-ex 

e 59( 
unc 
• 

biggerats11r. 
""Ke~b ~~· 
~ 
• 
• 

B.-rger King. Home of the Whopperi 
and co-ed systems were discus­sed next, with Dr. Carney concluding that it would be entirely possible under the co-ex program to have female students living on campus. Zimmerman said that there was a substantial difference between the two programs, though the line be­tween them was quite thin. "Nobody knows what we're 
going to do," Zimmerman sai?.. ratios. You may have a sense 
Father Hesburgh's commit-that this is just a put-off. But it tment to the maintenance of St. is clear that most people don't Mary's was the topic of the next know what they're talking questioner. "It is quite binding," about." 
Dr. Carney said, descnoing the committment, "though it does not just involve having 2500 girls across the street." 
Next, a student wanted to know about the possibility of a 1-1 boy-girl ratio. It was pointed out in reply that Princeton had found the 3 to 1 ratio most favorable. Zimmerman added, "We're not just talking about In reply to the next question, 
Dr. Carney said that the subcom­
mittee was committed to having 
girls on campus. "No possibility 
will be excluded in trying to find 
the most readily adaptable situ­
ation," Carney said. 
A suggestion that the male 
enrollment be decreased to ac­
comodate the female students 
won loud applause from the 
audience. 
The subcommittee was asked 
if it had any more immediate 
plans. Dr. Carney replied that 
the Princeton study had taken 
one year. "We have complete 
confidence that we will be co-ed. 
We're committed to the thing _!ight now." 
Next, a female graduate who had spoken to the meeting earlier in the morning, asked about the alleged discrimination against her. Dr. Carney agreed there was discrimination. The meeting then livened up further as the next questioner attacked the school for discriminating against 51% of the population of the country. "We should con­sider the fact that they're human, too. We have no right to exclude them," the speaker contended. 
When asked why the Uni­versity doesn't reduce its male enrollment as the most feasible method of going co-ed, one of the trustees said, "you don't just do it over night. You'11 never see the day when there are swarms of women here. It'll take five to seven years to reach the standard ratio." 
In conclusion, Mr. Zim­merman said, "After getting everything I asked for and being told how urgent .the problem is, I was disappointed that the students couldn't have been at the whole meeting. If we can clarify the deceptions·, we can develop much more meaning­fully and quickly· a basis for accomplishing that which we have asked for today." -· 
1st Anplversary 

Appreciation Special 
Enjoy fine steak dinners broiled to your order. Dine in comfortable and attractive surroundings. Our thank you for a wonderful first year is the -second steak dinner at half-price. Regular prices just $1.09 to $1.89 for steak Dinners 
11111111111111111111111111111111 
Good Thursday, Jan. IS tJ:rn Sn"dav J:m 11 


in her major at Notre Dame.  
The subcommittee then heard  
a summary co-education  of a report on prepared by John  MEETING  
Zimmerman  in association with  
s"everal general  other students. opm10n of  The the  TONITE  
subcommittee members was that  
en  Treat yourse1f to hairstyling  
with latest and  for the  
coJiege guy. Spedalizing m long hair  
For appointment call 234-0811  
Continental Hair Styling  
306 Sherland Building  
South Bend  
FEATURING THE SALES  - TUESDA ¥-AND WEDNESDAY  
Miss Treba and the Baron to serve you. Studied under David Hansen of Chicago, foremost hair stylist for men. RED GARTER BAND  IN DINING HALLS  
OPEN MON. THRU S_A~.  (JANUARY 20 AND 21)  






GRAND FUNK RAILROAD DAVID FRYE 
"liard Rock at its Best" J.B. "I Lover Him; He's Good" R.M.N. 
See: Richard Nixon Henry Fonda
"They Exude Music, Sex, Ferver 
Lyndon Johnson Nelson Rockefeller 
Tempo and Excitement" Observer Nov. 21 '69 
William Buckley Huntley & Brinkley At Their Best 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970 ACC 
"GLT A DATE NOW FOR THE BEST CONCERT IN MARDI GRAS HISTORY 
TICKETS ON SALE AFTER SEMESTER BREAK 
PRESENTED BY STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION ..AND ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
Jim Brogan, Chairman of Mardi Gras Ball, announced yesterday that the ball was cancelled this year, due to problems in scheduling that were unavoidable. 
"After much thought and deliberation, I regret to an­nounce the cancellation of the 


' 
\ ·.I 

Jim Brogan 
Comm. hears reports 
(continued from page 1) 
the co-ex program was fine as a The sixth speaker was Father starting point, but that it should Charles Sheedy, Dean of definitely be expanded . 
Theological Studies and 
Subcommittee head Dr. 
chairman of the co-education Thomas Carney promised that coordinating committee. The 
the issue would be the first order subject of Father Sheedy's talk of business at the executive 
was the difficulties in trying to meeting of the board of trustees define what the school wants to in Florida next March. do in the field of co-education. ,--------------1 
lie said that Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's have agreed to have a 
NO

combined Notre Dame-St. Mary's diploma for any St. Mary's student who has taken a "substantial" number of courses 


NEWS 

Mardi Gras Ball for this year. 
This has nothing to do with Mardi Gras's present financial plight, but was made in the interest of the entire student 
body and the weekend. An effort has been made to stream­line the weekend and tailor it to the desire of the greatest number of swdents. "Had the Ball been held as originally scheduled on Friday evening this would have forced the concert to be held on Sunday afternoon, due to the basketball game Saturday after­noon and the carnival activities Saturday night. Needless to say, a Sunday afternoon concert would be less than successful. • The Mardi Gras Committee in conjunction with Student Union officials decided that a concert held on Friday night serving as 


many as II ,000 people, would ,--------------J--------------------------1 
be a greater service than a dance which could only accomodate 700 couples. 
"It is my recommendation 
that both a Ball and concert be 
held in future years as has been 
traditional for this weekend. 
Hopefully, the same timing and 
circumstances that arose this 
year will not be present in the 
future and a more complete 
weekend will be possible. 
"I would like to thank all 
those who have so diligently 
worked on the ball, even though 
their effort has apparently gone 
for naught. 

"I must apologise to all those 
who have already made plans for 
the Ball assuming that it would be part of this weekend, I can only stress that the Dance was cancelled before Christmas, and that no publicity to date has mentioned the dance itself, in any specific terms, as being part of the weekend," he said. 
HELD OVER! 4th BIG WEEK! Tonite & Weekdays at 7 & 9:05 Sat. & Sun. at I :30,3:30,5:20,7:20,9:20 
"Dammitall. 
Why is everything we•re good at illegal?" 
IHear BURl BACHARACHS "Ramdrnps Keep fallrn' On ,.,Head" assuno by B J r~omas I (MI ~~~~,.~~ I§» 
GET UP A PARTY & COME OUT IN A CAB! IT'S AS CHEAP AS TilE BUS 

This is the last of a series 1ty, the meaning of his convic-community has not defined this. written by Carol Cusick and tions. A consensus of the students, Irish McNamara presenting the Legally, "in loco parentis" faculty, administration does not findings of research done by the presently maintains a nebulous exist. The dictionary and thes 


possibilities 
(continued from page 1) scheduled is a visit by the 
Saint Mary's Committee for position in relation to college aurus range the definition of 13th. The list of films include: 
Director of the Indiana Prison Off-Campus Housinf!. and university authority. While residence from "the house in system.
The Salesman, Faces, The Night 
We expect to determine many courts have upheld this which one lives" to "dwelling"As well as the lectures, a
of the Following Day, and Who's 
whether we live on or off school policy, some have recen-to "cohabitation". The mostnumber of symposiums where
That Knocking at My Door. 
campus. We believe we have this tty failed to do so-explicit description in the SMC students and faculty can statePaul Goodman, author of right, and we understand the predominantly in the more catalogue is "She finds in hertheir views are scheduled. SUAC 
Growing Up Absurd, will speak 
responsibilities which are entail­liberal sections of the East. school a very beautiful homehas contacted ex-Supreme Courton February 15th, followed by ed. We, therefore, expect that However, a trend in American where she may extend to herJustice Abe Fortas to appear forStanley Marcus, an urban affairs the administration reinterpret its colleges and universities has been friends the refined amenities ofthis conference. As of yet theyadviser to President Nixon, on policy on moral responsibility. to disclaim this policy, relaxing her own home." (p. 17) Thehave received no definite wordthe 17th. 
Students are aware that conduct institutional control. appeal of the isolated campuson his appearance. 
Due to the poor response to cannot be dictated. Moral res­St. Mary's students, in par-would stem from the ideal of aWhen asked if the rumourthe recent poll held by SUAC, ponsibility calls for an open ticular, must work against the medieval university quoted fromthat Chicago District Atorneythey have decided to ask Dr. 
atmosphere in which each added force of one of our most the Observer article of JanuaryEdward Henrehan might appearBenjamin Spock to appear on student can live her personal life deeply imbedded mores, which 12th entitled "Academic Com­for the Law and OrderFeb. 19th. As yet his appearance through moral convictions. is to shelter the female. This munity vs. University Strut:­Conference, McDonough replied, is still unconfirmed. On Feb. 
Imminent to this approach. of "law" will not change unless we tun~": "universities magistrorum"My feeling is that he will be22nd Dr. Han Morgenthau, personal restriction is the un­refuse to accomodate ourselves discipulorumque-the whole fel­reluctant to come, because of
renowned International 
clear policy of "in loco paren­to such a standard. lowship of teachers and stud-the remarks made by .Rennie
Relations expert, will lecture. 
tis," that is, school authority Indiana State law requires ilets". Our faculty and theirDavis and because he might notHis speech topic is as yet filling in for parental authority that anyone under 21 who leases families do not live among thereceive a very good welcome. Ofundetermined. 
in personal, as opposed to an apartment must obtain par-students. Approximately 7% of course if Mr. Henrehan wants toOn Feb. 25th Dave Steinberg, communal, concerns. Today's ental signature. Considering the our students commu:e from come, we'll be very glad to havehead of the National Council for concept of higher education is spirit of a liberal arts education home. There is no clear relation­him."
Responsible Firearms, will speak 
that it functions not as an and the needs and wishes of ship between residence as it on gun control. His lecture will 
indoctrination center for con­many students, we believe that a · presently exists at SMC and the be the opening event in SUAC's 
temporary democratic and/or program of off-campus housing, concept of a liberal arts aca­Law and Order conference. 
-111111111111111111111 

Catholic standards, but rather as where responsibility and author-demic community. Between March I st and 6th, a 
·a stimulus to individual consid­ity lie with the student or, in the Plans of tile SM.C off-campus ,
Rifle clinic

representative of the Justice 
eration of all viewpoints. The case of those who are under 21, committee include helping to Department will give talk The 5th Army Rifle Team has
a on 

strict punishment given to ten with the parent, must necessarily distribute a sociologicai survey recent Justice Department announced a Marksman's Clinic 
fellow students for an action replace the policy of indis-to ND off-campus students and crackdowns on the Mafia in· New to be held today and tomorrow 
that expressed their personal criminate dictation of where the investigating boty the practical Jersey. Also scheduled during at the ND Army Rifle Range. 
conscience demonstrates the student is to live. prlblems vf implementing such a this period are talks by members Today, expert instruction will be 
student's responsibility to be Finally, inherent in St. Mary's program and the opinions ofthe of the Federal Bureau of given from 1-4:30 PM. For 
continually re-evaluating, within rigid policy is the concept of a SMC community concerning the Investigation. Also tentatively information, call 283-6264. 
an intellectually open commun-residential college. However, the proposal. 
THE SALE IS ·ON 
Choose university-styled
.. SUITS, SPORTCOATS PAY NEXT SUMMER AND TOPCOATS 
when it's more convenient 

Savings of Buy now, wear it now ... 
PAY ONE-THIRD PAY ONE-THIRD PAY ONE-THIRD 1/3 
1/4 • • 
in june in july in August 
Stop in and stock up; the selection NO SERVICE OR CARRYING CHARGE is great, the savings are greater! This is THE sale of the year. 
YOUR STORE IN PRICE ... 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Presidents blast SG 
PAGE 2 







