
VOL. IV No. 131 SrrvinK the Notre Dame andSabit !llar.r 's College CcJmmuni(1' MONDAY, MAY 18, 1970 
MY LAI SUSPECTS CLAIM RAILROADING BY ARMY 
ATLANTA (UPI) Two soldiers facing a possible death sentence for charges stemming from the alleged My Lai Mas­sacre said yesterday they could remain silent no longer and charged the "Army Machine" is rolling over them in frantic efforts to gain a conviction. 
Pvt. Max D. Hutson, 22, of Attica. Ind., and Pvt. Gerald A. Smith, 22, of Chicago, Ill., said in an exdusive interview with UPI they had been treated by the Army as if they had been prejudged guilty before an inves­tigation ever was completed. 
They said they evt• n h~d not been ~Bowed to select the military attorneys of their own choice, a privilege guaranteed by Army regulations. 
Yesterday's interview marked the first time any of those charged in connection with the alleged massacre spoke out about the treatment the Army has given them. However, civil­ian attorneys defending officers charged with alleged crimes at My Lai have noted it seems to them the Army is trying to "railroad a guilty verdict through." 
Hutson is charged with rape, murder and assault with intent to commit murder. He termed the rape charge a "dirty lie" and declared his complete innocence of the other charges. 
Plan support for peace candidates 
By Marty Graham 
Approximately ISO students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's met in Washington Hall last night to discuss a movement for a new Congress anJ commit themselves to work on the upcoming political campaigns. 
Professor John Roos of Notre Dame's Government Departmt!nt stateJ that the movement has begun to perform three main tasks in making students an effediw force in Congressional dections. 
The !irst task is to involve stuuents throughout the country in a coordinateJ nation-wide effort. 
Roos saiJ the st!cond ohjec­tiw is to collect anJ maintain a file of names and aduresses of stuJents at Princeton University who want to work for election of peace candidates so they can continue to he involved in their home states during the summer and at school this fall. 
He statc.>d that the thirJ task is to iJt•nt 1fy peace candidacies and amass information on Con­gn•ssional voting recorJs, voting patterns in various dis! rids, and 

fc.>as1hility  of  electing  peace  
candidates.  
"The  main  purpose  of  to­ 

night's meeting," Roos said, "is to gc.>t the names and addresses of I host! students who are willing both to make the campaigning commi II ment and to get other students involveJ in the move­ment for a new Congress." 
"(\!rtain student and faculty nH.!mhcrs," he continued, "who have ht.!l'n involvc.>d in previous campaigns Will holJ short train­ing sessions next Thursday and Monday in oruer to explain how to go ahout forming a campaign stralc.>gy ." 
Pat Dowdall, a Notre Dame senior, stateJ that the infor­mation center for the movement for the new Congress will be in the Acauemic Commission Of­fice whose number is ~83-3747. 
Roos said that Notre Dame itst"lf is the regional center for Northern Indiana. It is the University's job, therefore, to 
contact them, and also to 
participate in the Indiana State 
Organizational Committee 
whose job it will be to channel 
returning students into cam­
paigns here this fall. 
Roos urged the participating 
students to write a, persuasive 
position paper on the two issues 
they will most likely be faced 
with in their campaigning. 
At the dose of the meeting, 
Roos stated, "I think it is 
absolutely crucial to change the 
character of our basic Jemo­
cratic decision making institu­
tions. The way to do this is to 
get out into the streets and help 
have the candidates elected who 
will initiate this change. It is a 
critkal challenge which must be 
done.>." 
Dowdall also stated, "The movement for a new Congress is by far the most significant activity for students who are really committed both against the Indochina War and for social change. 
"During the past few years, since the Chicago dehade. all of us have despaired and said that there is nothing we can do to effect a change. As Congressman Lowenstein reffered to it. we all wert' really to quit too early. 

"Consequently, the only activity that came from our campuses were violent ones: this violence has only alienated the rest of the country, Nixon's silent majority, and hurt our cause. 
"I believe that today is the time for us to recommit our­selves to change-not just a summer of part time. cam­paigning, hut a commitment for I972 and beyond. 
"I was somewhat disappoin­ted by the.> relatively small number of people that showed up tonight: however. the major responsibility for this lies with poor timing and ·inadequate publicity. We fee.>! that through I he hall organizations we will reach our goal of ~000 volun­teers." 
Smith is accused of premedi­

tated murder and indecent assault on a Vietnamese female "I haven't done anything wrong," Smith said. "I only want the opportunity to have a fair chance to prove my inno­cence." 
All the charges stem from the alleged incident which occurred March 16, 1968 in My Lai 4 hamlet in South Vietnam. Seven other enlisted men and four officers are charged with offenses allegedly committed in My Lai. Additionally, 14 high ranking officers are accused of suppressing evidence about the 
alleged incident immediately af­ter it occurred. 
Hutson and Smith explained why they finally sought aid from the American public. 

"I've got nowhere else to turn," Hutson said. "I've trie·d Army channels, my Congressman and finally I felt that they possibly can under­stand enlisted men are people iust like officers are." ''I've never done anything before in my life like this, either," said Hutson in his 
interview. "I have never pro-
tested-either at serving in the 
Army or serving in combat in 
VIetnam." . 
Under Army regulatiOns, a 
man accused of a crime "has a 
nght to be represented in his 
defense . . . by the military 
counsel of his own selection" in 
addition to the military lawyer 
assigned him. 
But neither Smith nor Hutson 
has been given that privilege by 
the Army. Although each has an 
assigned lawyer, neither has a 
military lawyer of his own 
choosing. Some of the officers 
charged in the alleged massacre 
have at least three military 
attorneys. 
When Smith had ,·harges 
brought against him at Ft. Riley, 
Kan., he asked that Capt. 
Delmar C. Gowing represent 
him. Gowing went with Smith to 
a Peers Commission hearing in 
Washington Dec. 30. 1969, 
where Smith testified. 
But when Smith was trans­
ferred to Ft. McPherson, Ga., 
along with the others accused in the massacre, Gowing was not allowed to continue as Smitti's 
counsel-even  though  Smith  
specifically requested it.  
-·  He  appealed  the  Ft.  Riley  

decision to the commanding general of the 5th U.S. Army. The appeal was denied on the grounds Gowing "had too many cases already." 
Hutson was charged by the Army March 9, I970. He re­quested that Capt. Richard S. Derbis be appointed as the counsel of his choice March 10. That request was denied as was a request for Capt. J~hn D. Link, who was stationed at the Presidio in San Francisco. 
Next, Hutson asked for Capt. Gerald /J. ngermier, stationed at Ft. Leonard Wood, Mo. 
"That request is stilJ pend­ing," Hutson said. "But it appears he also will be denied me." 
Hutson said the Army then gave him the names of four military attorneys from which to choose. 
"None of them had hanuled anything more than AWOL cases, and here they wanted to put them on the biggest case the Army's ever had," Hutson said. 

Pro Nixon statement issued 
A group of Notre Dame stuJents has drawn up a petition in support of Prt:sident Nixon and made the first tentative efforts to elicit support from individual members of the facul­ty' auministration, and students. 
Observer News Editor Stt:ve Hoffmann commented that the primary purpose of the group's action was "to show that there is an intellt'ctually and morally respectable position which sup­ports the President's policy in Southeast Asia." He stressed that "we are not in the numbers game. We only wish to point out that many respected members of the Notre Dame community do not agree with the opinions expressed in dogmatic terms by so many faculty, students. and administrators in thepast few weeks." A special target of the group, according to Hoffman, were those freshmen and sophomores who may assume that the anti-war position is the only rational one because it has receiveJ the most vocal support in the timt: that they have been at Notre Dame. 
A secondary purpose of the petition is to influence Con­gressional leadc.>rs, to whom the petit ion will be sent after about two weeks of circulation. 
Flan ner Hall President Joe Cassini emphasized that the signatures collected so far were a result of only about I wo day's ri rculation. According to Cassini, the organizers will con­tinue to circulate the petition and attempt to reach as many as possible. He said that "so far we have contactt:d only a small number of Arts and Letters professors, and only isolated indivicluals in the other colleges. 
( CllllfillliCJ 011 page J) 
The commitmt-nt of the United States to defend South Vietnam and the recent steps taken by President Nixon in pursuit of this end are.necessary components of a sound anJ responsible foreign policy. 
The commitment to defend the South is sound because the basic national interests of the United States are involved, and would be significantly impaired were South Vietnam unable to maintain its sovereignty in the face of present attacks. The U.S. 

·cannot afford to permit the loss of a country whose fall wouJJ ~ilitarily endanger other governments of Southeast Asia, nor can 1t accept a major extension of the Chinese sphere of influence in· As1a With a corresponding reduction of our own power in Asia and the Pacific area. 
Further, lack of ability or willingness to defend South Vietnam would. e~~ourage communists to promote wars of "national llherat 1on elsewhere and would promote a deleterious "wave of t!1e future" psychology among uncommitted nations. The faith of our allies to whom we have pledged aid for defc.>nse could not but 
be shaken. A communist takeover in South Vietnam would mean the replacement of an imperfect democratic government Jedicated to 1ts own. Idealogy, a tyranny whose first act would be the syst emat1c murder of t~ousands, tens of thousands, of people. T~e commitment of U.S. troops to Cambouia in a limited tact1cal operation to dear out enemy bases is clearly within the constltutwnal power of the President as Commander-in-Ch.ef
1 Smce the ultimate aim is to "Vietnamize" the war the soundesi ~ollcy at the present time is to ensure that South Vietnamese forces Will be in the best possible position against their attackers as U.S. combat participation gradually decreases and ends 
Lcavu1~ vulnerable major enemy bases and heaJquarter~ untou~hed wouldbe clearly without justification under the present Circumstances. 

~e. therefore. support. President Nixon's policy in Southt•ast Asw, hellevmg that 11 IS 111 the best interests in South Vietnam the llmted States, anJ the free world. ' 
Professor Henry Carter -Moderr · Arts and Letters Languages 
Assistant Dean Richard J. Professor Edward Murphy · Law Thompson -Arts and Letters Rev. Edward O'Connor ·Theology Professor Gerhart Niemeyer Dr. J. Massingberd Ford 
Government Theology Associate Dean Edward Jerger 
Assistant Dean Robert J. Waddick 

Dr. Bernard Norling· History Engineering Mr. Thomas O'Dea · Modern 
Languages Sociology Professor Charles Rice · Law Associate Profe,;sc.r Christopher Assistant Professor Joseph Gatto 
Associate Professor Robert Vasoli­

-Fagan -Economics Modern Languages Associate · Professor Gregory Professor Paul Mclane· English Curme -Economics Rev. Edward Keller-Economics Associate Professor Richard Professor Frederick Dow Lamanna-Sociology , Marketing-Management Associate Professor Charles Biondo Rev. J.J. McGrath · Biology ·Music Dr, Charles Poinsatte · Historv 

Page 2 
MONJ',W, MAY 18, 1970 
YR's elect officers for upcoming year 
Tuesday afternoon the Col­lege Republican Club elected their officers for the coming year. Elected were Joe Fitzmyer, Chairman, Ann Therese Darin, Co-chairman, and Tom Wagner, Secretary. 
Comme1;1ting on the election Fitzmyer said: "Next year pro­mises to be an important year 
Communivers"ity 

MONDAY, MAY 18 
Craftsmen in OpticsSJ ' 
1:00 p.m. Radical University Lemuel Joyner Arthur Hochberg Sister Rita Mercille 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
Moderator: Jay Noonan 
SMC Coffeehouse 2:00p.m. Economic Aspects of


JlpuseP/VisiPii I) 
The House of Vision, Inc. 
U.S. Imperialism John Kraniak LaFortune Student Center-Room 2D
Coming back 
3:00p.m. Debate on fJatfield­

GAMrus 
McGovern Amend-
for Summer 
ment LaFortune Student


Session? 
Center, 2nd floor 
4:00 to 3 Humanisms 

'70 
Take part in 
5:30p.m. Hans Verweyen LaFortune Student
CAMPUS '70 ­
Center, 2nd floor 7:00p.m. Roman tic ism and 
an innovative look at Education ­
Revolution 
delegations from U. of Detroit 
John Lyon LaFortune Student
Holy Cross (Mass.), Texas 
Center, 2nd floor 8:00p.m. Cuba
Christian -among those 
Jim Engels 
Mike Scahill Dan McCauslin 
participating 
call Fr. Downs 5377 
Law Auditorium 



Chevrolet. Right Car. Right Price. Right Now. 

NOW ON SALE. Impala, America's most popular car. You simply buy any Impala V8 model. And you simply order Turbo Hydra-matic transmission, radio, white stripe tires, front and rear bumper guards and the convenient Comfortilt steering wheel. Then we include a big regular fuel 400­cubic-inch V8 and dual exhausts. At no extra charge, during The Big Impala 400 Sale. 

Nova now $159 LESS* Now you can order a new Nova at a $159 price reduction. Coupe or sedan. Four-, six-or eight-cylinder engine. With these Novas the day-night mirror, bias belted ply tires, cigarette lighter and seat belt retractors, formerly Chevelle. $148 LESS* Chevelle. $147 LESS* standard, are still available as options. than our previous lowest priced 4-door. than our previous lowest priced hardtop. Place your order at your Chevy dealer's. America's most popular mid-size Now America's lowest priced sedan at a new low price. mid-size hardtop. 
We took America's best selling mid-size car. Then added two new lower priced models. Lower priced they are But lower 
~ A"~n _!DIItn~-~i~~d looking and feeling they areu't. 
.. Monte Carlo is hundreds of dollars less than other personal luxury cars. Huudreds. 
Yet Monte Carlo's a car of thickly padded seats. An instrument panel with the look of Carpathian burled elm. Plush carpeting. 
Monte Carlo is every bit the luxury car. Try the real thing at your Chevrolet dealer's.
Monte Carlo Luxury for only $3,123* 
•eased on manufacturer's suggested retail prices, includ­ing federal eltcise tax and suggested dealer new vehicle preparation charges. Destination charges, state and local taxes and optional equipment additional. 



for the club on campus. The ~ouldn't see any purpose getting campaign in the fall will be our mvolved m an off election year" Next year we w1·11 be an a··t1·ve.
most important activity_. , ~ Miss Darin felt that she had part of the club. her work cut out for her. "The When a~ked h~w t,hey felt 
St. Mary's membership was ~bout P~s1de_nt N1xon s. recent down this year. I think it was mterve~twn m C_ambo~Ja, the because there was no election Repubhcans were m ·baste agree-last fall. I know many girls who ment. Fitzmyer commented: 
. "M . 
agree With me politically but r. N1xon wants to get out of 
Vietnam as much as anyone. . . . . . . p b bl H . . say which IS most Important. but thro ba yt _mborhe so. e IS domg I think the Senatorial race will 
e es JO e can; Cambodia . was a matter of judgment.. spark the most mterest. Senator Asked if they thought the Hartke_ clearly showed at Indi-
President used good judgment, anapohs t~at he d1d not re~pect Miss Darin answered: "It is too students n?hts when _h~ cant use early to tell. Mr. Nixon asked for them,toF_hJs own pohtlcf·al ~dvan­eJ·ght weeks t . h h" tage. 1tzmyer was re ernng to 
0 accomp1IS IS . "d t h M'd
mission. For at least that long an m~1 en at t e 1 west he has my full su ort." ' Repubhcan Conventmn_ where PP Hartke allegedly used h1s Sena­
Wh~n asked what elections he torial influence to take a considered most important, meeting room from the students Fitzmyer stated: "It is hard to who had contracted for it. 
Concept of Christian 
soldier discussed 
A small group gathered in the ballroom of LaFortune Center at 3 p.m. yesterday afternoon for a ninety minute seminar discussing the problems of "The Christian in Uniform." 
Moderated by Father Maurice Amen, the seminar provided for dialogue and exchange of opin­ions, particularly related to the concept of the "Christian sol­dier." 
Father Amen, who said, "I would not argue for the removal of ROTC from campus,"· thought he "would probably be 1gainst a completely volunteer umy." He considered it impor­<ant for the army to be balanced by a certain number of men who found fighting wars "difficult." 
Emphasizing that Christianity is broad enough to accomoda te varying stances, he wondered. 
"can you really outlaw, under the banner of Christianity, a man who chooses quite seriously to go into .the military?" "The· Christian soldier," he said, "might well fit some of your fathers who fought in World War 
II." 
A topical idea brought up was the concept of a "just war." Father questioned the possibility of any war being just. He noted that, for all its apparent justness, World War II, by virtue of bombings at Dresden and Hiro­shima were "unjust." 
One participant expressed a desire to see Christians serve because "they liked it." He added, "Maybe there's some­thing to peace keeping." Fr. Amen concurred. "One of the heroic occupations of a Christian might be as a peace keeping force." 
When asked "How does one best work for peace?" Father Amen considered serving "in uniform to be one way. "I like the principle of corruption from within," he claimed. 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 ·ZIP: 60611 
Please odd soles tax where applicable 
The Observer Is published daily 
·during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame. and St. Mary's College. Subsciptions may be purchased for ·$8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 



MONDAY, MAY 18, 1970 

•
Ex SBP-..SBVP ISStJe 

The followirlg is the text of a letter released by Phil McKenna and Fred Dedrick. 
Fellow Seniors, 
Many of us are now, or will 

soon be, faced with one of the 
most serious decisions of our 
lives: the decision regarding our 
response to military service. Our 
student deferments end; occupa­
tional deferments will not be 
available. More than ever before, 
the decision must be made. 
There are many among us who believe that the present war in Indo-China is a moral atrocity to which we cannot in good conscience contribute. Some of us are total pacifists, while others among us believe that this particular war is unjust and immoral. In either case, our present legal alternatives are few. We may (if we are total pacifists) apply for C'onscier.tious Objec­tor status, but we must accept the possibility of being denied legal recognition of our moral stance, or we must accept alternative service that may ignore our particular skills. If we are not total pacifists, we may perjure ourselves by filing for Conscientious Objector status; we may emigrate; we may go to prison; we may hope that our lottery number will not be called; or we may seek a medical deferment, justified or not. 
Thus, those of us who are morally opposed to the war in Indo-China are faced with a particularly enormous moral dilemma. 
What then can we do? 
Presently, senators, congress­men, and bishops are being contacted to request support for a Selective Conscientious Objec­tor amendment to the present draft law. We applaud this and 
Forums scheduled tonight 
The following is a list of locations, times and faculty participants for the various dis­cussions to be held tonight. 
Alumni Prof. Samir Bose (Physics) 9:00-Open Discussion Prof. Paul McLane (English) I0:30-Open Discussion 
Badin 
Prof: Randy Klawiter (Modern 
Languages) 8:30-Open Discussion Prof. Michael Sain (Electrical 
Engineering) 9:00-Open Discussion 
Breen-Phillips 
Prof. Donald Li_nger (Civil 
Engineering) 7:00-Topic: Armament Prof. Larry Murphy (English) 
• 9:00-Open Discussion 
Cavanaugh Prof. W. 1. Tomasch (Physics) 7:30-Open Discussion Prof. Stephen Kertesz (Govern­
ment) 9:00-Open Discussion 
Dillon Prof. Joe Brennan (English) 9:00-Literary Attitudes 
Toward War 

Prof. Sperry Darden (Physics) 10:00-War Research 
PETITIONERS CALL FOR HELP 
(continued from page 1) 
Likewise, only a few isolated administrators and students have yet seen the statement." 
In co-nnection with this aspect of the problem, Hoffman stated that it ought to be clearly understood that people signing the statement were doing so strictly as individuals and not as representatives of the University, the department, or anyone else. "For some, it is a rare exercise in 'political' activity, and they want to avoid any possible taint of politicizing the University in any way whatsoever, since that would go against their strongly held convictions." 
The leaders of the drive said that anyone who wished to sign the statement or help to circu­late it among faculty, adminis­tration, and stpdents should contact Steve Hoffman ( 126 8-P, 1259), Joe Cassini (315 Flanner, I026), or Bruce Kuennen (721 Grace, 6863). 
Farley Prof. John Meany (Education) 3:30-Open Discussion Prof. Gerard Schilling (Physics) 8:00-Topic: What Can a 
Physicist Do? Fisher Prof. Mrs. Jean Rytina (Sociology) 8:00-University, Poverty & Race Prof. William Berry (Electrical Engineering) 
9:00 -Open Discussion 
Flanner Fr. Aiden Kavanaugh (Theology' 8:00-Open Discussion Prof. Peter Walshe (Economics) I0:30 -Topic: Reform of 
Undergraduate Education Grace Prof. Paul Kennedy (Physics) 9:30-Open Discussion 
Holy Cross Prf Prof. Robert E. Clay (Math) 8:30-Open Discussion Prof. Seymour Singer 
(Computer Science) 9:00-Open Discussion 
Howard Prof. F. W. Dow (Business) 9:00-Open Discussion 
Keenan Prof. Karl Kronstein (Math) 
8:30 -Topic: Successful With­drawal of DeGaulle from Algeria 
Prof. John Lucey (Engineeringr 
9:00 -Open Discussion Lyons Prof. Robert Evans 
(Govcrmilent) 9:00-Topic: Communist Party in Southeast Asia 
similar efforts, but it does not solve our immediate problem. A group of Notre Dame 
students and faculty are willing to devote their time and energy to provide another alternative. The alternative is to have Notre Dame graduating seniors and alumni collectively confront the 'present draft law. Living to­gether, we would file CO appli­cations, based either on total pacifism or objection to the present war in Indo-China. Uti­lizing the legal, moral, and financial resources available to us, we would be ·prepared to collectively confront, in court, the constitutionality of the pres­ent draft law. While living together we would be able to work in South Bend, perhaps attempting to alleviate many of 
Page 3 

HIP IT HOME AIR FREIGHT 
May 26th through June 3rd 


You Can Ship Collect 

Detaih·d room flyen will be pa~~ed out latn. 

The idea is still in its embry­
onic stages, but the possible 

consequences of such an action are astounding. By standing together, we would be able to utilize financial and legal aid that would be unavailable if we were to stand alone. The possi­bility of effecting legal and political changes is very real. Most importantly, we would be answering our moral consciences in an affirmative way. 
If you have any interest in this idea, please come to the 
LIBRARY A UD!TORIUM MONDAY NIGHT, MAY 18, a; 
JOp.m. 
We believe that our right not to kill unjustly is inalienable, 
and we are willing to defend it. Thank you for your atten­tion. 
the social injustices now present r------------..L------------~ 
in the city, and share in a new and exciting educational experi­ence. 
Morrissey Prof. Raymond Kent (Finance) 8:00-Topic: Morality of 
Involvement inS. E. Asia Rev. Charles Sheedy (Theology) 
7:00 -Open Discussion 

1 Pangborn Prof. Henry Thacher (Computer Science) 9:00-Topic: The Computer and Society 
St. Ed's Prof. Ernest Sandeen (E~glish) 9:00-Topic: Protest in 
American Literature (Focus 
on Thoreau) Sorin Prof. Edward Cronin (General 
Program) 9:00-Open Discussion Prof. Thomas Fern (Art) 9:00-Open Discussion 
Stanford Prof. Morton Fuchs (Biology) 9:00-Open Discussion Prof. William Storey (Theology) 10:00-Open Discussion 
Walsh Prof. James Danehy (Chemistry) 9:00-Topic: White Racism Prof. Paul Shanley (Physics) I0:00 -Open Discussion 

Zahm Prof. Joseph Gatto (Languages) 9:00-Topic: History of Commu­
nist Involvement in Vietnam Prof. Willis D. Nutting (General Program) 9:00-Liberal Education 
For location of meetings in each hall call 1858 or the appropriate Hall President. 



THE ECOLOGY MAJOR SAID CONSERVATIVELY: 
MILLER MAKES IT RIGHT! 
SEND US 
YOUR 
ADJECTIVE 
PUNS ABOUT 
COLLEGE 
MAJORS. IF 
PUBLISHED, 
WE'LL SEND 
YOUA 
REFRESHING 
REWARD. 
COLLEGE BOX e2 
© MILLER BREW. CO. MILW., WIS. 53201 


MONDAY, MAY 18, 1970

.. Page 4 

•

Irish rema1n undefeated -at home 
by Jim Donalson double to center field that Krill clubbed his third homerun plated the go-ahead runs for the of the season, a 340-foot shot
Observer Sportswriter 

Irish. over the scoreboard in left field. Led by the power hitting of With the score tied 2-2 and 
Wayne State tied the score by
Phil Krill and fine pitching one out Joe Keenan started the 
plating a pair of runs in the fifth
efforts by Ron Schmitz and Irish surge in the sixth by 
inning. Don Vilnius opened the
Mickey Karkut, the Fighting beating out an infield hit. Lucke 
frame by singling. After Jim
Irish baseball team upped their a walk both
drew and runners 
Cooper hit into a fielder's choice 
season record to 14-12 by scored when Orga gunned his 
Wayne pitcher Doug Konieczny
sweeping a doubleheader from
,.. two-bagger over the Tartar cen­
singled. Jim Cooper followed
Wayne State Saturday at Cartier terfielder's head. Orga moved to 
Konieczny to the dish and
Field, posting winning margins third base when Wayne State 
rapped a single to score Cannon
of 6-2 and 5-2 in the seven­attempted a belated play on 
and send Konieczny to third. A
inning contests. 

Lucke coming to the plate. 
sacrifice fly by Rick Coppol
The Irish broke a 2-2 dead­Charley Horan drove in Orga 
plated tie

lock with a four-run sixth inning with a sharp single to left. A Konieczny to the 
score but the Irish bounced back
to take the first game while walk to Tom O'Conner filled the 
in the sixth and grabbed the win.
Krill's three-run homer and Rich 
bases and Ron Schmitz gaveLucke's two-run triple led Notre an insurance Schmitz yielded six hits, fan­
himself run byDame to a win in the nightcap. ned three in picking up his fifth
rapping a ground single between Bill Orga, spurred on by an victory of the season against a
first and second to score Horan ardent group of supporters in pair of losses.
and complete the Irish scoring.the stands, provided the big Notre Dame wasted no time
The Irish had grabbed an early 
I
blow in the decisive sixth inning 2-0 lead in the second inning in moving into the lead in the l 
I 

of the opener, belting a long second game, pushing a pair of
when, after Horan had walked, runs across in the first inning. Rob Voitier opened the Irish half of the first bv drawing a 
base on balls. Nick Scarpelli fol­lowed Voitier with a single and Lucke plated both runners with a line triple to right center. 
Krill drilled his second round­tripper of the day, a three run shot to right center, to drive in what proved to be the winning 
Athlete of the year 
• runs in the fourth inning. Orga and Horan, who had singled, crossed the plate ahead of the powerful 1 rish shortstop who took the dub homerun leader­ship from Lucke by knocking his fourth of the season out of the park, 360 feet from home plate. 
Phil Krill (of Erie) took over the club leadership for home runs in
Karkut, who had shutout 
the two Notre Dame victories. The shortstop hit two round-trippers
Wayne State for the first six 
in the Saturday doubleheader to give him four for the season.
innings, tired badly in the final stanza and surrendered a pair of 
outs. and then slipped a third strike 
runs but managed to hang on 
Irish coach Jake Kline went to past the last Tartar batter to 
and pick up his third win of the 
the mound to talk with Karkut wrap up the win. 
year against five setbacks. 

and decided to stay with the tall The Irish conclude their Bob Kloss opened the Wayne 
left-hander. Kline's confidence season this week, playing their seventh by belting a solid triple. 
was rewarded as Karkut worked final home game of the year this Larry Janness scored Kloss with 
out of the jam by fanning the afternoon at 3 o'clock versus the a single and when Vilnius and 
next hitter, yielded a sacrifice Northwestern Wildcats and fin­Jim Saros singled, Wayne State fly to Ron Waring that brought ishing the year on the road, at had loaded the bases with no in the second Wayne State run, Valparaiso, on Tuesday. 


Golfers finish it up right 
by Bruce Kennedy Cvengros and Wilson graduate. freshment, should form a back­so the team looks for increased bone for the team in the next
Observer Sportswriter 

success next year. Dunn and three years. Fr. Clarence Durbin 
N D's Bob Battaglia was me­
Battaglia, juniors, will be back, encourages anyone who has an
dalist Saturday as Notre Dame 
and LaFrance and Best, only interest in golf to try out. 
won a home invitational on Burke Golf Course. The Irish totaled 763, seven strokes better than second place 
MAJOR l~EAGUES
Southern Illinois. Ball State and Central Michigan tied for third 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
AMERICAN LEAGUE

with 772, followed by Western East
East Michigan 778, Eastern Michigan w Pet.
L GB w L Pet. GB785, Western Illinois 796, Chicago 17 15 .531 
Baltimore 24 9 .727 Northern Illinois 830, and Val­New York 18 16 
.529 New York 19 16 .543 6 paraiso 870. St. Louis 16 16 .500 1 Detroit 15 16 .484 8 Pittsburgh 16 20 .444 3
Battaglia had 72-75, edging by Boston 15 17 .469 8Y, Philadelphia 13 21 .382
two strokes Terry Bevington of 5 Washington 13 20 .394 11 CMU and Jerry Glenn of SIU. 
Montreal 12 21 .360 5Y, Cleveland 11 18 .379 11 
Bob Wilson and Bill Cvengros carded 151 for the Irish, and 
West 
West

teammate Mike Lafrance to­
Cincinnati 27 .730

10 Minnesota 22 10 .688taled 153. Jim Dunn and Marty Los Angeles 20 15 .625 *California
6 23 11 .676 Best had 163 and 164, respe~:­Atlanta 19 16 .543 
7 *Oakland 17 18 .486 6Y, tively. Houston 18 19 .486 9 Chicago 15 19 .441 8 This victory was the high San Fran. 18 20 .474 9Y, Kansas City 13 21 .382 10 San Diego 17 22 .436 11
point of a mediocre season for Milwaukee 11 23 .323 12 the golfers. Other good showing 
Montreal 8 Pittsburgh 7 Minnesoat 6 Milwaukee 1
included a second at Ball State's 
St. Louis 4 Chicago 3 Kansas City 3-8 Chicago 2-4
four team tourney and a fifth 
Los Angeles 8 Sanfrancisco 0 California 7-3 Oakland 1·2
out of IS at Miami of Ohio. The 
San Diego 5 Houston 3 second game is 4th inning score
squad took 19th out of 40 at the 
Cincinnati 5-7 Atlanta 1-6 

Baltimore at Washington, ppd. rain season opening Gulf American New York at Philadelphia, ppd. rain 
Detroit at New York, ppd. rain

Tournament, but pla~:ed low at 
Cleveland at Boston, ppd. rain

Ohio State, Illinois, and Purdue. Bob Wilson averaged 75.5 strokes per 18 holes, best for the
Polling more than half of the votes in this year's balloting, Austin 
Irish. Other Irish averages were
Carr has been named The Scholasti~:'s "Athlete of the Year" for 
Cvengros, 77.9; Lafrance and
1969-'70. Carr. captain of NO's basketball team in only his junior 
Battaglia, 79.8; Dunn 80.8; and
year. was the second highest point-producer in the nation with 1,106 Best 8 2.4. 
points on a 38.1 average. Austin will return next year to lead the 
Of the six golfers. only
Irish hoopsters in hope of another winning season. 






