
New Senate convenes, committees list aims 
by Milton Jones 
Acknowledging organization as the first consideration of the student senate, SBP Dave Krash­na opened the first senate meet­ing of the present school term. In order to acquaint all present with the organizational format of the meeting, Krashna outlined several basic points of procedure for each session. 
· Next, Stay Senator Tom Thrasher described the Student and Human Affairs committees and canvassed members for both groups. According to Thrasher the Student Affairs committee, headed by Fred Giuffrida, deals with various phases of student life, while the Human Affairs Committee deals with minority problems not covered by the student committee. 
Following Thrasher, Stay Senator Ron Weber outlined the structure of the Student Union and Academic Affairs commit­tees, and solicited senators for each. Weber stated that the Aca­demic Affairs Committee will deal with academic problems such as pass-fail systems and student-teacher conflicts, while the Student Union committee will act as a watch-dog type of board which controls the Stu­dent Union, investi!]:ates finances and student government, and performs other similar tasks. 
With the resignation of Glen Corso, SLC representative for Planner and Grace Towers, the Senate was assigned the task of finding a replacement to fill the sixth student representative posi­tion on the SLC. The Senate decided to fill the vacant post by holding an election in the towers. This action will be taken by the election board of the Student Senate. 
Before closing the meeting, Krashna announced a list ·of pro­posals to be submitted to the Board of Trustees from the Committee for Social Under-standing. This board is function­ing at present in place of the University Forum. Some of the suggested proposals included coed dining . halls, a mall and shopping center, more minority student programs and funds, and a reformed University Forum which will be more alive, bene­ficial and functional. 


Fieldhouse and LaFortune restoration advised 
by Jerry Lutkus posal are the Fieldhouse, La­posals contend, because of the have a shop on campus where cept the publications which 
Last night, the Committee for Fortune, and the Psychology total lack of utilization of the they could sell their crafts. The could be moved to the adjacent Social Understanding met to Building. center. It is claimed that the shop could handle leather goods, Psychology Building, which is verify two proposals which they The proposal states, "The offices in the center and the sandals, paintings, beads, etc., all soon to be vacated. The com­intend to present to the Student close proximity of Washington Huddle serve the only "clear and manufactured by the students. mittee hopes that an academic Affairs branch of the Board of Hall , the Fieldhouse, and the valuable purposes." Their ideas A student hostel is the pro­department could also be moved Trustees on Thursday morning LaFortune Student Center con­are listed on a floor-by-floor posed possibility for the top to the same building where the at II :00. stitutes a nucleus of facilities basis. floor of the center. close proximity to the publica­
The first proposal, written by devoted to social and (non­For the ground floor of the The committee recommends tions would benefit both. Professor Richard Bizot of the academic) cultural pursuits. This center (now occupied by the "the conversion of the entire The second proposal of the English Department, and Sopho­nucleus, located at a central Rathskeller), they recommend third t1oor to a student hostel, committee deals with the Dining more Dan 0'Donnell, concerns point on the campus, deserves to that it be converted into office providing inexpensive accomoda­Halls. the renovation and suggested use be maintained; in fact, it de­space for all of those organiza­tions to campus guests who can­The major proposal here calls of buildings in the area of La-serves to be improved, by reno­tions now occupying LaFortune. not afford more expensive for the establishment of an inter­
, Fortune Student Center. The vation and by addition. rooms." changeable dining pass good in 
The establishment of an in­

buildings involved in their oro-They urged that the Field­All of the offices located on either school's dining halls. 
expensive, limited coffeehouse
house be renovated unless an Though cost differences · may
the third floor would then be 
restaurant is in their plans for
entirely new arts center yan be moved to the ground floor ex-(Continued on page 4)
the first floor of the student
built. They argued that the reno­
center. It would be part cafeteria
vation of the fieldhouse would 
Student Ass. rejects literary fee;
and part waitress-served. It
supply a great deal of necessary would not be merely "an enlarge­
space for the pursuance of the 
ment of the Huddle; that would
arts at Notre Dame. Professor 
allocates ABCW S500

simply multiply and magnify
Bizot contended that the con­current inadequacies." meeting to request an allocation
struction of an entirely new art 
by Sue Mullin 
of $600 for the ABCW. She saidcenter would not be necessarv Bizot said that office space on Last night the Student Assem­that the association hopes tosince the renovation of the this floor could be preserved if bly voted against charging stu­raise $350 on its own.

Fieldhouse would serve the same necessary. 
dents a ten dollar publication fee According to Miss Sanderspurpose at a great reduction of The committee's next propo­with their tuition. Members of their budget would be as fol-cost. If the University decides to sal concerned the Fiesta Lounge the Assembly objected to the . lows: $450 for speakers, $150construct a new center, however, on the second floor of La For-· motion on the basis that most of for conference, $50 for paper,the Committee recommends pre­tune. They suggest to the Trus­the money would go to the Blue $50 for duplicating, and $150servation of the west end of the tees that the Lounge be con­Mantle and not all students may miscellaneous. She also said thatFieldhouse for aesthetic and util­verted into a Student Used Book want a yearbook. the ABCW has no program foritarian purposes. Exchange and Student Co-op Carol Sanders, treasurer for speakers yet as they need toThe recommendations for La­Craft Shop. The idea here sug­the Association of Black Colle­know how much money theyFortune are necessary, the pro-gested that the students should 
giate Woman (A BCW) was at the will have in their budget. The Student Assembly passed a motion to allocate $500 to the
"The Silent Majority" could swing to leftist tone 
ABCW. It was also voted to have the ABCW's books audited by

WASHINGTON (UP!) -The My own soundings in the the "Middle American" will put i>'i victory in New York. And Student Body Treasurer Carol all purpose 1970 re-elect ion an­grassroots indicate that this is a lamp shade on his head and perhaps in a few other states as Lacey.alysis: going to be a bad year for demonstrate a few of the jitter­well. Carol Lacey made a financial 
The big question perturbing nematodes in the lawn. But that bug steps he learned during This is called ticket splitting, report to the Assembly. Accor­political pundits these days is is another story. Back to poli­World War II. So don't take his 1 and it confronts us with vet 
ding to Miss Lacey about whether the swing to the right tics. vote for granted. another constitutional crisis. $14,000 will be taken in from predicted by Scammon and Wat­Assuming that the pundits are This brings us to New York. 
Student Government fees this'If Miss Jorgensen, who was

tenberg in their book "The right, it is obvious that we are In New York there is a four year. The Student Assembly
known as Mr. Jorgensen beforeGreat Majority" actually is tak­'way race for Senate among:
going to have a real swinging hopes to leave next year's stu­
swinging to another sex, is
ing place. election this year. Despite the Richard Ottinger, a Democrat; dent government about $4000
elected a senator in more than
Soundings taken at the grass­fact that the bars will be closed James Buckley, a Conservative; to carry over from May to Octo­
one state, shall she be forced toroots by a number of pundits during polling hours. Charles Goodell, a Republican ber. This year's Assembly wasrelinquish one of the seats? Orindicate there is indeed a swing And what of the "Middle except in the household of Vice left with only $1567.83 fromwill the Senate have to limpto the right. Particularly among American" we have heard so Presid;::nt Agnew, who uses an­last year's funds. 
along with fewer than 100 mem­conserva live voters. much about lately'! Well, present other word; and Christine Jor­The Assembly also discussedbers?
However, grassroot sounding indications are that he is much gensen, who isn't even on the the possibilities of co-education.
These are issues that may have 
taken by a number of other too much of a square to be ballm. Student Body President Ann pundits indicate the swing to the considered a swinger. Current trends, caused by the to be resolved by the U.S. Marie Tracy said that the Assem­Supreme Court. Or by sending
right by conservative voters may If, however, you roll up the votns swinging in different di­bly might meet with NotreMiss Jorgensen back to Sweden
be offset by a swing to the left. rec room rug and put a Law­rections, strongly indicate that Dame student government to among liberal voters. rence Welk album on the hi fi, Miss Jorgensen will win a write for another operation. discuss the matter. 

THI!. OBSERfJER.. Wednesday, October 28, 1970
Paqe 2 
Pre-Law Society -Villanova University School of Law, Vice Dean George Bruch is scheduling interviews for prospective stu· dents on Mon. Nov. 2, Room 205 Business Building. Sign up for appointments outside Room 101 
0 'Shaughnessy. On the spot scholarship aid will be made avail· able to students with outstanding qualifications and need for aid. 

Some people may have us wrong. It's possible. 
For instance, we Paulists are known for the printed and the spoken word. Books, radio, and TV. The glamorous world. 
But there is another, bigger world in which the Paulist moves ... 
A dusty corner in Utah where Paulists offer material and spiritual relief to migrant workers. 
An area known as East Village and a Paulist who understands the meaning of "taking a trip." 
A Newman Center on a troubled college campus and a priest who is not a judge but an understanding ear and a mediator. 
Being a Paulist isn't easy. Being a Paulist isn't glamorous. It's better. For more information on 
Paulist priestly spirit write to: 
Rn. Dooald C. Campbell, C.S.P. V ocatioo Director 
cpauJistth
Pa etS 
Room 112 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 
b S B V ue ury 
St. Mary's Department of Counseling is on an expansion course, with Miss Mary Martucci as director. 
When Miss Martucci came to the college three years ago, there was no counseling department as mch, but a number of places on campus where that type of help was available. Her job was to bring these resources together to .;reate a central office. 
"My interpretation of a coun­seling center is an area that handles developmental types of concerns which students this age have," Miss Martucci said. She stresses the prevention of stu­dent difficulties as well as the 
/t:-1 Bill's Pick-up Ser­vice for used furn~ture, appliances . and funk buying and selling -Call 
233-2646. 
SM-C counseling program reversed under guidance of Miss Martucci 
solution to them. 

The department director de­veloped the advisor program at SMC -· upper class advisors are assigned small groups of fresh­men to help them in adjusting to academic and other aspects of college and community life. 
"The advisor program is the key in this contemporary world," Miss Martucci said. "The society is complex and a peer group can help much more effectively ... there is no deep therapy; if the need is there, the freshmen are recommended to the Notre Dame psychological services." 
Miss Martucci is the only pro­fessionally trained person in her department and a "department of one cannot do all the things that a counselling service should do." She said that freshman year is a center of concentration for counseling help because it is the most difficult time in college life, but she is also responsible for the other three classes. 
"Counseling is based on stu­dent needs. It is concerned with developmental functions, cor­rective and preventive -counsel­ing can't be an end in itself, it has to be a service." 
The director has several goals in mind for the expansion of counseling services at St. 

Mary's: more professional coun-She ha.~ also written material selors, working out of the de-for nursing and mental health partment office, concentration journals, and has worked in of help to students other than neuropsychiatric divisions in freshmen, vocational testing for hospitals -· "that has always freshmen before ~.:allege or dur-been my interest." ing the first semester, facilities While visiting a friend in for personality appraisal and or-south Bend, she discovered ganization of groups of people that Notre Dame's "atmosphere with similar difficulties for their and environment appealed to mutual benefit. She has arranged me" and that the Notre Dame some vocational tests for fresh-program fit her needs. She came men next semester. here to complete her education 
"New professionals are num-and, after applying for a teach­ber one," she said. "It isn't only ing position at St. Mary's, was my effort. If we get more pro-asked by that administration to fessionals, we can get more in-establish a personnel department valved -we're kind of skimming on the campus. the surface. Miss Martucci observed that a 
"The main thing is personnel . teacher has more responsibility .. the enrichment and expansion than teaching his discipline. She of training to undergraduate per-feels that she would like to "go sonnel." the route of teaching" to help 
Miss Martucci describes her students -an "educator of own background as "moving educators." from one discipline to another." She said that she receives 
"satisfaction out of watching 
She is currently working on young people grow . . . they her dissertation, vocational de-keep you honest.' • velopment of women, in coun-She described her "dream": seling and guidance under the "Students can help each other department of education of with training. I'd like to have an Notre Dame. undergraduate level preparation 
She holds a master's degree in program for student personnel clinical psychology from Du-workers." She explained that quesne University in Pittsburgh, this kind of program is only with a minor in philosophy available on a master and doctor (Duquesne's existential psycho-level, and that an undergraduate logy program). degree in the counseling field 
Her bachelor's degree is in would be applicable to work nursing education and she served with students anywhere. "I have as director of the nursing pro-a vision of a student develop­gram at a professional school in ment center and people of this Pittsburgh. She was the mental type in there." health coordinator at Mount Miss Martucci feels that adults Mercy (now Carlow) College in have a responsibility to young Pittsburgh, and, at one time, people -she sees it as a respon­worked on developing a coun-sibility for which "I try to use seling center of professionals the talent I have in whatever from the five universities and way I can." colleges in that city. M ECHA meets 
She served an internship in a The Notre Dame Chicano stu­state mental institution there, dent organization, MECHA, willand had a "special stint" at a meet this evening at 7 p.m. in 
veteran's hospital, when tubercu-the Urban Studies workroom in 
losis was a primary medical the Rockne Memorial Building.
problem. She has traveled 
Proposals for the recruitment through the country, working as of "Ia raza" students formulated a teacher and with professional by the MECH A research com-and church-related groups. mitteewill be presented.. 
KEEPSAKE DIA 

R.K. MUELLER, INC. 
JEWELERS 
218 S. Michigan St. South Bend Phone: 233-4200 

FoR YouR HALLOWEEN WEEKEND ENJOYMENT 
Come to AMERICA... LISTEN AND DANCE TO THE SOUNDS OF ... 
All Girls Free (all others $1.00) 
THE MELTING POT 
Friday and Saturday Nlahts 
1:30--1 

_W~ed~n~es~d~ay~·,~O~c-to_b_er_2~8~,~19~7_0________________________________~~~~~~~~Cl.-~~--·~~muL-______________________________________________Page3 
Irish ruggers win one "with gusto'' 
by J.W. Findling had never heard of it. Neverthe­Dame controlled the set-serums there is no blocking. Smego the "B" team.Observer Sportswriter 
less, this year's Irish rugby team, thanks to some fine footwork by added the conversion and the Rugby games are never over. Rugby is the electric sport . A led by Captain Mike Morrison, is Smego, Morrison, and Ron Cher­
Irish enjoyed a 8--3 halftime They are relived long into the little hit of basketball. A little rated among the top three nak. The Irish also dominated 
advantage. night with beer and song. It is hit of soccer. A little bit of ~quads in the Midwestern Rugby the line outs (a cross between a During the second half. the 
part of the tradition. As Bill football. Actually rugby looks as Union. On Saturday the Irish jump ball in basketball and a better conditioned Notre Dame Berry puts it, "We beat the hell if a bunch of drunk Irishmen ruggers showed that they de­snap from center in football), team wore out their opposition. 

out of each other during the were playing "keep away" with served such ranking as they beat John Zukaitis who might pass as The lndy Reds tightened the game, then drink and be friends a ball over a century ago and the previously unbeaten Indy Elliot Gould and tall lanky Phil game midway through the 

after the game." Sure enough.

started making rules up as they Reds 11 -6 bringing their season Krause, who wouldn't pr,ss as his period with another penalty There was Charley Blum
went along. It is hardly a polite record to 4-1. father, both did a brilliant job of kick. However, the Irish soon sport. The players wear cleated The Indianapolis team looked tapping the ball back to the followed with a try by Mike (rhymes with serum) embracing an opponent whom he would
shoes and no padding. The field like something out of Gulliver~ halfbacks. Morrison. The Irish defense, led is twenty yards longer than a Travels. A conservative guess was Some fine kicking by Bob by some inspired tackling by Bill have gladly kicked just a few football field and there are no that they outweighed Notre Fries, Rich Campagna, and Jim Choquette, refused to allow the minutes before. The fellowship 
after such a brutal game is cer­time outs and no substitutions. Dame about 30 pounds per man. Hagenharth moved the ball into Reds to cross the goal line tainly amazing. Of course, the

The ball, which looks like an egg The Irish stars are little guys like Indianapolis territory near the during the whole game. The Irish ruggers warmly invited all those
with two blunt ends, must al­Bill Berry, Herb Giorgio, and end of the first half. The Irish "B" team was just as stingy as who watched along the sidelines
ways he passed laterally. It's the Mark Rubinelli. But whatever then scored as the serum got the they won 19-0. Chris Swalling to their party that night. Eight
perfect game for the Notre the Irish ruggers lacked in size, ball to Tom Herlihy who passed scored a try in each half. Fred kegs of Schlitz. And, why not?
Dame man who is too small to they more than made up for it to Herb (;iorgio. The speedy Manley, John Grieving, and John In rugby, as in life, you only go­play football, but who has too with speed, finesse, and better Giorgio ran thirty yards for a Leino each scored a try. Leino around once.
much fire in his body and too conditioning. scgre-a long run in rugby since also added two conversions for many rocks in his head to stay The Irish jumped off to an shut up in a dorm every after­early lead as Doug Smego kicked noon. a 22-yard penalty kick. The Indy 
All the members of the Notre Reds matched it with a penalty 
Co-eds balance the boat 
Dame Rugby Club had never kick of their own. Although the various regattas. Because of thiswinner in a regatta it still is
played the sport before they Indianapolis team kicked better The Notre Dame name is important to finish as high as they must also use opposing
came to du Lac; most of them than the Irish all day, Notre often held with high esteem in teams boats which may differ
possible. Team strengths are de­
major sports on the collegiate somewhat (in quality) from the
rived by comparing finishes. It is 
level. But this respect does not ones used on St. Joe Lake.
this fact which makes the Irish 
always step on the foot ball field Despite these troubles the
sailors a success this season. The 
or the basketball court. Most Irish have managed to emerge as
ND boats have consistently fin­
club sports at the university have one of the top sailing crews in
ished high in each regatta.let that winning attitude carry the Midwest. The biggest test of
The Irish Eye 
This success for the sailors has 
over to other athletics. Sailing is the season is approaching for the 
not come easy. Even though
one of these sports where aver­sailors in the form of the
most anyone could learn to sail 
age students have practiced e­Timmee Angstrom Regatta
in one afternoon, it takes a great
nough to be considered some of which is a national regatta held
deal of practice and patience to
the best sailors in the Mid west. in Chicago. The national finals
The wire service polls are a great idea. They add exdtement and develop a true skill at the helm.
Thl' Notre Dame Sailing Club will take place over Thanksgiving
controversy to the game of college football. Their job is to tell the Though a lot of time is re­
was st::rted in 1948 and is the but to reach these, ND must first
public about the relative strengths of teams who may never play quired in practice the club does
oldest existing club sport on get by the midwest Regional on
during the season. However, to an .ardent follower of the polls there have its advantages, e.g. those 15 
camp us. Its membership is November 7. The Irish must be
seems to be a certain amount of absurdity concerning the rankings. members from St. Mary's also
approximately 50 in number and one of the top two teams in this
This can be evidenced by a ~lance at this week's UPI ratings. It attend practice. One of these
it holds the distinction of being regatta in order to get to the 
seems that most coaches (they vote in this poll) don't take into young ladies, Regina Ivory, who 
one of the few sports at Notre finals. The club feels that it is
consideration what type of game was played by each team involved holds the title of Vice-commo­
Dame where the ladies from pretty certain of making this. 
in the rankings. The only thir.g weighted is who wins and who loses. dore of the club, explains why
across the road might also parti­Some of the more outstanding
It seems hard for this observer to believe that each team ranked in girls would get interested in thiscipate. There are IS girls in­sailors are the club Commodore
this poll is stronger than, say, the Southern Cal Trojans. lf SC played sport. "For one thing it's a lot ofcluded in the club. Tom O'Laughlin and his first aid
Yale or DartmoutHs schedule they would not only be undefeated, fun to be out on the lake sailing 
The rules for sailing are quite Miss Ivory. Also two very good
they would be unscorcd upon and their fifth string quarterback and it is a very exciting sport.
simple. It consists of a series of skippers, who take care of the
would probably have enough yardage to rank in the total offense The kids really get involved in 
races between a number of equipment, are Rear-commo­
leaders for the NCAA. the races. Besides, there are 
teams entered in a regatta. In the dores Tom Willison and Will
Another fault of the polls is that sometimes it just doesn't matter some advantages to having girls
regatta there are always two Donelan. Kevin Hoyt, the Secre­
what a t<.>am docs on a given week, there is just no possible way to in the club. We can serve as a
divisions with each club entering tary and Racing Team Captain
climb unless a team ahead of them loses. A good case in point is our good crew because we're light­
a boat in the "A" or "B" Tom Salack are veterans who
own Fighting Irish. Will it really matter how bad ND beats Navy this weights and that makes it easier
divisions. Each boat has a skip­handle boats well no matter
week? It simply isn't possible for Notre Dame to move up any higher to balance the boats." 
per who guides the boat and of 

what the conditions. These course is the most importantfor the next few weeks without an Ohio State or Texas defeat. Like most club teams, the 
The problem seems to arise from which squad gets the best sailors do meet some difficulties people supported by a number 
member of the team. He is aided

publicity rather than the best effort on the field on Saturdays. Ohio in competing on a section-wide of other sailing enthusiasts will 
by a crew which is only one

State was given the hilling last season as the greatest team ever level. They must furnish their represent Notre Dame next week 
person who simply tries to main­

assembled. Yet in one short week the mighty Buckeyes were own transportation to get to the at the Midwest Regionals.


tain balance in the boat.

completely forgotten and the Texas Longhorns were 
Scoring is done by totaling

"conservatively" labeled the best team of the decade. The point that 
the number of finish places that

is trying to be brought out here is that people tend to give 
each boat records. For example

superlatives much too easily today. 
if there were a six team regatta

Another factor that tends to go against having the polls is that 
there would be six races in each 

teams tend to run up scores against weaker teams just for the 
division. In each race the boat 

purpose of impressing the pollsters. Notre Dame has often fallen 
would finish in a certain place.

under the critics knife for this tactic when actually the Irish aren't as 
After the six races the place

guilty as some other big name football schools. 
num hers are totaled and the

Coach Ara Parseghian once proposed that a playoff system be set 
team with the combined lowest 

up similar to the basketball playoffs. For example, let eight teams be 
score wins the regatta.

eligible for the playoffs and the top eight in the polls at the end of 
Even though there is ~nly one

the season would then determine on the field and not in the newspapers over who was Number One. The problem here arises in limiting the field to eight teams. 
UPI Poll

Recause of the obvious difference in schedules it is hard to find the eight best teams. The choices become extremely subjective. Take 
I. Ohio State (1 7) 307 Ohio State. They play what amounts to a one game schedule, just as 
2. Texas ( l O) 271 Arkansas did last year. If they blew their only big game of the season 
3. Notre Dame (3) 269 

do they truly deserve a bid to this proposed tourney? 
4. Nebraska (3) 245 

So the controversy will rage on and it looks as though the only 
5. Michigan 171 

way ND will get into the top slot is by default, i.e. if they top two 
6. Stanford 145 

lose. Texas has gained the top position in the AP poll and OS U still 
7. Air Force 130 

holds the primary place in UPI Notre Dame, who the writers say 
8. Arkansas 81 

has yet to be tested, looks as though she will be mired in the third 
9. Tennessee 60 

position until bowl time comes. Hopefully both polls will hold off 
l 0. Arizona State 40 

on their final selections this year until after New Year's Day. This 
11. LSU 35 

may be the season that comes closest to fulfilling Ara 's wish for a 
12. Auburn 25 

playoff. 
13. Mississippi ll IRISH EYE-TEM--Therc are a number of polls already finding 14. San Diego St. 5 their way into print about another sport that Notre Dame may have 15. Oregon 4 some success at this season. More than one national magazine has 16. (tie) UCLA 2 predicted a good season for Johnny Dee and his charges. (tie) Yale 2 Austin Carr, Collis Jones, Jack Meehan et al have been practicing 18. (tie) Dartmouth I 
since October 14 and they have now started their yearly tour of the (tie) Toledo 1 Midwest with intra-squad scrimmages. (tie) Pittsburgh 
Roma's Restaurant 
21• N. Mlehla•n 
Pizza, Italian-American Food, Beer, Mne, Liquor 
DELIVERY SERVICE FOR ND-SMC STU­
DENTS -DISCOUNT ON DELIVERY 25% ­
DAILY 4-7 ~~(WITH THIS AD) 
Music Friday and Saturday 

~------------2_..__4__3~~~======~ 
STUDENT TEACHING 
Any St. Mary's -Notre Dame student eligi­ble for student teaching during second semes­ter 1970-71 should complete application in Room 321 Madeleva. 
Application Deadline-Friday, October 30. 
THE OBSERfJER.

Pa!le 4 
Committee proposes Dining Hall alterations 
(Continued from page 1) 
create an obstacle, wey hope that this can be worked out between the food services. Bizot and O'Donnell present eight de­·finite proposals for the dining halls on the campus of Notre Dame. The committee suggested that the South Dining Hall be divided up into smaller sections to cut down on the noise and impersonality. Next. they 
The second stage of Majors night will be sponsored by the St. Mary's Academic Commis­sion Thursday night, October 29, in Madeleva Hall at 8:00 P.M. 
As during the first half of majors night, students will have the chance to find out about the department of study they are interested in during the session. The participating departments explain major requirements, what the department has to offer the student, what can be done in the particular field after 
. Berrigan flick showing tonight 
The National Educational Tel­evision film "Holy Outlaw," a documentary of the Rev. Daniel Berrigan, will be shown at 7:30 
p.m. and 9 p.m. Wednesday (Oct. 28) in the University of Notre Dame's Engineering Audi­torium. The film is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. 
1971 BLUE MANTLE 
On sale until November 2, $7.50, Cal/4524 
recommended that a new form of serving be devised to cut down on the long lines. Their third idea proposed that each section of the dining hall serve 
different foods, thereby creating diversity for the students. They hope that tables can be reserved for certain group meetings in 
quiet areas for discussion. Live music in the South Dining Hall 
Tonight!

Stage two of Majors nite 
...........

scheduled for Thursday 

YOUR STORE IN STYLE, PRICES AND TERMS 
Use your account... 
PAY ON£·THIRD 
In January 
PAY ON£-TH_, 
In February 
PAY ONE-THIRD 
In March 
NO CARRYIMJ CHARGE 
at lunch and dinner would aid in destroying the present atmos­phere of the hall. Sixth, food service should make food avail­able to halls for hall dinners and cook-outs. 
All of the Dining Hall propo­sals incorporate the much dis­cussed possibility of co-educa­tion. They have been recom­mended with that fact in mind. 
..IKIRU"

graduation, and the co-exchange 
program with Notre Dame. 
Best Film A ward: Strat­

The following departments 
ford Film Festival

already presented their pro­grams: Chemistry, English, For­eign Studies Program, Mathe­
One of year's "ten best 

matics, Modem Languages, and 
films.": New York Times,

Speech and Drama. 
Saturday Review, Time 
Magazine

On Thursday the Economics and Business, Education, His­tory, Philosophy, Political 
Theology of Death lecture Series

Science, Psychology, Religious 
Wednesday, October 28

Studies, and Sociology depart­
Architecture Auditorium 

ments will be present to discuss 
8:00 + 9:30 PM their programs. 
I''''"FR"EE"''''''"'L'O"FFFF'I 
l~l~ At the ~~~~ 
I'TUO:::~::N.:::::::~~~~ 
IOPEN: Mon.-Thurs. 12:00-12:00 ~ 
0 0 
:~l~: Enter the coffee drawing and win 2 :lll\ 
L,,,_"":::::,::::::::::::::::::::*-MJ 
N•tlon•lly •dvertlsed 
ALL WEATHER 
COATS 
.......,... 


This is a real weather-beater ... it's the only coat you'd really need. Has 65% polyester/35% cotton outer shell that sheds rain, stains and wrinkles. In Black or Natural. Save $21.50 now. 
L•rae &roup of 
SUBURBAN COATS and JACKETS 
I/4 1/2 1/3 
OFF 


Wednesday, October 28, 1970 
(By lht author of Rally R01md tht Flag, Boytt ... Dobit c;;u;,. ... tlr.J 
Can Parietal Rights Bring Happiness? 

The second most serious problem currently facing our troubled campuses is the problem of parietal rights. (The first most serious problem of course is the recent outbreak of moult among sorority house canaries.) 
Let us today look for answers to the parietal rights problem, for that is the purpose of these columns: to analyze the dilemmas that vex our colleges, to seek feasible solutions. I write them for the brewers of Miller High Life Beer. In return they pay me money. That is the American way. It has made this country great. 
But I digress. A parietal right, as you know of course, is the right of a student to keep a parietal in his room. A parietal, as you know of course, is a· small North American marsupial somewhat like a chip­munk in appearance but actually a species of fur-bearing herring 
(mutatis mutandis). 
Naturally you all want to keep a parietal in your room. Not only are they endlessly cheerful-always romping and frisking and wagging their little binaries-but they're smart too. They're not as smart as dogs of course, but they can readily learn simple tricks like fetching your slippe~s or parsing a sentence. 
But the main reason you want a parietal is because they eat noth­ing but beer cans. I promise you, friends, you get yourself a healthy adult parietal and you'll never again have to lug empties to the trash barrel. And of course the better the beer can, the more he'll eat, which of course accounts for the popularity of Miller High Life on every campus. Obviously a beer as good as Miller is bound to come in a can of the same superb quality. And that's what Miller has-superb qual­ity. Also malt and hops and water and a marvelous brewing formula that's been kept secret for generations. In fact, this formula is so secret that it's known only to the chief brewmaster and he is never allowed to leave the brewery. So if you ever find yourself in Milwaukee, look up his wife. 
But I digress. A healthy adult parietal, I was saying, will eat his weight in Miller beer cans every day. However, if you drink your Miller in bottles-as millions do, and no wonder, for who is not tempted by such sparkling amber goodness in such crystal-clear bottles? Eh? Who is not?-if, I say, you drink your Miller in bottles, I have to tell you that parietals won't help. They don't eat bottles. In fact, the only pet that does is the scaly bursar (paramus newJersus), but take my advice: don't get one. The scaly bursar at best is a beast of sluggish demeanor and uncertain temperament. Oh, sure, sometimes it will play a little Monopoly when it's in the mood, but mostly it just lays around grooming its addenda. Moreover, it's given to sudden fits of pique and may tusk you without warning. 
But I digress. Why, you ask, won't the dean let you keep a parie­tal in your room? I'll tell you why: the parietal, a nocturnal animal, sleeps only by day. At night it is always awake and-here's the rub­during its waking hours it utters a loud, guttural croak approximately once every 21'2 seconds, a sound something like: "Prock ... Prock ... Prock." 
~ 


Well, naturally when "Prock . .. Prock ... Prock" starts booming down the corridors, every proctor in the dormitory leaps out of bed and comes running. Last year alone more than 30,000 of them were killed tripping on their nightshirts. 
And so, dear friends, you see that the dean does have a point. Won't you put down your grenade and have a meaningful dialogue with him? Sweet reason can still save your college. Don't let it go the way of so many others-abandoned hulks today, stark and silent ex­cept for ghostly sounds echoing in the night: "Prock ... Prock ... Prock." 
* * * 

We, the brewers of Miller High Life Beer, disregarding all prudent advice and sound advertising prcu:tice, will bring you more of these columns later if we are still in business. 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 



