The An Tostal Queen Candidates 

JBIII. ....... Thnadabul Malloney Fritzie Hoefer Jane Duea Going along with the An Tostal (merrymaking) theme, the Hall Presidents' Council has revealed its five candidates for An Tostal Queen. Getting as far away from tht!'straight" themes of other contests as possible.. the HPC will conduct the balloting tonight in the dining halls at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The lucky winner will be crowned Saturday af­ternoon prior to the chase, An Tostal Weekend General Chairman Ron Mastriana (Ronnie, center a .bove) announced yesterday. By the way, An Tostal gets under way tomorrow at 3:00 on the main quad with a Gaelic comedy. 

VOL. IV, No. 114 Scrt•inx t}!e NotrcDamc a!Ul 
~~~-~~~--------------------------~ 
DeBell opens Earth Day; notes ecological problems 
by Steve Effler 
study of zoology at the age of official manners. Starting from the hypothesis twelve. Later as a grad student in Eventually he struck out on that America is in a "state of biology at the University of his own as a speaker and as a 
ecological crisis", Mr. Garret De California at Berkeley, he wished lobbyist for Zero Population Bell, one of the leaders in the to present an interdisciplinary growth and Friends of the Earth. fight against pollution, detailed thesis on the problem of ecolo­He is one of the four full-time 
many of the problems faced by gical abuse in this country. When lobbyists who are opposing the this country in the realm of the department refused to allow a r g u men t pres en ted by the ecology. this, Oe Bell began to move hordes of industrial representa­Oe Bell claims that he has 
more and more on his own. For tives. 
been interested in these prob­two years he stayed at Berkeley De Bell emphasized that the lems since his earlv start in the teaching courses in various semi-pollution problem has been growing for quite a while but it
Candidates discuss SLC is only recently that people have 
become aware of it. He cites as
by Mark Walbran powers of the administrators and 
and Greg Pudhorsky the three main factors of the
the Board of Trustees." 
new a w arenesstherecent
Munching lluddleburgers, the Ottenweller was wholeheart­
"problems with oil, pesticides
members of The Observer editor­edly in favor of hall autonomy. 
and smog, and air pollution." In
ial board listened to the SLC ''Students within the halls," he 
the last couple years there have
candidates from the south qu"ad said, "should make the decisions 
been major spills off the coast of 
present their platforms last night about their living conditions." 
Britain and Santa Barbara. Along 
in The Observer office. "The reason I'm running for 
with many minor spills the
"The most important issue," the SLC, even though it may Garrett De BeD keynoted the Earth Day program.
destruction of wildlife and re­
said Chris Ottenweller, a candi­sound trite, is the fact that I 
creational facilities of beaches
date from Lyons f-lail, "is the want to do a little more as far as North quad candidates speak out
caused by thesespillshas
restructuring of the SLC. Coedu­improving a lot of the problems cation, academic reform and hall around campus," said Ray Con­brought wide attention to the on university, student problems
problem.
autonomy are all very import­nell, SLC candidate from Morris­
Due to its propensity for by Don Ruane and Floyd Kezele ant, but before we begin to sey f-lail. He said that most of concentration in food chains As the SLC campaign con­SLC become "the highest legisla­move ahead with these things it the issues all the candidates talk DDT has been causing extensive tinued yesterday, north quad tive body on campus." Accord­is necessary to redefine the about were the same. 
damage. As an example, De Bell candidates revealed and ex­ing to Schoaf, it would deal with function of the SLC." 
"We want to see coeducation. said, a few years ago it was panded ideas for the improve­"academic educational prior­Ottenweller was in favor of We want to see better security. found that the milk of nursing ment of the SLC and the ities" and the basic questions of doubling the student representa­
We want to see academic reform. mothers in California was con­university. the university's direction and tion on the SLC because he felt But how we go about it-1 have a taminated to the extent that if it In an interview with the structure. He added that issues that students should have the 
little different idea." Observer, candidate Tom Schoaf such as parietals would be 
predominant say regarding stu­(continued on page 6)
The SLC he said is at the said he would like to see the directed through the Hall Presi­dent life. f-Ie felt that the SLC 
present merely a body which dents Council or a similar body.
ought to be autonomous in the 
recommends legislation. How­A recommendation for the
Senate passes Soph auto bill
area of student life. "This would 
ever he feels that the SLC remodeling and expansion of the mean that the SLC would derives its strength from "the by Mike Ruffer Student Life Council for final student center and the Huddle divorce itself from the veto (continued on pagei'J In its major action last night, action. was disclosed by Schoaf. He 
the Student Senate, passed by Mateja, who is a candidate in described the center as "some­
'). consenseus Lyon Hall Senator Thursday's election for the SLC, thing you look at more than you John Mateja's bill requesting commented that he saw no use." He feels the Huddle should "that sophomores be allowed to reason why it should be defeated be placed under student manage­
maintain automobiles at the and that he'd urge the SLC to ment or at least co-management University." The idea, originally pass it. and have the eating area ex­proposed by Freshman Stay In other areas, the Senate panded. Schoaf stated that stu­Senator Fred Guiffrida, was sent approved in a block all of dent management would allow several weeks ago to a sub­Student Body President Dave the Huddle to remain open later committee headed by Mateja. Krashna's appointees to his serve as a work study program 
In extensively researching the cabinet, including that of Robert for business administration and bill, Mateja discovered that "a Pohl to the post of Student management and provide more one-thousand space parking lot Union Director. This nomination campus jobs which could serve between the stadium and the had failed to receive a majority as financial aid for minurity Alumni Club presently in use vote for confirmation in the students. 
Pete Collins continued to

only during the five home Senate's Student Union Com­
speak out against the Board offootball games and as overflow mittee, chaired by Stay Senator Trustees yesterday, as he ex­

parking for the Convocation Pat Weber. 
pressed concern the direc­

Center, remains idle." Mateja In an effort to match over 
tion of the SLC. lie wasaffirmed that the present park­expenses with each Student "disappointed and appalled" bying space would overcome the Government Administration, the what he called the SLC's aconly objection to Sophomore Student Government Fiscal Year ceptance of "rule from an 

cars. has been changed so that it 
(continued vn page if}

The bill now goes to the (continued on pagl' 7)


WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1970
7/IB OBSERfJEit 


orth quad candidates emphasize tutoring, security, communication 
(continued from page 1) 
outside source" during Monday's SLC meeting. Collins backed the HPC's statement which rejected the trustee statement on parie­tals. He said that the role of the trustees is to "implement and bring about the things the SLC passes." 
Collins expressed a belief that, "ideally" . the SLC should not concern itself with issues such as parietals and car privileges. He said the council should be concerned with issues con­cerning the campus that students cannot det~rmine individually. 
Steve Flavin continued his campaign to "bring the SLC back to the students." He recommends increased commun­ication between students and their student representatives to accomplish this end. Flavin said that since a large amount of SLC work is done during the summer, letters that explain the SLC functions should be sent to incoming freshmen and progress letters should be sent to all 
returning students. He also sug­gested monthly questionnaires, and guest SLC speakers in the Student Forum, HPC meetings and other student oriented func­tions. 
The fourth north quad candi­date, John Hurley, emphasized the need for a three-way com­munication centered around the SLC. Hurley says that there is a need for communication bet­ween the students and the SLC, between the SLC and the trus­tees and among the SLC mem­



bers. He also said that the SLC 
Pete CoiJins Ray Connell 
must develop an "internal atti­
the Trustees. Explaining further, flat out rejection of their state­
tude of determination, unity and

·Live and In Concert. 
he said that he felt that we have ment would however, impede
mutual trust to promote a 
youth and "a cause in which our whatever further dealings the 

,. PERSONALITIES UNLIMITED 
creative atmosphere." 
stand is right." He also went on S.L.C. has with them," explain­

presents 
With yesterday's action by the to say that he felt that the ed Corso. Student Life Council supporting majority of the students are in Corso went on to say that the Trustee's report in mind, the basic agreement with the S.L.C. communication is a very definite 
S.L.C. candidates of The Plan­Parietal bill, and that it should problem, and that, "the students ner-Grace Tower district dis­definitely be passed. should realize that the Trustees cussed what action could now be Glen Corso expressed support are a group of middle-aged taken. for the S.L.C.'s action, defeating businessmen who would con­
STEVIE 


:woNDER 
James O'Gorman announced the move to reject the Trustee's sider rejection of.their report a 
that he supports Dave Krashna's Parietals Statement. However, he personal affront. 
stand on the issue, and that, qualified this by saying that he Bob Ohlemiller the third can­
* MOTOWN RECORDING STAR 
* 
And His 9Piece Band 
"with a little persistence and "does not agree with the Trust­didate in this race was un­
perseverance on our part, we can ee's action," as he feels that it available for comment at this 
get that bill (S.L.C. Parietal) by was too restrictive. "I feel that a time. 
'I
:sATURDAY, APRIL 25: 
Lyons Hall president sets forth
2-BIG SHOWS-2 (7 &10 P.M. E.S.T.) ,. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM * 
declaration of full hall autonomy 
Jt 211 North Mlchi«;Jan, South Bend, Indiana 
by John Abowd The complete text of the 1 to support the decision of their
Tickets: Main Floor, $5.00, Mezz. and 1st Balcony $4.00 * 
statement, calling for an representatives. These decision affirm
In a carefully planned move
2nd & 3rd Balconies, $3.00 Jt 
the belief that the purpose of the
assertion of student power by
last night hall president Bruce 
university is to educate the individual
,.. TICKETS ON SALE NOW! 
the Notre Dame community,
Johnson released the "Lyons 
not to preserve its image. 
• AI Smith's Record Bar • Male M-1 So.Beni&Bkllart ,. 
read:
Hall Declaration," a statement 
We hope this will be a step further
* • Gruber's Supermarket • Elkhart Truth 
The Board of Trustees made their
declaring full automony, even on towards recognizing and organizing
* • The Lion's Den • Minie's Record Shack,. 
decision limiting parietal hours on
the controversial issue of the rights of the students. It should 
the basis of preserving the authority
Also Available At: ,.. 
parietals, for the students of be clear, however, that what we 
of the traditions, the academic
Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office, 12-5 Daily 
Lyons Hall. The letter initiated a demand, what we request, what we 
atmosphere, and the common pur· try to change is done in the interest
program of "open visitation" 
pose of the university. The traditions
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
of the community as a whole. If the
within the hall. 
of Notre Dame continue to scar its student is ever to realize his positionstudents, its academic atmosphere as a free individual he must be willingstill leads to myopic individuals and to assert his power. If the Notre suicide, its common purpose is still Dame student community is ever to linked with militarism, big business, realize its position as an integral part
$1..00 
and the status quo. 
of a free community it must assert its No one truly doubts that Notre

Friday April 24 
power.
Dame will one day be a co· Lyons Hall believes that it is its educational institution. The question duty to ask you to support yourhas gone beyond the desperate need fellow students and make Notre 
for more interaction between men Dame a bastion of student power and and women on this celibate campus. 
responsibility.
In their decision the Board of

An Tostal Weekend 
Love, Trustees, a body far removed from 
Bruce T. Johnson life in the hal is, denied every hall the 
Lyons Hall President autonomy to make the decisions which most reflect individual student Regarding the chance that the
IRISH WAKE Buses leave from Circle 8:30PM 
opinion and need. Only through hall Trustees might take reprisals
8:50PM 
autonomy can we obtain the res· 
against the hall, Johnson said he
$1.00
$1.00 
ponsibility and the community we all
( l 0 minutes later from SMC) 9: lO PM 
thought it was "unlikely"
desire. While Lyons Hall recognizes 
because the Board would have to
9:30PM 
the necessity of common direction in 
make an example out of one
university life, we can not accept the 
student. He said that the idea
excessively repressive decision of the Board of Trustees. 
that Lyons' students would
What's the difference between an Irish Wake and an Irish 
On March 9 the Lyons Hall council "stick-up for a busted student" 
Wedding? One less drunk ... 
voted on new parietal regulations. was implicit in the referendum. The council decided to implement "Basically, I'm trying to complete, open visitation hours 
throw it (student power
Irish wakes traditionally have been a festive occasion 
accompanied by a strong emphasis on 
declaration) out to the students
individual responsibility and good
and this one will be no exception. A party like this could 
and see what happens," Johnson
order. On March 16 in referendum
well wake up the dead and last until mourning. We promise 
noted.
the hall students pledged almost 3 to
the Spirits will rise freely. as they never have before at Notre Dame, with the exception of George Gipp at Washington Hall. What could be a more Erie place than the 
$1.00 $1.00
National Guard Armory? 

Craftsmen in Optics®
Get there early, because the crowd will always be Uublin ... Only costs one (sham) rock (that's $1.00) per couple to enter. Only $.10 for a draught of O'BUD Irish Mist. 
That all-Irish sound sensation W. T. Christy from Chicago will 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
provide the rocking vibrations. 
JlouseofVisioN ~) 
The House of Vision, Inc.
$1.00 
Friday April 24 
Saturday April 25 
First Friday Magnificent 7 

711E OBSERJJER.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1970 PAGE 3 

A:andidates relate pr~blems facing SLC 
Caps and Gowns 
.30 prt'



""'"'· 
tive" for dealing with the prob­sentation it cou1a move more
(continued from pa~e 1) 
lems next year. effectively in resolving campuseducation between the body and Zimmerman said that the problems. He said that a lack ofthe Board of Trustees." 
Board of Trustees was isolated communication was at the rootJohn Mateja, the third candi­from the students and that the of many campus problems, in­date, felt that the basic problem student members of the SLC cluding mcial problems. Betterthe SLC has had in the past was should take the initiative in communication could be ettect­not its structure, rather it was its educating them: ed, he said, with greater repre­student representatives. He stres­Zimmerman said also that he sentation.
sed communication between the 
would like to see the SLC have a 
In an interview held yesterdaystudent representatives and the 
closer relation with Fr. Hes­
the two candidates for thestudents. 
bul@h. Although he did not 
Off-Campus position on the"You've got to go to the 
come out and endorse the 
Student Life Council, Dick Tarr­students," he said, "the students Nutting for President campaign, 
ier and Frank Healy, expressed he said that an in-depth study
ar.; not going to come to you." 
their views on what part the SLC felt that the SLC should handle 
One of the major problems he 
should be undertaken of the should play in the University is the university policy of Chancellor-President structure. community and the causes they George Holt. a candidate from hoped to serve if elected. 
transferring students out of their Alumni Hall, said that so far the 
Tarrier said that he felt the SLC has been ineffective. As a 
dorms to make room for incom­
ing freshmen. lie proposed that Life Council was at a critical 
solution he proposed that stu­point and must decide in thestudents in residence halls be 
given the option to go off dent representation be increased coming year what direction it to fifty per cent.
campus, as a possible solution. will take. He argued that the 
"I feel that the present
More people, then, would want present and past Councils have structure, having two-thirds ad­
to move off campus. spent too much time on issues in 
ministration and faculty repre­
which they had no power. He"The university could usc this 
sentatives, tends to overlook 
continued that, on the other sidegroup of people as a variable to 
student opinion," said Holt. The 
of the coin, many types ofcompensate for the increase or 
present structure, he felt, shows 
incidents which the SLC WdSdecrease in the number of 
a "lack of faith" in both the 
formed to deal with were ignor­freshmen they expect," he said. 
student representatives and the 
ed. He cited the Carroll HallMark Zinmerman, a candi­student body. 
situation as one example.
date from Dillon Hall, said .the 
Holt referred to the recent "The SLC talked about Car­emphasis of his campaign was on letter from the Board of Trus­roll Hall but didn't formulatethe future of the SLC. He hoped tees and said that its treatment any action on it. When eightythat after all the representatives of parietal hours and hall auto­guys get thrown out of theirwere elected they could get nomy clearly shows this lack of hall, that constitutes Studenttogether to find out where each faith in the students. life."
one stands concerning the major campus issues. This he felt Frank Healy said that he had
l10lt said that if the SLC were to have greater student repre­
would provide a "Better perspec-reached three decisions concern­ing the SLC after talking about the situation with administrators on campus. When queried on why the administrators opposed the proposed increase of student representation on the Council to fifty per cent, Healy said that he received the reply that some of the administrators felt that in the past the students have tended to vote in a "power bloc" thus hindering the actions of the body. 

The SLC candidate said that the only remedy for such a 
situation was for the student 
Summer Apartment 
3 room-Furnished-Air Conditioned-Near town and bus 
lines. June·August-Call 3413.
Chris Ottenweller 





George Holt representation to quit "caucas­ing and factioning" and work tor 
Mark Zimmerman point dealt with his opinion that the Council must assert its own position and that of Hall Auto­nomy before they could challen­ge the action of the TrusteP.~ 

the  betterment  of  the  Univer­ 
sity.  
Healy  said  that  his  second  

The opinions expressed in the Executive Editor: Oave editorials, news analyses, and Stauffer columns of THE OBSERVER are Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck solely those of the authors and Campus Editor: Glen Corso editors of THE OBSERVER and News Editor: Steve Hoffman do not necessarily reflect the SMC News Editor: Jeanne views of St. Mary's College, the 
Sweeney University of Notre Dame, their Associate Editors: Cliff Win-administration, faculty, or trade, Ann Conway student bodies. Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
Photo Editor: Mike Murphy Night Controller: Harrison Chung 
11r 11'\1 Sl I'\ 'illl<l1l* Night Editor: Rich Smith 
II .·\C . .\1 II c 

Layout Design: Marty Tieber· l .\~SI\C. ..IH ( t11 r F1 .\, 11 .II (.
Layout: Mike Bridgeman, Cliff ·11 
ZOSS PROOUCTI ON

Wintrode Call 232·:.!804
Headlines: Phil Schatz 

Call 
7638 
to ~oJve your probJem·s 
The Ombudsman Service 
Mon.-Fri. 1-3 Mon.-Thurs. 6:30-7:30 
---··--------­



WEDNESDAY. APRIL
PAGE 4 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DAVID C'. BACH, Editor 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial: 

The SLC election 
The Board of Trustee's statement on parietals has caused a great uproar among student representatives. The SLC met this morning consider Dave Krashna's resolution that the student members of the SLC and therefore, the students they represented were not satisfied with the statement. 
The Hall Presidents Council Monday night overwhelmingly adopted a resolution rejecting the Board of Trustee's statement. The Student Senate last night sent a resolution objecting to the Trustees' statement into committee in order to form a rationale. 
The consensus among these student leaders is that they resent an outside force (The Board of Trustees) ruling on their lives when that force has little contact with student life. 
Quite frankly, they feel, and rightly so, that the Board of Trustees do not have their pulse on student life. The irony is that the Board of Trustees has the ultimate control over their lives. 
The argument that has been brought up as a result is whether these representatives do in fact reflect the views of the student body. We believe that they do. 
The question that then comes up is what to do about that frustration over the Trustees' statement on parietals and on the relationship of the Board with student life in general. 
The obvious thing for the SLC to do is to reaffirm its original recommendations on hall life and parietal hours. If the Council felt strongly enough about the issue to begin with, it should register its dissatisfaction with the Trustees' statement. 
The alternative to this, is for the SLC to roll over and limit itself to doing research and making recommendations to the Board of Trustees'. 
Beyond this, the student body can voice its support of candidates who can realistically and without question represent them on important issues. We feel that the students on the Council this year hvae accurately reflected the opinions of the majority of students concerning student life. But apparently the fact hasn't hit home with the administration and the Board of Trustees. 
It is for these reasons that The Observer has chosen to endorse candidates for tomorrow's SLC election. 
The Observer endorses 
From the North Quad, The Observer endorses John Hurley and Tom Schoaf; From the South Quad, Ray Connell and John Mateja; and from the Towers, Glen Corso. From off-campus and the outlying halls, The Observer was evenly split and has decided not to endorse either Dick Tarrier or Frank Healy. 
All of these candidates should make excellent representatives. They have expressed the desire to foster greater contact among the students, the SLC, and the Board of Trustees. 
They favor a change in attitude and atmosphere in the SLC's relationship with the Board. We think that they can deliver it. 
:::::~:~:~:::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

Letter 
Editor: will "just have to make do." the dialectic at work!) "Human Your closing, a strong acclama­warmth, concern, intelligence,Dear Mr. Taylor, 
tion of the Grand Prix Queen and notable achievements" are Perhaps I need further clarifi­Contest, doesn't seem to have standards that pervade American cation of your position on the any substantial basis in the judgments, ~ocial and otherwise. 
remainder of the letter. The
Grand Prix Queen Contest, but I -1 might remind you that you 
find the logic of your recent article is an incomplete discus­were rated according to the sion: Why not just "drop" the
letter incomplete, superficial and latter two, at least, in determin­queen contest?
provincial. ing your admission to Notre Dame.-It is the queen contest
Initially, you appear to con­I see your argument as super­symbol that assigns the attri­test a suggestion that either the ficial in that you never touch on butes of ingenuity, abstractqueen contest should incorpor­the basic question. You fail to thinking, and practical applica­ate a more fully human set of consider the negative implica­tion to the male role. Incriteria or the Notre Dame tions concerning both female admitting that you are incapablestudent body should cease pro­and male dignity that are quite as yet of discovering and apply­moting beauty contests. You are probably generated by such an 
apparently satisfied with your objectified identity. The queen ing a measuring device to the suggested qualities, .you have
refutation of the former point, has become a public symbol exposed your role to be anbut you say nothing of the defining a limited role for each artificial and shallow illusion. 
adv}pbility of maintaining pre­sex. 
sent contest standards (i.e., of Finally, I see your argument It is vital that we seek our reinforcing common attitudes). as provincial in its strong plea to human identity. Are the games Your conclusion is that, since retain the status quo. But the really worth the effort? you are incapable of measuring article itself supplies its own Sincerely, more meaningful qualities, you contradiction to this plea. (It's Carol Cusick 11te eneny '-llilecl ID will mVilmlla...We C8IOt MC11J1 IBnllltlon_. We shall not be defeated in Vietnam...l declare this war a success! 

Campus Opinion 
Edited by Glen Corso 

The following is a position paper submitted by Grace Hall Senator Tom Mignanelli. It discusses the desirability of the Student Senate l'S. the Student Forum. 
The end of the scolastic year brings about the beginning of the administration of new student government leaders. And with this advent we find a serious and comprehensive attempt at revising the· present constitution of student politics into something more meaningful and relevant to the individual student. The main element of this study pits the present concept of the student senate against the propsed one of a student forum. After reflecting on the merits and demerits of each systerm and looking back to the four years that I have spent in student government (with most of it in the hall), I feel that the answer essentially centers around the present idea of a senate. 
First of alL let's look into the reasons for keeping the present set-up. The senate has shown itself to be an important research body. The work that has been done over the past few months with the academic grievance council, sophomore cars, budgeting changes, and in other areas, has proven this. The senate is furthermore the best wntroller of the budget, as is evidenced in the financial status of this year's fund. It has a highly productive and efficient committee system. A great deal of time has been saved and put to better use by solving most of the problems encountered when a bill 
is considered in committee, before the senate votes on it Furthermore, the student senate ts tne most representative organization on this campus for the undergraduate body. The number of representatives are chosen by the populus of the hall that is represented. Larger halls quite logically should have more representatives. To keep the senate is not to say that there are not needed changes. It is readily admitted that much activity has moved to hall life. The senate has seen this status and there is now a bill in committtee to give $10,000 to $15,000 from the budget back to the halls. The money will actually be given to the Hall President's Council because it is felt that fuey can best determine how needy a particular hall is. Another change that should be implemented is to Place the H.P.C. chairman and at least one stay senator in the President's Cabinet, and to have all four stay senators become members of the H.P.C. The rationale here is to further communication between these various components so that "good faith"can be kept strong. Of course, there must be changes directly related to the senator himself. Senators should become members of hall councils and should also be available for section meetings when their presence is desired. Now let's look at the arguments against the proposed Student 1Forum. First, it would be way too small to handle the combined functions and duties of the senate and the H .P.C. The President of a hall has enough to do with governing his own residence building and drawing benefits for it to try to carry the further responsibilities of committee meetings and research. The work that is now carried on by some seventy people (combined number of senators and hall presidents) would be handled by only about twenty five. Looking into the structure itself, besides being grossly non-representative, its meeting procedure (i.e., its rules of order) is poor for getting things accomplished. Actually, there are no apparent rules of order, and the open participation by anyone, while in theory is good, is highly impractical for obvious reasons. Considering the above faults, I can picture the Forum (if it were put into existence) meeting these difficulties and eventually evolving into something similar to the present set-up of a senate and a hall presidents council. In the meantime, precious time would have been lost to propose and implement ideas that are sorely needed. Finally, the idea of the "mandate" for the Forum, because of Dave Krasnna's victory, has been posed. I have talked to many people who supported Dave in the campaign, and especially those who are or have been involved in student government. While almost all felt that there must be change in our governing structure, a great deal of them were in favor of keeping the senate. Their reasons for supporting and voting for Dave stemmed from other issues. 


WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1970 
THE OBSUfiDl. 
PAGE 5 

Another Observer excrusive: pictures 



Two New Cheerleaders 
by Bass Rumore (cousin of Kilgore Trout} 
The notes had been left in a neat pile atop my desk. Every great journalist, the exception is Norman Mailer, writes his 
iCTUS is an engaging collection of tod<~y's "relevant" platitudes, sometimes expressed quite well to be sure, at other times le~ so. It seeks "to ventilate the burning problems of the university", but in its 23 pages it never succeeds in nearing its goal of "establishing a dialogue". 
The opening article is "Aletheia", a little allegory which ventilates the burn­ing problem of knocking down walls and finding (instead of the "horribleness") freedom to ... and negating the void in the human heart. It is rather nicely written, and fairly enjoyable to read, but it has difficulty overcoming the platitu­dinous ambiguity of its con tent. After all, who's against "freedom"? Who's for "horribleness"? 
The next selection is even better written not surprising, considering that the author is Mark Twain. But the message is the same old stuff. The War Prayer recounts the patriotic fervor and prayer for victory as the boys march off to war, and concludes with the accusation that any prayer for victory is at the same time a prayer of vindicative hatred against the enemy. Naturally, the picture ac­companying the article shows praying hands surrounded by American soldiers. Yawn. 
Professor George Williams of Govt. is given an opportunity to vent his wrath over Vietnam in his /Jinks In Memoriam. It contends that the Mylai massacre is a proper symbol for the strategic and 
tactical actions which qualify as war crimes which implicate our whole nation for its participation in the conflict, with liberal usc of Nuremberg precedents. The style is good forceful, authorative­sounding, emotion packed. But ultimate­ly its one-sidedness destroys its credi­bility. A blind eye is turned toward Communist atrocities (of which there is not a single mention, of course) and toward the Communist tactics which make the war necessarily dirty. No reference is made to U.S. attempts to mitigate the horrorss of the war, e.g. warnings to civilians in areas which are open targets because of Viet Cong activity. The article never hits the central issue: the fact that the very nature of this type of fighting is the reason for the horrors, rather than any moral perversity in America. The question is not whether the war is a hateful thing-the question is whether the war is a ne,·essary hateful 

CBOI Calen and .•• 
counter-review by Chris Wolfe 
Relevant, but••• 
stories from notes. Mailer has his ego instead, the notes would distract. I have only these notes. 
Anyway the notes are about (I can 

thing; but this issue is ignored in favor of a more emotional approach. The line he quotes from Kafka-"Guilt is never to be doubted" -seems to be a good charac­terization of the state of mind with which he approaches the evaluation of U.S. conduct in the war. Basically propaganda rather than "dialogue". 
Mario Corradi's article on education is a rather rambling review of tb.e topic. Education is said to be part of the establishment, students are said to be concerned only with more money and better jobs, etc.-and there is certainly some truth in these. The rejection of revolution is sensible and somewhat refreshing. But what he offers as an alternative is not much. In fact, the definition of education which he offers ("the responsible commitment to the realization of Self which we inherited by birth") is one of the most meaningless and horrendous definitions I have seen, in an age of meaningless and horrendous definitions. 
(llis objection to education considered as "production'' is well taken. It is particularly interesting to note though that the ICTUS editorial sees the essence of education as being "the fGrmation of values" --which sounds suspici.Jusly like production -ratl1er than as the develop­ment of the intellect in pursuit of truth but then truth is an unfashionable word these days.­
The final contention of the article is of course that the result of this bad education is the War. (ICTUS shows an impressive consistency in seeing every­thing in terms of the Vietnamese 
conflict.) 
Lack of poetic expertise forbids me to review Mike Feeney's poem, but Cry of the Torrents is fair game. Mike Fallon tells the heart-breaking story of a student who gets nailed in the lottery-it's not badly written, but we've heard it so many times before! 
It is genuinely regretful that this magazine must be reviewed in such a negative way, since ICTUS is quite interesting from time to time, and the style of its writers is probably better than most campus publications. But in the end the strong points are seriously vitiated by the dreary one-sidedness of all the liberal cliches and righteous indignation which have dominated "dialogue" at Notre Dame for so long. 
barely discern the scribblings-florid backhand, like a drunk's... ah ... ah ... oh yes..cheerleaders. 
Cheerleaders? That's, uh, nice. Cheer­leaders. Like. 
Here comes the Irish. 
Let's bring them out of the huddle. 
We want a touchdown. 
Block that kick. 
Hold that line. Odin! 
I...R ... I...S ... H 
Those kind of cheerleaders. Where would big-time sports at Notre Dame be without them'? 
Cheerleaders? What do these notes have to say about cheerleaders? Oh, it says here (note number two or number three depending on which is the top of the pile and which is the bottom) that two new girl cheerleaders have earned their pom-poms for the up-and-coming fighting Irish football season. 
You ferns may brood, you cynics may snicker, the competition was ... well, de­cide for yourselves. Sixty-five SMC freshmen got out there after the Easter vacation and jumped and bounced. and pranced about the thrusting their pom­
poms  this-a-way,  thrusting  their  ilia  
that-a-way. (I'm e x trapolating from  the  
notes.)  

The judges viewed them from every ronceivable angle. 
And many, for one reason or another, were sent to the sidelines, cheerless and forlorn. 
Petula Clark (above), her of the splendid and powerful voice, will appear 
before  the  massed  crowds  of  the  
University  du  Lac  May  eighth  at  the  
Convo Center.  

Slowly, inevitably the corps of eager cheerleaders dwindled, from sixty-five to seventeen to eight to, finally, finally, there are two. ALONG the way a crucial interview. One of the question-hurdles "Do you consider Notre Dame students men or boys?" It takes more than a grand bust and cute fanny to answer a toughie like that. 
The two svelte sweeties all alone at the. end were Rooney Frailey and Carol Cullen. I couldn't understand the notes on either of them. So I called, first Carol. 
She was a nice-sounding, pleasant kid who told me right out "I've always wanted to be a cheerleader, not just any cheerleader but a cheerleader at NotrP Dame. The tradition, the spirit, is the greatest, I just want to be a part of it." I know it comes out corny but it really wasn't. Really. Carol, I'm on your side. Really, I am. 
Rooney didn't answer her phone. So I'll just put down the notes I've got on her. Here they are, those I can make out anyway. 
"Rooney Frailey, Holy Cross 
Elmira, NY 18 years 
Poly Sci? Tumbling 
brunet~e, 5'6" 
blue eyes, frekles 
was in high school 
8 kids in clan 
2 older sisters here; jr. and sr.? 
both cried 
The remainder of the notes told who 

the other cheerleaders are for next year. 
•t,• 



_ .•.•., .
~ 
'¥ •
'\ 
. ..,
. • f 
.... • 
' ~ 
I
•• .. . 

Petula, who made Downtown (not South Bend) famous, will appear at 8:30 on the Fateful Friday. 
Tickets for the concert will go on sale April the fifteenth, at the Convo center. 


711£ OBSERfJER 
WEDNESDAY APRIL 1970
6 






Please help. 
All of us hate to see empty cans and bottles lousing up what's left of a beautiful country. 
It's too bad packaging technology today isn't as exotic and convenient as the gimmicks and gadgets on the TV thrill shows; like you, we'd like nothing better than for every empty can and bottle to self-destruct. Someday, soon, things will be different, though ...because we and a lot of other concerned people are all working on the problem in earnest. 
Meantime, there is a foolproof way to keep cans and bottles from cluttering up the countryside, and you can do your part: 
Please don't throw them there in the first place. 
BuDWEISER® KING OF BEERS® 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. 
ST. LOUIS • NEWARK LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON COLUMBUS • JACKSONVILLE 
ENTERTAINMENT GEARED TO PLEASE THE SOPHISfiCATED ADULT · 
MON. THRU FRI. AT 6:30 SAT. AND SUN. AT 12:45 2NEW FEATURES EVERY WEDNESDAYI 
For Titles Call255 0697 after 6p.m. Films rated X-Check theatre cuide for show times 
De Bell points to problems of DDT, autos, popu ration 
facets of our pollution problem is the fact that our technology is hard pressed to get far enough ahead of the increased demands of the rising population to find the time to consider the control of pollution. De Bell emphasized that population control is not the answer to all problems. However he was clear on the point that it is an underlying factor in all the individual questions. 
One of the problems of both our population growth and our style of living is the constant demand for more power. Our power-use-rate is growing even faster than the population. De Bell is quick to note that "all power pollutes", a statement whose apparent truth has done nothing to increase his popular­ity with oil companies or the Atomic Energy Commission. 
Although many people have stated that ecology is not a political issue, De Bell points out that this is generally just a rap given it by the politicians. Many congressmen . are afraid to back up their rhetoric because of anticipated financial reprisals in their next campaign by such financial giants as oil and auto­mobile companies. 
After a question raised by an indignant listener De Bell made it quite clear that the ultimate blame must be laid at the door of the average American. It is we who are willing to take short term gains for long term loss and call such action common sense. It is we who are willing to buy goods and support politicians who show little concern for the rights of people who must live with the physical ruin of the country's ecology. 
Berrigan busted 
NEW YORK (UPI) -The 

Rev. Philip Berrigan, one of two : brothers wanted by federal ~ authorities after their conviction .for destroying Selective Service records in Maryland, was 
arrested in New York yesterday I by the FBI. 
Father Berrigan, 4 7, was apprehended at St. Gregory the Great Church in Manhattan along with David M. Oberhardt, 28, another fugitive in the Maryland draft board raid case. 
The Josephite priest was convicted in Baltimore last Oct. 5 of helping to start fires in a Selective Service office there in October, 1967. He was also under conviction for pouring blood over draft records at another Selective Service office in Catonsville, Md., in May, 1968. 
Father Berrigan's brother, the Rev. Daniel Berrigan, was also convicted in the Catonsville case and is still a fugitive. Both men had been scheduled to turn themselves in Baltimore to begin serving prison sentences April 9, but sent word that they intended to resist. 
I 
PORTRAITS MAKE SPECIAL MOTHER'S DAY GIFTS 
Pencil -Charcoal -Color 
By appointment only -From 
photo or life -284-4234­
Prices Reasonable 

PUI)IISI1eO daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556_ 
(continued from page 1) subject of his favorite polluter­
were cow's milk it would be the automobile. Besides killing 
illegal to ship it interst<Jte. 50,000 a year and wounding 
The problem of DDT is no 2,000,000 the automobile is also longer pressing, De Bell empha­the number one polluter of the sized, since all the harm it has air. In Los Angeles there are done has resulted in widespread days that the smog is so strong banning of its use. However as that the word goes out to the long as the chemical industry is school system not to allow the allowed to create single purpose children to exercise out doors pesticides with out any obliga­during lunch time. tion to research for side effects, De Bell also pointed out that 
We will always be rid of such over-reliance on the automobile products only after they have has led to comparatively poor done their harm. De Bell stressed development of more efficient that the burden of proof of a transportation methods. Mass product's safety belongs to the transit systems in this country producer; the product should are well behind their counter­only be used when proved parts in many countries in 
"necessary and safe". Europe. In discussing air pollution De Of course one of the main Bell 'found an easy en trace to the problems underlying all the 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1970 711E OBSERUER. 
PAGE 7 

Students, faculty consider SMC role 
by Amy Alsopiedy 

On Monday, April 13, Dr. Art llochberg and Dr. Peter Smith sponsored a meeting for inter­ested faculty faculty and stu­dents of St. Mary's College to discuss the topic: "St. Mary's: Where is it now, Where is it going?" During the discussion the question of why there is such a lack of academic spirit on the St. Mary's campus brought the group to the problem of Freshmen Orientation and how a true academic spirit might be nurtured in them. 
Last night, in an open meet­ing, I he group met again along with the co-chairmen of the SMC Freshmen Orientation, Anne Scheidler and Marilyn Mohrman and their various com­mittee heads, in an attempt to suggest ways in which the faculty might become involved in orientation. They also wished to discuss methods of promoting academic spirit in the freshmen as soon as they arrive at SMC. 
It was the general consensus that a more direct and comfor­table association of the freshmen with the faculty would result in better student-teacher relation­ships and thus promote a better academic-atmosphere. The orien­tation committee asked if it would be possible to try a plan which has been suggested in previous orientations but has never been tried because of poor faculty response or student dis­agreement about procedure. 

Under this plan one student and one faculty member would be in charge of a group of I0-1 S freshmen and would work to­gether in an attempt to orientate the girls to all aspects of college life. Dr. Hochberg said he would bnng up the point of faculty helping the student advisors at the upcoming Faculty Assembly. 
It was further suggested that faculty members should be involved in the orientation of the student advisors as well as of the students since it will be the student advisors who will be most able to affect the Fresh­men next year. 
Means of giving the faculty members a casual way of coming into contact with the freshmen and also an opportunity to awaken their interest in the academic possibilities at St. Mary's, within the orientation program, were discussed at length. The idea which seemed most worthwhile was one in which the field day used last year to get the Freshmen acquainted would be done away · 
with_ and .a picnic-dinner held ' out~Jde -:v.1th the faculty. a~d their fami11es would be put m Jts place. . . . . 
Precedmg the p1cmc-dmner, two faculty members would present talks for the freshmen concerning education and ex­actly what it could and should mean at St. Mary's. The faculty members would be available at the picnic-dinner for further discussion about any aspects of college life. 
Sister Franzita brought out the point that in attempting all this next year and in the present students' own academic endea­vors, the students should not wait for the faculty. to offer their services but should take the initiative in approaching the faculty. Sister Franzita said that she would be honored if a student approached her for help with almost anything. Most of the faculty members present agreed with her. 
The groun~ "lsn rliseussed thf' 
Sophomore cars approved by Senate 
(continued from page I) 

would coincide with the in­
auguration of each new 
administration. 
Speaking for the Human Affairs Committee, Stay Senator Tom Thrasher recommended that the Senate table indefinitely a hill to investigate University employee pay scales. The 

motion passed by consenseus. Instead of the original proposal, a Senate group will look into the salaries received by Students working for the University. 
There was a lengthy discus­sion concerning the eligiblity of a number of Student Life Council c:mdidates. The debate arose because of ambiguities in 
TICKET SALES 
THE 1970 SENIOR BALL 
SAI.h'S: WHIJNHSDA Y 
April 22 1·/J /,aFortune 7: J0-9: 30 

Tuxedo Fittings by Gingiss on Wed. II:00·5:00. _7: 00· 9:00 Thurs./ 1:00·5:00 
the rules passed last week by the Election CommittP-e and a contested decision by Election Committee chairman Mark Winings. The Senate voted to allow all SLC candidates to remain on the ballot despite challenges. 
Senators Eric Andrus and Donald Mooney introduced a brief resolution rejecting the Board of Trustees parietal statement and moved that rules be suspended to consider the motion immediately. The motion was soundly defeated. Opponents to the rules sus­pension contended that more justice would be done for the students if the bill was thoroughly researched in 
WOODEN SHIPS 


committee and a specitic rationale was oassed rather than a blanket statement. 
The bill was assigned to the Student Affairs Committee chaired by Fred Guiffrida. There will be an open hearing on this bill Sunday night at 7:00p.m. in the Student Government cabinet offices. All interested students 
are  urged  to  attend. The  next  
Senate  meeting  will  be  next  
Tuesday, April 28, 1970.  

part St. Mary's could play in the who is interested in the Club­upcoming "Free City Day" on house at 7:30 p.m. The subject May !st. Extensive plans are for discussion will be racism on already underway on the NO the SMC campus and SMC campus and several students felt admission policies. The meetings it would be worthwhile for SMC will continue as long as inter­to work in conjunction with NO sested students ke~p attending in and initiate some sort of pro­the hopes of creating an inter­gram on the SMC campus. ested students keep attending in Next Monday, there will be students to effect change at St. 
another meeting open to anyone Mary's College. 


Rev. James Groppi 
speaking on 

~'The Church and Social Change" 
April 22 8:00PM Washington Hall $.50 Donation 
THE SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
IS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 1971 FROM NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS FOR THE POSITIONS OF CHAIRMAN, ASSOCIATE CHAIRMEN, AND COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN (FINANCE,
, PUBLICITY, SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS). SEND A BRIEF RESUME AND IDEA OF THE FESTIVAL TO BOB HALL, 327 GRACE TOWER. NO APPLICATIONS WILL BE ACCEPTED AFTER APRIL 30th. 
Motel !lccomodations and Corsages A vailahle at Ticket Sales 
________j 

Student Union Social Commission 
Presents 

GRAND PRIX WEEKEND 
Go-Cart Race Saturday May Sly and the Family Stone Saturday May 1:30PM ACC 8:00PM ACC 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1970

711B OBSEBIIIIt

PAGE 8 
•

ND n1ne are making a comeback 

by Jim Donaldson Notre Dame added their final versus Indiana U. in his start. The Irish will continue their Saturday. Starting time in the 
Observer Sportswriter marker in the fourth inning. Notre Dame also looked slick home stand this coming week­twin bill is scheduled for l p.m.. With two outs, Votier drew a afield, particularly in the infield end, entertaining Toledo U. in a Ron Schmitz is slated to open
Led by the three-hit pitching 
base on balls and Nick Scarpelli where the keystone combo of single game on Friday afternoon the series on the hill for theof Mike Karkut and Chuck 
blooped a Texas League single Phil! Krill and Nick Scarpelli had at 3 p.m. and then opposeing 
Irish.
Horan's three runs batted in, the 
into center field, sending Votier a hand in a pair of doubleplays. Toledo in a doubleheader on 
Fighting Irish baseball team won to third. Irish catcher Joetheir second game in succession 
Keenan then plated Votier with •yesterday, defeating Valparaiso. 
a ringing single io center. JackU. S-1 at Cartier Field. 
Sailors w1n one of three
Pettit replaced Juran on thefhe Irish wasted no time in mound for Valpo in the fifth
getting Karkut some runs to The Notre Dame Sailing Club number of protests filed but at
inning and held the Irish score­City, lo wa. Notre Dame is
work with, jumping on Valpo last report Notre Dame had been
less the remainder of the game. split up into three groups over favored to take the regatta with 
starter Tim Juran for three runs the past weekend and the results awarded tenth place in a 21
The Irish are now 3-10 on Oshkosh (Wis.) State providing
in the first inning. Bob Votier team field in the Ohio State
the year, winning two in a row showed that the team's overall the chief threat. Two teams will
opened the inning by banging a strength was weakened by the Regatta.
on their own diamond after be selected from this regatta to
single up the middle. Two infield Next week is a very big race
starting the season by losing 10 division. represent the midwest in the outs pushed Votier to third. of II on the road. In the most important regatta for the Irish. The Midwest national tournament.Cleanup hitter Rich Lucke then regionals will take place at Iowa
at Annapolis, Maryland the ND
Despite adverse weather con­drew a walk and stole second 

boys finished tied for last place.
ditions -(the cold and blustery
base. Horan followed Lucke to 
Although this sounds rather
wind made hitting and fielding
the plate and drilled a sharp dubious there are a few things
fly balls difficult)-the Irishtriple to right-center, scoring 
that made the outcome appear a
looked better overall yesterdayVotier and Lucke. Phil Krill 
little brighter. This was possibly
than they did in last Saturday's
plated Horan with a line single the finest competition in the
I -0 win over Western Michigan. 
to left before Juran retired the 
nation assembled in the eleven
Although Karkut was unable toside. 
entries. Also, most of the races
duplicate Ron Schmitz's shutoutThe Crusaders tallied their 
were extremely close and a few
heroics he hurled his best gameonly run of the game in the third 
switches in these outcomes may
of season
inning. Jeff Connors rapped a the and was in 
have turned the standings
command all the way. He fanned 
wind-aided double to center to 
around quite a bit.
eight and walked four in register· open the frame. A passed ball 
Tim Flood and Rich Doyle

ing his first victory of the
sent Connors to third and he 
came off with the best showings 
season.
romped home on a single to left 
in this impressive regatta. 
The Irish had just three hitsby Joe Platt. 

At So. Illinois University

against Western Michigan..._all ofThe Irish wasted no time in 
there were four teams entered in
the infield variety, but bangedoffsetting the Valpo tally, how­
the race and Notre Dame man­
out ten safeties yesterday. Thatever, picking up a run in their 
aged to come away victorious.
performance takes on an addedhalf of the third on a triple by 
The victims in this regatta were
luster when considered in lightLucke and Horan's second hit of 
So. Ill., SIU (Edwardsville) and 
the game, a single over second of the fact that Valpo starter 
Wabash College. George Gaw,
Tim Juran had tossed a nohitterbase. 
Will Donlan and Kevin Finegan made fine efforts to win it for NO. Gaw was awarded the The Sailing Club (shown here practicing in St. Joseph Lake) split 



12 game sfafs 
outstanding "B" skipper of the 
into three different teams for last weekend's activity. As a result regatta. 
they weakened the team and managed to win only one regatta.
PLAYER, POSITION G AB R H RBI HR AVG 
At Columbus the results were

Joe Theismann, 3b 6 19 5 7 3 .368
0 

not very clear. There were a
Joe Keenan, c 12 36 I 12 4 I .333 Micky Karkut, p 4 9 2 3 0 .333 Rich Lucke, cf 12 43 6 14 10 
I .326 

0 Big rivalries hi-light new pro schedule
Rob V_oitier, rf 12 53 5 16 2 0 
.302 Chuck Horan, If 8 22 I 6 I 0 .273 Ron Schmitz, p 5 12 0 3 0 0 .250 package too, including the The National Conference line­
NEW YORK UPI-The name 

Nic!< Scarpelli, 2b 12 49 10 II 3 0 .224 Lions-Bears on Oct. S. up: Central -Chicago, Detroit,
of pro football is money. Money

Denny Patrylo, inf 8 14 2 3 0 0 .214 The schedule calls for 88 Green Bay, Minnesota; Eastern
from tickets and money from 

Phil Krill, ss 12 34 5 711 2 .206 intradivisional games, 54 inter­-Dallas, N.Y. Giants, Philadel­
television. Pro Football Com­
divisional and 40 inter-confer­phia, St. Louis, Washington;
Bob Roemer, c 6 10 0 2 I 0 .200 
missioner Pete Rozelle knows 

Bill Orga, lb 12 42 4 7 5 I .167 ence. There are six divisions in Western -Atlanta, Los Angeles, 
that, and now that he rules all of 
the two conferences under the New Orleans, San Francisco. 
Joe McCarthy, of 4 13 0 1 0 0 .077 
pro football his first integrated 

merger realignment. 
Bill Schoen, inf 8 8 1 1 0 0 .125 The regular season ends Dec.
schedule for the 1970 season is a 
The American Conference

Rick Eich, p 3 6 0 0 0 0 .000 20, when Rozelle can sit back
thing of beauty, colored green,
Bob Jaeger, p 3 3 0 0 0 0 .000 lineup: Central-Cincinnati, and watch the TV money roll in 
for money. 

Cleveland, Houston, Pittsburgh;
Terry Mackprang, of 2 2 0 0 0 0 .000 from conference playoffs, cham­
Rozelle and his two aides, Jim 

Eastern-Baltimore, Boston,
John Gardner, p 3 1 1 0 0 0 .000 pionships and finally the Super
"> Kensil and Mark Duncan, have Buffalo, Miami, N.Y. Jets; Wes­
Jerry Fenzel, p 3 I 0 0 0 0 .000 Bowl on Jan. 17, 1971 in
come up with a schedule for the 

Jim Phelps, p 2 1 0 0 0 0 .000 ter-Denver, Kansas City, Oak­Miami's Orange Bowl.
26 teams that covers 182 games 

land and San Diego. 
Nick O'Connor, inf I 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
and will offer natural rivalries,

Denny Curran, p 2 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
old feuds and, potentially, geo­NOTRE DAME 12 373 43 93 40 5 .249 
graphic feuds. 



MAJOR LEAGUES 
OPPONENTS 12364 10 The Kansas City Chiefs, the
7096 55 .264 Super Bowl winners, lead off NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE PITCHING ST A TS WL INNINGS BB so ERA their season against the last pride Rick Eich I I 17 9 7 1.59 of the National Football League, 
East East
John Gardner 0 0 3 4 I 3.00 the Minnesota ·Vikings. The 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB
Ron Schmitz I 2 33 12 14 3.27 Chiefs will carry their old 
St.Louis 7 3 .700 Detroit 8 3 .720Micky Karkut 0 3 22 7 II 3.68 American Football League ban­Chicago 3 .700
7 Baltimore 8 4 .667 'h Bob Jaeger 0 0 6 2/3 2 2 6.75 ner into Minnesota territory on Pittsburgh 7 4 .636 'h Washington 5 5 .500 2'h Denny Curran 0 0 3 2 2 9.00 Sept. 20th. New York 6 6 .500 2 Boston 5 6 .455 3 Jerry Fenzel 0 2 4 1/3 3 2 10.47 The first schedule under the Philadelphia 4 8 .333 4 New York 5 9 .351 4'h Montreal 1 8 .111 5'h
Jim Phelps 0 2 3 4 2 IS,oo· new alignment also tosses the Cleveland 3 7 .300 4'h NOTRE DAME 210 92 43 41 4.30 New York Jets, against their OPPONENTS 10 2 97 51 65 3.06 hometown rival the Giants, on 
West 
West
Nov. l. Rozelle has Giant fans 

Cincinnati 13 4 .765 
Minnesota 7 2 .777
DOUBLE PLAYS .......... Notre Dame 7 ...... Opponents 13 mad at him because the game San Francisco 7 7 .500 4'h *California 8 4 .667 'h goes to the Jet park, Shea 7 .467 5 2
Houston 8 5 *Kansas City 6 .545
RESULTS: Won 2, Lost 10 PITCHER OF RECORD Stadium, leaving Giant season San Diego 6 8 .428 5'h *Oakland 
5 7 .417 3'h ticket holders out in the dark­Los Angeles 5 7 .417 5'h Chicago 4 7 .365 4 since the hometown TV black­5 .351 *Milwaukee 3 8 5
Atlanta 9 6'h .273 
out will prevail. San Diego 5 New York 3 *night game not included ND OPP The commissioner, Kensil and Chicago 7 St. Louis 4 Minnesota 4 Chicago 3 3 Miami (Fla) 7 -Fenzel 0-1 Duncan also set up tasty pairings Pittsburgh 9 Houston 8 Detroit 5 Cleveland 3 
Cincinnati 13 Atlanta 8 Washington 7 New York 5
2 Miami (Fla) 6 Karkut 0-1 like the Cowboys-Oilers in 
Kansas City at Oakland, night
3 Michigan State II -Phelps 0-1 Texas, the Chiefs-Cardinals in Los Angeles at Montreal ppd. rain San Francisco at Philadelphia ppd. 
Milwaukee at California, night
7 Colgate I + Eich 1·0 Missouri and the 49ers-Raiders, 
11 Michigan State 12 -Fenzel 0-2 Chargers-Rams in California. rain 3 Colgate 4 -Phelps 0-2 On the tube, Rozelle came up 2 Bowling Green 9 -Schmitz 0-1 with prime games for the 13 0 Bowling Green 5 -Karkut 0-2 Monday night telecasts, opening 2 Michigan 3 -Schmitz 0-2 Sept. 21 with the Jets-Browns 5 Detroit 7 -Eich 1-1 and coming right back with 4 Western Michigan 5 -Karkut 0-3 Chiefs-Colts on the 28th. Tradi­1 Western Michigan 0 + Schmitz 1-2 tional wars make the Monday 




