
VQL. IV, No. 121 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi(!' MONDAY, MAY 4, 1970 
Carney, Rustin hold open meeting 
Attempt disruption; Trustees end early 
Trustees Thomas Carney and 
said that Bayard Rustin, recently Bayard Rustin in the cneter's 
appointed to the Board and the A group of thirty to forty Auditorium. The session ended Board's first and only black met with Carney and Rustin walking
students and other unidentified the crowd and stated that he was 
pounding on the out in frustration after they willing to with the group
meet meeti .. g room door succeeded in were continually shouted down to discuss their demands. At this forcing the Notre Dame Board and not allowed to speak by the 
time, doors were opened to more militant segment of the
of Trustees to cut short their allow other students to enter. 
audience.
meeting on Friday. Some participants in Free City 
The pounding two Tje situation started a little
followed Day Activities being held on the and one half hours of shouting after twelve noon when about main quad and other students and a door to door search of the who had heard of the goings on
thirty people lead by members 
Center for Continuing Education of the Committee for Political and who were standing outside Action, the South Bend Chapter
in an attempt to find the were then allowed to enter the 
Trustee's meeting. of the Women's Liberation 
building. Included in the period was an Front and a group of Black The group proceeded to the impromtu meeting of close to students entered the Center Center's Auditorium where students looking for the Trustee's meet­
two hundred with Rustin and Thomas Carney, the 
ing. The group had a list of 
Chairman of the Trustee's Com­demands which included calls 
mittee on Student Affairs were for increased efforts toward 
waiting. Both men opened the minority recruitment, resolution session by stating that they were which he could -support h1s of grievances over financial aid ready to talk about the student cause. He said he had not for Blacks on campus, and grievances and to convey them 
anticipated that "Peter, as we demands for co-education. to the entire Board. lot of these people (Latin president and was trying to affectionately call him," would As the group entered the This illicited vehement objec­Americans)," J. Peter Gmce told invest money and create the have brought his. building and began to move door tions by the leaders of the a divided crowd of students in needed jobs." In lieu of statistics, he offered to door, officials of the Center original move into the building the Library Auditorium Firday Grace told of workers on his a quotation of Simon Bolivar-" for Continuing Education locked who now comprised less than evening. Grace, a University Peruvian plantations making The United States appears the doors to deep other students one-fifth of the people in the Trustee, is president of W. R. $I ,800 per year, "or four times destined to plague the and spectators from entering. Auditorium. They demanded a 
Grace and Company, a firm with Students who were inside the
the average wage in that Please turn to page 3 
substantial Peruvian interests 
country." He also said that the started by his grandfather I 20 
company saves Peru 15 million years ago. 
dollars per year by the The well-dressed 56 year-old 
production of paper from 
Christian University
businessman was confronted by 
indigeous sugar cane. Formerly,Art Melville, a former 
Peruvians had to import all of Guatemalan miSSionary and 
their paper.staunch critic of capitalism in 

subject of Forum
"Last year we made zero," he South America. Professor Peter said of his company's profits. 

"Notre Dame has become an An Tostal." individuals here who try to find
Walshe, Director of African "so we would have been better 

Studies and a professor in both idolatrous institution. Its spirit is The un-Christian situation at meaning in human existence.
off with our $ 128 million in a 

not that of Jesus Christ; there is Notre Dame, McCarthy contend­At the conclusion of his
government and economics, also bank." some other spirit controlling it, ed, is a product of those who presentation, Professor M­
offered comments on the As Grace concluded his 
situations prevailing in Latin and its not the spirit of hol­run the university-trustees, fac-cCarthy received a standing
comments he was met with 

iness." With these remarks Prof­ulty, and admininstration. ovation from the audience.
America. applause and heckling. Melville 
"The percent of the Gross essor Charles McCarthy, chair­McCarthy addressed these Board of Trustee Thomsmas
followed. 

man of the Committee for the saying, create Carney also addressed the
National Product spent in "I would like to give the view groups "You at 
Study of Nonviolence, initiated Notre Dame a meaningless, forum. In his statement heforeign aid has been reduced to of the people," he rebutted, "for Saturday afternoon's University self-indulgent pagan world." proclaimed, "Anything that isone-fourth of the amount spent I involved myself in a movement 
during the Marshall Plan period of the people-the Revolution." Forum discussion of "Notre Though McCarthy's overall good for the student is good for Dame as a Christian University." view of Notre Dame as a Notre Dame and what is good
(1949-1952)," Grace explained He said that he had been in his introductory remarks. McCarthy was one of six Christian institution was bleak, for Notre Dame is good for the
expelled "by the Peter Graces ... , 

panelists who participated in the he did specify one Christianizing Student."
"This is the area in which we by the United States 
(Please turn to page 7)
have to work." fourth University forum, addres­element: the group of concerned
government." 
sed an audience of about one
Melville quickly apologizedlie said that a capital 
hundred people. Other panelists
for not having statistics withinvestment of approximately 

included Trustee Thomas Car­ney, Alumnus Richard Rosen­thal, and Dean Frederick Cros-
Little resistance 
son. "l personally have no desire to teach in a university that is 
not a christian university. I quit when l became convinced Notre 

met in Cambodia 
spokesmen said more than I ,300 
SAIGON (UP!) U.S. Army Dame had given up the attempt
Communists had been killed in
troops pressing into Cambodia to become a Christian univer­
scattered fighting since the two
discovered a motor pool and sity," he said. 
fronts were opened into
supply depots for medicine, In elaboration of his point,
Cambodia last week. American
munitions, food and fuel McCarthy maintained Notre
casualties were 13 dead and 32
Sunday. They encountered no Dame is not trying to meet the
wounded. The South
significant resistance to their 
minim al standards of the gospel.
Vietnamese have lost 90 deadcampaign to locate and destroy 
As a result, he called Notre
and 298 wounded.
the Communist command head 
Dame another Michigan State
Since Friday, when Americanquarters for the war in South University at best.
forces rolled out of SouthVietnam. 
In fact, McCarthy indicated
Vietnam into Cambodia'sTo the south of the American 
that Notre Dame is a lesser
Fishhok area, at least 650operation, two columns of 
institution than M.S.U. because
Communists have been slainSouth Vietnamese troops driving 
of "false witness." "Notre Dame
there. the spokesman said. Sevenfrom the north and the south 
baptizes its action and inaction
hundred and seven Communistslinked up yesterday at Ba Thu in 
in Christian rhetoric and ritual,
have been reported killed in the
the Parrot's Beak area of thereby setting up mechanisms
l'arrot's Beak region 50 miles toCam bollia. 
the south, they said. for misleading people," he dec­The U.S. military command Approximately I0,000 troops lared. "Jesus Christ did not said neither campaign has met are involved in each ooeration. suffer and die so his twentieth signigicant resistance, but (Please turn to page 7) century disciples could have and 


PAGE 2 



MONDAY.MAY4.~
711B OliSEilfiM 

Officials discuss war policy 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Fresh United States bombing attacks inside North Vietnam, involving more than I00 planes in the biggest raid in 18 months, yesterday fueled the controversy raging over Nixon administration policy in Indochina. 
Vice President Spiro T. Agnew indicated the new raids reported by Defense Department sources Saturday night do not mean a change in American policy of refraining from general bombardment of North Vietnam. A White House official also said there has been no change in policy. 
But the Democratic National Committee issued a statement charging that Agnew's remarks made clear "that the Nixon adminstration's action of the 
past  week  signifies  a  major  
escalation  of  the  war  in  
Indochina."  

"The air strikes into North Vietnam combined with the invasion of Cambodia means, in effect, that the American policy of disengagement has ended," the committee said. 
Agnew was interviewed on CBS' "Face the Nation". 
Protective Attacks 

He said: "The attacks in 


Minority groups speak 
The activities of the Rainbow Coalition discussion session yes­terday were hampered by the absence of the Black Panther representatives who were unable to leave Chicago for political reasons. 
Ted Zawadski and Bob Perry, organizers of the Library discus­sion, revealed that they received a phone call at ll:30 informing them that the Panthers were being subjected to "political harrassment." In addition, they claimed that the Panther caller said that he didn't want to give 
any  more  information  because  
the  telephone  in  the  Chicago  
headquarters is tapped.  

Zawadski said that the harrassment might be a "bust" of some sort but that he couldn't be sure until he had communicated further with the Panthers. 
The first group that spoke was the United Mexican-Americans of South Bend, a group of Chicanos and whites attempting to organize migrant workers in Southern Michigan and Northern Indiana. 
Loupe Rocha, a Chicano, said that the problem of farm work­ers was not just one of the migrant . groups but ot' "the whole community~•,-He added that the "paternalistic attitude of many groups" that try to help migrant workers was harmful. As 
We Want You To Join Our Church As An 
Ordained Minister 
And Have The Rank Of 

Dodor of Divinity 
We are a nort--stfUctured fa•th, undenominational, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Our fast wowing church is active•v seeking new ministers who believe what we believe; All men are entitled 
to their own convictions; To seek truth their o"Yn way. what~er lt mav be, no questlons asked. As a minister of the church, you may: 
1. Stan your own Ghurch and apply for ex­emption from property and other takes. 
2. 
Perlorm marriages, bapti51Tl, funerals and all other ministerial functions. 

3. 
Enjoy reduced rates from some modes of transportation, some theaters, stores, hotels, 


etc. 
4. Seek draft exemption as one of our work­
ing missionaries. We will tell you how. Enclose a free will donation for the Minister's credentials and license. We also issue Doctor of Divinity Degrees. We are State Chartered and your ordination is recognized in all 50 states and mOSt foreign countries. FREE LIFE CHURCH­
BOX 4039, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33023. 
an example, he used the distribu­tion of soap and toothbrushes to migrant children which he saw as an "insult to the hard working 
mothers who  do not  have the  
time  to  keep  their  children  
spotless."  

Dave Cormier, a Notre Dame graduate student, said that UMA's next involvement would be organiziang migrant workers in the Midwest, which has three times as many migrant worl:ers as California. He said that the major areas of involvement 
would be researching local migrant problems, pushing for the enforcement of dormant laws, and providing aid to workers who might be fired because of their unionizing acti­vities. 
Cormier also said that most of the local migrant work was done in harvesting crops and at process plants like turkey farms. He admitted the possibility of strike-breakers but added that if the strike were long, the avail­able strike-breakers, mostly high school students, would disap­pear.
fhe only other group to participate in the discussion was the Young Patriots, an organiza­tion of poor Southern and Appallachian whites located in uptown Chicago. 
Doug Youngblood, the group's representative, described in length the orgazization's two major activities. The first of these is a breakfast program patterned after the Panther pro­ject. 

The other major project is a free medical clinic. Youngblood said that the clinic has provided health services to "one to two thousand patients in · its six months of existence." The Patri­ots hope to expand the program, now run two days a week, to a full time clinic. 
Youngblood said the opera­tion of the clinic was being challenged by the Chicago Board of Health for not having a license. He added that 1 only licensed physicians and regis­
tered  nurses  worked  at  the  
clinic.  
''The  Patriots  have  not  sec­ 

ured the license," Youngblood said, "because we do not want to submit to the regulation of the Board of Health." 
Youngblood characterized the Patriot programs as "socialist in that they put basic needs before 
profit." He said that the group does not charge for any of its services. 
The Young Lauds and the P-stone Nation did not arrive. 
After the discussion in the library, the participants went to the Flanner-Grace area to hold workshops. 
North Vietnam, just over the Demilitarized Zone, have traditionally been ones of protective reaction. So far as I 
know, these attacks fit into that category." 
Agnew said he had no information on the scale of the attacks, which some reports said were aimed at large Communist supply dumps, and he cut off further questioning with the comment that information published about the attacks "is 
thus  far  not  verified  by  any  
credible source."  
White  House  officials  said  

Saturday night the raids were ordered by President Nixon. 
Understanding policy, 
reconnaissance planes are 
escorted by armed fighters with 
orders to fire if fired upon. 
Defense Department sources said 
yesterday American forces in 
Vietnam have had authorization 
for some time to go beyond 
simply returning fire and to 
launch large scale retaliatory attacks. They said several such attacks have been made, but the most recent was the largest since the bombing halt. 
No Responsibility 
Agnew also said in the interview that Nixon's decision to send American troops into Cambodia this past week to attack Communist sanctuaries does not imply a pledge to protect the present Cambodian regime. "Absolutely not," he said. "We have no responsibility to Cambodia." 
Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird, in a copyrighted interview with U.S. News and World Report, said yesterday the entire character of the war in Vietnam 
will change if the Communist sanctuaries are destroyed. The sanctuaries, he said, "permitted Hanoi to pose a continuous and serious threat to South Vietnam's internal security that no amount of progress in Vietnamization or pacification could eliminate." 



Students plan book 
A book on Christian attitudes toward war, conscience, the draft, and other related topics, written for high school students, is being prepared by Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. The book will include about twenty topics, and each section would include essay material, fiction or some other imaginative form, art, photos, and cartoons. 
Students who have already been contacted about the book will meet at I0:00 p.m. Tuesday night in the ballroom of the Student Center, and all persons interested in contributing to the 
book  are  urged to  come  to  the  
meeting.  
"Most  of  the essays  will  be  

written over the summer, though 
•


Radiation lab rece1ves AEC funds 
The Radiation Laboratory of the University of Notre Dame has received l 970 riscal year funding of $ l ,246,00 for re­search and $86,000 for new facilities and equipement from the Atomic Energy Commission, Dr. Milton Burton, director of the Laboratory, has announced. 
The Radiation Laboratory was founded at Notre Dame in 1947 to study the effects of radiation on all kinds of matter, including living organisma. Since then, the multi-disciplinary re­search organization has conducted pioneenng inquiries into the "earliest process"-the 

first effects which radiation 
produces in matter, often in 
time spans of a ten billionth of 
second or less. 

Some of the current research 
projects at the Laboratory in­
clude: 

-Studies on the radiolosis of 
water, performed by Dr. William 
Hamill, professor of chemistry. 
Hamill is also constmcting accur­
ate tables of the bond strengths 
of many materials, data which 
already prove extremely valuable 
to chemists. 

-Research into the effects of 
radiation on chemical catalysts 
in an effort to learn if irradiated 
catalysts perform differently 
from conventional types in 
speeding chemical reactions. 
This work is supervised by Dr. 
James Carberry, professor of 
chemical engineering, and Dr. 
G.C. Kuczynski, professor of metallurgical engineering and material science. 
-A study of how radiation-in­duced genetic properties affect living organisms, conducted by Dr. Harvey Bender, professor biology. 
-Research on the value of radiation in reducing popula­tions of harmful insect pests, performed by Dr. Karamjit Rai, associate professor of biology. Rai is investigating the technique of sterilizing male mosquitoes to reduce offsprings in mosquitoes, and also creating !ethel genes in mosquitoes which may reduce insect populations for several generations. 
In addition to its research efforts, conducted by faculty members from the College of Science and the College of Engineering, the Radiation Lab­oratory services the entire field of radiation chmistry by pro­"iding lists of all publications in the field, tabulated by the Radiation Laboratory Data Cen­ter. Also, the director and associate director of the Labora­tory, Burton and Dr. John L. Magee, periodically edit status reports of developments in the field in a series of volumes calle "Advances in Radiation Chemistry." 
we have to have five sections done in the near future for sample material for publishers. The writers will have to visit local high schools this spring so that they can get a feel for how high school students are thinking about the topic that they plan to work on over the summer," one of the organizers said. 
"So far, we have gotten an offer from one publisher that we have talked to. We want to make the book appeal to Protestant as well as Catholic high school students, and we want to get a publisher that could get the book on the general market," said David Johnson. 
The planners of the book cite President Nixon's draft reforms as an important factor, for if college deferments are abolished the draft will fall largely upon high school graduates who are for the most part uninformed. 
Notre Dame or Saint Mary'!> students who are interested in contributing should attend the: organizational meeting Tuesday night at I0:00. Those that cannot attend the meeting should call David Johnson at 8907 or David Lammers at 3737 or 8661, or the office of the Non-violence program at 7574, or should leave a note for Dave Lammers at the Observer of!ice. 

YAF for Nixon 
ST. LOUIS, Mo. (UPI)-Michael 
W. Thompson, national chair man of Young Americans for Freedom, yesterday called for defeat in the upcoming primary and general elections of "Those Democrats and Republicans who tried to under mine President Nixon's move into Cambodia." Thompson said critics of the President's decision have given "psychological ammunition to the Communists." 

"Back by popu]ar demand'' 
3 more performances 

Good Woman of Setzua:1 
8:30pm May 7, 8, 9 O'Laughlin Aud. 
Tickets: Call 4141 or at door 
MONDAY, MAY 4, 1970 711E OBSERIJER. PAGE 3 




Carney and Rustin shouted down 
Continued from the first page. 
desire to talk about grievances.
meeting with the entire Board. 
For.mer Student Body Vice­Rustin and Carney tried to -President Fred Dedrick thenexplain that a meeting with the brought up a discussion aboutentire Board would not be co-education. Pacing up andproductive since the group down on stage infront of Carneywould be too big. They stated and Rustin, Dedrick claimedthat it was the nature of the that the Trustees were uncon­Board to work through commit­cerned about resolving the prob­
tees. 
lems that arose because of theThe group replied that they lack of women at Notre Dame.
had come to negotiate with the The Trustees denied the chargesBoard and that they wanted to and brief exchanges on thetalk to them all. Rustin replied subject were made betweenthat he wanted to make clear Rustin, Carney, Dedrick andthat he and Carney were there to other students.
talk and to convey the results to Minutes later however, thethe entire Board. They were not group who had stormed out of in a position to negotiate for the the session returned to the 
Board. 
room. This time they stood inWith this, a group of ten the upper balcony. They pro­to fifteen students had had ceeded to shout down speakersenough talk, they stated that on the main floor and reiterated 
they wanted to meet the entire their demands for a meetingBoard. They stormed out of the with the entire board. 
auditorium and began to look As the exchanges continued for the board meeting. 
most of the group returned to Over three-quarters of the the main floor where represent­
people in the auditorium remain­atives of the Women's Liberation 
ed and Rustin reaffirmed his and Black students took over the 
Alumni to meet 
About 100 alumni of the starts Wednesday with a 7:30 University of Notre Dame are 
dinner at which James W. Frick, expected to attend the Univer­vice president for publil; rela­
sity's annual joint meeting of its tions and development, will National Alumni Board and speak. Thursday morning the Alumni Senate which starts Board will meet in executive Wednesday (May 6) in the session to discuss committee Center for Continuing Educat­reports, and Philip J. Faccenda, ion. special assistant to the president 
The 85 representatives of of Notre Dame, will speak at a regional Alumni Senate organ­noon luncheon in the Morris izations across the nation will be Inn. housed in campus residence Joint sessions of the two halls, and informal meetins with groups arc scheduled to start at students on the hall levels are 3 pm Thurd ay and last through scheduled for Thursday night, Saturday morning, with topics according to James D. Cooney, under discussion including ad­executive director of the Alumni missions and student affairs. Association. The joint meetings will ad­
The Alumni Board meeting journ at noon Saturday 
Cambodia protest 
By Neil Aosini 
Today at I : 30 there will be a can 01! JIU ICIILII Ill Ill~ CliVI L~ LV student -organized rally at the bring peact: in Indo-China. flag pole to protest the Viet Wht:n asked what specific Nam War and its recent action could result from the expansion into Laos and rally, Leary expressed hope for a Cambodia. student strike and action toward According to Jim Leary, one "abolition of the war machine of the student organizers, "This. 
on campus as is embodied germ won't be a rally of the type of warfare research in the biology the October Moratorium where department, nuclear submarine everybody just talked. There will research and fragmentation 
be education with an emphasis bomb research in the engineering on action." department, and ROTC." Students and faculty members The idea for the rally scheduled to speak include originated last Friday night as 
Student Body President Dave Leary and a group of other Krashna, Jim Engel (recently students decided to "take some back from the "Venceremos action" spurred by Nixon's Brigade" in Cuba) and proft:ssor move to send troops into Jim Douglass of the N D Cambodia and resume intensive Non-Violence Program. bombing of North Vietnam. According to Krashna, Fr. S.B.P. Dave Krashna agreed to 
Theodore Jlesburgh has also 
support the group's call for a a~rced to participate. 
student strike. 
According to the organizers, Other students active in 
th~:re arc a number of reasons organizing the rally are Mark for the rally. pointed to Dellamon, !Mike Fallon, Mike the scnatt: resistance to Nixon's Feeny, and Steve Zon. 
latest moves in the War and 
FOUND come to start saving livt:s and not saving face." Leary also declare(LearYt "The time has 
A pair of girls glasses in front of
stated that as Nixon continued Washignton Hall. 
to ignore public opinion. thert: To reclaim: Call Steve, 8629 discussion. 
Rustin asked why proposals 
Continuing Education staff at­Lee F Fort claimed that Notre 
had not been presented to the 
tempted to elude the groups,Dame was misleading the com­
Board in the morning by student 
going to the extreme of takingmunity and the blacks claiming 
representatives when they meet 
Rustin to the Morris Inn tothat it was helping them with the Board. 
divert attention from the Centerfinancial aid. lie claimed that 15 
Four student representatives 
and then sneaking him backof the 22 black juniors presently 
including Student Body Pres­
across the road through theat Notre Dame would not be 
ident Dave Krashna and Vice­
tunnel and up the stairs into theable to return next year for 
-President Mark Winings had met 
meeting room.
financial reasons. 

with the Trustees over an hour 
The group soon caught on and Rustin's reply was met by in the morning. Members of the they later returned to the Center more shouts from the audience original group that entered the and mulled around. the room building claimed that the stud­
and the exchange between Rus­where the Trustees were thought tin and Fort was sometimes ents did not represent them. 
to be meeting. Some began to audible and at other times Some more exchanges followed pound on the doors. drowned out. Rustin made an and then Rustin and Carney left 
The Trustees appeared outside appeal to the Blacks there for the meeting when it became the room about an hour later more facts on the matter noting apparent that little could be and left the building without that this was the first meeting making any comment.
done to control those who insisted on shouting and inter­
with the Trustees. Certain members stayed be­
rupting speakers. 
A disagreemnt ensued and hind and talked with the stu­
Most of the crowd then left
coupled with the shouting and dents. 
the building. Some of the
restlessness the audience became One adminstrative official 
students cornered Rustin and
obvious s, stated that the Trustees had to 
Carney outside the room and
A disagreement ensued and cut short their meeting because 
asked them questions. About
coupled with the shouting and of the noise. He did not know 
thiry followed them in hopes of
restlessness of the audience it whether another meeting would became obvious that the meeting the regular Trustee meeting. be held soon to consider the was out of control. business at hand.
Members of the Center For 

There's no other tampon like Playtex tampon was always inch of you. Playtex. Outside, soft and silky, more absorbent. Actually 45% Once you try it, we think not cardboardy. Inside, so extra more absorbent on the average you'll love it. That's why we're absorbent, it even protects on than the leading regular making you this special "two your first day. That's why we tampon because of the unique months free" offer. call it the first-day tampon. way it's made. Actually adjusts So go ahead. Use the coupon 
In every lab test against the to you. Flowers out, fluffs out, and get more than two months' old cardboardy kind, the protects every inside supply free. 
•eased on the average woman's use of ten tampons p~r month. 
r-----------------------------,
Here's 50¢ for my more than two months' supply of Playtex tampons.Send in a plain brown wrapper, please. 
0 Regular 0 Super 
Name'----------------~~--~--------------------­
(please print) 

Address,____________________________________________ 
City State Zip___ Mail coupon to: International Playtex Corporation, Dept. 550, P.O. Box 2205, Wilmington, Delaware 19899. Offer expires August 31, 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester 
1970. Please allow four weeks for delivery. 
except vacations by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $8 from the 
L-----------------------------~
tPiaytu is the trademark of International Playtex Corp., Dovctr, Del. C 1969 International Playtu Corp.
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 


PAGE 4 
711E 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 

DAVID C. BACH, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 


Campus Opinion 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~8::::::::::::::::::::::::: Edited by Glen Corso 
The following was submitted by Observer staffer Jim Graif 
The thrfts and destruction which occurred during the recent panty raid are another glaring example of a tendency which has grown all too prevalent not only at Notre Dame, but society in general; that is, a complete disregard and disrespect for both public and private property. The philosophy seems to be if it isn't tied down take it· if it is tied down, break it. ' ' Obviously, many of the things taken in the raid were the usual trophies of a panty raid and serve merely as conversation pieces in the halls. However, many articles, such as record albums, are things that guys make actual use of. The rationale behind the thefts seems to be: "Well, those girls are rich, they can afford it better than I can." I may be wrong but I've got a pretty good hunch that most St. Mary's women are in just about the same financial situation as the majority of Notre Dame men. " The bookstore and Gilbert's lese revenoe each day due to shoplifting by Notre Dame guys. The rationale behind the thefts: "Well, the bookstore and Gilberts are rich, they can afford it better than I can." As any Econ or Business major could tell you, the bookstore and Gilberts are in business to make a profit, that's the name of the game. If their volume is reduced through thievery, then, in order to compensate, they raise prices. A funny thing about the guys who "can't afford" to buy what they need, is that when the weekend comes, they've always got money for booze. One need only look at the security report each week to get an idea of the large amount of destruction of university property which takes place. Most of it consists of windows and other fixtures in the halls being broken by residents of the halls. Guys should realize that in the end it is not the university that pays for the damages, but rather the students. What do you think increases in tuition and room and board are used for? Anyway, it doesn't take much of a man to punch out a window pane, kick in a door panel or empty a fire extinguisher. A ten year old can do it. The underlying causes of the problem are complex and diverse. However, a few possible causes could be pointed out. The lack of restraints or admonitions tends to encourage an individual. A guy comes back to his hall drunk and procedes to break windows. Do his buddies attempt to stop him? No. A guy comes back from the bookstore with an album he stole. Do any of his friends tell him that he was wrong to have done it? No. Perhaps there is a resentment on the part of the thief for the owner. Taking or breaking something isn't going to solve the differences between the two parties. It is going to increase them. 
Maybe the whole attitude is a result of the increasing dog eat dog atmosphere which prevails in society and which carries over to the Notre Dame campus. If this is the case, then there is going to have to be a drastic change around here before this "Christian community" that everyone talks about can be implemented. A little soul searching on the part of each individual might help to improve the situation. Or am I a starry-eyed idealist? 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker Campus Editor: Glen Corso News Editor: Steve Hoffman 
not necessarily

SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Layout Design: Glen Corso views of St. Mary's College, the Ann Conway Jim Holsinger University of Notre Dame, their administration, faculty, or Features Editor: T.C. Treanor 
student bodies" 

T .C. Treanor 

End of Harangue 
The late harangue concerning the Student Forum shows no sign of 
abating-indeed, it appears from every perspective as though it may 
soon pass out of the realm of more mortal events and become a 
legitimate epic. Mr. Krashna, continues to press for the formation of 
a student forum out of the Hall President's Council. Mr. Thrasher, 
continues to press for the Senate he works and believes in 
prompting many observers to inquire as to who the hell he thinks h~ 
is. 

The conflict is lamentable, if for no other reason because the 
Senate's legitimate functions and its legitimate problems are glossed 
over in an avalanche of rhetoric, most of it remarkably poor. 
Proponents of the student forum stripped of their jargon shields 
cite four arguments for the pproposal: 
l. The Senate stank last year and lost the respect of the students. 
2. 
The hall presidents council would be more representative than the senate because hall presidents have to consult with their hall council. 

3. 
The hall president's council will accomplish more things than the senate as the student representative of Notre Dame because the hall president's council operates informally. 

4. 
The Senate has no real power, save their influence over the budget. 


The second argument is sublimably ridiculous. Hall presidents, 
when they consult their council at all, consult section leaders elected 
through a combination of cliqueishness and apathy. The position is 
of such minor importance that no one of any representative talent at 
all seriously considers the post. Even if one would (proponents of 
the Student Forum argue that the new powers of theri organization 
would draw better men to the posts) the average student is no closer 
to the Student government, than before. His section leader is only 
one of the many section leaders who advise the hall presidents, and 
the hall president is only one of the many hall presidents who advise 
the SBP. The section leader is no more representative than the 
senator. 

The Hall President's Council is indeed informal-so informaL in fact, that half the Hall President's don't show up and the other half sleep through the meetings. The HPC can afford to be informal because all important matters are deffered to committees composed of two or three members. But the HPC has had no positive accomplishments depsite their balleyhooed informality. 
While the Senate has no real power, neither would the proposed Student Forum. Krashna once said, as a point of fact, that if the Student Forum recommended, for example, an end to the Black Concentration, he would work against such an end. 
In addition, of course, the Student Forum would be disproportionate, and its members elected as executives, rather than as representatives. 
But the most important argument-that the Senate stank and still stinks-yet remains. And the problem is yet solvable. The reason the Senate stinks is because the senators stink. And the reason the senators stink is that the larger halls, which elect two, three and sometimes four senators, usually have no senate race at all. The senators run unopposed, because seldom do more than three people per hall run for the senate. Because of the !act of competition, lunkheads, nincompoops, political halucinations, and other deadweight invariably find themselves on the Senate. 
Suppose, however, that each hall elected only one Senator.Only the best candidate from each hall would be elected. And only the best candidate would serve in the Senate. 
The Senate can be made proportionate-more proportionate than it is now-is each Senator has a number of votes equal to the number of residents in the halL 
And the Senate can be made powerful-more powerful than it ever was-if it is given a seat on the SLC--the vice-president's seat. The Vice-president has no claim to the seat on the SLC, for he was no more elected than was Spiro Agnew. The Senate, which is elected from the Student body,. does have such a claim. They should exercise it. They should exercise it by electing an SLC member, and meeting three days before SLC meetings to inform it representatives of ·the will of the Senate. The representative would be further mandated to vote the will of the Senate in these anticipated issues. Then power-real power---would rest in the Senate, where it belongs. 
Night Editors: Glen Corso Jim Holsinger Headlines: Mark Day and Floyd Kezle Layout: Jan Reimer 
The opinions expressed in the editori11ls, news analyses, and columns of THE OBSERVER are SQiely those of. the aut~--· and editors of THE OBSEI'I'VER and do reflect the 

MONDAY, MAY 4, 1970 
PAGE 5 

A review by Steve Tapscott 
The Good Woman triumphs 
My friend Sibyl is a flamingo. 
She is made of pink plastic and lives in our hack yard. Why her name is necessarily Sibyl I'm not sure, hut I have a theory why she has a name at all. Theory: naming our flamingo is a natural human attempt to subjectify our world. Living as we do in a world of objects, our subjectivity is constantly threatened. We react cit her by externalizing ourselves (naming the flamingo is asserting our selves over objects) or by internalizing our circumstances (the freedom of realizing limits). I thought of Sibyl at the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theater produc­tion of Bertold Brecht's The Good Woman of Setzuan. It is a fine produc­tion. 
What this has to do with Brecht's play is simply that this seems to be the good woman's dilemma, expressed through the thematic simplicity of a parable and the eccentricities of Brecht's Epic Theater style instead of through a plastic flamingo. Shen Te, a Chinese prostitute, is the only morally pure person in the city of Setzuan, and the thrust of the play is her split bet ween ethical selfless­ness and economic necessity. When she is given a small tobacco shop after helping three bumbling gods, the objective world and her avaricious lover and relatives challenge her subjective virtue. She must lose her scruples, her lover, or her survival, must either capitulate or cope with corruption by becoming corrupt. Either choice nullifies her essential goodness: "No one can be good and stay good," given those circumstatlces. Shen Te chooses to survive by masquerading as her practical and unscrupulous cousin Shui Ta, a character of stylized hardness. Finally she fails; the play ends with her 
Sf. Ed's Frosh sets record in makeouf 
Faithful to the tradition of Knute Rockne and possibly Fr. Sarin a Notre Dame freshman yesterday established the world's record for longest continuous kiss. 
The freshman, Steve Launiere. won the contest after kissing Deloris Terpetra, a Grand Rapids, Mich., high school student, for nine hours and five minutes in his room at St. Edward's hall. Miss Terpetra, 
after completing her marathon perfor­mance, commented, "My teeth hurt." 
The couple kissed continuously from six in the morning until 3:05 p.m., always in the presence of kiss monitors Tim Kiley and Mike Margei. During the time both participants were able to talk, eat, sleep, drink water through a straw. and smoke cigarettes. 
The marathon kiss was their second attempt at the record in two days. A Saturday attempt was aborted when after two hours both participants fell asleep. 
This time, both participants slept, but never sim uftaneously. Mr. Launiere, in a lucid moment after the record-setting performance, said that 
he  attempted  the  feat  "because  it  was  
there."  "Records  are  made  to  be  
broken," echoed Miss Terpetra.  

Both participants agreed that interest in kissing contests had been spiralling, but neither went so far as to predict .that the sport would ever attain intercollegiate status. 


Nearly deaf god, J.P. Mustone, confronts Shen Te, Ann Patterson Photo by Pat Gibbs 
cry for help while the benevolent but inept gods disappear like the smile of Alice's Chesire cat. Her final pregnant plea is as much to the audience as to the doddard gods. 
This production of Bertold Brecht's 1939 play is an admirably clever and direct one, bolstered with fine perfor­mances by student players. Even the details remain true to Brechtian tech­niques, with exposed theatrical equip­ment, highly stylized makeup, and editorial slides flashed on the back wall of the stage. The set's one complex unit does capture the arid materialistic struc­ture of this dramatic world. 
Actress Ann Patterson is a very good Woman indeed. The role is difficult, demanding that she represent Shen Te (without emotional involvement) and also represent the Good Woman posing as Shui Ta, with the emotional complexity that implies. Miss Patterson succeeds. Her delivery is now witty, now sincere, now directly accusatory to the audience with all of Brecht's nco-Marxist shrillness. Her weakness is her love-for all her neighbors and for her lover Yang Sun, but little self-pity enters her presentation of Sheri Te. 
Yang Sun himself, I think, would be a sort of curdled Mack the Knife, whose chief guilt lies in his succeeding where the others fail--trying to cope in an ethically rancid material world. Mark Genera's Yang Sun seems strangely like Mark Genera's Henderson in We Bombed in New 1/aven and like Mark Genera's Tybalt in Romeo and Juliet: scornful and haughty and vaguely bothered by an unscratchable itch so mew here. U nfor­tunately this reduces Yang Sun's defen­sive irony to embittered sarcasm. While Miss Patterson is representing Shen Te, Mr. Genera is acting Yang Sun. The distinction sounds academic, hut the difference is evident in production and is important if the Brechtian audience is to feel no emotional involvement. 
And althou~h some are unfortunately strident, most other supporting characters are excellent. Paulette Petretti succeeds as a smug and avaricious landlady who walks with minced Chinese steps and talks like a Jewish matron from Schenectady. (She also smokes a cigar well, as does Shui Ta.) Willem O'Reilly is almost wasted (again) as a wheedling and cunning opportunist neighbor of the Good Woman; his performance is lecherous and effective, punctuated with eyebrows; it makes one regret that he is inevitably cast in secondary roles. James Boland is direct and whiney as a water-seller, and Paddy Donovan's performance as Mrs. Yan is much more sophisticated than her previ­ous parts. 
Finally it is the character of the gods which dominates the atmosphere of The Good Woman. Michael Nash and Bob Campbell simper and bumble well, but it 
is  John  Paul  Mustone  as  the  unProme­ 
thean  First  God  who  shows  their  
platitudinous  ineptitude.  Mustone  is  

witty and consistent (a Chinese Eddie Haskell aged 900 years) without becom­ing a buffoon; the devastating part of his performance is that he is playing a god. The three row away from the world-of the Good Woman on a fleecy cloud, and 
their inconsistently benevolent and oblivi­ous song of hope grates effectively against the final bewildered state of Ann Patterson's Shen Te. In the first scene of the play men have had to help the gods; in the last scene, thanks to Mr. Mustone, the gods are worse than helpless, for they maintain a legalistic attitude of hope in a strangling and hopeless human situation. The production on the whole does a fine job of representing that arid and objecti­fying landscape. It candidly demands a new social and economic order for a world now finally abandoned by the old gods-a new order which will no longer oppress subjectivity and moral virtue. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~;::::;.:.:-:::::::::b:::::::::::::::::::;i:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
A rev1ew y famous Jim Brogan 
Sly and the Family Stoned 
The Magnificent 7 lived up to their potential, but Sly and his sly Family didn't even come close to making the grade. 
Last Saturday night the Student Union and the ACC presented Their Grand-Prix Concert. The only troulbe was that Grand Prix Weekend was cancelled, when in reality only the concert should have been. It is unforunate that the reace had to be canned instead of the concert. 
To the local Magnificent 7 fell the responsibility of opening up this debacle. They certainly were better than most of the second rate warm-up groups that we have bet:n submitted to this year, being one of the few campus groups in the country that could adequatltely kick off a performance of this magnitude. 
They performed as well as I have ever heard them, but they were battling almost insurmountable odds. The audience was naturally hostile; they had come to hear Sly and weren't about to settle for less. 
Their performance, however, should be termed as a success. Their material was well chosen, and well performed. Loretta Johnson, from SMC, was the highlight of the performance. She has a voice like you wouldn't believe. It could easily fill both the domes of the Convo Center without amplification. 
The throaty, dynamic quality of her voice is in the best Aretha Franklin tradition, and her whole style infact seems very much influenced by Latly Soul. but the range of her voice was best shown in a non-Aretha song You Got Me /Jummin. Whereas listening to Lydia Pense of Cold Blood's version makes you feel like you are chewing tinfoil, Loretta 
has a much smoother approach, blending in much better with the instrumentation. Definitely a superior version. 
Their best tunes included God Bless the Child, Vehicle, and Respect. In summary, they couldn't have made it yet· as the main dish of a concert, but as an appetizer they were quite palatable. 
Next on the agenda was the world's longest 15 minute intermission, which stretched into almost an hour. Many of us had our doubts about whether Sly had really shown up at all, but finally Sly and his Family Stone made their triumphant entry. 

It is with good reason that Sylvester Stone was nicknamed Sly. For sly Sly played only the 50 minutes stipulated in his contract, and no more. He got on stage, played rather half-heartedly, got his money, and left town. 
The audience for the most part was very dissappointed. They had expected a lot, and had gotten almost nothing. Sly didn't even perform his biggest smash Hveryday People of his recent I want to Thank You. 
But what did he do for the short time that he was on stage? (It seemed like 30 minutes, rather than the claimed 50 minutes) They showed bursts of energy, and were occasionally bordering on the exciting spontaneity that has made them famous(their /Jot Fun In the Summertime and Stan dwere excellent), but they certainly weren't the group that we had heard so much about. To put it more bluntly, they let us down. 
They started out well, hut they never built the excitment to the frenzy for which they are known, and are capable. The audience reacted as was expected, or at least a minority of them did, to the rythmic Dance to the Music. They hopped up from their seats, ran down 
infront of the stage, and danced for all they were worth. The important thing to note is not the same few who will flock to the stage for every bum act that appears, but rather the great number of people who stayed glued to their seats. It evidently takes more than a methodical, money-grubber with a big name to get the whole audience involved. 
Sly has been sick, and perhaps that is the reason why they played so lackidsically. Maybe they haven't been able to practice, or maybe Sly is still suffering, but whatever the case there is no excuse for the half-hearted show that he and his Family put on. 
It would have been better to cancel this one as they have done so many times in other cities in the past, rather than the audience as they did. 
MONDAY, MAY 4, 1970

PAGE 6 
THBa&rQYIR 



Letters to the Editor 
All letters should be mailed 
to PO Box 11 
Priorities 
Editor: 
During a return visit to Our Lady's Place recently I dined with a Government Department faculty member. The gtmtleman in question dwelt at length on 
the department's problems. It seems that in a period in which the number of majors has doub­led the faculty has increased only from _ten to eleven. No new hirings are in sight in spite of overcrowded classes. The book­buying budget is so low as to be an offcolor joke. 
I thought nothing more until I returned home to pick up a solicitation letter from Mr. Frick of P.R. & Development. I was asked to contribute to SUMMA, and faculty and graduate educa­tion needs were dealt with. How­ever, the major demand concern­ed the $6 million Notre Dame Law Center Program. This latest (of many) "rebuilding" effort for the Law School centers a­round the contruction of a "striking five-floor Law Center," the cost of which I can guess since Mr. Frick didn't supply it. 
Now I don't doubt the need for an upgrading of the Law School. After all, how will Dean Lawless even get back in New York State politics if his reputa­tion is not bolstered here? How­ever, I would point to more stressing and non-showy needs than that for a new Law Center. The status of one department I have described. The English De­partment lost good men to other universities last year. The Lib­rary, which can hold 2,000,000 ·volumes, is less than 40% filled. Finally, du Lac has a budget deficit of $800,000 for this year. 
Fr. Hesburgh's potentials as a brick and mortar archbishop are well known. Indeed, one of my fondest hopes for many a moon is that Theodorus Maximus will soon get to serve is this capacity. Nonetheless I for one feel that Notre Dame should concentrate less on building new buildings 

and more on getting (and hold­ing) top faculty, stocking the Library, expanding the graduate program, and so on. Consolida­tion is needed far more than gaudy expansion. 
I will be the first to admit that many of Notre Dame's high rollers are most receptive to fund requests that include a building named after them and a position on the Board of Trus­tees. However, I feel if the non­architectural needs of the univer­sity are explained in a rational and civil manner that l.A. O'Shaughnessy, Joe LaFortune, and J. Peter Grace will be gener­ous. Thus the Law Center should wait along with all other window 
dressing  until  the foundations  
can be bolstere d.  
Peace,  

Joel Connelly '69 


Student strike 

Editor: During the past week, the campus of Notre Dame has seen two outbreaks of violent disturbance: the first taking the form of the traditional spring panty raid, resulting in thousands of dollars of damage . to the properto of the women of Saint Mary College; the other the take-over of the Continuing Education Center during the meeting of the Board of Trustees. Though these actions were taken in independance of each other, they were connected in the sense that they were manifestations of an illness on this campus: an illness that the trustees and Administration either do not or will not recognize. That illness is the lack of awareness of the realities of the outside world. This Jack of reality is not 
Craftsmen in Optics® , 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING. 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 




Jluuse ufVisiuli I)
The House of Vision, Inc. 
SENIOR WEEK KICKOFF DANCE 
TONIGHT 
MAGNIFICENT 7 
at the Senior Bar 
9 -12 
exclusive to Notre Dame, for the 
same alck of awareness is 
widespread in our society today. 
The point in hand is the war in 
Indo-China. We read abou-t 
massacres and weekly death tolls 
in newspapers, but because of 
our removal from the action 
itself, we have no true sensitivity 
to the implications fo our 
involvement. 
There is general agreement 
today on the immorality and 
perveristy of our presence in 
South East Asia, as evidenced by 
the massive support for 
Moratorium Day this past 
Octover. Instead of withdrawal, 
we are involving ourselves more 
deeply in the war with our 
"defensive" in Cambodia. 
We, as students of Notre 
Dame, must come to grips with 
this reality. We must come to an 
understanding of waht this war 
means to both the people of 
South East Asia and the people 
of the United States. Once we 
come to this realization, there 
should be no question about our 
course of action; the need to act 
in our context, that is, in Notre _!>arne, should be evident. 
At this time, students on 
campuses across the nation have 
gone on strike, as a sign of their 
disagreement with the United 
States' foreign policy in South 
East Asia. It is imperative that 
we, as students of Notre Dame, 
join our fellow-students in 
protest, not only of the situation 
in Indo-China, but also on our 
university. There is no question 
that each student should join 
this strike. There should be little 
question, also, that the presence 
of R.O.T.C. on this campus 
indicates a silent approval of the 
foreign policy against which this 
strike is aimed. It is 
understandable that some will 
feel the call to constructive 
action against such a presence on 
this campus. 
It is time for energies to be 
channeled in a constructive 
manner on matters of 
consequence on this campus: 
not panty raids, but 
co-education. Not silent 
approval towards the presence .of 
R.O.T.C., but committment to 
the Christian principles this 
campus is supposedly founded 
upon. 
Dave Tokarz 
320 Holy Cross 

Engineering students 
Editor: 
I would like to comment ori 
some derogatory remarks 
(perhaps unintentional) which 
appeared in the third installment 
(April 29) of your series on the 

role of the arts at Notre Dame. 
Your columnist seems to imply that creativity is restricted to the humanities, and that conditions conducive to creativity ean best be achieved by ·diverting the University's resources away from the Colleges of Science and Engineering (Architecture is not a separate school yet) and to the University Arts Council. I resient the implication that engineering and the sciences are not creative fields. If I thought that the sole function of a faculty member in the Engineering College was to provide students with "an admission slip to a $20,000 a year job", ro that our graduates would spend all their leisure time sleeping or watching TV, I'd quit. Students in engineering and science, (hopefully in the Humanities) are being educated so that they can make a constructive, creative contribution to our society. They are given a solid base in both their technical and humane studies so that they can not only contribute to our "life style" but play a significant role in changing it for the better. 
A second point in the article is that, given the opportunity, women will not choose engineering or science as suiting their "educational needs". This bit of anti-fenimine bias, which I must admit is not the unique posession of your columnist, has deprived our siciety of the services of the many intelligent, creative young women who could be excellent engineers but don't even try. An alternate solution to the co-education "problem", which your columnist hasn't explored, is to persuade young women that engineering is not only a suitable career but an exciting, creative career which will most fully utilize their many talents. Sincerely yours, John W. Lucey 

Class officers 

Editor: 
Once again, the time has arrived for · class government elections here at Notre Dame. In the past, students have sought these offices with glittering promises and an opportunistic eye for recognition. After the elections, the platforms of the victorious candidates are usually discarded as the winners choose to rest with their new-found self-impressive titles. 
The ultimate losers in each of these campaigns are the students, who, seeing their "leaders" administration 
degenerate into nothing less than 
total  stagnation,  evolve  into  
apathetic disgust.  
Admittedly,  student  

government (SBP, SBVP, Student Senate, etc.) aids in taking up the slack of listless class governments, but it is in class government that students can identify· with others similar to themsleves, autonomous of campus or hall governing bodies. Of course, this is not true of all class officers, but this characteristic post-election lethargy occurs too often to ignore. 
We ask all students to closely examine all of this year's candidates and decide whether to cast their votes for never-to-be-fulfilled promises, or meaningful, representative action. 
Steve Pallucca 
R. D. Ritchea Kevin Muse Gary Little -Class of '7 3 


Defends Hochberg 

Editor: 
With due respect to Dr. Bruno Schlesinger-for I feel he is a remarkable man as well as a scholar-1 believe he is guilty of not viewing Professor Hochberg's criticisms of this campus in the proper perspective. Dr. Hochberg is not pointing a critical finger at any faculty members (or students, for that matter), but rather he is criticizing the situation as it exists here. Granted, both the faculty members and students are affected by such criticism, but only with the hopes that some active concern will be stirred. 
I don't think I am assuming too much by expecting openness and encouragement from both faculty and students to new ideas and scholarly opinions. In an academic atmosphere criticism such as Dr. Hochberg is voicing should be applauded-for he is taking a stand and he is making it known that he cares about what is happening-or, more appropriately, what is not happening, here! 
The situation that exists here cannot be ignored, and I feel we need more Hochbergs to create an atmosphere where students, faculty, and the administration can cooperate and work together to create a community whete openness prevails. 
Helen Marquardt 


Applauds An Tostal 

Editor: 
Congratulations to the An Tostal committee are most definitely inorder for the really outstanding program they presented. The weekend was the first time in a long time that I have seen so many Notre Dame and St. Mary's students drop their guards and let themselves go headfirst into simple, somewhat less than sophisticated fun. It's nice to see that we oh so suave and cosmopolitan NDers and SMCers don't really take ourselves quite as seriously as it often appears. 
Sincerely, 
Mike Reilly 
304 Keenan 


PAGE 7

MONDAY, MAY 4, 1970 
THE OBSERJJER. 

--~---------------------------------------------­
Walsh calls for government grants 
Contiuued from the first page. 
Americans  with  misery  in  the  
name of liberty."  
Melville  asserted  that  the  
United  States  investors  are  
containing  and  controlling  the  

lives of millions of Latin Americans. lie decried the Munroe Doctrine as "designed basically tu make Latin A me rica the economic preserve of the United States." 
"We cannot accept the statistics of a multimillionaire while millions of people in Latin America are living in poverty and starvation." 
Following Melvilles remarks, Professor Walshe proposed that all who are genuinely concerned with the problems of Latin America should "give resounding support for government grants to international communities," rather than to national political regimes. 
Walshe said that the infuriating aspect of latin America investments, and the moral issue of those investments, was the return flow of capital to the United States. He was met by unanimous support, including that of both Grace and Melville. 
As questions from the assembled crowd were entertained, Grace and Melville further explained their positions. Grace continually asserted that he was on the side of the underprivileged and on the side of the capitalistic system. 
lie said he agreed with labor leader George Meany that capitalism is certainly not the ideal form of an economic system,' but that it is the only one that we have that works. 
Melville proposed a "form of socialism" because he felt that the capitalistic system was "the enemy of Latin America." The debate-like discussion continued for almost an hour and touched upon many aspects of economy and goverment. 
Grace was swamped with questions from the floor, and yeilded the microphone to students on several occasions. In reply to a Cuban student's accusations that his accounts of wages paid, living conditions and strike freedom were fraudulent, Grace offered to fly the student to Peru to see for himself. No definite arrangemets were made 
for the trip, however, when the student expressed doubts that the United States government 

Nutting backers present petition 
By Steve Hoffman 
News Editor 
Representatives from the Nut­
ting for President Headquarters 
last Friday presented Chairman 
of the Board of Trustees, Mr. 
Edmund Stephan, a letter calling 
fur immediate action on the 
proposed implementation of the 
Chancellor-President structure, 
together with petitions signed by 
over I 200 students in favor of 
the structure. 
Mr. Stephan accepted the 
literature, and brought it to the 
attention of the Board on Friday 
Charity seen as answer 
Carney also said that campus crises result from the student's compassion for the socially af­flicted. Unfortunately he said when a university trie~ to solv~ soda! problems it gives up its main purpose, that of education. 
Panelist Richard Rosenthal also presented his concept of the Christian university. Saying that "if God stands for anything he stands for order," Rosenthal­-alumnus and banker-conclud­ed a Christian university should seek, find, and speak-out about the truth in an orderly way. 
Rosenthal said he finds Notre Dame deficient in order and in I wo other Christian character­istics as well: dignity and charity. To illustrate his point, Rosenthal related an anecdote. 
lie said a friend of his was in one of the dormitories after a football game. While passing 
through  the  corridor  he  hap­ 
pened to spy  a student and his  
girl  "having  intercourse  in  a  

room." "They didn't even have the dignity and charity to close the door," Rosenthal said. 
Freerick Crosson, Dean of theCollege of Arts and Letters, was another Forum panelist. In his statement he noted that just as the typical university is not a public utility (specifically designed to serve public inter­ests) so the Christian university shouldn't function soley to pro­mote Christian interests. 
Crosson thr.n explained his understanding of the purpose of any university: "The university is concerned with learning and understanding in the context of the so-called reflective and com­prehensive query." 
afternoon. 
llowever, due to the disrup­tion of the meeting caused by the entrance of members of the 
CPA. discussion on the Nutting matter was terminated due to what Mr. Stephan termed an "impossibility to seriously con­duct the meetin!!."
He notea tnat other items haa to be acted upon, including the formulation of the budget, and that further consideration of the Nutting proposal would have to be delayed. "It's an unfortuante paradox that twenty people kept the , Trustees from dealing with a matter about which 1200 people feel so strongly." He added that further action on the matter would be under­
taken  by  the  meeting  of  the  
Executive  Committee  of  the  
Board during the summer.  

Concerning the impression the literature made on the Trustees while they were free to discuss it, Mr. Stephan remarked that it revealed valuable information on the entire realm of liberal arts. However, he added that he felt that the general sentiment of the Board seemed to be that "this is 
not  the  moment  to  enact  the  
structure."  
"The  whole  matter  of  the  

Chancellor-President structure has become too persona.lized," he said. "You don't alter the present structure on the 
attractiveness of one man." He further contended that the proposed system hasn't worked effectively elsewhere, explaining that, with such a structure, all the problems and decisions ulti­mately gravitate to the numb~r one man. 
Mr. Stephan conciuded by P.mphasizing that he WQ_uld like_ to see Fr. Hesburgh's load of 
responsibility lessened 
• 

, 
Netmen w1n tourney 

Notre Dame's up and down tennis team was very much "up" this weekend as they won the­Northern Illinois Huskie Invitational tennis tournament. 
The Irish topped an eight team field by totalling 44 points. Northern Illinois was second with a team score of 26. Four teams tied for the third spot at 24 markers. They were Bradley, Indiana State, Missouri and Iowa. Northeast Missouri compiled only nine points and Akron brought up the rear with only a single tally. 
In capturing the title ND had six of its players coming through with individual first. Mike Reilly, Gil Theissen, Rob Shefter and Bob O'Malley all won singles titles. Buster Brown and Theissen teamed up to take one doubles event and Shefter and Greg Murray took another doubles crown. 
This was a big win for ND as the Irish showed that they could bounce back from the trouncing adminstered to them by Indiana last week. The Notre Dame dual match record stands at 8-5 for the year but this Tournament crown is an impressive victory for the record. The next match for the netters will be Tuesday afternoon versus Kalamazoo at home: 


would give him a visa, due to his Cuban nationality. 
Melville's socialistic proposals were severely criticized by a native of Chile, who said that his people need a "systme in which a man really gets freedom that he is offered."
t'rofessor Walshe offered concluding suggestions. He proposed that "the countries must be permitted to form their 
own  governments  and  
societies-because  it's  not our  
business."  

He disagreed with Grace's 

view that private capital must he invested in Latin America, again suggesting aid through international organizations. "The most that the J. Peter Graces should provide," he claimed, "is not the private capital but the expertise." 
Grace rushed to his limosine, pursued by vociferous students, and did not comment on his donation for Grace Hall. Melville went to Flanner to conduct a Latin American Teach-in. 
10,000 in operations •1n Cambodia 
Continued from the first page. 
those in the Fishhok mostly Americans of the 1st Air Cavalry and 25th Infantry Divisions. Those in the Parrot's Beak are all South Vietnamese except for about 40 U.S. Army division accompanying the task force. 
The command said Amerir.lln.. units in the Fishhok discovered a Communist motor pool Sunday 
where seven 2 ton trucks and three jeeps were parked. They also found bunkers containing 10 tons of medial supplies, I00 cases of rifles, 450 gallons of oil, 65 tons of rice and other arms and ammunition. 
Military spokesmen said the medical supplies were packed in 
shipping  crates  that bore labels  
showing  they  had  been  sent  
from  Paris  to  the  Cambodian  

capital of Phnom Penh aboard Air France planes. 
UPI correspondent Robert Sullivan, who is with the American troops in the Fishhok area, said a froce of several hundred air cavalry soldiers was put down by helicopter yest.._erday on Highway Seven in Cambodia to set up a second blockade on the north south route. Armed units of the 25th division blocked the road at another point Saturday near the 
district town of Memot. 
President Nixon Thrusday night said the objective of the American thrust into Cambodia was to locate and destroy the Central Office of South Vietnam, command center for Communist war operations in Cambodia and Vietnam 
Except for a mortar barrage early yesterday against the forward command post of the I 1th Armored Cavalry Regiment, which caused no fatalities, Communist resistance 
to  the  American  advance  into  
Cambodia  has  been  light,  
spokesmen  said.  But  within  

South Vietnam they said, the Communists have mounted a series of significant attacks that included artillery barrages against 77 targets during a 24 hour period ended at 8 am Sunday. 
SPECIAL OFFER 
NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
STUDENTS * FACULTY * EMPLOYEES 
FREE WAX 
JUST MENTION OR PRESENT THIS AD 
CAR EVERY 
'NITH 
'NASH 
MONDAY THRU 

DURING FRIDAY 
75C 
APRIL & MAY 

BOOM -A -ROUND 

2 


MINlJTES 
Reusable Chamois & PuwerjiJ! Vac APai!able 
2322 E. Edison Rd. 
YzBiock E. of Ironwood 
MONDAY, MAY 4, 1970 -~ 
"THE OBSERrJER.

PAGE 8 
Track team edged by E. Michigan 

by Steve O'Connor The decisive EM sweeps were Intermediate Hurdles (55 .9) and Observer Sportswriter keyed by winners Homer their Mile Relay team (3:30.0). Hincheliffe (High Jump 6'3"), In the Field EM added a Pole
Eastern Michigan bested Bill Kouvolo (Javelin 199'8"), Vault victory by Jeff DennisNotre Dame in track 86-68 at John Kampers (Hammer Throw who went 13'6".
Cartier Field last Saturday on a 151 '8") and Dave Campbell The Irish took 9 of the 19 butdiscouraging, wintry day that 
(Steeplechase 9:34.5 ). weaknesses in some events and akept times slow and both .teams 
Other winners on the track lack of depth cost points. In theand spectators subdued. 

for Eastern Michigan were Field events the Irish were ledEastern Michigan captured Wayne Seiler in the Mile by Paul Gill who broke theonly one more first than the (4: 16.5), Bill Tipton in the High school record in the Discus with Irish, but they swept four events Hurdle (14.0), Gene Thomas in a 182'4" toss and came back to to account for the 18 pt. margin. 
the__440 ( 48.6), Sim Grant in the win the shot at 54'6". ND also grabbed the Long and Triple Jumps as Mike McMannon and Kevin McAuliffe alternated their
Clarify statement 
placing. McMannon captured the 

---·. The final part of the quote IS 
Long Jump with a 23'1" leap as

Last Friday's Irish Eye a bit ambiguous and this is the 
McAuliffe finished third. Then

column dealt with an interview fault of the writer. By "having 
McAuliffe took the Triple Jump

of Edward "Moose" Krause, something to benefit them later 
at 45' 11" and McMannon

Notre Dame's Athletic Director. in life" is meant that after an 
grabbed third. In the running

In this column the following athlete's playing days are over he 
events Rick Vallicelli turned in a 

quote appeared. might be able to turn to some 
fine double for ND by capturing 

"Krause never hesitated a other field of endeavor. He will 
the 100 in 9.7 and the 220 in

moment when he was asked if know more than how to play 
22.5 Rick Wohlhutter came

Notre Dame ever thought about football. 
close to matching Vallicelli's

going back to the possibility of a Being a coach is a very 
performance as he won the 880

physical education major at important profession. A coach 
easily off the final turn but was

Notre Dame. 'We wouldn't even has a tremendous influence over 
narrowly edged out in the 440,

consider it. This isn't a coach-a young man and most coaches 
running a 48.7 to EM's Thomas 

making factory. After their days use this influence correctly. 
who ran a 48.6 Joe Quaderer

at Notre Dame we want our Coaching requires long hours of 
won the Two Mile for Notre 

athletes to have something that work and skill if a person hopes 
Dame in 9: 13.8 beating Ed Ellis 

will benefit them in later life.' " to be a success in this field. 
of Eastern Michigan and 

It was pointed out to this Most coaches are well edu­
teammate Pat Holleran who 

department that the context of cated men. One need look no 
finished third. The Irish 440 

this passage could have more farther than the Notre Dame 
relay team won in 42.5 to 

than one meaning. This was staff for proof of this. Every 
account for the other victory.

completely unintentional. Coach on the staff holds 
a In the High Hurdles event the 

Although the structuring of Masters degree and there is also 
ND duo of Tom McMannon and 

the paragraph might give the one Doctorate. 
Dave Stickler placed two-three 

idea that the profession of It is hoped that this clarifies 
behind Tipton the Central 

coaching is a demeaning one, last week's column. The main 
Collegiates Champ in this event. 

such is definitely not the case. purpose of the passage in ques-
Stickler also added a second in 

All that was intended to be tion was only to say that the conveyed by this part of the university will not initiate a column was simply · that this physical education major. If any 
Ohio halts ND streak
university does not plan to offense was made by this then introduce a physical education this department apologizes. Ed Robbins and the weather­their runs. Bill Orga and Karkut triumphs. An error with themajor. 
man spoiled the weekend for the banged singles and came home bases loaded in the ninth inningFighting Irish baseball team. on Rob Voitier's long triple. 
gave Notre Dame a 4-3 win inOne more week of drills Robbins pitched and batted his Ohio U. wrapped up the close the opener and a wild pitch with Ohio University nine to a 5-2 battle by addinr 11 pair of

Some of the bumps and the bases loaded in the eighth
team with five proven veterans 
the Friday

bruises of previous weeks are patrolling four stations. Co­victory over Irish insurance runs in the seventh stanza put the Irish on top 3-2 in healing and it looks as though afternoon in Athens, bringing inning. The Bobcats cc mbined a the nightcap. The games were
captain Tim Kelly, Eric Patton, Notre Dame's six game winning homerun by Robbins and three
the Notre Dame football squad scheduled to be seven inning
Jim Wright, Rich Thomann and 
will be in satisfactory shape John Raterman are a rugged streak to an end, and rain forced singles to register the two tallies. affairs. Winning pitchers were when it closes spring drills next the cancellation of Saturday's The Irish freshman team fared Skip Webb and Mike Riddell.
crew that should limit any
Saturday. doubleheader with the Bobcats. better than their varsity counter­The Irish varsity will be back
opponents to the minimum of 
A starting lineup is just about The Bobcats pounced on Irish parts over the weekend, sweep­in action Tuesday afternoon at
yardage. 
starter Mickey Karkut for three!

certain for the Blue-Gold Game. ing a doubleheader from Valpa­Cartier Field, opposing Michigan 
first inning runs, all Rob bins 

The backfield will be the same as The big front four is in about raiso Sunday at Cartier Field. State at 3 p.m. Ron Schmitz, a 
needed to pick up his eighth win 

used in the Cotton Bowl. Joe the same shape as the line­The young Irish took advan­winner in his last three outings, Theismann, who displays an backers. Six men are challenging without a setback this season. tage of Valpo miscues to emerge is likely to get the starting nod 
for four spots. Walt Patulski, Robbins gave up six hits while
uncanny knack to get out of with a pair of ninth inning from Coach Jake Kline. 
who has missed spring drills fanning fourteen Irish butters.
tight situations with his scram­bling ability, will call the signals while recovering from a shoulder Karkut went the distance for the 
operation, should return at one Irish, absorbing his fourth loss in 
from quarterback. 
end. Fred Swendsen, last year's five decisions. 
MAJOR LEAGUES
The halfbacks will be steady 
starter, and Bob Neidert should The Irish rapped three of their
Denny Allan, who scored three NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE battle for the other terminal. six hits off Robbins in the
more times in Saturday's scrim­
Neidert is a little quicker than second inning to score both of East East
mage, and Andy Huff who is 1­once again demonstrating a lot Swendsen and this may give him w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB the edge. Chicago 13 7 .650
of potential. Bill Barz is at Golfers 12th Detroit 13 7 .650 
The tackles are filled by Mike New York 12 11 .522 2Y:z Baltimore 14 8 .636
fullback, providing that excel­
Philadelphia 12 11 .522 2Y:z

Kadish and Greg Marx or Mike Notre Dame's golf team had Boston 12 9 .571 1Y:z
lent power for short yardage 10
St. Louis 10 .500 3

Zikas. All three are mammoth another poor showing this Washington 12 11 .522 2Y:zsituations. 
Pittsburgh 11 11 .500 3

and they should be extremely weekend by placing l 2th out of New York 13 12 .520 2Y:z
The line is not quite as set. Montreal 6 15 .286 7 
Cleveland 9 12 .429 4Y:z

difficult to run through. 14 teams at the Northern
John Dampeer has seemingly nailed down his tackle job but Depth is available in nearly Intercollegiate Tournament in Steve Buches is not quite as every spot save offensive tackle. Champaign, Illinois. West 
West Bill Etter, a runner, and Jim Ohio State won the 72 hole Cincinnati 19 6 .760
certain on the other side. Minnesota 14 7 .667 Bulger, a big passer, will back up tourney with a five man total of Atlanta 12 11 .522 6
Tom Gatewood should be a California 14 8 .636 Y:z
Los Angeles 12 11 .522 6

the South River Roadrunner at 1586. Iowa and Purdue were one Oakland 11 13 .458 4Y:zthreat to overtake some of Jim 
qb. San Fran. 12 14 .462 7Y:z
Seymour's records this season if stroke behind with 1587. (All Chicago 8 13 .381 6
Houston 10 15 .400 9this spring is any indication of Jim Yoder, who has under­other Big I 0 teams as well as San Diego 9 16 .360 10 Kansas City 8 14 .364 BY.· his skills. Bob Creany, a fresh­gone knee surgery, and Larry both Miami's (Fla., 0.) were Milwaukee 5 19 .208 10% man, is improving each week and Parker, also injured, will make ahead of the Irish except Cicinnati 11 Pittsburgh 7 
New York 8·4 Milwaukee 7·2

he should be at the tight end slot sure that Huff and Allan don't Northwestern.) Los Angeles 15 Montreal 1 
Oakland 3-4 Washington 1-6 

next Saturday. loaf at their positions. Parker has ND totaled 1642 on the U of St. Louis 7-1 Houston 4-8 
Minnesota 4 Baltimore 3 

The interior is well set with good speed and he may provide I's Savoy course, as only Bill Philadelphia 8-13 San Francisco 6-6 
Cleveland 6 Kansas City 3
San Diego 4-2 New York 3·3

Larry DiNardo and Gary Kos at a breakaway threat. Cvengros, who totaled 319, Detroit 6 Chicago 5 
Chicago at Atlanta, ppd. rain

the guards and Dan Novakov at In the defensive secondary, could average less than 80 California at Boston, ppd. rain 
center.  Chuck  Zloch,  an  old  hand  at  strokes  per  round.  Bob  Wilson  
Defensively, the Irish have settled down to a unit. Clarence  watching fleet receivers, and Tom Eaton, who was just beaten  had 326, Jim Battaglia 335,  Dunn 334, and Marty  Bob Best  
Ellis, Ralph and Mike Crotty should prove difficult for the opposition to crack in the deep secondary. The linebacking corps is pro­bably the most solid part of the  out by Crotty, are more than adequate depth. The closing of spring training will take place this Saturday in the stadium with the first unit facing the second team.  3 38 for the Irish. Fr. Clarence Durbin, golf coach, said, "Play was under conditions of high winds and cold, but the conditions were the same for all contestants.  










