
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~--~--------~--­
Weekday parietals 
Trustees approve inc:reased hours 
Complete text of statement on pages six and seven. 
The Board of Trustees' long awaited statement on parietal hours and hall life, released late yesterday morning, left the door open for halls to individually establish women's visitation hours throughout the week subject to regula­tion by a Hall Life Board. 
However, the statement added that "the Board of Trustees believes strongly that there must be some limitation on visiting hours, which arc not to extend beyond 2:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday, and 11:00 p.m. on other nigl1 ts." 
The report continued, "We also remind the students that while some sign-in record may seem irksome at times, it is the students' only protection in the event of legal difficulty." 
The decision, related in a letter by Edmund A. Stepan, Chairman of the Board to James Massey, Chairman of the SLC, emphasized that a hall would have to show responsibility before the Hall 

VOL. IV, No. 110 Scrl'inx the: Notre: Oumc a11J Saint Ma1:1' 's College ('ot/lrllllllitP 

Burn successfully corrects Apollo systems go for Friday splashdown 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (UPI) -p.m. EST when spacecraft commander Apollo 1J maneuvered onto a safe James A. Lovell reached out and punched homward path Wednesday night, setting a yellow button on a control panel. That 
up the astronauts for asplashdown in the fired up the engine of the lunar lander, Pacific Ocean Friday and sparing them Aquarius, which Apollo has used for certain death in space. three emergency maneuvers since an The fateful moment came at 11:32 explosion crippled the command ship 
Forum proposed to CRC 
by Ed Ellis The Constitutional Revision Com­mittee last night heard proposals for the restructuring of Student Government. The principal topic of discussion at the second meeting of the committee was Student Body President Dave Krashna's proposal that the Student Senate he abolished and that a Student Forum he esta hlished to organize and coordinate student activities. The committee heard from Mark Winings, Student Body V-P who pre­sented the basic reasoning behind the Forum proposal. Rom Miganelli, Senator from Grace Hall, opposed the Forum in his presentation, and Tom Duffy, of 
Life Board could appmve the hall's 
individual plan for hours. 
In addition, the Trustees said that they were not giving the Board an "absolute and irrevocable carte blanche." 
"The Board of Trustees does not meet its ultimate responsibility by simply providing for a general mechanism for good order at the University," the statement continues, "If the mechanism does not, in fact, work, then the Trustees must make other provisions and they will." 
The Hall Life Board, originally created in March of last year at the SLC's request, will be elevated to a separate Adminis­trative body and will be a nine member, tri-partite board consisting of three administration representatives, three fa­c~lty members and three students. 
The Hall Life Board will "be appointed by the President of the University, and charged with the responsibility of evalu­ating the proposals of each residence hall 

Zahm Hall, presented a detailed plan for the implementation of the Forum. 
Winings, who spoke after Krashan, opened the meeting, presented the Administration's basic reasoning behind their proposal. 
"The Senators do not speak for the hall in any coherent manner, He said. "The Student (;overnment has long lacked a single unified base from which to speak." 
He stated that there would he three 

chief afvantages in his system. First, 
Student Government would speak from 
one unified positon. Second, he sad that 
there would be "less parlementary tactics 
{continued on page 3) 


M1rk Winings Run Stone board feels will successfully provide the best hall environment consistent with
. 

good order." The Board will not be completely autonomous however, since the Trustees statement indicates that they feel the Board "will require some administrative guidelines to function effectively." The report says that the trustees have asked that the Vice President for Student Affairs propose such guidelines. In concluding their reaction to the SLC's report on parietals the Trustees' statement still referred to the new system as an "experiment". "We feel that it is important that the experiment be con­
tinued for at least one more school year before final evaluation by the Trustees." The report requested that the SLC 
prepare another evaluation of the "exper­iment" during the 1970-71 school year for consideration at the March 1971 meeting of the Executive Committee of 
Monday night 
Lovell's companion Fred W. Baise stood at his own control panel in Aquarius during the crucial maneuver and John L.. Swigert sat behind him on a makeshipt jump seat. 
"Thurst looks good," ground control confirmed just before the firing was completed. 
"Nice work," controllers told the astronauts. 
"let's hope it was," Baise shot hack. 
Although the firing appeared right on 

target, considerable tracking and other checks were necessary before the exact new trajectory could be determined. Christopher C. Kraft, deputy director of the manned space craft center, said an additional correction maneuver could be made if there was nay need to true up the course of Apollo 13. Ground controllers confirmed the vital rocket burn slowed 
Apollo by 7.6 feet per second -or 5.03 
m.p.h. This is almost exactly the rate space officials had hoped for. 
After the burn, the spacemen! used their reaction control rockets -small steering thrusters -to slow their speed a 
bit more -just over one tenth of a mile an hour. 
SLC elections back to April 23; petition deadline now Saturday 
by Tom Bornholdt 
After a considerable degree of con­troversy following the Student Senate meeting Tuesday night, the Election Committee decided on Thursday, May 23, as the date of the election of the student members of the Student Life Council. the committee did move the deadline for submitting nomination petitions to I 0 p.m. Saturday. 
According to committee member Tom Thrasher. the Election committee had originally del"ided on an election date of April 23, ut it was unofficially changed at the last minute to April 30 in a confusion over powers and procedures. The election bill containing the April 30 date was then ratified by the Senate. It was only after 


13's course, 
•

1n Pacific 
If all continues to go well, the astronauts will splash down at I :04 p.m. EST Friday, about 600 miles southeast of Pago Pago in the South Pacific. 
While getting ready for the maneuver, the astronauts reported temperatures in their spacecraft had dropped to about 35 or 40 degrees. One official said cabin temperatures could drop to freezing by reentry time. 
It got cold because the astronauts powered down so many of their instru­ments since disaster struck man's third 
try for a moon landing. Normally • the instruments throw off so much heat the spaceship needs to be cooled, but in the powered down · condition, the chill settled in. "I don't know whether we'll heable to sleep up there in the command shiptonight," Swigert radioed astronaut boss 
Donald D. Slayton.
Since the accident, which knocked out 
power in the command module, Odyssey, the astronauts have spent much of their times in the seatless lunar lander, 
Aquarius, which is attached to the nose of the Ody~sey. But they slept in Odyssey .s contour coaches. 
the Board of Trustees. 
In response to the question of drinking on campus the report said the Trustees concurred with the SLC's recognition of "the serious problem created by the misunderstanding of the University's prohibition of the bse of alcholic beverages in public places and the service of such beverages to underage guests." It supported the SLC's intention of notify­ing each student of "the serious legal consequences to which he may be liable for violations of this rule." The Trustees also asked the SLC to prepare a full explanatio.1 of the present rule to state clearly the University's position on the question. 
The report concluded with a short commentary on the role of the Hall staffs. The Trustees blamed a "failure of communication" for the lack of defini­tion in the role and responsibilities of the resident assistants. 
THURSOAY, APRIL 16, 1970 
the bill had been passed and the meeting was nearing its end that Thrasher realized that the date had been changed without the approval of the entire Election Committee. 
The Election Committee met again last night at ll:OO tun. and discussed the issue. Student Body President Dave Krashna and Student Body Vice President Mark Winnings ami Stay Senators Russ Stone, Tom Thrasher, and Fred Giuffrida were present at the meeting. Winings is chairman of the committee. l;or several minutes the matter was discussed infor­mally. Though they favored the April 30 date, Krashna and Winings were not overly concerned over the issue. 
(continued 011 page 2) 


SMC students, faculty discuss SMC'S future 
by Sue Bury A group of approximately twenty students and teachers gathered at the SMC clubhouse Tuesday ~wening for a rap session about where the college is and where it's going. The meeting was organized by Dr. Art Hochberg, of the Psychology department, and Dr. Peter Smith, of the Math department. Dr. Hochberg briefly outlined the purpose of the gathering as an attempt to find ways of making the community more human. He talked about the stereotypical roles that have developed at SMC and the need to have more "informal reac­tions, more communication to discuss relevant issues." The main goal was to discover ways in which the students and faculty can foster this attitude. "There are a lot of old-line fai.:ulty holding little castles of power," Hochberg said. "New teachers can either take it, fight or leave. It is this legitimized apathy reinforced by the older faculty that is the main pro­blem." He observed that on the surface, "things seem to he okay, but they are actually stymied." Reactions to new programs within the college are generally bad. Dr. Smith agreed with these 
ideas and further described the gathering as an attempt to "open up" and bring honesty to discus­sion on campus. He mentioned 
the SMC-ND relationship as one of the main questions to he settled. 
During the course of the meeting, some disadvantages of the faculty, system were dis­cussed. It was pointed out that the faculty assembly has twen­ty-three committees, a structure which is not conducive to any kind of effective action. Com­ments were made about mem­bers of the faculty not knowing each other and about the fact 
that the day ends abruptly at 5:00. 
Hochberg said, "You can't stand in the parking lot at 5:00 because you'll get hit by a car. Everybody's out." 
l t was suggested that the faculty have an orientation pro­gram in September to help new members feel a part of the college. Another idea was to have faculty with research pro­jects to do their work at the college so that students could share in their experience. 
The need for an informal 
meeting place for all members of the SMC community and the need for a newspaper on campus were brought up in connection with the communications diffi­culty. Use of the extensive closed-circuit television system at SMC to present news and discussions was mentioned and also the possibility of publishing outstanding academic papers done by students. 
Freshmen orientation was an important meeting point for the teachers and students at the gathering. The program has al­ways had a social emphasis, and it was suggested that more faculty participation might help to add more intellectual consi­deration. The question of orien­tation, the very beginning of the student's college career, will be carried over to another gather­ing, next Monday evening at 7:30, in the clubhouse. The gathering will be open to anyone interested on either campus, and 
individuals  responsible  for  the  
freshmen  program  will  be  in­ 
vited.  

The group hopes that these discussions will lead to some positive action in the way of improvement at SMC. 

UAC chairmen hope enthusiasm snowballs 
by Steve Lazar 
Rob Barteletti and Maureen Meter, the University Arts Coun­cil's new chairmen, said last night in the boxing room of the Fieldhouse that they would like to see the enthusiasm generated by February's Student Art Festi­Val to snowball into a large community response toward the arts. 
Both English majors, the two succeed senior Tom Kronk who has chaired the UAC since its inception last fall. 

.-------------------------­


Craftsmen in Optics~ 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 

Jlouse ofVisioli (I) 
The House of Vision, Inc. 
SOPHOMORES NEW MAJORS IN SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY 
Declare your major for Advising-Registration 
See: Professor Saba 
G-112 Memorial Library 
THURSDAY April16: 10-12 AM 1:30-4:30 PM FRl DAY April 17: 10:30-12 noon 1-3 PM MONDAY April 20: 10:30-12 noon 1-3 PM 
You must declare your intent to major at this time in or~er t_o receive information regarding advising and reg1strat10 n. 
Their plans for the UAC differing philosophies prevented include a "more positively 
the UAC from merging its structured" program composed 
program with the Student of an advisory board, fund 
Union. "We're too interested in raising committee, fundtons de­
the whole community," he said. partment and a staff. This new 
Professor Thomas S. Fern of structure, they hope, will insure 
the Department of Art, and the continued growth and suc­
chairman of the UAC's Fund cess of the Council in its second 
Raising Committee reported to year. 
the new chairmen the condition "We're not a service organiza­of the UAC's drive to save the Fieldhouse. He said that of 60
tion in the sense of Cinema 70 _proposals sent out to various
or Student Government," said private foundations 17 have so
Miss Meter, "We're here to set far been returned. He describedup an environment," added the results: 

Barteletti. Barteletti noted that SBP "Most have shown a favorable
Dave Krashna's program calls for response to our ideas but regret
the arts to play an important part on campus. He said that that because of geographic limi­tations or because their ideolo­gies conf19ct with ours they will haveto turn us down," he said. 
But moments later Fern added, "But once you're turned down it doesn't mean for all titime." 
Chairman Barteletti said he soon plans to advertise for persons seeking positions on the UAC's committees. He also sa.id he intends to invite faculty members to sit on the newly formed advisory board. He urged all persons interested in the UAC to write to P.O. Box 6 to request positions or simply to insure themselves of being on next year's mailing list. 

Committees to pass on cabinet 
(continued from page I) 

We did it as a matter " ....of the 
convenience for the candidates 
involved," said winings about 
the discarded April 30 election 
date. Krashna also expressed the 
idea that more time would give 
the candidates better organiza­
tion and more exposure. 
On the contrary, thrasher 
sadi, "The twenty-third is the 
date that the student govern­
ment has been geared for." He 
went on to say that the April 
30 date would have the cam­
paign in the middle of An Tostal 
and warm weather which would 
divert the students interests 
a way from the serious concern 
of electing their SLC representa­
tives. Stone and Guiffrida ex­
pressed similar sentiments. 
After a few minutes of dis­
cussion, Krashna and Winings 
acquiesed to the views of the 
others. Krashna stated that he 
would accept the April 23 date 
because the Observer had 
already printed the April 23 date 
and to change it would cause 
confusion, With Wining's agree­
ment, Krashna stated that he 
acceded to the April 23 date in 
The SLC election is held with a plan that uses four election districts. Two will be the North Quad and the South Quad. Both of the Quads will elect two SLC members. A third district will be Grace and Flanner Halls. The fourth will be Off-Campus, Moreau St. Joe, Holy Cross and Carrol halls. 
Also discussed at this meeting was the assigning of student cabinet nominees to committees before they are voted by the Student · Senate as a whole. Krashna and Winings opposed this procedure as being without precedent, and expressed their fears that personal grudges may flare up in the closes committees and kill a nomination. Stone, Thrasher and Guiffrida all felt that the committee's interviews would allow the Senate to get to know the cabinet nominees better. "If the senate is still around next year," remarked Stone, "l'sd like to get a chance to know some of the people so that we could work together." 
Again Winings and Krashna finally yielded to the wishes of the others. 
''I'd like the cabinet handled the way Dave and I are for, "admitted Winings, " ..... how­ever, call them up. If they'd like to talk to you; fine." Again Krashna said that he was doing this in "good faith" and hpped that personal gripes would not make a mockery of student government. After a meeting, moreover, Winings expressed the opinion that he thought that none of the cabinet nominees would fun into any serious trouble in the Senate. 


SU sponsoring chorus 
The Student Union is sponsor­
The group, from Clarksdale,
ing the Immaculate Conception 
Mississippi, is currently making a 
High School chorus and hand 
tour of the Midwest, including
tonight at il:OO p.m. in the 
stops in Indiana, Illinois and 
ballroom of LaFortune Center. 
Missouri. There will be no 
The act, which consists of 
admission charge. 

r-------------------------------------------------------~-"~go_o_d__f_a_it_h_.'_'--------~----~ songs, dances and dramatic skits, 
The twenty-eight members of has as its central theme the 
the group, who are mostlyculture of black people in the 
juniors and seniors, will also tour


The Social Commission Needs ­
United States. 


the campus as a part of the Recruitment Action Program.
Saturday 18 1-5 
The group is under the director­

Homecoming Chairman ­
Free Delivery Service 
ship of Sister Mary Evanglice.
FOR SCHOLARSHIPS 

to create a new idea for the weekend 
Donation $1.50 per dinner 

SOUTHERN FRIED CHICKEN * 11\ISII~ STI Rl ()*

Mardi Gras Chairman ­
TIAC. ALTIT
POTATO SALAD

to d_evelop the best college weekend m the nation 
LA~SI~C. JVC TURNIP GREENS Colrn· lT Scrs .II"C 
ZOSS PRODUCTION


Assistant Social Commissioner ­
HOMADE ROLLS 
Call 232-2804

io coordinate all events and assure financial success 
SWEET POTATO PIE 
Scholarship for Freshman girls 
The Observer is published daily

contact Jim Porst 
during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­SPONSORED-CALL 4274 versity of Notre Dame and St. 
next year. 


Social Commission 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may(ABCW) or 4369 be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,

Box 427 
PICK-UP AT 

Ind., 46556. Second class postage 1246 LINCOLNWA Y WEST paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 


PAGE 3 

.Al Tarn, Hollo read new 
Nathaniel Tarn Anslem Hollo 


Mignanelli suggests SBP's 
(continued from page 1) 
and more decision making." Third, there would be more awareness on the part of the 
student body he said. 
The second speaker was Tom Mignanelli, Senator from (;race llall. lie noted that there was not a bill in the Senate to provide money to the halls through the IIall l'residen ts Coundl. 
lie also proposed tha r the chairman of the liP(' and at least one Stay Senator should be members of the SBP's cabinet and that another Stay Senator should be on the HPC' to further the communication SBP Krashna fel'ls is essential to a productive Student (;overnment. 
Mignanelli gave four reasons for the preservation of the Senate. First, he said it was valuable in research activities. Second, he noted that it was the only group on campus that could be considered a "repre­sentative legislative body." lie also said that the Senate had done ext:ellent work on this year's budget. Finally, he argued that the recently-installed com­mittee system was produt:tive 



THE OBSERVER NEEDS A SECRETARY 
Call 7471 , 6896 
or 

Write : THE OBSERVER 
c/o Business Manager 

Box 11 

. Hair Styling 
for N.D. Men the Continental Wav 
Kazor Cutting & Style · European Layer Shaping for Long Hair 1/arc Long flair & Let Miss Treva & The &ron He Wt'/1 (iroomed serve & pamper you. 
Continental Hair Styling 
306 Stlerland l:.w::,. South Bend lnd. 
STUDENT RA TI:'S
234 OS II 
Uy Appt. 




GIRLS 
The Observer 
Needs SMC Newswriters 
CONTACT: Jeanne Sweeney SMC News Editor 0 r Call The 0bserver Box 567 Phone· 5355 
and had even greater potential if used properly. 

Mignanelli also presented four arguments against the proposed Student Forum. First, he stated that it was too small to do both the Senate's job and the HI'C's. Second, he argued that the rules the Forum would be t:ondueted under were too informal, and the Forum would get too bogged down in unimportant matters. Third the Forum would not be a representative body, whereas the Senate was. Finally, he stated that' Kmshna's overwhelming landslide victory in the SBI' elections was not a mandate for the Forum. 
"Perhaps a referendum is the only way to do it," 11e said. 
The third speaker was Tom Duffy, former Senator from Zahm Hall. He began by reading a letter from John Zimmerman former Stay Senator who could, 
not ultend.  
-Zimmerman  favored  the  
Forum  because  "very  little  of  
significance  has  come  from  the  

Senate in lhe three years I have known it." There is no function of the Senate which could not he done better by the proposed 
~· 

Student Government CommJssions 
SMC Applications Are Welcome 
The following commissions need penonne/ for '70-'71 
Ha11 Life National Student Assot·iation Public Relations lee Fort Steve Novak Don Mooney 
Human Affairs Research & Development Community Relations Orlando Rodriquez Tim Connor Dave Schmidt 
Off-Campus Recruitment Action Pro·~ram Academit· Affairs Wqlt Williams · Bill Wilka
Jerry O'Conner 

Include Name, Address, and Phone along with ideas on the commission and your role in it, addressed to the appropriate commissioner. 
Student Government Office Box 522 Notre Dame 




poetry works for SLF 

Last nigh 1's session of the American culture. Tarn de­Sophomore Literary Festival was scribed the work as a series of highlighted by the readings of "poetic portraits." Anslem Hollo and Nathaneil Iloilo, a traveling poet who Tarn. ,Both poets used the teat:hes in the creative writing 
opportunity ~o read unpublished department at the University of
1 

.works. Iowa, read from the first four
(I 

Tarn, a poet and anthropolig­months of his journal-peom ist from Princeton, read from Year. Year is a colledion of the lyric poem A Nowhere for• impressions which Iloilo plans to Vallejo, a long free-verse poem assemble each month and pub­witil freq 1cnt allusions to Latin lish at the end of the year. 
removal from committees 
Forum." Hall Presidents. Duffy then gave his .own He argued "what you're doing thoughts on the,Sen~t~~~~r~rp"j!S)Il?aking the Hall ~resident the 
issue. f-Ie opposed the Senate because "I generally found it unresponsive." He presented a very' detailed plan for 
1 0 
"Forum" of his own invention, and Dave Krashna said that his own thoughts had run somewhat along the same lines. 
Duffy proposed a Financial Board for consideration of the budget and the institution of a 
series of "assemblies" chosen from the halls much like the present Senate in order to consider spedfic issues that might arise which require the 
consideration of the entire stu­dent body. 
He continued detailing numerous legislative and executive fundions and con­d uded with the idea that since the Senate had allegedly become a "joke" in the minds of the students, it should be abolished. 
After this presentation, the committee discussed the Forum issue. Tom Suddes, chairman of senator and the VJce-l'resJdent the President if you've got a good VI'." lie also opposed the use of J-lall Presidents on com­mittees. 
the  HPC,  while  favoring  the  
Forum  in  theory, opposed  the  
extra  work  load  placed  on  the  

Tom Thra5her, Stay Senator 
form Grace Hall, and Fred 
Guifrida, Stay Senator from 
Lyons, defended the Senate 
het:ause of its work on the 
budget and its research t:apa­
bilities. 
After about an hour of 
discussion, SBP Krashna 
adjourned the meeting and it 
was decided to meet again 
Wednesday • April 22, 
r-------------------------------~----------------­
I.C. Choir 

Black Culture Show 
Admission Free Thurs. 8:00PM_:2nd floor LaFortune 
FROM CLARKSDALE MISSISSIPPI 
Presented by Student Union 
IN PERSON 



JOHNNY CASH 
SAT. 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC AND
APRIL 25 
CONVOCATION


8:00P.M. 
CENTER 
PLUS 

STATLER BROS.* CARL PERKINS 
CARTER FAMILY* TOMMY CASH 
Only$]. 75 Upper Arena Tickets Remain Tickets at ACC Box Offit•t• 

Applications for 
Hollo also read a wide selec­tion of short, often humorous, often anti-intellectual poems from several of his volumes. Among them was a poem "To Gary Snyder" supposedly about a hear dressed in the clothes of a Vietnamese peasant which Iloilo had purchased in a head shop. 
The hear, however, is really the folklore "Badger," a mythi­cal animal with bearlike features who serves as the far Eastern equivalent of a scapegoat. "I didn't do it, the Badger did." 
In stark contrast to Hollo's flippant style, Tarn read from the recently published Beautiful Contradictions in a sharp serious tone. Beautiful Contradictions is a t:ollection of poems written on a lake in Guatamala, a country which Tarn had visited as an anthropologist and revisited as a poet. 
This afternoon's session of the SLF will feature Allen Planz and Michael Anania, poetry editors of The Nation and The Swallow Press respectively, reading from A Night For Rioting and The Color of Dust, at 3:00 in the 
Library Auditorium. 
7J.l£ 0Br~~--~---r-----------------------TH~U~~~DA~Y~.~~=R=IL~16=,1~9_,m
~~~~~~~
;:P=AG=E=4==========================================-----, 


T'HE O~nsrDDVE'D 
~ .12J.l.l, .l.t 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DAVID C. BACH, Editor GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial: 



The Trustees' rationale 
Before the SLC passed its recommenda­tions on hall life and parietal hours, several halls seriously considered passing their own regualtions in defiance of regulations imposed by forces outside of the hall in a demonstration of their autonomy. 
They deferred in the hopes that the SLC would pass a regulation encompassing hall autonomy in determining women's visita­tion hours. The SLC passed such a recommendation. 
The Board of Trustees has accepted this recommendation in principle but not in fact. They demand that the students and the halls show that they deserve such a privilege. Yet they ignore the one student body with any sort of power by having 
the  Hall  Life  Board  appointed  by  the  
President  of  the  University  and  not  the  
SLC.  

They also chose to impose their own feelings by establishing a limit on the visitation hours. But their choice of 2:00 
a.m. on Friday _and Saturday and 11 :00 
p.m. on other nights is arbitrary. Instead of allowing the students to show their responsibility, they impose their own sense of propriety on the students. 
If a decision is to be made concerning women's visitation hours, it should be m?de by the students. 
Personally we feel thai: the limitations 
imposed by the Trustees are reasonable and would serve as a sensible gu.idline. But we don't feel that we have the power to determine hours for students either. We repeat, if a choice of hours is to be made, it should be made by the students of the respective halls. 
::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::: 


Letters to the Editor 
Contribution to failure 
Editor: 
On April 9 we closed the Model United Nations. We, as delegates, had mixed feelings concerning the effectiveness of our exercise in world )litics. We had, in conception, a chance both to make a significant contribution to our understand­ing of the processes of this organization and to make a substantial statement about the world situation. In large measure we feel Michael Kelly notwith­standin~, we failed. · 

It is true-we considered the "essential" problems i.e. seating of the Chinese delega­tions, the presence of UnitedII States troops in Southeast Asia and the Arab-Israeli dispute. We 
'I 
I 
acted upon these considerations. For this reason we might be deemed a semi-success. However 
our failures are the ones that will not be reported in news stories or flashed over news wires. They are the failures of man's lack of charity for his fellow man. 
This Model United Nations was to be composed of varied people with diverse allegiances 

I' and backgrounds. As such, again,
' in conception, it was to repre­sent the feelings of many indivi­duals, many nations -in short resemble the United Nations. Indeed, there were such people in attendance: the students from Taiwan, the individuals repre­senting Israel, the students from ilie Arub coon~~. ilie P~~ 
delegation, among others. For them our exercise was not simple maneuvering for its own sakd it was a matter of vital imp~rtance, indeed, a matter· of life. 

....• 

In view of this the lack of total preparation on the part of the Model United Nations leadership is deplorable; the 
childish antics of a few delega­tions, demonstrating a lack of regard for the sincere feelings of other fellow students, is inexcus­able; the lack of individual participative awareness and understanding on the part of the delegates is, finally, condemn­able. 
The, in spite of our bright initial potentialities, we, in the MUN slipped into the darkness of social and political non­awareness --a trait for thish Notre Dame has become noted. 
We, as participants, must judge our attempts as significant contribution to failure. 
Sincerely 

Barney King 
Dennis Wall 
Peter Romanski 
US--30 drag strip Editor: There is a significant environ­mental hazard existing on this campus that must be remedied before deaths or injuries occur. Ever since Flanner and Grace were constructed, the road be­hind the North Dining Hall has been crossed by students going about their ways. People drive along this road as if it were US 30 Drag Strip. Since students can not drive on campus, these speed demons must be Universi­ty or WNDU employees. Steps should be taken at once to remedy this situation. Several possibilities exist, including the use of asphalt speed bumps, a speed trap by the security force, or the denial of permission to drive any cars on the,campus of this residential university. We hope that a workable solution can be speedily reached before a serious accident occurs. Jim Brown Charlie Brown Hank Cardinali Joe Murray ))ave Heise Bill Spahr 
g~~~~~~~&.~C)~~~~~
1 1

o~«Yoooo():.')~CQI.D ~~ 
0 0 0 () vG D coC ()..(5) CD 0 6>/0 0 6 c:JCXJO 0 ()_~<J ~) () I• 
J-IY \JV !}" 
..(" 
o/
IJl 
~~ \UA 

\}1.'1 
WI ...,__ 
\U
\11 -----:­
-;­

This one better be JOOCI! 
Dave Lammers 



Willis Nutting 
Lately The Observer staff has been overrun by a bunch of crazy people. Everyday, they come in with their bundles_ of copy, sm~lmg, passing out buttons and good cheer. The Nuttmg for. President people are the friendliest "radicals" on campus, so It seemed worthwhile to get to know about the man that was behmd all the hubbub. While information about the administrative changes the Nutting group proposes abounds, Dr. Nutting has remained quietly in the background in relative obscurity, lauded by his friends and colleagues but unknown to most of the students. 
Nutting is calm. He quietly sits back in his chair and says "There are same things that I really think are terribly wrong here," but he , doesn't look angry or in a bomb throwing mood, he just seems concerned and quite sad that Notre Dame is not the great school that it could be and that it's not moving in the proper direction. 
There is a touch of corn to Dr. Nutting. He has a sense of the sacredness of all living things, and a special respect for human beings, that is Jacking among more urbane m'!n. He is well known for his farm and for the fact that he still cuts wood and digs ditches. He kno~s how to milk a cow and in early May takes his devotees on bird walks. 
But the natural question is "What does bird watching have to do with being an administrator of Notre Dame?" Well, it seems that a man that can inspire a bunch of city-slickers to get up at five-thirty in the morning to learn about birds knows something about teaching people. And there is no doubt that Dr. Nutting is a great teacher, besides being a wise and compassionate man. 
For myself, the Nutting for President gang is sayi~g two things. First, that for all of his efforts, our present leader IS not able to adequately do his job because he is not in contact WI~h the students. This same criticism applies to the other top level admimstrators, who for the most part think that things are about as good as can be 
expected. . . . . Secondly, the Nutting people are saying that Willis N_uttmg IS a wise man that is being forced to retire from a job that he IS a master of. He is a man that has more to say about learning than anyone on campus, and not many people are listening to him. Father Walsh and Mr. Dick Conklin (of Public Information) are the only two men that have expressed any interest in Dr. Nutting. A lot of people have thought of the Nutting for President Campaign as a nice way of honoring a nice guy who has someyretty far out ideas about education. That is a mistake, for Dr. Nuttmg has a Jot of wise things he wants to say to the administrators here. Possibly all the talk about Nutting as President is viewed as som_e sort of underground threat or coup d'etat that will go away 1f ignored, so the administrators are uneasily avoiding meeting Dr. Nutting and his ideas. This is also very bad. May 1 propose a compromise? First, let the administrators declare May I as Free City Day. On that day, classes will be called off so that people can read The Free City and discuss its ideas and how they relate to Notre Dame. If half the students or faculty don't read the book or go to the public discussions planned on that tlay, it is their loss. Second, let the administrators read the book and talk to Dr. Nutting and the students and if they can't cut loose from the red tape for one day to do that, then we are in deep, deep trouble. Third Jet the Nutting for President people consider the idea that Dr. Nutting be made the head of the experimental college that is planned for the sophomores next year. Forcing Dr. Nutting to retire is a crime; making him President of Notre Dame is unrealistic. How 
about Nutting as admisor to the administrators, so that he can share his ideas and his personal charm with those much maligned and
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer The opinions expressed in the
Photogr11phv Editor: Mike Murphy 
overworked men, and Nutting as head of the experimental college, 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck editoriills, news analyses, and
Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode 
so that some of the students can also share his wisdom? What I am
Campus Editor: Glen Corso columns of THE OBSERVER are
Layout: Brother Patrick Car-
suggesting is that we should all benefit from Dr. Nutting.
News Editor: Steve Hoffman solely those of the aut~.-· and
ney Assistant News Editor: Bill editors of THE OBSERVER and 
Instead of continuing our present unsatisfactory and disturbing
Headlines: Rich Magner, Bro. 
Carter do not necessarily reflect the 
form of education. Let's take a spring day to enjoy and benefit from Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode. views of St. Mary's College, the
Patrick Carney 
the wisdom of a man who has found knowledge and happiness. At
Ad Layout: Steve Dollinger
Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney University of Notre Dame, their
Night Controller: Mr. Scott 
least we should have the humility to <.~dmit that our present course is 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields administration, faculty, or
Braley 
seriously misguided 1 and the hope that The Free City could be more
Features Editor: T.C. Treanor student bodies. 
enjoyable and educational alternative. 
-------------------~ 
PAGE 5 

Brogan brings home the bacon! 
by Jim E. Brogan 
If the Ohserver can run articles on Don Mooney talking to cows and if Sue Bury can talk to a Meadowlark, then there appears there is no reason not to feature the An Tostal heads talking to pigs. 
The pigs featured in this article arc not of the law enforcement but rather of the anim<JI husbandry variety. 
Our three intrepid tmvelers (Ron Mastriana, photographer Bob Spaulding and myself) got off to a late start because of their conscientious record of dass attendance. Each nobly refused to cut his late afternoon classes, so the caravan didn't commence until near the dinner hour. 
North Liherty, Indiana? 

"Remember last year, 3 of us went. <icne was there then, he was our pig expert. Boy, he felt right at home in that barn. lie lived on a pig farm when he was little." 
Proceeding along piduresque Routh 23 South (after a short detour, due to lack of a map, e"'cepting one that clearly depicted the entire North American roadway system at a glance. No one knew where picturesque Route 23 was or even if it went where we wanted) they finally arrived at Walkerton, Indiana. 
"Is that a farmer" 
"llcy, there's a guy in overalls." 
The auction itself didn't start for a half hour, so we adjourned into the adjoining cafe. 
Sitting at the counter: 
"I don't think that I can eat anything after smelling that barn." "Well, we are." Tough Waitress saunters up: "What wouldja like." "Can you start with him'! I'm not 
hungry." 
"What's yours, Fats'!" 
(hesitantly) "Could I have a chees­eburger'!" "If you pay for it." "Well, that's what I'd like." "What d'ya want on it?" "What is there'!" "Cheese, catsup, mustard,.and onions" "Could I have cheese, ... and onions. 
could you cook the onions?" 
"No" 
"No'?" 
"No." 
"Well, just put a few uncooked ones on there,ok'! (after she left) Why did you want the onions cooked'! No one ever puts cooked onions on hamburgers." 
"I figured it would be more sanitary that way." 
"What?" 
Well, these ladies that cook and serve are the same ones that bring the pigs into the auction next door. You can never be too careful. (I ended up taking off the onions anyway. They didn't even smell like onions --they smelled like pigs. 

Everything smelled like pigs.) 
The livestock commissioner walks in. He sits next to Ron. He is showing off State of Indiana arm patch, and his official Hoosier silver badge. 
"Oh you're from Notre Dame, huh'!" 
"Yes." 
"Whatca doin in these parts'!" 
"We came to buy pigs -for a pig 
chase." 
oh 
(helpfully) "It's for an annual weekend 
we have, it's t;a!l<'.d An Tostal." 
"Ann Toast All? Sounds like fun" 
The conversation died there. Finishing 
their repast, they headed out behind the 
barn for a look at the merchandise. As 
they arrived four good size hogs made a 
bid for freedbm. 
"Stop them pigs!" 
"Sure, they weigh more than I do. I'm not going near them ...they're staring at us ... look at the teeth on him, he eve.'l has tusks." 
The pigs escaped, but the owners finally captured them yelling "hey, hey, hey," and hitting them with stout canes. The pigs yelled back. It sounded like so many proganities. 
The intrepid trio had had enough of the pens and headed inside for the auction itself. The barn had been converted into what resembled a small arena, cut in half. The local folk and their families were already seated. Some had brought the childern, other were eating picnic I unches. The odor was noxious. 
The barker started into his speil as small groups of pigs were herded in. His lingo was unintelligible to the novice listener. As he muttered, numbers in the crowd nodded or raised an eyebrow, or 
moved a pointer finger and the bids went higher. "Bob, don't move a musde or you11 own a bunch of pigs. 
"Buy my eye itches." 
"Don't scratch it or you'll own 400 porkers." Bob constrained himself, and didn't end up with any unwanted pigs. 
Bob snaps another picture. The pigs arc herded in from tile back pens, the auctioneer starts, someone nods ever so slightly, the bid goes higher, someone else nods invisibly, higher still. The bidding stops -the last invisible nodder gets them. 
The city-slickers have had enough. They head back to civilization confident that the pigs that they have chosen (averaging 160 lbs.) will best the students in the annual pig chase. Who will bring home the bacon? 
----------------------~~~----~---------------------------­
.
•

Zap • a rev1ew part II 
by T.C. Treanor 
Were all his tragi-comic book stories like Meatha/1 and City of the Future, R. Crumb's following probably would be considerably more homogeneous, and certainly more aesthetically oriented. 
But they aren't. They are less philosophical and more carnal. And they aren't as good. 
By Zap No. 2, much of Zap was being done not by Crumb but by lesser luminaries. llog Wding Fouls; the story of an encounter between a leather-jacketed motorcycle gang and a formless demon in checkered pants and their subs.:quent adventure~: graphically told and even more graphically illustra­ted, was a failure -a failure because it told a pointless story without much of a plot and no ending at all, a failure because of trite sentimentalism appearing erratically throughout and contrasting morbidly with the ribald perversion of the rest of the story. In fact the sole redeeming social significance of the panekd bla thcring was the pornography; mildly amusing in a crude sort of fashion. 
llog Riding Fools was not R. Crumb's best piece of' writing! In fact, it was not his writing at all. Credit belongs to S. ('lay Wilson, one of Crumb's often nameless and usually mindless subordi­nate subliminaries, who has admitted that he often transmitted his own sexual fantasies into the comics. The result is that the pages of later Zaps often become a sort of journal of orgasmic delight: fun, one supposes, but not particularly worth­while and not worthy of Crumb. 
Clay wrote one other story for Zap, The Story of the Pervert Pirates. It is everything the title promises it to be: A pirate ship staffed by homosexuals is fired upon and boarded by a pirate ship full of lesbians. As the battle rages, the homosexual ship begins to sink and the warriors, discovering capacities none of them knew they possessed, retired to the lesbian's boat to fornicate. Signific~ntly, the captains of both boats are still on the homosexual's vessel as their boat sinks. Swell. 
Crumb's own view on sex is as graphic as Wilson's, but his perverse sense of ahsure -the juxtoposition of the innocent and the lewd; the sugary and the morbid­predominates. He confines his views lo short -short comics; they're not pro­found and Crumb makes no pretense of profoundity. In one short; a degenerate man chases a girl, who ducks into an alley 
and there undresses to the shock of her persuer. Underneath Crumb writes, 
Aren't girls u npredicta hie?. 
Isn't Crumb unpredictable is perhaps a better question, and no where does Crumb show his unpredictability more often or more flagrantly than on the topic of race. He operates in a position of severe ambiguity, incessantly and pain­fully stereotyping blacks and more than once blatantly taunting them "Buy 
The Triumphant Return of Maestro Poco Piu e Madama Sotto Voce with accompaniment hy Fraulein Capella Fin· gerfertig, a benefit concert in the most pompous manner, will be offered April 18 and 19 in the Little Theatre, St. Mary's College. The enduring perfor­mance of the decade is scheduled for 
8:00 p.m. on both evenings and a donation of one dollar is requested from art patrons for the benefit of the College's Contemporary Arts Collection. 
The widely travelled trio who have just 
returned from a tour in the farthest 
reaches of the continents have donated 
their services. "We cannot possibly accept 
a fee for what we are doing for St. 
Mary's," admits the Maestro. 
The Maestro, Matima and Fraulein are 
better known in europe where they have 
performed for countless crowned heads. 
Every European who is over twenty can 
remember the. Madama's debut at the 
Salzburg Festival of 19SO, which the 
Austri-an critics labelled "A Night to 
Remember". The Maestro appeared some­
what earlier in a Covent Garden Concert 
which J. Askew Ramsey of the London 

Times said "left the audience aghast." 
Fraulein Capella, it will be recalled, is the 
child prodigy who first started playing at 
age 2 and reached her peak at age four. 
Her every performance has sought to 
recapture that astonishing moment in 
musical history. The three have been 
together since the middle of the last 
decade, making music for thousands of 
music lovers not only abroad but here in 
the .. United States. 
Area residents who attended last year's performance over which critics ex­claimed. "Never before have the likes of this company been heard!" will be elated to learn that the Madama and Fraulein will again offer the .I"Uper-human rendi­tion of The Pang~ of Hell are Raging in Nigger Lips," one of his ads proclaim, Anglefood McSpade, a recurring, black sex bombshell is pictured with an IQ three points higher than a turnip. But he makes a black street gang the hero of his classic comic Whiteman. 

Whiteman is the story of a middle-aged business executive aggressive, restrained, looking no unlike George Romney. He is this way because to be this way is an 
Maestro to visit 

My Bosom. The Maestro, who has performed for the largest crowned heads in Europe, is preparing a premier performance of Little Freddie s Birthday by Mozart. So as not to slight Beethoven, who is celebrating his 200th birthday in the great recital hall in the sky, and whose music is performed most enthu­siastically by the trio, the Madama will perform an unappreciated but highly arresting movement of the Master's. Another highlight will be the Maestro's performance of the Toreador song from Carmen. His definitive performance proves his superb command of the bull. 
obscession; he must keep us this front because he is Whiteman. But he is occasionally beset by cravings for sex and violence. ' 
One day his is confronted by the aforementioned group which taunts him and suggests he find the "music of his own soul." As we leave, Whiteman ponders his fate. "Utter nonsense," he mutters. "Sounds like fun," he admits. 
To be continued! 
The Maestro has also invited the People's Democratic Shakespearian Play­ers to present one of the great bard's most unusual scenes. There will also be a special address to the audience by the dear nun who made her first public appearance in last year's production. 
Recently the Maestro, Madama and Fraulein were interviewed and asked why they keep such a hectic performance schedule. The Maestro replied, "Because we want to bring more beauty into the world-the voice is capable of a sublime statement that can drive one to mad­ness." (The Madama and Fraulein nodded their assents.) 
Professor James Massey, Chairman  mentioned topics, expressed the  
Student Life Council  confidence that the Trustees were  
Notre Dame, Indiana  exhibiting by their action in the  
ability and determination of the  
students "to carry out these measures  
Dear Professor Massey:  in a mature and enlightened manner  
The Executive Committee of the  consistent with the values and tradi­ 
Board of Trustees of the University  tions of the University." The task  
has asked me to communicate to  before us, on this initial evaluation of  
you, as Chairman of the Student Life  the experiments, is to determine  
Council, the action which we took at  whether these standards have been  
our recent meeting with respect to  met.  
the SLC reports and recommenda­ The over-all impression that the  
tions that you submitted to us  Trustees formed from their review of  
following your meeting of March 9,  the data submitted is (i) that notable  
1970, and also to touch upon some  progress has been made in the social  
of the considerations that influenced  development of several areas of  
our decisions.  residential life, and that the oppor­ 
The Trustees carefully reviewed  tunities for effecting a mature and  
the evaluations prepared by your  responsible program have been en­ 
Council and the Hall Presidents'  hanced, (ii) that much work remains  
Council on the parietal hours experi­ to be done, particularly in regard to  
ment, consumption of liquor in the  the roles of the rector and the  
halls and the organization of hall life;  resident assistants and, .even" _more  
we also studied the detailed and  important, the assumption ."by 'the  
often illuminating comments on  student leadership of the"ie~p~rsi­ 
these subjects by the Rectors and  bilities that go with enlarged under­ 
Presidents of each of the residence  graduate freedom, and (iii) that  
halls.  certain abuses have taken place which  
In my letter of March 18, 1969 to  must promptly be brought under  
your predecessor in office, Dean  control, hopefully by the students  
Lawless, in which the approval of the  themselves, l;lut_ in any event by  
Board of Trustees was granted for the  whatever mearis· are necessary to cope  
SLC program dealing with the above  with the problem.  
N  OSTAL  


PAGE 6 

THE OBSERUEil 
Text of Trustee's statement 

1WISH~-·c~?or IWERE IN A~~l~ 
YOU'll WISH YOU WERE IN DIXIE 
IN the.Heat of Battle. a litUe rest & relaxation goes a long way! 




One theme that recurs in some of the documents submitted to us is that the best way to avoid infractions of rules is either to do away with restrictions altogether or so weaken the rule that it becomes nothing but an empty gesture. This note seems to have been struck especially in regard to parietal hours. This approach was not the one taken 1by the student leadership at the · time visitation privileges and revised rules on drink­ing were sought last year. On the• contrary, the willingness and deter­mination of the students to under­take a program of self-enforcement was stressed repeatedly. That this has not happened in some halls is evident from the failure (complete in some cases) to utilize any enforcement machinery whatever. Happily this is not the situation throughout the campus and we commend those halls who >have 1 lived up to the com­mi.tments'l that were implicit 1in the inauguration of last year's programs. 
It seems too self-evident to state that ~order and freedom are insep· arable in the management of human affairs, whether within or without the University, and that order entails 
rule making and rule enforcement. We assume that the vast majority of the students would agree with this proposition, but apparently some would contend that the only rules pertaining to hall life that have validity and a claim on their con· science are those which are adopted by the students themselves. This philosophy ignores several important elements of the matter. First, the conduct of student life will, in the. long run, either enhance or detract from the traditions upon which this University has been built and which the Board of Trustess are obligated to uphold. Secondly, the quality of life in the halls is intimately linked with and directly affects the academic life of the student body which is me Unive(sity's major concern and its prime reason for being. Thirdly, infractions of University rules which also involve violations of civil and criminal law can result in serious legal consequences to the University as an entity. (Can the University, for instance, ignore the presence, often uninvited, of high school girls in the halls who join drinking parties for several hours and then wander home alone into the night?) Finally, there are countless situations in life in which people live by rules and customs they have had no hand in 
making. Entering any institutional life calls for some accommodation to its traditions, its stated purposes. The University, in particular, has ends that are not always those of the town hall meeting. 
Ideally the students should play an increasing role in the ordering of their social and hall life. From the record of the past several years, it is clear that the University has moved steadily in this direction and has shown considerable flexibility in meeting students' requests. The many new modes of governance and the large measure of author"1ty delegated to student groups attest eloquently to the good faith of the University in this regard. However, this process, wholesome in theory, can be stunted and indeed reversed unless the students demonstrate more ability·anC: willingness than have been exhibited to date, to make rules, consistent with University policy, and enforce tham through appropriate executive and judicial machinery. The record to date, on this particular subject, is not encouraging and appears to result from the almost universal reluctance to invoke a rule against one's peers, even in cases of flagrant violation. Time will tell whether this is a fatal weakness in student governance. We trust this is not the case and reassert our hope that the authority delegated to students will be responsibly received and discharged for the good of all concerned. 
Turning to the specific matters that our Committee pased upon: 
I. Parietal Hours 

The Student Life Council has recognized that each residence hall has special problems, requiring solu· tions which are peculiar to that hall. It has recommended that each hall be authorized to prepare its own sug­gested visiting hours and enforcement mechanisms under the supervision of a regulatory body, which must ultimately approve or disapprove the hall's plan. This seems to us to be a constructive start toward improve· ment and, subject to our later comment on hour limitations, has our approval. The Student Life Council has suggested that the Hall 
Life Board, which was created by the Trustees in March, 1969, at the request of the Council, be empower· ed to act as the regulating body. The Council has also stated that the Hall Life Board, as presently constituted, is unable effectively to assume such additional responsibilities. 
We accept the Counci! 's reasoning in both of these conclusions. Our Committee provided that the Hall Life Board should be elevated to the stature of a separate Administrative Board of nine members (three stu· dents, three faculty members, and three administrators) ,to be appointed by the President of the University, and charged with the responsibility of evaluating the proposals of each residence hall and "approving those which the Board feels will succes· sfully provide the best hall environ· ment consistent with good order." The Hall Life Board should, in this regard, recognize those halls which have established functioning fratemal 
communities, requiring the minimum of restriction and, on the other hand, give the maximum available assis· tance to those halls that have not been able to develop an appropriate esprit and which have consequently experience disorder. "The Hall Life Board will require some adminis· trative guidelines in order to function effectively; therefore, we request the Vice President for Student Affairs to propose such guidelines." We should add that we are not giving the Hall Life Board an absolute and irrevoca· ble carte blanche. The Board of Trustees does not meet its ultimate responsibility by simply providing for a general mechanism for good order at the University. "If the mechanism does not, in fact, work, then the Trustees must make other provisions and they will." Also, the Board of Trustees "believes strongly that there must be some limitation on visiting hours, which are not to extend beyond 2:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday, and 11 :00 p.m. on other nights." We also remind the students that, while some sign-in record may seem irksome at times, it is the students' only protection in the e·.tent of legal difficultV. 
We believe that these revisions will significantly improve the results-of the parietal rules experiment. We feel that it is important that the experi­ment be continued for at least one more school year before final evalua­tion by the Trustees. We, therefore, ask the Student Life Council to prepare its evaluation of the experi· ment during the 1970-71 school year so that we may consider it at the March 1971 meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees. At that time we would appreciate an additional critique on the matter of alcoholic beverages. 
April17 & 18 
7:30 & 9:30 
Washington Hall
1------­
HELD 
*** 

OVER 
till the 20th 

CHICAGO CLUB presents 
"WINDY CITY BASEBALL" 
16" softball (no gloFes) 
$50/team entry fee bats & balls supplied 
$$$$$ to WINNING TEAM 
----------1-~~~~--~-=--~----,
Social-Economic  Development  
Submit 1 ]-5 man rosters IVith $50 to  Employment Opportunities­Nationwide -directories of posi­ 
tions.  All  relevent  fields.  Accur·  
1025 FLANNER  ate, current,. Information write:  inexpensive. Sociocom,  
BY SUNDAY NIGHT  Box  317,  Harvard  Square  P.O.,  
Cambridge. Mass. 0~138.  

Friday & Saturday $1.00 

2. Alcoholic Beverages. 
The Student Life Council has racognized the serious problem ere· ated by the misunderstanding of the University's prohibition of the use of alcoholic beverages in public places and the service of such beverages to underage guests. The Council has taken steps to notify each student of the serious legal consequences to which he may be liable for violations of this rule. We concur and we ask the Council to prepare a full explanation of the present rule which 
will  state  clearly  the  University's  
position  and  the  requirements  of  
Indiana law.  
3. Hall Life.  

The third portion of last year's experiments, Hall Organizations, seems to have attained a good measure of success, as might have been expected, since many halls had been operating for many years under similar structures. All halls now have a reasonably uniform system of government with a hall constitution, hall council, and a hall judiciary. These various components have had greater or lesser success in individual 
(continued on page 7) 


Su n .. Ma )' 1 0 $3 
goes to the DUNES 
$3 pt'r pen-on (the whole show) c a II 1185 or 8357 
~---~­
Drug conference begins tomorrow 
row. Sessions will begin at 2More than 400 persons are Rumor or Reality," scheduled 
p.m. and continue through a
expected to atll'nd an area-wide for Notre Dame's Center for reception for visiting speakersconfcrcm:c on "The Drug Scene: Conlin uing Education tomor­
and guests at 9:30p.m. Mrs. H. Park Tyler, director of
Plight of Mexican-Americans 
South Bend's Drug Abuse Cen­ter, will summarize activities of this information and referral
subject of two-day conference 
agency at the Friday evening 
The plight of the Mexican­American working and living in the midwest will he the suhject of a two-day conference at Notre Dame Saturday and Sun­day, sponsored hy the Universi­ty's Urban Studies Program. Mrs. (;racclia Olivarez, a native of Denver, Colo., who in June will he the first woman to he graduatl•d from the Notre Dame law school, is !:oo•rdinator of the l:onfercnce. She expects repre­sentatives of such federal agen­cies as the Dl·parlment of llcalth, 1:.ducation and Welfare and the Department of Housing and Urban Development to par­tkipatc in the conference, as wdl as scholars, nuns, house­wives, migrant laborers, pro­fessionals and cll'cted officials. 
Includcd in the I00 partici­pants in the conference will be Dr. (;eorge I. Sanl:hez, author of "The Forgotten Minority," the hook which first awakened the southwest to the plight of Mexicans and other minorities, Julian Samora, professor of sociology at Notre Dame and Joseph Arrendondo, slate repre­sentative from Gary, Ind. 
The conference will discuss 

four main problems confronting 
Mexicanos-migranl housing, the 
validity of the 1970 Census as 
applied to migrant workers, the 
Trustee's views about parietals 
(mntinucd from page 6) 
hafts according to the sense of commun1ty t;.at has developed in that hall. t t seems, however, that the judicial boards have generafty had very little effect m the maintenance of good order, except in a few mstances. Agam. although students asked for this power, in practice, as we have stated earlier, students seem reluctant to report disorder, to judge 1 t courageously, and to impose adequate penalties on convicted of­fenders. Unless the halt judiciary boards can be made to work, we see r'lo alternative but to dismantle them and return to a prior system. We 
hope this wilt not be necessary. 
4. Hall Staffing. 

• In evaluating the fast major seg­ment of the experiment-the rote of the haft staffs-it seems that some­how there was a failure of communi· cat1on m clearly defining the role and respons1b1f itv of the resident assis­tant. The resident assistant should be available to the students a major portiOn of the evemng hours, should prov1de leadership by the example of h1s own life, should counsel those· who seek academic and personal adv1ce, offer assistance to those in need, and if normal student self­discipline breaks down, he should, wllh the Rector's support, be respon­Sible for restoring the good order of 
the hall. No human system can be 
devised on the assumption that it will 
always operate perfectl'f. When vol­
untary good will and cooperation 
fall, someone has to step in and 
restore order. This is obviously the 
task of the Rector and his resident 
assistants. 
The Trustees have asked me to 

express to you and your colleagues 
our appreciation for the dedicated 
effort you are making to create a 
more wholesome student fife at 
Notre Dame. The entire University is 
in your debl. 
Sincerely yours, 
Edmund A. Stephan. 
Chairman of the Board of Trus­

tees 
in Greenwich Village; Dr. Ivan Pangrac, chief psychologist of South Bend's Mental Health Center, and Sgt. Robert Zack of the Indiana State Police. 
Dr. Robert L. Devetski, direc­tor of post-graduate studies at 
St.  Joseph's  Hospital,  South  
Bend,  and  author  of  several  
artides  on  drug-related  clinical  

problems, will discuss the his­tory of the drug program, and Dr. Lillian Holdeman, coordina­tor of health education in the South Bend Schools, will speak on the current environment in schools. 
A feature of the conference, sponsored jointly by the Junior League of South Bend and the Center for Continuing Educa­tion, will be the appearance of a panel of former drug addicts. 
John Lennon 
Erotic Lithos 
Notre Dame Specia/.1 With this ad . . . $150 each. Complete set of /5 $/385. Sets of these lithos sold out in London at $2000 per set . . 
This investment offer ex­pires Sunday, April 26. Cata­logue available $2.95 and $./5 tax. 
CeHar GaHery 
Near Hancock Bldg. 49 East Oak St. Chicago 
312-642-6775 
Open till Midnite Fri. and Sat. Noon till 8 on Sunday 
possibility of establishing a regional center to serve Mexil:ans in the midwestern states, and the prospect of organizing a national conference of Mexicanos in the southwest, midwest and eastern states. 
In addition to discussions, Mrs. Olivarez expects to display Chicano art and sculpture and puhli<.:ations and newspapers authored by Mexican-American youths in the midwest and southwest. 
session. Mrs. Tyler holds a degree in medical t'echnology from the University of Tennes­see, and is the wife of a design engineer at Bendix Corporation and the mother of three child­ren. The Drug Abuse Center is ~ponsored by the YWCA of St. Joseph County. 
Other major speakers at the conference will include the Rev. Daniel Egan. widely known as the "junky priest" and founder of a half-way house for addicts 

PAGE 8 

THE OBSEIW!It 
Weekend no. 2 •1s more of the same 
defense hasn't been the tightest showing and possibly gain some rivals. Friday shows Cin<.:innati
The second spring weekend will be as busy. as the first. This in the nation and what you'll confidence for the always rugged appearing on the Cartier Courts lacrosse find is a noticeable deficiency in Drake Relays which will be held and Saturday will bring the
time four varsity teams will see Facing a similar task to the
DePaul Blue Demons to du Lac
action plus four club sports. The the victory column. next week. ruggers will be the lacrosse club
The Irish travel to Western to oppose Tom Fallon's netters.
football team will also be active as they host Midwest power 
on Saturday. Michigan tomorrow and enter­Football Denison University. Denison's
Crew

tain the Broncos at 2:00 p.m. 
This weekend Ara Parseghia•1 team has a varsity rating and
Saturday on Cartier Field. 
Baseball moves his "boys" into the The Notre Dame Crew Club is they have proved "bad medi­The Notre Dame baseball stadium for the second big at home for the first time this cine" for the Irish before thisTrack spring. The rowers host arch­season.
squad is having its troubles scrimmage of the spring. The getting started this spring. Not The track squad has had Irish are still experimenting with rival Purdue. President and The stickmen 's offensive 
coach Paul Weathersby had his
including yesterday's game trouble gettings its season under­next year's starting lineup. There hopes will ride with hustling against Detroit, the Irish season way but they are hopeful of may be a few changes made with team sharp for its race last Kenny Lund. Lund has been 
weekend and in the friendly St. nothing short of phenomenal inslate is a very poor 1-8. A huge success this weekend in Colu; the tentative lineup used last Joe River the Irish should prove
void in pitching has been the big bus, Ohio. Alex Wilson has Saturday. These changes would the first three ND victories. 
plenty tough for the Boilerma­The Irish will be on the Stepanheadache for coach "Jake" entered his runners in the Ohio probably occur in the defensive 
kers to handle. fields Saturdayafternoon.
Kline. Pitching has not been the State Relays and there will be a platoon of assistant coach only letdown in the ND squad, number of outstanding teams George Kelly. however. When the mound staff registered for this event. The 
Rugby 

did come through the offense two-mile relay team is one of the Golf The rugby club will try to Sailing couldn't come up with that "big stronger suits of coach Wilson's Bob Wilson, Notre Dame's The sailing club will split up
extend their undefeated record hit." unit. They should be able to first medalist, will <.:arry the this weekend when they meet and perform at three different 
Add to this the fact that the come out with a respectable brunt of the Irish charge this down-state rival Indiana at sites this wee':end. The feature· Saturday. Fr. Clarence Durbin Bloomington. The mggers, and event will be the John F. will bring his "pros" to Muncie, pn:sident Mike Paternia in par­Kennedy Memorial Cup at Anna­
JIM MURRAY 
Indiana to compete in the Ball ticular, were none too shy in polis, Maryhnd. State lnvit:~tionaJ. their predictions for the season. The two other scenes for Patemi stated that an unbeaten Regattas be Columbus
will at

Tennis 
Ohio and Carbondale, Illinois fo; The tennis team will be question. So far he and his band record was not out of the 
the Ohio State and Southern Illinois Regattas respec­looking to up its record this of bruisers have lived up to their tively.
The Real 

weekend as they entertain two forecast. 
Dolph confident of merger
Olympics 

NEw y 0 R K Up _ • All Star Game between the two separate negotiating rights for
1 
Commissioner Jack Dolph of the leagues. However, the leagues national television. There would
© 1970, Los AR!Ieles Times 
American Basketball Association would remain separate for the also be a wmmon draft, begin-When Jesse Owens handed me a copy of his new book, . " next three seasons and retain ning next year. . 
IS quite confident" the league"Blachthink," I thought for a moment he had come to give himself 
will merge with the National 
up. His life story sort of stumbles over the takeoff board like Jesse's 
Basketball Asso<.:iation after the
first Olympic broad jump. 

Lew is best rookie 
next three seasons.
"Jesse Owens is a bootlicking Uncle Tom!" is the first line of the 
Dolph said Tuesday that the
book. 

ABA has agreed to the general
This scholarly observation comes from Prof. Harry Edwards, who NEW YORK UPI-Lew Alcin­also led NBA centers in assists 
terms of the merger outlined 
dor got a small bit of <.:onsola­with 337.
is not to be confuse'd with Mr. Chips, and Jesse opens the book with 
between the merger committees
it to show that he is kind of like the guy who is asked to explain to tion after one of the most But Alcindor's biggest wntri­
of the two leagues.
the court whether he stopped beating his wife. frustrating nights of his life on a bution was taking Milwaukee 
The general agreements <.:all
Name-calling doesn't particularly distress Jesse Owens. He has basketball court. from a last place club into one 
for the ABA to pay $11 million
been reviled by such masters of the art as Adolf Hitler in 1936, or Alcindor, who missed two that posted the best record Jin 
to have all 11 of its teams 
free minute
the sheriff of Oakville and Decatur, Ala., in 1926, or the red-neck throws in the final the league over the last 50 games
included in a merged league. The 
of his !earn's II 2-111 playoff of the season.
who ran the greasy spoon in Indianapolis one night and who reached 
terms also call next' season for
into the car and smashed the plates and silverware of four world loss to the New York Knicks Alcindor, though, may be on 
mixed exhibition games as well
recordholders he had not only refused to serve in his eatery, but Monday night, was named Tues­the verge of ending the season as 
as a championship series and an
refused to let them eat in the privacy of their ancient Model T. day as the National Basketball a loser for the first time in his Jesse is a guy who won four gold medals at the 1936 Olympics, Miami pays high Association Rookie of the Year life in the playoffs against New thanks, in part, to help and advice from one of Hitler's prize by a unanimous vote. York. The Bucks are trailing 2-0 
The 7' 2" center will re<.:eive a in the best of seven series.
specimens, the broad-jumper, Luz Long, who was a full-blooded member of the Master Race-and didn't care for the sensation. Luz, price for Shu/a <.:heck for $500 for the award. Alcindor has a great goal to ironically, lies in an African grave. He died on burning sand and a Alcindor s<.:ored 28.8 points a shoot for. Bill Russell played on 
NEW YORK UP!-The Miami
burning tank for a burnt-out cause, and his last letter to Jesse was, "I game in his rookie season in the II title teams in 13 years and 
Dolphins knew they would have NBA to finish second behind Lew would like to match that­am afraid, Jesse. Not just the thought of dying. It is that I may die 
for the wrong thing." to pay a high price to lure head Jerry West of Los Angeles. He which would be quite a feat 
Hitler had nine years to live that night he turned on his heel and Coa<.:h Don Shula away from the also pulled down I, 190 re­sin<.:e Russell had a better sup­
Baltimore Colts, but they didn't porting <.:ast.
walked out on Jesse Owens in the Berlin Olympiad. Luz Long had bounds for a 14-.5 average that 
realize steep 
was would climb. 
even less. Owens is still alive and well and living in America. His how the price third in the NBA. Alcindor 
book is, in large part, an attempt to see that a lot of other people 
The Dolphins signed Shula on
don't die for the wrong things. 

Feb. 18 to a long term contract 
MAJOR LEAGUES
Jesse's position is too complex to be set down in a few 
that also included part owner­
paragraphs. But it is not contradictory. Jesse stays in his lane NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
ship of the team. But on
throughout the race. He sees a corrupt society, but he says, in effect, East East 
Monday, Maimi learned it also
if you think it's corrupt now, you should have seen it 40 years ago. 
would have to give the Colts its w L Pet. GB w L
They gave Jesse a ticker-tape parade when he won four gold Pet. GB 
first pick in
medals. Then they gave him a $30-a-week job watching kids swing in round next year's 
*St. Louis 4 2 .667
college player draft. Baltimore 5 1 .833
a playground. He put up Olympic records that would stand for 24 
Pittsburgh 4 2 .667 Detroit 3 1'h
4 .571

The forfeiture of the draft
years -and they set him to running against horses in fixed races. New York 3 3 .500 
Boston 4 3 .571 l'h
pick was deaeed by National
The fast-buck artists of both races almost got him thrown into Chicago 3 3 .500 Washington 
3 2

Football League Commissioner 3 .500 
prison. Jesse's name was used to promote businesses and signed to Philadelphia 3 4 .429 1'!. New York 2 5 .286 3'h
Pete Rozelle who said his offi<.:e
receipts he never got and made liable for taxes. on money he never *Montreal 1 5 .167 3 Cleveland 2 5 .286 3'!.
found the Dolphins guilty of
earned. The judge ruled that Jesse had committed an error not a 
violating the league's tampering
crime -and Jesse paid back 100 cents on the dollar even tho,ugh he West
rule on three ~.:oun ts. West
almost ruined his health in the process. 
*Minnesota 3
Rozelle said that neither Cincinnati 8 3 .720 0 1.000 'hJess earned his bared-teeth salute from Prof. Edwards for working Shula nor the Dolphins informed *San Fran. 5 4 .556 2 *California 5 1 .833
ceaselessly against the black boycott at the Mexico Olympics, a 
*Atlanta 4 4 .500 2'!. *Oakland 3 3
the Colts of their negotiations .500 1Y2
stand which, he says, additionally put him in conflict not only with *San Diego 4 4 2Y, Milwaukee 
2Y:. John Carlos, a black sprinter, but Hal Connolly, a white *Houston 3 5 .375 3'!. Kansas City 2 4 .333 2Y:. 
until their preliminary dis­.500 3 5 .375 
<.:ussions already had begun.
hammer-thrower. Jesse thinks the Olympic Committee over-reacted Los Angeles 3 6 .333 4 *Chicago 2 4 .333 2Y,
When Shula requested permis­
in the Tommie Smith-Carlos fist-clenching incident. "Believe me, (it) *night game not included *night game not includea
sion to negotiate, it was granted
had as many overtones in Mexico City as two grammar school kids Chicago 5 Philadelphia1 Boston 6 New York 2 
by the Baltimore front offi<.:e on
trying to create a tidal wave by skipping stones in the Pacific St. Louis4 MontreaiO (3rd inn.] Washington at Baltimore (21 rain Feb. 3.
Ocean." The other 7,000 athletes in the village ignored it, he says. Atlanta 5 San Diego 5 (6th inn.) Chicago at Oakland night 
Rozelle said: "It is the wnclu­Minnesota at California night
The African athletes, in particular, yawned noticeably. Cincinnati 3 Los Angeles2 
sion of this offi<.:e that <.:ir<.:Um­
Jesse also points out it was a white doctor from Oklahoma named Houston 2 San Francisco 1 
stan<.:es of the employment by
Cooper who helped put Tommie Smith on that stand that afternoon (3rd inn.) 
the Dolphins of Don Shula
by healing a pulled groin muscle as late as a few hours before the 
constituted violations of rules
race and that it was , of all thin:;s,the Olympic Committee which 
and poli<.:ies. Dis<.:ipli nary a<.:lion
found and paid for a pla<.:e for Mrs. Carlos to stay at the Games in 
has been taken under applicable
downtown Mexi<.:o City. 

provision of the constitution
As for his own four gold medals, Jesse is prouder of the fa<.:t he 
whi<.:h provides that such disd­
"hired almost 50,000 Negroes" for the Ford Motor Co. during the 
pline involve the forfeiture of
war years. ''Life is the real Olympics," he says. If so, James 
draft <.:hoi<.:es."
Cleveland Owens has been an an<.:hor man there, too. 





