
Voting light • key primaries
1n 

The Lineup! old Jesuit priest, was unopposed Oklahoma-Lawyer David the Congressional
(UPI) -Bad weather and a In 7th Dis­
Minnesota-Hum ohrey for the GOP nomination to face Hall and State Sen. Bryce trict, Rep. Samw~l Friedel's op­lack of excitement combined to ·opposed by--~ ;Earl Craig Jr., 31,~ Pastore. Democratic Gov. Frank Baggett fought for the Democra­ponent in the Democratic pri­keep many voters away from the 
a black p<!ace candidate, for Licht unopposed tic oppose Gov. mary.
polls Tuesday as six states chose for renomina­nomination to Negro Parren Mitchell, 
nominees for governor or the Democratic nomination. Rep. tion, and Atty. Gen. Herbert F. Dewey Bartlett in November. claimed that as many as 35 black Clark MacGregor was the likely Desimone regarded as an easy There were numerous reports of precincts were having trouble
U.S. Senate, a prime target of 
GOP nominee. Candidates select­winner as GOP nominee. vuting irregularities in Maryland. with voting machines. 
President Ni~on in the 
ed for successor to Gov. HaroldNovember elections. 

Levander, a Republican.

All five Senate seats at stake Massachusetts Conservativeare held by Democrats and of John J. McCarthy raised thethe four incurnbents seeking re­
C.A. to be phased out
. nomination, . •')nly Sen. Joseph Chappaquiddick issue against 
D. Tydings, U MeL, faced serious Kennedy in an 11th hour debate trouble. The fifth seat is being against liberal Josiah A. 
by Denis DuBay
vacated by Sen. Eugene J. Spaulding for the GOP Senate McCarthy, D Minn.; and former nomination. In a significant con­This year, the Department of Vice-President Hubert H. gressional race, Louise Day Communication Arts will not 
Humphrey was heavily favored Hicks, an opponent of school accept any new majors, due to to win endorsement for a come­busing, was expected to beat the planned phasing-out of the back. two opponents for the Democra­department in the next two 
The other incumbents were tic House seat nomination to years. Sens. Henry M. Jackson, D succeed retiring Speaker John W. In a letter sent to communi­Wash.; John 0. Pastore, D R.I., McCormack of cation arts majors on August 29, 
Boston. Maryland-Tydings

and Edward M. Kennedy, D the department announced that 
counted on support from the

Mass. Kennedy was unopposed it will move into undergraduate
Washington suburbs in his fight

for renomination. work under the Program in 
against conservative George P.

Because of rain, the voter American Studies. Professor 
Mahoney and Life magazine

turnout in Massachusetts was the Weber, director of the Program 
lowest in memory in some areas suggestions of conflict of inter­in American Studies, has also est. Democratic Gov. Marvin
and threatened to cut into the been named chairman of the lead of Boston Mayor Kevin H. Mandel and Republican C. Department of Communication White, one of four Democrats Stanley lBlair were favored for Arts. In speaking of the change battling for the chance to governatorial nominations. Professor Weber stated, "it was oppose Gov. Francis W. Sargent Washington-Jackson was ex­the consensus of our department in November. pected to win handily over black that it was the best thing to do." 
lawyer Carl Maxey, a peace can­Several technical
Voting was "extremely light" courses pre­in rainy Rhode Island, where didate. viously offered under the depart­
Rhode Island-Pastore Junior and Senior majors in its interest in communication
keen competition was lacking, was ment will be dropped, although 
favored to breeze to renomina­a majority of the Communica­Communication Arts will not be arts. Rather, he reasoned that
and a persistent drizzle discour­aged balloting among tion despite first primary chal­tion Arts curriculum will be affected by this movement. The the merger with the Program in course offerings and the faculty American Studies will provide
Minnesota's 2.1 million eligible lenge in nearly 20 years. The transferred to the Program in 
Rev. John McLaughlin, 43 year will be the same as in the past. the best means for a student to
voters. American Studies. 
After these present majors have prepare himself for a career in completed their programs how­the field of communications.

Faculty senate meets 
ever, the department will offer undergraduate courses and an As stated in the letter sent out undergraduate degree only in to communication arts majors

Princeton plan discussed 
American Studies. August 29, the department has, 
student identification cards for
approve the measure for it to go The master's degree program "always felt that a great danger
by Tom Bornholdt entrance and egress. 
into effect. The Faculty Senate in Communication Arts, which for the communication's major
One faculty member desired
Improvements in campus was unsure of its role in respect is that he will master the means
offers course work only during·
security and procedure for the to the referendum. The opinion that the entire university as well of communicating without hav­
the summer, is not involved in
October referendum on the was expressed that the Faculty as the parking lot be lit up. ing anything worth communicat­
the change. This program will
Princeton Plan for allowing stu­Senate would probably pick four Another complained the East continue under the direction of ing." The Department of Com­de:lts ten recess of the Gate Security post had its win­
a day from five faculty members of Professor Stritch. munication Arts feels that it can 
classes to engage in political the election board, with the dows destroyed so often that it best meet the needs of these
Professor Weber, in explaining 
campaigning were among the now has plywood boards with
Chairman of the Faculty Senate the merger,· claimed that the students under an expanded pro­
items discussed at a Faculty being the fifth member. slits and that the guards were department was not abandoning gram in American Studies. 
Senate meeting last night. There is also to. be five stu­now armed. 
The mention of the Princeton dent members of the election • Plan occurred during the last few board, but it was not known minutes of the meeting. Prof. how they are to be chosen. Fred 

New Director cites 


John A. Oesterle, the Chairman Guffrida, a student represen­point program which would en­would also make available the
by Greg Pudhorodsky
of the Faculty Senate brought tative to the Faculty Senate felt compass the new aspects he chance for undergraduates to se­up the issue. According to Oes­
that SBP Dave Krashna would jln a personal interview held hoped the Bureau wot!ld be able lect employment in their resi­
terle, the referendum to be held probably choose the student 
yesterday, Richard D. Willemin, to undertake. dent areas in fields in which they on October 2, would be on the members of the election board. the newly appointed Director of Under the first point came the eventually wish to pursueproposal to allow students to be The issue of campus security the Placement Bureau, explained 
general expansion of career careers. free from classes from October came up during the reading of his dual aims of broadening the guidance to include undergrad­The last item in the overall 
24 to November 4 to campaign 
the report of the Committee on services of the Bureau and uate counseling as early as the plan outlines the establishment for the political candidates of Administration Affairs. One fac­
making them more relevant to freshman year and for the first of a teacher placement program. their choice. This measure in­ulty member comolaineit "Aft..r the undergraduate student while 
time the opening of the office to Such a service would provide a 
cludes the stipulation that 
sunset the university is like the maintaining the career services the students of St. Mary's. In­list of opportunities available for 
adequate compensation be pro­inside of a pocket...there have to graduates. cluded in this facet would be the those graduating students who vided for lost class time. been some people who have at­Mr. Willemin, who replaces enlargement of career informa­wished to go into teaching for a The Faculty Senate did not tacked outside the Engineering the retired Father Louis tion to form a "library" of such probational period. This planknow what means would be pre­Building." He went on to say Thornton C.S.C.,cited his pertinent material which wouh would also help alumni who sented for making up lost class later, "We have people with six 
of in

twenty years experience be made available to all students. were temporarily displaced from time. It did know that six pro­or seven stitches from being such recent guidance capacities The second point dealt with a research or corporation work. 
posals had been presented to the beaten...students are being at Notre Dame as Director of the summer employment program The new director closed with Academic Council including the beaten up in their own rooms in 
Reading Development Program which the Placement Bureau his thoughts on the conflict in 
possibility of working up until the dorms." 
and Pre-College Program as the hopes to have functioning by the the past two years between the Christmas Day, Saturday classes, To this Anthony replied that source of his view that sudents second semester of the current University's open door policy on and make-up worK atter Christ­the University has begun to take need guidance prior to their' academic year. Under such a corporations allowed to recruit mas. Whether a vote on the serious measures to improve senior year in andcareer em­program the Bureau would on campus and the view of some classtime compensation process security, including the lighting ployment selection. contact employers concerning students that ceTtain companieswould be included in the refer­of the parking lots, the hiring of Though pointing out the ad­summer employment. In the should be banned due to actionsendum was not known. a private investigator, and the equacy of the Bureau in past second semester it would post which they felt were immoral. 
Dr. Robert Anthony was cer­use of a student patrol. Anthony 
years in performing its function­job opportunities in the Willemin argued that it was tain that the students and facul­felt that it would either be unde­al task of arranging placement Placement Office. Willemin neither in the place or the power ty votes', would be tabulated 1 sirable to institute severe secur­interviews, Willemin stated that pointed out that besides the of the University to investigateseparately, and that a majority ity measures, such as fencing off 
such a view was too narrow Jor 
fiscal results for the studentsthe entire university or requiring
of both groups would have to the present. He outlined a three such a service would provide it (continued on page 2) 

..------------------­
Wednesday, September 16, 1970

Page 2 THE O&rERVBR. 
NSHP begins new year, needs tutors 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program begins its new year of operations with substan­tial Title I funding and in­creased resources, but in need of 800 tutors from the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. 
The NSHP, which provides tutors for underachieving chil­dreJ;l in the South Bend primary schools, has established itself as a complement to the South Bend school system. Last year the program operated on a shoe­string budget donated from pri­vate sources and finished the year a thousand dollars in debt. The present program will receive funding from the Title I funds that were allocated to the South Bend school district, and from South Bend banks, insurance companies, and real estate agen­cies. 
As a result of improved rela­"tions with the South Bend school district, headed by Don­ald Dake, the Neighborhood Study Help Program will be able to employ the learning equip­ment bought by the school dis­trict, which includes tape record­ers, movies projectors, IBM read­ing sets, and group listening booths. 

In previous years the tutoring program's success was hampered by having one tutor work with two and sometimes three stu­dents on a once a week basis. This year tutors will have but a single student and will tutor that 
student twice a week, either on Monday and Wednesday or Tues­day and Thursday. Also, tutors will meet with the tutee's par­ents and teacher, and will keep in contact with them every two or three weeks. 
A list of over 800 potential tutees has been prepared by South Bend school officials, and the need for tutors from both Notre Dame and St. Mary's is 

All interested in being a DOME photographer 
Meeting Wednesday 7PM 4th floor LaFortune 
GRAND OPENING THE· STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
FOil ALL STUDENT EVENTS Open Daily 4 -6 pm Fiesta Lounge 
For more info_ call 7757 
great. Michael Heisler, a senior from Philadelphia and a co-coor­dinator of the program, said, "It is easy for a kid in a classroom of forty kids to just slide through without any personal attention. If a teacher doesn't have time and the parents don't know what to do, Notre Dame and St. Mary's students can make a tremendous difference. Most of these kids have acquired a negative association with learn­ing. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students that are willing to put in three or four hours a week can, over a year's time, bring these kids to a positive associa­tion with learning." 
Each of the sixteen Study Help centers throughout South Bend will be staffed with about twenty Notre Dame men and twenty St. Mary's women, with a Notre Dame and St. Mary's captain for each center. Fre­quent parties among each cen­ter's tutors are planned to give each center a group spirit. A trip to Chicago with the tutors and their students is planned, with visits to the Museum of Industry 
NOW THRU THE 22nd 
\4f 
IN "THROBBING" COLOR 
,_,_MtJrHr~s 
ONLY FOR THE MATURE ADULT WHO UNDERSTANDS 
and Science and a picnic on Lake Michigan. 
The administrative planning for the NSHP has already been completed with the help of the South Bend School District and interested parents. Busses from the St. Mary's and Notre Dame circles will transport the tutors to their centers and back. 
Last year's tutors achieved ap­proximately a one year improve­ment in reading and math­ematical abilities in about 70% of the tutees. During the present school year the program's lead­ers hope to improve this record through the one-to-one ratio of tutors to tutees, the twice a week meetings with the stu­dents, and the use of the educa­tional equipment made available through Title l funds. 
The lack of funds in the South Bend school district has made primary education less than adequate. As Mike Heisler explains, "A lot of the kids in the South Bend School District, just like in other school districts, get passed into the next grade so that they can clear the way for the incoming grade. And the result is that the kids don't have the fundamentals. A fourth grad­er doesn't have the fundamentals a first grader should have, and an eighth grader reads on a fourth grade level." 
Students interested in work­ing in the Neighborhood Study Help Program can contact Mi­chael Heisler in 441 Lyons (phone 7992) or John Reid in 201 Morrissey (3495). Study Help recruiters will be in the dining halls Thursday and Friday evenings. 

Workers ignore injunction 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Union leaders requested 40,000 striking rail workers to return to their jobs Tuesday after a court in­
junction  failed  to  stop  their  
walkout  against  three  selected  
railroads.  

Many strikers said they would· not return to work until they received official notice of U.S. District Court Judge Howard F. Corcoran's Monday midnight order. 
Their walkouts shut down the Southern Pacific systemwide, halted all passenger service on 1he Baltimore & Ohio, and ser­IOusly i1ampered the Chesapeake & Ohio. 
Finally, in midafternoon, the Transportation Union and the Brotherhood of Clerks issued statements requesting the workers to comply with the courts order. They notified local officials by phone and wire. 
Most of the striker 1eeded 
Fl 14 


i'lrlllllrlllr.===~~.-iiii4te:n~~nii~..--;~~ the unions' plea. Pi~ketr. with­
drew at B&O inst .1s in 
Baltimore and Pitt~, .,rgh and 
workers returned to the job. "I guess they got the word," a B&O spokesman said in Pittsburgh. 
New goals set 
(continued from page I) 
the actions and policies of every company that came to recruit on the campus. 
Willemin said that the Univer­sity and his office would adhere to the policy set out in "Prin­ciples and Practices of College Placement and Recruitment" which is published by the Col­lege Placement Council to which Notre Dame is a member. The clause to which the director brought attention was that "the fostering of communication and exchange of information be­tween employers and students.... but an employer should not be required to present and defend a corporate position before college and university groups as a condition for recruiting on cam­pus."

REFRIGERATORS FOR RENT 
! Unlimited Supply 
-n-IE NOftCOlO MOOEI. NO. rttl.ll 

GDecotiitor
•
: $7.00 per month
•
: Share the cost iwith your roommates : $10 Damage Deposit Fee
•
: (Refundab]e)
• 
: PLUS Compensation for 


• Vacation Periods Add"•t•"onal ...3 50 f

·-> • re unded after each• semester upon return of refrigerator. Example: Have refrigerator for entire year and we will refund the $10.00 plus an additional $7.00 -like having 1 month
• FREE. 

You can rent or buy
•

• De1ivery, Service, Maintenance, & Pick-Up ARE FREE 
• COMPACT COOL, INC. 
another service ofStudent Services Commission 
:• 
: Contact: DICK GORMAN 

e : 7757 Or 6723 : 4th Floor LaFortune 4 -6 
• 
• or 123 Farlev

.••••••••••••••••••••••,.,..-~;.:;-..........................••••••••••• 

SIMERI'S 
410 N. Hi11 St. (at Madison St.) Open 11 a.m. 
HAPPY HOUR 
2-4 and 7-9 DAILY -1.18 a PITCHER Pool Tab1e Reallta1ian Food Pin Bal1 Ample Parking Beer & Liquor Carry-out 
::·:· A.M.. .;.: 1~.·.·······················.....-.-.-...-...·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··········································································································~==
-,.,.......·.·.~·~·~·~·~·=·~-:-:-:.:.:.:.:.:-:·~·=·=·········································································································~-:.:.:-:-:·:-:· 
THI!. OBSERfJER. Page 3 
Pass-fai I draws respor1ses 

by Art Ferranti 
In an interview yesteday, SBVP Mark Winings said that he had received responses from nearly one seventy schools on a letter he sent last July on the suggested pass-fail system. Win­ings sent the letter to 1400 major and local universities. He asked the schools to forward to his office any data pertaining to the two main points of his mis­sive. 
The letter sought information on a change in the present grad­ing system to a pass-fail plan. 
Mar mmgs

Announcing Augusta Hall: SMC'S unique new dorm 
by Mary Chris Morrison 
What do you do with an almost barren ex-convent with only two phone lines, furniture rrussmg from all but three lounges, terribly empty walls, and 37 girls who are determined to call it home? You have a redecorating party, put up Pea­nuts posters and "home-made originals" jump like mad when you hear the phone ring and pray for the telephone man to come install the phones in each alcove that were supposed to be there yesterday, and the day before, and the day before... 
And voila! Instead of a hall director and sign-out desk, Simon and Garfunkle and Linus greet you at the door of Augusta, and you almost never hear the word dormitory used. For the girls living in the newest residence on the SMC campus consider Augusta Hall their "house" rather than a conven­tional dorm, a "living exper­ience" they can shape rather than another dorm situation to endure. 
Thus, with the motto "A house to believe in", half of Augusta Hall was transformed this fall from the Novitiate Qf. 
the Sisters of the Holy Cross to 
house 30 seniors and 7 sopho· 
mores. 
Although the hall is subject to all college regulations regarding security, sign-out procedures, etc., the size of the group per­rnits much greater flexibility in the realm of hall management and activities. 
There is no hall director in the traditional sense. Sister Mary Elizabeth Griffin and Sister Elena Nalits live with the girls as their advisors. Hall government is effected through house meet­ings. Any questions or decisions affecting the house are made by the entire group rather than through the conventional of­ficer systeJu. 
Yet the group is not trying to isolate itself from the rest of ille campus community by any means. Although they do not have a hall president, the group has selected three of their 
members to attend the St. Mary's student government meetings to represent them and keep in touch with campus issues. The girls themselves are handling most of the adminis­trative necessities required in a residence hall by setting up their own schedules (on a voluntary basis' to take care of desk duty and many housekeeping respon­

11:15 A.l\1. SMC Holv Cross Hall
Walkout hits G.M. 
DETOIT (UPI) A strike no­body wanted virtually shut down General Motors Corp., the nation's No. I auto maker, Tues­day and was sure to last until next Tuesday, when the United Auot Workers and company bar­gainers Jreet for the first time 

New Drug Info-Center opens 
by Frank Mahon 
Among the clubs and organ­izations represented at Activities Night, members of the Drug Education Commission opened a Drug Information Center to answer students' questions con­cerning drugs and to recruit new members. 
This is th~ on-campus side to the two-part commission. Its creator is N.D. student Tom Tollksen. The other half is made up of the Drug Rehabilitation Center, an off-campus organiz­ation formed by N.D.'s John K wiciak. Although these two groups were formed and func­tion independent of each other, they serve to compliment each other in their common goal; to make people more aware and informed of the uses and effects of drugs. 
Orlando Rodriguez, chairman 

· lite 0.,_,., Is publlsMd Clllll)'durtnt tM col.... semestw exc.pt v.c;atlons by tM ltuclents of tM Unlwnlty of Notre Dame lnd SL ~·s Col..... SUblcrtptlons m.y lie purchlled for aa from ·1lle ODtlrver, Box 11, Notre Dime Incl., 445556. Second ce.. Postile !Mid, Notre Dime Incl. 44SIN. 
of the Human Affairs Com­mission of Notre Dame, told the Observer that his group will act as an aid to the D.E.C., especially with matters pertain­ing to the university. Currently, Rodriguez is trying to obtain office space in La Fortune for the Drug Information Center. Once the Center is able to estab­lish a permanent headquarters, it hopes to remain open indefin­itely to serve the Notre Dame ­St. Mary's community. John Kwiciak's Rehabilitation Center is located on Western Ave. in South Bend. 

sibilities. They are also hoping to arrange for a weekly liturgy in one of their lounges. 
An informal, closely-knit atmosphere pervades the small group in the house, the first two floors of which are devoted entirely to lounges and study. rooms. As one of the seniors commented, "There are always close friends to be with, and yet always places to be by yourself in the house. I never found that in any of the regular dorms ... here you have some breathing space." 
The group is already planning based on each of the 1400 said universities' experience in the field. 

The second topic concerned a withdrawal option for all under­,mduates. . -Winings outlined the plan as permitting the student "to drop a subject anytime up to a week or so before final exams and lose only his three credits." This was brought before the Curriculum R((vision Committee last year, and, of that encounter, Winings said, "There is no valid arguement for not having this (plan) because the student is already penalized by, one, the Ia;illg of ;-t the money ihe invest•'d. 111 the course, and, two, the loss of the amount of credit hours." 
To date, one hundred and seventy schools have replied. Al­though it is early, Winings said that "many excellent responses have come in.'' Three examples which came into his mind were those of U.C. Berkeley, U.C. Santa Barbara, and Barat Univer­sity of Illinois. 
When asked about his con­clusions on the letters thus far Winings pointed out that it wa~ still very early but that he was "impressed by the flexibility of the student government of the colleges in question" and that "it is a shame that Notre Dame does not take the initiative that one would think a major univer­sity shoulrl." 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields
Business Mgr: Bruce Rieck Night Editor: John Knorr
Ad. Mgr: Bruce Barker Layout Design: Mary Chris Mor­
Campus Editor: Glen Corso risonNews Editor: Jim Holsinger Layout: Patty Corvelli, Don Kop­Assoc. News Editor: Ed Ellis penhaferAsst. News Editor: Don Ruane Headlines: M<1ry Sue Hervet, Pat
SMC News Editor: Jeanne 
Geary ControUer: Harold Taegel 
I 

FILE DRAWERS AND CABIN!f:_'TS OTHER OFFICE EQUIPMENT FABRICS+ VINYLS FOR ROOM D!fCORATIONS LARGE SELECTION OF AUTO PARTS MANY OTHER INTERESTING {Tt"AIS 
STANDARD SURPLUS Cf!'MPANY . 405 West Sample Street 
I 

""---n.~n 11:. nn n.n __ _.___ I"" -!..11-•• 
the house with members of the
several 
Friday night gabfests in ;,o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Notre Dame and SMC faculties 
which will be open to the entire campus. The opening gabfast 
STUDENT UNION
will be tomorrow night at 8:30 pm with Dr. Noell of the English 
TRIP TO THE
Dept. and Dr. Feigl of the SMC Chemistry faculty. They are also hoping to have several informal 
NORTHWESl.ERN dinners and gatherings in the house for both their own mem­bers and friends. 
GAME 
Sept. 19 11:00 A.l\1. N.D. Cin~le 
SALES: at 1st BANK TRAVEL BUREAU (on campus­since the walkout began. basement of Badin Hall next to N.D. Bookstore) Within hours after the strike 
PARTY AFTER THE G~'ME 
at midnight Monday, layoffs 
AT BARAT COLLEGE
began spreading through auto­motive related industries. Both $15-GAME TICKET & TRAVEL sides agreed Tuesday to hdd the Tentative Sign-Up for the Bus Only 
first bargaining session beginning 
ALL SALES ARE FINAL
at 2 p.m Sept. 22. They will Jreet informally, however, Wed­nesday to discuss procedural matters not related to the actual bargfli.ning. 
As 343,610 UAW members marched on picket lines outside 199 plants in the United States and Canada, Labor Secretary James D. Hodgson ruled out-at least for the tirre being-any fed­eral action in the strike. 
No new bargaining sessions were scheduled Tuesday. As he left the final session before the stnke began at midnigtlt Mon­day, chief GM negotiator Earl Bramblett indicated negotiations would resUJre, "prooobly Wed­nesday,"on the unresdved issues ATIILETI~~ AND of money, early retirement and ca;t of living allowances. CONVOCATION 
Wednesday, September 16, 1970
TilE OBSERI1!1t 

Improved Wildcat's will be trouble 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
Believe it or not, the 
Northwestern Wildcats could be 
great argument material at sea­
son's end if Notre Dame is still 
in contention for the National 
Championship. 
NU, who always plays one of 
the toughest schedules in the 
nation, has been rebuilt md 
their coach, Alex Agase, has a 
real darkhorse contender this 
season in the Big Ten. 
Daigneau Leads Offense 
Maurie Daigneau, the sopho­more from a season ago who made such a stunning quarter­back debut against none other thm Ohio State (22 of 34 pass­ing in that game), is back to kld the offense. Daigneau has lost a little weight and added some speed since last season and this has aided in the Wildcats newly installed option series. Dave Shelbourne, a starter at the beginning of last season md Todd Sommers, an exciting soph 

provide  excellent  backup  
strength  at  the  signal-calling  
spot.  

Adamle Best Runner 

Runnin~ strength will also be present in the potent Wildcat offense. Mike Adarnle, who gain­ed 3 I 6 yards in a single game (Big Ten record), has mo·red to fullback. AI Robinson, a junior, will be the halfback. Both of these running backs are a threat to throw the football on option plays. Neither Adamle (5'9", 190 lb.) nor Robinson (5'11", I95) are big, but both are hard 
MAJOR LEAGUES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East w L Pittsburgh 77 68 New York 78 69 Chicago 77 69 St. Louis 70 78 Philadelphia 66 81 Montreal 64 82  Pet. .531 .531 .528 .473 .449 .438  GB Y:. BY:. 12 13Y:.  
West Cincinnati 93 56 Los Angeles 78 67 San Fran. 77 69 Atlanta 72 76 Houston 70 76 San Diego 58 89  .624 .538 .528 .486 .479 .395  13 14Y:. 20Y:. 21Y:. 34  
Chicago 5 St. Louis 3  

Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, night New York at Montreal, night Cincinnati at Houston, night San Diego at Los Angeles, night Atlanta at San Francisco, night 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East  w  L  Pet.  
Baltimore  95  51  .651  
New York  81  65  .555  
Boston  75  71  .514  
Detroit  75  71  .514  
Cleveland  71  76  .483  
Washington  68  77  .469  
West  
Minnesota  87  58  .600  
Oaklc>nd  80  67  .544  
C<~lifornia  77  68  .531  
Kansas City  58  88  .397  
Milwaukee  55  90  .379  
Chicago  53  93  .363  

Chicago at Kansas City, night Boston at New York, twi-night Detroit at Cleveland, night Baltimore at Washington, night Oakland at Milwaukee, night California at Minnesota, night GB 

14 20 20 24Y:. 26Y:. 
8 10 29Y:. 32 34Y:. 
aggressive runners, each possess­ing great speed. 
Another man with speed and moves is Barry Pearson. Pearson is a junior flankerback with gift­ed hands. The other top receiver for NU, also a junior, is Jerry Brown. He is the real speedster on the squad. Like Notre Dame, Northwestern will start a sopho­more at tight end in Steve Craig. 
Veteran Line 
The offensive line is another reason why NU will be a more respected opponent this season. Every position is filled by a returning starter. They are cen­ter Joe Zigulich (6'1", 224 ), guards Mike Sikich (6'2", 235) and John I-Ioerster (5'11", 220), tackles Jon Bittman (6'1", 230) and John Rodman, the big man at 6'3" and 250 lb. 
Strong Secondary 
Offense will not by the only game in town, at least when the town is Evanston, Ill. Agase has seven returning starters on the defensive squad as welL 
The defense will build around 
Wil I-Iembly and Mike Morkin, 
two quick but not big (220 lb. 
each) ends. A speedy secondary 
will counter Irish aerials. All 
four backs are veterans. They are 
Eric Hutchinson, Rick Telander, 
Jack Dustin md Mike Coughlin. 
Linebackers Weak Spot 
Linebacking may be a prob­lem with only Joel Hall and Jack Deming having experience at this key position. 

The Wildcats will be a vastly a little lighter than usual and improved team relying mostly their record by season's end may on a solid ground game, but if be that proof ND fans can show they must pass Daigneau has when asked if the Irish played 
proven ability. Their schedule is anyone of importance. 
JIM MURRAY 

The Hard Sell 
© 1P70, Los Angeles Times 
,J once had an Irish friend who liked to sing when the hour was late and the sentiment was warm. One night, after the orchestra had wandered through a gaggle of undanceable, incomprehensible songs, he turned to the leader in exasperation: "Doesn't anybody know 'Moonlight and Roses' anymore?" he demanded. · I have another version of the same question today: Doesn't anybody read Frank Merriwell anymore? 
There used to be a time when our athletic heroes, at least in fiction but also often in fa,;t, were great modest superachievers, greatfu't to be on the team, loyal to God, country and Yale. 
The Merriwell Boys would come in from another victorious day against the Harvards and the Burt L. Standish's writing would go on something like this: 
"Hurray!" cried fun-loving Robert, his eyes dancing merrily, "you old Frank Merriwcll, you surely showed Fair Harvard!" 
And Frank would hang his head and paw the ground: "Pshaw! It was nothing. They are fine adversaries and we were fortunate, indeed, to have overcome them." 
"But," would protest Robert, "you went I 0-for-11, including five home runs, three triples, two doubles and five stolen bases and you pitched a no-hitter!" and Frank Merriwell would blush. 
Then, in the Ralph Henry Barbour books, our hero would get in the Big Game, the day of which dawned bright and clear, and score 11 touchdowns, intercept 21 passes, and drop kick the winning field goal from his own 20-yard-line. "Shucks, it was just luck!" he would say in embarrassment as his teammates carried him off the field. 
Braggarts always get their comeuppance. Boys always met their match. 
Frank Merriwell, always got his hair cut, his shoes shined, and wore the school tie, and he would thrash gamblers and other blackguards roundly. Some of them, he even reformed. 
Today, Frank Merriwell would throw a bucket of water over Burt 
L. Standish. Ralph Henry Barbour's hero would be "Broadway Buck" and have sideburns and a fondness for whiskey ar>d chorus girls and places where bookies hang out. Dick Merriwell would come 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mailinginilieho~~fi~mdYy,'1wmt$75,000ml~md~ke 
Wear 'em many ways ... 

WHITE STAG 
TURTLENECK 
These fine 100% cotton long sleeve shirts look great unde blazers, sportcoats, sweaters or by themselves... You'll want several. Choose from nine new :colors in sizes for most men. 
$5 
YOUR Store in 
style, prices and terms 
Buy now ... and pay . one third in January . one third in February . one third in March 
with no carrying charge YOUR ACCOUNT IS OPEN! 

half the team with me!" And the GM would say, "But, Dick, you only batted .210 and struck out 195 times with the bases loaded last year!" "Take it or leave it!" the younger Merriwell would snarl, punching him in the jaw. 
Dink Stover would jump the team bus. Or the team. Dustin Hoffman would get the part if they made a movie. He would lose the game but get the coach hauled into court. "Knute Rockne, All-American" would be rated "R" if they made it today. 
When Dennis Dale McLain took the mound for the Detroit Tigers a few years ago, some of us thought Frank Merriwell was making a comeback. There were still a few around the league-Ernie Banks, AI Kaline, Henry Aaron, Frank Howard, to name some-but sports, was beginning to run to run-off-at-the-mouth types. "I am the greatest," "Play me or trade me," "What I do off the field is my own business." 
Still McLain was the best pitcher to come along in the American League since Lefty Grove. He won 55 games in two years, put his team in the World Series, and got every award short of the Nobel prize. He was a parochial school graduate, and his worst vice was soda pop which he drank by the case. He went to bars only to play the organ. 
Then, fate began to rip a few line drives back through the box on Denny. A national magazine suggested the smashing of his toes in the final weeks of the 1967 pennant drive was not due to a mowing machine but to the heel-stomp of an underworld enforcer. Denny's business partners proved to be bookmakers. The last time ball players went into a partnership with bookies, the World Series was 
thrown. His other businesses went bankrupt. The commissioner suspended him for several weeks-which is like sending a kid to his room for blowing up the Empire State Bldg., but maybe he thinks the Mafia is a potential TV sponsor. 
Failure went to Denny's head. When he got back, he couldn't get anybody out, but, the other day, he finally found a batter he could fool. Watty Spoelstra is 60 years old, wears bi-focals, and is a grandfather and deeply religious. Also, he's a sports writer. Clearly, it was all his fault. 
Denny threw his first pitch this year with something on it-a pail of ice water. Fortunately, it didn't break Watty's glasses but he did have to go home and put his feet in a tub of hot water. 
I'm sure glad I'm not growing up today. I'm still not ready for Frank Merriwell to go around beating up old ladies, setting fire to Santa Claus, making book, taking his clothes off in movies, But I ~uess that's what he'd have to be doing today or it wouldn't sell. 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE .DAME 



