

SMC 0 -C living benefits school and students 
l, 
1 
l 
l ~ 
Serving the Notre Dame a/Ul Saint Mar.1· 's College ('ommunit1' I.IIJEDI~CSD.,Y,J/,1\:UAP.Y 14,1~'/"J
-·--1 Give report to trustees l 
• 
by Don Ruane A student government report a one hour meeting of the execu­action on the proposals that will on coeducation at Notre Dame tive board of the committee be submitted Thursday, the sub­will he submitted to the Board with the trustees. Zimmerman commit tee will ask for an inde­of Trustees on Thursday by the described the purpose of this pendcJ•t Board of Trustees com­Student Affairs Sub-committee, meeting as follows: mittee that will examine all the

a~curdin~·. to John Zin J•ll'I'IJl<~n, 

"Our main objective is to implications, financial facets and a member of the committee and bring to light the fact that at the academic aspects of coeducationhead of the stULknt government present time, Notre Dame and at Notrt• Dame.
committee for research and Saint Mary's arc pursuing an The independent committeedevelopment. 

unddined, at best, an ill-defined will then !'resent a report to theZimmerman said that the first course. in an arbitrary direction trustees within a year's time.
hour would involve reports on towards an unarticulated goal," This proposed committee is simi­the status of the T.A. and black said Zimmerman. lar to those established at Yalestudies situations. The rest of The sub-committee, according and Princeton, before they wentthe meeting will be centered to Zimmerman, wants the trus­coedul·ational.

around coedu~ation. 

tees to make a commitmer.t to Zimm:.orman announced thatAfter the first hour. a discus­defining and telling the .public then: would be an open meetingsion of the report and the appen­the direction Notre Dame is for all students at 4:30 in the
dencies, proposals and ration:~le 

facing. Zimmerman said the trus­auditorium of the Center forpresented with it will last until tees should let the public know Continuing Education. lie saidII :45. when the meeting will if Notre Dame is going coeduca­this would be an excellent op­Discussing recruitment of American Indians with Dean William B. switch from the Ct•nter for Con­
tional or only setting up a coor­portunity for the st udcnts to
Lawless of the University of Notre Dame Law School, second from tinuing Education to the Morris 
dinate system with Saint Mary's. voice their opinions on coeduca­
left, are, from the left, Jess Sixkiller, executive director of the Inn conference room. Business If the trustees do not take any tion.
American Indians United; Robert Burnett, executive director of the will be discussed during the American Indian Civil Rights Council, and Leonard Springer, vice luncheon and tht• participants 
St. Mary's to reward
chairman of the Omaha Tribal Council and president of the Native will return to the C'.C.E. around American Church of North America. Lawless met with these leaders I :30. of the "Red Power" movement during the student conference on the "We have a number of peopll' 
faculty contributions
American Indian and asked them to aid the University's efforts to coming in d1:ring the afternoon attract American Indians to the field of law. There is now one from the administration and fac­by Prudence Wear They are: Dr. Mark Bambanei:: American Indian among the 349 law students at Notre Dame. ulty to give insight into specific St. Mary's News Editor J1rs. Grace Burke, Associate 
areas concerning rationale and At an all school convocation Director of lloly Cross Hall: proposals." said Zimmerman. next Monday, St. Mary's will Rev. John J. Cavanaugl·.


Code decision sought 
Among those listed by Zim­present awards for Excellcm~e in Chaplain: Rev. Mr. Rog!'r merman are: Rev. Edgar Whelan, Teaching and for Outstanding Cormier, chaplain's assistant: 
Director of Housing: Rev. John Contributions to Student Life to Joseph DiGiovanna; Sister 1\1.
Zimmerman questioned why the
by Buz Craven 
Wilson, Vice-President for Bus­various members of t :1e Imaculata Driscoll, Dean ofjudicial code \'/as not already iness Afi'airs: ~v1r. Leo Corbacci, community. Students: Lemuel Joyner. Art:
The Student Senate considered approved. 
overwhelmingly approved Registrar: and Rev. John Walsh, Nominees for the awards for Naomi Kellison, Associate
Zimmerman pointed olit that Vice-president for Academic excellence in teaching were Director of LeMans Hall: Rev.
Senator Don Mooney's motion the SLC' passed a resolutinn last Affairs. Zimmerman said that Raymond R untie. Ph. D.,
to require Father Heshurgh to chosen by I he Academic 
year which said the SLC each will speak on a different
act on the judicial code which Assembly. They indude: Dr. Education: Dr. Bruno
considers a motion approwd by aspect of coeducation. Schlesinger:
the Student Life Council Mark Bambcnek, Chemistry: Dr. and Mr. Thomas
Father Hesburgh unless ht• raises Saini Mary's will be repre­
submitted to him for approval in George aick, Biology: Jo~eph Stella, chaplain assistant.
;: question about it within two sented at the meeting by two
October. DeGiovanna, Philosophy: Fr. The decision on award
weeks. 
graduate students who have had It has been almost thrl'e
The Alumni Hall Richard llutchcnson. recipients will be made by the 
experience in other schools

representative's motion that Philosophy: Sister M. Fran.~ita members of the Executive
·nonths since the SLC sent tl.e 
where the graduate school was

"the Student Senate ask Father Kane. Ph. D. English: Dr. John Cabinet.
code to Father llesburgh, hl' coeducational and the under­
lleshurgh to inform the Student Peck, Economies-Business: Dr. Students wishing to voice
pointed out but SBP Phil was not.
graduate Sl'hool The

· Life Council of his decision Richard Pilger, Chemistry: and their op1111ons are asked to
McKenna clarified this by girls have been asked to give
concerning the judicial coJe Cr. Bruno Schlesinger, contact the Student Body
pointing out that Father 
tht•ir viewpoints on the advan­

Prt•sidcnt or Vice-President. their votes out of 35 cast. Hesburgh did not approVl' or tagl'S and disadvantages of such a The Student Assembly chose class president. Pam Carey, Pattydisapprove the two week 
wi:hin two weeks." received 31 I umanistic Studies. 
system. the nominees for Outstanding Gill. or tht• Sl'cretary or treasurerStay Senator John (contin11cd on page :!) In mid-afternoon therl' will be 
Contributors to Student Life. of Student Government. 
The following is the first in a mination of policies, plans and initial year of the Rome Pro­to $378.00 per school year. The stifle and frustrate a dynamic series of articles compiled by procedures. As a college cannot gram, leaving an over-abundance cost of board at St. Mary's is individual; the imposed structure Carol Cusick and Irish exist outside of its students, it of 110 students. Expansion will $600.00 for an eight month peri­of dorm living is not always McNamara, two members of St. must incorporate their voice if it continue during the next few od, vacations excluded, or conducive to growth of Marv 's Committee for is ever to find a workable direc­years. Present housing plans in­individual responsibility and
$75.. 00 per month. Consumer Of(-C'ampus /lousing. The tion. We propose, as one step clude eliminating the study loun­independence. A subsequent
experts agree that a group of committee has done extensive toward economic and individual ges in LeMans Hall to house 15 article will elaborate on these
four students can feed itself research into the feasibility of betterment of this community, of this over-flow, and increasing aspects of dorm living which call
moderately yet comfortably on ojf-cam/II!S living .fiJr t!tc St. off-campus housing. This pro­existing room capacity. Many for an Off-Campus Housing
$40.00 to $50.00 per week, or 

Mary's conllllllnliy, colllpanng gram aims to satisfy needs on students will not accept the Program.
$160.00 to $200.00 per month. 

and contrastill!i its particular three levels: financial, psycho­practical and personal inconveni­Finally, Off-Campus Housing
Therefore by preparing their problems and situations with logical and communal. ence of such an act at present adds a new dimension to the
own food, four students can save 

t h osc of other colleges The future of St. Mary's as a room rates, and many, not at community by fostering
approximately $200.00 to 

at t em piing similar measures. private college lacks economic a•1y cost. Off-Cam pus Housing sub-cultures, thereby adding
$280.00 per student for an eight

Their results are presented here security, either in its continua­insures both student rights and a diversity of opinions,
month period. Transportation

to acquaint the entire tion as a private institution. or in sound economic policy. perspectives, and lifestyles.
costs vary with location and 

commu11ity with the work that light of a possible merger with The financial gain for Off­Increased diversity in an
facilities, so an approximation of 

is being tione by the group and Notre Dame. Allowing girls to -Campus students is consider­atmosphere of true academic
savings can range from $200.00 

to present their opinions on move off-campus facilitates an able. Based on a nine month inquiry can only broaden the
to $425.00 per school year.

what directioll St. Mary's should increase in enrollment, a specific term, a one month room rent for ex pericnce and deepen the
The incvita ble over-crowding

mol'e on the issue of aim of the present administra­a single on campus ranges from quality of the student life.
of room capacity will only add 

Of{Campus !lousing. ed. tion. This results in augmenting $77.00 per student in McCand­This is a brief summation of
to the already existing The present situ<Jtion <Jt S<Jint tuition funds while lessening the less to as low as $66.00 tor some psychological and social the individual, commmunal, and cost of additional room space. In singles in LeMans, for a double institutional needs for an
1\I<Jry's College in the physical, pressures felt by SMC students. September of 1970, there will be $66.00 to $55.00, a triple,
ac<Jdemic, and personal The concensus of both these immediate program of rc<Jims-l<Jcks <1 ·meaningful sense an increase of approximately $55.Cl0 to S44.00, and a quad or Off-Campus Housing. Its more
~tudents and some counselors is 

200 resident students, 40 of
of direction due to an insensitive quint, always $44.00. An Off­detailed benefits as well as
that insufficient facilities for 

order of priorities. An institu­which can be housed in the new Campus four room apartment possible detriments remain to be
undisturbed study create undue tional economic prestige seems 
wing of Regina Hall-the last va­housing four students averages d iscusserl. 
tension; the nearly complete to overrule any concern· for a cant room space existent on $35.00 a month per student, a 
lack of real privacy can tend to healthy community in the deter-
campus. SO girls will attend the savings of approximately $81.00 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 1970
THE OBSERIIER.

PAGE 2 
Selective Service reclassifies 'Ten' 



by Marty Graham any way, is selling itself down notify his dr!lft board of his sta­Notre Dame, so I won't know pension. Redassifications of the status the river. I realize that by not tus. This system, he said, has until about the end of the week The Tripartite Appeals Board, of the Notn: Dame I 0, who were cooperating with the Selective been put into effect in various whether I have been readmitted, composed of Professor Donaldl 
suspendeu last month, have Service System, restrictions can universil ies across the country. and, therefore, eligible for a 2-S Costellow of the English Depart­already been sent out by some be· put on the University con­Brian Mcinerny, another next semester," he said. ment, Associate Dean Edward of their respective draft boards. cerning notification of student member of the Notre Dame I 0, Before being accepted as stu­Jerger of the College of Engi­
Ed Roickle. one of the ten, status in both September and also commented on the Univer­dents here for the second seme·s­neering, and Patrick Cavanaugh, received his 1-A classification February, but I hardly think sity policy of draft classification. ter, the suspended students must a senior in the government de­last Saturday. that that is a valid reason for co­"It is up to the individual alone go into competition with other partment, recommended that Roickle commented on the operating with the Selective Ser­to notify his board when his candidates. the punishments be reduced by speed of his reclassification in a vice System." draft status is changed. The Uni­All of this has come as a result executive clemency, and that all 
letter to the editor in yesterday's Roickle said that one of the versity has no legal obligation to of the December 16 suspension punishments be the same. Observer. "I just want to share restrictions whid1 the Selective do this, although the Selective of the Notre Dame I 0 by Father Father Riehle said he based with the rest of our little com­Service System can put on the Service has it written into their James Riehle, dean of students. the ten suspensions on the re-· mui]ity the knowledge of the University is the abolishment of regulations as some kind of Originally five students were up commendation of the Appeals marvelous efficiency with which the opportunity to send the stu-threat. for expulsion, and five for sus-Board. 
our administration operates. "Other universities follow a "It is really a credit to their policy where they do not send in expeditious procedures that they the reclassifications to the draft 
Celebrate end of war 
notified the respective draft board. I don't see why Notre weapons. Gowon ordered: his
boards of the ten suspended stu­Dame can't do the same," he LAGOS (UPI) -Thousands of soldiers to show mercy on the
dents within six days, particu­said. Nigerians danced in the streets larly when one considers that Besides having their draft sta­yesterday to celebrate the fall of 
tattered, starving Ibo they have thirty days to do so," tus changed to 1-A, another fac­Biafra. Police fired tear gas into 
population, and said they would said Roickle. tor of their suspension is on the a large crowd that marched on 
shoot "only if they encounter resistance." ' 
Leo Corbacci, the University minds of the members of the ten the Roman Catholic secretariat The whereabouts of Maj. Gen.
Registrar, answered Roickle's students; the problem of being after the government denounced Odumegwu Ojukwu, the 34 year
statement by saying "There is no readmitted to Notre Dame next Pope Paul VI as "mischevious minimum time limit within this semester. and provocative." old officer who led Biafra into 
Selective Service rule. When a A third member of the seccession on May 30, 1967,
Maj. Gen. Yakabu Gowon, the boy leaves school for any reason, ND-1 0, Mark Mahoney, com­Nigerian chief of state, was remained a mystery. Officials of neighboring
we notify his draft board. We mented on the difficulty of re­lukewarm to the massive relief normally run four to five days in admission. "I haven't been re­Gabon denied Ojukwu was
program being organized by the turning in their reclassifica­classified hy my draft board as free world for victims of the 2Vz there. tions." of yet, but I wouldn't be sur­year civil war. But he gave Nigerians young and old 
"I think," Roickle said, "that prised if I hear from them soon. permission for Britain to fly in turned out in Lagos Tuesday for the University, when coopera­I have to compete with transfer I 0 tons of medical supplies. the victory celebrations. Some ting with the Selective Service in students for readmission . to Gowan, speaking only hours of the signs read "Long Live 
Nigeria," and "Shame on
after a victory statement in Gabon."

which he appealed for national The crowd marching on the

Believes billboard not the greatest 
unity, said Nigeria has tons of Roman Catholic secretariat
relief goods stockpiled in Lagos


threat to beauty of environment 
dispersed rapidly after the policeready for distribution. Gowon 
Would the roads and highways the change when billboards The nine-chapter book, edited said he was ready for peace with fired tear gas canisters. The really be prettier if the bill­alone are removed from by John W. Houck, associate Gen. Philip Efiong, Biafra 's new demonstrators joined other, boards fell? Perhaps not, a study commercial or landscaped professor of business administni­leader. more festive groups. in a recent book, "Outdoor routes. Only when utility poles tion at Notre Dame, considers Pope Paul became the target An official Nigerian Advertising: History and Regula­and other signs are also removed how outdoor advertisers can for displeasure in Lagos because government statement tion," indicates. do most observers notice a improve the attractiveness of of his statements expressing fear denouncing Pope Paul's 
The text, published by the marked difference -and in the their signs and the areas around that victorious federal troops 
statements on the end of the war University of Notre Dame Press, case of commercial settings a them, and urges managers to under Gowon would massacre 
as "mischevous and provocative" includes research indicating that few observers called the resulting plan for a day when highway Biafrans. The Ibo tribesmen of deplored his fears of tribal must people do not even notice scene less attractive. beauty is considered the Biafra are mostly Christian and genocide. 
right of every American. the war was spawned by years of Although several chapters of religious strife between the Ibos


Dellinger says resisted Joins staff 
the book stress that advertisers and the predominately Moslem Joh11 A. Macheca, a 1962 must respect natural scenic Hausas of northern Nigeria. Notre Dame graduate, has beer.
violence at convention 
beauty, space signs at adequate While Nigerian civilians appointed regional director of 
CHICAGO (UPI)-A.ntiwar Mobilization Commitee distances, and maintain fresh, celebrated in the streets of Lagos development for the University protest leader David Dellinger (MOBES), testified he and clean billboards, others note that Tuesday, army commanders in in Chicago, it was announced by demanded on the first day of the Dellinger conferred with Deputy the typical billboard is not the .the jungles of Biafra offered full James W. Frick, vice president 
Democratic National Convention Mayor David Stahl on Monday, greatest threat to visual quality amnesty and protection to rebel for public relations and develop­
that the violence marked Aug. 26, in Stahl's office. in the environment. troops who surrendered their ment. clearance of Lincoln Park on the Macheca succeeds David J. eve of the convention "must not '58, who held the happen again," a defense witness post since 1965 and who has



Consider grievance committees Shanahan, 

testified yesterday. resigned to enter private "He insisted it not happen business. In addition to admini­
(continued from page 1) nported that his committee has that the Sub-Committee will

again," Mark Simons told a stering Notre Dame's develop­
not yet taken action on Russ

federal court jury in the trial of again have an open meeting men.! program in Chicago, 
statement. Stone's bill that a percentage of

Dellinger and other members of Thursday from 4:30 to 5:30 to Macheca will also serve a number the "Chicago Seven." Stay Senator Ed McCartin the Student Government brief students on what was of other midwest cities including The seven men are on trial moved for the creation of four Activities Fee for the 1970-71 a ceo m pI ish ed during . their Milwaukee, Minneapolis-Saint
academic grievance committees, be returned to individual hall

before U.S. District Court Judge meeting and to answer questions Paul, Saint Louis and Kansas composed of two faculty governments and off campus
Julius J. Hoffman on charges from the students. City. members aild two students from commission to be used by these In other action, Phil McKenna M a checa Joins the Notre
that they conspired to incite rioting during the August, 1968, each college, to which students groups. Weber said the introduced two new senators, Dame public relations and convention. and faculty members could take committee needed more time to John Smith of Holy Cross Hall, development staff after serving 
cases of cheating, prejudicial the raising Tom of as intelligence
Simons who said he acted as a investigate fund and Mignanelli Grace an research legal aide for Dellinger and other actions and attitudes of teachers methods open to a hall. Tower. McKenna also analyst with the National Secur­
and other academic complaints introduced the faculty senate ity Agency in Washington, D.C.
John Zimmerman outlined his
leaders of the National 
to be se-ttled. 

research on coeducation representative to the student In addition to his Notre Dame 
The motion was referred to mentioned in last Friday's senate, Professor McGlinn of the degree, he did post-graduate the Academic Affairs 
Observer, which will be Physics Department. work at the North American Committee, which will deal with 
JUtJIORS 

presented to the Student Affairs The senate suspended regular Cultural Institute in Mexico. He the bill after semester break. 
Sub-Commitee of the Board of procedure to allow all senate is married and has two children. Pat Weber, chairman of the Trustees on Thursday. privileges except voting to the
SENIOR 


Student Union committee, Zimmerman also announced faculty senate representative.


PORTRAIT 

71,~~kJ~~~e~?R9i~~~~ers of 
Win-A-Date They are: 
Beta Alpha Psi is looking
ND Men Treat yourseJf to hairsty Jing 

179,288,97,88
.f(Jr girls to represent it's
with latest and newest in hairstyles for the 

Winners call 283-1026

SIGN-UP FOR 
for details
Mardi Gras booth
co11ege guy. Specializing in long hair

DOME '71 
For appointment call 234-0811 

The Observer is published daily
THE HOUSE OF ILL­

during the college semester except
Continental Hair Styling

~ATE: JAN 12-16 REPUTE 
vacations by the students of the
306 Sherland Building 

University of Notre Dame and St.
If interested call:

PLACE: 
South Bend 

Mary's College. Subscriptions may
Mary 284-4441


DINING HALLS 
be purchased for $8 from The 
or
Miss Treba and the Baron to serve you. Studied under David Hansen of Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,Chicago, foremost hair stylist for men. 

Bob 233-5257


TIME: 5:30 -6:30 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage for information paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556.
OPEN MON. THRU SAT. 


A 
L 
L 
y 
0 u 
c 
A N 
D 
R 
I 
N 
K 
ALL YOU CAN DRINK 




MARDI GRAS KICKOFF PARTY 
at 

INDIANA NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY on Feb. 4th 8:30-12:30 
for 
$5.00 per couple 



CHICAGO'S OWN 


RED GARTER BANJO BAND 
and 
Special Mystery Guest from Milwaukee 
TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED 
I..IMITED ADVANCE TICKET SAl..£ WATCH FOR DINING HAI..I.. SAI..ES 
PLEASE NOTE: PLAN TO GET ADA TJ:: NOW FOR THE KICKOfF PARTY. .. THERE WILL BE NO MARDI GRAS DANCE 
ALL YOU CAN DRINK 






A L L 
y 
0 u 
c 
A 
N 
D 
R I 
N 
K 
, V PAGE~4------------------------------------------~~~~~~~().~~~~~~~~--~--------------------------W--ED_N_E_S_D_A_Y_,J_A_N_U_A_R_Y_1_4_._19_7_0 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Donald C. Holliday, Publisher Gaetano De Sapio, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Placement Bureau 
The Student Life Council committee which is investigating the operations of the Placement Bureau is holding a special meeting next Monday night in Farley Hall. The purpose of the session will be to gauge student's opinions of the role that a placement office should play on campus and, indeed, whether or not it should exist at all. 
Since the Dow protest of this past fall the term "university complicity" has been thrown around by different segments of the community but has never really been examined. "University complicity" is the term which the protestors use to describe the relationship between the university and the business and government communities. The protestors and some others suggest that the university channels people into jobs with the military and business. They argue that the university should not be playing such a role. 
An immediate target of the group is the flacement Bueau which provides the opportunity for students to be interviewed by representatives of government and business. Some of those who argue that university complicity exists, feels that the placement bureau should be more selective about the firms that it allows to come here. They feel that firms like Dow, IBM, and Honeywell among others should not be allowed to recruit because of the role that they play in the war effort and because of the work that they do for the government. 
Some students argue that the entire Placement Bureau should be abolished. They argue that the business community as a whole is corrupt, that it is engaged in the "exploitation" of individual around the world as well as in the United States. The university should not be part of the system they argue. 
The entire problem of "complicity" will have to play a vital part in the SLC's examination of the function of the Placement Bureau. We encourage all students to express their opinions on the issue either through writing to The Observer, or to the SLC or by attending the meeting to held on Monday. 
There are many important issues that have to be examined and that the community must discuss to determine whether or not the Placement Bureau should exist or want chances should be made in its procedures. 
At this point there is one obvious flaw in the Bureau's procedures that must · be dealt with. Currently the Placement office works merely with finding positions for students in outside firms and government. There is no 
. service to assist students who seek information about entering graduate school. There are no interviewers from graduate schools who came through Notre Dame through the work of the Placement Office. The individual departments and colleges provide services now. The bureau should begin to work in this area though and expand its facilities to help place students in graduate school. With the facilities and funds available it should be able to provide expanded and better service to students seeking graduate school placement. 
We feel that placing students in graduate school should be the primary function of the Placement Office. Notre Dame is an educational institution. If the office dealt in the finding graduate schools for students perhaps it would not be so open to the charge that it and the university are servicing business and government more than education. 
David Breen: Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen: Advertisin!l Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso Ass't. News Editor: T.C. Treanor SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney layout Editor: Mary Beth 


Letters 
The opinions in the e fitorials, 

Crimmins Photo Editor: Mike 
news analyses, and columns of THE

Murphy Features Editor: Dave 
OBSERVER are solely thoSP of the

Stuaffer Sports Editor: Mike 
authors and edi·~ors of n E OB·

Pavlin Night Editor: Cliff 
SERVER and d'l not necessarily

Wintrode layout Design: Mark 
reflect the views of St. Mary's

Tieber Headlines: Rich Smith, 
College, the University of Notre

Phil Schatz layout: Margie 
Dame, their administrations, faculty

Rurak, Marilyn Becker 
or student bodies. 
Co-ed ND 

Editor: 
We regarded your article on co-education at ND with inter­est. However, we feel it is im­perative that certain pertinent issues be dealt with. 
Regarding merger: A Notre Dame-Saint Mary's merger would eliminate an overlapping and duplicating of courses, pro­vide improved facilities, and a decrease in expenses. We need only to look at the political science department, speech and drama department, music de­partment and sociology depart­ment to understand that Saint Mary's is dependant on both the faculty and facilities of Notre Dame. 
The inferior social atmosphere at ND-SMC has often been con­sidered in reference to the merger. Perhaps if the situation were more "natural" the prob­lem would be alleviated. One way of achieving this could be through a merger. 
Regarding co-education: We find it difficult to understand how Saint Mary's College, who has the most to gain from a mer­ger, objects so vigorously to the proposal. Consider the possibili­ties of a Co-Ed Notre Dame, apart from Saint Mary's. The dis­continuation of the co-ex pro­gram and the elimination of combined facilities and faculties would be immediately felt at Saint Mary's. It is highly im­Probably that Saint Mary's would be able to retain its high academic standing. 
Considering that a great num­ber of SMC students now take courses at ND, most likely a great number would transfer to Notre Dame, thereby decreasing the enrollment at SMC. 
The time has come to stop conducting the studies and sur­veys and to take some definite action. If Saint Mary's is so in­tent on conserving her own "identity'. at the risk of aca­demic excellence, Notre Dame would have no recourse but to go co-ed -without SMC. Per­haps some such action on the part of ND is needed to awaken 
SMC to the reality of the times. 
Sincerely, 
Susan Rousseau Jan Rewers 
Pat Haffey 
Nan Arkwright 

Fourth Floor Annex, Le Mans Hall. 
Confederate flag 

Editor: To Mr. Wall: 
Beauty, it is said, is in the eye of the beholder. ·It would seem that this is also true of disgust: I, too, heve seen the confederate flag on the wall of Cavanaugh, however, at no time was I distressed or disgusted by it. 
Perhaps this is because I treat HI far more lightly than you have done. To have a student use anything for decoration-especial­ly in a boys-will-be-boys sort of place such as this-does not mean that he espouses the symbol or what it represents. This is especially true of the confederate flag which (to me) has lost most of its original connotation as the emblem of a slave-state and become rather an emblem of geographic location. One can say, "I'm a Georgian" in much the same way that one says "I'm an Aquarian". The camaraderie felt by those in the South does not imply narrow minded repression of others. 
Further, Jet us accept that the United States is the most free nation on Earth-would you in the same breath deny that freedom to one who chooses to wear the North Vietnamese flag? Perhaps the Viet Cong are wrong; I believe that they are. Heave to others their opinion, however, and do nto believe I have the right to repudiat their beliefs-if this student does indeed believe in the Viet Cong. It would seem that wearing this flag as a scarf is not the same as waving it. I consider it rather a gesture of offhandedness or derision, if not one simply of warmth. 
Your patriotism is commendable but, I think, a little misplaced-disagreeing with a man does not give you the right to presume to judge him. 
Robert Campbell Jr. 139 Stanford 

THE OBSERUER 
...
.. -­
1 ' ') 


application for admission that it will consider male The University of Notre Dame never has admittted applicants only. female students. 
wm it ever'? 

SMC Academic Commission assumes various duties 

The University of Notre Dame stipulates on its 
by Mary Kay Davy body of student representatives contri­
buting to numerous academic aspects of 
Too few students are aware of the vital the college. contributions made by the Academic Heading the Commission is senior Pam Com111ission of SMC. Aside from the Carey. Pam and Rosemary Anderson Commission's work on the Teacher-serve as the two student representatives Course Evaluation Publication, headed on the Education Policy Committee, a this year by Maureen Meter, little is sub-committee of the Board of Trustees known of the group's structure and acti-which meets three or four times a year to vities. The Academic Commission is a discuss major policy decisions. 
::::;~:~:;:!:::=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:;:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;:::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:!:~============:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
~ Mike Shaughnessy l~l


I A time tor peace i 
« Tomorrow is the birthday of a great man, Doctor Martin Luther King. This man brought Christ'~ Gospel of Peace and Gandhi's soul-force to America in his non-violent struggle for human rights. He gave his life for the cause of brotherhood and understanding. The Vietnam Moratorium Committee has designated tomorrow as Peace Action Day for the month of January. They picked the birthday of Martin King be­cause there is no better example in American history of what the Morator­ium is all a bout. The object of the Mora­torium activities is not simply an end to the war in Vietnam; they see as Dr. King did, that the war in Vietnam is only a symptom of what is wrong in America. Their goal is a peace on earth built on the proposition that all men are created eq ual. 
In a collection of five lectures, The Trumpet 6f Conscience, Dr. King makes it clear why he felt the need to 9ecome 
involved in the Vietnam anti-war struggle. lie realized that it was impossible to achieve peace by waging war; Hitler had made that claim. A true peace can only be obtained by peaceful means. 
This is the same theory that Gandhi held with respect to confronting estab­lished injustice. If violence is used to overthrow the existing power, the in­justice only changes hands. The power of 
non-violence is a person's strength in his 
willingness to accept suffering for what 
he holds as truth. Dr. King was con­
tinually willing to carry his cross and 
accept the suffering inflicted on him by 
his three enemies: racism, war, and pover­
ty. 
He saw America preaching to the world of her goodness and justice while she was denying the independence of the Viet­namese people; while ripping off huge in­vestment profits from the third world while showing no concern for social betterment; and while allying herself with the landed gentry of Latin America in opposition to the peasants. lie saw America burning human beings with mapalm in order to save them from communism, and decided that more im­portant than being American was being, "a child of God and brother to the suffer­ing poor of Vietnam." 
As a minister of the Gospel of Christ, Dr. King preached non-violent revolution. 
~ 

Christians must stand up in the fact of establish~d injustice and say, "No!" and accept the resulting suffering as our cross. We must accept the Sermon on the Mount as the essence of Christ's legacy, and be willing to share in his crucifixion. If this University claims to be Christian, it should consider setting up scholarships for such people as the N.D. I 0 for their understanding of Christianity and commitment to it. 
Another reason that the birthday of Dr. King should be closely allied with the peace movement is the fact that the peace movement is a direct descend e nl of the civil rights movement of the early sixties. Black youths non-violently confronted white America, and had at least some affect on white youths who realized the contradictions of their priveleged posi­
tion. They joined their black brothers in 
examining America, and other social issues were contested; among these was Vietnam. 
Martin Luther King's dream became the dream of idealistic youth throughout the country. But his dream was deferred throughout his life in Vietnam, the third world, and also right here in America. Many of his supporters felt they could no longerendurea non-violentstruggleagainst calloused white America. This grieved him, yet he couldn't condemn them. His dream became a nightmare in the face of Vietnam and America's murderous white racism; but he still had his dream up to the mimute of his martyrdom, and his dream lives on now in revolutionary Christianity. 
His dream was in the brotherhood of man. He realized, "we must either lean.) to live together as brothers, or we are all going to perish together as fools." T.o 
him, a claim that "our only defense will be the military," would be incomprehen­sible since that is in fact no defense at all, only murder justified by nationalism. 
It is indeed time for all to make their decisions, though. If you see evils and re­fuse to confront them, you become part of the problem yourself. I agree with Dr. King concerning Vietnam that, "Every man of humance convictions must decide on the protest that best suits his convic­tions, but we must all protest:" · 
If you desire peace, brothers and sisters, live it. 
Pam also acts as student representative, as does Mary Niemeyer, on the Academic Affairs Council, an advisory group to the President of the college, which has the final say over all academic affairs. 
Commenting on Fr. McGrath's finan­cial report to the Council, Pam said, "·'fhe school is in debt, the tuition raise is a necessity." The Development Program however, appears quite successful as a large sum of money has been pledged and up to now returns have been good. 
The Academic Commission is sub­divided into five major committees: Cur­riculum, Academic Standards, Teacher Education, Library, and Admissions and Scholarship. Each of these includes two student representatives. 
The Curriculum Committee, chaired by Dr. Bambanek of the Chemistry depart­ment, has worked closely with Notre Dame on such things as the joint calendar proposal. Maureen Meter and Rosemary Anderson are the student representatives on this committee. 
Presently very active is the Academic Standards Committee. A sub-committee of faculty and students has been formed to evaluate the controversial pass-fail grading system and to investigate its pos­sibilities at SMC. 
Students involved in this sub-commit­tee are K. Yuhas, M.B. O'Keefe, M.E. Burke and L. Donahue, plus the student representatives to the Committee, Mar-
Scoring high made easy 
Face to face with exa3 inations, a student's true learning ability is often blocked because he does not know the principles and techniques of test-taking. 
High test scores can be achieved by following simple instructions, a new book from McGraw-Hill, How to Take Tests, reveals. 
Using time wisely, reasoning rather than bluffing, and guessing instead of leaving blanks are some of the recommendations made by authors Jason Millman and Walter Pauk, two nationally known authorities in testing. These Cornell University professors have discovered that because many people lack a sophisticated approach to test-taking, they earn lower scores on tests than their aptitude or knowledge warrants. 
How to develop "test-wiseness" so that one can quickly follow directions; decipher graphs; solve word analogies of numerical problems; and detect meanings of unfamiliar words, are key features described in improving an individual's score. Fresh analysis on how to approach popular test items as multiple choice, and verbal analogies, vocabulary and reading comprehension measurement are also suggested. 
These principles and illustrations are the result of hundreds of interviews with successful students; analysis of research on test construction, and experiences gained from carefully controlled experiments. 
ilyn Reidy and Eileen Donoghue. Sr. Jean Finske, Academic Dean, is chairman of this committee. 
The Teacher Education Committee of the Academic Commission has been making major advances in curriculum revisions in the fields of elementary and secondary education. Chaired hv Mr. Hin­
kemeyer of the Education Dept., the com­mittee's student representatives are Julie Bervas and Anne Kalvin. A formal proposal of this committee to make the professional semester, which involves nine weeks of courses and nine weeks of student teaching for education students, entirely on a pass-fail basis is now before the Academic Affairs Council for decision. Student representatives on the Library Committee are Carolyn Bayer and Jeanne Luczai. This committee is under the di­rection of Sr. Rita Claire. The Admissions and Scholarship Com­mittee is headed by Sr. Raphaelita. Stu­dent representatives are Fran Nixon and Sally Tripple. Unfortunately this commit­tee is greatly hindered by a lack of funds. Pam Carey stated she feels student influence in academic areas is very recog­nizable and generally, the Commission's results have been good. However, she did express concern over the lack of student interest in their fields of study which she feels is hindering greater academic revi­sions. 
Forsyth exhibition at Art Center 
An exhibition of twenty-seven oil paintings and watercolors by the Indiana painter William Forsyth is presently open at the South Bend Art Center. 
This exhibiton was made possible through the co-operation of the Herron Museum of Art, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
William Forsyth was born in Hamilton County, Ohio in 1854, but moved to Indianapolis early in his life. He was one of the first to enroll in the newly es­tablished Indiana School of Art in Indian­apolis, where he studied under John Washington Love, a native Indiana who had studied in Paris. For several years he had his own studio and then he went a­broad in 1880 to study in Munich at the Royal Academy. He later, after many a­wards returned to Indiana as a leading painter and teacher. 
His works are influenced by the French impressionist painters of the last quarter of the 19th century. Most of his subjects in this show are landscapes-he had a de­finite interest ii' "out-of-door light." His landscapes are airy and vibrant, full of the luminosity of sunlight and shadow. He used the broken brush stroke and spotty paint method of the French impression­ists. There are also several portraits in­eluded in this show. This exhibition will remain on view at the Art Center until January 24, 1970. 




Letters to the Editor 

world. It really amazes me-this great social awareness we all possess. But that's as far as it seems to go ... talk. True there are many people on this campus



FIRST 
who do contribute to the betterment of the human endeavor. But what about the rest of us. We can't change the
AID 
IN 
world, but we don't even seem to be concerned with making a small contribution. Right now we have a chance to do just that, make a small but significant 
contribution. And what do we do? We sit on our ass and let it drift by. 
I'm talking about the Mardi 

UNDERST 
LIT SEE OUR 
Gras raffle that is in real trouble. All it takes is a little effort, a little effort that will bring a little better life to those whom we constantly discuss and analyze. But no, we're content to sit on our fat asses with a full stomach and wait for the other guy to do it. And, when you think about it, it doesn't take a major effort to sell two books of tickets. How many times have we blown $8 in the bars drinking ourselves into oblivion? How many times have wsquandered our money on some unnecessary extravagance? Too many times I would think, especially when we talk our heads off about the poor and the ghettos. Maybe we can still do a little something yet. All it takes is a little effort or a night of rest from the wear and tear o[ booze. 

David A. Redle 312 Dillon 
PROSPECTIVE SECON­DARY SCHOOL TEACHERS For M.A.'s, M.A.T.'s, Ed.M.'s, M.S.'s or above. Revolution­_ry approach to job-hunting. Nationwide directories of positions: public, indepen­dent. Deadline: Jan .15. Inex­pensive. Applications write: INTERCEPT, Box 317, Har­
At the Notre Dame Bookstore 
vard Square P.O., Cambridge, 
Mass. 02138. 

Corso comedy 
Editor: 
I must compliment Glen Corso for his fantastic piece of comedy which recently livened my day. His "Notre Dame Ten" should serve to teach a freshman English class in Rhetoric and Composition how not to write. 
From the very beginning the author makes one 1unsubstantiated statement after another. e.g. "the complete paranoic rejection", "the condemnation... is downright childish", etc. Really now, calling rejection of something paranoic is a beautiful rhetorical device to imply to the reader that if he does so, his rejection is on the same level as those before him. Does the good author have empirical data substantiating the childishness of the condemnation of which he· spoke? In the vein of Willy Buckley when he recently 
chided our Veep for improper 
usage of rhetoric, I feel I must 
inform Mr. Corso that his needs 
some revision as well. .--........~FT">"....---....,.....,.--:.K.-.E""-'N....,....T..---, 
4 Bedrooms 2 Kitchens 2 Full Baths 
Wall to Wall Carpeting Completely Furnished 
After wading through the first third of the article, I hoped to find some substance. Once more I was disappointed. 
Speaking of ·.ROTC and aggression, Mr. Corso almost made a point. But he failed to go into the fact that the armed forces and industry are the controlling factors in American life today. Americans are literal prisoners of war, whether they may want to admit it or not. To see this, all one needs to do is look at the way in which everyone is controlled today by the " military-industrial complex" (of which the cartoon spoke). Is it paranoic to work for freedom from this? 
However, the crux of the article was the line "I see nothing un-Christian in adopting a strong posture of self defense, or in waging a war to protect our interests by insuring that most 
of  Southeast  Asia  will  remain  
free."  To  this  I  must  address  
three questions.  

I) Is there a difference 
between the strong posture of self defense and aggression? Perhaps, just perhaps, this 
country has not been merely defending itself in its dealing with others. Or should I remind 
you that in Santo Domingo we also acted in defense? 
2) The statement "waging a war to protect our interests" is most fascinating. At least Mr. Corso has admitted that is the reason for our being there. Yet he sees nothing un-Christian about it? I am no theology major, yet I still think that the basic tenet of Christianity is love-the giving of oneself to another. And if the reason for our presence there is maintenance of self interests (rather selfish), I can't see how this, can be anything but un-Christian. Indeed, the implication is that if it were not in our interests, we'd let the area go to hell (need I bring up or reluctance to act and maintain Biafra's freedom, let alone survival?). Not too Christian in my book. 
3) "most of Southeast Asia will remain free." In view fo what preceded this how can Southeast Asia remain free? Is that in o1Jr interest? Free for what-to have the continued exploitation of American intervention in their affairs? The only difference between what we offer them, and Communism has to offer is that under the 
U.S. 
they'd be free to do as the 

U. 
S. will have them do. Under Communism, their only freedom is to totalatarianism. One way they're getting shafted by a merciless exploitation, the other they get what they wanted back in 1956 (when Uncle Ho would have won 80% of the vote by 



Eisenhower's own admission. 
More than our departed LBJ. 
In conclusion, I'd suggest that Glen Corso get a pair of glasses and look past the surface of things. 
Sincerely yours, 
Walter G. Secada 
414 Flanner Hall 
ND 10 

Editor: Re the suspension of the Notre Dame Ten: 
They came for the Panthers, and I stood by, and I watched, and I didn't care, because I wasn't a Panther. ­
They came for the blacks, and I stood by, and I watched, and I didn't care, because I wasn't black. 
They came for the liberals, and I stood by, and I watched, and I didn't care, because I wasn't a liberal. 
They came for the students, and I stood by, and I watched, and I didn't care, because I wasn't a student. 
Then they came for me, and I 

looked around for help, but 
there was nobody left. 
Yours in Notre Dame, 
Casey Pocius 
NIU porn poms 
To the Men of Notre Dame, 

On behalf of Northern Illinois University's PomPon Squad, we would like to thank you for your wonderful hospitality and warm reception. Never, not even before our own home crowd, have we performed before such an enthusiastic audience. Stu­dents and faculty alike wel­comed us. You truly made us feel at ease, which can make a great difference between a good performance and a bad one. 
We knew before we arrived that the Fighting Irish have ex­cellent ball teams. What we didn't know was that they also have extremely warm, friendly and spirited students. We loved you all, and are hoping that you'll ask us to come back again. 
Thanking you again for a truly thrilling evening, we are 
Sincerely yours, 
Candie Carroll and 
Charlotte Freeman 
Co-Captains 
December 16, 1969 
Senior apathy 

Editor, 
As I sit here on my paunch behind in the depth of the doldrums of ~nior apathy, something is really bugging me. For about four years I've been here and listened to all the brilliant discourse about the problems other people less fortunate than we here have to face. I've continually heard people plead the case of the deprived and the poverty stricken, witnessed those convicted people expressing their contempt for evils in the system, and heard sickening accounts of the troubles of the Recently Redecorated Close to Campus 
Contact AI Brasseur 
'289-2463 
233-2673 
Grnr/ StudPnts Onlv 
For the finest selection in Afro-American literature and History visit the Afro-A mer­ican Bookstore at 1205 West Washington in South Bend, Ind. 232-1862 
Open 10-9 daily 10-6 Saturday 

Hall of Fame announces first All Pro Team 
The pro football llall of Fame today announced its first annual All Pro Team comprised of players from hoth the American and National Football leagues. 
The team was chosen hy the hall's Board of Selectors, a 26 memher com mil tee made up of one memher from each of 24 pro football cities. and lwo from New York, which has two teams. The board was organized primarily to select new members to the pro grid shrine. 
The first offensive and defensive units, including a punter and placekicker, are dominated by NFL performers, with 17 of the 24 named coming from the older league. The second, however, lists 15 of its 24 from AFL squads, making the overall figure 26 to 22 of 4/:l NFL players chosen. 
Bud Grant, coach of the NFL champoin Minnesota Vikings, was picked as coach of the first team, and George Alen of the Los Angeles Rains was named lo head the second team. 
The first offensive team, by position, is: Wide receivers: Lance Alworth, San Diego, and Paul Warfield, Cleveland. Tight end: Bob Trumpy, Cincinnati. 
Tackles: Bob Brown, Los Altgeles, and Jim Tyrer, Kansas City. Guards: Tom Mack, Los Angeles, and Gene Hickerson, Cleveland. 
Center: Mick Tinglehoff, Minnesota. 
Quarterback: Roman Gabriel, Los Angeles. 

Running backs: Gale Sayers, Chicago, and Calvin Hill, Dallas. Placekicker: Jan Stenerud, Kansas City. Punter: David Lee, Baltimore. On the first defensive team were: Ends: Dave Jones, Los Angeles, and Carl Eller, 
Minnesota. Tackles: Merlin Olson, Los Angeles, and Bob Lilly, Dallas. Outside linebackers: Bobby Bell, Kansas City, 
and Chuck Howley, Dallas. 
Middle linebacker: Dick Butkus, Chicago. 

Cornerbacks: Lem Barney, Detroit, and Willie Brown, Oakland. 
Safeties: Larry Wilson, St. Louis, and Johnny Robinson, Kansas City. Second team offense: Quarterback: Daryle Lamonica, Oakland. 
Wide receivers: Fred Bletnikoff, Oakland, and Don Maynard, New York. 
Tight end: Charlie Sanders, Detroit. 
Tackles: Ralph Neely, Dallas, and Harry Schuh, Oakland. Guards: Gene Upshaw, Oakland, and Gale 
Gillengham, Green Bay. 

Center: Jim Otto, Oakland. 
Running backs: Floyd Little, Denver, and Leroy Kelly, Cleveland. Placekicker: Jim Turner, New York Jets. Punter: Paul Maguire, Buffalo. Second team defense: Ends: Rich Jackson, Denver, and Gerry Philbin, 
New York Jets. Tackles: Alan Page, Minnesota, and Buck Buchanan, Kansas City. Outside linebackers: George Webster, Houston, and Dave Robinson, Green Bay. 
Middle linebacker: Willie Lanier, Kansas City. 
Cornerbacks: Herb Aderley, Green Bay, and Jim Johnson, San Francisco. Safeties: Mel Renfro, Dallas, and Dave Grayson, Oakland. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Sports all across the country 
Ecker's moment 
NI'W YORK (UPI)-John Ecker, a third string center at UCLA during the Alcindor era who was promoted to backup man to Steve Patterson this year, had his moment of glory Salurday night. 
llis basket with six seconds to play enabled the 
unbeaten  Bruins  to  defeat  Oregon  State  and  
remain  United  Press  lnlernational's  No.  I  team  
again this week.  

The Bruins, I0-0, received 27 first place votes from Ul'l's Board of Coaches as compared to seven given to second ranked Kentucky. 
Kentucky, No. I until UCLA replaced the Wildcats at the top last week, rolled to convincing victories over Mississippi, 111-76, and Florida, llll-69, during the week. The Wildcats have now won II straight. 
Soulh Carolina 10-1 remained in third place wil h a 65-5 2 victory over arch rival North Carolina and a 5 5-44 win over Maryland. 
With its big man Bob Lanier controlling the scormg and the rebounding, St. Bonaventure I0-0, buried Loyola, Md., %-52 and Kent State, 94-65, to hold down the No.4 spot. 
Victories over Texas El Paso, 75-66, and Montana, I06·61l, propelled New Mexico State 14-1 into fifth position ahead of North Carolina 11-2, which dropped hack to sixth after its loss to South Carolina. 
Jacksonville raised its record to 12-0 and remained in seventh place while Houston 12-1 kept eighth position with two easy triumphs. 
Davidson 10·1 climbed from 14th to ninth plact> on the strength of three victories while Marquette I2-1 held down the IOth spot. 
Welcome champions 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. (UPI)-To New Yorkers, 
it would rank as a piker. 

But, to Kansas Citians, it was a parade to end all parades Monday as more than I00,000 citizens turned out to welcome home their Kansas City Chiefs. 
The parade route, about 3Y:z miles through 
downtown Kansas City, was strewn with confetti, 
streamers and toilet paper. In some places, the 
litter was knee high along the curbs. 

The celebration was a tribute to the Chief' 23-7 
victory over the Minnesota Vikings in Sunday's 
Super Bowl. The victory made the Chiefs 
campions of professional football. Or, as some 
were saying Monday, "Champeens of the Unee 
verse." 

Everybody got into the act. Gov. Warren Hearnes of Missouri and Gov. Robert Docking of Kansas proclaimed Monday "Kansas City Chiefs Day" in their respective states. Students in junior and senior high schools in Kansas City, Mo., were let out an hour early to attend the festivities. 
At the end of the parade, another I0,000 or 
more waited in the Liberty Memorial Mall south of 
the downtown area. 

Although most called the crowd I 00,000 and 
let it go at that, Police Information Officer Sidney 
Harlow set the figure as "between I 50,000 and 
175,000." Some players rode in the open, 
although the temperature hovered at 30 degrees, 
while others rode in sedans. Names of the players inside w.ere on each car. 
Interspersed with the players' cars were fans' automobiles, which had somehow gotten into the police escorted parade. 
"This is the thrill of a lifetime to bring this champoinship to Kansas City," Coach Hank Stram said. 
At the mall, players jumped on a platform and danced and hugged each other. They seemed to be having the time of their lives. 
So was the crowd. 

Smith the best 
(UPI) -Stan Smith proved he was the best United States tennis player last summer and now the U.S. Lawn Tennis Association is ready to make it official that he's No. I. 
In the list to be presented to the USLT A's annual meeting next month, Smith is recom­mended for the top ranking for 1969 and Arthur Ashe, the 1968 leader, is dropped to third behind Cliff Richey, of San Antonio. Chuck Grabnik of New York, who was second last season, slipped to fourth and Charles Pasarell of Puerto Rico who was No. I in 1967, moves up from seventh to fifth. 
Bob Lutz is endorsed for the sixth spot, fol­lowed by Tom Edlefsen of Fort Walton Beach, Fla., Roy Barth of San Diego, Calif., Jim Osborne of Honolulu and Jim McManus of Berkeley, Calif. 
Edlefsen and Barth arc newcomers to the top I 0 
while  Gene  Scott,  I Oth  last  year,  is  15th  this  
season,  and  Ron  Holmberg,  sixth  last  season,  
signed a pro contract.  

Israeli warplanes make five raids over Egypt 
By (UI'l) 
Israeli warplanes flew five raids against mililary installations inside Egypt 
yesterday including an air base only eight miles from Cairo in their closest strike to the Egyptian capital since the 1967 M ideas! War, Israeli spokesmen reporti 9. 
The target in Cairo's outskirts was I I Khanka, "a military camp which contains equipmt>nt belonging to the Egyptian air force," according to the 
spokesmen in Tel Aviv. Military sources said the raiders encountered only ineffectual light antiaircraft fire. 
Also attacked were the army camp at Tel El Kabir, SO miles west of the Suez Canal town of lsmailia and 60 miles northeast of Cairo, and Egyptian installations along the northern, centrul as 9 southern sectors of the waterway which marks the cease fire line, they said. The spokesmes gave no details of the 
attacks but said all of the Israeli planes returned safely. 
An Egyptian military spokesman said a "number of low-flying" Israeli planes penetrated Egypt's air space at El Khanka and Tel El Kabir but were driven off by antiaircraft fire and interceptor planes. 
The military sources in Tel Aviv, however, said pilots reporti d some Egyptian aircraft took off as they clost>d in of El Kabir but flew off without attempting to challenge the Israelis. 
Other Israeli planes hit Egyptian targets on the northern ·tnd southern sec tors of the Suez Canal at about the same time, lsral'li spokesmen said. Strikes werw launched along the central sector later. 
The air raids came as Prt>mil~r Golda Mcir told a group of visiting U.S. Jewish editors and believes Israel "has a friend in publishers that as long as the White House" and is President Gamal Abdel Nasser convinced Washington will not "is the ruler of Egypt, 1 cannot try to force Israel to withdraw 
from occupied Arab territory say when there will be peace." before a settlement She also said the Soviet Union is neg 0 t i ate d . not interested in bringing peace ..---------------1 
to the Mideast and that Israel will reject any American-Russian 
peace proposal reached without Tel Aviv's consent. She added, however, that she 

Large double available­closet and bathroom­248 Farley. Phone 6793 or 6794. 


Irish blitz Foresters with point barrage 
r-----~---------------------­
Remember.•. ... it's your store in style, price and terms 
UP NOW 
Savings of 

colorings; university-styled topcoats from famous 
makers. This is the sale that Notre Dame men wait for... 
1/3 
1/4
it's the sale that allows them to choose top quality apparel at substantial savings. Stop in soo!l, look over the values, convince yourself you can't buy better for less. 
BUY NOW ... PAY NEXT JUNE, JULY, AUGUST 
This is tile exclusive Campus Shop way to buy...you pay 
next summer when it is more convenient, and you pay not one 
cent of interest or carrying charge! Hard to believe? It's true! 
THE SALE IS ON ••• STOCK 
SUITS/SPORTCOATS/OUTERCOATS 
Edwardian and vested suits styles in a wide range of colors; sport coats in the newest stylns and 
by Jim Donaldson 
tallied their first goal by virtue 
Observer Sports Writer of a Lake Forest miscue. After Ward had cleared a shot from
Freshman center John Noble 
the goal mouth, one of the capped an awesonle display of Forester defenscmen deflected Notre Dame scoring power hy the puck back past the stunned netting three goals and collecting Ward and into the net. Joe 
a pair of assists as the Fighting Bonk, the closest NO player to Irish hockev team trounced the goal at the time of the score Lake Forest College 15-2 last 
was credited with the tallynight at the ACC before a crowd The Irish were slow in 
of I ,239. Ten players tallied mounting their offensive as ;1oor goals for ND as the Irish passing hampered them at the increased their production in 
outset of the game and, :Jnc:e 
each period, netting three in the th · b t 1· k
e1r passes egan o c 1c ,
first stanza, five in the second, t t d · b
severa1 ou s an mg saves yand seven in the final twenty Ward thwarted Notre Dame minutes. The seven goal barrage 
scscoring attempts. was a Notre Dame single period The persistent pressure of the 
scoring record· Irish finally began to take its toll 
Notre Dame completely 
on the beleagured Lake Forest dc;mir.att>d Lake Forest in all defenders however as first Phil facets of play and kept the ··JC· Witliff, who flipped the puck in the Foresters end of the rink past Ward from ten feet in front for most of the game. Notre of the cage at the 8:08 mark, Dame outshot Lake Forest by and then Kevin Hoene, who 77-21 margin and constantly banged in a rebound with 15:55 kept pressure on the Foresters' gone in the period, scored to game but overworked goalie, give Notre Dame a 3-0 lead after Jeff Ward. Although the Irish the first period. Lake Forest was beat Ward IS times his 62 saves kept so busy with its defensive were a single record for an NO chores that Foresters were able opponent. Ward also set an ACC to direct just five shots at Irish mark for saves in a period, goalie Dick Tomasoni, all of stopping 24 shots in the first which he turned away handily. periOd, but broke his own record The Irish attack rolled into two periods later, turning aside high gear in the second period. 25 shots in the final stanza. With 3:30 gone in the stanza Ward received an omen of the Ricky Cunha came up with the problems yet to come at 5:16 of puck in a scramble in front of the first period when tht> Trish the Lake Forest goal and slipped 
it into the net for the fourth 
Notre Dame tally. Regan began the spree by netting a IS-footer at the I0:04 mark. Within two minutes, at II :41, Jim Cordes took a perfect pass from Gary Little who had hustled down the ice to steal the puck, and drilled it past Ward for the sixth ND marker. 
Just ten seconds later Cordes victimized Ward again, circling behind the cage and flipping in an eight-footer. Noble registered the first goal of his hat-trick at 15:24, drilling a slap shot into the net, to send the Irish off the ice with an 8-0 advantage at the conclusion of the second period. 
Although Lake Forest mangaged to score both of their goals in the final period, the Irish were in complete commas d and easily outskated the tired Foresters. Mark Longar drilled home a rebound at 3:36 to open NO's seven goal, final period onslaught. 
Noble gunned in his second 
goal at the 5:OS mark to put the 
Irish on top I 0-0. Mark 
Steinborn (6:36), Hoene, 
beating Ward one-on-one with a 
fine shot (13:32),s and Noble, 
who tallied his third goal by 
tipping in a Hoene slap shot at 
14:50, each registered markers 
before the Foresters broke into 
the scoring column with a little 
less than three minutes 

replaced Tomasoni in the cage
remammg. Lake Forest's Jeff 
midway throu5h the second
Johnson slipped the puck past 
period, for the tally.
Chris Cathcart, who had 

Soph Kevin Hoene complemented John Noble's scoring outburst against Lake Forest with two goals and two assists of his own. 
No red tape ... your account is already open 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME AND PROFESSIONAL SPORTS ROUNDUP ON PAGES 7 & 8 



