Vol. V., No 45 

France "widowed" 
Charles deGaulle lies in state 
EGLISES (UP!) Gen. Charles  President Nixon whose  coun­ The government decreed Nov.  
De Gaulle who devoted his life to  try  was  frequently  defied  and  12 as a day of national mourning  
restoring the glory of France was  criticized by De Gaulle while he  for De Gaulle who had lived in  
laid out yesterday in his military  served  as  French  president and  self  imposed  isolation  in  this  
uniform  in  the  parlor  of  his  leader of Free French forces in  village  in  eastern  France  after  
country home where he died of  Wor!ed  War  II  announced  he  the  French  voters  had  turned  
a  heart  attack  Monday  night  would  go to Paris for the  cere­ him  down in  a  special referen­ 
while playing solitaire.  mony. He hailed De Gaulle as "a  dum in April 1969.  
De Gaulle who would have been 80 on Nov. 22 left precise  personal friend and man of great stature."  In Colombey a village of 394 inhabitants, villagers and farmers·  
written  instructions  that  he  Soviet  Premier  Alexei  N.  paid  homage  Tuesday  by  
wanted his funeral to be "ex­tremely simple" with "no music no fanfare no bell ringing no  Kosygin also will Paris rites French sources said. But  attend the government the White  treking to the little church yard to lay bouquets of wildflowers and rosaries on the grave of De ·  
speech neither in the church nor  Hous"? made clear Nixon would  Gaulle's favorite daughter Anne  
elsewhere." The simple funeral was sche­duled for Thursday in the village church here. Father Claude Jaughey the village priest who  not use the occasion for any talks with Kosygin or other world leaders gathered for the ceremony. "General De Gaulle is dead.  who died in 1948 at the age of 20. The body of De Gaulle dressed in his brigadier general's uniform was laid out in the salon  
administered the last rites to De Gaulle Monday night said: "The general will receive a plain fune­ral like any other villager or a lumberjack. This will be a class­less funeral as the general always wished." But the government set a parallel memorial ceremony in majestic Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris and the great of the world announced they would attend. Mixe France is a widow" said presi­dent Georges Pompidou in a special telecast notifying the nation of the passing of the man who served twice as president twice as premier and was the last survivor of the great allied lead­ers of World War II. He had outlived Franklin D. Roosevelt, Josef Stalin and Winston Churchill. Only Chiang Kai Shek survives. d election  of his home called "La Bois­serie" which was his favorite retreat from the power politics of the world. De Gaulle's son-in-law Gen. Alain de Boussieu told newsmen Tuesayd the former president suffered a heart attack as he was dealing himself cards for a game of solitaire. The president had spent his (Continued on page 6)  PARIS (UPI) -This official portrait of French President Charles deGaulle shows him wearing the formal evening dress uniform of French Army officers with the legion of Honor sash and plaque and golden collar of the Order of the Liberation, in this May 4, 1959 photo. •reactions found 1n ND  

ability of their candidate, Hu­only a shift of "S-6%, a little to "overkill in law-and-order." Un­
By Greg Rowinski tics," explained Professor Paul Bartholomew of the Govern­bert Humphrey, to establish an the right." He contended that employment was a "real stimu­
The major impact of the elec­ment Department. Professor Ber­identity separate from President the majority is still a little left of lus" in the voting booth. He tions of last week seemed to be 
center. believed that this importance
nard Norling of the History De­Johnson -and realized that on the governorships and the they still almost won. Therefore, The faculty consensus discred­will carry into the 1972 election 
partment saw this as the little 
power they can wield, according improvement the Democrats th~y have turned to practical ited any mandate in the vote. if there is "not a riot every day." to a sampling of Notre Dame 
gained through the election -politics to provide a winning D'Antonio said it was "hardly a The returns, according to Bo­and St. Mary's faculty. No major 
control of statewide vote getting · margin in 1972. mandate," with the people re­han, told the government to trends in the electorate toward The voters stayed in the mid­maining in the middle. spend more time and effort on
machinery.
the right or left were seen. 
Sociology Professor William dle, suggested Bartholomew, re­In this lack of specific trends, domestic issues, not particularlyThat Democratic gains in gov­D'Antonio felt that this was a j ec tin g either wing. There Professor Richard Bohan of St. law-and-order, but unemploy­ernorships in a number of states sign that the Democrats are not "didn't seem to be too great a Mary's College was the election ment and other issues that hit would be the Republican "sor­
"dead." They have, he con­change" in voter attitude, ac­as a "victory for the system" home. 
row" was a wide1y held view. 
tends., looked back at their cording to Norling. D'Antonio rather than for either party. He An interesting factor that The importance of Party execu­suggested· that it wa~ "easy to felt that the system gained most impressed Norling was that"faux pas" of 1968 -the Viet­tives during the district leaves nam issue, the chaos of their misread I 968 as a swing to the strength because neither was the the Democrats were still success­"no doubt" of the success of national convention, and the in-right'' while in reality, it was President repudiated in his hand­ful "running against Hoover's Democrats in "practical poli­
ling of foreign policy (this issue depression," recogmzmg that was cloudeq because neither side those who lived through it still proposed too definite a time­"have the taste in their mouth,"
CSU tokes new look at St. Mary's 
table) nor was he supported in and raising the threat of a future Last nighf, the Committee for for the NO campus. The group committee propose an office for what Bohan called a "counter­depression. Social Understanding met to dis­fe~ls that SMC has been pretty the co-ordination of co­revolutionary action," or call to D'Antonio felt that the Re­wss new directions the group much ignored in their proposals education. The suggestion was "vigilanteeism." In regards to publicans, in general, still based will take. so far, and they want to deal also made that a professional this latter point, Bohan explain­their rhetoric on "autonomy and They have decided to look with both campuses, not just planner be hired to head this ed that the President's theme local action." In contrast, the 
into the possibility of an Arts Notre Dame. A sub-committee office; however, the committee was rejected: that the people did De,!locrats turned to more prac­Center on the St. Mary's cam­was formed, and will begin re­did not act on either proposal. not feel enough threatened by tical programs. In Norling's view, pus, much the same as the cul­searching this area next Monday. The committee is going to the left to inaugurate the Presi­"the campaign oratory was more tural area they have proposed It was also proposed that the furiher develop their idea of a dent's suggestions. bitter" than previous years. 
Hall Presidents Council plans 
student shopping mall between As for the factors contribut­The influence of the cam­the two schools. They are going ing to the vote, Bartholomew paigning of President Nixon and to look into the matter in much warned if the difficulty of find­Vice-President Agnew was de­
improved security relations 
more detail, specifically, who ing any salient features, em­bated by the faculty members. 
standing security officer each
The Hall President's Council owns the land, and any legal phasizing that commentators D'Antonio expressed the hope 
month.
in a meeting Monday formed a implications which might arise. were calling many different fac­that Agnew's effect was nega­
The program will be imple­
series of plans intended to im­They re-emphasized the need tors vital. He dismissed these, tive. Nixon's effect was positive,mented after further research
prove the relationship between for strict control by the univer­suggesting that any truly vital he added, but it also involved a 
and discussion, Barkett said.
students and the campus securi­sity over the mall. They want to points would be determined on large commitment in proportionIn other business, plans were
ty force. make certain that the stores that the state, rather than the nation­to its fruits. Norling shrugged off 
set for a workshop to be held 
are built are architecturally ap­al level. Nixon's effect but raised theActing· on the advice of a next Monday night between the 
pealing. What the public voted, ac­question of the outcome if hemeeting held last week between hall presidents and rectors. The The group is still looking for cording to Bartholomew, was hadn't campaigned. He felt thatHPC Chairman John Barkett, workshop will be held in two 
ideas regarding the use of La­personality, not issues, citing Nixon's activities did not da­Dean of Students Fr. James locations; Walsh for the main Fortune, the Fieldhouse, and the Governors Reagan and Rockefel­mage the Republicans becauseRiehle, and Vice President and quad and Flanner Hall for the Psychology Building. One com­ler, and Senator Tunney as ex­those who accused him and Ag­General Counsel Philip Fac­north quad. 
mittee member remarked, "We amples. D'Antonio agreed and new of "horrendous conduct"cenda, the presidents set up a Discussion on the dispersal of still need to solicit ideas. We added that the Republicans were wouldn't have voted Republicanthree-point program: the HPC's allotted $3000 was haven't hit on one so brilliant better equipped with "attrac­anyway. Offyear losses to theI. Inviting Father Riehle to postponed until after next yet that it's pbviously the thing tive" candidates. party in the White House were
speak in the halls. week's workshop. However, to do." Any students with ideas D'Antonio related that the below normal, according to Bar­2. Beginning a "Lock the John Barkett announced that 
can contact any member of the overriding issue in the campaigns tholomew, though this shouldn't
Door" campaign. about $1700 will be requested 
committee. was economics. He theorized an be a proof of Nixon's success.
3. Giving an award to the out-for the An Tostal weekend. 

~ --------~---------------------------, 

One of our 
Paulists calls it "home"... 
Home is where the heart is. 
Home is also wherever a Paulist is needed. 
Whether the Paulist works in a ghetto, a college campus, a city parish or a remote corner of the United States, he is serving. 
The Paulist is ministering with words, deeds and sacra­ment ... and zealous care to the needs of God's People everywhere. He is meeting today's problems with thoughts of those that will arise tomorow. 
That is the Paulist way. It isn't easy but the worthwhile things of life seldom are. 
If you are interested in learning more about the Paulist priesthood, write to: 
Rev. Donald C. Campbell, C.S.P, Vocation Director 
'Paulistth

'Pa erG 
Room 113 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 


Wednesday, November 11, 1970 
Activities in and around the quads 
PhiHips to talk 
Kevin Phillips, special assis­tant to Atty. Gen. John Mitchell and author of the book, The Emerging Republican Majority 
will speak at 8 p.m. Thursday (Nov. 12) in the Notre Dame Memorial Library auditorium. The talk is sponsored by the Stu­dent Union Academic Commis­sion. 
Phillips, who served as analyst for voting patterns and trends in the 1968 Nixon campaign, pre­dicted in the book that "the up­coming cycle of American poli­tics is likely to match a domi­nant Republican Party based in the Heartland, South, and Cali­fornia against a minority Demo­cratic Party based in the North­east and Pacific Northwest (and encompassing Southern as well as Northern Negroes)." 

A native of New York, Phil­lips was educated at the Univer­sity of Edinburgh and Harvard Law School where he was awar­ded the Bureau of National Af­fairs prize. 


Tibeta.n lama lecture tonight 

The Venerable Lama Chime Rinpoche of Tibet will be a guest of the religious studies departmeni of St. Mary's Col­lege, Wednesday, November II. The religious leader will speak on Tibetan Buddhism and recent political developemnts in his country at 3:30 p.m. in Carroll 
Hall ,of the Madeltlva classroom building. A film, "Requiem for a Faith," will be shown and the public is invited to attend. 
Chime Rinpoche is believed to be the incarnation of Chime Youngdong of the Benchen Monastery and to possess the spiritual power of his originator. 
Design contest now going on for any Campus 
Hall or club for rights to booth at Mardi Gras 
For information call 
Pi1il Michaels -1801 Deadline: Dec. 1, 1970 

Cut this out 
and help will always be near. Call the Problem Solvers 

a service of Student Government 






WE GO 
Since his selection at the age of two, he has been accorded the greatest reverence and regarded as one of the elite of Tibet. 
His youth was spent in con­centrated study of the Dharma, a doctrine based on wisdom and compassion which teaches man 
to strive for the knowledge through which he can assuage the sufferings of man and of all living creatures. Part of his train­ing consisted of a three year 
solitary retreat in a mountain hermitage, undertaken at the age
of 16, during which he med­itated on the Six Doctrines of Naropa, a lOth Century saint. 
When the Chinese Commu­nists invaded Tibet, Chime Rin­poche was forced to meet with Mao Tse-tung in Peking in an attempt to establish him as a uppet leader. Returning to
P 
Tl.bet he sought refuge with a 
g . 
roup of 3000 followers in the Holy C1ty of Lhasa. 

TO O'HARE 
EVERY 
GO WITH US AND PUT $13.00 BACK IN YOUR POCKET. THAT'S THE DIF­FERENCE BETWEEN OUR FARE ­$8.00 -AND AIR-FARE ABOUT $21.00. 
DAY Non-stop. No baggage worries. No reservations necessary. No weather hang-ups. Two hours travel time. 
CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR 

INDIANA MOTOR BUS • 287-0200 
Krashno will air statement 
d p ·d D
Student Bo y res1 ent ave Krashna will present a statement to the Student Senate tonight on hl·s walkout Sunday night
· · 
The walkout occured after the Sen te had Voted agal.nst allo 
a ­
catin$g43th0~ AT~o-Americ:nd So~i­
ety · e group a ong­
. II t d $6300 J t
ma Y reques e · us prior to the vote, Krashna dd d th S te ·n p ort
a resse e . ena 1 . su P,, 0 f th II t t t W
e a oca wn, s a. mg, e 
should make a commitment to Krashna excused himself from the meeting, leaving SBVP Mark Winings to chair the remainder 
the  black  student  at  Notre  
Dame."  
When  the vote was  tallied,  

of ~~:~e;:~n;~en some question 
as to whether or not the SBP would chair tonight's meeting, 
however, Krashna has stated that he will be there to deliver his statement. 

Hall presidents-rectors me.et ~o promote campus commun1cat1on 
Hall presidents and rectors will meet next Monday night to participate in a newly-created workshop, the goal of which is to encourage an open attitude of teamwork between the presi­dents and rectors. 
As a preliminary step in at­taining this goal, John Barkett, chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council, recently proposed that hall rectors and presidents get together informally. As a result a spaghetti dinner was planned, and on October 26 the two groups dined in the Old College. 
Barkett reasoned that, "It is only proper and logical that the rectors and presidents meet." He explained that although the rec­tors meet as a group once a month and the HPC once a 
Drug discussion slated 
Dr. Allan Y. Cohen, director of the John F. Kennedy Insti­tute of Drug Abuse Education and Research, Martinez, Cal., will discuss "Drugs and Alterna­tives" at 8 ·p.m. Sunday (Nov. IS) in the Notre Dame Memorial Library auditorium. The pro­gram which is open to the pub­lic, is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. 
Educated at Harvard Uni­versity where he received a doc­torate in clinical psychology, Cohen has served as a consultant to agencies, schools and com­munities interested in curbing drug abuse. He is the author of a curn:nt book, "A Parent's Guide to Adolescence and Drugs," and has appeared on numerous tele­vision programs and documen­tary films. 
As a graduate student at Har­vard Cohen studied under Timothy Leary and Richard Al­pert, and experimented with psychedelic drugs. He lived for three years in Millbrook and a Mexican utopian community ex­perimenting with LSD and rela­ted drugs. 
Shakespeare again 
Supporters of Sister Marita's Primary Day school are trying to start· a Shakespeare Revival at Notre Dame in order to increase aid to the school. 
Continuing along the lines of the Marathon, the Knights of Columbus decided to sponsor a Shakespeare Film Series, at the K of C Hall on campus, showing one professionally-filmed play every other week. The donation per film is fifty cents, although greater gifts are welcome. The first film, to be shown this Wed­nesday, November II, at 7:00 and 9:30 p.m., is Hamlet with Maximillian Schell. On Novem­ber 24, Orson Welles controver­;ial Othello will be shown at the ;arne time and place. Hopefully, nore films will follow in Decem­Jer and throughout the second ;emester. All proceeds will go lirectly to the school. 
week, they had never convened together. 
After the dinner Father Schu­neman from Breen-Philips Hall recommended that a formal meeting be organized, perhaps in the form of a workshop. Barkett followed this up and sent letters to all rectors requesting that they notify the HPC as to whether they would be able to attend. 

To insure a more effective and communicative atmosphere, two separately located workshops will be held. One will include the main quad halls, and the other will be made up of the members of the North quad halls. 
The "Role of Hall Govern­ment" and "Rector-President 
Experienced typist will type days or evening; term papers, theses, 
dissertations, etc. IBM electric typewriter very reasonable rates 
call 289-5832 
Relations" are the primary tar­gets of discussion. Each member will be asked to comment on the topics and an open discussion will follow. 
Barkett foresees the innova­
tion  as  potentially  fruitful  to  
both  the  participants  and  the  
halls  in  general,  and  hopes  to  

continue such meetings through­out the year. 

Sr. raffles ball 
Sister Marilyn, C.S.C. who is chairing a bazaar for the benefit of elderly nuns of the C.S.C. order has announced that she will hold a raffle in the lounge of LeMans Hall on the SMC camp­us. The prize will be ·a genuine, regulation NCAA football auto­graphed· by the No. 1 college football team in the country. Just $.25 will buy a chance for the souvenier with signatures of Joe Theismann and co. All the proceeds will go toward the bazaar to be held on the 19th, 20th, and 21st of the month. 

lOVER THE HILLI CHAPPED LIPS 9:30-11:30 Wld, NCN. ll L:..Fortuile Ballroom  
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage aid Notre Dame Ind. 46556.  

-

~--­
Wednesday, November 11 1970 THR QBSERfJER. Page 3 
~....::.;.:,:.::: .....~..:::.:.:.:::::f:!_.!..!.·e.<-!£_tt!::!._e_r_s_t_o_tll_e_E~II-it-=--o--:.::.r.:...;,_:_i.. .•• ··---~........, ~::~:;:·=i<"ffPSAJtE·:·:·o;rx;t1:o::~n:r::rfi:Nt~=s=;=l~
.....~ ..· 
--=-· •. 

"·•<><=:~~=~ finally!!! • fhu• dofininga n<w>pap"'dun· Poor winners-x«<w.• .. ·o.l R.K. MUELLER, INC. ~ 
Editor: 
Just a short note to say thanks for the nice write-up and good coverage of the Academic Coun­cil's selection procedures in The Observer the other day. I know that you had a lot of other matters clamoring for publicity but your front-page article brought our procedures to the attention of the whole com­munity most effectively. I think this proves once again how much The Observer can and does con­tribute to the University. You are probably getting a lot of criticism these days-and some of it from me-but allow me to say a word of thanks and congratu­
lations also. 
Sincerely, 
Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, C.S.C. 
Vice President for Student 
Affairs 
All the news that fits we print' 
Editor: 
The editorial by Mr. Carter and Mr. Knorr (The Observer, November 9) is part fact and part fallacy. Admittedly, there should be no quarrel over whe­ther Ti-Grace Atkinson should be allowed to speak at Notre Dame. The Women's Liberation Front and its subsequent philo­sophies are topics of general interest to most people. That a spokesman of these philosophies be allowed to present her views to an interested audience seems logical. Furthermore, it would have been difficult for those who brought Miss Atkinson to campus to predict that the taste­lessness and vulgarity which she displayed here are· ·her modus operandi. She bas spoken at several other places, at which times her presentations were far kss crude and unpalatible. And a q uotel of her's concerning Women's Lib in a recent issue of Time Magazine was both intelli­gent and benign. 
The real issue here, and the one which I feel was not pro­perly handled by the Editors, is that of the Observer's responsi­bility in reporting the lecture. 
If the Obsen1er intends to 
breach the traditional restraints 
of conscientious journalism then 
I think it should admit that it is 
doing so, and a new discussion 
could begin at that point. But 
the Editors insist that the article 
describing Miss Atkinson's talk 
falls within the bounds of "A 
newspapers' [sic] function...to 

to any city regardless of what is said, how it cover the news, all the news,. 
Phone -234-0021
is said, and where it is said," 


presents 


THURBER ~ LA CARTE 
a chamber theatre presentation ofworks by 
James Thurber 
NOV. 13 & 14 at 8:30, 15 at 7:30PM Little Theatre -Moreau Hall -SMC Tickets: $1.00 Season Subscribers FREE For in{Q.rmation or reservati<ms <:JII 284-4176 ________ _ 
;\pplications now being accepted for student mem­bership on University Academic Council. 
Submit name and statement of purpose to student 
ction they attempt to validate their definition with certain examples involving The New Y ark Times. These examples, however, are somewhat inappli­cable. 
The subject matter of any news article is not at issue here, but rather the degree to which and the manner in which it is reported. In answer to the Edi­tors' examples I offer them ano­ther: If The new Y ark Times were reporting a Supreme Court decision that a certain book is obscene and unfit for publica­tion, would the Times be jus­tified in reprinting the obscene passages because they are news­worthy and pertinent to the article? I think not. (Note: I will be grateful to all those who refrain from concluding that the thesis of this letter is that Ti-Grace Atkinson is "obscene" as defined by the Supreme Court.) 
It is ironic, too, that the Editors would use The New York Times in examples meant to justify their own article when it is that paper which prints in its letterhead every day the phrase "All the News That's Fit to Print", which has tradition­ally been the guideline for responsible journalism in this country. 
Sincerely, 
Christopher Stephan 
The Law School 
(Ed note: Anything run at the right hand side of the editorial page should be considered a co­lumn and not an editorial. 
More praise!!! 
Editor: 
The purpose of a newspaper is 
to inform. It has the duty to 
recognize the existence of facts, 
even if they are repugnant. The 
abortion information presented 
not only recognized one of these 
facts but also affirmed one of 
the basic human rights-the 
freedom of choice. It was not · 
in tended to undermine the 
morals of this community or the 
virtue of the Saint Mary's 
woman. The Observer should be 
commended for its courage and 
interest in presenting a possible 
alternative. 
Kathleen Farrell 
Mary Kaye Leonard 

Drivers Needed 
Drive-aways available in U.S. 


chairman c/o appropriate 
Arts & Letters 
Business ­
Engineering-
Science ­
Dean's office. 
-Ed McCartin Robert Bramlette Robert Jenson 
Thomas Kenny 

Editor: Your football team must be the Virgin's. eighth sorrow. 
I don't see how anybody wearing a Notre Dame uniform could stand to be pushed around and knocked down all the time. 
And win so poorly. 
Yours truely 
Sweet Leilani 
from Waikiki 
M.C. -­the ole doghouse ain't 
the same. please hurry back. 
a.c. night  & the crew  Tues.  
Any  TYPING material, any  length,  

charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 p.m. 


·Before: 


,-----..--~ ·. & ELECTRIC 
FRIDAY, NOV 13 
8:30 pm Stepan Center Tickets: $2.50 at Student Union Ticket Office 

presented by . Student Union Social Commission 


During: 
Student Billing Service 
makes sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your dorm room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available-right here, right now. Dorm residents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Business Office. Talk it up. 
@ 

Indiana Bell 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER 
Wednesday, November 11, 1970 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
To the Halls. Now. 
Last Sunday night, the Senate budgeted three thousand dollars to the Hall President's 
Council, recommending that about sixteen hundred be used as grants to the halls so that 
they can run hall-level programs. Mr. Winings, who moved the allocation, explained that 
though he preferred to allocate more money to the halls, he "did not think it feasible" to 
do so at this time. 

We submit that, more than being feasible, a larger allocation is imperative. The thesis of 
our Student Body President as he campaigned was that the qu<;tlity of life at thls 
University should be bettered at the hall level. That thesis was most resoundingly 
affirmed in the March election. 
Students here had given voice to that contention: the quality of life at this University 
should be bettered at the hal/level. 1 
It was a valid thesis, and a good assertion to make. Hall-level activities lack all the straining intensity that has so marked the campus-wide activities of the past several years, and if there is any great need on campus, it is to decrease the tension which marks so badly the intrapersonal relationships here. 
Ironically, it was a finance committee which included the Student Body President and 
which was peopled largely by members of that President's cabinet that tinally came ~1p 
with the suggested five hundred dollar allocation to the Hall President's Council. It was 
the Student Body Vice-President who recommended that, in effect, no more than sixteen 
hundred dollars be allocated to plans to better the quality of life at this University at the 
Hall level. 

By way of comparison, that sixteen hundred dollars is approximately one-seventh the Student Government budget, and approximately one/twenty-third the Student Union budget. If ever there were a case of misplaced priorities, this is it. 
It is obvious, then,' that the Halls should have a juicier allotment. Common sense calls for it, and common sentiment echoed that call last March. 
Where, then, should the source of this allocation come? It seems apparent that the student activities fee should never have been lowered. It seems apparent now that the student activities fee should be increased again -back to the sixteen dollar level. The sixteen dollars never worked a hardship on the students. The present fourteen dollar fee does work a hardship -for because of the decreased revenue, the growth of hall-level programs has been most grotesquely crippled. 
The Observer then recommends that the Student Senate allocate a substantial sum to a fund for all the halls to use, and that the deficit this causes be made up by an increase in the student activity fees. 
------~·~ ...............-..... -......... ...
----·--·---... --····----... . -....... -..........._ 
------Letter-----­
Ascension: "Go forth and
"personal decision" could have 
teach all nations to do theirDear Mr. Carter and Mr. Knorr: 
done for those famous moments 
thing, in the name of the ego,Thank you for settling the of Biblical history. 
the super ego, and the id."

ethics of abortion in three­
hundred words or less. It is 
reassuring to know that now 
(thanks to your timely editorial) 
abortion is no longer in the Well,· I could go on and on, 
realm of objective morality but but it is clear to me that there 
has become a "personal deci-are a few matters of mo~als over 
. ,

swn. which the Church (remember
Adam: "He said He doesn't 
that institution founded with a
care if we eat it or don't eat it. 
slip of the tongue?) still has con­It's up to us." 
It must warm the hearts of God: "Why should I care trol. The Bark of Peter floats on 
many to see such signs of what you did to your brohte? and there will always be reckless 
twentieth-century enlightmen t. Are you your brother's keeper?' individuals who launch out on 
I'm sure the Pope could use you Lot: "Let's take her with us. their own. Happy sailing fellows! 
two to help him narrow down Never know when you might But for me, until the day the 
the magisterium. And where need a little salt." white smoke appears and Joseph 
were you when "Mater et Noah: "He said it was up to Fletcher with his Situation 
Magister" was written-certainly me, so it'll be a kayak." Ethics is proclaimed pope, I 
a boorish waste of time in the Moses: "I don't know what remain 
those ten funny little numerals Hopelessly Conservative eyes of modern journalism. Af­mean. You can take them or Catherine Pauli 
ter all, the get with it message leave them."
is "do your thing baby" ... just 
Annunciation: "Let me think
look inside and find that "per­it over."
sonal decision" that bypasses all 
Incarnation: "Let ME think
those stuffy rules concocted by 
The Observer Editorial Board:
it over!" 

an uptight generation of fogeys. 
Glen Corso, John Knorr, Bill Carter,
Last Supper: "Tastes likeIt seems to me that you two 
Dave Bach, Dave Lammers, Dan
bread to me."

should share this revelation with Kopenhaver, Ed Ellis, Jim Graif
Resurrection: "But I don't
the College of Cardinals for a T. C. Treanor 
want to get up." 


Chris Wolfe 

Solution 
What this country needs is a good $.05 abortion. Here we are in 
an era of immense challenge to our ability to feed the world and to 
stem suicidal population growth rates and we don't recognize the 
obvious answer to thse problems. 

And the fact is that the answers to both the feeding and the 
population control are linked together, almost providentially. So far 
we have only begun to see one half of the solution, namely the 
removal of the foetus from the mother. This is clearly an effective 
means of population control, since one living thing which depends 
on another for its basic physiological supplies will cease to e>. ist 
when seperated from it. A case history of the effectiveness of this 
solution may be seen in Japan which has successfully limited 
population growth this way. 

What is yet missing is the other half of the solution, which faces a 
three-part problem. First of all, there is a need for regenerating food-produc111g soil of lands which have been tilled for centuries; this can be done with fertilizers nowadays, but only at great expense. What is needed is good cheap fertilizer. Secondly, there is a need to discover new ways of feeding animals, since they absorb a tremendous portion of the world's food supply which would otherwise provide valuable food for human beings. What is needed is good cheap fodder. Thirdly, there is a need for new sources of nourishment for human consumption-a need too obvious to elaborate on. What is needed to good cheap food. 
Where can we get good cheap fertilizer, fodder, and food? (Cat~;hy, isn't it? The 3 F's, y'know.) There it is right under the world's collective nose-the fourth F-the foetus! The foetus involves several weeks or months of "building" organic material in the mother-why let all that good stuff rot m trash cans, or get flushed down toilets, or be wasted in similar ways? Foetuses have fairly good nitrogen and protein content, making them invaluable as fertilizer and fodder. Cooked foetuses would be useful as food-something like an egg, I suppose, depending on how early in the foetus' life the abortion was performed; it you got it late, it would probably be more like an omelette. 
(Obviously there would be some emotional misgivings at first about this last use of the foetus...just the way that children are disgusted when they hear that the eff they eat is an incipient chicken. But just as children get used to that idea, so will people get used to this.) 
These are such sensible proposals that the government ought to consider offering a subsidy for foetuses. It might even be good to make one or two abortions madatory, as the feminine counterpart to military service-it's all-for the good cause o"f our nation's health, after all. A couple of "trial pregnancies" would probably be invaluable. experience for a prospective young mother anyway. 
There arc just so many possibilities which this break through coulc;l 
offer! Only our tunnel vision in the past has prevented us from 
taking advantage of all that our rational faculty and science make 
available to us. With a little imagination the world's food and 
population problems might be over tomorrow! Fertilizer fodder 
tood, and foetus! The dawning of a new age! ' ' 
l 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor News Editor: Ed Ellis 
Features Editor: Dave Lammers Sports Editor: Terry Shields Night Editresses: Mary Chris Morrison, 
Ann Conway Layout: Dan Kopenhaver Layout Design: Joe Cassini Headlines: Jim Roe Controller of the Night: Rick Smith 

Wednesday, November 11, 1970 THE O.&rERJIER. Page 5 
CILA-people from Harlem to Tacambaro 

Maureen Mauer 

CILA, Council for the International Lay Apostolate, is unique to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. A st•mmer' social work project is not the only oppor­tunity CILA offers. Activities during the year are meant to embody what we bring with us on a project if we do have the chance to go. There is a Mass, Sunday at 
7: IS P.M. in Flanner. CILA is people, everyone connected with it; and this is the one continuous activity to share, and an opportunity to be together. 
Twelve groups of ND and St. Mary's students spent the past summer on CILA projects that covered a wide geographic area in the Americas and the Carribean ­from New York City to near Santiago, Chile. Each project varied as to activitie~. In New York City's Spanish Harlem, there was a community center; in a holler in W. Virginia, a playground was built; in Haiti, a school is in the process of being ere'cted; in San Lucia, blood was typed for a blood bank in the hospital;. in Greeneville, Miss. high school was taught; a lavadero was built in Altamirano, Mex. as a luxury for a people who lrad pre­viously washed clothes in the rin.·r. There were also projects in Nebraska working on an Indian reservation, in Peru, and in Chile. 
Our group, comprised of four students from ND and 2 from St. Mary's, was in Tacambaro, Mex., a village of about 13,000 people, I ,000 miles to the interior, in Southwestern Mex. Few tour­ists find their way to Tacambaro; it does not have the cultural appeal of Mexico City, nor the excitemept that Acapulco claims. I recall the question posed by one of our group as we wound our way steeper into the mountains, steering our car slowly among the people and animals 
(who are more plentiful on the "high­way" than cars), "How did CILA find Tacambaro?" Tacambaro is the sight of one of the first CILA projects and there are noticeable vestiges of the past nine groups. Notre Dame Ave. has its name­sake there among the cal!es (streets); there is a housing project below the orphanage; a water pipe that allows for fresh water in the colonia, a section on the outskirts of the village; there is a bano (bathroom) in front of the orphanage. But buildings and water systems were not pointed out to us -rather we were asked about Rut, Carlos, Nora, Roberto, and many more gringos who had spent two short months among these Mexican people. 
The natural beauty of the land is in sharp contrast with the impoverished and unkempt orphanage which overlooks it. Each morning, we girls bathed the little ones, which was almost the only morning activity we were able to accomplish. The malnutrition was a shocking sight at first and it was an uncomfortable feeling to' hold a living skeleton of a child in my . arms. But soon the children spoke above their material poverty. We had games of dodgeball, walks to the plaza, trips to the hospital and, as a grand finale, a picnic on a nearby mountain. The young boys looked forward to games of soccer and football with the gringos (football jerseys were coveted), and horse back rides are a universal favorite with kids. The project lasted until the end of July -and I could 
not begin to cover the weeks in this short article. 
Suffice it to say that CILA is people, everyone connected with it -in Tacam­baro and at Notre Dame. It is an organi­zation on our campuses that is an effort at living out that Christian spirit we as a University have been discussing. 
We invite all interested to be with us. 


Consumerism in E. German] 
BERLIN (UPI) -Keeping up with the .Schmidts is the latest social crime in East Germany. 
East Germans are being warned that 
the desire to possess luxuries is the mark 
of a "Spiesser" -the German equivalent 
of Babbitt -and is incompatible with a 
Socialist personalitv. 

Automobiles, summer cottages tele­
vision sets, washing machines, all these 
are chains that keep revolutionaries from 
freeing the world proletariat according to 
the current party line. What's more the 
lust for them could cause the worker to 
steal or neglect his obligations. 

Judging from the propaganda campaign 
carried on by the Communist party the 
worst Babbitt of all is the one who lord it 
over his neighbor because he owns an 
automobile. 

"Who owns whom?" asked the East 
Berlin newspaper Berliner Zeiting. "Does 
the automobile possess the owner or the 
owner the automobile?" 

But despite East German prosperity all 
the needs and wants of East Germans can­
not be satisfied. 

Hence the constant repeititon of So' rates adage: "We don't live to eat, but v. eat to live." 
Dr. Hajo Herbel!, assistant editor of tb Neuss Deutschland, official Communi: party newspaper said it would be best possessions were held collectively. 
But he said since this is not possibl "every Socialist must be unpretentious i the sense of the rejection of an alie 'prosperity' and 'consumer ideology' c showing off of possessing things at a costs. 
"We expect Socialists revolutionarit to devote their hearts first of all to the_. revolutionary work whatever form it may take. And abvve all that they devote their hearts to unity with the collective with the others. 
"We do not expect them to differenti­ate themselves through so-called status symbols. 
"The chains of which we are speaking may be shining, they may look good. But they are chains which could hinder us from stepping out in the revolutionary march." 

The Communist warning that there is more to life than possessions reveals two', things about the state of the East German 
economy. 

It has the highest standard of living in the Soviet bloc. The average Czech earns only 95 per cent as much as the average East German and the average Russian only 88 per cent as much. 
Karl Marx, the German founder of the modern Socialist movement, said the same thing more verbosely and vaguely and he is being quoted too. 
Automobiles are beari'ng the brunt of the attack on would be Babbitts because they are beyond the reach of the average 
person. 

For example, only one East German in 18 has an automobile compared to one in five in West Germany. And it takes from one to four years to get delivery on a new Moskowitsch or Wartburg. Used cars are in such demand that an ancient Volks­wagen can bring 12,000 marks-$3,260. 


f.eHer from Pfc. Michael Kelly 
conflict with free-spirited enlis­mies, " my car, my beer, my girl dogrel, which is not an exaggera­, Human beings have beenPvt. Michael E. Kelly 
ted men is simply not to be (in that order) fellas. To them tion. treated like bricks and morter(ND '70) 
Tactics

found. Although intolerably competition and violence is the (sic?) long enough in America. 
Dear Dave, straight (somewhat like myself natural way of life and to talk in I worried for a while Let us stop where and when we I recently came across a copy 

Freshman year), officers tend to terms of cooperation and coex­about my mind falling can. of the October 16, 1970 Obser­
be the only source of rationality, istance is to speak to them in a before a military force Finally, your point about the ver (sent to me in confinement 
fairness and education in the en­foreign language. I do not con­less skillful Draft forcing young men to face down here by Kay Bajo) which tire armed services (once theRe­demn these people, Dave, they but strong enough the great issues of life and death included your column setting serves and National Guard trai­have shown themselves much to be brutal. is not taken well, I fear. Theforth fine, progressive reasons nees have gone back to their more adept at survival than I. However my enemy has Draft does not make these issues for all good men to tighten their fathers' factories after Basic But it is the straight military­taken an ancient strategy; clearer, rather it clouds thembelts and accept the Selective Training). The enlisted men as a oriented officers who calm down siege. with. ·fear and emotionalism.
Service as being for the democra­rule are jingoistic, violence prone the violence of the enlisted men, My mind will not die How can I make a moral deci­tic good. 
and more than ready to go out not the boyish spirits of the in battle, sion on whether or not I can killAs you may recall in my less snuffing gooks just for the hell troops being stifled by totalita­yet it well may be starved when my own life is at stake?
frivolous (sic-the Orderly Room rian officers (although they are into submission. Rather than creating moral vir­
of it.

has no dictionaries and I am 
totalitarian). What can a Private do tue, I think that such a situationswiftly falling into the very mili-You have made one vital error 
Anyways, officers don't mat­in a company causes many people who are sim­tary habit of misspelling words in your figuring, one which I ter worth much. It's the ser­where even the officers ply possessing good sense (whatof two or more sylables (again would have made myself three geants who run the Army in fact read comic books? in earlier times might have beensic)) days, as a somewhat unor-short months ago. From the iso­they are a blood thirsty, if fas­Now we come to the question called cowardice, but I hope wethodox folk music-actor-campus lated and beautiful atmosphere 
cinating, crew. of the Upper and Middle classes can face more directly today as aconservative poohbah, I was an of Notre Dame (wait until you The military underground of not joining the Army and leaving natural impulse for survivaloutspoken advocate of the Vol-, leave it if you don't think its which you spoke matters little the Lower classes to fight their which can be every bit as nobleunteer Military. Now that I have~ beautiful), it is natural to think also. It exists to protect the in~ wars, which is Ted Kennedy's as an impulse for preservation offallen victim to the evil organiza-" of the rest of the world as being 
tellectuals who are suffocating another) and don't want to die
reason for opposing a Volunteertion known as the Selective Ser-like us. By that I mean, we ex­
and turn (some bitterly, come fool themselves into thinking
Army. Dave, I concede this as avice, I would like to share some pect that everyone out there 
desperately and others benignly) that they are moralists, while'
bad thing, but why coerce hu­
additional thoughts with you. (Out There, that is) to be pretty back upon their own company man beings into something like . many true moralists doubt the
I do this partially because I much as we see around us -oh 
and strike out at what oppresses sincerity of their decision be­
the Army just to make society the past and the striving for ob-or politically enlightened but them. These people (and I will balance out more nicely? It is all cause they cannot divest it from have enjoyed your writings i.n yes, perhaps a little less educated 
probably end up as one soon their own fear of death.
jectivity which they demonstrate rath~: the same sort cif people. well and good to talk about "the middle class kids" but when you
enough) have no effect on the And anyways, Dave, the Ar­and partially because I am tired By uneducated we have a vague of communicating in grunts and conception of their never having 
general morale of the Army. start talking in terms of real peo­my is a cruel and evil thing from obscenities and look forward to read Hesse or some fine distinc­The problem of the intellec­ple (like 'Pat Clinton, Jean-Paul which children should be spared 
if at all possible. 
an attempt at literacy again (des-tion like that. tual in the Army is not really so Mustone, Kelly Knauer, Fred Snow that we twopite misspelling). Dave, the Army is not full of much one of morality as it is of Dedrick and even me) being sac­Looked at together-tl!is yearTaking the arguements you people seeking truth or even mental starvation and survival in rificed to yout visions of .utopia, 
Has it fallen anew? 

put forth in your column, I have' peace. The bulk of the draftees an alien culture. I pray the enough leftist and 
While strumming on the rightist libertarians will unite to -Basho
learned since my entranced into and enlistees are your salt-of­our martial forces that the idea the-earth,' "Well, I don't like it strings of my under-used brain choke off your plans to remake JOY! of prussian-minded officers in but we gotta stop them com-last night I penned the following society before it is too late. Michael 
deGaulle rites Thursday 
doctor and priest. When the president never left his country
(Continued from Page 1) 

last day working on the thrid doctor arrived de Gaulle was home at Colombey-les~Deux­_chapter of the fifth volume of a deyond medical help. He died Eglises. 
six volume set of memoires he about 15 minutes aft'er being DeGaulle also withdrew en­had planned and was waiting for stricken. tirely from French political life 
the evening news to begin on the and refused to comment or
DeGaulle took power in 1958 

state run television network. make his thoughts known on
when the army was in revolt in

De Boissieu said de Gaulle current political affairs. 
Algeria and the country was near

died at 7:30 p.m. but French­DeGaulle was
civil war. For ll years he ruled the last of the 
men did not hear about it until as a strongman a number of Big Four World War II statesmen Tuesday morning when Pompi­
times going to the people in to die. The others were President dou took to the television. referenda to make certain he had Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the 
According to official French 
Soviet Union's Josef Stalin and
their backing . .Each time he won sources de Gaulle's death was 
Britain's Sir Winston Churchill.
until the spring of 1969 when he not reported to Paris until 4 a.m. 
lost what he considered a crucial

Tuesday morning when his DeGaulle -whose six-foot,
referendum on administrative re­

son-in-law telephoned the news four-inch height and large nose 
form. 
made him a dream for political
to President Ponpidou. 

PARIS (UPI)-Former French President Charles deGaulle died late
cartoonists the world over ­
De. Gaulle's wife Yvonne was He carried out his threat to Monday of a heart attack at his country home in the village ofthe only person present when de resign on April 28, 1969 and actually served twice as leader of Colombey-Les-Deux-Eglises. Here, DeGaulle leads French military

France. The first time was at the

~~~le was stricken. A de Gaulle apart from two vacation trips and civilian figures down the Champs Elysees in a liberated Paris on
end of World War II when he

family spokesman said she abroad -one to Ireland and August 26, 1944. For deGaulle, who had led the Free French
was both premier and president

immediately called the village another to Spain -the former struggle during the war, this was a moment of supreme triumph. 
for two years. 
(/) 
-



Q) .0 -(/) 
..... 
ro 
Q) 
>­
Q) .!:: 
..... 
,_ 
0
-
: 
Q) 
(/) 
·;:: 
f/1
a. CD 
~ E 
i=
'001
_c:: 
0~ 
~-;:: ~~ 
0 c::
'On 
Cl~ 
... Q) 

g-w CD­
~ ~ 
CD c:: 1/J >< 
a:~ ow 

----~-~---------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Page 7

Wednesday, November 11, 1970 711£ OBSERJJER 



Self-expression is a touchdown 

position, depending on the form­"I prepare myself inwardly. myself by scoring touchdowns,by Jim Donaldson Notre Dame is winning, and 
Observer Sportswriter Tom is setting records, despite ation Joe Theismann calls in the It's not like me to be outwardly by putting six points on the huddle. This versatility has emotional. Each man must scoreboard."
double and triple coverage from 

Tom Gatewood is a quiet most Although all earned Tom the nickname of psyche himself for the game in That's a great form of self­
opponents. 

man. He doesn't say much and is "The Swinging Gate." his own way. I like to express expression, Tom.
cpponents are always primed for 

not outwardly emotional. He Dame, "I feel that lining up in a
Notre the Fighting Irish 

lets his performance on the foot­number of positions is a great
keep on winning and although

ball field speak for him and help to me. I can run my pat­
Gatewood receives plenty of at­
those performances speak elo­terns against different men and
tention from opposing defen­
quently. get a look at all the defenders."
ders, he continues to haul in 
Gatewood is currently leading Gatewood's pass catching,
passes.

the nation in pass receiving, aver­combined with Notre Dame's 
The Irish Eye
Pittsburgh attempted to stop
aging 8.3 catches a game. He has powerful ground game, gives the
Gatewood by pitting their top
already tied Notre Dame Irish potent attack in
one defensive back, Bryant Salter, the most 
receiving record by grabbing the country.
against Tom, c.ne-on-one. Sal­three touchdown tosses against ter's personal method of stop-In case you haven't been withi~ a fi~thousand mile radius ofPurdue this season, the fifth man . ping Tom seemed to be to grab South Bend you miglH be surprised to know that the University of
in Notre Dame history to nab and hold at Running Complements Passing
Gatewood every Notre Dame du Lac has returned to the top position in collegethree scoring aerials in one game. 
possible opportunity. Despite football. That is, it has been voted Numero Uno in one wire service 
He needs but three more recep­tactics, "Running and passing comple­
Salter's Gatewood 
poll and has tied for the primary spot in the other. It has seven.
tions· to break Jack Snow's grabbed nine passes good for ment each other," Gatewood ex­victories against zero defeats and it looks hungrier and hungrier with record for catches in a season 116 yards, although some local plained. "Our opponents can't each game. 
( 60, set in 1964 ). If Gatewood key on the running game when
sportswriters credited Salter This is about as much chance of the Irish not being invited to a
can catch two more touchdown with a good defensive job. we are passing well and if they bowl as there is of the North Dining Hall not serving chicken over
passes this year he will tie 
spread their defense to stop our 

the course of the month. The only problem facing t.J.e Notre DameSnow's mark for scoring grabs in 
passes then we're able to run 

Athletic Board is which bowl to accept.
a season (9, set in '64) and will Dirty Job By Pitt through them." 
break Jim Seymour's career There are a number of factors that must be weighed before
This devastating offense, com­

choosing which classic is right for NO. First off, Notre Dame doesrecord for touchdown catches in "He didn't do a good job, he bined with a rugged defense have have three games left against very respectable opponents. Georgia
a career (16, set from '66 to did a dirty job," Gatewood said. brought the Fighting Irish to the Tech and LSU will be played before bids come out but the game
'68). But these records are not "This is the first time this year top spot in the national rankings that will probably pose the biggest hurdle for the Fighting Irish will all-important to Gatewood. 
any has played me in that seven games into the season. 
be the regular season finale with Southern Cal out in LA. It is not
"I didn't expect we would be

fashion. Maybe others will try impossible for the charges of Ara Parseghian to drop one of more of 
Don't Go For Records No. 1 so soon," Tom said. "I felt
the same thing now." these clashes. (Although bets from this desk say they won).) If NO
that we played a better schedule

In addition to confusing the loses one of the first two games then she may not be so picky as to "We don't go for records on defense with his great collection than either Texas or Ohio State which bowl to enter. If she loses to USC then the glamour involved 
and that we'd move past them at

this club. They throw to me of "moves" Tom adds to op­in a possible National Championship would be lost. only when necessary. I think ponents consternation by lining Next there is the problem of which bowl offers more in every
the end of the season. This puts the pressure on them now, more

more of Notre Dame winning up in several different positions. respect. The Orange Bowl has more money and the warm Florida 
on

tl1an I do of my own personal He may be seen in the flanker, than us. They're going to sun all surrounded by a fun city, Miami. The Sugar has New Orleans statistics." split end, tight end, or slot back 
have to win and win big to keep 

(remember Tulane?) going for it and that is quite a bit. And thenpace with us." 
there is Dallas, not too warm, hook'em Horns, Baptist belt Dallas.
A third team Academic All­

However, there is one thing in Dallas that is attractive. The
American selection as a sopho­

Southwest Conference Champ is the host team of the Cotton Bowl 
more, Gatewood is as proficient 

Classic in Dallas and it is very likely that the Southwest Title holder 
in the classroom as he is on the 

will be the defending National Champion Texas Longhorns. 
gridiron. An A-student, major­

Each bowl has something to offer and one has to remember that
ing in sociology, academics mean 

part of the purpose of a bowl game is to serve as a sort of treat for a 
a lot to Tom. "My studies are 

team at season's end. 
·my primary concern -football 

The Sugar Bowl would indeed be a treat. New Orleans has to rank 
comes second. The key reason I 

as one of the great FUN cities in the Western Hemisphere. The Irish 
came to Notre Dame was be­

would also be treated to an easier opponent. Probably Mississippi
cause I knew I could get a fine 

(and possibly Archie Manning, who is supposed to be back at
education here even if I couldn't 

practice in ten days after surgery on his broken left arm) would be
make the grade as a football 

the opponent. It would definitely be a showcase of two of collegiateplayer." 
football's greatest quarterbacks. The Orange Bowl is the most tempting offer if one looks at the 
Like Jimmy Brown situation from an athlete's standpoint. He has been practicing since the last week of August. He has played a rugged ten game schedule and, as the rain keeps dropping from his face mask during a
One of the things that people Wednesday afternoon contact drill, he can only imagine how great

notice about Gatewood is his 

the sands of Miami Beach would be. 
.. calm exterior attitude and the But at the Friday night rally the athlete's view may change
.J/1,.·..
•. ·, 4. ." ease with which he performs his 
. somewhat. He hears the Victory March and the hysterical student
·.-:' ~.. . . 
task on the field. In an emo­

body and he remembers the bitter let down after last year's Cotton 
tional game, Tom always stays 

Bow. Revenge becomes a motivating source.
One of the reasons why Gatewood is such a great receiver cool and plays with a detach­The likely choice of an opponent for the Orange tilt would at first is his ability to run with the ball after he catches it. Here he ment reminiscent of Jimmy glance appear to be the Nebraska Cornhuskers This would be an 
Brown.

sets up Dan Novakov for a block against Purdue. attractive game but unfortunately it probably wouldn't occur. Nebraska would probably pass up Miami in favor of taking on Texas in the Cotton Bowl. This would leave Auburn as the likely pick by the Orange Bowl Committee. 
Notre Dame is faced with a huge decision. It can pick the Cqtton Bowl and take the chance that Texas will get through the rest of its 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club were heavy seas and clear visibili­United States and will run from 
schedule (which inclu~es a date with Arkansas on Dec. 5) unbeaten 
has qualified for the National ty. November 26-29. 
and, of course, hope that the Irish will finish just as unbeaten. This Sailing Regatta. The Irish Sailors The Sailors must now get into MidwestNO went the would set up the dream game that coaches and fans have been
did this by placing second in the ready for the Timmee Angsten Regionals with confidence and clamoring for. (Provided that Ohio State doesn't rally-in the pollsMidwest Regional last weekend. Fall Nationals held in Chicago there is no reason to believe that and move ahead of either team.)
The regatta was hosted by over Thanksgiving. The competi­they can't fare well in the Nat­The Orange Bowl is another choice with redeeming values. TheNorthwestern and was held at tion will come from all over the ionals. 
university could certainly use the money for such things as minoritythe Claremont Yacht Club. 
recruitment, building funds or any number of other worthwhileThe winner of the regional projects. But is Notre Dame does decide on this course she will be was the University of Wisconsin criticize to no end for duckirlg away from Texas, presuming that theand Oshkosh State was the only 
DETROIT (UPI) -The Uni­Harding lasted for an hour with Longhorns go all the way.
other qualifier. It finished third. 
versity of Detroit's 25 varsity the 16 varsity players and nine The Sugar Bowl just doesn't make it as far as this writer isWisconsin edged the Irish by one 
and freshman basketball players freshmen picking up where they concerned. It just can't attract the two top teams that the otherpoint, 29-30. 
boycotted practice for a week left off after it was all over. bowls can. If Notre Dame loses one or two of its final games and still Tim Flood was the first place because they didn't want to play All Harding would say about wants to attend a bowl game (8-2 or 9-l is certainly respectable
skipper in the "B" division. He 
under Coach Jim Harding. the meeting was that "we had a enough to go bowling) then the Sugar would look a little sweeter.
pulled away from Wisconsin at Monday following a meeting discussion. There were no con­The obvious solution to the problem would be for each 
the end of the regatta. He was 
with the controversiai coach cessions asked and no conces­committee to wait until the season is complete and then extend one point better than the Badger were all uniformthey back in sions given. Anything else that invitations and thus create the most attractive pairings for the bowls. 
skipper, Healy. Will Donelan 
and on the court and Harding was said is strictly a team Time is the chief concern here. There wouldn't be enough of it to served as Flood's crew. 
promised that "everything will matter." plan everything properly, or would there! The committees shmud 
The "A" boat was skippered 
be run just as it was before last The Titans open their 26 give this serious consideration. by Kevin Hoyt and Ellen (that's 
week." game schedule Dec. 1 at home If a choice does have to be made now, this writer votes for the right fellas, Ellen) Harrington 
He indicated there were no against Hillsdale and Harding Cotton Bowl. Even if NO is ranked Number One, undisputed, she served as Hoyt's crew. Kevin plans to change his coaching said it was necessary for every­should show that she is willing to accept the best challenge possible. 
sailed well enough to keep the 
policy and said, "after 41 years I body including the members of It's the way things have been done around here since Frank Hering ­Irish in consideration for a bid. 
have to do it my way." the coaching staff "to get down blew his whistle at the first practice. There's no reason to changeThe conditions for this regatta 
The players' meeting with to work." matters now. 


Page 8 
Wednesday, November 11, 1970 
Cleveland Club Thanksalvln& Bus 
Sign-up TONITE! 
7:00 LaFortune Basement ND and SMC 



BOB HOPE 

NOTRE DAME
SATURDAY 
ATHLETIC AND
NOV. 14th 
CONVOCATION


8:30P.M. 
CENTER 

Featuring • THE IMPACT OF BRASS 
• MARY ANN ROSE • THE FOUR STEP BROTHERS ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Only $2.50 Seats Rema-in 
N.D. & St. Mary's Students may purchase these tickets at $1.00 discount upon presentation of I.D. card at A.C.C. Box 

Go. Tech ticket donations end with huge success 
Following the unprecedented success of the Georgia Tech "Tickets-for-the-Children" drive, , there was a great deal of jubi­lance in the office of Hall Life Commissioner Eric Andrus. Along with co-chairmen Jack Condon and Dianne Shahade, they expressed their thanks to the "many students who were willing to give." 
"People have been warm and helpful," extolled Condon with a big smile. "Mr Arthur Pears, (Notre Dame security head) and the ACC ticket office personnal did an excellent job which helped the campaign to be suc­cessful. 4'. 

Pat Deur and Steve Azzarelli, aspiring entrepreneurs in the "Theismann for Heisman" but­ton business, donated 125 of the buttons to the kids who will see the Notre Dame quarterback perform against Georgia Tech. The Cheerleaders donated 575 megaphones for the children's w;e during and after the game. 
The Hall presidents, after a meeting Monday night, went out and canvassed their respective halls for potential ticket dona­tions. 
"The car situation is pretty good. We even had offers from Adminis tra t ion personnal," Andrus pointed out. "The child­ren will be picked up at their schools for the most part, with every one meeting at Stepan center at I0:OOam Saturday." 
As to the future, Eric added, "Our hope is that the success of this year's drive, will offer the precedent for an expanded pro­gram next year." 
ACC awaits Bob Hope appearance 

Bob Hope, the nation's No. I stand-up comedian, will appear at the University's Ath­letic--Convocation Center (ACC) Saturday, November 14. 
Hope's inimitable blend of topical one-liners will occupy the middle set of a 2 I /2-hour show, according to John F. Plouff, managing director of the ACC. Plouff said the supporting acts, many of which have ap­peared with Hope at universities and state fairs across the nation, will be announced later. 
Ticket prices will be $6.50 for loge, platform and main floor seats, $5.50 for the lower arena, and $2.50 for the upper arena. 
The ski-nosed monologist's 
8:30 p.m. performance in the ACC's spadous aren;1 recalls his last time before a mike at Notre Dame when he received the "Patriot of the Year' award of the Notre Dame senior class at ceremonies in the University's ancient fieldhouse. A packed 


FLARESI SLACKSI JEANSI 
You name it...we have it.. 
Greeas.. Blues..Purples..Pinks..Golds..and more. With button-fronts, flap pockets, button belt loops, too. 
Ti1is is the largest selection of pants we have ever offered...We have what you're looking for: Stop in. 
$8 up 
Buy Now and PAY NEXT SUMMER 
No gimmicks here...you pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August of 1971, and we never add interest or carry­ing charges! What could be easier? 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
house stretched over the dirt sought to bring to the ACC since floor of the vintage building the building was dedicated two heard Hope quip, "Fellas, we years ago, will be the night gotta get outa here because they following the football game be­have to let the cattle back in." tween Georgia Tech and Notre The Fieldhouse still exists but Dame in the lt~'J Stadium. Notre Dame's convocations and Edward Krause, :.§1tre Dame's South Bend's entertainment athletic director and a longtime spectaculars have been moved to friend of Hope's, has invited him the modern confines of the for a Friday golf match,.weather two-year old ACC. permitting, and offered the 
comedian an'd his wife, Delores, 
The show, which Plouff has seats at the game. 
St. Mary's pass/foil grading system 
to correspond to NO's 
Last week the Academic Council at SMC changed the grading system for pass/fail courses and began action to restructure the Madeleva Scholars Program. 
Both subjects were brought to the attention of the Academic Council through the recomme­ndations of the Academic Stan­dards Committee. The Commit­tee's changes in the pass/fail system were initiated because the ND registrar felt it would be more convenient to program a pass/fail system which ND has been operating under, but which SMC had not previously used. 
The Academic Council agreed to the committee's recommen­dation to eliminate the S and U designations for pass/fail courses and accepted the P, F as sug­gested by Notre Dame. 
Previously a student at SMC would recieve a S for a grade of A, B, or C and a lJ for a grade of D or F, but this U would not be figured into the student's cum­ulative average. 
: OBSERVER : : NEWS MEETING : 
•

•: •
THURSDAY, 6:30P.M. : 
• In the office •. :EVERYBODY BE THERE : 

··········~·········· 
With this new system both ND and SMC students receiving a grade of A, B, C, or D would get a P and a F would be equivalent to F*. An F* grade would be figured into the student's average. The symbol F* is used to indicate that the course was taken on the pass/fail system. 
The Council also discussed the possibility of phasing out the Madeleva Scholars Program or restructuring it. 
This Honors program, to which freshmen are elected every year, allows for greater academic freedom for excep­tional students. 
The Academic Standards Committee invited faculty mem­bers and students to set up an ad hoc committee to plan new Honors courses while the Aca­demic Council favored a re­structuring of the present Honors program. 






