
CCC presents plan with SMC slant 
by Ann Therese Darin 
Claiming to represent "a consensus of the opinion" of the whole St. Mary's College com­munity, a report issued yester­day by the Coeducation Coor­dinating Committee accepted the Park-Mayhew report as a basis for negotiation with Notre Dame, and presented a comprehensiive plan for coeducation. 
In the 25-page report based on responses by members of the administration, faculty, and students to the Park-Mayhew coeducation study, the group said it recognizes that "our future lies with the University, and that, as the Report states, we have no reasonable expectation of maintaining our student body or the quality of higher education we offer outside thz University context." 
possible college through next
R •d gew6y u-..ues OClJ eco ogy year.Noproposalswillbemade
l U I ~ eitherfor or against the college." 
By Milt Jones 
Mrs. James Ridgeway urged citizens to become involved with ecology on the local level. The author and editor of Ramparts Magazine stated in the Library Auditorium last night that the problem could not be solved as well by the Washington bureaucracy as on the local level. 
Ridgeway then gave a brief history of the technology of Pollution Controls. The first attempt was by the Benthomites during the English Industrial Revolution. Their push was against unsanitary situations such as raw sewage and garbage lying open in the €ity streets so as to prevent disease. 
"In 18 44 Sir Edward Chadwick gave a report on sewage that is one of the best we have to date on that situation," Ridgeway commented. Chadwick ad­vocated piping sewage into rural areas to fertilize land, and having running water in pipes to houses. "This provided a safer situation for fire prevention too," Ridgeway stated. There was no dumping of sewage into water­ways until after the turn of the twentieth cent ury. 
At the Lawrence Experimental 
They concluded "in the best interests of thz college, we MUST go forward with Notre Dame." 
Summarizing St. Mary's 
position, thz statement lists two convictions which, they claim, complicates the opinion of the 
(1) "We are firmly committed to a belief in the benefits to students which arise from diversity in academic programs." 
They report alleged that the SMC community feels that solving the problem of a new relationship with Notre Dame by simply fusing a large and a small institution into one larger one in which thz smaller loses its identity is to forego without trial 
l 
station in Boston Mass. scientists pollution. But while Nixon was
took this European plan and doing this, his secretary was 
revised it. "They treated the urging work on the localle vel. sewage rather than emptying it Nixon rejected this idea. He on land. Today, however, U.:S. · announced a program calling for 
sewage plants are heavily utilized. Now in the average large city waste isn't treated properly and is only half processed. There are also problems due to inef­ficient workers,.. Ridgeway said. 
Moving into the political side of the ecology problem, Ridgeway stated that "Both democrats and Republicans have labored to get a set of certain standards and to get these standards put into practice for about 50 years." There have been numerous problems however ... An example of these problems is the Munt proposal. This senator wanted government to have the right to shut down factories when they were found to be pollutant. However, President Franklin Roosevelt dido 't want to hunt business since the depression was just ending, so t!Ie proposal was rejected. 
"Senators Musk ie and Blatnick in the early sixties were on Public Works committees. They pushed for stronger pollution control even the,.. Ridgeway added. Nixon has recently promised an increased federal effort ae:ainst any possible advantages thwt might result from an attempt to preserve St. Mary's. 
The report also stated that to increase the size of units and the degree of uniformity within the two institutions runs counter to one of the chief thrusts of con­temporary higher education. 
The committee's recom­mendation, whose "primary impetus is to go forward with Notre Dame ... what we wish above all is not to retreat into isolation," contains six major points­
(1) the identification of St. Mary's College as a coeducational community of professors and students in the liberal arts and sciences living and studying on the St. Mary's campus; 
(2) 
the preservation of those elements in administrative structure necessary to the College's identity; 

(3) 
the development of a coordinate relationship with academic departments at Notre Dame; 


(4) a full faith and credit 
(Continued on Page 8) 
Academic Council to discuss proposal on ExperimentSJI Colleae at Holy Cross 
by Tom Degnan No vote will be taken at . tomorrow's meeting however
The Notre Darne Acadernie

Council will meet tomorrow to according to Bill Wilka, sponsor
of the bill at the Assembly.
discuss the Experimental College ''The Experimental College proposal, which just two weeks just isn't going to happen this ago narrowly passed a 467 to 443 year," said Wilka. "The vote at the only session .of the Academic council will only General Assembly· discuss carrying on the study of a
l l 
b d 
10 illion ollars to be spent over 
the next 5 years. "However, the 
local community would spend 6 billion dollars, and the federal government would pay its part over nine years. This amounts to a decreasing annual commitment in actuality," Ridgeway com­mented. 
Ridgeway also remarked that The reason the Experimental 
College will not be implemented 

this year, according to Sr. Susanne Kelly, previous director of thz study for the proposal, is 
that many of the people con­
cerned with the plan won't be 
available next year. 
At least three of the members of the committee; Prof. John Williams, Prof. Carl Estabrook, and Dr. Michael Hinkemeyer recently failed to have their contracts r~newed. A directo for 
the ~ornmittee has yet to be 
"both Nixon and Johnson r fuse to appomted fo~ next year. 
make any reforms to mining law of 1352. "Any person ld b 
cou uy
Iand then for about two dollars an acre. Now we see that the results 
of their priviliges are horrible. Companies use up water in mining processes, strip mining leaves uranium toilings that fl t 
· oa
mto pollute towns, and copper
toilings from copper mines have the same effect." Ridgewaystated. · 
Talking on the Clean Air Act of 1970, Ridgeway stated that "Even though the law requires the industries to have a 90 per­cent pollution free car by 1975, if they don't makme the deadline nothing will happen. The government doesn't want to putthe industry at a standstill. 

. The Expenmental college plan Itself calls for 150 sophomores, 50 
from St. Mary's and 100 from 
N t D t b h d · H 1
o re arne, o e ouse m o y 

c d f ll ·
H 11

ro~st. a an fo towd. an In­nova Ive course ? s u I~ ceo­~ered ~ro':'n~ a mne cre_dit hour mterdiSCiphnary semmar on 
"Man and Nature " 
A t' d · ·h
1

s. s I~ u ate 10 t e proposal _ apphcatwns would have been taken from freshmen at both 
Notr~ Dame and St. Marys. Applicants would be requested to state why they wanted to be part of the program, w h~t . 
they expected to gam from It 
a~d wha_t they thought they could giVe to It:. . In addition to the mne hou~s taken at the hall, a total of SIX 

credit hours would be taken on either of the campuses. The administrative staff would consist of members of the faculty of both campuses who volun­teered for the program. Subjects would be taught in four week sequences. 
Fr. David Burell another of thz formulators of thz project called the Experimental College Plan "very feasible." 

Rev. Charles Sheedy 

"It's a way to help sophomores discover what learning is about," said Burell. "The co-ed angle is not a gimmic but a way of life. By being on a small scale and having a w ell planned environment we had hoped to undertake programs previously considered impossible. 
Fr. Burrel went on to say that the best feature of the college would be that the faculty and the students would be a hlP tn le:trn 
to getyher. He said that Holy Cross Hall was the most logical place for the college because it was the most viable for the 
program. 

Over half of student body recieves financial aid 
The following is an in depth article done by Observer Associate Editor Steve Hoffman on the scholarship and financial aid which the University provides to students. 
At the present time, fifty-four per-cent of Notre Dame's total undergraduate enrollment receives some type of financial assistance amounting to approximately $4,615,000. 
According to Mrs. June McCauslin, Assistant Director of Admissions, this sum is parceled out to students in several different forms. Pure scholarships, representing gift money not repayable to the University, total $2,000,000 divided among 1610 students. 
These include scholarships either ad­ministered directly by the University, or brought to the University, such as are National Merit Scholarships, Any scholarship awarded by the University, Mrs. McCauslin explained, is based dually on academic ability and need. Serious financial need must be clearly proven for even the most presti gious scholarships. 
Mrs. McCauslin detailed the particulars 
of the scholarship program 
University scholarships are rarely conferred upon upperclassmen, since most awards begin at the freshmen level. Not much is available to upperclassmen aside from loans. 
All scholarship students, as a general rule, must maintain a 3.0 grade-point in order to keep their scholarshios. If a student's average happens to fall below this prescription, he is given an op­portunity to explain this lapse, and point to any extenuating circum stances he feels relevant to his particular case. 
If the Scholarship Committee sees sufficient reason in his appeal, then the student will be allowed to retain his award. 
Very few scholarships are revoked per year. This is due mainly to the fact that the student who falters academically frequently leaves school, thus nullifying the need for the Committe(; to take action against him. 
Further, Mrs. McCauslin noted that revocation of scholarships is not a serious problem considering thz high calibre of the scholarship student. If a student did happen to lose his scholarship, it would be replaced by some other type of assistance, 
such as a loan or a job, which may well through banks. exceed the original scholarship stipend. An additional impor tant source of 
Regarding the sources of scholarships, assistance for students comes in the form Mrs. McCauslin stated that the great of part-time campus employment. Mrs. majority of scholarships derive from McCauslin added that slightly more than University be~efactors, and to a lesser 1,000 students participate in this program degree f~om pnvate persons and companie which offers about $700,000 per year. The 
She emphatically denies that scholar~ ship donors have any personal influence in the revocation of s cholarships. The University informs the donor only of the student.' grades. Any stipulations for the retention of the scholarship must be made in advance by the donor, and the student is free to accept or reject these stipulations. 
Other than scholarships, financial assistance also derives from loans and government programs. Loans divided through the University currently assist 955 students who share a total of $575 000. Loans totalling $1,340,000, obtained out~ide of thz University through banks or federal programs, are divided among 1163 students. 
Not all of the assistance acquired from these latter sources is extended to the needy, since the University cannot dictate conditions for the distribution of loans normal campus credit job pays $288 per semester. 
Although these figures may seem im­pressive, Mrs. McCauslin was quick to point out that this is hardly the case. The demand for financial assistance far ex­ceeds the supply. 
She commented that all available financial a ssistance is ex~austed each year, but that there are still many students engaged in dire financial struggles to stay in school. Further, if the newly-proposed federal budget is approved, the fiscal situation here will be all the more serious. 
Specifically, the Nixon budget seeks to reduce funds available for National Student Defense Loans from the present $243 million to a meager $5 million. The federal government, by this action, hopes to remove the sc~ools from the lending 
(Continued on Page 5 

Drug cou nciI i ng~ service aids students 
On the first floor of the Library, in a little corner 
MORRIS AUDITOHIUM SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 

March 8,1971 

WORLD'S HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP 
There will be one champion and only one champion 
JOE 


FRAZIER 
vs 


MUHAMMAD 
ALl 
Closed circuit television live from Madison Square Garden 

NO liVE OR DELAYEO HOME TELEVISION 
Tickets now on sale Students $6.00 

On sale today 11:15-12: 15; 4-5pm Student Union Ticket Office -Limited student tickets available -2 per student ID -onl 
room once reserved for "group study", there now exists a modest little office with a rather modest little sign in the windown that says: "Student Drug Information Center." But don' let the title scare you; it's really a very nice place. 
I use the term "modest" simply because that's exactly what the Drug Center is like; it is an information center pure and simple and makes no pretentious about being a counselling center. And although the sign says 
CONTINENTAL HAIR STYLING 
306 Sherland Bldg.
For men  South Bend  
only  tel. 234-0811  
Serving the  N.D. Men for 2 years  

in all hairstyling needs and supplies 
(Watch for the grand opening of New) 

INTERLOCKEN LTD. 
opening March 15th 
... 

flying somewhere over spring break? Student Union's 

BUS SERVICE 
to 




O'HARE 
Depart: ND Circle (Busses leave SMC HOly Cross Hall 15 minutes later) Wed. Mar. 10 4:30p.m. Thur. Mar. 11 4:30p.m. Fri. Mar. 12 4:30 

Contact: 1st Bank Campus Travel Bureau (basement of Badin Hall, next to bar­
bershop) 9:00-12:00, 1:00-4:30 "Student" drug information center, faculty and ad­ministrators can use it too, if their modesty permits. 
The students who run the center are the nicest things about it. Tome Tollakson, who deided to start the information service about a year ago in Keenan Hall, and his co­workers, Eddie Prezioso, Tony Riley, and Tom Kelly, are willing to help anyone who needs it get some information on those drugs with such strange names as "cannabis" or "mescaline." And if you 
Return: O'Hare Airport (Busses leave from restaurant between American and United terminals) 
Tues. Mar.23 Band lOp.m. 
$5.00 -one way 
ALL SALES FINAL 

LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER RATHSKELLAR Open now Monday -Thursday 12 -12 S·U·S·C· COFFEE HOUSE 
Help needed to expand & maintain ­donate two hours a week. Call JOE 1743 

INTERESTED 
DRINK IT 
should happen to come around when the center isn't open they'll always be glad to have you call them at home. If you're in a bad situation it's a pretty good idea to look them up. They can help. 
One of the strong points 
One of the strong points in the center's favor is that it doesn't have any "slant" to push when dealing with 
·people. It merely supplies them with the best of current information on drugs and leaves the question of ddug use up to the individual per­son. The operators don't see much value in trying to counsel people when the facts can speak for themselves. But if you want a personal opinion they'll give you one. 

The Center gets its facts on drugs from a number of sources, including the U.S. and Canadian governments, religious groups, and certain drug informaion services. The Center, as well as the drug use himself, always seems to be a little wary of information coming from the U.S. government, so it tends to rely on information from the in­dependent sources. 
The main source and the one 
most highly valued is a ten 
year old organization by the 

name of STASH(Student 
Association for the Study of 
Hallucinogens.) The Center 
can depend on STASH for a 
whole library of information 

K of C needs volunteers 
by Mike Nevins 

The Notre Dame Council of the nights of Columbus and the local Muscular Distrophy foundation will sponsor a collection from 
10:00 to 3:00 this Saturday in the South Bend Mishawaka area. 
Co-chairmen Dave Jaworski and Don Kelly also said that collections will be taken in the dining halls Thursday night and on drugs. It's "Journal of Psychedelic Drugs" is described as on of the mosthe most ''sophisticated'' publications available. Right now, the Center is building its information on mescaline and the opiates with the aid of STASH's library. 
through  the  halls  during  the  
week.  
out  that  

The Center tries to do its best to help students un­derstand the drugs they use, and if you've been taking something that wounds like "NP-27" they'll check their files and find out what the junk is really make of. 
The Center has been in the Library only since November, so not all the students who might wish to use its services are aware of its !ovation and its function. This is especially true of off-campus students who are generally heavier drug users than students in the dorms. 
Currently the use of the Center is rather predictable. The workers say they average about one person per hour during regular school periods and about six each hour during exam time. The find that during exams student queries are mostly about "speed." ._ 
Antoher point in the Cen­ter's favor is that if a student needs more help than they are equipped to give him they can alsays act as 'an -impartial force that helps that sudent 
(continued on page 51 

workers are needed for S atur­day's drive. There are already seventy volunteers from St. Marys and Holy Cross School of Nursing but many more are needed from Notre Dame. 
Anyone interested should · contact Dave or Don at 8365. There will be a party for workers with a prize for the top collectors 
in the council's building Oil campus. All workersare asked to meet at the building at 9:30 Saturday morning. 
Johnny Dee and Austin Carr are giving promotional assistance to the drive in the South Bend area. The group is also being assisted to its finteen hundred dollar goal by honorary local chairmn Pat O'BRIEN. 
:+••············~
The Pin-Up Girl : 

I. ~ Starrln~r : 
..,-Betty Grable ...._

, * March 5,6,7 ..,­
* * 
: Badin Vintage Cinema :
*...-¥Jf.f_Jf;lf¥;•••••• * 
One weekend onlv! The NO-SMC Studio Theatre will presPnt 
DARK OF THE MOON 
a powerful dramatization of an American folk ballad. by Howard Richardson and William Herney. 


WASHINGTON 
HALL  
March  5th  &  6th  I'  
at at  8:30, and 7:30 PM..  7th  !­j: 

i~Ckets $1.00
subscribers free. call 284-41 76 
rhe Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the Universi!y of N.,tre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased f.or $.8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 1nd. 46556. second c·lass postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Wednesday, March 3, 1971 Page 3
m• o.&r£RPDt 


No one files for G.S.U. presidency 
to them, but don't want to expend thz GSU's future is grad studentby Rick Gering 
any effort to help the GSU. He apathy. also stated that people seem to If no candidate turns up for thz
According to Bill Lorimer, GSU expect the Grad Union to exist GSU elections, the grad studentsPresident, no candidates have indefinitely, but warned that "we will lose their representation,yet been announced for the up­aren't going to go on forever if presently provided by the Gradcoming Sgsu presidential elec­people don't start lending a Union, on the Faculty Senate,tion. If there are no candidates, hand." Board Board of Trustees,the Grad Student Union will The Graduate Student Union no Academic and Graduate Coun­cease to exist. 
longer needs to "justify its cils, and the Advnaced StudentAccording to Bill Lorimer, GSU existence," according to Affairs Committee, as well as thepresident, no candidates have yet Lorimer, because it is only since Traffic Appeals Board.
been announced for the upcoming the institution of the GSU that According to Lorimer, the grad SGSU presidential election. If Grad students have become a students "may not miss this atthere are no candidates, the Grad part of the university com­first, but they will eventuallyStudent Union will cease to exist. 
munity. miss it very much."
The current president says the While he admits that there are Lorimer summed up hisgrad students want things handed 
still many unresolved problems position of the election situation facing grad students, Lorimer by stating that he is "sick of the feels that these could be over­mentality that says, 'Let's drop come, and that the only threat to back into obscurity."' 
rr.r.;~~~:::::: .-~ti · :::::n:~ ·::~ ~:: ::=-:;-:;::-:;:: ~=:;:;::::=:::::::::::::::;~:: 

::-: :::: 
:·:· 

STUDENT UNION-SENIOR CLASS TRIP
Tutors are still needed { 

. . for the Neighborhood Study ;:;: :;:: Help's i;·=.::,.
afterndoon .. 

·:· programs. Mon ay-




NASSAU
<Wednesday, Tuesday-~ ;:;: Thursday, 1:00 to 2:30, call \!!! :·.:: Mike Heisler 7992, or John r,, 
i!i! Ried 3495. ~ 
$194 -air of 1st class accomodations « t 
~ 1 
days, 7 nights
~~~::::::::::~j::~::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:: .'; =:=::::~, ' 
Final sign -up date: Friday, March 5 
Senior class President Jim D' Aurora has asked that all 

Contact Ist Bank Campus Travel Bureau seniors check the lists !basement of Badin Hall, next to barber shop)
posted in the lobbies of 

9:0~12:00, I :0~4:30 dailytheir halls which contain room listings for accuracy. 
Call: 283-7080 
"It is imperative that seniors check these lists and correct any mistakes in them," he said. 

Note: Bus seats to Windsor are now available at the travel 
bureau. 




The Best Plan Yet 
Father Burtchaell's report on coeducation is his first major triumph as Provost, and more than this, it is an articulate, well-drawn defense of a concept which sorely needs to be implimented at this University. Father Burtchaell, in his report, indicates clearly that complete absorbtion of St. Mary's is not only quite possible but desirable and beneficial to both schools. The reporthandles objections easily; the "special import" of courses at St. Mary's are very simply preserved if the two schools merge departments. Likewise, the hamanities vs. professional-approach dialectic many opponents of merger call vital is preserved when departments merge; all students would then have the option of taking courses prescribing to either approach. The report addresses the important question of thz placement or displacement of SMC faculty and students; according to most, if not all, would be included in the new emerged University. The regrettable lack of a specific plan to deal with SMC students and faculty is one of the few deficiences This regrettable lack of a specific plan to deal with SMC students and faculty is one of the few deficiencies of the report. It should be clear, for example, that no SMC Juniors or Seniors would be displaced; at this point in their academic Careers, such a displacement would undoubtedly render those students unable to finish college. Beyond that, the querelous will not be satisfied until the plan is made specific. We suggest that such a specification be the first priority of the committee we hope will be appointed to implement the Burtchaell plan. The Burtchaell plan's second deficiency is its advocacy of a two-to-one ratio. Implicit in such a ratio would be two separate standards, one for male applicants and one for females. The most important reason for coeducation-++THAT THIS SCHOOL WOUGHT NOT TO DENY FEMALES THZIR RIGHT TO RECEIVE AN EDUCATION HERE++CRIES OUT AGAINST SUCH A DOUBLE STANDARD. We suggest that individual applicants be judged on thzir merits as individuals, and on those merits alone. We suspect the male-female ratio will be palatable to all concerned. The third, and perhaps the most pressing deficiency of the report is its insistance that co­ed dorms must not be part of Notre Dame's future. Although the establishment of women' residence halls on the Notre Dame Campus is a monumental step forward, reason dictates that that step will not be complete until .coeducational dorms are a reality. Every normal group-living establishment in our society is coeducational; establishments as impersonal as apartment buildings; establishments as intimate as the family. In fact, the only group­living establishments not coeducational are monastaries, convents, and prisons, and schools like Notre Dame that have not yet fully implemented the idea that in our society,. men and women ought to be treated in much the same ways. These criticisms are meant in no way to depreciate a fine and promising report. The Burtchaell plan is measurably superior to anything our deliberations have yet conjured up, including most emphatically the expensive Park-Mayhew report. We recommend, and express the hope that, the University begin work to implement the Burtchaell plan im­mediately. 
Girls--Another Great reason for taking classes at Notre Dame! 
--reprinted from an old Observer 
Tom Bornholdt Stay Hall Must Die 
Monday the students had a choice between two different styles of 
student body presidents. One emphasized working with Ad­
ministration in solving many of the presding problems of the 
University. The other suggested a policy of confrontation with the 
Administration, with an organized use of student power accomplishing 
whatever the Administration refused to do. 
The superior concept won out last Monday. Confirming Barkett's faith in the good will of the Administration, Fr. James T. Burtchaell, far and away the second most powerful man in the Administration, came out with a sweeping and comprehensive plan for thz merger of two schools. Despite the poor showing of interest at the General Assembly and the mediocre turnout for the referendum, the Provost has wisely devised a coeducation policy along the lines of thz interests of the vast majority of Notre Dame students. Confrontation on this issue would now be useless if not detrimental to the interests of thz student body. 
The problem is something like this. Assume that Hall X at Notre Dame and HallY at SMC are to go coed. Hall X has 400 residents, 100 from each class, and wants to take in 200 girls from SMC. Freshmen will not be admitted to the Hall, and so the 100 graduating seniors will not be replaced. This, however, still leaves the 300 ND students in the hall. They would only have the 200 remaining beds available to them . Now if 100 of these students would move to Hall Y, another Notre Dame hall or off-campus, then there is no problem. If not, then the shit hits the fan. Students would then be forced out their do rmitory. 
The common answer to this problem is the Broken Egg Omelette Theory. Everybody in Halls A through W feel that those terrible students in Hall X should mak,e sacrifices for the improvement of the social life of the entire campus. Aren't they in favor of coeducation? Then they should be gla d to give up their rooms so that women can live at Notre Dame. 
What is ignored by this exercise in hypocrisy is the real cause of thz problem of coed or juxtaposed dorms. The Stay Hall System. If there was just one non stay hall on campus, with roughly one half seniors and one half juniors, there would be no problem of chosing between broken eggs or no omelette. In thz University's haste to make sure there were no God Almighty Awful Elite Halls left, the University created a problem for coeducation. To a degree thz confrontation attitude of "We want it or else" of now gone student administrations with regards to stay halls have blown up in their face. They got stay halls--and have probably set coeducation behind a year. A little problem solving oriented cooperation with the Administration back thzn might have foreseen and avoided this present dilemma. 
Applying the Spilt Milk Theory, there is still the need for a solution to the situation of Hall X. There is a very simple answer. Create a non-stay hall. 
Go back to HaltX. This year the Administration should not admit any freshmen to Hall X. Instead they should admit 100 other seniors from other halls. Then the next year that dorm would have 100 sophomores, 100 juniors, and 200 seniors. The next year the 200 seniors graduate and 200 girls from SMC take their place. No broken eggs, but a very good omelette. 
Some would say that this undesirable as a coeducation plan because it would delay the earliest possible presence of undergraduate women on 
Some would say that this undesirable as a coeducation plan because it would delay the earliest possible presence of undergraduate women on campus until1972. Face facts, the odds are overwelmingly against there b eing even a juxtaposition of dorms next year. But it is still not too late for the Administration to redistribute its freshmen. And there is nothing for St. Mary's to stop Notre Dame from creating a non-stay hall. Furthermore the creation of a nonstay hall would be a good pledge by the University that a coexchange of some sort would take place in 1972. If it didn't take place then thz University would have a terrible non stay hall on its hands. The presence of such a hall would insure that the University would stop procrastinating the next year, and also place considerable pressure on SMC to cooperate. 
Some might also say that it would be impossible to get 100 seniors to transfer into Hall X. What reason would they have to move in? One big one, id est, there are no freshmen in the hall. There are at least 200 seniors on or off campus who would sell their souls to get away from freshmen. But even if there weren't 100 seniors who would move in, then there are other possibilities. People who would pledge that they intend to move to HallY at SMC off campus could be admitted (even freshmen). The basic idea is admitting 100 people to the hall, that would not be there next year. ~­
-~---~ -----~--­
THB OBS.UUJit Page 5 
The text of Fr. Burtchaell's co-education plan was to have appeared on this page, however our machines have not been functioning properly. We hope you will bear with us until the 
problems have been solved. -The Staff 
Student finances 
business in addition to using these funds somewhere else. 
This budgetary provision will not come under inspection of thz House Ap­propriations Committee until July 30. As a result, the Admissions Office has been forced to hedge to incoming freshmen regarding financial assistance. As it stands, Defense loans are contingent upon Congressional action. 
To fill the sizeable breach that would be opened if the budget were passed as written, Mrs. McCauslin mentioned that a subsidized loan program may be im­plemented. The exact methods of ap­plication are presently unknown, but they would essentially involve the government subsidizing loans through banks and schools, and apparently remove aid to education from the federal budget. 
Much emphasis has been laid recently on the need for increased minority enrollment, and increased monetary aid for minorities necessary to realize this goal. According to Mrs. McCauslin, until last year financial assistance for minority students was negligible. 
Drug counciling 
(Continued  from  Page 2)  still  evolving  under  the  
but manages to keep the students name out of places he  management of its founders. Soon they hope to work out a  
doesn't really  want  it.  Like  plan for legal aid with the Law  
those  meticulous  files  the  School  and  the  Legal  Aid  
Infirmary keeps.  Or  in  the  Society  to  assist  students  
Cief of Police's Office. Or the  whose needs are in the area.  
Provost's.  They're also  working  on  an  
It's not that the Center is trying to prefudice students against the Administration, but only that they're trying to  arrangement with Miles Laboratories to have analyses of drug samples performed. So as long as there is a need  
maintain  their  "tenacious  for  its  kind  of  service,  the  
independence," as well as that  Drug Information Center will  
of  the  student.  This  in­ continue  to  be  a  viable  
dependence  is  partly  the  ·  organization.  If you're  in  
result of the Administration,  need,  or  even  just  curious  
which got them their private  about drugs or drug laws the  
office, and partly the result of  Center has  plenty  of  books,  
the  Center  itself,  which  pamphlets,  folders  and  
declined to accept any money  handouts on the subjects, and  
from  the  Administration.  you can borrow them for free.  
They  want  to  avoid  control  Hours are Monday through  
and any appearance of it as  Thursday, 7 pm-9 pm, and also  
well. Thus the $1000 it costs  Sunday  8  pm-10  pm  and  
per year to operate the Center comes basically · from Mardi  Wednesday 2 pm-5 pm. Or if you wish, you may call Tom at  
Gras and contributions from  3382 or Ed at 8605 for  an ap­ 
the halls and a few alumni.  pointment.  I  don'  t  use  
The Center is still young and  drugs, but now I know where  

However, the 1970 Cotton Bowl reaped 
$160,000 to be made available to 
minorities. As of yet, she has no idea how 
much was garnered by the 1971 Cotton 
Bowl. 

Aside from Bowl revenues, only a small 
number of donors, no more than four or 
five, have made funds available ex­
clusively for minority students. Much of 
the money that is awarded is in the form of 
a non-repayable grant-in-aid rather than a 
pure scholarship 
The difference between the two is that 
the recipient of the grant-in-aid is not 
required to maintain a 3.0 average in order 
to save his stipend. The regular scholar­
ship is more of an academic award that is 
the grant-in-aid. 
. Mrs. McCauslin noted that nearly all aid 
IS a package deal comprised of several 
different. Itoften includes a scholarship, a loan, a grant, or a work-study award , all of which is designed to add up to eno ugh to enable t he prospective student to come to Notre Dame. 
CLASSIFIED 
ADVERTISEMENTS Mlil in or come by Obsener ojjlce. Fur injumurion call 7471. 
The classified advertisement section of the Observer is being offered to the N D -SM C com m u­nit\· as a student service. USE IT! -CLASSIFIED ADS GET· 
R E S U L='T=-'S'="'·-=---­
TRY-QUTS 

ND-SMC Freshmen -NO Varsity Cheerleaders invite you to C h eerl ea dertryouts-Organiza­tional Meeting-6:30-Wed. March 10-Beare's Crawe (B-P Base­ment. 
rLPEANUTS PERSONAl 
Happy Birthday to The Naked Maja Love, Maja East 
SERVICES 
Breen-Phillips Food Sales. Call in pizza orders before 11:00 pm. 1294 or 1705. Pick up at 11:30. Stop on your way home from the library. $1.25 Cheese $1.40 Mushroom $1.50 Pepperoni $1.65 Everything 
Crypt-New Hours 12:30--4:00 Now on Stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 Cat Stevens-Ten for Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection $3.1! 
Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 
WANTED 

Help wanied'-:----­Secretary for Observer office. Monday through Friday morn­
•ngs. Approximately 15 hrs. per week. Call 74 71 afternoons. 
Help Wanted Student artist caj..)able of doing lettering & artistic 
conception drawings. Call 
2 7 2-8448. 
Looking for small, cheap (fully stocked?) refrigerator unit. Call Mcgoo 4614 

Wanted one roommate-Condi­tions: must have full stereo system and television-have no girlfriend in Elmira, N.Y.-be Mean Joe Green fan-not have Zappa poster-be extremely gul­lible. Advantages: learn keen card tricks, enjoy jags (on you), learn about neato Pittsburgh -Call 21 06, Ask for "the Dude" 
HOUSING 
Getting Married? Need housing for Fall '71 Call 255-8073 
_FOR SALE--­

Time, Inc. 282-2250 Available at Student Rates: Time, Life, Sports 
Illustrated, & Fortune f'J1 agazine. Cdll Tom, 
282-2250. 
~-----­

For Sale: Mac Gregor-Jack Nicklaus irons, woods, bag, putter and dirty towel-$170 value for $80 or so-call 6841 
Sorry, Free classified ads will appear in Thursday's Observer. .....Machine Change over 
*CLASSIFIED AD RA1ES * 
Wonk 0-10  ldly ...  2d•y• _,.  3day• 1.00  o4 day• 1.15  tw.... 1...  
11·15  .00  1.00  1.75  2.1&  
·~·  
, ..20 ,_,  .10 ...  1.15 130  1.70 z.oo  2AO ....  .... ,..  
20-30 31-36  1.00 1.20  uo  ·~· ,_..  lAD ,_..  4.10 ..,.  
ll-40  135  2.10  3.10  4.20  &.10  
41 ...  1.50  uo  ....  
.....  ,_,,  ....  3.50  ....  

Band plans concert tour 
The Notre Dame concert band leaves March 14 for a 3,200 mile tour through eight southern states. Appearing before 10 audiences in 11 days, the band will return to Notre Dame for a public performance in the Athletic and Convocation Center on March 26. 
Under the direction of Robert 

F. O'Brien and Michael Q. Hennessey, the 45-member band will perform first at Marian College, Indianapolis, other appearances will be at Mur­freesboro and Cleveland, Tenn.; Mobile, Ala.; New Orleans, La.; Galveston, Tex.; Cottonpolrt, La.; Greenwood, Miss.; Little Rock, Ark.; and Belleville, Ill. 
Six coeds, students· at Saint Mary.s College, will be making their second tour with the band. They include Mary Addis, Toulon, Ill.; Lois Del Vallee, South Bend; Lucy Anne Everhardt, Allentown, Pa.; Tere Hanson, Fostoria, Ohio; Ann Herzberger, Virginia, Ill., and Patricia Miller, Sterling, Ill. 
Concerts will include a classical overture, boradway hits, marches, popular tunes, contemporary works, solos and ensembles, Latin American rhythms, and traditional favorites. 
The Notre Dame concert band is composed of students selected by audition at the end of the football season. Most of the successful candidates were soloists in high school They represent all the undergraduate colleges and most of the academic departments of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's . 
O'Brien, now in his 18th year with the oldest college band in the nation, is a native of Breese, Ill. He is a director and honorary life president of the National Catholic Bandmasters' Association. 
Alumni schedules programs 
"Notre Dame--How Catholic Is it?' will be the topic at "Universal Notre Dame Nights" scheduled in more than 110 cities across the country in April and May. The traditional spring alumni club dinners, many attended by representatives from the University, date back to 1924. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president, will speak in Chicago on April 26 and in Washington, D.C., on April 29. Appearances in Indianapolis (April 19), Cleveland (April 20), Toledo (April 21), Detroit (April 
22) and New York (April 23) will be made by Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost, and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president, will speak in Milwaukee (April 12), Buffalo, N.Y. (April 13), Rochester, N.Y. (April 14), Pittsburgh (April 15) and Cin­cinnati (April 16). 
Others appearing at Universal Notre Dame Nights include Revs. Thomas Blantz, vice president for academic affairs; Ferdinand Brown, associate provost; Thomas Chambers, director of student housing; James Shilts, assistant vice president for student affairs; Jerome Wilson, vice president for financial af­fairs, and William Toohey, director of campus ministry. 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY MARCH5-6 
STEPAN CENTER 

Tickets: $1.50 Saturday Afternoon Session -1:30 $3.00 Friday & Saturday Evening Sessions -7:30 
$4.50 All Sessions 
Available in Dining Halls until Thursday 
Service of Student Union Social Commission 
One knockout highlights Bengals 
by Jim Donaldson 
night's card and Larry Samerad showed good speed and boxing decisions although Scott Gleason Mike Welsh in other matches in
Observer Sportswriter 
was the first winner in this vear's skill in taking a unanimous and Lance Cory were also this categoByron Kin g's first round com petition, taking a split decison from Paul Hagenbac awarded unanimous decision knockout in the 175-pound class decision from Bob Kuhn. while Matt Cavanaugh was given wins in that weight class. Burns outslugged Gary highlighted the openinv night of In another 125-pound battle, a unanimous decision over Dan Baker knocked down Tom Kasperak for his victory while 

Notre Dame's 40th annual Bengal Charlie Fabian jabbed his way to Bouts. There were 22 fights on a split decision over Cliff Losh. last night's card. There were four bouts in the King put Bob Dowd down for 135-pound class. Mike Loughery the count with a hard right 50 won an exciting contest with Sam se conds into their bout and Dowd Galloway by unanimous decision. was unable to rise before the Although Loughery was bleeding referee reached ten. , heavily from the nose he refused 
The only other fight in wftich to fold and won the hard-hitting thz victor was not determined by match. the judges was the bout between The "Naked Kahuna", Jamie Gary Hunt and Jim Waldron in Egan, was every bit as en­the 160-pound division. Waldron tertaining in the ring as he is on sustained an arm injury in the football Saturdays. Egan won a second round and wa s forced to split decision in an exciting bout retire, giving Hunt a TKO with Al Constants. triumph. Pat McGrath, the fifth and last 
The 125-ounders began the of the "Fighting. McGraths," 
Fencers rack it up 
by Joe Passiatore 
encountered the best competition 
Observer Sportswriter 
over the week-end and still came 
The Notre Dame fencing team through with some excellent added four more conquests to an wins." He was temporarily already impressive record, this distressed Saturday, however, past weekend, as they upped when the sabre team went down their season mark to an imposing to Illinois, 2-7. "They bounced· 19-3. The team emerged vic­back to beat Wisconsin, though, torious in skirmishes with and perhaps thz reason they lost Wisconsin Parkside, Milwaukee to Illinois was that John Klier (aTech, the University of former swordsman at Notre Wisconsin, and the University of Dame) coaches their sabre team. 
Illinois I He knows our personnel very well 
Parkside and Milwaukee and they seemed to know our Technical College fell on Friday weaknesses," admitted DeCicco. 
night at Milwaukee. Parkside The magic number of wins in a 
succumbed 20-7, with Notre fencing season is thirty, and 
Dame's depth being the deciding three Irish fencers recentlyfactor. Coach DeCicco accounted achieved this plateau. Dougfor the win by saying, "Parkside Daher (sabre) is currently 38-11 fenced us to a stand-off against on thz season and needs only two our number one and two men, but more wins to eclipse Russ Harris' we cleaned up against their school record of 39 victories in number three men in every 1941. The other members of ND's weapon." In the same tri-meet big thgee, all of whom are cap­the Irish dissected Milwaukee tains, are John Lyons (foil), 34­Tech 23-4, with the epee team 17, and Rip Deladrier (epee), 31­
turning in a spotless per­9. 
formance, 9-0. The team's next competition
The.following day at Madison, will be the Great Lakes tour­
the fencers continued their nament on March 6. Notre Dame 
winning ways with a pair of 18-9 and fifteen other schools will be 
triumphs over the Universities of involved. Two members of each 
Wisconsin and Illinois. Epee weapon represent every school. 
again was impressive as they Coach DeCicco has delegated Rip 
posted a 15-3 mark against the Deladrier and Chuck Harkness 
two schools. Instrumental in the for epee, and Doug Daher and 
epee team's success over the Mike Feeney for sabre. As for the 
week-end were Rip Deladrier, (7-foil team DeCicco and assistant 
0); Mike Matranga, (5-0); and coach Bishko were undecided 
Tim Taylor, (6-2). · between Mike Cornwall, Glen 
In the other weapons, foil and Kalin, and John Lyons. DeCicco 
sabre, coach DeCicco's reactions rated the team's chances by
ranged from satisfaction to saying, "We expect tough op­
discontentment. DeCicco was position from a couple of teams,
extremely pleased with the foil but since we lost to Detroit, (one 
team as they came through the of the teams in the Great Lakes 
week-end's activities with a tourney), earlier in the season; 
combined 25-11 record. DeCicco we'll be out to gain a measure of 
commented, "The foil team . revenge. 
Just for the Record 
by Mike Pavlin 
With the Irish definitely heading forth NCAA's, it is time to dust off another set of record possibilities. Basketball marks are kept for both regular season and all-game catagories. Austin Crr will brek all of his old regular season marks; his all-game stats will be tougher because of the three great games he played in the Mid-East Rgionallast yar. INDIVIDUAL--SEASON 1.) (New Record) Most Points by a Senior--Au tin Carr 945 2.) (New Record) Fild GVOAL Attempts (regular season)--Carr 705 
3. coring Average (r.s.)--Carr 37.8 4.) Points Scored (r.s.)--948, Carr 945 5.) Points Scored (all games)--1106, Carr 945 6.) Field Gol Attempts (a.g.)-799, Carr 705 veragge (a.g. )--38.1, Carr 37.8 
.8.) Fild Goals Made )r.s.)--376, Carr 372 
9.) Field Goals Made (a.g.)--444, Carr 372 
10.) Free Throw Attempts--264, Carr 256 246 
INDIVIDUAL--CAREER 
1.) <New Record) Points Scored--Carr 2404 
2.) <New Record) Scoring AVVERAGE. ++Carr 34.3 .3.) (Ne~ Record) Field Goal Attempts,--Carr 1796 
4.) <New Record) Field Goals Made--Carr 959 
5.) (New Record) Field Goal percentage--Carr .534 
6.) (New Record) Free throw Attempts (three yrs. )--Carr 595 7.) Free Throw per cent--.804, Carr .817 8.) Gmes Appeared In--85, Collis Jones 81 McCarthy. 

Tom Kress easily won the only bout in the 140-pound class, chalking up a unanimous decision over Pete Dockery. 
The re were no fights fights last night in the 145-pound division. 
There were two bouts i~ the 150­pound c_lass . a?d both victors won on spht deciSIOD:s·. T?m Bole knocked down Lac1me Richard o in the second r~>t~nd and had ~he spun_ky . Dom1m~an bleedmg heavily m the third stanza but Richardo battled hard and was save~ the ign~~iny of . a unammous deciSion. M1ke Har~ill:gton also advanced to the sem1-fmals of the 150-pounders, w~nning a wild battle with Steve Ismg. 
Kevin Ker~igan and Aaron Baker looked hke the class of the 155-pounders winning unanimous 
Observer Sportswriter 
Notre Dame's hopes of making a strong showing in the NCAA indoor track championship were given a welcome boost this past weekend, as the Irish runners captured three first places and several other high finishes in the annual Ohio State Relays. 
During the two-day affair in Columbus, Coach Alex Wilson's team showed no ill effects from last week's mediocre finish in the Central Collegiate Conference meet, and indded showed signs of peaking for the important meets which lie ahead of them. 
The Irish were led, as they usually are, by senior Rick Wohlhuter. The Notre Dme captian won the 880 with a time of 1:53.5, but his was not the only noteworthy effort. Big Elio Polselli set a new meet and fieldhouse record by tossing the shot put 57'3112". and Tom McMannon won the 70-yard high hurdles in :08.5. McMannon edged Gordon Ober on Knt State by one-tenth of a second for first place honors, and Joe Utz grabbed a third place for ND by finishing only fractions behing Ober in this same race. 
Notre Dame's two-mile relay 

team of Gene Mercer, Jack 
Duffy, Dave Bell, and Rick 
Wohlhuter turned in a time of 
7:39.3, and while thi was good 
enough for a second place finish, 
it was far behind the record­
breaking 7:29.4 which was posted 
by an Illinois quartet. Mike 
Mcmannon finished third in the 
triple jump with a distance of 
47'11", and Pat Holleran's 9:12.1 
placed him foirth in the two-mile 
run. 
Despite the quality of the Irish 

prformance, thoigh, most of the 
lime-light went to the team from 
the University of Illinois. 
Bitterly in the second round and Ragus bested Tom Booker. Clark 
completely dominated their fight was bleeding in the first round of 
in the third stanza. Kerrigan his fight with Welsh but landed 
knocked down Rich Gillon twice some solid punches in the last two 
and had him bleeding heavily but rounds to gain the decision in one 
Gillon hung in gamely and lasted of the night's more exciting 
to the finish. Gleason and Cory battles. 
were winners over Terry Johnson There were two fights in the 
and Billy Banner, respectively. heavyweight division. Pat 
Hunt's TKO triumph over Marcello and Gary Kessler 
Waldron was the only fight in the traded some viscious punches in 
160-pound category. In the 165-their bout and Marcello was 
pound class, Nick Maloni won a declared wimler on all three 
unanimous decision over Bill judges' cards. 
Hannigan and Norm Barry outhit In the final fight of the night, 
Joe Szady to gain a split decision. Bob Moorman floored Jim 
King's KO of Dowd with a McGraw in the first 15 seconds of 
lightnigh the opening round and went on to 
King's KO of Dowd with a win a unanimous decision. 
lightning right spiced the 175-The semi -final bouts in all 
pound bouts. Mike Burns and weight classes will be held 
Jack Ragus were awarded tonight at the Convo. Starting 
unanimous decisions and Dennis time for the first bout is 8 p.m. 
Clark won a split decision over set yet another meet record byThe Illini, who are a winning the 600 in 1:09.1. And it is the NCAA meet--not to mention interesting to note that Turner next week's Big Tn confrontation­will probably be the chief ob­-shattered three records during stacle to Rick Wohlhuter'stheir stay in Columbus. Besides defense of his 
their performance In the two­600. 
mile relay, the Illini also set new The Irish runners, though, still marks in the distance medly cannot afford to devote all of 
relay (9:51.5), and in the mile their attention to the NCAA meet. 
relay (3;13.5). Bowling Green's There will be one more tuneupSid Sink won the two-mile with a first, nd it will come this time of 8:34.1, and set a new meet weekend, when the ND squadrecord in this event. 
travels to Princeton, New Jersey
Murray State's Tommy Turner ,j,pr the ICAAAA meet. 
ND places third in NCT 
by Bruce Kennedy 
Observer Sportswriter Bob Habig (150 pounds) won his 
first two matches (one by pin) 
Tom Ciaccio and Phil but fell in the finals, finishing Gustafson won their respective with second place honors. Ken ·weight divisions and led Notre Ryan (142) placed third, losing to Dame to a third place finish in the afinalist in his first match, and second annuyal National Catholic coming back to win two. Tournament at John Carroll Kirk Bottjer (158) took a fourth University last weekend. by pinning the first seeded Cliff 
St. John's of Minnesota won the Radie from John Carroll in thz 
nine team tourney with 97 team first round., Mike Kemp (177) 
points. John Carroll was the also placed for the Irish, taking
closest challenger with 78, and fifth. 
Notre Dame totaled 49. · The squad travels to University 
Ciaccio's three victories of Illinois Circle Campus in 
earned him the title of National Chicago tonight and clsoses the 
Catholic Champion at 118 pound£ regular season with two home 
and upped his recoird number of meets versus Air Force Saturday 
career victories to 44. Heavy and Marquette Wednesday. . weight Gustafson added two 
more pins to his credit, giving Tickets for the first round of thehim a season's total of 13. His NCAA Midwest Regional atother victory in the tournament Houston, Texas will go on sale was a 1-0 overtime decision. He ~omorrow at the ACC ticket of­now has won 40 straight matches. 
~ice. All tickets are $5 and there •Bob Habig won his first two will be no student discount. These matches (150 pounds) (one by ~ickets will be sold on a firstpin) but fell in the finals, come-first serve basis untilfinishing with second place supply is exhausted.
honors. Ken Ryan (142) placed Tickets are limited to four perthird, losing to a finalist in his student. The game is scheduled 
..

first match, and coming back to for Saturday, Marhc 13.
win two. 
EUROPE $209 
PRESENTED BY STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL IN COOPERATION WITH NOTRE DAMPST· MARY'S 
STUDENT UNION  
FLIGHT NO.  ROUTING  DEPART  
CA SI 040  NY-LON-NY  6-21  
TA SI 059  det-AM&-DET  6-16  
RETURN  WEEKS  PRICE  
8-31  9  $209  
S-2-'f  9  $209  

Open only to Notre Dame-st. Mary.s students, Faculty, staff, & 
their immediate families. 
All non-stop jets SI offers these services: Complete Meals Eurail, Britrail Passes Complimentary Drinks Car Purchase, lease, rental 
$50 Deposit Only Cancellation Privileges 
PHONE OR STOP IN: FIRST BANK TRAVEL BUREAU ON CAMPUs-Next to Barber Shop 9 am-12 
Travellers Checks Variety of Mini-tours 
283 708
0 
-

CCC plan retains SMC role 
( Continued from PaKC I) 
agreement about courses and major sequence which allows competition between coordinate departments; 
(5) 
thz matriculation of all women to Notre Dame through St. Mary's College; 

(6) 
on the level of student life-true coeducation, wit~ ~en and women students hvmg and learning on both campuses. 


Following the summary of the St. Mary's position on coeducation, the report includes specific recommendations on the administrative structure, academic life and student life. 
The report accepts the Park-Mavhew proposal that the St. 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY Law school interviews. Professor 
James P. White of Indiana 
University School of Law, 
Indianapolis, Indiana will 

****~*M****?tTfFS***l#.
HU U ~ * 
You can still apply for the Army ! ROTC Two-Year Program. *
*
* 
Visit Army ROTC for further details. 
*$50 per month Subsistence Allowance *Deferment after Commissioning to Attend Graduate School *Opportunity to enter service as Commissioned Officer 
Here's your world; welcome to it 
SPRING I SUMMER SUITS 
The lightweights are in... The comfortable ones. Some vested ... all in the new, new styles & colorings. 
SHORT SlEEVE DRESS SHIRTS 
This year.s latest offerings in stripes & colors 
KNIT SUITS ARE NEW 
There is nothing newer for looks & comfort 
----:-,..~)"-...~ 

.. They're doing their thing in knit shirts and beachwear, and we're proud to show them. 

P•y 1/3 in June P•y 1/3 in July P•y 1/3 in Aua. 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
interview prospective law which would be lacking if there be expected to compare for
J students Monday, March 8, were one Biology Department, tenure or salary purposes with 1971 in room 205, Business one Art Department." professors who conduct research Administration Building. Sign To establish coordinate and direct graduate students as up outside Room 101 0' departments, thzy suggest a well as teaching un­Shaughnessy variety of structuress. One one dergraduates." "'------------'·hand,they explore the possibility 
Mary's president become a vice­for departments with co­president of Notre Dame pending chairmen from each school, or further study. The rest of the single chairman with three section stresses coordination of assistant chairmen, one for N.D. the two institutions with the of­graduate faculty, one for N.D. 
fices of the vice-president of undergraduate faculty, and one academic affairs and academic for S.M.C. faculty. 
. dean, vice-president for student Another possibility is an in­affairs and dean of students. terdisciplinary, experimental
Although the committee college requiring major suggests a merger in the area of curriculum changes and a development with fund-raising realignment of the faculties of activities and a coordination of both schools in a new and the Regi~trar's office they ad-imaginative experiment in vocate separate budget and a higher education. separate admissions office. The section also cites the 
In this segment of the report, faculty's puzzlement at the the community also accepts the ambiguity of Park-Mayhew on recommendation in Park­status, salary, and rank and Mayhew of of a coordinator, to be tenure. Although "the faculty of "sought outside the Notre Dame­St. Mary's is very much in favor St. Mary's community." of closer cooperation with Notre 
In academic affairs, the group Dame," they find misleading defends St. Mary's programs as statements in the report such as 
both "valuabele and sufficiently "faculty members who con­different from those of Notre centrate their efforts as un­Dame, to provide a diversity dergraduate teachers should not 
CAC's Cinema '71 Presents 
Director's Portfolio: Roman Polanski 
TuesdJJy March 2 Cul-de-Sac WednesdJJy March 3 Repulsion 
7:30 and 9:30 Each Night Engin. Auditorium 
MEMBERS FREE-OTHERS $1. 
INDIANA MOTOR BUS 
NON­
STOP 
TO 

O'HARE 
,.., 
------~

• 
,..._ .-,,,..~_­
$ ., •...·---~~1 
,... ~,":-~ 
, 

• ~~~ 3 TIMES 
EVERY DAY! 

ALSO DIRECT TO 
INDIANAPOLIS 
WITH CONNECTIONS WOUTH 
Regular scheduled runs: 

Leave South Bend Union Bus Terminal &Pick Motor Inn .. 8:55AM 1:25PM 4:55PM Arrive O'Hare (Upper level) _____ ._ ••••••• __ ••• _.. 10:00 AM 2:30 PM 6:15 PM leave O'Hare (Lower level) ...................... 11:00 AM 3:15PM 7:30PM Arrive South Bend Union Bus Terminal •• _._. ______ ._ 2:05 PM 6:20 PM 10:35 PM 
NOTE: Chicago is on Standard time -South Bend on Eastern Standard 
287·0200

travel~:~n~08~ INDIANA MOTOR BUS or 289-0385 






