Hesburgh, Burtchaell speak •
1n the halls 

l'act that freshmen were assigned to dorms on a more or less ran­dom basis. 
University President Theodore 

M. Hesburgh, in another question and answer session last night in Pangborn Hall, also addressed himself to the question of the ideal hall life situation for the Notre Dame campus. He com­pared it to the situation he found in Badin Hall in the late 1940's, when he was assistant rector thrre. He said "each p<'rson cared about and helped
Pveryone else." 
In an interview later in the l'Vening, Hesburgh commented on the letter he sent to all students this week. He said that he looks at the situation in the context of the past few years at Notre Dame. "Two years ago," 

by Ed Ellis Obst•rver Associate Editor 

University Provost James T. Burtchaell addressed himself to the question of hall autonomy last night in Zahm Hall, and said that strictly speaking, "There is no realism in hall autonomy." Speaking in terms of financial, physical, and related matters, Hurtchaell said that to speak of hall autonomy "is inappropriate because the halls are not autonomous." 
In the question and answer session, Burtchaell continued that there was a difference between autonomy and "hall diversity," saying that the halls had already a certain degree of diversity, and that this was good, but that it was hindered by the 
Vol. VI. No. 25 Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Thursday, October 14, 1971 
• scmctions
SLC to rev1ew 
The Hall Life Committee of the Trustees Chairman Edmund A. university for at least one 
Studt•nt Life Council will present Stephan to SLC Chairman semester as a penalty for the sale a rPport to the SLC recom­William Eagan, which called for and distribution of drugs. Ac­nwnding the deletion of all a list of Sanctions to be drawn up cording to the 3-page document, llniversity rules dealing with and presented to the Trustee's the University should distinguish 
women visitors in the halls when October 22 meeting on campus. between marijuana and other that body meets tonight. The 
narcotics "in meting out more report also recommends serious 
than the minimal panalties."
The SLC meets 
The committee contended that suspension for assault, larceny, pmalties involving probation and it could not' recommend

tonight at 5:00 in 
minimum penalties for drinking drugs. 
and the sale or distribution of and parietal offenses "because of

the auditorium 
the broad spectrum of possible mittee that University Rule 
"It is the view of the Com­violations of the present rules."
of the cce.
Number Five," the report says 
The report states that these "stated in pages 23-24 of the 
violations should be handled by
BE THERE!

Student Manual, as presently 
the halls. constituted deals with matters 
In judicial matters, the report which concern the good order of 
recommends that a structure be the i.1dividual hall and therefore The report recommends a established to intiate all com­University-wide rules are not minimum of one semester of plaints at the hall level, deter­appropriate." disciplinary probation for assault mining the gravity of the com­The report comes as a response and larceny. The report also plaint and refering it to the 
to the August 'J:l letter from suggests suspension from the proper authority. 
In spite of .min 
Speakers highlight IVbratorimn 
auditorium. according to Miss Kennedy. The move so inflamed the ('onvicts that there was a sit down involving 65 persons in the prison yard, she added. 
We didn't know what would happen. We didn't know who to talk to, or what to talk about. We didn't know what would happen to us. We just knew we had had it," Miss Kennedy said. 
While striking prisoners were organizing, a discussion arose over the presence of several prisoners in the group armed with sticks and stones to protect themselves in the event of an attack by the dogs which the prison officials used on reluctant 
Part of the throng that participated in yesterday's Moratorium ac­prisoners, the draft protester tivities on the main quad eontinued. 
South Bend's unpredictable to a gathering of about 150 people "We talked about what faith mPteorological conditions did not about her experiences in the meant between two human ('Urb many of yesterday's Detroit !louse of Correction. beings.. We put away our sticks Moratorium Activities. Miss Kennedy said that the and stones," Miss Kennedy said. 
Tables and booths prison was designed primarily The superintendent of the representing In Prig, the Meeting for poor black women. prison talked to the inmates ' Point, Psychiatric Help 5 cents. "It was very frightening, avery asking them for two weeks to Draft Counseling, and threatening experience. There implement reform and urging "Subsersives -Peg the Real was a COJlStant threat of punish-them to return to their cottages. Ones," were set up in spite ol' the ment for non-conformist However, she added, two weeks rain which began early in the behavior. The worst punishment passed without any action on the morning and continued until mid-was 'the flop' when .you stayed superintendant's part. afternoon. . . . there, you didn't go anywhere," "I guess he thought we would 
A~ 4 p.m. With the sun shmmg Miss Kennedy said. forget we were human beings. penodJcally, Jane Ke.nnedy, On July 7, 1971, prison He thought we would cool down," recently released fr~~ pnson for authorities conducted a skin I continued on page 8)illegal anti-draft actJvJttes, spoke search of the prisoners in an he said, "parietals existed only on Football Saturdays." 

llesburgh also said that all through a person's life, he is faced with restrictions imposed on his behavior from without. Students, he said, should get used tc. a 2am limit, because there will Lr> similar restrictions placed on their behavior in the future. 
One questioner in Zahm asked Burtchaell about the apparent discrepancy between the definition of "a public place" with respect to drinking violations and "a public place" with respect to parietals violations. 
Burtchaell responded that the 

rules had developed in-Pangborn Hall residents last dependently and that they were night heard Rev. James Burt­
(continued on page 8) chaell, University Provost 

Two of the principles in the student sanctions controversy: Buz Imhoff( L) chairman of the Hall Life Committee of the Student Life Council and Edmund Stephan CR), head of the Board of Trustees 
G:>rmcn1 speaks on space technology 
by Jodi Campbell 

"The American space program is similar to an ocean tide; it may recede briefly but it will come back strong." Robert E. Gorman told an audience of about one hundred persons Wednesday 
evening. 
Robert E. Gorman who talked before a crowd in SMC's Carroll Hall 
Gorman, Director of Launch Operations at Kennedy Space Center, was the speaker at the October lecture in the American Scene, Cultural Lecture Series. 
Gorman spoke on space technology utilization and the role of the space program in the American Society. 
In the past decade, the space program has progressed from the 30 lb. Explorer 1 to the 30,000 lb. Apollo 15. Rapid technological growth has allowed this to happen and the effects that this growth has had cannot be evaluated, Gorman stated. 

Gorman cited several ad­vances in technology that came about due to the activities of the space program. The fields of meteorology and com­munications have benefitted most with the placement of satellites for weather forecasting and use in the communications media. 
The space program's long range plans include the establish­ment of a skylab and the initiation of a shuttle type space craft. 
The skylab is scheduled to be placed in an earth orbit sometime in 1973. It will be a space station built from existing rockets. The space lab will be manned by three groups of four men sequentially over a space of nine months. Since these periods in space will be longer than any pervious missions the lab will be used as a source of medical research. 
The shuttle program is scheduled for use in the late 1970's and later. The shuttle will be a reusable space vehicle. It will be used to place satellites in £'arth orbit and to repair existing satellites. After space stations have been established the shuttle will be used to transport persons to and from the station. Gorman stated that the facilities at the Jo'lorida complex are adaptable for launching of this type of vehicle. 
--=------·-----­

-~· 

The circle bus stop on a typical rainy South Bend night offers an in­teresting example of loneliness. As the rain keeps coming down.... 


Garagiola replaces 
by Lyn Leone 

Joe Garagi9la, Jr. has been appointed program director for WSND~AM to replace Lee En­derlin who resigned for personal reasons. 
John Walsh, station manager, felt that Garagiola, now a senior, was the best person for the job since he has been involved in news and sports broadcasting since he came to Notre Dame as a Freshman. 
Jim Murphy has been ap­pointed to fill the vacancy left by Garagiola as sports director. 
As program director, 
A 
Joe Garagiola, Jr. who yesterday
Garagiola has many goals he 
was named new program
would like to see fulfilled this 
director for WSND-AM

year. First of all, he wants to have all transmitters in operation provided for students working in by next week to expand the the radio station. As things stand 
broadcasts to a larger audience. now, everyone who works for the Another goal is to program shows radio station is strictly a that students want to hear such volunteer. There are no salaries as "The Shadow," which is and most of the operational funds presented every Thursday night are provided by means of sellingfrom 11:30 to Midnight. ads. 
A third accomplishment for "Few people are aware of Garagiola would be to get more this," says Garagiola, "and fer co-eds involved in working for the many of us our efforts at WSND campus radio station. This is are a labor of love". important since the broadcasts Many universities across the will attempt to reach more nation give credit to students who students at St. Mary's as well. run their own campus radio 
One of Garagiola's major stations and Garagiola sees objectives is to arrange for a noreason for depriving Notre system of accreditation to be Dame students of similiar ac-
Hesburgh urges frame for parietal regulation 
University President Theodore 
M. Hesburgh released yesterday evening a letter to the general student body praising the concept of parietal hours and contending that "there is some character 
value  in  living  within  an  
established framework."  
The  letter,  scheduled  for  

general distribution tomorrow, also suggested an extension of weekday parietal hours. "It might be more symmetrical to say---mid-day to midnight during the week, as was argued in last week's meeting with the Student Affairs Committee of the Trustees," the letter said. "This will be the rule from now on, with Trustee approval." 
Th letter made no reference to the report of the Hall Life 
Committee,  which  will  be  in­ 
troduced  to  the  SLC  during  
tonight's  meeting.  That  report  

recommended that Parietal Hours be determined by the halls. 
(continued on page 3) 

A'DME TO PAUSE FOR PEACE, PRAYER, AND THE WORD OF GOD 
10 P.M -llP.M. Camous Ministry Room 11g Le Mans, SMC 
{l
is fthu.rs~fl ..and every Thursday
. . ed tdy & toe Campus
tms ry Sta 

ph. 8940 
lhe Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of fhe University of Notre DaMe and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Noire Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Frosh hours for SMC •? 
by Michele i\rrieh and Don Ruane 

Freshman hours could remain in affect for some Saint Mary freshmen, although the Student Affairs Council approved l'limination of the policy at a meeting Monday. 
Since most freshmen are under 21, parents will be . asked to comment on the policy and to indicate disapproval for their daughter if they so desire. Parents will be polled through the regular Parent Permission Card us~d bv other classes. , 
Choosing the terminology of 

Enderlin 
credition. 

"After all," he said, "managing 
and directing your own campus 
radio station is a professional 
practicum -just like student 
teaching is for future teachers." 
Garagiola views his. ap­
pointment as program director 
as an opportunity to initiate 
change. 

"WSND-AM is in its 25th year 
and it's about time for change," 
he stated. 


What is life without love? 
"s<'lf responsible hours" rather than "no hours," the council said it is aware that many students l'ntered college with the ex­perience of making personal ehoices and decisions at home. 
"The council is also convinced that the great majority of fresh­nwn, after adjusting to the new life styles of college activities during the first semester, will in all probability make wise choices and good, intelligent decisions during the second semester concerning the hours they can use for social and recreational purposes, and the hours they need for their academic, physical and spiritual growth," the statement continued. 
In addition to requmng parental permission, the SAC resolution calls for a preliminary evaluation report two weeks after the third quarter ends, and a final report prior to the start of the 1972-1973 academic year. 
Sister Alma, chairman of the SAC, stressed that the council acts as a single unit in coming to a decision. 
"The SAC works as one college 
community government and 
when a recommendation is 
brought in from a member of the 
Sister Alma Peter, chairman of the Student Affairs Council, who called the freshman hours ex­periment a student responsibility 
faculty, administration or student body, the council doesn't try to act from any one viewpoint of the three representations, but it .looks at the proposal as a group with an open mind and comes to an intelligent decision/' Sr. Alma stated. 
She also noted that the council is trying to emphasize a positive attitude towards the proposal by its new terminology, and stated, "if it is blown out of proportion, some freshmen might consider it a license rather than a responsibility." 


From·one beer lover to another. 
THI' STROIIIIRF\\ Ill' I I l~ll'.-1'-. Y DETIU liT. Mil .fii(;A:>: ·IMZJ(, 
.. 

Many cite disappojnt~r..ent ~ith Senate budget 
The Student Senate budget appropriations left many student organizations with only a fraction of the funds they had anticipated. One such group is InPRIG, which had requested $1200 but was given only $350. 
InPRIG's Bill Rahner said that the group will spend more of its time raising funds than had been planned. He did not anticipate that any of the gorups activities would be curtailed, however. The cutback is, in Hahner's words, "a pain in the neck." 
The recently formed Native American Association is similarly disappointed. Forrest Whiterabbit, president of the elub. de>scribed the requested $1500 budget as "modest." The mom•y was largely earmarked for ·recruitment, but the group also intended to sponsor some Pducational events on campus. Whiterabbit commented on the eutback: "We'll live with it." 
MECHA prepared a detailed budget request for $8200. The aetual grant will be $2500. Ar­mando Alonzo, the group's president, said that the ap­propriation will necessitate a 
Free University 

Bill Rahner (lnPRIG) who saw his organization suffer a budget cut of $850 
l"l'ordering of priorities. He stressed that recruitment would be of tht' highest priority. Mt'mbers of the club will travel to midwestern cities to inform Spanish speaking students of educational opportunities at Notre Dame. A bi-lingual radio program, originally calling for $1000, will still be worked for, but the cost must be held down. 
Alonzo ranked the midwestern student conference to be held in the spring as third in importance. The conference will allow an exchange of ideas between area MECHA groups. Finally, the group will continue with its on­campus programs. As in the past, these events will be open to the entire university. Alonzo cited last year's art festival as an example of such an event. 
The International Students Organization asked for $2970, an increase of $970 from last year. They got $1500. John Krasnostein, ISA president, said that some events would be ·cancelled. l'~mphasis will be put on those events which have become traditional, or those designed to bring students of differing nationality together. Such an event is the International Festival, held last year for the first time. 
The Scholastic wanted $2000 to be used for course evaluations for the next two semesters. The magazine was denied any funds. Co-editor Mary Ellen Stoltz stated the effect simply, "There will be no course evaluations for 


Stritch opens lecture series 

Professor Thomas Stritch of tlw American Studieslkpartment opened the Free University's series of talks on the city last night by discussing the global village eoncept stated by Mar­shall McLuhan. This first lecture in a series of ten on the city was given in the Grace Tower well. 
Prof. Stritch opened the talk by tracing McLuhan's ideas on eivilization from 3000 B.C. to the present day. He pointed out that now, with the advent of television, we can return to MeLuhan's idea Of the perfect man who existed originally in 3000 B.C.: one who com­municates in an audio, tactile nwdium and not a printed one, and lives in a tribal atmosphere. 
After a question and answer period, Prof. Stritch spoke on the global village concept of future communities which McLuhan espouses. Stritch came to the conclusion that McLuhan never really explains how the villages will come about and that he is speaking of an earthly com­munity, but a "city of God." McLuhan is more an idealist than a realist, noted Stritch. 
After the seminar, Larry Pino, ehairman of the Free University, noted that the Free U. will present other series of lectures on 
Hesburgh discusses parietals; decries issue as a 'red flag' 
(continued from page 2) 
ll<•sburgh prefaced his remarks by contending that "111uch good has come from all of tlwse conversations" but that discussion grounds had "shifted" f•·om "parties and community building'' to "sanctions during llw SLC segment" to "finally and most pervasively ... parietals." 
, IIPsburgh expressed a fear that discussion of parietals would "<•nd and accusations begin, with fraying l<•mp<•rs adding to the irrationality on all sides." Ac­cording to the University President, Parietals had become "an emotional code word---a red flag to anyone's bull." 
llesburgh concluded the letter by calling for "serious con­versations" centered upon "what lies ahead, and how we can structure the experience we now face to make it better than what now is." 
The letter, although released to the Observer last night, was dal<'d October 11, last Monday. 
the city. He also outlined other plans of the university for this academic year. . 
The Free U. dropped its program of courses and will now concentrate on tapping the resources on campus, according to Pino. Some of these new programs will include a group of literary, drama, essayandpoe'try contests held in conjunction with the English Department and a tutorial on directed readings with students from Notre Dame and other schools. 
Notre Dame this year." Course evaluations will be published for St. Mary's College, which has allocated the magazine $500 for each evaluation. Miss Stoltz said that money could conceivably be raised from other sources, but it should come from the students. 
Miss Stoltz, and co-editor Joe llotz, felt that the Senate's discussion was misdirected. "They didn't discuss the merit of the course evaluation or the student demand for it. Instead they discussed the Scholastic." Miss Stoltz felt that the Senate should have decided if a course evaluation was called for. If they determined that it was, they should have appropriated funds for it. 

Mary Ellen Stoltz, co-editor of The Scholastic, protested the refusa I of funds for the magazine's course description booklets 
HIDEAWAY LOUNGE 
122 W First Street Downtown Mishawaka, Ind. 
For Your Dancing & Entertainment We Present The Fabulous 




PEACE & LOVE 
Mon., Tues. & Thurs. No cover charge Wed.-Ladies night -Ladies free, guys $1.00 2 drawings every set for free champaigne Friday & Saturday $1.00 covercharge 
OPEN DAILY 8 pm till 3 am 

Notice 
Hot Dog Lotteries 
starting with the So. Cal. game will be held on the Monday before the game. To be eligible you must register your club on the previous Thursday. lnquries-Mike Kearse 7757 
Saturday, October 16 
8: 30 PM in the ACG I Tickets $4.50, $3.50, $2.00 at I 
The Student Union TicketI Office and Dining Halls I 



I I li\'illtJSfttll
11tlt~-­
I I 
'"' "(I " (I " (I presented by Student Union
'?,.~ '?,.~ '?~~~ '?,.~ 

I I t;l\'lttr
Social Commission and ACC 
!:P!ag~e:_4!..______________________,.~ ~r:=..:'J.l=..::t~'41
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
The Letter : 1~fa~ ~ Sense Father Hesburgh 
' 

"My solution at this point is simple, but I hope not simplistic. At least it is sincere and not open to t_he hypocrisy that attends empty statements, unkept regulations, instant virtue, blind vice, or uneducational attitudes in a University." 
Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c., in a letter to the general student body dated October 11, 
1971. 

When most educated men think of the University of Notre Dame, they think of Hesburgh-square face staring stolidly from the front of the ship's bow for close to twenty years. They think of him as a sane man surrounded by a welter of insanity; a good man in a position highly susceptible to evil; a significant man in a land of little men. More than any other member .of the Academic Community, his pronouncements­on morality, on politics, and particularly on education -are taken seriously by the world at large. 
That's why everybody ought to be distressed by the vague and disingenious letter Father Hesburgh released yesterday and dated last Monday. In it, Father Hesburgh, after a page and a half of gaudy pontification, set five standards for a sincere solution. In it, too, Father Hesburgh violated all five standards himself. 
Father Hesburgh's pronouncement is full of empty statements. The very first sentenceof his "solution" says: "I begin by the bland statement that we are all here to get educated and that in the context of a Catholic university, this must touch the heart as well as the head." What does this mean? Does it mean that Father Hesburgh concedes to the University the right to impose its corporate attitudes on its students? Does it mean that "Education is not the process of teaching men what they do not know. Rather, itis the process of teaching men to behave in a way they would not behave." as the Notre Dame Academic Guide Supplimental for 1962-3 said, presumably with Father Hesburgh's consent? Or does it mean nothing? Father Hesburgh does not elaborate. 
Again, he says "We are, all of us, young and old, striving mightily in this educational process, in this very special kind of place, to transcend facts, and to find meaning in our lives." (emphasis our own.) What do you have when you "transcend facts," anyway? And if facts are important, why are so many other "facts" running through the report? Father Hesburgh does not elaborate. Nor does he explain the relationship between "transcending facts" and parietal hours. 
Again: "Are the parietals proposed by the Trustees good and proper? Possibly neither, although under the present circumstances, I agree with them. " Are we thus to un­derstand that Father Hesburgh is in agreement with measures neither good nor proper? Or is this one more example of the meaningless stuff that permeates his letter? 
Father Hesburgh's letter advocates absolute standards and is given to "instant virtue." In his letter, Father Hesburgh warns that "There have been girls, as well as men, saved by the bell, even at 2:00a.m." By what? A sort of in­stantaneous saving grace poured into everybody by virtue of parietal hours? A couple set to copulate (we assume that this is the dread sin people are being saved from) will not be worrying about parietal hours; "instant virtue" doesn't decend like the Paraclete at 2 a.m. 
Father Hesburgh's "solution" does nothing to end "blind vice." The University President admits as much himself when he says "Any student or adult who wants to get into trouble, alcoholic, sexual, or otherwise, can easily enough do so-with or without parietals." In truth, Father Hesburgh knows that blind vice is due to nothing less than the inherent nature of people, and that there's nothing he can do to blind vice, save possibly cutting its tail off with a carving knife. 
Father Hesburgh's "solution" is educationally inadequate. The President argues from an inadequate stance--for 
AN.D TttE WltJNU IN soull laE.Nl> ) ­\ s . . . . . ~AT 1ltE. ~cd< I 
• 
----liiiii"ila....__ 
l'\IOt"llNE.£.S fo~ ~EST 
'PA~IETAL'S GRmE. 
DI\Tit-IG GMl'lE 
WHI\TS MY UN~'!' 
N£WLYWO. G'RfYlli:. 
l \\ \ 

example, he asks the question: "Is there any value to having hours defined? Maybe not from your point of view, but this campus is very much in transition, and we can no longer view everything from what Woman's Lib (sic) calls the 'male, chauvinist pig' point of view." Does this mean that before the campus came into "transition", Notre Dam~ did have a "male, chauvinist pig" point of view? Before this "tran­sition" came into being, hours were very well defined. 
The President also argued to an inadequate conclusion--or, more properly, to no conclusion at all. In terms of solid ac­tion, Father Hesburgh suggests Noon-to-midnight parietals on weekdays--hardly the question under discussion. On the real question-whether the Board of Trustees or the Student Life Council will control student life on this campus-Father Hesburgh has nothing to say-nothing beyond, it seems, "grin and bear it, boys." 
Finally, The spirit of Father Res burgh's letter and the attitude of the Trustees will result in unenforcable and unkept regulations. Father Hesburgh must know by now that students are in no mood to have their life styles regulated by any remote board -either here on this campus or anywhere else. As long as a Board of Trustees unconnected to this University except by virtue of their appointment attempts to interfere with the private life of individual students, it will be rebuffed. And Father Hesburgh must know it will be rebuffed. 
In fact, Father Hesburgh must know that his whole letter will be futile. That's what's so disappointing about it---its utter, preordained futility. There were times in the past when Father Hesburgh addressed himself to the heart of the problem. There is a need for such an address now. We call upon Father Hesburgh to make that address. 
The~ing: The lmpoltance ofShouing Up 
Fortunately, not everyone seems to feel the need to be as evasive as Father Hesburgh was in his last letter. 
-Specifically, we are fortunate indeed to find the Hall Life Committee of the Student Life Council responsible for a bold, honest, and intelligent reply to Mr. Stephan's letter of 27 August. 
The report they passed would throw out the current ludicrous parietal hours. It would throw them out com­pletely. And it would leave their successors-if any-up to the halls. 
But the report isn't law. It won't be until it passes the St~dent Life Council, and until the Board of Trustees reacts to it. 
Six hundred students made the SLC jump last September 
27. The SLC is going to have to jump again. There's no guarantee that the SLC won't turn down these fine recom­mendations and revert to something like the grotesquery proposed by the ad hoc committee -no guarantee save the continued, persistant presence of students ready and willing to make the SLC play for them. 
So the meeting's at seven tonight, in the auditorium of the CCE. If the turnout makes them leave the Lobby for the more spacious Engineering Arena, then the SLC knows that the students mean business. 
Let's mean business. 
f~V. robert griffin 

to anonym:Jus with love-
from the kingdom of the lonely god 

Supper. Tlw agape of an Upper Room ends in a o.nty bpea~ty and hfe that d1sa~i~~ m/bhe c~c;e of (~ardPn of abandonment, and the Friday's cross is It me.. am 1 oo passes, a1ong wt ear .r~a ' ear, always solitary. and ~tchkn e ss. Inda wod~ld dEoomed to frag1htyF,d~dath l\1Piaphysics, arguing from the interplay of cause •.~se 1 I s a11 .some ay te. ven ,your 1onges1 n ay with effect. establishes analogies between heaven laces the dawn of to~orrow. ~aybreak can co~e at . d , ·th. ft·om thn loneliness of man one can any moment, now as m etermty, when all the hghts .t n ca 1 · " h d f · d · 'II f II · t · I
n•ason to the paradigm of Life Triunally isolated in and s a ows o pam an JOY WI a m o a smg e the kingdoms above the snow-line. Needed as pattern of love a~ the feet ~f the Superstar. . rPievant by contemporary exiles: a Summa Hecently, ~ fnend .of mme called my attention to Tlwologica of the Lonely God. a_n extraordmary s1ght: from the rear door of 
Last spring. a letter arrived in the Sunday Keenan. w.e looked. up at the statue of Our Lady morning mail from a student who described himself 1\lother pmsed agamst t.he gray slate of a storm­. 1 •xu·tl It was an anonymous Jetter full of threatened sky. Never, 11 seemed to me, had that
.IS HlnHlS( ' . ' . . I d ld Th
lonl'liness and suffering, which 1 tried to answer compassiOnate t~age ooke more ~o e?. en-­through an article in the Observer. Twice since oh, shock: oh, grtef---1 noted for the ~1rst hme ever then. other letters have arrived from this boy, each on that Ttffany-plated he~d, w~ere dtadems should of them filled with cries of help like those of a victim l~ave rested, there was a hghtnmg rod: a symbol of of brigands on the Jericho road. All other efforts to lear on a symbol. of hope. Our Lady of the 1m­reach him having failed---letters sent to inadequate n~aculate Protectton, herself protected: I~ the . dd .. f<Jr e ample or personal items in the kmgdom of a lonely heaven, where suffermg IS the 
d resses, . x , .. I f I' f . t Q t f th d
Jress---1 address this Jetter to my anonymous ltrst aw o 1 e, even 1 s ueen mus ear e oo~ l· · d of fire tumbling from the skies; and all of us, m nl~~a~ child of suffering, son of God: it is Friday Merton's phra.se, are the brothers of God learning to night. cold and wet and rainy. Darby O'Gill, my kno~ the Chnst of the burnt men. . . . dog. home for a visit, slumbers at my feet. Tonight I ~he God lonely. en?ugh to pcrmtt suffermg IS need symphonies as a background to comfort ne1ther cruel n?r mdtfferent.. Th~ rum.or t~at He worrie;; instead 1 have only puppy snores and dote~ upo~ us hke a hen nestmg ~ts ch1cks IS not, memories of your letters, composed on other Friday desptte evtdence to the co?trary, JUSt a tale of t~e 
· . hen your best entertainment was to write myth-makers. People needmg to love one another 1s 
evenmgs w h t ' I ft 'th h 't f d God Wh
sad words to an unknown priest. Do you remember w a you re e WI w en yo~ can m. • o when you were a child first awakening to an broods a~one, or.when you shrmk from ~1m becau~e One day soon, hopefully, some jet-age Aquinas awareness of people? Everyone, you thought <if of the pam. Lovmg one another, ~~d ?emg love~~ IS will assemble a textbook of dogmas to be entitled: · d s ll'ke m1·ne) came in different stages what He commanded us to do, 1t IS a cond1tton 
vour mm wa l'f · f h f II h' f · ts ht · t
The Theology of a Lonely God. Actually, the ;lf being big folks or little folks: roughly, they were ~ua.1 ymg us or t ~ e ows ~~. o sam caug m o traditional notion of a complacent, all-sufficing old, middle-aged, young, and your age. Grand-JOY m the Everlastmg Arms: A man who does not Deity of Three Persons, needing for perfection just parents were old people, and always had been; love the brother that he can see cannot love God the company of the Others like the angles of a therefore. they were perishable, but you preferred whom he has never seen." triangle, is not very comforting; even a good bridge not to think about that. Aunts were middle-aged Unknown friend, all love, without exception, is a game requires more than three partners. I prefer to spinsters confirmed in prudence who could never fulfillment of God's command. All love ... puppy think of creation as having occurred at a bleak have splashed through mud puddles or hated winter love, parent's love, sexual love~ harlot's love, moment in the lifetime of Omnipotence when Being underwear; they would, predictably, always saint's love, marrted love, courting love, God Just Wasn't Enough; and even with the remain tacky, generous, and vaguely forty. Only heterosexual love, homosexuallove ... all of it, if it is teamwork of a Trinity, it took Him six days of the child had birthdays that involved growing up love, is an exercise of holy precepts, and is from the shaping galaxies and firmaments, puppy dogs and and change; everyone else would remain stuck in lifestream of the Trinity. Love, to achieve maturity, infant boy-childs, and daughters of rare strength the same gutter of age. But after a cycle of years, constantly needs self-discipline and restraint; and beauty, before contentment over His handiwork you learned the first sad Jesson of time: while you lovers must always guard themselves against love's could drive off the moodiness of a Father with the were growing up, the young had become middle-parody, chiefly notable for its self-indulgence. instincts of a cosmic Carpenter. aged; the middle-aged had become old (maiden As long as you live with your heart in a hermitage, 
As a cure for loneliness, begetting---whether of aunts have here no lasting city), and the old had in flight from passion, you will never find healing. galaxies or dynasties---helps only for a little while, shuffled off the God in bedroom slippers. Like every other soul, you've got to take the risk of as any parent can tell you. Even an Incarnation "Change and decay---In all around I see," we loving. Within the context of that experience, learn <possible only if you are God> doesn't seem to help cheerfully sang in my days as a choir boy. Another the cost of discipleship in the company of Christ much except for brief moments like at a Last stanza should have taught us this Jesson: it is not Who taught us that love makes its journey with a 
cross on its back.don mooney There are no easy roads to one's personal destiny in the Kingdom of the Lonely God.
the parietal mess paul dziedzic the view from off -campus 
The recent dictum by the Trustees on sanctions. At least, the student members 
the un'Nritten code 

Parietals. if it can be taken seriously, should refuse to put their names on any rl'presents a regression of about two years such regulations. Ifsanctions are to come, for hall life. Amazingly, the student they should come directly from the Board It was just one of those mPetings, you "It's passive anarchy. Nobody respects lo•aders who should be most concerned of Trustees -and be enforced by the know. The day hadn't been the greatest the rules, so they do the easiest thing ­hav<' done little more than cringe and Trustees <probably through the Dean of anyway. Rich and I had to get rid of our break them. You haven't given any otherwrite a few letters <devotedly in Notre Students and the R.A.'s). 
little kitten that had turned 507 Grace alternative. Self-determination mightll;~ m<', of course>. The Trustees have Then the students can refuse to abide by Tower into a miniversion of the Chicago give some people the chance to find outoutflanked the now appropriate talk the new regulations as a united body, stockyards. That was a bummer, but what responsibility is. Senseless rulesconcerning Co-ed dorms by reviving talk rather than one divided by bureaucratic things managed to get worse. Like only allow people the opportunity to findof fornication and "moral standards." responsibility to rules set up by the Tri­spending a half-hour talking to this out where the hack door is." Boy are they . The issue is pretty cleat': the Trustees partite SLC. Each hall could make its own tremendous girl only to find out that half of going to hear something when I get mywant campus wide sanctions against united challenge to the new rules -and the my lunch was hung up in my moustache. turn.
parietal violators--up to the extreme of University could not afford to boot an It was a Charlie Brown day. But luckily I came back to my senses. Ibooting a violator from his hall. The <'ntire hall. Those booted might discover And that includes the meeting we had on had nearly committed that one fault nostudents will never go along with such how much cheaper and more pleasant it is parietals that night. It's what was called a competent student government politicorules. so the sanctions are absolutely to live off-campus. 
committee meeting which comes right should make. The unwritten code that unenforcable through any type of judicial By the way, there is a precedent for this after the Assembly and right before the forbids the use of the word "respon­system involving students. type of action. In the winter of 1970, the Council, heirarchically speaking. But for sibility" had almost been broken. I meanUnfortunately, the members of the SLC University was yelling at various halls me it was right after a mad dash to dinner that smacks nf challenging the students tobelieve some compromise can be reached. that were not following the sign-in and right before a long, hard night at the accept the self-impositions that go alongThey think student "responsibility" can procedure that was part of the original books. with freedom.
somehow mean turning in a neKt door parietal system. Supposedly it protected I was hardly in the mood to do credit to a Politicos are only supposed to call fortl('ighbor for visiting with a female after the University in some vague manner. In deserving topic like allowing the girls bread, circuses and beer because nobodyhours. Not a chance. Even some Alumni Hall we met the Director of more say in when men could be in the votes for a pooh-bah who tells people tostudent members of the SLC feel that the Housing 's wrath with a yawn and con­dorms. embrace responsibility as well as liberty.
University's students should be the en-tinued non-compliance. By the end of the Challenging the student has ugly overtones forcers of some public morality. Buz school year the sign-in system had died of Luckily for me the discussion went well of activism and awareness that has no Imhoff cited a poll taken last year that non-use. The same thing is likely to and I didn't feel obliged to contribute too place on this campus.
showed 86 per cent of students would not happen to the latest tantrum by the much. But when I was just about lulled to I recovered myself and slouched back in turn in a fellow student for parietal Trustees if people in the halls don't take it complacency by the beauty, of hall my chair. But as I digitally analyzed theviolation. This , Buz says, is a sign of too seriously <as is the case in some halls autonomy, the bombs began to fall. What inside of my nostril it struck me that someirresponsibility. Hardly. Why should already>. 
about security? And jurisdiction? And day someone may come along to tell thestudents be expected to enforce A final thought: the blanket excuse for above all is this student body ready to kings that they have no clothes on.
regulations they can make only within this new University policy on parietals is accept the responsibility of decidinglimited guidelines set forth by the Ad-the protection of the "good name" of the parietal hours on a hall basis?
ministration? University. This phrase has been used by "Well, yea" I thought. "Sure women 
kite flyers

If the student members of the SLC help Trustee and SBP alike. At Georgetown break the rules now, but that's prettymold a compromise set of sanctions, they lTniversity <which still has a good name, understandable. No one has bothered to Needed to fly kites at the Urchins' Mass will be involving the students in and which was still an all-male school involve the student body in the decisions." 
on Sunday, October 17 at 11:00 a.m.

"n-sponsibility" the students have no wlwn I applied there in '68> female dorms l was getting a tad bit steamed now. Just a Contact the Kite Master Room 12Dintention of upholding through hall judicial on campus have official24 hour parietals. 
tad bit. I still didn't say what I was Keenan. Telephone: 7066.,tructures. Ar<' you on-campus boys gonna let ·a thinking. ,..
The SLC should refuse to adopt any set of hunch of women show you up. 
Action G:nps to terntir-.at:e nn".liting tonight 
by Art Ferranti 
Representatives of ACTION CORPS, adopted last July by President Nixon in an effort to unite the various volunteer organizations across the United States including Peace Corps and VISTA, have been on the campus since Monday for recruitment purposes. 
<;>n campus 
4:15 lecture-john borkowski: agression in children, 127 nieuwland 
7:00 lecture-prodromes dagtoglou: modern problems of german federalism, library auditorium 
8:00 lecture-jerry rubin: the big lie, stepan center, admission $.25 
10:00 program-fr. james burtchaell and prof. paul rathburn: the ideal professor; promotions, tenure, and recruit­ment, WSND. 
today 
Ray Sweet, area represen­tative for the state of Indiana, is in charge of the operation, located in the Memorial Library Concourse, which closes tonight. It will return in January. 
So far, the applicants have reached a number of ap­proximately 70 potentials, in­cluding two law students. Last year there were only 58. Sweet said that this is extremely good since the Notre Dame campus is ranked !40th among 200 universities across the United States. Indiana University with its 61,000 member student body is ranked 18th. 
Accompanying Sweet on his tour (after ND, he travels to Ball State, Purdue, and I.U.) is Uelese Petaia, a headmaster of a high school in West Samoa. He, like his country, is extremely happy with the· Peace Corps. "We not only accept them, but we need them." Uelese said. 
West Samoa, a small country 2,000 miles south of Hawaii, bt..:ame independent in 1962 from the British under the New Zealand administration by a United Nations mandate. 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 
Soon afterwards, the Peace Corps was there. Since then the 18 or so members of the Corps, who have been working in West Samoa, have greatly aided the economy by helping the predominantly agrarian culture to get on its feet, and increasing 

,-~~~~~~~~:-=·*1 
WASHINGTON--Amid concern over possible deepening in­volvement in Cambodia, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee brushed aside administration opposition and voted 10 to 3 Wed­nesday to limit United States military and economic aid to the Southeast Asian country to $250 million in the current fiscal year. The committee also voted to limit the number of American civilian and military personnel assigned to Cambodia to 150. 
WASHINGTON--Defense Secretary Laird said a continuing Soviet buildup of missiles was already "far outdistancing" the estimates he provided Congress only seven months ago. He warned that the "momentum" of the buildup could end the American technological lead in strategic weapons. 
MOSCOW--A joint communique issued at the end of three days of talks in Moscow between President Anwar El-Sadat of Egypt and Soviet leaders announced new Soviet military aid to Egypt and a condemnation by Sadat of "anti-communism and anti-Sovietism" in the Arab world. The announcement of the arms agreem"''1~ was seen as an attempt to pressure Israel to give ground on her. terms for a Middle East settlement. 
WASHINGTON--Secretary of State Rogers warned Chile that 
her refusal to pay compensation for nationalized American 
copper interests might "erode" the base of support for foreign aid 
to developing nations in Washington. He called the Chilean move a 
"serious departure from accepted standards of international law." 
Diplomatic sources said, meanwhile, that Chile would assume 
about $550 million in foreien debts of thP nat.ion:~li7.Prl C'ompanies 
WASHINGTON-Congressional sources said an effort would be 
made on Capitol Hill to give the Senate a veto over President 
Nixon's appointees to the pay board and the price commision that 
will oversee the controls that will follow the wage-price freeze. 
WASHINGTON-President Nixon sent the names of four men and two women to the American Bar Association for investigation as potential Supreme Court nominees. The four men are all from Southern or border states. There was considerable dismay in the legal community that the list did not include a.,ny leading judicial figures; most of the six are unknown outside their home com­munities. 
Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Theatre presents John Webster's 
THE DUCHESS OF MALFI 
the educational development. Since relatively unskilled workers volunteered in the Corps in the beginning, specialization is now the key word. 
Sweet said that the Corps has had to specialize since that is what the host countries want. The backbone of the Peace Corps used to be the liberals arts students (about 60 per cent), but now that has slackened off (40 
· percent (. Uelese added that when the Peace Corps first arrived, the governments, not only of Samoa but of other countries as well, did not know how to use them. 
SPEC'IALISTS NEEDED 
Now, the people have progressed a great deal In fact, in Samoa, farm machinery is being introduced--hence a need for mechanics. New buildings are going up under contracts by the government with volunteer ar­chitects. Economists and ac­countants are also in demand. 
Educators are employed in the school system. Uelese cited a Dr. Hanna, with a PhD in education who came to Samoa last year and prepared a standarized test for Samoan school children. This is the first time such a test had been prepared. Usually, New Zealand tests, which had a higher stan­dard of living for a basis, had been the standard. However, Dr. Hanna's two year term expires at the end of this year, creating an opening for an educator of this ealiber. 
Concerning the volunteers themselves, Uelese said many are discouraged and frustrated when they first begin, but later they are deluged with loads of work and become totally ab­sorbed in what they are aoing. 
Volunteers, according to Uelese, usually wonder how much their influence will affect the lives of those with which they come in eontact. 
ONE of 5!1 NATIONS 

Samoa is just one of 59 coun­tries across the world that make use of the Peace Corps. Two things can be definitely said about this organization today, according to Sweet. The first is that the countries that have used the Peace Corps continuously throughout the years have been improved in some way due to the volunteers' efforts as evidenced by the movement towards 
Families are clojie knit in -specialization. Samoa and a volunteer becomes a member of the family. It is due Secondly, more work still needs to this tie and the improvement to be done and this means more they see that they are making to people. If you are interested or the community, that leads many desire more information, the of the volunteers to sign up for an group will be in the library additional two years. concourse today. 
1971 SENIOR TRIP 
l.S.U. vs N.D· 
SIGN UPS 

Thursday, October 14 7-9 Coke Bar La Fortune minimum deposit$50 (non-refundable) 
So why does there have to be a fonnal dance before you'll buy your favorite girl some flowers? 


52577 U. S. 31 NO. 
PHONE 272-2966 
Flowers for all occasions Wire service Greeting cards 

Class of '48
Gifts 

Cultural Arts Connnission Popular Film Series 
Presents 
The Fox 

Oct. 14 & 15 7:30 and 9:30PM Price $1 Engineering Auditorium 
Patron C.ards will be sold in the Dining Halls Thursday and Friday 
,. 
, 


Thursday, October 14, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Page 7 

Pirates edge O's,, 4-3·' tie Series 
hy .llw O!!l'Su But it was Kison who evoked night gamP with flourishes. Paul replaced after two-thirds of an seventh with a single through the the greatest 110ist>, and he did it in Blair op<·rwd with a single to left­inning by Kisbn, who got the
l('l 1!171 Nt•w York Timt>s Nl'ws middle, and Sanguillen chased 
St'nil-1' primP time on national television <'t•ntPr. Mark RPlanger singled Orioles out with a 3-0 lead. him to second with a single to aftt•r :!!17 World Series games that hPhind second base and Merv But the Pirates roared back l'enter. There was one down, and 
I'ITTSBlllt<.;ll, Oct 13--In the had bPPn played by day. He Hl't tl'nmtmd singled to deep with two runs in the home half of then Vic Davalillo pinch-hit afirst night gamt• in the 68-year pitdwd perfect ball after the shortstop. So the bases were tlw inning, starting with a walk to twisting fly into the alley in left­history of the World Series, the OrioiPs' thrPe-run first inning, loadt>d with nobody out and Dave Cash. With two down, Willie center that Blair caught after al'ittshurghl'iratt>s defeated the t'Xl'l'pt for a doublt• and three hit Frank Hobinson up. Stargelllined one into the alley in long run--and dropped.

Bait imore Orioles 4-:l WPdnesday 

hatsnH'n--which gave him a On tlw second pitch, Walker right C('nter and off the wall for a 
and dPadlockt>d the s<'ries at two The runners, who had held up,
World St•ries record in that fin•d an inside fastball that double that scored Cash. 
gaml's apiece. took off again and Hobertson
l'<l!Pgory. dudl'd his catcher, Manny AI Oliver followed with a 
made it to third. But Sanguillen

It was a noisy, busy game As a result, the Pirates made it Sanguilll•n, for a passed ball that looping pop fly behind second ~ftpr making second, rounded th~playPd before a crowd of :11,378 two straight over the favored seorl'd Blair and moved the two bast> and, when Blair fell short of 
pt•rsons in Three Rivers Stadium, hag and was caught off on a
Anll'riean League Champions, other r·umwrs up a base. So the a shoestring catch, the ball 
and it was the largest crowd in three-man relay.
with two more victories by either Pirates walked Frank in­bounced off the synthetic turf 
Pittsburgh baseball history. 

!Pam needed to win the title. If tl'ntionally, filling the bases over his head for another double, But then came the big momentMost of the noise was caused by 
the Pirates do it, they will again. , scoring StargeiL for Milt May--a 21-year-old rookie the Pirates, who lost the first two become the sixth team since 1903 Brooks Robinson followed with The Pirates tied the score in the catcher and the son of Merrill games to the defending World to lose the first two games and a high fly to ml'dium-center that third on singles by Richie Heb­"Pinky" May, the onetime Champions, but who got back into 
still survive. scored Belanger and Powell ner, Hoberto Clemente and a run­catcher for the Philadelphiabusiness here Tuesday and who They squared things with a pair followed that with a 380-foot drive scoring single by AI Oliver with Phillies. The rookie pinch-hit for tlwn spotted the Orioles three fast 
of "added starters" doing the to thP fence. in right-center. It was two down. Kison and lined the second pitch nms last night before making l'arly pitching: Luke Walker for grabbed by AI Oliver, but Ret­Bob Robertson started the to right for a single and the 4-3 their move. 
Pittsburgh and Pat Dobson for tPnmtmd scored and Walker was Pirates winning rally in the victory.
When they did, they got their Baltimore. 

greatt•st contributions from a Walker had not started a gamepair of 21-year-old rookies: Bruce in 21 days and Dobson in 19 days, 

Dr. Carbeny seeks Sorin win formula 
Kison, who pitched six and one­and both showed the ravages of third scoreless innings in relief, idleness before the game had 

by "Lerty" Ruschmann, '73
and Milt May, who pinch-hit the gone past the first inning.

winning single in the seventh It the fall of and
The Orioles, with a fine sense of was 1945, 
inning. history, started the inaugural Uncle Sammy's collected draft 
choices had just run up back -to­
hack wins in the Big Ones over 
Germany and Japan. Now the
Eric Kinkopf 
warriors had come back to finish 
up their college careers; Notre ~~me::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:!:~:, Dame, like the rest of them, was 
By now most of you have probably forgotten everything about the filling up with veterans. One of Michigan State game, except for the fact that we won by a score of 14-these ex -GI 's was J. J. Carberry_ 
2. He and the great Johnny Lujack Rut the game sticks in my memory, though not for any reasons of had a couple of things in com­spectacular play or anxious-ridden moments. mon: both men lived in Sorin I haven't forgotten the game because of something that happened Hall and played a little bit of near the tail-t'!nd of the band's half-time show. quarterback here, there ends the I haven't forgotten it, because what happened at the end of the half­resemblance. Quoth the great time show really hurt. Lujack: "Other quarterbacks 
It hurt,I guess, mostly because myself and about a hundred other hide the ball, but with Carberry guys prepared for two weeks for a show in front of a national TV it's the other way around." audience. It hurt because that show was marred by the disrespect and Carberry, in time, confined his "spirit ", if you can call it that, of some of the Notre Dame students. passing attack to his courses, and 
In case you haven't guessed by now, I am a member of the Notre is now Dr. James Carberry, Dame Marching Band. Yeah, the band ... that group of guys you cheer Professor of Chemical at rallies ... the fellas many of you follow around campus before a Engineering. His other title, rally ... the guys you wait around to see form a shamrock and play the unofficial of course, is Interhall Victory March after each Irish victory ... the same guys you follow to Football Coach, Without Port­the band room after every Saturday home game. folio. Having already served at 
The same group of fell as, you didn't respect enough to let finish their Lyons, Dillon, and St. Joe Hall, half-time performance at the State game uninterrupted. among other, he has returned to 
The ND Rand, students in the Irish band uniforms who had to stand Sorin, his old hall, in hopes of at attention, while some follish, opportunistic jackass called the reviving a team which has not BP<'rslayer ran through their concert formation in front of a national won in two seasons against the audience. competition of the Black and Blue 
And right about now you're probably telling me to cool it. Don't be Division. upset over such a minor occurrence you're probably thinking. Coach (and Chemical Engineering prof) Dr. James Carberry
Four days a week, he presides 
Well, don't even waste your time thinking that, baby. Because I'm 
over afternoon practice, paces 
squad. We won the championship Brogan, convinced him to returnstill mad, plenty mad, probably madder than I've been in a long time. 

the sidelines at games and 
that year."

And I'll tell you why just a "little" disrespect like that burns me up. home to Sorin. Salary; un­
scrimmages, armed with his The Carberry magic had determined, probablySome of you who think lightly about the incident ought to come out 
ubiquitous cigars, filling the fall 
produced no less that three titles nonexistant. Instant im­and practice with us for a few weeks. Yeah, practice. Give up one, 

air with comments notable and 
in the past decade, including provement befell Sorin; no longertwo or even two and a half hours a day for a couple weeks and join us. 

quotable, but not especially 
victories in some of the freakiest is a first down regarded as aCome out with us when we march in the rain. March with us when it printable. What brings the man finales in history_ His men won a moral victory_rains so hard that it takes two days to dry off. 

to do this? title on the ice-slick Stadium Every season adds to Car­Come out during the October and November months when it gets so Again, back to that gritty 1945 field, which the coach described berry's interest in the game, andcold that horns freeze to lips, and drumsticks fall out of numbed hands. 
season, when the rosters of In­as "an insane asylum," and also to his depletion-proof mine of tall 
Practice with us the night before you have a big test, or an important 
paper due. terhall were packed with ex­won the grandaddy of all OT tales. "It's a great program, and Come on out and work your can off for a week. Sweat with us. varsity men, dislodged from contests. "We played six a lot of fun to be in it. There's just
starting spots by other ex-varsity quarters, because we agreed to not enough room on the varsity
Because after all that work, you'll find out on Saturday afternoons that 
players back from the wars. play sudden death. We went on for everyone who wants to playit was worth all the bother. 
Carberry arrived here, make of until the sun almost went down football; the guys have got toWe don't do it for money. There aren't any scholarships for that wire and filled with fire, wanting and we could hardly see each play somewhere," he remarked.
work either. We do it for you. We do it because we like to do it. We do 
to play footbalL He wound up as other." As a professor in Engineeringit because we're proud of being in the band, proud of the Notre Dame a T-formation quarterback, Sorin recruited him as coach coaching serves as a me~ns ottradition. 
playing in a formation alien to one night at Louie's , where, as avoiding isolation. "It's my only If I had to single out one motivating factor for being in the band, it him, because where else does a Carberry relates, "all the grand chance to meet the guys inwould have to be representing Notre Dame and all that tradition and 135-pounder play against the business transactions take Business and Arts and Letters."
glory our University is built upon. 
eampus monsters? Though he place." The Sorin Body Coach,
And wlwther you realize it or not, the Notre Dame band represents The Carberry game plans are 
was socked black and blue, the .John Westhoven, who played left 
you. All of you. The band uniforms may single us out, but when we're simple and adaptable. "We 
deepest impression left on him slipstick in the professor's ChEg never get called too
on the field we represent you, and all that is Notre Dame. for much 
was a love for the Interhall game. elass, and Madcap Mentor Jim E.
-Sounds kinda hokey, huh? time in the huddle," he added. WPII, maybe it is. Rut if you think that's hokey, what do you call Coming here from Yale in He would, without hesitation, use
Lifesaving

all that gibberish about "Winning one for the Gipper?" 191il, Carberry found that Joe the Power-I, Wishbone-T, or any And maybe the lyrics to the l<'ight Song are pretty hokey too. Kuharich had all but run the other letter of the alphabet, Spirit and enthusiasm are great. Our record as gridiron masters is football program off the campus. providl'd the material is there.
class 

hast'd on spirit and enthusiasm. But spirit and enthusiasm go hand in All that remained of the Interhall "We once wiped the league with a
All students interested in 

hand with respect. program were four teams; the single-wing. Nobody had seen the
taking Senior Lifesaving please

Without respect, spirit has no strength. And without respect, en­whole program appeared headed formation before in lnterhall."
contact Brother Lewis at the 

thusiasm is no more than childish squealing. the way of the great auk and t~c: Sure, Coach Carberry, is ef­
Hock, or phone 6231. 

And the sprrit and enthusiasm the students showed at the Michigan passenger pigeon. The Pl.ys Ed fervescent and colorful--good for StatP game was without respect. A foolish mob scene, witnessed by major, from whence came the The most points a Fighting his quota of grins--but he is by no millions , caused widespread amazement, I am sure, at the disrespect coaches, was given the hatchet Irish football team has ever means coaching for laughs. our students had for THEIR band. by Notre Dame's administration. scored in a Coaching may be recreation, but
single game is 142. 

Perhaps it is time for many of us to reevaluate ourselves in terms of "They wPre looking for coaches not a joke. He and his Sorin club 
Notre Dame annihilated 

respect for one another. Perhaps it is time for all of us to respect the for lnterhall," Carberry ex­American Medical 142-0 in 1905, dropped their opener Sunday, 14­sweat and hard work of others. And perhaps it is time for us to plained, "and I was asked to help scoring 27 touchdowns, worth five 0 to Pangborn-Fisher, but they'll quit taking everyone and everything for granted. That, is the measure out. My first team, in 1962, was points each, and seven con­be dead serious about evening 
the combined Lyons-Howard their record this weekend.
of an adult. versioas. 




