Vol. VI, No. 39 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Wednesday, November 3, 1971 

-~~~­

notice the frost this morning (if it was therel? well, don't expect it to go away, 'cause it's gonna be coooler today and freeeezing tonight 


The Hall Presidents' Council in a meeting last night voted not to back any open confrontation against the Trustee's decision on hall parietals. The meeting, held at six o'clock in St. Ed's Chapel, turned out to be the longest in the organization's history. 
The presidents debated their response to the Trustee's decision with the Student Body President John Barkett and with each other. Barkett himself, pened the discussion by referring to a letter he wrote to the hall presidents, suggesting that the parietals issue be dropped. 
Before he began though, Badin Hall president, Buz Imho.ff motioned to close the meeting to the public. The move would have excluded everyone but Barkett and the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Hall Presidents. The motion failed 15-4. 
In opening, Barkett restated that he was "tired of the parietal issue" and that time should be spent on "more important things." He also expressed confidence that th Trustees would allow halls to determine their own parietals some time in the near future. This action, he said would depend on how much responsibility the individual halls display throughout the rest of this year. 
Barkett reemphasized how impressed he was with what he called "earnestness" and "receptiveness" he thought the Trustees showed in his recent meeting with them. He cited their acceptance of the professional study of campus life as an indication of their concern. 
According to Howard Hall president, Bob Ryan, "The people in Howard are tired of hearing strictly about parietals 
Hall presidents won't buck Trustees 
No confrcntation 
and feel that there are other things as pressing in the hall and on campus." 
Keenan Hall president, Dave Loring argued that the parietal question was still an important one and called for strong action. "I believe that there is a need for confrontation. The parietals question is an element of the larger issue of whom is to run this University --the SLC or the Board of Trustees." 
Others, like Buz Imhoff, argued that there would be no need for confrontation. Although he .vas not in favor of dropping parietals as an issue, Imhoff said that there are effective means short of open confrontation for improving the present situation. Developing hall judicial boards into a more effective part of hall govern­ment was one approach he cited. 
After more than two hours of involved discussion and repeated attempts by chairman Ed Motto to bring the body to a vote, the HPC decided not to call for confrontation. Motto himself moved that the HPC should not initiate any open confrontation against the Trustee's decision. The motion was passed by a 13-5 vote, with one abstention. Two hall presidents were absent. 
In other HPC business, Mardi Gras Chairman Greg Stepic, appealed for the co-operation of the hall presidents in the upcoming Mardi Gras raffle. 
HPC Executive Co-ordinator, Fritz Hoefer, explained some of the guidelines that will be followed in the distribution of funds for hall projects. Walter Sworg also announced that the new student telephone directories were completed and would be distributed soon. 
en renovating LaFortune 
• What it is and vJ:rtit isn't 
The residence Halls and LaFortune Student Center demand serious physical renovation, according to Student Government Executive Coordinator Bob W<•aver. But according to Student Center Director Brother Frank Gorch , the Center provides "precisely what it is supposed to." 
In an adress to the Trustees last week, Weaver spoke of the need for vast physical improvement in these two areas. 
Weaver called 
renovation  a  need  
that  must  be  
recognized  and  
"appropiate  ac­ 

tion" to be taken. Weaver contended that there has been an emphasis from the University on the development of the halls as well as a "rising tradition of strong hall 
governments." 
While these two factors have done much to facilitate good growth of the halls, physical renovation has simply not kept pace with it," Weaver said. "In fact now we've reached an impasse of sorts." 
"There are a lot of good things being done in the halls these days," Weaver claimed, "but the Presidents, HA's and n•ctors can do so much more given the physical m<•ans to do so." Specifically he reccomended more and 

Center and pointed out what he considered wasted lounge space in the Rathskellar and Fiesta lounge. He contended that "little provision" has been made for off­campus students and what very few recreational and social attractions there are for the students. 
"It's the same situation as in the halls," Weaver stated, "LaFortune was probably more than adequate when it first opened. But changes in life styles and changes on the campus have placed such demands on the building that this is no longer the case." 
Gorch, however, disputed some of Weaver's claims. Although he said he is "neutral an what they(student govern­ment l are demanding or seeking," he argued that there is "ample room" for meetings, study, and conversations. 
Gorch said that he was "concerned" about the number of student organizations currently occupying space in the student center. 
·•If this continues," he said, "the place may cease to be a student's center." Currently, seven organizations are seated in LaFortune. 



better lounge space, recreational facilities, kitchen facilities and section lounges. 
1laft changes somewhat 
Weaver has also asked the Trustees to 
consider what he called the "basic inadequacies" of the LaFortune Center. 
details on page 3
He has invited the Trustees to visit the 
-----. 
by Dennis Duggan Geoffrey, who claims credit for ineligible for research grants as A former member of the SMC Harvard's 1965 hiring of a Black has happened to some Big Ten Attention Clubs Art Department, Iqbal Geoffrey, assistant dean, said, "I think schools. ~----and
-

. --~-------~----~~­
Page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Former tea:i5" sues UUversity 
Administration defend; hiring polides 
said in a letter yesterday that since filing a complaint against Father Hesburgh with the South Bend Human Relations and Fair Emplayment Commission, he has received anonymous threats to have him deported. 
Claiming he was the victim of "racist" hiring policies in not being considered for an ad­ministrative position at Notre Dame, Geoffrey challenged Hesburgh to name one person at ND with better credenti:lls and a better performance record than himself. 
SMC hall 
Hesburgh should be properly ashamed of the miserable bigotry that has prevailed under his mose and through his blessings; what I find repulsive is that such a man 
heads  the  U.S.  Civil  Rights  
Commission.  
Director  of  Personel  Joseph  

O'Brien, noted that the Civil Rights Commission has in­vestigated Notre Dame on its minority hiring policies and has given it a favorable rating. If this were not the case, O'Brien continued, the school would be 
questial 

pc&poned once again 
by Sue Prendergast 

The. SMC Student Affairs Council in a closed meeting decided yesterday to postpone voting on the hall autonomy proposal for at least two weeks so that, according to council member Jean Seymour, its members can "research the matter thoroughly and form opinions." 
The Bill, originally proposed by Student Assembly members Darlene Galiena, Gary Caruso, and Mary Kay Tobin had been passed by the Student Assembly and Student Affaiirs Committee before appearing on the Council Agenda this week. 
The proposal, if passed would allow each hall to determine its own policies, including "the 1 formulation and jurisdiction of hall parietals policy." 

Jean Seymour member of SMC 
According to Miss Seymour, Miss Gallina, who pasented the proposal to the Council "did a tremendous job. She argued from the standpoint of the basic philosophy of hall autonomy. Miss Gallina also answered questions posed by faculty and administration Council mem­bers. 
Miss Seymour explained what she saw as the reasons for the voting delay: "We want to see more data and have more in­formation so we can make an intelligent decision." She con­tended that Council members would especially like "to see the general basic concepts of what halls would do" if the proposal succeeds. 
Miss Seymour declined to speculate on the proposal's future but commented on the Council's attitude: "Everyone was very open; they asked legitimate questions. The lines of com­munication are good at this point." She added that she felt the faculty and administration Council members are looking for some indication that halls will take effective action in regulating community life. 
Student Assembly Vice­President Missy Underman generally concurred with Miss Seymour's analysis describing the meeting as "very optimistic. " She commented, "I was verypleased with the direction and 

....s_tu_d_e_n_t_A_f_fa_i_rs_c_o_un_c_i_l.____..:to=..:n::.:e~of the meeting. ____ 

A NEW TIME FOR THE NOTRE DAME-CHICAGO SPECIAL Starting this Friday the non-stop bus to Chicago will leave the circle 
at 4:55 instead of 3:55.Return buses 'still depart from Chicago at 4 & 7:30 on Sundays. 
For tickets & information call Tom '\oyer., 504 Flann~r, 283-6984 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the Univtrsity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
As Director of Personnel, O'Brien has no jurisdiction over administrative positions. He found it "strange" that Geoffrey would apply to his office for such a job. O'Brien told Geoffrey that at that time there was nothing open in the areas he was in­terested in. 
Vice President and General Counsel Philip Faccenda said that his office has not been for­mally or informally notified of Geoffrey's complaint with the Fair Employment Commission. 
Faccenda was not sure what Geoffrey meant by a "management position" but did note that Dr. Joseph Scott was head of the Black Studies Program and Bayard Rustin is a Trustee. Both men are Black. 
Faccenda said there was no direct way of applying for an administrative position and there were no openings anyway." It sounded like Geoffrey wants a 
position especially created for 

himself," Faccenda s-:,::a:=_id.::.·:___...:..:_=========================::; 
.. 

•••and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you five in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simpiy by teffing the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates ths 25-cent additional charge made on every $tation-to-station "coffect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident. get your card now! 
@ 
.. &' .; 
Indiana Bell 

0 rganizations. 
If you need to charter a bus for any kind of trip call 
Tom Boyer, 
504 Flanner, 
283-6984 

Campus Representative for Greyhound and Indiana Motor Bus 
Notre Dame • Saint Mary's Theatre presents Studio I Production 
MY SWEET CHARLIE 
by David Westheimer 
Little Theatre Moreau November 7 -7:30 pm Hall, SMC Tickets $1.00 November 5, 6 -8: 30 pm Reservations at 284-4176 
.. 

Wednesday, November 3, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page J 
world briefs 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
New Delhi --The official death toll in the cyclone and tidal wave that struck India's eastern coast rose to 4,000, but officials said that it might reach 20,000 or more. Newsmen at the scene of the disaster reported that many bodies were still floating in the rivers and the sea. 
llnited Nations --China named Chiao-Kuan-Hua, her Vice Foreign Minister, as the head of a nine-man delegation to the United Nations. Huang-Hua, one of China's senior diplomats and her present ambassador to Canada, was named as the permanent representatice. The delegation was expected to arrive at the U.N. at the end of this week. 
Stockholm --The 1971 Nobel prizes in physics and chemistry were awarded to Prof. Dennis Gabor and Prof. Gerhard Herzber_f;. Gabor, a Hungarian-born Briton, was honored for his invention of holography. Herzberg, a German now living in Canada, was chosen for his work on electronic structure and molecular geometry. 
Washi.ngton --A 4 per cent increase limit on dividends was an­nounced by the committee that will regulate interest and dividends during phase two of the economic stabilization program. The 4 per cent guideline was understood to be a signal to other boards as to what the administration would consider an anti-inflationary in­crease. 
I 3:30 lecture.-dr. alan k. 
campbell, restrucluring american federalism,
U2 

library auditorium
::s 

7:00 talk--fr. james burt. 
e 
0. chaell, rap session, keenan-stanford chapel 
7:00 & 9:00 film--charly, engineering auditorium
tJ 

u 7:30 lecture--merwyn garbarino, american indians, traditional and
s:: 

contemporary, carroll0 ha II, mada leva 
I 
8:00 lecture--dr. robert caponigri, doxiadis and the theory of human habitation, library lounge 


Selective Service changes draft procedures 
(c) 1!171 New York Times 
Washington, Nov. 2--The selective service system an­nounced today the first major overhaul of draft regulations in four years. Nom• of the new administrative rules, in themselves, make anyone more or less liable to being drafted. 
But they create entirely new procedures that potential draf­tees must follow in dealing with their draft boards. 
Some of the new regulations, that were published today in the F<•deral Register (CAPS) and go into effect in 30 days, merely clarify changes in the law made by Congress this year. 
For instance, the law allowed President Nixon to abolish Student Deferments (except for divinity students) for all men whc w<>re not in school during the r<>gular 1970-71 academic year, and the President used this authority. The new regulations specify that, to be eligible for a student deferment, a man must have been a full-time student at the Pnd of the 1970-71 school year. 
created for men who are not immediately susceptible to being drafted. Thus, when a man registers for the draft at age 18, he will be classified 1-H because he is liable to being inducted until the calendar year in which his 20th birthday occurs. 
Likewise, a man who has passed his year of eligibility without being drafted because his lottery number was too high will be classified 1-H. 
Beginning next year, the selective service system will determine after each lottery drawing the highest conceivable lottery number that could be 
3Dl rescheduled 
The Cultural Arts Commission announced last night that the film, "2001 : A Space Odyssey," will be re-scheduled for the Sl'cond semester and will not be shown November 3 and 4 as originally scheduled. It will be replaced by the Academy-asard winning film, "CHARLY." The film company notified the CAC that the mix-up was due to distribution problems. 
reached by draft calls that year. held deferments, will be Persons with a number higher abolished. Draft boards will now than this cutoff will also be destroy the files of men in this placed in category 1-H category. 
Draft boards will keep no After a man has had his file records other than names and destroyed, he will no longer be addressed of men who are required to carry a draft card. classified 1-H, and the men need A new classification, 2-D, will not contact their boards except be established for divinity when they change addresses. students and undergraduates 
Classification 5-A, which ap­who have been pre-enrolled in plied to all men over 35 who had divinity school. 
Casualties in India rise 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
New Delhi, Nov. 2--The estimated death toll continued to rise in the cyclone and tidal wave that struck the eastern coast of India aver the weekend, with some officials predicting that it might reach 20,000 or higher. 
The official toll was listed as more than 4,000, but Indian newsmen at the scene reported that many uncounted bodies were still floating in rivers and the sea. 
The area struck by the storm on Friday night and Saturday morning --the northern coastline of Orissa State on the Bay of Bengal --has a population of about five million, and officials said that most of them were affected. 
Seferal hendred thousand houses were reported damaged or destroyed. Railway lines were disrupted, as were telephone and telegraph communications. Thousands of cattle were killed and the damage to the rice crop was extensive. Officials said tonight that the overall carnage could run as high as $400 million. 
The Nixon administration wanted to abolish all student deferments beginning with men who entered school this year, but Congress declared that divinity students should be able to hold 
deferments. 
Thus, a man who stays in divinity school until he is 26 years old will escape the draft forever, regardless of whether he enters the ministry. 
A classification, 4-G, was 

created for men who are the sole 
surviving sons of men killed in 
the military or whose fathers, 
sisters or brothers were killed in 
the line of duty after 1919 or who 
are prisoners of war or missing in 
action. Men in this category are 
exempt from the draft. 
The new regulations make 

several changes in procedures 
for conscientious objectors. A 
man will not be allowed to claim 
conscientious objector status 
until he has received a lottery 
number and then only if his 
number is below the 1-H cut-off. 
In the past, men were advised to 
apply for conscientious objector 
status as soon as they registered 
for the draft.
The rules also create several m•w draft classifications and abolish some old ones. 
The dassification 1-Y, which Provost to speak dt•signated a person not fit for s<•rvice except in a national Fr. James Burtchaell, PrnPrgmcy, has been abolished. University Provost, will PPrsons holding that about his position as Provost, the classification will be reclassified latest Trustee action, and 4-F if their disability is a per­direction of the University in manent one, such as poor rap session tonight, November 3, l'yt>sight or a chronic knee sponsor£'d by the Keenan ailntl'nt, and 1-A if their disability Adadl'mic Commission. was a tPmporary one, such as a session will be at 7:00p.m. in the broken ll'g. Kel.'nan-Stanford Chapel, and is 
A new classification, 1-H, was opm to the public. 

Friday 8:00pm in ACC 
ood seats still availableat $3.50 & $4. 
Limited number of bleacher seats available at $2.00 
ticket sales tonight in the Dining Halls 
presented by Social Commission 
and the ACC 


-

Wednesday, November 3, 1971
THE OBSERVER. 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso /\ssistant Editor/\ssistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 

/\dve1·tising Manager 
Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

News: 283-1715
B usine ss: 2 8 3 -7 4 7 1 
Smrise in Pakistan 
I 

Sunrise in Pakistan is a grim sort of greeting. The dead sit unburied on the ground; collecting flies since ther's no money in Pakistan to bury the dead. The cyclone of All Saint's day has killed twenty thousand; the Associated Press estimates another two million missing. Except that they're not really missing; they're floating down rivers; half-visable; half-submerged in the filth. 
Q. What weighs 2 pound and crawls? 
A. A fat Pakistani baby -paraphrase of a National Lampoon joke. 
Yes, Pakistan has become a sort of an institution-a disaster-la den country that's slipped beyond the periphery of believability and has hence been institutionalized. Babies are ushered softly into existence ther; sleep blissfully through the whole of their one-day existence ther and are ushered softly out. 
Yes, that's the way it is in Pakistan, Sports fans! People hacking at the elements and the fates. and ~ach other until nothing remains on the ground except blood and festering human parts. And that's how it is when the ground greets sunrise in Pakistan. 
II Here's how it is at Notre Dame: Colder now, with a wind. Cat Stevens first; then Pitt. We have to worry about parietals -can't get caught this weekend. Today the Pakistani relief people are going to collect for their project. They want a dollar per person; they're not going to get it; they never get it. Everybody's busted on Wednesday; besides, didn't they try to recruit volunteers for their Halloween collection and end up with something like nineteen people? Shucks, you knew how it is when it's collection time at Notre Dame. 
Lunch is over. Cat Stevens is coming up. Who has a buck to spend on Pakistani relief? III Sunrise in Pakistan has a sort of sick pallor to it. Another day, another death. Another ten thousand deaths. Ten thousand deaths a day! 
Numbers of such numbing proportions lack a certain reality. Itdoes no 
good to say that the death rate would wipe out South Bend in two weeks. 
we can't see a city wiped out--cities~don't fit in our minds 
Indians and Pakistanis are dying at a rate of seven a minute. If you're in 
the dining hall, the odds are that if the disease, war, filth and natural 
disaster of India and Pakistani were distilled and distributed with the 
more conventional fare you are consuming, it would wipe out your table 
in three and a half minutes. If you live in a quad, it would take twenty­
eight seconds. 

Well, so,there's a collection to take care of this. Tonight. But you know 
about collections at Notre Dame. So they might as well gird their loins in 
Pakistan-at least as far as Notre Dame goes. Because, as far as we're 
concerned, that's the way it's going to be the next thousand sunrises in 
Pakistan. 
The Staff 

Nite Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editor: Anthony Abowd Layout and Extra Help: George Lund, Mzrty Miller No Help at All: Maria Gallagher(with an 
'a') 

Headliner: Don Bianciamano News Editor: Jerry Lutkus(who'll learn Wanderers, Tramps, and Assorted Yo­about pix someday) Yo's: Tom Hamilton, Ed Ellis, T.C. SMC Editor: Ann Conway(remembber Treanor, the draft people, Bob Weaver, the editor's sex!) Lyn Mastriana, Helen Smudski, Don features editor: rick smith Ruane, AT Darrin, Jim McDermott(for a Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson(the brief instant), Bob Higgins, Joe procrastinator) Wilkowski, and Jim Hunt(in a cameo Campus Editor: Don Ruane(coming in 
appearance). from left field) nite controller: mark j. niederkorn 
1. 
i don't care how many papers you typed, maria 

2. 
hi, patty 


3. 
we're. still waiting, donaldson 


ta~l 
((\~~­
• Jlil, I 
. , 'I 
, !· j/ I .• . / 

not intended to force an students." --Rev. Theodore Hesbur h 

Steve Lazar------------­
On the Liberation of Women (and of all other H urn an Beings ) 
To begin with, let us adopt a profound view of woman; profound, and 
yet so marvelously simple: woman is a childbearer, her body protects 
and sustains first life, and let us add to this biological view a social 
0ne, one that is born and nourished by her biological function: woman 
is a partner for man. Let us, too, define man: man is the compliment 
of woman, the sower of seed from which first life springs. So too, he is 
a partner for woman. 

This is a good definition, and a very true one; but it is a bit too 
simplistic for any place other than the Garden of Eden. In fact, its 
simplicity is a bit too honest even for there, there where the most 
fundamental prejudice ever devised against woman has been handed 
down through the generations as if it were the will of the Supreme 
Being. 

These things we have said now are true, but this is not the Garden. 
This is the twentieth century, and there is a difference. 
We find that somewhere in the progress of humanity from the 
Garden to the twentieth century, civilization was slowly developed 
from its crude beginnings. Strangely, however, this formation of 
civilization was the work of man alone. Woman--left to rear her 
children and refurnish the ego of her husband--was excluded. Thus 
she became 'homemaker and the protected sex. Man became 
breadwinner and protector, and thus socially and psychologically the 
dominent sex. Her passivity and inferiority reached such symbolic 
extent that she came to be regarded as the property of man, who, when 
he took her for his mate, symbolized his ownership of her by impairing 
to her his name. 

We in the Western world can trace the development of our 
civilization through the Greeks and Romans, the Hebrews and the 
Europeans. All of these civilizations, at the time they were 
flourishing, were male-dominated societies. We have maintained this 
aspect. 

Man, in fulfilling his role as protector and sustainer of the lives of his 
wife and children, has at times thought it necessary to destroy the 
lives of other men so that he could survive and grow. Woman, as the 
passive and neutral partner of man, was taught to keep her place and 
accept the benefits of conquest that man would bring her. This has 
been the way of humanity for tens of centuries 
0 

But this is the twentieth century, and civilization has changed. Survival is no longer a matter of the triumph of muscular force over a hostile environment. The moral notion of equality has evolved to the extent that it is written into the constitutions of nations. Slaves have been set free. But despite all this, the male-dominated society has persisted. 
Women are demanding that this cycle be broken, and rightfully so. They have seen that the methods of a male dominated economic society include discrimination against and exploitation of women, furthered by a kind of psychological brainwashing that trains them to inhibit the expression of their talents. This type of domination of man over woman has become immoral. For by discrminating against humans because of their sex and by commercially exploiting their unigue attributes, men, have treated women as mere objects. And by maintaining that women should be passive in all social relations tfie commercialist male has simply made it easier for women to be manipullated for his own selfish gain. This is no less than a fun­damental immorality. It is an immorality that the male dominated society as a whole must bear, just as it must bear responsibility for its other products--wars of genocide, espionage, environmental destruction. 
It becomes clearer with each day that the condition of society is in 
need of change--change of a moral sort as well as a social one. And it is 
evident that such a change will not be accomplished by men alone; 
women must step up to be among the leaders. They must not only gain 
their equal rights but must also exercise a moral force superior to the 
men who now run the society. Their moral leadership is urgently 
needed; their disappearance into the doldrums of middle class life­
whether it be housewifery or breadwinning-is not needed at all. 
Woman, who is perhaps a more moral creature than man because of 
her closeness to the creation of first life must become all that she can 
be, and yet must refuse to put on the shackles that man has built upon 
himself. And if she can do this, surely her partner, man, will follow, 
and surely their civilization will change for the better. 


Wednesday, November 3, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 
john barkett 
the sbp: what he's like &Wlot he does 
Also greetmg you was the publication "You've Got a Friend" sponsored through our Community Relations Commissioner, Dave Lah. Dave has also been involved in the Juvenile Probation Office, Big Sister, Guidance Counsellor, and Family and Children's Center Programs, among others. Might I add, too, that the shamrocks for sale at the football games for the United Fund have taken up some of his time. 
Paul Dziezic, the Ombudsman, has not only organized a very friendly and interested staff, but he's also been writing for the Observer on the side. Over 400 phone calls to answer questions or solve problems have kept them busy.
Last semester, Ed Ellis prompted the repair of the basketball courts behind the bvokstore. This year he and his Research and Development crew have been looking through mountains of material on topics ranging from ecology to co-educational dorms. The bookstore has also figured into their work, as has a constitution to suit a 

............... merged Student Government for Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Fred Giuffrida in Academic Mfairs had conducted John Barkett wrote the first part of this article last more interviews for more committees and councils than I 
spring. The following represents the first part of the ever knew exisred. Or at least it seems that way. The se~ond part. The second part of the second part w1ll be result on the questionnaire on academics from last spring pnnted later. -ed. will be available soon. A report on the pass-fail option is Two of the most frequent questions I get asked in my being worked on. Work still must be done on the Advisor 
speaking trips back to the halls is what has Student System here, but the Freshmen Year Office has been re­
Government been doing, and what is the job of the stimulated, as we called for last year. Academic 

Student Body President really like? Since I have not spoken to you all yet this year, I wish to take this op­portunity to answer those questions. 
The first question is easy to answer; though I'm not sure where to begin and I have to be brief. We have $10,000.00 to give back to the halls, as we said we would last spring. Student Government personnel have been in 15 halls since Freshman Orientation to speak with students. Orlando Rodriguez, the Vice President, and I have reached eleven halls between us thus far, and I'm scheduled in four the next two weeks. Senate elections were held a month earlier than last year and the Finance Committee hearings and the Senate meeting on the budget went quicker and smoother than anyone can remember. I congratulate Cass Rejent publicly for the incredible amount of time and effort he expended to make that happen. 
Perhaps the biggest accomplishments were achieved after Bob Weaver, Orlando Rodriguez, and I spoke at the recent Board of Trustees meeting. Facing a $700,000 deficit this year, the Trustees made a commitment to substantial improvements in the social facilities, either in the halls, La Fortune; or both. They also committed themselves to a survey of student life to help all of us understand better the needs and wants of students here. We are very excited by both of these achievements for we feel they will have an immensely positive effect on im­proving the conditions of student life at Notre Dame. 
"South Bend in a Nutshell" welcomed you to campus 
this year, not only with a wealth of information, but also 
with a 59 cent coupon for a free Whopper at Burger King. 
Over 3,000 of them were used. We were happy to sponsor 
that publication for your benefit. 
rick smith 
grievances is another hazy area, but it's being studied. 
Hall Life Commissioner Bob Higgins has been working closely with the Admissions Office to provide rooms for high school seniors visiting here. His commission also has seen an edition of the interhall newsletter, preparations made for a booklet describing each residence hall to give a high school senior some idea of where he may live for his four years at Notre Dame, and a report on Hall Fellows programs to aid hall governments interested in starting such a program. 
Off-Campus Commissioner, John Drost made a plea for 
an off-campus center at the meeting of the Student At­
fairs Committee of the Board of Trustees and though ita 
fate has not yet been decided, John and Co. have prepared 
two off-campus newsletters and a housing evaluation 
survey to eliminate substandard residences from the 
housing lists. They have also finalized the legal aid 
program and have made plans for "get togethers" for the 
married and transfer students. 

Bill Wilka and Jane Sheehy sit on the Student Affairl 
Inter-Institutional team for the co-ed unification and both 
will tell you that meetings never seem to end. Steve 
Fortunato, Human Mfairs Commissioner, is the liason 
with the International Students Association and was 
instrumental in establishing the Dining Hall Commission. 
Our Judicial Coordinator, Dave Tushar, and his staff 
have helped the hall ~udicial boa~d chain·~en esta~l.ish 
their b.oard~. Dave himself was ~nvolved m orgamzmg 
the Umversity Board and the Traffic Appeals Board. And 
Fred Schaefer, Public Relations Commissioner, along 
with his staff, will be mailing out. a new~l~tter for t~e 
foreign student programs soon m addition to their . everyday job of press re)Pases. 
Quite objectively, I think Bill McGrath, Student Union Director and his seemingly tireless group of com­missioners and staff members havean outstanding record thus far. You, of course, can judge better than I but I feel the concerts, the speakers, the cultural events and the student services have all been excellent. Might congratulate Bill and his wife, Debbie, too, on their transition to parenthood in February. She's expecting a baby (girl). 
Bob Weaver has the title of Executive Coordinator which means he does everything everybody else doesn't do. Bob is concentrating on security right now. The Advisory Board we pushed for has been approved and he will be sitting on it. The Day Care Center will not long be forgotten by him, he has put so many hours into it. Most of all, Bob has served as a close advisor and a closer friend, and I cherish both. 
Orlando Rodriguez, our Vice President, has been in­volved in budget hearings, minority students, the Charity Chest, the Hall Life Committee Report of the Student Life Council, all sorts of committees and innumerable meetings. He is an amazing young man, and I don't know how I would have survived the past six months without his help and friendship. 
There is a list of men and women whose names I have neither time nor space to mention. They are the people who give up hours to work in the various areas I have described above and below. They get little or no publicity; only the satisfaction any service to others and for others can give. Please accept these words as a portion of the recognition you deserve. 
That leaves me. InPIRG, the Day Care Center, the Voter's Registration Drive, and the Charity Basketball Benefit (to be held Nov. 22) all owe their existence to my involvement in one way or another. Throw in, too, the Student Life Council, the Student Senate, the Finance Committee, the Student Mfairs Committee, the Student Union Board of Directors, the Election Committee, and countless meetings on all imaginable topics and problems. But more on all this tomorrow. This glimpse will suffice for now. 
What does the future hold? Much of our time will be spent in refining some of the programs listed above. Co­education with all its implications particularly in the housing area will continue to receive attention. Em­phasizing the minority student and off-campus student further, pushing for a drug treatment center and working on the Student Life Council are others on the horizon. We plan to continue our cooperative efforts with the Hall Presidents. And I think we'll all see a major ad­vancement in improving the social life here. There is so much yet to be done, I think I'll end with these brief in­sights. 
This is a skimpy survey, I admit, but I hope it answers sufficiently the first question. Ifanyone would life further elaboration on anything I have mentioned, please see the person involved. They are all working to serve you anyway. 
Tomorrow, I will answer the second question. The experience of the job is the only real answer, but I will do my best to help you pass over into my position to better understand the branded life I lead. 
being alive, being human, responding 
money to aid the refugees. These volun­teers will be identified by badges and will have appropriately labeled collection cans. I hope you are sufficiently aroused, sufficiently alive to give a little. Thank you. 
pnv VvOrksfrp schedied 
The Non-Violence Program has an­nounced a Practical Training in Non­violent Direct Action for Fall-Winter Action to take place on November 5, 6, and 
7. Starting with supper at 6 pm Friday, the training sessions will include guerilla theater, street speaking, leaflet preparation, civil disobedience, roleplays, personal non-violence, and a preparation for the National Death Toll Action in Washington D.C. this month. 
The Training Sessions will take place in the Old College next to the Log Cabin Chapel. Participants should bring their interest, patience, willingness to sleep on the floor and a sleeping bag. Cost is eight dollars for food and the Nonviolent Training & Action Center. Anybody planning to do anything on campus or in Washington is urged to attend. Interested parties should contact Fr. Amen in G-129 of the Library basement. 

rugged frontier of India's hills. 
Those who have survived this far -last year's cyclone and tidal wave, the summer war, the cholera epidemic, and, finally, last weekend's second cyclone and tidal wave -face the monsoon storms with nothing between them and the pelting rain and cruel wind but flimsy canvass­covered shelters. 
The Times of London has warned that up to four million people inside East Pakistan may die within the coming months unless emergency food, relief and reconstruction measures are put into effect. This is not to mention the more than ten million refugees outside the country. Each day that group grows by another thirty to forty thousand. And each day, more than ten thousand of these die, according to Senator Kmnedy. 
The above figures can be considered numbing. There might be a relationship between the amount of suffering incurred and the degree of one's response to that suffering. If there is this relationship, a corollary may be added -namely that above a certain level of suffering, the only response is paralysis. Just as in the physical sciences, above a certain level of sound, there is silence. 
Or maybe you already knew this. 
And yet one of the primary charac­teristics of a human being, at least as the term 'human' was understood prior to Auschwitz and Hiroshima, was his ability to respond to the suffering of his brothers and sisters. To respond effectively. It was a natural part ofthe human creature. 

Last weekend, seven hundred to a 
thousand people were expected to go trick­
or-treating on behalf of their stricken and 
suffering brothers and sisters in East 
Pakistan. Twenty people showed up. 
Also last weekend, coincidentally I suppose, sixteen-foot tidal waves smashed into a thousand square mile area in the very heavily populated state of Cuttack just southwest of Calcutta. Another five million people were made homeless. Maybe twenty thousand were killed. 
I seem to have returned to those num­
bing fugures. Maybe I'm getting self­
righteous, too. After all, I was not among 
those twenty people. But it seems to me 
that the failure of the people of this 
campus, not to mention the people of the 
country at large, to respond to the suf­
fering of the people of Bengal must imply 
that the people of this campus cannot be 
classified as 'human'. Especially when 
you are being asked to make such a small 
response -one dollar. 
But I'm not sure about this. To imply that somebody is not a human being is implying a hell of a lot. Besides I'm dealing in abstract generalities. There must be extenuating curcumstances. 
Tonight, between 10:30 and 11:30 in every hall, volunteers will be asking for 

--------------------------------~---------------­
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, November 3, 1971 
·------­
New shorter black studies major 
•.. ·· · by Greg Rowinski Studies major. The student, to B_lack Studi~s pro~rams: two in given the double-credit overlap. 
Students enrolled in 24 hour <'arn a doubl<' degree with a histor~ •two m S~cwlogy •an~ ?ne Those enrolled in non-major majors will be able to obtain their Black Studies major must <'ach m Economics, Hu_mamhes, Black Studies courses must ~econd major in Black Studies complete 18 hours in his G?vernmcnt, and En~hsh: They register for the Black Studies with no more than 18 additional specialized major and 18 hours in will_ teach c~~rses 1!1 history, majorin order to get Black hours, according to Black Studies the Black Studies major, with 6 socwlog_y • political scienc~, and Studies credit for those courses. Director Dr. Joseph Scott. hours of overlap between the two. <'conomics.. A professor m law Scott looks on Black Studies as 
Stud~nts will be able to do this The "Black Experience" rna~. possibly t~ach a . Black a ".tr~e liber.~l art course," by takmg 6 hours, of electives courses are taught by specially-Stu Ies cour~e m law 1~ the outhmng a comprehensive within their own majors in designated faculty members futur~, accordmg to Scot~. F1ve of approach to the problems facing designated Black Studies Since Black Studies is a progra~ the ~Ight ar~ Black~. Fiv~ have Black Americans." courses. What Scott termed and not a department, there is no obtamed their PhD s, while t~e S~ott encourages double­"Black Experience" courses separate .Black Studies Faculty o~her t~ree lack only their maJors to take the 18 hours offered through currently Faculty are designated and not dissertations to be awarded_ their outside the specialized major in established departments, will appointed. degrees. All h~ve. published at least 4 different departments, then also be counted toward the There are currently eight works ~nd ~~e a_c~!Ve m researc~. to allow .?n "interdisciplinary completion of the 24-hour Black professors designated to teach Eachdi~ a legitimate scholar , approach.
accor mg to Scott, and each teaches a "legitimate course." 
FUTURE CPA'S

Students interested in a Black Studies double-major must of-Learn Now About the 
Door to door fund drive 
by Andy Winiarczyk, Jr. Saturday when a devastating cyclone hit India about 120 miles 
Students World Concern will from where the cyclone hit last conduct a door-to-door campaign year. It occurred in tomorrow between ten and 
Bhubaneswar in the state of midnight in each of the halls to Cuttack which is just off the Bay raise money for the victims of of Bengal. Estimates say that both natural disasters and civil between ten thousand to twl·nty­strife in India and East Pakistan, three thousand people have died. 
according to campaign chairman An additional five million have been left homeless."
-· Tom Hamilton. 
The SWC has appointed cap­"Senator Edward Kennedy, " tainsfromeach hall who will be in 
commented Hamilton, "has charge of the drive within their said that 4300 refugee children respective halls, Hamilton said. will die every day. And since 
The captains are scheduled to refugees are better fed than the collect money and disseminate other victims and the children information, according to the co­~re th~ best fed of the refugees it chairman. 1s estimated that 10,000 people 
Students who reside off­will die every day." 
campus may turn in their con­tributions at the Off-Campus office of La Fortune Student Center, Hamilton said. 
According to hamilton, "We hope to raise at least $10,000. Each student on the two cam­puses is capable of giving a dollar." 
"I want to emphasize the ex­treme importance of raising this money in view of two recent developments," he continued. 
"On Friday the Senate cut off all foreign aid. This included the money that was going to be used for emergency relief aid for the refugees in India and Bangia

Desh.. · Tom Hamilton of the Student World Concern announced a new
"The situation was further 
fund drive effort.
complicated on Friday and 
Mexicxm American ga.ps dispute Senatcr 
Four Indiana organization of has reached an inaccurate Mexican Americans, two of conclusion. Therefore we which are at the University of demand that he be prepared to Notre Dame, denounced recent 
receive the evidence from the assurances by state senator Earl migrant communities and their Wilson that Indiana migrant representatives." labor had adequate living con­The United Mexican ditions. 
Americans of Indiana called for The Midwest Council of La Senator Wilson's resignation from the Migrant Committee and 
Raza, associated with the In­asked for an apology from thestitute for Urban Studies at Notre 
Dame, denounced Wilson's Indiana State Senate. The Mexican-American Committee
"apparently malicious effort 
said an apology would not repairagainst one of the most powerless 
and defenseless segments of the damage caused by Senator 
Wilson's statement, which hadour society." Ricardo Parra, induced much apathy among theexecutive director of the Council, general public. 
said "It is incredible how Mr. 
Wilson reverted to the Nean­derthal age of politics and dared Debate-s shine 
to make such authoritative 
Over the past weekend, thestatements after having visited Notre Dame Debate Teamonly four camps." 
travelled to the annual debateCharging that conditions in tournament of the Statemigrant camps result from In­University of New York atdiana's legislation to improve the Geneseo. The tournament at­plight of the migrant workers, t~acted fifty teams from thirty­Parra pointed out that tuber­eight schools, representing moreculosis, occupational accident than twenty states. The team ofrates and death during childbirth Seniors Tom Gies and Mikein migrant camps are all over 100 Conner reached the final roundper cent above national average where they lost a close 2-1figures. 
decision to the tournamentA statement from the Chicano winner. The team of Juniorsstudents of Notre Dame John Borkowski and Brian Kellyorganized in MECHA concluded reached the octo-finals where"we believe that Senator Wilson they also lost a 2-1 decision. 

Feel lost, 
Find it at The Hideaway Lounge 
this week, we give you • • • 
Mr. Flood's Party 
Monday thru Saturday 8 pm till 3 am 
Wed. Ladies night, Ladies Free, Guys $1. 122 W. First Street 
Downtown, Mishwaka 


Wednesday, November 3, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Pep7 
ND~s Mike Crotty isn~t overlooked 

by Vic Horr. '71 If you're a member of Notre !>amp's defensive backfield, and if you're playing alongside people namPd I<:llis and Stepaniak, then lhPre's a good chance that you might be overlooked. And if you stand only five feet, nine inches tall, and weigh only 180 lbs., then your l'hances of being overlooked arP doubled. That is, unless your name is Mike Crotty. Crotty, a senior from Seattle, Wash., has been a member of the Irish secondary for two seasons now, and anyone who has overlooked him simply hasn't hft•n paying close attention to the gamPs. l<'or Crotty has done nearly l'Verything during the past several years--from pass dPfense, to punt and kickoff returns, to shutting off Jim lkrt<>lsen in the '71 Cotton Bowl. And this season has already brought more of the same for the ND safety. In the opening game against Northwestern, Crotty madP l'ertain that no one would overlook him, as he stole a pair of Maurie Daigneau passes and rPlurned the second one 65 yards for a touchdown. 
Besides doing a solid defensive job, Mike Crotty has been an exciting
More recently, against North 
punt returner for the Irish this season.
Carolina, Crotty disrupted the "Well, Paul Shoults asked me ifTarheel air game with frequent I'd ever played defense," saidrPd-dogging from his safety slot, Crotty, "and I said 'yes.' Thenand hP nearly broke the game 
opPn in the second half by Tom Pagna asked me, and I told him 'yes.' This was on a Wed­returning a punt 48 yards to the 
Carolina seven. 
n£'sday, and they had me listed at safety by the time we practiced
Rut Crotty, who has to be one of Coach Paul Shoults' greatest 
on Saturday. finds, was not always a defensive ''I'd played both positions in player. He was a regular at high school, so it didn't really running back during the '69 make any difference then. But sPason. and it was only during the things are different now. It's an spring of '70 that he made the honor to be at safety now, switch to defense. because we have a real out-
Jim Donaldson::::::?.:~:i==~=~==:======================================================================= The Irish Eye 
• ;===========================================:flhelpsdigs it at Notre Dame 
If Dick "Digger" Phelps were an actor instead of a basketball coach, he'd undoubtedly have played a number of starring roles in his youthful career. 
Last March, in New York City, he could have won an Oscar for his portrayal of "The Miracle Worker" after leading his unheralded Fordham team, which had lost 15 games the year before and had no starters over 6'5, to a 26-3 record. 
Last spring, however, Fordham hoop fans wanted to cast Phelps the lead of "Branded" or perhaps as Benedict Arnold in a Revolutionary War drama, after he left the Rams to take over the post left vacant by Johnny Dee at NotreDame. 
As far as .Phelps was concerned, he was playing Horatio Alger, Frank Merriwel~, and Knute Rockne all rolled into one, fulfilling a dream by becommg the coach of the Fighting Irish. 
Currently, "Digger" is doing the pilot for a sports show called "Mission: Impossible." Mr. Phelps' mission, which he has decided to accept, is to try and win a few basketball games with a team that has just one letterman, is abounding with youth and inexperience, and plays such teams as Michigan, UCLA, Kentucky, Villanova, Marquette, South Carolina, and the like. 
Despite the problems confronting him, Phelps is looking forward to the coming year and is very enthusiastic about being at Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame's everything people said it was." Phelps remarked yesterday in his office in the ACC. "It's a great University. I've been very impressed with the spirit and loyalty of the student body and the enthusiasm and attitude of the ball players. Being here is really something else." 
Phelps' cast of players had the opportunity last year to understudy the great artist, Austin Carr, who often turned in masterful per­formances. Unfortunately, now that Carr has completed his ap­prenticeship and is with a touring group of players in Cleveland, there are none to take his place. 
Digger isn't moaning though. "The kids are young and they have almost no experience but they'll give 100 per cent. We're just starting to put it together, to believe in each other. If everyone contributes his best effort, we'll do all right." 
Reflecting on the tough schedule facing his Irish cagers in the months ahead, Phelps remarked, "To be the best, you've got to play the best.'' 
"We're going to play some clubs that sould beat us nine out of ten 
times. But everytime we go out on the court, we're going to be figuring 
that it's that tenth time, that it's our night. 
The Irish make their debut December 1, in the ACC, against Michigan and you've got to believe Phelps when he says, "We'll come up with something." It ought to be an interesting show. 
standing defense. We've grown up together and we've gone through a lot together. Last year, and the year before, we had Joe <Theismann>...but this year the defense is the dominant force." 
And the defense was a dominating force during the first five games of the season. But then the Irish ran into the Trojans of Southern Cal, and John McKay's forces scored three times on the Notre Dame "D" 
within the first 20 minutes of 

Young ND hooters improving 
by Lefty Ruschmann '73 Go and mention "football" anywhere outside America and chances are that you'll hear all about soccer--that same sport which most Americans avoid. At Notre Dame, where football is well, you know all about it-the fans run true to form in regard to soccer, staying away in droves. As Bob Connol·ly, utility player and minister of propaganda for the ND soccer club put it, "four people at one our games is a real crowd." Anonymously, the Irish hooters, as they near the season's end, have to date played eight games, winning two and tying one. The soccer club this year took on a new coach, Rich O'Leary from the Athletic Department. A lacrosse man by trade, O'Leary volunteered his services to the Irish hooters; he has since 
, 
,
1 ' 
li 

play. The Irish bounced back last wPek with a shutout against Navy. but for Crotty and for the n•st of the defense, the memory of the USC game is still alive. 
"I doubt if we can ever forget it," said Crotty. "You just don't forget games like that. I still remember the Southern Cal game from last year, and this year's gam<> was the same thing. Everything just went right for th<>m and wrong for us. It's not a real good feeling. 
"I'd have to rate SC as the best passing team we've faced so far," he continued, "because they scored on us three times. < Edesell Garrison has great speed. and we were beaten when we had to go man-for-man with him on a slippery field. But I don't think Southern Cal's quarterbacks are the best we've seen this year. Probably Danielson <Purdue) and Daigneau <Northwestern) have had the best arms." 
As the Irish season rolls towards fts November 20th conclusion in Baton Rouge, speculation continues to grow as to the possibility--or im­possibility--of another major bowl bid for Notre Dame. Even if the Irish own a once-beaten record when the bids are issued, their chances for a major bowl will be less than ideal, because many of the season's "showdown games" will be taking place after the November 20th (6:00 pm) deadline. 
"Yes, we know all about that," said Crotty. "But remember, we were 6-1-1 when we got invited to the Cotton Bowl in 1969, and LSU hadn't lost a game then. That's why they don't have too much love for us. But Notre Dame is a 
learned a great deal about coaching the game ana, in return, has provided spirit and leader­ship to his players. 
But despite the introduction of a coach to the soccer dub, there remains the informality of club sports; people play simply because they want to. Practice schedules remain flexible: two hours a day, four times a week, with nobody around to count up unexcused practice cuts. Last Sunday, for example, Notre Dame suited up only 13 players against Chicago, yet they got away with a 4-3 win. 
Behind the informality and enjoyment of the game is a great deal of talent on the Notre Dame squad, more than their 2-5-1 record would hint at. 
One official at a Notre Dame contest remarked, "Your team has a lot of talent out 
Jafar Moghadan heads the ball against Oakland University. 
hig drawing card, and I wouldn't count us out just yet." 
Bowls or no bowls, the '71 season will be Crotty's last at Notre Dame, and Mike is still unsur<> as to his future plans. 
"I'vl' thought about going to graduate school here," he ad­mitted, "and maybe helping with the freshman team on the side. I've thought about getting into coaching, too, and I've already had offers to coach on the high school level. 
"But it's hard to say just what· I'll do. If I'm drafted, or if somPonc shows an interest, then I might give pro ball a shot. It would be worth it, anyway-just to be able to say that I'd tried." 
Irish back in top ten 

After a week's absence, Notre Dame was again ranked in the lop ten by both wire service polls. The A.P. listed· the Irish as the nation's number eight club while 
the  U.P.I.  rated  Notre  Dame  
ninth.  
The polls  were  in  agreement  

about the country's first five teams, putting Nebraska on top, followed by Oklahoma, Michigan, Alabama and Auburn. 
The A.P. rated Penn State sixth and Georgia seventh but the 
U.P.1. reversed their positions. The two polls also flip-flopped Notre Dame and Ohio State. The Irish finished ahead of the Buckeyes in the A.P. rankings b!Jt Woody Hayes' boys got the nod for the number eight slot from the U .P .I. evaluators. 
Arizona State was rated tenth in both polls, rounding out the top finishers. 
there, it just hasn't come together yet." Hopes are high for gluing both offense and defense together next season; returning will be both a junior-dominated defense and a sophomore­studded offense. Only two seniors play on the 40-man squad, captain Rick Coleman and Dick S£'ryak. 
Anchoring the Irish defense are 
juniors Bruce Graves and Ken· 
Bartazol, both of them coming off 
early-season injuries, soph Mike 
Farr£'11ey, and juniors Dan 
Burke, Ed Mascardi, and Bob 
Hal ph. 
.Th£' offense features a corps of high-scoring forwards, including junior Chris Hanlon and two sophmores, Kevin Kinally and Bob Donovan. Also at forward is the exciting "Persian line," Jafar Moghadan and Amir Haissi. Co-captain Jeff Noonan, aside from providing hustle and spirit, also plays a fine game at halfback; he is joined by fifth­year student Mike Macon, grad student German Osario, and freshman Rick Eichner. 
The Irish, now having begun to solve their goalie and injury problems, have only two games remaining on the schedule, and tough ones at that. Western Illinois and Cincinnati will both be seeking revenge for last season's defeats at Notre Dame's hands. But these traditional rivalries will almost surely be overshadowed by last Sunday's clash with Chicago. B«>fore a howling crowd and local TV · coverage, complete with the introduction of the starting lineups, Chicago's fans celebrated their Silver An­niversary Classic, with the Irish lined up as their "name" op­ponent. 
What was that about people staying away in droves? 
THE O!JSERVEit Wednesday, November 3, 1971 
40th mmiva:sary of Father Nieuwland's work 
November is the 40th an­niversary of neoprene, the first of the useful synthetic rubbers. Developed by a Notre Dame chemistry professor and E. I. DuPont Company scientists, this versatile product was first an­nounced to the world at the meeting of the American Chemical Society in Akron, Ohio, November 2, 1931. 
Neoprene has come a long way since Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwand, C.S.C. wore a raincoat made of his brainchild that "smelled like heck." As durable as natural rubber, neoprene is also resilient, good-weathering, flame resistant and resistant to ozone, oil, air, and many chemiicals, according to DuPont. It is used as an architectural glaze, a jacketing for cables, an expansion joint for bridges, safety cushions, lab stoppers and of course, tires. 
This first of many synthetic rubbers was developedhhrough the interaction between ·a curious, absent-minded scientist carefully investigating the reactions of acetylene, and in­dustrial chemists quick to see the practical possibilities of his research. As a graduate student at Catholic University of America, Nieuwland noticed the strange odor of an elusive gas when acetylene was passed through a solution of copper and salts. Experimenting with dif­ferent salts over the next 14 years at Notre Dame, he finally isolated an oil which appeared in addition to the gas. When treated with vulcanizing agents this oil formed a rubbery substance too plastic for practical 
Chemists at the DuPont Company heard of Nieuwland's success with the oil in 1925, and joined him in his search for the mysterious gas -finally iden­tified as monovinyl acetylene. The same group actually developed "synthetic rubber" from Nieuwland's basic 
discovery by reacting the gas with common hydrochloric acid. When Father Nieuwland and the DuPont chemists announced 
the  new  product  at  the  ACS  
meeting  in  Akron,  the  mild  
chemist  who  wanted  neither  

fame nor fortune suddenly received both. Fortune was easily disposed of --Notre Dame received all royalties from the discovery. Fame was more tricky. 
Scores of journalists descended on the campus following the announcement. One reporter for Columbia magazine suggested that the newsmen were expecting to find a "great man," surrounded by the trappings and assistants common to such. But instead, "They met a very plain, a very quiet, and a little bit tired middleaged man," he said. "To see him walking about the campus one would scarcely take him for a distinguished scientist. His cassock is stained with 
Cultural Arts L:ommission's Fund Raising Film Series presents 
Claire Bloom and the Academy Award winner Cliff Roberts on in 
CHARLY 
Nov. 3 & 4 (Wed. & Thurs.) 
7:00 & 9:00pm Engineering Auditorium 
Admission $1 Fund Raising Films Patron Cards Free! 

chemicals. He smokes a short, black pipe and, if he happened to have been working most of the night in his labor a tor, a stubble of beard will adorn his cheek." 
If the journalists were sur­prised at the unpretentious life Fhher Nieuwland lived, some scientists were appalled. An £'astern researcher charged that "gross neglect of the God-given genius of Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., has wasted a major portion of his talents." He cited inadequate laboratory facilities and the lack of trained assistants to support is claim. 

Father Nieuwland 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Wanted: One Electric Typewriter, good or great shape. Call Tom 2S7-2731. 
HELP: Need ride to Nashville, Tenn. for Thanksgiving. Will help with expenses. Please call Sue ­4554. 
Typing Wanted 
Experienced, accurate. Call: Jane Smith, 233-4029. 
---·· 
Needed: Ride to and from Cin­cinnati area Thurs. or Fri. this week. Will share expenses. Call 
Dan S051. 
-
Will trade cash and good beer cases of Coors lor lour Tulane tickets. Bob 3729. 
-
Needed: Ride to Iowa City Friday Nov. 5. Will share expenses. Call 4353 or 4983. 
-
Need ride to St. Louis, Nov. 5. Call Steve 1691. 
~-------­

Ride to Oxford, Ohio (Miami U.) needed this weekend, Nov. 6. 8744. 
ELECTRONICS ENGINEER NEEDED to work with musician, writer, and photographer. Tri­medial production control via computer. Call 2S3-S5SO alter midnight or before Sam. 
NOTICES 

NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement ot_ La Fortune 
11:1512:15. 
Call Joanna at 2S7-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP 
LESSONS. 
-

Ski trip to Aspen, Col. at Thanksgiving. Open to everyone. Sign ups Wed., Thurs., Oct. 27, 2S, 7 9 pm. Coke Bar in La Fortune. 
-

Sunday N.Y. Times on Sunday. Pandora's Books 
N.D. & S.B. Aves. 
SMC  GIRLS:  Part  time  job  
available.  Call  Denny  . S670.  
--­ 

-
Fix-your OWN CAR tonight. We have the space -tools parts and help. You do the work and $AVE. Autotech Rt. 31 South in Niles. 6S4 1960. Open evenings and weekends. 
-

Betty Jo Beoloski says, "Don't take false farouts. Take the real thing." Beaux Arts advance tickets. Bizzare cosutme, Live music. 
LOST 

--··---­Lost, strayed or stolen, Girls' 24" bike, Schwinn "Deb­
bie", chrome tendrrs, pink and white frame, last seen at Convo Tuesday night. Reward, Call Bill at S156. 
Lost: Watch Vantage chronograph on North Quad. Please call 13S4. Reward. 
-

Lost wallet in vicinity of Flanners Hall Will reward if returned. 
.._ 
FOR SALE 

-
Quality S-track tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715. 
ON SALE: Brand new~ guaranteed S-track and cassette tapes. Fantastic selections. All tapes -only $2.99. 
Call 1SS1 (Paul) quickly. 
STUDENT RECORD SALES Sale on now -PRICES SLASHED New stock in large selection List 5.9S-3.65 . 4.98-3.15. 
Favors tor a price. Call John 3323. 
Ampex Auto Reverse Tape Recorder. New heads. $185. Bob 3729. 
For Sale: '66 Ford Fairlane Cheap. Must sell now any reasonable offer . Mike 6729. 
Four Cat Stevens tickets lor sale. Call after 6 pm. Frank 8242. 
For Sale: 1 New Jersey Club Ticket to Newark and back over Thanksgiving holiday. $75. Call Tom 350S. 
For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. '67, Air cond., Power steering and brakes, 'His-Hers' transmission, tinted glass, black interior. Call and make bid. 2S9-7433 (Bill). 
-

ND Jacket Brand new. No patch. $20. Size 36. Call 6905. 
PERSONALS 

Herod: You're getting a call from Jerusalem at 3:30. 
Roberto Clemente
' 

Toose, Thanks much! You made my week. Sweetness 
L.M. and T.B., 
Thanks for Hectic Halloween, Cemetary, Cinder and Pear Tree. 
B.J. and "Ankles" 

We, here at the good olrJ paper, qive thanks for our having been supplied with 2shining individuals who PASSES THE TEST. We all look to you for our example. Lead on. 
----·-­

HEY HARTMANN! 
YA FORGOT TO EAT YOUR WHEATIES. 
-

Bozo Is the bus in gear or has it a flat? 
-

Classified Ads paid lor in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 
12:15 5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day before publication. 
W.... lda. 2dil. loa. 4da. 5da. 
• •75 

••• 1.15 l.zt: 11-11 ;.111.• 1.35 1.71
·-·· us 

11-JI .71 l.IS t.ft z.4i ·-Z.If\ 21-U .. 1.35 2•• 2.... l ..t~t Zl-3t I,M 1... Z,ai J.tt 6_i~ 31-35 I.JI L. Ut s• ·~1t. ,......,. uJ,... ._.. ··~ 
n-tit.ss t.3t t».: ut·$: 
•sea.,s 2.~ •·•··js:•. 



