dem clouds is gonna leak on us today (supposedly), den da sun is gonna shine (supposedly) 



Vol. VI. No. 42 serving the notre dame -st. m ory's community Tuesday, Nwember 9, 1911 
~--------------------~--~~~~ 
Chou reveals China's 
cautious U.N. policy 
By Hichard llalloran 
(c) 1!171 New York Times 
TOKYO, NOV. 8--Premier Chou En-Lai of Communist China has told a Japanese t•ditor that the Chinese delegation to the l lnitt>d Nations will take a "very cautious" approach. 
Chou, in an interview in Peking with Moto Goto, Managing Editor of the Asahi Shimbun, a leading daily here, said: "Th<'rc is an old Chinese saying, which go<'s, 'BP careful when facing a problem.' We do not have too much knowledge about th<• United Nations and are not too con­v<•rsant with the new situation which has arisen in the United Nations." 
"W<' must be very l:autious," Chou was n•port<'d to have said. "This does not nwan, however, that we do not have self­confidence; it means that caution is rpquired and that we must not be in­discreet and haphazard." 
Chou's remarks, published in an English transcript here today, appeared to confirm earlier speculation in New York that Communist China planned to move carefully during its first days as a member of the United Nations. 
Chou received Goto on Oct. 28, three days after the United Nations voted to· rPplace Taiwan with Communist China. In an Parlier article, Goto said the record of thl' interview was checked by the Chinese foreign Ministry for one week and th<•rl'forP constituted an "official record." 
Goto also said that there was an agrPement that the content of the in­terview would be released at an "ap­propriate time." 
Its publication today coincided with the arrival of the advance party of the Com­munist Chinese Delegation in New York. 
Chou, who met with Goto for two hours in th<• GrPat Hall of the People, also indicated that thP Chinese Delegation would align itsl'lf with the less-developed nations of Asia, Africa, and Latin Aml'rica.l. 
"WP are opposed to the 'major powers,' to power politics, and to domination," ('hou said. "We will not become a major powPr under any circumstances." The Chinese have often accused the Soviet Union and the United States of collusion in an attempt at world domination. 
"All countries must be uniformly 
<·qual," Chou was reported to have said. 
"We must particularly and without fail 
respect the opinions of the small and 
m<'dium-sized nations." 
"If the statements of the small and 
m<•dium-sized countries are ignored and if 
things are decided only on the basis of 
statements by the major powers," Chou 
continued, "this violates the premise that 
small, medium and major nations are 
uniformly equal." 
Chou told Goto that the Chinese 
governml'nt was undertaking a careful 
analysis of the United Nations vote but 
indicated that the way a nation voted on 
the Chinese representation issue would 
have only a marginal effect on China's 
attitudes. 

Among the 76 nations that voted for 
Communist China, Chou said, "there 
are some countries that cannot have of­
ficial governmental relations with China." 
ill' singled out Israel, which he asserted 
had "started an aggressive war in the 
Middle East." 
Although he had friendly words for the Israeli pl'ople, Chou said "There must be no ambiguity in outlining one's position and drawing the line." 
"Portugal voted for us also," he noted. "Portugal has colonies in Africa but China supports the national liberation moveml'nt of the peoples in Angola, Mozambique, and Guinea. Because of this, Portugal may be thinking as follows: W<• have supported China, so China should not attack us on the colonial question in the 
U.N. Security Council. "This, however, is something we cannot agree to," Chou said. 
He said that China and Japan "must go forward in the direction of restoration of diplomatic relations." But the statement appeared to be a generality and he gave no details , 

..................................................................................................................... 
on campus today 
8:00·-lecture. theologian hans kung, o'laughlin auditorium 
4: 15--lecture, richard detlef, the meaning of violence (i) the middle ages, 127 niewland 
7: 30--colloquium, dr. david yoder, diagnostic procedures with the language disordered child, center for continuing education 
8: 00--concert, abbellire trio, little theater, moreau hall 
nd-s me 
Chicano recruitment 
How hard does ND really try? 

by .l<'l'I'Y Lutkus Obsl'rnr News Editor (This is the first part of a four part series covering university recruitment of minority groups. Today's installment covers the recruitment of Chicanos by Notre Dame.) 
Armando Alonzo, campus leader of MECHA, spoke quickly but thoughtfully as his meal rapidly grew cold beneath him. "Recruitment of Chicanos by this University is really ineffective." 
The Mexican-American leader from Edinburgh, Texas confided that what this University really needs 
Observer Insight 
is a Spanish-speaking member of the admissions of­fice. It needs this man to recruit Chicanos. 
According to Alonzo, in meetings last year with Rev. .James Burtchaell, the Provost could see no reason for such a hiring. But Alonzo said that it W:lS necessary because "the recruiters don't know who we are." 
"If they don't know us. they cannot to an effective job," he commented. 
As it stands, the members of the Admissions Dl'partment generally go where to alumni requests them to come. Alonzo contends that since the alumni are largely middle to upper class, the requests send the recruiters to middle and upper class schools. 
"California and Texas combined have 5 million Chicanos. yet where do the recruiters go----suburbia!" Alonzo complained. 
ill' continued, "I'm not saying that the recruiters shouldn't go there, but we too want to become part of this school, this society. We want to share in its op­portunities." 
Alonzo noted further that the university presently draws all of its Chicano members from the Southwest. Out of the entire university Mexican-American population. only three members come from the Mid­west. Yet Chicago and New York have some of the nation's highest-percentage Chicano populations, he said. 
MECHA 's leader said that "we have to make a better pffort to get Chicanos from the Midwest and East; Chicago-Gary, Detroit, New York, Cleveland." 
MECHA made an effort to do precisely that over the weekend as they brought approximately 40 Mexican­American high school students from the Chicago area to the campus. The effort was co-ordinated with the Mexican American Council on Education <MACE). 
MACE is a group of parents and young adults who are concerned with Mexican-American education. They brought the organization's president, vice­president, and 3 of the organization's counselors, who aid the group, to Notre Dame along with the students. 
It was a co-ed group who came to get acquainted with the university in general, but more specifically with its programs on scholarships and financial aid. Alonzo said that the Chicanos can meet university academic n•quirements, but that they need financial help. 
J<'inancial aid is imperative to a Chicanos' at­(('ndance. according to Alonzo. As of now, the University gives aid out of the Cotton Bowl funds and from the interest on an endowment given the univer­sity by the Knights of Columbus. Alonzo estimates the 
(C'nntintH•d 011 nCig,• 21 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, Nwember 9, 1971 
Dining Hall crackdown started 
by Ann-Therese Darin 

Lines of students waiting for meals yesterday ran out of the front doors of the North Dining Hall and lolled around the South Dining Hall lobby as a result of the food-service clampdown on forged tickets. Director of food services Edmund T. Price confirmed the clampdown, diagnosing, "It's pretty bad. I wouldn't be doing it if I didn't have to." 
Although Price could not give an exact dollar and cent figure for the losses due to the illegality, he termed i~ "a significant amount." .~.! inferred the number of tickets forged is under 100. 
For each forged meal ticket, Price said, the service loses $300.00. 
Price maintained that it was difficult to determine the amount lost because there are several degrees of forgery ranging from inked-in numbers to completely forged cards. 
Food service is now checking meal-card numbers against master sheets as students enter the dining hall, and randomly confiscating cards for. a day in order to investigate their make. 
As of four o'clock yesterday afternoon, Price related that his worken had confiscated"five" or "six" illegal meal cards. 
"I am not a disciplinarian," he claimed. "This is not our func­tion, our function is simply to serve food." 
Alonzo: ''Much better effort needed·· 
(continued from page 1) commitment," Alonzo said. interest return at $40,000 a year. "That, to us, is not progress," 
Last year, 11 undergraduate he stated.MECHA hopes to see 50 Mexican Americans were given more Mexican Americans on aid. This year the number has campus next year. "If we keeJ? climbed to 19. "The Provost says going on this 10-15, 15-20 rate, this is progress," claims Alonzo. we're never going to catch up," "We question his estimation of says Alonzo. progress." Alonzo also made note of the 
"We have the highest birth rate Chicano population at St. Mary's. in the U.S. and we're also the As of the present, there are only poorest," said Alonzo. "What's ''3 or 4" Mexican American girls so paradoxical," he continued, at SMC and he terms this ·• is that Fr. Hesburgh knows all situation "not very normal." this. He knows our problems. He "We'd like to see girls here," says we're <Notre Dame is) he said. committed to total equality." He also attacked the argument 
Alonzo argued that all they that admission of more Chicanos have to base this "total equality" would lower a university's on is the "visible record." standards. Alonzo called this 
"When the visible record shows belief "totally unfounded." an increase of 11 Chicanos to 19 "You can cite tests, stats, Chicanos to the university's anything, often we score higher," population, we auestion the he said. ....... . 
~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~;:;: 
i~~~i :::::  World Briefs :~i~i =·~· (c) 1971 New York Times  
United Nations, N.Y.--A six man advance party for the new Chinese  

United Nations delegation arrived Monday to begin making arrangements for security, housing and office space for the full delegation. They were met at Kennedy Airport by members of the Albanian and Rumanian delegations and then given a police escort to their hotel. 
Washington--President Nixon rejected a Pentagon proposal that would have withdrawn the only American division from South Korea and reduced tue army to 11 divisions. According to administration sources, the proposal, which was made in the course of hammering out a new defense budget, was turned down after it had been opposed by the State Department and White House officials. 
London--Amnesty International, a respected private organization that acts in behalf of political prisoners throughout the world, published charges that imprisoned men in Northern Ireland had been subjected to "savage beatings" and "torture" by British soldiers. The home office refused any comment on the report. 
slaves: Nite Editor--Jim McDermott 
Layout and headlines: Art 
Esposito and Dan Ryan 
Machine maniacs: Joe W. and 
Don B. 
No Place to Be Somebody! 
::::::::::::::::::~:;:;:~:~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~:;:;:~:~:;:~:~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~:! 
DETROIT CLUB 
THANKSGIVING 
BUS SIGNUPS 

Nov. 9,10 7-9 pm 
117 Stanford 8603 

$10 members $15 non-members 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the sludents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscr.ptions may be purchased for S8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q. Notre .Dame, Indiana 46556. 
e MAGIC~ '\~ J a \ o,_~ 
stuperfying rNaturall 
•

PHENOMENON The\. 

Swirling~
WAVE 
will amaze you 

WHAT is it? liquid satin locked inside a bottle 
1 
\ CURIOUS? (yellow, red, green 
choose your color Supply th~ bottle. and it will be 
molded to your specifications 
~ 

SPIN THE BOTTLE CALL THE DAIRY QUEEN '1F <;KOKIE 
AT 5106 

"Most of us are bilingual, to write alumni concerning funds bicultural," he continued, "and to aid them. Alonzo says that they this is something that test scores even need people to help work don't indicate." with the Chicanos in South Bend. 
Alonzo revealed that the But he emphasized that people Mexican Americans have been is not the real problem. They working with student Govern­need money. "The problem has ment and the Office of Ad­never been our wanting to come missions, and that they intend to here. but our being able to afford continue. "It's all part of a it. We're not asking for all the program, an action that has to be money, we're reasonable. We'll <ione by all of us.' take anything ... .loans. But we 
need help." 
MECHA needs people to help them. Alonzo said. They need people to gather information and 
Sense and Insense: Fakes (A symposium discussing 'Au­thenticity') will be sponsored WPdnesday, November 10 and Thursday, November 11 at Carroll Hall, Madeieva Memorial, by the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame art depar tments. Louis Pomerantz, con sevator, John Keefe, ass't curator, post-Renaissance European decorative arts, Chicago Art Museum, and William Pettit, head, foreign department, Rare Coin Co. of America, are only a few of the 
people participating in the symposium. Tickets, available from SMC art majors, ND art dept., or at the door are $1.50 for the series or $.50 for each lecture. 
CAl. 1FORN IANS 

X-mas RT Flight LIGHT lA or SF $118 check Rm. 1· D La Fortune 7-8 Mon. 8th · Wed. lOth Tony 7865 <Rick) 1753 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. §o, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 
Indiana Bell 

Tuesday, Novem~er 9, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
~~~~~~~-------------------------------­
lnterhall loop set for playoffs 
by Stan llrankar '7:1 An <•xciting final week of ln­lt•rhall l<'ootball 1971 saw last ypar's finalists, Dillon and K(•pnan. both win to earn playoff hPrlhs. Pangborn-Fisher and Morrissey roun~ out this year's post-sl'ason contingent. 1\t>t'nan II Flannt>r li The LPague Three cham­pionship rode on tht' outcome of this contt'st. As the clubs felt each nthl'r out in the opening minutes, Flannt'r fumbled at its own 35 where John Hession recovered for KPenan. The defending North (~uad titlists then drove for the score, with fullback Don Addesso carrying in from the one. The High-Risers bounced back in the s<'<'ond period when QB Carl Oberzut lofted a 35 yard bomb to Billllil'tanen to knot the score at li-6. Thl' decisive fourth quarter turnl'd into a battle of mistakes. 
KPl'nan drove 70 yards in four minutt's, only to fumble on the two. With three minutes left, Flannt'r tried to move, hut fumbled on the six, with Keenan's Tom Hannigan grabbing the Joost' ball. Three plays later, with only I :45 to go, Tom Ewing dove 
Harriers lose 
1\lichigan State runners cap­lurPd the first five places, posting a p(•rfl'l't scorl', and trounced the l'<ntn• Damt' cross country team, 15-44, l<'riday afternoon on the BurkP MPmorial course. It was llw final dual meet of the year for thl' Irish. 
Tlw Spartans' Kt'n Popejoy, Handy Kilpatrick, Robin Crol and llavP I>it•ters tied for first place in :10: 19.8. Hon Croll of MSU fimsht>d fifth. Marty Hill was l'<otre Dame's top finisher, placing sixth. 
Mike P a v lin=;===;=====;=================;=;=;=~=;=;=;========:================~=·:·=·=·~···:=============;===;=====· 
The Gradnate View 
:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:·:;:·:~;Waiting z n the weeds 
So now John Shumate is out too. 
The best freshman, the toughest rebounder, potentially the highest 
scorer. thl' rock upon which to build the Phelps dynasty, will not play 
this spason. Neither will captain Doug Gemmell who would have 
providPd a much-needed steadying influence as well as a few points 
and rt'l>otmds. 
This winter, I'll be leaving the basketball reporting and analyzing to 
the rest of the staff. but the Shumate tragedy has prompted a few 
rrflections before "Digger's" first, and probably traumatic year. 
Phelps will field a young, inexperienced team, made younger and l<•ss expl'rienced by injuries and the policies of last season. Take Jim HPgrlean and Don Silinski. Both showed flashes of excellence last yt>ar, £'specially Silinski who always seemed to excel in the "garbage" portion of the games he got into. Regelean is a wealth of height and raw talent. 
But these two saw all too limited action last year. Faced with his unusually tough schedule, former coach Johnny Dee had very few chances to clear his bench and give Regelean, in particular, the game <'XP<'ri<•nce he needed. 
l'hdps must bank heavily on sophomores, a prospect no coach particularly welcomes, given traditional soph propensity to error. This year's crop is a good one, even without Shumate, but it is a small onl'. Another rough schedule, too many sophomores, and inex­pPrienced upperclassmen all adds up to a painful winter for "Digger" l'hPlps. 
This column is directed to all you Irish fans who have plunked down your cash for a season ticket. If you think you are going to see a high­scoring Irish team blowing opponents out of the gym, you are wrong. If you think you are going to see some Irish player average 40 points p<•r game, you are wrong. 
What you will undoubtedly see will be ND teams making errors, g<•tting pounded on the boards and getting smacked on the scoreboard. 
But if you boo, if you jeer "Bullshit", if you put "Dump Digger" signs on your doors, then you will be showing a serious lack of class. This is the year that the basketball team will need solid fan support. 
I'm willing to guarantee that if you attend the home contests this yrar,youwillseeasmall,out-manneredirishquintetgooutandout­
the court and a squad that will not give up. And I'm sure Digger Phelps will out-coach a few people also. 
In fact, with the same fan cheering that helped boost the Irish over UCLA last season, I'm convinced you'll see several top-ranked teams forced to fight for their lives. And just as you'll probably see a few one-sided Irish defeats, you'll probably also see some stunning Irish upsets. 
This year, ND will be waiting in the weeds. 
It is getting close to bowl invitation time. There are three unbeaten SEC teams, two unbeaten Big Eight teams and Penn State in con­tention for the five major bowl slots open (discounting Rose). The prospects are good that the Irish will not be offered one of them. 
But the prospects are excellent for ND getting a bid to one of any number of second-rank attractions: Liberty, Gator, Astro­Bluebonnet. And this situation, if it arises, will force the Irish to make a decision that gets more complex the more I look at it. 
The Irish may feel that a second-rate date with a 10-1 or 9-2 opponent would be worthless, meaning no chance to knock off an unbeaten powerhouse, no chance to move up significantly in the polls. _They could turn the invitation down. This would mean a December Without hurdensom practices, a Christmas season spent at home, n chance for the talented seniors to play in some All-Star games. Take a 9-1 season and watch the big boys on the tube. 
There is, however, another side to this. I seem to recall that part of the justification for the Cotton Bowl junkets was cold, hard cash, badly nt'eded for important university programs. Now, the Gator Bowl obviously couldn't match the Cotton Bowl receipts. But anything would help. I'm sure that even after those expenses for the team, band, official ND party, etc., etc., are skimmed off the top, there would be enough left over to pay a few bills. 
For once, I'm not pushing any opinion; I'm just pointing ~ut some food for thought. Let's hope that somt>how. someway, the lrtsh get a howl invitation that means something. 
I'd hate to have the team facing what could become an agonizing dPcision. 
in from the one, with Joe Reams adding th<' extra points. Keenan now faces Morrissey in one of Ill'xt wt>Pk's playoff battles. 
J)illon 12 Walsh li 
A do-or-die game for last year's titlists saw them drive 65 yards the first time they got the ball, with junior Randy Stasik snPaking home from the one. As Dillon muffed continual scoring opportunities, the defenses hattiPd till late in the fourth quartt'r. With Dillon driving again, Stasik attempted a screen pass for Bill Hoy, but linebacker Mike O'Neill stepped in to pick off thP :ll'rial and race 60 yards to tie 
R uggerS SPC+ 
:U.l Dame's "A" and "B"
Notre rugby teams collided with the <'lt>vPland Blues Saturday at Stt>pan CPnter, and both of the gaml's between the two clubs \H'rl' decided as shutouts. 
In the fl·rst game. the "A" squad suffered from generally
lackluster play, and absorbed a 
12-0 blanking at the hands of the much larger Blues. But in the day's second con~est, the "~" tPam earn_t'd a sph_t for the lrtsh hy downt~g thetr Cleveland 0 PI~on<'n l s 28-0· , 
.I· rPd BPll, John ~ Con~or • Ed 0 Connell, Larry Glllespte, Pete l•'rantz, and Lee Pallardy ~II scorPd on trtes for the "B" umt, .md J•:d O'Connl'll rounded out the scoring by hooting a pair of t·onvl'rsions. 
Walt's better 
Hl'Cl'nt medical reports show I 
that Walt Patulski, Notre Dame's eo-captain and All-American defensive end who was injured against Pittsburgh last Saturday, may be able to play next weekend against Tulane. 
Irish coach Ara Parseghian said yesterday that, "X-rays at St. .Joseph's Hospital showed that the kn<'<'cap was either bruised or pullpd a little. There was some fluid, hut we are hopeful that he'll improve each day and be ready f'or Tulane." 
Open B-ball practice slated 
Thl' Irish basketball team will hold an open practice Tuesday, Nov. !lth, at 4 p.m. All interl'sted persons are invited to the practice, which will be held in thPACC. 
thP game. Dillon was not out, howpver. Stasik worked the same play to lloy for 50 yards to the Walsh seven. With a third and two for a touchdown, Stasik rolled out and fired for Hoy in the <'nd zone, but was intercepted. Walsh, with the ball at the 20, tried to move to a score, but cornt'rback Jay Long intercepted at the 20 with only 35 seconds rPmaining. With the clock run­ning out on Dillon's title hopes and only one play left, Stasik firt'd a bullet to Hoy in the middle of the end zone for, possibly, their biggest win of the season. 
Pangborn-Fisher Ill Off-Campus 11 P-F rolled to a League One tie-clinching triumph. Chuck d · 
Voelker cappe d a 65 yar opemng
period drive with a quarterback
sneak for a 6-o lead. With their defense holding O-C to only one first down for the game, P-F played control ball till the final 
d

]){'riod, when Phil Dunn tallie on 
a three yard run, and Voelker
d 11 c · 
dicke with A -ampus receiver 
Pt'te Farbatko on a 15 yard
touchdown pass. P-F and Dillon now square off next week for a place in the finals. 
sorin over Alumni 
A scheduling misun­dPrstanding led to this forfeit victory for Sorin, as both clubs l'ventually showed up, but at different times. 
'zahm 21 Lyons n 

Losers only to rugged 
Morrissey this year, Zahm 
f'inished with a respectable 3-1 
mark, good for second place in 
LPague Two. Kip Browne hauled 
in touchdown aerials of 15 and 80 
yards from quarterback Paul 
Tufts..Jack Leicht scored on a 30 
yard draw play, while Mike 
Murtaugh added three extra 
points. 
Booters bow 
Thl' Notre Dame soccer team suffered their sixth defeat of the season Saturday, bowing to 
WPst<•rn Illinois, 3-Q. The setback lpfl the Irish hooters with a 2-6-1 l'l'Cord.
W . ed 
estern 111mms . nett one goa 1 
in Pach of the first three periods while holding the visiting Irish scoreless. 
Notre Dame will wind up their sl'ason this weekend, hosting
t d' . I . I c· . . 
ra tt10na rtva • ,mcmnatt.
C • 
r~ m eel Ing 
There will be a short meeting at 7 p.m. in room 317 of the Ad­ministration Building tonight for all mt'mhers of the crew club. 
Anyone interested in rowing in llw spring must attend. 
Thosp unable to be present should contact either Tom Broz 11501!) or Bill Godfrey (3533). 
_ ----------~---,.----....;..;.=--~__:_-, 
~ 

You'll probably deal with just one of us before you graduate from Notre Dame. 8ut the fact remains. When you buy life and helath insurance from William L. Ruiter and Associates, you are using all of us. Not just the experience of American Genera I Life of the knowledge of a Gregg Barkley or a Ken Provost or a Bill Ruiter or a Gene Dykstra or a Tom Wycall. With the resources of these five men and American General Life you will be dealing with us for life no matter where you move. We 1hink that says a lot about our relationship with business 
clients. 
William L. Ruiter & 
A G I 
Associates
meri CaD e D e r a 
Life 815 E. LaSalle-234-3480 
hustle even the best teams. You'll see tough defense, played all over .--------------------·-----------------------------------+ 
Midwest Blues Festival Nov. 12, 13, & 14 
Tickets will be sold at evening meals Wed. & Thurs. 
3-day pass $6 Single night $2.50 
Tickets also on sale at Student Union Ticket Office 
Sponsored by Cultural Arts Commission 
0 

' 
~Pa~gce~4~----------------------------------------Jr.~1.f£ (Jltf£RV£~~----------------------------Tu~e~sd~a~Y~·-N~w~e_m~b~e_r~9,~1~9~71 
Barkett: co-ed dorms next year are out 
Student Body President John Barkett last night evaluated his first seven months in office as "a pretty good year so far." 
SBP Barkett spoke in the Keenan Hall chapel at the in­vitation of the Hall's Academic Commission, mentioning what he termed "several successes" he had experienced so far but predicting that "chances look pretty poor'' for co-ed dorms by next vear. 
The SBP contended that coeducation is bound to come to the Notre Dame campus, arguing that the merger was "too far 
SAC meets 
by Jodi Campbell 
The St. Mary's Student Affairs Committee last night heard a report on the progress of the hall parietal bill, made a few changes in house rules, and sent the Coffee House Bill back to the Student Union for reexamination. 
Committee chairman and student body vice-president Missy Underman reported that she was "pleased" with what she termed the "acceptance of the parietal proposal by the Student Affairs Council." The Student Affairs Council has deferred voting on the bill, which would 
give  each  hall  the  power  to  
determine  its  own  parietal  
regulations.  

The Committee sent the p!R­posed extension of the St. Mary's Coffee shop's hours back to the Student Union for further in­vestigation. The committee charged the Union to pay par­ticular attention to hiring a new guard, a move deemed "necessary" if the coffee house is to remain open after dorm­closing. 

advanced" to be put off for very long or to be reversed. He said that for ''political reasons," co-ed dorms would probably not come to Notre Dame next year. 
"Too many minds would have to be changed,'' he opined. 
The SBP said that current plans call for two Notre Dame dorms to become women's dorms next fall, although the University has not yet determined which dorms they will be, since, he said, "no one seems to want to leave where they are right now." 
Barkett listed as his successes "the $10,000 Student Life Fund, scheduled to be distributed to the ha lis through the Senate­instigated Student Life Com­mittee. the promise received from the Board of Trustees for money for social facilities, the Pight halls that he had been able to visit. and "certain im­provements in academics." 
Barkett said that the establish­ment of a grade committee, a new Freshman Year Dean, and a proposed mid-first semester break for next year all con­stituted progress in that area. 
Which is to say, it doesn't make sense to buy a 90 dollar speaker for 72 dollars when you can get a better one for $70. 
When you shop stereo at RMS we won't be offering you any big red-hot discount deals. What we will offer you is more good value for the money than you can buy anywhere else in town. 
We have Sony receivers, priced from $150 up. They are probably the best available for the money. We have Advent loudspeackers, priced at $70 and $102. Likewise. 
We hope you will look us up soon. Our store is little, and is a bit off the beaten track, and you may drive right by it the first time because the barber shop next door has a sign that sort of hides our. 
If you do try us, be assured that while we will tell you what we think is good (and why), we will not twist your arm, now or later, to buy something. 
Jl(' was also "happy for the suceess of the Day Care Center" and the Charity Basketball Game to take place the week of Thanksgiving. 
Other successes, he contended, wl•re the recently established Security Board and Dining Hall Commission. both of which were n•con11nended last Spring by the Student Government. 
parietals last year. 
"Second," he said, "there's a had taste in people's mouth about some of the things that went on in the •·esictence halls last year." 
Third. Barkett contended that the Board. while admitting that eurrent hall leadership is good, fears failure in that leadership in coming years. 
Finally, Barkett. said that the 
Board is so busy with othet· things, such as the financial straits of the University, that they are just not interested in talking parietals. 
In response to a question about 
CLASSIFIED ADS
the effects of the Trustees 
It Just 1\1 akes Sense 
to get 3S much for your money as possible when shopping for stereo. But be sure you are getting good value when you buy something. Even if that something is offered at a big discount. 
We've found, in our experience in the stereo business, that things seldom get sold for less than what they're worth. 

rt>jection of the SLC's parietal recomnwndation on the SLC, Barkett said,"In talking to the nwmbers, I've found that none of them feel slighted." However, he eontended that the concept of an SLC' may have been damaged somewhat. 
"I couldn't help feeling," he said. "that they <the Trustees> didn't understand what the SLC was trying to tell them." 
f<'irst is what he called the "historical framework in which they look at things, including the situation of the past few years and the sudden move from no parietals to de facto 24-lwur 
The Sony STR 6045 Receiver $299 


The Sm all er 
FOR SALE 

Quality 8 track lapes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715. 
ON SALE: Brand new, guaranteed 8-track and cassel1e tapes. Fantastic seiections. All tapes· only $2.99. Call 1781 (Paul) quickly. 
For Sale: '66 Ford Fairlane Cheap. Must sell now any reasonable offer · Mike 6729. 
--·--------­

For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. '67, Air cond., Power steering and brakes. 'His-Hers' transmission, tinted galss, black interior. Call and make bid. 289-7433. 
ND Jacket. Brand new. No patch. $20. Size 36. 
Garrard SL 65B Turntable with base, cover, and Shure M93E. $70. Call 8750. 
----·----------

Sennheiser Stereo Headphones. 2 months old. Excellent condition. Call 6872. 
Boston's PHOENIX now available. Cheapest. most in· teresting atterni.'live press around. (25 cents) Call 232-9186. 
Three stu. tickets lor sale (Tulane) will sell individually. Call Tom 287-2731. 
For Sale: 1 New Jersey Club Ticket to Newark & back over Thanksgiving holiday. $75. Call Tom 3508. 
Stereo Set ~ Less than a year old 
$90. Sony AM FM Clock radio. $30. Call Tom 7927. 
PERSONALS 

Does anyone remember a Pep Rally in the Old Fieldhouse? Senior Calss '72 does! 
Life is what you are alive to.Nonsense. Zapd 
Mommy and Daddy, My shoes are> all sculled up. Love, Edith Ann 
KAE Who IS happy sad? JRH 

Mike, Happy Birthday. People realty appreciate what you're doing. Don't give up. 
Happy Birthday Sue Remembier I love you Love, Pete 
Gurnper: 

Market Tip: Buy Bengali· II's on the upswing and ver -r -r ·Y stable. 
Fire DPpartment: Help! I'm burning. 
LJC 

A special thanks to the Notre Dome band members who helped to make our weekend so great in Pittsburgh. 
Love, Beth and Kris 
To "The Shadow" in B.P. Sorry to disappoint you Friday night. Maybe next time. 
Golf Course Couple. 
LOST 

Lost: set of keys on black and Wllile "one way" keyholdPr. Jenny 5452 nfler 5 pm. 
Classified Ads paid tor in cash wiH'n orrlPrf'tl. 7. Office hours 
12: 15 5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day llC'forf' r~>blication. 
The 5th Dimens ion 
appearing Saturday Nov. 13-8:30 PM 
Athletic and Convoc ation Center 

NO & SMC Discount 
Ticket Prices $5.50-No discount $4.50-Purchased for $3.50 $3.50-Purchased for $2.50 
Must present ID card for discount at the ACC Box Office 
ONLY 

Ad vent Loudspeaker 
The Sony 6045 and Smaller Advent loudspeakers -may be had in a complete system, with a high quality record changer, for as little as $429. 
Open Sunday 
I -4:30 


WANTED 
One Electric Typewriter, good or qreat shape. Call Tom 287-2731. 

ELECTRONICS ENGINEER NEEDED to work with musician, writer, and photographer. Tri­mcdial production control via computer. Call 283-8580 alter midnight or before 8 am. 
Urgent. Need 5 General Ad~ 111ission Tix to Tulane Game; 
Need not be adjacent. Call John at 1607. 
Need ride to Cincinnatti or Dayton area, Friday November 12. Call Joe 3676. 

Needed: Ride to Knoxville, Tenn. lor T11anksgiving. Call Jim 6952. 
Need 2 general admission tix to Tulane Call Doug at 1723. 
Wanted: 1 general admission Tulane ticket. Call Janet at 4037. 
Will pay top money for 4 general admission Tulane tickets, need not be adjacent. Call Bill 8227. 
Sr. wants to move to nearby farm or wilt help to organize one for 2nd semester. Call 232-9186. 

Needed: 1 General Ad. Tulane Ticket. Call Nancy 5223. 
Need ride to K.C. Thanksgiving Friday Nov. 19. Rich 1254. 
Needed: Ride to Rochester, N.Y. lor Thanksgiving. Call Jerry 6714. 

Need rider to Atlanta~Macon area Thursday morning. Call 8610. 
NOTICES 
NEED MONEY? 
Morrissey Loan Fund Basement of La Fortune 11.15 12:15. 
-·----------­

Call Joanna at 287 2731 tor Appt's and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
Fix your OWN CAR tonight. We have the space toots . parts and help. You do the work and $AVE. Autotech Rt. 31 South in Niles. 684 1960. Open evenings and weekends. 
MIDWEST BLUES IS COMING 
Australia needs teachers now. 

Sick of hassling Smog, Unemployment? Growing Needs, all subject areas. For full in­formation send $1 to: Inti. Teachers Placement Bureau, 
P.O. Box 19007, Sacramento, Cnlitornia, 95819. 
Photographs tor appt icat ions, pa~sports. Portraits. Fast, inexpensivJi!, high quality. 6729. 
At Stepan Center Fri. Sat. Sun. 
Midwest Blues 

Detroit Club Thanksgiving Bus Sales 117 Stanford 79 PM Nov. 9 & 10. Call 8603 tor info. 
Wri 1da. 2da. 3da. 4da. Sda. 
l·lf .H .75 l.N 1.15 1.211 
n-11 ·• •·• us 't.75 z.is 11-Zt .7t 1.15 1_,_1,_ ~~).II( Zl·ZI .15 1.35 Z.M z ... 3.~ Zl-3t 1.80 1.18 %.35 Ut t.itl 31·35 l.Zt 1.10, Z.8t 3.15 4.71( 3&-40 1.35 Z.lt 3.11. US Uti U-4St.55 ~.30 Ut' Ul Ulj 41-Sta.7s z.so 3.51 t.75 a.el 

