
----------------------~ ------­
4. fair but cold today, not lso bad saturday ... 
'cloudiness and a chance of showers in the afternoon but WARMER, with high In the mid 50's . . . 


Vol. VI, No. 41 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Friday, November 5, 1971 
Cyclone survivors cling to hope 

"Depending on God himself" 
Rules changes alter duties 
Pears builds adaptive Security 
-,.. 
-~ ..,.~

isolation from the surroundingby John Powers .. ~ ' ·­--­
,1J I ·•-­
~·-"'f"'r;~: ........... .. ' ...--· ,;;.. ..:..:.~.·:
areas. The increased mobility of . '. .. .. The security guard used to apss the students, with more --· ... .: .~ ..-....;,., -.~~-~ 
.., ~ >~.­

down my corridor about mid­possessing cars and without night, in my freshman year at hours, relieved old respon­Keenan. Sometimes we slipped sibilities and brought new him a beer as he passed on pressures to bear on security. carrying his flashlight and Pears began by hiring guards listening for "high-pitched to patrol the campus, but he kept voices" behind closed doors. a man in each hall as hall monitor 
The Security Guards no longer and fire guard. He purchased patrol the halls, nor do they jeeps, patrol cars, and radio rarely leave the first floor of a equipment, while directing 
dorm, unless called to an operations from his office in the emergency. Changes in Administration Building, next to university rules on the con­the Dean of Students, to whom 
sumption of alcohol and the Pears reports. Guards now expansion of parietal hours has patrolled the campus on regular probably changed the duties and 
-

responsibilities of the Security Observer Insight Notre Dame security: keeping up with students of the 1970's? 
Department sooner than it ever 

expected. beats as well as manning the Arthur Pears, formerly sheriff Main and East Gates. 
inside

of Niles, Michigan, organized the By the fall of 1970, 5 men Department when he came to worked the night shift from 11 
first women awarded nd u-grad degrees.•p.9
Notre Dame in 1965. The only p.m. to 7 a.m., 2 of them South "security" existing at that time Bend cops carrying firearms and 
pakistan collection nets $1310 ....•..•.......•........ p.2
were the hall monitors who chemical spray, prepared to assisted the rectors in the nightly answer any criminal complaints. 
midwest la raza council seated....................p.2
sign-ins of students and in the The nightmen moonlighted to the locking of the dormitories at tune of $6.500 a year for a 40-hour 
decision on co-ed dorm by apriJ..................p.2
midnight. W('ek if they were 25-year police The greater openness of the veterans. 
more world news...............................................p.3 campus during the decade of the sixties gradually broke its (Continued on page 3) 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
Jambu, India, Nov. 4 -"To keep alive now we are depending on God himself," the wizened Indian farmer said, pulling nervously at his faded rags -the oly things left to him by a disastrous cyclonic tidal wave that took more than 10,000 lives here last weekend. 
Though he had kept his composure through a long recital of how he had floated to safety when a 15-foot high wall of brown water obliterated his village and all its rice fields, Sudhir Chandra Das began suddenly to weep, and his voice broke. 
"I have lost everything," he said in a choked voice. "Three sons and a daughter I had and they are gone too. I have no clothes and the winter is coming. And ther is no food." 
He and a dozen other survivors huddled miserably in makeshift huts along a dirt road that rises out of the saline mire of what had been one of the most fertile rice growing areas in India. One of the other men took a brown stalk of the unharvested crop and opened the husks disgustedly. Theee were no white grains of rice inside. "These fields will be like a desert now," he said. 
"so many bodies" 
A few yards away,its arms stretched helplessly towards the sky where now the sun was shining and the air was still, a male human body lay in a ruined field whree the receding tidal wave had left it. 
"We don't know who he is," another farmer, Narindra Mandai, explained, "and there are so many bodies we cannot bury them." 
The silt-choked rivers of the stricken area, a 750-square-mile swach of lowlying coast in Orissa state one day's road journey southwest of Calcutta, are still carrying the bodies of hundreds of human beings and cattle out to sea. No one knows how many were swept away when the tidal wage receded last Saturday. 

But the poisonings of the watger by so many dead animals and men and the sdarcity of food has led many of the survivors to fear that many of them too, will die, as their cattle are dying every day from drinking the salt water, unless massive amounts of aid arrive quickly. 
epidemic possible 
The main danger is the possibility of a cholera epidemic, and health officers of the government are touring the affected areas now to inoculate people. Cholera can be contracted from contaminated water but prophylactic shots are effective for only about six months, and many of the people here have never had any. 
1.1 much of the devestated region the salt flood waters still have not returned to the Bay of Bengal, and most of the small hamlets in which 750,000 people lived are inaccessible. 
The govrnment finds out how many people died in these areas when its small wooden relief boatrs arrive at the ruined sites to deliver their pitiful stores of rice and powdered milk to the hungry refugees. It has been raising its estimate day by day and the latest one, made by the State Revenue Official in charge of relief, is that 10,000 died. The eventual total may be two or even three times as many. 
Amar E. Ammar Juchhiat's wife and four sons were among those who perished. Last Friday night the wind began rising and the rain slashed down and, when the water began rising inside the mud house after midnight Amar and his family climbed to the top of their thatch roof. The mud walls of the house collapsed as the flood rose higher than a man, and pushed by 100 mph winds, the family floated away from the village on their bulky straw roof. 
But the fragile raft was pounded by the wind and the waves. "I was lying flat on it, trying to hold on," .. Amar Juchhiat said. "Sometimes I went under the water. I called to my family but the wind made too much noise and we could not heasr one another. They all lost their grip and floated away, one by one -my wife, and my sons, the big and the small ones. The youngest was only two and one half. Now only I am alive, and my daughter, who is somewhere, I know." 
He spoke in Oriya, the language of the short, dark people of Orissa, who make their lving by growing rice and fishing and to whom life is ordinarily more kind. While they live primitively by western stan­dards, me fertile delta soil and thw twisting estuaries that snake through the flatland to the Bay of Bengal rpovide them with plenty of food and the climate is semitropical. 
The last time a cyclone hit the Oriya coast with such disastrouys effects was in the 19th centjry and people were not prepared for last weekend's stotm to be as devastating as it was. 
Neither was the state government, which has been hard pressed to bring even a little aid to the outlying areas. Govern­ment trucks hauling bags of rice and milk were mobbed by starving villagers on the road from Cuttack to Jambu yesterday and one word was on everyone's lips: rice. 
The state government has organized relief centers throughout the storm area, but many people live miles from where these stors of food are and many do not know about them. 
The hamlets of Jambu, for instance, are scattered over a large island north of the port of Paradeep and it took a convoy of wooden river boats three hours today to snake up the Gobari River to the ruined settlement of West Suniti, where a few hundred men, women, and small children had come to get food. 
(Continued on page 12) 
THE OBSERVER 

Girls' dor111 decision by April 


by Mike O'Hare 
Hopefully, a decision will be made concerning a girl's dor­mitory at Notre Dame before room selections in April, stated Thomas E. Chambers, Director of Student Housing. 
Father Chambers cited many problems involved in establishing a girl's dorm on the Notre Dame campus. 
The necessity of planning two separate budgets next year in­stead of one is a hinderance, although not insurmountable. 
Another obstacle is the prac­ticality and costs of changing a cormitory to accomodate women in light of present budgetary commitments. St. Mary's would face a similar difficulty in providing housing for men on their campus. 

SWC nets $1310 for Pakistan 
by Bill Sohn 
The Students World Concern collected on Nov. 3 a total of $1310.00 from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses with 3 halls yet to be accounted. 
Tom Hamilton, director of the S.W.C., commented that while 
N.D. and S.M.C. donated ap-

La Raza seated at conference 
by Jodi Campbell 
The Mid-West Councill of La 
Raza was granted eleven of 53 
seats at the National Spanish 
Speaking Coalition Conference 
held in Washington, D.C, October 
23 and 24. 
Ricardo Parra, director of the Midwest Council said, "We asked for eleven of thirty seats but were outvoted. The Midwest is always overshadowed by the Southwest and New~ York. There is a mentality on the West Coast that believes that all the Chicanos are centered there, there is a men­tality on the East Coast that thinks all the Boricuas are there; those in the Midweat are forgotten." 
The Conference was "organized to deal with the social, economic and political problems of the Spanish speaking people in this country, its real purpose was to initate a national organization to contain the rising militancy in the PUerto Rican community and to channel the ... electoral action of the Chicano's back into the two party fold ... "claims the Nov. 5 edition of The · 

Father Chambers said that he He spoke of the contrasting was cognizant of the reluctance views held by the two schools of students to have their dowm concerning hall life. Notre Dame turned over to girls but stated, op~rates on the stay-hall concept, 
·•we all have to make a sacrifice while St. Mary's employs a lot­somewhere for the sake of tery system in room selection. coeducation." This is another difference that must be resolved in integrating the two campuses. Father Chambers also mentioned Father Burtchaell 's statement in yesterday's Observer that an increased number of freshmen girls might necessitate the creation of a girl's dorm on campus next fall. However Mr. Goldrick, Director of Admissions, stated that there has not been a decision concerning the number or ratio of next year's freshmen. He said that this would be determined at a meeting in mid-November.

proximately thirteen cents -per person, the Cat Stevens concert is nearly sold out. He added, "Cat Stevens must be more en­tertaining than seeing a bloated stomach burst." 
Hamilton also felt that ignorance of the situation was not a valid excuse because of the large amount of publicity given to 
Militant magazine. 

A radical tone was injected into the conference with the ap­pearance of supporters of La Raza Unida Party from Texas and Boricua youth from New York and Connecticut. 
Ricardo Parra 

The October meeting was sponsored by Senato Joseph Montoay (D -New Mexico) and Congressmen Edward Roybal 
<D. 
-Calif. l and Herman Badillo 

m. 
~N.Y.l and Manuel Lujan (R. 


-N.M.l According to Badillo the 

The Midwest Blues Festival is coming Nov. 12, 13, 14 at Stepan Center 
$6.00 all three days 

$2.50 single performance 

~ f> 011 :-; (H (' d h ~ Cultural \r·t~ Commi..;siou 
The Observer is published daily during the college scmesrer C.(<.~pt vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postilge pilid. Notre Oam!', Ind. 46556. 

the Pakistan problem. He labeled the small response a case of "callous self interest." 
The S.W.C. is now writing to all the members of the U.S. Senate and urging immediate action. It has no further plans for the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community at the present. 
"conference was a complete failure." No radical resolutions were passed by the conference nor did the sponsors realize their 


1000/o malt malt liquor••• good enough to be called BUDWEISER® 




Withdrawal clause tacked to weapons bill 
(c) 1!171 New York Times 
Washington, Nov. 4---In a major breakthrough for Senate liberals, House and Senate conferees today agreed to affix a modified version of the Mansfield withdrawal amendment to a $21.3 billion military procurement bill. 
The compromise amendment states, "It is hereby declared to he the policy of the United States to terminate at the earliest practicable date all military operations of the U.S. in In­dochina." 
The original amendment sponsored by Sen. Mike Man­:;field, the majority leader, added the phrase "not later than six months from date of enactment," but this was changed by the conferees to read simply "at a date certain." 
The amendment also declares it to be U.S. policy to establish a final date for withdrawal from Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia of all American military forces. This would presumably bar leaving so-(:alled residual forces 
Humphrey solicits pledge card support 
(c) 1!171 New York Times the Humphrey pledge because he 
Minnt>apolis, Nov. 4---Sen. is working on behalf of Sen. 
Hubert H. Humphrey is using a Edmund S. Muskie, D-Maine, 
modified version of the con­who, like Humphrey, is an un­
troversial political pledge card in declared but likely contender for 
an effort to secure written next year's Democratic 
commitments of suppprt from presidential nomination. 
hundreds of Minnesota Paul Petrafeso, a state 
D<•mocrats for his still-assemblyman representing the 
unannounced 1972 presidential suburban community of St. Louis 
campaign. Park, said he was approached to 
Th<• manner in which the sign a similar pledge in scroll, signatures are being collected rather than card, form. "I didn't has provoked criticism from sign because there are a lot of somP quarters of the state's candidates in the field and I Ikmocratic party, particularly didn't want to be tied down so from individuals working on early," he said. IH'half of other presidential Pl'trafeso said he was aware of candidates, who charge that a number of other instances in improper pressure is being which members of the state brought to bear on them. legislature had been pressured to 
The pledge cards being sign the Humphrey pledge. "But distributed here by that Hum­I know a number of my phn•y organization contain one ('Olleagues who have not signed," sentence: "Thank you, ........ for he addl'd. "I think Humphrey and allowing us to use your name in his staff people are going to have the formation of the Humphrey a great deal of problems if they for President Committee." The keep putting pressure on state individual being solicited is asked legislators." to sign his name after the first The young assemblyman also two words of the sentence, then said he was approached by "a rPlurn the card to the Humphrey highly placed member of the campaign worker, who signs it at Humphrey staff" after it became thP bottom. known that he had attended 
"It's hl'ing done by personal several public meetings held on eon tact only," said Jack behalf of the presidential can­Hiehardson of St. Cloud, one of didacies of Sen. George thos<• approached "to sign the McGovern, D-S.D., and former pll'dgl'. Minnesota Sen. Eugene J. 
"It was put to us very bluntly, McCarthy. Wl' Wl're told that either we rnree other persons in­sigrwd up or we would have no terviewed who said they signed future in Minnesota politics," the Humphrey pledges asked that said Hichardson, who is chair­thPir names not be used. man of the Dl'mocratic party Humphrey's campaign (officially known in Minnesota as strategists here deny that there thl' Democratic-Farmer-Labor was any plan to use excessive or DI<'L party) in the state's 6th pressure in the signature drive, Congressional district. but acknowledged that some 
Hichardson said he was sub­supporters of the Senator may .i<•etPd to a "tremmdous amount have been more zealous than of pressure" but refused to sign others. 

in Vietnam, a prohibition The compromise amendment is would be agreeing to a policyPresident Nixon has never more far-reaching than anything declaration that goes further in 
agreed to. 

the chairman of the House Armed stating American withdrawal Services Committee, Rep. F. policy than the Administration
The amendment still links the Edward Hebert, D.-La., has has even been willing to do.

withdrawal to the release of all 

agreed to in the past.
American prisoners held by the North Vietnamese and adds the The Mansfield amendment dmand for an accounting of all passed the Senate twice by wide
fixed schedule
Americans missing in action margins. It has never passed the "who have been held by or known House, but its supporters said to" North Vietnam. The new Mansfield amendment after the last vote that they ex­would not require the president to pected it to pass if another test The bill the amendment is withdraw American troops on a could be made, based on the 
affixed to contains authorization 

fixed schedule. progressive amounts of support it for most spending on military But should the president sign it gained during a series of test l'quipment for the coming year, without explicit reservations, he votes in recent months. 


l OBSERVER 

Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Second Front Page 
India, Pakistan trade charges, bullets 
Bengali guerrilla action hot 
West and East Pakistan.
Ilacca, Pakistan, Nov. 4--­"Hazakars," semitrained militia Bengali guerrillas sharply in­Skirmishing between troops regarded as poorly armed. tensified their campaign against and police and guerrillas in Razakar volunteers posted at Pakistani authorities during the Dacca now occurs nearly every bridges and other military last 24 hours, and the Pakistani day, generally with casualties. strongpoints are prime targets of government charged that a half Outside Dacca, government the Mukti Bhaibi guerrillas. million Indian troops are now defenses depend mainly on the massed along the frontier for invasion. 
Pears re-organizes
The Indian and Pakistani governments have repeatedly 

security department
declared that one would not initiate an attack against the other, but war scares continue (Continued from page 1) afternoon and evening com­
and both sides have made Pears hired 2 graduate manders answer complaints and elaborate preparations. students as investigators and may carry firearms, while the 
Dacca, the capital of East installed electronic door-locks at rest of the force of police Pakistan, is holding an air raid Alumni Hall after several rob­veterans, moonlighting South drill tonight in which persons beries and a serious racial in­Bend cops and ROTC sergeants, caught showing a light are cident the previous spring, in­carry mace but no sidearms. One subject to six months im­volving some non-students. Soon girl was hired this fall to ticket prisonm£'nt. after, flood-lighting of the Main illegally parked studnnt and 
Most foreign military analysts Quad near LaFortune Center was Last year's Security budget of tend to discount the likelihood of completed in October. $280,000 is now close to $300,000, general war between Pakistan showing a larger increase than
In September, Pears organized
and India. Instead, India is a student parking lot patrol to most other departments. Sup­eonsidered likely to continue plemental revenue comes from
guard more than 3000 student 
helping the Mukti Bhaibi student traffic fines, but this
cars. 12 students were hired at a 
guerrillas inside East Pakistan, probably yields little money.
wage of $2.00 an hour. 
<'Specially by keeping the Faculty cars may also be
Security is now organized
Pakistani army pinned down ticketed, but the faculty are
around 3 command officers, each 
along the long frontiers of both £'xempt from paying the fines.
taking an eight-hour shift. The 

world briefs 
(c) 197& New York 'Times 

Washington -The Senate Foreign Relations Committee separated foreign aid into two bills Thursday, one providing economic and humanitarian assistance, the other military assistance, and cut the total aid from the $2.9 billion defeated by the Senate last week to $2.3 billion -about $1.2 billion less than the Administration had requested. 
Washington -The House Banking and Currency Committee voted to require the retroactive payment of all wage increases halted by the wage-price freeze unless the President finds that specific increases were "grossly disproportionate." The panel, in a revolt against the Administration, also voted to require interest rate controls, to exempt poor workers from the freeze and to allow consumers to sue mer­chants for price violations. 
Washington -Wholesale prices showed uncommon stability last month, with all price increases entirely accounted for by movements in the farm and food sector ,where many products are exempt from the price freeze. The over-all index declined one-tenth of a per cent. It rose one-tenth of a percent, seasonally adjusted. 
Wa'illington -Three reports released in Washington indicated that the rate of the nation's population growth was turning rapidly downward. And, the reports said, there is evidence of a long-range reduction in birth rates. 
I 
3:30, 7:00, 9:00·-film, the trial, carroll hall, madeleva 
8:30--drama, my sweet charlie, little theatre,en moreau hall saturday
::s 

7:00, 9:00, 11:00-·film,
0. sterile cuckoo, knights of columbus halle 7:00, 9:00, 11:00--film, my 
ts 
sister, my love, engineering auditorium 8:00, 10:00, 12:00··film,u sterile cuckoo, carroll hall, madaleva 8:00--drama, no place to be
~ 

0 
somebody, o'laughlin 
auditorium 
I 
8: 30··drama, my sweet charlie, little theatre, moreau hall 
8: 00--meditation, in. traduction to tran­scendental meditation, 
103 o'shag 



Friday, November 5, 1971

Page 4 THE OBSERVER 


==Letters to the editor 
Editor: 
Ins't it about time that you demanded the ouster of Ara Parseghian as head football coach of Notre Dame since he doesn't have the formula to defeat USC? In 1964 his dream was shattered as well as 1970 when USC upset Notre Dame from the undefeated ranks. When USC has an undefeated season, Notre Dame could only tie USC. His record ag&inst USC is 2 wins, 2 ties and 4 losses. Can you imagine a Catholic college retaining a coach who can't beat a team with a 2 win 4loss record? He also has a poor record against Purdue and Michigan State. He and his assistants should be fired or forcec to resign since he can only teach his team how to maul weaklings. Furthermore he's a great believer in reading his press clippings but you don't win football games on the pages of sport section of newspapers or magazines. He has to prove it on the gridiron. He had 8 years to prove his greatness but each year he leads his panic-stricken Irish to a slaughter as John Mackay out smarts him. How much longer will the Irish fans have to endure his inferior coaching and shatter the dreams of a perfect season? 
Why does he insist on using Ellis for defense when he doesn't know how to protect against the forward pass? Anyone, who knows football, knows that Notre Dame's pass defense is poor and he still retains those inept and brainless coaches. It's about time they were dismissed and the defensive coaches from USC, Stanford, or Oregon were lured to Notre Dame to teach the defense how to protect against the forward pass.
Furthermore it seems that the defensive linemen read about their own exploits in the newspapers but but they fail to trap the USC passers who had all afternoon to complete a pass. Anyone can defend against a weak team. It seems that the Trojan passerhad to complete one pass and the Irish are tossed into utter confusion and bewilderment which usually leads to a state of panic. Each year the Irish become panic­stricken and fight for survival whenever a worthy opponent challenges them for victory. 
Notre Dame is called the Fighting Irish since they have to fight for survival each game. I wonder if the Irish would become panic-stricken if they played against Vassar. 
It's hard to understand how such a team which is considered 
<\NY ND or SMC 
Parking Sticker Will 
Get You 
cfi£W 
10 % OFF 
n any mechanical 
ork and winterizing 

snow tires included) 
Roseland Gulf 
02 U.S. 31 North Across 
from Burger King 
CALIFORNIANS 
X-mas RT Flight LIGHT lA or SF $118 check Rm. 1-D La Fortune 7-8 Mon. 8th · Wed. lOth Tony 7865 (Rick) 1753 
great on defense would permit a team to fill the air with a devastating aerial bombardment as the Trojan of Southern Californaia did this year and years past. 
It seems any team can penetrate the Irish defense since 
inferior  coaching  on  deeense  
especially against  the  forward  
pass.  

Furthermore a coach must be brainless when he used a inex­perienced quarterback against a tf'am which is properly 
trained against the forward pass. Anyone who knows football can visualize that the Irish pass defense is porous and yet the coaches on defense are too blind to notice this weakness. 
Another football season has ended abruptly for the Irish fans since the defense that was highly praised had their balloon of smug superiority punctured by a bralliant leader, John McKay, who knows that the Irish are known to maul weaklings but are pulverized into submission by a team that came to conquer a and vanquish a team that doesn't belong in their class. 
I. M. Macaco 
N.D. Alumni 
Editor: 
This letter concerns the actions of particular members of the football team during the second quarter of the ND-SUSC game. I find it difficult to understand why 



Friday 
8:00 om 
.. 

limited number of seats available at ACC 
presented by Social Commission and the ACC 
nothing was said prior to this letter. I also find it difficult to understand why certain students and alumni were more than ready to reprimand the actions of some students during the nationally televised Michigan State game while absolutely nothing was said about that far from brilliant exhibition of sportsmanship shown at the USC game. I would like to make it clear that I do not condone some of the actions of the students but I most certainly do not condone the action of these "mighty" football players. Now that this has been put out in the open I suggest that both incidents be dropped. Maybe we can learn from our mistakes. 
Mike Younger Box 75 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
To "Our Sweethearts" 
Last Sunday night we girls of the second floor of Augusta Hall experienced one of the most thoughtful occurences since our arrival in September. 
It was around midnight and as the girls went about milling in our usual Sunday night boredom, beautiful sounds floated through the cold night air drawing us to our front windows. We really could not believe what we heard. 
It wasn't the sound of a drunken male animal screaming obscenities or s ve remarks. That.s right: it wasn't a panty raid. What it was, proved to be a group of fantastically thoughtful N.D. men who stood outside freezing in the cold to sing their hearts out for us. And it was beautiful! 

We just want them to know that in our minds, at least, the 
image of Notre Dame me1 
guys cared enough to marching over here in the make someone else happy. 
love it. Keep it up and thank-you, 
of Augusta 
Dear Sir: Anyone truth of  whothe  ever com plaint  
showing  of  the  film  

Summer" on October 21st to 
the catcalls and leering laughs of the almost entirely male audience. 
How unbearably ironic that the main point of a film which shows that human beings will violate one another because of group 
(Continued on page 5) 

MAiN CHURCH 
SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Bob Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Bernard Clark, C.S.C. )0:45a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanaugh, O.S.B. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
Vespers: Sun. thru Thurs. at 7:00p.m. 
Songs 'llmerica Sings 
MISHAWAKA HIGH SCHOOL AllDITORilTM SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1971 -8:00P.M. 
GENERAL ADMISSION STUDENT -PRICE SI.OO 
Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Theatre presents Studio I Production 
MY SWEET CHARLIE 
by David Westheimer 
Little Theatre Moreau November 7 · 7:30 pm Hall, SMC Tickets $1.00 November 5, 6 ·8:30pm Reservations at 284-4176 
Friday, November 5, 1971 THE, OBSERVER Pages 
II II
1600 students :make ticket drive a success 
by .Judy i\ht>rn 
South lknd ticket project co­
chairmen Jack Candon and Eric 
Andrus announced yesterday 
lhnt 921 tidkets had been received 
by the project. This represents 
an incn•ase of 200 over last year. 
Approximately 650 students 
volunll'l'n'd to be monitors or 
drivl'rs, according to 
"A total of 1,600 students were involved," said Andrus, "Jack and l arl' overwhelmed that so many students were so helpful." Tlwy both felt the project was a ''complete success" due to studPnt generousity. 
Of the 900 youngsters from the South Rt•nd area who attended thl' gam{>, 630 came from the Neighborhood Study Program, Candon said. The remainder, according to Candon consisted of those who attend either Logan Center for Retarded Children, Sister Marita 's Primary Day School, Hansel Center, or the Family Center of Mishawaka. 
"Students from N.S.H.P. and tutors Wl're instrumental in making thl' project a success," Candon said. "without Kathy Kant•, John Hopf and the cap­tains, the project would have .lopped." Candon also credited the approval and co-operation of Don Roffard as "instrumental" in the program's success. 
" 
..... 
~:) 
• • 
1 
~­
v 


" ~­
Eric Andrus 



More Letters============== 
(Continued from page 4) 
pressure should be missed by malt•s acting in a group violation of Ihe people< particularly Hhoda) in the film. 
This irony can only IJe topped by thl' fact that such a grossly stupid l'xperience was brought to us \ ia thl' Cultural Arts Com­mission. 
Jane Syburg <Mrs. f'rpderic l 
f<)litor: Last Sunday the staff of the S~mth Dining Hall attempted to g1ve the students something PXtra. It was a very simple g£'sturP: donuts and cider from 10 
p.m. until 11 p.m. 
Sturll'nts cam(', laughing, joking and having a good time with their fri£'nds. In the course of tht'S£' "good times," the studl'nts --with glee, and quite obviously with no maliciousness intt•ndPd --threw pumpki~. 
around the dining hall, threw 
donuts at each other, and broke 
glasses. By 10:30 p.m. there 
weren't any more donuts for the 
students; the majority of the 
donuts wen• littering the floor. 
Rut everybody had fun and had 
laughed. 
As l said, it was all done for "fun". Nobody was hurt, so we can still laugh. The pumpkin had only almost hit the girl in the face, the pumpkin had only almost hit a tray of glasses in the back of the dining hall <thus shatlen•d glass spreading like shrapnl'l was only a possibility, not an actuality l. 
W£''ve all talked about rt'sponsibility lately --in the contexts of student life; manhandling girls in the stadium. and of half-time "<•xubl'rance". Responsibility no longl'r possesses a meaning; p<•opl<' merely claim it, they don't <'Xperience responsibility. Some elaim they have no opportunity to 
CONTINENTAL HAIR· STYLING 
1321 E. McKinley Hwy. Mishawaka, Ind. 
259-7679 By Appoinlrncnl Only 
SERVING ND MEN FOR PAST 4 YEARS IN ALL HAIR NEEDS. 

SHAGS, EUROPEAN LAGER CUTS 
Specializing in Long Hair Look 


STUDENT SPECIAL 
$25° Complete 


Last year the project was Mary's Community Relations founded and accomplished Board, of which Candon is throug Student Government but Chairman, and the K<'nnedy 
lnstitutl'.
this vear Andrus and Candon wm·ked independently of that Although this was only thebody. "It's our baby, we wanted sl'cond year of the project, An­to do it ourselves, said Candon, drus said he and Candon hoped"hut we nl'edt'd sponsors to back that thl'y had started "anotherus up." The sponsors were ST. 
Notre Dame tradition.' They both helped pioneer the project last year and feel "it went much smoother this year. after a 

SMC Music Dept. Presents: 
UNIVERSITY CHORUS & SMC GLEE CLUB Concert of Choral Music by Brahms Sunday Nov. 7 · 8:00 O'Laughlin . No adm. charge 




RoGERs 
Optical 
ROGER ATWELL -OWNER 
yl'ar of l'Spt•rience". Both will be graduating this spring, but plan to "1nake sure plans to get it done nl'xt Y<'ar" will be made before 
thl'y leave. 
Summing up his feelings on the <'ndeavore, Candon said "The most satisfying feeling caome from looking at the faces of the kids wh<'n the game was over, and knowing that I helped to bring a little happiness into their 
lives". 
HOUitSr 
MON • TUE$ -THUll -PRI 
9 AM 5r30 PM W£0 -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPecTAClE SERVICE 
ALL EYE Oft'S 
PRESCRIPTIONS HONOREe 
Ca/1 
289-7809 
-ATTENTION­
PAUL'S 



SHOE REPAIR 

Rear of Main Building 
-HOURS­Daily 7 A.M. to 6 P.M. 
AS TAUGHT IY 
MAHARISHI MAHESH YOGI 

TRANSCENOEIIITAL MEDITATION IS A NATURAL SPONTAN,[OUS HCHIIIIQUf WHICH ALLOWS EACti INDIVIDUAL TO EXPAND
Saturday 

HIS MIND AND IMPROVE HIS LIFE 
INTRODUCTORY LECTURE
8 to Noon 

Notre Dame Nov. 6 & 7 8: 00 
Shoe Strings, Polish, 
O'Shaughnessy Hall Room 103 
Quick Service 
q:l "1,,!1'· 


ND Men needed for St. Mary's Health Committee 
-Knowledge in area of drug and sex education helpful 
Submit name, phone number & very brief resume to: 
Missy Underman Box 623 St. Mary's Deadline: Wednesday Nov. 10 

Friday, November 5, 1971
THE OBSERVER
Page 6 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso .\ssistant EditorAssistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
·C. Treanor 

ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
,\dHrtising Manager 
•:o.~siness Manager anyone or anything if they can help 
Bill Bauerle

it; if the job is forced upon them,
m Jendryk 

they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

News: 283-1715
Business: 283-7 4 71 


Nice Going 
"All (meaning the Board of Trustees) were impressed by the 
caliber of today's students ... " --Father Hesburgh's last letter 

It's too bad the Board of Trustees couldn't be here Wednesday night to observe the Student World Concern collect for Pakistani relief-just to give themselves a broader perspective. You see, the Trustee's contact with students was entirely vocal -they heard students speak. And students can talk up a pretty good case {or themselves. After all, talking requires intellect and education­generally a commodity in some long supply in college students, even at Notre Dame. 
Action is another beast entirely. To back sonorous words with action is the challenge facing college students today; they generally fail. They failed Wednesday night at Notre Dame, when the people for Pakistani relief called on the Notre Dame student body to help stem the tide of agony in Pakistan. 
They helped -to the tune of thirteen cents per person. Thirteen cents-a small cherry coke at the huddle and a gum ball. Thirteen cents-six cigarettes. Thirteen cents -a third of a cheeseburger. Thirteen cents-four minutes of theCat Stevens concert. 
So it goes. In the aftermath -for surely the Pakistani relief people aren't stupid enough to try to wring blood from a turnip again -it may be instructive to consider why this dicotomy bet­ween thought and action exists -why people who can talk so gloriously end up acting so weakly. 
Students talk well here because they're trained to talk well. They're educated, they're exposed to argument, they're well-read -generally by compulsion. But action-that's a call not only on 
the intellect but the depth of a man. The educational system of America doesn't teach men to share in the souls of their suffering fellow men. That's something they have to pick up themselves-if they pick it at all. 
It's apparent that they haven't here. Perhaps Student World Concern would be better off collecting speeches at Notre Dame. They are considerably cheaper, and people here are generally more liberal with them. 
Meanwhile, the business of giving money to help feed the starving, sustain the diseased, and bury the rotting dead can be handled by men of a different caliber. 
,-------------------------------------, 
the staff 

Night Editor: Gene Stason News Editor: Jerry Lutkus SMC. Editor: Ann Conway
Copy Readers: Jim Roe, T. C. Treanor features editor: rick smith Headlines: Cris Sultivan Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Headline machine operator: Don Campus Editor: Don Ruane Biancomono 
Midnite Caller: Tony C Picture Shooter: Bob Hughes (who wishes Miss Idaho didn't mash his Special Help & Guidance: John t.Jters)
Abowd, Jim McDermott, Jerry Visitors: Jim Fister, Bronco. 

Lutkus Ass't NC's: mark neiderkorn,Nocturna I Deviates: Jim Diane ChermsideKrough, Bob Higgins, Dillon Misses who were Missed: ThePatrick Doe Abett Crack StaffController of the Night: rick if not, why notsmith 

~ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\·,
i 
l 
/ t 
\ 
\ 
\ 
J 

The Second Editorial-------­
Football Game 
Deborah Kerr 
Gary stood talking with me and beads of salt water stood out on his forehead. Suddenly one broke loose, ran down the side of his face and trickled through his newly growing sideburns. 
It was warmer than anyone had anticipated and I had worn a light sweater and jeans for my blind date to the game. I was even warmer since I had ridden a bike overto meet him and some of his friends at a pre-game party. It was a long ride through rows of cars and Middies, mothers and commanding officers. I had slept \ate, missing lunch, so the cold hamburgers and fries and warm cokes that Gary's friends had brought tasted exc£'ptionally good. After about seventy of us had consumed all that our burger chef had to offer, we set out for the game, programs in hand. 
Gary and I walked a little slower than some of the others because he has a problem with his leg and it's hard forhimto walk fast. On the way to the stadium he held my hand and I found out that he was twenty, that he lives in South Bend with his mother, and that he works in town making picture frames. I asked him when he had graduated. 
"I c-can't remember." he laughed. "lt..ah-h-h ... was a while ago." 
He knew quite a bit about football and quoted some ratings, probable game scores, and asked about Navy, and wondered out loud who Coach Ara would start at quarterback. He was excited about seeing his first NO win of the year and talked sporadically, hoping that we would get our seats on time, worrying about climbing the stairs to the bleacher seats beside the band. I assured him that we would be fine and that my friend Joe would help him. 
During the pre-game show Gary sang louder than anyone around us 
and never missed a word of America the Beautiful, and only one line of 
the Star-Spangled Banner. 

Throughout the game he did a Howard Cosell-ian commentary 
monologue, keeping us abreast of the latest on the "50 yard line of 
Notre Dame." He was disturbed that Brown wasn't throwing more 
laterals and that Navy was allowed any first downs. 
David, Gary's friend sat in back of us and kept up a running con­versation with me. I think that he didn't understand football very well and when everyone elso stood to see the Irish score a touchdown, Oavid kept pulling onmy sleeve and saying,"! can't see! I can't see." I think that David liked me though for he shook my hand after every .>ther play, shared his coke with me, let me see his program, and once quite suddenly, he threw his arms around my neck and patted me irreverently, but sincerely and squarely on the chest, repeating, "You're nice." 
After the game we slowly made our way out, joe again helping Gary. Once we were outside Gary grabbed my sweaty hand and we counted busses, waved at the city police who knew Gary by name, and tried to keep track of David who alternately walked with his arm with his arm around my waist and ran away. 
Back at Logan, the site of the pre-game bash, I asked Gary if he'd had fun. He thanked me, shaking my hand and said yes. I left him there waiting for his mother to come and pick him up. I rode back to the dorm. I was exhausted and took a nap. 
Fridny, November 5, 1971 

THE OBSERVER. Pap 1 
rev. robert griffin 
november begins the season 


In November begins the season when April's child is buried with wind-dirges and raindrips. For a brief, horrid lime. wlwn the icy blasts shake the flame out of every hush of fire; and the trees, gray and naked, stand in silhouettes of prayer, like ghetto Jews reaching out to lwavcn in the despairing gesture of prophets helpless before the storms of pogrom ... in this month of death, when the seasons sinewed in glory march off in days of grimness: then are our souls shaken in their immortal longings as the night-fears of the world begin, and mankind wonders: : "Can the beauty of the earth come again?'' And the question posed at the graveside of nature is hut a corollary to a deeper mystery: "Does God llimself really live?" 
Once I sat at a luncheon table with six other priests: bright, intelligent men. thoroughly educated in physics or chemistry or literature, deeply sensitive to the stirrings of grace. Over the final cup of coffee, I flung out the question: "Can you prove the existence of God?" Not one of those Jesus-wJrkers, including a doctor of theology, could establish proof of the Deity's existence. I think we fp(t like a group of small boys on their way to a circus: Pach one knows that he himself is penniless and without directions; hut he is confident that another chap has I ickcts and a map to the tent where the clowns are dan­eing; but really, nobody does. In the end, all of them will rPach the fairgrounds; and as a way of collecting ad­mission. the Ringmaster will set the lads to servicing the PIPphants with water pails. With priests, as with small boys trusting Pach other, events will turn out well in the Pnd; hut let no one ask whose purse is carrying the coins: oflen. our hopes are based on faith that takes a great deal 

My mother and father called me the other day won­dering if something was wrong with me. Normally I am consistent in writing, but this year is not a normal year. I apologized and said I would write soon. Two weeks later they called wondering when "soon" was. We're such a close family, I could understand their concern. I had to explain to him that I had been busy, and they would have to understand that. I've had to do a lot of explaining about my job as Student Body President. Usually, it's in rPference to what my position is really like. I want to answer that question by sharing these thoughts with any of you who is wondering and the majority of you who probably don't care. That may sound cynical, but it's a by­product of the last six minths. 
RPing SBP can be fun. Having the opportunity to escort Miss USA, for example, was a more pleasant aspect of my JOb. I also get asked out to eat often, and I'll tAke anything before the dining hall. I participate in the flag ceremonies !)('fore the home football games, and who wouldn't want to do that in front of the greatest bunch of seniors Notre Dame has ever seen? But the fun part of the job is hardly PVPr on my mind. 
BPing SBP is time consuming. I miss meals and miss classes regularly, though I try to avoid the latter as often as 1 can. Meetings never end. Bull sessions last forever. ThP paperwork seems eternal. Working until 2,3,or 4 am nightly is not uncommon. 
BPing SBP is saddening. Because of the time I spend working, I see little of my friends in Morrissey--­particularly the seniors who I have grown with the last four years. The touch football games, bridge games, the for granted and we aren't even sure where the glory tents are pitched. 

Sometimes a student will appear on the threshhold at midnight, asking proofs of the life and love of God -­usually around holiday time, when he is invited bby the home-folk to share in the Supper of Christ. I can only share my own experiences with a God Whom, all my life, lhave trusted and loved, disliked and doubted --for who can say that a priest is nnever stabbed by the atheist's fears'! Oh, I have heard the arguments of Aquinas, I those syllogisms composed by a saint who attempted to detach himself from the faith-passion as he asked the question, Wheter God exists? and with premises of Unmoved Movers, he proves the reality of the Old Lamplighter in I he skies. In arguments for or a against God's existence, even the best of us are merely sorting out our prejudices; and for me St. Thomas's proofs are merely confirmations --on a metaphysical level where I don't need them--that the afterglow of prayer is something more sublime than heartburn. His arguments explain faith, they don't create it: and given the Thomistic teaching on the place of grace in the faith experience, they probably weren't intended to . At the moment, I am not sure to whom Aquinas's arguments were directed, but I think maybe it wasn't the midnight atheists of Keenan Hall. 
Yet I believe that the mind can search out lessons leading to faith. In physics, for example, there are laws attesting to the conservation of matter and energy. If these laws mean <as I hope they do( that· God has never allowed the annihilation of the meanest mete of dust, and that steam and frost and water are the masquerade of elements that perpetually frolic together, or change partners, in the great Cosmic Dance of Nature; if I can believe that God rescues the raindrop from oblivion, and then transmutes the rust of a computer's brain into the airy trudge of the Sugar Plum Fairy: then, in a physical universe where waster is not demonstrable, I think I can believe in eternal life. God must be as preservative of spirit as He is of matter. I think that He loves the mind Ihat dreams as much as He cares for the bush that blooms and carries within itself the seed of new beginnings. He must--if He is God--be as solicitious for the imagination of Shakespeare as He is for the deathless dust out of which the world was formed. 
In Frazier's book The Golden Bough, there is a chapter on gods who died and lived again: these are the myths out of which so much of the imagery of "The Wasteland" comes: their heroes are the deities of the fertility cults: Adonis slain by a bear; Adonis alive ... "He lives, he wakes ... He is made one with nature." 
In the myths explaining the seasons, based upon the 
john barkett 
observation of the life-death cycle in nature, it seems that nwn who lived in the childhood of the world reasoned to lhe notion of the Resurrection. And as the Creator assimilated the pre-existing forms of animal life into the creation of man, so He assimilated the truth of these myth patterns, based upon the rhythms of earth which yearly dies and is born again, into the story of Jesus, fresh born to glory, walking the Emmaus Road with his friends. 
Recently, a friend of mine told me that legends of a resuscitated body did little to charm him into making the leap of faith. Suddenly, both of us had a vision of a corpse down at Hickey the Undertaker's, dancing his way out from among the funeral chrysanthemums, and up Notre Dame Avenue. I have no credentials for the work of de­mythologizing Scriptures, if indeed the Easter report is in need of the de-mythologizer. But I think the point of the Resurrection is not resuscitation, but the belief that in in the man who loves, there is begun a life that death has no power over. Scripture teaches that eternal life begins now; ito survives death, and has no need of the cosmeticians's art to disguise the ravages of worms. I am not speaking of a merely spiritual resurrection, either. If a body was needed to attest to the reazlity of eternal life, then Christ had a body. But in the mystery that was compounded upon the miracle that followed after the crucifixion, I know the body of Christ was like no body we know of, and different from all our human experience. I can scarcely imagine the scene when the graveyards are emptied on the day of judgment; but I remember a leaching that if a grain of wheat is to bring forth fruit, it must fall into the earth and die, and farmers confirm that this is a true teaching. I know too that in April, the tulips behind the Church will bloom again, but right now they just look like dead and rotting vegetables. 
In these lines, I have touched upon Realities which require something more documented than an essay of less than a thousand words. But in speaking of God, though I though I were to write volumes, I am speaking of the ineffable: Him for Whom language has no words, Him 
Whom dogmas can never contain. Aquinas teaches that we know more what God is not, than what He is. In rejecting Him, sometimes students are really rejecting stereotypes distorting His truth and beauty; blasphemies tha.t survive from the tales of foolish teachers, who couldn't describe Him but didn't know it. Yet the God beyond language can be experienced; when it happens, wheter in November or May, you can share the ex­perience, but in the end, its real validity win be for yourself. "At least I have found it so. Benedicamus Domino." 
being sbp 
vanous section and hall events-they seem to slip by me. It's saddening, too, because I'm sacrificing the wealth of knowledge and joy one derives from reading and serious intellectual pursuits for an other-oriented job. And I may never have the opportunity again that four years in college provides. I'm sorry, Doctor Costello; in tiem, I'll know if you were right. 
It's saddening for another reason. I'm becoming very skeptical and cynical, especially regarding my fellow students. We tend to be selective and rationalistic in the ethics we hold. As a local sociologist observed, "Rather prominent strains of crass opportunism are readily found · in their <students) own religious and moral pretentions, and in the lofty moral and religious idealism attributed to them." I always hear, "Give me, give me, give me"; but rarely do I hear the necessary "Give, give, give", which must accompany any viable attempt at community existence. Authority figures are turned to when com­plaints exist. "Let them be the bad asses." And can one live in a community and not contribute to the common good? I see a selfishness that disturbs me greatly, and I see but a minority of students trying to change it, when only the majority can. 
Being SBP is frightening. How does one represent 6,400 young men who are constantly in the process of for­mulating their views on countless issues? Everything I say or do is subject to public scrutiny, not all of which is local public. What's worse is that to be misunderstood is very easy since one misquote or one quote out of context in the Obst>rver usually does irreparable harm. And word-of­mouth stories circumvent the truth more often than not. 
This burden of responsibility in representation figures into the priorities we have established. But who draws the line between campus problems and national issues? Personally, I have chosen to concentrate on the former, much to the disappointemnt of some, I know. 
What is most frightening is walking the tightrope bet­ween students and administrators, and sometimes faculty mPmbers. I'm almost sorry I have so much of a sense of fair play, because it makes the tightrope quiver. My objectivity doesn't help much either. The burden of decision making when sides are drawn is not a light one. 
Being SBP is a lonely job. As paradoxical as it may seem, since I come into contact with so many persons, it's true. I feel ostracized---or at least unwelcome---in certain circles. I return to my hall late and find my friends in bed. The empathetic nature of the position and my personal empathy are no relief either since so many persons I meet are lonely. The only redeeming factor in my loneliness is that I can enJOY the precious inner sanctum of my 
thoughts and reflections without the scrutiny I described 
above. But that's a high price to pay sometimes. 
Most of all, being SBP is frustrating. It's frustrating because I am impatient. One has twelve months in office-­-four of which fall in the summer and at Christmas time--­to effect constructive change and make positive im­provements in life at Notre Dame. But universities are slow moving creatures, not only because that is the nature of the institution but also because too many people are Pither afraid, incompetent, lazy, or too unimaginative in the decision-making area. 
It's frustrating, too, because we have priorities just like the people we work with. But frequently, the priorities don't match. It can be exasperating when one looks at oarticular examples. 
Another example can be found in the Security Advisory Committee, a committee designed to make suggestions and receive complaints regarding security. The body can be very effective and very helpful and should have been created long age. However, after its approval by the Officers Council last April, it is just now being formed. All of May, the three summer months, and nearly two months of this semester have gone by! And if we hadn't gotten involved, the Committee might have died in the nimutes of that Officers Council meeting. 
It's also frustrating because of the great paradoxes in our existence here. Earlier this year, someone told me how "repressed" we were because the Board of Trustees decided to act unfavorably upon the Student Life Council's parietal hours proposal to allow each residence hall to determine its hours and to call for enforcement of the University's prohibition against drinking in public places. I visited the Soviet Union two summers ago and never once since then have I described the situation there as repressive. Most of the students there will never own a car. Even fewer will live in a house; most people share apartments. Yet we argue incessantly, gobbling up valuable time, over a matter of principle and a problem of state law. And can anyone say they are oppressed or repressed here? Do any of you know what oppression and _ repression really are? However right or wrong Trustees are, no one can describe our life here as repressed; if anything it's just the opposite as all of us seniors will find 
out too soon. tpurtfourofthisfourpartserieswillbe pres,.nted later.) 
and there are rnore great features on the very next page! 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Fridav. November 5. 1971 
'' ... c hor1·1e '' 
On Saturday, November 6, at 8:30 put there will be a performance of Charles Cordone's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, "No Place to Be Somebody" in O'Laughlin Auditorium. This tragi-comedy, set in a dingy bar in West Greenwich, New York revolves around the bar owner, Johnny Williams, and the black and white whores, racketeers and naive liberals who frequent his establishment. In the interactions between these people, Gordone is at­tempting to present an unbiased view of the black-white love-hate relationship, without coming to any absolute conclusion except that "terrifying contraries exist simultanelously." Cordone's philosophy of theatre, not as political device but as a means to express universal experiences <in this case, the human and spiritual isolation of both black and white) is reflected in "No Place to Be Somebody" · Dealing with a theme which could easily degenerate into emotional, political rhetoric, Cordone manages to express his ideas through a set of extremely real, well­developed characters. 
iohn hurley ,

cats newest: wowee mama! 

, , I , , 
& no p ace... this weekend 
Studio I Production for the Notre Dame ­Saint Mary's Theatre is David Westheimer's My Sweet Charlie. 
Directed by Roger Kenvin, the bit­tersweet comedy-drama involves two young people each fleeing from a problem meeting in an empty summer cottage on th(' Gulf Coast. 
Sophomores Debbie Tirsway and Aubrey Payne portray the leading roles of Marlene Chambers and Charles Roberts. Marlene envisions herself as a com­bination of Scarlett O'Hara and Blanche DuBois, yet is only a frtightened, pregnant teenager. "Charlie," a young, New York lawy('r, goes to the South to see if he has th(' courage to back up his convictions with zction. 
Production date for My Sweet Charlie, in th(' Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, SMC, is Saturday, November 6, at 8:30 pm and Sunday, November 7 at 7:30pm. 
Tickets are $1.50 and for ND-SMC students, faculty and staff . Further ticket information and reservations can be obtained by calling 284-4141, between the hours of 9 and 4. 
Never underestimate the power of a balladeer. He can spin you out of your world, crying and silent, and move you slowly through his, holding up objects of great worth to make you laugh with wonder, see mireacles both kind and cruel, and somehow, as from a great height, view the world with a little hope. You have tow watch and wait for these strange men and women, and listen closely, for they do not often make their music for cold recording studio microphones, and sometimes even then the magic is lost in the scramble for gold. Those few who can survive the or­deal and still play their music with new magic are worth the wait to hear. And if I should sound like a herald for Cat Stevens, let it be so. 
The effect of his music is so con­tradictory that a listerner is moved to overanalyze each burst of lyric and drift of sound, and he is impossible to pin down at all. He creates half-worldly, half-ethereal myths within a three or four minute song, and the power of these songails such that they appear different each and every time it is heard. Teaser and the Firecat can be taken apart, put back together again in different ways, and still not be defined, so there is no real need to try. And once you stop trying to analyze him, the balladeer takes you over into his mind-world. 
Cat Stevens celebrates today as not yesterday, as a breking morning, as a telling wind, as a love worth having and l'ven worth losing, and as a day to think about living and dying, and how close we are to both. Moonshadowis a happy song about death, and for us who are so afraid of dying, it almost works. He knows the rities are kinlling our sense of our selves and of time, so he shouts at us that Tuesday's dead. Over and over again he insists that like himself (doctors once told him he had less than eight months to live), Wl' have got to join the living, even though W(' have to keeep death in the back of our minds. And he has once again bugun to love exuberantly, but still wary of losing love and life. 


Technically, I would have liked to see a bit more care lavished on the background vocals_. a~ they seem to be rough in spots, but this IS one bad spot in a beautifully underproduced album. Only unproduction would have been able to catch the fire of the firecat and still be able to throw bouzouki into the chorus of "Ruby love". 

Sinai Sisterhood and Hadassah invite you to attend Prints, Prose and Presents 
Sinai Synagogue LaSalle & Eddy Sts. 
Sunday, Nov. 7, 9:30a.m. & 5:00 
p.m. Monday, Nov. 8, l:OOp.m. to 5:00p.m. 
Records, Gifts, Books, Israeli Lithographs 


man-around-campus· or-anywear boots 
Continental 
$21.95

Tyroleans pr. 
Specific styles for your kind of action .•. all Italian­crafted in Bronzo or sueded leathers with Vibram or St. Moritz traction soles. And, if your "action" is in keeping up with the trends in style, the rugged looks of Conti­nental Tyroleans® are today's look in boots. For action -or for fashion, you just can't buy better footgear! 
Sonne!Jorn 'S 


Friday, November 5, 1971 

THE OBSERVER Page 9 
Congratulations Mary, Mary Ann and ND! 

by .Jot' 0t'Long 
The first two girls to graduate from Notre Dame will be Mary Davey and Mary Ann Paoctor. 
According to Obst'rver editor, Ann Conway, a group of St. Mary's girls petitioned the St. Mary's hoard of trustees for permission to request Notre Dame diplomas and the only Miss Davey and Miss Proctor wPre granted permission. 
Tht• girls were allowed to n•cpive Notre Dame diplomas because St. Mary's doesn't offer df'grees in the girls' particular programs. 
Neither Miss Davey nor Miss Proctor will appear on the St. Mary's list of graduating seniors. 

SMC Student Assembly forms committee 
by nanit>l P. Rock 
The St. Mary's Student Assembly formed a committee to investigate off-campus student life and declined to act on bills authorizing four changes in the Coffee house in a meeting late WPdnPsday. 
Tht• move to form a committee to study off-campus life came as a result of a complaint by represmtative Midge Lusardi. According to Miss Lusardi, off­campus students suffer under the <'Urrent food sen·i,ces policy and what sh<' termed the absence of a "lll'al thy atmosphere" in Madcleva 's lounge. Off-campus studPnts study in Madeleva. 
The Assembly formed a five­woman committee, conmsisitng of Nan Albers, Sue Curtin, Eileen Fitzpatrick and the St. Mary's off-campus commission, Marylin 

Hay Connt'l of ISU 
Thl're will be a meeting on Sunday, November 7 at t:30 in room 104 O'Shaughnessy for anyone interested in joining Pi Sigma Alpha, the national political science honor society. To qualify for the national organization every student candidate must have completed at least nine (9) semester hours of work in American govern­nwnt, urban studies, political Iheory. or international relations; each candidate should have planned to have completed at least ten semester hours of work in these courses by the end of first semester. The student must have maintained an average of "B" or higher in governml'nt courses, and be in lh<' top one-third of his or her college dass. Students who are not government majors may be dl'ctPd to membership if they nwet lhl' other requirl'ments and have demonstrated a sincere intl'rl'st in political science . . Juniors who are disqualified hecausp they do not have a suf­ficil'nt number of government cn•dits may become provisional nwmtll'rs for the fall semester and admitted in the spring provid<'<i they meet the above r<•quiremt•nts. 

Mary Davey is a senior in Bachelor of Business Ad­
__,

Marketing. She is seeking a ministration degree. Mary Ann 



Graves. The committee is eharged with investigating all problems involving off-campus students and student life. 
The Coffee house bill bill would have changed the present 9 -3 Coffee House hours into service for the duration of the night, but representative Kathy Eglis revealed that "additional security problems" make it impossible to institute that part of the bill. 
The bill also included provisions to increase security forces, allow guests if escorted by NO or St. Mary's students, and t•stablish inner-dorm sinout procedures for those girls with hours. 
The bill was tabled pending 

International Institute 
by D. Patrick Rock Over 200 students will par­
ticipate in an international in­stitute to be held at Notre Dame this weekend. 
This includes 150 high school4 students from high schools, 
minority areas and foreign 
countries. 
Chicanos, American Indians 
from a reservation, and students 
from Canada, Central America 
and the United States will begin 
the program Friday afternoon at 
the Center for Continuing 
l<~ducation assisted by over 50 
volunteer ND-SMC students. 
General discussion sessions and group forums will be highlighted on Saturday when John Goldrick, Director of Ad-

MISHAWAKA AVE. AT JOTH._I 
Phone -288-8488 For Times 
.J 
Administration approval of the inner-dorm signouts and further investigation of security problems. 

The Committee also heard ~ status report on the hall autonomy bill from SBP Kathy Rarlow and representativeDarlene Gallina. 
The hall autonomy bill, which would leave decisions about parietal hours and security arrangements up to the halls would <'ntail a change inth~ Student Manual. The bill ac­cording to Miss Gallina is under "serious consideration by the Studl'nt Affairs Council." Miss Gallina said that she expected a vote from the Council of two 
weeks. 
missions, addresses the entire Institute with "Questions about Colleges". 
An Ecumenical Midnight Liturgy on Saturday night and the Institute Banquet on Sunday night will climax the weekend's activities. 
The International Student Leadership Institute, created in 1963, aims to develop a young students' potential leadership capabilities. 
"ONE OF THE BEST TIMES THAT I'VE HAD AT THE MOVIES THIS YEAR!" 

Dustin Holllnan "Who is Harry Kellerman and why Is he saying those terrible things about mer 
I 
ACINEMA CENTER fiLMS PRESENTATION Caoli!Y [{ WX£. ~~ I 
1\ NI\TOOI\L GtNEW PICT1M:S RH.EAS£ SHOW TIMES 
I . -15 J . 45 5: 45 -7. 45 . 9: 4 'i 

Proctor is a fifth year Ar­chitecture student who hopes to graduate in December, 1972. 
Miss Davey has taken all of her major courses at Notre Dame although she lives at Lemans llall on the St. Mary's campus. She has carried at least fifteen hours every semester since her junior year at Notre Dame and is presently taking eighteen hours. According to Miss Davey, Dean Haymond, the assistant Dean of the Business School, has been a great help in picking out courses. 
Mary Ann  Proctor  of  
Cleveland,  Ohio,  was  in  the  
Chemistry  department  at  St.  

Mary's during her freshman year. She took some design courses at Notre Dame in the Architecture department and became interested in that field. 
Miss Proctor spent her fourth year in Rome studying Ar­chitecture at the N.D. S.M.C. foreign exchange program. At the beginning of this year Mary Ann was officially accepted as a Notre CDame student. All of her fees are paid to Notre Dame and she receives all of the benefits of a Notre Dame student including a free football ticket and a room at Lewis Hall. Her status is similar to that of a transfer student. 

Miss Proctor hopes to make a career of designing sets for 
television-~~~-----, 
MY SISTER, MY LOVE 
Nov. 5 at Niewland Rm. '127 7-9-11 P.M. 
Nov.. 6 at Eng. Aud. 7-9-1 1 P.M. 
Adm. -$1.00 

THE STERILE CUCKOO 
FRIDAY-SATURDAY-SUNDAY 7,9,11 $1.00 Knights of Columbus 

proof of age always required 
4N 
41JUII ' fll..\1 
-n-oo~ ~®l1lm.m:~__ m®~ 
YOU HAVE 

lfiVEI SEEN ~'~ . ANYTHING 1"" 
Ulr II! 
t\\ 

~\\\\t\~ 
... 
Friday, November 5, 1971
THE OBSERVER
Pa e 10 

Irish frosh host Michigan 
by Vic Dorr, '74 
The Notre Dame freshman football team, unbeaten in two starts, will be shooting for its third win in a row Saturday 
against the Baby Wolverines of Michigan. · 
Tomorrow's home game---the only one of the season for the . Irish frosh---will pit the high­powered ND offense, which has scored 118 points in its first two outings, against the size and quickness of the Michigan defense. 
much about them. We haven't received a depth chart yet, so all we have to go on is their numbers and what we see in the films. 
"I can see that they do have a couple of good backs," Murphy admitted, "but I can't tell you any more than that. We just don't know aeything more than that." 
C-C meet today 
The Notre Dame cross country team, coming off a strong second place in the Indiana State In­vitational Meet last weekend will 
"I've seen films of the host the Michigan State team this Michigan-Michigan State fresh­afternoon at 4 p.m. on the Burke man game," said Irish coach Memorial course. Denny Murphy, "and Michigan This is the last home meet of looks bigger and stronger---in the the season, and the Harriers have line, anyway---than MSU. But a 4-4 record this fall in dual other than that we don't know meets. 
The Notre Dame yearlings opened their season with an 80-0 Iaugher at Mexico City, and scored another impressive win last week, as they rolled over Michigan State, 38-14. But the freshmen did not come out of the MSU game unscathed, and minor injuries may force lVI.urphy to alter his offensive lineup for Saturday's game. 
"We suffered some 'nicks' last week against Michigan State," said the frosh coach, "and we'll probably have a few of our starters out for the Michigan game. <Fullback) Wayne Bullock won't play at all, and (halfback) Ron Goodman will only be used sparingly because of injuries and the flu. But we won't be doing anything different on offense," 

Swendson isn't just the 'other end' 
by Joe Passiatore '74 
During the initial moments of a meeting with Fred Swendsen, about the most far fetched thing one could envision about the tall, amiable Swede is that he has developed an expertise in slamming ballcarriers to the turf every Saturday afternoon during the fall. 
He emits a "gentle giant" type of image that is frequently associated with fellow defensive end Walt Patulski. He is soft­spoken and talks of his role as a member of one of the most capable defensive lines ever to play at Notre Dame in an ob­jective manner rather than an emotional one. 
Consider the following quote: "Each of us is big, agile, and has good speed. Nobody's God, but we're all good ballplayers and we work together well." A football scout from L.S.U. couldn't give a more unbiased appraisal of the situation. 
All this is not to say that Swendsen doesn't pull a Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde act every time he steps on the football field, just as Patulski seems to do. On the field the objective approach is forsaken and he becomes wrapped up in th~ events of the game. 
Aside from being 6'4" and 235 pounds, Swendsen's attributes include 4.8 speed in the forty yard dash, which is the quickest of any of the Notre Dame defensive linemen. He prides himself on his ability to get outside and force end sweeps back inside. This, along with Patulski's propensity for thwarting end runs, helps enforce Notre Dame's defensive policy of containment and leaves the opposition no choice but to run to the middle of the Irish line where they find no respite in tackles Greg Marx and Mike Kadish. 
Swendsen's favorite situation in a game is the goal line stand. "It's just a one on one con­frontation between myself and the blocker and brute strength usually wins out." Which means Swendsen usually wins out. 
A native of Seattle, Wash., Swendsen was recruited by almost all of the Pacific-Eight teams and numerous small colleges. He narrowed his decision down to U.S.C. and Notre Dame and chose the latter for a couple of reasons. "U.S.C. has a constant influx of junior college transfers so it's hard to tell where you stand there, while Notre flame doesn't recruit junior college athletes. And I wasn't too sure that I'd be able to resist the temptations of the night life at Southern Cal." 
After not having beaten Southern California in his three years with the varsity, Swendsen may be getting the feeling that he 

End Fred Swendson enforces the Notre Dame defense's containment policy. chose the wrong side. He ac­counted for U.S.C.'s success, in particular their passing game's success, against the Irish by saying, "Their offensive line is as well coached a group of linemen as there is. They've always been strong in that department. They kept their running backs in for maximum protection and their outside receivers were so quick that their quarterbacks didn't need a lot of time to complete a pass." Concerning the upcoming game with Pittsburgh, Swendsen assessed the Panthers in this manner, "They have quite a bit of talent on their team and they're big and tough. The line play between Pittsburgh and Notre Dame has always been brutal because they try to run right at you, occasionally mixing a few passes in and draw plays." The question of whether the sputtering Notre Dame offense was putting too much pressure on the defense arose and Swendsen handled it with considerable elan. "This year's defensive team is a very mature group because of all the playing time we've put in together. The offense, mean­while, is comprised of a lot of young guys who haven't played as much. So we feel that it's kind of up to us to carry the burden." When prodded about whether or not Notre Dame should go to a minor bowl if the Orange, Sugar, and Cotton Bowls are unavailable, Fred responded, "If it's a bowl that's not going to help 
our rankings then it almost seems senseless. There are a lot of senior bowls the seniors could go to. But, if there's a chance for us to move up in the polls then I would think that we would go and have a very positive attitude about it." 
The prospect of a pro football career was suggested and Swendsen seemed to revert back to his image of equanimity. "I'll probably be drafted, but it's hard to speculate how high. If I do get drafted fairly high and the price is right then I'll go pro." 
Finally, the vital touchdown fumble recovery at Purdue was mentioned and Swendsen smiled the smile of any defensive lineman who has scored a key touchdown. "It was undoubtedly the highlight of my career here at Notre Dame. It ended a big jinx at Purdue's stadium for us and it made a lot of people pretty happy." Not the least of whom was Fred Swendsen. 

the Irish coach emphasized. last week. Penick will be joined in "\Ye'll still be running the same the ND backfield by Chuck Kelly, lhmgs." who carried for 85 yards in 17 
One of the "same things" attempts last week, and by which the freshmen will be quarterback Tom Clements. showing the Wolverines is Clements hit on nine of 21 halfback Eric Penick, who passes against MSU, and he rushed for 89 yards in 20 carries figures to be looking for wide 
receiver Pete Demerle again on
•h 

Saturday. Demerle was creditedSm lt names with seven receptions for 176 
' .

ass t captazns 
Irish hockey coach Lefty Smith has named three assistant captains for the 1971-72 season ­senior Jim Cordes and sophomores Bill Nyrop and Ian Williams. Three players, rather that the usual two, were chosen to assist co-captains Bill Green and Kevin Hoene because Hoene's recovery from a broken leg is expected to keep him off the ice until mid December. 
Smith said he selected the three new assistants, "for their leadership qualities on and off the ice and the various aspects of the squad they represent." 
The fifth intrasquad hockey scrimmage, scheduled for Sunday, has been canceled. Smith called off the workout to give his team a break before they begin the WCHA schedule Nov. 12 and 13 at the U. of North Dakota yards and one touchdown against the Spartans. 
The Irish defense should present an equally stiff challenge to the Wolverines, who last season handed the ND frosh a stinging 20--0 setback. The fresh­man "D" had an easy time of it in Mexico City, but last week they showed they could be tough against a "real" team, too. 
Michigan State did score twice on the Irish, but both of these tallies were set up by offensive errors, not by any defensive lapses. Two fumbles deep in Irish territory---one on the five, the other on the 32-yard line---set up both MSU scores. 

Kickoff is scheduled for 10:00 
a.m. tomorrow in Notre Dame Stadium, and admission will be $2 for adults and $1 for students. 

Following tomorrow's game, the Notre Dame freshmen will close their season on the road, with a game against Tennessee's freshmen in Knoxville on November 13th. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
You'll probably deal with just one of us before you graduate from ~otre Dame. But the fact remains. When you buy life and helath msuran:e from William L. Ruiter and Associates, you are using all of us. Not JUSt the experience of American General Life of the knowledge of a Gregg Barkley o~ a Ken Provost or a Bill Ruiter or a Gene Dykstra or a Tom ~ycall. With the resources of these five men and American General Life you will be dealing with us for life no matter where you m_ove. We think that says a lot about our relationship with business 
cl1ents. 

Williain L. Ruiter & Associates 
American General Life 

-
Friday, November 5, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
ND plays Pitt with eye on howls 

by Jim Donaldson DePasqua is well aware that 
Sports Editor it's difficult to get physical with 
At this stage of thl' season, the Irish, but his Panthers are 
most of the country's top college going to try to do just that. 
football h•ams are starting to "Notre Dame is the biggest and 
think about bowl bids and the strongt>st team we'll play all 
Figl>ting Irish are no exception. yPar," thl' Pitt coach said. "But 
This year, however, the Irish we'n• going to fight them. We're arpn't a shoo-in for a bowl bid. going to see if we can slug it out Th<>r<' are two factors working with th<>m." against Notre Dame's selection "Our running game has been to a major bowl on New Year's pffective the last several weeks," day. One is the loss to Southern J)('(>asqua continued, "and I Cal and the other is the lack of an think that if we can establish a offpnse that can put a lot of points running game, then we can on tlw scoreboard. Bowl compliment it with our passing promoters tend to figure that a attack. If we can't run, then we :lll-28 game is more exciting than could have trouble." a dcfl'nsive battle. Most of Notre Dame's op-
This W<'<>kend, the Irish offense ponents have had trouble trying should have an opportunity to do to run on the Irish. The N.D. sonw scoring and make Notre defense is ranked among the top DamP's bowl package more fivt' nationally in rushing appealing. The Pittsburgh d<>fense, allowing just 72.9 yards Panthers provide the opposition per game, and is also among the for Notre Dame tomorrow af-lt>adt>rs in scoring defense, giving tPrnoon in the Steel City and Pitt up only li.2 points per game. isn't r<>nowned for its defensive It's tough to predict how the prowess. Panthers will attack the Irish 
Coach Carl DePasqua's defense. As John Murphy said, Panthers have yielded 229 points "Two w·eeks ago Pitt used a split to theopposition while losing four back field and last week they of llwir first seven games, an stuck mainly to a tight T and avt'rage of over 32 points per power 1. They attack the middle gaml'. I<~ very team the Panthers of the defense extremely well and have played has managed to with a lot of power." score at least 20 points. Sophomore quarterback Bob 
Pitt is stronger offensively and, MC'dwid directed the Pitt offense IC'd by quarterback Dave Havern in their last two games but he and a host of sturdy runners, the suffered a fractured collarbone Panth<•rs have been able to score against Syracuse last Saturday at a 23-plus point per game clip. and will likely be out for the 
Irish scout John Murphy sized rC'mainder of the season. Senior up the Panthers this way: "Pitt is Dave Havern, who has seen a lot a typically physical team that we of action this fall, will start in havP been accustomed to over the MC'dwid's place. yC'ars. They always let you know Havern isn't as good a runner that you're in a football game and as Medwid, but is Pitt's best th<>y make you pay the price. passer. Already the holder of six Thl'y have seven backs they use Panther passing records, Havern and try to wear you down." is just 51 yards away from 
Jim Donaldson =:=:=:=:=:=============::::::::::::::::::::=:=========================================:====== 
The Irish Eye 

A pair of back-to-hack, sub-par weeks has sent the old picks per­centage dipping below the .750 mark. 
Upsets have been fogging up my Crystal Ball but now that it's been laundered, (it got sent to the cleaners, along with me, last Saturday) we're looking for that elusive, perfect week. Time's running out, as the season is rapidly drawing to a close. 
Among the key games on the collegiate scene this weekend are: Boston College at Syracuse, Alabama at LSU, Clemson at North Carolina, Michigan State at Ohio State and Notre Dame at Pittsburgh. 
Here are the Irish Eye's selections in Saturday's big games: 
Notre Dame over Pitt---The Panthers always give the Irish trouble early in the game but don't seem to be able to stay with them for a full 60 minutes. That might well be the case again this year. 
Southern Cal over Wash. St.--The Cougars are better than expected but they're not strong enough to cope with the Trojans. 
Illinois over Indiana--Bob Blackman has reversed Illinois' football fortunes. After losing their first six, the Fighting Illini have beaten Purdue and Northwestern on successive Saturdays. Inept Indiana should become Illinois' third straight victim. 
Boston College over Syracuse--Mter seeing what Pitt did to Syracuse last weekend, the Eagles should have no problems topping the Orangemen. 
Tulane over Ohio U.---If the Green Wave can't roll over the Bobcats, they'd better not even bother to show up for their game with the Irish in N.D. Stadium on the 13th. 
Stanford over UCLA---The Indians are hunting that Pac-Eight title. Alabama over LSU---The Crimson Tide, out for revenge, will be looking to hand the Tigers their third loss. 
North Carolina over Clemson---A victory here would enhance the Tar Heels' chances for the Atlantic Coast Conference championship. West Virginia over Duke---Even though the game's in Durham, the 
Mountaineers appear too strong for the slumping Blue Devils. Nebraska over Iowa St.---The Cornhuskers continue to win. Twenty days until the Oklahoma game! Tennessee over South Carolina---This could be an interesting battle. Give the nod to the Volunteers. Georgia Tech over Navy--The Yellowjackets have been erratic this fall but appear ready to sting the Middies. Georgia over Florida---The Bulldogs point for their showdown with Auburn, eight days hence. Harvard over Princeton---It'll be the Crimson over the Tigers in this traditional Ivy League encounter. lJpset of the Week: 
Michigan State over Ohio State---If Duffy, his new Wishbone offense and I<~ ric "the Flea" Allen can pull this one out over the eighth (or ninth> rated Buckeyes, Spartan fans will be the happiest they've been since State's 1968 upset of the Irish. 
Last week: 10of 15 .667 Season's Pet.: 89of 120 .742 

powt>r play against Navy. 
becoming the all-time offense leader in Pitt history. Havern has completed 58 per cent of his passes this fall, hitting on 69 of 119 attempts for 764 yards and six touchdowns. He's been in­tercepted only three times. 
Pitt's top receivers are tight end Joel Klimek, who leads the team with 27 catches and split end, Steve Moyer, who is runner 
Cindrich leads Panther defense 
PITTSBURGH, PA. ---Pitt assistant coach Paul Kemp calls him "one of the best collegiate linebackers I've seen." Head man Carl DePasqua says "he's probably as good as anyone we've ever had at Pitt." 
But the Panther's All­AmPrican candidate, linebacker Ralph Cindrich, is more than that. So much more. And it's his inner qualities, as much as anything else, that help make him great. 
Cindrich is refreshingly honest and candid, a proud, intense young man with a deep, personal goal. The 6-1, 225-pound senior got off this year to what, for him, was a rather slow start. But now that he's playing outstanding football again, all you hear is how much he wants to make up for the wobbly beginning. 
"A lot of men (the coaches) put themselves on the line for me, " Cincrich said after his brilliant 16-tackle effort against powerful Syyracuse last Saturday. 
"I didn't know what was wrong Parlier in the year, but I felt I was letting them down." 
The coaches will tell you that maybe he was suffering from the layoff, that he was slow in ad­justing to the new 5-2 defense or even that he was conscious of the knee he injured last season and may have been holding back. But Cindrich has no excuses and makes none. He simply wants to forget about it. 
"I don't have any ex­planation," he said. "Maybe I wasn't ready mentally. I'm still not at the point where I could be, but I'm starting to come around. This isn't to sound like I'm playing the modest role. It's just that l want to do a better job-­that's what I'm striving for." 
The road back from injury 

always is long and rugged. It is supposed to be a decent player, traveled only by hard work and R I sacrifice. Often it is easier to 
ug g e fS p ay
turn around, to throw up your hands and quit. But for Cin­
cI e Ian d drich, who spent virtually two eV whole years on the sidelines, the 
An injury riddled Irish rugbylost hopes and broken dreams team will host the Clevelandhave been replaced with a new Blues rugby club Saturday af­determination, even stronger ternoon behind Stepan Center.
than before. 
The "B" game will start at 1:30The frustration served instead and the "A" contest will begin at as a spark, an inspiration, to _
2:45
bring him .back as sound and Notre Dame has a 2 _ 4 record aggressive as ever. this season. 
~ 
·-~ 
Senior linebacker Ralph Cindrich is one of the Panther's standout defensive players. He made 16 tackles against Syracuse last up with 21 grabs. Moyer needs just seven more receptions to become the greatest reciever in Pitt history. 
Expected to start in the Pan­ther backfield against the Irish are junior fullback, Lou Julian, the club's top rusher with 331 yards, halfback Stan Ostrowski and tailback John Chatman. 
The Irish offense, which came up with its second best point output of the season in last Saturday's 21-0 victory over Navy, will again concentrate on a strong running game and a ball control style of attack. 
Sophmore Cliff Brown, who has bC'l'n progressing each week, will again be calling signals for the Irish. Although his passing statistics aren't very im­pressive(25-64, I TD, 6 in­terceptions Brown has shown that he can move the ball club. 
Coach Ara Parseghian C'om­nwnted on Brown's play earlier' this wPek. "I think Cliff is doing quit<> well this year. You have to rl'member that he's only a soph­more. He ran the club well against Navy, especially in the first half and I'm hoping that he can continue to improve each week." 
The offense as a whole turned in a fine first half against the Middies, rushing for 211 yards and three touchdowns in the first two quartPrs. But they were unable to generate an attack in the second half. 
If the Irish offense can put together two good halves ant. the" dC'fense plays up to their usually outstanding game, the Irish are bound to impress any bowl representatives in Pitt Stadium. 

Saturday. 
"Last season was a night­mare," he said. "For anyone who places great emphasis on his ability to play, injury is difficult to accept. You just have to such it up and keep going." 
Cindrich spent the summer in a program of what he calls "complete rehabilitation." He lifted leg weights, ran up steps and did sprints to strengthen the twisted knee. 
"I was confident 1 could come back," said the handsome native of Avella, Pa. "When you're ·the embarrassment is enough to help you along." 
"Any athlete, even one as good as Halph, needs time to come back." said coach Kemp. "Sometimes we expect too much from him. He's such a fine player that W<' count on him to make the sup(•rhuman play." 
Which is nothing unusual, really. Anyone who witnessed the last-minute goal line stand against the Orangemen can at­test to that. Cindrich blasted through to force back the losers l~rl:'e times from the one-yard hne. 
"ll<>,'~ been impr?vin~ eve~y
w<>ek, DePasqua satd. He sttll has that aggressiveness and the ability to hit. 1 think Ralph's biggest assets are his ability to •
11 d
seC'k out the footba an his hitting. lie also possesses out-
d 1 d · 
stan ing ea ership qualiltes.
'II h r b 11
lie's sh t e same oot a
d h h • 
payer,1 through an t roug . ' 
As coach Kemp said with a • proud smile: "They don't come any better than Ralph Cindrich." 
Friday, November 5, 1971 

Page 12 THE OBSERVER. 
Cyclone survivors wander ho01eless, hungry 
(Continued from page 1) 
But all along the way, men 
came out of smashed houses to 
hail the boats and follow them, 
hoping to get some of the precious 
food too. "We are hungry, we 
need food now," they would 
shout. 
As they stood on a river bank 
many held a rag to their mouths 
and noses to keep out the infected 
sweet smell of the rotting animal 
corpses that seemed to be 
everywhere. Tens of thousands of 
cattle, beasts of burden and 
•milch cows were killed in the flood. 
At West Suniti, there were no cattle. "We have none," said Panchanan Das, the headman. "They were all washed away." 
Das kept alive by climbing on top of his roof, but his ex­planations of how he had done it were interrupted today by a sad high pitched chant of mourning sung by a woman whose husband had not been so lucky. 
With a green prayer shawl, she half hid her face, but not her eyes, which were full of tears as she sang. Katayani Das, a beautiful small woman now widowed in her mid-twenties, lost her husband and two sons, seven and 12 years old. 
"I came here on the waves " she said. "We were all in o~r house, miles from this place, when the waves came, and when they did, the house collapsed. We managed to catch a stick of bamboo and floated with that, and then we hit a babula tree, and I caught hold of it and climbed up in the branches. My husband and 
Community Center built with ND student assist 
by Lyn Leone 
In conjunction with the Miami 'fudian Tribe of South Bend, the Notre Dame Native American Club and the Kennedy Institute, a Community Center has been set up in South Bend. The purpose of this center known as the Meadow Brook Community Center is to have a place for neighborhood study tutoring and adult education classes. 
This center, located on Hastings Road, has undergone construction for seven weeks now and is nearly completed. Bruce Bower, the project director, hopes to have the project com­pleted within three weeks and would like to have more volunteers to help with the construction. Volunteers have been working every Saturday from 9 to 3 and 8 to 12 on football Satrudays. Anyone interested can call the Kennedy Institute at 8354 or Bruce Bower at 1158. 
The Kennedy Institute also has 
two other major projects un­
derway in line with its work with 
the American Indians. On 
December 9th they will be 
bringing in a tribe of Sioux In­dians to spend a weekend on Notre Dame campus. Plans are also underway for developing seminars in American Indian Culture to be offered next semester on a directed readings basis and which will be opened to all departments for cross registration. 

my sons could not catch the tree. It was in the dead of night and we could not hear each other." 
One of the greatest natural 
Trustee Rustin 
suffers attack 
Bayard Rustin, member of the 
board of trustees of the University of Notre Dame and the executive director of the A. Philip Randolph Institute, New York City, was reported in satisfactory condition after suffering what doctors termed a major heart attack. 
The 61-year-old civil rights leader was resting comfortably in the intensive care unit, ac­cording to a hospital spokesman. 
He was hospitalized Sunday after he was stricken while visiting friends in nearby Millerton, N.Y. The spokesman, who described Rustin's seizure as a major heart attack, said there did not appear to be any new complications. 
Rustin was a special assistant to the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. from 1955 to 1960, and was one of the organizers of the 1963 civil rights march on Washington. 
Cultural Commission's 
Literary Program presents 
YEATS COUNTY 
November 8 7:00pm 
205 O'Shaughnessy 
An 18-minute color film commemorating the centenary of William Butler Yeats, 1865-1965 
Adm. free 
GALS! 
Welconte to little corner your world 
our of 

The word is out and spreading ... The Campus Shop has a corner set aside for ladies' sportswear, blouses, sweaters, slacks, flannel nightgowns, pantyhose, etc, etc. Stop in, browse, open your account and pay one-third nextrJune, July and August with no service or carrying charge! 
(One lady tells another too) 
disasters of recorded history, another cyclone pushing a tidal wave before it, struck the low lying islands of East Pakistan last November 12, killing an estimated 500,000 people in much the same way as the lesser cyclone has killed at least 10,000 farther south, in Orissa. 
The Bengalis of East Pakistan found that their government, which is dominated by Punjabis from the West, reacted with indifference and little speed to their plight, and the storm helped push many of them into their 
pesent open revolt against Pakistani rule. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
1-------------r-=---:::-:.-=-=-=-=-=~======--! 
WANTED 

One Electric Typewriter, good or great shape. Call Tom 2S7-273l. 
HELP: Need ride to Nashville, Tenn. for Thanksgiving. Will Help with expenses. Please call Sue ­4554. 
Typing Wanted Experienced, accurate. Call: Jane Smith, 233-4029. 
Will trade cash and good beer cases of Coors for four Tulane tickets. Bob 3729. 
ELECTRONICS ENGINEER NEEDED to work with musician, writer, and photographer. Tri­medial production control via computer. Call 2S3-S5SO after midnight or before Sam. 
Urgent: Need 5 General Ad­mission Tix to Tulane Game; Need not be adjacent. Call John at 1607. 
Need ride to Cincinnatti or Dayton area, Friday November 12. Call Joe 3676. 
Need: Five General Admission Tickets to Tulane game. Need not be adjacent. Will pay 42S4. 
Needed: Ride to Knoxville, Tenn. for Thanksgiving. Call Jim, 6952. 
Need a general admission tix to Tulane -Call Doug at 1723. 
Wanted: Two general admission tickets to Tulane game. Call 350S. 
Wanted: 1 general admission Tulane ticket. Call Janet at 4037. 
Will pay top money for 4 general admission Tulane tickets, need not be adjacent. Ca II Bill 8227. 
NOTICES 

NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund Basement of La Fortune 11:15-12: 15 
Call Joanna at 2S7-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Availbale only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP 
LESSONS. 
SMC GIRLS: Part time job available. Call Denny -8680. 
Fix-your-OWN-CAR tonight. We have the space -tools -parts and help. You do the work and $AVE. Autotech -Rt. 31 South in Niles. 6S4-1960 Open evenings and weekends. 
WHAT: A FOOD RIOT WHERE: SOUTH EAST DINING HALL WHEN: TONIGHT WHY: WHYNOT? 
Insufficient Responce to EUROPEAN TRIP Inquiry. PLANS CANCELLED. 
W.... 1da. 2da. Jda. 4da. saa. 
1·11 ... .75 1... I.J5 us ll·ll ... 1·• 1.35 1.75 us 
11-zt .71 us 1.11 Z.41 z.a 21-11 .as us 2.• 2... us ::: I.M 1.18 2.35 Ul t.lt 
l.zt 1.11~ 2.81 US Ut 31-40 1.35 2.10 3.11 us 5.11 41-tSus uo 3,31 ue 5.st ~511.75 2.50 :uo 4.75 •.• 
FOR SALE 

Quality S-track tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715. 
ON SALE: Brand new, guaranteed S-track and cassette tapes. Fantastic selections. All tapes -only $2.99. Call 17S1 (Paull quickly. 
STUDENT RECORD SALES Sale on now-PRICES SLASHED New stock in large set ect ion List 5.98-3.65 4.98-3.15. 
Ampex Auto Rever5e Tape Recorder. New heads. $185. Bob 3729. 
For Sale: '66 Ford Fairlane Cheap. Must sell now any reasonable offer . Mike 6729. 
For Sale: 1 New Jersey Club Ticket to Neward and back over Thanksgiving holiday. $75. Call Tom 3508. 

For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. '67, Air cond., Power steering and brakes. 'His-Hers' transmission, tinted glass, black interior. Call and make bid. 2S9-7433. (Bill). 
ND Jacket-Brand new. No patch. $20. Size 36. Call 6905. 
2separate student tickets for sale. Call Tom 2S7 2731. 
ND jacket -one year old -good condition reasonable price ­Jerry 69S7. 

For Sale . 2 tickets to Cat Stevens, at price: $3.50 each. Call John 288-283S. 
Two floor Cat Stevens tickets . best offer -Teri 5446. 
2 Cat Stevens tickets tor sale. On the main floor. Call Guy 1057. 
Garrard SL65B Turntable with base, cover, and sh ure M93E. $70. 
PERSONALS 
L.M. and T. E\. 
Thanks for Hectic Halloween, Cemetary, Cinder and Pear Tree. 
B. J. and "Ankles" 
A1n Marie, Looking forward to this weekend with you. Frolicer 
Hi Pat Welcome back, Beatchick Love, Your pretege, Kath-Neate. 
The Ford Motor Company extends 
Birthday  Greetings  to  a  future  
VIP.  
Your Detroit Dealer,  

Margiemobile 
Girls of Four North, Sorry you missed us last game, we've a suprise planned for Tulane. Have a nice trip. 
Chabby, Happy Birthday Knucklehead, Scrawny 
Q>es anyone remember a Pep Rally in the Old Fieldhouse? Senior Class '72 does! 
Library Love: I like you 
LOST 
Lost wallet in vicinity of Flanners Hall. Will reward if returned. 
Classi tied Ads paid tor in cash 11\kl en ordered. 2. Office hours 
12: 15-5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day before publication. 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 










