Burtchaell releases co-ed proposal 
University Provost Rev. James Burtchaell pre­sented a comprehensive proposal for coeducation to the ND-SMC Co-education Coordinating Committee at its meeting last Saturday at Laughin Lodge, Michigan. The group had called the meeting to discuss problems, ideas and plans surrounding the co-education issue at Notre Dame. 
Burtchaell's proposal was the highlight of the three-session, twelve hour meeting. Although he chose to withhold comment on the plan, pre­ferring to wait until he receives written reaction from the committee members, informed sources revealed the substance of the plan in broad outline. 
The sources claimed that the Burtchaell plan, which was presented by the Provost at the end of the meeting, cited five points which he believed to be essential to coeducation: social, academic, financial, personnel, and buildings. 
Of these five points, sources claimed Burtchaell 
Vol. V, No. 79 

that the students at Notre Dame are "overrepresented." 
Decentralization proposal planned 
The newly formed Student Senate Constitutionai Commit­tee last night in informal session debated four departures from the current Student Government Constitution. Included was a proposal to abolish Student Government for a year. 
The proposal, raised by Sorin Hall Senator and former Execu­tive Coordinator Chuck Ryan, would have all branches of stu­dent Government, including 
(Continued on Page 4) 
James T. Bur­t_chaell C. S.C., Universi­ty Provost, released his proposal for a co-ed ND-SMC. The plan in­cludes co-ed social, aca­
demic,  financial,  per­ 
sonnel  and  building  
plans.  



considered three critical: academic, personnel and buildings. 
In considering academic questions, the majority reportedly believed that there was no reason to initiate an experimental college such as the one described in the Runde plan, which would concentrate on a humanistic approach to education as opposed to a graduate school orientation. Many of those in attendance felt that it would be more beneficial to incorporate the two academic programs into one. 
Maintenance of the experimental college is not feasible since it would probably not accommodate more than 300 students and these students would have to have the same basic education as all of the other students before they could enroll in the special college's courses, sources said. 
In presenting the plan, Fr. Burtchaell reportedly stressed the need to reorganize the two campuses to profitable use all of the space. It is reported that he suggested consolidating the departments of education, economics, sociology and psychology into one social studies department quartered ·in one building. Burtchaell allegedly advocated moving Notre Dame's fine arts departments over to Moreau Hall at St. Mary's and re-allocaqng space in the Notre Dame library so that the St. Mary's library building could be used for another 
purpose 
(Continued on Page 4) 


Riebrant joins SSP race, cites 'student bureaucracy' 
facilities as soon as is feasible,

by Ed Ellis It -elected, he said he would push for the elimination of the and a complete merger of Notre
Jim Riebandt, Flanner Hall Student Life Council, because Dame and St. Mary's in the veryjunior and WSND sports announ­the SLC and other such bodies near future. He also said he cer, announced his candidacy for at NO have ignored the real cares favors none of the particularNotre Dame Student Bady Presi­Student Life Council of the students. programs now under considera­dent last night. His running mate "We have to give the students tion.
will be Vince Connelly, a Walsh a chance to find themselves. This Also suggested is the~eturn ofhall resident. 
SLC starts report
is what a University is for." the Honor Code, although Rie­As specific platform points, bandt would revise the Honor Riebandt said that he would Council as existed in the old 


\on hall life; shelves
work for the elimination of all Honor Code. He said that the student government bodies as return of the Honor Code was they now exist, and the forma­"necessary for Community De­


Appeals change
tion of a Council to be based on velopment." the Hall Presidents Council. In­Another platform point is cluded in the new body will be Greater Notre Dame-South Bend by John Abowd SBP Dave Krashna's motion 
the officers of the four classes cooperation in self-help and vol­calling for "The University ahd the SLC to make a major investi­
and an elected representative unteer programs, and the estab­The Student Life Council de­from each residence hall on cam­lishment of a student mall simi­cided yesterday to send an inter­gation with special emphasis on
Jim Riebrant pus: This, he said, would be a lar to the one proposed by the im report on Hall Life to the the relationship between Riebandt said that the theme "catch-all body,' ' to be respon­Student Government Committee Board of Trustees and to initiate off-campus and hall life" passed of his campaign would be the sive to all segments of the stu­a "major investigation" of stu­the council by a vote of 23 to 1.
for Social Understanding.need for a change from the The proposal also called for sub­
dent population, as opposed to According to Riebandt, the CSU dent residency which would be 
policies and personnel that have completed by the end of the mission of a report by the SLC
the myriad of groups that now "got bogged down in bureaucra­run Student Government for the exist. cy," and "just fell upon itself."' semester. In its meeting Monday subcommittee on Hall Life to past few years. He stated, "The afternoon the board also discuss­the trustees.
On coeducation, Riebandt The Riebandt-Connelly duo 

average student is unhappy, bor­ed a proposal to amend the
says that the situation demands will go door-to-door seeing as The trustees have requested a ed, and this is due to inadequate appeals process of the Judicial report on the "Parietal experi­
"quick and positive action." He many people as possible duringleadership over the past year. It's Code.
wants coed dorms and eating the four-day campaign. ment and hall life" in time for 
time for a change." their Marcn meetmg. Criticizing the Krashna Ad­GENERAL ASSEMBLY Fr. James Shilts' discussion of 
ministration specifically Rie­the Hall Life Subcommittee's bandt said that it "didn't catch problems in assembling the trus­the tempo of student life." He tees' report triggered the move

Krashna.. Students must attend
cited excessive bureaucracy for for an expanded investigation. part of the problem, and said by Fred Schaefer Shilts noted that his three man
if only 1000 students attend. is going. We need a representa­
committee "didn't have the
"If there is not a sizeable That many people can't speak tive voice from the students." 
manpower" to assemble the re­
student representation at the for the whole community.Jf the Krashna said that a display of 
port called for at the last SLC
General Assembly tonight, I students don't come, it's their apathy towards the assembly 
meeting.
won't even convene it. There own hard luck. would be "disastrous". He said, 
Krashna suggested the expan­
will be no need for it," said SBP "This assembly is giving stu­"Apathy is the biggest weapon 
sion of the Hall Life report
dents a chance to voice a strong

Dave Krashna last night. the Trustees and Administration 
He continued, "It won't work opinion on where the University 
Agenda for General Assembly 
1) Office of Financial Aid -Scholarship Committee 
2) Money for minority recruitment and Scholarships. 
3) Faculty tenure and renewal of contracts. 
4) Flanner-Regina Co-Ed Dorms proposals. 
5) The expansion of Psychological Services. 
6) The right to privacy in Dormitory Rooms. 
7) The question of the Honor Code. 
8) The excellence of sports: The resignation of Johnny Dee. 
The assembly will start tonight at 7 p.m. and rnn through the 18th. 

calling it, "An excellent oppor­have. They can say that the tunity to work up a major studystudents aren't interested." 
of the whole question of hall"I feel the students are a very, 
life." 
very influential voice in the uni~ Mr. Philip F~cenda expandedveristy community. In the late this suggestion to include sub­60's, students throughout the mission of the Hall Life report asnation protested against old tra­an interim report with theditions. Here we have the chance understanding that a majorto protest the oldest tradition of study was being undertaken.
the all male institution, which is He called for a "professional an anachronism." 
study possibly including the So­"If 34000 students back a ciology department and gradu­specific co-education proposal, ate students."
the Trustees would have to con­sider it." (Continued on Page 2) 
Tuesday, February 16, 1971
~P=ag=e~2==========~-----------------7.9B0~ 
Spend an unforgettable 
SEMESTER AT SEA on the former QUEEN ELIZABETH 
New lower rates; full credit for courses. Write today for details from World Campus AHoat, Chap­man College, Box CC16, Oran~e. CA 92666 

Wed. Feb. 17 
tltrou11t 


Sun. Feb. ·21 

Student Discount 
For Thurs. 8 pm '3at. 2 pm Sun. 6 pm 
only $1.25 tix remain (Regular $2.50) 
For full price shows some 
$4.50 and $2.50 tix remrth 
Uiscount tickets must be purchased at ACC hox office. 

Hall Presidents finish budget 
by Bob Higgins 
The Hall President's Council last night allocated to individual halls $1300 of the $3000 it received from Student Govern­ment last fall. The remaining $1 700 will be used to finance An Tostal Weekend. 
Executive Coordinator, Fritz 

eduacation which was unani­halls were awarded money based Hoefer, announced that five 
mously approved in last week's on their financial statements and 
meeting was withdrawn as a pro­proposals submitted last month. 
posal to bt! aired before the The halls receiving money and 
General Assembly. their proposals were: St. Ed­
It was the general consensus ward's $250 for chapel ren­of the Presidents that the letter novation, Pangborn $300 for the 
did not read. like a proposal, nor remodeling of a television room, 
was it ever intended to be a proposal, thus the presidents felt 

Howard $180 to construct a it was in tht: best interests of all
ceiling in the hall's basement, concerned to withdraw the let­
Sorin $370 for the Extension of ter.
the Food Sales Room and the construction of a new residence Student Body Presidentroom in the basement and Stan­Dave Krashna addressed theford $200 for a series of renova­Presidents and urged them totions, including a television represent and encourage their
room,lounges and a sludy room. constituencies· participa lion in
Stanford hopes to use its the upcoming General Assembly.
money as a bargaining factor in Stating that "I will not call the
obtaining a substantially larger sum from the University for its assembly to order if there are only 500 in attendance".
extensive improvement plans. St. Edward's was the only hall Krashna stressed the role of the Hall President in not only en­couraging involvement on the hall level, but also in coordi­nating the individual delegations. 
When questioned as to the expense of the General As­sembly, the Student Body Presi­dent replied that the cost was over $400 and "would come from the Student Government Administrative Budget." 
Krashna announced that· the 

Student Life Council has de. cided to do a study on hall life sometime in May. Details have riot yet been made public. 
Also, a Police Conference will be held at Notre Dame from March fourth through sixth with ~.:ity, state, local, and our own security force participating. 
to have its proposal cut. Part of the earlier proposal of $450 Judicial Code alterations called for the continuance of wine and cheese nights with faculty members. Hoefer ex­

tabled at SLC meeting
plained that the HPC did not feel that it would be just to 
(Continued from Page 1)

finance individual hall social gatherings. "Every maior group I llave 
" HPC' In other business, the been associated with has wanted 
s letter concerning co-to conduct a major study of hall 
/*******************************************\life," Facenda noted. 
* A TT E N T I 0 N I 
•
I* 
The Observer needs people ~ . 1971 n
10r ItS • Staff. 

No expetience necessary 
I Positions range from news writing to production.
I 
* FOR THOSE INTERESTED
*
* 
* 
I Sllort lleetlni,I Thursday, Feb 18 




6:30 -Fiesta lounge La Fortune Student Center 
hearing panels on the maioritv

*****************************************~*~ 
VISTA (Volunteers in Service to America) EDUCATION MAJORS ARCHITECTS/CITY PLANNERS LAWYERS HEALTH SPECIALISTS BUSINESS GRADUATES LIBERAL ARTS MAJC>RS and THOUSANDS OF OTHERS!! WE GOT A LOT TO SHARE-SEE REPRESENTATIVES February 17. 18 and 19 Library Lobby  

#an s:~:n~~~~tw~~in~~/~~~~:~~1
*'Code which would have allowed 
1
#students disciplined by the Dean *of Students under the "immi­
* 
nent danger" clause of the code 

* 
to have their first hearing in 


front of the all student "Univer­~ sity Board." 
* 
Presently the action of the 

* 
Dean of Students when opera­ting under this clause is review­able by the "Tripartite Appeals Board" which consists of stu­dents, Faculty and administra­tion. 


I 
Winings noted that his propos­al was necessitated by the con­troversy surrounding the suspen­sion of a student arrested during last semester's drug raid. He also noted that he and other students realized that the outcome of this amendment couldn't affect past 
action.u In a printed statement, Facen­da, Vice-President and General 
I 
* 
Counsel, called the amendm,~nt an alteration of "the agreement 
* 
upon which the present Code is I 
founded." "It is assumed that they (the students) agreed to this provi­* sion in order to obtainall student 
of cases," he said, in refering t~) 
the original wording of the 
Code. 
Winings withdrew the propos­
al because he thought that the 
consideration of this amendment 
was being construed as an at­
tempt to interrupt the procedure 
in the current controversy. 
The SLC also discussed the nature of the interim report on Hall l.ife that it had agreed to submit to the Trustees. Shilts said that he had polled twenty hall rectors and twenty hall pres­idents for their opinions on par­ietals and alcoholic beverages. 
He noted that only half of the replies have been submitted and that no attempt was made to contact any representatives from St. Mary's. The preliminary re­plies indicate that extension of parietals is favored by most of the respondees. 

HLC asks for B-ba/1 tickets 
The Hall Life Commission of the Notre Dame Student Gov­
ernment and the Neighborhood Study Help Organization are running a campaign to bring 80 
children from South Bend to the campus for the Notre Dame-NYU basketball game on February 23. Both tickets and cars are needed. 
According to Chan!ling Brae­key, one ot the orgamzers ot the drive, 80 student tickets are needed for the game. Thev can be turned in at the Convocation Center Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday of this week. The o[Jeration will be similar to that used for the Georgia Tech foot­ball game this year, when over 700 students turned their tickets in. Also needed are 20 drivers willing to pick the children up at Lin coin and Harrison High Schools at about 7 pm, and return the children to their homes at about ten-thirty. Anyone wishing to volunteer to drive or who· wants further information on the project should contact Bruce Bower, at 807 Flanner ( 1488). 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Tuesday, February 16, 1971 Page 3
1718 OBS.EIHIM 

Valpo falls to Austin Carr-rooom 

by Joe Passiatore who left the game with 3:49 mented, "It was a good win. Observer Sportswriter remaining, poured 46 points We're in the midst of a long through the hoop. Austin hit a stretch and trying to play them
Prolific Austin Carr came out 
remarkable I 7 of 24 froin the one at a time." When asked if it

smoking and with the help of 
field and a sterling 12 of IS was tough for the Irish to get up

.uowd-pleasing Sid Catlett and 
from the free throw line. for an unheralded Valpariaso

sturdy Collis Jones, Notre Dame 
Notre Dame coach Johnny team, Dee admitted, "Yes, I

rolled to a lopsided I00-7S win 
Dee reacted in complacent fash­supposed, but then maybe if we 

over inferior Valparaiso. Carr, 
ion to the win. Coach Dt'l') com-played 20 easy games like Mar­quette does, then everyone would be happy." 
Notre Dame led 45-35 at the half mainly on the basis of a­ligntning quick fast break trig­gered by either Catlett or Jones. 
Carr account~d for Notre Dnme's first six points while e 'v airo retaliated with some outside baskets by John Wolfenberg and the clutch inside shooting of center Lynn Seyfert. Despite Notre Dame's 53% shooting from the field in the first half, the Crusaders kept it close and were down only 33-39 with 
5: 58 left in the half. At that point, Valpo coach Bill Purden expressed his displeasure with an out of bounds call by flinging~ towel onto the court. Carr made good on the technical and by int~rmission the pressing tactics of Notre Dame and Johnny E­gart, in particular, had stretched the lead to ten. 
Valparaiso could find no res­pite in the second stanza, either, as Carr continued to pound a­way, aided by an occasional bank shot by Collis Jones. Dri­ving down the lane or hitting from outside, Carr was relentless and with I 0 minutes gone in the second half the Irish had boost­ed their lead to 76--56. Val­

Doug Gemmell hustled for five rebounds in the first half to help paraiso, meanwhile, was onlythe Irish break away from Valpo. He scored on his only field goal 
able to generate an offense with attempt. 
NOTRE DAME VALPARAISO 

FG FT REB PTS FG FT REB PTS Jones 11-26 3-4 14 25 Green 5-13 1-1 3 II Gemmell 1-1 1-3 5 3 Wolfenberg 8-18 0-0 4 16 Catlett 4-12 2-2 10 10 Seyfert 8-12 4-4 II 20 Meehan 3-7 0-0 I 6 Fred lake 0-1 0-0 3 0 Carr 17-24 12-15 8 46 Lesicki 4-8 3-3 2 II Sinnott 2-5 0-0 3 4 Hoerl 5-6 1-2 5 II Egart 1-2 0-0 3 2 Schultz 1-6 1-2 0 3 Regelean 0-2 1-2 5 I Sears 0-1 Q-0 0 0 Silinski 1-1 0-0 0 2 Black 0-3 3-4 2 3 Hinga 0-3 1-2 I I McNeil 0-2 0-0 3 0 Team 5 Niksch 0-0 0-0 0 0 -----------------"·-----------Team 7 TOTAL 40-83 20-28 48 100 
TOTAL 31-70 13-16 40 75 ND shot 49.4% VU shot 44.2% NO had 13 turnovers. VU had 19 turnovers. 






Leprechauns w1n aga1n 
by Terry Shields The Leprechauns floor game
potential varsity star moved the

Observer Sports Editor 
Leprechauns offense well and he was a bit shoddy as they com­
The Notre Dame freshmen threaded the ball home to his mitted 26 turnovers. Valpo rolled on to 'their ninth victory teammates eight times for scor­made only 17 errors, one of the of the season last night in the ing plays. few statistics that the rivals from preliminary match before the Neither team shot exception­down the toll road bettered No­varsity game. The Leprechauns ally well from the field. ND hit tre Dame. outclassed a smaller Valparaiso 41.9% of its shots but also hit a Rich List was the only Valpa­team 81 -58. It was the losers good 76% from the charit}' raiso player to reach the double seventh loss without a win. NO stripe. Valpo was inept whether figures. The young Crusader hit is 9 -4. John Shumate and Gary the shot was from the field or eight field goals and one charity Novak combined for 45 points the foul line. The Crusaders shot toss for 17 points. The remain­in leading the frosh in the rout. a dismal 34.7% from the floor der of the Valpo scoring punch Shumate had 23 markers and and only 42.1% from the free was non-existent. nine rebounds playing sparingly throw mark. The Irish frosh must now tra­in the second half when frosh The halftime score of 32-22 vel to Champaign, Illinois for a coach Tom O'Conner substitu­was increased methodically match-up with the Illini frosh. ted freely. Novak was the lead­throughout the second half. 'Illinois had a good recruiting ing rebounder in the game. The Shumate, Novak and Tom year last season and its freshmen 6'6" leaper had 12 caroms to his O'Mara all hit well after inter­are one of the more promising credit to go along with 22 mission. ft was particularly bril­crews in the Big Ten. points. liant to see O'Mara, the slender The NO frosh have been hot 
The frosh coasted through Californian, come back from his and cold during the season show­most of the game. They built a ankle injury to connect on three ing signs of brilliance (e.g. versus ten point halftime lead over the of four shots, all of the spectac­Marquette) but also having a few winless Crusader frosh and took ular variety. bad evenings (versus Ball State). it from their in the second stan­The big difference in the game If the Leprechauns can get a bit za to clinch the gamewith nearly car. be seen by looking at the more consistent they can finish ten minutes remaining. rebounding stats. NO pulled up their season with an impres­
Bob Valibus had only three down 69 rebounds, nearly doub­sive win streak and some good points in this contest but the le the Crusaders' 38. promise for next year. 

the :~id of goaltending calls on Sid Catlett. Before Sid sat down with 7: 17 left he had been tag­ged with three goal tending calls. 

Coach Dee emptied the bench with about three minutes remain­ing, and Austin Carr, who must have been arm weary after all that shooting, retired to a standing ovation. Statistics bore out the aggressiveness of Jones and Catlett on the boards as they to laled fourteen and ten rebounds, respectively. 
We!l-n questioned about Notre Dame's impe.nding battle with Fordham at Madison Square Garden, coach Dee replied, "I'm 
Sports Editor: 
This is about a coach. A coach here at Notre Dame. He's come in for a fair amount of criticism in hi~ time, and maybe we should look at the record, and then decide if this criticism is warranted. 
He came to Notre Dame with a pretty good reputation, and he took over a team that had a proud tradition, but not much else. In fact, they were having a hard time winning as many games as they were losing. So he went to work. 
You have to give him credit for one thing, he did a tremen­dous recruiting job. He got players to come to Notre Dame that you might have guessed were going out to the west coast to play their college ball. But he convinced them that Notre Dame was on its way to being a national power, and pretty soon, it looked like Notre Dame was. 
The Irish began to move up in the ratings. Our games were in demands by the television people; and tickets became a real status symbol, particularly for the big games. And the rea­son: all of a sudden, Notre Dame was going into every game know­ing it could win. So everything was fine? Right? 
Well, not quite. A lot of people, in fact, were kind of unhappy with the coach. They would grant you that he had brought some great players here, but with all those players, why couldn't the team ever have that one great season. Why were there always those games when somebody who had no business even staying close to us would sure it will be a tough game, they're another team in the top ten. This is the seventh time this season we've played a tP.::.m in the top ten." Dee clarified the status of John Pleick by saying, "I wanted to give him five straight days off, so he'd be ready to play against Fordham. Whether or not he starts depends on the individual match-ups." 
Finally, when asked if Austin Carr had turned in one of his better performances, Dee an­swered, "I don't know, it's hard to say." Which gives you some idea of the kind of year Austin is having. 30 
beat us. Like Michigan State, or that team from Indiana. 
And then there came this year. This was the team that nobody was going to beat. This team had the best ballplayer in the country, or so it was said. He wasn't real big, as players in this sport go, but he could do it all. Well, even with him, somebody 
still found a way to beat us, and make it look e1sy. So it's got to be the coach's fault, right? 
And look at post~eason play. How many years had it been since Notre Dame was involved in that. But this coach put to­gether a team that's been invited twice in a row. But do you remember that first year. When it was over, Notre Dame had come out of things a loser. And with that team. How could it be anything but the coach's fault. I mean, it just has to be. 
So here is this coach, and this team. A good team, sure. Better than most? Well, you might ask that coach from the west coast, or the one down south, who've both lost to Notre Dame teams coached by the guy I'm talking about. But what of it~ Shouldn't we expect more than an occa­sional victory over a big team from this guy. Hasn't he failed to get the most out of his players? Don't you think he should he fired? 
Well, if you do, you've been pretty quiet about it. Because the guy I'm talking about is Ara Parseghian; and as for the things I've said about his record, well, as Casey Stengel used to say, "you can look it up." 
Joe Garagiola, Jr. 
215 Keenan Hall 

I
I I I I I 
I 
Tuesday, February 16. 1971

_P_ag_e-4--------------------------------------~ Q~~ 

WITH MAX SHULMAN 
tBy the author of Rall,11 Round the Flag, Boyff ... DohitGillis ... etr.) 

ESP; or Extra-Sensory Pollution 
Physicists tell us there are three basic forces at work in the uni­verse: matter, energy and chopped liver. 
But I, for one, am no longer satisfied with this narrow definition. How do physicists classify ESP? Certainly it falls into none of these categories, but just as certainly it exists. And not as a mere theory; ESP is a proven, demonstrated fact. 
For example, how many times have you walked into a place you never saw before and yet recognized everything? How many times have you known the exact words someone was going to say before he ever said them? How many times have you been absolutely certain some­thing was going to happen hundreds or even thousands of miles away and, sure enough, it did? 
Let me tell you about a case I am fortunately able to document. Some years ago I went fishing with my dear friend Donald L. Fromkiss at a virgin lake deep in the Canadian wilds. It was hellishly difficult to get there, but we did not mind, for the moment we dropped our lines we each caught a splendid crappie. Mine weighed just over 300 pounds. Donald's was somewhat smaller, but by far the friendlier. 
Imagine my surprise then when, before we could throw our lines back for another try, Donald suddenly leaped up and cried he'd had a premonition that he must go home immediately. He could not tell m11 why. He only knew that some one or some thing was calling him back and he had to go at once. Apologizing profusely, he left me alone on the lake and portaged to the nearest town (Moose Jaw, well over a thousand miles, and poison sumac every inch), and there he chartered a Ford Tri-Motor and flew home. 
Well sir, at first he felt like an utter dolt. Everything was perfectly normal at home. His wife Edith was quietly reading The Sensuous Woman. His son Herschel was taking his daily glassblowing lesson. His dog Trey was eating his leash. 
And yet the premonition would not leave Donald. Carefully, he went through the house, inch by inch, room by room. Sure enough, when he got to the back hall he suddenly heard a faint whimperihg noise outside. He flang open the door. And there, by George, he saw where the whimpering was coming from: someone had left a basket on the back stoop! 
Well sir, who can blame Donald for crying a cry of joy and tri­umph? What a find! A whimpering basket! That's something you don't see every day, let me tell you! 
And so today, as you know of course, Donald L. Fromkiss and His Whimpering Basket is one of the highest paid acts in show busi­ness. Next Sunday, in fact, he completes his 84th consecutive year on Ed Sullivan. 
As for me, I too was a beneficiary of Donald's ESP, for when he left me alone on the lake I figured I would get to drink all-not just half-of the goodly supply of Miller High Life Beer we had brought along, and as you know of course, Miller High Life is never so welcome as it is on a tranquil sylvan lake while a flock of Canada geese darkens the sky above. Of course, Miller isn't bad in a noisy bar either while a flock of American coeds darkens the jukebox. For that matter, it's even great in the dor.m while your cruddy roommate darkens the tub. 
But as it happened, I never did get to drink all our Miller High Life because I forgot how well sound travels across a sylvan lake. No sooner did I pop my first can of Miller when-lo and behold!-ten Mounties galloped out of the forest singing selections from Rose Marie! Of course, I shared my Miller with them, and gladly, because I know it's hard being a Mountie, especially if you're an alto. And so by the time they polished off my Miller and said adieu, we were all fast friends. One of them, in fact, let me slide down his hat. 
* * * 
We, the brewers of Miller High Life Beer and the sponsors of this col­umn, are like the Mounties in one respect: we too always get our man­that is, if our man wants a beer that always makes it right-Miller High Life, the Champagne of Beers! 

Provost wants lay SMC 
h_est for them to surrender con­trol of the college. In the closing minutes of the 
(Continued from Page 1) 

According to those at the meeting, the proposal was said
Michigan meeting, Burkhaell to have received a majority of
termed his most important point votes from 11ot only a ui1ited
the relinquishing of cantrol of Notre Dame student-administra­
the college by the Sisters of the tion faction hut also from St.

Holy Cross, just as the priests of Mary's administration. Sources 

the Holy Cross did at Notre said however the majority of Dame a few years ago. Although SMC students attending voted conceding that they have spent a against the proposal. lot of time developing their in­At the morning session, heads vestment, the vice-president was 
of different departments such as said to believe that it would be admissions, counselling, and aca­
demics discussed the possibilities of merger. Discussion also centee 
At the morning session, heads of different departments such as admissions, counselling, and aca­demics discussed the possibilities of merger. Discussion also cen­tered on the uniqueness and identityof St. Mary's. Most parti­cipants· claimed surprise when a majority of representatives indi­cated their belief that St. Mary's no longer has a uniqueness to maintain. 




SG abolition considered 
(Continued from Page 1) 
Student Union, shut down for a 
year. 
In addition to the Student 
Union, the proposal would 
effect the Student Senate, the 
Cahinet, and the Student Body 

Presidency. Only the Hall Presi­
dent's Council would remain 
unaffected. 
The Committee was evenly 
divided in an informal vote 
count on the proposal taken 
shortly before the Committee 
adjourned. The vote was 7-6 in 
favor of the motion on tlw 
eighteen-member ,;ommittee. 
Five members were ahsent. 
"After a year without student 
government, we may all have a 
hetter perspective with which to 
work," Ryan said in introducing 
the proposal. 
The move met with the opposition of off-campus Sena­tor Steve Flavin. He contended that a move to abolish Student Government might result in the termination of the University's accreditation Flavin also sug­gested that the continuity he 

~-------t 
t To my secret to ve: t Who are you! 
t 
I 
Spock 

I 
t.~~~...._..~~~­
1 


Founder 
COLLEGE NIGHT SPECIA TuHcf•ys 5 pm -11 pm 
All the Chicken You Can Eat $1.41 

believed necessary in Student Union would be abrogated by such a bill. 
Ryan's proposal also met questions from Senators Sauer of Stanford, Clarke of Grace, and Treanor of Badin. Clarke feared that there might be "unknown consequences" while Treanor suggP-stcd that "there are too many things Student Government has yet to do for the students for the body to abolish itself." 
Dillon Senator L. Franklin Devine proposed that negotia­tions for a new constitution be delayed until a joint Notre Dame-SMC committee is able to negotiate one Constitution for both Colleges. Devine also pro­posed that student Government be scrapped in favor of what the Dillon Hall Sophomore termed a "town-meeting type of Govern­ment." 
Devine contended that "Notre Dame is small enough to support such a method. This would hring power hack to the halls. There's no need for this size of beauro­cracy in this small of a place." 
Committee Chairmann Tom Thrasher, a stay Senator from Grace Hall, introduced a pro­posal to replace Senate election with what he described as a "selection-by-petition process." 
More busses go 

o n s h u t t Ie' r u n 
Jerry Johnson, Notre Dame Shuttle Bus Coordinator, said yesterday that an extra shuttle bus would be added to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's route on an experimental basis from now un­til Easter. The extra bus will run from I 0 am to 2 pm only. 
The new bus would increase the frequency of the huses from every 15 minutes during the day, to every ten minutes. Buses will leave SMC at ten after the hour and every ten minutes after­wards. They will leave the Notre 

Dame  Library  at  five  after the  
hour  and  every  ten  minutes  
afterwards.  

Students are asked to cooper­ate by using the bus at the least crowded times. 


A ploy by lillian Hellman 
WASHINGTON HALL Feb. 19,20,25,26,27 
Tickets 1.50 
at 8:30PM & 
lnform~ttil;)n 284-4176
Feb. 21 at 2:30PM 

f\JEW JERSEY CLUB 
5pring Break Pl?.ne Fin?l Ticket S?les 'Thursday, February 18 Coke Bar LaFortune 
7:30-8:30 
$65 Round Trip 
FOR INFO CALL PETE 1768 








