Protesters arrested in Capital
Constitution Monday morning was gassed notes through their bars to the ground Stay," hoping that by collectively refusing 
by Dave Lammers 
Special to tlJe Observer 
Twelve thousand war protestors were arrested in the nation's Capitol on Monday and Tuesday and kept in outdoor com­pounds and the R.F.K. Coliseum. The majority of the protestors were loaded onto busses during Monday after the demonstrators had been dispersed by tear gas motorcycle police and club wielding riot' policemen. ' 
----. . 
The pohce spent Monday herdmg demonstr~to~s that walked around the Federal dtstnct onto busses that took them by_ the thous~nds to outdoor compound~, pn~on exercise yards, and an athletic Coliseum. A thousand_more dem~n~trators wer~ arrested last_ mght at a s1t-m rally outs~de of the Jusbce Depart~ent, where the illegal arrests of wandermg demon­strators was protested. . 
·one Notre Dame student who sat m the intersection of Pennsylavania Avenue and and clubbed three times as the demon­strators were dispersed from the in­tersection, and he was then picked up by riot police four hours later as he walked down 19th street. No arrest forms or ex­planations were given to demonstrators during the roundup actions of the police, and protest?rs in the compounds refused to be fmgerprmted or photographed for such arrests. ­
This writer, who did not participate in the Monday morning disruptions of traffic, was picked up at 11:00 A.M. walking down a street. No explanations were given as we were loaded onto a waiting bus, and the bus load of long haired youths-singing "America the Beautiful"-were tran­sported to the exercise yard of the D.C. prison. 
A thousand cheering demonstrators awaited the arrival of our busload at the prison yard. Regular convicts looked down on the acre-sized field filled with milling men and women, and threw blankets and below. Boxes of food and Army blankets, portable toilets, and Army tents were brought into the co~ pound, t~ough most persons_ spent th~ mght stan~mg around makeshtft campftres wrapped m blankets. 
About twe~ty Notre Dame students were arrested drumg Monday and Tuesday. A 71 year old woman was among my group, and Robert Sam ~son! a Notre Da~e gradu~te and TtJ?e-Ltfe reporter, _was m the pnson exerctse yard after bemg ap­prehende~. . . 
The maJor bone of d1ssens10n among the 
D.C. prison-yard group was ':Vhether. to submtt t~ the arrest processmg, whtch mean~ bemg photographed, fingerprinted, and . mterrogated. Lawyers and .s~lf­appomted leaders shouted to the ~1llmg crowd that the arrests were illegal because no arres~ forms were filed, rights were not explamed, phone calls were disallowed, and that the charges would be impossible to determine. Many demon­strators rallied around the cries_ of '_'Sta_y, 
Police break up protests 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -With Attorney General John N. Mitchell watching from his office balcony, police quickly broke up war protests outside the Justice Department Tuesday with a brief display of tear gas and billy clubs. 
Some 3,000 militant antiwar demonstrators, apparently abandoning another attempt to block Washington's commuter traffic as hopeless, rallied their forces in a park and marched eight blocks to the Justice Department. 
They had been jammed on the Pennsylvania Avenue and loth Street sides of the block square building for three hours, chanting obscenities and demanding an end to the war, when the police moved in and an officer declared over a bullhorn: "Clear this area immediately or you are subject to arrest." 
About 2,000 of the youthful protesters left, leaving behind a knot of about 1,000 who sat down on the pavement, most of them on lOth Street under Mitchell's fifth floor window, and refused to leave. 
With the pipe smoking Mitchell looking down on the scene, police then executed a picer movement, advancing on the protesters from Pennsylvania and Constitution avenues. At least one canister of tear gas was fired and a half dozen or more officers swung their billy clubs, bloodying several vouths. 

4:30 poetry reading­samuel hazo: blood rights, carroll hall smc. 
7:30 lecture-wallace peterson: inequality in wealth and income in the u.s., carroll hall smc. 
8:30 musical-nd-smc theater: oliver, benefit performance, o'laughlin !;ludHorium. 
But the violence was quickly over as police began arresting the demonstrators, photographing them and placing them in buses to be taken to jail. The protesters offered very little resistance. 
Although there was no con­certed effort to repeat Monday's traffic disrupting tactics Tuesday, there were scattered incidents throughout the city and police had recorded 685 arrests before the Justice Department demonstration. 
Nearly three weeks of protests in the city are scheduled to end on Wednesday when demonstrators have vowed to try to tie up the Capitol. Up until Tuesday, an estimated 8,500 arrests had been made, 7,000 of them Monday· when police and regular Army and Marine units thwarted protesters plans to shut down the government by keeping federal workers from going to their jobs. 
Arrested before the sit in was John Froines, one of the Chicago Seven defendants, who, like Rennie Davis, had been charged with federal violation of others' civil rights for helping plan the protests. 
FBI agents took him into custody, after he took the microphone, identified himself and urged the protesters not to abandon their cause. 
"We cannot turn back from what we have come to do," he said. "We have come to shut down this government. We have to do it here in the streets ... in order to intensify our struggle against the war." 
Davis, who was picked up walking down the street Monday afternoon after police and troops had quelled the traffic disrupting attempt, remained in jail on $25,000 bond. 
After traffic proceeded almost unhampered Tuesday morning, the Pentagon announced that 10,000 Ar.my troops and Marines called in to back the police had begun withdrawing from the city. 
As.., for the demonstrator's announced plans to shut down Capitol th;is Wednesday mor­ning, Senate GOP Leader Hugh Scott said he thought this would be impossible. 
"Their ineffectiveness is only exceeded by their vulgarity," Scott declared. 



Fordham's Phelps replaces Dee as Irish head coach 
Richard "Digger" Phelps, 29, who last year guided Fordham to its best record in history in his first season as a head basketball coach, was named Tuesday to succeed Johnny Dee at the University of Notre Dame. The announcement was made by Edward W. Krause, athletic director. The appointment was approved by the Faculty Board in 
Ombudsman organizes voter peace pledge 
by Gary Hunt 
The Ombudsman service is organizing a drive to have students of Notre Dame sign a pledge card that promises they will vote for a peace candidate in the upcoming elections. This drive is part of a Nationwide campaign called the Young Voters for Peace. The goal for this drive is to present the president and Congress with one million signatures by June 1. Dziedzic, the head of Om­budsman sees this campaign as an avenue of action for the student who has determined for himself that the war in Vietnam must be ended quickly. He also said this petition, merely by the immense number of pledges, will have impact on the President and 

~Congress.
omplete text ol statement 
on ~age two. 

Today m t e dmmg halls at lunch there will be boxes and pledge cards available for those students wishing to pledge, and at 
dinner time there will be available in each hall. 
to be photographed and fingerprinted the group would eventually be freed by a ruling on the legality of the apprehensions. 
As youths braved the Monday night cold of the open court yard, arguments raged about the probability of being freed by a judge's ruling. Intent on passively res!sting the process!ng procedure, ;you~s whiled away the bme by huddlmg m camps, around fires, listening to portable radios, talking to prison guards, and discussing the worth of the morning's disruotion attempts. 
At 2 A.M. Tuesday morning, police announced that the fifteen hundred detainees were to be transported to the 
R.F.K. Coliseum. Many refused to leave, fearing they would be beat and gased during transportation. 
The Coliseum, where 1 was transported, in a wire-screened convict truck was a a near chaotic scene. Five thousa~d youths stood on the basketball floor chanting 
' 
(continued on page 8) 
.
,.N •



"_.. 

Contro!o1 Athletics in its meeting Tuesday afternoon. 
"Phelps is one of the out­standing coaches in the country," Krause said yesterday. "He is just the type of man we want to lead our Fighting Irish." 
"Phelps is a disciplinarian, a leader, and he has tremendous dedication," Krause continued. "He can keep Notre Dame on top in college basketball circles." 
By leading Fordham to a 26-3 mark and an at large bid in the NCAA tournament, Phelps won coach of the year honors in district two of the National Association of College Basketball Coaches. He was accorded a similar honor by the Metropolitan Basketball Writers Association, finished second behind AI McGuire of Marquette in the annual UPI poll, and fourth behind McGuire, Bob Boyd of 
U.S.C. and John Wooden ofUCLA in voting by the Associated Press. 
In stepping into the Fordham basketball picture last year, Phelps took over a team that had lost 15 of 25 games the previous season. He immediately turned the Rams into the Cinderella team of the year as it won 20 of its first 21 games, including a 94-88 victory over Notre Dame before the largest non-tournament college basketball crowd in Madison Square Garden history-19,500. A week later Fordham dropped its second game of the season to top-ranked Marquette, 85-80 in overtime. In his post-game comments Marquette coach AI McGuire remarked that "Fordham was the best-coached team we've played all season." 
In NCAA championshiip play Fordham defeated Furman 105­74, lost to eventual finalist Villanova 85-75 and then rebounded with a spectacular 100-90 victory over powerful South Carolina for a third place finish in the Eastern Regional at Raleigh, North Carolina. At season's end Fordham was ranked 9th in both major wire service polls. 
Before assuming his duties with the Rams, Phelps spent four years at the University of Penn­sylvania as a varsity assistant and head freshman coach. From 1967 to 1970 his frosh teams chalked up 53 victories against only 10 defeats. 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, May 5, 1971 
~~~~~~~~~--..,.,~~~~~~~
! SENIOR BALL 
I DINNER DANCE 
~ Friday May 7 -9:00 p.m. -1:00 ~ a.m. 
~ Price $10.00 Ticket Sales: ~ Tuesday &VVednesday
lli: 5-6:30 in the 
~ University Club Dining Halls _11 !:::--___..,~...., 
~----------------I
t The National Union of Students 
.:•.  
•'  
t ' t  offers over 60 discount flights <N.Y .-London) between May & October!!! Round trips are available for as little as $220 <return on ANY date) and one way flights for as little as $120. Discount flights also available to Rome, Paris, Bombay,Delhi, Hong Kong, Tokyo, etc. VIA London. Students, teachers, and immediate family eligible. For application,caU Tom Drexler, 282-2250. H not in, LEAVE MESSAGE. Hurry, May and June flights fiU quickly!  
'  
l  

t tl ________________ 
~--------------------------------------~
i 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 



·---------------------------------------, 
WY\Ai DO You THINK ~ MY CHANeEs ARE ~F _\ REACHIKG Hot.t.VWoo~ 

Get outta town without leaving campus. Dial Direct. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night and all day Saturdays. 
@Indiana Bell. 
\ 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
~ 
I 
~ 
~ 
~ 
lli: ~ 
' 
' 
t t 
.f 
f f t 
J ' 
' 
' 
I 
-
I 


Senate views amendment 
by Kevin McGill 

The Student Senate chose yesterday to consider a con­stitutional amendment which would give Saint Mary's students representation on that body while postponing consideration of a proposed new constitution until next year. 
Stanford Senator Bob Sauer introduced the amendment that Saint Mary's residence halls and off campus students be represented on the Senate ac­cording to the principals for Notre Dame's senators. 
Frank Devine, Dillon Senator, said that if Saint Mary's had senators, they could obtain money without necessarily ap­propriating any of their student activities fee to the combined student government. The Notre Dame student body would be "taking on greater services without increased funds," he said. · Off Campus Senator Don Mooney feltr that the Saint Mary's government would be more willing to provide funds if they had representatives in the Senate to control them. 
There were feelings that the matter shouldn't be considered until the Coeducation Committee reports on student government. However this delay would also put off the union of governments until the year after next while the general attitude of the students favors coeducation auickly. 
Debate was finally postpOoned until action could be taken after the five day period the con­stitution specifics for presen­tation of the amendment to the student body. 
The new constitution was in­troduced and read by Sauer and Steve Novak, Off Campus Senator. Sauer later explained that this constitution would merge student governments, there being one student body president and representatives from Saint Mary's on the Student Senate. 
The new constitution also proposes determining the budget on a semi-annual basis which, Sauer said, would allow student government to fix the student activities fee after it knew what its plans were, and holding senate elections in the spring on the same day as the SBP elections. The SBVP would chair the Senate, the Finance Committee 
..Notre ~arne ~nd St. Mary's students have been invited to !om a nat1on-w1de campaign called Young Voters for Peace ~~an attem~t to create a vehicle for a massive expression of dissent agamst the Indo-Chinese War. 
We want very badly to make a signigicant contribution toward the 1,000,000 pledges that are expected to be presented to President Nixon and all the members of Congress this summer. 
Time is a major handicap for us. But we feel that this Vote for Peace campaign is too important to be lost in a shuffle of tests and papers. This is all we ask: 
PLEDGE CARDS WILL BE AVAILABLE DURING LUNCH 
IN THE DINING HALLS AND DINNER IN YOUR DORM. IF YOU PLAN TO VOTE FOR NATIONAL CANDIDATES WHO WILL INSIST UPON 1} WITHDRAWAL OF ALL U.S. MILITARY PERSONNEL FROM INDO-CHINA BY A SPECIFIED DATE AND 2) THE EXERCISE OF CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORITY OVER MATTERS OF WAR AND PEACE, THEN SIGN THE PLEDGE. 
YOU DO NOT HAVE TO BE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN ORDER TO PLEDGE. THIS IS A SHOW OF SENTIMENT AMONG THE NEWLY ENFRANCHISHED BOTERS WHO WILL BE VOTING IN 1972. 
This is a non-partisan effort. It is an ambitious and bold undertaking. We offer you a chance to participate in this drive to convince national leaders and candidates that we really do mean to take our activism to the polls. 
Paul Dziedzic Kathy 'Barlow John Barkett Orlando Rodriquez 
R.A.P. collects $1000 
In yesterday's dining room collection, the Refugee Aid Program amassed $1000. This brings the total amount of money collected by the R.A.P. to $2,700, 
4 .....
\~, ,~. 


~· ~~W~TI~ '' 

I YOU TO SWING \ 
~ llf THAT'S YOUR SCENE) Iii. _. INLUXUHY ~~ 
\ [CAMPSITES WITH SHOWERS, SHOPS.] 
L 

~ BARS. RESTAURANTS. POOLS. ETC. 
THROUGH EUROPE WITH AUTO TOURS 
MOST OF OUR COMPETITION WENT OUT OF BUSINESS 
lAST YEAR-BUT AS FAR AS WE'RE CONCERNED, WITH 
TEN YEARS OF "AUTO TOURERS" BEHIND US, NEARLY 
HALF COME BACK FOR A SECOND TRIP NOT ONLY THAT 
-WE PUT YOUR MONEY IN tSCROW SO YOU'Ll HAVE 
NO HASSLE. THERE. TALKING Of MONEY -PRICES 
RANGE FROM $210 FOR THREE WEEKS TO $618 FOR 
TEN WEEKS (THE TEN WEEKfR INCLUDES AN 8 DAY 
GREEK ISLAND CRUISE) FURTHER TO WHICH IF 
YOU'RE NOT ALREADY CHARTERING OUT lO LONDON (BY THE WAY, All TRIPS START AND fiNISH THERE) 
HAVE A FEW WORDS WITH. =-::----1

I_ interrested ?__2__1_j 
HE'S OUR "MAN ON THE SPOT.'' HE WILl ALSO GIVE 
YOU OUR BROCHURE AND IS PRETTY CLUED UP HE'S 
AlSO GOT A FEW OTHER SCENES GOING TOO IF THIS 
ISN'T YOUR BAG, SO WHY NOT GET IN TOUCH ANYWAY' 
(E G. LONDON. MOROCCO. ITALY. GREECE. INDIA, AF 
RICA. FAR EAST, ET AL) REDUCTIONS FOR GROUPS' 
NO WAY (WE WANT INDIVIDUALS). 
EUROPE IS YOUNG PEOPLE, INC. 50 E. 42 ST., NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017, TEL: 212·986·6656 
and the Stay Senators would be eliminated, there would be changes in judicial review and the election committee, and the number of signatures needed for 
a  referendum  would  be  
decreased.  
Novak  said  that  the  con­ 

stitution was drafted with the approval of Saint Mary's student government and that Saint Mary's students helped to write it. He also said that their Student Assembly meeting tonight might take up the finished proposal. 
The general attitude of the senators was that since the constitution would not go into effect until January, there was no reason to rush a decision when there was so little time left this year for public debate or for a student referendum. Although Nova, argued that the new constitution would be beneficial for the transition period to co­education, the matter was postponed until next year. 
with more expected from students and alumni. Tom Gies, chairman of the 
R.A.P. plans to continue the program through the summer. Gies hopes that people who are truly interested in the program, will retur11-home and solicit donations from businessmen, church groups, alumni, and parents in an _attempt to get money which emphasizes the personal involvement of the communities and not just that of the University. 
Gies will coordinate the widespread activities by having the money sent to him. He will then deliver the money to the American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker organization that runs the Quang Ngai hospital in Viet Nam. 
Marty Teitel, director. of overseas refugee programs for the American Friends, will at­tend a Mass on the Main Quad today at 1:00. Following the Mass Teitel will speak about the continuation of the Refugee Program. 
Teitel will explain the dual aims of the program in terms of providing an educational medium to inform the people about the little known aspects of the war. Many, claim Teitel, have no concept of the plights of those who live in Viet Nam. 
Any further contributions may be sent to Box 626, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


Wednesday, May :__,_5,~1~97~1________________:7.:.:1/.:.:..:'E=--Q=-=IJif.=='E:=Jl:..::.=.[)..::'E.='R.-=--------------------Pa_.g._e_3 

I

Co-ex tickets stolen Monday I I 
Approximately 240 coex tickets tickets could be invalidated if the They may be returned at 
I 

were stolen Monday night from tickets are not returned. anytime. 
I

the Student Union offices in Ohlemiller said that "no Ohlemiller expects the thief to 
I

LaFortune Student Center, ac-questions will be asked" if the spread the tickets among his or 
I

cording to the project Director tickets are returned voJuntarily. , her friends. He said four tickets Bob Ohlemiller. However, he added that those were recovered last night at St. 
The tickets are numbered and who are responsible will be in Mary's. He asked that the rest be dated, and a list of validly serious trouble if they do not returned in time for this distributed tickets has been given bring the tickets to the student evening's exchange dinner. to the dining hall checkers. government or student union The-tickets were stolen Ohlemiller said that up to 275 offices or to room 715 Grace Hall. sometime after 5 p.m. after the .F;;;;;;;;;~;;;~;;;~================tt Student Union secretary left her 
desk, where they are stored. Ohlemiller said that the office
Moratorium Events 
was reportedly occupied
8:00-STOP! -Stop business as usual-stop classes and work as 

l
throughout the evening and that ~L-<>;:-:-:•:•:{~1usual. Spend a day in remembrance and thought -THE WAR 
it is not known how the thief 
'

HAS NOT ENEDED-think about the protesters in Washington, avoided detection. 
the Kent and Jackson killings, and those killed in Vietnam. 9:00-1:00-MUSIC! -Music is free all morning. Live bands, etc. This is not a day of mourning only. 12:??-LUNCH!-Outside lunch period. Bring your own food, sit and talk, listen to the music. Baggage Truck 12:45-MASS-R.A.P. Mass in memoriam of those killed in 
Final Sales

Vietnam and the killings at Jackson and Kent State. 1 :30-2:30 + SPEECHES -An hour of speakers with ND faculty, veterans, and people from South Bend. 2:30-ACTION GROUPS -The most important business of the day. Organize into small groups that can plan action for stop­
Thursday May 6 7-8 p.m.

ping the War. 
LaFortune All activities will be held on the Main Quad. In case of rain, they LaFortune Rathskellar 
$5 deposit requiredwill be moved to the Main Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. 

WITH MAX SHULMAN 
(By the author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys ... Dobie Gillis •.• ek.) 
Is There Life After Commencement? 
If you are looking for the adorable whimsy which has made 1 this column such a popular favorite among my wife and my little dog Spot, you will not find it today. For this is my last column of the school year and therefore a leave-taking, an occasion of sweet solemnity. I will not try to be funny in this final column. (I've been told I often achieved this goal in earlier columns, but those were only lucky accidents. Today it's on purpose.) 
Further, because of the gravity of the occasion, there will be no commercials today for my sponsor, the brewers of Miller High Life Beer. In this decision the brewers of Miller High Life con­curred readily-nay, enthusiastically!-an act of industrial states­manship totally typical, you would say, if you knew the brewers · of Miller High Life as I know the brewers of Miller High Life; I mean here are gentlemen gray at the temples and heavy with honors who still rush to the brewery as eagerly every morning as if they were youngsters only just beginning; I mean all they care about in the world, the brewers of Miller High Life, is to put the best of all possible beers inside the best of all possible cans and bottles and then go, heads high, into the market place with their wares, confident that the inborn ability to tell right from wrong, good from bad, meritorious from shoddy, which is the proud herit­age of every American, will result in a modest return to themselves, the brewers of Miller High Life, for their long hours and dedicated labors-not, it goes without saying, that money is of any conse­quence to the brewers of Miller High Life; all these simple men require is plain, nourishing food, plenty of Miller High Life, and the knowledge that through their efforts the lives of beer drinkers everywhere have become a little more relevant-an attitude which I, for one, find heart-wrenching; indeed, so moved am I that I wish to state right here and now~I declare it publicly and proudly-that as long as there is breath in my body, I shall have only the highest regard for the brewers of Miller High Life, no matter how my lawsuit for back wages comes out. 
(I am only having my little joke. Of course I'm not suing the brewers of Miller High Life for back wages. They have always paid me promptly and in full. True, they have not paid me in m-oney, but I'll bet you never met anyone who's got as many Miller bottle caps as I do.) 
I I I I I I I I I 


I But I digress. As I was saying, there will be no commercial ltoday for Miller High Life because of the solemnity of the occa­lsion. This is goodbye for many of you, especially those who were lunable to avoid graduating. To these unfortunates I say, be of lgood cheer. It will accomplish nothing to slink home and assume lthe fetal position. Remember, there are other good things in the world besides going to college. I admit they don't spring to mind
1

at the moment, but there must be. And if not, here's an easy solu­11tion: just dye your hair, shave your beard, change your name, and 
start over again at some other college.I And so in these last lambent moments, let me say to all of lyou, my gentle readers, it has been a great pleasure writing this 1column through the school year. Believe me, pleasure is not a com­1mon commodity in the life of a writer. There are an appalling 
number of hazards in this game-a drought of ideas, for one;Icatching your necktie in the roller of your typewriter, for another 1-so when a writer is blessed, as I have been, with an audience as Ialert and intelligent as you, he must take his hat in hand and his Inecktie out of the typewriter and make a thankful bow. This1I now do. 1·-Au revoir, gentle readers. Stay happy. Stay loose. And as youItravel down life's highway, remember these lines from Shake­
speare's immortal Pajama Game: I Up your beer enjoyment, fellow. I Raise your pleasure quotient, neighbor. I Switch to Miller, bright and mellow. I You'll enjoy its groovy fleighbor. 
I I 

* * * 
I Now that the year is over and the brewery has survived, we Iat Miller High Life would like to say that we have thoroughly IIenjoyed bringing you this column, no matter how Mr. Shulman's IIlawsuit comes out. 
I
I 
I
I 
I
I 
I 


·--------------------------· 
It's sort of a manual. It tells you how to buy fine diamonds for less. It's the 1971 edition of the Vanity Fair Diamond catalog. 
Vanity Fair has been selling the finest diamonds to dealers across the country since 1921. Now these same (liamonds are available to you at the same low prices (50% of retail). 
Our secret? 
We handle the whole process of making a ring ourselves, from buying the rough stone in Antwerp or Lon­don, to selling the finished ring to, you 
~~ 
on your campus or in our Chicago showrooms. There are no middle-man profits to drive up the price. 
Ifyou're thinking about engagement and wedding rings, you need Vanity Fair. Visit our showrooms at 55 E. Washington, Chicago. Or send for our 36-page, full color catalog. We'll send it to you free if you send us this coupon. 
r--------------------------,
1 
Vanity Fair Diamonds. . . 
55 E. Washington • Chtcago, Ilhnms 60602 
Please send a copy of the Vanity Fair 
Diamond Catalog. 
Name___________~-­
Address:____________ 
City_____State___Zip___ 

The one book everycouple should read before marriage. 
School_____________ 
Vanity Fair Diamonds • 55 E. Washington Chi<ago, Illinois 60602 • (312) FR 2-0300 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER 






THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student N~wspaper 
Glen S. Corso, Editor~in~Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Bu~dness M0n~:.Jqei FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDlANA 
Anne Tracey Must Be Allowed on the Council 
Method of Election: The students shall conduct a general election from the entire student body. Those six students receiving the largest number of votes of all votes cast shall be the elected representatives. 
-from the "Plan for 
Student Life Council at 
the University of Notre 
Dame," passed 
unanimously by the 
~ Board of Trustees, 
August 22, 1968. 
When the Student Life Council meets to decide the legislative fate of 
Anne Marie Tracey, (North Quad, 435 votes), it will presumably find a 
way to ignore the candidacies of Gary Caruso (South Quad, 342 votes), 
Jerry O'Connor (North Quad, 223 votes) and others in order to seat Dave 
Tushar (Off-campus, 59 votes). Well they should, as a candidate for the 
Off-campus SLC seat (a postiion not recognized by the Executive Com­
mittee of the Board of Trustees which originally formed the council) 
Tushar garnered more votes than any of his off-campus opponents, and 
he is that district's representative. 
In a not dissimilar manner, Miss Tracey is the North Quad's elected representative. She won easily, and convincingly. The students of the North Quad have ringingly endorsed her-not as a St. Mary's repr­sentative to the Notre Dame Student Life Council-but as their representative. 
When the Student Life Council meets to determine whether or not Miss 
Tracey may represent the North Quad, its clear ~,u!Y will be to de.termine 
what precisely the letter of the law that says, SIX representatives ... 
shan' be elected by all their respective constituents," means. In the 
largest sense, of course, Miss Tracey is ~lected by h~y co.nstitu~?ts by 
definition. It would be unwise of the council to connote residency. f.rom 
"constituency," because historically the ~wo have alway~ ~een di~tmct 
This document, unlike most, establishes no specific residence 
requirement.
No the Council would be well advised to interpret their "Method of 
Sele~tion" section as loosely as they have interpreted their "Method of 
Election" section in the past The students on the North Quad are cer­
tainly entitled to whatever representation ther ~elect. The c.ounc.il could 
regain a lot of its lost good will and respect if It kept that m mmd and 
quietly sea ted Ann Marie Tracey. 

Tom Bornholdt 
Strange Beings 
.;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::;::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::;::;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;!;!;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;!;:;:;:;:;:;:;:: 
In recent travels across thts ..grea·t-·yet..myst"erious."lan(f"f"iiave chanced upon IlKlny bizarre experiences. Among the most mind­blowing was the discovery of DN University, which lies just south of 
Central Cattle Creek Iowa Here I encountered persons so fantastic, so utterly beyond the limmits of a human imagination that I could not resist telling my readers of them, though I fear that no one will believe that such weird humanoids could be possible. I need not, therefore disclaim any connection between these strange things in the shape of man, and notable persons on our own campus. 
Recovering from a temporary lack of blood in my alcohol stream, I found myself one night in a room off campus. In the next door. voices could be heard. After a while I knew they belonged to none other than DN personalities, Joe A. Nynomous and Bob Loony. Clearing my mind, I was fortunate to discover a microphone, fortuitously con­nected to an Observer tape recorder. By the electronic wizardry of this device, I can now bring to print this unbelievable conversation from the heart of darkest Iowa. 
"Did you hear the results of the CLS elections, Bob?" "Y "Yeah, I heard. Well, I really didn't expect that bit with the write-in 
campaign to work. Really I didn't, really. (deep sigh). The thing that annoys me is that Dick Turda got elected. I mean he isn't going to be representative of the student body, because he is a member of the Band, and the Band is run by the Vice Presidents' Council. So he's going to be representing the Administration, not us ... the student body I mean. And you know what else ticks me off about Turda ?" 
"No, what Bob?" 

"The disgraceful way he slung mud during the campaign. Reminds of the circus John Market sent around during the last day of the campaign as a desperation measure". 
"The PBS election still got you down, Bob?". 
"Yeah, a little. Like the student body made a terrible choice. Market has been in office for a couple of weeks now. Has he yet flamed-just once? Nope. Has he denounced Hedburgher as so much as an inhuman fascist? Has he once demanded that the miserable, repressive, totalitarian restraints the Administration has fastened upon our students be released'? Why I've even heard it said that Market was once caught listening to a Trustee! When is he going to start confronting?!" 
"Over what, Bob?" 

"Oh, that isn't imoortant. Issues don't matter, it's the con­frontations and flaming that counts. If one gets too wrapped up in issues, then there's the possibility that the Administration might give in, and then there would be nothing left to flame about. Why even Market is concerned about issues." 
"Then why do we confront if there aren't any issues?" 
"Oh, there are issues, but we make them up as we go along. The reason for confrontation is very simple. It's fun. Why else does one doing anything? There is nothing more fun than confrontation. One gets to stretch issues out of all importance, to make ridiculous claims. There are frenzied scenes of the emotional showdown. Fiery rhetoric abounds. One gets to throw a good temper tantrum. One feels important; one is saving the world, one is a Christ figure. It's great for the ego. One gets to sav. obscene words in public. All sorts of mass 
meetings take place, so one can feellJke an individual." "None of that with Market, though'?" "Not at all. Why, it doesn't even look like we're going to have the 
traditional spring riot. I think the student body is going to miss having a free vacation this spring. And it's all due to the fact that Market is not flaming like he's supposed to." 
"If only you had been elected, Bob." 
"Oh, is that true. For one thing, we would have had a student disassociation. This organization would have taken advantage of the fact that the law is written as students want it. Why if someone was kicked out for possessing dope, we'd have it thrown out because it is illegal to prohibit people from smoking dope in the state. If students occupied the ROTC building and the Administration tried to call in the police, we'dstop them in the courts. 
"Still I was able to do things out of office. I organized Bob's Beautiful Beserkers, a society of people dedicated to having fun. The Berserkers have gotten together every week, bringing such great bands as the Concentric Circles of Noise Pollution. We stay up all night yelling at the moon, getting drunk and raising hell. Berserkers are terribly funny people. They laugh their heads off at the sight of a frog with a firecracker going off in its mouth. We plan to do something really hilarious like make the johns back. And we're going to sponsor a really funny film of a lady dying of cancer. We boycotted An Tostal however, since it was a stuffy intellectual event." 
Why didn't you try for CLS, Bob?" 
Well, I was going to, but when Gary Enrico outflanked me on wild proposals, I knew I didn't stand a chance. How do you outflame a candidate who demands a campus jetport, so student won't have to go off campus to fly? But the election wasn't a total loss. Anna won. Now there was a beautiful piece of sensation making. Rodrico knows that Anna wouldn't be seated, so he tried to keep off the ballot. That was dumb for then we had something to flame about. She was being discriminated against; her not being on the ticket was a step against coeducation. Everybody could feel progressive by electing a women. Wow. Daring. We were breaking tradition. That is really good for 
making a sensatiOn." "What is important is what is to come. The CLS will probably not seat her. Great. Then there can be a re-election, and she can be re­elected. And then she won't be seated again, so there will be another election. Like an infinite series, it can go on forever. We'll have con­troversy for months. Speeches and slogans. We want Anna. Demands by the Senate, CPH, and the Chess Club th_at she ~e seated. Thi~ is propitious! we were running short of such high quality contro':'ers1es. Why, some students were starting to think that the Administr~tiOn was basically on the same side as students! That would be terrible. How could you affordconfront somebody with similar interests?" 
"emWf>.. :' 
THE OBSERVER 
f:lage s 
becky minter 

-~·. ~ ,"''""(;" 1........_ 
' ~··' . .f 



\ living, smiling 
'!#. -~ 


}I 
~ ' 
.. 
. 
K 
I M 
you were receiving fire; the zone was hot. 
photo by Gary Cosimini, from the Scholastic, May 8, 1970 
STRIKE-it's one of those words that if you remember spending one whole night tran­look at it long enough and hard enough, it begins scribing from a tape an interview with Dick to look odd and you imagine you've spelled it Gregory, the honorary chairman of the boycott. wrong. For the past fifteen minutes I have looked But what went on in the minds of the students at it long and hard . who had furiously thrown themselves into the 
Memories of last spring come and go; I can strike? Was it all worth it? Were they ac­feel the frown on my face as I try to .remember complishing something, anything? Without a all the events that took place, especially within doubt, many became disillusioned or bitter and myself. A quick flashback to that day in May, drifted off, muttering and complaining to any when Iw was running from table to table in the and all who would listen. Some remained Saint Mary's cafeteria to tell as many people as cheerful, kind, and just damn wonderful possible that Dave Krashna intended to call a throughout the entire course of the strike. strike in protest of the Cambodian invasion (in Because of the first group I felt sad but at the particular) and the Viet Nam war as a whole. same time I always understood; because of the The presence of ROTC on campus was also an second I received sensations of warmth that issue and I recall arguing earnestly but uselessly were deeply calming. Because of the second with a freshman girl about. The day progressed, group of people, small as it was, I learned that David gave his short speech, Hesburgh was even quiet determination, courage, and action there complete with a statement of his own. maintained in an ever loving sense of spirit, were 
Then the work began. The long, tedious hours so much more effective in fuilding a movement of talking. Always talking. To friends that of any worth than all the brash, rash, and hashed agreed with you and to those who were vocalizations of many so-called revolutionaries. vehemently opposed, to enthusiastic people who So now, a year later, although it's difficult to thought this was the best way to handle the whole fully bring back all that occurred, some of the thing while others were busy with that, to action, sensation, and emotion is still with me. teachers who were wholeheartedly sympathetic Even the disillusioned or bitter must admit, I (despite or because of their own personal views) think, that for at least a short time the Notre and to those who were not, to the townspeople Dame-Saint Mary's community was concerned who were approached to sign the Hesburgh and involved. No one can deny, of course, that petition. To be sure, there were a lot of platitudes the strike died but it would also be hard to coupled with the same old rhetoric, but there was disclaim the sincerity of all who participated in also a sense of ding the right thing that produced the strike. As for myself, my last remembrance original, personal thoughts and words. It was a of the strike is a strange one, when I stop to think time of stale ideas infused with the newness of about it. Mentally and physically exhausted, I active participation, to the extent that the old was sitting on the south quad behind a group of ideas were e:iven fresh form and vigor . pleple who were standing around a makesshift 
But the work continued. People packed into a altar. WQile I felt I couldn't personally par­tiny room for a steering committee meeting, ticipate in the Mass I sat there and watched and where everyone voiced an opinion or just bit­listened. As my thoughts drifted aimlessly, I was ched. Somehow plans were made and somehow unconsciously pulling up grass and putting in a they were carried through. South Bend was little pile. I became aware of a strange, clicking assaulted by canvassers armed with petitions sound and saw that a guy was taking pictures of and leaflets. Schedules for teach-ins, lectures, me; somewhat embarassed, I asked him why. rallies, and marches were constantly being He shrugged, smiled, and said, "You look beat printed and had to be passed out. Letters were byt there's a sense of being alive. Yes, you're written to Congressmen. I can particularly alive." 
I could only smile. 
rick smith 


love faileth not 
I remember painfully well sitting in a friend's take nothing seriously at a!i. 
room a year ago watching the evening news. Alan Watts talked about how good and evil, 
Watching films of Kent State. Watching the being polarities, like the north pole and south 
people get shot. There were probably eight or pole, were just part of one big reality, not op­
nine people in the room then. The dad of one of posing but connected. And he talked about how 
the dead people was shown reading some kind of one could listen to a chant and, suspending 
statement, more or less asking why?. Television thinking, become one with the sound and thus 
is a strange medium still for me, not having one with the universe. And through that ex­
studied McLuhan or anything like that. You can perience, happenings like atrocities and mur­
remain so scientifically detached while watching ders assume a lesser importance. 
the world end in living_ color. It's always hard, I Elliott Gould, in the film Little Murders, does a 
guess, to put ~nese~f m_to another's shoes since fairly good job of portraying the epitome of 
th~t reqmres Imagmabon.. But if you're ever apathy. He doesn't know how to love, goes 
gomg to get anywhere, I thmk that you have to around taking pictures of animal excrement and 
soll_le~ow get _out of yourself. Which is a while being mugged, he feels no pain by thi~king
def1mte problem m an ego-maniac culture. .of _pleasant things. 
So when the t~levision news "Yas over I think But I would find it impossible to talk of this 
"':e all wer_e crym~, or _close to It. I was pre_tty kind of thing to the parents and friends of Sandy 
Sick. _I sbll get _tight m the stomach thmkmg Scheuer or Jeffrey Miller. Or to a Vietnamese 
about It. Heav~ times. _And I felt the same way peasant mother holding her napalmed child. Or 
yeste~day talkmg to fn~nds over the phone in to· some law abiding American father who has 
Washmgton. My best fnend had been arrested been informed of his son's death in Indochina. So 
and W?uld spend. the night in a football field, you cannot become too bound up in this realm of 
where It was freezmg, no sanitation facilities and apparent reality. But there is this plague going 
so on. , round. And maybe just living a 'good' life isn't 
But th_at s what he went there for. And those enough when there is this plague going round. crazy kids should have known better than to So we are called upon to be supremely charge t~ose troops; ~hey were asking for it and imaginative. To live and respond in the face of they got tt and _that s h~e. A_nd death. You can't unspeakable outrage. Somehow. Dan Berrigan dwell on that kmd of thmg either. Because there spoke of "alternatives to the general, indeed doesn't.seem to be much that you can really do universal reliance on death." The complexity of about. It. Somebody said ,something about the times is simply soul shattering. A friend throwmg peas off an elephant s back. Or on an talked of how, when he had assumed a position of elephant:s back. Sign petitions till hell freezes power, he had been "corrupted." This friend, a over, ~Imeograph. thi~gs till kingdom come, truly human being, talked of how certain persons march bll the sun nses m the west. And all you automatically became enemies others became get is frustr_ation, ~f you're lucky. A lot of pent up allies. The old strange bedmates story. anger at bemg so Impotent in this government of This is going to be my final column of this year. by and for the people. Which leads you to do And I would like to take this occasion to say a some illogical, irrati?nal thing that leads to a very heartfelt thanks and love to some very bac~lash and a pohce state and everybody beautiful people who will be graduating this saymg_how they knew you didn't mean it when year. Those people include Dave Lammers, you said peace and love. dave krashna, Jim Rocap and Steve Brion. 
~o having been presented with all this, people Truly unforgettable, really heavy people. !>emg ~urder~d, physi~ally and spiritually, what As isnow my custom, I will end with a quote. IS one s ~e~ctwn. Seemg the world one lives in This from Albert Camus, quoted in the Scholastic su~h as. It Is, how does one pattern one's life to of May 8, 1970: brmg It more into accord with observed I only know that one must do what one ca·n to phenomena. Experiential wisdom. I can't cease being plague-stricken, and that's the only pretend t? have any answers. ~ardly knowing way in which we can hope for some peace, or the gueshons. You hav~ to retam your sense of failing that, a decent death. This, and only this, humor _about these thmgs, you know. Take can bring relief to men and, if not save them, at ~verythmg most seriously, and at the same time least do them the least harm possible and even, 
sometimes, a little good. 

THE OBSERVER Wednesday, May 5, 1971
Page 6 
E WEARHOUSE 



Ruggers 4th in Va. tourney 

Account executive William H. Meyer, Jr. of Thomson and McKinnon a member of the New York Stock Exchange, presenting the awards t~ the winners of the ND Mock Stock Market. 
Most Books for: Smelser­

Formerly 
MALE M-1 
2210 Miami 
ANNOUNCES ITS NEW HOURS 
Mon. thru Fri. 11 -8 Sat. 10 -6 
HAGGAR 
Slacks
• 
Haggar Doubleknits i: ~-­
comfort in fashion 
Now you can have your fashion and be 
comfortable too. 100% Fortrel® 
polyester gives with your every move, 
impossible to wrinkle, and they can be 
machine washed and dryed. You'll 
like the comfortable price. 
16.00 to 22.50 
Mail in or come by Observer offiee For information call 7471 
TRAVEL 
·spend the summer in Europe. ·charter jets to London, Amsterdam and Paris. MOre than 40 dates available. IN­TERNATIONAL STUDENTS ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY. Also eligible for many other benefits· (railroad passes, hotel discounts, etc) For information call Frank 233-8142 
Want to take a trip to EUROPE thi~. summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the IJATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS 1\ND SAVE! Approx. 60 dates wailable for round trips betw. London md N.Y. this summer for $245. From London connect to any of 50 Europear :ities at discount fares. For example: 
.on don, Paris: $12.60, London Am­sterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich $15.00 Zurich Rome $20.00 Many othet benefits (travel passes, hotet discounts, etc.) Also available 
•!lay flights,· one-way flights i$125), Return on any date, ,-eachers, students, and immediate family eligible, group rates. For info and application call Tom 282­2250, 5-10 P.M. Mon.-Fri. 
Refunds for the cancelled Freshman Dunes Trip will be given out this week. Bring your tickets to Room 221 Howard or Room 372 Dillon. 
SERVICES 
Crypt-New Hours f2:30 . 4:00 Now on stock Hendrix · Cry of Love -$3.60 Cat Stevens-Tea for Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection­$3.10 Mountain Nantucket Sleighride 
Mail Contributions for the medical aid center of Quang Naito Box 626, Notre Dame Indiana. The Refugees need help. Please con­tribute to the Refugee Aid Program. 
Refrigerators: All  COr\ilpact  cool  
units will  be  picked  up t.oday  and  
Friday  from  noon-4.  Plepse  have  

someone around to let us P,ick it up. Dick 6723 All organizatior.s must be charted through the University for the coming academic year. Register in the Services Commission: 4th Floor La Fortune, Afternoons. 
Call 7757 
SINGLE? COLLEGE GRAD? Meet others. Join the CAC's for social, recreational, or cultural activities. Write: Catholic Alumni Club. P.O. Box 2171 South Bend, 
Met Club Baggage Truck to New York City area. Dropoffs in West­chester and Long Island on May 19. For info: 426 Zahm 6-7 p.m. or 8417 anytime. 
HELP WANTED 
~ewl y formed waterbed company wants campus representatives for hottest selling item in states. Good commissions for a few hours work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. Write: Lightrays Designs, Inc. Love sleep water beds division 3727 'Milnut St. Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 Pr (:all: (215) 349-9330. 
quy AND SELL For Sale Maxi White Sheepskin Coat . Small. 
Call 272-4709 
Must Sell: Ampex sterec. cassette deck full-length Afghanis1an coat 289-1861. . 
High quality Kanekelon wigs for sale. Clearing stock. 1 for $20, 2 for $30. Call 234-5605 after 6 p.m. Weekdays. 
For Sale Loft-Second floor. Extras. Shown by appointment. 6963 
For Sale Nikon F with meter, flash, tripod, ($250). Call 1081. 
by Greg Einboden Observer Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's rugby team traveled to Charlottesville, Virginia, this past weekend and participated in the Virginia Tournament, where they managed a fourth place finish in the eight team field. The Irish were hurt by a rash of injuries and some untimely penalites as they dropped two of the three game set. 
Saturday morning, the ruggers took on Brown University and escaped with an overtime 22-17 verdict. The win proved costly, however, for the Irish. Jim Hagenbarth, who scored twice in, the early going, broke his shoulder late in the game and sat out the remainder of the tour­nament. Bill Berry was also hurt, sustaining a broken nose, 
. but stayed in the game. 
American Revolution, Menard­American Constitutional, Norling-Europe since 1920, sz. cczesniak-Russia, Colliegiate Seminar; Also many others. Call 
Wooden Bookcase for sale. Easily dissassembled. $6 Call Carl -8883 
Martin Classical Guitar, Model 00­18C Excellent Condition, Call Tom, 234­1969. 
HOUSING 

For rent-_ June 1-Sept 1. 3 bedroom 
home -excellent condition & location, air conditioned, dish washer, fur­nished, carport $125 a month-call 8100 or 8229 after 8 p.m. 
Summer Apart. for Rent. Near Campus, air conditioned. 1 bedroom. Call Terry 288-1120 
For rental. Summer.June, July, August. Near N.D. 4 Bedrooms, utilities. Furnished: $150 per month pi us refundable deposit. Call 287-1777. After 5:30. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost · Chaminade School Ring initials EJC. Call Ed 1735 
Lost: Gold Timex watch with black band; also meal card. In or around Stepan last Sat. night. Please call 3460. 
RIDES 
Need Transportation? We need 
drivers for new cars being ship;:>ed 
to: Boston, New York, 
Philadelphia, Washington, 
Carolina's, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, 
Cleveland, Cincinatti, Memphis, 
Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, 
Denver, Phoenix, Salt Lake City, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, and vicinities. Take your things home! You pay gas and tolls. Must be 21. Call Brian Furey, 283-3651. 
AUTOMOTIVE 
1962 VW Bus, newly rebuilt engine, highway condition, seats remove if camper desired, dune buggy rear­end later on; Call: Calhoun 283­
7274, days. 

On Saturday afternoon, the ruggers played against the University of Virginia, the eventual tourney runners-up, and lost20-0. Club vice president Charlie Blum was disappointed with the team effort, noting that it was by far the team's worst performance of the season. 
On Sunday, the Irish took an early 5-3 lead but couldn't hold it as Army whipped them 9-5. Chuck Petrosky was the in­dividual star of the contest, scoring ND's only try of the game. Phil Clandria followed Petrosky's score with a beautiful conversion kick that gave the ruggers their short-lived lead. But the Cadets roared back on three penalty kicks to deny the Irish a third place finish. The Irish, playing without the ser­vices of a number of their veterans, were hurt by several 
1959 TR-3. Excellent condition, ne 
gattery, generator, regulator, tires, !Bnd more. Price to sell $650. Call 232­'4896 or 272-2568. 
1966 VW Bus-Factory rebuilt, best installed -Call 234-0225. 
For Sale Honda 160 Scrambler, Good condition. Reasonable Price. Call 7279 
For Sale '67 Honda 305 Scrambler, Excellent Condition. $350 
Call 232-1860 

-------------­
PEANUTS PERSONAL 

Maldita Loca: Luck in finals. Be good. Miss U!!! 
Notre Dame "Men" You've made us what we are today... SMC's. Sincerely, Susie, Christy, 5228 
To SMC Champs Holy Cross Football Team, We love you all. The Coaches 

S&C . Your insipid attempt at pungency seems the product of a humdrum intellect. You two must. indeed, be "typical". -Bill 3386 
Mary-Remember .An Toastal. Teaching Matrons shouldn't be 
Out so late on weeknights. I lost the "race." Call 283-1179 Mike 

RATES  
.....  1doy  2­ ,,_  .....  ....  
0-10  ...  :n;  1.00  1.15  1.20  
11·115  .80  1.00  ,..  1.75  ~"  
11-20  ·"'  1.16  1.70  2AO  2.00  
21·215  ...  1.'1B  2.00  2.90  lAB  
:zt.JQ  1.00  ...  235  lAO  4.10  
31-3!1  1.20  1.90  2.10  3.85  4.70  
30-40  1~5  2.10  3.10  ..,.  5.10  
41·41  1.50  2~0  330  ....  ....  
..~.  1.76  2.00  uo  4.76  ....  

Blum praised the work of Hagenbarth, Petrosky, Joe Dugan, and Tom Loftus. The injury situation did allow some of the underclassmen to pick up some needed experience. 
The ruggers will travel to Chicago this Saturday for the season finale against the Chicago Lions. 


Soccer team romps past John Carroll 
Led by Jafar Moghadam and Amir Riarry, who scored two goals apiece, and the shutout goaltending of Carl Straub, the Notre Dame soccer club thumped John Carroll, 7-0, last Saturday in Cleveland . 
Mike Fitzgerald, a freshman, opened N.D.'s scoring barrage by booting home a shot from the left wing. Moghadam and Gary Troy also scored goals in the first half, to give the Irish a 3-0 advantage at halftime. 
Notre Dame continued to dominate the action in the final stanza. Riarry, who had picked up an assist in the first half, scored his two goals and added another assist in the second half. Jafar and Chris Hanlon also put the ball into the John Carroll net to give Notre Dame their 7-0 triumph. 
The game was highlighted by the excellent passing and shooting of the Irish and by the tight defense shown by fullbacks Bruce Graves, Dick Seryak, and Mike Farrelly. 
The Irish hooters will be in 
action again this Saturday, 
facing the U. of Cincinnati in a 
game which will be broadcast on 
local Cincinnati TV and radio. 
~ 
That's all she wrote ... Night Editor: Jerry Lutkus Trusty Staff: Mary Chris Morrison, Jim Roe, Dan Barrett, Ken Kampman Compugraph: Bill Clemency Knight Controllers: Jim McGrath, Mark Neidericorn Good Night, Irene 
~ 

Tuesday, May 11 
8:30 PM in the ACC Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 2.50 On Sale at Student Union Ticket Office, dining halls, 
& ACC 


ND-SMC Theatre 
presents 
The Musical Comedy Smash 
Boot<, Music and Lynes by LIONEL BART 





OLIVE 


!\layJ, 6, 7, 8at8:30 pm. May 2 :•t 2:30 pm. O'Laughlin Auditorium. $2.00 Tickets. Information: 284-4176. 
Wednesday, May 5, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Irish win three; end loss skein 

by Jim Donaldson walking three. The victory was Observer Sports Editor his third of the season without a loss. His other two wins came in
The Fighting Irish baseball relief stints. 
team, led by the hot bat of fresh~ 
man Pete Schmidt, snapped their Notre Dame took a 2-0 lead in 
eight-game losing streak with an the first inning of play on Joe 
a 7-4 victory over Northwestern LaRocca's single, a walk to Bill 
Monday and then continued their Schoen, and a two-run double by 
winning ways by posting a sweep Schmidt. 
of a doubleheader with Hillsdale 
College yesterday, 4-1, and 16-4. Northwestern tied the score in 
the third inning, however, on aThe wins boosted Notre Dame's triple by Bob Dekas and an inside season record to 10-18. 
the park home run by John 
Schmidt, a right-handed hitting Brooks. Although the Irish disn't outfielder, went three for four handle the recovery or the relay against Northwestern and properly, Brooks' hit was scored banged out five hits in seven trips as a home run. to the plate in the Hillsdale twin 
The Irish wasted in
bill. In his last 25 at-bats, Schmidt no time 
regammg their advantage,has banged out 12 hits and has bouncing back for a pair of runscollected six walks. 
in the top of the fourth as Jim Panici and Hrabcsak rapped outThe Irish broke their loss skein RBI singles.
by pounding out 15 hits against Northwestern and getting a Northwestern closed the gap to route-going pitching per­4-3 with a run in the seventh in­
formance by sophomore right­ning. Two hits and Charlie hander Ed Hrabcsak. Hrabcsak Horan's throwing error ac­gave up ten hits to the Wildcats counted for the Wildcat tally.while striking out three and Schoen put the Irish up by two 
ND stickmen split 
by Bob Kelly quarter B.J. Bingle drove on into Observer Sports Writer the net on a pass from Lund, and this score was followed three
The Notre Dame Lacrosse minutes by another unassistedTeam split a weekend bill against goal by Lund. The first quarterthe Columbus and Cleveland ended with the Irish holding a 3-0Lacrosse Clubs, losing on 
lead.
Saturday to Columbus, 5-2 and Lund continued his assault ondefeating Cleveland 10-3 on the Cleveland goal by opening the Sunday in games behind Stepan second period scoring at 2:05 withCenter. The games were part of a another unassisted goal, and,four team tournament sponsored taking (a pass) from middie Jeffby the Notre Dame Club. Also True three minutes later, Lundincluded in the tourney was the talked the fifth Irish goal of theChicago Lacrosse Club. 
afternoon. Notre Dame'sThe Irish took the field defense, led by goalie JerrySaturday afternoon, following an Kammer, continued to shutout in8-3 Chicago victory over the second quarter, and theCleveland, against what was halftime score was Notre Dameessentially the same Columbus 5, Cleveland 0.
team that they had defeated 8-7 in Irish a eight
It took the fullsudden death at Columbus minutes in the third period before several weeks ago. But this time B.J. Bingle scored on a pass from Notre Dame fell victim to some Lund. This goal was quicklyexceptional goaltending by followed by the first ClevelandColumbus' Jay Lehr and a an score of the afternoon. Middieearly Columbus lead. 
Dave Jurusik scored next for ND 
Midfielder Les Gurran put with an unassisted goal, shortly Columbus out in front to stay with followed by another Cleveland only 3: 11 gone in the first period score. with an unassisted goal. The rest Cleveland's final score of the of the first quarter was played afternoon came at 0:48 of the evenly, although some fine work fourth period. At 7:25 in the final' was needed by the Irish to stave quarter, crease attackman Peter off Columbus while the visitors Murray picked up his fifth goal of had a man advantage during the season on a pass from Lund. three penalty situations. At 11:45 middie Rich Mullin 
Columbus scored twice in the ripped the net for ND goal second period, however, on goals number nine, on a pass from by Glen Rudy at 2:37 and Tom Lund. Lyle at 6:20 to take a 3-0 halftime Coach Rick O'Leary sub­lead. stituted freely during the fourth 
The Irish finally broke into the quarter, which was marred by scoring column at 1:29 in the five Cleveland penalties. At­third quarter on a shot by crease tackman Eddie Roche closed out attackman Joe Anderson, Notre the scoring for the Irish on a pass Dame's goal was quickly parried, from Middie Rich Marinangeli. though, by a score by Columbus' The split left the Irish with a 6-3 Ron Rybak at 5:00 in. the third record this spring. period. Twenty-two seconds later Club elections and awards were Columbus added another goal, held immediately following the Hank Douglas scoring on an game. Named as co-captains of assist from Don Bennett, which next year's squad were at­gave Columbus a 5-1 lead. Notre tackman Ed Hoban and mid­Dame made the final score 5-2 at fielder Gary Riopko. Next year's 
8:04 in the fourth period on a goal President and vice-President will by Mid-Fielder Paul Reagan on be Jim Bingle and Rich Mullin, an assist by middie Rich Mullin. respectively. The Jack Tate 
Sunday afternoon the Irish took Founder's Award for Most on the Cleveland Lacrosse club Valuable Player was awarded to and avenged the previous day's Ken Lund and the "Nappy loss by · unleashing a 10-goal Napolitans Es Spirit De Corps barrage for the fourth time this Award" was given to goalie Jerry season. Co-Captain Ken Lund led Kammer. Dave Jurusik was the attack .with four goals, and named the team's most improved­four assists, establishing a new player. career scoring record for Notre The final Lacrosse game of the Dame. season will be this Saturday 
Lund opened up the scoring against Michigan St. at East after only 1:36 of the first period. Lansing. There will be a "B" From this point on the game was team garp.e this afternoon at 3:30 never in doubt. At 8: 04 of the first behind Stepan Center. 
again, 5~3, by doubling in a run in the eighth but the Wildcats again closed to within one run in their half of the eighth on Mitch Nelson's double and two fly balls. 
The Irish, who hit safeLy in every inning but. the second, wrapped up their win with a pair of ninth inning runs. Hits by LaRocca and Horan, and an error on Dan Phelps' sacrifice bunt loaded the bases with no one out. Phil Krill was hit by a pitched ball to force LaRocca home with the first run of the frame and Rob Reschan's sacrifice fly brought in Horan with the second. 
Dekas, the second of five Wildcat pitchers, was charged with the defeat as Northwestern's record slipped to 14-14. 
The Irish had to come up with three runs in the sixth inning to win the first game of Tuesday's doubleheader but jumped out to 4-0 lead in the nightcap and were never headed thereafter. 
Singles by Rob Reschan, Pitcher Rich Eich and Schmidt had put Notre Dame on top, 1-0, in the first inning of the opener but Hillsdale tied the score in the firth on a walk, a sacrifice, and an RBI single by Dave Sacharski. 
Reschan started Notre Dame's game-winning sixth inning outburst by drawing a base on balls. Eich also drew a walk and Schmidt singled in Reschan with what proved to be the wjnning run. After a walk to Joe LaRocca, Charlie -!loran's sacrifice and 
by Vic Dorr Observer Sports Writer 
The difficulties which have recently plagued the Notre Dame golf team continued this past week, as the Irish squad com­peted in two separate in­vitationals and finished last in one and tied for tenth place in another. 
Father Clarence Durbin's team competed in the Northern In­tercollegiate Invitational at Boeing City, Michigan early in the week, and in this matchup they fell prey both to stiff com­petition and to some ragged play of their own. The Irish, with 1,552 team strokes, tied with the Wisconsin Badgers for tenth place in this match, which was primarily a Big Ten affair. Ohio State finished first with a 1,506 score and the Buckeyes were followed by Michigan State's 1,512. 
Individual honors for the Irish were grabbed by Bob Battaglia, who shot rounds of 75, 75, 74 and Dan Phelps' single gave the Irish a pair of insurance runs. 
Eich went the seven-inning distance on the hill for the Irish and recorded his first win of the year against two losses. He surrendered seven hits, walked one and struck out four. 
The Irish benefited from wildness on the part of the Hillsdale pitcher to build up a 4-0 advantage in the first inning of the second game. Tony Zappia opened the game with a walk. Schmidt followed with a single and a walk to LaRocca filled the bases. Horan drew a walk to force in a run and a sacrifice fly by Bob Roemer brought home the second marker. LaRocca and Horan scored the last two runs of the frame when they crossed the plate after wild pitches. 
Hillsdale nicked Irish starter Jim Noe for solo tallies in the second and fourth stanzas but Notre Dame wrapped up the game with another four-run outburst in the fourth inning. 
Schmidt started things off with a base hit. LaRocca followed with a walk, and Horan hit an RBI single. Roemer rapped a run scoring double and Krill com­pleted the scoring in the frame by slapping a two-run double. 
The Irish exploded for five more runs in the fifth inning. Sch­midt again opened with a single and Joe LaRocca promptly brought him home a 
73 for a 297 final. Battaglia was followed by Mike LaFrance who shot 302, and by Jim Dunn and Dennis Conroy, each of whom finished the match with scores of 320. 
After completing play in the Northern Intercollegiate match, the ND squad could hardly pause for a breather before heading into the Western Michigan In­vitational. Here again success eluded the golfers, as they finished fourth out of the four competing teams. Michigan 
State, perhaps bouyed by their second place showing at Boeing City, edged Michigan by a single stroke (379-380) to win this one round match. Host Western Michigan finished third with a score of 386, and was followed by Notre Dame's 395. 

Mike LaFrance's 75 earned him the scoring honors for ND, and Jim Dunn played his usually steady game by carding a 79. These two were followed in fairly close order by Chuck Voelker's 81 and Chris Byrd's 84. 
330-foot round tripper over the left field fence, his first collegiate homer. Horan followed LaRocca's blast with a single but the next two batters were retired. Tom McGraw kept things going though, drawing a walk. 
Reschan plated Horan with a double and pinchitter Tommy O'Connor's single brought home the fourth and fifth runs of the inning. 
The Irish continued their assault on the beleaguered Hillsdale pitching staff in the sixth inning, chalking up three more runs. Gary Mayer drove in the first run of the inning with a double, after Bob Bixby had reached base on an infield error. Then Tom Hansen, a freshman making his first varsity ap­pearance, wrapped up the Irish scoring for the day by clouting the first pitch thrown to him 350 feet over the left field fence. Hansen's homer was a line drive shot. 
Mark Pittman relieved Noe on the mound for Notre Dame in the sixth inning and gave up Hillsdale's last two runs, single markers in the sixth and seventh frames. 
Noe recorded his third win in five decisions this season. 
The Irish, who have played seven games in the last five days will now be idle until Friday afternoon when they host Cin­cinnati in a 3 contest. 
The golfers will try to halt their skid this Friday, when they head to West LaFayette for the Purdue Invitational. The team will then return home Monday to wrap up the season with an invitational match on the ND course. 

Dr. Colip succumbs 
Dr. George D. Colip, 59, of 260 David St., South Bend, team physician and medical director at the University of Notre Dame, died yesterday in St. Joseph's Hospital after an extended illness. 
A specialist of obstetrics and gynecology, Dr. Colip received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from Loyola School of Medicine and he did graduate work at the U. of Pennsylvania. He completed his internship at Epworth, now Memorial, Hospital. 
Dr. Colip is survived by his wife, Phyllis, a son, George D. Jr. of Omaha, Neb., a daughter, Mrs. Richard Riggins of Muncie, Ind., a stepson, Mark F. Colip, at home, and six grandchildren. 


---------------------------------~-----­
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, May 5, 1971 

there's a difference W 0 U l D Y 0 U 

JORDAN LIKE TO OWN A NEW FORD ON GRADUATION? 
Come to Jordan Ford 

12~000 war protesters arrested 
c t· d f e 1) Eleven A.M. was a high point of legal arrest procedures must be 
( Qn mue rom pag . Th h d h t followed accordmg to the law. 
floor, c_hanting anti-war slogans tensiOn. e t ousan & t. a Tlie mood-of the 4-6 thousand as pohce Army M p 's and refused to be processed, fearmg d tl b"tt
' · · ' · · 1 d ·-t th emonstrators was over y 1 er
Federal marshalls covered them crimma recor s, sa on e d p 1" from the surrounding stands basketball floor and hymmed the an angry· 0 ICe d abn­
-d fl . . -Buddhist "Om" as riot police and nouncements were greete yT
ens10n an ymg rumors filled 1 d f h ts that the air of the athletic hall, as military poli~e filed down to the ~~~c~~~e m!~s~f;e~yc a~nseveral most youths again refused to be floor, club m hand. Lawyers t" A fl t b d t 
processed. interrupted by attempting to u~es. a was urne a ?ne explain the legal situation for pom~. _I_VIany spok~ of the 1m­ACCOUNTING MAJORS those that agreed to be processed possibihty of !lon-v1olent chan~e, and the consequences of refusing an~ some pomted to ~he pohce
1/5 OF CPA'S IN USA 

to be fingerprinted. actions as cause for vwle!l~ ac-
ARE FORMER STUDENTS OF 
A half-dozen Notre Dame tio~s in the future. Military
Becker CPA Review Course 
. police-many of whom I spoke
stu?ents were among ~hose m the to-were sympathetic to the anti-
and ask for our special 
Col!seu~. Several slipped past war movement but extremely P?h~e lmes to freedo~, c?n-f ed f tanding guard at the 
--------------------vmcmg M.P.'s and police with Ir. 0 s
plan for graduating seniors 
different stories, and thereby Coliseum.
STUDY SlWND~ 
avoid disclosing the potentially
IMPROVE GRADES In retrospect, the five days in
incriminating arrest in-Washington seem Kafka-esque.
TII~"S~::::·~~~~~ ~~fm~~~";f,.1• ' formation. Other Notre Dame
USE STUDY SOU1: 'JS 

The city clearly was not shut
vou;'cc~~~.:~~;.,~~~c;;rJ:;~u~~~ 7:'"r~;~~,"'V:.,.. students went through police 
down, and many at the Capitol
Hours: Mon.-Tues.-Thur. 9-9 
ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED 50L ~OS , processing, paid the ten dollar agreed that massive non-violentCAUSEPl~!: l,!!c;~APPW collateral, and received July trial 
Wed.-Fri.-Sat. 9-6 
action could never achieve such a
se:d T~~~kT!~;.,.;~;;·g~d.~r~PJ.~0 ~ch dates. 
goal. Whether the mass arrests in~~~~~d"c:J~.~.:~~~~". ~d :O"x'\"a"5":z The police action-was clearly
Tel. 259-1981 609 E· Jefferson Mish. 
Ch•rlottesville, VtJ. 22902 d d Washington by militant and
L---___;==~..:.:.,..;=.;.;__---4 inten e to round up all persons 
angry youths will re-energize
-------------------------...-------------,-with long hair in order to prevent 
more legal means of war protestTuesday morning's planned around the nation remains andemonstrations on the streets. 
open question as thousands ofThe District of Columbia Om­
Who is the first girl in your lzfe? 
youths straggle home or remainnibus Crime Bill allows for such in the Washington jails. 
preventive detention, though 
Mom 

Continental Hair Styling, Inc. 
Don't forget Mother's Day this Sunday. 
1321 E McKinley Hwy. 
Mishawaka, Ind. 

259-7679 
Wishes to extend their thanks to the ND Men for con­
52577 U. S. 31 NO. 
tinuing patronage, As part of our Grand Opening of New Shop to ND students on Mondays and Tues 9-5 all Hair Styles only $2.50. 

272-2966. 
Serving ND Students in all Hair Needs for over 3 years! 



·---------------------------------------F
Have a great summer 
specializing in all lengths of hair 
,-~~-~---------~~~
LIGHTWEIGHT. 
t t 
SUITS AND : OBSERVER STAFF : t t 
SPORTCOATS ft fIf. you want to come to the Observer's 'f 
Our stocks have never been 
larger ... you can select the 
style, color and fabric (even 
' ' 
the new knits) and you'll find 'f end of the year hash, It
ANNOUNCING! the price right• too. We also 
have the rest or your summer 
apparel and accessory needs. 
Jantzen knit shirts, swim ' t 
wear, etc., etc.

LADIES' ~ Come to this afternoon's ~ t t
PAY JUNE_. JULY, AUGUST

SPORTSWEAR 
1 

WHEN IT'S MORE CONVENIENTI 'f meeting at 4: 45 in the office. ft 
I 1 CORNER No interest or service charge I 
added. I t ' 
I fr ""'""'""'""'""' ""'""'_., _., _., _., _., _., _., _.,_., _., _. : It's true, now the Campus I I t NEWS STAFF t 
Shop has a very special corner 
devoted to pleasing the gals .... I ~ this meeting is for you too ! ! t 
the "new" and the "now" in 
slacks, tops, blouses short 
tr_.,,.,,.,""'~~,J/IT,J/IT ,J/IT ,J/IT~~~""'~~~,. f
shorts, panty hose and much much more. Sto_p in, browse ' The same liberarterms apply. 

~----------------) 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAMF..
---------------------------------------J 







