~------------------~----~-----------------------.----------------------------------~-------------------------------------------~l 

Govt. to watch economy after freeze 
({') 1!171 New York Times act of 1970. The act expires next the end of next year. 
Washington, Oct. 7--President April 30, but Nixon told his According to his advisers, who Nixon announced tonight that the audience that to insure victory in met with newsmen and present wage-price freeze would his fight against inflation he representatives of various in­be followed by an indefinite would ask Congress for a one­terest groups throughout the day, period of close government year extension. the task of establishing durable supervision of the economy to Nixon spoke at length tonight and equitable guidelines for limit prices, wages, rents without about the machinery that will wages and prices that command direct control on profits. develop wage-price standards widespread public support will be 
Addressing a nationwide and apply them to various left to the cost of living council television audience on phase two segments of the economy, but he and the men whom Nixon names of his economic program, Nixon said nothing about the standards to run the rest of the control said the new machinery-­themselves except to announce apparatus. effective when the wage-price his general objective to achieving freeze expires Nov. 13--would a 2 to 3 percent rate of inflation by (Conlinu!'d on pag£> 6) allow for some upward ad­justments in wages and prices. But his broad objective would be to reduce the annual rate of the cost of living to 2 to 3 per ce=tt by
President Richard Nixon: "When 
the end of 1972--or about half the 
the freeze is over, we will con­
rate that prevailed before the
Speech 
tinue our program of wage and freeze. <c) 1971 New York Times price restraint." 
"I am announcing tonight," he 
Scop~--Virtually eve~y segment of the economy, with the
said, "That when the freeze is 
exceptiOn of raw agncultural products, will be asked to
over on November 13, we shall
Fr. Chambers clarifies 
continue our program of wage comply voluntarily with standards to curtail increases in the and price restraint. We began cost of living and major industries and bargaining units will this battle against inflation for b_e required to obtain advance approval of wage or price 
the purpose of winning it. We are nses. going to stay in it until we do win Wages--Equitable improvememts in wages will be per­

positions on regulations 
Father Thomas E. Chambers, 

it." mitted after November 13 if they meet standards to be set by Director of Student Residence, a ne~ pay board representing management, labor, and the
Nixon stressed that the success
darified his position on parietal public at' large. 
of the wage-price freeze had been 
and drinking regulations l~rices and _Rents--Following the freeze, some upward
due to widespread voluntary
Thursday saying, "I believe in cooperation by the American ad~ustments_wJ~l be allowed, subject to approval of a citizen'shall autonomy, I've always price comf!!ISSJon and recommendations of a special rent
people, and that the success of
b(•Jieved in it, the people I work board. Busmesses may seek exemptions from the restraints. 
phase two would also rest on
with know I believe in it...Let the Profits--There will not ve any specific limits on allowable
voluntary compliance. 

Hall Judicial Boards handle pr_fit~, but t~ey ~ill be subject to review by the price com­
But to create what his aides
parietal and drinking violations." 
miSSion, which will have authority to seek price reductions if
called the "framework for
Chambers was upset that the needed to offset "windfall"profits resulting from the con­
voluntary cooperation," the
working model which came out of trols.
President announced his in­
an ad hoc committee chaired by tention to establish an expanded U~ion Contracts--The collective bargaining process willDavid Tushar, a senior in Moreau contmue as before, but participants in negotiations will be
control machinery backed by
Hall, was misconstrued as a asked to keep settlements within the guidlines set by the pay 
legal sanctions to set wage and
dictum on parietals and drinking board.
price standards, to review wage
in the Dorms. 
Retroactive Pay--Employees will not be eligible to recieve
and price increases in the light of
lie felt that if one is to develop a retroa~tive pay benefits for the 90 days of the freeze on wages
those standards, and to punish
confidence between the student 
Father Thomas Chambers: "Let and pnces, but wage settlements that call for retroactive pay 
offenders.

and the administration then one 
the Hall Judicial Boards handle for the period prior to Aug. 15 will be permitted. 
The President's authority to
has to put a positive trust in the 
violations." control wages and prices derives lnte~est and Dividends--The President will seek standbyhalls. His personal feeling is that Chambers said the students a·r~ from the economic stabilization ~uthonty from Comgress to impose mandatory curbs on''sanctions are unreal." 
asking for confidence and they mterest rates and will ask lending institutions to voluntarilyAsked if he thought the restrain dividends and interest.
have displayed the responsibilityTrustee's demand for sanctions Penalties--The government will rely on voluntary com­that deserves it. He was not sure 
Just a reminder that
was a reactionary desire to pliance with guidelines for fair increases, but will seek in­how long it would take the SLC to 
there will be a student
n•turn to the "order" of the 50's junctions against or impose fines on violators wherecome up with a definite proposal 
Senate meeting Monday
chambers replied, "We can't go necessary. Consumers mayh complain about possibleto present to the Trustees byt his 
night at 8 pm in the La
back." "The problem," he said, violations to any of about 360 field offices of a new service and position is , and always was, 
Fortune Amphitheatre.
"is to educate the Trustees about compliance administration whose headquarters will be in
Any and all questions will
what's gomg onb around here." 
local and regional branches of the Internal Revinue Service. 
be answered. 

~uration--The controls will remain in effect indefinitely,
Any groups wishing to 
until the government is satisified that inflationary pressures 
appeal the recent 
are under check. The President will ask Congress to extend
allocations are advised to 
for one year the authority to impose restraints which is 
contact Cass Rejent. 
scheduled to expire on April 30, 1972. '



1'-~~-w~~~~~ 
Washington-President Nixon's speech won support from business and labor leaders and congressional reaction was also generally· 
Student attacked on SMC campus
favorable. A spokesman for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. announced that organization's approval ot the program immediately after Nixon finished speaking. Some congressional democrats, however, urged An SMC student was accosted p.m. accoramg to Captain and the man fled probably due to 
the number of
more forceful control of interest rates. by an unidentified man Wed­William Parker, Director of other students in 
nesday night while walking Security at St. Mary's. the area at the time. between LeMans Hall and the St. Parker reported that the girl The girl was unharmed, and Washington --Wholesale prices declined in September by 0.4 per Mary's Library at about 10:45 was attacked by a man who was the man escaped before any
.... ' not believed to be a Notre Dame security guard arrived on the
cent, the Labor Department said. The index of wholesale industrial student. The student screamed scene, reported Parker.
prices, usually considered a more accurate measure of basic price 

"' /1r

trends, also declined. The wholesale index generally foreshadows retail price trends by about a month. St. Mary's hires women guards 
London --Great Britian sent 1,500 more army troops to Northern 
by Maria Gallagher perimental basis, and are
Ireland, raising to 13, 500 the number of men there. The action SMC has recently hired four responsible women who are wellfollowed a meeting between the prime ministers of Britian and Nor­
female security guards for aware of the problems of a thern Ireland on security measures in the embattled province. The dormitory and partol guard duty women's college campus." additional troops will be used to strengthen control of the border as a part of the expanded campus One hall director commented 
lwtween Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic. security system this year, ac­that the girls might feel they are cording to Silliam Parker, not receiving adequate protection l'aptain of security. if there is not a man in the hall.
United Nations -The United States Two-China policy lost ·another 
"The duties of the female But Mrs. BPtty Edwill, one of theround at the United Nations when Ireland announced that she would no guards will be the same as those new officers, expects littleelonger support the effort to save nationalist China's seat. In the past, of the male guards," Parker difficulty and fellt that if unusual 
Ireland had been a leading advocate of the policy of giving both said "They have been hired circumstances arise, additional Chinese governments a seat. on a permanent. not an ex-guards are always nearby. 



---~-~~ ------~---~---~-----------------­
Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Friday, October 8, 1971 
Prof. Pelikan relates Luther to modern world 
by Marlene Zloza 

The study of Martin Luther in relation to the "new world" specifically the United States was developed Thursday night i~ a lecture by Yale University Professor Jaraslac Pelikan. 
Speaking in the Little Theatre, Professor Pelikan returned to SMC to inaugurate the Humanities Studies Lecture Series of 1971. A distinguished author and teacher, Pelikan recieved his PhD from the University ofChicago, and is presently professor of Literary Studies at Yale. 
Pelikan first pointed out the connection between Luther's famous petition to the Church in 1517 and the discovery of the Western Hemisphere during that 
me period. He developed this to encompass the "mutual significance of Luther's thought spective in realizing that man and the AZmericn spirit." must do his own believing as he 
He stressed that various does his own dying. Catholic monarchs of the 16th In a more contemporary vein century felt the new world was Pelikan discussed th~ the place "God made available" significance of the great amount after the reformation, for the of Luther's writings that have church to regroup and colonize been translated into English and and where the gospel could strive are available for American in freedom. students to examine. He stated 
Luther, Pelikan noted, had that these works "can help profound individualistic per-Americans better understand the creation of nature." In relation to ecology ,Pelikan feels Americans "regard nature 
as a mine to be looted instead of a

Attica builds to eruption of violence 
.. The following was prepared by Joseph Lelyveld, Francis X. Clines. Michael T. Kaufman, and James M. Markham, members of the New York Times Reporting Staff' This the fourth of a five­part series. 
For the first [ime, he made the observers sign waivers relieving the state of any responsibility for their death or injury in the yard. 
It had been more than 16 hours since any observers were in the yard and the inmates were edgy. The leaders were still eloquent on the theme of unity, but back in the crowd fears of reprisals wereovercoming the thin hope for tangible gains. 
Resentments surfaced and as Eve feared, these resentments focused on the observers and the reference to them in the com­missioner's statement. 
Instead of carrying out their earlier resolutions to be brutally candid with the prisoners about the military preparations now actively underway outside, the frightened observers allowed themselves to be swept along into an emotional discussion-~me that had more to do with the reveries of desperate men in confinement than any negotiable proposals for reform. 
"How many tickets are you going to be able to get?" a prisoner asked, resurrecting the demand for passage to a "non­imperialistic country." 
"As many as we can," Eve retorted to the cheers. 
Picking up the theme, Kunstler began : "There are four third world and african country people across the street from this prison prepared to provide asylum for everybody who wants to leave." In fact, he was referring to Black Panthers from New York, led by Afeni Shakur, who had awakenend him that morning at the Treadway Inn in nearby Batavia. 
The negotiations leading to the visit and the visit itself had consumed three hours. By the time the observers left the yard, rain had begun and the light was failing. There could be no assault until morning. 
"We have given the com­missioner our answers and the next move is up to him," Brother Richard said to the departing observers. "Anything that results will be the result of the com­missioner moving, not us." 
Earlier that afternoon, a guard watching D Block which was entirely in rebel hands, saw an inmate he recognized appear at the third-floor window. 
As the account has since been 
repeated by prison officials, the 
guard heard the inmate shout: 
"They're cutting my throat!" 
The inmate was Kenneth Hess, a convicted robber and one of the three men arrested by the rebel leadership on Friday. As the guard watched, so the account goes, Hess then climbed down to the second story on bars that run vertically along the fadce of the building. There he was grabbed and pulled back into the cellblock. 
Monday morning his body was found there with more than 30 stab wounds and his throat cut. Nearby were the bodies of Barry Schwartz and Privatera, the convicted murderer, showing the same pattern of multiple wounds. It was an unusual pattern, ac­cording to Dr. Michael Baden, Assistant Medical Examiner in New York who inspected the bodies--a pattern that is generally associated with a certain kind of psychopathic rage. 
Reports in the prison later attributed the slaying of Hess and Schwartz--an alleged informer­to an attempt on their part to smuggle a message out to prison officials. This account, which goes on to describe a group of executioners, explains neither the unusual pattern of wounds nor the death of Privatera. 
As originally drawn up, the plan for Monday morning called for an assualt with no further warning to the inmates. The hope was to exploit the element of surprise to minimize loss of life among the 38 hostages who, the authorities werer convinced, had only the slimmest chance of survival in an assualt. 
"There was absolutely no doubt in anyone's mind that if we went in there, the guards would be killed," declared assemblyman Clark Wemple, who had driven Oswald to Batavia the n;ght before and had been present for some of the final strategy sessions. 
What finally outweighed this grim assessment were the 
conviction among the authorities ~::::::!!!!!!!!!~~~~~!!!!!~~!!!!!~!'!!~~====~=~!!!~ 
ac-D l & So
tha they had exhausted all 
ceptable options, a fear that the Attica. rebellion could become epidemic in prisons throughout the state and Nation, and the insistence of the tormented guards and townspeople that the time had come to "get it over 
with."

Finally, with Dunne arguing 
that the inmates had to be given a last chance to free the hostages, a decision was taken to reissue 
Sunday's ultimatum, this time wit)1 a short one-hour time limit. The ultimatum gave no hint of 
the type of force that was about to 
(Continued on page 8) 
The 12:00 Deadline "500" 

Starter: Nite Editor Joe Abell read copy), Ken Wright, Maria Announcer: Ass't Nite Editor Gallegher, Jim Donaldson,(who Jack Frischorn also edits sports sometimes),
Rick Nauman, Pat Kenny, Hellen
Passengers-Baggage: Layouters Patty Abell, Noli Kane, Peggy Smudski,and Jerry and AT (for Lawlor, Susan Prendergast, Ann their concern)Smith, and Marlene Zloza (they'll 
Stadium Electricians: Jacksof­
work yet!) 
all-trades Glen Corso, Joe Abell,
Driver: features editor rick Jim McDermott, Mike Murphy,smith (Old Parnelli himself) Joe Cotrell, Dan Thornton Pit Crew :: Visitors Gredg Checkered Flagman: nite con­
Rowinski & Jim Roe (who also troller mark niederkorn 

PHO PHS James Rayme Moreau Gallery, Sf. Mary's College 
Oct. 10 -Nov 4 Sunday Evening Oct. 10
RECEPTION 
7-9 pm. 


CONTINENTAL HAIR STYLING 
1321 E. McKinley Hwy. Mishawaka, Ind. 
259-7679 Sy Appointment Only 
SERVING NO MEN FOR PAST 
4 YEARS IN ALL HAIR NEEDS. 
Specializing in Long Hair Look 

SHAGS, EUROPEAN LAGER CUTS 
Student Rates Mondays & Tuesdays 
Complete Style $250 Includes Shampoo 

friend to be cherished. We should think of the earth not as our mother, but as our sister who must be respected. Our zeal for nature must be rescued from the sentimentalsim it lends itself to and the cynicism that follows upon any sentimentalism." 
Pelikan emphasized that Luther would have learned from the idea of people governing themselves, in contrast to the ideas of tyranny and anarchy. In the year 1971, Pelikan concluded there is a great need for a Luthe; 
revolution in thE:! "n<'W ,. orld. ·' 

roon e ng
:I' 
CAMPUS FOLK ARTISTS Alumni Hall Lounge This Friday
9 00 2 00 
: -. : 2nd 8 jg Week 
Refreshments 25c Admission Everyone Welcome 
MAIN CHURCH 





SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Bernard Clark, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Donald Martin, S.J. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. James Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
(P.S. Vespers-7:00p.m. ' Sun. thru Thurs., Lady Chapel of Main Church). 
!=========================~ 
"An instant classic. It has a hammer-lock on history, performance, pathos and rooting interest!" -A.rcherWinsten. l'l.Y. Post 
"A perfect mo'lie ... R1chard Burton ruthless, charming, crafty, horny,· stubborn, wily and romantic ... Genevieve Bujold a young woman tlirty, stubborn, wily and coquettish. They're great 
together!" 
Cosmopa!ltan 
Magazine 

RICHARD BURTON 
.. HE:-IRY VU! 

GENEVIEVE BUJOLD 
.u t.NNt: BOL.t"YN 
IN THE R..u. WALLIS PRODUCTION 


i.Azme<ft/ze tflousarz~ 
SUNDAY 
2:00, 7:00,9:45 

Knights of Columbus 

Friday, October 8, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page3 


Citizens appear on WSND: give opinions of 'Hair' 
by Lyn Leone 
WSND's program, "Contact," featured a panel of concerned Americans against the production of "Hair" in the South Bend community later this month. 

AGUIDE IN THE ARTOF LOVE! 
~~ EASTMANCOLOR I • TIMES FILM REl'AS£ 
----IFillA1WS lllYll---­
1. D. Required!!! 
Guests on the panel were George H. Rodenbaugh, Chairman of the Indianapolis Chapter of the American Com­mittee for Decency, Dr. Helen N. Calvin, chairman of the St. Joseph's County Chapter, and Judge John Gonas and Pastor Scott Weaver, co-Chairmen of the St. Joseph's County chapter. Their goal is to "stop public nudity, flag desecration, and sexual promiscuity." 
Their slogan is taken from the words of J. Edgar Hoover; "the 
Happiness is Buying Jewelry at the Thieves Open Sat. and Sun Only Market U. 33 Mishawaka. 
overpaying for the records you buy. Guaror 
factory-fresh records by original artists o 
labels at unbelievably low prices. W not a record club. There is no obligation c kind. fait shipment of all orders. 
___________ CUT HERE. _________ 
Superstar Records, Inc. Dept. 166 
210 E. 23 St., New York, N.Y. 10010 
Please checlc boxes lor Jelections 
Our Price List 

0 1 Who/Wilt's Nut . 2.19 5.11 0 2 Carole Kine/Tapestry . . ... 2.19 5.91 0 3 Moody Blues/ /Every Good Boy 2.19 5.91 0 4 Paul & Linda McCartney'Ram . 2.19 5.11 
0 5 ~~~. s!'s:~~Every Picture ,
2.99 5 91 0 6 Black Sabbath/Moster ot Reality 2.11 5:91 ' 0 7 lahn lonnon/lm11lno . .2.19 5.91 0 1 Joffonan Allllllnt/llrk . 2.11 5.91 0 9 Jesus Christ Superstar (2 LPs) 5.99 11.91 0 10 James Gone/Live In Concert. . 2.19 5.91 0 11 Beach Boys/Surt's Up . . 2.41 4.91 0 12 Poto/From the Inside . . . . 2.11 S.ll 0 13 Grateful Dead (2 Lp's) . . . . . 4.19 9.91 014 10 Years After/Space In Time . 2.11 5.91 0 15 The Band/Cahoots . . . . . . . . . . . 2.19 5.11 Add 50-pstg., hdlg., insur., for 1st LP and 35-for each odditionol LP. NY residenh add soles tax. Enclosed is $.,----­cosh, check, M. 0. (no COD) 
Nome 

Address City ..... Stole Zip .. 
Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '72 Season Schedule 
Od. !1, 10 ()(ot. 2:1, 2·1 Od. 27, 21! Nov. I, 2 Nov. 15-1!1 
15 16 17 II! 1!1 
Dt'c. 10, II Jan. 21!, 2!1 Ft'b. 7-11 
7 I! !I 10 II 
Ft'b. 12, 1:1 Ft'b. 1!1, 20 Feb. 27, 21! Mar. -1, 5 Mar. I:1-17 
13 J.l 15 
IIi li 
A11r. 7, I! Ap1·. 22, 2:\ May. fi, 7 

"Z" "(irand Illusion" "Man Who Lies" "Lt' Dt•aprt" Easlt'rn Europt'an Festival "Sign of tht' \"irgin" "Lovt' Affair" "Tht' Peach Thief" "lnitmate Lighting" "('rant's Are Flying" "Mandabi" "l>t'stroy, Sht' Said" llndt'rground-Expt'rimental Shorts Shorts "Trash" "(iret'tings" Shorts "The Hitual" "Black Orpheus" "Harren Lives" "Mt'dia" Ft'llini Festival 
.. H,:!" "Juliet of the Spirits" "I Vitonelll" "La Strada" "La Oolct' Vita" "Lt• Bonlwur" <Happiness "Wt't'kend" "Hist• of Louis XIV" 
Ft'stival 

Patron cords will be available on Friday Oct. 8 at the dining halls and Sot. and Sun. at the door. Price $6 
community can be anything its citizens want it to be." 
The panelists were disturbed that anyone over 18 could be admitted to see "Hair." As Dr. Calvin put it, "This is dangerous, because children are much more sexually aroused than adults." 
Of the members of the panel, Rodenbaugh was the only one who saw the musical. He found it to stand for everything that is "anti-american." 
Excerpts from the musical were not read to illustrate the point made by thee panel, mainly because of the threat of violating FCC regulations. 
Weaver stated that he could see no reason for allowing "Hair" to do in public what is personal and private in the home. He stated, "The body can be beautiful, because God made the body in his 
own  image,  but  man  has  
desecrated  what  God  has  
created."  
Rodenbaugh  said  that  the  

principles of Americanism were at stake and th<lt. bringing "Hair" to South Bend would "drive the community to the gutter." He further stated that the com­munity would be "paying for this filth," since 75 percent of the proceeds are pocketed by the touring company. He also said 
.r'f 

Last Gasp films 
change location 
Dr. William Wernz, coor­dinator of St. Mary's Last Gasp Film Festival, announced that tonight's film and the films shown on the next four con­secutive Fridays will be screened in Carrol Auditorium of Madeleva Hall. Previously the festival was presenting its films in the Little Theatre. 
The movie to be shown tonight will be "No Exit" by Sartre. 
Next Friday, the festival will present "Two Daughters", an Indian film directed by S. Ray. 
that he just did not want "another showing of "Hair", but they feel 42nn and Broadway" here in that it is the responsibility of South Bend." local officials to see the 
When asked to define por­production and then prosecute nography, Rodenbaugh quoted the company for breaking the from the Roth Supreme Court law. decision of May, 1957, which has Dr. Calvin feels that having been upheld for 13 years: "taken people see this musical will serve as a whole, if the material con­to further her cause. "Let them travenes the moral community see it," she said,"and they will standards it is considered ob­feel what I feel. They will then be scene." welcome to join our committee This group will not prevent the for decency. 
Campus News Notes 
Concert Complaints 
Last evening's Student Social 
Comission Concert in LaFortune 
Center was marred by com­
plaints concerning violations of 
building regulations. 

Brother Gorch, manager of 
LaFortune, complained that 
there was open drinking during 
the concert, in direct violation of 
the building's rules against 
comsumption of alcoholic 
beverages. He stated that he 
picked up four beer bottles during 
the time he was at the concert. 
Other violations included the 
bringing of soft drinks to the 
concert and the smoking of 
cigarettes. Brother Gorch ex­
plained that spilled soft drinks 
and ground cigarettes butts 
damage the hardwood floor. The 
floor cannot be cleaned by 
scrubbing the floor, but requires 
a special wax. 

Brother Gorch stated that he 
received little cooperation from 
those in charge of the concert in 
preventing these violations. He 
said that in future Student Union 
activities there must be greater 
cooperation on the part of the 
Social Commission in preventing 
a recurrence of these actions. 

Soph Parents Weekend 
The Sophmore-Parents weekend is scheduled for the weekmend of October 30, 

NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
You're Invited 



NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL OPEN HOUSE 
Saturday, Ck:tober 9, 1971 
Law Building beginning at 9:30a.m. 
law As A Professton LSA T Exam --What lt Means, What It Is 
How To Take It Legal Educational Opportunities In The U.S. Program At Notre Dame L3w School Notre Dame's Admission and Scholastic Policy Legal Educational Methods Career Opportunities In law 

KICKOFF PARTY 
beginning at 5:30, immediately following the Navy game. 
Tickets to the buffet dinner will 

be on sale in the dining halls 
Monday, October 11, through 
I<'riday, October 15. 
Those who have bought tickets in advance may also pick them up at the dining halls. 
The $6.50 ticket price includes all you can eat and an after­dinner talk by basketball coach "Digger" Phelps. 
The purpose of the sophmore­parents weekend, according to Mike Sherrod, sophmore class president, is to provide a com­mon experience for sopnmores and their parents, and to provide an exclusively-sophmore ac­tivity. 
"It is one of the few op­portunities in our ND experience to get together with classmates, and for uor parents to meet one another." 
The class has reserved over 

two hundred rooms for parents at 
hotels in town. For the most part, 
plans are in the final stages. 
NO to be on TV 

The Notre Dame campus on a football weekend will be por­trayed on the Channel Seven <WIS l Chicago news next Thursday and Friday, October 14­15, at 6 P.M. 
ABC television crews visited the campus for two days over the weekend of the Northwestern game, filming interviews with students, and visitors, and various campus dignitaries, reported Mr. Jay Kane, Assistant Director of Information Services. 
"The crews attempted to capture the color and excitement af Notre Dame on a big football 
weekend," said Mr. Kane. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Friday Oct 15 9am-1 am South Bend Armory $5°0 per couple tickets at door music by FRIENDS,BROTHERS,AND STRANGERS 

REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED 
special busses will leave the ND circle at 8:30, 9:00 and 9:30. Five minutes later from St. Mary's. 





4 BIG 
DAYS 
Go~d thru Monday 
October 11, 1971 
List 6.98 



STEREO TAPES 
St~ppe~wolf BeeGees For Ladies Only l.l Trafalgar 



Friday, October 8, 1971 THE· OBSERVER ,'Paoe s 
wednesday, october 13 
things as they might be 



i·~·;z , 
. ' 
t 
"j 


[. • 
-. 
MUG aa 4 I 
" :.~ .•' • •-.• ,. 
·: ''"' • '. , ......,, ·. .. "( 
~1 ·L..;. i'~.,..-!\ _!_... •i.'.L ,.;,
IIII~UIIr..-wa···c:-1~'""-.. --~>!W"--­
!'!!;..._ 
..J.. 
. ; 
~ 
·~ 
..,. 4IIIIL • -• • •. 
~ 

October 15, 1!169-a protest against death, an affirmation of life Draft Counseling will be there -· ------------"Know Your Subversives" will be there russell baker I<'eminist movement will be there Psychiatric Help 5 cents will be there
• Coffee will be there Music will be there


fad 1n catastrophe 
Jane Kennedy will be there 
<Cl 1971 New York Times Washington,-Some days it seems that (•verybody is in love with catastophe. The imminent destruction of the country is forecast casually over hamburgers. Unless, of course, certain conditions are met. "I'm telling you here and now that unless something is done, and done quickly, about the quality of hamburger rolls in this country, America is going to be destroyed." 
"If America dies, where will we bury it?" Inquires an advertisement placed in Life Magazine by the American Medical Association. The A.M.A. is worried about pollution, ecology and such because, as doctors of medicine, a sick environment can make people sick, or something like that. The message of the ad doesn 'tmatter; it's just that it's odd to see 
the staid old nineteenth century A.M.A. falling so easily into the popular swinging 
==~;~g~\~:?:8S::::::~}:~=~~Zb=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:==========================: 
the observer 
::::::::t~~::~~::;~::~j:;:!:~t~~=t~~~~~f~ft:f=~~j:j~~ 
on our faces so calmly predicting the destruction of the Republic? Or have we taken it up as a social pasttime only since the bot speech of the late, great 196o's made it so trendy to discuss politics in terms of burning the country down, blowing the country up, kicking the Congress in the shins, and in general, making revolution. revolution, revolution? 
All this talk about revolution has to be handled with sterilized tongs. The people who indulge in it so often make revolution sound like a really fun happening, sort of ·w evening at Truman Capot's. ' Whatever the reason, when the A.M.A. joins the chatter about the dying of America it is obvious that the con­templation of national catastrophe has arrived as a fact of fashion to be coped 
w1·thso: let us imagine that some condition of survival has not been met-that America bas not ·•solved" its race problem, has not stopped air pollution, has not restrained lbe piratical impulses of industry or labor, has not heeded the advice of its citizens under 21, has not, in short, done one of the million things the catastrophe folks say is essential to its survival. 
If we take the catastrophe talk at face value, we may now anticipate destruction of the country. The prospect sounds dreadful--so dreadful, in fact, that it is politively titillating, which may explain the popularity of catastrophe as a con­versation piece. 
The reality, however, is rather dull, even routine. Talk about the country being destroyed induces visions of slam-bang movie endings-Samson pulling down the temple, John Wayne wiping out the entire army (enemy, of course). Ev; thunder followed by echo, then dust, then silence. 
But this is not what happens when real countries are really destroyed. It is the imagery of movies, melodrama, television. We scare ourselves by sitting in the dark contemplating the possibility that we may not, after all, solve America's mass-transportation problem and that---. 
Thunder! Fantastic explosions of lights, followed by terrifically appropriate background music--just like "2001': ---~nd then this really moving silence which fills the whole theater. And America has got what she deserved, we think, although we are very moved, very affected. And then we get up and leave the theater because the show is over, and the country destroyed, and we have to remem~er to pick up a quart of milk somewhere m the debris on the way home. 
The country probably is being destroyed right this moment. Certainly a good bit of 
it has been destroyed over the past 30 years and an awful lot of it was destroyedbefor~ that. In fact, destruction of the country probably goes on pretty regularl:y, even during the decades when nobo_dy IS sitting around predicting it. Destruction ?f a country is probably unspectacular m most stages. Most of the events that later were seen, cumulatively, to have been the fall ?f Rome would have made very dull movies. . , The_ same is true for the destruction of Amen~a. _Those of us who no lofolger laugh enthusiastically about l~mbago JO~e~ have already seen depressmg quantities of destruction. Where is the country ~f the two-pants suit? Destroyed. Where IS the land of the Brooklyn Dodgers? Destr~yed. Destroy~ with the much later America of the Washmgton Senators. . . . Where is the extroverted optimistic country that Franklin Roosevelt led off. to war in 1941? Destroyed. D_estroyed :-vith the country that adored movies by Loms B. Mayer, admired gangsters, suspectedt­banker~. Well, change .de~troys everythmg, even whole ~ountnes If you give it enough time, butt\ IS not often ve~y good melodrama, and when you reduce lL lo understatement--"change destroys everything soone~ or later_. even coun­tries" --the banality of the Idea thund~rs louder than the closeout ?fa DPM1lle epi~. And day after day, whi.le the roof f~lls m all around us •. we go nght on ~ryi~g to remember to p1ck up a quart of m1lk on the way home. 

The Peoples' Coalition, the same group that sponsored the nation-wide Moratorium in October of 1969, has named Wednesday, Oct. 13, as the day for this year's Moratorium. 
In 1969 Notre Dame responded with a rally, a march, and a Mass for Peac~. The program for this .wednesd~r will. ~e "Things as They Might Be, and It IS sponsored by the Program on Non­Violence and the Campus Ministry. 
Purpose; Provide a forum for the discussion of various topics; an informal learning experience where people get together and express and share ideas. 
Time: Wednesday, Oct. 13 Noon -4:00 PM Events, games, and discussions 4·00-5:00 Speakers: Jane Kennedy and 
Margaret Traxler 
5:00 -Mass for Peace, Fr. Bill Toohey, main celebrant 
Place: South Quad <Stepan Center if it 
rains) 
·-----· What Will He There: 500 Balloons (like with Helium) will be there 
·.,.,. • ·•""' 4 ·. • • . kNOw ROTC will be there · • .~ • , ~ ' . · InPrig will be there 
•. ~L_:.. ,e"-!...' • ... "' ..: "',;.l~ L~ Pollution (c~p the steam plant 
tJ;&o;. ·--~• ·• ~ smokestack) will be there 
Margaret Ellen Traxler will be there 
For each issue to be discussed, there will be a table-booth with people to discuss "things as they might be," and provide information. Very different ways of presenting material and points of view are guaranteed! 



poems 
draft cards 

draft cards in my wallet make me nausious draft cards in a pipe wont make you high draft cards in a furnace look so lovely draft cards, thus, don't always make me cry. kiss off 
signed, 
Moonlight 

sun shine 

Sunshine on my shoulders makes me happy Sunshine in my eyes can make me cry Sunshine on the water looks so lovely Sunshine almost always makes me hi. 
have a happy day Signed, 
Sunshine 

t.j. clinton 

men of lofty ideals 
The trouble with a room with a twenty foot ceiling is that, no matter how you arrange the furniture, it never looks right. When you look up towards the ceiling, there's All That Empty Space Doing Nothing. If you have limited floor space, it's downright annoying, to say the least. Phil Conroy had the "lousiest room in Sorin last year, 104. It's thirty feet by six feet, and at least twenty feet high." He admits that he's exaggerating, but his description does give the general idea. Anyhow, he was heard to mutter " I must do something, I MUST do something" as he entered the room for the first time. He did. Taking his inspiration from the residents of the year before, he decided to construct "Sorin 's first good loft" You may remember the huge model of a soldier constructed on the south quad for the army game last year. As a result of a midnight guerilla raid, most of it wound up in room 104. The construction crew of the Life Sciences center also contributed materials, although they weren'taware of doing so. Because of the charity of these and other donors, the final cost of the loft was only twenty five dollars. Phil, knowing a good deal when he saw one, moved to room 125, and sold the "second floor" to l04's present occupants, Wals Spak and Joe Hickey. They agree with Phil that it's the lousiest room in Sorin. 
Both were overseas l!!st year, though, so there wasn't much of a choice. However, they plan to do great things with the loft. They'd like to fix it up ("We're in the loftbuilding business. You want it, we make it.")for any visitors that might stop by< "Our hours are 9 to 11 weekdays and 9 to 2 AM weekends. If anybody from the West Campus wants to see it, they're more than welcome.")' Loft building isn't confined to Sorin. Frank McLaughlin and Rich Donovan of St. Edward's are the proud possessors of the hall's only penthouse. It was sold to them by a senior who couldn't take it back toCalifornia with him. "We gave him fifty dollars for it; he was a friend of ours." The senior was an engineering student, and he designed to to hold 5,000 ..pounds, which meets all t~e safety requirements. At least that s 

what the building inspector said. There are some difficulties introduced by loft living, though. Frank and Rich have their beds on the second floor, and admit it's a pain having to go downstairs to answer the door at night. Also, the room was scheduled to be painted over the summer and, because of the loft, it was skipped. The maids won't go upstairs to make the beds. They do empty the waste-baskets and vacuum the rug once in a while. Nevertheless, the occupants think that the advantages outweigh the disad­vantages. It's a good thing, though, that neither of them are sleep­walkers. Chris Rohman of 105 Sorin has both a couch and a bed in his loft. The maid, for some unknown reason, is afraid to climb the ladder up into his loft to make his bed. Chris doesn't know whether it's the ladder<which he is replacing with a staircase as soon as he gets the money) or the fact that the loft wobbles perceptibly. The second floor in his room is supported entirely by eight 2" x 4"s which have been cross-braced. He claims that he had eighteen people dancing on it even before it was reinforced. He did not elaborate. In spite of contributions, he had to spend forty five dollars for materials. The biology lab con­struction crew donated some thick plywood to his project also. The thickness of the plywood, for all you potential loftbuilders, is very im­portant. Some heavyweights in room 109 didn't use the heavy-duty stuff. As a result, the floor gives slightly each time they walk on it. Still, they seem to be happy with it. But Father Cah mbers doesn't like lofts. They were allowed up th'isyear only if the student signed a statement waiving the university's liability. So, if you fall out of a loft, that's it. It also seems that this will be the last year lofts will be allowed at all. There are a nuber of reasons, ranging from difficulty in leaving the room in case of a fire to fear of collapse (interestingly, nobody knows of a case in which a loft collapsed). The signals are up. It probably won't be long before we see the end of another interesting attempt to improve living conditions at Notre 
!)arne 
Friday, October B, 1971

Page 6 THE OBSERVER. 
Nixon describes Phase Two of freeze 
(Continued from page I) justments, and hear appeals for offending company to pass along spot-checking and by in­exemptions and exceptions. a share of its cost savings in the vestigation of specific com­
The three basic elements of the --The cost of living council, form of reduced prices for con­plaints. apparatus are these: which will exercise coordinating sumers. Nixon went to some lengths to 
--A semi-autonomous tripartite powers and review guidelines "Windfall" profits can be assure his audience that phasepay stabilization board made up and procedures established by defined as those that result two would not usher in a vast and of five representatives from the two other groups. But it will directly from the constraints on cumbersome bureaucracy.Labor, five from Business, five not act as a final appeal board--a wages imposed during phase two, "Stabilization must be made to Public Members, and chaired by court of last resort--nor will it not from other factors such as work not by an army of one of the Public Members on a involve itself in the day-to-day greater efficiency. bureaucrats," he said, "but by an full-time basis. This board will administration of the post-freeze But as a general rule, Nixon army of patriotic citizens in establish wage guidelines, and program. made clear, he would not seek to every walk of life." review specific requests for The task of keeping an eye on restrain profits and he explicitly In addition to describing in adjustments. corporate profits--a con­ruled out an excess-profits tax. general terms the machinery he 
--A price commission made up troversial subject throughout "Let us recognize an intends to establish, Nixon's of seven public members--"Not these last few weeks of planning unassailable fact of economic speech set forth three generalbeholden to any special interest for phase two--will be left to the life," he said. "All Americans themes. One was his emphasis on group," in the President's words­price commission. The com­will benefit from more profits. the need for voluntary -to formulate and issue standards mission will attempt to identify More profits fuel the expansion cooperation, another was his governing price and rent ad-"windfall" profits and force the that generates more jobs; more assertion that a major purpose of 
profits fuel the expansion that the program was not only to
Chicano leaders concerned generates more jobs; it means restrain specific prices and more investment that will make A third theme was his pledge our goods more competitive; it not to continue the controls 
over Banuelo plant raid 
also means there will be more tax longer than necessary. He im­
revenues to pay for programs plied that to announce a deadline Los Angeles, Oct. 7--Many Union organizers allege that that help people in need." for phase two tonight would be a tactical mistake, and he warned
Mexican-American Leaders were she fiercely opposed the Similarly, a committee on deeply troubled today about the organization of her plant, which interest and dividends, operating that he would "continue price and 
controversy surrounding Mrs. employs about 300 workers under the cost of living council, wage restraints until inflationary Romana A. Banuelos, the local processing 25 different kinds of would monitor increases in both pressures are brought under business woman President Nixon Mexican delicacies. areas in an effort to seek control." 

Working with people in 




AFRICA 
is what it's all about 
Join a team of dedicated priests and brothers in the largest missionary society on the continent of Africa. The White Fathers of Africa derive their name from their tradi­tional white habit which has come to represent to Africans not only the word but the helping hand of Christ. 
SEND FOR COMPLETE ~ 
INFORMATION 
Fr. Joseph E. Hebert W.F. '&
White Fathers of Africa 2020 West Morse Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60645 B 
NAM.~-------------­
ADDRE~;_____________ 
CITY----------------­STAT..,_______zrp_____ 
AG~----------­


has nominated to be Treasurer of In another incident, Mrs. voluntary restraint. the United. States. Banuelos helped organize the Although Nixon did not trouble 
On Tueday, Federal agents Pan American National Bank in his audience with many of the raided a food processing plant Los Angeles Chicano District. details of the program, his aides owned by Mrs. Banuelos and Severral years ago she won an made clear that while the entire seized 36 illegal aliens who were internal power struggle and economy would be covered in employed there. became Chairman of the Board. phase two, certain areas of the 
"This is a very sad situation," Since then, the bank has been economy would be given special said one Chicano activist. "At criticized for not making enough attention. , last a Mexican-American was "High risk" loans to the Mexican­Certain economic units of nominated to such a high post. American community. Her critical importance to .the But for her to be revealed this defenders point out that such high economy, for example, will be way is a very sad experience for risk loans have often failed, and required to notify either the pay us. Instead of helping us out, the that the bank cannot afford to board or the price commission in Nixon Administration did us a make many. advance of proposed wage and real disservice." Nevertheless, many Mexican­price increases. Such increases 
Mrs. Banuelos refused to speak American admire the energy and may then be approved or with newsmen today. Yesterday ability of a woman who started in disapproved or otherwise she denied knowing that her plant 1949 with a $400 investment in a adjusted. employed aliens and charged small tortilla factory and today Other economic units, less that the raid was instigated by owns a business grossing $6 strategic yet still important, will democrats who wanted to stop million a year. not be required to furnish ad­her nomination. vance notice but must promptly 
Reminder: 
Mardi Gras '72 meeting for all Hall residents and Club Presidents, concerning the booth con­struction contest, etc., on Sun. Oct. 10 at 7:30 
p.m. in Rm. 1-C (ampi theatre) of LaFortune Student Center. 
ND THE ROMA SMC 
Pizza -Restaurant -Lounge 
219 N. Michigan -South Bend 
Reasonable Prices 
However, immigration officials "This gal really struggled up disclose their wage and price 

Carry outs or Deliveries to your roo
said that her company, from the bottom, she made it on decisions afterwards. If these are 
Ramona's Mexican Food her own," said one acquaintance. found to be out of line with the 
Products, has been raided five "She can be very aggressive, guidelines, the companies in­
Call 234-3258 (Keep it -use it)
times before, and that each foray very tough, and very charming." volved may be forced to adjust 
uncovered illegal workers. In them.
Some Chicanos also feel it is
addition, a letter was written by The behavior of prices and Open till 4 am Fridays
unfair to single out Mrs. Banuelos 
the immigration service urging wages in the rest of the economy-­
for criticism, since many
her not to hire illegals. She said thousands of small businesses
businesses in this area employ
she never received the letter. and the like--will be monitored by ND
aliens.

Mexican-Americans here said it was well known that Mrs. 
MOVIES Banuelos employed illegal aliens, who stream over the border by 

PRESENTS:

the thousands to find work here as crop pickers, domestics, 
HOURS: seamstresses, and other menial MON • TUES -THUR • FRI Richard Harris 
9 AM 5:30PM
jobs. It is not against the law to 
WED • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON employ such aliens, and many COMPLETE SPBCTACLE



RoGERS in
SERVICE
employers, including Mrs. 
ALL EYE OR.'S
Banuelos, do not ask to see im­
PIN:SCRIPTIONS HONOREt 
migration papers. A bill is now pending in congress that would Call

Optical
outlaw this practice. 
289-7809
ROGER ATWELL • OWNE:R
This is not the first time that 

A MAN 
Mrs. Baneulos has been the subject of heated disagreement in the large Mexican-American Community here. 

CALLED 
Our Ski Pro Shop Is Now Open for Business HORSE 2607 U.S. 31 So. Niles Phone 684-0750 

Friday Oct. 8 

Engineering Audit 


------------~-~~~-~--------7, 9, & -11:15
Look for our GRAND OPENING • OCTOBER 15 Drawing Valuable Prizes -Ski Trip -' Admis $1 
' 
'

' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ 
.. 

Friday, October 8, 1971 
THE OBSERVER 






IRISH WARY OF HURRICANES 

hv .Jim Donaldson 
offense this fall while losing to None of Miami's linebackers
Sports Editor 
Florida State 20-17 and defeating played regularly in 1970 and the rldending ACC champion Wake only letterman among the 'CanesAnyone who has ever seen a 
l•'orest, 20-10, and Baylor, 41-15. four deep backs is a junior,hurricane knows how dangerous Burgess Owens.
they can be. And, although Fran "We're very young but I'm Curci's University of Miami Vl'ry pleased with the progress Offensively, the Hurricanes Hurricanes aren't as devastating ~e'v? m~de early in the season," have shown that they can move as the real thing, the Fighting ( urct satd. the ball both on the ground and in 
j Irish are watching them with a1 The 'Canes have progressed the air. wary eye. defensively as well as on the Hunning backs Chuck Foreman attack. They are currently sixth
Last l<'all, the Hurricanes and Tom Sullivan do the brunt of
in the nation in total defense,
struggled to a 3-8 record, under , the ball carrying for the 'Canes in
allowing only 181.3 yards per
the direction of two coaches, their veer-type offense, while 
game, and they rank eighth in
Charlie Tate, who split the first quarterback John Hornibrook
defense agamst the rush.
two games of the season, then who has completed 53 per cent of quit, and Walt Kichefski, who led Anchoring Miami's sturdy his passes this season, leads the the 'Canes to just two wins in defensive eleven are end Mike aerial attack. their last nine outings. Then, in Barnes and tackle Richard Foreman, a junior, is an out­
Trower. Barnes (6-6, 240) and
Decemb~r, Curci stepped in. standing broken field runner who
Trower(6-3, 241) make it awfully
An All-American quarterback has scored six touchdowns this
tough for opponents to gain
at Miami in 1959, Curci has fall, two in each of the 'Canes
ground around the left side of the
rejuvenated the football program first three games. He also boasts 
Hurricane line. Both are Rill Etter, running against the Spartans, will see plenty of action 
at his alma mater. Although a 6.6 yards per carry rushing 
Saturday.
veterans, potential All-Americns
there are just five seniors, three average, boosted by a 129-yard
and fine pro prospects.
on offense and two on defense, in outing against Wake Forest. battled to a o-o tie with the 'Canes the excellent field position the Hurricanes' starting lineup, Joining Barnes and Trower in in the final game of the '65 provided by the defense, but in
Sullivan, a senior fullback, has

Miami has beaten two of their the forward wall are soph tackle campaign. And in 1967, the last the last two games have
averaged 4.5 yards a carry and

first three opponents. And Tony Cristiani and junior end, time the clubs met, the Irish won managed to push the ball into the 
ran for 128 yards in the season

they've looked impressive in. Mike Leary, a monogram winner a 24-22 squeaker. All of the games end zone just twice.
opener against Florida State. He have been played in Miami.

victory. last season. But now that the Irish have a
is also the club's leading pass 

The Hurricanes have averaged The rest of the Hurricanes' over 400 yards a game in total defense is not so experienced. I Jim Donaldson::::::?.~~=:~:;;:::::::~::::::::=~=~=:=:=~::=:=:=~===:=:::=:=:=:=:::=:=:=$:=:====--==:::: The Irish Eye :=:===============================:============================================================·Foot ball Picks It's hard to say just what factors go into the making of a great college football rivalry. In some cases, it's the proximity of the two schools, in others, the longevity of the series. More often than not, teams become rivals because, whenever they meet, the games have been close, hard-hitting affairs. Two of the most traditional rivalries in college football will be renewed this weekend, one in Ann Arbor, and the other in Dallas, and both should be great ball games. On Saturday afternoon, Michigan and Michigan State will stage their annual battle while Texas and Oklahoma square off in the Cotton Bowl. Elsewhere on the collegiate scene, the Fighting Irish seek to reverse their downward trend in the national polls by scoring an impressive victory over the Miami Hurricanes in the Orange Bowl, Penn State and Army clash in an important Eastern encounter, Washington entertains Stanford in the top Pacific Eight game of the week, and there are several important contests on tap in the Big Ten. Here's the way the Irish Eye sees 'em this week: Notre Dame over Miami (Fla.) ---It would be nice to win big and move back up in the rankings but the Irish should take note of Hurricane warnings. Miami is a young, enthusiastic club, primed for an upset. It won't be smooth sailing for Ara's crew but they'll bring hack a victory. Penn State over Army ---The Cadets will be shooting for their third straight win but you can't kill a Nittany Lion with a pop-gun. Northwestern over Iowa --­The Wildcats will be the fifth club to make Frank Lauterbur wish that he had never left Toledo. Ohio State over Illinois---Bob Blackman's another guy who didn't  receiver, making nine grabs, good for 113 yards. Hornibrook, a junior who saw little action last season, has completed 27 passes this fall. Next to Sullivan, his favorite targets have been a pair of soph­mores, split end, Witt Beckman, and flanker Bill Perkins. Beck­man has made six receptions and Perkins, five. There are four monogram winners in the junior-dominated 'Cane offensive line. Guard Tom Turchetta is the only senior in the interior line. His running mate is Garry Vujanov, Steve Gaunt is at the pivot position and the tackle spots are manned by Stan Bujalski and the only non­letterman, Golden Rue! (no kid­ding, that's his given name). Notre Dame scout John Murphy, who watched the Hurricanes thrash Baylor last weekend, was impressed by Curci's squad. "They're very aggressive and they have good balance on both offense and defense," he said. Irish head coach Ara Par­seghian echoed Murphy's ob­servations. "Miami can do many things offensively," he said, adding, "they have good size and quickness". The Hurricanes have a !ways posed a problem for the Fighting  This year's Notre Dame team hopes to have an easier time of it than past Irish contingents. The way the Irish have slipped in the polls the last few weeks, Notre Dame could use an impressive victory. Thus far, the defense has been superb but the offense hasn't kept pace . The Irish defense will be intact for Saturday night's encounter. This unit is currently third in the country in scoring defense, allowing only 5.3 points per game and is also third nationally in defense against rushing. They have been instrumental in all three of the Notre Dame wins this season and have received words of praise from all their opponents. The Irish offense has not done so well. They scored five touch­downs in the season opener with Northwestern, thanks largely to /nterho/1 soccer The Interhall Athletic office will conduct a soccer tournament this month. The tourney is open to any student who desires to play, whith the exception of members of the soccer club. Rosters must be submitted to the Interhall office in the ACC by Thursday, Oct. II. Officials will  regular quarterback, the offense • may perk up. It appeared that the "great quarterback question" was settled last week as senior Bill Etter laid claim to the top signal calling spot with a fine per­formance against Michigan State. He rushed for a team­lading total of 45 yards and connected on 9 of 14 passes for 83 yards. before leaving the game with a bruised forearm. Etter, the club's top rusher this year with 124 yards, is excected to be ready to go against the Hurricanes. If he is unable to play, Pat Steenberge, who went the distance against Purdue, will start instead. Only Ed Gulyas, out with a broken leg, is absent from the usual Irish offensive lineup. Bob Minnix, the club's leading scorer with 18 points on three touch: downs, will start alongside Andy Huff and Bill Gallagher in the Notre Dame backfield. It will take a top effort by the Irish to defeat Miami and, once again, the defense will be the key to victory. The 'Canes will un­doubtedly find it hard to run against Notre Dame's front four of Walt Patulski, Greg Marx, Mike Kadish, and Fred Swend­son and it's a tried and true adage in football that "if you can't run, you can't win".  
know when he had it good. The Illini got on the scoreboard for the first  Irish. Notre Dame won  the first  be provided for all games, which  
time last weekend but they'll be lucky to do as well Saturday. Duke over Clemson---The Blue Devils will give Clemson hell. North Carolina over Tulane --­The Tarheels should pick up win number five here and bring an unblemished record with them into Notre Dame Stadium on the 16th.  meeting between the two clubs, 14-0, in 1955. The Hurricanes tied the series with a 28-21 victory in 1960. With Parseghian at the helm of the Irish Notre Dame  will be played behind Stepan Center. Team captains will be con­tacted about the dates, times, etc. for the \:UIIItiCLIILIUIII,  
Purdue over Minnesota  --­ The Boilermakers will climb to the .500  
mark with a Homecoming victory over the Gophers.  
L.S. U. over Florida ---The Bengals are too tough for the Gators.  
Michigan over Michigan State ---The Spartans will he sky-high for  
this one but they just don't have enough talent to top the Wolverines.  
There wouldn't be any tears shed here though, if Duffy's boys pulled  
an upset.  
Pitt over Navy ---The Middies ought to abandon the ship "U.S.S.  
Big-Time Football."  
Washington over Stanford  -­ The biggest Indian battle since the  
Blackfeet and the Sioux used to  meet in the Blood Bowl.  Sonny  
Sixkiller, the genuine article, will pass his Huskie club past all those  
pseudo-Hedskins from Stanford.  
Nebraska over Missouri---The Cornhuskers open their Big Eight slate  
with laughter.  
Air Force over Southern Methodist-A Mustang can't operate at  
high altitudes as well as a Falcon.  
TE'nnessee over Georgia Tech -The Tech club is just a wreck now. No problem for the Vols.  
Upset of the Week:  
Oklahoma over Texas-The Sooners will snap Texas' Wishbone and  
come out holding the bigger portion, then coach Chuch Fairbanks wish  
for a victory over the third-ranked Longhorns will come true.  


Last Week: 12 of 15 .800 Season's Pet.: 43 of 60 .717 Robby Minnix, gaining In the State game, has been one of Notre Dame's top 
-~ ---------------------------------------------------------------­
.. 
Friday, October 8, 1971

Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
Attica: Terrified hostages and for-real bullets 
(Continued from page 2) 
be applied. Rebel leaders had often expressed a willingness to die, but many inmates in the yard thought that gas, clubs, fire hoses and rubber bullets were the worst they had to fear. 
But even that fear was not rampant Monday morning. "We thought we were safe as long as we· ahd those correction of­ficers," recalled one militant black who was in the yard that morning. 
Flousishing their trump card, they led eight hostages--now bound and blindfolded--to the catwalk atop Times Square. Rebel leaders, in hurried and haphazard fashion, had put each hostage in the charge of in­dividual inmates. "Give me one," volunteers had cried. 
Removed from this scene, in the superintendant's office several hundred yards away, Oswald asked for the last time: 
"Do you see any way we can 
avoid doing this?" Mancusi and 
several republican legislators 
were in the room. None an­
swered. 
As soon as an Army CH-34 
Helicopter made the first of three 
low sweeps over D yard to drop 
its cargo of choking gas, active 
command passed from the 
commissioner to the state police. 
Four inmate eyewitnesses to 
the assualt--two in the yard and 
two who were locked in cells that 
gave them a clear view of the 
action--described what happened 
A blonde hostage, a knife held 
to his throat by his inmate guard, 
shouted on command, "!want to 
live!" 
"Louder!" his guard coached him. "I want to live!" he now screamed. Just as the gas began to take 
The Student World Concern has 535 letters to send out to Congressmen next week. They need people to type these letters over the weekend. If you would like to join this cause, come to the basement of the Student Union building anytime today to pick ufup the letters 
effect.the troopers on the roofs of two cellblocks opened with a heavy barrage of rifle fire. The first targets were the inmates guarding the hostages by the catwalk. These volleys were followed by an assualt down the catwalk from the direction of C Block by other troopers firing shotguns. 
Thier combined efforts were deadly and accurate. Twelve inmates, but only two hostages, were shot to death on the cat­walk, according to the evidence of police photographs taken hostages were John Monteleone and John D'Arcangelo. Mon­teleone had a knife wound on the back of his neck. 
An inmate who was on the catwalk said he bent down to avoid being h~ in the eye with what he assumed to be rubber bullets. "Then I saw a brother hit in the neck and the blood came out," he said. "Igot out of there." 
Lt. Joseph Christian, the first trooper into the yard charged ahead of his men. An inmate jumped from a trench and went at him with a club. Two of the mixture of shotgun and rifle wounds, were found in that area 
The bodies of the rest of the inmates were scattered around the yard in no particular pattern. According to Dr. Baden, "Thus far there habe been no in­dications that any of the inmates died of neglect following bullet wounds. Their injuries in and of themselves werw sufficient to be fatal. 
There was virtually no resistance. 

the 

cfihe

ottiWardesses 
STEREOVISION 


THE UNPUBLISHABLE NOVEL 
IS NOWAMERICA'S MOST  
CONTROVERSIAL FILM!  RATED  
EASTMANCOLOR WITH CHRISTINA HART • MICHAEL GARRETT  \~  X  



Cultural Arts Commission Cinema 172 presents 
he lives --a film by costra -gauras 
.. Saturday & Sunday 
and four inmates wounded by a 
WANTED 
BEAUTIFUL 5'5" BRUNETTE tits well. .. into bucket seat for D.C. Need an eye-opening experience. THIS SATURDAY Oct. 8 CALL this girl, Susan 4884 (If a man answers Hang Up.) 
NEEDED. ONE GENERAL ADMISSION TICKET TO N0RTH CAROLINA GAME. Call Kevin 289 7433. 
Need 6 general admission tickets tor Tula-ne game. Call Jim 3165. 
DESPERATE: I NEED 4 LSU TICKETS. CALL JOE 3413. 
Help. We need volunteers to help plan children's radio show. We need stories, tunlacts, and in­teresting conversation. Call Marie 4044 or Mike 3702. 
HELP: I need a considerate SMC trosh who is willing to let a llometown girl stay with her on Homecoming weekend. If in­terested call Kevin 1584. 
LOST: Microphone in black lor Scars tape recorder. REWARD call Kevin 3443 21 Morrissey. 
Member of SUBWAY Alumni needs 2 (two) side by side tickets for ND USC and ND NAVY. Call Mr. Kranz collect and person-to­person in Sunnyside, Washington, 509-~37 -6646. 
Looking for the following editions of the DOME: 1908, 1914, 1919, 1923, 1940, 1943, 1944, 1946, 1959, 1963. Will 
negotiate price. Call 255 7103 after 6:00 PM M F. 
Fix your own car. Tonight. We have the SPACE t TOOLS t PARTS AND HELP. You do the work and SAVE. Autotech -Rt. 31 South in Niles. 6841960. Open <'Venings and weekends. 
lAMPUS REP Opportunity tor sharp business-minded student to earn top cash and qe1 unparalleled experience working lor self on campus. Start immediately. Send brief resume and phone number to: Mr. C. R. Danforth, Box 75, 
•,wnmpscott, Ma. 01907. 
I 0 R SALE: 6-Band, 17 transistor, new, Sharp radio. 

>60.  Call  Briiln  234-3798.  
.Vords  1 day  2 days  
1-10  .50  .75  
11-15  .60  1.00  
16-20  .70  1.15  
21-25  .85  1.35  
26-30  1.00  1.60  


inmate with their shotguns, which were loaded with car­tridges, each containing 10 32­caliber slugs. 
Two of those slugs hit Chtistian in the arm and leg. The inmate was cut down. The stray slugs flew out into the yard in the general direction of the area where most of the hostages were congregated. 
Like all shotgun ammunition, these slugs spread out in a widening pattern. Unlike bird­shot. any one of the pellets can be lethal. The bodies of six hostages 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

Steve (6730) where's my dollar? Ann 
Are you as beautiful as you can be? 

Let Viviane Woodard teach you how ...with two free make-up lessons. (Call Johanna nt 287-2731 for appt.) 
Need 2adjacent general admission tickets to usc. Call TOM 287-2731. 
Will work on Volkswagens: II years experience, reasonable. Call 272-3980 or 272-2765 after 4:00 p.m. 
I need 15 young ladies to show Kosco! Kosmetics short hours high earning From 9:00 a.m.-6:00 
p.m. Saturday the 9th and Sunday the lOth. Bus will deoart the Shell Statimn W side US 31 Roseland near Toll Road entrance. 
ATTENTION: All students in Mr. Spoleader's MWFdesign class owe 65 cents to pay for materials for the model and photographs of the alley project. Pay Bob Palmiter in class. 
"FREE BEER" and food at St. 
Matthews Smoker, Saturday, Oct. 
16 at 8:00 
Donation $1.00 single, $1.50 couple 
Wl1ere: 1700 Miami Street 
Tickets available at the door. 
NEW, GUARANTEED STRACK TAPES ONLY $3.50. CALL 6715. 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 
II :1512:15. 
Classified Ads paid for in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 
12:15 5:00. Ads in by 13:30 on day before publication. 
'!'Here's an event to look for! The END OF THE WORLD-Saturday morning at 2:01a.m.~ Come and celebrate with us at a (what else?) END OF THE WOPLD PARTY tonight at 8:30! ·1\ake a "last judgement" whether it's the party of a lifetime!!! 
Need ride to Cinney-Oct.lSth. 
Kris  4236.  Will  share  ex­ 
penses.  
Attention  all  SMC  tennis  

players interested in forming a team? Call 4879 before Saturday. 
DID THE SHEEP EAT THE 

I 
ROSE? Call Maureen 4784. 
3 days 4 days 1 week 1.00 L15 1.25 1.35 1.75 2.15 1.70 2.40 2.80 2.00 2.90 3.45 2.35 3.40 4.10 
..
-

October 9 & 10 2 &Bpm at Washington Hall admission admission $1 oo 
.. 
patron cards available at $6°0 







