


Vol. V, No. 105 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt Mary's College r'ommunity Tuesday, April 6, 1971 
Egyptian tankers discuss their plans during exercise by VAR tank forces recently. Israel rejected the latest Egyptian plan to reopen the Suez Canal. 
SMC reps to sit 
improving the SLC.
by Ed Ellis Barkett and Director of Student 
Three Saint Mary's Housing Rev. Thomas Chambers 
representatives, one student, one spoke for the measure, but it 
faculty, and one administrator, failed in the vote. 
will sit on the Notre Dame The other major action of the 
Student Life Council with meeting was a vote to mandate 
speaking but not voting the committee on Student Life to 
priviledges, at least for the review the situation on campus 
remainder of the current term, with respect to parietals, 
according to a motion proposed alcoholic beverages, and hall 
by Student Body President John bgovernment. This committee, 
Barkett and passed by the SLC chaired by Assistant Vice­
yesterday. President for Student Affairs 
The motion by Barkett passed Rev. James Shiltz is to report to 
after considerable discussion by the University Board of Trustees 
the SLC on joint motion by at their May meeting. Shiltz, in 
Mideast debate continues 
UPI -Arabs and Israelis ac­spokesman said two Soviet made Iyyad said government forces cused e{lch other of violating the Egyptian Sukohi 7s flew over used tanks and heavy artillery in 
Middle East front lines yester­Israeli positions on the southern the Jerash attack and "bom­
day. Continued fighting was sector of the canal. barded by mistake the Gaza reported between Palestinian It was the first such overflight Palestinian refugee camp" which guerrillas and the Jordanian reported since just before the is about two miles fromtwp army in Jordan. expiration of the seven month gierro· ·a bases' 
U.S. inspried cease fire on March He ~~id "we will defend our­

The Egyptian Israeli war of 7. selves until some Arab govern­The announcement termed the
words over reopening the Suez ment intervenes." 
incident a violation of the cease Egypt already has called for anCanal also went on. 
fire nevertheless since Israel has Arab world conference to discuss 

In Jerusalem, a military 
said it continues to recognize the the situation but some Arab truce proclaimed in 1967 after the diplomats in Cairo expressedMiddle East War. doubt it would ever be held. They 
A Lebanese military said there was a four way splitspokesman in Beirut said two among the 14 Arab league


on SLC 
Israeli patrols crossed the border members not only over the level 
into southern Lebanon at widely of representation at such a interpreting the mandate of the separated points during the night meeting but over its usefulness. committee, said that it would and blew up six houses. He said The Israeli charge of Egyptian include Student Government three houses were destroyed at AI overflights came after Prime peo.l'le, faculty, and ad­Zahira village and three at Meiss Minister Golda Meir rejected mimstrators as part of its staff. el Jabal village. No casualties Egyptian PResident Sadat's 
Also included in the Shiltz were reported, he said. latest proposals for reopening the report will be a questionnaire In Amman, a ranking Suez Canal. distributed to some 250 randomly Palestinian leader said Jor­Speaking vefore a Labor Party selected students. This, in the danian forces had opened a full conference in Jerusalem Sunday 
words of committee member scale offensive against guerrilla night, Mrs. Meir said Israel is Professor Vasoli of the Sociology bases in the Jerash area, about 25 willing to discuss the issue but Department, will provide, miles north of Amman. "anyone who proposes Israeli "objectivity." Abou Iyyad, a member of the agreement to the opening of the The final proposal was agreed ruling Central Committee of the canal as a lever to obtain total upon after considerable Palestine Liberation Israeli withdrawal from Sinai Organization, PLO said the at­and Gaza will not be surprised by 
continued on page 3 
tack was mounted at 4 a.m. Israel's outright rejection of the 

Towers representative Floyd Kezele and English Professor Edward Vasta, who proposed that merger of the two student bodies was effected, all SLC representatives would be elected "without distinction based on sex.'" 
After Kezele withdrew his motion, Barkett's motion passed by voice vote. 
In other major action yesterday, the SLC defeated by voice vote a motion by Barkett, seconded by Student Body Vice­President Orlando Rodriguez, to reduce the size of the SLC from the current membership of 24 to 12. 
This proposal was attacked by Kezele because he said it would not allow for a diversity of opinion, and there were better ways for improving the ef­fectiveness of the body. 
Kezele argued for a more powerful Steering Committee, which he now chairs as Vice­Chairman of the body, and less frequent meetings as methods of 
on campus 
today... 
8:00 lecture-rev. lucius walker: community or­ganization, engineering aud. 

any non-profit activity of general campus interest may be listed in this column. submit all information to the news editor by 2: 00 of the preceeding day. 


nd-smc 
plan." She said Sadat's plan was an attempt to impose an "Egyptian


Washington officials threatened 
Soviet political settlement" in the Middle East. 
Israeli Defense Minister Moshe by Don Ruane 

their own lives." They say the they can do "a lot of good." Other Dayan and Foreign Minister Observer Managing Editor war's goal is to keep the Viet­than the violent nature of therr Abba Eban speaking at a con­namese rich and to make threats to plant bombs in shop­vention of the governing Labor
Washington officials connected American oil companies richer. ping centers and Washington party Monday nigh(in Tel Aviv,with "running the war" have "In Washington people like schools and to cause physical urged Egypt to conduct directbeen given until July 4, 1971 to 

bring the Vietnam conflict to a Nixon, Agnew and dozens of rich injury or death, the letter does peace negotiations with Israel. senators and representatives not contain the radical left-wing "We are sure that if the war is
halt or face the pa;sibility of 
have been willing to let 50,000 rhetoric associated with this type renewed we will win again," saidsevere personal injury or death to poor Americans and hundreds of of letter. Brockton is a small Dayan. "We hope that thethemselves oc their families, thousands of foreigners die in suburb of Ba;ton with several Egyptians will think it over andaccording to a letter received by order to keep the rich rich, and small schools and factories. will come instead intothe Observer on April first. 
then make them even richer. If negotiations with us."
The letter, postmarked they are sincere they will realize Brockton, Mass., said, "Very 

simply, we for that it is only fair now for their 

Ellis resigns post;
will, example, own children to be put inthrow a bomb at Julie Nixon danger," read the letter.

perhaps on July 5, 1971. Or we might shoot at the wife of a big Theory on the War 

new editors named 
brave hawk representative or put 
The second part of the two page I had to decide which fob was

a little napalm on a loved one of Observer Editor-in-Chief Glen
mimeographed letter is a "Notice expendable. I realized Icould

Melvin Laird or even put in Corso announced yesterday that writing more the
about the War Criminals". The start of

danger the life of one of the big he had accepted the resignation
People for Peace say they editorials myself, thus freeing

brave generals of the Pentagon." are of News Editor Ed Ellis, effective 
gong to start shooting, beating Tim to take on additional dutues, 

The letter was sent by People April 12th. Ellis will be succeeded 
up, throwing rocks and bombing so I cut the editorial editor spot." 

for Peace to the' "American by John Abowd, former Observer 
"to show how bad the war is to all "Tim has plenty of experience

People" and several other Executive Editor. Tim Treanor,
the people from Nixon and Agnew in production and since he will be

student publications including presnetly Editorial Editor will
on down the line. " taking over only part of John's

those at Stanford and the assume the post of Executive
The notice says that the people duties, I am pretty sure that heUniversitv of Michigan. 
Editor.
running the war may be sincere can handle the editorials also.
"There was no one in the news

FBI CONSULTED and that this would not make it as John re-wrote the style book and 
department who was quite ready 
serious as it seems. However, the updated it during spring vacation 
to take over Ed's job," Corso

Mter discussing the letter at an People for Peace have a "theory so Tim won't have that hanging
explained, "so when I started

editorial board meeting, the that once the going gets rough over his head," Corso com­
looking at my top editors, I felt

Observer contacted the Boston and the sons of the rich mented.
that John would be able to do the 

office of the FBI and was told that congressmen· and president and Corso said that Ruane, in ad­anything they had in their files on cabinet and generals start get­best job, out of all of them." dition to assuming a quality 
con­Don Ruane, managing editor,
this group ''would be ting killed instead of just gooks control position over the news
will assume part of Abowd's

fidential." The agent recom­and niggers and poor white trash writing, would also begin daily
duties. He will also retain control 

mended that the Observer con­then things will change.'''' examinations of ad layout and the tact the FBI field office in South The notice requests individuals over the copy reading staff now sports and features pages. Ruane 
Bend. being set up, in conjunction with 
to help hurt someone if they don't will also concern himself with
Treanor. Abowd's remaining

The local office was contacted want to kill. It suggests that they supply procurement. 
duties will be taken up by

Saturday afternoon and decided start fights with government 
to check with its headquarters in Treanor, who will also continue to "With Don looking over ads,
officials resulting in their 
write most of the editorials. sports and features the entireIndianapolis. Yesterday, the hospitalization or that just they "It was all a question of fitting paper will be subjected to a dailyOb~rver learned from the local destroy property of the officials the job to the man, and not the scrutiny," Corso said, "in thisdirector that the People for because "these fat cats love their other way around," Corso stated. way I hope we can eliminate most Peace "is a new organization as property so much its practically "I simply re-structured the jobs of the glaring errors whichfar as Indianapolis is con­as good to blow up their boat or of Managing Editor and sometimes adorn our pages. With cerned." 

their car as to kill their kids." 
Executive Editor to suit both Tim helping him out on the copy The authors of the letter think The People ior Peace say they Don's and Tim's particular staff Don should be able to take·that Washington officials would are only "a handful" rut claim to talents. When I realized that on these additional choresend the war if they "were risking be strategically located where there was no one I could promote without too much problem." 

..----------------------~-----------------~-----------------------------------. 
THR OBSERJJU.. 



Barkett's cabinet looks forward 
by Matt Cavanaugh experience of last year on the human affairs commission willThis is the second of a two part· help him in his new duties. Heseries on John Barkett's Cabinet. 

plans to take a realistic look at the university's problems, and his commission "will play a large part in forging the 'new part­nership' between students and Student Government promised in 
the campaign." 

Fortunate will work in the areas of minority and in­ternational students, campus ministry, co-education, ad­missions and counselling. He feels that "both osvchological and career counselling must be changed in preparation for co­education." 
Under Fortunate the Human Affairs Commission will try to aid the hall governments and presidents and work in the minority student area, especially with the Black Studies Program. He will also try to improve the existing university programs and services, and make them more available to the average student. 
Fortunate emphasized the fact said that a monthly newsletter that "these services can't be containing the student union and accomplished without student university calendars, university efforts and co-operation on all directives, and other items of levels." interest would be sent to off­
-------------campus students. 
Observer Insight "The Off-Campus Office," said Drost, '.'can provide information -------------and help to those students 
Off-Campus Commissioner, wishing to move off-campus. For John Drost cites his experience those students who are already as a member of the Pangborn living off-campus we hope to Hall Council and Pangborn serve as a sounding board for senator as being of value in his · suggestions and complaints." 
new job. He feels that living off campus has acquainted him with the situation and life of the off-campus student. 
Drost said that his emphasis will be twofold. "We will try to improve the everyday life of the off-campus student, and we will strive to include the off-campus student in the activities of the university community." He plans a qualitative listing of available housing, and mentioned the possibility of a food co-op. Drost 
Academic Commissioner Fred Giuffrida was Lyons Hall senator this year, and was recently elected to his second year as a Stay Senator. He has also been a student representative to the Faculty Senate. 
Of his new position he says, "We are stressing student par­ticipation in decisions concerning academic life at Notre Dame, the improvement of counselling services throughout the 
e.~W 

:Ytlfony 
/hUe~ 

university, and implementation of the merger in the area of academics." Giuffrida will work for advances in such areas as Work-Study, Pass-Fail, a Junior Year at home program, and curriculum revision. 
He said, "We hope to aid the student directly by improving his academic program, offering him a greater voice and more freedom in his academic pur­suits." 
Dave Tushar, assistant co­ordinator for the Judicial Commission this past year, plans a four-pronged emphasis as Judicial Co-ordinator. 
The first area is the halls. "I want to work with them and be available for assistance. Secondly, I want to work on unifying the two (Notre ..Dame­Saint Mary's) judicial systems. Third, I want to be more available to students and work more closely with the RA's and rectors. Finally, I hope to in­crease the efficiency of the judicial process by working out procedural matters." 
Tushar sees the Judicial Commission as a service to the students. He feels that it should offer aid when difficulties arise, insure the rights of the students and increase the spirit and life of the university community. 
BUY ANY 
.... ·--=-· 
CAR TILL 
YOU GET 
HAROLD 

MEDOW'S 
PRICES! 
DODGE *CHRYSLER *RENAULT 
HAROLD'S CORNE 
LaFayette & LaSalle Phone 233-31.54 




HARLEM 
~~~~,,6LOBETROTIERS 
ACC ND and SMC Discounts Ticket prices $4--No discount $3--Purchase for $2 (Limit 2) $2--No discount 
General Admissions--$1.50 Purchased day of game, only: 
Must present ID Card For Discount at ACC 
Tuesday, April 6, 1971 

Notre Dame book drive aids Indian college 
Notre Dame, Ind.--Students and friends of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College were asked in January to contribute unused books to help stock the library of the newly founded Spotted Tail Junior College on the Rosebud Indian Reservation in South Dakota. Members of the Committee on Indians at the University, who expected a contribution of two to three tons, are now preparing to move westward during the Easter vacation with a collection nearing seven tons and still growing. 
Dr. -A.L. Soens, associate professor of English and com­mittee chairman, said the "overwhelming response" to the plea for books is a "clear in­dication that the university community is concerned with advancement of educational opportunities for Indian youth." He added a special message of appreciation to the Herb Seall Marathon station, South Bend Avenue and Ironwood, for their free loan of a U-Haul truck to transport the books to the college. 
A preliminary gift of $500 from the Notre Dame Mardi Gras Charity Chest committee will be used to purchase bookshelves at the college and to pay for gasoline costs involved in transporting the collection. Committee members also plan to reproduce two rare volumes of Sitting Bull's works from the Niles, Mich., Museum for ad­dition to the collection on Indian lore. 
TheND -SMC 
Social Commission Needs 
People and ideas for: 
dancng, music, fun, movies, concerts, food, frisbees, grass, dunes, football, gambling, posters, money ,places, wine, .parties, pranks, kites, tuttons, true kin,', circuses, md just getting people together. 
Appications heing accepted for: 
Assi>tant Commissioner 
Ass~tant Commissioner 
Business Manager 
Apecial Projects (freaky stuff) 
Chncert Ol airman 
lbmeromirg Chainnan 
Mardi Gras Olairman 
Promotim Stop in the Student Union Office-
Ticket Manager 4th Floor LaFortune <r1 y Week­day afternoon for iob ap-plication and description. 


ABSOLUTELY 

No ads accepted after 4pm on the day prior to publication 
ii~i:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::~::::::::::~:=:mw:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:. 
~l~ AN TOSTAL 
I


I IS COMING 
l:l:
::::
:;:; ASK YOUR HTH 
~ljl 
....N 
:l:l OVER EASTER 

~;~; 
I 
.... 
;!;! 2ndANNUAL KISSING MARATIION ;:;: ffiiSH WAKE 


~l~l ~~:~~G 
~ ~!,".:os~!~~E l;ll;:;: :::~~C~~OR CONCERT 

~ll~ 

An inter-disciplinary group, the 
Rosebud Reservation, S.D. The

Committee on Indians is 
newly founded college is

presently discussing programs of 
presently cooperating with the

faculty training and student 
University of Notre Dame and

exchange with officials of the 
Saint Mary's in a program of

junior college. 
faculty and student exchange.

In a related move, intensive 
Officials of

six-week courses in Indian 
the school sav they are seeking

Studies will begin June 14 at 
Spotted Tail Junior College students who have previously had 
little or no direct exposure to Indians and Indian reservations of the Plains area. 
Additional information on the program and financial assistance may be obtained by contacting Notre Dame senior Bill Kurtz, 615 Woodcliff, or by calling 233-5484 before April 25. 


SLC tables committee revisions 
gathering information be used. 

continued from page I 
"We need a dimension inviting

discussion about the goals of any 1 t k 
d · d "d d peop e 0 rna e recomen­
such stu y, and It was ec1 e d t' , h 'd H 'd th t th 
d a IOns, e sai . e sai a e
that there shoul be a more means of dealing with the comprehensive study funded by recommendations should be the Board of Trustees and due similar to the procedures used bysometime next year. · 1 C ·tt 
. . 11 h Sh'lt CongressiOna ommi ees. 
Ongma Y, t e I z com-SBP Barkett said that both
mittee was to do their work with 
. . Th the questionnaire and the sub-
only the questionnaire. e areas · · ld b d 1·r 11 
to be studied were Off-Campus Jecblvebrleport~l~o.u e use ad Life, On-Campus Life, and avai a e faciibes were use ' General Areas of Concern. and t ~as thi~l Jpinion that
1

Professor Vasta recommended evTenh ua dy prt~vln e · f th 
e re uc Ion proposa1 o ethat more personal means of new Student Government in-eluded an alternative proposalthat would have the SLC con­centrate on Commi'ttee work. After the reduction proposal was

h defeated, the SLC mandated t e Steering Committee to study "the internal effectiveness of the 
body." Kezele chairs that 
commi'ttee. Barkett sai·d afterwards that he' felt his proposal to have been a success, in that "It forced the body to take a look at itself, hopefully with an eye towards 
. t ,
1mprovemen . 
t******************************************~
* * 
1 * HOI~ Y WEEK ~~ * II (YOU ARE INVITED I 
* .. .. . * 
I TO PARTICIPATE IN ANY OF THE# 
# I 
* *

I FOLLOWING LITURGIES) I 
l;lj :lll! Cavanaugh 




\';;;;~~;;~~~~~ I ~~~ssey 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The * Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Inc'. 46556. Second class postage paid, *­
I

I I FRIDAy :;~~ * 
~::: * Main Church
::::: * Breen-Phillips ~~ **. Dillon 
W····· * Keenan-Stanford
:;~;j * Morrissey ~~ * Zahm 
M 

* 
I * 
~;:; * 
~:;: * 
:~~~~ ~ 
; 1 SATURDAY 

:11~! 
Ma1'n Church


:;:: * 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
I* THURSDAY * 
#* Main Church
* Breen-PhillipsI Cavanaugh
** J>illon
Howard ~ Keenan-Stanford
* Morrissey
1 
I
* 
***  
**#  
5:00 pm 5: 15 pm 5:00 pm 5: 00 pm5:00pm  **I**I  

6:00 pm 8: 00 pm 
3:00 pm2:00pm 
3: 00 pm 
3:00 pm3:00pm 
5: 00 pm 
8: 00 pm 
11:00 pm 



!!~~ :: 
!
*
*
* 
* 
*
* 
** 
**
* 
* 
1 
~~ 

I ** * 

Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
•******************************************" 
Page 4 
GSU HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN 
Information session Wednesday April 7 
3:30 -5:30 in the 


~ WITH MAX SHULMAN ~
* *
(By the author of Rally Ro11nd thr Flag, Boy• ... Dobir Gilli• ... rtr.l 
Empty Cradles in the Old Corral

#** # * 
* Unemployment stalks the campus. Students search frantically for ~ * 
any kind of part-time work, but there is no work. In fact, if things
*don't get better soon, many students may be forced into baby-sitting. *
* I hear you cry, "No! No!" But alas, my friends, desperate times *
* require desperate remedies. So if baby-sit we must, let us at least do it ** scientifically. * 
* 
To begin with, be sure you have the right equipment for the job *

* 
You will need three things: an ordinary kitchen chair, a whip, and a* pistol loaded with blank cartridges. * 
I 
It is essential to dominate the baby from the very start. Never* show fear; they can .smell it. Walk into the nursery boldly with your* head thrown back, singing a lusty song-LaMarseillaise, perhaps, or* A Boy Named Sue. Stomp around the room several times. Crack your* whip. Fire your pistol. Keep it up till the baby knows you mean busi-~ ness. 
But terror, though necessary, is not enough. To get the best re­sults out of a baby, you must also make it love and trust you. This, however, cannot be accomplished by firing your pistol, not even close* 
to th• b•by'• "'. A n•w tadk ;, "qui"d' ynu mwt giv• it wm• food.i 
*
*
*
! 

The baby's habitual diet is a viscous white fluid called "formula.'' This should be served at the temperature of your wrist. In the event you can't find the baby's formula, let it suck your wrist. It will never know the difference, for the baby is basically an organism of dim intel­ligence, though not without a certain peasant cunning. 
I 
After the baby has ingested the formula or sucked your wrist for thirty minutes or so, it grows stuporous and is ready to go to sleep-the very thing you've been waiting for. You can hasten this desirable con­dition by singing a lullaby. If you don't know any lullabies, make one up. This is really quite simple. In a lullaby the words are unimportant since the baby, basically an organism of dim intelligence as we have 
I 
seen, does not understand them anyhow. It is the sound which matters in a lullaby, so use any old thing that comes into your head, just so it rhymes. For example, I have always had excellent luck with this one: 
Go to sleep, my little infant, Googoo, moomoo, poopoo, mnfant. * 
* ~ Next, arrange the baby in the position for slumber. A baby sleeps~* 
* best on its stomach but, owing to its dim intelligence, it will keep turn-* * ing itself over if not prevented. Therefore, to insure that it remains * 
I 
*prone, it is wise to place a soft, heavy object on its back-another* baby, if possible. * Once the baby is asleep, remove your wrist from its mouth and * tiptoe softly from the room, closing the door tightly behind you so you * * 
will not be disturbed by its crying. Then turn on the television, go to * the refrigerator and reward yourself for a job well done. Reward your-* self how? Surely you know ... with Miller High Life Beer, of course! * 
That is how honest workers like you have been rewarding them-* selves for over 115 years. And no wonder! What better reward than * Miller's amber liveliness? What higher bounty than Miller's lively * amberness? What pleasanter premium than Miller's breath-taking, * joy-making, soul-waking flavor? What welcomer bonus than that this Miller, this best of all possible beers, this jewel of the brewmaster's Iart, should be available both in beautiful bottles of clear glass and in cans which are equally winsome, though opaque? 
So sit back and enjoy the Miller you have so richly earned. And remember this when it comes to baby-sitting: a good big man can * 
always lick a good little ;ne. * * I 
We, the brewers of Miller High Life Beer, who bring you this column 

* through the school year, frankly take a dim view of Max Shulman's advice** on baby-sitting. We do, however, find him extraordinarily sound in the* 
~~~~~~·**********************$t.
( 


Tuesday, April 6, 1971 

Holy Cross fights chapel locking 
by John Powers Apparent stealing in the Holy Cross hall chapel and related incidents have led to the locking of the chapel doors by Rev. Thomas Seidel, C.S.C., rector of Holy Cross. Seidel refused to disclose the circumstances, stating only that "The chapel is open for Mass." The chapel was locked last Tuesday because of the stealing of altar wine. Also stolen since the beginning of the year are a gold candlebra, an American flag and pole, and candles. One hall resident, who asked that his name be withheld, said that the wine was stolen by townies. David Tokarz, Hall Liturgical Commissioner, said that some wine and candles had been stolen earlier in the year. "I'm not aware of any wine that is missing," he said, "not in the course of the last two months." One student reportedly saw smoke in the chapel on a few mornings this year, but the cause 
of these incidents was un­
determined. The locking of the chapel was 
apparently intimated about three held in the Blue Room of the ~ll weeks ago. What began as a Hall and lasted for several hours. Council meeting became a Seidel stated that students general hall meeting when Ed "cohabitating," "slob drunk " or 
.

McCartin a resident told a '' usmg drugs," would, ' on-member of the Hall Council that suspicion of violation, be Father Seidel had something to reported immediately to the say of particular importance to Dean of Students by the resident 
the entire hall. The meeting was assistants in the hall. 
30 Seconds over Tokyo 
TOKYO <UPI) -Michiji Iso, a 21 year old mandolin payer, escaped with minor injuries Monday night when he fell from the roof of a nine story building and plunged through thetinroof ri. a restaurant onto a bed ocupied by two sleeping vmmen. 
The womm were not hurt and called police woo rushed Iso to a hospital \\here it was discovered he received only slight head and leg injurie;. But police said the two women passed out from sh>c after they arrived. 
Police said Iso was a seniorut Meiju University tin Tokyo and a member ri. the scool's mandolin club. He hd Jiayed at a wedding party earlier in the evening and afterward stopped off at a bar with friends. 
Police said he parted from his friends "to get some air " rambled down to Yuracucho Street a few blocks away a~d ~ok an el~vator to the roof of a building. He started to climb Its protective fence but lost his balance and fell nine floors to 
the bed. 

Because we appreciate your business we are going to do you a favor! 
With this ad we11 give you 10% off on any easter gift you choose. 







P~~~~~~ G 
52577 U.S. 31 NO PHONE 272-2966
~~~~~t/tilltfl
46637 

Student Government Needs 
People with a concern for the Notre Dame-st. Mary's Com­munity, enthusiasm, and ability who are willing to work on the following commissions: 
Academic Affairs Fred Guiffrida 7852 Co-Education Bill Wilka 282-1726 Community Relations Dave Lah -1535 Hall Life Bob Higgins 8033 Human Affairs Steve Fortunato 8515 
Judicial Commission Dave Tushar 8359 Off-Campus John Drost -272-6909 Public Relations Fred Schaefer -1723 
Research and Development Ed Ellis 8028 
Ombudsman Service Paul Dziedzic 1609 
Please apply for specific co mmissionsby calling the above mentioned 
Tuesday, April 6, 1971 
THE OBSERf!M_____ _ 
tim kendall 



Nothing, we are told, is quite so weak as an idea whose time is past. It occurs to me with increasing frequency that in the minds of many, draft resistance, i.e., the total refusal to co-operate wit;h the SSS, is and of right ought to be a thing of the past (if it ever had a rightful place at all). One is not quite certain how one ought to un­derstand this, for the same conditions which led to the Resistance Movement's original rise are still prevalent (and less tolerable by the mere fact that they have continued to endure). 
It is still the case, for example, that the United States Government, in all our names, is "de-escalating" the war all over Southeast Asia. Itis still the case that most Americans believe that they are not being told the truth about the war by the Ad­ministration. But apolemicagainst the war itself is not my purpose here. The last ten years speak far more eloguently in that regard, to anyone who cares to listen, than I could ever hope to. The draft still con­tinues, and its inequities persist despite the vaunted lottery system. 
It is often objected that one owes it to one's government to obey the law wherever possible. Resistance, it is said, is subversive of the very foundations of government, law, and order. If one must oppose war, the argument concludes, one should apply for a Conscientious Objector status. 
It rather seems, however, that history shows us enough Hiroshimas, Dresdens, Buchenwalds, and My Lais to support the claim that the mere fact of a government's commanding some act or course of action does not necessarily imply that the act or course of action is morally right. Govern­ments are made of men, and men are fallible at best. Thus, governments can and sometimes do command their subjects to commit the most horrible outrages against other human beings. I would submit, with the Nuremburg judges, that it is one's duty to human kind to carefully evaluate the commands of government before granting them unqualified obedience, particularly when the govern­ment is being accused by many of crimes against humanity. 
Modern warfare, as one can discern from its methods and its results, is the most prominent example of a crime against humanity commanded by a government of its people. To put the matter in its mildest form, unjust killing occurs in any war. Unjust killing is murder. To contribute in any way to war is to contribute in that way to murder. The effect of the draft is to compel men, under threat of prison, fine, and disgrace, to participate in murder. 
As an aside, it occurs to one at this point 
that the only difference between 
Lieutenant Calley and many, many others 
is that Calley was unfortunate enough to 
get publicity. Civilians are equally dead 
whether they are killed by rifles at point­
blank range, by anti-personnel bombs 
dropped on villages suspected of harboring 
Viet Cong (My Lai was so suspected),· or 
by starvation due to the ruination of land 
by chemical defoliants. Why was Calley 
tried, when no bomber-pilots have been 
tried? As Chuck Darst pointed out at the 
Moratorium Day Rally of 15 October 1969, 
to raise the issue of individual atrocities in 
Indochina is really to miss the point: the 
whole war, by its very nature, is one grand 
atrocity. 
No one, at this point in hil?tory, can hope for military success if he .is unwilling b~ commit atrocities. One of the tragedies of a trial like Calley's is that it focuses public attention in the wrong place. It makes people think that only certain perverted individuals ever commit "war crimes" What is obscured is that fact that this government has taken a man, trained him to kill, filled his mind with notions of all Southeast Asians as Communist enemies, and set him to work. When he functions as trained, and happens to receive publicity, the government seeks to shift the blame to him. 
The suggestion that anti-war peo,Ple who are subject to the draft should apply for 
C.O. status raises first the broader question of deferments and exemptions in general, objections to which are several. In the first place, to accept a deferment or an exemption oftne implies at least tacit endorsement of the SSS ("It's alright as long as it doesn't affect me.). In the second place, deferments such as II-A (oc­cupational), 11-C (agricultural), and 11-8 (student) are devices of "channelling", to use General Hershey's term, which ac­complish in this "free society" what a more direct type of coercion accomplishes in totalitarian countries: the directing of people's lives into areas and activities deemed worthwhile by the government. A worker in a munitions plant might be deferred, for example, while a theology grad student would be drafted. 
In the third place, deferments such as IV-B (government official), IV-D 
(ministerial) and I-0 (Conscientious Monday). On Good Friday, 9 April1971, at 
Objector) can be seen in many ways as privileges for the few rather than than as opportunities for the many. It is with the last of these classifications, I-0, that I am mainly concerned here. 
As everyone is by now aware, the Supreme Court has ruled that a man cannot be granted a 1-0 on the basis of objection to a particular war. This means that non-pacifists who believe that the war in Indochina is unjust and immoral must choose to violate their consciences, go to prison, go into hiding, or leave the country. How ironic that those who value the government highly enough to fight in defense of this country if it were attacked are precisely those whom the government forces to violate either their consciences or the law! 
But even for pacifists, the situation does 
not leave one morally comfortable. As 
many C.O.'s will admit, one's being 
granted the status of 1-0 depends upon a 
great many factors which have little or 
nothing to do with one's beliefs or sin­
cerity. The matter lies not so much in 
being sincere as in convincing the draft 
board that one is sincere. The two are not 
quite the same. For one thing, different 
draft boards have different whims. All of 
us have heard, at one time or another, 
about draft boards which have never 
granted a C.O. For another thing, the 
ability to convince a draft board of one's 
sincerity (unless one is a member of a 
particular tradition) and advise others 
to do the same, he should oppose it in a way 
open to all, regardless of their education or 
other social privileges. The only form such 
opposition can take is that of resistance. It 
is equally open to the pacifist and the 
Selective C.O., the educated and the 
uneducated, the rich and the poor. All it 
takes is the conviction that a jail sentence 
might be preferable to co-operation with, 
or co-optation by, a system which has as 
its business the destruction of human 
beings. 

This is not to say that there are no valid 
reasons for choosing legal conscientious 
objection over resistance. It depends upon 
individual circumstances. One might, for 
example, truly feel that he has talents 
which would enable him to be of significant 
help to others if he stays out of jail. This is 
undoubtedly true in many cases. But it is 
also true that it is very easy to rationalize 
and deceive oneself in this regard. Before 
co-operating with SSS, it seems to me, one 
should be rigorously honest with himself 
about his motives. 

Another objection to draft resistance 
recognizes all of the above, but maintains 
that it is, in the long run, useless. "The 
ideals you speak of are fine," the 
argument runs, "but in the last analysis 
people will not be moved. Go to prison, 
make your sacrifices, and the war will go 
right on as if nothing had happened. 
People, by and large, will do exactly what 
is comfortable and profitable for them. If 
this includes destruction and murder, then -that's the way it is. Why spend long years of your short life in prison for nothing_? You know that evil is occurring; just don't let it 
happen to you or by you." 
This line of thought is tempting indeed. 
All of us want to have the assurance that 
our efforts will be worthwhile, and if there · 
is no way of having that assurance, we are 
tempted to stop trying. One thought con­
stantly recurring to draft resisters is that 
to resist is to foolishly, uselessly, and 
mellodramatically "seek martyrdom." So 
strong and confusing is the uncertainty in 
this matter that one is often unable to be 
certain of his own motives. 
In the end, motivation becomes a matter 
of faith: faith in the belief that violence 
against other human beings is to be 
resisted, faith that love between human 
beings is possible, faith in the desire of 
offering to share our lives with others. And 
perhaps the worth of the offer depends not 
so much upon its being accepted as upon 
our making it in honesty and humility. 
As I write this, there sits on my desk an 
order, addressed to me by Local Board no. 
55 of Richmond, Virginia, to report for 
induction into the Armed Forces of the 
United States on 12 April 1971 (Easter 
12:00 noon, accompanied by the dual feeling of faith and uncertainty of which I speak, I shall bring the order to the area in front of the Administration Building of the 

,. 

Theology today needs to focus carefully upon the crucial problem of violence. The com­mandment "Thou shalt not kill" is morel than a mere matter of academic or sentimental interest in an age when man not only is more frustrated, more crowded, more subject to psychotic and hostile delusion than ever, but also has at his disposition an arsenal of weapons that make global suicide an easy possibility ... the population of the affluent world is nourished on a steady diet of brutal mythology and hallucination, kept at a constant pitch of high tension by a life that is intrinsically violent in that it forces a large part of the population to submit to an existence which is humanly in­tolerable... the problem of violence, then, is not the problem of a few rioters and rebels, but the problem of a whole social structure which is outwardly ordered and respectable, and inwardly ridden by psychopathic obsessions and delusions. 
"Love" is unfortunately a much misused word. It trips easily off the Christian tongue-so easily that one gets the im­pression it means others ought to love us for standing on their necks. 
The theology of love must seek to deal realistically with the evil and injustice in the world, and not merely to compromise with them. Such a theology will have to take note of the ambiguous realities of politics, without embracing the specious myth of "realism" that merely justifies force in the service of established power. Theology does not exist merely to appease the already too untroubled conscience of the powerful and the established. A theology of love may also con­ceivably turn out to be a theology of revolution. In any case, it is a theology of resistance, a refusal of the evil that reduces a brother to homicidal desperation. 
-Thomas Merton in Faith and 
Violence University of Notre Dame. There, for what it is worth, and before any witnesses who care to watch, I shall, mindful of the consequences and with charity aforethought, read the order aloud and then destroy it. The act will be one of solidarity with all those who have suffered and died in this war, and with all those who have gone to prison in protest over this war. 

Finally, a word about responsibility. On their album Monster, Steppenwolf has recorded a song called "Draft Resister" in which the following lines occur: 
Don't forget the draft resisters 
in their sad and lonely plea 
when they march them off to prison 
they will go for you and me 
Nothing could be further from the truth. In the game of life, no one "&oes" or "does" for anyone else. Each person has his own vision, his own responsibility, and each must "go" in his own place, answer to his own God. We can look to others for in­spiration, for ideas, and for examples, buf ­we cannot look to them for courage, and they cannot fill our hearts with love. For the courage to love, each person must look to his own soul. 
Timothy Kendall 
Senior Theology Major 
Palm Sunday 1971 
...-------------------------------­
TIIB OBSERfiDt 

Tuesday, April 6, 1971 

"We want to serve you better" 
ALL YOU CAN EAT Mon.-Thur. 5 pm-10 pm 
All the chicken or batter fried cod, served with ranch toast, french fries, and cole slaw. $1.45 chicken, $1.15 Fish 
Fri. -Sat. OPEN TIL 2:30 a 


Chilean vote 

SANTIAGO, CHILE UPI Chile's Marxist oriented government parties ld by President Salvador Allende's Socialists came within a hair of capturing 50 percent of the vote in nationwide municipal elections, final returns showed yesterday. 
Political analysts agreed the strong showing of the govern­ment now gives Allende a priority to move ahead quickly with his sweeping nationalization and 
redical  agrarian  reform  
programs.  
The  government  parties  

received an impressive 49.73 per cent of the 2,823,884 votes cast and emerged with a 1.69 per cent lead over the combined op­postioon. 
Results were released shortly after noon 1 p.m. EST by the Interior Ministry. 
An hour later, however, the same ministry issued new figures which omitted the independent, blank and voided votes. Under this new calculation, the government claimed it had in­deed captured 50.86 of the vote. 
It said the opposition had won 
49.14 per cent of the vote. 

Thus, the election returns and the outcome depended on what set of figures were considered acceptable. 
But either way the government parties' showing was impressive. 
Their demonstration of collective "political punch" at the polls gave Allende's domestic prestige a powerful boost, after only five months in office. 
OBSERVER BUSINESS STAFF 
Needs people for Advertising Layout: 
*Paid position $$$ 
*Afternoon -Early Evening Work 
Call 7471, 8661. 
\sk for Bill Bauerle or leave a messag 
~_."""'""""""'"""'"""'"""'"""'"""'..,"""'"""'"""'"""'..,"""'"""'...
1 Freshman Arts and Letters Intents ~ 
~ --Advanced Registration ~ ~ To ad void overcrowding at the Arts and Letters Deans' orien-~ ~ tation meetings prior to Advanced Registration, pick the session ~ ~ that corresponds to the first lett~r of your last na~e. If you h~ve ~ ~ a commitment that prevents thts, attend any sesston conventent ~ 
~  to you. ~heck April newsletter for time and place.  ~  
~  Monday  - April 5  A through C  ~  
a.;;  Tuesday  - April 6  D through H  ~  
~  Wednesday- April 7  I through M  ~  
~  Monday  - April 12  N through R  ~  
~  Tuesday  - April .13  S through Z  1111.:  

~~~r.,;_. __,......,..,~~"""'""'""'"""'"""'""'"""'""'""'""'"""' 


FRANKIE'S 
Dinner Special 
With any dinner -DRAFT BEER 10 cents a glass. Spec. Hrs. 5-8. 

711B OB.rERfiM 
Joe and Austin sign contracts 
Theis~nann to Toronto Argos-Carr with Cavaliers 

by Jim Donaldson a smile twice as wide. the No. 1 college player in the "We've now got a good quar­there with every intention of Observer Sports Editor country." It was estimated that terback. We were surprised and playing:•
Miletti was happy because he Carr signed for more than $1 delighted that he chose to play in Cleveland's signing of Carrhad gotten the signature of hisIf Cleveland Cavaliers owner million, spread over a multi-year Toronto." ended speculation that the IrishNick Miletti was wearing a big number one draft pick, the contract. Reached by phone late Monday superstar might sign with angrin Monday, then it might be nation's top college basketball But, whereas Miletti had ex­night, Theismann explained his ABA team.

player, Austin Carr of Notresafe to wager that John Bassett, pected to sign Carr, the surprise move by saying, "I had "I was leaning toward the NBSDame, on a Cavliers' contract.

chairman of the board of the Argonauts inking of Joe initially agreed to sign with all along," Carr said last night.
Canadian Football League's The Cavs' owner said that Carr Theism ann came as a surprise to Miami but experienced some Asked if he thought he'd like
Toronto Argonauts, was sporting was signed to a contract "fitting Theismann, an contractual with in Carr
Bassett. All­difficulties playing Cleveland, American selection at quar­them. These problems were replied, "I hope so. From the terback this past season, was cleared up though and I made a people I've met, Cleveland seems reported to have reached an verbal commitment to sign with to be a friendly city and a good agreement with the Miami the Dolphins.After thinking basketball town." Dolphins of the National Football things over, however, I decided to The Cavs didn't have a poor League last March, although he sign with Toronto because of the record during the past NBA did not sign with the Florida club monetary difference and campaign and it's quite likely at that time. Toronto's security guarantees." that Carr will find himself in the 
Sunday, however, Theismann The slender senior said that he starting lineup for Cleveland next put his signature on a two-year was "looking forward to playing season. "I have every hope of contract with Toronto. The Canadian ball." "Whether or not starting next year," Carr said. "I amount of cash involved was not I'm able to break right into the realize it'll be a different style of made public. Bassett announced lineup depends on my ability," play physically and the signing Monday, saying, Theismann said. "I'm going up psychologically, though." 
Austin Carr moving toward the hoop for another score. 


JIM MURRAY 



Seeing Is 


captain of the ND tracksters
copped the lone first place honor 

by E .J. Kinkopf evaluated the team's per­
in the long jump with an effort of

Observer Sports Writer formance as "geneally fair

Deceiving 
24' 1%". 

overall, although the teamThe only bona-fide runner-up
The Notre Dame Track Team. managed to do well in few
aribbon went to Elio Poselli in the

donned their workout sweats and 
events."
It is the view of Gary Owens, the disc jockey who emceed our discuss throw. His effort of 167'
resumed practice today after an "It's still early in the season for 
Baseball WritErs' dinner Thursday night that things are not only not 51/z" earned him the "close-but no
encouraging, if not overly im­
us," he said, and the warmer\\hat they seem, sometimes they are not even what they say they are. cigar" finish.
pressive, weekend at the Ken­weather will help us con­For instance, Garish likes to point out that the Eiffel Tower isn't The shuttle hurdle relay team
tucky Relays in Lexington, siderably."
really made ri. Eiffel at all. of Mike McMannon, Tom
Kentucky. He also pointed out that the
\\ell, in the world of sport, Gary, the deception is even more McMannon, Dave Strickler and shuttle hurdle relay, thoughmarked. Foc instaoce, The Irish competed in the field Joe Utz also finished second with 
that included Kentucky, Western disqualified, was only two tenths
The St. Louis "Cardinals" are mostly Protestant. a time of 54.7' but the team was (.2) of a second bmind the bestThe New Yock "Yankees" are partly Jewish. Michigan, Tennessee, Bowling disqualified when one of the relay 
Green, Pittsburgh, Indiana and team in the country.
The "Gncinnati "Reds" are largely Republican. legs took off too soon. 
''The_relay team should reallyThe Detnit "lions" occasionally tell the truth. Michigan State. The distance medley relay be good later in the season," heThe Detroit "Tigers" aren't even an endangered species. The Relays did not award team team of Vic Pantea, Marty Hill, said.

The San Francisco "Giants" are of average height. points, only individual honors, Gene Mercer and Tom Desch The track team takes to theplaced seventh with a time of
The Atlanta "Braves" have at least one guy who's a bit Yellow and the Irish tracksters returned road again this weekend,
(Mike Lum). home with one first place finish 10:27.7 
The sprint medley, the four traveling to Oxford, Ohio, to 
The Houston "Astros" have never even been out of this world. and two seconds. compete in a three-way meet
mile relay and the 440 yard relay 

The Minnesota "Twins" aren't even related. with Miami of Ohio and Bowling 
Junior Mike McMannon, teams failed to place.
The Cleveland "Browns" are bla<X and white. Green University.
performing in his home state, Senior Rick Wahlhuter, the
Th Denv€!' "Broocos," in fact, pass the buck. The San Diego "Chargers" actually getvery little credit. The Miami "Dol{.hins" actually lack a porpoise. 

Ruggers bow to Indy Reds
The Los Angeles "King" are quite common. 
The Kansas City "Royals" are even commoner. 
by Greg Einboden Bill Choquette and Doug Smego's 
The Washingtm "Senators" aren't even representative. The Irish "B" team was more
Observer Sports Writer conversion. But Indianapolis
The Chicago "Bears" are fully clothed. successful, however, as they
scored on a try to cut the Notre

The Baltimore "Colts" are really old studs. Notre Dame's Rugby team shipped the Reds, 6-{). Mter a
lead to 5-3.

The Montreal "ExPos" don't show us m uchl opened its 1971 season Saturday scoreless first half, two second-
The Buffalo "Sabres" can't cut it. by dropping an 11-5 verdict to the Later in the first half. the Reds . half trys by Ned Braun gave the The New Yock "Nets" are gross. Indianapolis Reds on the winners scored on a penalty kick, giving Irish the victory. Club vice­The Califocnia "angels" and the New Orleans "Saints" frequently home field. Injuries to several them a slim 6-5 lead which held president Charlie Blum praised go through hell. key players crippled Irish up until the intermission. First the play of the B team, par­The Milwaukee ''Bucks" run more to big dough. chances of winning their season half injuries to Choquette, Joe ticularly the work of Pat Kruger The Hruston "Oilers" aren't even slick. inaugural. Dugan, and John Leino did and Tom Masenga. The Detr<it "Roo Wings" are really on a turkey. Injuries to club president and nothing to bolster Irish hopes for The ruggers will travel to The Phoenix "Suns" aren't so hot. captain, Mike Morrison, along a second half comeback. The Cleveland April 17 to meet the The Pittsrurgh ''Penguins" aren't cool. with Chuck Petrosky and John second forty minutes was all Cleveland Blues in the second of The Cleveland Cavaliers dm't have the hocses. Zukaitis, put the Irish at a Indianapolis, as they scored on five regularly scheduled games The San Di~:go "Padres" don't have a prayer. disadvantage going into the another try and added the con­The first home game will be o~ And the Leaning Tow€!' of Pisa is really straight. The rest of the contest. Nevertheless. the Irish version to make the final score Saturday, April 24 against 
world leans. took an early 5-0 lead on a try by 11-5. Palmer. · 

Joe Theism ann breaks into the clear on one of his many long ru\ts 'h\st season. 
McMannon first in Ky. relays 
... ______________________________T.H.~ZO~ Tuesday, April 6, 1971 


Man does not starve for bread alone 
Bread can replace the ache in a man's stomach. Compassion can replace the ache in a man's heart. People are starving. For bread. For compass1on. And they must be fed. With food. With compassion. With farmers. With missioners. 
Maryknoll Fathers and Brothers, Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545 c 
Please send me information about becoming a Maryknoll O Priest 0 Brother 0 Sister 
NAME-_--------------------~GE___CLASS___ 
ADDRESS·------------------------------­CITY STATE ZIP 


April in Paris • • • 
APPEAL PUBLISHFO 

PARIS (UPI) -The magazine Nouvel Observateur published an appeal Monday by 343 French women, including two of Fran­ce's leading film actresses, asking the government to liberalize the country's strict abortion laws. 
Film stars Jeanne Moreau and Catherine Denueve, and authors Francoise Sagan and Simone de Beauvoir were among the women to sign the petition. 
CLOSED FOR REPAIRS 

PARIS <UPI). -One of France's most prestigious universities, the Ecole Normale Superieure, was closed Monday for repairs after its director, Robert Flaceliere, resigned withe the charge the school had become a base for left wing radicals. Some of the school's better known alumni include President Georges Pompidou and existentialist writer Jean Paul Sartre. 
TilE OBSERVER BUSINESS OFFICE 

Applleaat must be wllllag to devote 15 to20 hours perweek. Tbere IJ a c:oMibillty olaeademle efedlt iD Bualnesa AdmllilstraUoo and the salary
flOO per m011th. 


The Observer c/o Bruce Rieck , Buslnau Manager 
P.O. Box 1100 
Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
e over35008. A $6,000 sportscar for grown-ups. Sportscars are fun. But there comes a time power steering, the best seating (for four) in every man's life when he wants more and the best selection of driving and safety than a hot engine that corners nicely. The equipment money can buy. If you've out­Rover 3500S is manufactured by British grown sportscars, but you still love beauti­Leyland, England's leadingsportscar builder. fully functioning machinery, come in and Its 3Yz-lirre, aluminum V-8 will allow the try the 3500S. See (and feel) what  WANT $$$? A JOB FOR THIS SEMESTER AND NEXT IF YOU CAN TYPE WE WANT YOUR HANDS!!! CALL OR LEAVE MESSAGE SCOTT BRALEY 7471,8661  
EUROPE $209 PRESENTED BY STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL IN COOPERATION WITH NOTRE DAMPST· MARY'S STUDENT UNION FLIGltT NO. ROUTING DEPART CA SI 040 NY-LON-NY 6-21 TA SI 059 det-AMs-DET 6-16 RETU.RN WEEKS PRICE 8-31 9 $209 g-·z.'f­9 $209 Open only to Notre Dame-St. Mary.s students Faculty staff & their 'immediate families. ' ' ' All non-stop jets SI offers these services: Complete Meals Eurail, Britrail Passes Complimentary Drinks Car Purchase, lease, rental $50 Deposit Only Travellers Checks  
car to do 117 m.p.h., without strain. Bur it the next step up is like. "SUGGESTED MANUFACTURERS RETAIL PRICE, NOT INCLUDINGcomes with the best suspension, the best INLAND fREIGHT. DEALER PREPARATION. SlATE ANOLOCAl TAXES.  Cancellation Privileges Variety of Mini-tours PltONE OR STOP IN: FIRST BANK TRAVEL BUREAU ON CAMPUs-Next to Barber Shop 283-7080 9 am-12  




