:;1=~=~=~=~=~=~=======~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=!===============~=====~=~=~=============~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:~:::~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:=:~:~:~ ::::.
IAt 8 pm tonight there will be an open meeting of the SLC's I llcommittee on Sanctions, in the Center for Continuing EducationJ.l[
I I
Go and tell them what you think of sanctions! 



Students, trustees discuss problems in SAC meeting 
b)· Ihm l~l<'k The Student Affairs provost. 
Committee, comprised of Alonzo, MECCA president, He expects to have a full budget 
trustees and student represen­discribed Spanish-speaking proposal and final report tatives, met Monday to discuss citizens in the U.S. and how they prepared by the bull board of University problems in various relate to Notre Dame. trustees meeting later this 
aspects of student life. He was critical of recruitment month. policies and added that a Spanish Buz Imhoff, HPC chairman, 
Trustees Dr. Thomas Carney American counsellor and and Bob Higgins, Hall Life <Chairman), Jerry Van Gorkom, recruiter was needed to seek Commissioner, gave rep<rts to Paul Hellmuth, Jack Schneider interested students from "real" the committtee about Hall Life. and Student Representatives Spanish communities. The two attempted to present to John Barkett, Tim Feeley, Jim John Drost, off campus com­the committee positive evirence O'Hara and Bob Weaver listened missioner, presented a report of to reports beginning with the student life off campus. 
Graduate Report. Problems in off campus life were Accocding to Matt Minnix, presented by Fr. William Toohey 
Nixon moves on dock strikes 
Graduate Student Union and by Fr. Thomas Chambers. president, the purpose of the An Off Campus Student Center (c) 1971 New York Times Before the President lefy Key West Coast strike. J. Curtis report was twofold: to promote was proposed and that the WASHINGTON, Oct. 4--­Biscayne, his press secretary, 
Counts, the Director of the 
the excellence of the graduate committee seemed very in­President Nixon tonight signed Ronald L. Ziegler, said the board Federal Mediation and Con­school and to seek and secure the terested in the problems that are an would look into the negotbtions
executive order invoking the ciliation.Service, said today those 
highest quality in graduate trying to be solved, Drost added. Taft-Hartley Act in the current· on the East Coast, Gulf Coast. negohatwns were at an impasse.student life. The afternoon session began dock strikes. Great Lakes and West Coast. 
Complaints about the quality with a drug center recom­Nixon took the first step It seemed certain that an in­and quantity of graduate housing, mendation headed by John required by the National Labor junction would be sought in the university bias against women Kwicien, Tom Tollaksen and Helations Act after returning to 
wl're put forth, as well as the Connie Ornsby. A full outline was Washington from Key Biscayne, tWl'd for better compus lighting. submitted to the committee for a Fla., where he had spent the Carl Ellison and Armando proposed drug abuse center. weekend. Alonzo presented the Minority A fusion of St. Mary's-Notre The order sets up a five-man Hl'port. E:llison, coordinator of Dame Health Service, drug board of inquiry to assess the 

r~~:,~~~~~~~~~~~:'"'"""""~l
the Hecruitment Aid Program, orientation in Freshman year status of negotiations in the 
an

said that the primary issue and emergency treatment strikes. After the President discussed is the $6 million t:n­center are a few aspects of the receives the board's report, he 
dowment for minority scholar­recommencation. will ask the Justice Department United Nations, N.Y.---In a speech to the United Nations General ships, which is backed by Fr. Kwicien said that the report to seek an injunction halting for Assembly, Secretary of State Rogers appealed to Israel and Egypt to 1lH'odore Hesburgh, president, was very well taken and Dr. llO days the strike or strikes in form an interim agreement that would take Israeli forces "away from and Fr. James T. Burtchaell, Carney was especially receptive. which negotiations look fruitless. the Suez Canal and commit Egypt to reopen the waterway. Rogers 
also spoke at length in support of the American proposal to save Nationalist China's assembly seat.
Better campus relations desired 
New York--Discussions between American and Israeli officials were reported to be underway on new American security offers to en­
courage the Israeli government to accept the agreement proposed by Secretary of State Rogers. American and Israeli officials agree that any agreement must contain deterrents against any Egyptian attack 
Twenty persons concentrated pressor. 
across the canal. on the reactions of students According to one of the men towards the situation on the present, "the male won't be 
Series on sexism begun 
Washington--American and other Western intelligence sources said campus in regards to male­normal until he realizes what a that Israel has started to manufacture solid fuel missiles capable of female relationships, at the first woman is." He returned to Notre carrying nuclear warheads 300 miles. The intelligence experts wereof a series on sexism Monday. Dame this year after considering not sure if Israel possessed nuclear warheads, but they said that the
Peggy Thompson and Becky University of Wisconsin only 
Minter are conducting this series because he wanted to see if the new missile was too expensive to use to deliver a conventional high­of informal discussions in situation is really as bad as it was explosive warhead. response to what they consider a his freshman year. 
serious need. Rather than per­Experiences drew the talk Saigon--President Nguyen Van Thieu, overwhelmingly elected to a sonal frustration, there. is a together. After reading a study 
second term as president of South Vietnam, said that the election in 
general sadness over the entire done of panty raids at Notre which he was the only candidate was a clear example of democracy insituauation, according to the Dame, one Freshman com­action. The massive show of support was greeted with skepticism, not group. mented that she had yet to only by Thieu's opponents, but by some American officials as well.
Role-playing, double stan­recover from her initial shock at dards, and oppression are all the first one three weeks age. typical of ND-SMC for both sexes. "It's such an anachronism! Washington--President Nixon's economic program survived a • 
Awareness will be the only This isn't 1950!" In discussing the Peggy Thomp;;on challenge when the House voted as the President had requested to solution. These ideas were group's direction another Fresh­postpone Federal pay increases scheduled for January. In the Senate, 
Nonviolence Program faculty are pointed out repeatedly as the man exclaimed, "You have so already at work on a four week a $381-million pay increase for the Armed Forces, which will go into group discussed why they had much to lose with Notre Dame at lecture series concerning effect when the freeze ends, was approved with no overt ad­
come to the meeting. your feet." But another coun­women's roles past and ministration opposition.
An interest in the subject, a tered that it would be better to projected.desire to inform others or vague have them at your shoulder. Females cannot simply step 
Washington--Congress was urged by George Meany, president of the 
curiosity brought the 18 girls and Womanhood is a role most 
out of their present role without 
A.F.L.-C.I.O., to take control of the economy away from Presidenttwo boys together. This intellectuals (male) have 
intellectualizing enough to 
Nixon. Meany, testifying at committee hearings on the operation ofmovement could be aptly called reserved as the worse possible 
become conscious of who they 
the wage-price freeze, asked that Congress set up a stabilization"pl•ople liberation" rather than fate, the group decided, which 
are, the directors said, em­
"women's Jib." The men are as isn't much backt;round to build a program to limit the power and duration of any controls to a period of 
phasizing the objective of the 
much the oppressed as the op-new role on. Members of the series. defined national emergency. 
THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 5, 1971
Page 2 

Israel starts production of new missile 
(c) 1!171 New York Times 

WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 --Israel has started to manufacture modest quantities of a missile capable of carrying a 1,000-pouncl to 1,500-pound warhead 300 miles or more, according to well-plared American and other Western intelligence reports. 
The missile, called the Jericho, is being produced at a rate of from three to six a month, it is believed 
Although United States specialists are far from certain that Israel has nuclear warheads, several analysts suggest that the Jericho is too expensive to use to deliver a conventional, high­explosive warhead. 
"It \\Ouldn't make much sense to manufacture a costly weapon like Jericho merely to carry the equivalent of two or three 500­pound bombs," one official declared. "The decision to go into production strongly suggests Israel has, or believes it could soon have, nuclear warheads for the system."
Although lsrael has repeatedly pl~ed mtto be the first country to introduce nuclear weapons into the Middle East, analysts believe thatlsraelmay have a number of nuclear-weapm components that could be assembled quickly, in a crisis, for use on the Jericho as well as on fighter-bombers. 
Israel is not believed to have deployed any of the two-stage, solid-fuet missiles yet. But one ranking American officer said, "We wouldn't be surprised to see it deployed in the next few months." 
Anumber of American officials 
are concerned that if Egypt and 
the Soviet Union become con­
vincer' that Israel has deployed 
nuclear-tipped missiles capatile 
of hitting their forces in much of 
Egypt, in addition to such 
population centers as Cliro, 
Moscow may feel impelled to 
deploy a comparable nuclear 
missile in Egypt. 
If that should happen, analysts 
say, the Soviet Union is likely to 
operate the new missile with ts 
own forces. 
The Soviet tactical nuclear missile known by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization code name Scaleboard has a range of about 450 miles and is considered the missile likely to be deployed in Egypt. 
American and Western shecialists on the Middle East believe that the Jericho represents an Israeli effort to 

Free Hot Dogs!!! 
A free hot dog day to be held 
Wednesday at Notre Dame was announced Monday by Jim Schneid, student service<> commissioner, yesterday. 
Schneid said that 2,000 free hot dogs will be given away from noon to 1 p.m. between the Ad­ministration Building and the LaFortune Student Center. He added that two drummers, students George Blonk and Fred Nonsour, will be playing at the cookout. 
In case of inclement weather, the event will be held Thsrsday.l "We feel that expenses for our hot dog day," Schne d com­

mented, "should run us no more than $200. I am confident that 

Jim Schneid this debt can be made up with little difficulty." small and informaCto get things He noted that the event was going on campus. We feel that planned in an effort to improve the free hot god dea will be an the social atmosphere on cam­excellent start." pus. Schneid reported that the "The Services Commission has Commission is working on a 
been gogged down so far this year number of thoer tentative by a lot of paperwork," Schneid projects. One possibility, he said, said, "and we decided that we is to show films in LaFortune 
needed something relatively during the lunch hour. 

The New Music 
"The New Music-1950-1970" will be presented by artists Petr Kotik and Frederic Rzewski October 13 in the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium at 8:15p.m. 
Featuring four pieces for flute and piano and one for live electronic music, the compositions are by modern artists Pierre Boulez, Karlheins Stockhausen, John Cage and the two performing artists. 
Kotik is a native of Prague, Czechoslovakia, and graduate of the Academies of Music in Vienna and Prague. The 29-year old composer is a flutist and enthusiast of electronic music, and is presently an associate with the Center for the Creative and Performing Arts, State University of New York at Buffalo. 
Rzewski is 33, a pianist who is teaching experimental music and collective composition at the New School in New York. A graduate of Harvard College, he has been a composer with the Ford Foundation's Artists in Residence Program in West Berlin, and has taught music at the Cologne Conservatory in Germany. He founded the Musica Elettronica Viva <MEV) group in Rome, Italy, and toured Europe with the group, performing over 180 concerts. 
deta-Egypt and the Soviet Union Israelis might decide to destroy French armaments concern of 
from contemplating an all-out as many of their enemies as Marcel Dassault reportedly
effort to bomb cities in Israel and possible in their final hours. suggested that if the effort was 
destroy that country. Well-placed sources said thet moved to France to make doint But if deterrence failed and Israel started to develop the demelopment possible, an Isaeli officials believed that Jericho about 10 years ago. operational miss le could be 
Israel was on the verge of being In the early 1960's, when the produced in about 18 months. overrun, these officials say, the program was in its infancy, the 
Orestes Brownson Society restarting 
The Orestes Brownson Society Treasurer; and Maira Gallagher, The society serves a non-profit,held its first meeting of the 1971-Donna Mendoza, and Clyde non-political, and educational 1972 academic year Monday Walker, Board of Directors. 
function within the universityevening to elect new officers and Events to be held by the community.decide upon a speaker program. organization will include in­Anyone interested in further 
Those elected to administrative formal faculty-student coffee information or joining shoud positions were: Ed Lacey, hours, dinners, debates and a contact the president, Ed Lacey.President; Paul Anthony, Vice number of prominent speakers President; Joan Steel, from all fields to be sponsored by 
Secretary; John Mowbray, the organization. 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 

Indiana Bell 


7:30 P.M.
The Occasional Bluegrass Band .John Bachman TOMORROWBob Ewen Paut Guernsey LAFORTUNEDenny Lopez .John MacKenzie BALLROOM 

Tuesday, October 5, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 




CCE site of Cancer Conference 
National and state cancer jCancer Service, Cancer ::society association officials will attend of Elkhart County, LaGrange the ninth annual meeting and County Cancer Society, Inc., La educational conference of six Porte Community Cancer area societies beginning Thur­Association, and Cancer sday in the University of Notre Association of Marshall County. Dame"S Center for Continuing Theme for the 1971 conference Education. Sessions will con­is "Search For a Cure." J. Quint tinue through Saturday af­Salmon of Beaver, Pa., president ternoon. of the National Cancer Society, 
Joining the Cancer Society of and Charles Schwartz, Jr., New St. Joseph County as co-hosts for Orleans, La., vice president, will the United Cancer Council attend conference sessions. conference are Berrien County Thursday sessions will be 
Common Market 

US tarrif protested 
by Clyde H. Farnsworth 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
PARIS, Oct. 4---The Six l':uropean Common Market countries and Britian, a prospective member, have formally protested protectionist tax credit proposals of the Nixon administration and warned that those proposals might lead to retaliatory measures if.passed by Congress. 
A stiffly worded note was approved today by the govern­ments of !''ranee, West Germany, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg and handed over to J. Robert Schaetzel, American ambassador to the European Economic Community in Brussels. 
A spokesman for the Foreign Office in London said that Britian had made known to Washington her opposition to the tax credits about two weeks ago. 
The Common Market note was transmitted tonight to Schaetzel by Franco Maria Malfatti, President of the bole's executive unit. This was done while Schaetzel accompanied two high­ranking American diplomats to Common Market headquarters for a courtesy call on Malfatti. 
The two were John N. Erwin, American Under-secretary of State, and Martin J. Hilenbrand, Assistant Secretary for European Affairs, who were in Brussels for a meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 
American-Community relations were discussed at the mel'ting for about an hour. 
The note pointed to the cumulative effects of the tax credits and the 10 per cent import surcharge, which, according to the Community, would give American industry, particularly the capital goods sector, an overwhelming advantage over foreign competition. 
Most of the foreign attention has centered on the surtax, imposed by President Nixon on Aug. 15 as part of his effort to revive the American economy and restore a balance of payments equilibrium. The surtax has the effect of ap­proximately doubling American tariff protection. 
Against nsmg pressure for early removal of the surcharge, Treasury Secretary John B. Connally has said it will come off only when currency realignments and elimination of unfair trading· measures by other nations produce the conditions for an America"n payments surplus. 
Today's diplomatic move shows that the Europeans are equally upset about the tax credits. There are two types affecting foreign competition in the United States. 
One is the so-called job development tax credit. As proposed by the President, it would provide a credit of 10 percent of the cost of new machinery and equipment produced in the United States and placed in service on or after Aug. 16, 1971. 
Wilbur B. Mills, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, has recommended that the credit be cut down to 7 percent. 
T~nd proposal would defer taxes for earnings from export sales, and under the ad­ministrations plan, would take effect Jan. 1, 1971. 

Stanley Surrey, Assistant Treasury Secretary for Tax Policy under the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, has labeled this prospective measure "a billion dollar tax loophole" in an article in the Washington Post. 
The administration estimates that the tax deferrals would have the effect of inct·easing American export sales by about $1.5 billion a year. 
The administration has not made clear exactly how long it intends to keep both the measures in effect. Europeans are worried that the measures will become a permanent part of the American fiscal scene. 
,------------~ 
Tile Observer is published daily during tile college semester except vacations by tile students of the University ot Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

obstetrics and gynecology. Dr. Thomas A. Troeger, directorof the South Bend Center for Medical Education and professor at Indiana University, will discuss "Chemotherapy" 

Armed robbers hit Grace Hall 
concerned with executive, board, staff and membership meetings of United Cancer Council. New officers will be elected at the evening session which will feature the president"S AD­DHESS. 
Concerned with research, Friday's session will open with a talk, "Where Does Our Mondy Go?" By Dr. Frank Lloyd, director of research at Methodist Hos))ital, Indianapolis, and author of several articles on 

by Don Ruane 
A daring gunman and his partner robbed two Grace Hall residents of !50 Monday night as the victims worked and slept in their room. 
Mike Meara told the Observer he was typing a paper while his roommate Tom Dombkowski slept when the robbers entered through a door connecting their room with another. 
The two knocked first, Meara said, and then entered through the partially opened door. 
"I thought they had the wrong 
room," Meara said. 
THE 
In brewing Bud®, our choice is to go all the way. We hope beer matters enough to you that you too will go all the way ... with Budweiser. 
WHEN YOU SAY 


Budweiser® 
YOU'VE SAID IT All! 
ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 
The one who closed the door told Meara, "Give us all your money and don't pull any funny stuff." 
Meara turned $20 over to the bandits and Dombkowski gave them approximately $30 after he was awakened. 
The bandits warned the two "Don't go out of the room for fiv~ minutes," and then fled. 
Meara called Notre Dame Security and was told an in­vestigator would be there as soon as the moblie unit was contacted and could search the area. The investi~ator arrived nearlv a half hour later, according to Meara. 

The senior from Fenton, Mich. said he called the Observer "because something has to be done about this." 
"This is at five to nine and there are other guys with their doors open," Meara added. 
Notre Dame Security refused to release any information on the robbery until Director Arthur Pears has seen the report. 
South Bend and St. Joseph County Police could not provide details since they were not in­volved in the investigation. 


CHALLENGE. 
Student Union Services Commission presents 
DOG DAY 
Wed. 12 p.m.--1 p.m. in front of the Golden Dome 
FREE Hot Dogs 
Eat Lunch to the Music of the Mad Ilummer from Farley for additional info call 7757 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 5, 1971 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-l'hier  Busint'S!-1 :\lan;l~t·r  
Glen S. Corso  .James .k11dryk  
All  successful  newspapers  are  
ceasele~sly  querulous  and bellico<;e. They  
Ext'cutivl.' Editor T.C. Treanor  never defend anyone ~r anyth1ng If they can help it; if the job is to reed upon them, they tackle it by denouncing someone or  \d \l<llla~t·r Bill ll.uwr!e  
Founded NO\:Pmber 3, 1966  something else.  -H. L. Mencken,  Notre Danw. Indiana  
Business 283-'1471  News :?!l:~-1715  

Go 

Six hundred students, glutting the Engineering Auditorium and looking at proceedings with an avid interest, can do a lot to a person. Ifyoti doubt our word; ask a member of the Student Life Council. Seldom has abilror a recommendation been disposed of-with such alacrity or grace as were· the student sanctions of a· week ag·e. 
We start from scratch today, as the Hall Life Committee holds its first meeting---an open meeting at eight PM. But despite the ma·rgin of that rejection, and despite the defeat of represenla tive Tushar's ·motion to place the three men responsible for the late monstrosity on tne· new board, the new board includes two of the three members of the old sanc­tions· board---Father Chambers and Professor Thornton. 
Though the new board looks more promising tlian Father Chambers and M essers. Tushar and -Thornton alone, the· composition of the body clearly underscores the fact that tlie battle has jest begun. 
And what is the objective of this battle? It is to take sanctions, and the whole idea of sanctions, and return them to the boxes from which they came and to which they belong. The objective is fo turn lhisdiscussion away from sanctions against the students exercising their own rights 1n their own rooms, and towards sanctions against students guilty of real crimes against the University. 
If massive student intervention could have spared us from the grotesque sanctions suggested lasl week, similar intervention will surely give the Hall Life Committee-the irriputus it needs to make ·some correct decisions. This meeting, unlike the others, will oe open in every sense of the word; students wm be called upon to speak up and testify about tfie whole question. 
So let' intervene. Another crl)wd like the last one; a crowd respectful buffirm and constructive; and we may be out ofthis sanctions mess yet. 
Letters 

Editor: Trustees are administrators--the scapegoat, while the real culprit 
I 
In the past few weeks, there only faction of the university on skulks in the office under the nas been a considerable amount the board(there are no favulty, golden dome. of nonsence written regarding the grad students, or other students, Being a believer in personal Trustees in general, the Student nor staff.) Thus, when a decision self-improvement, I decline to Life Council, and the "com-passes the opposition of the ad­list the members of the Executive munity." In hopes of helping to ministrators on the SLC, they Board. It might be an interesting clear up the confusion, !should have a second chance to cote the exercise for students here to find like to submit the following. idea down-with no hearing given this out, and to compare it with 
The students here seem under a to any other point of view, while the membership of the SLC, the 
consi.deravle misappregension they have the ear of theri judicial review boards, etc. The conerning the way decisions are "colleagues" on the Board. In exercise will be most diverting, reached by the Trustees, a dif-short, the Trustees become the as well as educational. ficulty compounded by the cover · James H. Sweetland lettff' Fr. Hesburgh distributed with Mr. Stephan's letter at registration. Mr. Stephan clearly states that the recent decision was made by the EXECUTIVE BOARD of the Trustees not the full board. This is the same body that usually Morning Maniacs: makes the decisions on major Nite Editor: Jim McDermott 
questions regarding the Headlines & Layout: Joe Abell, Marty Miller University, as will be seen by a Nite Controller: John Tully study of prebious letters from Nite Controller: Mr. Stephan. 
Features Editor: rick smithThe Trustees as a whole consist Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson
of over forty people; the Executive Board of about a dozen News Editor ,..;John Abowd and a half. The important fact to Al)sociate Editors: Ed Ellis, Ann remember here is that roughly Therese Darin, half the Executive Board is made SMC _Editor: Ann Conway up of administrators of the 
Managing Edito't: Don RuaneUniversity--Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. 
Compugraphic Manager: DanBurtchaell, etc. -most of whom !hornton 
are esc priests. I note this because the common wisdom around here is that the 
we love you , HAL 
reaoon for difficulties with the Trustees is that they are out­side's, not in touch with the campus. I submit, rather, that the reason for problems is that sich a large proportion of the 
First Tuesday 

The Antiwar Bomb 
Tom Bornholdt 
In this column, last month, Yours Truly defended (to Sam Wilson's dismay) the Horrible Heresy that the H-Bomb has done more for eace than the UN. The basic argument went thusly: H-weapons do n ot occupy territory, they simply destroy territory. Armies conquer things, while bombs destroy things---including armies. The better bombs are at destroying, the more difficult it is for armies to conquer. 
Take the case of Slobbovia and Bwanaland. It used to be that all Slobbovia had to do to conquer Bwanaland was to defeat its army and occupy its land. But nowadays Bwanaland and Slobbovia have lots of H-Bornbs. Now Slobbovia has to worry about Bwanaland dropping H­Bombs on the Slobbovian army. No army, no conquest. Therefore, Slobbovia has to try to destroy all of Bwanaland's bombs before they can be dropped on Slobbovian troops. However, if Slobbovian bombs are well dispersed, hidden, and hardened, then the thermonuclear attack required by Slobbovia to destroy the enemy weapons, will end up destroying most of Bwanaland's wealth as well. 
What good is there in conquering a radioactive wasteland? Fur­thermore Bwanaland might born Slobbovian cities if it looked like Slobbovia might win. And if Slobbovia was able to destroy Bwanaland's bombs, then it is still left with the classical problem of defeating the army and occupying the land. 
Conquest, thusly, has become infinitely more difficult. And conquest, with its "profit", has been the true cause of most aggressions. H-Bombs have taken the "profit" out of war, and con­trary to popular myth nations do not wage war simply to watch people die. 
There is a limit to this reasoning. Introduce another nation, Lilliput, that doesn't possess H-Bombs, but instead relies on its alliance with Bwanaland. Now if Slobbovia wants to conquer Lilliput, it still has to worry about bombs. But the H-Bombs are in Bwanaland. If Slobbovia gets rid of Bwanaland's H-Arsenal, it is then free to invade Lilliput. If it destroys a goodly portion of Bwanaland in the process, so what? Lilliput is the desired conquest. Bwanaland's alliance with Lilliput gives Slobbovia a reason for destroying Bwanaland. 
Even if Bwanaland's bombs can't be preempted by Slobbovia, it still has problems. IfLilliput is far from Bwanaland, then it bee mes more difficult for Bwanaland to effectively use its H-Bombs against the Slobbovian army. A multimegaton ICBM with mediocre accuracy is devastating against sprawling fixed cities, but against despersed mobile infantry and armor, it's pretty ineffective. Locating the Slobbovian divisions and cimmunicating their position to a Bwanaland missile center under war conditions is much more difficult than using tactical nuclear weapons based in Lilliput itself. 
What about the famous Balance of Terror? If Bwanaland wipes out the 100 largest cities of Slobbovia wipes out the 100 or 200 largest cities of Bwanaland. The Balance of Terror prevents Bwanaland from bombing the Slobbovian heartland; it doesn't prevent Slobbovia from marching into Lilliput. Furthermore, since its existence isn't threatened, Bwanaland is going to be far more timid in the use of even tactical nuclear weapons. Lilliput would probably use a few A-Bombs against those troops still massed in Slobbovia. Bwanaland probably bly would not for fear of escalation. While Lilliput might attack Slob­bovian cities if it couldn't stop the invading army, Bwanaland cer­tainly wouldn't. 
The conclusion of all this, is quite simple. Itis in the interest of world 
peace that Lilli put have nuclear weapons! A Lilli put without H-Bombs 
tempts Slobbovia into trying to get a first strike capability against 
Bwanaland. If all the Lilliputs, that Slobbovia could possibly invade, 
had nuclear weapons, then Slobbovia would be hard pressed to find a 
nickel's profit in a costly and dangerous war. 
While Slobbovia, Bwanaland, and Lilliput don't exist, America, 
Russia and West Europe do. All the Russians need to reach the 
Pyrennes are shoes. Western Europe is about the ideal region to 
conquer; lots of wealth, heavy industry with a dense population that 
would be easy to subdue. And Western Europe is not alone. Just think 
about oil rich Iran. 

A moment of unbiased thought, and one can easily see that by 
keeping H-Bombs out of Lilliputs, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation 
Treaty is an open invitation to World War Three. The H-Bomb is 
basically an anti-war bomb; it destroys all possible war profits. 
Limiting nuclear weapons, in a very real way, is limiting peace. 
Of course, there are certain circumstances that can effect this issue. 
To encompass all of these, Yours Truly will list three conditions under 
which it would be beyond doubt that nuclear proliferation would be in 
the interest of the United States and the world. 
First is that the government of the country in question be neither 
hostile nor distasteful to America. So cross Cuba and Greece. Second, 
the nation must be politically stable. Cross off Latin America. Lastly, 
the major foreign threat of war to this country must come from 
aggressive thermonuclear power. Cross off India, Pakistan, and 
Ireland. 

The first condition stems from the fact that there may be govern­
ments we wouldn't mind if they ceased to be. A long list could be 
drawn up. However, even a few Communist countries like Yugoslavia, 
could conceivably pass this test. The second checkmark comes from 
the fear of a possible nuclear civil war, or the use of an H -Bomb during 
a coup or insurgency. The last prerequisite is most debatable. Let it be 
said that the possibility that war might be encouraged between a 
nuclear power and a nonnuclear country in such a case. 
Well, what is left? West Germany, Sweden, Norway, Japan, 
Holland, Switzerland, Iran, Yugoslavia, Australia, and Turkey 
definitely qualify. There isn't much threat for Canada or New 
Zealand. Formosa, Italy, Austria and Finland rate question marks. 
American policy should be to encourage (such as by lifting treaty 
restrictions) Jhese nations to develop a sizable, dispersed, hardened 
nuclear arsenal capable of both tactical and strategic uses. 
In the past, the size of the French and British GNP have been too 
small for them to have an effective capability. Together, most of 
Western Europe, however, could easily arm to the point where they 
would become a most unpalatable morsel for any hungry Soviet Bear. 
Tuesday, October 5, 1971 

THE OBSERVER Pages 
ever darker skies over 
Editor's note: the following is more of a news story and as such does not properly belong on this, the features page. It was recommended to me by one Tom Hamiltorr. head of the Students for World Concern. Mr. Hamilton and his associates are currently concentrating their efforts in helping to relieve some of the misery currently rampant in East Pakistan and the Indian State of West Bengal. Any student wishing to assist Mr. Hamilton in his effort may contact him in his room in Flanner tower. 1'hank you. 
(c) 1!171 New York Times 
Calcutta---Large numbers of East 
Pakistani refugee children aredying every 
day from malnutrition and the diseases 
that accompany it, and tens of thousands 
are seriously malnourished and facing 
death. 
Accurate mortality figures are not available because officials in the Indian refugee camps do not keep them separately for children, but a spot check of several camps makes it clear that the deaths of children in the critical group, ages 1toR, number at least in the hundreds every day. Some foreign relief officials believe the toll is even higher. 
"Thousands are dying," said Alan LeathPr, an experienced field worker for Ox fam, the British-based relief organization, "and we think tens of thousands will die unless a large-scale child-fPeding program is begun im­mediatPiy." 
Such a program, called Operation Lifeline has just been approved by the Indian government --after two months of hesitancy and bureaucratic wrangling. Its 
('ffeetiveness will depend on how quickly it is put into fall operation and many ob­servers think this will take one or two months. 
Infants lie dying on cots m sweltering 
makeshift field hospitals, their skin 
stretched taut across their wasted frames. 
Their numbed mothers stand over them, 
fanning them with cloth or cardboard, or 
trying to put some food in their 
mouths,which they immediately vomit. 
"Will he live?" a visitor asked about one 
such skeletal child Jess than two months 
old, who was too weak to move or cry. 
"There is no chance," said an Indian 
nurse. The mother's eyes agreed. 
Many of the children were malnourished when they arrived in India, for malnutrition is widespread even in normal times in East Pakistan, just as it is in the 

iim e. brogan 
~ 
,.~ 
') "-"­
_ ~ •Patno

/ ,_ 
B 

Indian border states into which the refugees have proured. 
But the degree of malnutrition in the camps --aggravated by overcrowding, poor sanitation, fouled water and the weakened condition of the refugees after their long trek --is much worse than that usually seen on the subcontinent. 
A field report by a team from the prestigious All India Institute of Medical Sciences found that nearly 50 per cent of the refugee children under the age of 5 are suffering from "moderately severe or advanced malnutrtion," caused by protein and vitamin deficiencies. 
The malnutrition is almost always ac­companied by other infections and diseases, such as diarrhea, dysentery and bronchial pneumonia, it is said. Many of the children are wasted by three or four diseases at once. 
The report said: ''Even minor infections would tip the scales in such deprimed children, and unless urgent remedial measures are taken, substantial loss of infant and child population may occur quite apart from developmental retar­dation that is bound to afflict this group widely." 
Though the report is largely credited with prodding the Indian government into action, it was handed to the government over two months ago. The report said that there were 300,000 children "at the edge of a precipice (where) any acute infection can prove fatal in a majority of them." Calling tor an emergency program of supplementary feeding with proteins and calories, the report said that "Time is of the essence." 
u 


"" ...

At present, with about 30,000 new refugees crossing into India every day, there are about 1.7 million children younger than 8 years, and these are only the ones in the camps. Nearlv one-third of the nine million refugees are iiving outside camps with friends and relatives. 
In addition, the camp population in­cludes more than 500,000 pregnant and breast-feeding mothers, who also need supplementary feeding. 
The Operation Lifeline Program for these more than two million sufferers, which was recommended by the Medical Institute report, will have two distinct parts. 
The first, which is called Alpha and is designed to be largely preventive, aims to set up 1,000 or more feeding stations in the camps to provide milk powder and high­protein foods for the bulk of the critical group "as a measure for preventing those children who are in the early stages of nutritional deprivation and are beginning to falter, from getting into graver forms of malnutrition." Some Alpha stations hav already opened. 
The second part, which is not yet func­tioning, is a curative program for the hard cases. It is designed to handle about 125,000 children. The goal is to set up 500 nutritional therapy centers as adjuncts to camp hospitals, where seriously malnourished children will receive in­tensive, in-patient care for as long as one or two months as a life-saving operation. 
The supplies for the entire program will be provided by UNICEF, which will buy them with foreign relief funds donated through the United Nations. But the 
beau letters from smc 





bengal 
Project will be run by others --Alpha, by the Indian Red Cross with the help of voluntaryrelief agencies,and Beta, by the Indian government's Ministry of Rehabilitation. 
The major reason tor the delay, however, was the government's reluc­tance to launch such a comprehensive supplementary feeding program only for the refugees, when the local population -­though not quite as ravaged --was suf­fering from similar problems. 
When the situation in the refugees camps worsened, largely because of the Monsoon floods, the pressure on the government mounted and it finally ap­proved the program. Relief officials are said to to have assured the government that seriously malnourished local children will not be turned away from the Beta centers. 
The Indian state of West Bengal, which has absorbed about 7 million of the 9 million refugees, is a year-round disaster area on its own --the home of perhaps India's deepest poverty. 
Local people have already been com­plaining loudly about the amount of the refugees' free food rations, which are more than most of West Bngal's poor can afford to buy. Tensions seem to be growing between local residents and the refugees. 
For example, although there are not enough doctors to handle all the medical problems in the refugee camps, there are proportionately even fewer for someof the people in the backward areas of West Bengal and the other border states. 
The infant mortality rate in these areas is almost as high as that in the camps. In some West Bengal districts one-quarter of the children die before they reach the age of 5. 
The problem in the refugee camps may be worse than it seems. Whatever statistics exist --and they are meeger -­come from the camp hospitals. But many infants are dying in the dark of their flimsy huts, and their parents do not report the deaths, for to do so would be to lose flUe food ration. 
Most of the refugees who have been coming across the border for the last several weeks are from districts in the interior. 
"A lot of them arrive in an irreversible state--a condition of complete collapse," said a doctor in a children's ward at a camp near Calcutta, "there's nothing we 
can do for them." 
Sept. 4th 
My Dearest Darlin Freddie, 
Today I arrived at Saint Mary's. It is such a won­
derful place, and much to my surprise is so close to a 
real big school called Notre Dame. <You know, the one 
where everybody plays football.) As a matter of fact it 
turns out that my college is actually a part of NO (as 
just everybody here calls it). 
So being part of it we are all naturally expected to 
mix with the NO freshmen. We have our first big get­
together tonight. So I just must go for now. I simply 
miss you so much I can hardly breathe, and I don't 
know how I can make it without you. 
Gobs of love and Smooches, 
. Judy 
SPpt. 14th 
My Dearest Freddie, 
Sorry I haven't written sooner, but have been just so busy. I have just so much to tell you, but can't right now. I have to go to my biology class over at the Dome; there are only 4 girls in the whole class of 200. l<~verything is just so exciting. This weekend is the first big football game. I can hardly wait. 
I hope you don't mind that I have taken a blind date for the pep rally Friday. Just everyone in my crowd is going. But it won't be as much fun as when you come up for the Homecoming weekend in October. 
How's your groovy job in the garage coming along? Can think of nothing but you ever. So much love and hugs, Judy 
Sept. 29th Dearest Freddie, 
So sorry to hear that you were wounded in that ac­cident with the grease gun. Hope you get out of the hospital real soon, so you can come up for the really fantastic game. It is only two weeks away. 
Am still working on getting tickets for the game, dance, and concert. Just a whole bunch of guys have promised me that they would help me get tickets. 
Would love to write more, but have to go out on a 
study date. Don't worry, silly, Larry and I are just 
friends, and there's simply no way to study in my room 
with those magpies they've given me for roommates. 
Am counting the days till you arrive. How is the 
hospital? 
Love and lips, 
Judy 
Oct. 14th 
Dear Freddie, 

Glad to hear that you have all the nurses in stitches 
at the hospital. You always told just the cutest stories. 
Hope their not falling for your fatal charm (ha, ha! ! ) . 
But suture self (ha, ha!!). 
You were always so understanding, Freddie, that I hope that you can understand my dillemma about this coming weekend. Larry tells me that it is traditional for the girls here to go to the big weekend only with NO guys. And who am I to break tradition. I'm sure that you understand, you always do. 
Can't wait to see you at Thanksgiving. I think I have a ride as far as Ashtabula, and can take the bus the last twenty miles, or maybe you could even pick me up. How is your new Volkswagen anyway? Love, Judy 
November 4th 
Dear Fred, 

It's too bad that you got arrested for those 72 parking tickets, but I still think Judge Hardley was much too harsh in deporting your foreign car. Maybe you could just hitchhike to Ashtabula to meet me. How about it? 
And I just can't believe that you were actually jelous when you saw me on TV hugging a guy after a touch­down. For your information, Mr. Green Eyes, that's just the way things are done around here. And besides Larry Smooth and I are just good friends. In fact Larry has been just like a big brother to my roommates and me. 
Am so sorry to hear that you haven't been sleeping because you have been worrying about little me. Larry suggests that you take both sleeping tablets and diet pills together, if you want to take light naps. And please Luv, Judy 
November 20th Fred, 

Just a short note to tell you that I won't be coming home for Turkey Day. Larry and I just got engaged tonight and he is bringing me home to meet his folks. I hope you are as excited as I am. Will send you a wedding invitation as soon as we set date. Your friend always, Judy 
.Jan. 5th My Dearest Darling Larry, 
Am so sorry that you flunked out. I told you to study more often. I don't know how I am possibly going to survive here without you. However ...... 
concert correction 
Brian Wilson has not toured with the Beach Boys for the past 6 years and he was not at the A.C.C. last Saturday night. Bruce Johnston is the man who actually said the things that were attributed to Brian. 
Anonymous, please phone, RFG 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 5, 1971 
Attica prisoners create hierarchy 
The following was prepared by Joseph Lelyveld, Francis X. Clines, Michael T. Kaufman, and James M. Markham, members of the New York Times Reporting Staff. This is the second of a series, 
<c> 1971 The New York Times 
Four hours later, when a detachment of state police resecured A block, seven inmates were found hiding under bunks. 
Arti Weber, a convict who had served 11 years of a 30-year sentence for armed robbery, had a parole hearing coming up in two weeks and was eager to disassociate himself from the rebellion. Seeing the inert form of William Quinn and noticing that he was bleeding from the ears, Weber suggested to Richard Clarke that the guard be turned
.. 
over to the authorities because his life was in danger. 
Together, Weber and Clarke then carried the orricer's body on a mattress to a gate that separated rebel territory from the rest of the prison. When the gate was opened, Weber slipped through. 
Clarke and Blyden-Brother Richard and Brother Herb as they would be known for the rest of the weekend--had by this time assumed positions of authority among the rebel inmates massing in D yard by a process of spontaneous suffrage, with each cellblock putting forward its own nominees for leadership. 
A rough social order was created. Particular hostages had been sought out by inmates with scores to settle and beaten severely. A guard named Rid~ard Lewis, whose arm was fractured, was a particular target. The beatings stopped as security guards were selected from the cells and posted over the hostages, who had been stripped, bound and blind-folded, but assured that their guards were there to protect them. 
Warnings were issued against drug abuse and homosexuality and a kind of secretariat was established at tables near the wall to draft manifestoes. 
Some of the inmates· were old hands at manifestoes. At the start of July. a statement of 27 demands---covering the grievances that were to be aired again---had been sent to the new Commissioner of Correction, Russell G. Oswald, by a group calling itself the Attica Liberation Faction. The grievances touched on medical care, work conditions, cen­sorship, diet, parole procedures and religious expression. 
In response to the manifesto and reports of deepening tension, Oswald spent two days at Attica, interviewing inmates and making a broadcast appeal for patience so that he would have time to usher in the new era of reform he had promised the prisons of the state. Seven days after he flew out of Attica, the commissioner returned to take charge in the emergency, con­fident at the start that his reputation as a reformer would be decisive with the inmates. 
He arrived at 2 o'clock and a half hour later allowed Herman Schwartz, a law professor in Buffalo, 40 miles away, who had been active in prisoners' rights suits, and Arthur 0. Eve, a Black Buffalo state assemblyman, to go into D yard to hear the inmates' demands. They returned, saying the inmates wanted to deal directly with the commissioner. 
Oswald was initially reluctant and was strongly urged to shun any negotiations with the inmates by aides who warned him also that he would make an especially valuable hostage. But finally he said, "I'm going in." 
The commissioner responded favorably to many of the prisoners' demands at their initial confrontation, but, to his surprise, they hardly seemed to take note of his responses. "Herman," he said to Schwartz as he left the yeard, "This may last into the night." 
Television cameras and newsmen were present for the second meeting and the inmates, elaborating their demands, appeared to speaking as much to them as to the commissioner, who became something of a dramatic foil for their grievances and rhetorical flights. Oswald also found himself performing for the cameras. 
At the climax of an im­passioned plea to the prisoners to free the hostages, he was in­terrupted by a TV crewman who said, "We had a bad angle. Could you repeat that?" and he did. 
It was at this point that the basis of the inmates' skeptical response to the commissioner first became clear. In the yard were a number of prisoners who had been transferred from the state prison at Auburn after a one-day uprising last November. They reminded Oswald that the .hostages there were released on a promise of "no reprisals" on which the authorities then reneged. 
"I heard about that," said the commissioner who took office tow months after the Auburn incident. "Now we're talking about a different situation. Many of you have said that you have confidence in my sincerity." 
But the commissioner's hopes that his prestige would bring a quick settlement were dashed by a prisoner who said: "These ain't going to be no fast negotiations. We know you can play games, but you are not going to play games and find any hostages alive. Mind you, we are ready to die." 
Two ways out of the impasse were suggested by inmate spokesmen at the Thursday evening session. First, they demanded that a group of out­siders whom they could trust, among them William M. Kun­stler, the civil rights lawyer; Huey Newton of the Black Panther Party and Minister Louis Farrakhan of the Muslim Mosque in Harlem--be brought to Attica. Second, they asked for a Federal Court injunction barring "physical and mental reprisald" for the uprising. 
In an extraordinary session--­the only one to take place outside rebel territory during the revolt­-an inmate leader, Roger Champen, known as Champ, sat down that night in the office of Superintendent Vincent R. Mancusi with Oswald and Sch­wartz to work out the wording of the injunction. 
Next morning, Schwartz returned with the signed in­junction and it was promptly torn up by jalihouse lawyers who declared it inadequate. Now the possibility of a negotiated set­tlement hinged on the outsiders the inmates had requested, for after being threatened at his third meeting with the inmates, on Friday, the commissioner decided not to go back to the yard. 
"Does anyone know where we can find William Kunstler?" asked T. Norman Hurd, the first of Rockefeller's aides to arrive on the scene at Attica, as the roundup began. 
Going beyond the prisoners' list of outsiders, other aides in the governor's office in New York were on the phone to individuals the state wanted to see on the committee. 

The only Puerto Ricans requested by the inmates were the Young Lords. Robert R. Douglass, the governor's secretary, invited Rep. Herman Badillo, D-N.Y., and asked him to bring another Puerto Rican who would "relate to the more radical groups." Badillo made a couple of calls before finding someone he thought fitted the bill--Alfredo Mathew, a school superintendent from Manhattan. 
One outsider was invited only by himself, managing the feat of gate-crashing a maximum­security prison in a time of crisis. This was Jaybar Kenyata, who later volunteered the information that he had spent 21 years in mental institutions. 
Dressed in flowing robes and a turban, he attached himself at Buffalo International Airport to Jim Ingram, a Black journalist from Detroit, requested by the inmates. A state police car had been sent for Ingram. Kenyatta went along for the ride, then passed with perfect self­assurance through the ring of security guards at the prison's entrance. Twice he was to make incendiary speeches to the in­mates. 
Prison officials had been ex­pecting Minister Farrakhan and a representative of Elijah Muhammad's Nation of Islam, to which a number of black inmates belonged. Kenyatta, who had no association with the sect, said he was a Muslim. 
The prominence of Muslims in the rebel leadership led black negotiators, such as Eve, to cite Farrakhan's refusal to come to Attica as a major setback for the hope of a negotiated settlement. The Muslim leader had served as an intermediary in the uprising at the Queens, M.Y., House of Detention in October, 1970. City officials say inmates there reneged on an agreement he worked hard to secure. 
The arrival of the crazy-quilt panel raised the spirits of the inmates who interpreted their ability to command the ap­pearance of designated outsiders as proof of the strength of their bargaining position. But the mood of euphoria was laced with feelings of anxiety and even terror. 
Friday afternoon a white television reporter from station WGR in Buffalo, Stewart Dan, was interviewing two white in­mates about the origins of the revolt. Suddenly they were in­terrupted and the inmates, Barry 
Schwartz and Kenneth Jess, were "Guilty!" one juror said. summoned to the tables where "Treason!" said another. None 
the leadership gathered. dissented from the adverse The inmates were questioned judgment. The two inmates were about what they had been saying. stripped and blindfolded, then led 
Only gradually did it dawn on away to cells in D bloc. Dan that a tribunal was in progress. 
Jim Raymo's Photogaphy Show 

Oct. 10-Nov. 4 Reception Oct. 10 7-9p.m. Moreau Gallery-sMC open to all 



PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S 
AN INVITATION TO GRADUATING SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS 

PLACEMENT BUREAU OPEN HOUSE 
October 4, 5, 6, 7, ... Mon, Tues, Wed, Thurs,... 1 :30 -4:00 p.m. Placement Bureau, A-dministration Building Room 222 
PICK UP EMPLOYER LITERATURE AND BUREAU REGISTRATION 
Grad II Computer forms... See interviewing rooms... Enjoy refreshments and visit with the staff... ask questions... sign-up for employer interviews for weeks of October 1 1 and 18 
Tuesday, October 5, 1971 •
THEOBSER_~V.-~_R~--------------------------~P~a~~7 
Champ Dillon loses opener 20-0 
By Stan Urankar '7:1 Keenan 12 Grace 0 1\torissey 1-t Zahm 0 The defending Interhall The North Quad winners from .Junior quaterback Kirk Miller Football champions from Dillon last season dominated this accounted for both Morrissey went down to defeat in the only eontest. Tommy Ewing clicked touchdowns. Miller hit Paul 
major upset as the 1971 season to Hay Donovan on a 23-yard Breen on a 26-yard pass play for got under way last Sunday. Six of touchdown aerial, while Joe one score, then snuck over from 
the seven contests saw shutouts Hearns got the other score on a the one for the other TO. Joe posted, with Cavanaugh and four yard burst. Holzmer added an extra point run Pangborn-f'isher leading the way 
to cap the Morissey tallies. 
··,.,.1>~ ' '', < • ~: • .,. <
offensively. 
Flanner 1-t Stanford 0
.

Pangborn-Fisher 20 Dillon 0 ' ·~ ~ ~ ~ Herb Giorgio returned a stolen Stanford pass 55 yards for a score
Last year's titlists held P-F to 
in leading the high-risers to
only one offensive first down, that 
victory. QB Paul Sullivan picked 
one coming on a penalty, yet 
up the other Falnner points with
could not come through with any 
an eight yard keeper play and an
scoring power themselves. Pete extra point run.
Farhatko scored twice, once on a ti5-yard pass play from Chuck Off-Campus 12 Walsh 7 Vlll'lkcr. ~'arbatko and Mark 
Dave Jarzynka scored on a two
Keown each returned in­
yard plunge and an eight yard
tt•rc<'ptions for TDs, as Dillon QB 
t>nd sweep to give 0-C a 12-0 lead
_....,...

l{andy Stasik was intercepted 
that they held onto. Mark
four times. 
Swenski got the only Walsh tally ('avanaugh 20 Lyons 0 on a seven yard run that followed a blocked punt.Freshman Greg Corgan led 
Breen-Phillips 18 Farley 0
Cavanaugh's offensive thrusts 
Quarterback Bruce Jirole
with a 45-yard scoring play to 
threw a pair of touchdown passes
Kevin l•'ord, and a 50-yard bomb 
in leading B-P to this triumph.
to junior Mike Obuhanich that 
Jirole hit Herbie Hampton with a
was stopped six inches short of 
tiO-yard bomb, then connected
the goal line. Steve DeCoursey 
with Steve Wetherbee on a seven
scot·<'d from there, then hit pay 
yard scoring toss. Greg Pap­
dirt again from two yards out in 
poriella got the final score when
the final period. 
he recovered an errant Farley Mike Pav lin::::::=:=:=:=:=::::::::::.~-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::=::!::::::::::::::::::::::. fumble in the end zone. 
of approximately 90 minutes each
Etter's O.K. scheduled
yesterday, one for wingers, the 
other for defensemen. Goalies


The Graduate View 
There will be a meetingskated at both workouts. 
Thursday at 7 p.m. in the ACCTwenty-one members of last basketball office for all men

:=========:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=Analysis No. 3 
year's Irish team were present 
interested in playing varsity

for the initial drills. There was
From time to time this weekend, I was forced to remind myself that basketball. Candidates for the
an equally large number of fresh­
the Irish scored only 14 points against MSU. But nothing worked. I just freshman squad are to report to 
man hopefuls on hand as six frosh 
couldn't stop thinking that NO's offense showed flashes of past the basketball office Thursday at
scholarship players and 15 walk­
greatness. 8 p.m.
ons took the ice. Looking at aForget that the Irish scored only 14 points, rushed for only 200-plus class breakdown, there were 14
yards and passed for less than 100. Remember that the Irish pulled off ND draws fans
sophomores, including four walk­an 80-yard drive, missed a short field goal, fumbled at the Spartan ons, seven juniors and four
five, failed on a 4th and one at the MSU seven, and failed on 4th and to Orange Bowl
seniors at the two sessions.

two at the MSU 29. 
The Irish icers have been
That still adds up to OFFENSE. The Irish really should learn to put This Saturday night the
engaged in a weight training
a few more points on the board, but after last week let's take things Fighting Irish eleven will travel 
program since Sept. 21 but 
one at a time. to Miami, Fla., to take on the U.
yesterday marked their first
You'II pardon me if I quote myself from "Analysis No. 2": "In fact of Miami Hurricanes in the 
appearance on the ice this fall.

if Ara could convince Bill to run less, if Etter would pull up and throw Orange Bowl.
Coach Smith said that the club 
some roll out passes, if he would pitch out to a trailing back now and The last time a Notre Dame
would practice Monday through
then, and if he would run some inside counter reverses, I think he team played in Miami, the
Friday and conduct scrimmages
would be devastating." largest crowd in Hurricane 
on Sunday afternoons.

Well, Etter ran, threw roll out passes, operated the option, sprung history turned out to see the
"We'll be working on fun­
Greg Hill on several reverses, and even turned an MSU TD into a game. A throng of 77,265 was on
damentals for the next two
safety for good measure. And if he wasn't devastating, then I'll take hand in 1967 to see the Irish win a
weeks," Smith, now in his fourth 
him until someone reincarnates Joe Theismann. wild, 24-22 decision. 
year as head coach at Notre
Now, I'm not claiming any credit for Etter's performance, but Miami officials are expecting
Bill Etterwas not seriously injured Dame, remarked.
maybe I do know something about football, eh fellas? another big crown Saturday
Saturday. He suffered a bruised The Irish, members of the
Enough of that. Etter performed excellently and even Pat Steen­night, although it is doubtful that 
forearm and should be ready to tough Western Collegiate Hockey 
berge drilled his only pass right to Mike Creaney. The score could a new attendance record will be 
start against Miami. Association this season, begin
easily have been much worse. set. Kudos this week go especially to the offensive line who got it collectively together and pushed the MSU defense all over the place 

O's overpower Athletics, 5-1
<between the 20's anyway). This fine line play is indeed a wonderful sign since, as Oklahoma proved this Saturday, Southern Cal can be BY MURRAY CHASS If the Athletics win, managerrun against. 
Dick Williams said he would despite the brutal treatment wasThe Irish runners were more solid than spectacular, with the ex­(c l 1971 NEW YORK TIMES able to express his appreciationception of Hill and Etter. Greg runs the reverse like it was invented NEWS SERVICE come back with Vida Blue in the for the Orioles' mammoth firstjust for him and only a 19-yard loss on a fumble brought his final stats fourth game and Hunter in the
Baltimore's Boog Powell, a 260-baseman.
down to five carries for 25 yards (read 4 for 44). Losses also figured in fifth.
pound slugger whose right hand "Even though his hand hurt,"
Bill's total of 14 for 45; hopefully, though, he'lllearn to use his left arm In reality, Hunter was
hurt so badly that he had resorted the 25-year-old right-hander said, 
instead of his right to ward off tacklers. Oakland's last hope (after Blue)
to bunting, smashed two of recuperating from the onslaught, 
Tom Gatewood and Creaney infiltrated the Spartan secondary for to disrupt Baltimore's
Baltimore's four home runs ·'he still looks like 900 pounds up
their best performances of the season. Etter completed passes left, methodical machine. But four
today as the playoff-perfect there. With a hurt hand and a
right and over the middle. Also a good sign, he drilled several in there pitches--mistakes, they're called­
Orioles whipped the Oakland broken leg or anything, he's
while on the run. prevented him from doing the
Athletics, 5-1, and all but wrapped tough."
No, I haven't forgotten the defense. I think that the longer Walt job.
up their third consecutive Powell didn't feel tough,
Patulski goes without a shutout, the fiercer he gets. MSU has a sterling Robinson hit the first home run, 
Anwrican league pennant. though. lie felt pain. Plagued by 
set of runners headed by Eric "Flea" Allen, but Walt and Co. allowed in the second; Powell connected injured wrists throughout thethem only 32 net yards rushing. Brooks Robinson and Elrod in the third; Hendricks socked his season, he hurt the back of hisSpartan qb Frank Kolch showed a great deal of poise under Hendricks also homered against homer in the seventh, after right hand two-and-a-half weekspressure, but he was slammed around pretty good. Clarence Ellis the Athletics' Jim <Catfish) Hunter had retired 12 straight ago when he was hit by a pitch,stayed glued to speedster Mike Hurd, allowing him only two catches llunter, solidly supporting Mike batters, and Powell powered his then aggravated it yesterdayfor 17 yards while grabbing his 12th career interception. Cuellar's six-hit pitching. fourth playoff homer in eight when he slid into second trying toPatulski was credited with three "Tackles for Minus Yardage" (-36 Baltimore thus gained its 13th games, a two-run shot following break up a double play.
yards) and now has the career record for such plays with 26. The Irish consecutive victory (the first II an unsuccessful bunt attempt, in defense has allowed 177 yards rushing in three games, a mere 1.6 having come in the final two the eight. The pain persisted today, yards per rush. weeks of the reguler season) and The A's lone run came in the reaching the point where 
Maybe I'm getting spoiled watching Alabama and Oklahoma run its eighth victory in eight playoff fourth as Sal Bando doubled and manager f:arl Weaver told their beautiful Wishbone running attacks on the Sunday morning games. Dave Duncan singled. Afte Powell to bunt in the eighth films, but I still think Etter and Steenberge have a tendency to pitch The three-of-five-game playoff Ht>ggie .Jackson opened the sixth rather than aggravate the back a little too early on the option. This can be corrected with now moves to Oakland. where with a double, Cuellar, one of situation. The score at the practice and hopefully Etter will be back in action early this week. llipgo SPgui ( 10-Bl will try to keep Baltimore's four 20-game time was :H. After fouling off a 
This coming week the Irish get a breather of sorts against Miami, the Athletics alive against Jim winners, set down the finall2 A's. l'Ouplc of bunt attempts, the 6­although young coach Fran Curci has his Hurricanes moving after a Palmer <20-9) today in thP Powell, meanwhile, was foot -4 slugger went back to doing thumping of Baylor. ganw, which starts at :~ P.M. unleashing his single-handed what comes naturally. It made 
Good hunting Walt. <EDTl. attack against Hunter, who tlw final score 5-l. 


Page 8 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 5, 1971
• 
Dock strike 
t~E?,<!?,t' 0,~,!:1Y2~.~s Taft-Hartley 
Ziegler said it is the first time that Nixon will invoke the provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act. President Johnson used the Act to suspend a dock strike called by the International Longshoremen's Association on the East Coast on Sept. 30, 1968. That was the eighth time the Act had been used in dock strikes. 
According to Ziegler, the five­man board of inquiry will be headed by Professor Keith Mann of Stanford University Law School. Ziegler summoned the press to a briefing an hour before the President's scheduled return to Washington from a long Florida weekend, and he said that he executive order the President will sign on his arrival was still being drafted by the Justice Department. 
The four other members of the board of inquiry have not yet been chosen. according to Ziegler. The labor and Justice Departments were still working on putting the panel together when the President was to leave for Washington. 
The President's decision to use Taft-Hartley was apparently reached ween George P. Shultz, 
• 
Management and Budget, called The board will not be asked to him early this evening with the look into the economic impactct report from San Francisco that of the strike--only the status of counts found negotiations there the negotiations. at an impasse. Ziegler said that when the 
Ziegler said the five-man board President receives the report of would be asked to make their the board, he will then determine report "as soon as possible" to what action he will take under 

Students trustees meet 
of the student esponsibility not noticed by the board of trustees. Fr. Thomas Blantz, vice president for student affairs, spoke on how the rectors and assistant rectors are chosen; Jane Sheehy and Bill Wilka spoke on coeducation. Hall parietals and sanctions were discussed and this is where the main attention rested. 
Bob Weaver, student representative, said that the trustees were {llrticularly concerned with excess1 ve abuse in parietals--"shacking up and cohabitation." 
Although no big decisions were reached, it was recognized that sanctions are not enforcable, Weaver added. Alternative courses of action in lieu of the SLC Ad Hoc Committee's recommendations were proposed 

and  will  be taken  back  to  the  
trustees.  
It was  presented  that  many  
abuses  are  not  ignored  in  the  

individual halls; rather the improvement in quality of rec­tors, resident assistants and hall presidents have increased the needed positive action taken. 
The meeting was consirered "very successful" by Weaver. Minnix said that although he was not sure how successful the presentation of information to the Student Affairs Committee was, "we did accomplish what we set out to do." 
-Compliments of a friend 
Tart-Hartley--that is, whether to being made in one area," Ziegler apply it nationwide or selec­said, "he will not seek an in­lively. "If they find progress is junction for that area." 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED
NOTICES 

-
-
Wanted: R Wanted: Ride from N.Y. area to Notre Dame Are you as beautiful as you 

can be? Let Viviane Woodard on any home football
teach you how... with two tree make-up lessons. )Call weekend. Jack 1629 
Joanna al 287-2731 tor aQp! L 
. -. 

Need ride to Boston at Thanksgiving. Will share Alterations or dressmakings: 
driving and expenses. Aidan speedy work-reasonable 
8978 
rates: Call 287-6821 
I 
Ride desperately needed to 

Babysit!ing-Housecleaning. DETROIT area (Grosse Pointe) 
Full-Part time-Mature, 
Thursday Oct. 7 or Friday Oct. 8.
I 
Will share expense and driving.

Dependable. 232-1453 
after 
Please call Pete, ll04.
six. 
I 

Booher at ISIS gallary. 
Need ride to CINCINNATI area (Fieldhouse) Saturday 7:30­this Friday. Will share expenses

10:00 P.M. 
I 
and driving. Cull Mark 1104 

Need: Ride to Chicago loop or Oct. 9. Large gas allowance. 
Cars available for Florida. 
Maywood, Illinois area any AACON AUTO TRANSPORT 
wPekend. Call Patti-4355
I 
234 0021 
,-----------­
-· 

WANTED: Ride from Phila. area to Notre Dame on any Paperbound BOOKS Will buy 
Jack
home football weekend. your PAPER BACKS call: 234 9908 
I need 15 young ladies to show 

DRIVEAWAY TRAN SPORTATION AVAILABLE TO ALL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY. VIRTUALLY FREE YOU PAY GAS ONLY. 
RUPUTABLE COMPANY, NO SHADY DEALS, EVERYTHING HONEST. CALL 6962, MON-FRI. AF­TER 6:30PM. 
Will work_o_n_V:I:wagen-s--1-1-ye-ars 
experience-reasonable. Call 272­3980 or 272-2765 after 4:00p.m. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Basement of La Fortune. 11:15-12:15. 
ATTENTION: All students in Mr. Sporleader's MWF design class owe 65 cents to pay tor materials tor the model and photographs of the alley project. Pay Bob Palmiter in class. 
1--------------­
Ester, 
...._____________

Even with the doors open, it's been 
a great month. I hope that there 
are many more to come. 
1967 Ford Galaxie, 390, 4 dor­or, auto, P .S. See at Cir's Love, Tony 
Marathon, 1914 Miami or call 
October 16 al 8:00-? 

Easy Rider, Remember, tl1ere isn't a JOHN in Donation $1.00 single, ~1.50 couple 
the circle bus stop. Next time try the bushes. Where: 1700 Miami St. 
Arthur Tickets available at the door. 
HELP! LOSTat pep rally: pair of PHOTOGRAPHS for applications, 
qlasses, grey suede saddle shoes, passports. Portraits. Fast. 
mstamatic camera. Squinting, inexpensive, high -quality -6729. 
barefoot SMC rah-rah 5237. 

!---------------------··~~---­
1. Classified ads paid tor inAttention all Smc tennis players­

interested in forming a team? bcall 
cash when ordered. 2. Office 4879 before Saturday. 
hours 12:15 -5:00. Ads in by 2:00on day before publication. 


I day J ..ya s )'8 4 daya 
.se .75 
1.15 

11·11 Ut 
1.35 1.75 

11-ZO .70 1.15 
1.7t Z.4t 
Zl·ZS 

.85 1.35 z.oo 2.90 %6-30 
1.00 1.10 
2.35 3.40 
-31-35 

1.20 1.90 
2.80 3.85 4.70 
36-40 

1.35 Z.lO 
3.10 4.25 5.10 
41-45 

1.55 2.30 3.341 4.50 
THl STROH OR(W(RY C0~.1PMH, DL1ROIT, l,l,iCHlGAN 482:!f, 

Koscot Kosmetice-short hours­high earning-From 9:00 AM-6PM Sat. the 9th and Sun lOth. Bus will depart the Shell Station W side 
U.S. 31 Roseland near Toll Road entrance. 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO FOR 
TWO. FRIDAY OCTOBER 
8,PLUS ANY NAVY TICKET.. 
TOM 1385. 

r-j-----F-0-R SAL-E------! 
NEW, GUARANTEED 8 TRACK TAPES ONLY $3.50 CALL 6715 
19" Portable T.V. and stand . $25. One year old 12' by 15' Pink shag carpeting . $15. Girl's bike -$15. 272;-0513. 
New Posters have just arrived 
and  are  now  in  stock  at  ex­ 
cellent  prices.  Come  to  815  
Flanner,  611 Grace or  315  

SOUTH Regina or tor more information. Call 1694, 1167 or 
~258. 









