
Ruckelshaus outlines pollution plans 
pollution laws said Ruckelshaus. our environment will outweigh enforcement in the area of water
by Oiff 'Buzz' Wintrode danger" to the public health 
"The federal government moved the lobbv's pressures. pollution, but he indicated that 
clause is vague. No one knowsEnvironmental Protection into a vacuum." Ruckelshaus said that in the their enforcement power in the what constitutes "imminentAgency chief William He said that the states were past no one was doing anything area of air pollution is woefully danger" to the public health said R uckelshaus spelled out clearly too engrossed in the hot compe­about cleaning up our environ­weak. 
Ruckelshaus.

here yesterday that the federal tition for industry in their state ment. He felt it was unfair to He said that the federal Ruckelshaus said that a partgovernment will not allow pol­place the blame for pollution
to run the risk of losing industry government now has the power 
of the new air pollution legisla­luters of any medium to pollute by enforcing anti-pollution stan­solely on industry. to enforce water quality stan­tion proposed by Presidentwith impunity. dards. "There was no public outcry dards in both interstate and Nixon earlier this week wouldHe said that although the Why the federal government when industry failed to be pro­intrastate waters. The states sub­give the federal government thestates have the first responsibili­would be sufficiently immune secuted for polluting the air or mit water quality criteria to the power to enforce air qualityty to enforce anti-pollution from the nationwide pressures the water," s~.id Ruckelsha us. government and then the govern­standards.

ordinances and laws, the federal from business to ease up on "Everyone is a polluter. Society ment either approves or disap­If this legislation would passgovernment intends to be look­pollution enforcement was not is the wrongdoer. It is a wasteful proves these standards. 
Congress, a one-hundred anding over their shoulder to ensure exercise to point the finger at

completely answered by . Ruckelshaus said that the 
fifty day procedural waitingthat offenders will be prosecuted industry and say that they alone

Ruckelshaus. federal government seeks 
period would entail before theby either the states or by the are responsible."

Ruckelshaus admitted that recourse in the courts if an federal government. business lobbies in the past have Ruckelshaus sounded a note industrial firm does not comply (Continued on Page 8) This example of Nixon's influenced Congress and the of the future when he said that 
with the necessary standards. 

"creative federalism" was under­government to weaken tough the consumer is going to have to Senion select
However: court cases are notor­

taken because the states were anti-pollution laws, but he said get used to higher costs if indus­
iously slow and while the litiga­doing nothing to enforce anti-that public pressure to clean up try is to stop polluting. tivn is proceeding, the plaintiff Wm. Kuntsler 
"People are going to have to 
company continues to pollute. 

get used to these kinds of expen­The only power the· federal to be Fellow ses if they are serious about 
government has to enforce air 
by Dave McCarthy

cleaning up our environment, " 
pollution standards is in the case
Senate sets SB P 
The senior class has electedhe said. 

-of interstate air pollution in 
Ruckelshaus left unanswered New York attorney William M.
which there is an "imminent and 

whether he thought that people K untsler as its Senior Fellow for 
substantial danger to public 1971. He was elected fromwere that serious.

election Feb. 2 5 
health," said Ruckelshaus. 
among eight nominess in Mon­

Ruckelshaus also said that the He said that this enforcement people would become his consti­federal government has new power has never been enforced day's balloting. by John Abowd tuency. Senators don't reallv considerably stronger powers of in part because the "imminent Mr. K untsler was the defense 
The Student Senate last night represent halls or sections, they attorney for the Chicago Con­scheduled the Student Body represent ideas or ideologies," he spiracy Seven and has coun­Elections for February 25, three said. selled, among other, H. Rap 
weeks from today, and voted to In adopting this time table the Brown, Stokely Carmichael, and 
draft a new constitution by the late Martin Luther King, Jr.
Senate noted that the time for 

March 2. He is tentatively scheduled to
campaigning, four days, is half 

Ken Kncvel, from St. Ed's Hall, appear on cam pus on April 1st
of the allotted time last year. A 

amended the original election and 2nd when he will speak with
rule change was adopted that 

committee proposal of March 4 students, give a major address,
permits candidates to spend only 

because he felt that there were receive a $250 stipend, and be
150 dollars this year. Last year's too many interfering activities limit was 300 dollars. 



during the proposed time. Knevel cited Junior Parent's weekend, the Bengal Bouts and 
Election schedule 
two basketball gpmes as some of the conflicting activities. He The timetable for this year's
thought the Senate "ought to operate to improve student gov­Student Body President election is
ernment relations" by moving 
February 18 (Thurs') 6:00
up the date and eliminating the 
p.m. Pick-up petitions
conflicts. 
February 20 (Sat.) 6:00p.m. Turn
The Election Committee had 
in petitions.
originally proposed the period 
February 21 (Sun.) Noon Cam·
from February 24 to March 4 as 
paign begins 
for this year's SBI' campaign. 
February 25 (Thurs.) 2:00 a.m.
Grace Senator Tom Thrasher 
~ampaign ends
proposed the establishment of a 
Feburary 25 (Thurs.) All bay voting
special committee to draft a new student government constitu­feted with a dinner in his honor. 
The Senior Fellow Award, which evolved from the old Pa­triot of the Year Award, is be­stowed annually upon "A man who is outstanding in his field and has undertaken steps to­wards alleviating the suffering of mankind," said Carl Rak, Notre Dame Senior member of nomin­ating committee. 
According to Rak, the Senior 1-'ellow election "gives the Senior class a chance to grant an award and meet somebody of promi­nence." 
Last year's recipient was former New York Congressman Allard Lowenstein. 
tion. He thought this committee could "possibly come up with 


SMC health commission planning seminar 
some radical innovations." "The committee is not going to try to punish anyone or pimp 


on psychological and social aspects of sex 
anyone. We are going to write a workable constitution," he said. 

explained. "It's necessary for to SMC students as soon as the SMC health commission.
The senate agreed to produce 

by Pat Shea students to look at sex from the funds are available to have it
the proposed document by psychological and social aspects printed.

March 2 with only two dissent­A Human Sexualitv Seminar 

in order to get away from a
ing votes. scheduled for later this semester In the area of drugs, Ann The Hall Life Commission
perverted point of view."
Steve Novak, off-campus, at SMC was the main point of Siebenallar, SMC drug commis­and the Neighborhood Study
Small discussion groups led by

noted that he was "opposed to discussion at the Wednesday sioner, announced plans for the Help Program are sponsoring
members of the seminar will be
'quick y constitutions.' We afternoon meeting of the SMC presentation of drug information 
a donation program for stu­

emphasized to provide for indivi­
should have taken six months in health commission. sessions in each of the halls. The 
dent tickets to the New York the Fall to do this. Two weeks in establishment of an informal stu­
dual student expression. "The 
University basketb~ll game on

seminar will also be used to find
the spring is the same as two According to Kathy Eglet, dent drug information center in February 23.
out the various needs of students
weeks in the fall." SMC sex education commission­Le Mans Hall was also proposed. 
One hundred tickets are Seventeen senators signed up er, the seminar would include Other topics which the com­
with the possible establishment 
needed for South Bend chil­to draft the new constitution. talks and panel discussions on mission plans to investigate dur­
of a human sexuality course in 
dren who participate in the Thrasher said, "I think it issues such as premarital sex and ing the second semester are the

the SMC curriculum in mind," 
tutoring sessions.

Eglet -pointed out. 
would be a good idea to abolish abortion presented by teams of need for a full-time doctor at Collection will be held in
To prepare for the seminar, a 

senate elections and replace sexologists from different uni­SMC, the possibility of creating the Convocation Center on
questionnaire is being drawn up
them with a petition form of versities across the country who more areas for student recrea­
by Kathy Murphy, Student As­February 17, 18, 19. Any
electing representatives." have worked on similar pro­tion and physical fitness, and a
sembly member. The question­student wishing to donate his 
"If a person got ISO signa­grams. resolution proposed by Dr. Bam­
naire, which will serve to pin­ticket should go tn the ticket 
tures, for instance, he would "We have Jet the problem of baneck, professor of chemistry,
point areas of student interest sale window Jpr; -~ regular
become a senator and those sex education go too long,''Eglet to increase the membership of
and problems, will be circulated business hours. 
Page 2 Friday, February 12, 1971
7118 OBSERVER. 
VAlENTINES 
s. 
1 love you more than Barbi loves Ken. 
M. 
BMA Hiya Beware it's weathering 
outside! Happy St. Valentine's! SAD 
To the Giovanni Brothers Happy Valentine's Day Love, Mama 
T.D.; M.T., There's more than one Love Story. Your very special admirers. 
Happy Valentine's Day 
Chiefs Chimp & Orangut Love, Second Shift 
Cube, 1 down, 42 to go! Happy Anniversary! 
Your D.O.T. 

To Sparkie, Wild Man, Big C, Six, Hot Lips, and Sling. Hap­py Valentine's Day from the Sensuous Bods plus One. 
Best Wishes on Valentines Day to Rotund from Squatty Body 
Ra, Let's celebrate your 




Hanoi charges new raids 
PARIS (UPI) -North Viet­Earlier, Communist negotia­Binh, causing a certain number A Soviet Tass news agency nam charged Thursday night the tors at the deadlocked Paris of dead and wounded among the dispatch from Hanoi said that in United States had launched new Vietnam talks charged the South fishermen." The Hanoi govern­addition to born barding fishing born bardments against it frorri Vietnamese. drive into Laos was ment statement also said "sev­vessels, American naval vessels sea and air. It also said American backed by lO U.S. ground bat­eral American aircraft including also shelled the shore of Quang artillery had shelled North Viet­talions, including infantry. U.S. B52s" bonbarded the North Binh province. It said a total of namese villages from positions in Ambassador David K. E. Bruce Vietnamese community of Hung I 0 American aircraft took part the Demilitarized Zone. rejected the charges as "false Lap on Wednesday. in the bombardments. 
The charges made by the Han­allegations and gross distortion." ''At the same time," it said, The charge that I 0 U.S. oi Foreign Ministers and released The Hanoi Foreign Ministry "American artillery installed in ground battalions were backing by the North Vietnamese delega­statement said that during the the southern part of the Demili­the South Vietnamese push into tion in Paris, were accompanied night of Feb. lO-ll several U.S. tarized Zone bombarded the Laos was made by the Viet by a claim by Laotian Commu­warships "violated territorial allied action in Laos and Cambo­Con's chief negotiator at the nists to have shot dowh 6 2 U.S. waters of North Vietnam and dia "without even mentioning Paris talks. and South Vietnamese planes in bombarded fishing boats naviga­the massive and long standing the past week. ting near the shores of Quang North Vietnamese presence 
there." Viet Cong Foreign Minister AISEC elects 
Madame Nguyen Thi Binh told the conference, "On the morn­

Crowded, co-ed dorms 
2 NO students
ing of Feb. 8, 1971, nearly 50 US. and puppet South Vietnam­Two Notre Dame students



discussed by Chambers 
ese battalions, including 1 0 U.S. 

have been elected to the topinfantry, artillery and armored
by Bob Higgins to place six men in a three-room, national offices of Association 
battalions, supported by U.S. air of International Students in Eco­four-man suite until rooms openIn a meeting with the Resi­power, launched massive attacks nomics and Commerce (AISEC), in. other areas of the campus.

dence Hall Presidents Fr. Thomas against the Chepon region of a world-wide organization withThe housing director noted thatChambers, Director of Univer­southern Laos." 
chapters in 53 countries. 
there is always a large turnoversity Residency, yesterday em-Replying at the session, Bruce Francis "Joe" Loughrey,of rooms during the initial weeksphasized that although there said, "I reject your false allega­Holyoke, Mass., a senior econo­of school.
have been widespread rumors tions and your gross distortions mics major, has been electedWhen asked why the Univer­about allottment of rooms for about our activities and inten­president of the national organi­sity feels it is necessary forthe coming year, he is "extreme­tions in regard to Laos." 
zation serving 80 universities and freshman to be squeezed intoly optimistic even at this early The veteran American diplo­colleges in this country, and Paulthe already overcrowded dormsstage." He also announced that mat said the United States was C. Roberts, Appleton, Wise., aChambers replied that "The Uni­Flanncr Tower would be a co-ed supplying necessary air power to senior accounting major, willversity has an obligation todorm during the 1971 summer support South Vietnamese serve as vice president. This ishouse in~oming Freshmen and I.
session. 
forces in Laos, as well as artillery the first time in the history ofam concerned about the Fresh­He encouraged the Presidents support from postitions inside the organization that two stu­to urge their constituencies to men getting off to a good start, South Vietnam. 

dents from the same school have as I am sure you are." Heremain calm because at this "No American ground combat held major offices. 
stressed that the problem is notpoint it is "too early to know forces or advisors will cross into Loughrey and Roberts willdrastic.
how we are set for next year." 
Laos," Bruce said. 

assume their new offices July 1 . 
In otheJ announcements l<r.

Chambers announced each communities of Ving Son and They were delegates to the na­
Chambers stated that the status of the two black concentrations 
hall's quota of incoming fresh­Ving Giang north of the I 8th tional conference held recentlymen basing it roughly on a fac­parallel." in Houston, Te)Gls.
for the coming year was un­tor of 33%. He stated that the known at present. Further heuniversity has accepted 3000 

high school seniors based on the assumption that 1630-1685 will attend in September. Added to these are about 250 transfer students, who Chambers. said create no problem because the great majority live off campus. 
In the event of overcrowding, Chambers said that his office will attempt to impliment a plan of "temporary overcrowding." This plan would resemble the one used when the construction 
of Grace Tower was not com­
3000th on St. V.. Day at the pleted for the opening of school north d.h. I in September of 1969. ~=M:=:o:::a=:n:=d:::O::d:::l::id======:=~-~In~this plan, Chambers intends 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15  pm  Sat.  Fr.  Robert  Griffin,  CSC  
8:30  am  Sun.  Fr.  Daniel  Curtin,  CSC  
9:45  am  Sun.  Fr.  Thomas  McNally,  CSC  
11:00  am  Sun.  Fr.  Aidan  Kavanagh,  OSB  
12:15  pm  Sun.  Fr.  William  TooheyI  esc  

~~=~=~=~:~:~!!!:!:!::~:!:::::;::~~=~:::~::::!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!::~=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·::::X::::·:·::;::~:::·:·:~:·:·:~=·=~=·:::·:~=~=~=~=~=::~:::::::::::::::::~ 

ROMA'S NEW HOURS 
By Popular Demand 
on Fridays and Saturdays OPEN TILL 4 A.M. 
Pizza, Italian-American Food 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT TEL 234-3258 219 N. Michigan 10% DISCOUNT WITH T-qls COUPON 

Make ROMA Your Choice 
:~~~: NEXT Friday Look for :~~~ ::::: lJELIVERY AND CARRY OUT the Chapped UPS :::: 
told the Presidents that Flanner 
~ f r 1 
Tower will probably be used for the Summer I 971 session as a co-educational dorm with men 




New Niemeyer book 
and women alternating by floors. 

Communists harbor toward the
Moderation of language in re­

wond as it is."
cent dialogues with Western na­
Niemeyer continues: ''The

Help. • • 
tions has not diminished the 

Communists may well desire a
Communist threat to world

The Co-ed residency commit­period of peace, but they are 
peace, according to Dr. Gerhart

tee .needs people to help conduct unable to attain it at home or
Niemeyer, professor of govern­

an opinion poll on campus Sat­abroad with the outlook to 
ment and international studies at 

urday. Anyone who is interested which they are committed. To
Notre Dame, writing in a new

should call 1205. recognize that true peace must
book, "Deceitful Peace," pub­

elude the Communists does not

lished by Arlington House. 
commit us to a war of annihila­
The author sees the relaxed 

tion. On the other hand, our
tactics of the Soviets as little 

desire to avoid war need not Tutors are needed for the more than a mask for continued compel us to distort reality byNei!fhborhood Study Help Pro­threats, and he challenges the pretending that Communists are gram on Monday and Wednesday overtures for peaceful coexist­just radical liberals." 
afternoons between 1 and 2:20 
ence. "Relaxing our vigilance 
A native of Essen, Germany,
pm. Call Mike Heisler at 283-7992 
now will only make the Commu­

Niemeyer studied at Cambridge
nists more dangerous," he 

University, Munich Universitywrites. 
and Kiel University where he
"The real danger," Niemeyer 

received a doctorate in 1932. He
oppy Volentine 
maintains, "Lies not so much in 

left Germany when the Nazis

Day, 
wild Communist behavior as in 

came to power in 1933 and 
the irrationality of the Commu­

lectured In Spain until the out­
nist outlook. That outlook, in 

break of the Civil War in 1936. 
spite of measure mistakenly 

He has been a member of the

M·arionne, 
labeled as liberalizations, has not 

Notre Dame faculty since 1955. 
changed. Czechoslovakia was 
Niemeyer has served as a for­
simply an outburst of what con­

eign service officer in the U.S. 
tinually simmers beneath the 

State Department, a research

All my love, 
surface. The repression of Rus­

analyst for the Council on For­
sian intellectuals perfectly ex­

eign Relations, a faculty member 
presses the fear and distrust that 

of the National War College and the National Defense Strategy 

Mike 

"'"'. • •• ., ••••• ,.................. ~~· '""""'""'' .,.. ····"""··· ... •.:.:.:J:.o:.-»,«• ·,;o:ox~o;~o)lll
~·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·.·:·:·:·:·:·:-x•:-:........:!.~~-·-···~).-:-:~'!;~.:--!!:.:-:.-:•:;:.:8:8:->:or.-:-x•:'..~·::·::::!~:.-..........__~ 
Seminar, and a Fulbright pro­fessor at the University of
~~~ ROGERS OPTICAL ~~ 
Munich. He is, Pfl t}le ,board of 
I . ' directors of Ynmig t ltmericans
:::~ Complete Spectacle Service ~~ for Freedom and is an associate 
~ . ~ 
1:1: Glasses Duplicated :;:: editor of Modern Age. :::: Your Doctor's RX Filled I 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except

I N 
I 
vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The 


!iii Laraest sefection of "wires" ~~ 
214 S. Micllifln (next to Stoto Thutfl) Zl9 11D9 : 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage 
paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.

:~~;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::·:~:::::::::;::::::::::::::::::--:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:=:~:~:~:::~=~=~=~===~:::f.~ i=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:~:;:~:=:;~~;;:;:::::;;;~:;:,;~:~:;:;w~.:~;:::::::::::::::::::::i 

Page 3
Friday, February 12, 1971 





California starts slow recovery 

LOS ANGELES (UPI) -A 68 year old man trapped for 58 hours beneath the rubble of a veterans hospital which col­lapsed in Tuesday's earthquake was brought out alive yesterday in apparent good condition. 
Frank Carbonara, a member of the dietary staff, was found in an air pocket in the kitchen whc:re he could gulp enough air to survive. 
The death toll attributed to Van Norman Reservoir should be dropped sufficiently by today to end the danger of the flat­tered dam bursting, enabling the 120,00,0 evacuated residents of the valley below to return to their homes. 
Reports cf damage were still being assembled, but County Engineer John Lambie estimated total property loss would exceed $1 billion. 
Analysis equipment used in 

Another rush hour traffice jam choked traffic on surface streets in the area where free­ways were still closed. The Cali­fornia Highway Patrol braced for an even more monumental tieup as Angelenos headed out of tr.e city for the four day weekend holiday. 
Lines of people stood at fire stations wailing to get pink passes to enable them to enter the evacuated area briefly for emergency reasons. One man said his family had 26 horses at a stable which had to be fed. 
Crews still dug into the wreck­age of the veterans hospital but the air of urgency was gone. 
Dr. Solomon Metzer, assistant cheif of the medical staff, said most of the victims there had been old men who were being treated for ailments such as tuberculosis, emphysema, psychiatric disorders and other chronic illnesses. 
"Many of them depended on hour to hour care even before the quake hit," Metzer 8aid, "The disaster only served to destroy the already delicate ba­lance. Those who may have sur­vived getting crushed probably died from the dust and heat." 
the study of rocks brought back 

of th.-victims at the hospital in from the moon was damaged in the San Fernando Valley I 0 the laboratories at the California miles from the epicenter of the 
the quake stood at 57, with 38 
Institute of Technology. Dr. quake. Gerald Wasserburg, the chief About four miles away from 
moon rock investigator, said the the hospital, the lake behind an 
damage did not appear to be earthquake cracked dam was "too serious." The majority of lowered 2 to 3 inches an hour, Los Angeles schools reopened 
steadily easing the threat of yesterday but more than 100 in another catastrophe should an the San Fernando Valley re­aftershock jolt the earthen levee. mained closed while engineers 
Engineers said the level of the checked structural damaRe. 
New educational aims envisioned by Christin 
by Ann-Therese Darin Education in 1980 should aim to propagate trust and concern· for man stated Dr. Robert Chris­tin, president of St. Norbert's College, in SMC"s Contemporary Trends in Education series Wed­
nesday  night.  
"The  present  educational  
system  has  failed  to  educate  

people for the really important things: for change, how to learn, how to solve problems, how to dare to try and make mistakes, how to make decisions," said Christin. "hlstead it has suc­ceeded in regulating students to the point where every student is doing precisely the same thing in the same way." 
If the educational system moves from bureaucracy to a system of trust, Christin feels, the role of the administrator will change greatly. "His major re­sponsibilities will not be the budget or money, but inter­personal relationships -know­ledge of his style and how others perceive it -knowledge of how to work with others so that they are not only concerned with ideas but also with feelings," he stated. 
"No one in an administrative position," he continued, "can succeed unless he opens up and strengthens communications. If you don't provide the informa­tion, then people will provide their own misinformation." 
"It is no longer possible to succeed by edict or decision by a few administrators," he added. 
He also believes that another goal of the educational system of 1980 should be "to get sur­vivalists, people who say, 'I will survive no matter what happens,' involved in living." 
To illustrate his contentions, he related an assignment that he gave to the professors at his college: to formulate their col­lege catalogue for !980 by the 
end of this year. He believes that the "catalogue should be truth­ful -because a truthful one is really hard to find -so you say 
'We have lousy food, but we have a good time!' people will believe you are truthful and that in itself is an accomplishment." 
Projecting on education in the future, Christin predicted that there will be more respect for trades and crafts, moral values will be discussed more, federal and state loans will be given Lo students payable over a 20-30 year period with which students can select the school they want to attend. 
by Jerry Lutkus 
The University Arts Council announced yesterday that a Stu­dent Arts Festival for the week of March 7-12 is now in the planning stages. The Festival will hopefully encompass poetry, music, art, photography, and possibly theatre. 
Under the tutelage of Dan 
O'Donnell, Rick Fitzgerald, and Rob Bartoletti, the Festival will take place in the Fieldhouse. About the Fieldhouse O'Donnel commented, "The continued existance of the Fieldhouse as an Arts Center seems reasonably certain." 
O'Donnell feels that the festi­val will center around an art show, but he sees a possibility of adding theatre to it. "The theatre's still up in the air. Our stage is just finished and we are in the process of soliciting people who might have things that could be performed." 
"Last year we had the biggest art show in Notre Dame history and we want to do it again. This 


YOURSElFU 

TO POSTER SIZE 
Send any black and white or 

2FT X 3FT $3 50
color photo, polarord pnnt, 

cartoon or magazrne photo. • 
!i~r~!~G'iJ:~,e~cio'ni ~;~~~~: 1 '12 FT. X 2 FT. $2.50 
~~~te; ;..:~~3~~ i~~rg:~~~~: 3 FT. x 4 FT. $7.50 
Your orig1nal returned undamaged. Add SOc for postage handling for 
EACH item ordered.· Send check, cash or M.O. (No C.O.D.) To,
BIDW·UP PO BOX 589 NY 10010 NY 
SM C frosh favor co-ed classes 
by Rick Gering 
A survey of St. Mary's Fresh­men drawn up by the SMC Freshman Senate and distributed during the past week, indicates that 96o/r of present SMC frosh would prefer fully co-ed classes. The survey resulted in 41 0 re­sponses from SMC's 500 fresh­men. 
The study showed that 86% of those questioned would leave SM:C if Notre Dame decided to proceed with co-education with­out St. Mary's; 99.5% would continue at SMC if it went co-ed along with Notre Dame; and that 99% of their parents would ap­prove of the girls' attending such an institution. 
Regarding co-ed classes, 93% report finding male/female classes more intellectually stimu­lating than all female classes, and only 8% are bothered with the prospect of having to go to ND for their courses. 
A majority of present Fresh­men (74%) said they anticipated a possible merger with Notre Dame when they applied to SMC, and 84% were more im­pP~ssed with "the benefits of­fered by ND" than with "SMC's 
Art festival being planned by UAC for March 7-12 

time we have funds to work with and a iittle more time," he said. "We would like to have open poetry readings, and some sort of music -not rock -mavbe folk, or classical or vocals even." 
"Right now", O'Donnell con­tinued, "We're particularly con­cerned with drawing as many people as possible into this. We need people for manual help, for art, poetry, theatre especially, and for a photo exhibit." · 
O'Donnell said that, anyone 
wishing  to  help  could  contact  
Fitzgerald  (1770),  Barteletti  
( 6 72 9)  or  himself ( 8004).  He  

also commented that anyone who could help with publicity and posters would be welcome. 
uniqueness." and female, and 9% in dorms The survey further dr~alt 
having alternating male and fe­
with effective leadership, indi­male rooms. cating that 46% are dissatisfied Parietals were covered in the with student government's repre­
survey's final section, demon­sentation, while 84% feel that 
strating that 28% are in favor of the administration is not "re­
24.-hour parietals; 56% feel parie­s"ponsive to the needs of the 
tals Friday and Faturday nightsstudent body." 
from 8 until 2, and Sunday from Twenty-1>even percent favor 1 to 5, to be adequate; 14%living in an all-female dorm: 40% favor Sundays 1-5 only; and 2%in a half-female, half-male dorm. 
are against any parietals what­Twenty-four percent would like 
ever. 

to live in a dorm arranged with floors alterJ1:tting between male 
LON NOL ILL 
PHNOM PENH (UPI) -Ailing 
•u''"v''" Premier Lon No! handed over temporary control of the Cambodian government to Deputy Premier Sisowath Sirik Matak Thursday night and called -~-~liillll···-~-· 
on the armed forces to follow the new leader. 
Lon Nol, suffering from a paralytic stroke, made the announcement in an official communique issued in his name. 
"While undergoing medical treatment from today on I confide the position of commander in chief to General Stsowath Sirik Matak whom you already know," the communique said. 
For full price shows some $4.50 and $2.50 tix remailz 
JJ_iscount tickets must be purchased at ACC box office. 

...Frldw a 
Safunl•y Follr Music­
...8:30 -J2:30~ 
+'~'-­

A Perfect Y•lentlne Clft 
Page 4 
Friday, February 12, 1971 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
GlenS. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
John E. Knorr. Executive Editor Bruce Rieck Business Manager 
The Curfew tolls the knell of parting day, The lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea, The plowman homeward plods his weary way, And leaves the world to darkness and to me. 
-Thomas Gray 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 

Pollution 

If everyone, as William Ruckelshaus suggested last night, is a polluter, and if society is indeed the wrongdoer, as Mr. Ruckelshaus suggested, then it is past time for everyone to get on society's collective back and make them do right. 
The realization that society must make, and which the Nixon administration is slowly making, is that massive Federal control -and only massive Federal control -of major industrial polluters will in anyway offer any kind of an alternative to our present ominous state. Mr. Ruckelshaus, who' serves as head of the Environmental Protection Agency, went as far to admit that competition for industry effectively immobilizes antipollution efforts within states. It becomes apparent, then, that the Federal Government must both legislate and enforce tough antipollution laws --if there is to he any attempt to stop pollution at all. 
But Ruckelshaus is right, too, when he says that the impetus for such strict Federal laws must come from "the people." "The people" must be satisfied with more than ambiguous terms such as the "imminent and substantial danger to public health" clause of the interstate air pollution law presently in effect. "The people" must be willing to act in a concerted and coordinated way; and they must show an intelligent concern towards the pollution problem. 
But more than that; the people of this country must realize the cost of pollution control in dollars and cents, and must be willing to pay that cost. We must be willing to bear the necessary and inevitable rise in price that will accompany each industrial effort at self-regulation; they must be willing to bear the necessary added tax any enforcement will engender. Moreover, we must be eager to trade money for an end to pollution; because that's the only trade we're going to get, and the trade will be on the market for a limited time only. 
Gene Molinelli ----------------------------­-------Some Reflections on Mardi Gras 
Mardi Gras --a carnival --a time of wild abandon --a festival of sounds, sights and smells --a joyful tingling of the senses. Here at Notre Dame, Folks, and it's all yours to enjoy. Step right up and have fun, Folks; yep, step right up and experience the Time Of Your Life! 
It was all there all right: the booths painted gaily with bright colors; the booths imaginatively designed and staffed by broadly smiling people; the dim lighting conveying· the ambiguous moods ot dusk; the bright flashing lights reminiscent of a big city's theater and entertainment district; the loud music commanding the attention and hypnotizing the attentive; the mobs of people talking, sweat­ing, laughing, crying, winning, walking, losing, standing, playing ... it was all there. 
All the excitement; it was there. T.h.e anticipa­tion of great things hung from the ceiling, flowed from the stage and, womehow, filled the air -·­magically, electricly, animating all that it touched. Faces flaoted by flashing mechanical smiles and jerkily moving through the pulsating atmosphere, forced to motion by something beyond their control, by some pervading presence, by the spirit of the Mardi Gras. And the hopes of fabulous winnings and endless conquests --the virgin black-jack counters waiting to be broken; the unescourted girls ready to be swept away --they were there. And they were there and they were there and, hours later, they were still there. 
Something was missing. The hours of unparal­
were oppressive. Mardi Gras was disappointing. It was depressing. All its pomp was empty. It was a vain struggle for a shallow enjoyment. It was an attempt by a bored and restless tudent body to squeeze a few drops of pleasure out of a cold and confining 
season of the year. It was an effort to forget, to be lost in the anomnity of the crowd and loudness of the noise so that other things could not disturb the 
mind-so that the most pressing problem was how to deal with a thirteen, or whether or not that girl had a guy around someplace. It was shallow and pointless-the hopes were unfulfilled, the projected pictures were out of place, the smiles were false, the people were blind, deaf and dumb. It was all a melting dream; it was intangible; it was unreal. 
But were there no good times? Yes, the good times were there too. The good times--the half hour or so when nothing could go wrong-when every card that was not a ten was an ace; when every face was all smiles; when every girl was beautiful and friendly; when every sound was music and 
every friend a close friend; when all the world was 
happy and all mankind was united and together and with it. And those are the times that make it all worthwhile. From the good times come the memories--the reasons for coming back the next year--and the next-the reasons for attempting, once again. to find happine_ss, at Jeast temporarily, 
11 You  NO -CAN-L£A\Jf:  WITHOUI  
TRYING  SP€C IALIY OF  1-\ousE:! 11  
131 L-L Ou R. k E. E: ;2-lf-11  

Bob Higgens --------~------­
-----View With No Room 
Ever since the University of Notce Dame instituted its stay-hall policy three years ago there has been an annual panic l]eginning on or about February I and lasting until the end of room selection. The question of concern used to be: "Will I get a good room?" This year, however, it has changed to: "will I get a room at all?" 
This could and should have been anticipated. In September of 1969 and again in 1970 each hall was required to reserve 33% of its beds for incoming freshmen. Last year 33% was too many for some halls to handle. People who had resided in the hall for a year and in some cases more than a year were required to find other accomoda­tiuns (usually off-campus). This year simple mathematics makes it plainly evident thal reserving another 33% of the beds for incoming freshmen is going to create a monstrous problem. 
Fr. Chambers and the Office of Student Residency are not wholly at fanlt. They are aware that the halls will be overcrowded next year but as Fr. Chambers said yesterday, "It's a problem we have inherited." 
The root of the problem is the Office of Admissions. Each year they accept 3000 freshmen, hoping that a total of around 1600 dechle to attend. Obviously they have no way of knowing the exact amount of high shcool seniors that will finally choose Notre Dame, nevertheless they guarantee each one of them a bed on campus. Last year the Office of Admissions underestimated by over I 00. There were freshmen (healthy ones) living in the infirmary for the first three weeks. I guess those are beds on campus. This year the 
problem could be worse. Why are the residence halls so crowded? Simply because off-{;am­pus living is becoming less and less attractive. All of its previous adv~ntage~ (cars, unlimited visitation, etc.) are for the most part aVailable 111 th~ halls. Fr. Chambers is counting on a number of present Sophomores, Juniors and even Freshmen to move off-cam­pus. The hard fact is that the great majority of these people prefer the Halls. The problem then presents itself as: Where do we put the 
incoming Freshmen'~ However this is exactly the wrong way of lookmg at the questiOn. Rather, dump the problem hack upon the Office of Admissions and let them decide where to put the 
F_reshmen. This could be implimented by simply ignoring the quota given to each hall by Father Cham hers' office. The halls should then hold their own room selection, in w'latever manner they choose, and only then inform Fr. Chambers of how many beds remain. These beds will ht: apportioned to incoming Freshmen. 
I see this as the only policy consistent with this University's committment as a Christian institution. If each hall is to have a Community spirit (especially one like mine with onfy 136 residents) why should it be forced to expel one of its known and respected members, who drew a bad lottery number or whose GPA is low in 
favor of someincoming Freshman, sight unseen'? ' The fact is they shouldn't. This is why the Office of Student Residency leaves the decision of who to kick out up to the halts. However the lime has come for the halls to refuse to comply with University polip.y. A single hall is powerless (history has proven this) but this year a good portion of the halls will face the problem Therefore, I propose that the HPC should treat this as an issue of common concern ans unite in refusal if no alternate and acceptable 

111 the shallow pleasures of a carnival--the reasons 1so_l_u_t:-:io_n_l_·s~p_r-:o~v-::-id_e...:..d_.~-=------------------. 
leled ecstasy were not forthcoming. There was to look foward to Mardi Gra w when February rolls Managing Editor: Bill Carter News Editor: Ed Ellis around. Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Campus Editor: Steve Lazar
nothing happening when things should have been 
Treanor Night E dittir~ Da;e Bach
jumping; there was bad luck where good luck And so the disappointment is forgotton ~nd the
-Features Editor: Dave Lam· Headlines: Jim McDermott
should have been; there were strangers where there emptiness is overlooked in favor of the lightheaded 
mers Layout: 'Buzz' Wintrode
should have been friends. And suddenly the lights glee that is found. And Mardi Gras, along with Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
Varityper: Bill Clemency 
were harsh, the music was noisy, the booths were other experiences, is dropped into the memory SMC News Editor: Jeanne 
Controller of the Night: rick smitn 
unfriendly, the smiles were tired and the crowds under the venerable title of The Good Old Days. Sweeney 

Friday, February 12,1971 THJ!. O&r.ERI1£R. Page 5 
~~~~~~~~--------------------------------~:~--~~~~~~---------------------------------------------~~ 


Emil T. HoHman: profile of a scientist 

The night before the final exam, 800 freshmen buried their chemistry books in a large grave, marking the spot with a cross-shaped parking sign reading "Emil 
T. Hofman." 

That was several years ago, but Dr. Emil T. Hofman, professor of chemistry at the University of Notre Dame, still chuckles as he remembers telling the student just before the exam that their 
situation develops a sense of self-reliance and peer group cooperation generally absent in smaller classes. "The student's educational experience should be varied," He stressed. "Students should at some time have the experience of a large class lecture course but it would be a very poor experience if they were to have only large class courses," he added. 
He particularly wants to learn the techniques of animation, so that he can prepare films of molecules reacting and other non-photographable phenomena. He looks forward to the day when he can produce the more versatile 16-millimeter films and purchase a color television video-tape set to present in-class labora­tory experiments. Black-and-white, he ex­plains, can't show the distinct blue <;olor of hydrated copper sulfate, or the pink of a manganese solution. 
A talented chef ·and veteran traveler, Hofman also visits student dormitories as an invited speaker, defending the honor code and stressing student responsibility in education. Such visits, he explains, are one more indication to students that the professor is genuinely concerned, even if denied the dose, personal contact of smaller classes. 
Manv of his students and their parents genuinely appreciate the single-minded, concerted effort he makes to present a superior chemistry class. An administra­tive officer at the National Cancer Insti­tute wrote Hofman praising the help sessions that nurtured his interest in science, and noted "you were as con­cerned about students with little scien­
tific  aptitude  as  you  were  about  the  
better students."  
Parents  write  thanking  him  for  en­ 

couraging their sons, or for taking the time to address dormitory discussions and student-parent gatherings. Teachers on the sophomore to senior level place impli­cit faith in the thoroughness of his COltrse, telling students in organic chemis­try "you had this in Dr. Hofman's class." 
There are some students who are not so enthusiastic about Hofman and his chemistry class. One commented that "Emil T ." could be elected the most popular and the second most unpopular professor in any given year. Another student recalls a classmate who nudged his arm every Wednesday as quizzes were returned, muttering "he's evil, he's evil." 
Most students, however, have admired the chemistry professor's even -handed aid, dispensed equally to the bright and to the average. 
Using an 8-millimeter camera, he and his students have produced lab films to accompany student experiments. as well as demonstration films, such as how to make a cloud chamber, to illustrate prin­ciples in the lectures. The films cost a small fraction~f purchased material, Hof­man explained, and are perfectly suited to his own course material. 
A black-and-white video-tape recorder is. used to prepare lectures on background material, allowing students to brush up on high school chemistry or math at their convenience. The television is used to replace Hofman's lectures only in emer­gency situations, since he feels strongly that there is more to teaching than presenting information, even in the largest lecture. "Only the face-to-face presence of the professor can provide the motivation and inspiration -the intangi­bles of education," Hofman said. 
Other learning aids include tape­
·recorded, step-by-step solutions to the homework problems assigned in class. Students can take copies of the tape to their dormitory study lounges and work closely with each other on the problems, using the tape as a guide or check. Hofman also arranges workshops in which graduate students provide full tutoring for the freshmen everyafternoon and he personally appears for an early morning question period on Thursday to prepare students for the Friday quiz. 
The help programs are part of Hof­man's philosophy that the University has a responsibility to any student it accepts --a responsibility to offer him every opportunity to succeed. The failure rate in his course is extremely low -usually less than five per cent. William M. Burke, dean of the freshman year program, pointed out that no student failing chem­istry has ever blamed Hofman, but has accepted the blame himself for not taking advantage of the help available. 
Perhaps the most pervasive teaching tool, however, is the famed and notorious Friday quiz. Thursday night is tradi­tionally "Emil T" night in the dormitory, with half the population of many dorms studying furiously for the 20-minute quiz. Some students complain the quizzes are ambiguous, but others explain that they are simply not rote memory tests. ''I'm not impressed with recall," Hofman explained. It's not a question of knowing, its a matter of working with what you 
know." The quiz helps the student learn to work under pressure, to· apply the theories and principles absorbed in class to a specific problem situation. The quiz also exemplifies Hofman's philosophy of education, with its objective that students learn, not that teachers teach. The short 

Notre Dame football players have been challenged by the Saint Mary's College cheerleaders to the first International Broom ball Championship. Misses, Terri Buck, Ann Stringer, Molly Tiernan and others will battle the strongmen with brooms and volley-ball during the intermission of the Ice Capades a week from toda~'. During the pre-game practice, no injuries were reported. The Ice Capades, whic:l b.:gin next Wednesday night, feature championship skaters and precision skating. The average age of the skaters is 20, and auditions for people interested in joi;;i:;g !he Ice Capades will be held next week. Rising starlet Terri Buck will appear in the finale of the Ice Capades next Friday evening. 
quiz frequently teaches what the lectures can not. 
Hofman is currently working to ex­pand his technological hands -the films, tapes and television equipment that allow him to offer such wide services to so many students. He believes strongly that large lectures are here to stay, and that they need not be as harmful as is gener­ally believed. In fact, he notes that information courses can be taught quite effectively with the aid of educational technology, and that the large lecture grades would be ready in three days, reminding them of the biblical quotation "He shall rise in all his power and glory in three days." 
The burial exemplifies an affection­dread relationship that has existed be­tween Hofman and his freshmen chemis­try students for over IS years. The upperclassmen enjoy telling the freshmen how tough I am," he smiled. "It's like an initiation ceremony." Over 13,000 stu­dents learned their freshman chemistry from the deep-voiced, rotund lecturer, spreading the fame of his Friday quizzes and home movies, and telling stories true and invented. 
"Emil T," as he is affectionately known by the 800 freshmen he teaches energy to improving Chemistry I 5 and 16, patiently polishing the notes for his planned textbook, and constantly devis­ing new technological hands to widen his services to the students. 
each  semester,  describes  himself  as  a  
living  exception  to  the  "publish  or  
perish"  rule.  He  devotes  most  of  his  

His efforts have been appreciated and rewarded by his students and superiors alike. He won Notre Dame's first Thomas 
J. Madden award for Excellence in the Teaching of Freshmen, and is consistently voted the best teacher by freshmen each year. The University has recognized his success by frequent promotions, includ­ing naming him assistant dean of the College of Science. 
Recently, Hofman taught himself to make laboratory and demonstration films to supplement his lectures. "Science teachers have always known that watch­ing a demonstration is a significant aid to understanding chemistry," he explained, "but only through films is this possible in a lecture-class of 400 students." Hofman added that commercially-produced films are often expensive and of poor educa­tional quality, principally because most chemists can't make films and most film­makers don't understand chemistry. 
Dennis Wall ·----------------------­~--------------Struggle for self 
attempt. And someday, if the fight is
The war in the East is ending for the continued on into posterity and ends
West, and the soldiers will be coming with the children of infinity, then some­
home now. Those that are still alive. They day there will ·come a day when real war,will come home to find their families as we know real war -bitter, brutal andagain, and things will get back to normal. 
savage, will have become obsolete. JustThey always have. After every other war because there's not enough challenge inthings got back to normal, so why should it. it's as
it be different after this one? Yes, things And too easy. As well too 
costly. Whatever. It will end. But man'swill be normal again. Until the next war. 
fight for the rule of his own "self" willThen the tempers will flare and the funs not be won with pla-titudes. Real warswill fire once more. And the sons of these never were. Neither will this one. Lovereturning soldiers will be asked to fight. 
will mean nothing if a man does not learnThey will fight for any number of rea­to apply it to himself. And then to applysons; some good and some bad. But they it to his fellow man. Peace will meanwill fight. Yet, suppose, suppose beyond nothing if a man does not learn to be atthe most insane of suppositions, that they 
did not fight. Just for one generation. peace with himself. And then to be at 
Just for the novelty of it. Why, then the peace with hig neighbor. It will take 
enemy would win! Well, who is the courage., It always takes courage to meet enemy? Does he live on the other side of yourself. Some will not like what they the world? Or is he closer to home than see. Some will. But all, individually, must that? And what is his name? Greed, work to better whatever they find in hatred, envy, pride and anger are some of themselves, to better what is within them. the names that the enemy goes by. You And then to help others to do so. For it is cannot defeaL them by a war for terri­only in going beyond ourselves that we tory, for the only territory that our find what we truly are. This, too, takes courage. In the words of John F. Ken­
adversaires can lay claim to lies within nedy: "without belittling the courage
ourselves. We may not choose to shout: with which men have died, we should not
"My country -right or wrong!" but we forget those acts of courage with which
cannot refuse to support ourselves. Not in men.. .have lived. The courage of life is
this war. Especially not in this war. For often a less dramatic spectacle than the
this will be a war for life. For those with courage of a final moment; but it is no
religious convictions, it will be a battle to less a magnificent mixture of triumph and
do God's will. For those without the tragedy. A man does what he must -inhinqrance of convictions, it will be a spite of personal consequences, in spite ofbattle to make this life here on earth a obstacles and dangers and pressures -andlivable one. The battle begins with one that is the basis of all human morality."
man --and ends with the sum total of Each one of us must find the couragemankind. Not every individual will win of face himself. A man must learn to love
this fight with himself. Perhaps we shall his neighbor as he loves himself and to
even lose the war, collectively. But the forsake revenge for the sake of peace. _A
world will have been better for the man has to. 

r 
Friday, February 12, 1971

Page 6 THB O.&s'ERUSt 
VIetnamese reach outs"frts of l.aotfan tarllef 

SAIGON (UPI) Three South Vietna!Jlese columns pushing through Laotian jungles 
TONIGHT 
Open at 6:30 pm Saturday and Sunday 

COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents a BBS Product•on 
JACK NICHOLSON 
TIVI! 

1!111/J/ 

1~11!1:1!8 

COLOR[!!] 
·=::::....c._=~----** 
~......~..,..fiii"You Only Live Twice" 7:30 "Thunderball" 9:30 turday and Sunday 
nty Live" Open at 12:45 pm  3:15-7:30  
SEAN,::,.CONNERY.  
isJAMES BOND  
PROOF OF AGE ALWAYS REQUIRED  NOW THRU FEB.  16th  

drove Thursday to the outskirts of the Ho Chi Minh supply route juncion town of Sepone their chief objective. The U.S. Com­mand early Friday reported mounting American casualties and helicopter losses in the joint allied drive against the Commu­nist infiltration trail. 
Military sources said reports from Saigon troops surrounding Sepone indicated there had been "some contact" with Commu­nists, but no immediate details were available. 
The South Vietnamese sol­diers reported finding arms caches near Sepone and seizing two heavy machine guns, 80 military tires and at least 5 ,000 
-Richard Schickel, Life 


rounds of machine gun ammuni­tion. American spokesmen said Communist ground fire has blasted a total of eight U.S. helicopters out of the air since 
the  combined  operation  began  
Jan. 29.  
The  helicopter  losses  raised  

the unofficial total of American casualties in the 29,000 man joint operation to 21 killed and 52 wounded. South Vietnamese losses were placed at 27 killed and 85 wounded. 
Four Americans were reported killed and seven wounded Thursday when Com­munist gunners shot down two 
U.S. helicopters near "the rock­pile," east of Khe Sanh, base of operations for the 20,000 South Vietnamese and 9,000 Ameri­cans in the drive. 
Senate filibuster bill doomed 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -With both sides agreed that the effort is doomed to failure, the Senate Thursday scheduled the first attempt to halt the filibuster against a move to make it easier to shut off debate. 
Senator James B. Parson, R -Kan., with 37 signers, filed a cloture petition which will force a vote next Thursday, one day after Congress returns from a six day recess. 
Under way since January 25, 

The Cultural Arts Commission's 

Clnent• '71 
presents 


Plc"poc"et 
directed by Bresson 
Feb. 13 & 14 2:00 & 8:00 Engineering Aud. General Admission $1.00 Cinema '71 patrons fre!! 
r------rHecULr~ALAArs--------, 
COMMISSION PRESENTS 
View From the Bridge 
an adaption of Arthur Miller's play 
starrin& Anthony Quinn 

TONIC NT 
7:30 & 9·30 Engineering A~ditorium General Admission $1.00 

~----------------~-~-----~ 
THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE UGLy *FRIDAY a SATURDAY*B:OO, 11:00* *SUNDAY 8~ ONLY* COlOR ***** CINEIIIIASCOPE KNIG~HTS OF COLUMBUS MEMBERS FREE -NONMEMBERS SI.OO 
the low key filibuster has blocked action on a resolution designed to lower the present requirement for a two-thirds vote of senators present and voting to end prolonged debate. The rules change pro poses reducing this to three fifths of those senators casting a ballot. 
Working under the present rule, two thirds of the senators would have to vote for cloture or a gag on debate next Thursday for the move to 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

succeed. No one expects that to happen. 
Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield called the vote ·~ust a preliminary" and added 
he  did  not  think  it  would  
succeed.  
"How  close, 1 don't  know,"  
he  said.  "I  don't  expect it  to  

pass and not on the second try ... perhaps. on the third or fourth." 
Senate reformers backing the rules change agreed with Mansfield. They predicted the resolution would pick up more votes on the first ballot than in other years but still would fall short of two thirds approval. 
The reformers are banking on gaining additional strength in later votes. 
Assistant Senate Democratic leader Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia indicated that he was in this group when he told reporters he would vote for cloture when both sides had had ample time to debate. Another pickup and a signer of the cloture petition was Senator Daniel K. Inouye, D.-Hawaii, who has never previously voted for cloture. 
Senator Edmund S. Muskie, D.-Maine, urged President Nixon to "publicly and forcefully back the efforts of those who are attempting to modernize the senate procedures." 
He said hopes of building a two thirds majority "may rest in large measure upon the vote gathering efforts of the White House." 
Huddle open to I 

Mr. Edmund Price, director of food services at Notre Dame announced today that startin~ tonight, the Huddle will offer its fine and delicious cuisine to its customers until I:00 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. 

. IN SIZZLING COLOR 

Friday, February 12, 1971 THE O&rEilfiDt Page 7 

Wildcats maul Irish, 99-81 



The Irish Eye 
l=======<================~:-.o;:::=======================================================::::: To Err Is Human 
(NOTE: This column was written before last night's game against 
Villanova. It is not meant to be a ''lump on the band wagon" article. Nor is it a defensive column. It is simply an attempt to be objective over the controversy about basketball coach John Dee.) 
A Notre Dame basketball practice isn't much different than most college team practices, at least in the format. It lasts about two hours and the players all work hard especially against the freshman. This is when frosh coach Tom O'Conner uses his scouting reports and has his first year men simulate the offense or defense of the Irish next opponent against the varsity. 
At" the same time, assistant coach Gene Sullivan is pacing up and down the court, barking out orders, reminding different men of their particular responsibilities against the next opponent and seemingly running the practice. 
Over at the scorers table sits head coach Johnny Dee. He doesn't really say that much to the -team. He just watches. Every once in a while something occurs that pleases of displeases him more than other things and then he'll make audible his thoughts. For the most part, however, he sits calmly and watches practice run its wurse. 
Often, at the end of practice, he assembles the players before they make their way to the showers and talks to them. An observer sitting back in the stands doesn't know what he is saying but when he finishes somebody like Austin Carr or Doug Gemmell claps his hands or smacks a teammate on the seat of his pants and the squad walks or trots to the lockers. 
It doesn't seem like the head coach has really done much at all in practice. 
Now change the scene. It's Chicago Stadium, January 30th of this year. Notre Dame is playing Illinois and it is obviously not the best night of the season for the Irish. At each timeout it appears from courtside that Sullivan and not Dee is doing all of the talking as the team huddles around the bench. The Irish go on to Jose this game and the majority of the student body is miffed at the performance of their team. The brunt of the blame is placed where blame is usually put, on the coach. 
When this reporter gave an account of that particular game he mentioned a number of questions and charges that seemed a concensus opinion of the students at that game. One of the team members pointed out a flaw in this type of reporting. These questions shouldn't have been asked unless the coach himself was contacted to give answers. It was poor journalism. 
Following this game a number of letters were submitted to The Observer Sports Department, most of these were critical of coach Dee. The arguments made sense but perhaps they aren't written with a fair version of what is act~ally going on. 
Let's look at the situation objectively. Many students have voiced the opinion that they think Dee is "one of the worst coaches in the college game." This is ridiculous. No one can win twenty games three years in a row against the type of competition that ND plays and be classed in that category. 
This does not mean to say that the friendly Irishmen should be high in the balloting for Coach of the Year each season either. Still his record is impressive and, although the talent he coaches is considerable, it is not conceded by anyone to be altogether superior over other teams in the nation. 
Possibly the success of the Irish football team has spoiled the student body. Each week they watch Ara's boys come out and dismantle an opponent. Possibly one or two Saturdays during the fall the Irish make a few mistakes and the team ends up 8-2 or 9-1 but they rank among the Top Ten. No one ever dares mention that Ara Parseghian should be fired. This is just. 
Consider Dee's situation, however. He must get his team ready for more than one game a week and the competition is obviously the best in the country. If you figure that the basketball squad plays two and a half times as many games as their pigskin counterparts then they are entitled to at least five losses and can still be held in the same respect as Ara & Co. 
Following this simple logic one can conclude that.Johnny Dee is doing a job nearly comparable to Ara Parseghian. This writer, for one, doesn't want to see Ara c~mned in the next few decades. Maybe we can also give Johnny some benefit of the doubt. 
The statement is not being made that Johnny Dee is the master strategist of a Johnny Wooden mold nor is he the technician that Frank McGuire is. He doesn't teach defense like AI McGuire and he cannot concoct a crafty "Kentucky trap zone" like the ol' Baron, Adolph Rupp_ But Johnny Dee does have something going for him. To his players he is not merely a coach. Each man on the team respects him and feels close to him. 
Perhaps Dee's greatest attribute is the same thing that causes him to make some coaching errors, that is, he is human. The team realizes this, maybe the student body would do well to acknowledge this also. It wasn't strategy or a special defense that beat UCLA, it was a team that wanted to win one for their coach in the worst way. 
By this point in the season it is obvious what type of team ND 
has. It is one that is capable of being the best in the nation on a 
certain afternoon but at times it is simply human. 
Why, even Austin Carr has shown signs of being mortal. Let's just accept the team as they are, it's not always the coaches fault when the ball is thrown away or a shot is missed. It's all part of being human! 
IRISH EYE--TEM: The sites of the four regional NCAA playoffs have been announced, but only one first round spot has been made known. The Eastern site is Raleigh, N.C., the Mideast is Athens, Ga., the Midwest will be at Wichita, Kas., and the Western at Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Our own Convocation Center will host the first round of the 
Mideast Regional. 

by Jim Donaldson 
Observer Sportswriter 
Villanova's Howard Porter and Hank Siemiontkowski com­bined for 64 points, 41 of them in the first half, while leaping the Wildcats to a 99-81 romp past Notre Dame in the Penn Palestra last night before an SRO crowd of 9200. 
The Wildcats were in control of the game all the way, out-shooting and outrebounding the Irish from the outset. Notre Dame couldn't seem to do any­thing right, shooting poorly, fail­ing to hit the boards, and making turnovers. Villanova opened up an early lead and the Irish never made a contest out of 
it. 
Sid Catlett got the game's first bucket on a tip-in and Austin Carr chipped in a free throw to get the Irish out front 3-0 at the 
start but that was the biggest 
advantage Notre Dame was to 
have in the game. 
Siemiontkowski converted a 
pair of offensive rebounds into 
buckets to put the Wildcats on 

top 4-3 but a hoop by John 
Pleick gave Notre Dame their 
last lead of the night, 5-4. 
Howard Porter, the Wildcats' 
6'8" All-American, put 
Villanova ahead to stay 6-S, 
dropping in a bucket after haul­ing down an offensive rebound. 

Leading 13-10, 'Nova went on a 9-2 tear to move in front by ten, 22-12. Porter had two baskets in the surge, Siemiontkowski and Clarence Smith added one bucket each and Tom Ingelsby tossed in a free throw. 
Collis Jones then made a three point play to close the gap to seven, but the 'Cats went on another spree, outscoring the Irish 10-2, to build up a 32-16 lead. Porter and Siemiontkowski each had a pair of hoops and Chris Ford contributed two free throws in the Blitz. After that hot streak, it was all over but the shouting. 
Villanova built up a 20 point 

lead with seven minutes left in the first half, 38-18, and held a 21 point advantage at intermis­sion, 54-33. 
The Wildcats dominated the second half of play, as they did the first, and the Irish never threatened. 'Nova opened up a 26 point lead, 73-47, their widest margin of the game, with about 12 minute.~ to go in the half and coasted to the final 99-81 spread. 
The Irish employed a pressing defenseforthefinall8minutes of the game but it did little to 
· hamper the 'Cats. 
Porter paced the Villanova attack with 35 points while Siemiontkowski, a 6'6" junion, added 29. Chris Ford also scored in double figures for 'Nova, contributing 14 points. 
Austin Carr, as usual, was high man for the Irish, tossing in 35 points. Collis Jones, limited to just three points in the first half, got hot in the second stanza and finished up with 20 markers. Sid Catlett also finished in double figures, chipping in 10 points. 
Villanova is now 18-5 on the season while Johnny Dee's charges are I 2-6. 
The Irish will now have to win all of their remaining eight games if they are to reach the 20-win plateau. Another loss or two could also endanger the Irish hopes for an NCAA bid. 
Last night's drubbing will undoubtedly knock the Irish out of their ranking in the top ten. Villanova, ranked l£ th this week, should move up in the polls. 
Notre Dame hopefully will start the win streak that will carry them into the NCAA tourney tomorrow afternoon in Chicago as they oppose the DePaul Demons. Game time is I :30 EST. 



leers try to even record 
Notre Dame's hockey team, plateau. fresh from a split with Western 'The series with Denver was Collegiate Hockey Association pivotal ~ I believe we can do power Denver, faces the Univer­well the rest of the season," said sity of Minnesota-Duluth on the Irish coach Lefty Smith, adding, road this Friday and Saturday "But I am also well aware that still hopeful of reaching the .500 we have a difficult assignment 
Athletes are active 
Notre Dame's indoor track team, with two straight dual meet victories over Miami ( 0 .) and Ohio State, faces its first stiff competition of the season Saturday in the 48th annual Michigan State Relays. 
The Irish swimming, wrestling and fencing teams will also be on the road this weekend. The swimmers meet St. Bonaventure and Niagara in Olean, N.Y. Sat-
Carr is 7 bock 

NEW YORK (UPl) ~ The statistics released Thursday by the National Collegiate Athletic Association had a definite Hoo­sier tinge. 
Indiana's Hoosiers were listed as the No. 1 rebounding team in the nation with 779 in 13 games for a 59.9 average. 
Four players with connections with Indiana were listed among the top l 0 scorers. 
Austin Carr of Notre Dame ranked second with 590 points in 16 games for a 36.9 average. However, Mississippi's Johnny Neumann continued as the na­tion's No. I scorer with a 43.1 point average. 
Willie Humes of Idaho State, a former high school star at Madi­son, Ind., remained in third place, increasing his average from 31.7 points per game to 32.9. 
George McGinnis of Indiana was tied for fourth place with 
30.6 points, and John Mengelt of Auburn, formerly of Elwood, Ind., who was seventh two weeks ago but dropped out of the top 10 last week, was lith with a 27.5 point average. 
urday while the matmen face Findlay Friday and Cincinnati Saturday. The fencing team tan­gles with Detroit, the University of Chicago and M.l.T. in Chicago Saturday. 
Track coach Alex Wilson will enter three relay teams and nu­merous individuals in the 
Michigan State Relays. The mile relay foursome of Don Greehan, Rick Wohlhuter and Mike and Tom McMannon figures to place high along with Wohlhuter in the 600, Elio Pol­sell in the shot put, Mike McMannon in the long and triple jumps and hurdlers Joe Utz and Tom McMannon. 
Wohlhuter captured the NCAA 600 indoor title last year and Wilson says the senior cap­tain is already in excellent shape this year. Polselli set a new school mark in the shot put last week with a 5 6-9 % effort. A total of _19 events are scheduled with 600 athletes from 24 uni­versities entered. 
The Irish swimmers, now 4 ~4, received double victories from sophomores John Sherk (500-1 ,000 freestyle) and Gene Krathaus (50-1 00 freestyle) in a 73~40 loss to Western Michigan last week. But Coach Dennis Stark was pleased with the over­all team balance as 11 indivi­duals posted their best times of 
the season. 

Notre Dame's wrestling team is now 5~6~1 after losing a triple dual at home Saturday but 1.eavyweight Phil Gustafson is still undefeated with a perfect ll ~0 record. Cincinnati handed the Irish a 23~11 loss in the triple dual. 
this weekend." 
Notre Dame, now 9~11~1 overall and 5~9~1 against WCHA teams, will be meeting Terry Shercliff's Bulldogs for the first time. Faceoff each night is 8 P.M., C.S.T. 
While Notre Dame was losing (4~3) and then winning (4~2) against Denver ~ thanks to the first ND "hat trick" of the sea­son by freshman Ian Williams on Saturday ~ Duluth was gaining a split at home with Michigan State. Duluth lost on Friday, 5~4, but bounced back for an 8~4 success Saturday, scoring three goals in the final seven minutes. 
The game will be a home­coming for junior Kevin Hoene, Notre Dame's No. 2 center. The Duluth native has recorded five " goals and nine assists and Smith has been pleased with his play recently. "Kevin has good speed ~ he's been our unsung hero throughout the season," rea­soned Smith, who switched Hoene back to center after in­juries curtailed the play of Phil Wittliff and Paul Regan. 
Smith was pleased with the play against Denver. "Our kids are staying up at the blue line and meeting the play and our forwards did an outstanding job of forechecking," measured Smith. 
Williams and No. 1 center John Noble, with 12 and 11 goals respectively, were inserted on the same line in recent games and have accounted for a total of 58 points. 
The Irish also received a tre­mendous effort from goalie Dick Tomasoni on Saturday. Toma­soni recorded 20 saves alone in the third period and prompted Smith to remark: "I planned to alternate our goalies the rest of ~ the season, but now I have that same old confident feeling about Tomasoni." 
Duluth, now 13~11 ove(all and 9~9 in the WCHA, is an­chored by Walt Ledingham with I 7 goals and 24 assists. "" 
7116 OBIERfla Friday, February 12, 1971
Page 8 


Prof scores _loss of Community Government 
between the three groups. by Andie McGuyan He feels that the basic goal of the college is to develop a good
"The Christian Community relationship with the students.
does not exist at St. Mary's," "At this point, administrationdeclared Dr. Arthur Hockberg, talks to administration, bypass­acting Chairman of the Psycho­ing students and faculty, hand­logy Department in an interview ing them edicts; for example. theWednesday afternoon. "Stu­appointment of Dr. Alice Can­dents, faculty, and administra­non as Vice-president of Stu­tion work together on all issues dent Affairs," Hochberg s1id. 
in a true Christian community-a Dr. Hochberg feels that a col­
situation which does not exist at lege that has a top-heavy struc­St. Mary's," he said. 
ture i.e. too many administratorsDr. Hock berg outlined three leads to poor communication
examples to illustrate his point. 
between the three factions andFirst, he said there is a circum­gives the adminstration a strictly 
vention of community govern­authoritarian function. Both re­ment by the administration. Ac­
sult in ineffective communitycording to Hockberg, the way government.
SMC community government is Dr. Hochberg's second pointset up, students and faculty, as 
is the inequality of personnelwell as the administration, are to and funds. He states that thehave a voice on all issues. The Vice-president of Development
purpose of this is to instill a receives a salary large enough tofeeling of co-operation and trust 

Juniors finalize 
plans for weekend 
tenatJve open discussion on cam­pus life Saturday afternoon. D.Aquila and TimTaylor, the
About 750 parents plan to other co-chairman, hope to pro­attend Junior Parents Weekend, cure films of last spring's student
February 26,27 ,and 28 accord­strike to supplement the discus­
ing to Tom D'Aquila, co-chair­sion. Also included in the week­man of the event. 
end will be a presidential recep­The schedule for the three tion Saturday afternoon and aday affair includes the St. 
Sunday morning brunch.

Mary's-Notre Dame presentation 
The main event of the week­of "Little Foxes" Friday night, a 
end, a parents dinner, will be"Meet Your Majors" presenta­held Saturday evening with thetion Saturday morning, and a Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh pre­senting the keynote address:
Dr. Bartholomew "We expect about 1100 peo­ple for the dinner," said D'Aquila. "This represents a
writes on SC's 
slight decrease from last year'srestrained spirit 1,300 attendence. The co-chairman cited the A "spirit of restraint" prevail­Sophomore Parents' Weekend as ing in the Supreme Court during one of the main reasons for the 
the first term of Chief Justice decrease. "The Pitt (Sophomore Warren Burger is contrasted to Parents) weekend definitely hurt the "bold confrontations" of the us," said D'Aquila. "Some of tht' 
Warren court in an analysis.by parents who would have made it Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, pro­
later this month chose to come
• fessor of government at the Uni­out early for the football game versity of Notre Dame. and the presidential dinner. The This switch is accomplished, presidential dinner has been the according to Bartholomew, in main drawing point of the week­
some cases by letting lower end in the past." court decisions stand, and in The parents weekend, which others by refusing to go beyond was traditionally a spring affair 
the essential questions presen­has been moved back due to a ted. His analysis, "Significant • conflict with events scheduled Decisions of the Supreme Court, by the administration in the 1969-70 Term", was published spring. The Junior Parents Week­by the American Enterprise Insti­end is sponsored each year by tute for Public Policy Research, the junior class and financed by and Ba-rtholomew has contracted the university. It was originally to do a similar account of the designed to acquaint the parents 1970-71 term. of the students with life at the 
The Court disposed of an all­university. 
pay for at least two full-time 

members who bow down to faculty members. Money is spent 
their whims. Some faculty mem­on unessential administr11tive 
bers do not have the courage to personnel and not on essential 
confront the administration be­faculty members. As an exam­
cause their major need is to ple, he feels that the Psychology 
maintain th1~ir jobs."Department is understaffed. 
Hochberg feels that the ed uca­tion of students at SMC occursThe department has I 22 despite the cumbersome admini­psychology majors and antici­strlltive structure-inste11d of de­
pates 160 in the fall. There are veloping with it. 

two full-time faculty members now and there will be three in "I feel that due to all these the fall. fadors, the tendancy is for the 
The department has the school not to be able to attract fourth highest number of majors of any department, yet is the or hold young, dynamic instruc­tors or encourage new, experi­mental programs due to the pressure from the aoministrative wall." 
He added the fact 'that we are involved in the education of growing, risking, loving human being on administrative, faculty and student levels is the single most important reson why we exist as a viable liberal arts col­lege. This fact is too often over­looked." 
most understaffed a.~ far as the studnet-faculty ratin goes. The 


Four suspects held 
two faculty members have a hard time giving majors adequate 
• 
counseling, and guidance on 


1n Mardi Gras theft
both an academic and personal level is almost impossible. Dr. Hochberg says that in the end, it is the students who suffer. by Art Ferranti 
Hochberg's third point is that Four suspects, as yet un­a major administrative decision, identified, were apprehended relieving him as acting chairman yesterday by the St. Joseph of the depllrtment at the end of Sheriff's Office and given lie the semester, was made without detector tests in the theft of the any attempt to talk with him, bogus money stolen from the talk with the psy~.:hology m11jors, Mardi Gra~• Tuesday night, said or eva) uate him as a person. Student Union Comptroller 
He explained that he could Brian Nagle. accept his dismissal if he felt it None were Notre Dame stu­was based on a knowledge of his dents. field or his credentials; but in­According to Nagle no more stead feels that it was based on than a hundred dollars was lost. his personal views. He points out The suspects were questioned that no attempt was made to when they tried to exchange discuss the situation with the large sums of bogus $5 bills three groups, then evaluate it. (worth· 50 cents each) at the five 
Dr. Hochberg stated, "The ad­dollar window of the Mardi Gras ministration is so caught up in Bank. protecting their own' sense of They were questioned by power, they don't regard anyone Student Union workers and se­else--least of all the students who curity police along with many tend to be regarded as replace­other students and patrons. 
able units, rather than growing When their stories were checked human beings. The administra­many conflicting statements be­tion ·tends to reinforce fa~.:ulty came evident, Nagle said. 

Ruckelshaus s1,eech 

(Continuedfrom PaKe 1) 
Ruckelshaus said that there is far too little known !!bout the health dangers of pollution and he added that he is "not sure" 
federal government could begin prosecution, said Ruckelshaus. 
He said that this power wa.~ contained in proposed legislation last year, but that nothing emerged from Congress. 
that the government is moving fast enough in this area. 
He could not give an uncon­ditional ass11urance that the federal water and air standards do not constitute a danger to the public health. He cited a new eight million dollar grant to a company in Arkansas to study the health effects of po!lution. 
Ruckelshaus also said that the strength of public opinion is a major factor in the enforcement 

time record of 3,409 cases during the 8Vz month period, 
In tile IJasentent of Flan ........ 
and established another record in the number of cases remaining on the docket, 793. There were 73 dissenting opinions, fewer that in either of the two pre-' 


--AMERICA-­
vious terms. Justice Douglas, with 23 dissenting opinions, was first in this category, a position he has held with some regularity, Bartholemew notes. 
Bartholomew, a member of 
McKenzie ... Quillin ... Sheehy 
• the Notre Dame faculty since 1931, .is the author of a two­-volume publication, "Ruling 
*********** 
American Constitutional Law," published last year. He was coor­
8:30 Fri.& Food& 
dinator and one of the principal 
•

... lecturers at the Philippine Con­stitution Conference in Manila in 
J2:3o• SM. KAE• lflluslc 
December. 
of air 11nd water pollution stan­dards. He applauded the efforts of public interest law firms that 
have  gi gorously  filed  suits  
against polluters.  
"Some  of  the  finest  work  
done  has  come  from  these  
firms,"  sa:id  Ruckelshaus.  "The  

vigor of their activities is all to thL' good. We h11ve to keep the pressure on." 
t f 
t 
t 
f 
t 
t 
f 
t 
t 
f 
' 
t t 
The comptroller also said that there were two groups of three who instigated the theft. When the discrepancies became known, it was discovered that one member from each group lived with the other in South Bend. Only four of the six were apprehended though. The de­tective in charge of the investiga­tion was unavilable for com­ment. The Notre Dame Security Force was never involved, said 

Student  Union  Director  Bob  
Pohl.  
Nagle  said that while  $2,249  

was stolen, $400 is still miss­ing. The now unredeemable pho­ny money was never cashed in by the participants. Nagle is to contact the Detective Bureau to­day for further developments. 
Do you desire to ive off-cam­
pus?: Now taking reservations 
for Sept. I, 1971. Nine 
month lease, accomodations 
for four or five to an apart­
ment. Notre Dame Ave Apts. 800 block N.D.A. Phone Mr. Ginn 234-6647 


live Entertainment f Wed. to Sat. Dancing t 
f


7:/tt 
f

Mill11t111 
"THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST" 
t 

525 North Hill Street 
t

SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619 
t 

Attended Parking 
f

In the Rear 
t 

THURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY NIGHT 
t 

IJownstairs starting at 9 pm 
f 

Everyone's Welcome 
t 

Ha;lpy Hour 5-9 Daily All beverages $.60 t during Happy Hour Upstairs Only t 

----~--------------­










