·~-----~ 
•
Allied offense meets no resistance 
SAIGON (UPI)-American Vietnam, said Saturday "Out of the total resources of any details of the operation, around the South Vietnamese paratroopers joined South American troops would be the 101st, a maximum number of which President Nguyen Van Fire Base 6 in the Central Vietnamese soldiers on patrols in committed to the operation and troops has been decided upon." Thieu formally announced Highlands, which had been the A Shau Valley yesterday, the said an incursion into Laos by . The spokesman declined to Saturday as Lam Son 720. surrounded and under siege by fifth day of an Allied offensive South Vietnamese troops was a reveal the number of Americans The Saigon Post, an English Communist forces. Spokesmen there. There were still no reports possibility during the campaign involved. language daily newspaper,-said said there were only scattered of contact with Communist Military sources said patrols in yesterday more than 10,000 South skirmishes elsewhere in Vietnam forces. Nixon Pledge the valley, 375 miles northeast of Vietnamese troops had been Sunday. 
A spokesman for the U.S. Saigon, had made no significant committed to the operation-­In Cambodia, military Army's 101st Airborne Division President Nixon has said contact with Communists. The about half the number involved in spokesmen in Phnom Penh said said its troops and support air­United States troops will not be sources said no large Allied units the incursion into Laos, which government t~oops fought a 12 craft yesterday were conducting allowed to cross into Laos. had yet entered the valley, was named Lam Son 719. hour battle with Communists "armed air reconnaissance and "Our ground troops will play a however, and the reconnaissance near a bridge on Highway 4 and light ground reconnaissance in supporting role, more or less patrols did not remain in the Little Action 20 miles east of the seaport of the valley." covering the ARVN South valley after dark. Kompong Som. Cambodian Gen. Creighton W. Abrams, the Vietnamese army flanke," said South Vietnamese command Field reports said there was no casualties were seven dead and 
U.S. military commander in the 101st Division spokesman. spokesmen have declined to give Communist activity yesterday five wounded. · 


_v__ol~u~m~e~V~·~N~o~-~11~0~--------------------~S~f~·r~v,~n~g~th~e~N~t~Jt~re~D~a~n~l~e~a~'~'d~S~a~in~t~~~a~ry~·~s_C~c~Jl~k~~~'e__r_;~~~~~~n~l~u~n~ft~.''-------------------------a~M~o~n~day,~pril 19, 1971 
•
Activity fee zncrease refected 
In a stormy session last night, mittee of three hall presidents 9 setback. There was one ab­Treanor and Novak argued, 
the Student Senate defeated a bill and four members of the Senate. stention on the final vote. however, that the hall funds were to raise the activity fee and The bill, introduced last Treanor moved to have the more important than any other reallocate an undetermined sum November, had been pending for section raising the activity fees fund, and hence should be back to the halls. four and a half months before deleted from the bill. Although guaranteed their supply, in­
The bill, co-sponsored by off­being favorably reported out of the newly-elected stay senator dependent of other organizations. 
campus Senators Don Mooney the Student Affairs committee. argued that the "improving Bushelman modified his 
and Steve Flavin and Stay The Senate amended the bill deficit situation" no longer made amendment so that the "Quality 
Senator T.C. Treanor, would twice and beat back two other the two dollar increase of Life Fund" would get first 
have created a "Quality of Life attempts to amend it before necessary, off-campus Senator priority" in the new Senate's 
Frank Devine Fund" administered by a com-ultimately handing the bill a 13-Steve Novak argued that "unless deliberations. The move was we want to operate under the defeated by a 15-5 vote. same tight conditions next year The Senate then moved on the
Varied "Earth Week" activities underway 
as we did this year," the increase bill itself. The bill was attacked would be needed. The amend­by Stay Senator Fred Guiffrida ment was defeated by an 11-10 for "setting up a committee that count. was too unwieldy." Stay Senator

Nature Lovers hike, rally, and clean up 
Dillon Hall Senator Frank Jim Clarks criticized the bill Devine then m<wed to elect an because of its raise in the activity off-campus representative from fee. Student Body President John UPI -Earth Week began project, in Inwood Iowa, when Clearwater provided en-among the off-campus senators Barkett said that "the whole idea yesterday with citizens attending Evelyn Rose Halma, 10, was hit tertainment. 
rather than in a general election. is wrong."
outdoor rallies, marching by a car and killed while she and A "Survival walk" through The amendment passed by The bill was defended in turnthrough cities and pedaling five other girls were picking up downtown Indianapolis, Ind., 
consensus. by Novak, Treanor, Devine andbicycles to call attention to en­litter in a ditch along U.S. 18 as nrl.!ed the city to improve its Cavanaugh Hall Senator Phil Stay Senator Donald Patrick,vironmental concerns. part of an anti-litter campaign. mass transportation system. 
Cernanec moved that members who chaired the committee which The activities marking Earth Three miles of roadway in Several thousand high school of the ministering council be originally reported favorably onWeek, proclaimed by President Philadelphia's Fairmount Park students in Hartford, Conn., 
elected the week after Senate the bill. Treanor denied theNixon and the governors of many were closed to traffic and taken marched about 10 miles Saturday elections. The motion also passed charge that the two dollar raise instates, were focused on college over by bicycle riders, joggers, to raise money for the proposed by consensus. the activity fee would join thecampuses, where speakers were strollers and other nature en-Connecticut Earth Action Group, Bob Bushelman moved that scheduled University tuition in
which would employ lawyers and 
consideration of the "Quality of creating a hardship for students.
researchers and act as an en­
Life Fund's" budget be delayed "I don't think the fee raise is
vironmental ombudsman. 
until the new Senate convened, necessary," Treanor said, "but
A weekend drive in Des 
instead of in April as the bill to talk about it in the same terms
Moines, Iowa, collected more 
stated. Student Body Vice as a $150 tuition raise -to talk
than 211 tons of paper that will be 
President Orlando Rodriguez, in about it as the fifth plague from
sold and recycled for use in 
seconding the motion, suggested Gehenna -to use that as an
cardboard products. Funds 
that the Senate would better excuse to defeat the bill -is
raised were earmarked for a 
know how much money would ludicrous."
Dutch elm research program at 
have to be allocated to other Devine also defended the bill,Iowa State University. 
organizations in September. Continw'!d on page 8
At Mount Pleasant, Mich., ad­
mmisters delivered Sunday 
sermons on the environment and 

S.M.C. Parent's Council 
the city began a community cleanup campaign. 

Week. scheduled throughout the week, thusiasm. New Yorkers took to bicycles discusses its future role
for a mass ride up The Bronx

and in city parks, where weekend Festivals Staged Borough Grand Concourse
activities ranged from folk by Carol Lacey
Environmental festivals were headed by Borough Presidentconcerts to "litter hikes." 

staged by a youth group in Los 
Robert Abrams, a long time 
The future of the St. Mary'sTragedy struck one ecology Angeles County's Westlake weekend bike enthusiast. That College Parent's Council was 
..... -•.,~-~'y!j¢1'.':''·_... 
Village and in Arlington, Va. The group was met for a rally by discussed at a meeting of theArlington "Earth Day Fair" members of "Bike for a Better body Saturday.
featured art shows, music and City."

ond~'!~pu....
·.-.s The question was raised as to
drama presentations, a free New York's Mayor John V.
to ay.........·.· i#, the fate of the Council once the
bicycle clinic, a glass recycling Lindsay and other City officials
tl,·;:f}:?~s~ ... I <·' · .::z merger takes place. "Most of the 



4:00 lecture-james massey: norbert wiener: scientific humanist, library auditorium. 
8:00 lecture-norr.1an lent, new york congressman, library auditorium. 
8:30 meeting-non­violence program: april 24 march on washington, engineering auditorium. 
station and the inevitable Sunday joined in a 16 mile "walkathon" parents" according to Sr. Almain the park baseball game. The from the Battery, on the tip of Peter, acting president, "ex­ring shouters from Pete Seeger' Manhattan, to Central Park. 
pressed concern for the girls within a large institution and felt that the council should continue." 



Norman Lent speaks in 
The council is composed of the parents of thirty two St. Mary's students and its role is purely Sr. Alma Peter

Lib. Auditorium tonight 
advisory. Membership is at­Sr. Alma, and Dr. Jack Detzler, tained through invitation by the senior vice-president andNorman F. Lent, represen­who defeated incumbent Allard St. Mary's administration or provost, addressed the morningtative from New York's 5th 

K. Lovenstein for his seat in the Board of Trustees. session of the council concerningCongressional deistrict, will House of Representatives. "We try to keep our mem­the Park-Mayhew Report and the speak tonight at 8 p.m. in the Lowenstein, recipient of Notre bership nation-wide," com­March meeting of the jointLibrary Auditorium. 
Dame's Senior Fellow Award for mented Sr. Alma, "and each boards of trustees. The addresses Congressman Lent, 39, a 1970, was seeking his second couple is retained until their were followed by a question andConservative-Republican is a t.erm. daughter graduates." answer session.
former New York State Senator 
-~----~~-~-­
Monday, April 19, 1971 
Pin~ pon~ leads to diplo111acy 
of the U.S. table tennis team Cowan, the 19 year old hippie who arriving in Los Angeles from turned ping pong into an art of Tokyo after their trip into Red diplomacy, said yesterday he China. Other members of the LOS ANGELES (UPI) Glenn 
believed he could "very easily" team flew into San Francisco and mediate Sino-American 
New York. problems between Premier Chou Assistant Deputy Secretary of 
En Lai and President Nixon. State, Frederick Irving, who saidUPI Telephoto San Francisco: George Braithwaite, the only Negro on he was on hand to representthe American table tennis team at Customs. Cowan was one of six members 

ND-SMC Theatre 
presents 
The Musical Comedy Smash 
Book, Music and Lyr1cs by LIONEL BART 


OLIVE 

May 1, (i, 7, 8 at 8:30pm. May 2 at 2:30 pm. O'Laughlin Auditorium. $2.00 Tickets. Information: 284-4176. 
Secretary of State William P. 
Rogers, welcomes the Los 
Angeles contingent and ex­
Analysis of violence is 
pressed hope the Chinese would soon reciprocate by sending a team to the United States and that there would be other ex­

presented byEqbalAhmad 
Eqbal Ahmad opened the three day Conference on Violence giving a perspective to the movie, "Battle of Algiers , " shown Saturday night m tne Center for Continuing Education. 
Ahmad, a fellow of the Adlai Stevenson Institute for In­ternational Studies, and a co­defendant with the Berrigan brothers in the Harrisburg conspiracy case, presented an hour long introduction to the film, centering his talk on the characteristics of violence and their relation to the war for Algerian independance. 
Ahmad presented a four-stage analysis of violence. He iden­tified the stages as non-directed mob violence, directed mob behavior, exemplified by the strike; a cadre-directed in­strumental violence such as industrial sabotage, and finally revolutionary violence, which was illustrated by the film. 
a red white and blue T shirt with the w~rds "Let It Be" and he was invited aboard the Communist team bus. 
Cowan was asked about Premier Chou En Lai who recived the members of the team in Peking. 
"Intelligent, versatile,"said Cowan. "I believe I could mediate between him and Nixon very easily." 
~=~=~~=~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~:=:;::::::::~;::::::::~::::::::::::::::::!;:;:;:;::: 
;;l;  Correction  ~;;~  
There were several  
errors in the story on the  
Cultural Arts Commission  
run in Friday's Observer.  
The Folk Festival, planned  
for next year, will not be a  
year around event as was  
reported, instead it will be  
a weekend event.  
Also the story claimed  
that Cinema 72 would in­ 
clude fund raising films in  
addition to those brought in  
for various professors.  
Actually Cinema 72 will  
be part of a program which  
will include fund ra1smg  
w  films and films for various  ····  
professors. Cinema 72 will  
·be strictly art-type films  
that are not necessarily  
popular, but have been  
judged to be of superior  
quality.  
The Observer apologizes  
for the error.  

changes. 

Graham Steenhoven, president of the American Table Tennis Association and head of the group, said he "hoped in a very short time to be able to give you an answer." 
But it was the Santa Monica, Calif., college youngster who stole the homecoming show. Grinning widely, Cowan steeped before the horde of reporters and TV cameramen clad in purple corduroy trousers and matching sports shirt. His long dark locks 
hung below a yellow sued pied piper hat. Newsmen asked him what he thought of China. 
"Fantastic," he said. ''Fan­tastic. The people are great. We saw the wall, the Great Wall of China, we saw the premier, we 
saw the country, animals of all kinds, horses, goats. Fantastic." 
~ <:;o~an s~id he gave the Chinese 
*Student Billing Card 
With this card, a dorm resi­dent may make long distance calls with the privacy of the dorm room 
April 21 and April 22. 
phone and get an individual bill 
once a month. 
And even take advantage of 
Direct Distance Dialing . . . the 
faster, easier way to call long 
THE HOURS WILL BE
distance. Your Student Billing Card is waiting (if you haven't already 
10 am to 5 pm
picked it up) at the Indiana Bell Business Office. Just ask. 

@Indiana Bell 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, 
ATTENTION All SENIORS, GRAD STUDENTS 



AND FACULTY 
'1 

Measurements for Caps and Gowns will be taken at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on 

Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------~------~-------------­
Monday, April 19, 1971 
Page 3 

E~ypt, 
<UP I) -Egyptian Foreign Minister Mahmoud Riad said yesterday in Moscow that Egypt and the Soviet Union are agreed that the primary issue in the Middle East now is not reopening the Suez Canal but complete Israeli withdrawal from occupied Arab territory. 
In Tel Aviv, Defense Minister Moshe Dayan said Israel will not make even a partial withdrawal until Egypt agrees to a per­manent end to hostilities. He told a meeting of Israeli journalists that the canal "is our best defense line against our toughest enemy." 
Observers said the statements indicated a further toughening by both Arabs and Israelis in the Middle East crisis in the wake of the formation of the "Federation of Arab Republics," linking Egypt, Syria and Libya. · 
No Comment 

The Israeli cabinet met for more than two hours in Jerusalem yesterday but reached no decision on the issue of reopening the canal. Government officials refused to say whether the newly announced Arab federation was holding up Israel's counterproposals. . . 
Riad has heen conferring with Soviet leaders on the Middle East in Moscow since last Thursday. Sources in Cairo said he sought even more Soviet military and economic aid in the confrontation with Israel. 
The official Soviet Communist Party newspaper, Pravda, hailed 
USSR seek Israeli withdrawal 
the agreement on federation by the three Arab leaders as "the strengthening of unity among the progressive Arab regimes ... which leads to the final victory over the fo•·ces of aggression, Zionism and neocolonialism in the Middle East." 
Political sources in Beirut said the federation would toughen the Arab stance against Israel noting Saturday's announcement by the three Arab heads of state focused on the confrontation aspect of the crisis and pledged 
"no reconciliation and 
negotiations" with Israel. 
U. S. Pressure 

Israel has been reported under pressure from the United States 
"Dump Nixon" movement is launched Muskie, Bayh, and McCloskey speak 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. UPI -A national "Dump Nixon" movement was launched Sunday at a bipartisan rally that drew three prospective presidential candidates and a crowd of more than 15,000 persons to the Rhode Island State House. 
Sen. Edmund S. Muskie, D. Maine, speaking from the steps of the Capitol to thousands of young people gathered on the lawn under chilly, overcast skies, aid "we are here to challenge policies, not personalities -to seek solutions, not scapegoats." 
As the speakers began, young people continued to pour onto the lawn, far exceeding the 10,000 attendance foceeast by the rally's organizers, Police said the crowd was more than 15,000, most of them young people. 
The crowd later swelled to about 18,000 persons, police said. However, when a light rain began falling, some began to drifting 
away.
Despite a counter protest staged by the Young Americans for Freedom Y AF, police reported no incidents. The YAF demonstrators carried signs supporting administration efforts to end the war. 
Sen. Birch Bayh, D. Ind., 
How to use the system to fight 
__.....,__

the system 
o'f-~o\\ ~ 'r.'f-~0~0 R0'0~0 

fl. c:,\'UO'i.~ c:,c-r.oo\.~ ~ a\\ a"~ 1.'0\\~\~~;,. "'"\)~:\,t\\\et 
t,\\at\tS 

Now at your bookstore Delta paperback $1.95 Delacorte hardbound $4.95 
mm Dell Publishing Co., Inc. 
another prospective presidential candidate, said the nation "cannot afford four more years of the bankrupt policies of Richard Nixon." 
Rep. Paul N McCloskey, R. Calif., who has pledged to take on Nixon in the primaries if the President fails to move to end the war, said, "President Nixon alleges he is unwinding the war while since he took office, the 

U.S. bombing in Vietnam has ' doubled." 
Muskie drew the loudest reaction from the crowd when he said that if America wants its problems solved "then it must vote this administration out of office in 1972." 

The rally, protesting the ad­ministration's foreign and domestic policies, .was organized by former Rep. Allard K. Lowenstein, D. N.Y., the man credited with launching 
-~~ 
· . ...., 

I . 
· 
9/,~· 
~-~Ut 
!?7¥fony !fletlirt? 
-1;":. 
Now, in addition, we introduce th~ "New Tiffany Setting• designed by Donald Claflin. Rings start at $295. 





DFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Design Copyrighted 1971, T.& Co. 

the movement that led to 
President Johnson's decision not 
to seek re-election in 1968. 
Similar rallies are planned later 
in other parts of the country. 

Muskie said the single purpose 
of the rally was "to demonstrate 
our faith that the people's will 
can still determine our country's . course. " 
1 nree Lawyer;, 'irom the South Bend Area will speak at and participate in a Law Symposium presented by the Pre~ Law Society. The lawyers will represent: The Legal Aid Office, The Police (Legal) Advisers, Corporation Law and Private Practice. If you Plan to enter Law School or have an interest in the profession of law it would be highly advantageous to attend. PLACE: 127 Nieuwland Science 
Hall TIME: 8:00 PM DATE: Tuesday April 20, 1971 

Here's a government position with a real future for both men and women. An officer's job in the Air Force. A management level job in anybody's book. Certainly, there's no better way to get the experience and train­ing needed for executive responsi­bility. 
If you have two years of college remaining, you could find yourself 
earning an Air Force commission while you learn, through the Air Force ROTC two-year program. Along with college credits and a commission, you'll receive$50 each month as a student. And upon grad­uation, that management position we promised will be waiting for you. If an advanced degree is in your plans, you'll be happy to learn that the Air Force has a number of out­standing programs to help you fur­ther your education. 
If you're in your final year of col-
to come up with counterproposals to Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's plans for reopening the Suez Canal, blocked since the war almost four years ago. 
In a briefing after the session, the spokesman said Foreign Minister Abba Eban briefed the ministers for 40 minutes on "political developments since the cabinet last met two weeks ago, including discussions on proposals for reopening the canal. 
Sadat had proposed Israeli 
Last 2 Nites 
TNE SALVATION OF MANI<IND 
FROM UNNATURAL TEMPTATION 
"Plenty of jousting along with the jokes to make the whole thing come off like bang busters I" 

troops be pulled back from the occupied east bank of the canal and replaced by Egyptian troops after which the water way would be cleared of obstacles and reopened to international traffic. 
Israel rejected the Sadat proposal, which envisaged an Israeli troop pullback to about 80 miles from the canal. There were reports that Israel would agree to a withdrawal of about 10 miles 
provided  it  received  iron  clad  
guarantees  to  protect  its  
security.  

Proof of age required 
COLOR. 
RATED 
• COLOR.

caught 1n the can! 

WANTED: College men and women for man· agement positions in government. Must meet physical requirements. Financial aid available for in· college trainees, or applicants can enroll in special training course on graduation. Stateside and/or overseas travel guaranteed. 
lege, you can get your commission 
th h h 
roug t e Air Force Officer Train­
ing Program. It is open to all college 
grads, both men and women who 
qualify. ' 
Check it out. You'll find that the 
Air Force is one career that offers 
something for everyone. Nearly 430 different jobs, ~anging from aero­n~utical engineering to zoology, With almost everything else includ­
ing flying, in between. But whatever 
your duties, you'll soon discover !hat the Air Force will let you move JUSt as far and as fast as your tal­
ents can take you. 
So look ahead and let your col­lege years pay off for you with a managerial position in the U.S. Air 
Force. Just send in this coupon or 
wnte to USAF Military Personnel 
Center.. Dept. A, Randolph AFB, Texas 78148, and get your postgrad­
uate career off the ground. 

Find yourself in the IUnited States Air Force I 
__L ________________I 
r---------------­
I  SCN271USAF Military Personnel Center  I1  
1  Dept. A  
I  Randolph AFB, Texas 78148  
I I  Please send me more information on:  
I  
1  D Officer Training School  
I  D Air Force ROTC Program  
I  
1 I  NAME AGE=~-...,<"'ple=a-=se-,p7rin:-::tl,..---'-~­ 
:  "'Ao"'o""RE""s"-s________  
1  
1  CITY  sTATE  ZIP  
1  "'-'-'----~c=o_--.....!c'..':___  
I  
1  :..cPH"'o"-'N"-E_  __,o~Ac..!TE;_;OC':_F_.,G~RA'-"'o"'uA~T!;!IO:!'!.N__  
I  
I  ~sc""H~oo"-=L_________  
I  
I  I understand there is no obligation.  
/  I  
/  
1  

Page 4 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
.. You shall not press upon man this crown 
of thorns, you shall not crucify man on this 
cross of gold. 
--William Jennings Bryan 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The· Worst 
In what was undoubtedly its poorest move of the year, the Notre Dame Student Senate last night defeated the only piece of positive legislation five and a half months of deliberation had produced, by a vote of thirteen to nine. 
~ 
-. 

The bill, which would have guaranteed money for struggling halls next year, was killed after an occasionally acrimonious debate and several attempts at amendment. The opposition of student body President John Barkett played no little role in the bill's defeat. 
The ironic thing about the vote is that the two amendments which best answered Barkett's objections -Senator Treanor's motion to delete the fee increase and Senator Bushelman's suggestion to con­sider the "Quality of Life"· Committee's funding after the new Senate was elected-were both defeated, the latter by a 15-5 vote. Yet the positive opposites of those amendments provided the basis for Barkett's, and apparently the Senate's opposition to the bill. 
The strange thing about the vote is that it runs contrary to a specific campaign pledge made by SBP John Barkett. Barkett said his ad­ministration would want budget requests to be submitted before the summer break, a pledge that made his opposition to the bill and specifically to the section determining the allocation in April inex­plicable. 
The sad thing about the vote is that in this poorly-attended session, the Senate ignored the whole brunt of student political sentiment as expressed in the last two student body presidential elections. The growing importance of hall living in student life and the crying need of some of the halls to make that living more comfortable and more desirable became meaningless to fifty-nine per cent of the attending Senate in the face of questionable arguments and even more questionable promises. 
If, as Senator Guifridda argued in attacking the bill, seven students are too many people to deliberate upon budgetary applications, then how much more inappropriate is the Student Senate as it deliberates the budget? If, as Senator Bushelman suggested, money back to the hall~ should be the primary concern of the Senate's Budgetary dealings, why was he insistant upon considering the halls in November instead of in April? And finally, if Student Body President Barkett is so positive that Halls will receive money from the Senate next year, why did he oppose a bill that would give structure and momentum to such ministrations? And, having defeated it, why did he have no concrete alternative to offer? 
. ~he biggest if, and one that is sadly becoming the most recurrent if, IS if the Senators were elected to deal for the students, if they were elected ~o do some good thing for the students, why aren't they coming to meetings any more? One of the bill's original sponsors -Senator Mooney-was absent. A Stay Senator-Senator Sauer-was absent. In fact, twenty-two students were absent. The Senate had barely 
enough for a quorum. 
f""'"""''''''"''""""'"'""""''"'"'"''""""'''~=-"'""'''1 
·;~:Managing Editor: Don Ruane Night Editor: Marty Miller :;:;: :;:;Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treano• Layout: Gene Slason Dan Ryan ;:;~
.:::: .. . ::~
:::::Features Editor: nck smtth. Headlines: Mike Moore ::•:: ;:;:Sports Editor; Jim Donaldson Varityper: Bill Clemency ::~ ::~;j campus Editor: Steve Lazar Control)e_rs of the Night: Sue Banke~~~ :;:: SMC Editor: Ann Conway & Harry Chung· -;.:: :;;; Advertising Mgr.: Bill Bauerle ;:;: 




1"'""""''''-""".''"''''"''"''""'"'':::~:.,:::..,,,,,,,,."'"''''"1 
Monday, April 19, 1971 

Now that May's almost here, we11 have some great weather. 
Glen Corso 
The Un2"reenin2" of America 
There have been countless thousand of words written on our in­volvement in Vietnam. There have been graphic descriptions of the brutal effects of the war in that small Asian country, cold factual delineations of the policy decisions and the reasons for them and emotional protests against the entire venture. 
One area that has not been given as much attention is the reason for our original involvement. The Vietnam venture was not a mistake or an aberration, it was a logical step to be taken in light of our post-WW II foreign policy. We honestly and truly believed that we could be policemen for the entire world. Despite the fact that other great powers had tried and failed, we went ahead anyway. Events in countries across the globe became instantly significant, regardless of whether they were important enough to merit concern. 
In some cases the policy was a good one and turned out well. Cer­tainly U.S. aid to Greece and Turkey forestalled take-overs in those countries as did the fighting and dying of American troops in South Korea. 
In others of course it was disastrous. After Vietnam, or rather before, the cause celebre was the Bay of Pigs. It ushered in an era where U.S. failures became common place, rathzr than unique. 
Now of course the official U.S. policy is one of a "lowered profile" in world affairs. We will no longer send in troops to quell disturbances, rather we will offer them aid. The troops are being taken out of Vietnam, out of Korea and possibly our of Europe. 
There are some rumblings of course. Some Asian countries are expressing fears over our "retreat" from the area. In Europe various countries are crying that they cannot possibly assume a greater burden for maintaining NATO defenses on that continent. 
America seems to be turning inward again. Domestic problems are beginning to assume the earth-shaking urgency that permeated every foreign crisis since the big war. People shake their heads in won­derment and wonder why the devil we got ourselves committed all over the world. 
Russia is embarked on an expansionist policy. Areas that were once considered exclusively American or British, i.e. the Middle East, and now Asia are beginning to view advances of the Russian flag. 
The advances are not part of the monolithic Communist movement so feared in the fifties and early sixties. Rather it is a great power flexing its military might and extending its influence through an adroit combination of diplomacy and aid. 
There is a funny thing about America. Our national policy seems to run in cycles, each one dominated by a set of ideas which assume a crusade like quality. In the early years of our existence the big move was towards non-involvement in foreign affairs and expansion. In the middle 1800's the great issue was slavery. In the later 1800's and early 1900's business was dominant. Our country was oriented toward the accumulation of wealth. The last gasp of the agrarian movement, with its ideal of America as the garden of the world, was crushed with the successive defeats of Williams Jennings Bryant. 
The pre-world War II era found us pre-occupied with crushing domestic problems and a studied posture of isolationism. After the war we found ourselves fostering dreams of Pax-Americana across the world. Our energies and efforts were expended in va-st amounts in the pursuit of this dream. 
All the while our domestic ills seethed and simmered just below the surface, finally exploding soon after we entered into yet another phase in our pursuit of the dream. 
The shattering of the dream seems complete. People in vast num­bers are turning away from it. As of yet no other great, consuming interest has engulfed us. It was once thought that space exploration would become that interest, but it has fallen prey to our pre­occupation with domestic troubles. 
Despite our unheardled prosperity and our vast accumulation of wealth and the myriads of creature comforts we have devised there is a great emptiness in our lives. We feel cheated and restless. We recognize our advantages and yet we despair. Perhaps the Jef­fersonian nightmare, the apocalyptic vision of what would befall Americans once they became seperated from the land and began living in cities piled atop one another, no longer God's chosen people, has become reality. 
We may however be in a transitional period. We may be entering a 
phase which will see the realization, or partial realization of Edward 
Bellamy's society, portrayed in Looking Backwards where everyone 
is equal and everyone receives the same benefits from society. 
Such a situation would be ideal, and yet one has to be fearful of such 
a society. When people become contented and satisfied they lose their 
purpose. They live their lives by reflex action alone. One day, just as 
George F. Babbit did, they wake up and realize they had never really 
done anything they wanted to, only things they had to. 
mark mahoney 
seniors: forsake your caps & 
gowns for charity's sake 

The question of wearing caps and gowns or not wearing caps and gown (and, presumably, the donation of the $4 instead to some charitable cause) has presented itself to many seniors since they received the letter of April 12, 1971 "To the ten­tative, May, 1971, Graduates" (sic), with en­closures. For the bare facts concerning what is being done officially by the senior class in this regard, please see the last paragraph below; those wishing to indulge in meaty philosophical and political issues raised by the cap and gown question, please feel free to read on: 
In as much as the commencement ceremony is symbolic of and the culmination of four years, at least, of educational activity, any actions per­formed here are elevated in their significance over what they might normally be. Beyond their symbolic nature they are public and before our families, unlike sentiments casually dropped in a seminar. With this in mind, truly good things done at a graduation ceremony become, perhaps, more worthwhile because others might share in them. Yet, that which might be deceptive at any other time might be raised to scandalous proportions when incorporated into a symbolic ceremony, and at an educational institution. 
lance corey 



the end-
In recent statements, I have professed a belief that Mankind will not survive another ten years. I should amend that prediction and say it is an ap­proximation: we may have twelve years to survive as a species. 
I do not pretend to determine the exact means of our fate, we have several avenues leading to our destruction: world wide famine and disease, failure of our ecosystems, social disorder, increasing in­ternational political tension. 
It is unlikely that Americans as a whole will suffer from disease and hunger (though increasingly present in our ghettos and impoverished areas, adding fire to the frustrations of the disadvantaged: social disorder) we will inadvertently suffer through increasing international conflict over existing foods and resources. Tensions within the exploited nations must increase as demands in­crease beyone the capabilities to produce. 
The Middle East and Indochina conflicts are indirectly related to population pressures. The developed nations must maintain spheres of in­fluence conducive to their needs. With diminishing resources per individual, the United States and the 
U.S.S.R. are finding it increasingly difficult to provide: increasing tension: increasing instability. The wars of past have indirectly been caused by population pressures. (Germany and Japan needed 'living space'). The population pressures over­whelmed their technologies at that time and thus conflicts arose. Today, population pressures .are increasing faster that our abilities to provide but unlike the past, we have the potential to completely wipe out mankind with our nuclear and biological arsenals. Rather than developing means of population control and adequate pollution abatement, we allocate our money and resources to developing first strike capabilities and ABM defenses. 
Though we develop large arsenals of over-kill to prevent war, it is inevitable that war will r~_sylt from increasing tensions to provide and survive. 

What would be the case then, in not wearing caps and gowns? Well one would have to see if there is a discrepancy between what one states by not wearing a cap and gown and what one is actually doing. If I make it clearly understood that my abstention from a cap and gown was a consequence of their inconvience to me in one way or another, 
(e.g. the problems posed by a cap for those with an Afro hair style, or, in my case, at times, an Iro hair style) and if I also make it understood that the donation of $4 is for me a small and yet un­customary and easy sacrifice, then I need not have a fear of being deceptive. Yet this is not even ap­propriate to a symbolic activity because clearly I have put up with greater and more ridiculous in­conveniences in the past at this University. Nor do I care to publicly announce my lack of true generosity. Thus such an act would be both out of the ordinary (not symbolic) and embarrassing. 
Now, if by my abstention from caps and gowns I would have it be believed that I refuse to participate in senseless tradition and that I would rather spend my money in a more worthwhile manner, I would be at least deceiving myself. For there are many senseless traditions that I have gone along with and with which I will probably continue to go along; and I have wasted and will waste money and talent in the process. 
Perhaps I would see graduation not as the culmination of the past four or five years, but as a beginning. And hence my abstention from caps and gowns would be symbolic of my hopes for the future. 
Perhaps it could symbolize a reordering of values, a break with that in my heritage which repulses me and a donation of my resources to that which I see as good. Certainly I should be allowed to forget my past and make a new commitment, a fresh start­thus I would be free from charges of hypocrisy. Yet there remains the great possibility that there might be better ways to symbolize this new commitment-­ways that have been travelled by many, of our colleagues and which call for a little more courage than is involved with telling the parents that we aren't going to wear the traditional garb of com­mencement. 
It is clear that I have not exhausted all the possible positions one could take. And I would not presume to judge, simply from whether or not a fellow student wears a cap and gown whether or not his action makes sense for him, or that he is a hypocrite. Yet, and this is the problem with activity which is symbolic, I am not all sure how one is to convey in any unambigous manner, his feelings by such action. And even if one is not too concerned about ambiguous statements of one's beliefs, one will have to contend with claims made against him on the basis of these ambiguities. 
It is clear to me that any ambiguities will be picked up very quickly by those who witness our ceremony. I earlier indicated that deception carried out in such a situation as a graduation ceremony borders on the scandalous. That is probably wrong because we simply do not have the means for scandalous deception that are available to those with more power. As a result, our deception on a large scale before our parents and friends would become transparent and ridiculous. That deception then is to be avoided, and hence those who contemplate not wearing caps and gowns should perhaps attempt to articulate their intentions in so action. 
Between those who don't care about such con­siderations as above and those who have already answered such questions, there are those who will feel best not wearing caps and gowns. And so, on to the facts of the matter. 
Firstly, like last year, there are to be no reprisals by the University against those who do not wear caps and gowns to the commencement ceremony. Secondly, most of those who will not be caring caps and gowns will probably desire to donate the $4 not spent on caps and gowns to some political or charitable organization. Presumably there are even more students who would like to make a donation, though they do wear caps and gowns. In view of these facts, the senior class graduation committee will provide a means by which one could make such a donation. Though it might not be inadvisable to initiate a Charity Chest here at Notre Dame, at present it would seem advisable to sponsor only one "political" and one "charitable" organization. Of those recommended, Sister Marita 's Primary Day School Fund and The Refuge Assistance Program seem to be the two most likely possibilities for donations. An office (Campus Press Business Office, LaFortune, nelj:t to the pool 
rooms) will be provided where students can bring 
their checks (preferably) to these funds. The office 
will be open on April 21, 22, and 23, from 10 until 5. 
Those with queries or who will offer their services in 
manning this office, please contact Mark Mahoney, 
147, Alumni, phone 1048 or Bill Kurtz, phone 233­
5484. Please show this to your off-campus friends. 
and how it may come about 
If we should be fortunate enough not to perish in a thermo-nuclear holocaust in the near future, we may witness the ultimate breakdown and failure of our ecosystems. This is unlikely though because the pressures resulting from the later increase the probability of the former. But, should we be for­tunate, let us understand what may take place. As different species of life are disrupted and often made extinct by Man's tecnological advances, the thought of a giant, complex computer comes to mind. As in our ecosystems, there are fail-safe controls against overloading in this computer. It is possible to remove several circuits and the com­puter will continue to function. 
But, if we continue to randomly remove circuits (as we are doing to our ecosystems) the computer eventually fails. This was the case with Lake Erie: the cities along it's shores over-taxed the lake's ecosystems with heat, chemical waster, and nutrient-rich farm run-offs containing feriilizers and insecticides. Many experts agree that the damage done to Lake Erie is irrepairable. Last spring, I pulled a young man out of Lake Michigan at the lndiana State Dunes Park. Suffering from the chlorine gas emptied by the nearby mills, he went into convulsions as we rushed him off to the hospital. f 
Some people may argue that our new federal standards and pollution abatement equipment will solve our pollution problems. Unfortunately, our growing population is placing increasingly large demands upon our environment causing the pollution porblems to grow faster that we are capable of controlling them. An increasing population means more cars (already difficult to fe­fit the older cars with pollution control devices and we have till 1976), more homes (21,000 needed immediately in Nassau Co., N. Y.) more power <must double in 10 years) schools, food, and needless to say more garbage; less land to grow food on, less open space per individual (over­crowding causes frustration and violence, noise kills). By our present rate of growth, which by the way, is on the rise, this nation must build a new city the size of Daytonevery month for the next 30 years to accomodate our new citizens. These are problems the United States will face, and some argue we have no population problem! 
Preparations made thus far are like giving aspirin to a cancer victim. 

Bus to Washint!ton 
Apr. 24th Meeting Mon. Night 
Engineering Auditorium Cost $28 Bring Deposit 
~--------------------------~--~ 
Monday, April 19, 1971
7HI!. OBSERfJER. 

Veterans he~in protest despite Fed. court order 
WASHINGTON UPI-A band of Vietnam veterans gathered on the b<mks of the Polomac River Sunday for five days of anti-war demonstrations in the nation's capital starting Monday. 
Denied government permission 
to camp on the mall stretching 
between the Lincoln Memorial 

and the Capitol, the vanguard of 
the protestors met in West 
Potomac Park, a strip of land 
jutting into the river, and said 

Mail service to include St. Mary's by the organization Vietnam 
The Student Services Com­mission will expand on-campus mail to include St. Mary's Monday, Services Commissioner Jim Schneid announced yesterday. 
"Initially we're going to have one pick-up at noon," Schneid said. He added that pickups will be doubled if the response is large. 
At St. Mary's mail may be 
posted in the old student 
government ballot boxes labeled 



CLASSIFIED 
Hot News Flash: New company 
born-VANGUARD LEATHER 
GOODS, I NC-823 Flanner Hall. 283­

ADVERTISEMENTS 
Mail in or come by Observer office 
1176-Specializing in: watchbands,
For information call 7471 
HOUSING 

Apartment for rent during summer months. Frunished, carpeted, freshly-painted, air-conditioned; has bedroom, living room, bathroom with shower, small hall, and two closets. 
Call Tom 282-2250 
For rental, Summer-June, July, August. Near UND-4 bedrooms­Utilities, Furnished: $150 per month­Call 284-1774 after 5:30 pm. 
Efficiency apartment close to ND, hospitals, ad downtown. Call 287-5371 after 5 pm 
For rent June 1-Sept 1 3 bedroomhome-excellent condition & location, air conditioned, dish washer, furnished, carport $125 a month -call 8100 or 8229 after 8 p.m. 
House· for rent-available now & next fall. 5 Bedrooms, 2 Full baths, completely carpeted & furnished. Gr~d students only-kitchen, 2 l1vong rooms. Call-289-2463 . AI Brasseur 
For Summer Students 1225 E Campeau St. 4 Bedroom house All bedrooms & living room carpeted. All utilities Furnished-Plus washer & dryer lawn care & trash removal. Close to Notre Dame Phone 232-7180 Charles Moore 1428 
E. Campeau St. 
For summer students 509 N. Eddy St. So. Bend 5 bedroom house-1'12 baths All bedrooms & living room carpeted All utilities furnished­plus washer & dryer. Lawn care & trash removal Close to Notre Dame Phone 232-7180 Charles More-1428 E. Campeau St. 
AUTOMOTIVE 

For sale 1969 Fiat '24 Spider $2195 Dave 232-1611, 232-2322 
For Sale · 1967 Sunbeam Alpine -very 
good condition -Call 7938 -312 Lyons 
Hall 
NorI.£ 1 dJy 2 G:JyS 
0-10 .50 .75 
wristbands,  belts,  wallets,  
headbands,  hair  barrettes,  
custom -made dandals, jeans, and  
anything  else  made  of  leather-­ 
1969 Mach I Power & Tape 259-9675 Sell immediately  Call  Owned and operated by Mill Jones, Wayne Hall.  

~-----------­
HELP WANTED

LOST AND FOUND LOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard,· Newly formed waterbed company 
lost after break: tasty reward. Call Tom 8~-­
-~-­
Found: Set of keys behind Admin· Building. Call Bob 3721 
Lost -Wallet at Frankie's. Reward.
Call 115
6 

LOST: Gold charm brdcelet with 7 charms on it; of great sentimental vallle. Reward $5. Call 232-6736. 
Missing: 14K solid gold blue sapphire birthstone ring. unusual setting (Art Carbed Co.) initials 
LAE engraved inside, personal vi'llue. Reward. Call Lucy 5158 
SERVICES 
.:rypt-New Hours 12:30-4:00 Now on stock 

Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 Cat Stevens-Tett for Tillerman-$3. H Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection ;3.10 Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 
FOR SALE 

'Vater mattresses for sale: to obti'lin info or place orders call Tom -at 282­2250 from 5-10 pm Monday-Friday. 
;torage space available during summer. 'call Tom: 282-2250. 
House full of furniture, utensils, etc.; prefer lump sale 233-2654 
RATES 

:,, ·:lilys 4 cii 5 'I :.r•Jel 1.!)(' 1.15 1.25 
-~ 

,_,.. 
:.n .o:.o.--U5 1.75 2.75 16-20 .70 '1.15 1.70 2.tl::,; :'.JO !!1-25 .85 L:'J 2.JO 2.9:) 3.t:'.~ 
' 
26-30 1.00 i.~ J 2.3:: 3.40 4.1( 31-33 1.20 1.90 2.'.i0 3.8~ ,l.7C 36-40 1.35 2.10 j,iO 4.25 r.1 o { )-.';5 .F5 2.J·] ::l.::.o 4.50 5.5.1 4f-.>0 _,_ .J •..;o 3.50 4 .. 5 ~.or 
1 ~c· 
wants campus representatives for hottest selling item in states. Good commissions for a few hours work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. 
Write:
Lightrays Designs, Inc. Love sleep water beds division 3727 Walnut St. Philadelphis, Pa. 19104 Pr Call: (215) 349-9330 
Earn an easy $10 in minutes Call 259-9565 after 6 p.m. 
College Students with car needed lo demonstrate technicolor photo and movie equipment--guaranteed $100 a week --top men make· $200 working -~venings 5-9. Call technicolor sales 
'fice 289-3662 for appointment 
Jobs available. full or part time. Transfers possible. Mr. Frank 287­8774 
Summer Camp Job-Watefront Supervisor: Boy Scouting Experince 21 years old, Red 
Cross  Senior  Lifesaving.  
$800.00.  Call  1253 after  11:30  
p.m.  

N D-SMC Students interested in 
working for McGovern fpr President will meet in Walsh Hall Basement Monday "' 7:00 p.m. 
SOFTBALL 
Chicago Club Softball Tournament cash prizes -Call Dan 1657 
TRAVEL 
Want to take a trip to EUROPE this summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the NATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS and SAVE! Approx. 60 dates available for round trips betw. London and N.Y. this summer for $245. From London connect to· any of 50 European cities at discount fares. For example: London Paris: $12.60, London Amsterdam: $12.00, Paris . Zurich :$15.00, Zurich Rome: $20.00. Many other benefits (travel passes, hotel d1scounts, etc. ( Also available. For into or application call Tom 282­2250 5 10 Mon.-Fri. 

will urge the "immediate, un­they planned to stay awake all 
conditional,uni unilateral"
night.Leaders of the demonstration 
withdrawal of U.S. troops from Vietnam including air andplanned to appeal on Monday a federal judge's temporary support forces. 
During the week, the group

restraining order against use of the mall, where one spokesman plans to conduct simulated 
search and destroy missions insaid "We will not have tents or the city, 24 hour vigils on Capitolopen fires, we will sleep in Hill, and lobbying sessions in thebedrolls like we did in Vietnam." 
halls of Congress, the VeteransFormer Air Force Capt. Al Administration and the NationalHubbard, a director of of the Press Building.
organization, said the veterans The round of rallies sponsored 
Veterans against the War getsOn-campus mail. These will be under way Monday with a Marchlocated in the lounges of each of to Arlington National Cemeterythe four dorms. Collection boxes and a meeting with members of ~t Notre DAme are at the library, Congress on the east front steps m front of the Knights of of the Capitol. Leaders predicted Columbus, Student Center, and in a turn o"'t of about 1,500 persons.
front of both dining halls. To increase the service, the The demonstrations have beenCommission recruited volunteer labeled "Operation' Deweymailmen. They would appreciate Canhon III," after South Viet­any other volunteers. 
nam's U.S. supported incursionHopefully, on-campus mail will into Laos called "Operationreach its destination the same Dewy Canhon II."
day, according to Schneid. 
Ralph Nader seeks to end annual auto style chanRes 
WASHINGTON UPI-Ralph Nader asked the government Sunday to order an end to annual automobile style changes because they were used to keep new manufacturers from en­tering the industry. 

Some people may have us wrong. It's possible. 
For instance, we Paulists are known for the printed and the spoken word. Books, radio, and TV. The glamorous world. 
But there is another, bigger world in which the Paulist moves ... 
A dusty corner in Utah where Paulists offer material and spiritual relief to migrant workers. 
An area known as East Village and a Paulist who understands the meaning of "taking a trip." 
A Newman Center on a troubled college campus and a priest who is not a judge but an understanding ear and a mediator. 

Being a Paulist isn't easy. Being a Paulist isn't glamorous. It's better. For more information on 
Paulist priestly spirit write to: 
Re'l'. Donald C. Campbell, C.S.P. Vocation Director 
'Paulisth
Pat erG 

L ------------~ 
In what he called a new an­titrust theory, the consumer advocate and auto industry critic appealed to the Federal Trade Commission to ban annual style changes as "an unfair method of competition."
Citing a study by a group of Yale University Law School students, Nader said a firm entering the automobile industry would need $1 billion to break into the passenger car market, but without annual style changes the cost would be one tenth of that amount. 
Also, said Nader, style changes take priority over safety in­novations and engineering im­provements. By introducing a restyled model each year, Nader said the industry provides con­sumers "with the illusion of progress, yet avoid making improvements that might extend the life of the automobile." 
Nader's complaint was believed to be the first time annual style changes had been attacked under antitrust law, but Nader said the FTC had authority under the act creating it to bring suit against the big three automakers on antitrust charges. 
And if the FTC does sue the big three and wins, Nader suggested the most appropriate way to encourage competition would be to break up the major auto producers into several smaller companies. 


SMC retains fee 
The $55 fee for each credit over the allotted 18 credit semester load will remain in effect at St. Mary's this coming fall, ac­cording to Registrar Donald C. Rosenthal. 
Notre Dame had so such fee and, due to the upcoming merger of the colleges, it was thought that perhaps this, as well as the $5 add and drop fee could be eliminated by the fall of 1971. 
TherP. are many differences in the fees required by St. Mary's and Notre Dame, which will have to be resolved as the two colleges become one. 
Rosenthal said that until all the fees at both St. Mary's and Notre Dame are reviewed no changes will be made. He gave no m­'iication as to when that review 

Monday, April 19, 1971 Page 7 
Irish win one of three at Toledo 
by Jim Donaldson Rocket third baseman John Pilewski clubbed a homer over Observer Sports Editor Pilewski on Gary Mayer's the left field fence in the fourth grounder kept the N.D. rally inning for what proved to be the
The Fighting Irish baseball team dropped a pair of one-run alive. Toledo starter Roger Coe winning run. decisions to Toledo University, walked Noe to load the bases and Notre Dame had made it a 3-2 
stretching their losing streak to when Coe threw his first pitch t~ ball game in the third inning six games, before freshman Schoen off-target, Tom Menke when Krill rapped a two run pitcher Jim and came in to relieve him. single. Tom McGraw drove in the
Noe senior Schoen slapped Menke's first third Irish run, in the seventh

second baseman Bill Schoen combined to lead Notre Dame to delivery for a two-run single and frame. 
Rob Reschan followed with an The setback dropped Riddell'sa 5-2 victory over the Rockets in 
the second game of a RBI single to complete the Irish record to 1-4. 
Rocket Wes

doubleheader Saturday. scoring in the inning. outfielder Jones 
Notre Dame added its final run cracked a 345' home run over the
Notre Dame's lone victory in 
their three game series with in the seventh stanza when Dan left field fence in the eighth in­Toledo left the Irish with a 6-10 Phelps belted a line drive homer ning of Friday's game to break a 
over the right field fence. 1-1 tie and give Toledo the win.
record this season. The Rockets 
are 11-7. Noe went the distance for the .Ron Schmitz was the losing 
Irish, although that involved only pitcher for the Irish, he now has a Toledo won the first game of 1-3 record, but the senior right­the set, 2-1, Friday, and edged the seven innings of work because hander pitched a good gameIrish, 4-3, in the first game of the game was the second of the twin bill. The young righty yielding just five hits. Only two ofSaturday's twin bill before the 
Irish salvaged the nightcap. · walked two and fanned two while the Rocket hits came after the 
on one of those
With Noe stopping the Rockets upping his record to 2-o the second inning but 
was Jones' homer.

on four hits, the Irish overcame a year. 
The Rocket's Jeff Davies had a2-0 deficit in Saturday's second In the opener Saturday, Toledo bit too much for the Irish batters

game by scoring four runs in the jumped on Irish starter Mike fifth inning. Toledo scored their Riddell for three runs in the first however, limiting them to just two runs in the third frame. inning, although only one of the four safeties. 
runs was earned. A walk and Tommy O'Conner's first inning 
Phil Krill started the Irish 
comeback when he led off the Paul Burrell's double sent in the home run over the left field fence fifth with a walk. Jim Panici first Rocket tally. The second run gave the Irish a quick 1-0 ad­followed with a single and, after a came across when the Irish didn't vantage but the Rockets bounced 
back to tie the score in the second 

wild pickoff throw sent Krill to cover second on a double steal third, Bob Bixby hit into a force Bob Roemer's throw going t~ frame. play that scored Krill. centerfield. An error by Krill Singles by Tom Roberts and 
Tom McGraw made the second brought let in the third Rocket John Klausing and error by 
marker. Schoen brought in the Rockets'Irish out but a throwing error by 
Battle for QB spot continues 
scored on a five-yard end sweep ~of play Brown had another pass by Vic Dorr several plays later. tipped, and this one was hauied in
Observer Sports Writer The offense logged its second by inside linebacker Gary
Football returned to Notre touchdown of the day late in the P~tempa. ~ulger was thenDame stadium Saturday after an second period, on a scoring drive ~emserted mto the offensiveabscence of just over five which was sustained by tight end hneul?, and he too elected to try tomonths, and Coach Ara Par­Mike Creaney's one-handed get his yardage through the air.
seghian 's offensive forces took reception of a Bulger pass at the The .6-5 sophom~re went foradvantage of this first major ten-yard line. Freshman Greg paydirt once, but his pa~s --aSpring scrimmage to score a Hill then closed the scoring in the 50 ya~d .bomb-was JUSt longconvincing 35-7 decision over first half at 14-7 by slashing over of b:~h~ Townsend, who hadthe!r defensive opponents. But, from four yards away su e . or Gatewood. Bulger
while the offensive team did · came nght back with a series of 
manage to tally five touchdowns, Parseghian went with Steen-shorter completions, and finished there were no indications given berge at the start of the second the day's scoring himself bythat the Irish are any closer to half, a~d again Pat responded by slipping into the end zone fromhaving a number one quar­producmg a touchdown drive. three yards out.
terbB:ck than when Spring 
This one chewed up 80 yards, and 
practice started several weeks Despite the one-sided score, the 
most of these came on the
ago. 
players are ground. Steenberge carried for play of both defensive units made 
The three who it apparent to the four hundred
the longest gain-15 yards on a
generally conceeded to have the fans in the stadium that this
keeper play-and then relied on
best crack at the qb position-Pat Parker for much of the yea!:s "D" won't be caught in theSteenberge, Jim Bulger, and Cliff position of having to apologize for 
remaining distance. Parker
Brown--alternated during the Itself too often. The first team
climaxed this drive by scoring his 
four period scrimmage which defense, of course, started with a
second touchdown of the
pitted the number one 'offense scrimmage on a one-yard plunge. front four of Walt Patulski Gregagainst the number two defense Marx, Herman Hooten, and Fredand vece-versa. Steenberg~ Swendsen. Tom McGraw, Eric
The second half saw no relief
started for the number one unit Patton, Gary Potempa, and Jim
for the harried number two of­
and was shuttled with Bulge; fense. A heavy rush kept Cliff Musurca were the linebackersthroughout the afternoon. 
and the defensive backfield wa~

Brown scrambling all afternoon,
Brown, a freshman, called the and severely hampered his intact except for the injured Mike signals for the number two of­passing game. Brown was in­Crotty, who was replaced byfense. Bulger and Steenberge freshman Tom Rudnick.
tercepted several times, and had 
p~yed equall.>: competent games­
a number of other attempts
-with Bulger directing the offense 
batted away by the front four of
to two TD's and Steenberge to The number one offense also
Patulski, Hooten,
three--although neither was Marx, and had a vacancy to fill. Ed Gulyas
Swendsen. In fact, it was tipped
overly sharp through the air. was side.lined with an injury, and 
passes which set up the number
Br~wn had the unenviable job of Greg H1ll took his place. Hill 
one offensive team's final two
trymg to move his offensive team joined halfback Larry Parker 
scores. Midway through the
against the number one defense and fullback John Cieszkowski in
third period, Marx deflected one
and was not able to generate ~ the backfield behind an offensive
of Brown's aerials into the hands 
score against them. line which had John Kondrk and
of a surprised Fred Swendsen
Brown did figure in the first Jim Humbert at guard, Herb
who immediately began t~
touchdown of the game, though. Briick and John Dampeer at
charge downfield with the
~arly in the first quarter, tackle, and Dan Noakov at
ball--but in the wrong direction.
lmebacker Pat McGraw picked center. The ND offense was
Swendsen's teammates finally
off an errant Brown pass and ran complemented by placekicker
got him to reverse field, and he
it back 35 yards for the only Mike Eckman. Eckman didn't 
made it back to the 50 before
defensive score of the day. Br­see action last season, but he 
being dragged down. Steenberge
own had no better luck on the kicked five-of-five extra points
elected to go the air almost as
following series of downs either during the scrimmage, and could 
soon as he was given the ball and
when he fumbled the ball at figure prominently in Irish plans
hit Tom Gatewood with a ~icely
midfield for defensive end Fred next Fall. 
thrown thirty-yard strike.
Swendsen to recover. Swend­There is only one position
Q~arterback Steenberge capped
sen's recovery gave the ball to where there isn't a "number one" 
this thrust by scoring himself on
the number one offensive unit performer, and that is at quar­
a five-yard sweep, and by doing 
and Steenberge wasted no time in terback. It would appear now 
so made the score 28-7.

directing his squad to the tying that Steenberge and Bulger have touchdown. Tom Gatewood kept an edge over Brown in the race the drive alive by grabbing a But, although Steenberge had for this position. The conclusion fourth-down Steenberge pass for settled down, Cliff Brown's of Spring practice, though, is still a 14 yard gain, and sophomore troubles were not over ... not yet, two weeks away, and anything at running back Larry Parker anyway. Early in the final period all can happen before then. 

first run. 
Roemer was the only Irish player to have two hits Friday while Krill, Joe LaRocca, and Schoen each had two hit per­formances Saltur1da"\l 
by Joe Passiatore Observer Sports Writer 
Little known Wooster Collegecontributed to the Notre Dame lacrosse team's recent woes by downing the Irish 6-3 behind Stepan Center, Saturday af­ternoon. The loss culminated a week in which the team suffered its only two setbacks of the '71 campaign and were evicted from their locker room at the football stadium. 
The loss of locker room camaraderie was possibly a reason for the team's listless performance against Wooster on Saturday. With the exception of defensemen Bill Foley and George Carberry there was a lack of hustle on the part of Notre Dame. Scooping and passing were poor and the Irish stickmen were unable to generate any pattern type offense. 
Wooster, meanwhile coun­tered Notre Dame's shuffline of mid-fielders with their own replacements. The victors also 
On tap for the Irish nine this week is another road game at Valparaiso, Tuesday, and 'two games with a tough Ohio University ball club, Friday and 
Saturday at Cartier Field. 
and were able to take advantage of several penalty situations when Notre Dame was a man down. 
The score was tied at 3-3 in the third quarter but the visitors pulled away in the final period. ~O<?st~r's running style of play VIctimized Notre Dame for three goals in the fourth quarter and their semi-zone defense 'con­tained attackmen Ed Hoban and Kenny Lund to the extent that they were shut out in the last period. 
Coach Rich O'Leary will have a week to regroup his forces and try to put an end to the team's current two game losing streak as the Irish will not see actio~ again until April 25 when they meet the Chicago lacrosse team in an away game. From the looks of things Saturday, he will have a number of things to work on if the Irish are to be successful in their attempt to become the first Notre Dame lacrosse team to finish with over a .500 record for the 

... 

Monday, April 19, 1971
Page 8 
Continental Hair Styling, 
Inc. 1321 E McKinley Hwy. 
Mishawaka, Ind. 

259-7679 

Wishes to extend their thanks to the ND Men for con­tinuing patronage. As part of our Grand Opening of New Shop to ann ND students on Mondays and Tues 9-5 all Hair Styles only $2.50. 
Serving ND Students in all Hair Needs for over 3 years! 
specializing In all lengths of hair 
If you want to help people, If you want to help improve the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community, then the 


Human Affairs Commission 
Needs YOU to work on: 

Co-education  Counselling  Programs  
Freshman  Y e a r  Minority Programs  
Programs Crisis phones  International Orientation  Students  

For further information call Steve Fortunato at 8515 or contact him through the Student Government Offices. 
Seminar On 





Evers' nomination likely 
JACKSON, Miss. UPI Deep South state. nomination by the "loyalists" Mississippi's biracial "loyalist" A recent survey indicated Democrats. Democrats were expected to Negro voter registration has The "loyalists" is the group nominate black civil rights shown a dramatic increase in recognized in 1968 by the National leader Charles Evers as a can­Mississippi-jumping from about Democratic Committee as the didate for governor during a 25,000 prior to the Voting Rights official party structure in political rally Sunday. Act of 1965 to more than 265,000-Mississippi despite the objections 
Ever's formal entry into the but blacks still comprise less of the state's "regular race for governor launched a than one third of the total elec­Democrats." strong bid by black candidates torate of nearly 950,000. Evers' chances of winning the for county and state offices in Evers, the first Negro elected governorship generally are Mississippi's 1971 statewide major of a biracial Mississippi considered slim but supporters elections. town since Reconstruction, feel his name on the ballot might 
"I am not going to run a racist previously had stopped short of encourage other blacks to seek campaign,.. the husky, 48 year making a formal announcement public office as well as attracting old Fayette major declared as a candidate for governor but a larger turnout of Negro voters earlier this week. "I will run for indicated he would accept a whenever the elections are held. all the people of this state." 
An estimated 90 Negroes already hold elective posts in the 
Berrigan conspiracy trial 
state, mostly at the city of county level in predominantly black areas. Nearly 150 blacks were nominated over the weekend to 
subpoenas more witnesses run for a variety of local and state offices. HARRISBURG UPI-A federal indictment." 
Theodore Sorenson, former grand jury, which already in­Teams of federal agents issued administrative assistant to the dicted the Rev. Philip Berrigan "John Doe" subpoenas last week late President John F. K~nnedy, and five other anti-war activists to at least 23 persons in eight was keynote speaker at the rally. in an alleged plot to kidnap a cities. It was not known how long 
Evers said he was "excited" presidential adviser, reconvenes it would take for the grand jury to about the race and plans a Monday to hear at least 23 more hear the new witnesses. vigorous campaign. He was witnesses. Attorney J. Thomas Berrigan and the other five optimistic about his chances for Menaker of Harrisburg, one of 13 were indicted last Jan. 12 on winning despite the heavy defense attorneys for the si~ charges of conspiring to kidnap majority of white voters in this alleged conspirators, said the presidential advisor Henry A. 
The Ombudsman's 
Service recommends that no money be sent 
to job recruitment agencies before their credibility is established. Call 7638 


VIOLENCE AND SOCIAL CHANGE 
Domestic and International Aspects University of Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education 
sponsored bY: The Adlai Steven~on Institute The Institute for International Studies ND -SM C Academic Commission 
Tuesday 
April 20,1971 
3 :30om 

WILLIAM R. POLK 9:00am <President, Stevenson In­stitute, former member of the
EDWARD W. GUDE <assistant 
Policy Planning .Council of

Professor, Dartmouth College, 
the U.S. Department of State,

former research scientist working 
Professor of History,

on unilateral arms control 
University of Chicago,

measures and progressive zonal 
11 :30om author, The United States and 
inspection for general and com­
the Arab World, Voilence and 

plete disarmament.< REV. THEODORE M. 
Man's Hope.)

IIESBURGH, C.S.C. Com­
A THEORETICAL APPROACH 
mentary on the Violence and 
TO POLITICAL VIOLENCE IN VIOLENCE AND MAN'S HOPE 
Social Change in the United
THE UNITED STATES States. 4:45pm10 :30om 
DIPAK NANDY <Director of Coffee Break the Runnymede Trust, London, England-an
2:OOpm 
educational charity con­
EQBAL AHMAD 
cemed with promoting un­

10 :45am 
POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT derstanding of racial and 
JOEL F. HENNING 
AND REVOLUTIONARY WAR--A minority problems;
<Lawyer; Chairman, 
THEORETICAL PERSPECTIVE executive member of the 
Governor's Advisory Com­
Campaign Against Racial 

mission on Financing the 
Discrimination; member of 

Arts in Illinois; consultant to 
the Council of the Institute of O.E.O., Chicago's Afro­3:15pm Hace Helations in London.> 
American Patrolmen's League.< Coffee Break 
Commentary on VIOLENCE IN A • 
VIOLENCE, INDUSTRY CHANGING WORLD 
AND TECHNOLOGY renewed grand jury hearings Kissinger and blow up heating were an attempt by the govern­systems for five government ment to "beef up a defective buildings in Washington. 
.fee increase re_iected 
Continued from page I Imhoff, and three Class contending that "if the Senate President yet to be elected on the turns its back on this bill, then it's Committee next year. The turning its back on all the things Committee meets to decide the we were elected to do, and all the constitutionality of legislation. priorities we pledged to make Off-campus senator Steve when we were elected. We'd Novak introduced a total of six make this body a farce." bills at the end of the session. SBP Barkett, however, argued Included wt're bills to exempt B that "we'll be able to allocate or better students from final money back to the halls whether exams, to give the minority this bill is passed or not, and if the recruitment program "whatever bill is defeated we'll be better funds it deems necessary" for able to react to whatever con­recruitment, to mandate the tingincy might arise." The University to "pay all of its argument carried, as the employees a just wage," to seat Flavin-Mooney-Treanor bill students and faculty on the Board lost. of Trustees financial Com­In other Senate action, Devine mittees, to protect rooms and and Stay Senator Jim Clarke uninvited inspection by all but were elected to the Constitutional duly authorized law enforcement Review Committee. The pair will officers, and to investigate the join SBP Barkett, SBVP Office of Financial Aid. The bills Rodriguez, HPC Chairman Buz go to committee, where they ------------------~~ must be considered in two weeks. STUDY SOl/NDS .. The Senate also amended the Student Life Council Election
,IMPROVE GRADI!6. •· '" 
Improve Grades While Devot;ng Rules, moving back both the first The s"usEAsruovo's~uNJs s,..,, day of campaigning to April 24 vo~~cc~~~.:h'.:-:.,~~~c~~~~~·;A. ;:-dF.,;,:',.'ov,.".,.. and election day to April 28, and ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED !>OUNDS reducing maximum campaign CAUSE PT.~!? ,;rp~c•~APPt:tj expenditures from seventy-five se:d rc~~~kr:~et;~:;eg~de?r~P$:;~0 ~ac:h to forty dollars. The former move ~~~~·:t·c~~.~~~~~~~ ~ds':,~·~ls"2 passed by consenseus, the latter 
Charlott.sv•lle, Va. 22902 !) a 13_ 9 VOte• 
y~~~~~~~~~:.,~~~~~~~~ 
~ ~ 
~ Next Year's ~ 
~ Sophmore & Junior ~ ~ ~ 
~ Class Officer Elections ~ 
~ l'ick up petitio"' at 
! 

: Student Govemment Offke in LaFortune, ~ 
~ Wl'd, April 21st. ~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'"'~"'~~ 





