



Vol. VI, no. 5 Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Wednesday, September 15, 1971 
Parietals clause disputed 
FaccenthJ and students disagree 
by Mike O'H matter first should be referred to 
. . are the Student Affairs Committee 
Ph1lhp Faccenda, vice for consideration president and general counsel of Buzz Imhoff ·favors e b the University, said Tuesday that mitting the resolution H~ su 'd he. ':"'ould oppose the resub-that thea:pproval of the.resol~t~~n miSSion of the SLC parietal by the Trustees would " Phillip Faccenda 
resolution to the Board of students of their abil'ty {e;ssure Trustees. themselves , I 0 overn 


Faccenda, a member of the A third st de t b f th SLC, s~id his opposition to the SLC, Dave ~us~a::"~~ide~h~t h: r~solution was based on his would favor resub~ission of the d1s~pproval of the 24 hour resolution. He believes that halls parietal clause. should be able to determine their 
Other administration members own parietal policy buts of the SLC were unavailable for . should have an ov~rviewo~fe~~= comment. entire situation. 
Student ll_lemb~rs of the S~C Prof. Robert Goodfellow, a that were mte.rviewed were. m faculty representative, favored favor of returmng the ~esolut10~. resubmitting the resolution to the 
SBVP Orl~n?o Rodnguez s~Id Trustees. He said young people at 
that resubm1ttmg the. resolutiOn a University must accept to the Truste~s at this moment responsibility and the inherentOrlando Hodriguez would be untimely because the rights and obligations. 
Aftermath of violence 
Unity key word at Attica 
by Tom Wicker mergence of racial animosity in 
((')1!171 The New York Times class solidarity. 
New York Sept. 14--Late Not much was known to the Sunday afternoon, at the last observers of the leaders of the meeting between inmates in uprising. One clearly was rebellion at Attica correctional Richard Clarke --"Brother facility and a special observer's Richard"-a Black Muslim with 
committee, a nameless Black an impassive face and an air of prisonersiezed the microphone. command. Another was bull­
"To oppressed people all over bouldered Herbert Blyden, with a the world," he shouted. "We got long scar on his face, who said he the solution! The solution is had "72 counts" against him as a unity!" result of his participation in an 
With 30 of the rebels dead in earlier uprising at the Tombs, in Monday's bloody recapture of New York City. the prison, that statement may Still a third leader was a tall, seem bombastic or pathetic. But lean man with a laconic voice 
for those of the observers' who had the knack of making a committee who had a chance to crowd listen without haranguing see the unusual society of the it; he was known to the ob­Attica prison yard during its four servers' group only as "Champ," brief days of existence, there is and was reputed to be one of the no doubt that the prisoners did prisoners' "Jailhouse Lawyers." achieve remarkable unity--even Time and again, one or an­if it proved no solution to their tother of these leaders evoked problems. convincing evidence of the 
The Black inmate's im­prisoners' unity. After telling passioned cry also suggests them of an offer by Corrections several other aspects of that Commissioner Russell Oswald to 
strange society--its strikingly negotiate with them if the effective organization, its fierce h~stages were released first, political radicalism, its sub-Richard Clarke demanded to 

World Briefs 
(CJ 1971 l\/(•ll' l"orh Times Nt•ws Servi('e 
llnitt>d Nations, N.Y.-Secretary Genral UThant has accepted as a "firm statement of policy" China's declaration thwt it would refuse its seat in the United Nations as long as Taiwan remained a member. He also felt that the chances of reaching a solution to the China issue during thz next session of the General Assembgy were "much brighter" now. Diplomats interpreted Thant's points as an implied prediction thwt China would be likely to gain admission to the United Nations on its own terms. 
Saigon -Antiwar presidential hopeful Sen. George S. McGovern was trapped Tuesday inside a church in Saigon as a mob outside burned several vehicles and threw rocks and firebrands at the building. McGovern and the others within thy building were unharmed and were rescued after 20 minutes. 
Bonn -Implementation of the tour-power Berlin accor~..o remained at a standstill with East and West German\ • deadlocked in talks over varying interpretations of th~ agreement. The two Germany nations were assigned to work out details of the accord, but have been at an impasse almoyt si1. ~,. tlw bq!,inning. 
know what he should reply. 
"No!" the men shouted. 
"I can't hear you," Clarke said 

cupping his hand around his ear.' 
''Hell, no!'' the prisoners shouted back at him. "Is this from everybody?" "Yes!" "Anybody disagree?" "No!" 
The last answer came in a shattering roar. It was only one of many times that the observers saw the rebels acting almost as if from mass instinct. 
Their organization was most evident in excellent security arrangements. Although in a Friday morning negotiating session in the prisoner stronghold, Oswald felt himself threatened with seizure, the leaders prevented it and no serious threat to the observer group appeared in five sub­sequent trips into the stronghold. 
Human chains of men witt linked arms maintained effective crowd control. In one session, Blyden staged a mock alarm to show how quickly the prisoners "first line of defense" could man their outpost on the surrounding walls. 
Once, in the eerie night negotiating session, a prisoner apparently went out of his head and charged about challenging others to fight. Three or four security men moved in silently and efficiently and dragged him off. 
When ·the observers were in the prisoner compound, there was constant head-counting to make sure none were separated from the group. The only weapons in eyidence were baseball bats, iron p1pes and one tear gas launcher in the possession of a masked security man. 
That kind of organization, not to mention the unity displayed by the prisoners, would have been impossible if there had been racial discord in block D. None was apparent to the observers. The human security chains were interracial; the leadership committee featured at least three 
Continued on Page 3 
"Th T ,

e rust~es do~ t see the s~u.d.ents ·takmg this respon­sibihty, P.r~f. Goodfellow said. 
Prof. Wilham McGlinn, also of the facu~ty, suspects th~t .he would be m favor of resubmission a~tho~gh he would rather reserve 
his fm~l judgement u~til all alternatives can be considered. Prof. Ronald Weber said that 
as a new SLC member f~om the faculty he. would withhold c?mment until he could hear both 
Sides of the argument. He did say that if ~hat Mr. Edmund Stephan <chairman of 

by Greg Rowinski 

The Constitutional Merger Committee, in an organizational meeting last night, agreed to prepare an interim joint con­stitution and to begin planning a permanent constitution for the combined Notre Dame-St. Mary community. 
The Committee, chaired by Research and Development Commissioner Ed Ellis, and composed of representatives of 
InPRIG 

the Board of Tr~stees) .said about the student mishandling of the judicial boards was true, then sanctions should be stricter. 
In response to the Boar~ of Trustees call for new and stncter sanctions against students breaking University rules, 
Faccenda said that he believed that, "':"'h.at the Trust~s want ar~ mm.Imu!D penalti~s ~or serwus. viOlations of Umvers1tyre~ulabons." . 
n .regard to. new sanctiOns, Rodnguez beheves that they 
(Cuntinued on 8) 
· 

both Student Governments, will prepare an amendment to the Notre Dame Constitution, to be placed before the Senate to allow the legislative bodies to be in­tegrated quickly. It will be bin­ding until the current ad­ministration leaves officially, probably April I. 
This amend, according to Ellis will require "little effort" but wili 
Continued on page 8 
~<?nsu~er .protection group 
(!his Is the second m a senes of 

articles  on  the  Indiana  Public  
Interest<I PIHG l  Research · f  Group  
~1 : •  an m ~nt ~o nsumer  

PI otech?n ~rgamzatwn. The 
mformahon IS drawn from a 
p1·ess conference given by Joe Ilighland, Karen Callish. Brad Baker, and John Gering, ed.) 
InPIRG is the Indiana branch of a consumer protection idea developed by Ralph Nader four years ago. The project met with little response then but two years ago active students in Oregon and Minnesota began PIRG's which are now in full operation. Ohio and Conneticut have organized similar programs based on a different financing plan. Seventeen states are organizing this year, Indiana is among them. 
The InPIRG is being set up by Brad Baker and Joe Gering. Initially they plan to organize the large campuses in the state in­cluding IV, Bloomington, South Bend and Northwest; Notre Dame; and Purdue. 
..The key principle of all PIRG's is the hiring of a 
professional research st ff funded by student money :nd t 11 d b d
con ro e y a stu ent control 
board. This research staff, in conJ·unction with st d t h 
u en s W o Continued on page 3 
Student Body President Jollll Rarkett announced Tuesday that Student Government Election Committee, by a 4-3 vote, awarded Jerry O'Connor the North Quad SLC seat, which was \pft empty when Ann Marie Tracey was removed by the Board of Trustees. 
It ;~Jso was announced that this year's senate elections will take place Thursday, September 23. 
Petitions can be picked up at the Student Government officr starting Friday Sept. 17 and must be in the following Monday. Sept. 20. 
Tuesday and .. Wednesday 

have been designated as earn 
paign days. 
For further details, one can 

'Ont;;.ct Dou Patrick or Roh 

-----------~-------------------------­
Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday, September 15, 1971 



A JACK ROLLINS CHI\RLES HJOFFE 
wOOdy
allen's 


,____________!_____:;~~~~~==~~~=====~==~===-;::!:::===~R:..::::eg~i:.:::strar's office. 

THIS MAN READS THE OBSERVER. Why not your 
Parents? 
MAIL YOUR CHECK $14 I year $8 I semester to PO BOX 11, NOTRE DAME, IND. 

ADDRESS__________ RENEWAL D 
yes 
New mailing to start with Sept. 22nd edition. 
( .' 
SMC football ticket supply falls short of demand 
The overwhelming number of'need student tickets' signs with SMC phone numbers in­dicates a great many SMC students had difficulty obtaining football tickets this year, it at all. 
Some received no ticket cer­tification; others a letter ex­plaining that there were no more tickets available. 
ATTENTION 
PRE-LAW STUDENTS OF ND-SMC 

Important pre-law society meeting tonight (Wednesday), 7:30 in Engineering Aud. 
Pre-law advisors will speak 
shortly, then answer individual questions. 

According to Donnald Bouf­fard, ticket manager, ticket applications were sent lst spring to the SMC Dean of Students of­fice, from which they are distributed during the summer. 
He explained that the August 1 deadline had to be strictly ob­served because four games had already been sold out. 
ATTENTION 

ENGINEERING 
STUDENTS 

The N.D. Technical Review magazine invites you to pub I ish an artide,reportoranyessayof general interest to engineers. Something
already written for another purpose may be useful. Questions or inquiries contact Ed Young, 603 Flanner (1382) now 
c...l---------­
J 
Consequently, all applications received after that date were unable to be met. Bouffard added that due to the increase in enrollment and the merger plans, the original 1,000 tickets allotted 
to SMC students had been ex­tended to 1400. However, there still weren't enough tickets to goaround. · · 
Another side of the story comes form Carol Riordan, a senior atSMC. 
Apparently Miss Riordan was only one of the many students who submitted their ticket ap­plications will ahead of the deadline, but received a letter on August 5 explaining that all student football tickets had already been sold out. 
In a further attempt to procure 
tckets, she wrote back to the ticket office, and, in reply,received her check back (which 
had been ripped in half and taped back together) along with a Notre 
Dame basketball schedule. 
Pass-Fail 
Juniors and seniors have until5 
p.m. Friday to exercise their pass-fail option, according to University Registrar Richard Sullivan. 
'The deadline of Sept. 10, noted in the registration information is incorrect,' Sullivan added. 'All changes or requests for pass-fail courses will be honored until Friday.' 
The Registrar's office will arrange for departmental ap­proval if any student is unable to obtain it by Friday. 
Forms are available in the 
•
• 
46556. 
'Since we are merging, and since this is a service for both campuses, I see no reason why Notre Dame includes the ticket prices in their tuition, while SMC students must order theirs separately.' 
'It is also discriminative to ensure tickets for the entire Notre Dame student body, but to place a limit on the number available to St. Mary's, Miss Riordan stated. 
Many other students voiced complaints about the 'absurdity' of the entire setup--lines too long, not enough lines, and, in par­ticular, the fact that distribution was held on a school day when students also had classes to at­tend and had to plan their time around the ticket distribution. 
NEWS SEMINAR The first Observer news seminar will be held tonight on room 2-D of LaFortune Student Center at 7:00 pm. Mr. James Carroll, formerly a writer for the South Bend Tribune will speak about newswriting. All those interested are_ urged to attend. 
'lAC announces fall schedule 
The  .nterhall  Athletic  Office  
will  hood  softball  and  tennis  
tournaments this fall.  

Deadline for submitting rosters for the single elimination, slow pitch, 16-inch softball tourney is Friday,Sept. 17. Team members need not live in the same hall. The event will be limited to the first 40 clubs to hand in their rosters and the $2 entry fee. 
Tennis players are invited to participate in a campus-wide doubles tournament. There are two classes: novices, for beginners, and open, for players with some experience. Doubles partners mush live in the same hall. Dead line for entries is Monday, Sept. 20. There is no entry fee. 
Those wishing to compete in 
either the softball or tennis tourneys must do so at the In­terhall Office, room C-4, in the ACC. 
on campus 
today... 
thursday 
4:00 lecture: joe highland, nader's raiders; the indiana public interest research group, library aud. 
8:00 
meeting: the nd-smc chapter of the mental health association, members and interested students, engineering aud . 

8:00 
lecture: henry r. 


reuss,  u.s.  
congressman;  ecology  
and  politics,  nd-smc  

academic commission, library aud. 
projects 
wed the ombudman's service is studying the shuttle bus schedule. student complaints at 
7638. 
wed. to fri. the finance club membership drive. interested students tall 
8520. 
d sm 
l ne UDMrvW 11 publllllec. uuycturlnt the col.... Mmester except v.c:atl-bV the students of the University of NotN oame anct St. Muy•a Col..... Sulllerlptlona may lie purche•d for 11 from TIM 0~ 
.,.,, llox 11, Notre o.nte, Incl. 46556. Slc:amr ell• P•t.t-NICI, N~ o.nte, Incl. 46SM. 

Wednesday, September 15, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
Attica 'brothers' stress unity and harmony 

continued from page 1 
white men, although the rebelling inmates must have been at least 
85 percent Black and Puerto 
Rican. 
Once, when a black prisoner was orating at a high pitch about the disadvantages suffered by blacks in America, an inmate shouted back at him in a heavy Puerto 'Rican accent: "Don't forget our white brothers! They're in this, too!" 
A short bespectacled white man with long hair, whose name was Jerry, was one of the prisoners' "Jailhouse Lawyers" and one of the most frenzied speakers on the question of race and class solidarity. 
One prisoner, Blease Mon­tgomery, was a sandy-haired white man from Conway, South Carolina, a small town well­known to this writer, a native of Hamlet, N.C. "Man," Mon­tgomery said, "There's people in here we treated like dogs down home ... but I want everyone to know we gon' stick together, we gon' get what we want, or we gon' die together." 

And when I asked him what prison had taught him about race relations in America, he said in his South Carolina drawl:: "I've learned so much that if I get out of this I want a plane ticket out of this country." 
Racial harmony, evident as it was, was not so prominent in block D as were radical class and political views. Every orator pictured the rebelling prisoners as political victims, men at the bottom of the heap for whom society cared nothing, to whom it gave the worst of treatment and offered no redress of grievance. 
The prisoners referred to themselves constantly FIS "Brothers" and stressed again and again their determination to stand together. 
"When you don't give a damn, you don't have nothing to give up but your life!" one speaker shouted. And another reminded them that Malcolm X, the Black Muslim leader, had said that "If you gon' make a revolution , you got to believe." 
The restrained Champ, in one of his few moments of passion, shouted that the hostages were being well cared for. "They're sleeping on mattresses, but I ain't sleeping on no mattress. They treat us like animals, we take care of them. Well, I ask you, does animals take care of people or does people take care of animals?" 
Still another leader, "Flip" Crowley, told the observers, in one of the most dramatic speeches they heard: "We do not want to rule, we only want to live ... But if any of you gentlemen own dogs, you're treating them better than we're treated here." 
The physical conditions in which the prison society existed were difficult and getting worse when the revolt was crushed. The prisoners were dependent on prison authorities--fearful for the hostages--for food. 
Most of the men seemed to live in the open, under makeshift huts and blanket shelters. Hundreds of prison blankets had 
Consumer Group may soon go statewide 
Continued from page 1 
are conducting research on PIRG grants would be used in court action and legislative lobbies to further whatever projects the student directory board decides to undertake. 
Most of the research, the representatives thought, would be centered on consumer protection, environmental protection and effective anti­discrimination legislation. Baker added that no Indiana projects will be started until the group incorporates legally. 
The Indiana organiyers, working in conjunction with Joe Highland, one of Nader's Raiders, have a two point plan for initiating thz InPirg: 
A year Jon~ petition drive at individual campuses aimed at getting 50 per cent of each student body to agree to self­taxation of three dollars a year. The Universities would collect this money as part of tuition billing. 
InPIRG will be established as a 
non-profit corporation. As such, it 
will not be required to pay cor­
porate taxes but, since it is not a 
foundation, donations will not be 
tax deductible. 
Observer Insight 
InPIRG will be established as a non-profit corporation. As such, it will not be required to pay cor­porate taxes but, since it is not a foundation, donations will not be tax deductible. 
Hig~land explained that students do not need a tax break on three dollar donations. The foundation status, even though it would allow individual tax deductions, places severe legal restrictions on the kinds of research which can be con­

ducted. 

Baker plans to organize groups on each campus ot oversee the petition drive. The group for the ND-SMC effort has not been announced yet. Local organizations will conduct the groundwork for securing ap­proval of the yearly tax. Gaining fifty percent student approval and bargaining with school ad­ministrations to collect the money are the primary duties of the local organizers. 
The taxation plan is based on the principle that any measure imposed on a student body by at least fifty percent of thut group is legally binding on all the members. Rather than argue the point, InPIRG and similar groups offer all students refuds of their donation bu request. In Min­nesota these refunds requests amount to Jess than three in a thousand. 
Using the Minnesota PIRG as a model, Baker anticipates a one year delay beford any money can be collected. By Sept. 1972, however, if as many as fourteen schools are organized (including the largest ones, InPIRG could be operating on a budget of over $100,000. 
The one year old MPIRG 
already has an annual budget in 
excess of $200,000. Indiana, 
Baker, notes has more students 
than Minnesota and only half of 
that states' students are 
organized: 

The blitz will begin at ND-SMC on Thursday afternoon with Highland as the featured speaker. Baker is cautious but optimistic, and wants to avo·id a strong initial interest that dies before the taxation plan is ap­proved by developing student activity around a stable group large enough to conduct the petition drive. 
Reuss to speak on Ecology 
Congressman HenryS. Reuss <D­Wisc.) will speak at 8:00 PM tomorrow night, in the Library Auditorium. 
Congressman Reuss will speak on 'Ecology and Politics' in the first of a series of lectures that will be presented this year by the nd-SMC Academic Commission Environment Series. 
Congressman Reuss is a senior member of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee and chairman of the Intermational Exchange and Payments Sub­committee and the Sub­committee on Conservation and the Environment. 
Among his legislative interests are the Mass Transit Research Act and the Peace Corps. He has been an acvocate of tax reform and of measures to secure full employment without inflation. 
A native of Milwaukee and a graduate of Cornell and Harvard Law School, he is the author of two books, 'The Critical Decade: An Economic Policy for America and the Free World, and Revenue Sharing and many articles. 
Say it With Flowers From••• 
• 
ll.,_ ··1 


52577 U. 5. 31 NO. PHONE 272-2966 
Flowers for all occasions Wire service Greeting cards 
Gifts 

OaS& of '48 
a hole cut in the middle, so that inmates could wear them like ponchos. 
Other inmates wore football jerseys. Most had rugged towels or blankets or shirts into turbans. Many security men wore football helmets, often with face masks. Some of those doing tasks that might have been criminal acts ­guarding the hostages, for i.n­stance -were totally masked wearing T-shirts over their heads with eye and mouth-holes cut in them. 
The hostages--of whom eight are reported to have been shot by police gunfire--were clad much like the prisoners, in gray prison wool or coveralls of about the same color. At a distance, it would have been difficult to distinguish them from inmates. 
Before the police invasion, the hostages were guarded in a tight circle formed by wooden benches hauled into the prison yard near a handball backboard. Each had a mattress. One, Captain Frank Wald, said that the hostages to their exercise, as well as ate and slept, within the circlP.. 
WSND /AM-640khz WSND/FM-STEREO­
88.9 mhz 
INTERVIEWS 

WSND-AM,entertaining the campus for 25 years,and WSND-FM, the new 3400 watt voice of Notre Dame, are on the air and need GRADUATE and UNDERGRADUATE students with talent In the 
following areas: ANNOUNCERS · for rock, jazz. educational. and classical 
programs. PROGRAMMERS -who know all types of music. NEWS and SPORTS ANNOUNCERS · who have the ability to 
compile and deliver the headlines. PRODUCTION MEN-to assemble and direct programs of interest. TECHNICIANS-to care for complex machinery, some of it so old 
and fee~.oie it can no longer take care of itself. 
FOR DETAILS AND INTERVIEW TIMES COME TO ACTIVITIES NIGHT OR CALL 6400 
II~E & 'riiA 'r 
ltiEit 
ltl~\'111~ 
Saturday, Sept. 18 
8: 30 pm in the ACC 
Tickets $5.50, $4.50, $2.50 at The Student Union Ticket Office & the Din lng halls 
presented by Student Union Social Commission and ACC 

•' 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER. 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager Glen S. Corso James Jendryk 
All successful newspapers are ceaselessly queruoous and bellicose. They never defend anyone or anything if they 
Ad ManagerExecutive Editor 

can help it; if the job is forced upon them, 
Bill BauerleT.C. Treanor 

they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. -H. L. Mencken,
Founded November 3, 1966 Notre Dame, Indiana Business 283-7471 News 283-1715 
The Tale of Two Governments Begins 
The new Constitution committee met last night, sans the bizzare hoopla that marked last year's efforts. With luck and good judgement, the end result of the committee's deliberation will be less bizzare than last year's. But before the committee deals with any concrete proposals, it would do well to remember the lessons <~{ the last· constitutional committee's learned too late. 
1) The rabble is not impressed by student government structure-either by the myriad commissions, elective offices, cabinet posts, etc.; or by changes in the aforementioned offices. Neither are they interested in change for its own sake. That's why the electorate, dissapointed as it was in the Senate beauracracy, showed no inclinution to replace it with the Hall President's bureaucracy. That, too, is why the "end-the-student-government" bill got on the ballot last year, despite the fact that it was not supported by any im­portant Student Government Haille Silasse. 
2) Conversely, the Committee must remember that there remains much deadwood in student government, and one of the most important things it can do is terminute the grotesque incessant and continual duplication of function rampant in both student governments. 
3) The Committee could keep in mind, too, that the Student Body President is no longer as vital a position as it was in the good old days. Oh, the professional backstabbing that goes on during March and April still amuses connesieurs of the morbid, but its strong and vital function has been diminished over the years. Back in the old days, when it was necessary to tumble archaic regulations, a strong and articulate spokesman like Richard Rossi was also a necessity. Now, though, most of those regulations have been tumbled, and those that haven't are better met by benign neglect than by p protracted confrontation. 
4) What this all means, of course, is that the students are after not protection, not representation, not mouthpieces, but service -efficient and sufficient cares for their wants and needs. As the two student governments merge, it would be well to keep that in mind. Nobody would profit from a repetition from last year's performance; nobody will profit if the committee forgets the changing nature of student politics here. 

Wednesday, September 15, 1971 
First Wednesday 

The Twenty-Six Year Old Dinasaur 
Tom Bornholdt 

Remember the United Nations? Back in the good old days of Eleanor Roosevelt, the United Nations was simply the only possible way the world was going to survive the next few centuries. The United Nations was to create Love, Truth, Justice and the Utopian Way just by dictating it by international law. On the other hand , if the United Nations ceased for one second of time to be taken seriously, the whole world would perish in Armaggeddon. 
But that was back in the yesteryear of Edsels, Elvis Presley and Adlai Stevenson. The Age of Aquarius has arrived. Consciousness Three, Ecological Awareness and the Counterculture are now going to save us from Satan and The Big Disaster. The United Nations has gone to the afterlife of oblivio •. that all good fad panaceas go. Who would think the day would arrived when the American Vice-President is considered more powerful than the Secretary General of the United Nations. 
Yet lo and behold the world is still there (by the last count, that is). Ragnarok has yet to occur, its been more than a generation since anyone has died in a nuclear fireball. Oh, to be sure, there has been a war. The Asian conflict, however, started deep in the Golden Age of the United Nations, and is only now nearing its conclusion without one single International Mission Force, or General Assembly Encyclical being used. 
It is simply fantastic that the worlci is still around, but look again at the map. Rhodesia is there! Hesburgh Almighty , can't the World's leading Instrument of Perfection topple one small Incarnation of Evil government? To all good International Lawyers, surely it must seem tl-tat the world has gone insane. 
Whether the United Nations has ever solved one single problem, could be debated until Gabriel's Last Concert. The facts remain that there are no major world problems effectively solved by the UN. If anything has prevented the outbreak of a superwar in modern times, it has been the development of nuclear weapons. The Balance of Terror, not U Thant, has made war unthinkable. The H-Bomb has made war horrible but also very impractical. Hydrogen fusion can devestate a nationbut never subdue it. Armies are the perfect instrument of destruction. All would-be Alexander the Greats find that while they can raze any nation, it is very hard to gain much from it. 
It is here that we see one of the big fallacies of the United Nation fanatics. Conquest, not destruction, is the true human motivation towards agression. War in the good old days was waged for selfish reasons--gain, pure and simple gain. But now the big nations have big bombs. If you invade big nation with big troops, he drops big bombs on troops and maybe on you. Then you have no more big troops. You can drop big bombs on him first, maybe you can prevent him from using his big bombs. But then there is not much of himleft to capture. War doesn't pay. 
Why is there war in a few regions of the world still? Because, by the above line of reasoning--to be protected from conquest, a nation must have a goodly number of hydrogen weapons. The major powers of the world have hydrogen weapons. No war to date between the major powers. The smaller powers and the nth rate nations don't have hydrogen bombs. So there has been war between Pakistan and India, India and China, not to mention the Mid East and The War. 
To reinforce the above theory, look at the Middle East again. There 
was a war a few years ago, wasn't there. A nice conventional ground 
war with territory taken and occupied. The Arabs thought they could 
take Israel and give the land to the refugees. Israel feared that they 
could too, so they preempted. 

The situation has changed since then. Though thoroughly rearmed 
by the Soviet Union,t the Arabs have been less inclined by temperment 
to warfare. A sudden epidemic of good nature? Hardly. The infinite 
creativity of the UN? Be real. But then there is the fact that the 
.Isrealis probably have a few Big Bombs now. Now if the Arabs 
wage war they are at a big disadvantage. But what if the Arabs get 
bombs from the Russians. Even if they could hit Israel's bombs before 
Israel could fire them, there would not be much Israel left for the 
Arabs to give to refugees. 

Moral of the story Peace in the last few years has been due more to 
H-Bombs then the vote of South Bwanaland in the General Assembly. 
This being so the wisdom of the American policy of preventing 
nuclear proliferation in all cases, becomes suspect in its wisdom. 
Nite Editor: Gene Slason Layout, Headlines, et al.: Joe Abell; Beth Hall, Jerry Luckless, Glen Corso, T.C. Treanor, Jim McDermott, Deb Carrella, John Abowd, Neal Loughery Knight Controller: rick smith 
Features Editor: rick smith Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson, News Editor: John Abowd Managing Editor: Don Ruane 
SMC Editor: Ann Conway 
Associate Editors: Ann Therese 
Darin, Ed Ellis 

,,  
• <i d:·rlf, "«ilif'  ;no~ ·c 1  
•·t ; ) :  '. f·:  .  

I -_l,kli....r 
: .q,i HJ 




------~~--------------~ 
_W_ed_n_es_d_ay'-._S....;ep_te_m_be_r_ls_._19_71____________~=-=..:ll:.:'E=--'0=-'B=~-='E.:..::.'R.::..:fl:...:'E='R.::....:::_____ Page s 

I remember a sad, pre-dawn hour close to four o'clock this springtime, when in a quaint, ancient cafe off the Grand Place in Brussels, I sat in ex­patriated isolation sipping coffee and thinking home-thoughts from abroad. At the bar, Belgians were chatting in French idioms, and ironically enough, the radio played a Jackie Gleason 
\arrangement of "All the World is Waiting for the 1 Sunrise." Around the city, members of the Glee Club with whom I was travelling were respectably 
, asleep in beds provided by families of the American community in Brussels; and for several hours that night expresso was my only earthly comfort in the face of homesickness until finally, when the cafe closed at half past four, I returned to an empty rectory for a two-hour nap before travelling in Europe again. 
I mention the incident only to point out that one does not have to be anaging geriatrics case out of a Hemingway story to have need for a clean, well lighted place for the night. Unlike Hemingway's old man, I can say the Our Father trustingly, and have no fear that nada, or nothingness, lurks at the heart of life. A full and viable faith assures me that no 
your help is needed 
become involved 
manasa 

This year, MANASA, the ND-SMC chapter of the Mental Health Association, has undergone reorganization. The em­
• phasis this year will be on the importance of people. It is felt that after working with retarded children, distrubed adults and adolescents or working on the hotline crisis phone, the volunteers will have a better appreciation of the problems and difficulties of being human. Children who are retarded and people with a mental disorder are human too. Being human, they need a friend. 
MANASA has instituted several dif­ferent volunteer programs to provide the opportunity for volunteers to give aid and comfort to those in the South Bend Com­munity who need someone. At Northern Indiana Children's Hospital, students will have the opportunity to work with or to play with retarded children. At St. Joseph's Hospital Psychiatric Ward, disturbed children. At St. Joseph's Hospital Psychiatric Ward, disturbed adults and adolescents are eager to talk or play games with the student volunteers. 
Students are also needed for the Hotline Crisis Phone in which volunteers are trained to cope with emergency problems such as drugs, pregnancies, family problems, etc. 
These programs and other special projects which MANASA will sponser this year, will be of particular interest to those interested in special l~ucation, counseling, psychology, and sociology or those who just want to make life a little bit happier for someone. 
A meeting will be held for all those who may be interested in volunteering on Thursdfay, Sept. 16, at 8:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
activities night 
Wednesday night, September 15, all students will have the chance to become acquainted with the various activities on campus. Students' Activities Night is sponsored by the Kennedy Institute and will be held from 7:00 to 10:00 PM at Stephan Center. Dave Pais, who is in­'lOlved with organising the Night, em­phasizes that this is "for everybody, not just Freshmen." 
Activities Night will give you a good chance to put some of your talents to use. If you like writing or reporting, perhaps you would like to help out for the Observer or the Scholastic. The singers can check out the Glee Club, and you athletes can get involved with Club Sports, such as boxing. ..:.. For those who wish to be with their fellow c natives, you can join the New Jersey Club, New York Club or one of the others. 
Other groups that will have booths at Stephan Center include: SMC Student Government, WSND, Student Union, CILA, Study Help Program, Kennedy Institute and many more. Besides these, there will be many new organizations, such as the Zero Population Group. So, if you want to find out what you can do this year, come to the Students' Activities Night. 
Sistet Marita is shown on the right teaching children previously labeled un­teachable. Want to help her? Come by Stepan Center tonight and find out how. 
fr. robert griffin 
a clean, well lighted place 
empty spaces between the stars can threaten life with r:netaphysical anguish, and I can discover no antarctic landscapes of the soul from which God seems to have departed. Nevertheless, I admit that I am constantly in need of the sight and sounds of people whom I love. 
The Belgian vigil I kept with the \:offee cups was typical of a summer when my need for people reached the proportions of a crisis. The after-dinner companions of a New York priest (manhattan being my parish during July August) are his phone, his radio, his television, and his books. For me, frequently, these comforts were not enough; and in the hours of the evening after the last Rockette had kicked herself off stage and into the wings, and the Broadway babies had said goodnight to the last rookie cop on Forty-second street, I searched for the clean, well lighted places of New York where the City never sleeps. At two or three o'clock in the morning, I would haunt a bar or a coffee shop, listening in on conversations I was never invited to join, matching drinks with people I seldom desired to get involved with, because in New York involvement with strangers can mean trouble. Sometimes I would drop quarters into a jukebox and listen to Andy Williams sing the blues until the joint closed, or it was time to go back to the rectory to prepare for saying the early Mass of the morning. But it was only not only for me, this summer, that loneliness was a problem. 
In Europe, this springtime, in every city and town we visited, I noticed a little old lady with crocheted cap passing by: stooped, gray,carrying a shopping bag, with great wrinkles in her stockings and shoes that looked like bedroom slippers. Sometimes I would glimpse her on the street; sometimes I would see her at prayer in a cathedral; once I saw her ~icking through a trash heap in Paris, and once, fmally, she sat next to me in the Penn Station in New York. I watched her trying to sleep, her feet modestly together and her head resting against hands twisted orotectivelv around the handles of the shopping bag. When I saw, with horror, that her legs, under the stockings, were wrapped with bandages, I realized how far the journey had been from Paris and Amsterdam, from Munich and Rome. Worst horror or all, I realized she had no place to sleep, no where to go, except maybe to another city, another bench, perhaps in Chicago. Not knowing what else to do, I slipped a little money into her bag, and hurried off for the train to Boston. 
New York City is filled wilh little old ladies who carry shopping bags. They live in the streets, and sleep in subways, on park benches, or in doorways. They are the ultimate victims of loneliness, these old ladies for whom the clean' well-lighted places do not exist. Nearly as bad off are the aged folks who live in the cheap hotels and lodging houses around Broadway. Some of them I met this summer, while on Communion calls, were over eighty years old; they were sick and afraid, unable ever to leave their own premises because of weakness and fear. Ultimately most of them will die with no one but the priest to mourn at their funerals. 
I was lonely enough this summer, but mine was not the ultimate loneliness of the folk whom life has passed by. 
When I returned to this campus two weeks ago, I came home to be among young people who are trying, admidst the loneliness of institutional life, to create clean, well-lighted places as shelters against the night. At twenty, as at eighty, human beings can, and do, suffer from a crisis of alienation; at Notre Dame, chaps and their girls -many of whom tend, like aging chaplains, to be night people -have a need for groups they can identify with during times of stress: a community of friends among whom they can talk, and sing, and share a drink, and speak of love. During the past year, in my own room I have seen this happen: kids needing the warmth of togetherness keeping night watch with each other until sunrise. Some night I have gone to bed; and hours later I have gotten up to find the whole group huddled together, asleep on the rug, children who have kept each other safe through the time of darkness. 
Regulations that do not adequately realize the tendency to close, communal life among young people are not terribly sensitive. That is why, 
hopefully, trustees who themselves know the ex­perience of loneliness will help in the building of clean, well-lighted places in the dormitories of Notre Dame. 
and there·s a really good film series starting 
tonight at iusb 
The famed movie series "Civilization" will be screened starting tonight at In­diana University -South Bend. The schedule is as follows: September 15-The Skin of our Teeth 
22 -The Great Thaw 29 -Romance and Reality 
October 6 -Man, the Measure of All Things 13 -The Hero as Artist 20 -Protest and Communication 
December 1 -Grandeur and Obedience 15 -The Light of Experience 
January 19 -The Pursuit of Happiness 
fo'ebruary 2 -The Smile of Reason 16 -The Worship of Nature 
March 1 -The Fallacies of Hope 15 -Heroic Materialism 
All showings will be at four o'clock and at seven thirty in North Side Hall room 126. I'm not sure if there ia going to be any admission charge but I wpqld suppose so. 
To get to IUSB take Eddy to the bridge over the river and take the Mishawaka A venue exit. Tate Mishawaka to Greenlawn Street (I think the.-e's a Coca Cola plant on ~e comer) arr .. turn right. It's just a feW blocks away. 
.Page 6. THE OBSERVER Wednesday, September 15, 1971 
Nobodykicks about Thomas'style 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann '73 Pop quiz for football buffs: How many sc;>ccer kickers can you name. who don't wear num .ber 3 on their uniforms? If, after going through the lunch line, you come uo 

empty, give yourself an F for the day, and watch for number 98 this Saturday, · placekicker Bob Thomas. 
Bob, a 5'10", 175-pound soccer­style specialist from Rochester, N.Y., will be, to many ND fans, a relative unknown As a walk-on 
STUDENT SENATE 
ANYONE INTERESTED I_N 
RUNNING FOR THE STUDENT SENATE MUST ATTEND A MEETING THURSDAY NIGHT 
SEPT. 16, AT 7:00 P.M. IN ' THE LA FORTUNE AMPHITHEATRE. 
-

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Need ride from N.Y. area to FRESHMEN BOOKS FOR SALE Notre Dame on any home I d' 'd 1 st
football weekend. Call Jack n lVI ua s, rawson 1.0< 
Phaedo, Plato .5 
~28!!!9!:-7!::4~3~3-~--------Meditations on First For Sale: 1965 Ford Falcon :m Philosophy, Descartes 
.5 O:Jllars. Call:234--fi!m after ll:OO Modern Materialism: +p_._m_.__________ Readings on Mind-Body
1 

~ Posters of all varieties in Identity, O'Connor 3.0 stock at great prices. Come to 815 Rumor of Angles, Berger 1.0 Flanner or 611 Grace or call 1694 Call Kirk Thurs. l-5 7471 or or 1167. .anyday 272-1885 
Pesire to hire students as ND-SMC FROSH DIREC-Ireaders. TORY -Student Union Offices !Hourly wages. Call 8539 -4th Floor La Fortune -1:00­
5:00 
URGENT! Need Ride as far East as possible Sept. 17th. Will share expenses--Lois 4820. 
'69 VW -excellent condition 
287-7106. PART TIME WORK Selling an investment 
program. Must work 10 hr. minimum at your con­venience. Earn $1 50 a week. Commission. Call Jim Earl 233-1571. 
Wanted: 10 speed bicycle in ' good condition. Call Michael 1 418 Basement Sale -Gas stove, 3 in one-stove (stove, sink and refrigerator), Hoover washer, lots of household and miscellaneous. Mon. to Wed., noon till dark. 518 S. Dundee, between Western and Ford Street 

HOUSE FOR RENT REASONABLE NEAR CAMPUS 259-7316 

Know how to mate? Learn the basic positions. For detais call 1468 or 6984. 
lrhe Advertising Department would again like to welcome the Notr k>ame-Saint Mary's students back. Our classified Ad Department i ltere to help you. We Can Help You with Almost Any Mass Com Jm•nication You Would Like to Under Take. 
Policies of the Classified Ad Dept. are not classified. They 
are: 

1) All ads are paid for in cash when ordered, 2) Office hrs. ­
12:15 to 5:00. Ads must be in by 3:00 on day before publication, 3) If I <by some strange quirk of fate< screw up your ad, please be understanding for I (like everybody else) am under paid and over worked. Not only that, but as many people can tell you I usually don't know what I'm doing anyway. But if you call 7471 and tell us what I did wrong I will try to correct it, 4) Be happy, 5) Good Bye. Kirk Rob­bins. 
The rates are Usted belo.w and payment must be received before publication. SO 11 you need us, simply maD the message with payment to Box 11 or drop by our office on the third floor of La Fortune any weekday 
between 1 and 5. 

We wish you the best of luck at ND and St. Mary's and hope we can be of service. For questions call7471. 
Wards  1 day  2 days  3 dayil  4 days  1 week  
1-10  .50  .75  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11·15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  2.15  
16-ZO  .70  1.15  1.70  2.40  2.80  
21-25  .85  1.35  2.00  2.90  us  
26-30  1.00  1.60  2.35  3.40  4.10  
31-35  1.ZO  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
36-49  1.35  2.10  3.10  4.25  5.10  
41-45  1.55  2.30  3.30  uo  5.50  
46-50  1.75  2.50  3.50  us  6.00  

sophomore, he hardly figured in served as soccer mentor during 
anyone's predictions this season Bob's childhood; Bob himself 
particularly after Cliff Brow~ stuck to booting the round ball 
booted those two suborbital shots until his junior year in high 
in last spring's Blue-Gold game. school. Then came discovery 
But Bob has come on fast, par-number one: 
ticularly in the last several weeks "One day our quarterback 
of scrimmages, when he has seen asked me to kick a few field 
action with the number-one unit. goals, just fooling around. The 
Like other soccer-style kickers, coach saw me, and from then on, 
Bob more or less chanced upon a I was the kicker for our football 
grid career, with the help of a team." And not a bad one either; 
couple of timely discoveries by his longest effort in hi~h school 
coaches along the way. His was 45 Y!irds. He also stayed 
father, who was born in Paris, with soccer the rest of his school .--------------, years, receiving a fistful of offers 

DO NOT ENTER 
(l]jlrn
---..You like people 

---..Are willing to listen to 
their problems 

---.. Want to learn how to 
help them 

.......... Are not lookingforcom­
pensations .......... But are willing to pre­pare for a life of dedication to others by bringing to them the "good news" of Jesus' I ife, death, and resurrection. This means prayer, work, study, and continued self-giving, life of the 
, . 
• • I • 
6 
Contact: 
Bro. Kevin O'Malley, C.P. Passionist Community, Dept. F 5700 N. Harlem Ave. Chicago, IlL 60631 

from colleges. A few small-
college football teams sought his 
kicking talent, Lafayette and 
Rochester among them, but a 
feeler from Notre Dame led him 
to disregard them. 

"When I heard from Notre 
Dame," explained Bob, "I forgot 
about the other schools. I always 
wanted to play with the best." 
Then, adding in his own behalf, "I 
wanted to prove myself good 
enough to play anywhere." 

Bob won a place on the fresh­man squad and , last spring in 
practice, came discovery number two: Under the eyes of talent-hawks Ara Parseghian and 
Paul Shoults, Bob performed well 
Team meetings set 
There will be a meeting 

tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Audio 
Visual Room of the ACC for all 
those interested in playing 
varsity or junior varsity 

hockey. Enter through Gate 2. 
Swimming All freshmen interested in varsity swimming are asked to attend a short meeting Thursday at 5 p.m. in room 216 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Lacrosse There will be a general meeting of all candidates for the lacrosse team Thursday at 7 p.m. in 105 0 'Shaugnessy. Off-Campus Football 
1 

Anyone interested in playing on the Off-Campus football team in the Interhall league is asked to attend a meeting tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in LaFortune Student Center. If you want to play, but are unable to attend the meeting, contact Frank Spreeman, 232 Charleston Drive, Mishawaka, at 259-9423 by Thursday. 
enough to win a shot at the 
kicker's job; his rise to the top 
this fall has seen him handling 
field goal and extra point chores, 
<Cliff Brown is still the reigning 
kickoff man). Bob's top effort 
this fall has been 54 yards; that 
is, with the defensive line riding 
herd on him --only three yards 
shy of the NCAA record boot by 
Arkansas' Bill McClard . 

What does he credit as reasons 
for his success? There's timing, 
particularly between himself and 
his holder, Pat Steenberge. Then 
there is relaxation, the ability to 
play naturally before a crowd, 
"I've played before big crowds 
before. It shouldn't be that much 
more of a problem, playing 
here." .. But most important, 
confidence has helped him along 
at Notre Dame. He admits to a 
much more positive attitude, now 
that the pressure of competition 
has lifted. As Bob points out, 
"You can't go out there thinking 
'I've got to make this kick,' 
you've got to think, 'I WILL make · it."
H k ND 
. us ers 
'

1-2 ~· fl p oils 
Nebraska's Cornhuskers, the 
defending national champions 
who opened the defense of their 
crown by belting Oregon 34-7 last 
Saturday, were voted to the 
number one spot in both wire 
service polls this week. 

Coach Bob Devaney's club retained their top ranking in the UPI poll and 11'\oved past idle Notre Dame in the AP ratings. 
In bumping the Irish form the number one spot, the 'Huskers received 31 first-place votes from the nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. Their total of 931 points gave Nebraska a 102 point bulge over the Irish, who garnered five first place votes and finished third in the balloting while Michigan's Wolverines picked up two number one ballots and were ranked fourth. 
Nebraska received 26 first 
place votes and 329 points in the 
UPI poll, voted on by the nation's 
college football coaches. Notre 
Dame was second with eight first 
place votes and 309 points. Texas 
was third and Ohio State out­
pointed Michigan for the fourth 
spot. 

SENIORS 1972 
THE LAST CHANCE TO HAVE YOUR PICTURE TAKEN FOR THE 1972 DOME TOMPSETT STUDIO WILL BE IN ROOM 2 C LA FORTUNE CENTER SEPTEMBER 16. 1971 BEGINNING AT 9:00P.M. A $5.00 SITTING FEE IS REQUIRE[\ 
PORTABLE TYPEWRITER SERVICE CLINIC 
We service all brands 

Clean & Adjust 

10.95 
Install new ribbon with this coupon ROYAL TYPEWRITER OF SOUTH BEND 
1501 N. lronwpod 
t'; : !f .l J Jj!! ~ 
:1!1 .1 < ­

_Wednesday, September 15, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Brown is coDie-nder for QB job 
by K J. Kinkopf '72 
Don't look now man, but them Northwestern Wildcats are sneakin' up on us real quiet like. And pretty soon ol' Ara 's gonna have to make a decision on the field general for this first 1971 
Irish battle. 
You've already heard about those two fellas named Steen­berge and Etter, but there's one more, the last but not least of Ara's hopefuls. And this last candidate could very well be Ara 's ace in the hole. 
That man is one Cliff Brown, a 6' 185 pounder from Middleton, Pa. 
A quiet, friendly young man, Brown is another one of those average (?) quarterbacks Ara is pinning his championship hopes on. 
The ND Football Guide calls Cliff a "definite contender for the starting quarterback job this fall." And so far, the solid soph has lived up to that advanced recognition. 
Cliff spent part of the summer here in South Bend while at­tending summer school. That alone sounds like a fate worse than death. But Tom Gatewood was here to keep Cliff com~ny, and the two athletes set up a l'onditioning schedule which may have given them a jump on the rest of the Irish gridders when they reported for fall practice. 
"We worked out every day for about two hours at a time. The first weeks were devoted to stamina, and Tom and I ran and bicycled all over the city. Then we got down to passing, and then finally we worked on pass routes and timing." 
Cliff doesn't feel though that l.he extra practice has given him a real edge over the other QB hopefuls. 
"I haven't had much of a chance to throw to Tom since then, I've been running the second team pretty much. But as for Coach Parsegian's shuffle of the starting quarterback hurting the timing of any one of the quarterbacks very much, I don't think so. Eventually the timing and precision will come." 
And not only can Brown throw, he can also kick, evidenced by a fifty-one yark field goal he booted in the Blue-Gold game. 
But even there Cliff is running up against stiff opposition. Brown, who beganJo;.icking in the Pop Warner League, has joined Bob Thomas, Mike Eckman and Scott Smith in the battle for the kicking assignments. 
"Sure I'd like to do some kicking, but Bob Thomas, a soccer-style specialist has really looked good. I'll probably handle the kick-offs, but right now Bob has a slight edge over me in the placements. Thomas and Eck­man have been doing the extra­point kicking." 
With a confidence he must have as a quarterback, Cliff feels he could step into the starting QB job right now. But he also feels that any one of the other hopefuls can get the job done. 
"Yes, I think I could start. But I also feel that Coach Parsegian is a one quarterback coach, and although he may alternate during the first few games, he will probably make a final decision after that." 
Stepping into a starting job is not as easy as it sounds, especially being a sophomore. And although his talents seem endless, Brown has had a few difficulties during the fall com petition. 
"We go into every game with a game plan, with the quarterback having an option of checking off at the line of scrimmage· ·rn· certain situation. But the 

"I can't really say that it has hurt me. But I've been running against the first team defence in practice this fall, and that's experience. Sometimes I really get frustrated running up against the top defense in the nation. But I feel that' if I can move against them ... well.'' 
And about that defense ... 
"It's just tops. In fact there's a lot more depth on this team than anyone realizes. Especially in the defensive backfield. Mike Parker, Mike Townsend and Tim Rudnick could step into the defensive backfield and nothing would be lost. Townsend is as quick as Clarence Ellis, although he's not ouite as fast." 
In a sport where black field generals have been pretty scarce, Cliff Brown has a chance to become the first black quar­terback in Irish history. 
But Cliff doesn't see the goal of being number one quarterback just in that limited scope. 
"No, there's no additional pressures on me because I am black. Believe me, there's enough pressure just cominghere and trying to play a top class 
Sophomore Cliff Brown Is a contender for t he num ber of football." -one QBiob.
audibling isn't that easy. And things teams use to disguise their Cliff Brown originally came to 
right now the hardest part for me defense." Notre _Dame bec~!-'~e of its 
is learning to read defenses. Cliff shrugs off the "inex-educational facihhe~. a~d 
Most college defenses aren't that perienced"tag as affecting his because of ~he recogmbon Its 
complicated, but there are little chances for the starting nod. athletes receive. 
But the soft-spoken sophomore could probably gain equal recognition anywhere, with the horde of talents he carries onto that football field. 
Right now Cliff Brown is in that position of most promising athletes when they are being compared to other great talents. 
But by the end of his college career. and maybe even as earlv as January 1st, 1972, Mr. Cliff Brown will have passed over that potential guess work, and may very well be the measuring stick by which other nameless athletes will be judged. 
ND sailors wzn• opener 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club was victorious in their first outing of the season, beating four other schools in competition held on Lake Winnebago at the State University of Wisconsin at Oshkosh. 
Kevin Hoyt skippered Notre 
Dame's 'A' boat and George Gaw was at the helm of the 'B' boat as the Irish defeated Iowa, Oshkosh, White Water and Marquette to take top honors. 
Betsy Ramsey crewed for Hoyt
and Tom Willison was in .. Gaw's boat. The ND sailors will be in action again this weekend in Madison, Wise. 
Eric Kinkopf :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::===============================================================================================================================================================================:=:=:=:=:=:=============================================:::::=:=:=> 
1971 Pro Football Picks 
·························································~···························:···:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
··~:;~;~·~;;·;~·:·;~;j";~·;;~-·~·~··;~~;~~-i~: ·F~~~i·~ 'j~·~k·i~~ ·h~~ .hi~ ·;~~~ty 
wins, the Orioles have again made a travesty of the American League East division race. \)nd the IndiaP.s have not faltered a step in what-has become an annual attempt to prove that mediocrity does not win games nor draw crowds. 
So (yawn) what's new? 
Plenty baby! Pro football begins another season this Sunday, and although it may take a back seat to Saturday afternoon games under the Dome, there'll be plenty to cheer about when tbe football mer­
cenaries take the field on September 19th. 
But this year there's a new twist to this NFL madness. Yep, this year E.J. Kinkopf, is taking his place among the nation's sport­swriters, joining them in their annual insane attempt to predict the division finishes. 
Wowie kazowie, far out huh? Well, just read on football freaks and 
see what my crystal ball has in store for your favorite teams this year. NFL East 
Dallas-Coach Tom Landry owns the best talent in either conference. Duane Thomas is gone, and Drop-Pants Lance has moved on to bigger
and better things. But who cares? Morton can't throw, but even Brick Belden could take the Cowboys to the top of this dividsion. Landry ought to ask Commisssioner Rozelle for a bye to the NFC playoff series. . 
Washington-A week ago I thought this Redskin finish would be a gimmee. But now it'll be up to Billy Kilmer to keep the Skins in con­tention till Jurgy's ready to fire. And who says George Allen isn't God in disguise? 
St. Louis-Down the stretch last year the Cards showed their true colors. They blew a 1112 game lead with three games to go and ended up in third place. Hart isn't the man to take em' all the way, and MacArthur may find his lanes blocked this year. 
New York-Too many injuries and training camp walk-outs. Fran maybethemaninNYC,buthesureain'tnoTittleorConnerly. Philly-The Eagles are on their way up-to fourth place ... maybe. Best move in years was getting rid of Snead. By the way, what ever 
happened to Leroy Keyes? NFC Central 
Detroit-The Lions are finally ready to roar. Greg Landry looked like the best young QB in either league last year until he took the apple against Dallas. It won't happen this season. 
Minnesota-Finally the Vikes have a real challenge in their own division. Snead and Cuozzo don't have the fire. Maybe Bud Grant'll have to use portable heaters on the sidelines this year. Chicago-Sayers isn't healthy, and the Bears without Sayers are hurtin' fur certain. Need I say more? Green Bay-Gimmee a break! Two quarterbacks pushin' forty? There's only one George Blanda, Mr Devine. 
NFC Western San Francisco-To even things up in this division, Pete Rozelle ought to make John Brodie throw with his left band while blindfolded. Los Angeles-Sec<n:\, only because they are in a division with New
Orleans and Atiant!~ Tommy Prothro didn't realize when he had it good.
New ~rleans-In a few years, the Ballad of Archie Manning will be a bestseller in the Mardi Gras capital. In '71 Manning will rate cheers, and Abramowicr. should rank anong the top five recievers. But other than that, the colrf foss-will be the only outcome in question every
Sunday for Saints' fans this year. 
Atlanta-Van Brocklin shouldn't waste his time, he's tarnishing his image. 
AFC East 
Miami-Nope, this ain't a misprint. Don Shula has reincarnated the Packers. Kiick and Csonka look more like the Pack duo of Taylor and Hornung every game. Griese is on his way to Starr-dom. And Paul 
Warfield, he makes Browns fans hate Mike Phipps. Baltimore-Not this year McCafferty. You got your 1971 Christmas present early last January. Besides, the Colts are easily the dullest 
team in either league. New York~Woodall shows great promise, but without Matt Snell, the Jets are whistling in the dark. Buffalo-Could give the Jets a run for third place. O.J. said in S.l. that he's finally ready to fly. J.D. Hill ain't since he tore up his knee. Dennis Shaw is on the way up, but better give the Bills a few years ... 
and then some. New England-Joe Kapp went to change his uniform again, but this 
time nobody's offered him a new jersey. If Plunkett can la~t for fifteen years he just might be able to play on a winning team ... maybe. 
AFC Central Cleveland-Bill Nelson has no knees left, only guts. And he's the key to the Brownie's hopes. Kelly should be all the way back and Cl~rence Scott could cop Rookie of the Year honors in the AFC. Overconfidence killed the Browns last VP.Ilr • • 
Cincy-Carter ain't takin' nobody to the conference title. Cook IS out till Nov. 1st. And Ken Anderson is only a rookie. But then there's Paul Brown... . d th' 
Pittsburgh-Sorry Rat, your glory days are behm you o~ IS campus. Steelers could be a surprise, but chances are they 11 be waiting for next year ... till 1975. · , .. 
Houston-First the Oilers draft two top college_ QB s Pa~torm1 and Dickey, and then they trade Jerry Le Vias, their top rec1ever. You figure it out. 
AFC West 
Kansas City-Only thing they ain't got is a seven foot flanker. But then again they do have a 6'10" tight end. Dawson's tops ~n the AFC,
and their running backs are unreal. And that front four-a giraffe could get lost in that bunch. Stram's holdin' all the _ace~. . 
Oakland-Not this year George. All Lamomca hke~ to do IS ~hro~ ~e bomb. Warren Wells tried to play bump and run w1th an umdenbf1ed female during the off-season and was called for illegal procedure. See ya Warren! If Darryl uses his bean he could wreck the Chief's powwow.San Diego-Nobodytrades a Lance Alw_orth and _hopes to improve a team. Hadl's just about over the hill. By mid-season Garret'!! be kicking himself for not taking that shot at pro baseball. By the end of the year, the San Diego "Charge" will sound like a weak 
t · reg:~v~r-The only way the Broncos 'II get higher in the standings is if 
the whole team pops greenies. Even way back in the days of Frank Trupucka the Denver Bronco looked like a flea-ridden mare. Nothing's changed. 
There it is sports fans. And if I'm really way off base .c?me the 
middle of January I promise to publically puncture my official NFL football, unravel my Cleveland Browns stocking cap, and incinerate my poster of Eddie Le Baron. 
And I might even swear off this prediction garbage. 

-------, 
Page 8 Wednesday, September 15, 1971
THE OBSERVER 
GREYHOUND GOES AGAIN! 
Again this year Greyhound offers special bus service directly from Notre Dame to Chicago and back 
Buses leave the Circle every Friday at 3: 55 pm Retur~ buses leave Chicago Sunday at 4:00 & 7:30P.M. 
Call Tom Boyer in 504 Flenner at 283-6984 for tickets and information or iust come to the circle on friday 
NO RESERVATIONS 
NECESSARY 
By the time Phil got through paying for tuition, late registration, student fees, books, and an outrageous deposit on his apartment, he didn't have a whole lot left for a stereo. 
BSR McDonald makes the RTS-40A for people like Phil. It's a complete AM/ FM/ MPX Phono component stereo system. The receiver delivers an honest 50 watts and boasts excellent sensitivity and separation specs. The turntable is our best-seller, and comes complete with a matched base, tinted dust cover, and Shure magnetic cartridge. The speakers are true two-way sealed acoustic suspension, with amazing bass response. 
We invite you to see the RTS-40A at your nearest BSR McDonald dealer. If you think it sounds good on paper, wait' II you hear it. 
~~~ 
McDONALD 
I I 
I Name 
I 

Semi-permanent address 
I I 
City
I 

I State Zip
L-----------------J 
ND students eligible for SMC assembly 
by Ann Conway 

Notre Dame students are eligible to run for positions on the St. Mary's Student Assembly, according to sbvp Missy Un­derman. 
This is the first year that ND students have been allowed to be candidates for the Assembly which'represents student opinion in both academic and non academic areas. 
They will be allowed to run for the five representatives-at-large 
On campus traffic rules change 
The 1971-72 traffic and parking regulations has made it more difficult for students, faculty, or visitors to drive their cars onto the campus·. 
According to the traffic and parking manual, the gate guard shall not give permission to enter the campus between the hours of 6 p.m. and 7 a.m. 
"Permission to drive onto the campus after 6 p.m. must be obtained from the Dean of Students or the Director of Security, except in cases of ex­treme emergency, when the gate officer may give permission. 
BSR (USA) ltd. Route 303, Blauvelt, N.Y. 10913

-----------, 
Please send full-color catalog of your stereo component systams and automatic turntables. 
I enclose no money whatsoever. 

seats created by last year's assembly. , 
Besides the five at-large positions open, representatives are needed from each hall. These representatives are elected in each hall at a ratio of one representative per hundred students. 
The number of positions from each hall open are: LeMan, 3; Holy Cross, 2; McCandless, ~; Off-campus, 1; Regina, 2; and two freshmen. . 
Three representative were 
Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. cars will be allowed onto the campus but with limited access . Permission shall be given at the discretion of the gate guard.
Pears was asked what a student could do if he had to bring his car onto campus on short notice for something not con­sidered quite an "extreme emergency" but pressing nonetheless. He replied that the student would just have to have made provisions earlier. 
"We are trying to cut down the number of cars on campus. About 400 more students have cars here 
SLC pan'etals 
· d {', 1 na 1)
(con ttnue 1ron r, 'ge 
· . . 

should be accordmg to each hall, tended" Pears replied because ~ith .. _th~, emphasis on there a~e many fewer faculty flexibility : . cars, which will also probably be 
On the. Issue. of sanctions, committing fewer violations. Imhoff smd he !s not sure an? There are too many student cars would reserve JUdgement until for this work to be handled." 
the SLC has met.Imhoff stated that if motion to resubmit the parietal resolution to the Board was defeated by the SLC, he would not walk out on the 
meeting. He said that a walkout 
would not serve the student's best 
interests. 
Concerning sanctions Tushar 
said guidelines should be 
established rather than absolute 
rules whcih would not take into 
account the circumstances of the 
violation. 
He said walking out of the SLC 
would not accomplish anything if 
the resolution was not submitted 
to the Trustees. 
Concerning sanctions, Prof. Goodfellow feels that a universal and uniform set of regulations should be established, thus eliminating the discrepancies in hall justice. 

REFRIGERATORS 
COMPARE BEFORE YOU LEASE WE OFFER 
pickup NO charge for 
•

maintenance 
And remember, girls go bananas For men With Amanas 
Call ·Eslinger Lease Service 259-2242 (291-5676) 
now that sophomores have been allowed cars on campus," the security chief said. 
"We must cut down the number of people driving on for special religious events and lectures," he added. 
Pears anticipates even stricter regulations than those in this year's manual in the not so distant future. 
John Barkett, SBP, urged in a letter to Pears that students be extended the same privileges as faculty and administration members on the parking violations -that two warning tickets be given before a $10.00 fine is assessed. 
Barkett said that unless such warning tickets are issued "the Security Department can be labeled quite discriminatory". 
"The privilage cannot be ex­elected last year during the campus elections. They are Mary Walsh, Regina; Sue Oglesbee, LeMans, and Sue Curtin, Holy Cross. 
Nominations for positions in the Assembly open Tuesday, Sept. 14 and last through mid­night through Thursday, Sept. 16. Those interested should submit their name to Missy Undermqn Box 623 or call 415. 
Voting will be Monday,Sept. 20 in each hall. 
Ed Ellis heads new committee 
Continued from page 1 
"show we're on the way." 
The proposal will state that the 19 members of ths SMC Assembly will be seated on the Senate. An accompanyiing proposal, that five at-large Notre Dame representatives will sit on the Assembly was passed last May. This will complete the integration. of the two bodies who will decide on the permanent constitution. 
In the meantime, speakers, including Committee members and the SBP's anf SBVP's will vi~it Hall Councils to "drum up" support for the joint constitution. Also, ideas will be solicited. 




