Observer Endorsement • • • • • pg. 4 


think the six students on theby Fred Schaefer SLC have done anything." When questioned about how
John Barkett, candidate for 
-. 
soon his programs could become SBP, outlined his plans last night operable, he said, "A lot of themin Keenan-Stanford to make the 
fj 
could happen within the next year." He also claimed that "a lot of apathy is discontent. There is some apathy, but I think a Jot of it is discontent." 
Earlier in the evening, while speaking at Pangborn, Barkett 
said he would work for an 

. / improved social schedule. Speci­fically he mentioned improving the concert schedule, the speaker program, and the schedule for the spring semester. 
In addition, he said "The stu­dent union building needs work. Perhaps a laundromat could beSBP Candidate John Barkett added. I'd like to see a whole new building."
Student Life Council "effective" The candidate was questioned if he is elected. about his thoughts on abolishing He said he would "lay it the Senate next year. He replied,
on the line to the members," have "1 don't plan to pursue the either himself or Orlando 
abolition. It's not worth my Rodriquez, his running mate, time on my list of priorities. O:!e concentrate on SLC matters, and thing I would like to see done 
have members of the Research though is lo have the Student and Development staff work on Body Vice President chair the proposals. meetings." 
He cited "poor leadership, the On co-education Barkett said three poles of faculty, students, that "it won't mean instant and administration working women it won't mean instant 
against each other instead of for change.' I won't solve all our each other, and a lack of home­problems. It does mean a com­work on the part of representa­mitment and a reduction of the tives" as reason for the "present ratio. Morally, I think Saint ineffectiveness" of the Council. Mary's should have some say. He outlined these points in res­But this is not the great 'seduc­ponse to a question raised by tion and rape' that some people 
SBP candidate Eileen 
make out." Fitzpatrick. Concerning his concept of stu­Barkett also said "I don't dent government, he said, "We 
Concernoverreferendum 
by Ed Ellis 
Several campus leaders last 
night expressed concern over the turnout in today's coeducation referendum. All agree that a massive turnout is essential to assure the Board of Trustees of a unified campus stand behind coeducation, but a tone of guarded skepticism pervaded all comment. 
"I'll admit, I've had second thoughts since my original motion for a campus wide refer­Buzz Imhoff endum," stated Badin Hall Presi­

could "chalk it up, if they don't dent, Buzz Imhoff. "I felt the start turning out on the issues." 
need for a tangible sign of this He stressed the fact that this 
campus' opmton of co-educ proposal was the student's own,ation. But I'm afraid disinterest and cited this as a opportunityin the referendum might be for Notre Dame to assume a 
interpreted as opposition to co­position of "national' leadershipeducation." 
instead of standing for a useless 
NSA Coordinator Steve 
five year delay." 
Novak added that since the Senator T.C. Treanor, who Student Government proposal is last week voted against a Senate "the only one on the ballot, its endorsement of the referendum,de'feat would surely imply a 
echoed his support for co-educa­defeat for co-education to the 
tion by stating, "It's imperativeTrustees." 
that the referendum pass. The Mark Winings, Student Body 
implications of failure would VP, emphasizing the extreme 
effect not only co-education but importance of a large turnout anything students bring before warned that the student body the Board of Trustees." 
have  to  bring  student  govern­ generalities.  fl) has little exper­ demands were  reasonable, while  
ment  back  down  out  of  the  ience with Hall Presidents, I do."  some  weren't. For example, the  
clouds to a practical level. It has  Barkett's  SBVP  candidate  demand for a Mexican American  
to respond to the practical needs  Orlando  Rodriguez  called  for  recruiter and counselor immedi­ 
of the student."  student government going to the  ately is a lttle bit strong.  
Barkett  said  the  main  dif­ students, and not the other way  "Some of the demands I agree  
ferences  between  himself  and  around.  Is  it  the  job  of  the  with, some I don't. The demand  
Don Mooney "are that he plans  people  to  keep in  communica­ for  a  Chicano  conectration  I  
to increase the Activities fee, I don't. He wants to spend money on an Off-Campus Student Center, I would rather work here with the money. He speaks of  tion with individuals they elect? I think not, I think it is the other way around." Rodriguez was asked about the recent demands made by  agree with. Minority people need to be among people of the same background to maintain their self-respect, especially at a place like Notre Dame with such a  
Assodated Students, but does not speak in specifics, only in  MECHA. I-C responded, "I don't like confrontations. Some of the  large  white  population.  

Mooney campaigns in halls 
When asked why he and not
by Kevin McGill 
John Barkett should be elected, 
Don Mooney, SBP cal}di­he said "I feel confident myself date, spoke to a slightly hostile that I know people better." Re­group of students at Morrisey ferring to a statement of Bar­Hall yesterday. The President kett's made Monday that many 
of Morrisey, the first of nine aggressive freshmen have good so­
halls where Mooney campaigned cial lives, he said, "I think that last night, is John Barkett who John doesn't understand what is also seeks the SBP. wrong around here." 
Mooney stressed the idea that Don Sherry, Mooney's run­instead of making promises ning mate, said in St. Edward which the student body would Hall that Barkett would make an 
simply await for student govern­effective and authoritative presi­ment to fulfill, he would get dent, but pointed out that David 

everyone interested and active in Krashna's administration has SBP Candidate Don Mooney 
accomplishing things on more shown that this kind of govern­individual levels. ment accomplishes little for the thought that a constitutional "I don't think that anybody · individual student. Both he and committee should be set up so can change Notre Dame through Mooney maintained that despite that the students would have abureaucracy," he said, "especial­some outward similarities, their say in who controls this power.
ly in the short-run. I don't think whole philosophy was different Such a committee, drawn direct­I can. The Administration has from Barkett's ly from the halls, he feels would always had a nebulous attitude Mooney thought that apathy embody the ideas that theabout student government, they came about because the student students want, and the represen­read all the reports they issue government is involved only in tatives would be more responsivebut never take them seriously. long range matters that don't to their halls, reducing apathy inLet's start working with the stu­pertain to the students. He con­the hall members. 
dents again. It's not Fr. Hes­sidered the Strike last year a Mooney envisions a Studentburgh's or the student govern­"magic" example of what in­Association, a loose organization ment's fault if we're not using dividual students could do, but of halls on both campuses which our lives effectively, it's our felt that it died in the bureau­
would, through hall presidentsown." cracy of the coordinating com­and off-campus representatives,As an example of the power mittee that was established. 
divide the student activities fee. 
the students could muster them­"People came here to grow, not 
Some money would be needed selves, he said that two halls folllow ," he said. '"Give lcader­for the campus-wide organiza­could set up their own co-ex­$hip back to the people." 
tions such as the Social Commis­
change program if coeducation The Senate now has much doesn't come about. financial power, and Sherry (continued on page 8) 
S.G .-suspension rfrdm. cancelled 
by Cliff W.ntrode sion of student government for judicial committee all agreed 
The referendum to suspend one year be held January 25, that the timing of the referen­student government for next today. dum, scheduled on the day of year will not be held tomorrow, That was only eight days ago, the student body presidential 
the date of the student body and by a 3-2 vote, the judicial elections, had political over­presidential elections. committee said that the January tones. 
The referendum will be held, 25 date was too soon after Having the referendum on an but the student government elec­Senate presentation. election day would improve the tion committee must meet and Only four of the seven mem­turnout of students voting ondecide on the date. It will bers of the judicals committee the referendum. This is crucialapparently not be held next were present at the meeting last because sixty percent of theMonday, which is the date for a night and student body presi­students must vote on a referen­possible student body president dent Dave Krashna broke a 2-2 dum to validate its passage. 
run-off election. 
vote and decided against a refer­The February 25 date wasThe Notre Dame Judicial endum Thursday. written into the petition circu­Committee ruled last night that Krashna is the chairman of lated by students desiring athe student government consti­the judicial committee and can referend urn. 
tution forbids holding the refer­only vote in case of a tie. However, the majority of theendum Jess than ten days after judicial committee said thatpresentation to the Student The question over the consti­
since the Student Senate
Senate. tutionality of the referendum received the peittion last week,The Student Senate was pre­was I iberally flavored with it was possible for the senate tosented last Thursday with a peti­charges from both sides of poli­change the voting date. 
tion bearing the signatures of tical interest involved in their Therefore, the majority saidfive-hundred students asking consideration. 
that a referendum on the suspen-The five members on the (continued on page 8} 
..-----------------------------------~-------------­
THE O&rER.fJER.
Page 2 
Co-education positions stated by candidates 
Mooney: change attitudes 
by Art Ferranti SBP candidate Don Mooney yesterday voiced his opinions concerning co-education at Notre Dame. lie said, "We have all heard of co-education for the years we have been here. We have waited too long for results. Co-ed dorms and expanded dining facilities will be here next September if we push the Ad­ministration this spring." Mooney stressed the social areas of the co-education pro­posal saying that "The merger of the University will take care of the academic problems and would make possible university degrees for men and women. We have to worry about co-ed dorms, an expanded co-ed dining pro­gram, and increasing the number of females in the University." Reinforcing his platform of student involvement, Mooney stated, "A lot of these things students are going to have to do themselves without much help from the university. Essentially we, male and female, have to change our lives and relate with each other as if this were a co-ed school. This means breaking down stagnant date-oriented re­lationships. Hopefully,"' he con­tinued ,"we can start planning activities for the student body­male and female. But to change attitudes it takes people-not just student government types." Mooney favored a merger 
Open 12:45 
2 Weeks 
with St. Mary's rather than going co-ed on our own. However, if the Administration of SMC re­fused to merge, Mooney said then that Nbtr.e Dame should go co-ed on its own but he hoped SMC would realize that "It would take five years to develop that sort of education on our own" whereas SMC has the faci­lities to merge with ND almost immediately. 
Mooney also responded to the 
co-ed dorm situation and the 
fear of various students who 
might get pushed out of their 
halls. He said, "We would have 
to look around for the right kind of halls for co-ed living and see how those students feel about it. We would also have to make sure that anyone who lost his room because of co-education got an equally good room in return." 
Mooney believes in swift merger of student governments. He outlined his proposals as fol­lows, "The Student Union would be for both campuses, the cabinet would be the same, and the legislative body would be the Hall Presidents of both cam­puses." He said that the Admini­stration had no say in the matter and that "Students can organize whatever they want to." 
"Co-ed dining," Mooney con­
cluded, "is an important part of 
one's social education at the 
university. I have some ideas and 
the program can be developed 
for co-ed dining." 
Proof of Age Required 
ass, Animal Worstiip, all brought together for the first time. 
SEX RITDllbS 
OF THE 
DCCUbT 
Please· need ride toN .Y .C. For Sale: One obselete six-string
2/28 and/or 3/12. call Jack 
fender guitar. Deplorable condi­282-2250 tion and an outrageous price. Former owner--a derelict. Call·­
Help Wanted 
6930 
Student artist capable of 
Time, Inc. 282-2250 doing lettering & artistic Available at Student conception drawings. Call Rates: Time, Life, Sports 272-8448. Illustrated, & Fortune Magazine. Call Tom, ,28L22&0_
HOUSING 
,.., ,..,. ,....
\31M¥• 
Getting Married? 
.... ...
-· ... 1.00 ·-U& •.a 
Need housing for Fall '71 
11·11 ... .... U& .... .... 
Call 255-8073 
!11·20 .70 1.111 1.10 2AO 2.10 
,,.,. ... .... .... .... 3AI
AUTOMOTIVE 
..... .... ,... 2.311 uo .... 
Wanted to Sell. 67 BMW ..... .... 2.10 ...
'·"' '·"' 
..... Ul ..... 3.10 4.211 6.10
2000 Tl. Factory Price 3850 
2.30
...,.. .... uo .... ....
-
Good Condition. 2000 or .... 2.10 .... ..,. •.oo 1. 

SBP Candidate Jim Riebandt 
Riebandt: "matching dorms" 
by Greg Rowinski 
Jim Riebandt answered ques­tions about co-education, the number one priority in his SBP campaign. _ 
Riebandt emphasized the two major points which he felt stu­dent government should empha­size at the Board of Trustees meeting. One is that "men and women are meant for each other," and the other that Trus­tees should live on campus for a time to see the situation first­hand. 
The Riebandt.-Connelly plat­form is made up of a number of key planks, he commented, one of the most important being the concept of "matching dorms." This would entail earmarking neighboring dorms on the ND campus for men or women. The 
idea  of  sister  schon!  would  
become  more  intimate  in  the  
form of a sister dorm.  
Another  vital  point  of  his  

campaign is establishing student 
government as the "gu-beiween for students, trustees, and administration, he remarked. This function would be begun with the presentation before the Board in March. 
Riebandt suggested a merger of the two student governments to combine the powers of paral­lel bodies rather than eliminating any group. This would, he hoped, prev1ent the recurrence of a situation in which the "good people" of student government lose their e:ffectiveness because they lack a dynamic, central "core." The merger would obtain ''th1: best of both," in Riebandt's words. 
Co-eating is one of the imme­diate steps that student govern­ment can take to hasten co­education, he claimed. Riebandt suggested a wide expansion of the program which had its first trial Monday. 
Shc~rman's 
(Continued from page 2) 
complete co-education, as a supplement to the present laun­dry system. ND students would therefore be accustomed to doing "at least a portion of their laundry themselves," in Sherman's words. • 
Sherman further suggested that the loss of maid service be introduced gradually, and pro­posed that the present daily maid service be reduced to a weekly service, again lessening 
the  shock  of changes in  living  
style due to co-education.  
Sherman  and  Murphy  pro- 

Riebandt then described a program which could be imple­mented over a four-year period of admitting students on an even male-female ratio. This would be a major thrust of his attempt to "create a relaxed atmosphere of normalcy" which would be better "psychologically." 
In answer to any inquiry regarding students' reluctance to move out of their halls as a requirement for co-education, Riebandt replied that many "would be willing to move." He said that he would strive, however, to make certain that no student would be moved out against his wilL Individual opin­ions could be obtained at section meetings before decisions were made. 
In closing, Riebandt reiterated that co-education is a vital issue and should be pushed ~o action. 
platform 
posed more informal, campus­wide social events, offering free outdoor movies in the spring as one example. 
The candidates summarized their position by saying that they feel that the responsibility of student government lies on the campl!S, ~ather than "in battling civic problems for the city of South Bend." Rather 
•han "waste two years trying to 
1olish the Senate," Sherman said, student government "ought to be dedicated to making life a little easier for the average ND student." 
Sheehy annc,unces pla~fo,r.'Jl 
They also favor smaller student­
by Ann Therese Darin 
teacher ratio and diversity in "We see student government depart mental emphasis. 
as a representative body; essen­Miss Sheehy and Miss Weltetial, but ineffective without stu­also plan immediate work in thedent support," said Jane Sheehy, analogous areas of Notre Dame 
SMC candidate for Student Bod­and St. Mary's student govern­Y President. 
ments. They pointed out that In an interview Sunday, Miss steps such as the merging of the 
Sheehy and her running mate, SSO and the Student Union have 
Sue Welte, discussed the main been initiated, and indicate that 
points of their platform and other such consodlida tions are 
their goals for next year, if possible.
elected. 
They hope for a completeCiting coeducation as their merger of student governmentsmain concern, the candidates and th~.; drafting of a jointstrongly endorsed full coed uca­constitution in the coming year.
tion both in the classroom and The ntndidates emphasizedsocial areas (which they defined 
the issm: of academics. Theyto include residence halls, dining 
and recreational facilities, co-ed dormitories, union of counsel­ling and student personnel). 
SERVICES 
Breen-Phillips Food Sales. 
call in pizza orders before 
11:00 pm.1294 or 1705. 
Pick u·p at 1 1 :3 0. Stop on 
your way home from the 
SRVP c:andidate Sue W~lte library. $1.25 Cheese; 
stress the need for continued, $1.40 Mushroom; $1.50 intense study and reform in Pepperoni; $1.65 Everything academic: departments. SMC, 
they feel, must distinguish itself LOST ANIJ FOUND within the struture of Notre FOUND Dame through academics. watch in A & P lot on Eddy Supporting a vast range of 
· depen
Feb. 12 · call 289-8994 after 6 work-st udy Programs, m ­
They favor the merger of St. Mary's with Notre Dame, but see value in a small academic com­munity and view SMC as a sepa­rete, coeducational liberal arts college within the university stnH:t ure. They believe that if St. Mary's is not assimilated en­
tirt:ly into Notre Dame academic considerations witt be of utmost importance in the future. 
Miss Sheehy and Miss Welte also endorse the option of off­campus housing for junior and senior students, and the expan­sion of programs for sex and drug education on the hall level. 
They  see  halt life  as  vital and  
expressed  the  desire  to  draw  
faculty  members  into  the  halls  

with activities such as gabfests, informal conferences, etc. 

SBP Candidate Jane Sheehy 
-1~ • • 
Lastly, as a long range goal, the candidates expressed !lopesfor a mall and a student center between the two campuses; ser­
ving both and providing a place 
must identify and pay for ad dent study, and contractual ,_t_o_g_o_a_f_t_er_ha_·l~l_c_lo~s-in....:g""".-"---., courses, they also wish to inves­
The Observer is published dally tigate the possibility of a pro­
durl ng the college semester except vacations by the students of the
gram for study and credit during 
University of Notre Dame and St.
best offer. 288-4516 
Spock·
PEANUTS PERSONAL January (between the first and 
Mary's College~ SUbscriptions may 
be purchased for $8 from The
Drexler, 
Guess! second semesters) and a review
My Secret Lov4;! 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,
How about setting me up with 
of the s.enior comprehensive re­
Ind. 46556. Second class postage
Are you a g.rl ? I'll never tell.
Joni before the wedding? 
paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.
Spock quirements.
The Cl Your secret love. 

Sherman-Murphy.. 'unique platform' 

opinions on the~e three were: co-education is "now inevitable F ich Sherman and Mike 
for Notre Dame," but it will be Murphy, SBP and VP candidates, 
delayed by financial considera­delineated their "unique 
tions which, he said, "the trus­platform" in Pangborn Hall tees are better qualified to night. The basis of the platform 
handle than the students"; is that the SBP should concern 
student government reorganiza­himself with "the problems of 
tion will not be realized until the 
the average ND student." student body sees student Describing themselves as 
government as a body which is "tired of the usual political rhe­worth restructuring; and that the toric" characteristic of the SBP University should not "go out to race, and equally tired of the 'buy' students for Notre Dame" promises of "other candidates" since there is financial aid avail­
which Sherman said are "too able exclusively to minority stu­high up in the clouds to really dents, and those who really want get done," the Sherman-Murphy tn attend ND are able to do so. 
team stated their position on the After summarizing their stand three major issues of this year's on these widely-debated prob­election: co-education, student lems, Sherman and Murphy government reorganization, and spoke on what they consider the 
minority recruitment. Sherman's really major problems at ND. 
WSND endorses Rossi 
pictra, WSND station manager. "All had fairly good ideas, all In an editorial to be released 
today WSND endorses J. Rich­possessed fairly good q ualifica­
ard Rossi in tomorrow's elec­tions and all of them seemed to
tion. Rossi was Student Body be willing to work very hard for President here at Notre Dame in the student body, but the edi­
1968-69. The editorial board of torial board here believes that
the campus station decided the University now stands poised 
unamiously to endorse Rossi on the threshold of the greatest
after interviewing seven of this year's Student Body President 
change in its life, namely co-edu­Candidates at length, over a pe­
cation. As well student govern­riod of two days. ment at Notre Dame is itself at a "We just felt that none of the crucial stage of its own develop­
candidates we talked to pre­ment where it needs a new direc­sented the qualities necessary to tion, new leadership and a radi­gain our endorsement at this cal restructuring." 
time," remarked Steve Della-"Unfortunately," Dellapietra added,"those of us on the board felt that none of the candidates could sufficently tackle the pro­blem of the re-ordering of stu­dent government that is neces­sary to insure a greater well being of the students not to mention making sure that the student voice was adequately re­presented in the making of the tremendously important deci­sions connected with the com­mitment to co-education."

"Finally," Dellapietra com­mented "We felt that Rossi dur­ing his year as Student Body
Wl.\\1~ \lj~~l 
President proved to us that he The Marine Officer selec-alone possessed such great quali­
fications. As a matter of fact all tion team will be on cam-of those candidates whom we pus 17 to 20 February in asked who they felt was the best the South Din Hall SBP in their stay at Notre Dame 
_._..!..:..:.!:....=..::::.:..:..:...:::..:..~..:.£..~~----J all replied J. Richard Rossi." rate Harvard. We should be stri­
mented. 
ving for something better-to be­
"Two years ago," he con­
Support 
Over the past three or four years we have seen a lot of endorsements of candidates by obervers and scholastics of every political ideology. The idea of students passing judge­ment on other students is not the best, or most efficient way of determining who is the best candidate. It can serve as a guide for those who have not taken the time to underst~nd t~e issues themselves, it can be abused if students rely pnmanly upon them as a means of determing their vote. We feel that the experience which we have gained over the past four years qualifies us to make our endorsement known in the same way that members of the press and the present student government will make theirs know. Therefore we, the undersigned seniors, endorse the candidacy of Eileen Fitzpatrick and Walter Secada for president and vice-president of the student body of Notre 
Dame. 
Barney Gallagher Jim Metzger Bernie Ryan Jim Rocap Denny Conroy Chuck Ryan M1ke Shaughnessy Mark Zimmerman Carl Rak Ed Davey 
Rob Barteletti Rich Hunter
Tom Thrasher Chris Wolfe 
Eileen Fitzpatrick 
They stressed the need for larger the !unction of "Notre Dame allotments to the Student Union Security." Another major area, Socia!' Commission for better accordin_g to Sherman, is the concerts, an analysis of the per­ability for students to communi­sonnel in the infirmary, the need cate with the SBP, which he for increased student parking 
guaranteed to facilitate. fadlities, and a consideration of LaFortune served as the rota­tion point for the largest portion of the Sherman-Murphy present­
ation. According to Sherman, "co-education will create a need Last week Arthur Pears, Di­for a central location, where rector of University security, students can meet on a friendly and-all members of his force, level." He proposed that the except hall monitors, were form­renovation of LaFortune would ally sworn in as deputy sheriffs provide such a meeting-place, of St. Joseph County. indicating that the Huddle is 
According to Pears, deputies greatly in need of restructuring. change when sheriffs change. In­
Deputy 
cumbent sheriff Dean Bolderjack 
Kahu na lists demands
was elected in November and 
sworn in in January. Pears ex­James "Naked Kahuna" Egan, plained that he and his staff had the celebrated Notre Dame some time ago been commission­stripper and Breen-Phillips ed by Bolderjack, but the of­junior, announced his candidacy 
ficial swearing in took place re­for the office of Student Body cently. President yesterday. Q. Sturn, a When asked whether his com­resident of Keenan, will be his 
mission would interfere with his running mate. 
duties as security director he Egan's five-point platform explained that it was the com­calls for a student strike if stu­mission that gave him his powers dent co-ed demands are not met, as security director. In effect, he an expanded war against cock­is charged with the protection of roaches on campus, the bringing that area of the county that is back of the Pornography Con­Notre Dame property. He also ference as an annual event, the noted that he is paid by the selling of beer in the Huddle and University rather than the coun­the building of a McDonalds on ty. campus, and the bringing back Pears said that neither he nor of the Leprechaun to replace the 
his staff would work other parts Scholastic with the funds now of the county unless in "hot used by the Observer and other pursuit" of someone from the campus activities. campus. 
"I realize that I am different 
Academic goals told by Hendrick 
going to close ourselves off from
by Ann Therese Darin 
experimenting with any other 
In an interview yes­
type of academic reform." He 
terday Student Body Presiden­
does not, however, diminish the 
tial contender Chip Hendrick 
importance of co-education. As 
disclosed that academic excel­
part of his platform, he is advo­
lence ranks high on his list of 
cating a greater "link" between 
reforms. 
both the Notre Dame and St. 
"A couple of years ago, a 
Mary's psychology departments. 
representative of the school 
He thinks that already the 
mentioned at an alumni meeting 
university may be tapering off 
in my hometown that Notre 
from its former academic and 
Dame is striving for academic 
social excellence. He cited, in 
excellence. He intimated that we 
particular, the Student Union
should become the Harvard of 
Academic Commission. "I was
the Midwest. We SHOULDN'T 
disappointed with the speakers
be striving to become a second­
program this year," he com­
come a first-rate Notre Dame," 
tinued, "they had an unbeatable 
he stated. 
speakers program with Bobby
Academic reform, Hendrick 
Kennedy. Last year and this 
felt, can not be limited to co­
year, however, we didn't get
education. "If we stick to one 
very many names." 
area," he stated "then we're 
I~~:O_V_E_R-=::l:~
*
* :::~ T H E :.~.=~~.:\..
..
THE 
llli H I L L jjj~i 
** ** 
w -··-·---·GANG-···---n 
w ~ 
m
0::: 
***------** 
u.. m PAUL GUERNSEY 
JIM MORAN 
*
* 
* 
Wednesday -1 0 -12 
* 
LAFORTUNE * 
from the average candidate. I am thinking of the student's imme­diate needs; not just ideas but concrete proposals with solu­tions. I feel that the time is now ripe for such a candidate to win the SBP. These are supposed to be the best days of our lives, but with constant circumlocution nothing is ever accomplished," Egan said. 
Egan's campaign theme is "Think naked: strip away the old to bring in the n(!W." He will place his SB VP in charge of the Student Union, hoping to get concerts and activities. 
Tom Davis, Egan's campaign manager, planned to announce the candidacy late so that they could size up their opposition. They will begin campaigning Tuesday night. 
A MacDonald's franchise, along with remodeling of the physical plant, could radically alter the Huddle's image, according to Murphy. 
The balance of the Sherman­Murphy proposal centers around side effects of co-education. They argued that co-education would cause a "sudden, drastic change" in Notre Dame's laundry habits due to the cessa­tion of regular University Laun­dry service, but that this could be avoided if the University installed a coin-operated laund­romat setup in each hall prior to 
(continued on page 2} 
If he is elected, he would aim to recruit presidential candidates and other controversial speakers for first semester next year. 
In the area of academic re­form he specifically advocates the following: an investigation of each department to determine which are old-fashioned, a re­evaluation of the use of the Memorial Library, and adaptat­ion of more specialized academic programs. 
He feels that many students leave Notre Dame because they can get a more-specialized educa­tion elsewhere. 
Yesterday afternoon the can­
didate  was  scheduled  to  meet  
with  municipal  planners  in  
South  Bend  in  investigate  the  

possibilities of more and ade­quate housing for Notre Dame off-campus students. 
THE ONERUDl 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John E. Knorr. Executive Editor 
All is for the best in the best of possible worlds. 
Candide 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
One Choice 
There is a cns1s in stuuent government; one bad enough to have caused a student government abolision movement, one ball enough to inspire only intertia anu apathy through the year, one bad enough to undermine any operation student government attempts this next year. It is surely the worst crisis Student Government has faced in five years, and it makes our choice tomorrow doubly important. 
Among the seven candidates running this year in fact, among the dozens of poobahs who have made the bid over the past couple years John Barkett stands closest to all that is best in a Student Body President. His record is impeccable. Elected President of Morrissey Hall as a Freshman, Barkett has helped initiate there one of the most effective hall programs on campus. For example, his is one of only two halls with an operational hall fellows program. 
As Chairman of the Hall President's Council, Barkett has accomplished more than any of his predecessors. HPC workshops have for the first time reached some comprehensive conclusions about the role of the rector in the hall. And it was through Bar flltt 's work and the work of the HPC that what could have been a disastcrous room selection crisis was ironed out before it developed. 
Barkett's choice of running mates is as commendable as his record. Thanks to Orlando Rodriquez's work as Human Affairs Commissioner, Notre Dame's "forgotten minority," the Mexican-Americans and other Spanish-speaking Americans on campus have been given an effective voice in Student Government. Rodriquez is articulate, intelligent and tremendously effective; the partnership he forged as Barkett's running mate in Morrissey Hall two years ago would serve the student body well. 
Barkett and Rodriquez would bring to the Student Body President's office incredibly efficient administration, imagination, and, perhaps most importantly, solid and workable realistic ideas. something that Student Government has needed all year. 
Barkett's plan to return money to the halls without raising the activities fcc is particularly important, and, because of the decreased student government debt, quite workable. Some of the halls have pressing need of money they arc not going to get from the Administration, and Barkett's plan would help answer that need. 
Important, too, is Barkett's attitude towards coeducation. He alone seems to perceive the University's committment towards total coeducation, and he alone has recognized the inevitable attendant problems and has moved to correct them. His six-point program to provide for a coeducated Notre Dame will correct those problems, and will make coeducation a lot more pleasant when it comes. 
Finally, Barkett recognizes that in this University the loud and raucous confrontation techniques tried so often by Student Governments in the past with so little effect arc ultimately doomed to failure. Instead, Barkett proposes that new and better researched bills be offered in the Student Life Council, and that an attitude of rational cooperation between the Administration and Student Government replace the one of bitterness and hostility generally. 
The solidity of Barkett's ideas contrast impressively with the vagueness and indefiniteness of what the polls indicate as his principal opponent, Don Mooney. Mr. Mooney seems to think that by dropping in on a couple of section meetings and talking to people he judges representative of the various halls he can somehow find a consenseus of student opinion. Until then, he'll not give anyone a clue as to what he has planned; in reality, he has nothing planned, beyond legal incorporation, a move that will accomplish nothing save further widening of the student-administration gap since an individual can bring suit against Notre Dame as easily as a corporation. 
Some of the other candidates, notably Michael Cervas, have things to offer this campus, but none of them have either the experience nor the Administration ability of John Barkett. And that experience and administrative ability is needed in student government now. Only one choice provides it, and that choice is Barkett. 
Staff 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Issue ,\'tafT Treanor 
Night Editor: Jim Graif
Features Editor: Dave Lam· mers 
Layout Design: Jim Farrington Sports Editor: Terry Shields Headlines: Chris Sullivan Assistant Sports Editor: Layout: Joe Abell Jim Donaldson 
Knight Controller: Jim McGrath 
Campus Editor: Steve Lazar News Editor: Ed Ellis 

It must be 
The scenario is familiar. A poobah with the backing of the current Student (;overnmenl proposes a new form of government in order to "interest" all the students. We've seen this before. In 1969, Phil McKenna proposed a University Senate, composed of students, faculty, administrators, trustees, alumni and representatives of every eonceivahk: group on campus. 
In 1970, Dave Krashna, running with McKenna's support, proposed the Student Forum, repladng the Senate with the Hall Presidents' Coundl. 
In 1971, Don Mooney is running to "organize" a government that 
will not govern, and he calls it a S'udc tnt Association. He gives us 
no reason to feel that he can do what no one in the past few years 
has done. 
No one has yet seen PhiiMcKenna's idea. Dave Krashna wasted two-thirds of his admini~.tration failing to set up his system. There is no reason at all for us to believe that Don Mooney's vague plan will become any more of a reality than either of the last two,and there is even less of a reason for us to believe that we would be any better off if the students did become incorporated and started throwing lawsuits around the campus as if the place were run by a conspiracy of thieves. 
This is certainly not Don Mooney's fault, This worthy gentleman is ahove all, a really great person. However, he is undeniably associated with the current Student Government and its collection of Poohahs. llis campaign manager, most of his political brain trust, and many of his hall workers are members of the vote-getting machine that has dominated LaFortune since 1967, and they want to stay there. It's up to the student body, apathetic or disgruntled as it may he, to remove them, simply by rejecting the same bill of fare that has be:en so joyfully swallowed so many times in the past. Don Mooney cannot defend his team's record, so he proposes a new structure. II should be rejected. Other people who can work with what we have without toying with structures should now have their chance, 
There are eight candidates in this year's SBP race. All of them seem to be sincere in their efforts to help student government. Uowevcr, many of them seem at the same time to become bogged down in the form of the thing, and forget that the people are the most important !cement. 
Leaving out all the minor candidates (as determined by the Observer and WSND polls), we are left with Mooney and Hall Presidents' Council Chairman John Barkett. 
Barkett is an ad rninistrator of unparalleled excellence. His store of informa lion has astonished more than one listener during the past few days. And he holds a realistic attitude towards what the S'udcnt Body President can and cannot do. Most important of all, perhaps, is the fact that his record in the HPC amkes it reasonable to suggest that he can and will maintain contact with the halls, something the current SBP promised but never fulfilled. 
Barkett is not a dreamer, and thus will fail to excite those romantic souls who seck a dramatic confrontation every week. But he has reached the realization that hating and defiling people is not the only way to deal with them in a Christian context. 
John Barkett does indeed talk fast, but no one can say that what he says is vague or uncertain. He niay at first glance seem overly business-like, but then again he never skirts an issue or refuses to consider a rational idea . 
In short, Mr. Barkett is just what we have not had in Student Covernment for at least two or three years. He is not a Poobah. He is not a brainchild of a disastrous administration. He and Orlando Hodriguez arc something completely new. Their ideas and methods should he given a good shot at their respective johs. 
--------· 
Basil O'Leary 
Non-violence and Notre Dame 
As the Vietnamization of the war has extended into Cambodia and now into Laos ---··· an action which the State Department asserts "is not an enlarge­ment of the war" -a slight tremor of disapproval was felt across the country. Some of the details of demonstrations on university campuses were reported on page I 5 of last Thursday's New York Times. President Nixon, confident of the support of a majority tyrannical in its silence, did not find it necessary before hand to consult (give notice to) Laotian l'rince Souvanaa Phouma or the Congress of the United States: nor did he think it tactical this lime for a little talk to the American people to put this latest "pun­ishing the enemy" into moral language acceptable to Billy Graham. So, B-52 stratofortresses, which carry about 30 tons of 500-pound bombs, continue to make 300 to 400 runs a day over the H , Chi Minh trail. along with unnumbered rocket-firing helicopter gunships. The ir­responsibility and imprecision of this saturation bombing have caused Telford Taylor to term this tactic "far more serious" than the Mylai massacres. How 
often  do  you  sec  statistics  of  civilian  
casuallies  or  read  about  the  care  they  
receive'!  

In view of this relentless pattern of American agression, with its popular, if tacit consent, the temptation to indulge a mood of powerlessness toward all forms of rcsistan~:e to militarism seems com­pelling. The hope of non-violence in the resolution of conflict among nations is a misty dream, the better course being to rcstrid yourself to more tractable sour~:es of pleasure, cultural interest, domestic ~:onccrn. Of much varied counterevidence to this position, I think three local developments have promise: the Peoples' Pea<.:e Treaty, in its potential for a new mobilization of effective resistance; the election of William Kunstlcr, which sug­gests N D seniors' sensitivity to the gov­ernment's paranoid and deceitful supnrcs­sion of dissent: and, in the longer run, the Program in Non-Violence, as providing an intellectual foundation, if not a lot more, for a whcrcnt non-violent way of living. 
For the increasingly large num her of Americans who find the politi<.:al pro<.:ess so seriously defective in cxpn:.ssing their desire for U.S. killers to leave Indochina that they are tempted to despair, the Peoples' Peace Treaty may occasion a deeper understanding of the Provisionary Revolutionary (;overnmcnt and an incite­ment to some form of civil disobedience. The treaty includes, most notable, some of the eitht proposals advanced by Madame Nguyen Thi Binh in Paris last September: the total withdrawal of U.S. military forces and the selection of a provisional coahlional government which would provide free and democratic elec­tions. In the eyes of much world opinion, these steps are eminently reasonable, es­pecially in their implkation that the Thieu-Ky regime, no longer propped up by the fantastic U S: military presence, would lose all legitima~:y and face the same kind of popular opposition that undid Diem. The treaty is not just anoth­er petition going around since it is accom­panied by "Enforcement Provisions," the style of which would be determined by various groups endorsing the treaty. Some directions this implementation might take indude concerted refusal of scientists to work on war contracts, whole communi­ties refusing to pay war taxes, dormitories on university campuses refusing to pay the federal tax on their phone bills, whole colleges refusing induction. I should re­mark that in spite of some popular repugnance and rejection, civil disobed­ience has a long history in U.S. as a laudable form of political dissent, and, becuase of the recent in<.:rease in this novel exercise of power, it is receiving overwhelming justification in contempor­ary journals of law and political science. 
As a "felon-in-residence" I am happy to sec convicted-and-destined-for-prison 
William K unstler being honored by the senior class. When defending fourteen Milwaukee arsonists two years ago, he remarked that should he ever have to go to jail he hoped it would be for a good reason. The eccentric Ia wyer doesn't go very far. At that time it was the risk of a contempt citation for arguing before the jury -as he did at Catonsville--their right not to follow the judge's interpreta­tion of the law--the jury nullification thesis defended by legal scholars Joseph Sax of Michigan and Paul Freund of Harvard. Since then everyone knows of his courageous performance in that tragic parody of justice in Chicago. In April he may well awaken us to the extent of systematic repression throughout the country, notably that being directed toward the Panthers, resisters in Seattle, and, of course, the whole peace move­ment in the persons of the alleged Kissin­ger kidnappers in Harrisburg. Sin<.:e this latter group is not planning a "political trial," which is Kunstler's forte, they must be quite confident of exposing the absurdity of the government's charges. 
To many students, and possibly Kun­stler, who feel they can preserve their humanity only by ac~:epting prison, the prospect is not altogether without prom­ise. In the Village Voice of two weeks ago Kingsley Widmer suggests that those who believe, as he does not, in the idea of a "ruling elite" should search for candi­dates among war resisters in prison. Citing the documantary study of Willard Gaylin, In the Service of Their Country, he finds such inmates "superior" in intelligence, idealism, sensitivity, and good looks. Moreover, they have experienced in their sentence the full abuse of "arbitrary and terrible power." Accordingly, he goes further to recommend wryly that, "An obvious minimal education requirement not only for all public officials but for corporate executives and school-univer­sity administrators, even celebrites, in America would be a two-to-five year 
prison sentence." 
The Program in Non-Violence, now in 
its second year, continues to be a popular 
option for students whose motivations 
range from curiosity about the non-vio­
lent "way"---as one last hope for a 
passionate commitment--to the already­
-<.:onvinced who want to deepen their 
understanding. Since the content and 
approach of the seminars depend on the 
interaction of the participants, there is 
continual development. Violence done to 
women, non-white minorities, the poor 
have been given attention this year. A 
centra! problem, as in any interdisciplin­
ary effort, has been the task of giving 
greater coherence and a firmer analytical 
structure to the variety of materials avail­
able. Many students do undergo some 
radicalization of consciousness; some dis­
cover that idealism must be complement­
ed by discipline, intellectual and political, 
if there is to be a thorough "greening" of 
the spirit. 
While all the teachers of the seminar have an overload <~nd handle over~ized sections, a sense of excitement and urgen­cy more than compensate. Presently, the greatest need of the Program is a "hang­ing-around-place," just any old place where some fo the hundreds of students who have taken seminars may stop and chat with each other and with the many faculty who have been concerned with non-violence. Just as scientists have an immense opportunity of getting to know each other and to discuss their interests in the informality of the laboratories, so people whose compelling in~erest is non­-violence need a similar convenience pro-· vided by the univeristy. Moreover, the numerous periodicals of the peace move­ment should be available in an economi­cal way to as amny people as possible. The vision of a non-violent world can 
survive only through some experience of community, helped along if only by a coffee pot and some floor space. 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_..,,.,,.,~ 
~Jim Leary ~Dave Lammers
I ~ The Ferdinand Balboa Award 
~R· ~ 
~ Ise up... ! The Observer office has been deluged 
~ ~ with mail, decrying the Blessed Virgin 
~ • 1• • I b d •d ~ Mary award for 1970 to Jim Holsinger. 
~ an anfi·PO lfJca roa Sf ~four read~rs, Saint
e~ Thousands from 
~ ~ 
~ 
A few years ago my good friend Pete ~demolished an ancient funeral parlor, ~salvaging from the wreckage an enlighten­~ ing book on the art of Dermatology.~Applied Dermatology, much like p~litical ~Iii: pragmatism, results in the restoratwn of ~ugly corpses into shining products of ~plasticity able to engender sobbing eu­~ phemistic exclamations like "he looks so ~peaceful" or "she seems to be asleep." ~One of the most difficult and fascinating ~restoration jobs outlined in the book ~concerned the re-attachme~t of a ban­~ ker's blown-off head to his blown-up ~body. The banker was, as many bankers ~were at the turn of the century, "killed ~by a bomb hurled through his window by ~a notorious, foreign-born anarchist." IIi: All Anarchists are, of course, foreign ~born and, certainly, vcr~ notorio.us. ~Seedy loo~!ng bastards w1th black-tla_g ~ beards or herce-eyed women w1th thetr ~ hair tied up tight and wearing wire­~rimmed glasses. August Spies, /ll.exander ~Berkman, Emma Goldman, Bakunin, Kro­~ potkin, Guiteau. Yessir, them goddam ~Anarchists. They put bombs in yer gah ~ bitch cans. Them want chaos and killing. ~They cr~zy, crazy pe~ples. BUL~SHIT! ~ Sure IS fun to believe Anarchtsts are ~ crazy. Sure is easy to write them off as ~ madmen. Sure is easy for madmen to ~terrorize Disneyland in the name of An­~ archism, thus fulfilling the definition ~which the media-hyped public has had ~~poured into their heads. But listen. An­
archism ain't easy. Enlightened Anar­~ Mary's especially, have wntten to say that ~ a gross oversight was perpetrated when 
iii: the award was granted to Jim Holsinger chism is essestially non-violent, some-~ for his fine work in the Toddle House times jiving with Christian Radical Paci-~ incident last spring. Why was Judy fism [or at least. Anarchism is selective!~..-; Lammers, my own blood sister, over­and amusmgly v10lent and holds a multi-~ looked'! My sister, it is argued, has been tude of possibilities. For example: T~ou-~ slighted for not winning the award for her sands of students dressed m Neo-Hmdulll: blind date to Chicago last spring. You see, purple yage transcendance, carrying plas-~ Tilly Fiehrer and my sister, Judith, were tic guns,· vegetables and large crowbars.~ sitting in Regina Hall one Friday night a 
disassemble it while blowing bubbles and ~ chanting Notre Dame our Mother; or~ Thousands of students disguised as hairy~ mythic Aboriginal wombat gods seize the~ Notre Dame Me.mor~al Bomb (_located in ~ the outer armpit ol the Adlllllllstratwn ~ Building, just to the right of the tradi-~ tiona! steps.) and drop It on the Aero-IIi: space Engineering Building. I This is~ something all of us dedicated Christian~ 
."1'~~~~,1/T,M',M',M',M',,/T,M'~~~~~,M',M',M'.M'.M'~"""' 
students should check out. Perhaps we IIi: having a fine time, when Steve, whose can co~nteract the pragn~atic transvesti-~ parents live in Santa Barbara, California, tism of t?e Ad~mmstratwn and Fat_her ~ su~gested _that t~ey take the ~oute 90 Burtchaell s ?11z1 the Wtld Man 1m1ta-IIi: exit and JUst dnve on out to Cal!forma tions. ~ and spend Easter vacation out there at his 
In the midst of boring, pointless politi-~ home in California. Judy and Tilly said cal chaos, our only alternative is to opt IIi: "Fine". and so Chuck took the Route 90 for an end to phoney pragmatism; to give~ turnoff, drove_ past Chicago, into Iowa up on pseudo-enlightened committees~ and on to pomts beyond. Until the car and their diversionary rhetoric; to Do It~ reached Oklahoma everyone thought to a~d go from t~ere;_ to finally get God~ th~msclves.' "W,ell, pretty so.on someone is afoot and magiC ahve; to destroy the~ gomg to say I have a midterm before dung hill built by reasonable zombies and~ Easter vacation, so we are really going to make way for spontaneous generation~ have to turn around and go back to South and roses behind the barricades. Rise Up~ Bend.' But when they got to Oklahoma 0 .ye sludgcy ND ~umpcn masses an~~ so1_neone s~id •. "W.ell, I g~~ss we:re reallr sm1te down that ev11_ curmudgeon Zuz1 IIi: gomg to ( ah,torma, huh and It wasn t the_ Wild Man and h1s soulless llonchoJ~ until then t11at everyone agreed that, mmwns. , what the hell, they had gotten to Okla-week before Easter vacation, when a friend called and asked them if they wanted two blind dates to go to a movie in Cl1icago. Being sociable type people, they agreed after numerous queries as to the nature of the boys they were going with, Chuck Amato and Steven Massey, now both graduated to distant shores. Well, Judy and Tilly and Chuck and Steve wen:: driving to Chicago on the tollway, homa, they might as well go all the way to California. Which they did. So my sister and Tilly called Saint Mary's, had some clothes and money sent out to Santa Barbara, cut their midterms and papers, and spent that week and part of Easter vacation romping about the beaches of sunny California, oblivious to their responsibilities to family, school, and friends. 
Well, on the surface it appears that this deserves to win the award, and, like I said, we have gotten a lot of mail claimi11g that Tilly and Judy were rooked out of the award for 1970. And I must say that when the features staff assembled to discuss who would win the award for I 97 0, there were a lot of votes for them. But there were some problems. First, I am the Features Editor, and it would look bad if I gave my own sister the award, right? Secondly, someone, I be­lieve it was that cur Rick Smith, doubted that a girl could ride out to California, spend a week there, ride back to South Bend, with men present throughout, and still deserve to win the Blessed Virgin Mary Award. Needless to say, Rick has been fired from the newspaper for casting aspersions on the state of morality of my sister and her friend, but that doubt played a part in the voting, I am sure. It is unfortunate that the demented morality of one person should deprive these two fine young ladies of the award, but that was the case, I am sorry to report. 
But, as usual, we have come up with a solution. Since Tilly and Judy were gypped out of their just due, we h,• ve decided to give Tilly and Judy the Ferdinanda Balboa Award for 1970, in memory of that famous Christian and explorer who circled the globe in search of new lands and excitement. 
T~~22~S~~~~way.
is getting away. 
Getaway is 'not just going home, it's going somewhere new ~£i~doing s~mething different, so ~ send 1n the coupon and let 
us send you our free Getaway Vacation Kit. 
The kit has a book covering 

19 of the world's great cities. 
It has three brochures, one on America, one on Europe, and one on Africa, Asia, the Orient and Pacific. 

It has the independent Getaway Brochure. For people who want to 
travel by themselves. -:~~e;:-If you're between 12 and ~~~~ 21, we can give you our Youth Passport card~ It gets you 331/ 3o/o off domestic flights, on a 
standby basis, plus reduced rates at most places where you'll be staying. 
jJj 
And then there's TWA's 
~--· · -J free Getaway Card. With it, you can charge airfare, hotels, cars, meals, just about everything. And then take up to two years to pay. 
Mail in the coupon for TWA's free Getaway Vacation Kit. And find out how easy getting away really is. 
TWA's G~etaway Program U.S.A./Europe/Asia/Pacific/Africa 
r---------------------------------, 
~-~------------!1 
ITWA, P.O. Box 465, Farmingdale, N.Y.11735  ~  I  
1 Please send meTWA's free Getaway Vacation Kit. I  ~  1 I  
I 1Name  I I  
I  
1Address  I  

ICity State Zip I 
L. ________.______________________IQ!!Q.2ll1J 
*Application fee $3.00. 
Notre Dame explosion buries NY·U 
The Notre Dame basketball team put on an impressive offen­sive display last night, and went on to smash the Violents of New York University 106-68. The Irish, en route to their sixteenth win of the season, began to pull away from the hapless Violets when there were still eight min­utes remaining in the first half. Two quick field goals by Collis Jones gave Notre Dame a 24-17 lead, and NYU was never able to close the gap. The Irish outshot, outpassed, outrebounded, and generally outplayed their op­
ponents, and Coach Johnny Dee's team was able to coast through much of the second half. 
The real story of the game, though, came but one minute and thirteen seconds into the 
NOTRE DAME 
FG FT Carr 18-39 9-10 Meehan 0-3 0-0 Pleick 3-6 2-3 Jones 11-24 3-5 Catlett 2-8 4-5 Sinnott 2-2 0-0 Gemmell 2-3 1-1 Silinski 4-6 0-0 Egart 0-3 0-0 Hinga 0-1 1-2 Regelean 1-2 0-0 Team .second half. Austin Carr took a pass on NYU's right baseline, planted his foot, and slid diagon­ally across the three-second lane. As he threaded his way between the Violet defenders, Carr man­aged to flip a reverse layup over his shoulder. The shot swished. 
"That," blared the public address system, "was Austin Carr." And it was Austin Carr, all night long. The Irish All­American led all scorers with 45 points, and he further helped the ND cause by pulling down nine rebounds. Carr had some diffi­culty in finding the range at the outset of the game, but Jones, who scored 25 points of his own, had no problems in taking up the slack. Collis notched 18 of his 25 during the initial period, and when Carr finally began to · hit, NYU was as good as beaten. 
REB  PTS  
9  45  Guma  
0 8 IS 11 3 3 6 1 1 0 8  0 8 25 8 4 5 8 0 1 2  Thompson Vaughn Chappell Moore Bates Lyons Felton Costigan Lam Team  

The Violets, though they did fall prey to the Carr-Jones duo, were hurt nearly as much by their own mistakes as they were by the play of the NO team. They committed 29 turnovers during the game, and the 16 of these which came in the first half only helped to squelch any comeback notions that NYU Coach Lou Rossini might have been entertaining. But turn­overs were not the only prob­lems which faced Rossini's ball club. The Violets shot rather poorly, and found themselves on 
the short end of a 65 -49 re­bounding margin. 
"Our luck has got to change for the better," said Rossini, prior to the game. But if the New Yorkers were expecting a change in luck, it certainly did not come last night. The first 
NYU FG FT REB PTS 7-14 0-1 6 14 0-0 0-0 0 0 7-14 4-8 11 18 8-21 2-4 3 18 5-12 0-1 7 10 2-10 0-0 4 4 0-0 1-2 1 1 1-2 l-1 5 3 0-1 0-0 1 0 0-1 0-0 1 0 10 
·--------­
TOTAL  43-97  20-26  65  106  TOTAL  30-75  8-17  49  68  
ND shot 44.3%.  NYU shot 40%.  
ND had 17 turnovers.  NYU had 29 turnovers.  

Leprechauns w1n aga1n 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame freshman team used a balanced scoring altack that found all five starters in double figures to offset a one man performance by the l:ePaul frosh and rolled to an 86-73 win. The victory gives the Lepre­chauns a season mark of I 14. 
Bob Valihus controlled the game for the Irish from his guard position and he pumped in 22 points to lead the ND scoring roster. He was given ample sup­port from his mates. 
John Shumate and Chris ''Hawk" Stevens contributed 18 apiece. Stevens was particularly hot with an eight of 13 shooting night. Shumate controlled the hoards for the Irish with 18 rebounds. This was the high mark for anyone in that cate­gory. 
Tom aMara, who still isn't quite I 00% from his ankle injury, also hit double figures with 15 markers. The other 
slender forward for NO, Gary Novak, leaped his way to II tallies and 13 rebounds. 
The Demons Gillespie was the 
high point man in the baJI game. t-Ie had 32 points coming from both underneath and the cor­ners. lhe Leprechauns were in con­
trol throughout most of the game. They held an eight point halftime advantage. 36-28, and kept the score at this margin 
during most of the varsity pre­liminary contest. The frosh gradually built the lead up to the 13 points that they won by. 
The frosh even got to clear the bench in the second half when coach Torn O'Conner decided that his charger had the game stowed away. 
Even though Shumnte and Novak had good board games the DePaul freshmen managed to take a slight edge on the re­bounds overall. The Demons grabbed 61 to NO's 58. 
The glaring statistic of turn­overs helps to explain why the Leprechauns won with such con­fort. The Demons gave the ball away a helpful 23 times to the young Irish. NO limited its num­ber of errors to 12. 
Shooting percentages for both teams were not too impressive. 
Purdue dunks Irish 
The Notre Dame Swimmers closed their home portion of this season with a meet against a fine Purdue Team -one of the better Purdue teams in recent years. 
The Irish came out on the short end of a 83 -38 score. The home team was only able to finish ahead of Purdue in 3 events -the 200 yard Butterfly with Edward Strack (Fr.) win­ning out in the final length; the I00 yard Freestyle with Gene Krathaus (So.) receiving the judges nod; and the 400 yard freestyle Relay team composed of Mike Kilpatrick, (Fr.), Mark Wilcox (So.), and Joseph O'Connor (Fr.), and Gene Krathaus. 
These bright spots. plus the fact that eighteen individual per­formances posted their fastest tim.: uf this season, indicates that the boys did their best. The next engagement for the Irish is against Northern Illinois Univer­sity-a team that also lost to Purdue by an 80-33 score; de­feated the Univ. of Iowa; and lost to Illinois St<>te by a single point. This meet will take place on Friday Feb. 26th at 7:00 
p.m. at De Kalh, Illinois. 
half of last night's game was bad enough --from aViolet point of view but the second half was even worse. It was Carr and 
Jones again when the two teams carne out for the final period, but things were more or less routine for the greater portion of the half. With 5:37 left in the game, though, Carr put on a one-man exhibition that brought the crowd to its feet. Austin scored the 82nd and 83rd Irish points at the 5:37 mark, and then, on three consecutive in­bounds plays, either stole the ball or picked it up as it rolled free on the floor. On each of these occasions, Carr threaded his way through the dazedViolets and scored easy lay-ins. When it was over, in a span of only 1: I I, Coach Dee removed Carr from the line-up and the Irish crowd responded with an enthusiastic -if somewhat disbelieving ­standing ovation. 
Dee emptied his bench soon after this, but the Irish attack continued unchecked. Reserve Don Silinski, who replaced Carr, picked up where Austin had left off, and hit on four of his six 
shots from the field. Silinski's 
bucket with 0:04 remaining 
completed the scoring, and made 
the final I06-68. 
The Violets, who absorbed 
their 16th Joss in 20 outings, 
were paced by Jay Vaughn and 
Andy Chappell, each of whom 
scored 18 points. Roy Guma 
scored 14, and Mike Moore had 
lO for NYU. Vaughn's 11 re­
bounds made him the team lead­
er in this category. Besides Carr's 
45 and Jones 25, the Irish attack 
was complemented by John 
Pleick, Sid Catlett, and Silinski, 
each of whom scored eight 
points. Cbllis was NO's leading 
rebounder with 15 and Catlett 
strengthened the Notre Dame 
board game by snaring 11 re­. bounds. 
l'he Irish, now 16-7, will 
meet St. John's in New York on 
Saturday. Unless a minor miracle 
occurs in this one, Austin Carr 
will move ahead of Lew Alcin­
dor on the NCAA's all-time scor­
ing roster. His 45 points against 
NYU gave him a career total of 
2,325, and tied him with Alcin­
dor for eleventh on the all-time 
list. 
Notre Dame hit on 31 of 72 attempts for a 43% grade. DePaul was much colder hitting at a 35% clip. 
Although the Demons scored one more field goal on NO their 'sloppy but aggressive defense gave the Irish 37 foul shots of which the Domers converted 24. The Demons received just 22 charity tosses in return and they made little use of these with just nine throws going through the cords. 
ND has 3 academic stars 

Notre Dame, lnd.--Three Notre Dame foot baJI players-­All-Americans Larry DiNardo, Torn Gatewood, and Joe Theismann--have been named to the 1970 University Division Academic All-American first team. 
DiNardo, a senior offensive guard, was named on a 95 per cent of all ballots in voting by the College Sports Information Directors of America. DiNardo has already received three post· graduate scholarships, two from the National Football Founda­tion and one from the NCAA. 
Gatewood, a junior receiver and co~aptain of next year's team, was also an easy selection. Theismann, the senior quarter­back who finished runnt>rup in the Heisman Trophy race, finished two votes ahead of Bob Parker from the Air Force. Both Gatewood and DiNardo were second team choices last year. 
Notre Dame, with eight first team selections in the last three years, was the only school to have three players named on the first team. Twenty schools were represented on the first units with both Stanford and Texas receiving two apiece. 
The Big Ten had four players on the first team including guard Joe Zigulich of Northwestern and running back Barry Mayer of Minnesota on the offensive unit. Defensive players named 
were  ends  Phil  Seymour  of  
Michigan  and  Jim  Rucks  of  
Illinois.  

Thinclads 
Notre Dame's track team didn't fare quite as well as most people expected this past week­end. The Irish runners could manage only an eighth place finish in the Central Collegiate Conference meet at Ypsilanti, Michigan. Eastern Michigan, the host team, took top honors In the 15 school meet with a score of 95 points. The Irish were far back with 33 markers. 
The only first place finisher for the Irish was captain Rick Wohlhuter. The senior middle distance runner captured the crown for the 880 yard run. His timewasagood 1:51. 
Big Elio Polselli was the runner-up in the shot put event. The muscular Polselli heaved the weight 56' II I/4" but this was well behind the winner Steve 
Both the Big Eight and Pacific Eight had three players on the first three players on the first three teams and the South­eastern, Southwest, and Ivy League two each. The three spots for Notre Dame boosted the overall total to six for independent teams. 
are 8th 
Wilhelm of Kansas. Wilhelm put the shot 63'¥2''. 
Another second place finisher for NO was Tom McMannon who ran the 60 yard high hurdles. His time matched that of the winner Bill Tipton of E. Michigan at 7.3 seconds but Tip­ton managed to edge the Irish sprinter at the tape. 
The long jump was a rather close affair to say the least. Tom McMannon's brother, Mie, was only an inch behind winner Mike Stull of Kansas but this was good enough for only a third place tie. McMannon leaped the pit at 24'1 ". 
The Irish thinclads will move on to Columbus, Ohio this week­end to take part in the Ohio State Invitational. The meet covers both ­
Page 8 711£ OBJ'ERJI.ER Wednesday, February 24, 1971 
.:....:::~-------------------------===-~===~~IL_________ 
S.G.-suspension rfrdm. for Thur·s. cancelled 
(continued from page 1) student interest was unnaturally next Munday. cized Krashna for apparently Krashna said last night that he the Senate chose the February high to help insure the necessary Winings admitted that he failing to get ahold of two of the had instructed his secretary to 25 date to attempt to improve percentage of voter turnout. could not separate the effect of judicial committee members. inform the committee members voter turnout. Stone said that Winings the suspension of student gov­Steve Pallucca, sophomore of the meeting two days ago and 
Russ Stone, one of the com­refused last night to call an ernment from the constitution­class president, was one of the he had assumed everyone had mittee members in dissent of the election committee meeting in ality of the referendum. committee members who was been contacted. majority, said that the referen­time to hold the referendum "The referendum was wrong not at last night's meeting. He "The nix-up was not intend­dum must be held when student next Monday which is the date on every count," said Winings. said last night that he had not ed," he said. interest in student government is of a possible presidential nm-off "I acted on that. That is what been contacted. high such as during a presidential election. He called this blatantly you have to do if you are repre­The other absentee, Greg Committee member John election?' playing politics. senting the student body." Stepic, junior class president, Barkett, a presidential hopeful, 
"If you want to call that Stone and Pat Weber, the Winings added that holding could not be reached for com­disqualified himself last night politics, then it is politics," said other judicial committee mem­the referendum either tomorrow ment. from sitting on the committee. Stone. ber who voted in the minority, or Monday would rush the stu­
Mark Winings, a committee want the referendum to be held dents who as yet he said are not 
Cp~n. mgrs argue
member, voted against holding a next Monday. The Monday date knowledgeable of the suspension referendum tomorrow and said would meet the ten day waiting proposal. Weaver stated further that 
Bernie Ryan, campaign co­
that the timing of the referen­period prescribed by the consti­Student Union would be one Mooney had been invited in the 
ordinator fo1r Student Body
dum was "pure politics." tution. of the agencies involved in the first place because "he repre­
Presidential candidate Eileen
He accused the dissenting Winings said that he was going suspension of student govern­sents just the kind of Old Guard 
Fitzpatrick, said yesterday that
committee members of desiring to continue to oppose any ment. establishment poohbahism that 
John Barkett, Hall Presidents
to hold the referendum when attempts to hold the referendum Stone and Weber also criti-our campaign wants to defeat. It 
Council Chairman and candidate would do us no good to cam­for the same office, had refused paign with anyone else."
,Senate fails to consider petition 
his offer to campaign together In a prepared statement, through the halls. Barney Gallagher, another of
About a dozen senators waited
by Bob Higgins tor and Student Body Presi­Ryan reported that Barkett Miss Fitzpatrick's supporters,
for nearly a half an hour, but
dential Candidate Don Mooney had said he would not campaign said that Barkett was running a
when it became evident that
The Student Senate failed to in conjunction with Off-Ca1npus with Miss Fitzpatrick because "vote race," rather than "an
neither Mark Winnings, Student
cortvene last night to consider a Senator Steve Flavin, lacked the she was a "minor candidate," opportunity to talk with people
Body Vice President, and Chair­
petition calling for a Consti-. required amount of signatures and because the invitation had about the important issues 
man of the Senate, nor Don
tutional Revision Committe, and would probably have failed. 
been extended to Student which student government must
Mooney, co-sponsor of the bill,
which was to have been placed According to Flavin, the Senator Don Mooney alone. deal." 
were going to arrive, the sen'!tors
in referendum on tomorrow's meeting failed because of a lack Bob Weaver, St. Ed's Hall Ryan also said that a discus­departed.
Student Body Presidential hal-of communication. "All senators President and Barkett's cam­sion of issues would take place
Flavin was not dissappointed
lot. were supposed to have been con-paign manager, said that Barkett at 12:30 Wednesday afternoon,The petition, which was co-tacted," commented Flavin, with the setback and said that he had never labelled anyone a and that Mooney and
plans to in traduce the petition
sponso~~-d ~y Off-Cl!!JlllUS Sen~ _::_b_ll!_apparently they weren't." ''minor candidate," but that "it Fitzpatrick would participate.
in the form of a bill later in the 
is pretty clear from the Observer Barkett was not available for year. 
and WSND polls exactly who the comment but Weaver said that students have labelled as such." he would participate_ 
Mooney: return "leadership to people" 
dent activity fee by raising it participants to many different
(continued from page 1) 
two dollars. ideas rather than "soothing sion, but the rest should go to the The Student Association them." He also favors a diploma 
halls, "not just for television would also he able to "act as a given in no major to those who
Ticlets 1.50
at'8:30 PM & 
antennas, but perhaps for an corporate entity in law suits." take courses they are interestedlnformatif;)n 284-4176 experimental social program .. " lie mentione:d as an example, in for the purpose of learning. 
He favors restoring the stu-that if womtm are admitted to Speaking of the proposal to r--------------------------------------------, Notre Dame as students next abolish student government, year, a suit could be brought to Sherry sited the good aspects ofThere's nothing newer than give women an equal right to live the Student Union that would in residence halls. be lost, mentioned the possible In order to "provide for self­loss of accreditation, and consid­
Feb._ 21 at 2:30PM 
RIVERBOAT BODY SHIRTS 
growth by having as diverse a ered "we should work on gov­student body as possible," Sher­ernment now while it is fresh in ry favors more money be given our minds instead of waiting a for the recruitment of all minori­year."
We have them with ruffled fronts, lace fronts and sleeves, crepes, 
ty groups, including lower class Although many of those in his whites, and he wants to combine audience at Morrisey favored a­
patterns, solids in a wide selection of colors. With the 
the recruitment programs of St. nother candidate, Mooney felt Mary's and Notre Dame. He that he had influenced those
$10
full sleeve, unique button treatment and comfort fit. thinks that pressure could be put who had been previously unde­the Administration for need­cided. Included in his campaign­
upward on ed minority organizations and if ing last night was a door to door 
necessary money be taken from attempt to meet residents of the student fee for this purpose. Cavanaugh and the Towers. Mooney would like to see Sherry visited six halls besidesKNIT SUITS FOR MEN an improved freshman year pro­campaigning door to door in 
gram which would expose its Dillon and Alumni. 
NEW! 
1 

We have a new shipment just arrived...you can select from new style and color. Suit yourself at Gilbert's Campus Shop. Sale on Suits Sportcoats Suburban Coats Jackets savings of 1/3 [@] 1/4 lohg Sleeve Dress Shirts...Now 1/2 Off ;Juy alOW and pay: .;, ~~ .AI'-~-~ONE·THIRD IN JUNE .-... ~~ ONE-THIRD IN JULY 41LBE RT'S ONE-THIRD IN AUGUST~il\pU$~hop~ / No carrvinf! charges ndded. ON THE CAMPUS •.• NOTRE DAME  Career Opportunities in COUI\JSELING PSYCHOLOGY Inovative approaches to social problems Training in individual & group counseling Focus on service to campus community M4. &. PhD programs thru Institute for studies in Education. l:onsultation to ott-campus community social service agencies OPEN HOUSE Counseling Center Fri. Feb. 26 315 Admin Bldg I -4 pm Refreshments Served  


