Vol. V, No. 116 



By Ann Therese Darin Dame's Institute for Educational Studies, to chair the committee. 
The Executive Committee of Sr. M. Alma Peter, acting the St. Mary's Board of Trustees president, and Sr. M. Gerald has appointed an ad-hoc com-Hartney, secretary of the Board mittee to possibly merge the bulk of Trustees will also work with of the academic departments of Fr. McCluskey. the college with Notre Dame by The Executive Board of September, 1971. Trustees hopes that by 
The group named Rev. Neil establishing the ad-hoc com­
McCluskey, director of Notre mittee to deal with academic 
North Quad SLC candidates expound on ca111paign issues 
by mike murphy 
Five North Quad SLC can­
didates discussed their positions 
yesterday in separate interviews. 
They all stated a degree of dis­
satisfaction with the present 
operation and achievements of 
the SLC. 
John Cullen, a junior from Zah­
m hall, said that "The SLC should 
be the most important legislative 
body on campus." It has great 
potential, he said, "but hasn't 
lived up to it." 
He said that there have been too many proposals brought up by t~e administration, who ac­cordmg to Cullen control the body. He would like to see the students and faculty work better together to gain more power. 
Cullen stated that he feels the main thing to be dealt with by the SLC is co-education. He feels that the administration is going to have to handle a lot of that issue like the placing of girls o~ campus, but the ground work should be done in the SLC. 
He would want to see a redefinition of the "imminent danger" clause, an investigation of the judicial system and better communications between the SLC and the student body. 
In summary he said that the SLC could be, and should be a "check on the administration's rashness. 
T.C. Treanor, a sophomore 
Senate 
As a result of a petition circulated by Steve Novak the Student Senate will meet tonight at 7:00 in the amphitheatre. 
The agenda includes the Ann Marie Tracey can­didacy for the SLC. 
from Badin who has served as a Senator this last year said "The SLC is a worthless, powerless body that has no ac­complishments to its name." 
He said that the body must be "radically changed and given power in order to be any more than a glorified high school student counciL 

Treanor proposed the addition of trustee and alumni to the body, and the setting up of seven committees to deal with all facets of University life. His proposed SLC would have a steering committee that would decide which of the other committtees would handle a motion. 
He proposed that these com­mittees have the final say on anything they're dealing with. In this way, Treanor said, the SLC can be effecitve. 
He stated that the "SLC must be the highest Univeristy body if Student self-government is to be more than a farce." 
Treanor stated that the parietal policy should be reviewed, along with the Judicial Code. He said 

the  the  "clear  and  present  
danger"  clause  must  be  well  
defined.  

Jerry O'Connor, a junior from Farley hall who was a member of Krashna's cabinet as Off-campus Commissioner said that he felt the SLC has potential but is facing its biggest challenge yet: The implimentation of co­education. 
He said that he felt the mem­bers of the SLC must make sure the students are represented and that Student Life in is the foremost issue. The ad­ministration, according to O'Connor tends to operate under different values than those of the students. They worry about keeping the place open, public relation, alumni's feelings and not on the students. "The 
Continued on page 6 



regulations that "wild rumors will stop." Apparently more than 300 St. Mary's students have refused to register for the fall semester until they are certain that their credits will be accepted by their major departments at Notre Dame towards a degree. 
The Executive Committee also drafted a statement defining St. Mary's position toward unification. Although the con­tents of this statement were not released, it reportedly contains sections dealing with the status of faculty rank and tenure. 
This statement will be presented to a committee composed of the chairmen of the SMC and the Notre Dame Boards of Trustees; both presidents and two other members from each Board on May 2. 
The purpose of the meeting, according to Sr. Alma, is "to draw up a.joint statement which will be approved by both Boards of Trustees when they meet May 14th and 15th. 
In other action at the meeting, the Executive Committee suggested that no interim president be appointed by the Board. It is their opinion that the present administration should coordinate St. Mary's activities during the transition period. This action will also be suggested to the St. Mary's Board at its mid­May meeting. 
At the Sunday conference, representatives of the faculty assembly visited with the Executive Committee to request a clarification of the unification statement released in March. Particularly, they asked for an explanation on the proposed status of St. Mary's faculty members and the honoring of their rank and tenure. 
To answer their questions, the committee delegated Fr. McCluskey to meet with all of the college's faculty tomorrow af­ternoon to explain the steps which the college will take. 
According to Fr. McCluskey, "The committee will assist the administration in smoother steps toward unification." He plans to have a majority of the com­mittee's work done by mid­summer. He anticipates that Notre Dame's Board of Trustees may appoint a similar committee to facilitate the merger while his committee is at work. 

Zimmerman suggests SLC reconsider Tracey candidacy 
After a brief informal discussion of the Ann Marie Tracey candidacy for the student North Quad seat and a shorter discussion of the Hall Life Report, the Student Life Council yesterday adjourned for lack of a quorum and set its next meeting tentatively for this Thursday at 4:15p.m. 
The discussion of the Tracey candidacy was permitted by chairman Dr. William Eagan at the suggestion of student Mark Zimmerman when the SLC did not have a quorum. The discussion was brief, and ended 
when  a  fifth  member  of  the  
Administration  showed  for  the  
meeting.  

Former National Student Association Coordinator Steve Novak spike for Miss Tracey's position, saying that the election committee set up by Student Government was un­constitutional, and thus the decision not to allow her to run was illegal. 
Zimmerman suggested that the legalistic problems be minimized, and that the fact that she could represent the students should be the most important factor in a decision, which was not forthcomina <>+ tho ~~A•:-­
Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle C.S.C., said that unless she w~re officially enrolled as a 


2:00 lecture-david dellinger: non-violent civil disobedience, washington hall. 
8:00 
recital-london bach society, paul steintz, conductor, o.laughlin audiotorium, smc. 

8:00 
lecture-dr. carl djerassi,: future prospects in birth control, washington hall. 




Faccenda calls i·mminent danger clause' compromise 
<This is the second part of the Observer's interview with University Vice-President and General Counsel Philip Faccenda. Mr. Faccenda discusses the "im­minent danger clause" today. The interview was conducted by Observer News Editor John Abowd. ed.) 
Q. In the same SLC meeting in which you called the Judicial Code the product of negotiation, you also called the unfamous III-d clause, "the imminent danger clause", the principle comprimise of the code. Could you elaborate? 
A. From almost the beginning of the discussions, (I think it was during Richard Rossie's term that Fr. Hesburgh's letter containing the fifteen minute rule came out) there was a great deal of discussion, by the students especially, about some way to limit that jurisdiction. 
Of course, the faculty and the administration especially the administration, took the opposit~ position, This was constantly debated in the Student Life Council. It ran through the discussions with the Dedrick committee on writing a code. Any attempt to fence in the administration's right to impose the fifteen minute rule was, of course, resisted by the ad­ministration. 
Q. From the students point of view, what was the major concession requested of the administration? · 
A. The students on the committees, in return, wanted to get pure student juries. What we ended up with was, as I had said, the basic compromise on which the code in mind was built. We agreed to let students have control of the university court level as long as the very, very important matters were handled by a tri-partite board. 
Q. How did this agreement affect the fifteen minute rule? 
A. By this we meant specifically the fifteen minute rule. It would seem ridiculous to turn a fifteen minute rule case over to an all student panel. It was our im­pression and I think that everyone pretty much agrees on this, that it would be almost impossible to find five students who could withstand the pressure that they would get from their peers, if they were to vote in favor of such an action. That is why I said it was the basic compromise. In other words, the students gave in on that point and the administration gave in on the point of all student $smr;d sy smu ;rbr;' 
Q. In a letter to the Observer, F'red Dedrick, a member of the committee that negotiated the code, said that the presence of the "imminent danger clause" destroyed the informality of the code because of the summary penalties by the Dean of Students. He noted that the penalties were not exactly informal. Can you clarify this inconsistancy in the judicial code that calls itself a document of "love over law"? 

Tuesday, April 27, 1971
THE OBSERVER
Page 2 

Faccenda speaks on 'imminent danger' 


of the accused students prefer to 
of whether a man is guilty or to tell us how many students be heard by Fr. Reihle?
Continued from page 1 
innocent and I hear a great deal asked to have him decide the A. There are a lot of reasons why
A. I think that the big problem of discussion about how merits of their case -their guilt 
that would occur. I think that 
here is the difinition of the word beaurocratic we can make the or innocence and if guilty their 
secrecy is probably the principle 
informal. Informal has always machinery so that there is no punishment. It came out that 
reason. Realizing that the 
meant to me that the method possibility of ever finding out about 95 percent of the students 
evidence is strong enough that 
whereby you determine whether whether somebody is guilty or who came to him asked that he 
there is no advantage to goin
somebody is guilty or innocent. innocent. I think that that is at the handle it personally rather than 
through a proof of innocence or 
There is either a formal way of crux of our discussion. I think go before a board. 
guilt and that the punishment
coming to that point or an in­that there are people that would There had only been three or 
that the Dean of Students would 
formal wya. There is certainly like to make the system so four cases in the previous two 
set down would be at least no 
nothing informal about· any bueaucratic that there would years in which anybody had 
worse than a punishment of a 
serious crime or violation. I don't never be a possibility of deter­asked to be heard by a panel of 
panel if a panel operated as a 
think anybody would view either mining whether the person is his peers. All of these cases were 
panel should. Those are probably 
one those two things as being guilty or innocent. It would just considered to be "political" 
the three things that make the 
informal. go away because we'd be con­violations rather than violations 
accused want the dean of 
I hear precious lit.tle discussion stantly in idscussion and of rules that are relatively cer­
students to handle it. 

negotiation much the same as we tain. 
Tommorow more on the "im­
have in our civil courts where it Q. Why do you think that so many minent danger clause."
Applications being received for 
takes as much as seven years to try a case. 
Q. Is much of Fr. Reihle's work 



Mooney withdraws
now baically the informal
University Judicial Board 
disposition of student discupline? 
Defeated Student Body students."
Several Recors mentioned that in 
Presidential Candidate and Off-In addition, he expressed his
the interviews that we conducted 
Campus Senator Don Mooney fear that with Miss Tracey notwith them.
Names must be submitted by MPy 1st. 
withdrew from the race for a running on the Noth Quad, the know because I don't get involved 
A. I would say this, and I don't 
South Quad seat on the Student winner might be T.C. Treanor, except in one event out of a 
Life Council yesterday. He Sty Senator and Observer Applications can be picked up in SG office or call Dave Tushar 
protested the refusal of the Executive Editor. The statement (283-8359) For further information. 
thousand, during the discussions 
Student Government Election did not elaborate on this, but Committee to allow former St. Mooney said that in that case, the -------------------------~ Mary's SBP Ann Amarie "losers will be the Student 
on the code we did ask Fr. Riehle 
f f ..Tracey to run for a North Quad Body." 
Seat on the SLC. Mooney said that he was with­1 t In a strong verbal assault on drawing from the race because t Election Committee Chairman "change will have to come


Ju7V_1otlS,, 
• e Orlando Rodriguez, Mooney said, through the student body thisf f "I suspect there is no other year," and not through the ' motive to this action by Orlando structures and student govern­1 I and the Committee than the ment. 
There are 361 of you who do not f cynical manipulation of the SLC Election Committee chairmant '72 0 election." Rodriguez responded to the 
' WiSh to be in the orne. t He accused student govern-charges levied by Mooney by ment of guiding "its friends into saying, "they are totally un­
1 

SLC seats," and cited the rule founded and I think Don knows it. This is the LAST WEEK 1that enables students to run in The Election Committee felt that t any voting district as one of the she should not run because she for those who want to change their minds. 'f means of accomplishing the was not a member of the Notre
t 

alleged manipulation of the Dame Student Body. It wouldI election. have been very easy to pass the Mooney also attacked the buck along to the SLC and to havet There are 33 make-up appol'ntments available. t candidacy of former Student them disqualify her if she hap­
t 
' Government Judicial Coor-pened to win, but we don't dinator Rich Urda on the South wpowork like that. We feel thatI f Quad because Urda will be a until the two schools merge, and 
Resident Assistant next year. As there is one governing body the
' 
t such, Mooney said he will be SLC is meant for Notre Dame t responsible "to the director of representatives onlv. We're
Phone Immediately 283-1832 Student Residences before the Continued on page 6
' 
'

I To Change your Mind! IDellinger to discuss 'May t I Day' at Washington Hall I ~~ David Dellinger, twenty year Dellinger refused induction
f 

veteran of the peace and civil during World Was II and fasted rights movement, will speak for two months during his im-HourS : 10 AM • 5 PM• today at Washington Hall at 2:00 prisonment. Since that activist1 f in the afternoom. Dellinger will baptism, Dellinger has been ' ' speak to the issue of the shanging jailed dozens of times for hisf t ractics and purposes within the participation throughout the civil peace movement, specifically rights movements, and has
Thank Y0 U ! 

discussing the planned "May written numerous essays on thef Day" activities. relation of non-violent action and 
t 


A long time social activist social change.
' 

Presently, Dellinger is a member of the People's Coalition for Peace and Justice, which is co-sponsoring the May Day events. A past coordinator of the New Mobilization Committee, Dellinger has visited Vietnam and has been a persevering ac­tivist for peace. At the recent march on the Capitol, Dellinger spoke of the need for regaining the sense of the "power of the individual" to foster change, a theme which also was explained in his speech at Notre Dame's Kellog Center last spring. 
Dellinger's speech, at 2:00 this afternoon, is co-sponsored by the non-violence program and the Academic Commission. Ad­mission if free. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may

Tuesday May 11 Ticket Sales start Today 
be purchased for $8 from The
8: 30 pm in the ACC 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage

Tickets $5.50, $4.50, 4:00--Fiesta Lounge 
paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


ruesday, April 27, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
McCartin to challenge ROTC 
By Jerry Lutkus and Letters. McCartin, who will be seated as the first student on The Arts and Letters College the council, stressed that this "is 
Council will hear two proposlas not a political move." this afternoon by Ed McCartin, a "It is essentially an attempt to student member of the council, 
consider what the liberal arts are dealing with the removal of and seriously reflect on this to see 
ROTC courses from the if it satisfies the concept of liberal 

curriculum of the College of Arts studies," he said. 

Study help program appoints coordinators 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program, a tutorial program for underprivileged children in South Bend. has aooointed a new slate of coordinators for next year's 
program.The new coordinators, John 
Romp£, Tom Reid, Mary Jane Griffin, and Kathy Kane, will succeed out-going coordinators John Reid and Mike Heisler who have been in charge of the program for two vears. 

Acknowledging the work of the two graduatmg seniors as 
successful, because "for the first 
time in the history of the organization the financial statement is in the black," Miss Kane explained some new programs that NSHP wishes to inaugurate next year. 

"The coordinators hope to improve the quality of tutoring with use of flash cards and readers, to expand recruiting to include Indiana University's South Bend campus and HolyCross Nursing School and have a 
'd
better organization," she sat . 
Operating for seven years, the program has 700 tutors fr?m SMC, ND, and Holy Cr~ss ~u:uor 
Bill Elsey Olds Cadillac -Elkhart, Ind. 
College who work m fifteen--------!-~----------------­different centers in South Bend. f t It is advised by a board of f directors made up of citizens f 
from the South Bend community. t R c~ Classz·cal Record Sale t
The tutoring program runs four afternoons and evenings a f I week. Participants usually tutor I for two sessions a week, either f Monday and Wednesday, or I Tuesday and Thursday. 

at the 
McCartin's first proposal 
reads,  "all  Junior  and  Senior  
ROTC  courses  (300-400  level)  
should  not  be  granted  credit  

towards the conferral of a bac­calaeureate degree in Leberal Arts." 
His rationale behind the proposal is that ROTC courses are not "traditional liberal arts, just as it would be hard to stretch them to become modern liberal arts." 
McCartin said that presently these courses can be taken as electives toward a BA degree. Ht: disagrees with this policy saying that these are "non-liberal" 
courses. Again he stressed that his 
objection is "not a moral or 
.
1
po ihcal objection. It's simply
and purely an intellectual con­
cern. These courses are so technical in the upper levels that they cannot hP rnnstrued as 
Continued on pa e 
8 
Dance set for senior weeki 
An informal buffet-dinner dance on Friday, May 7, will be the highlight of the planned ac­tivities during Senior Week. 
The dance to be held at the Faculty Club will cost ap­proximately $10 per couple. The 
affair is being jointly run by Notre Dame and St. Mary's and is open to the girls with hometown dates. 
No band has been named yet for this event which will try to get away from the traditional Senior Prom image and just provide a nice night according to dance chairman Tony Early. 
The remainder of the week's activites also were announced by Chairman Tony Early. 
Sunday, May 2, there will be an excursion to the Chicago Cubs game featuring before and after stops at some local taverns. 
A trip to the Dunes and an eveninl! cookout at the Senior Bar are slated for Monday, May 3. 

nesday, May 5, will be open f date~, but the Seni~r Bar ~ill co!ltmue ~o s~rve mexpenstve 1 drmks as It wtll throughout the A 
week. . ' 
Thursday, May 5,. will fea~re I a~ ye~ unknown movies f?r Semor vie~mg . pleas.ure. m the 1 Engmeeru~g Auditonum. . A 
The Semor Dance on Fnday, ' followed by a par~y at the R~ A Barn the .followmg day will ' con~lu~e thi~ week of fun and 1 frohc JUSt pr10r to exams. 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE MAJORS 
Let us help you: 
PLAN AHEAD To Become a CPA 
THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE 
Our Successful Students Represent 
1/5 OF USA 



Notre Dame Bookstore 
VICTROLA 

BEETHOVEN: CONCERTO No. 2 
THY CELESTIAL STATE­
William Kapeii/NBC Symphony/ 
MUSIC OF ORLANDO GIBBONS 
Golschmann · 
Deller Consort 
PROKOFIEFF: CONCERTO No. 3 
VICS-1551

VIC-1520 
'

THE OBSERVER
Page 4 



THE OBSERVER 

All year long they've looked bored as beD -Bat you should have seen them 
today!! 

The SLC Elections 
The usual barrage of often self-serving rhetoric is at its peak now with Student Life Council elections scheduled for tomorrow. This year's race is complicated by the fact that the election committee has ordained that NAnn Marie Tracey's candidacy from the North Quad is illegal, because she is not a Notre Dame student. 
For the past year· the general tomne and content of Observer editorials con­cerning the SLC has been largely negative. The SLC has been bogged down in a quagmire of its own general ineptitude and inability to go past the technicalities and deal with the substance of the issues. 
Co-education as an issue came and went, and throughout the SLC remained mute. The drug problem on campus was brought home with the pre-Christmas drug raid. The SLC took a fine proposal and put it through the mill. It came out flat as day old dishwater. In effect it gave the administration a blank check to do what it damn well pleases, until the SLC decides to move. Yesterday's meeting was highlighted by the abscence of a quorum of administration members. This failure to achieve a quorum necessitated the postpoinig of the meeting until Thursday. 
Unless and until people with some kind of spark, drive or imagination are elected to the body, it will continue to wallow like a wounded bull elephant in a tar pit' 
In the belief that the following students have these qualities, or at least some of them they have received the endorsement of the Observer editorial board. SOUTH QUAD 
The Observer unhesitantly and unanimously endorses the Rich Urda-Buzz Imhoff ticket for the South Quad. Urda, a former judicial coordinator for student government, is the most knowledgeable candiate running. He has an excellent grasp of the issues and will work hard if elected. Buzz Imhoff complements Urda's knowledge with his intimate inmolvement in hall life, bothas a two term hall president and chairman of the Hall President's Council. He will be in a special position to help the SLC relate the problems in the halls, something they have failed to do this year. 
TOWERS 

In this district the Observer, without reservation, endorses Floyd Kezele. By his work on the council Kezele has shown his ability and willingness to bring greatly needed reform to that body. Kezele is vice-chairman of the SLC and he is head of the steering committee. Under his direction work has begun on legislation which would set up a badly needed committee system for the council. We urge the residents of Grace and Flanner to re-elect Floyd Kezele. 
NORTH QUAD 

For one of the North Quad seats the Observer endorses Ann-Marie Tracey, former St. Mary's SBP. Miss Tracey is quite competent and has a superb un­derstanding of the issues at hand. Her knowledge will be invaluable when proceedings are gegun to form some sort of council that will deal with student life on both campuses. Since Miss Tacey has been ruled off the ballot by the election committee, hers will be a write-in candidacy. We urge the residents of the North Quad to do so. 
The Observer editorial board was unable to come to a decision about the 
second North Quad post. Either T. C. Treanor, Jerry O'Connor or Tom Leahy 
are acceptable though somewhat limited candidates .. 
OFF-CAMPUS 

In this district the Observer somewhat hesitantly endorses Dave Tushar. He 
has a sufficent grasp of the issues, but seems to lack imagination. He does have 
the ability though, to perform adequatley as a member of the SLC. The idea of 
his opponent, Joe Schlosser, to turn his vote over to Ann Marie Tracey and thus 
allow SMC representation on the board is an appealing one, but lacking in 
realism. 
Tuesday, April 27, 'IV.l 

Steve Lazar------------------­
Washington 
when the bells chime in evening and the nations settle down to war when it is evening and the nations clash when the bells chime and in the towns 
the people pay their tax when the bells chime and the bats are purple in the western sky then it is time 
down from the mountains down from the mountains and onto the jeweled plain down to the jeweled plain down to the mythical cities from every fold of this nation let us go down 
it is very warm here it is green this is not a place of war, here it is very green 
we must articulate the curses we must make our anger heard the animals must cry out in anguish all animals must screech with pain 
there is no joy in springtime no fair scent from the magnolias there are perfumes and the odors of dead earth all blossoms are mould 
in the archives are kept the records in documents and mongrams they are kept 
into the archives they must place and keep what we are saying what here is being screamed 
open the archives throw back the doors our voices are coming in let that stone be split open, for our voices must come in 
we must articulate the curses we must make our anger heard every rotting bud must hear our voices each bird must hear us scream we must find joy in springtime we must find water that is pure wemust blast the crumbling towers we must scourge the earth's bordellos all animals must change we must make all animals change we must remake all animals 
it is very warm here it is green this is not a place of war, here it is very green 
joshua, who fit the battle, is here joshua is here, who fit the battle not with jackass bones, who fit the battle with trampling feet, who fit with a music stronger than stone 
joshua, who is here, he will lead us in 
we must articulate the curses wemust scream against the primitive horror we must purge all thought we must purge unthought thought we must possess no thought by screaming we shall have no thought 
we must shall scream we shall scream we shall 
when all has been screamed out when we have reached the ends of our voices when we have fallen down gaging and none can speak when there is no fluid left but in our eyes when we can lift our eyes when at last we can lift our eyes then we shall pray 
at the center of the hurricane in golden light at the center of the universe in light a child is turning 
behold him, turning with radiant eyes behold him turning a child of light ' 
child of the heavens child of the purest light child of mercy, mercy's child child of burning eyes hear us 
it is very warm here 
it is green ~hi.s is not a place of war, here 1t IS very green 

Tuesday, April 27, 1971 

THE OBSERVER Page 5 
bill english 

william f. buckley, ir. and the current scene 
only the first third party Senator to be elected in 40 confusion. But essentially I think Mr. Nixon's years, but also a conservative, and from the state of condidacy next year will depend on two,. .things:New York. So obviously, he suggested that What is the nature of the crystallized democratic something was going on. Now it may be that that opposition? If it's left and anarchistic, and sort of something will turn out to be a conjunction of anti-American, using those words very carefully,unlikely events: A Goddell incumbent, and an ar­then I think that Mr. Nixom will find a lot of support
bitrary opponent. I think that there is something, from people who are at this moment between edges. 
else going on, and that what he really suggested 
was that there is in the making, America, some sort Q-Do you th_ink with the increased interest of 
young people today in ecology and preservation of
of reacclamation of a determination to survive. This is essentially the politics of stability in which he is life and nature, that the conservatives will make 
engaged. great strides in the future years politically, as well as socially, in other areas in gaining the support of 
Q-Many people consider 1-.[ixon to be one of the the young people, especially college students? What 
most conservative Presidents of recent times. Yet, 
I mean is, will the conservatives get into this area 
since his election, it seems that he has moved to the 
and gain the support of the youth?
left somewhat. In light of this, would you say that it 
A-The conservatives, it seems to me, are people
is impossible for a President to have conservative 
who for a number of reasons ought to be most in­
legislation enacted, or to follow conservative 
terested in conservationism-I'm thinking of 
policies today? 
Theodore Roosevelt, who started conservatwnism 
A-There are a couple of things I think that need to 
in this country, and I think they have a very
enter into that analysis. First of all, Nixmn came in 
legitimate interest. What I think conservatives will, 
as a centrists of the Republican party; Goldwater 
or I hope they will do, is to distinguish their 
on his right, and Rockefeller on his left, roughly 
program from the sort of religion that ecology is 
speaking. His election did not signify within the 
becoming at the hands of people who are one part
Republican the election of the conservative wing. 
Ludites and one part fanatics. The important thing 
Second of all, he is a politician, as all centrists are. 
to do is to rescue the ecology program so that it does 
They usually arrive at their positions by careful use 
not become a left-wing, bureaucratic cause. They
of caliphers, measuring distances from the two 
must do that and I certainly hope that the con­
extremes. That being the case, when he surveyed 
servatives will be ingenious enough to improvise on 
the situation and found a Congress, which after all 
them and to make a platform that makes sense. I
passes the laws, (he doesn't) both of whose houses
A -Oh, by all means. It had, roughly speaking, think a wonderful paradox is that Princeton is 
were dominated by Democrats, he knew better than 
everything to do with it, and it's too bad, because I nowadays selling a General Motors car, because 
to try to propound a program which was absolutely
see no reason for a fourth party, unless thzre's a they figure that, on account of the ecological
certain to fail, you say a right-wing program, or
third party. The situation in New Y~rk is u~ique, demands its Professors have been partly respon­
say, a market-oriented program. So he went about
because the Liberal Party had exerctsed a kmd of sible for making, General Motors might not be 
as far as he reasonably could, succeeded in some
leverage on the two major parties over a period of profitable in the next few years. 
cases, failed in others. So I don't think that, in that
twenty years, the result of which was the effect of sense, he's going to be thought of necessarily as one Q -Do you think because there were so manythis phantasma of conservatives, and that's the 
of the most conservative Presidents of recent times. veterans in the demonstration the April 24reason why the conservative party grew. ~nd, of But I think that his stand on Vietnam will be con­demonstration might have more effect on Mr. Nixoncourse it established its authenticity when 1t drew sidered to have been conservative in light of historic than previous demonstrations?
for my 'brothzr vastly more votes than were given to 
circumstances.. A-No, I think that Mr. Nixon has simply made his the Republican official candidate. In Michigan, you conclusions to survive. The protests now, for in­have a situation in which 48.5 per cent was the Q-With the Presidential campaign beginning to stance, compared to protests last year are prettyfigure given by thz principal challenger, Mrs. 
pick up pace right now, how would you assess slender. That being the case, I can't imagineRomney. When you get that close to taking control President Nixon's performance so far, from you anyghint forcing him out of the timetable which,of thz party, I've never understood the logic of point of view? after all, is going to remove Vietnam fromproliferation. 
A -Pretty good, pretty good, I think in Vietnam Presidential politics. I'm not suggesting that thz the chances are that it will have proved successful timetable corresponds with that, I'm simply
Q-The night of his victory, your brother was 
by mid-summer of next year. By which I mean that, suggesting that Vietnamization, hang it or like it,
quoted as saying. 'This is the dawn of the age of the 
by mid-summer of next year, the American will see us with a token force in Vietnam this time
" new politics." Do you believe that the statement 
Presidency will be so exiguous as to be very difficult next year.
was valid, and if so, what did it mean? 
to compose into a major cause of militant authority. 
A-Well, it was one part elation and one part a Q -Y~u ran for mayor in 1965, half-seriously, at 
I think thwt his domestic policies lack a certain
consideration of quite an extraordinary event: not least. Do you ever consider running again? 
consistency, which is why there is considerable 
A-I give my constituency only one chance. 

john meelligott 

a rejoinder to norman lent 
presidents, newspaper editors and others 
.. Editors note: Norman Lent was here on 
from colleges asked AI to help them get an
Aprill9. Which was a very long time ago. 
audience with Richard Nixon. They
He was elected an even longer time ago. 
received this audence and expressed their 
But the passion and emotion surrounding 
displeasure with the war and the draft. No
the whole affair are still very much with 
cards were burned, nor were there any
us. The value of running something like the 
other acts of draft evasion at the audience 
following is, I'll admit, debatable, if for no 
or anywhere else the students went.
other reason that it really doesn't con­
Mr. Lent-Lowenstein attacked me all
tribute all that much to the quality of the 
through the campaign because I had the
dialogue between everybody. And it is sort 
audacity to challenge him.
of unfair in that it gives the one side, 
Fact-We Cthe student campaigners)
represented by Mr. McElligott, the ad­
were told only to point out the reasons for
vantage of having the 'final' say, since I 
Al's position on any issue. Two days
doubt that any Lent supporter will answer 
before the election we passed out
this reply. But, for what it's worth and for 
literature which refuted Lent charges that 
your entertainment and edification, here it 
AI was in favor of the legalization of drugs,
is. 
was the voice of Hanoi, was the chiefAfter sitting through the Norman Lent apologist for the Black Panthers, backedlecture I feel compelled to shed a little student rioting, voted for bills which buslight on some of Mr. Lent's campaign little children all over the place and other tactics, not to question his victory, but such ridiculous charges. That weekend wemerely to put it in proper perspective. I were told never to bring up Lent unless was in the Notre Dame contingent that 
asked.

worked for Lowenstein, and marvel that a Mr. Lent-If it was not for Lowenstein's 
man with such a fine record as a New York student campaigners I would never have State legislator could be such a disgrace as won. a campaigner. I would like to refute 
Fact-There was a majority of 24,000several of the statements made by Lent in more Republicans than Democrats in the his speech, and in the question and answer district. James Buckley won the distriCt 
period. They are not all his lies by far. I by over 50,000 votes. Nelson Rockefeller am writing a column, not a book. For 
won by over 20,000. Lent by less than 9,000.
examnlf': 15,000 Republicans did not vote for LentMr. Lent-There were 22 debates...! 

although most of them voted for fellowwent to 24 but he didn't show up for two of Republican Rockefeller and fellow Con­them. 
servatfve Buckley. Norman Lent won inFact -I sat in the Merrick Synagague spite of himself.
with 240 other people and heard Lowen­Perhaps the most telling quote on Lent'sstein and Carey <the Right to Life party victory comes from a man who told me hecandidate) debate. Lent never showed up, would vote for Lent because he wasand later in headquarters I talked to against bussing, and most of the Lentanother student who said that Lent had not campaign meant nothing to him. He said,shown up for the previous week's debate in and I quote, "Lowenstein is much moreanother town. 
honest than. Lent, but, you know,Mr. Lent-Lowenstein praised several sometimes you need a political hack inhundred draft card burners in Washington. 
office."

Fact-Several hundred student body 

don mooney 
music is $$$$$$$$ 
Remember Woodstock? Remember all Worth" and "Ohio". Stephen Stills is going that music, free for most everyone, that on tour this summer, and asking for $25,000 put together the big cultural "Zap". Long a nite. Neil Young is considerably more Hair, dope, faded jeans-it all came from humble, now. You can buy him and his the music that's been heard in the last 6 guitar for around $15,000. If Stephen gets years. And so did the whole ambitious what he's asking though, you can bet Neil counter-culture thing -The real Hippies, will become more ambitious. with "Love", communes, flashed peace The prices 'I've cited aren't concrete. signs (remember the Chambers They're numbers thrown around by agents Brothers?), and transcendental in the last few weeks. They might be meditation. negotiable down, or up. Groups like 
The new music kept a lot of people in the Santana, Creedence, and the Who are streets for the pre-demonstration bash. asking for more. And the people began to see the music These are some examples. It seems that , makers as leaders of the whole "love, the music game -especially progressive peace, and happiness" gig. Part of it was a rock-is turning into an immense rip-off. A "no" to the whole ugly competitive place like ND-SMC, with a small student moneyed sy;;tem. · body, is the real loser. The big names are 
I guess we all learn with age. I've been working less, and for more money. They checking on people for the fall concert just don't need us. series -and some of our boys -especially And the prices are still going up. They'll the countrified, non-commercial types -continue to spiral until these musicians are very much into Mr. Nixon's style of price themselves out of the big city market capitalism. Here are some examples. as well. Already ticket prices in Chicago 
The Moody Blues. Remember "Give just are amazingly high. a little bit more, take a little bit less." In the meantime, concerts in smaller Listen to those albums sapping with love markets like ND-SMC are going to be more and community, along with Ecological humble. There are still good performers at truth. They might be around in the Fall, reasonable prices: B.B. King, Poco, John asking for about $30,000..That means a Sebastian. Joan Baez will only play for Convo sellout with higher ticket prices -ticket prices at $2, but she doesn't do that then we might break even. For that the often. Plenty of acts with lesser names can guys would grace us with 50 minutes of put on tremendous shows. work, and maybe even an encore if you ND-SMC students might have to take a treat them right. chance on their music this year. If you do, 
James Taylor is a wholesome lad. He I think you will be pleased. . sings about simple, American things: f hat .t 's 
Carolina, country roads, sunshine. He's an 0 r w I unpretentious son of a rich man, who just 0 rth 
likes his music. So says Time Magazine. W • • • James might share his musiC with us for .. In yesterday's statement of support for about $20,000. Tim Kendall, your editor outdid himself in 
Stephen Stills and Neil Young are on messing things up. The names of Rev. their own now. They are both excellent, John Gerber, C.S.C. and of Rev. William "non-commercial" musicians. They sing Lewers, C. S.C. were somehowdeletedfrom country music about the new, free the list of names supporting Mr. Kendall. lifestyle. Rememb~r "For What its My humblest apologies. 




Tuesday, April 27, 1971

Page 6. THE OBSERVER 
SLC candidates cite diversified goals
Continued from page 1 

students  are  ideally  what  this  
place  is  being  run  for,"  said  
O'Connor.  

"I want to get in there and kick them occasionally when they get too vague and aren't dealing with the student's problems." He said that he had seen enough of the Bull that is being used by the administration to know that it's dog eat dog, and "you've got to get mad and shout if you're going to be heard." 
"The SLC must start realizing that the entire community must be dealt whith as a whole, and naturally SMC must be a part of the SLC : Students, faculty and adminstration." 
He stated that the action to prevent Miss Ann Marie Tracey 
-


STUDY SlWNDS 
'" 
IMPROVE GRADES 
Th~S~~~e ~r:e~~ ~h~1m~eT~ti~r,.-i, ·,,crease ~~~r ra~~!ra~~!~.:~~s ·.n~rove 
Your Comprehension. Study .4t l·. Fast~>r Rate. ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED SOL ~OS CAUSE THI5 TO HAPPEl~ 
P!~ase Specify 
8 Track Tape, Cassetle, Or LP Record 
Send Check or Money Order -$9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage 
Sound Concepts, Inc., -Box 3852 Charlottesville, Va. 22902 
\ 

IVE GoT AN 

IMPORTANT 
PRIVATE, IF You WANlTo TALt< T

O 
\VASHINGTON, OlAL 1 AtJD AREA CODE 202
-
from running for the SLC was wholely uncalled for, discriminatory, and a major loss for the university. "She's one of the tow students who know all about co-education, and that's going to be the major problem dealt with in the SLC." 
He said "We have to be the conscience of the administration. They are kind of set in their ways, we've got to keep kicking them." 
Tom Leahy from BP said that the SLC has been a step behind in everything that has happened on campus this year. "It has failed to assume the leadership which could lead to a meaningful change." 
He said that he felt the students on the SLC haven't represented the students very well. "The meetings have been controled by the Administration and faculty. He feels that if the students did their "homework" better they would be in a better position. 
The SLC, according to Leahy has been limited by the review that the Trustees and Fr. Hesburgh has over it. He said that he would like to increase the 
Get outta town without leaving campus. Dial Direct. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night and all day Saturdays. 



@Indiana Bell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
number of proposals brought to the SLC, and work for more 
specific  bills  affecting  student  
life.  
Phil Reilly,  a  freshman from  

BP; said that he saw the SLC as much too slow in their actions. An example he cited was the issue ofsophone cars. This bill was debated and "worked on" for many meetings when it could have been handled in one or two. 
There is too little committee work, he said. He felt that there should be more student representation and more work done before bills are brought before the body. 
With the main concern being co-education, Reilly said that the SLC must work in order to prevent Notre Dame from being just"an all male institution with girls enrolled." He saw the SLC as the body that must handle the transition and hopefully bring such things as co-ed dorms. 
-"But,'; he said, "they need more power. The review by the trustees and Fr. Hesburgh isn't good." 



Tom Leahy 
Phil Reilly 

Mooney out of race 
Continued from page 2 willing to take the criticism for 
our decision." 
Rodriguez said that the decision to allow candidates to run in any district was made because according to SLC bylaws students frepresent the entire student body, and not just their own district. 
"They have always been allowed to run anywhere," he said. "No one ever realized it before this year." 
St. Mary's SBP Kathy Barlow 
also released a statement sup­
porting the Tracey candidacy. 
She siad, "with respect to 
representation, we are one 
student body as soon as we 
choose to recognize ourselves as 
such." 
She urged the students to 
"decide for themselves" and 
joined with Mooney in calling for 
a massive write-in campaign for 
Miss Tracey, not only on the 
North .. Quad, but all over 
campus. 
At the afternoon SLC meeting, 
the question of the validity of the 
Student Government Election 
Committee was raised in in­
formal discussion by former 
National Student Association 
Coordinator Steve Novak. Novak 
said that the Election Committee 
must consist of all the tay 
Senators, the SBP, the SBVP, and the Student Government 


Executive Coordinator. This year 
the committee consists of SBVP 
Rodriguez and two Stay Senators, 
Jim Clarke of Grace Towers and 
Bob Sauer, of Stanford. Thd 
decision of the committee was 
unnaimous. 
However, SBP John Barkett 
and Constitutional expert and 
former Stay Senator Tom 
Thrasher pointed out last night 
that the Constitution does not 
mention at all the composiiton of 
the Election Committee and tha 
the four-senator rule had been 
used by former SBP Krashna out 
of convenience. Barkett cited the 
precedent of Phil Mckenna's 
appointment of four non-Stay 
Senators as evidence of the SBP's 
ability to set up his own com­
mittee. 
Rich Urda, the candidate at­tacked specifically by Mooney in his statement, responded by saying that he would indeed by an 
R.A. next year, but that he "fully intends to represent the students." 
He continuee, "I really don't think Don understands the role of the R.A. very well or he would never say a thing like that I am perfectly sincere in my desire to represent the students who elect me. If I am sincere, I will win. If not, then there's nothing Don can say that will change things." 


Drinking at SMC 
Legal action may have to be taken against students found drinking on the St. Mary's Campus, Capt. William Parker, head of St. Mary's Security, announced last night. 
According to Parker there has recently been a "terriffic problem with drinking at night, particularly on weekends, which is disrupting the peace and quiet of the convent and college area." 
The drinking which takes place largely in the cemetary behind Regina Hall has resulted in several incidents of disorderly conduct on the part of some Notre Dame students. 
ND-SMC Theatre presents 
The Musical 
Comedy Smash 
Book, Music and Lynes by 




OLIVER! 
May 1,6, 7, 8at8:30 pm. May 2 at 2:30 pm. O'Laughlin Auditorium. $2.00 Tickets. Information: 284-4176. 

,-------­
THE OBSERVER Page 7
Tuesday, April 27, 1971 
Stickmen back on the win trail 
by Joe Passiatore Observer Sports Writer 

A week's lay-off proved to be a period of rejuvenation for the Notre Dame lacrosse team as the Irish stickmen asserted them­selves 6-2 over the Chicago lacrosse club on Sunday. Sun­day's victory was the squad's first action since its recent losses to Michigan and Wooster college and there was a marked im­provement over the last two outings. The team's season record now stands at 5-2. 
Lacrosse coach, Rich O'Leary, attributed the win to Chicago's lack of depth and a performance by the Irish midfielders that he rated as "the best ofthe season". 
"We ran four sets of midfielders 
and tired them out," said O'Leary "Chicago was a physical team with a lot of ex­perience, but they only had two midfields." Perhaps the most significant outcome of Notre Dame's edge at the midfield was the ability of the Irish middies to beat their Chicago counterparts on offensive patterns and account for four of Notre Dame's goals. Midfielder Dave Jurusik pulled off the second hat trick of his career and now has ten goals on the season. Another midfielder, Jim Lepley, hurled a shot into the Chicago net and attackman Kenny Lund tallied the other two goals. 
Coach O'Leary also ap­


Thine/ads place at Drake 
by E .J. Kinkopf Observer Sports Writer 

Coach Alex Wilson of the Notre Dame tracksters led a small contingent of six men to Des Moines, Iowa this past weekend to take part in the Drake Relays. He and his charges returned home Sunday with three "places" ... and one heartbreaker. 
The latter, the heartbreaker, came in the form of a disqualification of the shuttle hurdle relay team from the final standings. The Irish quartet 
of Mike and Tom McMannon, Dave Strickler and Joe utz had already qualified for the finals and were eyeing the first place ribbon in the final heat... 
But "one of those things that 

happens in athletics," in the words of Coach Wilson, hap­pened. Tom McMannon tripped over one of the hurdles, and one of the other legs, eager to make up for lost time, took off too early. 
"It was a real disap­pointment", said Wilson, "we should have scored a first or second in that event." 
But Tom McMannon was not cast in the role of the goat. Mter all, he did place third in the high hurdles, and in the process broke a long standing Notre Dame record held by Bill Fleming since 1949. 
Tom eclipsed Fleming's 13.9 with a clocking of 13.8 seconds. 
And, you guessed it, Tom wasn't the only McMannon to break a record last weekend. Mike followed his kid brother's act with a record breaker of his own, as he bettered the ND record in the triple jump that he established in 1969. 
The mark of 48' 11%" set by Mike in '69 fell by the wayside as a result of his 49' 7%" effort. 
Amazingly, in the stiff com­petition at Des Moines, the newly extablished ND mark was only good enough for a sixth place finish. 
Elio Polselli rounded out the Irish efforts with a throw of 174' 8" in the discus toss. Elio added a third place ribbon to his track mementos. 
The team returned to the Convo yesterday and resumed workouts in preparation for the dual meet with Eastern Michigan this weekend. The tracksters will travel to Yosilanti, Michigan1Saturday to meet Eastern heaa on. 

Carr to be feted in D.C. 
Notre Dame's Austin Carr, the College Basketball Player of the Year, will be awarded honors usually reserved for visiting royalty during a special ''Austin Carr Day" in Washington, D.C. on Friday April 30. 
Carr will be honored as "Athlete of the Year" by the Washington Touchdown Club at a luncheon on the 3oth. 
"We're pulling all the stops ­rollin2 out the red carpet," said· TD Club President Barney Shankman. "No local boy has achieved so much in college basketball with the possible exception of Elgin Baylor," added Shankman, "he richly deserves the royal welcome from his hometown that we are planning." 
Carr, who played his high school basketball at Mackin, will also take part in a special parade along with members of the Metropolitan Police Bqys Club. Carr started his basketball development on the courts of the Boys Club in Washington. 
The 6-3 All American, who recently signed with the Cleveland Cavaliers after being selected first in the NBA draft, was named Player of the Year by both major wire services, AP and UPI, Converse Rubber Co., and Helms Athletic Hall of Fame (along with Sidney Wicks). 
Carr, the fifth leading scorer in the history of college basketball (2,560), was also honored in Atlanta with the Naismith Trophy as Player of the Year. 
Carr, along with senior teammates Collis Jones, Jackie Meehan, Tom Sinnott, Sid Catlett and John Pleick, have played in 

Austin Carr 
several All-Star games in recent weeks. Jones, the first draft pick by the Milwaukee Bucks, was named the Most Valuable Player in last week's Hope Chest Classic in Philadelphia. 

predated the stalwart efforts of 
the Notre Dame defense and, in 
particular, Irish goalie Jerry 
Kammer. Mter allowing two 
early goals and falling behind, 2­
0, the Irish stickmen applied the 
pressure and the Chicagoans 
were thwarted the rest of the 
way. Notre Dame defenseman, 
Fred Morrison, put the clamps on 
Chicago All-American at­
tackman Joel Laskin and held 
him to one goal for the afternoon. 
This performance earned 
Morrison the game ball. Kam­
mer was superb in the nets for the 
Irish as he made several clutch . saves on one-on-one situations. The victory carried an ex­pensive price tag with it as at­
tackman Ed Hoban, wbo along 
with Kenny Lund has been carrying much of scoring burden for Notre Dame, reinjured a loose cartilage in his knee and was helped off the field. Hoban is scheduled to operated on this Wednesday and will be lost for the remainder of the season. B. 
J. Bingle turned in a com­mendable performance in Hoban's absence, however, and hopefully, he will be able to take up the slack left by Hoban's in­jury. 
The team must now devote its energies to a busy weekend at home, where along with the Cleveland, Columbus, and Chicago lacrosse clubs they will stage a series of four different games. On Saturday at two 

by Greg Einboden Observer Sports Writer 
The Irish rugby team came up with one of their biggest wins ever last Saturday when they knocked off the Palmer Rugby Club, 15-12, in their only home appearance of the season. The Notre Dame ruggers thus take a 2-1 record into the Virginia Commonwealth Tournament next weekend at Charlottesville. 
Tom Herlihy paced the Irish attack with two trys and also added a 3-point drop kick. Herlihy got help from Bill Berry, who added a try, and Doug Smego, who converted a penalty 
The Irish left the pitch at halftime trailing the Palmer ruggers, 9-6, but put it all· together in the second half to notch the victory. Club vice president Charlie Blum cited the outstanding overall team effort, noting that the Palmer ruggers had not lost a regular season contest since the Irish turned the tables on them last spring. In-eluded among Palmer's victims were the Irish, who were beaten last fall in a match at Palmer. 
The Palmer club had also managed a seventh place finish in the Monterrey tournament which ~eatures the top rugby 


'irish Guar~t't"~~~~ts f~~!~f;.O::eti~ 
The Irish Guard will begin spring auditions today for prospective members of the famed high-stepping unit. 
Irish Guard Captain Jerry
Hogan said yesterday that 
anyone interested in trying out 
should report to the Bandroom in 
Washington Hall at 4:30 this 
afternoon. 
"We've got about four positions open for the fall due to graduation and we would like to get a look at some new recruits before sum­mer vacation," said Hogan. "This would give us an idea of how we shape up for the fall and also give those who are genuinely interested an opportunity to practice over the summer," he continued. 
Hogan emphasized that prospects must be between 6'2" and 6'5" in height and be man o'clock Cleveland will play Chicago. Afterwards, Notre Dame takes on Columbus. The following day at noon Notre Dame will encounter the Cleveland lacrosse club. 
Columbus and Chicago will wrap up the activity with a three o'clock battle. The weekend matches will be the last home games for the Irish and the outlook for a couple of winning performances is favorable, in that Notre Dame has already beaten Columbus and Chicago. Coach O'Leary appraised the upcoming games by saying, "I hate to go out on a limb, but I would have to say that we're the best of the four teams." 
... 
-
The Irish "B" team coasted to 

an easy 3Q-O rout over Palmer in 
the preliminary. The ND ruggers 
put together a 17-point first half 
with a 13-point second stanze to 
win going away. Joe Greving led 
the "B" attack for the second 
week in a row, scoring on three 
trys. Both Joe Dugan and Phil 
Calandria turned in fine per­
formances, as the "B" squad 
upped its record to 2-o-1. 
While the "A" team will head 

east for next weekend's Virginia 
Tournament, the "B" squad will 
travel to the windy city to par­
ticipate in the Chicago Tour­
nament. The "A" team will close 
its season the following weekend 
with a game in Chicago against 
enough to wear a kilt. Only then~ Notre Dal!le, Ind.--The annual~ will they be given the chance to ~Blue-G?ld_ mtrasqu~d foot~all ~ find out what the Guard really ~game wmdmg up Sprmg Pracitce ~ wears underneath them. ~will . be held in Notre Dame~ 
~Stadmm on May 1, at 1:30 P.M.~Saz"/o ~" Jrd ~ Student~ will be admitted upon~ 
I IJ ~resentatwn of ID cards at GATE~ ~IFTEEN ONLY. ~ 
!he_ Notr_e Dame sailors placed Ill; General Admission tickets for ~ ~hird m a field of _23l~st weekend ~the public are available at the~ m the Purd~e ~nvita bona! held ~n ' Ticket Sales Window, Athletic ~ Lake Martm m Lafayette. OhiO ~ and Convocation Center priced ~ 'Y~sleyan and Michig~n State ~at $2.00 for adults, $ '.50 for ~ flmshed ahead o! _the Insh. 'children 12 and under. Tickets ~ 
-
'Yeather conditions Saturday will also be available at the ~ 
1111
(wmds were over 25 m.p.h.) IIIIStadium the day of the game. ~ all_owed only four, races to be 'Dates, wives, parents, etc., must~ sailed and Sunday s one o,clock ~have tickets. No seats will be ~ rule left time for just six races. veserved. ~ 
S~ippers f~r Notr~. D~m~ ~~re 1111,; Tt~e game is sponsored an~ Kevm Hoyt m the A divisiOn ~ nually by the Notre Dame Alumni­a~d. !om Willison in the "B" ~Club of st. Joseph Valley andlili divi~Ion. George _Gaw .~n~ ~supports the Club's Scholarshi~ R_e~I~a Ivory.crewe~ m the A ,~Fund which currently sustains~ d1v1s1on while W_Ill Don~~a~ ~eight students of this area at the-.; s~ry~d as crew m the B llri: University. ~ diviSion. ~W_.._.._.._.,_.,_.,~ 

Tuesday, April 27, 1971 

reconsider Tracey candidacy 
Continued from page 1 
Notre Dame student, Miss defeated Notre Dame SBP Tracey could not be seated in thz candidate Eileen Fitzpatrick,



PICK APAIR 
council. He said that she was not and Novak. 


registered as a student at Notre Discussion was cut short by the Dame, so she was unqualified. appearance of fifth ad­
In brewing Bud.;;, our choice is to go all 
SMC Student Body President ministrator, Alumni Association 
the way. We hope beer matters enough 
Kathy Barlow speaking with director James Cooney, and a 
to you that you too will go all the way 
Novak for Miss Tracey's cause, letter was read from University 
... to Budweiser. 

questioned whether the bylaws of President Theodore M. Jesburgh 
on the recently passed Soph Car

And right now, that goes double: the SLC would specify Notre bill, which he said he wouldPick up two 6-paks of the King of Beers •:. Dame students, and Fr. Riehle said that in the context under support and which he expected to
It's the smart way to buy. 

which they were made up, they recieve the support of the Board did so specify. of Trustees. 
It was also announced that the However, SBP John Barkett

WHEN YOU SAY SMC Student Mfairs Committee
and Constitutional expert and would send three representatives former Stay Senator Tom to SLC meetings, as was resolvedThrasher pointed out last night in the SLC meeting two weeksthat the Constitution does not

Budweiser 
ago, and the SLC wouldmention at all the composiiton of

YOU'VE SAID IT ALL! reciprocate by sending three
the Election Committee and tha members to the SAC meetings.
the four-senator rule had been Agenda committee chairmanused by former SBP Krashna out Floyd Kezele then announcedof convenience. Barkett cited the that the report of the committee
.... precedent of Phil Mckenna's on reorganization of the bodyappointment of four non-Stay would be given at the nextSenators as evidence of the SBP's meeting. He said that the com­ability to set up his own com­mittee decided to propose moremittee. 
committee work than has beenRev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C., 

done in the past.

Vice-President for Student M­Student Body President Johnfairs, argued that to seat a Saint Barkett then began reading theMary's girl would set a Hall Life Report of the committee dangerous precedent, saying that chaired by Assistant Vice­"they are not officially Notre President for Student MfairsDame students." 
Rev. James Shiltz. During theHe said that discrimination report, Vice President andwould be present if girls were General Counsel Phillip Fac­allowed on the SLC as Notre cenda left, leaving the body short Dame representatives but not of a quorum, so a new meetingservices like the infirmary. 

was set for Thursday.

Towers Representative Floyd Kezele said that the SLC could not pass laws affecting the lives of Saint Mary's girls and thus she should be disallowed. All speakers seemed critical of the 
Father Paul Mayer co­defendent in the Harri'sburg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1t~t*1t~t*1tid~~jo~~~---proposed Tracey candidacy Conspiracy Trial, accused the 
1 
except for Zimmerman, and the non-SLC members present 

U.S. government, not the PEANUTS PERSONAL Harrisburg 13, of being the "realwhich included Miss Barlow: 
conspirators" in a talk Sunday I wish you kites and kazoos, sunshine night. and rainbows, frisbee and picnics, Spend the summer in Europe. Charter The priest said the government Mail in or come by Observer office lauglilter and joy, jellybeans and jets to London, Amsterdam and Paris. 
of this country is waging con­

For information call 7471 balloons, memories and smiles -and MOre than 40 dates available. IN­all of the other things I wish 1 could TERNATIONAL STUDENTS spiracy against the peoples of-Most Books for: Smelser­give you this Spring. I'm sorry 1 loved ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY. Also Indo-China. It is doing so on the 
HOUSING American Revolution, Menard­you. 
eligible for many other benefits s~me tw? counts, bombing and (railroad passes, hotel discounts, etc) k1dnappmg, of which the
American Constitutional,

For rent . June 1-Sept 1. 3 bedroom 
For intormation call Frank 233-8142
home -excellent condition & location, NorIing-Europe since 1920, Sz­AUTOMOTIVE Harrisburg defendants are ac­air conditioned, washer, cczesniak-Russia, 1962 VW Bus, newly rebuilt engine,
dish fur­Colliegiate cused.
Want to take a trip to EUROPE thi~. Inished, carport $125 a month -call 8100 Seminar; Also many others. Call 
highway condition, seats remove if 
summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the 
or 8229 after 8 p.m. 7647 
camper desired, dune buggy rear­\IATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS end later on; Call: Calhoun 283-1\ND SAVE! Approx. 60 dates 
McCartin 

Need Roommate(s) to share apart­SOFA, CHAIR, and RUG for sale 
7274, days. JVailable for round trips betw. London ment with grad student in Madison Low price. Call 1328 330 Breen­md N.Y. this summer for $245. From Continued from page 3 Wisconsin beginning Fall '71. Call Jim Phillips. 1959 TR-3. Excellent condition, new 
London connect to any of 50 Europear 
liberal arts."

233-5475. battery, generator, regulator, tires, :ities at discount fares. For example: 
His second proposal says, "The 

BAR FOR SALE; Interested in all and more. Price to sell $650. Call 232-_ondon, Paris: $12.60, London Am­Town house for summer rental, reasonable offers. Call 1328, 330 4896 or 272-2568. sterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich $15.00 Departments of Military Science, furnished carpeted, washer and Naval Science, and Aerospace
Breen-Phillips. Zurich-Rome $20.00 Many othel 
dryer. 2 Bdrms., very reasonable. Call 

For Sale '62 VW with sunroof and benefits (travel passes, hotel Studies should not be granted
259-9535. ALL STUDENTS -especially 
'64 engine. Features new breaks, discounts, etc.) Also available departmental status within the
Seniors. Get rid of those books that 

•Aay flights, one-way flights
For rental, Summer. June, July, clutch, a battery. Ne.eds $55 work 
you will not use again. The Student \$125), Return on any date, college of Arts and Letters." 
August. Near UND. 4 bedrooms, on front end and $35 on muffler.
Book Exchange is accepting any McCartin's rationale follows
1eachers, students, and immediate
utilities. Furnished: $150 per $335. Call 234-3678 after 5:30 pm.
books. Bring them to the Student family eligible, group rates. For the same line as his prior
month plus refundable deposit. 
Services Office -4th floor 

info and application call Tom 282-reasoning. He feels that because
Call 287-1777. 

'64 Chevell Malibu SS automatic
LaFortune or call 7757 and we'll 

2250, 5-10 P.M. Mon.-Fri. these subjects are again "non­
power, 6 cylinder. excellent
pick them up for you. 
liberal" they should not be

Desperate for rent-June 1st to condition. $600 282-1529 or 289-9557. 
granted a place in the Arts and

Aug. 1st. 5 bedroom, near ND. Call RIDES Marilyn 284-4983 SERVICES Letters College. "It's 
HELP WANTED Need ride to N.Y. area on the 
questionable," he commented,

weekend of May 1. Call Jack 282_ You can still get the best off 2250 "if we should consider them
Crypt-New Hours 

12:30 -4:00 Jewly formed waterbed company 
campus house for next year. 4 or 5 wants representatives departments within the college. I 
Now on stock campus for 
guys. Must buy furnishings from 

Hendrix -Cry of Love -$3.60 hottest selling item in states. Need ride to Will don't think that they should be
Venezuela. ac­us. Call 234-6163 
Cat Stevens-Tea for Tillerman -$3.10 Good commissions for a few hours categorized within the liberal
cept ride to Miami. I'll swim the 
Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection­work per week that can be fitted easily
Summer Apart. for Rent. Near rest. Call Gus-1598 arts."
$3.10 to your schedule.
Campus, air conditioned. 1 "We must consider the scope of
Mountain -Nantucket Sleighride Write: Need ride for 2girls from Miami of
bedroom. Call Terry 288-1120 Lightrays Designs, Inc. the liberal arts. We are not Hot News Flash: New company born ­
Ohio to ND on Friday April 30th. 
Love sleep water beds division debating the Viet Nam war nor
Call Bob 8921
VANGUARD LE'ATHER GOODS, 
3727 Walnut St. 
the justice and role of the

LOST AND FOUND /NC-823 Flanner Hall. 283-1176. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 
Specializing in: watchband, wrist­military, it is non-germaine to the 
,pr Call: (215) 349-9330. Words 1 day 2 3 4 1 week 
LOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard. bands, belts, wallets, headbands,. hair ·--------0 10 .50 1.00 issue at hand," ,McCartin said.
.75 1.15 1.25
barrettes, custom -made sandals, .~· College students with car needed to
lost after break: tasty reward. Call 11-15 
.60 1.00 1.35 1.75 2.15 He concluded that ROTC "can't
jeans and anything else made of demonstrate technico/or photo and
Tom 8014. 16-20 .70 1.15 1.70 2.40 2.80
-
and doesn't offer BA degrees and 
leather--Owned and operated by Milt movie equipment -·guaranteed $100 a. 21-25 85 1.35 2.00 2.90 3.45
Jones, Wayne Hall. ,week--top men make $200 working neither do the service academies. 
Found: set of Keys behind Admin. 26-30 1.00 1.60 2.35 4.10
3.40
e·Jenings 5-9. Call technicolor sales McCartin said that the ROTC
Building. Call Bob 3721. 31-35 1.20 2.80
1.90 3.85 4.70
office 289-3662 for appointment.
Mail Contributions for the medical 36-40 1.35 2.10 3.10 4.25 5.10 courses would have to be listed 
Lost: Parker Fountain Pen. Great Anyone interested in trying out­41 45 1.55 2.30 3.30 under some "precedent-setting"
aid center of Quang Naito Box 626, 4.50 5.50 Sentimental value. Reward. Call Colin for the Irish Guard should 46-50 1.75 2.50 3.50
Notre Dame Indiana. The 4.75 6.00 listing such as an institute or
7850. report to the bakdroom at 4:30
Refugees need help. Please con­program if his proposals meet
Lost: Gold michelob watch in Tuesday, April 27th. Must be at
tribute to the Refugee Aid

214 O'Shaughnessy Haii-­least 6' 2" in height. For im. 1---------------success. 
Program.

Aprii20--Reward--John 1793. formation call Jerry Hogan 8135. 

r---------------­
Lost White Change Purse­

SINGLE? COLLEGE GRAD? a 
1 
basement architecture building. Meet others. Join the CAC's for TRAVEL J t Call 4965 social, recreational. or cultural Student Union Trip -Europe a 
activities. Write: Catholic Alumni $209 D"!t.-Amsterdam-Det., J t Large Coppertone refrigerator­
BUY AND SELL 

Club. P.O. Box 2171 South Bend, NY· London NY Contact 1st a Ind. 46615 Bank Campus Travel Bureau J t
excellent condition; $30; call Tony 

283 7080 9-12, 1-4:30. •
7 -----------------------~~~------~--A 



