
Maybe if the winds switch they will blow in a change of heart... 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol VI No 55 Thursday, December 2, 1971 
Sr. Gerald talks to students... 
by Ed Ellis 

Four Saint Mary's juniors who spoke last night with Sr. Gerald Hartney, Treasurer ofthe Sisters of the Holy Cross and a member of the SMC Board of Trustees, concluded that the problem with the merger at this point "is not financial, but philosophical," and can only be dealt with "step by step, in a rational manner." 
The four juniors, Grita Anderson, Ann Shoemaker, Cathy Hicks, and Regina Ivory, concluded from their two-hour talk with Sr. Gerald, that "we are up against a philosophy of education held at this college and at many other Catholic colleges for over 125 years." 
"To combat this," said Ann Shoemaker, "each of us must act in our own way, but united in a common goal. to change this philosophy." 
She said that "they must be made aware of our disagreement in a way they can understand." 
To accomplish this, the four recommended that the students continue with the plans outlined in the meetings held thus far this week. 
They emphasized that continued pressure must be brought to bear before the meeting of the Board of Trustees December 18, at which the students will present their demands to the Board. 
The students said that they had asked for an immediate emergency meeting of the Board, saying that "if ever there was an emergency, this is it." Sr. Gerald, however, said that ac­cording to Sr. Olivette, chairman of the Board this would be impossible, since some members of the Board are out of the country and could not possibly be back until December 18, the date of the scheduled meeting. 

Sr. Gerald did say, however, that Saint Mary's 
students taking their major courses at Notre 
Dame would get Notre Dame degrees. This was 
a point that had upset many SMC students, 
especially those in departments that did not exist 
at Saint Mary's. 
In discussions Tuesday night, SMC students 
leaders had concluded that Sr. Gerald was the 
key to the entire merger question, since she was 
the Treasurer of the Order and a member of the 
Executive Board of the Board of Trustees. A 
demonstration had been planned for the front of 
Bernard Hall, the sisters' residence on the 
campus. 
The four girls volunteered to try to talk to Sr. ·Gerald, who had reportedly rebuffed all previous 
attempts at communication on the part of the 
SMC student leaders. 
Their attempt to talk to her was successful, 
and they were accompanied at 7 pm by a crowd 
of about 300 student to the door of Bernard Hall. 
All the lights in the hall were out wh"'n the crowd 
arrived. The four entered the building and the 
crowd left, except for a few who stayed waiting 
for their exit, due at 8 pm. 
At about 8:30, the door of the convent was 
opened and the sisters present invited a crowd of 
about twenty-five students inside for a . 
statement. 
At that time, Sr. Gerald said that she was 
concerned at the student response, and would 
personally take their recommendations to the 
Board of Trustees on December 18. 
The four girls returned to the SMC Student 
Government offices in Holy Cross Hall and spoke 
to a crowd of several hundred at a meeting at 
9:30. 

According to Regina Ivory, the secretary of the group, "Everything in the merger will continue in the direction it has been going, it's just that the boundary limits of time were to be removed." 
Also, the students said that the Board is studying the merger, and that Co-ex programs will be continued. 
The reason for the interruption of the merger process was that the Board felt that things were going too fast, and so they wanted to slow things down by removing the time limits. 
decision made jointly 
As far as the decision-making process, Sr. Gerald said that "the decision was made jointly" by Notre Dame and St. Mary's, and that Notre Dame had asked for separate budgets for the coming year. 
The group also said that in the voting of the Executive Committee, Sister reported that "the Executive Committee as a whole, voted." The question had been brought up at the meeting the previous night of the student body with Sr. Alma, SMC Acting President. 
As for the demand for justification, Grita Anderson reported that "As one member of the Board, she did not feel that she could give all the intricacies of the decision." This was also Sr. Alma's statement last night. 
The demand for a meeting of the Board before December 18 cannot be met because of physical reasons, reported Miss Ivory. 
(continued on page 6) 

• 
left: Anne Shoemaker, Cathy Hicks, Regina Ivory, and Greta Anderson report the results of their meeting with Sister Gerald Hartney to the 300 students in Holy Cross. 

Right:  Students  discuss  the  
possible  alternatives  at  the  
meeting .  

... students discuss next steps 
by Maria Gallager and Mike Baum 
Approximately 300 students and several faculty members discussed means of protesting the recent merger decision and exchanged in­formation in Holy Cross Hall last night. 
The meeting lasted over two hours and featured reports of interviews with dept. heads and a member of the St. Mary's Board of Trustees. 
Joe Schlosser and Marilyn Graves COC Commissioner at SMCl opened the meeting. Schlosser remarked that the general consensus at Notre Dame seemed to be that this was just a "temper tantrum" on the part of the SMC students and remarked that although meetings were to be held in NO halls Thursday, "don't expect large things from ND." 
SMC students Regina Ivory, Anne Shoemaker, Greta Anderson and Cathy Hicks reported on an interview held with Trustee Sister M. Gerald Hartney !TJ·easurerl. Sister Gerald, they reportPd, had contacted other colleges which had considered co-education, Vassar, Smith, Rad­cliffe and Harvard to ascertain their problems and decisions. She noted that the students and faculty had moved faster than either of the two Boards, and said that the Boards "felt boxed in" by the 1974-75 deadline. 
Sr. Gerald recommended an "expanded co-ex program" and said that SMC students with a major at Notre Dame would receive a Notre Dame degree, according to Miss Ivory. 
There is no plan to penalize girls for expense increases, such as classes at Notre Dame, or the shuttle bus Miss Ivory said. Sr. Gerald allegedly said that every member of the committee did vote on the motion to halt the merger. She reportedly remarked that St. Mary's "takes the blame", but that there was no reason why they should suffer. 
Sr. Gerald replied to the charge that women applicants had been given the false impression of mt'rger with Notre Dame, reportedly, by ob­serving that 95 per cent of the present freshman class had accepted before the May 14 release, and suggested that only the remaining 5 per cent were actually under false assumptions. She recommended allegedly that this 5 per cent could transfer to Notre Dame if they so wished and that she hprself would see to it that they were accepted. 
She reportedly revealed that there was to be a normally scheduled meeting of the Trustees of St. Mary's here on Dec. 18, and that Sr. Whalen could not speak alone, but only with the entire Board. 
Pleas were made at the meeting for large numbers of students to remain in South Bend after the end of exams, to attend the Trustees meeting in order to exert pressure on them. 
other actions discussed included the mailing of prepared and personal letters to parents and Trustees, explaining the situation and asking for support. Lists of Trustees, with addresses and phmw numbers were circulated, and students were urged to call and write their parents, asking them to withhold tuition payments. 
Mass requisitions of grade transcripts, and investigation of possible grounds for a court 
( corltilllwrl 011 page R) 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER. 
Indiana Uloses ground in tenure conflict 
Mike Baum 

Two former teachers of In­diana University at South Bend have won a decision against the University in a court action contesting that the University denied them due process in refusing to grant tenure. 
The case, involving Mr. William Fabrychy and Mr. Matthew Zivich, both of the Art Department, may well have important consequences in determining the rights of non­tenured instructors. 
Both men had six years credit as teachers, and were denied further employ in their seventh year, the time when the University is required to either grant them tenure or terminate their contracts. Mr. Zivich had been an instructor at IUSB for all six years, his colleague, Mr. Fabrychy had taught his first three years at St. Mary's College, but was granted three years credit when he went to teach at IU. 
When further contract was denied, both men went before separate Boards of Review. In spite of favorable recom­mendations from the Boards, and without explanation the University refused to grant tenure, according to Fabrychy, "Both our positions were upheld, that we should have been 
tenured,  that's  a  kind  of  
generalization, ... however  the  
Administration denied  this,  the  

recommendations of this Board of Reviews in both our cases. 
"The Administration seems to consider this only a recom­mendatory body rather than a hearing body. No place in the faculty handbook does one find anything that says the Ad­
-

.--..................-.. 
ministration has to listen to the Board of Review. "In Zivich's case I don't believe the Ad­ministration showed up for the Board of Review. In my case they showed up, but it's my un­derstanding they gave no ex­planation ... We were never given reasons of any sort at any time." As co-plaintiffs, Zivich and 
Fabrychy  have  gained  a  
fav01 able  decision from Judge  
Grant,  of  the  United  States  

District Court Northern District of Indiana (the suit being filed in Federal Court.) Their Attorney, Mr. Don Wirtheimer, explained the court's decision. 
"The Court ordered Indiana University to give a statement of reasons why Fabrychy and Zivich were denied tenure and to provide a hearing wherein they could test those reasons and also to provide evidence in their own behalf. Now if the University does not comply with the Court order giving a statement and hearing, then the University is compelled to reinstate them." 
If this new hearing were to result in an unfavourable decision by the administration, the co-plaintiffs would ask the court to review the hearing itself, according to Mr. Wirtheimer. He added that the case was not unique in recent law, "There's a trend in the law, now, which generally favours public em­ployees, or more accurately, probationary public employees." 
Zivich and Fabrychy's case drew from an early 1960's case, Cafeteria Workers vs. McElroy, Roth vs. Board of Regents and Shirck vs. Thomas, these last two fairly recent decisions. Mr. Wirtheimer noted that the Seventh Circuit has perhaps the most rogressive histor in this 
V2 PRICE COLOR PRINTS? 
SAVE ON SLIDES -MOVIES-B&WPRINTS, TOO 
This low price saves you up to 50% over usual "drug store" prices, rushes high quality color prints back to your door in just a few days. Try the film service used on many mid-west and southern campuses. 
SO EASY, SO CONVENIENT ... just use your own envelope an~ the coupon below. Fill in name and address, write name on roll or cartndge, enclose coupon and remittance. Or, use the coupon to get film mailers and dis­count coupons; order film and flashes at low prices ... a better deal than "free" film. Savings and processing quality guaranteed. 
: YOUR ORDER MUST INCLUDE THIS COUPON­
• Name'--------------------------------­
• Address________________________________•• Cilyo________State.___________.jp__ 

area. He observed, "It's just two competing versions of the law here, because the university maintains that it needs to have unbrideled discretion in hiring and firing decisions to prune a faculty. On the other hand in­dividual professors contend that they've got to have some assurance they won't be exposed to arbitrariness. 
"The Seventh Circuit holds that a non-tenured faculty member, or teacher, either in a high school, college or university or elementary school, it doesn't make any difference as long as the teacher is a public employee, is entitled to a statement of reasons and a hearing ... why the school proposes not to renew the contract." 
Wirtheimer noted that the fact that the decisions rested on the teachers being state employees would affect the application of the law to private univerisities, "There have been a few cases which have sort of ignored the fact that a school is a private subject may possibly be giveninstitution, but generally if it's a within a year or so, as the basis private institution the Con­
case Roth vs. Board of Regents
stitution will not apply to as great has been granted certiorari an extent as it would if it were a (grant of review) by the Supreme public school. There is no Court. 
question that a private institution ICii!lr;lll~~ 
can not openly and overtly violate someone's civil rights, but it can be done tacitly or silently, and probably they can get away with it." 
The present state of the case is unclear. The University did not meet the Nov. 22nd deadline to "give a statement of reasons," but instead filed a motion to amend or alter the judgement th':'s delaying the final process. s~ud Wirtheimer, 
A major judicial decision on the 



THE IMPACT OF NUCLEAR ENERGY ON SOCIETY 
A course designed to introduce students in the Liberal Arts to a technology thich will ~ub­stantially effect their world now and in the years to come. Topics will include thermal pollution (is it necessary?), Radioactive Fallout (what has it done, what can it do?), Energy Shortages (which city will have a brownout next?), and Crime Detection (have you ever seen a nuclear finger print?). ME 213 2 MWF 
•
•
•
•
•
• 
fiUPir.

e 0 Send me free film mailer envelope and discount Rq. Price 
• coupon 0 12 exp. Black & While . 1.29 .99 • 0 20 exp. Black & While . 1.99 1.55 • 0 ~~~ ~:~~~~~fg-roll~ of film and payment (plus 0 20 e:.:p. Slides or 8 mm Movies . 1.49 1.22 • 
• 0 Send me fresh Kodacolor film and/ or flashes 
•

0 I am enclosing an extra 25¢ per roll for express Circle your size: (limit two) . .88¢ each • 
• 
handling and li"l-clm mail 10tum lnslamalic 126-12 _ 127-120-620 • Rea. Pricl Yau PIJ Circle your flash: (limit two sleeves) ... 88e each • 

• 
0 12 exp Kodacolor. $2.99 $2.33 Cubes-AG-1-M-2-M-3 e • 0 20 exp. Kodacolor ... 4.49 3.55 Magicubes . . .............$1.19 each • 


• MAIL TO: SPE-D·PICS ·Box 299 ·Cincinnati, Ohio 45214 ·Dept. NO • 
•••••••••••••••• A A ••• A 6 a • -• ---• ~ 

SUNSHINE FESTIVAL 
with 
ATLANTIS Nazgur 
Greater North Bay Alchemical Co. Lightshow Friday, Dec. 3 8:00 N.D. Fieldhouse 
Sponsored By ND-SM C Social Commission $1.50 
COLOR IN THIS "MINI­
PRESIDENTIAL 
1. 
Buy a whole bunch of Flair pens. You need black, red, blue, green, brown, orange, yellow, pink, purple, grey, aqua & olive. (You need them anyway for school.) 

2. 
Now-color in the picture according to these color guide numbers. Black (1). Red (2). Blue (3). Green (4). Brown (5). Orange (6). Yellow (7). Pink (8). Purple (9). Grey (10). 


POSTER" OF ONE OF THE 

CANDIDATES! 
Aqua (11). Olive (12). Please do not color unnumbered areas. 
3. Congratulations! You have created a genuine full color portreit of someone you know and love. Maybe. If he is not your 
favorite presidential candidate, have pa­tience. You'll see your man soon in the Flair Election Collectionl 



vvorld 

briefs 
<cl 1!171 New York Times 

Washington--The United States today suspended licenses for all f~ture arms shipments to India and revoked previously approved hcenses. The State Department cited Indian incursions into Pakistani terrotory h recent days in moving to cut off the tiny flow of .. American arms. A larger flow of arms to Pakistan was cut off three weeks ago. 
Peking--In a joint editorial apparently connected with the disap­pear_ance from public view of defense minister Lin Piao, Peking's leadmg publications charged that "chieftains of opportunist lines" were plotting against communist un;ity in China. The editorial called for party unity to deal with problems of deviation from correct policies. 
Washington--Overriding the Pay Board, the Senate voted 86 to 4 to grant retroactive payment of most wages withheld durnig the 90-day wage-price freeze. The Administration had passed word that it would accept the provision, part of a bill extending the President's controls ov3r the economy until 19n. 
on campus today 
4: 
15--lecture, clagett g smith, structural theory of agression, 127 nieuwland 

4: 
15---lecture, herbert gintis, consumer sovereignty in economic theory---a marxist critique, 222 hayes-healy 


7: 00---banquet, 1971 football banquet, arena ace 
7:30 & 10: 00---film, the caine mutiny, starring humphrey bogart, badin vintage cinema 
8: 00---lecture, herbert gintis, marxist theory of alienation: the condition of the citizen consumer in an advanced industrial society, engineering auditorium 
8:00---lecture, bernard norling, professional army vs. volunteer army, cavanaugh hall lounge 
at nd-smc 





SMC Faculty voices support for the boycott 
by Maria Gallagher 

Joining a rising chorus of student dissent over the suspension of the merger, several St. Mary's faculty members voiced full support for yester­day's boycott of classes. 
Sr. l<'ranzita Kane, Professor of I<:nglish at SMC. voiced full support of the student boycott, saying she ordinarily opposes such action, but in this case it was "the only alternative the students could take to effect a response." 
The proposals presented at the afternoon convocation showed a great deal of concern and in­lt>lligence on the part of the studt>nts, the nun noted, however, she said, that was no guarantee for their success. 
"People should never stop trying," Sr. Franzita said, "but tht>y should be realistic enough to see that they may be ignored." 
Dr. Anthony Black, associate professor of history, held a more ('autious viewpoint. He felt that the boycott would be ineffective, saying "I'm sure the ad­ministration will not be affected one way or the other by the fact 
that  you  were  or  weren't  in  
Western  Civilizat ion  class  
today."  

Black declined to speculate whrther the decision could be reversed by any action on the 
Notre dame invitational relays swim meet 
7:00pm Friday Dec. 3 
Rockne Memorial Pool (dress cool) 

Fat Daddy's 
Flare and 
Bell Bottoms 
only $3.75 

518 S. Michigan 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex. cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purcnased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre  Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
second class postage paid.  Notre  
Dame, Ind. 46556.  


Sr. Franzita Kane 

part of the students. He agreed that they had many valid points to make in criticism of the ad­ministration's recent procedures, but doubted that their proposals would have any great influence. 
Dr. Paul Messbarger, chair· man of the SMC faculty senate, released a statement in the forrP 
of a letter (see page 5) saying 
that no student or faculty 
member had any part in the 
decision to suspend unification. 
"Not one member of this 
faculty and student body has had 
any place among the 'we' of that 
(Sr. Olivette's) statment, just as 
no member of this faculty or 
student body was party to the 
initial decision to merge," 

Messbarger's statement said. 
Elisabeth Noel, professor of 
English, was enthusiastic about 
the boycott, calling it a "good 
idea ; a concrete expression of 
student solidarity." She 
cautioned, however, that it could 
succeed "only if the students are 
sincere." 

Miss Noel lauded the students 
for "doing things that the ad­
ministration can't ignore, 
making them aware of students' 
t>xislance and their opinions." 
Although she concurred with Dr. 
Black that the boycott was not _necessarily the most effective 
Beechvvood Ageing could be an "advertising gimmick." 


But it isn't. 
(For instance, last year we bought almost 2% million pounds of Beechwood strips ... enough to 
fill 67 freight cars.) 
WHEN YOU SAY 



Budweiser. 
YOU'VE SAID IT All! 

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 
direct faculty-parent contact for information and action. 
Both were active at last night's faculty-student meeting at SMC, and offered students their time and efforts. 
Dr. Black 

means, she felt that "at least it's a start." 
Dr. Mark Bambanek, associate professor of chemistry and physics hailed the boycott as "one of the most constructive things I've seen since I've been here." and Dr. Donald Horning, professor of sociology, suggested 
lot r gpirit goarf
• 
TAKE TIME TO VISIT THE 
NEW 

AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
GIFTS • BOOKS POSTERS LOVE NOTES GREETING CARDS RELIGIOUS 
EDUCATION MATERIAL 

ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE Dl · IE CAMPUS OFF JUNII"ER ROAD 
BROWSERS WELCOIVIE FREE PARKING 

OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TIL 7:00PM 

AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 

18717 BULLA ROAD SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PH. 272-1704 

.------------------------------------------------·--­
Thursday, December 2, 1971
Page_:....::<..._4________________________ ----------THE OBSERVER 

THE OBSERVER 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
I-:ditor-ln-Chief, Glen S. Corso 
From the From the Editor's Desk 

The Third Day 
"The third day he rose again, according to the 
Scriptures, and of his kingdom there shall be no 
end, God Forever and ever amen." 
---The Apostles Creed 
This is the third day after the death of the merger and there is no resurrection in sight. It's not in sight because the nuns of the Holy Cross have decided that St. Mary's, as a small, Catholic, Liberal, Arts College has a future. 
It doesn't. 

St. Mary's, as it is, doesn't have a future because it does not fit in with the developing trends in American higher education. Co-ed schools--schools with 10,000 or more people, graduate programs and a superior faculty are the in­stitutions of the future. 
People are turning away from the small independent college, the college that is unisexual, lacks an adequate library and a graduate school. 
The Holy Cross nuns, we are told, called a halt to the merger because they were afraid of being swallowed up by Notre Dame--because they were afraid that St. Mary's and all it has stood for will be swept aside by the megaversity that is developing on the east side of U.S. 31. 
Maybe it will, but St. Mary's is going to be swept aside anyway. The very best students at St. Mary's are in the process of applying for admission at Notre Dame. They along with many other SMC women are also writing for applications to dozens of other schools. 
If the Nuns of the Holy Cross persist in their decision all their nightmares about St. Mary's being an irrelevant institution, dwarfed by Notre Dame ami generally ignored by any student of above average intelligence will come to pass-·­probably by next September. 
Sr. Alma said the other day that the St. Mary's administration wasn't too concerned about losing women applicants to Notre Dame since the number that will be accepted is small. 
There are other Catholic Universities in the nation though, most of whom admit women--a larger number of women than are being taken at ND next fall. Women won't apply to St. Mary's if they get turned down by Notre Dame, they'll go somewhere else. 
The most grotesque irony of this entire fiasco is that the nuns of the Holy Cros _ honestly feel that what they are doing is in the best interests of the St. Mary's women. Somehow, some way the good sisters got the idea that St. Mary's girls want their school to remain a small, independent liberal arts college. 
They don't. 

Women attending St. Mary's were led to believe that they would be attending a school soon to be allied with a major university. They were led to believe that they would be attending a co-educational school. They were led to believe that they would reveive their degrees from the most well known Catholic university in the country. 
The actions of the past three days are solid proof that the St. Mary's students 
believe these promises to be true, and want them to be true. 
If the decision not to merge becomes final, as it now appears, than there will be 
no winners---not the girls, who will be forced to transfer to other schools and not 
the nuns of the Holy Cross, who will find themselves scrambling around for dull, 
incompetent students to fill their school. 
the other boss: Dan Barrett News Editor: Jerry Lutkus layout: Kathy Schwille, Jack features editor: rick smith Frischkorn, Beth Hall Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr headlines: John Kloss, Dan'l Campus Editor: Don Ruane 
SMC Editor: Ann Conway 
\ 

The l\'lcrgcr 
-----------Mike Robison 
THE MERGER (With apologies to Poe) 
Once upon a school year dreary, while I pondered weak af!d 
weary, Over many a quaint and curious irrevelant tome, While I plodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a 
tapping, As of someone gently rapping, rapping at my golden dome. 'Tis some student, I muttered, just some student tapping 
at my golden dome 

Only this and nothing more. Ah, distinctly I remember, it was in the bleak November, And each failing student wrought his curses upon my door_ Eagerly, I wished the morrow, for vainly I had sought to borrow, 
from my banks sums of money, to complete the merger, Held supreme forevermore Then open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flit and 
flutter, In there stepped a raven of the saintly Holy Cross. Not the least apology made she, not a minute stopped or 
stayed she, But petitioned for a payment, payment of a thousand grand, one cool million, nothing more Shocked was I, and undertaking to placate the students making demands for a combination, Pacified them with concilations, and brought our demands to the Board. 
There we strove, begged and pleaded, but our efforts went unheeded, for as to the merger sorely needed; 
Qouth the Trustees, "nevermore" Assistant Editor 

T.C. Treanor 
Business Manager 
Jim Jendryk 

Business: 283-7471 
All successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend anyone or anything if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 
Assistant Editor 
John Abowd 

Advertising Manager Bill Bauerle 

News: 283-1715 
SMC students meet to try to save merger 

by Ann McCarry and Jim Mdh•rmott 
Over 1300 students, mostly from St. Mary's College, met in ()'Laughlin Auditorium yesterday to prepare a co­ordinatE-d move against the breakdown in the Notre Dame-St. Mary's unification. 
The meeting had originally been designed to allow students to meet with members of the College Board of Trustees. All trustees meet with members of the College Board of Trustees. All trustees in the area were invited as well as members of the SMC administration. 
With the exception of Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, vice-president for student affairs, and Sister Jeanne I<'inske, academic dean, no ad­ministrators or trustees ad­dressed the students. 
Dr. Cannon read the statement that Mother Olivette Whelan, chairman of the St. Mary's Board of Trustees, had sent to the faculty of the college. In the statement, Mother Whalen said, "I realize that it was a mistake to go forward until basic negotiations took place and agreements were reached." 
Mother Whalen, in the !.tatement, called for assistance in meeting the "new and challenging era" facing St. Mary's. She defered all other questions until after the trustees meet this month. 
In answer to questions, Dr. Cannon emphasized that the decision had been taken jointly hy tht• Notre Dame and St. Mary's trustees. She also said that steps are now being taken to insure that St. Mary's students will receive a quality education. 
Comm<•nting on the statment, that had been released to the faculty yesterday in Carroll Hall, 1>1'. Paul Messbarger, chairman of the faculty assembly, that "bdorc we can review our confidence in the integrity and the future of this college, we must hav<' some assurance that the l<'adership of this institution will I><' changed, that men and women wilt he nam<'d to the Board and to tlw <'xecutive offices of the <'OII<'ge who have the confidence of th<' faculty and students." 
M<'ssbarger commented on the "unrl'al sturcture of authority" at SMC, noting that trustees and administrators are "so far l'<'moved from the life of this community as to be incap!ible of l'dll'cting its true interests." He deplorl'd the fact that college faculty and student body had no 
part  in  any  of  the  final  con­ 
siderations  to  breakoff  the  
planned merger.  

Messbarger hoped for a united l'ffort on the part of the students and faculty to totally re-orient the ('OIIege. He called for a "review of the corporate relationship of the college and the Order of the Sisters of the Holy Cross." 
Dr. Messbarger's 
letter to the SMC 

Board of Trustees 
The following is the text of a statement I would like to direct to the St. Mary's Board of Trustees, along with an account of the faculty support it enjoys. If you agree with the sentiments, would you please sign this document and return it to the box in your mailroom by Wednesday evening. I will inform all of you of the actions I take; if necessary I will convene the Faculty Assembly for an emergency session Thursday or Friday. Dr. Paul Messbarger 
Letter to Chairman and Mem­bers, SMC Board of Trustees 
Dear Sisters and Gentlemen: The faculty (and student body) of St. Mary's College view the announced decision t. suspend merger negotiations with the University of Notre Dame with great disappointment. The statement of Mothc:-Olivette, Chairman of the Board, to the College faculty on Nov. 30, and her refusal to answer questions following the statement, only compounded our distress. 


To say more than this -to assess blame, to insist on redress -is to risk a judgment that may be rash. Yet that is a risk we have to take. Because there is almost no possibility that we shall ever know sufficient facts about the negotiations to make a perfectly reasoned judgment. Worse, even if we knew the fullest account of all sides to the negotiations, there is no way that we could know it to be true. That adds up to a description of our present situation even more desparate than what has oc­curred because of the failure of the merger. 
In her statement, Mother 
Olivette recorded a part of the his tory of the merger discussions. At one point, she said, "we realized" that "we had made a mistake." No member of this faculty and student body has any place among the "we" of that statement, just as no member of this faculty or student body was party to the initial decision to merge. Whether or not the negotiations can be resumed, or whether we withdraw into our­selves to rebuild this institution, the fact of the matter is that we have reached a point in our in­stitutional existence when critical changes are necessary. (What has brought us to our present crisis and what will necessarily frustrate any effort to rebuild this school is an unreal structure of authority. The men and women who direct the fate of 
this  school  (the  Board  and  
academic  officers)  are  so  far  
removed  from  the  I ife  of  this  

community as to be incapable of reflecting its true interest. We have been asked to accept a 
The best in Christmas Gift and Corsage Flowers at: 

52577 U. 5. 31 NO. PHONE 272-2966 
,~. ·_ Flowers for all occasions
.• 

Wire service Greeting cards
~<I 
Gifts Class of '48 

BETHEL COLLEGE FINE ARTS c/o Dr. Tweed 
For Verdi Requiem By G. Verdi 
300 Voice Chorus Elkhart Symphony Orch. 
Outstanding Soloists 
Sat. Dec. 4 8p.m. Goodman Auditorium Students $1.00 Adults $2.00 
Pauline Tweed; Soprano 

Patricia ShoOk, 1\MZJD.Soprano Dwight Weldy, Tenor John Wellh, Ball 
great deal of frustration, to.ab­sorb a great deal of pain. It seems to us that before we can accept this condition with any degree of willingness, before we ::an renew our confidence in the integrity and the future of this College, we must have some assurance that the leadership of this institution will be changed, that men and women will be named to the Board and to the executive offices of the College who have the confidence of the faculty and students. Moreover, we feel that because of decided and inevitable conflict of interest, steps should be taken to review the corporate relationship of the college and the Order of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
cerning the merger. 

During the meeting a letter, written by the freshmen class, that will be sent to the Board of Trustees and freshmen parents, was presented by Sue Hooks and Trish Steele. 
They cited the second page of the Freshman Manual, which says "Because of the recent unification of Saint Mary's College in the Fall Semester of 1971 will have available to them all of the bachelor degree programs of the University of Notre Dame as well as those which have existed at Saint Mary's and which are not duplicated by Notre Dame programs." 
They felt that "a promise has been broken, and no confidence in the Board or its decisions can exist at this time." 

A PAULIST DOESNT WAIT TO BE ORDAINED 
TO GET 
INVOLVED. 

If you think that ordination is something like graduation -and the time in between is similar to marking time-then you couldn't be more mistaken. 
The Paulists were founded with the belief that each man is a member of the community and he contributes his own thing. Each is an individual with ·his own talents and he is given the freedom to use them in his own way. But not later. No11'. 
For instance, during the no­vitiate, novices work in such diverse areas as hospitals, voca­tional rehabilitation centers and Universities. They serve as assist­ant chaplains, co-retreat masters, student teachers and psychiatric aides. 
Paulist Seminarians create recreational programs, direct "Days of Recollection" for CCD students, direct film series, ex­periment with the use of media in the liturgy as a preaching tool, originate and edit the Paullst Free Press, coordinate Lenten lectures and organize Home Masses, to mention just a few. 
When you commit yourself to the Paulists, it isn't a someday thing. It's now. Today. 
For more information about the Paulists write to: Rev. Don­ald C. Campbell, C.S.P., Voca­tion Director, Room 300. 


pcdstfcthels. 
415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 

Student Union Presents 
Zorba the Greek 
Benefit of Pakistan Relief Fund 
Thurs. Dec. 2 at 7:00 & 9:30 PM 
Admission $1 Engineering Auditorium 
Thursday, December 2, 1971
.....
-


NntPA 

..... .._.r ... ,....,
The people of ... uame sound off••• 

About Ray 

Editor: 
Ray writes about what he does 
not understand Ray writes about the Revolution He does not know it, he has only a 
few shallow images Has Ray ever gotten out into the streets? Doubtless Ray only knows the Revolution through 
Time magazine 
Ray does not know the Revolution 
Ray does not understand that the Revolution 
Does not run counter to the dynamite Glass Bead Game Of the universities, but only to 
those factories That produce little persons to work for the Man Ray also does not like Abbie 
Hoffman, which incenses me Becuase Abbie Hoffman is one of my heroes, along side Jesus, Friedrich Nietzsche, John Lennon, Popeye, And John Carter, Warrior of 
Mars. Bob James Class of '75 

About crooks 

Editor: 
A note for your executive editor: Dear Mr. Treanor: 
In the spirit of Ecumenism I would suggest the following which was sent to me by the National Laymen's Council of The Church League of America. 
Cordially yours, John T. Balfe '20 
How to Raist> a Crook 

1. Begin from infancy to give the child everything he w1mts. This way he will grow up to believe that the world owes him a living. 
2.When he picks up bad words, laugh at him. It will encourage him to pick up "cuter" phrases that will blow the top off your head later. 
3. 
Never give him any spiritual training. Wait until he is twenty­one and then let him decide for himself. 

4. 
Avoid the use of the word "wrong". It may develop a guilt complex. This will condition him to believe later when he is arrested for stealing a car that society is against him and he is being persecuted. 

5. 
Pick up anything he leaves lying around--books, shoes, 


Students listen to Sr. Gerald 
(continued from page I) 
Sr. Gerald refused to comment on the student demand for third­
party  arbitration  of  the  
problems.  
Directing  herself  to  the  

question of SMC academically suffering by the Notre Dame coeducation move, Sr. Gerald reported said, "Then Saint Mary's takes the blame. There is no reason why they should suf­fer." 
The four also reported concern on the part of Sr. Gerald that "there will be much closer communication between the Board of Trustees and the students." 
"There aren't," Sister was quoted as saying, "com­munication links there that should be there. There are some, but there should be more." 
As far as student and faculty representation on the Board, Miss Anderson said that Sister Gerald had promised to take the issue before the Board at the earliest possible opportunity. 
Miss Anderson also noted that Sister had agreed to recommend to the Board that they meet with a student convocation on December lB. 
As for the overall effect of their meeting last night, the four ex­pressed some dissatisfaction. "With regard to the meeting," 
SMC -NO PRE-CHRISTMAS RETR 
an experience in Christian sharing 
This Saturday, Dec. 4 9 A.M. -Midnight 
For info. call Fr. Roger (5389) or Tom 
Stella (1168) or Mary Gail Peterson (4494) 
said Miss Anderson, "it was pretty much what the student body expected. I think its grossly insufficient for present needs, but in regard to long range progress, I think this was one way in which to open new channels, channels needed to create long-range rapport between the Board and the students. 
"I wish, however, that this could have been directed more to immediate needs," she added. 
Cathy Hicks said, "As far as Sister Gerald is concerned, she doesn't see any emergency. This tonight was all she could do until the 18th. We will be there the clothing. Do everything for him so he will be experienced in throwing the responsibility to others. 
6. 
Let him read any printed matter he can get his hands on. Be careful the silverware and drinking glasses are sterilized, but let his mind feed on garbage. 

7. 
Quarrel frequently in the presence of the children. Then they won't be too shocked when the home is broken up. 


B. Give the child all the spen­ding money he wants. Never let him earn his own. Why should he have things as tough as you had them? 
9. 
Satisfy his every craving for food drink, and comfort. See that every desire is gratified. Denial may lead him to harmful frustrations. 

10. 
Take his part against neigh­bors, teachers and policemen. They are all prejudiced against your child. 

11. 
When he gets into real trouble, apologize for yourselves by saying, "I never could do anything with him." 

12. 
Prepare for a life of grief­you will have it. 


--from The PresbyterianJournal 
----------------------·-­





7leurs & 8ook c~ 
• 
You save 200fo on all greeting cards, gift wrap, stationery, Christmas cards and Christ­mas boxes. 

• 
6,000 different paperback titles in stock. 

• 
600 different current maga­zines to choose from. 


open Sunday, noon to 6 p.m. 

7leurs & 8ook c~ 
Everything for the Reader and the Greeter 
113 WEST WASHINGTON STREET, SOUTH BEND 
233-1666 
Special prices to NOTRE LJAME Students... 
Just show your 10 card at any of our stores. 



Michigan spoils Digger's opening 

managed a slight advantage throughout the initial period, an<l were able to sneak out at the halftime break in possession of a 
49-47 lead. 
The halftime figures were both revealing and supprising. During the first period, the Irish at­tempted 45 field goals to 34 for the Wolverines, and hit on 21 of them, 
as opposed to 18 for Michigan. But the slight lead that the Irish held in the field goal department was more than erased by 
Michigan's performance at the free-throw line. The Wolverines hit on 13 of their 19 charity throws--as opposed to five of five for ND. 

Teh most surprising first half statistic was that of rebounding. For during the first 20 minutes of play, the scrappy Irish squad 
outrebounded their taller and 
heavier opponents, 20-19. And it was this, more than anything C'lse, that enabled Notre Dame to stay as close as it did for as long as it did. 
Phelps' team began the seconf. half the way they ended the first, 

make it 89-80. But NO's shooters 
and when the Irish edged to a 59-team, and because they could 56 lead with 15:11 remaining, ND hit a two-minute cold spell after shoot. They just wear you down 
this, and when the Irish finally
fans in the crowd of 9,586 began to but if we had to play 'em again, hope for an upset. did score again, at 1:17, the we'd play 'em the same way." 
as Wolverines had stretched their Michigan's Wayne Grabiec led But the Irish, determined lead to 97-82. O'Mara 's free-throw all scorers with 26 points, and hethey were, simply ran out of gas 
with no time remaining ran the
as the second half wore on. was followed by teammates 
score to its final I01-83 tally. 
Wilmore and Lockard, whoMichigan closed the gap to 59-58 "They're a defensive club," notched 21 and 17, respectively.
on a bucket by 6-5 forward Dave 

said the ND coach after the
Lockard, pulled ahead on an Tom O'Mara's 25 led the Irish, 
game, "and they did a good job of 
Ernie Johnson jumper, and never but he was pressed for team
controlling the boards. Besides, 
honors by Gary Novak, whotrailed again, Notre was able to 
we were getting a little tired 
scored 23. Novak and O'Mara
keep things close until the seven­minute mark, when three back­there at the end. But this was the also led the Irish in rebounding,
best we've looked all year,"
to-hack field goals by the 6-6 with 10 and seven, and Lockard Grabiec eased the Wolverines continued Phelps, "and we were (17) and Wilmore (13) paced the very good ;at changing our
into an 85-73 lead, and really put Wolverines in cleaning the 
defenses.
the game away. boards. 
The Irish threatened only once "Our kids learned a lot Coach Phelps and his Irish more. After Wilmore drew his tonight," he said. "We didn't get cagers will attempt to even their fifth personal with slightly less beat because they were quicker record at 1-1 this weekend, when than five minutes remaining, than we were. We got beat they go on the road for a Saturday Tom O'Mara sank a free throw to because they were a physical (ll:OO pml game at Valparaiso. 
Slow start topples frosh 
defecit. Notre Dame, however, won that battle 52 to 47, but 
by Joe Passiatore '74 was unable to seriously threaten turnovers. The Irish committed 
Michigan's superiority in the 23 offensive errors to Michigan's 
contest. This was due somewhat 15. The absence of guard Dwight • 
The Notre Dame freshmen Clay was partly responsible for
to their lack of movement on
basketball team was the victim of this. Clay is out of action with a
offense and their tendency to rely 
some first half sluggishness last broken finger.
too much on Brokaw. 
night as they were defeated by 

A full court press was em­
Mighigan's frosd, 89-77. Down by 

ployed by Coach Frank
fifteen points at intermission, 47­

McLoughlin with 11:32 left and 

Letters
32, the Irish came back to out-

Notre Dame trailing 60-47. 
Editor: Let mescore Michigan in the final half. 
However, Campy Russell con­
make this suggestion. If NDHowever, Michigan's early 
tinued to dominate the boards 
wants money for its minoritysupremacy left the issue little in 
with what at times seemed to be 
recruitment program, and if itdoubt. 
excessive agressiveness, which 
would like to make this money byThe baby Irish fell behind 15-10 went unchecked by the referees. playing in Bowl games, and if ND at 12:33 of the first half when the With 2:22 left, the score had would always like to play whom it pressing defense of the closed to 80-70 because of some would like to play, then I suggest Wolverines forced them into aroused board play by Peter the First College Bowl north of some costly turnovers. The I he Mason -Dixon Line: Thesituation worsened when the Crotty and Bedford Bruno. The Hockne Bowl! It will give us an
Wolverines then reverted to their
combination of 6'7" Campy t>xcuse to build a new stadium! It
productive first-half style of play, 
Bussell and guard Joe Johnson will give alumni and friends of
and kept Notre Dame from en­
started to click. With Russell the university another chance to
tertaining any notions of a
dominating the defensive boards see the ND team in action. It will
comeback.
and Johnson frequently give a visiting southern team a penetrating the Irish defense Brokaw concluded the game 9 chance to see snow. South Bend with scoring drives, the baby of 26 from the field, and 10 of 11 might be inspired to renew its from the charity stripe for a total face (or perhaps visitors couldWolverines opened up a 27-19 of 28 points. Crotty turned in a 13 stay in Chicago overnight!). The
margin at 7:36 of the first half. 

point effort along with 14 team won't have to spendSome cold shooting by the rebounds and Bruno had 12 practice time away from home;Leprechauns further aided points, 13 rebounds. they can invite their family here! 
Michigan in the opening period. 

The Wolverines were headed Since there are so many bowls on ,l<'or the first twenty minutes 
by Johnson and Russell, who had January 1st, and it might be hard Notre Dame hit on only 33 per :~2 and 26 points respectively. to acquire TV coverage maybe ecnt of its shots. Michigan, Hussell was the leading wt>'d like to change the entire meanwhile, was ripping away at rebounder with 14. eoncept.. Paint a town Green and a !l5 per cent clip. hold the Rockne Bowl on St.
Ironically enough both teams 
Patty's Day!

Gary Brokaw began to open up shot 40 per cent from the field, 

in the second half and by virtue of however, Michigan was able to his offensive prowess the Irish get off 7 more shots. The dif­
227 Zahm

began to peck away at their ference wasn't rebounding as ND 
by Vic Dorr 'H 

The scene outside the Notre 
Dame dressing room after last 
night's I01-83loss to the Michigan 
Wolverines was an unusual one. 
"Moose" Krause, the Univer­
sity's Athletic Director, and 
Hoger Valdiserri, the Sports 
Information Director, were both 
smiling broadly and puffing on 
fat cigars as they waited to see 
the Irish ball club. 
And inside the dressing room, in the tiny press cubicle, the scene was just as unusual. Coach "Digger" Phelps, despite the fact I hat his team had just suffered an Ill-point setback in its season opener, was telling anyone who would listen : 
''I'm pleased with those kids .I'm very proud of them. I eouldn't have asked for more." 
But pPrhaps this behavior wasn't so unusual after all. The Irish were beaten, and they were beaten fairly decisively. But the Hll-S:J final score was no in­
dication of the kind of game it was, and it was certainly no in­dication of the kind of game the NO varsity played. 
Phelps' squad had been overwhelming underdogs going into the contest. The Irish were younger, smaller, badly out­manned by a Michigan squad that boasted 6-4 Henry Wilmore, G-6 Wayne Grabiec, and 6-8 Ernie Johnson. 
From the opening tipoff, though, it was clear that the Irish wre not going to play the game 
like underdogs. The all­sophomore starting lineup of Bob Valibus, Tom Hansen, Tom 
O'Mara, Gary Novak, and Chris Stevens put unexpected pressure on the Wolverines--both on of­fense and on defense. 
The two teams volleyed throughout the first period, and the Irish who had not been im­pressive on offense in their pre­season game against the fresh­
men, were able to grab the lead from the nationally-ranked Wolverines on two occasions-­once at 13-12, and again at 17-15. 
Other than this, the Wolverines 

Willie Townsend hits from close in 
Wrestlers begin well; sweep two-match set 
Komar, Rocek and Fanning,by Pcte Winkler '75 
paved the way for this win, Moylan's pin just missing theIn the past two nights, the school record for quickest by oneNotre Dame Wrestling Squad has second at 26. In addition, Ryangotten the 71-72 season off to a and Bennet scored victories onflying start. 
points, while Bramble and BillLast night in the first home Moran dropped their matches.
match of the season, against De These two victories leave RyanPauw University, the Irish won only 11 short of the all time an overwhelming victory, setting record.
three records in the process: Overall, the team looks strong, most pins in a match with 7, most coming off their best opening inpoints with 45, and widest point the history of the sport at Notrespread with :l6, tying a record set Dame. This weekend, they headthe previous night at St. Joe's. 
for the New York Invitational,Last night's results looked like their first tournament of thethis: 118 -Mike Martin, Pin in season, Then, next Thursday,7::!9 over Mike Borgman. 126 ­December 9, they play host toSteve Moylan, Pin in 6:33 over 
traditional rivals, Wabash
Tom Stevens. 134-Rich Esposto, University, in what should provePin in 6:28 over Dale Oldis. 142­to be one of the most excitingCurt Bramble over Bruce Pncounters in the 1971 wrestlingHamilton, !i-0. 150 -Ken Ryan, season.
Pin in 3:50 over George Ball. 158­Hob Bennet, Pin in 2:49 over Gary Hoberts. 167 -Mike Kemp 
Notice

lost by a pin to De Pauw's Neil Oslos. 177 -Rick Komer, pin in 
2:52 over Doug Wood. 190 -Al Anyone interested in playing Hoeck lost, 2-0 to Jim Johnson. Intramural Hockey, who did not IIWT-Mike Fanning, Pin in 7:50 attend the meeting of November 
over Jack Vanderschilren. 22, can still sign up at the In­The final score was 45-9. terhall office, C-4(6100). Tu(•sday night saw another 
Notre Dame victory--this time over St. Joe's, 42-6. Six pins, by Interhall Athletics Martin, Moylan, Esposto, November 30, 1971 

"' .

Student protest con!!nues ·r 

Mardi Gras '72 

(continued from page 1) 
action, based on Freshman in­formation bulletins promising merger with Notre Dame, were also discussed. 
A boycott of pre-registration was discussed, but discarded by the majority as neither par­ticularly useful nor desireable. 
Dr. Mark Bambenek noted that "with pre-registration you've got nothing to lose. You can pick 
~ courses now and pull out later." 
Afro-American 
Society fights 

Sickle Cell 
By Millard Arnold Officials from the Afro­American society last night announced that proceeds from .. next Saturday's Black solidarity dance will go to the fight against Sickle Cell Anemia, a disease which primarily effects Blacks. The Society asked for con­tributions of "at least fifty cents" for the dance, which is scheduled 
to  go  on  between  ten Saturday  
evening  and  three  Sunday  
morning.  The Sound Service, a  

South Bend musical group, will be the featured artists. 
The idea for the benefit grew of a letter which Rick Smothers, the Notre Dame representative to the Indiana advisory council of Black Student Unions, received from the foundation. 
The letter stated in part that the Black Greek Council of In­diana University had contributed $800 to the foundation and inquired as to what could be accomplished at Notre Dame. 
Olatemi Simmons, who is helping coordinate the affair, immediately took to the idea when Smothers approached him with the proposal. 
"We had already planned a party for Saturday evening," Simmons said, "it was just something to be doing. When Smothers asked about our giving the dance for sickle cell, I said 
~·yea, why not?' I see it as 
something that should have been 
done long before." 
Simmons is one of the ten pPrrent of Blacks in America who carries the sickle-cell trait. 
The actual disease itself occurs in one out of every 500 Blacks in this country. It is a killer. Few 
who have the disease live past ~301.11iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
"Randy Newman is a phenomenon, one of a kind, probably the 
most authentic popmusic talent to come along in the last 20 
years." -Philadelphia Daily NPWs 
" ... one of the most imaginative ... nd original songwriters of today." Hit Parader 
"Randy Newman is a great songwriter-perhaps the best songwriter now working.'' Los Angeles Herald Examiner 
"Newman is one of the tightest, most aware, sophisticated rock people around." Cincinnati Enquirer 
"The most unique and consistently impressive songwriter to have evolved from the new popular music." Cosmopolitan 
"Randy has the deepest, most consistent, most original comic version to be found in pop music today." Rolling Stone 
Friday, Dec. 10 
8 pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Tickets $2 at the S. U. Ticket Office 




~::il!::lllllalndiPialndora.·s.B.oo.ks
.....................
11 

SBP Kathy Barlow stressed the need for widespread personal support. and both she and Sr. Franzita Kane <SMC English Prof. l spoke of the need for all students to be well-informed on the issues and facts. 
Students said that there was widespread interest in the story among national papers, and that teams from NBC news would be on the SMC campus Thursday. 
It was announced that ac­tivities Thursday would include the setting up of an information 
Cultural Arts Commission's Performing Arts series 
Men's Boutique

Toronto Dance 
Fr. Dec. 3 8:30PM 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 

"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping

Admission $2 
Center·_ Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­
7:135

Performing Arts 


Series Patrons $1 
·c H A 
p p 
E 
0 

Schlitz and the Senior Bar Present 

Sat: A Christmas Party
with 
-Chapped Lips -An Appearance by Santa Claus 15~ Schlitz Malt Liquor on Tap 
Bar Opens at 7:00 
Also: 1 free drink for anyone dressed as a Reindeer 

--· 

L I' 
~ 

renter. and the establishment of checkpoints in the SMC dining hall to poll students on whether or kick-off party, feb4 not they had sent letters to their parents or taken other recom­mended actions. 

feb 5-13

The meeting was preceded by a silent march by a body of about 500 students to Bertrand Hall concert, feb. 11 which served as an escort to the four representatives who were scheduled to meet with Sr. Gerald, and was an attempt to emphasize student support of them. 
Clothes and things 









