



Funds denial called discrimination SBP supports charges 
later, the letter was returned to recipient for my fund." He went
by Fred Schaefer 
him by Koch, with the comment on to say that the lhiversity, "Nuts! You are probably a not he, administers the fund.
Last night Dave Krashna, Stu­dent Body President, made bum!" concerning his participa­Werner went to Brother Kier­
charges of "blatant discrimina­tion in the SAR. He also remark­an Ryan, then director of Finan­tion" in the scholarship denial ed that, "You are a radical or cial Aid and Scholarships, and case of senior Jim Werner. you would put your Zip code :->n. was assured that academics is the 
Werner was recipient of a If I were you, I would not only criterion in the removal of a scholar;hip.
scholarship funded by Mr. Carl accept any more money from 
During the summer, he re­
Koch. Last spring, 1-Je wrote a the Koch fund." 
ceived a letter dated July 3 from 
letter to his donor informing When contacted last night, 
him of his progress at Notre Mr. Koch admitted that he had Ryan stating that his scholarship written the comments. He did was being revoked because of his
Dame. In his remarks he in­.fai'l.ure to maintain a 3.00, one
cluded a list of his activities, say, however, that "I have at no time been in contact with the of the stipulations of the schol­Carl Koch at no time communi­Financial Aid and outlined prob­among which was the Students 
Against Racism. University concerning the suit­arship. Werner has a cumulative cated with the University specif­lems he was facing and how he Approximately three weeks ability of James Werner as a average of 2.548. ically regarding James, or re­intended to resolve them. 
Werner alleges that another questing that scholarships be un­In 1970, Werner did not sup­student on the Koch scholarship available to students involved in ply an explanation after he had itas an average similar to his, certain social or political activi­received the , warning letter. 
but still holds the grant. ties. Thus, the decision to relieve Ryan then wrote "We do not 
Ryan also wrote, "We also him of the scholarship in no way have any information to justify must recognize the unfavorable was initiated by the donor." the poor grade point average reaction you have given to the On July 31, Ryan wrote an­which you had for the Fall 1969 donor of this award who is other letter to Werner further semester...In your case, over and 
Article challenges 
Sheedy refutation 
keenly concerned with the recip­explaining the action. He noted above the academic require­ient's achievements." that in the Spring of both 1969 ments, the scholarship is oneAn agreement was reached be­However, in November, Fath­and 1970 a letter of warning was which is closely observed by thetween Notre Dame and Saint 
er James T. Burtchaell, Universi­sent due to his failure to main­donor, and I do not have toMary's trustees concerning an ty provost, wrote a letter to tain a 3.00. In 1969 Werner had
enrollment ratio of 3: I accord­
(Continued on page 3)
Werner's parents, stating, "Mr. sent a letter to the Office ofing to remarks made by Rev. Neil G. McCluskey in an unpub­lished interview conducted be­
Annexation expected to fail
fore Christmas. This is in direct contradiction 
by Cliff Wintrode • 
to the statement made by Rev Charles Sheedy in Thursday's Mayor Lloyd Allen's proposal some of the Council members The educational institutions Observer where he denied such 
to annex the properties of the yesterday afternoon, which' fear that annexation will bring an agreement was ever made. 
University of Notre Dame, St. included two of the undecideds, possible pressures from city"Part of the agreement last 
Mary's College, and Holy Cross was expected to be the final residents to tax them for servic-es year in Key Biscayne and part of Junior College will almost offensive for either side. provided and threaten their what I pushed for for many Rev. Neil McCluskey, S.J. 
certainly be defeated tonight at The battle lines between the • tax-exempt status. 
years was that in return for not 
the South Bend Common universities and the city have going co-educational on its own. increase enrollment to a I :3 Council meeting . been clearly drawn. Allen claims Father Theodore M. Hesburgh . . that is, the girls who would ratio with Notre Dame in return University forces need only to that the annexation of Notre 
has said that taxation of privatecome to Notre Dame would be for Notre Dame not going co-ed capture one of the three Dame is "essential to the future 
educational institutions willthrough St. Mary's . . . St. on its own. straddler's votes to deny Allen's growth of the city." The 
mean the doom of such

Mary's would agree to expand to 
Observer reporter Dave bid for annexation. university says annexation 
institutions. 

a ratio of three to one... "Mc­
Fromm interviewed Rev. Mc­The latest count shows tl.at would benefit no ne. Cluskey said. Cluskey along with Rev. Sheedy, there are four Council members Notre Dame has threatened who is Chairman of the Co­definitely against annexation,
see editorial page 4 Allen claims that the tax court proceedingp rl the 
EducationCoordinating commit­two definitely for annexation, Common Council decides
rebates the city would receive Rev. McCluskey, who is Dean tee and Mr. Phillip Faccenda, and three "leaners and 

for the· increased population will favorably on annexation. 

Director for the Institute for Vice-President and General fencestraddlers." Five votes are make annexation beneficial to
Studies in Education at Notre Counsel for a story on coeduca­needed for passage of the Thl.' Council will meet on the
the city.

Dame and a St. Mary's trustee, tion that was to appear in the measure. fourth floor of the City-County also said that this expansion of Wednesday December 9th edi­One of the three "leaners" has The university contends that Building tonight at eight o'clock. enrollment was "only a first tion of the Observer. Due tc said that he "always leans costs for university services will 225 spectators will be allowed step." space limitations the story wa~ against annexation." Two weeks make annexation-a burden to inside the Council chambers and 
Rev. Sheedy's remarks as re­held out and with the issuancf ago he voted in the majority the city. Annexation will also 75 spectators will be allowed in ported in Thursday's Observer of the Park-Mayhew report wa~ against a proposal to annex a harm the smooth relationship the lobby inside. The limit has was that there is no understand­believed to be outdated. Thf tract in Clay township. that now exists between the been set to protect the crowd-in ing between Notre Dame and St. story, which was filed for back-A university presentation town and the university say Notre the case of a fire or other Mary's such that St. Mary's will (Continued on page 8) before an informal meeting of Dame officials. emergency. 

------·-·----­
-~ 

THE OBSERVER. 
MONDAY. JANUARY 25. 1971 
Poll to be taken at SMC 
by Jeanne Sweeney in every way she could forum of all the students may present to the Acting President, Miss Tracey, said that she has possibly be held, Miss Tracey Sr. Alma Peter, a final statement 
SMC News Editor 

a group of students working said. to consist of recommendations 
The St. Mary's members of with Sister M. Immaculata, the All statements from the area fully accepted, those not ac­the Coeducation Co-ordinating Dean of Students, who will meet must be returned to Miss Noel cepted, and a list of alternatives. committee, headed by Miss Eliz­with the Student Affairs com­by February first. On February On March 13 a final statement abeth Noel of the English de­mittee to discuss the report and 13, the SMC task force of the will be presented to the SMC partment, have set up a task its implications for the students. Co-ordinating committee will Board of Trustees for discussion. 
force to collect and compare Miss Tracey and Carol Hen­meet with members of the NO At the March 21st joint meet­
judgements at SMC on the co­ninger, the Academic Affairs Co-ordinating committee, who ing of the Executive committees education report recently filed commissiOner, are separately will presumably be following a of the SMC and ND boards of by Rosemary Park and Lewis formulating their own com­similar plan for ·dissemination, Trustees at Key Biscayne, the Mayhew. ments. After both groups con­study, and feed back. final statement will be present­
Miss Noel, who sees her func­clude their discussions, an open Then on March first they will ed. tion on the task force as essen­tially one of tabulation, has con­

Crossroads
tacted members from each area of the community for their re­actions, recommendations, and criticisms of the Park-Mayhew report. 



Psych Bldg use in air;
Where do you hear them? 
She explained that she had In a plea for help from sent letters to such people as someone who needs it? In a ad ministration members, thedialogue between students and faculty, department chairmen, 


law program continues
the Establishment? In a talk 

the student government presi­rocks? At a Catholic Mass 
session for a marriage-on-the­

dent and the chairman of the conducted in an Episcopal 
Faculty Assembly. Miss Noel has of California at Berkeley. Prior be divided into the college status
Psych Building in Doubt
Church? 

also asked Mother M. Olivette to joining the Saint Mary's facul­of the applying students; these You'd be surprised. 
Whalen, Chairman of the College The future use of the Psych­ty in 1969, he taught at Florida bulletins will be color-coded: Board of Trustees, for any com­ology Building has not been de­State University, Standord and yellow for Arts and Letters, blueThe sounds of love are ments on the report with re­Centre College of Kentucky and for Business Administration,
cided upon, according to Rev. hear them. If they listen. 
everywhere -anyone can ference to those aspects which Jerome J. Wilson, Vice President ~erved as director of church mu­orange for Science, and green for concern the Sisters of the Holy of Business Affairs, and Rev. sic for several chruches. Engineering.

The Paulists listen. But, like everything in life, the 

Cross. James T. Burtchaell, University things that matter most are 
Getting student opinion on Law Program Continues Thanks to YAF
Provost. the hardest. 
the report was Miss Noel's only 

Administration plans call for problem because unlike the fa­The Law School's year-around
the Biology Department to move In response to two shipments But then, the best things in 
It isn't easy being a Paulist. 

culty, who are reached through all its facilities except for ani­program in London, England, <Jf gifts sent to Vietnam, Notre life never are. 
their assembly, departments and will continue this summer when
mal-research to the new Biology Dame's Yound Americans for individually, she could only con-once it is Professor Peter W. Thornton dir­
building, completed.
If you are interested in Freedom has received many let­ects a six-week session at Bruneimore information about the tact Ann Marie Tracey, Student The psychology Department ters of thanks from US service­University. Classes are open toPaulist priesthood, write to: Body President, for an evalua­would then be able to move into .nen there. The Y AF had sentstudents of all fully accreditedtion of student opinion. the Wenninger-Kirsh Building parcels of gifts financed by col­

Rev. Dooald C. Campbell, C.S.P. 

The chairman of the task presently occupied by the Bi­law schools. 
Vocation Director 

lections held in the dining hallsA distinguished faculty of Bri­force said there were no other ology Department. 
before Halloween and Christmas.
tish and American educators willspecific areas besides student When asked what will happen The YAF gathered roughly 

government which she knew to to the Psychology Building, Fa­conduct courses in British and
CJ>aulistth 

$ I 00 in the first collection andther replied: American criminal law and landcontact in order to get more Wilson "I don't $75 in the second. According to
CFa erG 
use systems, international busi­students' opinions. Miss Noel think anyone knows about Paul Dube, a Y AF member inRoom 114 ness transactions, trusts, federal 

I 
emphasized that everybody has a that." Father Burtchaell agreed charge of the program, "every415 West 59th Street 
chance to express his opinion and added that many depart­jurisdiction, negotiable instru­
penny was used for gifts andNew York, N.Y. 10019 ments, and law and technology.
and she has tried to reach them ments are in need of more space postage". The postage totalledand they would like the addi­A student may choose up to about $40. The rest of thetional room. So far, the Engi­seven hours of courses which money went into koolaid,
neering Department has made a comply with the standards of 
various kinds of candy, peanuts,request for the building. the Association of American and paper creche decorations.
Wilson said that the new Bi­Law Schools. 
The Y AF mailed the presentsParticipants in recent pro­
ology building was expected to 
to Dube's sister, Captain Mary­grams abroad have found that
be opened in mid-April, but de­
anna Dube, who serves in thetheir educational experience in
lays in delivery Q[ materials such 
85th Evacuation Hospital at Phuthe birthplace of the common
as benches and casework have 
Bai. Captain Dube then airliftedlaw and in a leading center ofmoved the opening back until 
all the gifts to soldiers in the the summer or even later. Be­
Ebascolill international and comparative 
field.
law was enhanced by the daily

cause of these delays, the Psychology Department may not language prof 
interchange of ideas, viewpoints and experiences with students

move into the Wenninger-Kirsh from more than 40 law schools
Building until September 1972. 
throughout the world, Thornton dies over break said. 




Interviewon campus 

ENGINEERING GRADUATES 



Mon., February 8 
It's find out time! Time for you to find out the role you might play in the company that has designed or constructed over 8 billion dollars of fossil fuel, hydroelectric and nuclear plants. 
There's never-been a more exciting time to join 
Ebasco. Forecasts call for electrical power 
systems 3!12 times the size of our present 
national systems. As an engineer at Ebasco 
you'll be in the forefront of this activity. Ebasco 
engineers always have been. 
See your Placement Director soon to arrange a 
Q&A session with the Ebasco representative on 
the above date. If this is not convenient, write to 
College Relations Coordinator, Ebasco Services 
Incorporated, Two Rector Street, New York, 
New York 10006. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
EBASCO 
SERVICES INCORPORATED A Boise Cascade Company 
Organ fl.ecital 

Total registration and tuition Dr. Paul A. Duet, 55 assistant cost is $300. Student lodging professor of modern languages at A program of classical organ and three daily meals will be Notre Dame since 1961, was music will be presented by Dr. available on the Brunei campus found dead in his home at 1311 Hickory Road, South Bend,
Arthur P. Lawrence Friday, Jan­for $340 and round-trip air transportation is priced at Tuesday January 19, apparently
uary 29, at 8:15 p.m. in Sacred $199-$299, depending on depar­of natural causes. The body was
Heart Church on the Notre 

Dame campus. Dr. Lawrence, an ture from Detroit or New York. sent from the McGann Funeral assistant professor of music at Additional information may be Home in South Bend to the Saint Mary's College, will be obtained by writing to Professor Falgout Funeral Home, Galliano, 
joined on the program by Miss 

Thornton, Notre Dame, Ind. La., where services and burial Susan Stevens, soprano. Miss 
46556. will take place. Dr. Duet received his educa­

Stevens is also a member of the Saint Mary's music faculty. tion at Louisiana State Univer­
New Interview Policy 

sity, University of Paris, Univer­rence has chosen: "Toccata in sity of Chicago, University of For his program, Dr. Law­
Mr. Richard Willemin, Dir­

F ," Bach; "Prelude in C Minor," Mexico and Tulane University.
ector of the Placement Bureau,

Mendlessohn; _"Chorale Prelude Before joining the Notre Dame
announced the following policy

based on the Lord's Prayer," faculty he served on the staffs of
change: each student planning to

Boehm; "Postlude for the Ser­Southern State College, Mag­
sign up for job interviews in the

vice of Compline," Alain; and a nolia, Ark.; Nicholls State Col­
spring should provide a copy of 

soprano-organ duet, "Gaudete" lege, Thibodaux, La., Tulane
his College Interview Form for

by the contemporary German University, Northeast Louisiana
each representative he intends to

organist, Anton Heiller. State College, Monroe, La., and 
see. This will enable the inter­

Dr. Lawrence, who also ser­Louisiana State University,
viewer to have a rough profile of 

ves on the music faculty of the Baton Rouge.
the interviewee before meetingUniversity of Notre Dame as 
him.
director of .choral activities, is a Willemin emphasized the ur­graduate of Davidson College. 
gency of planning interviews, inHe holds a master's from Florida view of the current "tight" em­State, a doctor of musical arts ployment situation.

degree from Stanford University and has studied at the lhiversity Future Placement Bureau will 
Thanks very much to everyone who called concerning the driver's position for the Observer. The position has been filled but we will keep your 'lames on file in case of another vacancy. 

~------~--~------~-------­
MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1971 

7H6 O&rERVDl _PAGE 3 
JObS for '71 gradS: New st~tistics ~e~uce hope; 

show nahonal h1r1ng cutbacks 
by Greg Rowinski 
Though actual percentages of placed students are not yet avail­able at the Placement Bureau, other contributing variables pro­vide a less than glowing picture of the employment situation for 1971's graduates. The factors include cutbacks in employer visits and decreased hiring quotas for those employers with campus representatives. 
"We are now in a flurry of employer cancellations for cam­



Accvrding to Dr. George 
Brinkley, chairman of the de­
partment of Government and 
International Studies, there are 
no plans for an Asian Studies 
Program at Notre Dame., al­
though there will be some new 
developments in this area by 
September, 1971. 
Though Dr. Brinkley expres­
sed hope in starting an Asian 
Studies Program someday at 
Notre Dame, he felt there was 
little chance of it at least in the 
next few years. He said there are 
too rna ny obstacles at this time 
to seriously consider the pro­
gram. 
"To create an Asian Studies _Program, there would have to be 
a significant expansion of 
language studies as well as 
courses in other areas. The uni­
versity is not prepared to expand 
like this." 
The chairman of the Govern­
ment department also said there 
an: very few university courses 
offend in the field of Asian 
Studies. He commented that 
there is only one Oriental 
language -Japanese -offered, 
and that history courses in the 
are;1 are rare. 
However, it is possible to re­ceive an Asian Studie's Certificate, he said. Similar to the Latin Studies Certificate, it req'lires a year in an Oriental language, 12 hours in courses concerning Asia, and an essay on Asia. 
Brinkley gave credit to stu­dents enrolled in the Japan foreign studies program of the Certificate idea. He said a num­ber of these students last year requested the Government de­partment to offer something about Asia. In response, the de­partment offered the certificate. He said that four had expressed intention of obtaining the certi­ficate, but that none have been granted yet. 
The Government department head also mentioned that there is a possibility for September of 
a faculty member being hired to teach in Asian studies. He said no decision would be made on this until this spring, however. 
In addition to this, .the depart­ment will. offer a course next fall in Easter Political Thought. The course will be taught by Dr. 
Gerhart  Niemeyer  who  is  pres­ 
ently  a  professor  in  the  
department  and  who  has  long  


Scholarship refusal 
1,:._'untinued fro/11 -Page I) 
remind you of the unfavorable impression you· 1have made on 
Liin. '~ I r I j ; l I 
lle;thert ~dfferechVemer a Na­ti;.mai Defelri.se';St\Ment Loaih and . Univer~'ify 1jbb;·whith' was ac­cepted. 
Werner went to Krashna, and together they went to Father Theodore Heshurgh, University President. The case was given, by Hesburgh, to Burtchaell, Univer­sity Provost. 
On September 30, Burtchaell 
wrote to Werner·,• sayi-ng. that his 
inves-tigat~0n of me matter show­
ed no evid!¢rtcllielf distrimination 
on•tlhe part of't~W. Uhiversity. 
We~·ner!s' l~atents·then wrote 
to llmtchaell, and claimed that 
the scholarship was removed be­
cause of their son's social in­
volvement. On November 30, 
Burtchaell replyed to Mr. and Mrs.. Werner, and said, "It has been repeatedly alleged that the University removed James' scholarship because of his social involvements. The allegeation is unfounded and, frankly, obno­vious." He maintained that aca­demics are the reason the schol­arship was not renewed. 
Werner still claims that he was discriminated against. He said last night that he knows of "at least two other Arkansas stu­
. dents who haven't maintained a 3.00, but kept their scholar­ships." 
"We want an honest, clear cut explanation," Krashna said. He continued, "We tried to keep from exposing this, but we have gone through the 'due process'. I spoke with Father Hesburgh twice, Jim and I together have spoken with Father Burtchaell several times. We feel we deserve an explanation." 

1he Observer is published daily ·during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Colleg~ Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dam 
pus visits," reported the Bureau The Bureau's figures bear out in a memo to Administration the first statement. From Christ­officials on January 12. The mas 1970 to the present, 18 release also told of a continuing major employers have cancelled "general reducation in hiring planned visits to the campus. quotas for our January, May, From August I, the chncef­and A11gust graduating classes." lations have numbered ;f.2, or 
roughly 22% of the 376 employ­ers originally scheduled. 
The situation is similar to that at all the nation's universitie:;. It is, in the words of the Bureau's Director, Richard Willemin, "a tight employment situation." He feels that Notre Dame is in a ''fair position, comparatively speaking" since some employers nave r.<:.pr~ssed special interest i" obtaining its graduates. How­ever, he added, "if the employer isn't hiring, he's not hiring any­
0bserver Insig~·li: 

where." 
Figures taken from "The Re­port on Recruiting Activity" indicate that Notre Dame r1ear!y parallels the national averages of visiting and hirhg cutbacks. 21% fewer visits are being made this year with 23% fewer plan­ned hirings than last year. The annual survey of employer inter­
been interested in a program for ests is compiled by 1he CollegeAsian Studies. As brought out 
Placement Counlil from 
by Dr. Brinkley though, Ur. 
questionnaires sent OUL to com­
Niemeyer's course will cover not panies.
just Asia, but also such arc:rs as The technical majors seem to 
the Middle East. 
be the hardest hit. Engineering,
Another strong possibility for 
science, mathematics, and other next year is a course in element­
technical graduates face the ary Chinese. One of the leaders 
greatest cutbacks, followed by for the language course is Jim 
business and non-technical grad­Thunder, a junior. He said that 
uates, according to the Report. to get the course, I 0 students 
The Report estimates a 37% are needed. He said four are 
decrease, as opposed to an 18% already sigPed up for the course, 
cut in business-oriented employ­b"ut was confident that others 
ment. Those in high-level science would also sigh up. 
and engineering are the most Thunder announced a meeting 
affected. In most fields, those for all those interested in taking 
with Doctoral degrees face stir­fer competition than Bachelors or Masters. The Placement Bureau's figures indicate the same situation on this campus. On t}le other side of the scale, 
the  hiring  of Arts and  Letters  
graduates  in  on  an  upsurge,  
according  to  Willemin.  Com­ 

panies are after looking fer those with backgrounds in the Humanities, Willemin said, with particular likings for those with strengths in a combination of fields, rather than specialists. 
Forced into belt-tightening by the economy, companies have acted to eliminate some "corpor­ate fat", the Bureau's memo said. These companies, instead of turning to the college grad­uate market, are looking inward. They have chosen to fill gaps in the corporate structure with re­s!tUff!ing of available manpower, eliminated marginal management and middle-echelon employees, and asked for greater output on all levels. Thus, the squeeze is put on what was formerly the pool that management looked to-the college graduate. 
The Bureau, the College Place­ment Council, and other obser­vers still contend that there is no reason for panic. Willemin said an upturn in early 1971 would alleviate the situation by the end of the year. The situation is "heartening" in one way, ac­cording to Willemin, in that "the well-qualified are still being sought." Because the employers can be more selective, he warn­ed, the less-qualified must look hard, contact a good number of" employers, take less time than would normally be allowed him to decide, and possibly take ·an offer that he might not accept under less strained conditions. 

Chinese next year will be held on Wednesday night at 7:30 in the Rathskellar. 

CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 Design Copyrighled 1971, T.& Co. 
Don't Miss the Coolest Thread Sale At 

SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 2210 MIAMI STREET PHoNE 289-3012 
Pants 25o/c off Shi rts 20o/c off Sweaters 33o/c off Outerwear 25o/c off 
Open Daily 12 .. 9 PM Saturday 10 .. 6 PM 
PAGE 4 


THE OBSERVER 
AIIIII.IJI •• I ...... ._._...., 

IRUCE RIECK. Businell Man•p 

IOTRE DAilE. IIDIAIIA 
McCluskey and Sheedy--A Grim Contradiction 
In his deplorable statementofsupportfortheequallydeplorable Park--Mayhew proposal, the Rev. Charles Sheedy said that there was no "agreement or understanding" between Notre Dame and St. Mary's to raise the present male-female ratio to 3-1. The word came almost exactly one month after Rev. Neil McCluskey, S.J ., the Dean Director for the Institute for Stuedies in Education at Notre Dame and a St. Mary's trustee said in a taped interview with the Observer that exactly such an agreement had been made. That's a pretty grim contradiction. It's a grim contradiction because it means that the University isn't going to play honest with us on the issue of coeducation. It's a grim contradiction because it indicates a certain contempt for our intelligence, and a certain secure belief that stud~nts will be ready to take any statement, any rewrite of history and any outline of the future without reacting anyway stronger than indifferently. And it's a grim contradiction especially because it appears to i n d i c a t e t h a t t h e Ad m ini s t r a t i o n w i II I i n e up b e h i n d t h e h o r r e n d o us Park-Mayhew report. The possibility exists, of course, that Father McCluskey was lying when he said that the agreement had been made. If he was, the Administration should have said so, then and there. It did not. But somebody is lying. Why? Was there an agreement, once made and now breached, to raise the male-female ratio in lieu of legitimate coeducation? If so, why was it breached? Was it because of a defensive desire to completely control its own admission policy that asserted itself within the St. Mary's administration after the agreement was made? Or if it wasn't, what was it? Whatever it was, it wasn't a misunderstanding. The men were tqo highly placed, and the issue too important, for it to be that. Rather it appears that it was a calculated attempt on the part of the Notre Dame Administratwn to play politics with this very important issue in order to satiate a growing sense of insecurity that surrounds both institutions and says little for the leadership they are both alleged to exemplify. 
* * * 

Father McCluskey said in the same interview that 
. what Father Hesburgh wants, what I want, and what most members ot the board want is not simply a sharing of the classrooms, the labs, and the library, but also a sharing of the living conditions." It would be encouraging indeed if Father Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees were as sensitive to what the students want as Father McCluskey. Up to this point, there has been no indication that they are. 

MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1971 


Steve Lazor 
In the City 
Wh•t Is the Re•llty of the City 

To speak of the idea of city is to call to mind the most universally devised form of social human living. The modern and obviously reactionary idealist associates the term with notions of abundant commerce, famed educational institutions, centers where arts and craft_s can flourish, and places where wide avenues are lined by spaciOus parks. To suggest that anyone who holds these views has his head in the past is merely to say that he is not allowing his brain to receive the impulses sent to him by his senses from right here in the 
present. 
Without a doubt, these feelings are unpleasant: the eye knows the confusion of sign ~nd billboard and the whirling disarray of traffic; the ear knows the d1ssynchronous mesh of horn and engine and cash register; the hack knows the ache of concrete; our taste and olfaction 
know the smells. What our senses are telling us is that the city has become a grotesque. It IS a place no longer fit for man because he is a creature whose senses not only are integral parts of his personality but whose senses actually serve to integrate his personality. The information they send him determmes much of what he does and is. (An elbow in the ribs for example, is not something one can usually ignore.) Thus when' the senses are handled so violently in the modern city we can only conclude that there is an inward violence being done to the soul. This question of how the city affects the human soul is not measurable in quite the same way as its effects on the body. If we wish to as~ t_his question, though, our answer can come only by degrees of assoCiatiOn, some perhaps subtle, others rude. 
Wh.t H...pens When the Cltr Is Built 
Within the Mind 

Strangers to night streets, winter's city airs, and traffic lights blinking red and green from dry cables, the frozen gray suggests to us that we hav,e walked this square before, have known it before in a thousand dry impersonal places. We think we've been this place before, moved this way when passing long dead nights through deserted cities, travelling 
.;old on gray_ streets, hearing weary buildings issue calls to vacant alley~ ; and neon bulbs' cool whispers m the eyetess streets. We think we've known this place before, met this strangeness with open eyes from roofs of tall buildings, looking down to where roads appear and disappear as gray strips indistince of gray roofs and the fray of walls. We know this is a twilight city, trapped between the light of dusk and light of dawn, changed only slightly with the sweep of gray air and highlighted occasionally by some small light of strong color too large or too bright to be grayed out. 
We are not shaken by this strange gray; it does not jolt like cold wind on stone, does not burn light the fire of a winter sunset, does not sound and resound in the dead of a deep night. This gray pervades, is no concentrate, is the dull hueless tinge of winter sky dropped like dusty curtains before the eye; a gray that comes to rest on the backs of hapless mice and lost papers winded to unimportant distances. 
This gray is no cousin of the eye or phenomenon of night or day, nor is nei!htfr of the city alone nor of that which is not the city, nor of the: earth, nor of the clouded sky; this gray is haze that shrouds our dreams, rolls like fog through our imagination, is the impalpable juice our mind becomes when we reach sleep. 
J ill 1 ..... , 
Headlines: Joe Abell 

The 3:00 Club 
Controller of the Night: Rich Smith 

Night Editor: Don Ruane Also: Corso, Treanor, Lammers, &c. 
Layout: Buzz Wintrode 

MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1971 
PAGE 5 
ICTUS edftor replies to Daniel V. 
Dear Editor: 

I am very .sorry that the reviewer of Ictus in your Friday (January 22, 1971) edition could not find much that was worthwhile in our last issue. The stories ·and articles in -Ictus 5 seemed to move him to a response entirely contrary to the sort we had hoped the magazine would engender. I am uncertain that any precise conclusions can be made from this; per­haps, the failure lies within both us and the reviewer. But, in any case, such is not the essential reason for my responding to you: Daniel V's dissilusion with Ictus 5 is more than merely one individual's private disappointment -I would presume, as Daniel infers, that there are many on this ca!!lpus with similar feelings of disgust for our "corrupt society" and our personal and collective inability to reach beyond its degrading and exhhausting influences. I would only then like to comment to some degree on what the magazine really 


is, or better, what it is trying to be -to 
clarify a few of the points that Daniel and 
probably many others found so useless 
and repetitive. 

The editors of the magazine bear no illusions of saving this society, especially through the printed word ..... if we were so nefariously idealistic you can believe that we would publish more than four 
times a school year. We have tried to refrain from the mistakeable notion that we can transform (politically, spiritually, or otherwise) the campus "masses," a very ugly word used often by som any in the frenzied midst of their rabidly good intentions. We are not "evangelists" at­tempting to tattoo a silver message across our reader's ignorant cerebrum. There was a time when we sought a kind of crude philosophic thrust of unenlightened non-violence, yet I am afraid that our ideological days have faded and we are now involved in the complicated process of growing and changing, sifting ex­perience and knowledge into hopefully a handful of decisions that will shape our lives into loving vessels of suffering ser­vice to one another's salvation. If you happen to have an affinity for "bags" and "slots" then I guess you might shade us a bit toward non-violence, but I will insist that you not, in the witty attempt to take 
Ictus lightly pass us off as a myopic and 
frothing band of scab-tickers and raving 
neurotics. If the students and faculty of 
Notre Dame so choose to ignore us for 
this kind of reason then it will be their 
loss, just as it is their regrettable loss to 
have not shared in what the Scholastic 
expresses for so many weeks of the year. 
Perhaps, it is the theatrical and · 
threatening tone t~at repels many of our 
readers, but the paragraph -that Daniel V 
chose to quote in his review states much 
to the point what we see the reader's task 
to be: we have no answers (i.e. "philoso­
phy"), pat and simple, to offer the reader 
in order to pry him lose from his own 


Back in the late 1940's, Notre Dame and the nation was recovering from the war. Those were the days when droves of war-weary-' veterans returned to Notre ; Dame. where the young Father Hesburgh counseled the married veterans living in Vetville, where-the football team, led by Leahy, Johnny Lujack, and Leon Hart, battled its way into athletic immortality, 
and Brother Justin presided over the 
freshmen. 

In those years the lights were turned out at 10:00 in the evening on weekdays, and at midnight on the weekends. Students were obliged to attend daily Mass three times on weekday mornings, and rare athletic defeats were blamed on insuffficient communicants. Certain areas of South Bend and Chicago were off limits and the reverned clergy patrolled the a;eas to insure compliance. 
The freshman, during those times, were housed in the Administration Building. On one floor were the showers and sinks and toilets, on another floor were the beds, and on another floor was a study area. Brother Justin was the freshman 
Photo by Joe Raymond 
A small story 
disciplinarian and lived and slept on the comradely solidarity and the culprit went same floor with the freshmen. unnamed. 
One winter night one of the freshmen had been engaging in a game of pool. After the game this same freshman pocketed one of the pool balls and made So Brother Justin, without a minute's his· way back to the Administration delay, ordered the freshmen out of bed building. As the freshmen lay in their ·and into the wintry night for a walk 
bunks, dreaming of who knows what, this mischievous lad hurled the pool ball along the wooden floor, sending it bumping and thumping off the metal legs of the bunk line. True to our gaming tradition, the 
k d freshmen quickly caught on to ~~: :r::ch of order, and would catch the careening pool ball as it rolled on in the dark and send it once again along the floor, afresh with mo1aentum and energy and noise and chaos and all that. 
As 1 said, Brother Justin, as his name 
· ht 1·ndicate was charged with 
mig ' 

preventing breaches of the nightly peace Turning on the lights, he demanded to know who had brought the contraband pool ball into the sleeping area. As might be expected of those fun loving frosh, no one violated the 
around the campus. Once assembled back in the improvised dorm, the freshmen were asked again to na,11e the violator and once again silence prevailed. And so the boys went back to bed. . 
Just as sleep had returned to the mmds and bodies . of those .catholic rebels, ~r?ther Jushn once agam turned on the hgnts, ordered the freshmen out of bed, and marched them _through the cold and snow around the si:l.ent campus. And so the process was repeated. And as t~e humor of the deed turned rancerous m 
· d f · d b h
the m.m s o the wehane ?Y~, t ehna~e was given out, Brot er.1ustm s aut onty was. preserved, the Jester was duly pumshed, and peace~ul slumber ret.urned to t~e .rows. of sle.ep~ng freshmen m the Admmtstratlon BUildmg. 
"personal torment" over life; what we do have are the reflections and expressions of a few people ~truggling to work through their own agonies and mis­givings. There are indeed repeititive as only human life can be, and it is with these unpretty and frustrating accounts that the reader must search for his own soul's image, painfully molding it into the suffering flesh and spirit that he knows it must be. We are creative in the mournful passionate sense, perhaps just beginnin~ 
to understand what it means to live oii 
the thread's edge, finally deprived of the 
illusory, surrogate security that has con­
tinually cluttered and obstructed much of 
our lives, yet young. 
We are, at last, not seeing or demand­
ing instantaneous change, individually or 
collectively, through the language and 
drawings of our magazine, Each person 
must will that kind of change, himself, 
and expose his life to the thoughts, 
words, and aqts that he feels will reveal 
some kind of subjective light by which to 
travel. The magazine simply lives in wit­
ness to this kind of change, witness to a 
life plucked out from amont thorns and 
stones and made to radiate the suffering 
love that is only ours to give until death. 
Shantih, 
John O'Reilly, editor 
Jim Le•ry 
Ylpple Yun1en 
Vacation came and I went with my family to see John Leary cop his Cub Scout Bobcat badge. I entert<d the Pack meeting 'midst whispers of young blueshirts, ("Look, a Lumberjack. Ha. Haa.") to catch the commencement -a nifty chauvinist flag fetishism presided over by pompous, pot-bellied, Khaki-clad scouters. After a homey TV rap by the head Akela impersonator, complete with fake Indian headdress and law_and order commercial, it was award time. Old eagle scout that I am, I was outraged and about to leap up and denounce the whole Honko process. However suddenly my ears were struck by mystic pole pounding. CLACK. CLACK. CLACK. Some crazy Cub was sending metal vibrations at the solemn ceremony. I noticed that my brother John, getting his Bobcat badge, was not standing at stiff-assed attention, but slouching; his hands in his pockets. Meanwhile some Den mother was silencing the pole pounder, causing Cubs to turn and laugh and point, causing the whole sad scene to happily degenerate into a state of creative Anarchy. 
THESIS: All children are born 
anarchists, destroyers of enslaving 
symbols, truth seekers, enemies of the 
Honko-Cossack Mindbenders. Cub 
Scouts, initiated into uniformed silent 
ceremonies, rebel against them and their 
absurdities. fOrced toward their first 
taste of authoritarianism, they rebel by 
po.mding poles; they learn to whisper in 
the face of the silent hand sign; they 
slouch in the teeth of allegiance; they 
form a secret brotherhood opposed to the 
mutant rulings of the Akela-imposters. (I 
remembered my old Cub Scout days and 
hours of forced Colonel Bogey marching 
in Pack Meeting preparation; we 
counterattacked,· ·whistling atonal 
gorblings and reverting to modified trucks 
when the scouta-martial-master had his 
head turned. Then I recalled my Boy 
Scout Days when, being the only bearded 
14 year old in camp, I posed as a Scout 
Master and requistioned contraband food, 
plus beer and cigarettes, for my patrol. 
The fact that I was later caught and 
forced to peel 200 pounds of potatoes 
only strengthened my anarchist resolve.) 
VIVA CUB SCOUTING!! It not only introduces the young to the tyranny of khaki fascist iron-handedness, but it lets kids bop into the woods where they can surreptitiously escape their masters, scream, run around, and recognize wild dope plants. The Cub Scouts are our Yip pie J ungen. Please don't tell J. Edgar HUAC. 

PAGE 6 'TilE OBSERIIER, 
MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1971 

Irish skaters stuck at .500 mark 

by Jim Donaldson The Irish had to come from first period and put good pres­the play away from ·the Irish, the start of the sudden dP-ath 
Observer Sportswriter behind twice in their thrilling sure on Murphy in the North eventually tying the score with stanza and dumped the puck victory over the Sioux, battling Dakota nets. After making some 3:08 to go in the period. Greg into the Irish end of the rink. back from 4-2 and 5-4 deficits nice saves, the Sioux netmind­Cameron carried the puck in on Notre Dame cleared the disc out
Jim Cordes' goal, 31 seconds to force the game into overtime. er gave up the first goal of the the right side for the Sioux and without difficulty however andinto the sudden death overtime Cordes didn't keep the crowd of game at the 11 :13 mark in the made a pretty pass to Jim Ca­moved toward the Sioux goal.
period, gave the Notre Dame 
4113 (record attendance for an period when Phil Witliff tipped hoon, who took the puck about Gary Little passed the puck tohockey team a 6-5 win over the NO hockey game) in suspense in Bill Green's slap shot. Green 25 feet in front of the net and Witliff who fed Cordes skatingUniversity of North Dakota Fri­long as he fired the puck, past had taken a hard shot from the fired it past Irish goalie Dick down the slot. Cordes fired theday night and enabled the Irish the Sioux goalie Dave Murphy circle to the right of the North Tomasoni. The period ended puck toward the Sioux goal but to split their two-game weekend after just 31 seconds had elapsed Dakota goal and Witliff deflect­with the clubs deadlocked, 1-1. his shot was blocked. The puckset with the Fighting Sioux. The in the extra stanza. ed the puck into the upper left went off Murphy's pads and
Sioux revenged their setback in Both teams came out "flying"
hand corner of the net. back out to Cordes who this
the opening game of the series in the second period and each time beat Murphy for the game­by trouncing the Irish 7-I on The Irish controlled the puck The goal seemed to fire up the had scoring opportunities in the winner.
Saturday night. well in the early portions of the Sioux and they began to take early going but were thwarted by sturdy defense. Ian Williams ThP. young Irish and their looked like he might put the coach. Lefty Smith, were very Irish ahead midway into the happy in the locker room after 
period, when he took a pass the game. 
from Kevin Hoene and came in Witliff expressed the senti­alone on Murphy, but the Sioux ments of the players, saying,goalie stopped Williams' shot. 
"This was our best game of the year, everyone played well. ThisThe Irish gained a man advan­is our biggest win so far."

tage when North Dakota's Rich Wilson was sent to the penalty Smith was "very, very pleased box for tripping at 12:41 and it -both with the team and with took the Irish just 33 seconds to the crowd". "The boys skated net a power play goal and go well," he said. "Anytime you ahead 2-I. can come back and win is most 
satisfyi!1e " 

Witliff came around behind the Sioux cage, passed to Gary Saturday night was a different Little and screened Murphy. story as the Irish were outplayed Little slid the puck past Murphy by the Sioux and dropped a 7-1 from 12 feet out and the Irish decision. had the lead once again. 
The Irish outshot the Sioux 

It didn't take the Sioux long 38-31 but Jim Nelson was out­to retaliate, however. With standing in the North Dakot<J 
14:30 gone in the period Cam­goal, making a number of great eron netted the equalizer for the saves. Bob Duncan of the Sioux Sioux, taking a pass from Bob put on a fine offensive show, 
Duncan and shooting a I0-footer netting three goals and picking past Tomasoni. up a pair of assists. 
North Dakota grabbed the gained control of the puck in the lead at 7:04 of the first period 
neutral zone, skated towards the when Greg Cameron took a pass Irish goal and beat Tomasoni from Duncan and shot the puck with a sinking, 30-foot slap shot. into the goal from 20 feet out. 
The Sioux upped their advan­Just six seconds later Duncan The Sioux added another tallv 
tage to 4-2 with a little over at I0:25 while Ric Schafer ~f 
two minutes left to play in the Notre Dame was in the penaltyperiod when Cameron netted his box for interference. Murraysecond goal of the game, an Wing slapped home a 20-footer 8-footer from slightly to the left for the score as Cameron and 
of Tomasoni. Brian Dipiero and Duncan were with
credited as­Dave Bragnalo were credited sists on the play.

with assists on the score, and the 
Sioux took the 4-2 lead into 
North Dakota scored their the locker room at the period third goal of the period while stop. both clubs had two men in the 
penalty box. Allen Henry came 

The Irish moved to within one down the ice all alone after an goal of the Sioux in the second Irish rush had failed and beat minute of the final stanza when Tomasoni with a wicked shot Eddie Bumbacco, recovered from 25 feet. from a bout with mononucleo-
The second period was an

. sis, drilled home a rebound of a especially frustrating one for theRic Schaffer slap shot. 
Irish because, although they out­

The Irish kept hustling and shot North Dakota 15 8. with tied the score with 3:09 gone in many of their shots coming from the period when Witliff, taking a close range, they still trailed the 
pass from John Roselli, skated Sioux 4 I at the end of the down the right side and drilled a stanza. 30-footer past Murphy. 
I}uncaz put the Sioux ahead 

Both clubs b<ittled hard for 4 0 in the first minute of the the go-ahead goal ami the Sioux second period when he tipped in scored it, going ahead 5-4 with a slap shot by Mike Baumgart­
15:15 gone. The Irish were hav­ner, fired from the right P<lint. ing difficulty clearing the puck 
Kevin Hoene spoiled Nelson's

from their defensive zone when shutout bid at the 7:20 matui\llcn Henry of the Sioux took a taking a pass from Paul Regan,pass from Cameron and fired a standing at the circle to the left40-foot slap shot into the net. 
of the net, and poking the puck The Iris~J came battling b~ :k in from I 0 feet. 
though and knotted the score 1t The Sioux added the three 5-5 with 3:24 left in regula( •n goals in the final period to turn time as Paul Regan def!ecte, a the game into a rout. Duncan shot from the right point )y scored his second goal of the Schafer past the Sioux goalie. game at I :58, Tim O'Keefe Neither club made a real tallied at 8:24 and Duncan com­
. threat in the closing minutes of pleted his hat trick with 14:00 r~gulation play and the Irish minutes gone, putting in a I 0 went into their second overtime foot shot. game of the season. They had The Irish arc now 8-8 l for lost an extra session encounter the year, 4 · 7 I in WCHA play. early in the season to Michigan The Notre Dame icers will be in 
Tech, in Houghton, 5-4. action next weekend, opposing Michigan State in East Lansing The Sioux won the faceoff at Friday and Saturdya nights. 

MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1971 7HB OBSEilfiER. 
PAGE 7 

'No gimmicks ... we just beat them' 
by  J.W.  Findling  
Observer Sportswriter  
It  was  one  of  those  rare  

days-splendid and priceless-­when this school rises above the odds, rises beyond the limits of belief to conquer a seemingly invincible foe. That autumn af­ternoon in 1913 was such a day when two young men by the names of Rockne and Dorais etched a gridiron destiny for Notre Dame by shocking Army 35-13. Another such day was January l, 1971 when a skin-ny-armed quarterback by the name of Thiesmann and the cre­ative coaching of a man called Parsegian humbled the No. I ranked Texas Longhorns 24-11. January 23, 1971 was still an­other such day. And if the sport had changed, the feeling of the moment had not. Notre Dame, this time on the hardwood and led by the incredible Austin Carr's 46 points, stunned No. l ranked UCLA 89-82. 
As Sid Catlett said after the game, "No gimmicks...we just beat them." They sure did. And 


Carr wasn't the only hero this time. Catlett who played the last 18 minutes with• four personal fouls made life miserable for the Bruins' Curtis Rowe. The differ­ence in this game may have been the inspired play of John P1eick, the senior from El Segundo, California, who knows most of this UCLA team. Although he fouled out with 14:20 left to play and scored all of his nine points in the first half, Pleick's agressive board work and re­markable defensive hustle against Steve Patterson ignited the Irish at both ends of the court.-Collis Jones, as under­rated as any college forward has ever been, proved that he was only a step behind UCLA's All-American Sidney Wicks. Col­lis forced Wicks into several bad shots and led an Irish rebound­ing corps that picked off 44-the same number as UCLA. Coach Johnny Dee said of his big three, 
"I thought all along that Pleick, Jones and Catlett were in a class with Sidney Wicks, Curtis Rowe, and Steve Patterson-and today they proved it." 
Jackie Meehan, the clever . master-at-the-controls, played a smart basketball and, as usual, got twice as many assists as he got points. Doug Gemmell, a mere twig amidst the sequoias of UCLA, practically jumped out of the ACC twice-going above Cur­tis Rowe and Steve Patterson for a pair of improbable tip-ins. 
And then, of course, there was Austin Carr. It's already all been said about this amazing young man. Certainly, he is the one against whom all others are measured. Carr has had trouble getting started in his last three games, but as he said himself, "today I was ready." So were his fellow students. Having only seen the Irish twice this season and after a long holiday break, the Notre Dame student body went beserk. The ND · band planed the Victory March enough that it should be echoing in UCLA's ears for a long time­maybe even until March. Asked what different the crowd made, Coach Johnny Wooden simply replied, "the game." 


L.eprechauns smash GAFB 
by  Vic  Dorr  
Observer  Sportswriter  
Notre  Dam~'s freshman  

basketball team defeated Gris­som Air Force Base 101-65 Saturday, and the Irish yearlings had very little trouble as they rolled to their fifth victory in eight decisions. 
The visiting Skyhawks, who were at a severe height disadvan­tage, were never in the game. In fact, the first half was but 2:40 old when the skyhawks found themselves trailing 1 0-0 and were forced to ask for a time out. But the Irish starters ripped off six more points before Gris­som managed to get on the scoreboard. 
So lopsided was the first half, that ND coach Tom O'Connor. pulled his entire first string with 
7:53 left. 6-7 forward Ken Wol­beck and 6-6 forward Chris Stevens, who entered the linup when Tom O'Mara injured his ankle, were big factors in the first half onslaught. Wolbeck, who finished with 1 0 paints, and Stevens, who ended 13, kept the offense hot while the Irish de­fense -a well played man-for­man -was limiting the Skyhawks to very few good shots. When the Notre Dame bench was em­ptied with 2:29 remaining, the score was 51-23.and any ques­tions as to the eventual outcome of the game had long since vanished. 
But any Irish fans who hoped to see a similar second period were disappointed. Although O'Connor elected to go with his starting unit -minus O'Mara, who did not reappear, the ND freshmen were unable to re­capture their first half momen­tum. The Notre Dame attack, plagued by sloppy ball handling and numerous second half turn­overs, found itself reduced to a rather haphazard operation, and 
it was only this that prevented the game from becoming even more of a Iaugher. The Irish frosh also suffered a degree of inaccuracy from the foul line, as they missed 17 (of 32) free throw attempts. 
Several fast break field goals seemed to snap the Irish year­lings from their lethargy, though, as once again Coach O'Connor was able to rest his starters with plenty of time showing on the scoreboard. And through the entire game, O'Connor's scholarship players saw only about 25 minutes of action. 
Throughout the final six minutes of the contest, the only matter still in doubt was whether or not the frosh squad would be able to nudge the score above the century mark before time ran out. The Skyhawks, too, were aware of this, and even resorted to a last-minute stall in order to hold clown the scoring. Their efforts were 1m­successful, though, as Notre Dame scored on a breakaway layup in the last three seconds to make it 101-65. 
ND's Gary Novak led all scorers with 19 points, and he was followed by Stevens with 13, Wolbeck with 10, and John Cornelius with 10. Jim Turner and Jack Blauwkamp both scored 14 points to pace the Skyhawks. The freshman team is idle now until February 3, when it meets Marquette. The last time the two teams met, the Irish came out on the short end of a 79-68 decision. 

The Irish never trailed in the contest. They jumped off to an early I 0-3 lead and with only 
5:33 left in the initial period Notre Dame had pushed ahead to a 37-24 advantage, the biggest of the afternoon. But UCLA closed the margin quickly and Notre Dame enjoyed only a 43-38 halftime advantage. 
UCLA tied the game at 47 with 16:40 left to play the second half. At this point things looked bleak for Notre Dame·. Pleick and Catlett had already picked up their fourth personals. But Collis Jopes sank a free throw, and then on what could have been the turning point of the game, if such a thing was possible in this game, Austin Carr made two driving layups that were...hell, you saw them. . .they were unbelievable. At this point it was evident that this Notre Dame team was a cour­ageous bunch and they were not to be intimidated by anyone. The last 6Vz minutes belonged to Carr; he halted every UCLA threat by scoring 15 of Notre Dame's last 17 points. 
Johnny Wooden politely answered questions and signed autographs outside the Bruins' locker room after the game. For a man who had just seen his team lose only its fifth game in the last 136, he was remarkably at ease-a perfect gentleman who offered no excuses, no alibis. "When you get whipped, it's usually the other team that beats you.. .I don't know how Notre Dame has lost four games; they sure didn't lost four games play­ing like this." Another woman stuck a folded program in fromt of him. Coach Wooden signed it, smiled, and said, "I think all these circles and free throws you 
have  here  are  for  the  wrong  
team."  
Johnny  Dee  was  remarkably  

calm considering the circum­stances. "It was one helluva win, one of the biggest ever for us. We needed help in the trenches. Today John Pleick and the "Cat"(Catlett). came to play." But the most unforgettable thing in the Notre Dame locker room that afternoon was huge John Pleick sitting in the corner­weeping. 
This was no fluke. The Bruins' first fourteen games were lemons while the Irish, on the other had, met rough compe­tition-much of it on the road . Of course, few are ready yet to project the Irish as a better squad than the Bruins. Neverthe­less, Saturday afternoon Notre Dame was a better team than UCLA' Time will tell us more-a rendezvous in Houston would provide a rational verdict. 
But the moment is ours-all of Notre Dame cherishes the glory . However, one man gave it digni­ty, mystique, and brilliance. Austin Carr rode high on the shoulders of those who love him. And one could sense that all those 11,343 who saw it in person and the millions more who saw it across· the nation wanted to touch him because they realized that on this Satur­day afternoon-splendid and priceless-Austin Carr had be­come the Rockne of his sport. 

Terry Shields:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The Irish Eye 


It was the same feeling all over again. It was Dallas flash backed to our minds. It was that crazy, "little Boy" happiness that was experienced just 22 days priol"to Saturday. The unbeatable foe was conquered. For that euphoric hour or two after the game there was no one who could say that ND was not number one. 
That "drunken with glee" feeling is gone now but the sweet memory remains. We must come back to earth even though we like to savor special victories such as Saturday's for a greater amount of time than usual. Nonetheless, things must still be put into perspective. 
A nine and four record is far from the most impressive in the country even if the Irish have beaten some flashy opposition. There is still a difficult agenda that Johnny Dee's charges have to meet before this season is a success. The Irish shouldn't let up after this BIG win, moreover they should just be igniting a charge that could carry them to Houston or at least an NCAA bid. 
Two more tough opponents are staring at the Irish this week. Michigan State has not been beaten by ND for six years. Illinois can remember their loss last year in Chicago Stadium to ND. Both would love th<! prestige of toppling the nation's number one giant killer. 
Finishing the remainder of the season without a loss would be asking too much. The schedule doesn't lighten up enough to allow for many let down games. Then too, there is Villanova in the Palestra, a task rivaling that of beating UCLA. 
Saturday was the game that Irish fans have been looking for from t~is team since Austin Carr & Co.'s junior year. The team put together their individual talents and played, well .. .like a team. The major point that is trying to be stressed here is that the Irish cannot rest on what has been accomplished. 
Victories in the next two ball games could well give Notre Dame enough momentum to make a serious run for Houston. They finally proved what everybody knew all along, i.e. they are a good team with the potential to be a great team. 
Another note of interest is that Austin Carr has shaken a mild shooting slump (and how!) and his performance was one of the closest to perfection on a basketball court that anyone can ever witness. To say he was fabulous would be an injustice. 
But at least for the moment ND can rest on top of the basketball world. It's doubtful if Johnny Dee will let his team stay in the clouds for more than one day, however. He remembers all too well what MSU has done to his Irish since he commenced coaching at dulac. 
That feeling sure was great while it lasted. Probably the only thing that could approach that magnitude would be another big victory, this time in the southern part of Texas. But that's completely out of· the question... or· is it? 
OBSERVER. MONDAY, JANUARY 25. 1971 
Victory parties cause much damage 

Rev. Charles Sheedy 

McCluskey 
(Continued from Page 1) 
ground information and is also on tape, was brought to the attention of Editor-In-Chief Glen Corso last night. 
Rev. McCluskey's rem arb concerning coeducational living for the two schools go beyond even what the Park-Mayhew re· port suggested. 

" ... what Fr. Hesburgh wants very much and what I want, and I think this is the feeling of most members of the boards ... is not simply sharing of classrooms, li­brary facilities, and labs; what we want is to share the living conditions. I feel very strongly that either Planner or Grace should be turned over exclusive­ly to girls," he said," and I think that on the other hand one of thebig hallsatSt.Mary's should become a men's residence hall." 
"Because the two institutions have historically been single sex institutions and because student desire for new collegiate rela­tionships between the sexes is such a potent force in the pre­sent inquiry," The report stated, "the mattter of residences living and the relationships between the sexes pose a sensitive set of problems. At this time no formal plan is being suggested regarding women residing on the Notre Dame campus or men on the St. Mary's campus." 
by Bill Carter 
Observer Managing Editor 
Section parties inspired by the upset victory over UCLA Satur­day afternoon led to a numb~ of incidents of destruction and vandalism that night in Planner Hall. The Sunday morning wreckage included the glass front ot the most often used southwest entrance, the plastic casing on the ceiling of elevator one, two frames in the sandwich machine in the hall canteen, and a glass strewn floor on one of the section bathrooms resulting from· a beer bottle smashing out­burst. 
In addition, hallways and ele­vators were littered with the remnants of the night's parties and the hall fire alarm was pull­ed three times. A number of minor altercations and near brawls occurred over such issues as keg privileges and girl-stealing. 
Hall Rector, Fr. Maurice Amen, expressed distress ·with the continuing weekend trouble in the tower. "I really don't know why, but it seems we attract a Jot of people from outside the hall to the parties here," Fr. Amen said. He felt that much of the mischief was caused by outsiders, sighting the door smashing inddent,where he had learned the culprit was from Holy Cross Hall. 
Much of Saturday night's act­ion centered on the seventh floor where a keg party was held. Fr. Amen said he knew for a fact that at least two of the fire alarms had been set off on the seventh floor. The disorder grew so extensive on this floor that Fr. Amen called in the Alcoholic Beverage Commission Police to help him clear the section and end the party. 

A number of disrupted parti­ers spread to other floors causing a number of minor incidents. One developed into a beer­throwing argument on the ninth floor between three misplaced football players and floor resi­dent assistant, Bob Prendergast, who was called in to prevent the three from crashing a section keg party. Prendergast succeeded in separating the outsiders from the section members before the sit­uation could get out of control. 
The false alarm fires did not repeat the confusion created·by a similar incident in November when teams from the local fire department arrived each of three 
times in answer to the alarms. Fr. Amen said he had antici­pated the trouble and discon­
nected the alarm from the con­tact to the local firehouse, rely­ing on the night guard or himself to alert fire officials in case a real fire broke out in the hall. 
Fr. Amen said he had not yet taken any drastic measures to answer the problems of destruc­tive vandalism that have plagued the hall. He indicated that most of the hall residents had voiced a disgust with the repeated inci­Amen added that some sections dents of trouble during weekend had actually gone so far as to parties, especially the pulling of form types of vigilante groups to fire alarms which most agreed keep the peace in the hall on had become intolerable. Fr. Friday and Saturday nights. 

KC: SUSC 'stifling' 

by John Powers 
Bob Walton, President of the Notre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus, yesterday charged the 3'udent Union So­cial Commission with "totali­tarian policies capable of stifling the social atmosphere of the campus." 
"The Student Union's policies are totalitarian," claimed Wal­ton.. "They're stifling the social atmosphere w~th their controls. They seem to be afraid of com­petition. Apparently, they feel that one activity is enough for the entire campus. By doing this, they're killing any kind of diver­sity." 
"We're not trying to compete with Cinema '71 or anything, but just take a look at last week. Rosemary's Baby, 200 I, Cinema '71, the hockey games, and the basketball games, all diversw ac­
' tivities, all drew well, and all could be considered successes. There's no sense to the claim that more than one activity kills the other. Competition should be encourag~d, it's healthy." 
At the present, all activities must be registered and approved with the Social Commission be­fore they are scheduled. Yet, the K of C has failed to have their activities registered with the Stu­dent Union. Walton states that the Student Union has no control over the K of C. "We are not solely a student organiza­tion. About 4/5 of our member­ship is alumni, yet the Student Union is trying to get us under the control of Fr. Thomes E. Blantz, Vice-President of Stu­dent Affairs. We don't think that is fair." 
"We need diversity on this campus," Walton continued, "Jf Student Uunion keeps their tight control over activities, this will never happen. It's time for them to employ more realistic policies. For a major university, this place has a small level of activity." 
On Wednesday, Walton will meet with Bob Pohl, head of the Social Commission, to air his complaints. 

Statistics-They said It couldn't be done 
FG  FT  REB  PTS  FG  FT  REB PTS  
Wicks  8-19  7-10  11  23  Gemmell 3-3  0-1  5  6  
Rowe  6-13  4-6  9  16  Jones  6-19  7-9  14  19  
Patterson  7-11  1-2  10  15  Pleick  3-8  3-3  7  9  
Bibby Booker  6-12 3-4  4-5 0-1  4 3  16 6  Carr Meehan  17-30 1-3  12-16 5 1-2 1  46 3  
Schofield  0-1  0-0  1  0  Catlett  2-9  0-0  5  4  
Ecker  0-0  0-0  0  0  Sinnott  1-1  0-1  0  2  
Hollyfield 3-5 Betchley 0-0  0-0 0-0  1 0  6 0  Regelean 0-0  0-0  1  0  
TOTAL  33-73  23-32 44  89  
TOTAL  33-65 16-24 44  82  

Alumni Ass'n elects directors 
Five new directors have been named to the University of Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion. Balloting of the 48,000-member organization was conducted during the last month. 
Named to three-year terms on the board are Peter F. Flaherty, a 1951 law graduate and mayor of Pittsburgh; Joseph G. Ber­trand, president of the Highland Community Bank and candidate for the treasurer's post in Chi­cago; Paul J. Doyle, vice presi­dent of the Rede Company, a financial consulting firm Hous­ton, Tex.; William K. McGowan, Jr., vice president of American Fletcher National Bank and Trust Co., Indianapolis, and Charles F. Osborn, senior part­ner in a Seattle, Wash. law firm. 
A three-year transition of Alumni Board election proce­dures was concluded with the current balloting. The five new members, elected from a slate of I 0 will bring to I 5 the number of members serving on the board and provide full geographic rep­resentation for each of the I 5 

JUNIORS! 
Class of '72 
Make your appointment now 
for your Senior year book portrait. 
M011day throaJh Friday 
IM. 25 • 29 
In the dfnfnJ flails 
regions in the U.S. for the first time. 
The new members will attend their first quarterly meeting of the association on the campus Feb. 4-6. 


Proof of age required 

UCLA  had  5  rebounds.  Notre  Dame  had  16  rebounds.  
UCLA  had  20  turnove~s.  Notre  Dame  had  15  turnovers.  
UCLA  shot  50.2%  from  Notre  Dame  shot  45.2%  from  
the  field.  the  field.  

CASH FOR CHRISTMAS 
Loans up to $150 
Loans taken out before Christmas NOW DUE 
Morrissey Lo•n Fund 
Open 11 :15 to 12: 15 daily in basement of LaFortune 
Notre Dame I St. Mary's 
NASSAU 

SPRING VACATION 8 DAYS 7 NIGHTS 
Round ~'rip Jet 
$194
From Wmdsor Via Air Canada WITH ACCOMODATIONS AT THE FLAGLER INN-QUAD 
Contact: 
OPTIONS 
breakfast & 
7 course dinner 
daily $45. 
AND scuba sailing fishing water skiing car & cycle rental 
Sponsored by: 

FIRST BANK TRAVEL BUREAU Senior Class & Student Union;
on campus/next to Barbershop Admin. Serv. by:9 a.m. -1 2 noon Students Iaternational
283-7080 'open only to students, faculty & staff of Notre Dame/St. Mary's and their immediate families. 



