
y'all know what It's been like so far-well, count on just more of the same for the rest of the 
semester. 


Vol. VI, No. 59 serving the notre dame-saint. mary's college community Wednesday, December 8, 1971 

Merry Christmas from all of us at the Obserber to all of you in Observer land 
Resolution hits unmerger 
SMC AAUP 
to vote today 
by A.T. Darin 
The St. Mary's chapter of the American Association of University Professors <AAUPl will begin voting today on a resolution denouncing SMC's "abundance" of community government in the recent merger decision reversal. 
The AAUP will consider four resolutions concerning the merger postponement. 
The thirty-five members will have a 24-hour deadline, said Dr. Donald Hornung, AAUP president, to return their ballots to the AAUP Executive Committee. 
With twenty-five members present at a meeting Monday night, the campus chapter approved in general the four resolutions, by a voice vote. 
Requests negotiations 
As written by the Executive Board: Hornung, Sr. Franzita Kane, Stephen McNally and Sr. Rosaleen Dunleavy, last Sunday the first resolution urgently requests merger negotiations between SMC and ND be resumed, with faculty and student representation on the committees. 
The second resolution comends the student body of St. Mary's College for its forthright. decisive and responsible protest of the recent actions of the Board of Trustees." 
In addition, the AAUP would resolve to lend its support and commends the student government leaders of St. Mary's College for their forthright, decisive and responsible leadership in at­tempting to effect constructive change aimed at reestablishing the concept of shared governance of the academic community. 
Sleep-in draws 100; petition gains support 
by Jim Roe Anti merger orga~zers drew one hundred people for last night's sleep in and teach-in in La Fortune Student Center_ Noticably absent at press time were ND student body president, John Barkett, and ND student body vice-president, Orlando Rodrigues. A petition asking for a "re-evaluation of the recent decision to reverse the merger of Notre Dame and St. Mary's" highlighted the early portion of the meeting_ The petition, which was signed by a majority of the students present, will be presented at the Dining halls tonight, according to Don Mooney, who orgainized the demonstration. It said in part that "members of both communities have been done serious injustice," and that "this decision was made unilaterally by the Boards of Trustees violates the avowed respect for the opinions of all members of the community...in the decision-making pricess." "The present secrecy regarding the reasons for the decision is an insult to students and faculty of both com­munities ... " continued the petition. The petition demanded that "negotiation will resume in January 1972:: "and that students and faculty be accepted as members of the ad hoc committee con­vened for making final decisions in such negotiations, with representation equal to that of the trustees and administrators." 

SMC girls comprised only a fourth of the crowd despite extended hours for fresh­men that St. Mary's student body president Kathy Barlow issued. 
The meeting was "sharing of frustration," according to assistant dean of students, Robert Ackerman. He con­tended that it was "hard to rally around a cause you couldn't define." 
The teach-in itself was designed to "educate teh Notre Dame student as to how the unmerger is very disadvantagous to the life at ND both academically and socially," according to SMC student assembly representative, Jim Clarke. 
Mooney said that he felr the sleep-in would "basically test" the Notre Dame administration. It was a opportunity for ND students to show some sort of reaction ­-pro or con.""lt showed that the Notre Dame student is concerned," contended Mooney. 
Eric Andrus, the event's other organizer, called the meeting a "show of force ... designed to place pressure on the ND administration." 
"Re-negotiation won't be opened without 
pressure from this side," Andrus con­
tinued. 
Neither Mooney nor Andrus have any 
future plans or long term prganization, 
and expressed the hope that "Student 
Government would carry the ball." 

-----------~-------~--------------------­
Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday, December 8, 1971 



·IF YOU THINK EUROPE WAS CHEAP THIS SUMMER, YOU SHOULD SEE IT THIS WINTER. 

For your next holiday ymrcan be in London for $255. Rome $259. Paris $270. Or Greece $338. These arejustsome ofTW~s low round trip fares for youths between the ages of12 and 25. Who knows how much longer they'll be in effect, so for more details call TWA. And to help you save money when you'reonvacation, sendforTWA's new Getaway* Kit. It's free and it will tell you where you can get... 
BED, BREAKFAST AND SIGHTSEEING FOR ONLY $4.30 A DAY. 
Only TWA offers you the Stutelpass~ Itis a book ofvouchers you can buy for 10, 15, 20, 25, etc., days for just $4.30 a day. Each voucher entitles you to a bed, breakfastandsightseeingin50Euro­pean cities. No advance reservations necessary. The kit also tells you where to... 
RENTACAR FOR JUST $3.65 A DAY. 
In over 15 European cities, you can drive a carall around the city forjust $3.65 a day, plus gas and 4V2¢ per kilometer. And how to save money with... 
SPECIAL SKI TOURS. 
TWA has someofthe lowestpricedskitours toVail,Aspen,andSteamboat. Or ifyou want to ski the Alps, take a TWA tour. Itsaves you over 50% of the cost oftravelling alone. The kit also tells you how to get a ... 

GETAWAYCARD. 
You'll receive anapplication blank. There's no minimumincomerequire­ment. And no yearly maintenance fee. Use your Getaway Card to charge airfare, Stutelpasses, tours, almost everything. And then take up to two years to pay. Now what's even easier than getting away for the holidays, is getting a Getaway Kit. Just use the coupon. 
jT\VA,P.0~~4o2,F-;;in;i~:NX.li735-~---;:.~~ 
Send all the information you have on bargain ~ II vacations in Europe and the U.S.A. to: I 
~~~  I  
I Address  I  
1 1  c·t1 y  st ta e___ z·_ 1p c do e_ ______  _  ~~1j..---­....-c:·~--­ 1 1  


L-----------------------~
'''Service marks owned exclusively by_ TWA. 
Airfares quoted are from Chicago. For further information please contact campus Rep: Peter Boyd 150 Farley 
283-6743 



world briefs 
<C> 1971 New York Times International 
Calcutta--An Indian military spokesman said that Jessore had been taken after a fierce batt;e amd tjat abpit ja;f pf East Pakistan was under Indian control. The commander of the Indian armh called on the Pakistani forces in East Pakistan to surrender or be killed. 
New Delhi--Pakistan launched its first major offensive of the war against a key road in Kashmir, according to Indian military sources. An Indian spokesman siad that Indian troops had fallen back before the attack, but had inflicted heavy casualities on the enemy. India also claimed some success on the western front. 
National 
Washington--United States Steel was given permission by the Price Commission to raise the prices of its products by an average of 3.6 pcent. Rather than grant the increase on a product-by-product basis, the Commission said that the company could vary the price increases so long as they averaged 3.6 per cent. 
Washington--The House gave final approval to a bill creating a large new program of day care and other services for child4ren of all income levels. The program, which President Nixon has said he will veto, would give day care, medical,nutritional and social services to poor children without cost and would charge other children based on their parents' ability to pay. 
on campus 
4: 15--lecture, morton kelsey, psychological aspects of handling violence, 127 nieuwland 
7: 00--meeting, flying club, 120 o'shag 
7:30--lecture, morton kelsey, psychological aspects of handling violence, flanner pit 

today 
Paae l 
Dons Drugs Just 5 minutes North -Prescriptions -Complete Line of Name Brand Cosmetics -Everything for Baby Giftware -Cameras and Film 
pen 9 am to 9 p 50970 U.S. 31 N." South Bend ph 272-4884 



Frosh write protest letter 
The Freshman Council, last night, decided to send an official class letter to Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, the ND administration and the ND Trustees. The letter, according to Dave Yates, the Freshman Class president, is to "explain freshman dissatisfaction with the confusion of the unmerger." 
Kathy Barlow, SMC student body president, addressed the meeting of the Freshman Class Officers and their advisory ;committee. She explained some of the facts and the implications behind the recent decision to suspend the ND-8MC merger. 
The class letter will be cir­culated in the Freshman classrooms Friday. Yates said, "We urge all freshman to read all the information we will pass out and si~n the letter in class Friday." 
"We want our class to express its dissatisfaction and concern. We are the most affected by the decisions being made," said Sue Schneider, freshman class secretary. The officers said that they were not going to demand the reversal of the decision. 
The council will distribute the information about the merger in the residence halls Thursday night: 




T~. Cr4inery 
Natural Organic 
HONEY, TEAS, FLOUR 
100 Center St., Mishawaka -In the old Kamm Brewery -3 Blocks east of Logan St. off 
Lincoln Way next to the old Thieves Market 
REGISTER TO VOTE 
If you are part of the 45% of the student bodies of Notre Dame and St. Mary's who have not yet 
registered to vote, then we, the members of the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Voter Registration Drive 
STRONGLY urge you to register to vote while you are at home during this Christmas Vacation 
because: I) the state of Indiana has not yet decided whether to allow students from out of the state to vote at where they attend school; a ruling on this issue though, is expected in the near future; 
2) even if the state of Indiana did rule in favor of allowing students to vote at where 
they attend school, on-campus students would still not he allowed to vote in city elections in South Bend because the campus is not inside the city limits; 
3) although almost every state allows absentee voting, in nearly half of the states 
registration in person is MANDATORY because only 27 states allow absentee voter registration; 
4) the dates for the 22 national primaries are quickly approaching. 

OVER CHRISTMAS VACATION 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER. 
SMC alumnae favor merger NEWS DEPARTMENT! 
by Jack Kelly 

A former Milwaukee Alumnae classes at Notre Dame, I can Club President of St. Mary's is iq _ fully realize the loss to the girls if favor of the merger and feels they can't take classes at both "the only way for co-education at ND and SMC." Notre Dame is with St. Mary's." In support of her arguement for 
Mrs. Angela Murphy, president unification Mrs. Murphy, who 
of the Milwaukee Alumnae club now lives in New Caanan Conn., during 1969 said that she couldn't cited several letters recently 
"imagine Notre Dame going co­printed in the SMC Courier, th ed on its own," in an interview Alumnae magazine. 
with the Observer. " ...if the merger is to succeed it A graduate of the class of '58, should in my mind, be completed, Mrs. Murphy said "because I was anything elso would be like dying 
a drama major, I had to take my a slow death for St. Mary's," 
Soviet Mars landing 
by Theodore Shaba 

<C> 1971 New York Times around Mars after asix-month, 
Moscow, Dec. 7-The Soviet 290-million-mile journey from Union announced today that its Earth. Mars 3 spacecraft had released a The capsule was said th have television-equipped descent descended by parachute through capsule that made a soft landing the low-pressure atmosphere of on the surface of the planet and Mars and to have made a soft briefly transmitted signals landing in the southern before contact suddenly ceased. hemisphere of the planet. 
The mission, though only partly The site was defined as being successful, appeared to give the between the Elecytris and russians at least a five-year Phaetonis regions, in an area headstart in planetary ex­with the coordinates latitude 45 ploration over the United States, degrees south and the longtitude which is planning its own soft 158 degrees w~st. landing on Mars with a Viking The Soviet announcement was spacecraft in 1976. vague on the period of time 
The landing of the Mars 3 during which the landing capsule capsule and the subsequent transmitted signals to its orbiting unexplained breakdown in mother craft, which then relayed communications were disclosed them to earth. by Tass, the soviet press agency. "The signals from the craft, It is the normal channel of in­which landed on the surface of formation on the soviet union's the planet at the designated time, secrecy-shrouded space were received and recorded on program. board Mars 3 and later, during 
According to the an-radio communication sessions, nouncement, the spacecraft transmitted to Earth from Dec. 2 released the descent capsule as it to 5," the Tass announcement was about to swing into orbit said. 
Here's power and pep 
4 CYL. PLUS PARTS

Sea us today for our 

$12.95

CERTIFIED CAR CARE 
(6 cyl. slightly higher) 


ENGINE 
TUN 


SPECIAL 
• CLEAN, regap spark plugs 

• 
CLEAN, adjust ignition points, inspect distributor • SET ignition timing • CHECK compression • CLEAN and INSPECT battery, cables, terminals • ADJUST carburetor, service air cleaner • TEST fuel pump • CHECK crankcase vent valve 

• 
INSPECT cooling system, adjust drive belts 




Tickets for the rag party
said one letter, pointed out by Mrs. Murphy. 

"I am very much in favor of the will he passed out in merger, I just wish it would have happened before '64," another 
letter said. the office today. Mrs Murphy also cited a letter she recieved yesterday from Sr. 3:30-5.:00 
Alma Peter, Acting President of St. Mary's which officially notified her and other alumnae of the suspension of the merger. 
Am"i'"''Larg;!f~:;g Ch"i"
"The trustees have decided that St. Mary's will continue as an 

•• 1 I, ~ __ -· 
autonomous women's residential college with a strong liberal arts core...''the letter said in part. 

ROBERTHALLCLOTHES 
"I hope that the merger is not 

404 WEST WESTERN AVENUE • SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
dead and that it will occur in the future, but if it does, I hope that Notre Dame realizes the need for 

Open every night
St. Mary's to retain its unique 

'til9:30 PHON!:: 287-6722
identity," Mrs. Murphy com­mented. 

PERSONAL 40 pages of brand new pre-maritalmaterial. Free. 

!In an un-plain colorful wrapper.! 
Before you buy an engagement ring you must see the new 1972, full-color Vanity Fair catalog. It could save you an awful lot of money. 
Vanity Fair has been selling diamonds to dealers across the United States since 1921. Now in a new direct-marketing policy we are offering college stu­dents the same dealer prices. 
What kind of prices? Well, let's forget all the fancy, confusing definitions: We'll just say that our selling price to you averages 50% less than just about any­one else's selling price. Whether they call themselves retailers, wholesalers, discounters or dealers. We absolutely guarantee that savings in writing. Or your money back. 
We make our guarantee because as an importer of diamonds and manufacturer of Vanity Fair Diamond rings, we handle the entire process of making a fin­ished Vanity Fair ring ourselves. There are no middle­man profits to drive up the price. 
And only Vanity Fair knows how to keep costs down without compromising quality. A look at our new 40­page, full-color catalog will convince you of that. This coupon will bring it to you free. Or, if you prefer, visit our showrooms at 55 E. Washington St., Chicago. 
r-~----------------------------------• 
lluti{vlflirI)itliJtontL't 
55 East Washington Street 
. -· Chicago, Illinois 60602 
Please send me a free 1972 Vanity Fair Catalog. 
Name _________~-----------­
Address_____ 
City _____state·____Zip Code_____ 
School _________________ 
L------------------------------------1 



Wednesday, DecPn,ber 8, 1971 THE· OBSERVER. Page 5 
SMC students plan Christmas action 

by Joseph Abell 
:St. Mary's :S.I::W Kathy Harlow last night revealed that she has made "no definite plans" for student action during Christmas vacation. However, she added, many suggestions have been made, concerning possible ac­tion. 
"We haven't had uor meetings yet," she said of the committee formed to determine what action is to be taken, "but many proposals have been brought up." 

"The main thing we're going to concentrate on is to get the girls to talk to their parents," Miss Barlow stressed. The principle area they wanted covered, she said, is the tuition witholding action. 
Darlene Galena, St. Mary's Student Government Public Relations Commissioner, af­firmed this stand. "We want to give the girls something to do over Christmas, and the best thing we can do is get them to talk to their parents and get them to withold the tuition," she said. 
Student World Concern decides on Pakistan aid 
Student World Concern has 
by Mike O'Hare various strategies ready to be 
An emergency strategy con implemented this January. ference w~s held this ~as However, Hamilton said that weekend tn East Lansmg "Kids must not wait for us but do Michi~an to decide on ~n in something themselve~." lernahonal strategy .to a1d thE Hamilton suggested that buying a refugees of .East Pakistan. few Jess gifts this Christmas and 
Tom Hamilton, head of Studenl using the money to aid the ~orld Concern at Notre Dame refugees would be helpful. cited one res~lt of the conferencE Hamilton emphasized the as the adoph?n of a . people. tc importance of the letter writing peop~e campa1g~. This co~s1sts campaign, since it would greatly of bemg responsible for the hfe of aid the present resolutions that one person in East Pakistan for Student World Concern has six months, at a cost of ten presented to Congress. dollars a month. Student World Concern 
The. conference also presently has 3 resolutions being established Notre Dame as the sponsored in the House H Res North American House for in-705 H Res 680 and H Res 444. formation and coordination Ha~ilton also ;aid that those who con~erning the refugees ofEast could not afford to support one Pak1stan.. refugee could give up their lunch 
A full time worker, formerly a md use this money to support the Peace Corp volunteer in India, oerson to person program. 
be aiding the efforts here on· 

___ -------------------------------------1
campus. The Clearing House will 
furnish information and films to those persons and groups in­terested in the plight of the refugees. 
The conference also en­couraged a writing campaign directed at the President, Senators, and Congressmen. They advocate reinstituting aid India, recognizing the in­dependent nation of Bengla Desh, and severely sanctioning the government of Pakistan for killing one and a half million people and making 10 million pt..-ople homeless. 

Hamilton said that "the President has not only erred in the position he takes but is cheating the American people and the people of Asia that are entitled to freedom." 
He cited as proof of this statement the "fact that instead of supporting a democracy of 550 million people in India, and 76 million in Bengla Desh, the United States is supporting a dictatorship under Yahya Khan." 
Pitt Club 
Sign-ups and payment for Christmas Bus. 

Wed. Dec. 8 :30 pm to ~ :30 p.rr Room 2-D La Fortune 

1-z, 
<o~. $0' 
/. .. 
$.j\ <. 
featuring ~ orv 
$ ""/$
$ \S' 
G' ")/
''Mike Nelson's ~ \91 
.j\ ~ 







World'' JS'/ ·a
v 
Another course of action, Miss Galena mentioned, would be to write personal letters to the in­dividual members of the Board of Trustees. 
"We have a few specific things we want to ask them," she asserted, "like their actual amount of participation in the Board's decision (on the merger)." 

Missy Underman, SMC student body vice-president, listed alternative actions that have been suggested, so far. A meeting should be held to "get together," she said,just before the Christ­
break. Announcements of fina decisions for courses of actim over vacation would be made a this time. So far, thre1 suggestions have been made: ---a program of letter-writin~ to contact the St. Mary's alumni to gain their support on thE various measures. ---a few students havE volunteered to stay in South Bend over the entire Christmas 
vacation to do research and other related activities on the mergerproblems. 
---members of the St. Mary's student governemtn should talk to various members of the Board of Trustees either at their scheduled meeting on December 18, or at an emergency meeting th~y are attempting to or~anize, pnor to the regular meetmg. At the present time, any action is pending on confirmation of the emergency meeting of the Board of Trustees, said Miss Un­derman, but plans have been made concerning this meeting and the regular one. 
"What we want to get is equal representation from students and faculty at the meeting," she said. "We also want them to be able to sit in on the Board's meetings and comment, not just say some little speech at the beginning and leave." 
Miss Underman was confident of the possibility of swinging over some of the Board members. 
"The Board is dividied into two main groups," she pointed out, "on the one hand is the Holy Cross sisters, and on the other is regular businessmen, 
"We hope to impress the businessmen, from a financial aspect, about the undesirabilty of 

INTERJ'IEW CANCELLED? 
YOUR 





AIR FORCE 
IS HIRING 
At these typical annual salaries for Junior Officen: 
$8,300 at entry (9,500 if you fly) 
$10,200 after 2 years (12,000 if you fly) 
$12,100 at 3 years (13,900 if you fly) 
With many sweet fringe benefits. 
THERE IS STILL TIME! Call ext. 6635 WITHOUT DELAY! 
dropping the merger," she ad­ded. She also expressed con­fidence concerning talks with individual Board members, especially the members who had not been actively involved in the suspension of the merger. 
Hopes for favorable action from the Board have been ex­pressed by St. Mary's Student Affairs Commissopner Jane .. Seymour. 
"I don't think they'd (the Board) dare dismiss it," she said of the proposal to allow students and faculty to sit in on the Board's meeting. "I don't think they'll deny the students at­tendance." 
Opinions concerning the effect the Christmas break will have on enthusiasm about the merger decision were unanimously op­timistic. 
"I don't think the enthusiasm will die out," commented Miss Barlow. 
"The girls will come back from vacation and will probably feel the same way," Miss Gallina said. "We have to hope that these people are so determined they will feel the same way." 
Miss Seymour remarked, hope that the enthusiasm will not disappear, but it's hard to tell; I don't think they'll forget about it." 
"The kids are involved enough in this so they won't forget about it," Miss Underman said. "Over any period of time, some en­thusiasm is bound to be lost, but I don't think that much will be lost here." 
e 
10 % OFF 
n any mechaqical ork and winterizing snow tires included) 
For Students and University Personnel 

oseland Gulf 02 U.S. 31 North Across .______B_u_rger ~ing _ 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
GIFT;S • BOOKS POSTERS LOVE NOTES GREETING CARDS RELIGIOUS EDUCATION MATERIAL 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD 
~ROWSERS WELCOME FREE PARKING 
OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TIL 7:00 PM 

AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAD SOUTH BEND, IN 48637 PH. 272-1704 


BI(IDGE" o1/eR. 
r~()liBL£]) WATtRS?



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
F.dl&or-ia-Chlef, Glen S. Corso Aulstaat E4UMr Assistant Editor 
All successful· newspapers are

T.C. Treanor John Abowd 
ceaselessly querulous and 

bellicose. They never defend Buslaea 'Mcu1er anyone or anything if they can help Advertising Manager Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by deno11ncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Everyday Christmas 
"Out of the pool "Where love the slain with love the slayer lies. "Bubbles the wan mirth of the mirthless fool." Yeats 
Christmas as usual. The walls and floor of the streets wet and cold like a goat's coat. South Bend decked in artificial green; a decorator's nightmare. India packed with Pakistani refugees; wins U.S. condemnation and a bucketful of threats. Here at the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community, a string of broken promises sweetened by official and unofficial lies and silences. 
The really great thing about Christmas is that it gives you time to reflect on your blessings. If it's not easy to be of good will, it's easy to fake good will. Nobody investigates too closely this time of year. 
During the month of prepackaged joy and good ol' Christmas syrup, it might be provident to consider the foolwing things: 
That these two campuses have been the showplace for national Catholic dishonesty over the past two weeks. That most of the four hundred St. Mary's freshmen will be denied the Notre Dame degree they were promised. That the real reasons for the unmerger are all shrouded in the grim smiling secrecy the C.S.C's have adopted instead of Christianity. 
Furthermore, that nine -tenths of the students at Notre Dame don't really care, because the move dosen't effect them. 
More things to consider: 
That the west Pakistan tyrant, Yahya Kahn, overturned his country's own freely -elected government in order to march on the people of Bangia Dosh. That the resultant bloodshed turned -millions of East Pakistani refugees into temporary homesteaders in India, and as a result India has joined battle agaisnt Kahn's military forces. That as a result of that move, the United States has condemned India and cut off aid. 
Furthermore, that nine-tenths of the Notre Dame student 
Body doesn't care enough to register to vote, since that move· 
and similar moves won't directly effect them. 
News flash, unconfirmed frm the New York Times: China 
has committed troops to the fray. What the hell. It's only 
people burning. 

Merry Christmas. 

THE OBSERVER 
goodbye to rick smith issue <...we'll miss you!) 
night edttor: anthony abowd (with help from john) ass't night editor: george lund layout: debbie carella(in a return performance headlines: cris sullivan headliner: don biancamano typists: mark Iammert, debi gras, helen smudski, dan rock, news editor: jerry lutkus smc editor: ann conway (in absentia) features editor: rick smith sports editor: jim donaldson campus editor: don ruane photo and art editor: mike murphy 
:..and helpi~g us say goodbye: glen corso, a.t. darin, maria gallagher, 
1oe abell, pm roe, t.c. treanor, erik kinkopf, jack kelly, jim mc­
dermott, john abowd, fred guiffreda, marty gibbons, marty miller, ed 
e~lis, ann dunn, linda blackburn, don ruane(in from left field, pending 
drscovery of his talents), jack kelly, and that kennedy kid from up. 
stairs. ...out at 4:00 not bad for a freshman. 

Only Castles Burning-------­
When We Separate 
-----------John Abowd 
It's very hard to explain the kind of metamorphasis that has occurred this week. It amounts to a confession that after many hours of theoretical considerations about sex roles in society and sex roles in our college community, I still can't recognize the basic problem until someone takes the time to point out the charac­teristics of a real situation one by one. That's exactly what hap­pened this week. 
The question that brought on the great onslaught was innocent enough: "What can I do to help you?" Innocent enough, that is, unless you happen to ask it in the St. Mary's student government office. 
"That's exactly the point," Kathy Barlow said, "You think that the whole loss is on our side of the road and that's where you're wrong. If you don't feel any personal loss then you've just been duped into believing what Notre Dame wants you to believe: that the kind of tokenism that 300 ND co-eds represents is an adequate solution to the problem." 
For the next seven hours five very busy women, some of whom had not slept for several days, all of whom azre going to flunk a couple of classes because of their total devotion to what they are doing, took the time while they were planning this wees action to help me understand the kind of crass attitude that I had inadvertantly displayed when I asked that "innocent" question. 
For several years now Notre Dame and St. Mary's have been one academic community. The technicalities of degree source and dormitory location while they are very important, only mask the fact that if we tolerate the latest attempt to impede the develop­ment of that community we are not talking about a future loss but about an immediate loss for both Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
A segregated portion of our community, the women at St. Mary's, has been cut off. We have been deprived of the complete educational experience that a normal coeducational environment can provide. This is an immediate deprivation. The women at St. Mary's are an integral part of this campus. Ifwe think that the kind of contribution that could be made to the total community by SMC students can be replaced by retreating to an isolated Notre Dame, coed or all male, we are denying all that modern learning theory can contribute to our education. Allowing any portion of our community to deteriorate, whether it is the College of Science or the independence of individual residence halls, means that we narrow the perspectives on life and the individual insights which are all we have to give the formalness of a University education any kind of meaning in the real world. 
The question of who is at fault in the current controversy is im­portant as a study of power politics in a closed community. But it is not as important as the educational loss that each of us suffers by refusing to realize that our own chances to discover the relationship of our education to our life have been limited by the decision to cut off St. Mary's no matter who made it. 
It's hard to capture the kind of deep personal hurt I felt in those girls as they talked with me. It's even harder to communicate, even at the risk of sounding trite, the kind of thanks I have that they felt concerned enough for my own education to take the time to reach me. It is a Christmas gift that will live beyond all the physical presents anyone could deliver. A gift of understanding. 


rev. robert griffin 
and the word 





was made 
causes are God's causes, then who is responsible for the deaths, the suffering, the ruined cities? 
Soldiers and Sailors who serve the Lord in battle or on the frontiers of a troubled peace, I am not quarreling with your courage or sacrifice, and I do not question your commitment to mercy. But in the season that celebrates the birthday of the Prince of Peace, I wish that the Church had been a more faithful witness to a Gospel that reveals the Son as helpless as an in­fant, as gentle as a lamb, exposing Himself to the rage and terror of the world. I would apologize to young people, if I could, for a Church that has forgotten, for long centuries, the lesson taught by Christ, imprisoned in the hands of His enemies, to the followers who would defend Him: "Those who draw the sword shall perish by the sword. I am profoundly sad for a boy like Tom­and there are many more, I think, like him--im­properly articulate before his draft board, lacking the eloquence to describe his essential pacifism in a way that staisfies the village smart-ass, operating among putative draft-dodgers with the techniques of a Grand 


It was Tom's mother, a widow lady, who called 
Sunday evening <December 5th) to tell me the news: 
Tom's application to be classified as a conscientious 
objector has been turned down by the State Appeals 
Board. In the eyes of just men, Tom does not qualify as 
a pacifist; the ways in which he is opposed in con­
science to military service are not sufficient grounds to 
exempt him from induction. His mother said, "They 
don't believe Tom will go to jail for his beliefs; but I 
know he will go to jail rather than serve." Merry 
Christmas, Mother! And to you, too, Mrs. Calley, and 
may all your Christmases be bright. 
In dealing with his Local Board, Tom was turned 
down after three appeals on the grounds that, as a 
Catholic, he does not belong to a sect like the Quakers 
that is traditionally opposed to war. In the ghetto days 
of Catholicism, before Roncalli became Pope and 
Kennedy became President, we Catholics had to 
establish our credentials as super-patriots, and 
therefore as super-warriors. Everyone in the ghetto, 
fearing the accusation that being loyal to Rome in­
volved disloyalty to Washington, was grateful for the 
fervor of the Catholic War Veterans; to Fr. Duffy and 
the Fighting Sixty-Ninth; to the Sullivan Brothers who 
perished together on the same fighting ship in an early 
battle of World War II; to Lieutenant Commander 
O'Callahan, the Jesuit mathematician from Holy Cross 
College, who died in action on an aircraft carrier (I 
believe) in the performance of his duties as chaplain. I 
have no desire to snipe at these heroes -at one, in 
sacrifice, with the Lord -but I do regret the films, 
based on their experiences, in which Catholics, lending 
themselves as part of the propaganda of the war effort 
in the Forties, were seen to move rather easily from 
the altar rail to the battlefield, shouting en­
couragements to praise the Lord and pass the am­
munition. I regret Cardinal Spellman, dressed in 
battle fatigues, fluttering about the fighting zones like 
Christ come to the foxholes, whree G.I.'s were serving 
on the altars of God, with grenades as their Blessed 
Sacrament. 

But if Spellman were right: if Christ wears a green 
beret, then He must wear other uniforms, too; and all 
armies must be His army-in Russia, Nazi Germany, 
North Vietnam -and wherever else men suppose they 
are fighting for the glory of their country and the 
welfare of their families. But if, on the battlefield, all 
• 
, 

Inquisitor. Two thousand years ofChrisffiuiity and1Wo hundred years of flag-wavingCatholicism have come to this: that in the aftermath of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and of the tragedies of World Wars I and II and Korea, in these months while the Vietnam ~ar still rages, a Catholic boy, a graduate of a Christian University and twelve years of parochial school education, faces prison. His crime: he sees missile systems and armies and bombardments and killings as crimes against humanity. As a Catholic, nobody believes him, because he does not belong to a religious sect like the Quakers who are traditionally opposed to war. 
Because at this point I have failed to help Tom enough --and because it is Christmas--I think of the children with whom, at the Urchins' Mass every week, · I celebrate the Liturgy. We reveal God to one another, these children and I. In them, I see the beauty of Christ --not as innocent as He, for they are without sin, but not without selfishness. In their near-innocence, they suffer, knowing loneliness, pain, rejection. Soon enough they will be scarred in their minds and bodies by the ancient illnesses that flesh is heir to. 
A traditional symbol of salvation is the sign of the Blood of the Lamb. It was the Sign of the Blood that delivered the Jews from death, when God passed over the land of Egypt prior to the Exdous, striking down the first-born children among the families that were ruled by Pharoh. Once I placed a drop of consecrated 
wine --the Blood of God's Lamb--on the tongue of a newly-baptized infant, as a sign to God to spare the child from suffering and death. The sacrament was administered as a prayer for peace, so that this child, and others like him, might be spared the destiny of a soldier in Vietnam, or as suffering servant of peace claimed by an American prison. 
In a world without hiding places, it is silly to teach children a religion that is all soda pop and cotton candy. In our liturgies, we move from Christmas to Good Friday, to Easter, and now back to Christmas again. Sometimes, it seems we have made a long journey from April to December. But the Bethlehem mood of the children is the one I like best, for they are constantly in the mood to celebrate. That is why they dance their prayers, or fly kites on the Quad to learn the lessons of the wind <At Pentecost, remember, the Spirit came "like a powerful wind from heaven"). That is why they assemble before the patch that is awaiting 

rchin 
the arrival of the Great Pumpkin: to playfully honor the Lord of the pumpkins and the harvest, Who plays His own game of trick or treat. 
On Sunday, December 13th, at eleven o'clock in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel, the children will be celebrating the joyous feast of Christmas, when God came to Urchinsville and dwelt in our playground. In the churches of the Establishment, which do not take a pause for Christmas vacation as we do in the Family Chapel, the antiphons and Scripture readings will still be prophetic, in anticipation of Messiah's birth. In the churches of the Protestant Establishment, Billy Graham also awaits the coming of Christ, but it is His Second Coming, the eschatalogical event when the world, hopeless with sin, will face its judgment and destruction. 
I acknowledge with joy the news that Christ came to Bethlehem, wearing our flesh like glory-vestments as the Celebrant of eternal life. But I don't think He will come again as Arthur from Avalon, or Roland sum­moned by the silver notes of the golden trumpet of Roncesvalles, to rescue the Kingdom from the Dark Lord of evil pretensions. He won't come, because He doesn't need to. He was once tucked into the manger of Bethlehem, not so much to found a kingdom, as to plant a vineyard. "I am the vine, you are the branches." Now His beauty is never far from us and His face is never hidden. His strength, as grace, is constantly fed to us, like life flowing from a root to open up in blossoms. He is revealed to us best in the laughter of children. 
The world is always Bethlehem ... Christ newly born, God with us. But it is always Calvary, too where holiness suffers on a tree of shame. Wherever soldiers die, there is Calvary ... Vietnam, Antietam, San Juan Hill, Pork Chop Hill, Belleau Wood. But it is happening also on the battlefields of peace, to people like the Berrigans, and their friends from Catonsville, Milwaukee, Harrisburg, and even to the gentle lad, Tom, who is not a Quaker. 
If the urchins celebrating Bethlehem could be spared crucifixion.. .if in their generation, we could, just once, spare Christ from His agony, then the times and seasons might be redeemed as though by an eschatalogical event, like a Second Coming of the Lord. 
But maybe in vineyards, there is no life without pruning. Maybe crucifixions are mandatory, in the Kingdom of the Lonely God. Merry Christmas. May all your Eastertides be 


------------------~ I 
Page 8 ·~ THE OBSERVER Wednesday, December 8, 1971 

FRANKIE-'S
Barlow: Unity is 'progress' 
by Bob Cosentino 
No matter how the merger issue is resolved, St. Mary's SBP, Kathy Barlow, is confident that the recent protest at SMC has gained "considerable progress" articulating student opinion. 
Miss Barlow said that if nothing else has been achieved by the protest of the SMC women, at least the girls themselves have felt "the unification that comes from banding together to achieve a common goal." 
"I think our protests have obtained considerable progress " Miss Barlow commented. "Of course, we've received no official word that the trustees have budged in their position to call off the merger. However, there has been a considerable change in the girls, themselves. Thev are starting to realize they want to run their own lives. They're realizing that they want to be women. 
"Also," Miss Barlow con­tinued, "the girls are realizing that if this education is not what they want, then they will go elsewhere. It's not a love it or leave it viewpoint. It's just that they want to be who they are. They're realizing how much more important the people are in~tead of the in~titution, and I thmk that's very Important." 

Kathy Barlow 
Miss Barlow contended that "although all the AMC protest revolves around the merger issue, my personal goal is that the women learn to understand and relate to each other." It is in this respect that she is convinced the girls have succeeded. "The merger protest is one way which we can take what we want and put it into political action," she commented. 
According to Miss Barlow, the next step for the SMC women is to circulate the petition to the students which states the SMC demands of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's trustees. The demands first forwarded are that the negotiations for merger between Notre Dame and St. Mary's resume in January 1972; 

Statement by ND-SMC Ministries on merger 
The recent breakdown of negotiations for the unification of 
St. Mary's and Notre Dame has caused serious repercussions 
in the lives of many persons. The Campus Ministries of both 
institutions are concerned for the well-being of those whose 
lives have been so disrupted and whose trust is severely 
shaken. The honesty, integrity, and dedication to genuine 
Christian values on the part of our institutions are at stake. 
Legitimate questions must be answered, responses heard, 
adn proposals entertained. 

We ask, therefore, that each individual and every segment 
of the St. Mary's-Notre Dame community examine its con­
science. Further, we urge all parties to assess their capacities to act and their willingness to bring about an acceptable resolution or this crisis. The Campus Ministries believe that steps should be taken im­mediately to reopen negotiations between the two institutions so that the primary source of frustration and disillusionment can be removed. 
Rev. William Toohey, CSC 
Rev. Roger Cormier, CSC 
Rev. Maurice Amen, CSC . 
Rev James Buckley, CSC. 
Rev. David Burrell, CSC, 
Rev. Bernard Clark, CSC 
Rev. Robert Griffin, CSC Rev. Edward Hoffman, CSC 
Rev. Donalf McNeil , CSC Sr. Mercita Lynch, CSC Sr. Elena Malits, CSC Rev. Edward Reidv Rev. Mr. Thomas Stella, esc 
1\''y~ant Floral Co 
327 lincoln Way West 232-3354 

s·
led 

MT.WAWMEE 
T Bar 9 clec. rope tows Snow Machines, Ski School, National Ski Patrol, 800 Pair of rentals, ATV Rentals, weekdays 11 AM-10PM wPckcnd & holidays 9 AM 10 PM Group Packages Available MI. Wawasee New Paris ln. 219 831 2106. 

Cultural Arts Commissions Performing Arts Series presents 
Night of the Following Day with Marlon Brando 
Dec. 8 7 & 9 pm Engineering Auditorium Admission $1 PAS Patrons Free 
and that students and faculty have a voice in making final decisions in the negotiations. 
SMC Student Affairs Com­missioner Jean Seymour urged students to put pressure on the trustees by writing letters and asking parents, alumni and other influential people to try to put pressure on the two schools. 
Miss Barlow also said that student government has asked SMC women to withold tuitions for next semester as part of the protest. Barlow estimated that about 600 girls at St. Mary's have already requested transfers. 
"I think we've shocked a lot of people from our demands," Miss Barlow said. "They've seen our strength and I'm confident they'll listen to us. 
"You see, we're not asking them to renew negotiations we're asking them to start negotiations," she commented. "We don't think that any real negotiations have ever taken place. Our ultimate goal is to give the students, faculty, ad­ministration add trustees a chance to make a bet~er decision." 
Dinner Special Chicken, Steak or Perch Dinner with Turren Soup, Salad & Coffee 

$1.50 
Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '72 presents 

MANDABI 
A film by Ousmane Semhane 
Saturday and Sunday 
_Adm. $1.00 Cinema '72 patrons free 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 
Indiana Bell 




---Letters--­
No ''wedding" 
Editor: It seems that Rev. Hesburgh thought he could win a large dowery by "wedding" Mother Olivette, whereas Mother Olivette hoped to find a rich "husband" who was going to support her in the amnner in which she was accustomed. Hence the broken engagement. 
Hope from Kent 
Editor, 
Even though I am not per­sonally a student at Notre Dame University, I feel I have a stake in what transpires there. I have many close friends attending both Notre Dame and St. Mary's. For this reason I am emotionally tied to this present situation. 
From what I understand, the administraiton of St. Mary's has attempted to affect the lives of their so-called community without even considering the community itself. Has not authority realized that within its bounds of jurisdiction there are also responsibilities that they (authority) MUST meet with, concerning the lives of the 
HAVE YOU GIVEN MUCH THOUGHT TO WHAT YOU'LL 
BE DOING TOMORROW? 
Finding a job that gives you satisfaction isn't easy today. Not in a world as con­fusing and com• plex as ours. 
But the Paul­is! finds a fre­quent joy in his own way of life and values that are lasting. 
As a Paulist he may counsel a run­away youth,listen to the problems of a senior citizen, or­ganize a Home Mass or conduct a forum on nar­cotics. Because Paulists have al­ways been pioneers in communi­cations, he may communicate through the printed word or through mass media such as radio, films or television. 
\whatever tool he chooses, the Paulist gets his "message" through. 
Can you think of any other life that will provide more inner satisfaction for you? 
l;or more information about the Paulist priesthood write to: Rev. Donald C. Campbell, C.S.P., Vocalion Director, Room 


PQlJsrfcthels. 
415 West S9tb Street 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
governed? No longer is a university for questioning. The answers are fed out, with no explanations of why. Has authority taken upon themselves the right to exclude those who would be directly effected by the decisions of the same authority? 
PLEASE! ! Don't misun­
derstand me. I'm not advocating 
the overthrow of authority at all. 
I'm just hoping that effective 
communication can be 
established over this matter 

hetWPPO the involved parties before the whole matter gets out of hand. This loss of com­munication ended in four deaths at the university I attend almost one and a half years ago. 
11 education is anything that it says it is I only hope that the educated leaders of this system can compromise their ideals a little to achieve peace and harmony throughout the campus, for all concerned people. My only hope is that the involved parties (Students of St. Mary's) received their fair justice in the matter and that it is done without attack, to injure persons or property. 

B. Jon Kent State University Kent, Ohio 
No benefit 
Student Union Director Bill McGrath yesterday nQtified the Observer that the Rap Center beoofit ol'iginally scheduled for December 17 at Stephan Center has been cancelled. 

ROTC awards 
Army ROTC will hold their semi-annual awards ceremony Thursday, December 9 at 4:30 in 
Stepan  Center.  The  public  is  
invited  to  this  ceremony.  The  
gusest  speaker  will  be  Major  

General B. Taylor from Fort Benjamin Harrison. At the ceremony, this semester's battalion commander, Charles 
M. Leggiero will hand over the command post to Christopher Carrick. 
-· -========~%;
THAT BEEF PLACE 
Ham & Beef Sandwiches Snack & Breakfast 107 W. Wayne Street Across From the Library 
7AM -7PM 

Clothes and thing.fi 
Men's Boutique 
t~e Ptt SttJft 
"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center-Mishawaka, lndhma Phone 259­
n:l!i 

Hasyourroommate ever discovered his 3irlfriends earrin3s underyourpillowand believed your story abouttheTooth Fairy? 
No. But haveyou ever tried Colt 45 Malt Liquor? No. Then Ia say were even. 
Colt 45 Malt liquor. A completely unique experience. 
©The National Brewing Co. of Balta., Md. at Balta.. Md. Also Phoenr< • Mr~mr • Dctrort 
India breeched evacuee reprieve: UN 
,_______ ---·---·-4--------------------
Dacca airport bombed 
by James P. Sterba 
Dacca, Pakistan--Indian jet fighters strafed and bombed Dacca airfield Monday while several dozen women and children were waiting for a United Nations plane to evacuate them to Bangkok, officials here siad. None of the evacuees were reported hurt in the attacks. 
The Indian jets made two strafing and rocket-firing runs over the East Pakistan airfield shortly before 10 a.m. U.N. of­ficials here said that the Indians had agreed to halt the raias until noon to allow evacuation aircraft in. One plane turned around and flew back to Bangkok. 
U.N. officials said shortly after 1 p.m. that Indian warplanes struck the airport again, this time dropping two bombs on the runway, blasting out a large crater that Pakistani ground crewmen operating a bulldozer began to fill immediately. 
Meeanwhile, a high-ranking West Pakistan-army general said at a news conference here that seven Indian divisions had pushed 30 miles into East Pakistan and that Indian war­ships had set up a blockade in the Bay of Bengal. He said that his forces, numbering about 80,000 troops, were completely cut off from the West. 
"We will fight on," said the officer, Major General Farman Ali Khan. who is the militHrv adviser to the governor in East_ Pakistan.
"W h b r· h .
e ave een 1g ting a defensive battle," he told 

Half of E. Pakistan falls 
Indians take 2 cities 
by Sydney H. Schanberg 
<C> 1971 New York Times 
Calcutta, Dec. 7-The Indian Army reported a victory in Jessore tonight that virtually insured it of control of about half of East Pakistan, and the army chief immediately issued a call to the Pakistani forces in the country to surrender to save their lives. 
With Indian forces pushing in from all sides toward the center of the country, slowly tightening a noose around the retreating Pakistanis, the army's eastern command reported tonight that Jessore, the military lynchpin of the western half of East Pakistan, had been taken in a fierce 24-hour battle and that its Pakistani defenders--estimated before the battle at about 5,000 men--were fleeing in disarray to the south. 
The command also reported that Sylhet, in the northeast, had 
been captured and that Comilla, in the east, had been "completely surrounded"--both strategic cities. The three main Pakistani military bases in East Pakistan were at Jessore, Comilla and Dacca, the capital. Dacca, in the heart of the country, is clearly the Indians next major target, but there are literally many rivers to cross to get there in that low-lying watery country and it would take some days. 
At about 6:30p.m. tonight, just after Jessore had fallen to the Indians, the army chief of satff, Gen. Sam H. F. J. Manekshaw, issued a message to be broadcast to the 70,000 Pakistani troops in East Pakistan, in which he said: "Officers and Jawans of the Pakistan Army, lay down your arms before it is too late. Time is running out. Indian forces have encircled you. Your fate is sealed." 

BANDY NBIMAl\1 
BDNNII RAITT 

/ 


Friday, December 10 8:00p.m. O'Laughlin Aud. Tickets $2 at S.U. Ticket Office & Pandora's Books 
newsmen. "By the nature of the 
operation, wp are likely to lose 
territory. Therefore, whatever 
you hear on Indian radio about 
their taking this and that--they 
are insignificant." 

Farman said that Pakistani 
forces continued to hold Jessore 
city on the west and were fighting 
at Fini, near Commilla. He said 
that the biggest Indian thrust 
appeared to be from near 
Adkaura, directly east of Dacca, 
the capital. He added that the 
Indians were also attacking in 
force toward Mymensingh in the 
north and toward Rangpur in the . northwest. Farman said that the Indian aircraft carrier, vibrant, and d b k di
four estroyers were loc a ng 
twice 
thP Bay of Bengal. Chittagong Port was shelled on Sunday, he :;aid, but the Pakistan Navy and Air Force had driven the Indian ships off. 
Non of the Indian ships have been reported hit by Pakistani planes, he said, adding "It's very difficult to hit ships on the high 
....s:...:e~a-=-s·:_"_--:=-=-=----=:;;:­.._\.S ~ -~ 0 , ... itA. l l a5 sS '~ 1'\t.:ll(lll­\,<i, 5PHnl5k GullRRS.-....... ­
Records · Radios Phonos · Tapes 241 Dixie Way N. 272·7510 
Christmas shop at your Golf Pro Shop "in the Rock" 
-Golf balls gift wrapped -Alpaca Golfing Cardigans -Jantzen Golf shirts -Monogrammed Caps 
-Munsingwear Golf Jackets 
-Novelty items 
-Ski & Tuboggan hats 
-Socks 
OBSERVER 
Staff 
Details and tickets for the Observer Xmas bash can be obtained from your department heads -GSC 
Beech~ood Ageing could be an ''advertising gimmick." 
But it isn't. 
(For instance, last year we bought almost 2% million pounds of Beechwood strips ... enough to 
fill 67 freight cars.) 
WHEN YOU SAY 

Budweiser. 
YOU'VE SAID IT ALL! 

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. lOUIS 
Irish face tough Kansas quintet 
Will meet St. Louis Billikens Sat. at 2 in Convo 
by E.J. Kinkopf Barrow, a flashy 6-6 junior and nine rebound per game series with the Jayhawks three will return to campus to prepare 

college transfer, who averaged 29The Notre Dame basketball points per game with Cisco, Tex., 
team invades Kansas Univer­last year, rounds out thesity's Allen Fieldhouse tonight to Jayhawk front line,take on the 18th-ranked At the guard spots will beJayhawks. 

Aubrey Nash, a 6-1 senior whoThe Jayhawks enter the game played his high school ball withsporting a 2-1 record, identical to former Irish eager Sid Catlett atNO's, with victories over Xavier DeMatha high in D.C., and Tomand Kentucky, and the single loss Kovisto, the most promising ofto Bob Knight's Indiana Hoosiers, the Jayhawk sophs. 
59-56, Monday night. 
Kovisto, 6-3 with a 22.4 averageKansas, the second winningest as a freshman, spent the pastschool in basketball history summer playing with thebehind Adolph Rupp's U of K Olympic development squad. 

Wildcats, is coming off a 27-3 The head coach of theseason, and a fourth place finish Jayhawks is Ted Owens, in hisin last year's NCAA tourney. 

seventh year as top man on theDespite losing three front liners KU basketball staff.
from its 1971 BigS title team, Dave Robish, Roger Brown and Owens has compiled a 149-43 Pierre Russell, and returning record in those seven years for a only two starters, the Jayhawks .770 winning percentage. 
still expect to give the Irish lots of The Irish will most probably trouble, especially with their counter with its all sophomore rebuilt front line. starting line-up of Tom O'Mara, 
Bud Stallworth, 6-5 and 19.2 Gary "Goose" Novak, Chris points per game, has been moved "Hawk" Stevens, Tom Hansen back to his original forward and Bob Valibus. But it is also position, after playing at a guard expected that Coach Phelps will spot last year. Randy Canfield, a continue to substitute freely. 6-9 junior pivotman who saw only Leading the Irish into Allen reserve action last year, is slated Fieldhouse is Gary Novak, the to open at center, and Wilson top Irish scorer with a 23 point, 
Jim Donaldson;==============================================================================::::::::=:=== 
The Irish Eye 
:========::====================;=~~~:=:::::::::::=================: The Spirit of Giving 
Here it is, less than three weeks from Christmas and I still haven't sent my gift list off to Santa yet. Knowing the Observer's circulation department, I should mail this list myself to ensure its prompt arrival at the North Pole but, with the wages I receive here, I can't afford the postage stamp. 
So, on the presumptious supposition that the Jolly Old Elf reads this publication, I hope that he can deliver all these gifts to the right people the night of December 24th. 
Dear Santa, please give ...... 

To Ara Parseghian -Another Joe Theismann model football player, which you forgot to bring last year. To Digger Phelps -A first aid kit to treat his ailing players. To Lefty Smith -A band to play at his team's hockey games. 
To Walt Patulski -A large sack, similar to yours, which he can use to carry off all the money he'll get from the NFL. 
To Bill Etter-A lifetime Blue Cross card. 
To Willie Townsend -One day off sometime between football season, basketball season, and Spring football drills. To Eric Penick-Room to run in '72. To Tom Gatewood -A record rack, to hold all his pass catching 
marks. To Eddie Bumbacco -A hand computer to keep track of his point total. To Jim Humbert -A sewing kit in case his knees give him any trouble. To Gary Brokaw -A mitten to keep that right hand of his hot until next winter. 
To Cliff Brown-Enough experience to fulfill his potential. 
To Fr. Hesburgh -An erector set to build more bridges between Notre Dame and SMC. To Sr. Alma -A key to understanding the intricacies of the merger. To T.C. Treanor and Moose Krause -Practically anything but 
another box of those smelly cigars. 

To Father Joyce -A guide to better speechmaking. 
To John Barkett -Diplomatic immunity for the things he'd really like to say. 
To Kathy Barlow-1600 N.D. degrees to be distributed to deserving gals across the road. To the SMC girls-All they were promised. To Glen Corso -Carte Blanche at Mama Willie's. And to the ND-SMC student body and all the Observer's readers -A 
very Merry Christmas and a most Happy New Year. 
tCoU nTtHeWr.VeSdOnTcOuNtThEwA 
Mixed Media by Sean Roherty: lsl'l Gallery: 9:00 Fri. Dec 10 
average. games to one. for their Saturday afternoon game with the Billikens of St.
The Irish hold the edge in the After the game, the NO cagers Louis Univeristy. 
leers, cagers busy during break 
While most of the Notre Dame Christmas, the Irish meet Motor City Tournament Dec. 28­
student body enjoys a month's Kentucky in Lousiville on the 28th 29 in the Detroit Olympia relaxation after final exams, and then are idle for over two highlight the icers agenda. there won't be much of a vacation weeks before going South to play Brown, Boston College and St. for the Fighting Irish basketball Tulane (Jan. 15) and Georgia Lawrence are the other par­and hockey teams. Tech (Jan. 17). ticipants in the ECAC Tourney 
while Michigan Tech, Michigan
Notre Dame does play at home
Digger Phelps' club will play State and Dartmouth will com­
Saturday afternoon, against St.
five games during the holidays, pete in the Motor City event.
Louis, but won't have another
all on the road, and Lefty Smith's Notre Dame plays six WCHA
game in the ACC after that until 
icers will be twice as busy, games, all away from home, over
Jan. 20, when Duquesne comes to
playing ten games, including four the holidays, traveling to
town.
in tournament competition. Colorado (Jan. HI), Michigan 
The Irish hockey team has an State (Jan. 14-15) and Minnesota 
The Irish cagers face Bob impressive slate of games (Jan. 21-22). The Irish also play a Knight's classy Indiana squad scheduled during the break. couple of eastern powers,Dec. 18 and then take on the Appearances in the ECAC meeting Boston College on Dec. defending national champion tournament on Dec. 20-21 in 18 in Chicago Stadium and taking UCLA Bruins on the 22nd. After Madison Square Garden and the on Cornell in the ACC, Jan. 10. 
The Hall President's Council Presents: 
Budweiser Tiffany Glass Candles 
Beautiful Christmas Gifts 
Six different scents 
HPC giving all profits to give Christmas jobs to South Bend kids See your Hall President today 
Supply limited 
by Gene Sullivan A FRAME OF MIND GAME Former Asst. Basketball Coach at Notre Dame 
Basketball is much more than a chess game between X's and O's. Of any team sport basketball Is a frame of mind game. Basketball players think, feel, act and react to almost every kind of external stimuli. Now, Gene Sullivan, Notre Dame assistant to John Dee. cap­lures the human interest and drama that takes place behind the scenes. Watch as Sullivan takes you into the coaches' inter­sanctum to reveal the development of game tactics and 

-
strategy, into the locker . room tor player ·coach relations and onto the court tor the effect of game pressure. In a language and style that is both readable and enjoyable to FANS, COACHES, and PLAYERS listen in on some of the behind the scene activities that don't show up on the scoreboard but often have great influence on victory and defeat. 
:«=~=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::!:::~:~:~:~:;:~:~:~:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::======~===~=~===~===~~=======~=~=~=~:!:!:::=:~:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::8:::::::::::::::: 
llll Lakewood 212 N. Carpenter St. :~l~ l~ll Gene Sullivan Chicago, Illinois 60607 ~l:~ j\jl Please send me copy (ies) of A FRAME OF MIND GAME\~~~~ ~~~~ at $4.50 per copy, plus 50' postage and handl1ng charge :j~ji
I::d::.. . 
II:.:::•:o~y me when BASKE:::~:.S DOUBL:i:TACK : 
~;~;~ OFFENSE is completed. . . . !:~ 
*::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;.~:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 

Resolution Two would also have AAUP representatives "support and commend the work of the Officers of the Officers of the Faculty Assembly and members of the Academic Council for aggressively representing members of this community in their deliberations with members of the ad­ministration and with the Chairman of the Board of Trustees." 
'Principle abrogated' 
Paul Messbarger, president of the faculty assembly; Bruno Schlesinger; Clarence Dineen; and William Hickey comprise the Academic Affairs Council faculty representation. 
Key to the AAUP sentiment is Resolution Ill. In.tentative form, before today's ratification by the AAUP members, the proposal read: 
"Be it further 
resolved that, the Saint Mary's College Chapter of the American Association of University Professors deplores the failure of key members of the administration and Board of Trustees to adhere to the prin­ciples of shared governance which they have endorsed and publicly acknowledged in the manual: The Governance of the College. In endorsing the 1966 AAUP Statement on Government of College and Universities, the Saint Mary's College Board and Administration commited themselves to the concept of shared governance. This prin­ciple has been seriously abrogated in their failure to maintain effective participation in community government among the members of the Saint 

Now ••• stock up for the holidays 
FAMOUS NAME* 
Long Sleeve 
SHIRTS 
At Savings of exactly 

You'll recognize the name, it's America's most famous univeristy-styled shirt. have them in a good selection of colors and strippings ... all reduced exactly one-half! 
*JACKETS AND SUBURBAN COATS ... Save V4, V3, 
L-------------------------------------------------­
~  
~~·  
PAY NEXT  ERT'S  
SUMMER!  ~~hope>  
Pay next June, July, and August with  
_!10 service or carrying charge.  ON THE CAMPUS  ... NOTRE DAME  

THE OBSERVER. 

SMC AAUP eyes unmerger 
Mary's College cademic com­the decision were allegedly mun!t~ --students, faculty, and Sisters of the Holy Cross. Bad adm1msration." weather kept the laymen on the "Be it further resolved that, the Executive Board away from the 
* * *
--~­
Saint Mary's College Chapter of meeting. 
OFFICIAL NOTICE 
the American Association of Resolution Three ould also 
To All Whom it has Concerned.
llnive•·sity Professors deplores request the governing board and 
I, The Classified Ad Man, Do Hear 
By Swear Or Affirm That, s. administration and Board of the failure of keymembers of the administrative officers of SMC to 
Flood (8520) Did Not Or Has Not
take firm and decisive action to 
Ever (To The Best Of My
Trustees to adhere to the prin­officialy rectify their failure to 
Knowledge) Taken Out A Bicycle
ciples of shared governance adhere to the principles of shared 
Want Ad With Our Fine Paper.
which they have endorsed and gov~r~ance by making 
His Number Was Connected Erroneously With That Ad
publicly acknowledged in the prov1s1ons for representatives of 
Through A Technical Mistake On
manual: The Governance of the student government and faculty 
Our Part. Sorry Steve. It Was
CollegP. In endorsing the 1966 assembly to serve as members of 
Really Randy's Ad (8726)
AAUP StatPment on Government the board. of College and Universities, the Saint Mary's College Board and Administration committed National AAUP help 
NOTICES 
themselves to the concept of shared governance. This prin­Resolution Three also offers 
Driveaways Available for 
Christmas Call 283-6962 from 6:45
ciple has been seriously "its good offices to assist in 
7:30 before December 12.
abrogated in "their failure to procuring the services of · the 
maintain effective participation National Office of AAUP -­
Christmas Loans up to $150. Pay
in community government especially those of Jordan 
back January 20. Morrissey Loan 
Fund Closes Dec. 10.
among the members of the Saint Kurland, Associate General 
-·-----------­
Mary's College cademic com­Secretary, to assist in 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's
munity --student, faculty, and reestablishing a climate for 
and Info concerning Viviane
administration." renewed negotiations." 
Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line available only through indiv: Cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE 
To garner support from the 
Notre ?arne AAUP chapter, 
UP LESSONS.
SMC censured Resolution Four would request that chapter to concern itself with 
NEED MONEY? 
Morrissey Loan Fund
the full implications of the break­
Presently St. Mary's 

Basement of La Fortune
down in the negotiations for the·College is technically censured 
11:15-12:15.
merger, especially as it relates to by the National AAUP for a the participation of shared 
Fantastic offer to ski the Alps
similar action last winter. The 
during Christmas vacation . $270.
governance.

administration and the Board of 
Includes everything. Call 8853.
Commenting on the
Trustees restructured the 
resolutions, Hornung said, "What 
Faculty: Why break your back?
responsibilities of the dean of 
Let Shamrock Services fret over
is important is that they addr~ssstudents. In the move, they 
snow. Sidewalks as low as $10
themselves to the issues that
created an office for a vice­
monthly, driveways $25. 288-3659.
really confront us, meaning the
president for student affairs to 
concept of shared government." 
Need added income? Sell a
which the dean of students would 
needed family service. Call 250·
"Nobody really knows anything
answer and a Freshman Year 
0339.
because the faculty and students Office, without consulting the have involved," 
Cleveland Club Christmas Bus.
students or faculty. not been he 
added. 

Sign ups La Fortune coke bar.
As a result, the dean of 

Mon. Tues. Wed. 7-8 p.m. or call
The campus chapter of AAUP
students, Sr. M. Immaculata 
Gary 8150.
lists 35 faculty members out of 99
Driscoll resigned and it was later 
SMC faculty members on its 
LOST
exposed that the only Members of 
roster.

the Executive Board voting on 
Lost: blue philoosophy notebook. Needed for finals. Call C.J. 1470. 
PERSONALS 
The Dairy Queen of Skokie is still making MAGIC BOTTLES. Stop in 416 Augusta 5106. 
To the Supreme of Lemans It was a most remarkable night the temptations of Farley and Lyons. 
Dennis The Grinch was GREAT. Too bad you MISSED it. 
Little One . This "cat" MUST continue to walk alone, accompanied only by his guardian ANGEL. 
The Quiet-One 
Celine: With arrows whizzing by, we sit and wonder why our thoughts begin to fly . 
If you want to learn the final breathtaking line of this wondrous little poem, come to dinner with us tonite. 
Ambrose Benkert for Grace Hall garbage collector volunteers. Please call 1680. 
Geez you know, Thanks for the happiness this semester. Your sunshine feels beautiful. Smile. 
---·-·--------­
We 

WANTED 
-· -· -·--------­
Typist willing to do any kind of 
1 

typing work for students. Phone 
/2 

232-0136. 
NEEDED: Off-Campus students to move on campus. Bay window quad in Walsh available. 2nd floor. Call 8085 for info. 
) 
Need riders to Texas for Christmas. Call Mike 1772. 
Wed resday, December 8, 1971 
ADS 
WANTED TO BUY: one 1971 Dome. Call Joannie, 5464. 
The Polk City Express is leaving Thurs. Dec. 16 after noon. Will take riders West as far as Central Iowa. 6729. ···-·-·---------­Make extra money on immediate commissions basis. Call 250-0339. 
Need ride to N.Y.C. or Long Island. Will share expenses and driving. Leave after 4 pm Dec. 17. 
Please call Jeff 6938. 
--··----------­
Need ride to Baton Rouge, La. area around Fri. 17 Dec. 71. Call 8257. 
----·---------··-­
Need ride to Pittsburgh on or after Dec. 17. Call Dennis 1049. 
1, 2, 3, 4,? Roomates needed for off-campus house. CALL 287-1650 and do yourself a favor. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale RCA portable stereo 
Phone and Stand, Best Offer 
Call Don Bouffard . 7354. 
For Sale: New Sony combination receiver.cassette player. In walnut cabinet. Receiver is AM· FM-Fm Stereo. Call Terry 1057. 
Ten speed Bike · New Schwinn varsity, with generator, Iights, speedometer, $70 snow tires Cutlass, Best Offer . New Weights · 190 Lbs. ·Coated, New $25 or best offer. 232-4241 · George. 
Great Christmas Gift idea Complete Line Waltham Watches and Jewelry. Wholesale Prices Call Tom 3575. 
Christmas give away. All 8-tracks now only $3. Call 6715. 
Sale: Sony TC-8 track cartridge recorder. New $135. Now only $90 or best offer. Frank 3238. 
Unworn men's Wyler Watch. Retails $50 will sell for $30. Original guarantee included. Call 3662. 
Great Xmas present: Portable S­track tape player; like new. Call Tom 1208. 
What? Can't Type? Will type papers of any size for reasonable fees. Bibliographies and footnotes too. Want to do them over the weekend and even through exam week. Call Chip at 8257. 
For Sale: Darkroom Equipment . Omega B·22XL enlarger, 2 lenses, dryer, timer, safelight, rm trays, amny extras, 3 months old. Save over $100. Total Price $250. 232­8698. 
Pandora's buys books. 20 per cent cash 40 per cent credit. N D and SB Aves. 
Research Help for your term paper. Call Steve 234·6873. -·----------­
FOR RENT 
Single room available off-campus for second semester. Call 234·5671 between 7:30 and 9:30PM. 
SPECIAL NOTICES 
MERRY CHRISTMAS, CEIL. 
. -·---------­
John, Put your phone back on the hook! M.A. 
·-----------­
Classified Ads paid for in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 
12: 15·5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day before pubIication. 
Words Ida. 2da 3cto 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .9S 1.15 1.35 1.55 ll 15 1.00 l.SO 1.85 2.10 2.40 16 20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26 JO 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 S.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.35 &.IS 36 •10 2.80 4.70 5.25 6.7S 7.75 41 ~5 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46 50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
:; 







