
Vol. V No, 89 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College ("ommunity Tuesday, March 2. 1971 
Barkett wins SBP run-off election 
HPC chairman collects 52.3% 
of votes in race with Mooney 
,by T.C. Treanor 
John Barkett rode a huge plurality in his home hall of Morrissey to win a narrow victory over off-campus Senator Don Mooney in last night's Student Body Presidential run-off election. 
Barkett, a junior from Miami Florida, won by two hundred fifteen votes., one hundred seventy-four of which came from Morrissey. The runoff was the second in Notre Dame Student Body Presidential history. 
Mooney made several important gains since last Thursday's election, when he garnered only twenty-seven percent of thz vote total. He took Flanner, Grace, Stanford, and Zahm halls. all of Which Barkett won Thursday., and improved his margins in Alumni, Dillon, Farley, Howard and off-campus. Mooney also took Holy Cross, aithough his margin decreased since last Thursday. 
Barkett took every other on-campus hall, piling up big margins in Badin, Fisher Pangborn, and Walsh as well a~ Morrissey. The closest count was in Flanner where Mooney beat the HPC chairman by a single vote. 
Student Body President Dave Krashna announced the vote to a crowd of about fifty last night in LaFortune at approximately eleven thirty last night. Thz results were held up for a time while allegations of voter fraV9. in Fisher'and Walsh halls were investigated and dismissed. 
Mooney and his running mate Dan Sherry appeared at LaFortune shortly after the election to offer their congratulations to the winning pair. In a statement Mooney contended that "J~hn and Orlando will be able to do things that Dan and I perhaps didn'~ want to do." 
Mooney also thanked his supporters, and commented that "two thousand votes represented a pretty impressive com­mitment. "When asked about his future plans, Mooney promised to "do some pretty freaky things next year," but not in student government. 
Barkett appeared at about eleven thirty and issued a statement to the Observer. "I want to thank everyone for their help and time and belief in Orlando and me. It was a team effort," Barkett continued,"run by a great c3of)tain in Bob Weaver." 

SBP candidate Dori Mooney Barkett also had praise for the two men he defeated. "I congratulate Don and Dan anf Jack (campaign manager Candon) on running a great campaign and I hope the com­
11/E OBSERVER wishes to apologize for any errors which may inadvertently appear during the machine change-over which began last Sunday. 
munication maintained duirng the campaign will be kept,over the year.We are particUlarly looking forward to working with Kathy anf Missy (SMC SBP-elect Barlow and SBVP-elect Un­derman) in facilitating the coed mejger arrangement on evey level." · 
"Orlando and I are looking forward to an exciting year," Barkett promised and he closed his remarks by ~aying '' ...Thanks to everyone agam. We will not let you down." · 
Vice-president-elect Orlando R?driguez a ju~ior ~rom Miramer, Puerto Rico, said he had praise for his opponents. "Don and Dan ran fine cam­paigns," he said. "I am very happy that we won, and very happy that the student body has placed this faith in me." 
:;;;:::::::m:::::::~::::::::;:::::;:;:;::::::::::::::::t::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::: 
THE RESULTS 

Hall Barkett 
Alumni 107 Badin 80 8-P 96 Cavanaugh 103 Dillon 104 Farley 69 Fisher 96 Flanner 180 Grace 179 Holy Cross 53 Howard 56 Keenan 127 Lyons 103 Moreau 17 Pangborn 87 Morrissey 221 St. Ed's 61 
St. Joe's 16 Sorin 55 Stanford 115 Walsh 105 Zahm 85 Off-Campus 101 
Mooney 
129 
39 75 85 
152 135 
48 181 208 
67 83 104 
79 
2 48 49 39 
13 50 117 
44 94 
162 

Community Relations Commissioner arranges for student-police conference 
Jack Candon, Community Relations Commissioner on the Student Body Cabinet has arranged for a Police Conference this Thursday Friday and Saturday. 
This conference serves a twofold purpose. First :through lectures and informal discussions police from South Bend, thz rest of the county and perhaps some of the security staff from thz campus will attempt to rij the Notre Dame student of common misconceptions concerning the policeman's role in society. 
Also, Candon feels the college student is ' "unfairly stereotyped", and he feels that these discussions will help the police officers see the students more as individuals. 
Candon stated thwt he was "very disappointed" with the response he has gotten from the halls. Each of the Hall Presidents was sent a letter concerning this conference, and only five halls have replied. 
Candon stressed thwt if any of the Hall Presidents wished to contact him concerning this, they were to call the student govern­ment office as quickly as possible 
and he would get in touch with them. 
Thursday, March fourth, from 
1:00 to 3:00p.m. Philip Facenda thz Vice-president of the Generai Council of Notre Dame will give the opening address in the Library Auditorium. 
Friday, from 1:30 to 3:00p.m., Renault Robinson, thz president of the Chicago Mro-American police society, will speak in the Library Auditorium. 
On Saturday from 4:00 to 6:00 
p.m. in the Library auditorium 
(Continued on Page 8) 

Provost proposes 
COlflplete merger 
ofND and SMC 
by Mike Nevins 
The Rev. James T. Burtchaell released his coeducation proposal calling for "a complete incorporation of St. Mary's College into the University of Notre Dame." 
This proposaJ,copies of which were circulated to the faculties and staffs of both schools, will be considered at the upcoming trustees meeting in Key "Biscayn~ Florida; March 19-21. 
Burtchaell opened his proposal by calling the situation "amicable and optimistic. . .yet frustrated by recurring am­biguities." As a first example of this Burtchaell cited the fact that St. Mary's not Notre Dame needs the merger, but it is St. Mary's that is hesitant. 
At the same time he outlined the crisis for St. Mary's if Notre Dame were to go independently co-ed. While pointing out the "fact that Notre Dame and St. Mary's are nowise equals" he called for closer cooperation between the schools. 
The financial issue was seen as critical by Burtchaell. He claimed that Notre Dame is comfortable financially but "St. Mary's could be bankrupted by a few chaotic deficit years." Also it was noted that co-exchange costs Notre Dame over a quarter of a mi1lion dollars each year in the way of shared services and facilities. This, according to Burtchaell, cannot be continued unless St. Mary's is incorporated into Notre Dame. 
Another stumbling block cited is the diverse motivation in­volved. Burtchaell sees the students placing high priority on "shared non-academic facilities for dining and socializing." Meanwhile, administrators faculty and alumni emphasize "academic and institutional unity." The third major segment is the Holy Cross Sisters, whose new position wuould be "am­biguous." 
The final problem discussed is the identity of St. Mary's college. While claiming that "at Notre Dame we value our un­dergraduate program, par­ticularly in the College of arts and letters, precisely for its humanistic and liberalizing orientation", Burtchaell asserts that the only reasons for keeping St. Mary's College are "political and unwise." 
Burtchaell's solutions call for complete merger by the summer of 1972 emphasizing that "Coeducation is not an aption; it is a necessity for survival." 
Socially, Burtchaell. called for juxtaposing halls, not co-ed dorms, for men and women, with the possibilty of a unified food service system. The ultimate goal would be a two -to -one ratio. 
He further claimed that the merger of all parallel academic departments and administrative functions while, issuing all 
(Continued on page 8) 


by Anne-Threse Darin 
Last night the St. Mary's Student Affairs Committee unanimously endorsed a letter to sophomore parents concerning the recent tuition hike and the administrative restructuring of thz college. 
By endorsing the statement, the committee felt that they could best show their disagreement · with remarks made by Sister Alma, acting president, at the Presiden_tial banquet during sophomore parents' weekend. 
At the banqust, the acting president indicated lthat the students, "a minority, bUt a thoughtless and articulate minority" might have been used by thz faculty in an attempt to dispute the administrative changes. 
In the meeting, however, Jean Gorman, chairman, clarified Sister's remarks with the statement, "The students were asked ifthey wanted the letters to be sent and thzy voted by sixty eight per cent to send the letters. This is not a minority. They weren't used by anyone." 
LeMans Hall president Margaret Conwell, a junior, suggested that other class presidents or hall presidents draft similar letters to inform parents on recent occurrences at 
the school. Mrs Josephine 
Barallat, Spanish instructo!, also 
felt that the letter should be 
circulated among the faculty. 
Laura Bayer, a sophomore and 
Regina Hall president, further 
explained the sophomore action. 
''Those who voted agsindx yhr 
lryyrt ertr noy nrvrddstily op­. posed to the content of the letter. They were against sending it to the parents prior to Sophomore 
Parents Weekend," she said. 
The committee members also 
investigated the AAUP censure 
at the meeting because their 
unqualified endorsement of the 
Sophomoreletter also includes an 
endorsement of the censure. 
Miss Gorman read 

correspondence between Sr. 
Alma and Sr. Franzita Kane, 
campus AAUP president, which 
not only explained the recent 
administrative chunges;but also 
explainsd some new ones in­
volving the elimination of the 
physical education department. 
''The chairman of the education department is very upset about the changes," revealed Dr. Thomas Conway, history instructor. ''Although the change was due to student apathy, it is a loss of a resource because the only dancing classes on either campus were part of the 
(Continued on Page 8) 


Tuesday, March 2, 1971
Page 2 
Student tenure measure heard by Trustees 
by Kevin McGill that the proposal, whpch aims to give students their valid voice in 
A student government proposal the matters of tenure· and con­dealing with faculty tenure anf tract renewal was well received ths renewal of contracts was Lest semester when several presented to the Student Affairs faculty members were denied 
Committee of the Board of tenure or were refused contract Trustees which met last Thur­renewal, 1300 stufents signed a sday. Its author, Dan Moore, felt petition expressing their 
SMC NEWS OFFICE 
If you have any news scoops come to 128 Madeleva or call: 4967 
Monday thru Thursday 1-3 pm 
! 
CLASSIFIED 
ADVERTISEMENTS 
!vh.il in or come by Observer office. For infonmtion call 7471. 
If you would like to try out our classified ad section -All classified ads placed in the Observer on Wed­nesday will not be billed. (Copy must be in by 3:00 Tuesday). 
The classified advertisement section of the Observer is being offered to the ND-SMC commu­TRY-OUTS nity as a student service. USE ND-SMC Freshmen -NO ITI -CLASSIFIED ADS GET Varsity Cheerleaders invite you to RESULTS'. C h eerl ea dertryo uts-Organiza­
tional Meeting-6:30-Wed. March 10-Beare's Crawe (B-P Base­

FOR SALE ment. For Sale: One obselete six-string fender guitar. Deplorable condi­tion and an outrageous price. Leprechaun Tryouts-Are you Former owner--a derelict. Call--under 5'5", a rah-rah, and inter­6930 ested in being the ND mas­
Time, Inc. 282-2250 cot7-Come to Beare's Crawe (B-P Basementi-6:30-Wed. March 10.
Available at Student 
Rates: Time, Life, Sports 
11ftANUTS PERSONAf 

Illustrated, & fortune Happy Birthday to 
Magazine. Call Tom, 
The Naked Maja 282-2250. Lova, Maja East 
For Sale: Mac Gregor-Jack Nicklaus irons, woods, bag, putter and dirty towel-$170 value for 
SERVICES

$80 or so-call 6841 
Breen-Phllllps Food Sales.WANIED Call In pizza orders before 11:00 pm. 12!t4 or 1705.
Help Wanted: 
Pick up at 11:30. Stop on Secretary for Observer office. your way..home from the library.
Monday through Friday morn­
$1.25 Cheese ings. Approximately 15 hrs. $1.40 Mushroom 
per week. Call 7471 afternoons. 
$1.50 Pepperoni $1.65 Everything 

Help Wanted 
Crypt-New Hours

Student artist capable of 
12:30-4:00 doing lettering & artistic Now on Stock Hendrix-Cry of Love--$3.60
.,conception drawings. Call 
Cat Stevens-Ten for Tillerman 272-8448.' -$3.10 Elton John­Tumble~~~~t~ed Connection $3.10 Looking for small, cheap !fully 
Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride stocked?) refrigerator unit. Call Mcgoo 4614 
HOUSING 
Getting Married? 

Wanted one roommate-Condi­Need housing for Fall '71 
tions: must have full stereo Call 255-8073 
system and television-have no girlfriend in Elmira, N.Y.-be AUTOMOTIVE Mean Joe Green fan-not have 
'63 Ford Galaxy 500 XL, 4 doorZappa poster-be extremely gul­hardtop, 390 V-8, Automatic,lible. Advantages: learn keen card 

bucket seats, Runs

tricks, enjoy jags (on you). learn well-clean-$395-call 291-3170about neato Pittsburgh -Call anytime.
21 06, Ask for "the Dude" 
*CLASSIFlED AD RA1ES * 
.....

1doy 1-'
-·D-10 ... ·-... ·-1.1Q 1.11 Uli · 
11-15 .10 13& ..,. 2.11
'·"' 
dissatisfaction with these promotions committee of each the approval of thz Provost and decisions. ~Moore's evaluations department, the proposal states, Pres.ident are necessary "to and suggested measures were should be elected by all full time consider the priorities and requestea by Student Body faculty members in that standards of thz Univdristy at President David Krashna . department , so that the "rigid large." 
Moore states that the report is stratification and lack of com­Minutes would be taken at all "An affirmation of the righhs of munication" in several depart­meetinvs of the Appointments the student body to take a more ments will be diminished and the and Promotpons Committee. active and valid part in this Committee will be able to give Fiaally, the proposal would matter of central importance to more truly an evaluation by one's have each College Council would our entire academic cmm­peers. establish a committee for Review munity." Presently the University does of Tenura and Contract Renewal 
He thinks that students have a not hwve to give a reason for the which would act as an appeals definite perspective of their denial of tenure or renewal of board for a faculty member of ths teachers both outside as well as contract, but ths report feels that Student ADvisory Council. This inside of the classroom, a per­the University does have th College Council Committee would spective which other faculty and "responsibility to aid (an) in­be able to refer a case to thz administrators can not have. dividual by pointing out the areas Academic Council which could Every faculty member is whzre improvement is vote to voerturn the decision to examined fmr his contribution to necessary." deny tenurd or the renewal of a his particular college and the Each decision of tenure or contract. This would be subject university as well as for his contract renewal is now made by only to the President of the classroom ability and scholarly the Deans of all the Colleges. The University. qualification, and Moore feels report states thwt "at worst, Moore feels that "everything that especially in the present their participation can be an here is in efvery way reasonable ect'nomic crisis wh.en this occasion of inher-college and should be accepted. It is not a 
evaluations \s more· critical and politicking, while at best, it is disruption of the academic more important to the teacher, uninformed and superfluous." community but s valid area in priorities consideredI relevant The report hopes to see thz which students should and must by the students must be con­decision made by those wilh the participate." sidered as well. mosz complete knowledge of the 
He said that the proposal might 

The proposal suggests that teacher involved, ideally the be presented to the Academicstudents majoring in a certain departmenn's faculty and Council this spring, and that department form a cmmmittee to students. The Dean of the par-although it was perhaps out of thz 
supplement the present "com­ticular College would hav a voice jurisdiction of the Board of puter card evaluation" by to "maintain the perspective of 
Trustees meeting, it should have making official recom­the requicements and standards been prssented to gauge how the 
mendations to the Appointments of ths individual College," and Trustees feel. 
ND co-sponsoring field work institute 
The University of Notre Dame al theology program at Notre The institute, according to department of theology and the Dame and co-director of the in­Hommes, is destined to provide Boston Theological Institute stitute. and demonstrate a model of "in­(BTl) will co~ponsor a summer Field education, Hommes ex­tegrative learning" in which aca­institute for seminary-related plained, used to be a poor step­demic theological reflection will field education directors June child of the seminary curriculum take place in the contest of act­15-30 on the Notre Dame cam­but has come into its own in an ual or simulated situations of pus. age where siminary students are ministry. Lectures and semin~rs 
The institute is the first of seeking the kind of education will be balanced by workshops, three planned under a $50,000 which enables them to carry on sometimes involving participa­grant from the Lilly Endow­meaningful service in a society tion in community programs and ment, Inc., of Indianapolis, which has become complex, sec­sometimes using classroom simi­according to Dr. Tjaard G. ular, technological, urbanized lations, such as role-playing, Hommes, director of the pastor-and politicized. "People more socio-drama and group dynamics 
than thoughts or systems of analysis. ideas are often the focus of stu­A maximum of 20 different dents' interest," Hommes said, registrants, preferably those new 
Law Symposium presented by 
"and this requires theological ed­to the field, will be accomodated
Pr&-Law Society-Four law stu­dents will discuss their exper­
ucation in the context of actual each summer, tnd the venture is 
Iences at Law School. If you plan 
live settings, in which students ecumenical. Hommes, an or­
to enter law school plan to attend 
and teachers can learn and grow dained United Church of Christ
this discussion. Friday, March 5, 1971-7:30 pm-127 Nieuwland. 
together, experiment together in minister, will share directorshipof the institutes with the Rev. Richard T. Cleary, S.J ., who t "''ds Hommes' former position ,,. director of field education for BTl, a consortium of seven theo­logical schools in the Boston area. BTl will host the 1972 in­stitute, which will return to 
Notre Dame in 1973. 
The full-time faculty will also include the Rev. Donald McNeill, C.S.C., assistant profes­sor of pastoral theology at Notre Dame, and Dr. Robert L. Treese, professor of pastoral theology at Boston University. Resource per­sons include three from Notre Dame or Moreau Seninary -­

W
HEN there's so much • Dental Aptitude Test Father James C. Buckley, Msgr. 
riding on the results, go 
John J. Egan, and Father Henri
• Grad. Business

into that exam in complete 
School Admission J. Nouwen --and others from
control. Plan ahead with the 
BTl, Drew University Theology

only study guides that ac· • Law School Admission* 
CUTately simulate the test School, Union Theological Sem­you'll soon face -in both • Medical Colle1e inary, New York, llarvard Divin­format and level of diffi· 
Admission** 
ity School, and St. John's Sem­

culty. No clutter. No frills. 
• Miller Analo1ies Test inary, Boston.
Just the facts you need to 
Applications may be obtained

pass. Confidence gives a • G.R.E. Aptitude Test 
big edge. by writing Hommes at Notre 
• NTE Common Exam 
Dame. The fee for the institute 

Insist on Quality 
• Re1.1Grad. Nursin1 is $75 a person.
Insist on Cowles School Admission 

.10 1.1& 1.10 uo 
8¥2''x 11"• Paper • *$4.95 **$4.45, all others $3.95 each
1"''"' 

,... ... .... 2.00 2.10 ...·­
See these and many otners at 
-4.10-1.00 1.10 uo uo 
your local bookstore 
,... 1.10 2.10 .... .....
1.20 

COWLES BOOK COMPANY, INC. 
..,.

1.30 2.10 1.10 1.11 
41... .... uo 3.30 .... ....
-,. uo .... ..,. .... 
fhe Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the 
. University of Nvtre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchued for $8 from The Observer, Box 11. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


Tuesday, March 2, 1971 

Paga 3 
Bomb racks out of the way Capital bathroom 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -'A powerful bomb exploded in an out of the way rest room in the U.S. Capitol early yesterday causing damages estimated at ''upwards of $300,000" and triggering speculation it was an "inside job." 
The 1z:30 a.m. EST blast, which caused no injuries, came 30 minutes after an anonymous telephone caller warned that the bomb would be detonated to protest U.S. support of South Vietnamese military operations inside Laos. 
One congressman said a "tremendous amount of ex­plosives" was involved in the bomb that went off immediately adjacent to the west wall of the Capitol. Built wometime between 1793 and 1800, some authorities have expressed fear that the sandstone wall would soon topple from its own weight unless reinforced or replaced. 
The wall remained intact. Capitol Architect George M. White estimated the damage at about $300,000 and said a daylong investigation produced no evidence that the blast further damaged the historic west front. 
An FBI spokesman said teams of fingerprint and bomb experts, still working at the site, had been unable to find any clues. He said that almost anybody could manufacture a bomb now with all the detailed literature available on the subject. 
Capitol police reported receiving two telephone calls-one from Chicago and the other from Spokane-inquiring about the extent of the damage before the story of the bombing was carried in news accounts. 
Capt. L. H. Ballard of the Capitol police said the calls were received within about one hour of the explosion, but the first news accounts were not until about 3:30a.m. EST, or two hours after the explosion. 
Asked if he inferred that police had knowledge of a conspiracy, or that persons around the country had prior knowledge of the explosion, Ballard replied, "No, but they knew." 
Senate leaders, noting that the explosion occurred in an un­marked men's rest room nor­mally used only by senators, and taking into account that the blast occurred at a time when the building is almost deserted, expressed belief that the bomb was planted by a person familiar with the workings of the Senate side of the Capitol. 
President Nixon called the bombing "a shocking act of violence which will outrage all Americans." But he was em­phatic that the bombing would not frighten the government into locking the American people out of federal buildinlls. 
.. sen. George S. McGovern, 

(D) S.D., the only announced 1972 presidential candidate, called the act "barbaric," but blamed it on "our Vietnam madness." 
House Democratic Leader Hale Boggs of Louisiana, reporting on an early investigation, said it had been determined the explosion resulted from "a very large amount of very powerful explosives-a tremendous amount of explosives." There was no immediate dollar estimate of damage. 
The explosion demolished the 12 by 12 foot men's room, and seriously damaged an adjacent barber shop. It also damaged a senators' dining room situated across the hall and caused some damage to several small offices nearby, including some on the floor above. 
A ground floor room 
The men's room, unmarked and normally used by senators, is on the ground floor of the Senate side of the Capitol-the north side­and lies immediately adjacent to the controversial west wall. 
Some critics have proposed that the wall be torn down as structurally unsafe. But the Monday explosion did not collapse the wall, even though it occurred at one of its most vulnerable spots. 
Capitol Police Chief James Powell reported what "appeared to be a serious crack in the wall," but noted it was not known whether it was a new crack or an 
Collegiate Jazz Festival coming to ND; 23 college groups to perform for 3 days 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival than could be accepted, said 
one of the cultural highlights of Heinrichs. 
th~ year at Notre Dame, begins The groups are classed as 
thts weekend with performances either combos, with four to eight 
on Friday night, Saturday af-members, or bands, which may· 
ternoon, and Saturda;%-evening in have up to 27 members. Prizes 
Stepan Center. will be awarded to the three best 
This year there will be 23 college groups in each category and also 
groups performing-seven more t th b t · d' 'd
than last year. Nineteen of these o e es m IVI ual performers 
on various instruments. 
groups will be competing for J_udges are Dan Morgenstern,
awards and four of them will d t f D
simply bet "guest" bands. e I or o ownbeat Magazine,
L~n Thomas, a jazz vocalist,
The CJF is the largest, best Rtchard Abrams, a pianist known, and oldest of jazz Gerald Wilson, composer and festivals in the nation. This will arranger, Charlies Haden, a bsss be its thirteenth year. In past player, with master of years, performers and band ceremonies Willis Conover who leaders have commented that is the Jazz Consultant t~ the they look forward to the CJF Cultural Arts Committ~ of the more than any other and place a Stste Department. great deal of pride in performing Last year was the first year the here. CJF showed a profit in its twelve 
Ann Heinrichs, SMC senior year history. Downbeat who was, last year's CJF chair~ Magazine sponsored the festival man, is also chairman this year through many of its lean years and reports that groups will be until the Student Union Social participating from such diverse Commission took it over five sc~ools as ~.I.T., Memphis State years ago. Un!v., Um':· ?f Ne~ Mexi~o, Heinrichs expressed her Umv. of Ilhnms, :tJmv. of Pitt-dismay that the CJF is not quite sburgh, and Umv. ?f Notre as well received at Notre Dame Dame. The CJF has gamed such as she felt its national recognition renown that more groups applied merits it. "I've been receiving 
·······-~··············~··········
i Notre Dame ! i JUNIORS i
* *
* * 
: Alert : 
* *
* *
: (For Your Senior Portrait :* For the '72 DOME That is) * 
* *
** ** ~
~ Phone 283-1832 
* * 
~ Hours:9 am-6 urn ; 
·······················~·········~ 
calls from all over the country for tickets, however," Heinrichs said. 
Ticket sales begin Tuesday in the dining halls of Notre Dame 

Tuesday March 2 Cul-de-Sac Wednesday March 3 Repulsion 
7:30 and 9:30 Each Ni_ght 
Engin. Auditorium MEMBERS FREE-OTHERS $1. 
Dan Morgenstern Editor of DJwn Beat Magazine 
Leon Thomas "Best Vocalist"-lliwn Beat 
Charlie Haden "Best Jazz AI bum 1970"'-Melody .M:zker 
Richard Abrams  Founder, Assn. for Advancement of Creative Musicians  
Gerald Wilson  "Best ComposerIArranger 1964"-lliwn Beat  
Willis Coriover  World Famous Voice of America Jazz Personality  
.••they're all coming to CJF. Shouldn't you?  

COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
March 5 & 6 Stepan Center Tickets $1.50 AfternoQn, $3.00 Evenings, $4.50 All Sessions 
On sale at the Dining Halls Tuesday, '.IVednesday & Thursday 

Page 4 

THE OBSERVER 
~N INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen S. Corsq Editor-in-Chief 
John E. Knorr , ~xecutive Editor Bruce Rieck , Business Manager 
Victory at all costs, victory In spite of all terror, victory 
however long and hard the road may be; for without 
victory there is no survival. 
-Winston Churchill 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 19&6 NOTRE DAME,IN DIANA 
Congratulations 
The Observer wishes to extend its sincere congratulations to Student Body President-elect John Barkett for his victory in yesterday's election. At the same time we would like also to congratulate Don Mooney for his valiant effort to capture the post. 
The campaign, unlike some in the past, was relatively clean. There were instances of signs being ripped down and posters impugning thz motives of those supporting one can­didate or the other, but on the whole it was a good campaign. 
It has been the custom in the past for the losing candidate and most of his workers to shut themselves off entirely from student government. We hope that this will not be the case this year, as there were fine people in the Mooney camp who have valuable skills to offer. 
As for the defeated candidate himself, we trush :.that the Barkett administrationwill offer him a post which will enable him to utilize his talents to the maximum if he chooses to accept it. ' 
The swift and smooth implementation of coeducation will be the greatest task to face the Barkett administration when it takes over after spring vacation. By then the trustees will their decision on the course of action that the two institutions will follow in the next few years. 
What student government can do is to implement as many social changes as possible to bring the two student bodies closer together. Coed dining nights, low cost concerts and other things can be done easily and will help. 
The merger of the two student governments can also be affected quickly. Though Kathy Barlowe and Missy Underman ran with Don Mooney and Dan Sherry thzy stated several times that they could work with any of the candidates. Based on the experience of joining the two academic commissions for this year there should be no great problems in the way of merger. The process though, by necessity, will be longer since thz drafting of a new conf­titution must be carried out. 
Depending on what the trustees decide about thz Flannsr coed proposal, the University will face a housing shortage to a greater or lesser degree this April. The Barkett ad­ministratiQn must work in close coordination with the Hall Presidents and the office of 
studenr Housing to relieve this problem as much as possible. The best idea would be to shift as many freshmen as possible to those halls which will have available spaces and away from thoye who are short on rooms. A great effort must be made to protect as many residents as possible from being bumped out of their hall. 
This year some efforts were made to move Student Union's emphasis away from mass events towards smaller affairs. The Over the Hill Concerts and the ones held in Stepan Center are examples of this. In appointing a Student Union Director thz Barkett ad­ministration should pick a man whose philosophy coincides with thz concept of smaller and mord personal events. Therealso should be greater cooperation with the halls on some events. The Union when requested could provide information and help for hall social commissions and academic commissions. 
We hope that there will be no great problems in the transition period because of political friction between te Krash and Barkett groups. Both men are smart enough we trust to avoid any unnecessary disputes and to effect a smooth and orderly transferal of powzr. 
We wish Mr. Barkett and his people a most fruitful and successful year and we are sure he 
will justify the student body's faith in him through his actions. 
News Editor: Ed Ellis Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor Features Editor: Dave Lammers Campus Editor: Steve Lazar 
SMC News Editor: Jeanne SII\IBeney Advertising Manager: Bill Bauerle Sports Editor: TS Night Editor: John Abowd layout: Deb Carella, Jim McDermott Chris Johnson, Dan Ryan and Tom Hesson 
Controller of the night: rick smith Headline Printer: Bill Clemency 
god save the queen 

Editor: 
In your editorial comments on William Ruckelshaus's speech (Observer, February 12), you agree with him that we must be willing to pay higher prices for goods if we expect industry to pay for pollution control. This strikes me as a singularly short­sighted view. Ruckelshaus says that "people are going to have to get used to these kinds of ex­penses if they are serious about cleaning up our environment." What is that but the same exploi­tative, irresponsible mentality that countenanced pollution in the first place? What is that but the arrogance of "I can have anything I want as long as I can pay for it"? The real problem lies much deeper than paying for a gigantic clean-up, though we need that too. 
With 6% of the world's popu­lation, the United &ates already uses 60% of the world's con­sumable resources. The scandal of such gross inequity aside, it is a fact that consuming these re­sources produces enormous amounts of waste matter. Per­haps what we must accept is not that we must pay more, but that we must use less. Perhaps the current ecological crisis demands noihing less revolutionary than that we Americans lower our famed standard of living. If we are really serious about cleaning up our environment, I suggest that we can no longer simply lay out a little more cash and then go right on consuming with the same unbounded enthusiasm for more and newer (and maybe not ever better) THINGS. We are clearly not serious unless and until we, society, the people, demand fewer cubic inches in our engines, fewer and smaller cars in our garages, fewer un­ne.cessary luxuries like air­conditioning and SST planes, 
fewer pre-pac aged convenience 
foods, fewer TV's and other appliances that have to be traded in frequently because they be­come obsolescent so fast fewer machines, in short, pr~ducing fewer things. The ~reasure of our willingness to give up some of our own status and comfort is the true measure of our concern ahout the environment. It might also have something to do with out Christianity. 
Peace, r Sister Ellen FitzGerald 326 Lewis Hall 
Editor: 

Having lived in Dillon for three years I feel obliged to add a footnote to your "living con­ditions" section in the analyses of the Halls. 
Two years ago, despite desperate living conditions, there was a spirit of cooperation.and mutual respect witin the hall. Last year Dillon was blessed wth renovation that reduced thz number of resident¥ significantly. However this potentially positive factor was negated by the institution of the "Vikings". Under the guise of increasing spirit this group has turned the atmosphere of Dillon 
Tuesday, March 2, 1971 
completely around, to the point where living conditions can be classified as "abject misery" 
(number one on your scale). I never thought it would be like this. Thank you, 
Bob Webb 251 Dillon 
Editor: 
Today, Ash Wednesday, the 6th issue of ictus prompts me to question thz ND-8MC campus. So far I have read, word for word, every article up to "The Notre Dame Woman". 
Three years teaching at SMC, 
three years investment in both 
ND and SMC students, three 
years experience with several 
splendid young men-students 
from every class level, prepared 
me to write this open letter. 
My initial reaction to ictus ­
attesting surely to the ef­
fectiveness of layout, art and 
general format -was shock. My 
response is a quiet readiness to 
pinpoint what I see as an SOS. 
l(There appears to be a 
tremendous void, an emptiness, 
that seeks to be filled through 
sex. Sex appears to be a glorified 
facet of campus culture that has 
literally over-saturated itself. It 
appears further that ND men-if 
the ictus articles have any 
valididty-have fallen prey to 
"conditioning" rather than 
coming to grips with manhood. 
2)The moody self-
consciousness and dreamy 
preoccupation with innocent 
discoveries appropriate to 
childhood are now seen anew as 
tantalizing insights (?). Can you 
not recognize them for what they 
are and move on to deeper un­
derstanding of the human con­
dition? Surely, by now, most of 
you have had a basic course in 
developmental psych.? 
3(There stands revealed a 
subtle destruction of both self and 
other, a form of sel-hate, 
emanating perhaps from 
repressed hostility? Can you not 
accept drives, instincts, and 
passions as the raw materials of 
human-ness in both man and 
woman? Is your expose an SOS 
(?), or a covert wish to be ad­
mired for your sophistication? 
4 (The evident fruits of all this: 
elements of guilt; "confession" 
to your peers, almost a com­
pulsion; bewilderment and 
confusion with your emerging 
adulthood; Emotional scarring; 
and a weary refusal of any 
responsibility to self or other. 
5(The publication of the content 
itself, under the auspices of a 
study of non-violence, is clearly 

identified as of Notre Dame. Is 
this not an attempt to destroy 

ND, supposedly cutting your 
umbilical cord from a womb that 
has ceased to nourish you? Or 
could it again be a plea for ND to 

be truly ND with all the virility of 
its rich heritage ? 

Are the authors testing to see 
how far they can go (as a child)? 

Are they ridiculing chastity and 
those who value it? Or are they 

again revaling a cry-from-the­
depths for help? 

The splendid young men I came 
to know in several classes belie 
the authenticity of the ictus 
connent. 

To stand idly by in the face of 
such content would beliemy own 
sense of responsibility to Truth 
and Love. 

Perhaps ictus should provide 
equal space anf artistic effort for 
an affirmation of Noore Dame's 

purposeful milieu so the 
tremendous void can become 
filled with strong truths and 
gentle wisdom. 
Sincerely, 
Ruth Thome 


Page 5 
Tuesday, March 2, 1971 
Professor RaY-Fleming 
An Open Letter to Anita 
Mr. Raymond Fleming is an instructor 1968 at St. Mary's and the racist attitudes in the Department of Modern Languages of the nuns and other administrators of the at Notre Dame. He is a 1967 graduate of college in 1970 is that the tone is no longer Notre Dame. Mr. Fleming was a Fulbright subdued.) Father McGrath who was then scholar to Italy and a Woodrow Wilson President ofSt. Mary's, w;s continuously Fellow at Harvard University. He did his apologizing to both students and faculty of graduate work at the University of Upward Bound for the almost daily racial Florence and at Harvard. The following is slurs of the nuns. Father McGrath was one a letter he wrote to one of his ex-students of of the few administrators to en-an Upward Bound program. thusiastically support the presence of the 
Upward Bound program on the St. Mary's Dear Anita, campus. In December of 1969 Father 
I trust that you are having an in-McGrath asked me to consider becoming tellectually stimulating and enjoyable the Direcoor of st. Mary's Upward Bound senior year in high school. You've asked program. He said that he recognized that me if you should apply to st: Mary's racism was a real problem with many of College for admission.~ ~ould prefer that the nuns, but that he would be willing to you alone make the deciSion about whether "run interference" for the Director 
a.s a. young black woman you feel up to of Upward Bound. He reiterated his hope f1ghtmg the pervasive racism of many of that Upward Bound would become a the nuns and administ~ators of St. Mary's permanent part of st. Mary's, and that it College for four years m order to obtain a would encourage black girls to attend st. degree. As to my own experience with the Mary's College. He stated that there would 
good nuns, perhaps I should go back in time about two and one-half years and ~ork my wa_y to the present. From what I ve learned m my many lengthy talks with black students and faculty around here I can assure you that my experiences have been the rule rather than the exception. 
I was. ea~ing dinner at St. Mary's when a nun satd m a somewhat subdued tone, "There are just too many niggers on our campus this summer." I suppose that it was my own naivete that causes me to wince at the words of good Sister of the c.o~gregation of the Holy Cros~. She was s~ttn~g at the table nex~ to mme in the dmnmg hall at St. Marys College. It was the summer of 1969 and the "niggers" ~e!e the Upward Bound girls who were hvmg on campus. I was teaching in the Upward Bound program and livingon the St. Mary's Campus. During the six weeks and t~ree days that I lived on the St. Mary. s campus not mo:e than two con­secubv~~ days p3:ssed Without one of the good Sisters lettmg the black people on campus know how much they wished that we " ... had stayed in Africa." The good nuns helped us to realize that racism was and is the rule rather than the exception on the S~ .. Mary's c~mpu~. (The difference in the VICiously racist attitudes of the nuns of 
Milt lones 
be 4Q-50 black students admitted to st. Mary's College in 1970. I knew that I could trust Father McGrath to keep his word. It had been Father McGrath who had op­posed the racists at st. Mary's in order to allow black girls from disadvantaged backgrounds to attend the college. One minor functionary of the college has ad­mitted that some of last year's black freshmen were " ... accepted over the objection of the academic committee" and were only admitted by " ... order of Father McGrath signed by Father Downes." Father McGrath had helped to establish one of the most imaginative and effective programs for giving minority students a real opportunity to succeed in college, namely, the Office for Inter-Cultural Development. He supported the idea that no minority student from a disadvantaged background accepted by st. Mary's should have to work at an outside job during her freshman year. He also said that in order to further insure the minority student's integration into college life all incoming minority freshmen who wished to live on campus would be able to do so. Father McGrath saw t it that the Office of Inter-Cultural Development was funded with $14,000 to help achieve these goals. Out of these funds such programs as tutoring and 
recrUitment of more mmor1ty students were also to be supported. Instead of the usual red tape .that one usually finds in a program of this type, the program was rather simple: Father McGrath appointed Mr. Lem Joyner of St. Mary's Art Depa.rtment, ~very. dedicated black man, to direct this Office of Inter-Cultural Development and to make the day-to-day decisions concerning the welfare of the minority students. Wehnever the minority student .had a pr?blem, be it financial, academic! or emotional she could g~ to~· Joyn~r, h1m~elf a member of a mmor1ty, and fmd a friend ready to help her. Fa~er McGrath gave Mr. Joyner the special position of Assistant.to the President. . 
Father McGrath died last June, and It has not taken the bigots l?ng to e~asculate the. programs and repudiate the Ideals for which hestood. Instead of the 40-50. black students F3;ther McGra~ had proJected, Sr. Raphaehta has seen f1t to accept only a few black students (there are seven black students in this year's freshman class(. Sr. Raphaelita, who handles ad~issions, feels that the 24 black students m St. Mary's enrollment of 1,711 are too many. She has stated that the black girls " ... seemed to get along much better when there weren't so many·" Perhaps. Rap, .as the ~lack students call her, w1ll achieve her Ideal number of black students next year as all but eight of this year's black students plan to transfer to other more humane colleges next year. 
As you ~an i~agine, the .thought of a black m~':l s havu~g as much mdependence and dectswn makmg power as Mr. Joyner had under Fa_ther McGrath was too much for the go~d sisters to swallow, so on July 1 of 1970, JUSt a few weeks after Father McGrath's death, Sr. Alma Peter, who is now Acting President of St. Mary's, wrote to Mr. Joyner to sa~, "Dear Mr. Jorner, I pre~ume you re~hze ~hat the btle of As~tstant to President IS a pe.rsonal ap­pomtment an~ ceases Jo exist at the chang~ of presidency." Instead of having the. mmor_ItY .stude~ts concentrating on th~1r studies m thetr freshman year as they. ~id under Father McGrath's prestde~cy, St. Mary's has decided that these girls should now saddle themselves 
with additional loans. Mr. Lindower, St. Mary's Business Manager, tells the black students that they will appreciate their education more if they have to take out these additional loans. Of course, St. Mary's still tries to give thE: impression that it is digging deeply into its own resources to support these "unfortunate" minority students. They neglect to point out that when they "give" a girl $2,250 in financial aid, $1,000 of this is an O.E.O. grant, $1,000 a government loan, and $250 comes_ from St. Mary's College. 
The Budget Committee decided that the budget for the Office of Intercultural Development should be cut by eighty per cent. When Mr. Joyner protested this reduction, Mr. Lindower suggested that Mr. Joyner should resign (Anita, this is what is known as "the squeeze play" at the university level). Actually, Anita, if you have been engaged in anything as sub­versive or "militant" as reading the poetry of Leroi Jones, then you probably could not be admitted to St. Mary's anyway. Sr. Raphaelita calls the prin­cipals of thz high schools to find out if the black girls who apply are "militant." Unlike last year when all the black fresh­men who wishsd to reside on campus could do so, this year it has been decided that those black students accepted from the South Bend -area would become day students. This seems to be another one of Sr. Alma's "exciting new ideas" for helping the incoming minority students to make the transition into the Chrisitan community of St. Mary's College (there are many other inheresting.~ and educational experiences I have to relate to you about St. Mary's College, but i'll fill you in·on the details in my next letter). If by chace you should ever visit St. Mary's you would understand that E. E. Cum­mings was really talking abojt many of the nuns at St. Mary's when he wrote 
The Cambridge ladies who live in fur­nished souls are unbeautiful and have comfortable minds. 
Sincerely best wishes, Ray Fleming 
"George Jackson's Letters from Prison" 
Christianity an evil of western society, and sates that Catholic schools, which he at­tended, give one-sided educations full of propaganda. Many people might deny this, but perhaps they should ask themselves a few questions. Should there be any need for minority recruitment at a Christian University if George Jackson's con­demnation of Western Christianity is not true. If Christianity is so understanding and kind, why is Notre Dame so blatantly racist? Why are there only 120 blacks at Notre Dame and 16 at SMC? Why do things such as the Dayton situation (where an alumnus had recruited 48 blacks, only to have the 48 hear nothing further from the university and to find himself ter­minated ( ( OCCUR? These things will keep on occurring until someone stands up against them. George Jackson is that kind of someone. We must be like him here at Notre Dame, and all over this stinkpot of a nation so that we can make things the way they should be. 
George Jackson's letters will make you think about the situation you are in. He will show you that all men should not care how long they live, but how they live, how well, how nobly. This review has only given you a small taste of Jackson. It is one man's reaction to the book. Everyone should read the book for themselves and draw their own conclusions. Perhaps then they won't be astounded when not if, the day of pan­revolution occurs. Perhaps then they can understand how a black man can feel oppressed in America and at Notre Dame. Perhaps then they will understand the implications behind a statement like that of Jonathon Jackson (George's 17 year old brother) at the San Rafael courthouse; "Alright, gentlemen, I'm taking over 

George Jackson, whom Panther leader Huey Newton calls "The greatest writer of us all,'' expounds the inner feelings of all black people in his book "The Prison Letters of George Jackson." 
Brother Jackson, who is in Soledad Prison, Salinas, California has gone through numerous prison setbacks. He was arrested for a $70 robbery in 1960, and has never been realeased. He agreed to confess in exchange for a light sentence. However when time came for sentencing, he was given 1 year to life imprisonment. Because of his pride, his refusal to be unjustly mistreated by his white im­prisoners, he has been denied parole every year. 
In his book, George Jackson tells of the evils of western society. He says "Their philoSophy concerning government and economics has an underlying tone of selfishness, possessiveness, and greediness because their character is 
made lllp of these things." Jackson also comments that "they cannot understand that from wXH according to his abilities, to each according to his needs is the only way men can live together without chaos." This is one of the most powerful in­dictments of this sick society to date. The system of economy is indeed based upon greed as can be witnessed in the large corporations of America which have long exploited the common worker. Their profits come from forcing little firms into consolidation and forcing blacks, im­migrants, and other workers, to choose either low wages or no wages. Yet this was allowed by its best friend, American government, which was busy exploiting young African and Asian countries. Jackson talks of this in one letter. Jackson mentions that America loans to African countries at high interest and for rights to exploit minerals and other natural resources. However, China loans to 
African nations without exploiting them because--to the Chinese, the Africans are their brothers. Looking upon a situation like this, with whom would a black man abviously identify, China or America? 
Every American black man is embodied in George Jackson. For even though we walk the streets free from physical bars and chains, we are just as imprisoned as Jackson is. Our economic limitations for the most part are known at birth. We must face a white authority who will decide when we are wrong or right; how in­telligent we are, what we will learn and other facets of our lives which that white authority cannot, because of its innate cultural difference, ever understand black people enough to judge properly. We are also like Jackson because, if we do not do what the white authority likes, we don.t "get ahead" in this world. George Jackson remained a black man, and as a con­sequence lost his chance, year after year, of ever gaining parole. 
Jackson addresses all blacks, actually, when he writes his father saying "You must stop giving yourself pain by feeling that you failed somewhere. You have not filed by history and events, and people over whom you had no control. ..you must gain some control!" This statement should be adhered to by blacks on every level, national, state, municipal, neighborhood, and university. Yes, there must be im­provements on all these levels. However, I would particularly like to comment on their need on the university level, and more specificaly at Notre Dame. 
Until blacks, and those whites who will open their eyes, stand up and demand what should already be in existence, no improvements on the university level will be made. George Jackson calls 

page 6 '111B I, • . • I f. Tuesday, March 2, 1971 

Fr. Burtchaell 

Editor: 
Congratulations for having thocou;age to print your editorial which appeared in Monday's paper. Itis encouraging to see the observer take a stand on a vital issue such as this. It seems that it is about time that the students here realize that the respon­sibility for many of the defects present in the Notre Dame community are not entirely their fault. The apathy of the students is often criticized and the absence of a "true Christian community" is blamed on them. Both criticisms are justified yet it seems tht pressure from the Administrations of the kind Fr. .. Fr. Burtchaell is exerting makes attainment of these goals extremely difficult. 
I For one who purports to be a man, a Christian and a religious, his conduct is inexcusable. To me, it is tantamount hypocrisy to claim allegiance to Christian principle and then to deny to deny justice, mercy and forgiveness. Is it mere idealism to assume that one should 
practice these virtues if one preaches them? 
Someone, whether it be Fr. Burtchaell, Fr. Riehle, or any other administrative representative, is setting dangerous precedent and making dangeous assumptions. To assume before a trial that the accused students are already guilty is unthinkable. Am I wrong in recalling that one is innocent 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 


March 8,1971 WORLD'S HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP 
There will be one champion and only one champion 
JOE 
FRAZIER 


Closed circuit television live from Madison Square Gorden 

NO LIVE OR DELAYED HOME TELEVISION 
Tickets now on sale Students $6.00 

On sale today 11:15-12: 15; 4~5pm Student Union Ticket Office -Limited student tickets available -· 2 per student ID -on 

until proven guilty? To continue 
to deny students who have been 
proven innocent to return to their 
community appraoaches the 
antitheses of all that these men 
purport to represent. I am per­
sonally indignant and ashamed to 
think that this unforgiveable 
conduct is being tolerated in an 
environment whkch should be a 
miniature example of a working 
Christian society. 
Perhaps these administrators have allowed duty to blind them to their humanity. If this is the case, let them resign. If mere accusation of a crime is to be judged as sufficient grounds for suspension then no one is safe since we are all subject to ac­cusation. 
I stand firmly with the ob­server in challenging Fr. Burt­chaell to publicly justify his action and would demand that he revoke his thoughtless decision immediately. Sincerely John Pau'I Duffy 
Fr. Burtchaell, again 
Editor: 
My response to the editorial 
entitled "Burtchaell and the drug suspensions" has come to include certain reflections on the nature of authority. Those reflections were stimulated not only by editorial but also by a sermon given by Fr. Burtchaell which I happened to hear. In the sermon, which concerned the definition of authority, such key words as "power" "responsibilitgy" and 
"authori·t'y" a d s h k ' 
, n uc ey con­
cepts as apply to those who "who compel,' as opposed to those who "coerce" were discussed. As I understood the Provost, there are those who hold positions of im­portance, positions in which they are "responsible for many," but who do not have true authority, that is, the ability to compel men, out of love or respect for the administrator and the good of his doctrines, to act. Good leaders must strive to attain such an ideal. To my way of thinking, the truly great leaders are not those 

All You Can Eat Both Nights 
Tuesdays and Thursdays 
5 -11 pm 
Fish $1.15 Chicken $1.45 
Comer of Edison and Ironwood 


who are concerned with their responsibility for the many who are under them, not only because it is human to exaggerate the extent of one's powers, but also because those many are not actually so very affected by their leaders as those leaders may think, they will stumble along as always and who it is that governs them will n not make such a great deal of difference. The great leader, then, is more concerned with the individuals who come into his life, for however long or short a period oftime :~r for whatever reason. Tlwse who are weaker in r~wer than the one in authroti•J must come to him with a .:.on of trust and hope that he will deal well with them. They are rather like a person standing 1 helpless and with his eyes closed before a more powerful man. If that man chooses to touch the ~ ~yes of the victim gently but with '· strength, then open them and let that man see his concern and his mercy and wisdom, then the man who has been .bus touched might be able to see with great clarity, the weaker having been helped '· not hurt by authority. However, if the hand of power chooses to slap, the clos~d eye~, all that _has been 
accomplished IS the ~urtmg of the weaker ~an causmg tears to come. to his eyes so th~t all_ he sees IS b~u~red an_d he IS e!lubt­tered. This IS the ~1fference m the results to be gamed by theman who compels through love and the one who coe~ces through the brute force of. ~1w power. Th<!se who hold positions of authorityshould not concern themselves so
h 'th th . 'bTt 
muc WI eir rewsponsi I I Y 
as with the potential they have for bringing such diffreent consequences to certain in­dividuals. Obviously, the higher the position held,the greater is the potential for good or evil actions. 
The relation of all of this to the suspension of the four students is fairly plaikn. That all four of those suspended truly fell under the category of being "an im­minent danger to the University" is difficult to believe, the vast majority would certainly have gone along unscathed, so it is hard to comprehend that it was a true sense of responsibility that forced the action. The movw seems unsound, not only politically, for certainly it will not engender student admiration, but because it seems to show a tendency on the part of the Ad­ministrators to exercise brute power whee mercy would have been more apt. The detaikls of this case are not available so I cannot say anything conclusive regarding it specifically, however it would seem that the higher the position of authority may be, and particularly at a Christia university, the more the one wo holds it should force his actions to be flied with moderation, reflection, an­d,always mercy. These ae often the strongest elemens of thse who lead wll, and perhaps par­ticularly those who lead the young. Hopefully, these ideals will temper te future decisions of those who hold positions of authority here and hav much potential for exercising that 
Prof. Salvatore Bella (seated left) receives the first annual Business Student Teachers' Award from award coordinator Brian Nagle. Standing from left to right are Prof. William Sexton, first runnerup in the award selection, Bob Bramlette, Business College Council representative, and Prof. Frederick Dow, second runnerup. The award is presented to the outstanding teacher in the Notre Dame Business 
College. 
CLEVELAND CLUB BUS 
Sign-ups tonite & tuesday 
7:30 -8 p.m. Coke Bar LaFortune Members $15, Non-members $18 
Reservations closed THURSDAY AFTERNOON 


_T_u_e_soo_.Y~·-M_a_rc_h_2_._1_9_71----------------------------~----=---~~~==lr~~~~~~~~----------------------------------------------Pa~ 7 
•
Irish pull clutch win over UD 
by Terry Shields Crosswhite and Jackson un­belongs in the tournament. I thz series at 4-4' In the preliminary game, the 
Observer Sports Editor derneath for the rebound. We got certainly hope we belong too." One way of telling thwt the win NND frosh rallied to win over the shots, only thzy just wouldn't The win was without a doubt was important was that the Southwestern Michign, 82-76.
That was quite a ball game·at 
fall.'" the biggest for the Irish since student body made like it was a John humate and Bob Valibusthe Convo last night. It seemed Kn the Joyous ND locker room UCLA. It virtually insures a bid weekend and thz parties were each had 20 points and Tomlike one of those games that the Johnny Dee stated, "I don't know to the NCAA'S AND IT GAINS A definitely those of a victory, O'Mara had 21 for thegods seemed to wish defeat on thz 
anything about the NCAA MEASURE OF REVENGE possibly a bigger victory than Leprechauns.
Irish. But thz Irish have this one 
tournament. It's up to thz com­AGAINST THZ Flyers. It evens many may think.
immortal themselves. His name 
mittee." Dee then talked about NOTRE DAME DAYTON
is Aushin Carr and last night he 
thz game itself. "Jackson sur­FG FT REB PTS FG FT REB PTSscored 47 points in leading the prised me. He only averages 13
Irish to a frantic, heart-stopping Jones 7-10 S-7 10 19 May 8-20 3-4 3 19
points and he scored 32. That's
83-82 victory over the rugged Catlett 2-9 0-1 17 4 
Crosswhite 6-15 2-3 8 14been our problem in all ourlosses 
Dayton Flyers. To say the least, Pleick l42!. 1 1-1 4 9
this ysar . . . the big man hurts Jackson 14-17 6-12 13 32 it wasn't easy. 
Carr 17-30 13-16 4 47 7 8
us." Bertke 3-13 0-2
Carr hit the games' last points 
Sinnott 1-4 2-2 1 4
John did have some good Gardecki 0-0 0-1 2 0 on a field goal from 20 feet with 
Meehan 0-0 0-0 0 0 1 9
statements for his team also. "It Gahm 4-S 1-2
1:19 remaining in the game but 
was a real important win . . . Gemmell 0-2 0-0 0 0 Team 9
thz final minute and some there was a lot of prassure on the Regelean 0-0 0-0 0 0
seconds were definitely full of ----------------------------­
kids tonigpt." Team 9 TOTAL 35-70 12-24 43 82thrills. The flyers set up a play After such a fine performancewith 11 :seconds remaining in the by both squads perhaps Dayton TOTAL 31-66 21-27 ~4t 83 game and they had no less than 
coach Donoher had the best ND shot 48.8%. UD shot SO%.
three shots at the hoop. 
analysis. "I know Notre Dame ND had 12 turnovers. UD had 9 turnovers.
The game was an impressive performance by thz ND squad yet -~-­one had to feel that the Irish were blowing the game as Dayton 
Balance is mark of Bengal Bouts 
whittled awazy the lead in the second half. finalist, Byron King, a frosh
ring. tougher here. Aaron "Bakes"
Notre Dame came out sky-higp by Terry Shields basketball walk-on, and Mike
One hundred forty pounds is Baker is lightning qhick and he is 
for this contest and they jumped Observer Sports Editor Welsh, a brawler from the famed 
one of the stronger classes with one choice to give Kerrigan a
to a quick 9-1 lead beforj the Brian Murphy's school of boxing, 
Ticket prices for tonight's no distincxavorite. Simon tussle for the title. Freshman
Flyers even got into the contest. all have a good shot at the title.
Bengal Bouts are as follows: Kovalik, a three year veteran of BiUy Banner may also surprise in 
The Irish dominated most of the Heavyweight titles are always
Student ticket for all three the bouts, is a likely pick to end this darkhorse weight class.
half by leading throughout. The the main attraction of any boxing 
up in the finals. Tom Kress is VAl Bernabo, club vice­
ND lead reached 16 at one point nights, $1.50, general admission card and this year's Bengals are
another tougb returnee. Two president, has boxed at Notre
when on the strength of Carr's ·for Tuesday and Wednesday, no exception. The two most
novices, Charlie Morrison and Dame for four years. Val has
scoring, they spurted to a 44-28 $1.00 and general admission for prominent among these heavies
Steve Duffy, could also make never even got to the finals,
lead. The Flyers managed to chip on Friday, $1.50. so is Vice-president Matt Connelly 
the finals some noise in this division. Both far, but if a fighter is measured in 
away at ND before the half just and halfback Bob Minnix. Minnix 
The man who is boxing at Notre won titles in the novice ranks. guts and determination he is a
when it appeared that ND would and Connelly harried to a close
Dame, Dominic J. "Nappy" The toughest weight group of likely pick towind up slugging it
have the game stowed away by decision last year with the quick 
Napolitano, sat in his Convo all, 145lb., has only four men but out for the appelation of
the half. · Miimix grabbing top honore.
office talking about this year's each is ring veteran and the "champ" this time around. Ed
The halftime score showed Connelly will be out for revenge. 
upcoming Bengal Bouts. "This combined efforts of these four Carney is another man to watch
Notre Dame ahead by a 49-38 Other possible contenders are
should be one of the better boxers has produced five in this division of 160 lbs .. 
count. Austin Carr had 24 by the rugger Gary Kessler, and Jim 
tournaments that we've had in championships and three run­Anyone who saw last year's
half and Collis Jones added 13 to McGraw, the head student 
recent years as far as the ners-up. Tom Suddes is the fight in the finals of 165 will know 
put the Irish out in front but manager of athletics. 
spectators are concerned. Each defending champ and the club what to expect from defending
Dayton's consistent ability to get These are only a few of the men
division is evenly balanced and president expects lots of con­champ Roland Chamblee. The
thz ball to their center George who will participate in this 40th
there aren't quite as many tention from Gary Canori, who South Bender banged it out with
Jackson, who ended up with 32 renewal of one of ND's greatest
returnees as in previous years." won the 155 lb. class last season Bob McGrath (who is studying
points for the game, kept them in traditions. Not every man taking
The man who has run this and Dave Pemberton. Tome sophomore year abroad) for
the game. Jackson had 16 at the part has been mentioned here,.
annual boxing exhibition for the Sykes is another tough customer three rounds and he gained the
half. Dayton came out in the only those that have shown well
40 years that it has existed who rounds out this talented close decision. Although
second half playing with a in workouts. But as Nappy says,
couldn't help buput in a good foursome. McGrath will not be here this
vengeance and the UD quintet "Don't be surprised if any of the 
word for all the men who compete The 150 lb. class by be the most year Chamblee will still find all comes a
chipped away at the Irish lead o_ther boys away with
in the bouts from tonight until the wide open of the fighter he wants in wiry Mark 
until they maanged to knot the title. We get a few surprises
finals on Friday. "I admire those The 150 lb. class may be the McGowan. There are four others 
game at 67with 10:37 to play. The every year."
kids. Some of them go into that most wide open of any. There are entered in this class to make ·
Flyers took the lead 75-73 with The director of the tournament
ring knowing they don't have a six boxers and most of these are things interesting. 
7:16left and it began to look dark should know. He's been around
chance of winning. They're ob­newcomers. Jim Lusk and Mike The 175lb. division shows eight 
for an ND victory. Dayton built a these bouts since their inception. 
viously not in it for the glory or Suddes drew byes so they are men who want that trophy and at
six point lead wtih 5: 23 left in the He also knows that there is
for a jacket. Yet they put out a likely picks for the finals. least four of these are rated an
game and then the Flyers began nothing to warm the cockles of
tremendous effort for six weeks Kevin Kerrigan has moved up even chance to gain it. Mike
to hold the ball. The task looked any Irishman's heart like a good
in preparation for that one night. from 150 to 155 and the returning Burns, a transfer student from
like an impossible feat for the donnybrook. Even an Irishman 
Irish as I think they just want to show champ may find the going a little Colgate, Dennis Clark, a novice
Dayton controlled the by the aame of Napolitaao.
they support what this programball with little or no difficulty. 
is about."
Tom Sinnott then bombed from What Nappy means is thatthe top of the key followed these students are just con­seconds later by one of Austin tributing in their own way to help Carr's numerous unbelievable people far away from Notreshots. The Irish were now down Dame. Each spring these boutsby one. 
are held to help the BengalTom Crosswhite converted one missions in Pakistan and lastof two free throws to give UD a season the boxers raised $5,000three point margin. Carr then hit for the three nights of boxing. Not both ends of a one on one to get bad at all.
the Irish to within one at 2:14. 
As Nappy said about this year's
At 1:49 Carr hit his 45th point of the game on a jumper and the 
bouts, they are truly balanced. Starting in the 125 lb. class the
crowd of 11,207 went wild as Notre Dame finally regained thz competition is keen. There 
are lead. This was short lived as ASL 
six boxers in this class and last Bertke hit an outyide shot for UD 
year's runner-up, Jack Griffin to once again put thz Flyers in the has looked good in workouts. He le?d at 82-81 has drawn a bye for the first night's action as has Jerry
The situation didn't bother 
Bradley, another man who may·Carr in the slightest. The living win the crown of the little man.
legend simply worked free for a Charlie Fabian has a year's17 footer and scored with 1 : 19 experience and he should alsoremaining. The next 79 seconds contest for the title.
was a workout in futility for both No Bengal Bout Tourney would teams as they both missed op­be complete without the name ofportunities to scord. 
McGrath appearing on the
Both coaches had a good bit to program. This time it is fresh­say after the exciting contest man Pat McGrath, the fifth andcame to a close. Dayton coach last of the "fighting McGraths"Don Donoher said, "Austin Carr who is one of the favorites to copis just . . . just unbelievable. 
the 135 title. Mike Loughery isWhen the pressuce comes, he's at expected to five competition tohis best. "Donoher laso discussed McGrath as will six other boxers. 
that last minute strategy. "We Well-known campus "figure"wanted Rex Gardecki to Jamie "Naked Kahuna" Egan is
penetrate up the middle and hit either All Bertke or Ken May on also entered in this weight class. V-P Val Bemabo, Director Dominic Napolitano, V-P Matt Connelly and President Tom 
He should add some spice to the
thz wings. We kept Tom 

Pa~~B~--------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~CJ~t~~IJE~~-~~~---------------------------------------T~u=e=s~~Y~·~M~a~rc=h~2,~1~9~7~1-­

WITH MAX SHULMAN 
1By the author of Rally Round tht Flag, Boya ... Dohir(iilli~ ... rlr.l 
Don't let success get you down 
Once there was an upwardly mobile r,nan whom I will call Case­ment R. Glebe (not his real name). Even as an· undergraduate Mr. Glebe didn't fumble and dither and grope for the meaning of life like some lazy long-haired slobs I could name. He knew exactly what life was about. Life was working hard so you could get good grades and graduate with honors and find a swell job and get married and move to Westport and have three children like every other decent American. 
And that's precisely what Mr. Glebe did. He graduated magna, got a swell job in the advertising game, married a girl, whom I will call Mavis Davis (her real name), who was not only service-oriented and achievement-prone but also had a real nice build, and they bought a lovely home in \\restport with electric baseboard heating and within three years they had three fine sturdy little boys-Flopsy, Mopsy and Seymour. 
To his sons, Mr. Glebe was a loving but stern father. He raised them to believe in his own guiding values-ambition, self-denial and hard work-and the boys responded brilliantly. Flopsy, the oldest, finished high school as valedictorian and was accepted by Harvard. Mr. Glebe was, of course, very proud and happy. The following year Mopsy was also valedictorian and was also accepted by Harvard. Again Mr. Glebe was proud but, to be perfec·tly honest, not q1,1ite so happy, for now he had two sons in Harvard at the same time, w:1ich is something no man in the world can afford, not eYen an advertising man. 
I 
~~~~:-~~e&-~----~J_~--~ 
Then a horrible thought struck Mr. Glebe. "Good grief!" he eried 
one night to his wife Mavis (her real name). "Next year Seymour gets 
out of high school. If he makes Harvard too, I am ruined!" 
He ran at once to Seymour's room and found the industrious lad 
doing his homework in modern Sanskrit, urban entropy, ethnic alge­
bra and societal dysfunrtion. "Son, have you eYer thought of becom­
ing a moral degenerate?" said Mr. Glebe to Seymour. "Wouldn't you 
like to drop out, maybe have an identity crisis, wear beads, get busted 
in Amsterdam, stuff like that?" 
"That's rich, Dad," said Seymour, chuclding, and went on to 
graduate as Yaledictorian and thence off to HarYard. 
Poor Mr. Glebe! So distraught was he with financ·ial worries that 
one day his mind finally buckled and he made a disastrous error. One 
of his accounts at the advertising agency was Dullbrau BePr which, 
frankly, was just an ordinary, run-of-the-mill kind of beer. Still, Mr. 
Glebe had managed to think up this real catchy ad\·ertising slogan: 
Drink Dullbrau ... it's better than nothing 
Well sir, sales were• not entirely what the Dullbrau people had been hoping for, so they insisted on a new slogan. And Mr. Glebe, the poor devil, his mind unhinged by fiscal problPms, made the above­mentioned disastrous error. Here was his nPw slogan: 
Drink Dullbrau . .. it's better than Miller High Life 
Well sir, I guess I don't have to tell you what happenPd! Every­body in the country just stamped and hootPd and laughed till they wept. "Dullbrau better than Miller High Life, the Champagne of Beers?" they cried, stamping and hooting and laughing till they wept. "How droll! Why, 110 beer is better than MiiiPr! In fact, no beer is re­motely as good as Miller!" 
Then everybody finished stamping and hooting and laughing till they wept and went back to drinking MiiiPr High Life and enjoying every distinctively delicious drop. Dullbrau, of course, went out of business. Mr. Glebe, of course, got fired. His sons, of course, had to quit school. 
Today, alas, the once prosperous Glebe family is destitute and living in a macrobiotic commune in the former Dullbrau brewery. Ex­cept for Seymour. Though out of college, Seymour remained in Cam­bridge and now works at a three·minute girl wash on Harvard Square. 
* . * * 
We, the brczcers of Miller High Life and the :<pom:ors o( this column, offer our he.artfelt ~ymp~thy to the luckless Glebes. And to tite rest of you, we offer Mzller Hzgh Life, the Champa(Jtte of B¢ers, in cans bottles and kegs, delicious all wapo ' 
Laos wants foreign troops out 
VIENTIANE UPI -Premier ·Prince Souvanna Phouma has 
appealed for help from the major 
world powers to secure the 
withdrawal of all foreign troops 
from Laos, the government 
announced yesterday. 
At the same time, U.S. military 
1 sources disclosed the loss of a major government outpost to the Communists last week and an increasing threat to another. 
The sources said Communist 
troops overran a battalion 
headquarters at Phoum Koum on 
the northern end of the Plain of 
Jars in north central Laos on 
Feb. 22. They did not say why the 
loss of the outpost had not been 
reported earlier. 
The sources said Phoum Koum 
was important becauseit was 
close to Bourn Long, another 
government postion northeast of 
Student Affairs Committee 
(Continued from page 1) 
physical education program ... 
Accordcng to the letters, the change was made before a study on the department could be initiated or before such an idea could be considered by any of the committees of community government. 
The committee also considered 
Sr. Alma's statement Saturday 
evening taht the censure was the 
unanimous approval of 15-20 
faculty members out of a teaching faculty of 100. 
Clarifying Sister's remarks, Dr. Conway said, "The AAUPis primarily for politically minded faculty members who want to 
become experts on the problems
of the college. Not all of the 
facalt:v has the time to work in this organization , but that 
doesn't mean that they don't agree ,:-vith ths actions of thz group. th 
: "Just e fact thaz thz AAUP 
coul~ endorse ~uch a statement Pol ice C f 
unammously Wlth a good crgss­section of both conservative and 
l.b 1 f It b · 
1 era . acu. Y .~em er~ 1s a fant~stic action, he contmued. 
Mtss Gorman also r~ported that ~lthough shs . tned to determm~ the authortty of the changes m student government procedures manual, Dr. Jack Detzler, provosz, stated that "the 
Miss Gorman also reported that although she tried to determine the authenticity of thz changes in the student govern­ment procedure manual, Dr. Jack Detzler, provost stated that "the administration" was responsible. 
To this comment, Sr. Im­maculata, dean of students, in­serted, "I am a member of the administration and I had nothing to do with the chunges." 
The cmmmittee also discussed judicial board structure. 
the plain that could be used as a base for a major attack against the Communists in the area. 
Closer to Vientiane, the sources said three regiments of North Vietnamese troops has crossed "our lines of defense by massive infiltration" and now were in positions two to four miles east of the northeast defense headquarters of Long Cheng and Sam Thong. 
Souvanna announced his ap­peal for help in a speech to a youth group Saturday, but it was not officially reported until yesterday. 
"A few days ago my representative at the U.N. asked .Secretary General U Thant to intervene with the great powers 
' to restore the 1962 Geneva ac­cords and secure the withdrawal of all foreign troops operating in Laos. Without tcses foreigh troops, our difficulties can be quickly and effectively solved," Souvanna said. 


SBP Dave Krashna reads the vote totals in the Student Center. 
Capital bomb explodes 

(Continued from page .1} 
old one widened by the explosion. 
The west wall is part of the original capitol building on which construction began in 1793. 
Workmen dragged out the · debris in plastic bags and gar­
b 
age cans, collecting enough to fill a dump truck. The FBI im­
mediately took charge of the 
investigation, setting up tight security restrictions in the Capitol and keeping in close 
On erence 
·rc . d fi 1)
ontmue rom page

. . there wlll be a closmg address. 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday afternoons, and Thursday and Friday nights, there will be informal discussions in any hall wishing to be inbolved. 
Students seek to rehire Stoltz 
A spontaneous petition .. cir­culated last night during the TGIM concert at LaFortune Student Center called for the reinstatement of Center Student Manager Mark Stoltz. Stoltz had been removed from his posihion Saturday after he had allowed thz TFIF concert to continue past the time specified by Cetner Manager Brother Francis Gorch. 
The petption calls for Brother Gorch to reinstate Stoltz based on an understanding tath "the student center belongs to the students." The petition picked up 235 signatures wilhinn two hours of circulation at the concert. 
¥¥¥¥¥.Jf¥¥¥¥¥¥1fc¥¥¥ 
~ Pin-Up Girl ~ 
l4-Starring-l4­* Betty Grable * 
l4-March 5,6,7 * 
* ~ Badin Vintage Cinema * ~ ~¥-¥4•••••••••••* 
touch with President -Nixon, who was on a trip to Iowa. 
The Senate architect's office immediately began an assessment of the damage 
Bu rtcha e II pr o po sa I 
(Continued from page 1) 
graduates a Notre Dame degree; woul~ permit a financi_a~y at­tractive merger, and utihze the 
physical plant now owned by St. Mary's. 
Faculty who are full-time and have tenure would be granted tenure by Notre Dame. The only 
stipulation being that tenure granted after January 1, 1971 would be sugject to review by the department, dean and Provost. 
Full-time, non-tenured faculty would be granted equivalent contracts with salaries gradually ' being upgraded to Notre Dame levels. The Holy Cross Sisters would be offered a contract similar to the one now in force with the Priests of Holy Cross. Also, positions on the board of trustees and the Fellows of the University would be granted to the sisters. 
Burtchaell also called for several major organizational changes. First he proposed the creation of a College of Social Sciences (Sociology, An­thropology, Psychology, Economics, Education). and further to divide the College of Arts and Letters into a division of fine arts and a division of humanities. The division of fine arts, along with Law, and Social Sciences would then be located on the present St. Mary's campus. 
Om closing, The Provost "asks colleagues who have become closer friends of late to move into the university." He concluded: "A few will oppose the plan however presented. The many should no longer put aside their priorities for their sake." 




