
SLC committee told that sanctions are not solution 
proposed, being imposed from Mark Sylvester, an R.A. inBy W. Dennis Duggan 
above. He felt that sanctions were Flanner, said that you can't deal The Hall Life' Council of the not the answer but rather better with complex issues, such as 
SLC held an· open meeting hall judicial boards. parietals and drinking, with thursday night in the CCE to hear The vast majority of students simplified solutions. He felt that students opinions on sanctions for who voiced opinions seemed to you have to remember that you 
parietal hours and drinking agree that sanctions imposed by are dealing with people and must regulations. the trustees were not a solution treat them as such. Approximately 100 students and would not be accepted by the Father Edgar J. Whalen, Grace Hall Rector, raised the
attending the meeting heard Tom students. Many people agreed Reed, an R.A. in Lyons say that it that a stronger judicial board question, "What do we do with would be impossible for him to was a step in the right direction the individual who does not 
The Hall Life Committee of the SLC listens while many continue to be an R.A. with but the overwhelming feeling was believe in any morality? There students protest the proposed sanctions and parietals. sanctions, as they have been against any type of sanctions. 
(Continued on page 2) 

Cass Rejent 

By Ann McCarry and Larry Dailey 
The Finance Committee of the Student Senate released late Tuesday afternoon its recom· mendations for the 1971-72 student budget. 
Among those organizations whose requests were denied included the Scholastic, the Finance Forum, and the Kennedy Institute. 
However, Student Government Treasurer Cass Rejent com­mented "considering the entire 
Finance Comm. suggests budget 

situation, the final recom­mendations were the best mix." 
The 1971-72 student b1,1dget totals $82,000, collected from student activity fees. A debt to the University was paid with $9,000 and $1,000 was reserved for surplus. Since budget requests amounted to over $138,000, the I<'inance Committee was forced to make severe cuts to meet the actual student budget of $72,000. 
Approximately $66,000 was trimmed from the official student requests. The most notable cut was made upon he Kennedy Institule. The Finance Com­mittee recommended that it receive none of its $1,968 request. Reject explained that "they already have $5,000 available for spending" and were in a much better position than other clubs. The Student Gopvernment Treasurer blamed the Finance Forum's failure to receive any allocation on "a very poor presentation, coupled with lack of plans concerning future use of the 

Washington-Henry A. Kissinger, the presidential advisor on National Security, will go to Communist China for the second time in three months, to make "concrete .arrangements" for President Nixon's visit to Peking, the White House announced. Kissinger. who emphasized that the recent unexplained events within China had not changed Nixon's plans, will leave for China later this month. 
United Nations, N.Y.--A statement, made by the government of the People's Republic of China on Aug. 20 declaring that it would "have absolutely nothing to do with the United Nations if a two-Ch.ina or a China -andTaiwan situation'' were created, was read into the record of the General Assembly by Albania as a rebuttal to the United States proposal for a dual China representation. 
National 

Washington--The chief negotiatiors for the United Mine Workers and the Bituminous Coal Operators Assoc ation were told by Secretary of Labor James D. Hodgson not to use the current freeze on wages and prices as an excuse for failing to reach a contract settlement. The White House was expected to move soon to obtain an injunction or­dering striking longshoremen back to work, as the administration sought to end both strikes. 
.. Washington--A New Jersey businessman told the Senate Commerce Committee that he had paid $2,165.25 per month for the past eight years to a Mafia Chieftan to promote sales of a detergent. He told the senators that the deal did not increase sales and the contract was still good for five more years. 
funds." 
The Scholastic was another one of the victims receiving the Committee's "financial ax." Their major request of $2,000, primarily for a course evaluation form, was denied. 
The Finance Committee suggested that if the booklet was so important, perhaps they could discontinue the printing of two issues and use that money to provide funds for the form. 
A majority of the other requests were reduced by one half to two thirds. 
the Student Government received $15,500 of its $16,925 request. The Student Union, Student Life Fund, International Students Organization, Free University and Day Care Center also fared quite well. 
Commenting on their success, Rejact said that several organizations showed "definite advantages" to the student body and were well presented. 
He stated that the entire committee had an "extremely difficult time, since it is hard to 
Double standards at ND infirntary? 
by Andy Winiarczyk 

There has been much con­trov~rsy over the fact that though Nctre Dame and St. Mary's are merging they cannot share many of the same services. 
At times a Notre Dame student is considered a "foreigner" on the Saint Mary's campus and a 
Saint Mary's resident is not 
considered a "Notre Dame
student." A case in point is the Student Infirmary. 
Marcia Moczek stated that she almost became a serious victim of the university's split policy towards the students from St. Mary's. 
During the past week, an un­fortunate accident occurred to Moczek in the Chemistry lab at Nieuwland Hall. She was at­tending a 2 P.M. chemistry lab under the direction of Professor ' Walter Scheidt and in the course of performing the experiment she accidentally jammed a mercury thermometer into the middle finger of her left hand and began to bleed profusely. 
Professor Scheidt took her to the ND Infirmary to receive immediate treatment. Marcia claimed' "I was initially refused medical attention on the grounds take money from such wor­thwhile projects. We would have liked to have allocated more, but were forced to pay a debt this year." 
He stated that the entire committee had an "extremely difficult time, since it is hard to take money from such wor­thwhile projects. We would have liked to have allocated more, but were forced to pay a devt this ysar." 
Rejent also mentioned several innovative steps being taken this year, in regard to budget requests. Only the total amount of the Student Government's and Student Union's requests were trimmed. Contrary to previous procedure, the Finance Com­mittee did not state what each individual department should be allotted. 
"This allows financial decisions to be made by those immediately responsible," Rejent explained. 
(Continued on page 2) 
Investigation of robbery in Grace still inconclusive 
by Jim Gresser 

Investigation is still underway into Monday night's $50 armed robbery at Grace Hall, although to date nothing concrete has been established. Arthur Pears, director of campus security, was 

-··t·~..JI·... 
w ­
,, 
.


\, '.~··>·. 

A girl in the guy's infirmary meets a little resistance 
that I was a St. Mary's student and not a Notre Dame Student." 
She further stated, "I was in a great deal of pain. When they noticecl that I was bleeding the Infirmary provided emergency care." 
"Temporary emergency aid" consisted of putting water on the wound, dropping a few particles. of iodine on it to ease the pain, cleaning it with phisohex, and placed a bandage on it. 
(Continued on page ..) 

not available for comment on the subject due to illness. However, Jerry McGlinn, the guard han­dling the case, did make a statement. 
McGlynri noted that, "at this time," they had no definite in­formation as to the description of the robbers or their ap­prehension. He also stated that the investigation was far from complete and they WP.re doing all they could to solve the case. The description that he did have of the burgulars was that they were of 
"student age  but  probably  not  
students."  
He  also  stated  that  the  St.  

Joseph County Police have been involved since last night and that the County Police and Campus Security were conducting the investigation together. 
The regular policy, McGlynn explained, was for security to conduct an investigation and call in the County Police whenever necessary. 
When asked why the in­vestigator did not arrive at the scene of the crime until twenty­three minutes after it was reported, McGlynn said that it was not his place to comment and he reserved comment for Mr. Pears. 
When asked for a statement Fr. Whelac the rector of Grace, said that he "really wouldn't like to make any comment at all." 
Mike Meara, robbery victim, stated that he was satisfied with the investigation and that the police were "doing everything th­zy can possibly do." He pointed out that the robbery took place on the ninth floor and that people were all around, and that the robbers walked right in and right out. 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday October 6, 1971 
Finance Committee Suggests new budget 
(Continued from page 1)  tialiy  a  contract  whereby  the  mentea, ··we had no control uver  
head of the student organization  what thz organization did with  
Anothzr change is the drafting  promises he will  use  the funds  the  funds  after  they  were  
of a "Student Organization Grant  granted  for  the  duties  and_  granted."  He  cited  lack  of  
Agreement,"  which  is  to  be  obligations stated in his budget  responsible  control  and  in­ 
completed  at  the  time  of  the  request  discriminate writing of checks as  
financial  grant  This  is  essen­ "Previously," Rejent  com- examples of violations.  

Schedule of Masses in Residence Halls 
HALL  DAILY MASS  
ALUMNI  none scheduled  Saturday midnight, 11: 00 p.m.  
BADIN  12: 00 midnight  10:30 p.m.  
BREEN-PHILLIPS  10:30 p.m.  Saturday midnight, 10: 30 p.m.  
CARROLL  5: oo p.m.  10:00 a.m.  
CAVANAUGH  5: 15 p.m., 10:45 p.m. (M-F)  11:00  a.m.  
Saturday, 11: 15  a.m.  
DILLON  8:00a.m., 5:00p.m., 11:00 p.m. 11:00  a.m.  
Saturday, 8: 00 a.m.  
FARLEY  5:00p.m. (M-Sat)  11:00  a.m.  
FISHER  11:30 a.m., 5:15p.m.  11:00  a.m.  
FLANNER  11:00 p.m.  (M-Thurs)  Saturday midnight  
GRACE  5:00p.m.  Saturday midnight, 11:00  a.m.  
HOLY CROSS  Upon group request  11:15  a.m.  
HOWARD  11:00 p.m.  - Saturday midnight  
STANFORD-KEENAN  5:10p.m., ll:OO p.m. (M-TH)  
Saturday, 11:30 a.m.  Saturday midnight, 11:00  a.m.  
5: oo p.m.  
LYONS  11:00 p.m.  Sarur-day midnight, 11: 30  a.m.  
MORRISSEY  11:00 p.m.  Saturday midnight 11:00 p.m.  
PANGBORN  10:30 p.m.  Saturday midnight, 8:00 p.m.  
ST. EDWARD  11:00 p.m.  11:00 p.m.  
SORIN  5:15 p.m.  10:30 a.m.  
WALSH  11:30  a.m.  ::r  Saturday midnight, 11: 00  a.m.  
ZAHM  5:15 p.m.  Saturday midnight  

-POOL 
Play One Hour, Get One Hour FREE with coupon 
The New 

RED DOOR CLUB 
Offer Expires October 31, 1971 
110 V2 North Main-Street Through Allen's Alley Rear JMS Building 233-0660 
"If they don't follow the game
plan, why should we give them · so that a speaker"s schedule may more money?" the treasurerr be drafted. asked. The Finance Committee is 
The first Senate meeting composed of nine members. John concerning the recommended Barkett, Student Body President, student budget will be held at 8 Orlando Rodriguez, Student Body 
p.m. on Monday Oct. in the -.Vice-President, and Cass
11 

LaFortune Student Center Rejent, Student Government Amphitheatre. Treasurer head the list The 
All budget recommendations ooher members include Bill along with related information McGrath' Student Union are being mailed to the senators Director • and Tim Howald, and the Finance Committee asks Associate Director. Student that the representatives be Senators Jim Clark, T. C. prepared for immediate Treanor, are also on the com­discussion. Rejent also suggests mittee, along with Fr. Thomas that if any organization would Bllantz, Vice President of like to discuss changes in their Student Affairs and Prof. John budget requests, he be contacted Houck, a faculty member. 
Sanctions slammed at SLC Comm. meeting 
(Continued from page I)  
has to be some sanctions and some very serious sanctions to deal with those matters more serious than parietals." He suggested possibly handling people accused of larceny or assault over to state or federal authorities. It was the general opinion of some students that parietal hours were unenforceable. A student who identified himself as a junior from Badin, suggested that the Trustees should make their own sanctions and then try to enforce  them. "They would find it enlightening," he added. It is now the job of the Hall Life Council to come up with some kind of guidelines and to report to the SLC. Specifically the recommendations will come from Professor Peter W. Thorn­ton, Father Thomas .. E. Chambers, Father James F. Flanigan, Professor Robert G. Goodfellow, _.Buzz Imhoff, and SBVP Orlando Rodriguez, who comprise this sub-committee.  

NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
You're Invited 
NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL OPEN HOUSE 
Saturday, Q:tober 9, 1971 lilw Building beginning at 9:30a.m. 
Law As A ProfessiOn LSAT Exam--What It Means, What It Is 
How To Take It Legal Educational Opportunities In The U.S. Program At Notre Dame Law School Notre Dame's Admission and Scholastic Policy Legal Educational Methods Career Opportunities In Law 


HIDEAWAY LOUNGE 
122 W First Street Downtown Mishawaka, Ind. 
For Your Dancing & Entertainment 
We Present The Fabulous 




PEACE & LOVE 
Mon., Tues. & Thurs. No cover charge 
Wed.-Ladies night -Ladies free, guys $1.00 2 drawings every set for free 
champaigne Thurs. -Beer night -all beer 60¢ Friday & Saturday $1.00 covercharge 
OPEN DAILY 8 pm till 3 am
l YOUR HOSTS· JIM RUSSELL AND MAYNARD JOHNSON 
------·---·-· ------.. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 


7:30P.M.

The Occasional Bluegrass Band .John Bachman 
TONIGHT

Bob Ewen Paut Guernsey LAFORTUNEDenny Lopez .John MacKenzie 


Wednesday October 6, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
O's win AL title; Bucs lead, 2-1 
The wonder team of baseball reply, the Athletics hit three
by Jost>ph Durso got there today behind the seven-
home runs--one by Sal Bando and 
(d 1!171 Nt>w York Timt•s News hit pitching of Jim Palmer, who 
two by Reggie Jackson--but the SN·vict> also won their pennant clinchers reply was no answer to all that Oakland, Calif., Oct 5--The the last two years. But he was Oriole wealth. Baltimore Orioles won their third supported in riotous style by a 
The Orioles now have won four 

straight American League lineup that delivered 12 hits, got 
pennants in six seasons; they are 
p!'nnant today when they nine walks, left 13 men on base 
the first triple winner since the 
defeated the Oakland Athletics, 5-and produced at least one hit in 
Yankees won five pennants from 
:1. for a three-game sweep of the every inning except one against 1\)60 through l9f>4; they are the l<:ast-West playoff. five Oakland pitchers. 
third club in baseball annals to It was also the third straight Not only that, but half the win 100 games three straight
year that the Orioles had swept a Baltimore lineup got on base 
years, and they are the first team 
western champion in the playoff, three or more times,with Brooks 
in half a century to do it with four 
giving them nine victories Robinson leading the charge with 
20 game pitchers.
without a defeat in pennant a two-run single in the fifth inning 
The first three Baltimore competiti~n:________that put them ahead to sta~.~ batters promptly reached base on Diego Segui, the 33-year-old Cuban forkball pitcher who was pressed into service because of Chuck Dobson's sore elbow. Don Buford walked, Paul Blair singled to left and Boog Powell walked, loading the bases with nobody out. Segui struck out both Frank and Brooks Robinson, though Buford scored meanwhile on a :3f>5-foot fly to center by Elrod Hendricks.
THE BEST WAY TO CHICAGO 
Then, with two outs in the home half of the third, Jackson poked
IS ON OUR BUS 
an opposite-field home run for a 1­1 tie. 
The Notre Dame Specia) goes to Chicago every 
. • Friday and comes back on Sunday. 
Hoop meeting 
Bus leaves circle Friday 3:55 

SChedUIed 

There will be a meeting Thursday at 7 p.m. in the ACC 
Return buses leave Chicago Sunday 4 + 7:30 
Be sure to purchase all one-way Chicago. Notre Dame 
basketball office for all men interested in playing varsity
tickets in adva nee 
basketball. Candidates for the freshman squad are to report to the basketball office Thursday at 
For reservations and ticket information call 
Tom Boyer, 504 Flenner, 283-6984 
8 p.m. 


In the fifth the Orioles struck 
with some strategic help from the 
Athletics. Buford singled, Powell 
walked and, with two down and 
runners on second and third, they 
decided to walk Hendricks and 
pitch to Brooks Robinson. 
Robinson lined the next pitch 
into left-centerfor tworuns and a 
:1-1 lead. 
In the sixth Bando made it a 3-2 game by pulling a home run just over he left-field fence. But in the seventh, with Roland Fingers pitching, Powell walked for ~he third time and Frank Robinson lined a double to left field while Powell slid home ahead of a sloppy relay. 
Now Oakland switched to the left-handed Darold Knowles. Right-handed Andy Et­
chebarren, pinch-hit a fly to left, but before he did, Knowles threw a wild pitch past the plate while Robinson scored and it was 5-2. 
A double by Brooks Robinson and two more walks loaded the bases, but Palmer bounced into a double play to end the inning and then survived Jackson's second home run in the eighth. He struck out the side in the ninth, and the Orioles were home. 
by Murray C'hass <cl 1971 New York Times News 
Service 

Pittsburgh, Oct. 5-Twelve minutes before the third game of the National League Playoffs was scheduled to start today, Danny Murtaugh, the Pittsburgh manager, learned that his starter. Nelson Briles. wouldn't be able to pitch. He had aggravated a thigh injury while 


MAKE 
a total service card-charge air fair, hotels, meals, car rentals and cash checks.
DEPOSIT AT CAMPUS e THE STUTEL PASS 
TRAVEL BUREAU NOW!! 
Guaranteed student accomoda lions in 50 European cities for·$4.30 a day without advanced reservations.
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC 
0 CAR RENTALS

students, faculty, etc. 
Drive yourself crazy in Europe for only $3.65 a day, plus 4lf2 ¢ km plus
info: p:-.. 6875 
gas. 

It's all happening on TWAIll 
warming up. 
Murtaugh, acting as calmly as 
if he were rocking lazily in one of 
his various rocking chairs, told 
Bob Johnson to warm up, and 
Johnson, a self-proclaimed 
pitching "dud" this season, 
proceeded to pitch his best game 
of the year as the Pirates 
defeated San Francisco, 2-1, on 
home runs by Bob Robertson and 
Richie Hebner. 
Hebner's homer, one of only four 
hits off Juan Marichal, snapped a 
1-1 tie in the eighth inning and 
catapulted the Pirates into a 2-1 
lead in the best -of-five series 
that will determine the Baltimore 
Orioles' opponent in the World 
Series starting Saturday. 
The Pirates get a cha nee to 
become that opponent today 
when Steve Blass pitches against 
Gaylord Perry, the gritty right­
hander who beat them in the 
playoff opener. 
Marichal, who won 18 games 
this season, co1,11dn't have been 
much better, but his teammates 
failed to come through with just 
one key hit in any of three innings 
in which they had Johnson in 
danger. 
They put the first two batters 
on in the second inning, but 
Johnson struck out Dick Dietz on 
a 3-2 pitch (after being 3-0), got 
Alan Gallagher to ground into a 
force play and struck out Chris 
Speier. 
In the sixth, they scored their 
only run on Ken Henderson's 
single and a throwing error by 
Hebner but couldn't do anything 
else with runners at first and 
second and only one out. 
Then in the eighth, Johnson's 
last inning <he left for a pinch 
hitter and Dave Giusti finished 
upl, Willie Mays got San Fran­
cisco's fifth hit with one out, stole 
second before Bonds walked 
with two out and then 
remained there as Dietz forced 
Bonds. 
Minutes later, Hebner, to the 
accompaniment of lusty boos 
from many in the crowd of 38,322 
because of his costly error, came 
to bat with two out and dove a 1-2 
screwball from Marichal toward 
the right field wall. The ball 
sailed about 365 feet and eluded 
the glove of the leaping Bonds by 
inches for the third baseman's 
first home run in seven weeks. 
In the second inning, Robert­
son, who before Sunday hadn't 
homered in six weeks, connected 
for his third homer in his last 
three times at bat and his fourth 
in his last five. 
Irish slip in polls 
Despite its 3-o record, Notre Dame continued to drop in both the Associated Press and United Press International football polls this week. 
The Irish ,fourth in both polls a week ago, defeated Michigan State, 14-2, last Saturday but slipped to fifth in the UPI and seventh in the AP rankings. 
The Nebraska Cornhuskers remained atop both polls this week after upping their record to 4-Q with a 42-6 drubbing of Utah State Saturday. 
The AP's top ten consisted of Nebraska, Michigan, Texas, Auburn, Colorado, Alabama, Notre Dame, Oklahoma, Penn State and Georgia. The UPI listed their top ten as Nebraska, Michigan , Texas, Alabama, Notre Dame, Auburn, 0 klahoma and Colorado (tie for seventh l, Washington and Georgia. 
Page 4 


The Hall Presidents' Council elects a new chairman and discusses dinner exchange and social activities on campus 
ND lnfinnary & girls 
(Continued from page 1) 
Miss Moczek said "I was in­structed to go back to class and told to 'Keep your hand up in the air..' so that the wound would not start bleeding again." 
After class she went to the St. Mary's Health Service, which by this time, was closed. When the Infirmiary opened up they ad­vised her to go to St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. 
There she was completely treated for the skin that was burned on her left hand for the bleeding. She was told that if she had suffered any mercury poisoning it would have been exteemely serious since the Notre Dame Infirmiary had not 
THANKS to everybody-under difficult circumstances. Nite Editor: Gene Slason 
Asst. Nite Editor: Anthony 
Abowd· 

Copy Reader: Jim Roe 
Layout: George Lund 
Ad. Layout: Mary Ann Wright 
Headliner : Cris Sullivan 
Lifesavers: Jim McDermott, Joe Abell Glen Corso -Marty Miller John Abowd Neal Loughrey Dan Thornton Typists; Pat Kenney. Dianne 
Chermside ,Sue Scherer 

Midnight Menace: Tony Curro 
Fe.atures Editor: rick smith Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson News Editor ..oJohn Abowd ~ociate Editors: Ed Ellis, Ann Therese Darin, SMC .Editor.: ~n Conway Managing Ediu,t: Don Ruane 
NO THANKS to you HAL 
taken care of it. 

Miss Moczek said, "I told the Infirmary I was injured with a mercury thermometer." 
Sister M. Celeste, Infirm ary 
THE OBSERVER Wednesday October 6, 1971 
Motto elected HPC head 
b.\· Hill .Sohn 
Ed Motto of Sorin Hall was elected chairman of the Hall Presidents ·council Tuesday night on the first ballot held in the chapel of St. Edward's Hall. 
A iunior pre-med major, Motto 
said he hopes to continue the 
effectiveness reached by the HPC 
under outgoing Chairman Buz 
Imhof. 
Calling the body the closest organization to the student body, Motto added that it has a good chance to transform student opinion to the Board of Trustees. 
In other business the hall 
presidents discussed the lack of 
women participating in the ;coex 
dinner program with the 
program director, Gary Caruso. 
The topic was shelved eventually 
by thee council. 
The council spent 45 minutes 
discussing the length of the 
AI • t
UD1DI VO es 
Last Friday, Alumni Hall 

administrator, confirmed tthat residents voted down a Miss Moczek said that she had referendum, 147 to 85, which · cut herself with a mercury would have given the hall 
thermometer. 

However, Sr. Celeste stated, "The injury was not serious at all. We did not consider it an emergency." 
Several boys were treated before her because we didn't consider the matter grave. There was a delay in the records room because of the fact that she was from St. Mary's. We have told the girls time after time that they are supposed to go to their own complete self-government. The referendum was first suggested Wednesday after a prposal to declare twenty-four hour parietal hours in the hall ran aground because of a conflict in the hall 
constitution. The referendum stated "the extent of the en­force~ent shall be left to the Hall Judicial Board with strict adherence given to the Univer­sity Judicial Code and student rigpts." 

health service" Sr. Celeste--------------------­
added. ' 

Calls to both of the student 
health services confirmed the 
fact that they will treat only 
emergency cases of the other 
institution." 

lnPIRG office sets new hours 
Juan Rivera, Publicity Com­mittee Co-Chairman of Notre Dame's newly-established InPIRG chapter has recently announced new office hours. 
From 1:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Monday thru Friday, the staff members will operate from their office located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, in the room formerly occupied by the Ombudsman Service. 
Those persons interested in gaining more information about the group, or desiring to register consumer complaints should contact the InPIRG office. 
-ATTENTION­
PAUL'S 
SHOE REPAIR 
Rear of Main Building 
-HOURS­Daily 7 A.M. to 6 P.M. 
Saturday 
8 to Noon 
Shoe Strings, Polish, 
QUIK SERVICE 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S 
AN INVITATION TO GRADUATING SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS 
PLACEMENT BUREAU OPEN HOUSE 
October 6, 7, ... Mon, Tues, Wed, Thurs,... l :30 -4:00 p.m. Placement Bureau, Administration Building Room 222 
PICK UP EMPLOYER LITERATURE AND BUREAU REGISTRATION Grad II Computer forms... See interviewing rooms... Enjoy refreshments and visit with the staff... ask questions... sign-up for employer interviews for weeks of October 11 and 18 
chairman's term and qualifications for the post. The matter wes settled when soemeone suggested it remain the same and presidents unanimously agreed. 
Financial problems surrounding a HPC sponsored concert on An Toastal weekend, mixers on non-football weekends, maid service and dining hall arrangements also were discussed, but no conclusions were reached. 
It was announced that the HPC will make a retreat Oct. 17 and lR at the Wauwasee Seminary in­central Indiana. 
t;LASSJJ?JED ADS 
WANTED -
NOTICES -··Need ,·ide to Boston atAre you as beautiful as you Thanksgiving Will sharecan be? Let Viviane Woodard 

driving and expenses. Aidanteach you how... with two free 
8978.
make up lessons. (Call Joanna at 287-2731 for appt.l 

Ride desperately needed to DETROIT area (Grosse Pointe) Alterations or dressmakings~ 
Thursday Oct. 7 or Friday Oct .8. speedy work-reasonable 
Will share expense and driving. rates: Cnll ?R7-6821 Please call Pete. 1104. 
Need ride to ClfJCINNATI area Cars available for Florida. 
lhis Friday. Will share expensesOct. 9. Large gas allowance. 
nnd driving. Call Mnrk 1104.AACON AUTO TRANSPORT 234-0021 
Need: Ride to Chicago loop or 



DR iVEAWAY TRAN-t SPORTATION AVAILABLE TO ALL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY. VIRTUALlY FREE I YOU PAY ONLY GAS. 
REPUTABLE COMPANY. NO SHADY DEALS, EVERYTHING HONEST. CALL 6926, MONt FRI. AF TER 6:30P.M. 

TWO. FRIDAY OCT,OBER Will work on Volkswagens-ll years 
8,PLUS ANY NAVY TICKET. experience. reasonanable. Call 272­
TOM 1385. 3980 or 272-2765 after 4:00 p.m. 
·­Capable mdergrad seeking em-I need 15 young ladies to show 
ploymmt as Babysitter. Nights Koscot Kosmetice-short hours­
andweekends. Reasonable wages. high earning. From 9:00 AM-6PM 
PI ease, no diapering! Steve 283­Sat. the ·9th and Sun loth. Bus will 
1>730. depart the Shell Station W side 
us 31 Roseland near Toll Road NEEDED! One general admission 

Pntrance. 

ticket to North Carolina game. Call 
Kevin 289-7433.
-

ATTENTION: All students in Mr. Spoleader's MWF design 
WANTED: Ride from Phila. class owe 65 cents to pay for 
area to Notre Dame on any materials for the model and 
home football weekend. Jack photographs of the alley 
1629. project. Pay Bob Palmiter in class. 
HELP! We nred volunteers to help 
"FREE BEER" and food at St. Matthews Smoker Saturday, Oct 16 at 8:00 
Donation $1.00 single, $1.50 couple Where: 1700 Miami St. .. Tickets available at the door. 
~------·=-"_______ -·--------·­FOR SALE
1Attention all SMC tennis players 
f-------·· ·-·---­

interested in forming a team? call 
1967 Ford Galaxie, 390, 4 door,
4879 before Saturday. 

auto, P.S. See at Cir's Marathon. 1914 Miami or call ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
289-5100. 


FOR PATACHVTING CLUB· 

THURS. 7:30P.M. 1-C La Fortune. 
---·---·------------, HELP! LOST at pep. rally; pair of glasses, grey suede saddle shoes, instamatic camera. Squinting, barefoot SMC rah-rah 5237. --· 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune. II: 15-12:15. 
1. Classified ads paid for in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 12:15-5:00. Ads in by 

2:00 on day before publication. 
:w-.raa--r.--y z..,. 
l-It ... 
11-11 11-zt .70 ZI·ZS .15 
%1-30 
1.10 31-35 ).!f) 
3{'.-4(.1 
1.35 41-45 
1.55 

.75 
1.15 1.35 
1.10 
1.90 2.1Ci 
Z.3t 
Maywood, Illinois area any weekend. Call Patti 4355. 
Need 6 general admission tickets 
for Tulane game. Call Cull Jim 
3165. 

··------­DESPARATE: I NEED 4LSU TICKETS. CALL JOF 3413. 
1------·­

NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO FOR 
plan chilcren's radio show. We need stories, fm facts and in· teresting conversation. Call Marie 4044 or Mike 3701 . 
~--· ------------­
HELP! I need a considerate SMC frosh who is willing to let a hometown girl stay with her on Homecoming weekend. If in­krested call Kevin 1584. 


I~EW, GUARANTEED 8 
TRACK TAPES ONLY $3.50 
CALL 6715. 

New Posters have just arrived and are now in stock at ex­cellent prices. Come to 815 
Flanner. 611 Grace or 315 SOUTH Regina or for more information. Call 1694, 1167 or 4258. 


Man's Go I I Clubs and bag · $20.00. Blond Pine Desk. 29" high, 34" long, 17" deep, 3 side and one top dra\l\€r $15.00. 2n.0513. 
·-S1i·---·---------­
·::

~.:  ·~  
1.35  J.75  Z.ll  
1.71  Ut  Ut  
z.eo  z...  3.41  
2.35  uo  4.11  
Z.80  3.8S  4.71  
3.10  4.25  5.11  
3.31  4.50  U4  





