'Sterilization best method' 
Wood: Population dilemna 
that there are too many of us; we simply this woman had undergone thirteen 
have to accept it." abortions because she feared being unable Sex without babies·" was the topic of a He cited one statistic that noted that, if to provide for her children. Dr. Wood said lecture last night in the Engineering the population of China increases at its that incident convinced him that "there auditorium given by Dr. H. Curtis Wood. present rate, it will have one billion people must be a better method" to guard against 
Dr. Wood, author of the book Sex by 1990. unwanted children. Without Babies, and Medical Consultant of He mentioned El Paso, Texas and "As a practicing obstetrician for over the Association for Voluntary Sterilization, Chapel Hill, North Carolina as two cities in thirty years," he said, "I have come to the said, "For quite a few years I've been this country with water supplies conclusion that all babies should be convinced that the. population problem is inadequate for their population. wanted." the most serious problem that humanity He also related that, as an intern, he had The "better method" that Dr. Wood has ever faced. Nearly all the most serious been called to the emergency room to treat advocates to guard against unwanted and economic problems can be related, in a dying woman with a punctured uterus children is voluntary sterilization. some way, to the population problem." and 106 temperature. The wife of a jobless 
Continued on page 8 Dr. H. Curtis Wood
"Our egos," he said, "don't like to think trucker and the mother of five children, 


Volume V. No. 109 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Friday, April 16, 1971 



.....And the waiting gets harder for registration 
CAC revamps format 
that because of the tremendousby Pat Tyrell the performinv arts. expansion of the arts in the pastltural Arts Commission will be few years and thz desire to allow
In another announcement,
completely revampted for next as many as possible to par­
Brinkman said that a faculty
year, according to Bob Brink­ticipate in the arts at Notre
advisory board would be set up.
man, Cultural Arts Com­Dame, a restructuring of the CAC
Its function will be to advise the
missioner. 
was in order.
CAC on appointments and answer 
Brinkman stated his com­questions from the CAC. "We want to get as manymission will now be in charge of people involved as possible,"eight basic festivals. One festival The numerous changes are a Brinkman said. that will remain unchanged is the result of a meetinv held a few Sophomore Literary Festival. weeks ago between faculty and "Our aim is to eliminate the 
students on the future of the arts present cliquish set-up and openA new program for next year is 
at Notre Dame.' It was decided the Commission to everyone."
a year long Literary program. It will attempt to bring poets, novelists, and playwrights to thz campus, Brinkman said. In­
Ahmad -participant
cluded in the program will be 
symposiums and seminars upon individual authors, or periods. 

at violence seminar 
Brinkman noted that there will 
be three permanent music
March plans develop A public seminar on "Violence The Rev. Theodore M.
festivals on campus. The 
and Social Change" will be held Hesburgh, university president,by Mike O'Hare rally will leave the campus Collegiate Jazz Festival will be in the Center for Continuing will present a commentary onFriday, April 23, and return run as it has been in previous
There will be a meeting April Education Tuesday, April 20. "Violence and Social Change in
Saturday night, arriving on years, but will now be under the
19, in the Engineering Eqbal Ahmad, one of six the United States" at 11:30 a.m. 
campus sometime Sunday, April control of the CAC instead of the persons charged by the govern­
Auditorium at 8:30 for alltlDse The author of numerous ar­
25. There are tentative plans to Social Commission.
interested in participation in the ment with plotting to blow up ticles on revolutionary warfare in
provide sleeping quarters for the heating tunnels and kidnap
April 24 March on Washington. The Blues Festival will be a two the Third World, Ahmad will
students in the gymnasium of

Joe Schlosser, one of the day affair, with workshops presidential adviser Henry speak at 2 p.m. on "Political
Georgetown University. 

campus coordinators of the during thz day and activities at Kissinger, is among speakers Development and Revobtionary
In preparation for the rally, a scheduled for the seminar.

march, said that efforts a~e night. The Folk Festival, revived War--A Theoretical Per­
series of "informative" lectures Ahmad, a fellow of the Adlai

currently under way to obtam this past year, will be expanded spective." His latest book,
and movies on the war in In­Stevenson Institute for In­"Politics and Labor in the

transportation to the mass rally. to a year round event, and an
dochina are taking place on ternational Mfairs (ASIIA) at the

He mentioned that buses or Hertz attempt will be made to bring in Magreb," will be published
campus during the next two University of Chicago, and for­shortly.

rental vans are being in­some professionals for next year. 
weeks according to Schlosser. A

vestigated for their economic mer assistant professor at Speaking at 3:30 p.m. will be
CBS documentary, "The Selling

feasibility. The decision to rent Cinema '72 Cornaell University's school of William R. Polk, president of the 
of the Pentagon" is being shown industrial and labor relations,

either buses or vans will largely Stevenson Institute and former
Sunday, April18 at 7 and 10 p.m. Other changes, Brinkman
depend upon the number of in­will also discuss the film, "The member of the policy' planning 
in the Hayes-Healey Building. A mentioned, will involve Cinema
terested students. Battle of Algiers," at 8 p.m. council of the U.S. Department of
panel discussion between Cynthia '72 and the Contemporary Arts
Students participating in. the Saturday, April 17. The film will State. His topic wi11 be "Violence 
Fredrick a member of the Festival. Cinema '72 will include be shown following his talk and and Man's Hope." Polk isCommitt~e of Concerned Asian fund-raising films in addition to again at 8 p.m. on Sunday (April 
professor of history at the
Scholars, and Keith Parker, those brought in for various 18) in the Center's auditorium. University of Chicago,student body president of Indiana professors. The CAF will be 
Edward W. Gude, ASIIA . headquarters of ASIIA, and aUniversity, will take place much narrower in scope next fellow, Dartmouth College former director of the school'sMonday, April 20, at 8 p.m. in the year. It will be concerned with faculty member and former Center for Middle Easternsecond floor of LaFortune
2:20 lecture-arthur levy; ~;:;:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~&:::::::~:::~ research scientist with the Studies. He is the author of "The
Student Center. Parker recently Raytheon Company, will open the 

pollution chemistry, 127 ;;:; The Student Senate .••:1 United States and the Arab
returned from a visit to Hanoi. 

··•·· . . . ···~ seminar at 9 a.m. Tuesday with a World."
niewland. all day :;:;:meetmg ongmally ~::
This Sunday, at 1 p.m., 

~;:; scheduled for yesterday ;:;:; discussion of "A Theoretical A commentary on "Violence in american trial lawyers Schlosser and Jim Crogan will 
:;:; has been rescheduled for' ·::~ Approach to Political Violence in a Changing World" will be seminar, library discuss the rally, the People's ;:;:this Sunday, April 17, at i:;: the United States." At Raytheon, presented at 4:45 p.m. by DipakPeace Treaty, and the Refugee he worked ·on computer
auditorium. :-;.~ 7:00 in the LaFortune :::: Nandy, ASIIA Fellow and
Aid Program on WNDU's

8:00 movie-su social :;:;:amphitheater. ;:;: simulation of international director of London's Runnymede
"Window on Notre Dame." 

~;;~ The main order of :;:;: politics, unilateral arms conrol Trust, an educational charity
commission: mad movie 
All those who are interested or 

:;:;: business will be approval of :::;: measures and disarmament concerned with pronoting un­orgy, Iafortune have questions concerning the i$: the SLC election scheduled !;:; inspection systems. derstanding of racial and ballroom, free. Washington rally or the People's :l:~ that appeared in yester-;!;!; Joel F. Henning, also an ASIIA minority problems. Nandy isPeace Treaty should contact
SATURDAY ... day ' s Observer. . ····· Fellow and a founding member of active in England's civil rights
:;:;: ::::
Schlosser at 232-Q540 or Melissa

2:00 & 8:00 movie goddard: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: the board of governors, Chicago movement and was for some
Sullivan at 4844.

peirrot le fou, cinema Council of Lawyers, will speak on years an executive member of "Violence, INdustry and the Campaign Against Racial
'71, washington hall, 
Technology" at 10:45 a.m. Discrimination.
Soph prom cancelled
$1.00 patrons free. Henning is chairman of the The seminar is being sponsored 
7:30 folk concert-rap: . The Sophomore Prom, originally scheduled for Saturday night, has governor's advisory committee by the Adlai Stevenson Institute, holy cross lawn, free. definitely been cancelled, Prom Dicrector Mary Kay Davy announced on financing the arts in Illinois Notre Dame's Institute for In­
late last night. and a consultant to the office of ternational Studies, and the Equal Opportunity and Chicago's 
"I've realized that I cannot personally accept responsibility for the Notre Dame-Saint Mary'snd-smc class prom," she said. "Therefore I must cancel all prom plans for Afro-American Patrolmen's Student Academic Commission. 
League.
Saturday night. I apologize for the trouble I have caused anyone." 

Page 2 TIIB QBJ'EIHI£R. Friday, April 16, 1971 
STUDY S(WNDS r 
IMPROVE GRADES ' "' 
Improve Grades While Devotinll' The Same Amount Of Time To Stn1'1 USE STUDY SOUNDS 
Increase Your Concentration A11d ·.ro'lrove 
Your Comprehension. Study At A Fastbr Rate. ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED &OUNDS CAUSE THI5 TO HAPPEN 
Please Specify8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record 
Send Check or Money Order -$9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage Sound Concepts, Inc., -Box 3852 
Charlothtsville, Va. 22902 

CA C's Cinema '71 presents 
pEIRROT LE pou 
by Goddard 
April 17 & 18 2:00 Washington Hall Admission $1.00, Cinema '71 patrons free 
(will not be shown at 8) 


Continental Hair Styling, Inc. 
1321 E McKinley Hwy. Mishawaka, Ind. 

259-7679 


Wishes to extend their thanks to the ND Men for con­tinuing patronage. As part of our Grand Opening of New Shop to ann ND students on Mondays and Tues 9-5 all Hair Styles only $2.50. 
Serving ND Students in all Hair Needs for over 3 years! 
specializing in all lengths of hair 
HELP! Student who owns 4 month old German Shepherd named "Rick" and at Warren Dunes State Park Sat. April lOth, please call 7809 or 7033, and leave number of Mary Sweet. IMPORTANT! 






AAUP holds elections 
by Carol Lacey when Sr. Franzita Kane, current The St. Mary's College chapter president, leaves office. 
of the American Association of Elected to the post of secretary University Professors has was Sr. Rosaleen Dunleavy of the elected Dr. Donald Horning as biology department. She will their president for the 1971-72 succeed Stephen McNally. 
academic year. Dr. Horning, who is a president 
Dr. Horning, who is chairman of the AAUP chapter at Western of the Sociology Department, will Michigan University, said he felt assume his duties in September the role of the AAUP is an im­
"'-'*''*'-"-"-"-"-"-"""'1. portant one "in these changing ~J 01N AN ~ times" at St. Mary's.
ll!r;: ~ "The AAUP is primarily ~EXPEDITION ll!r;: concerned with faculty and 
~ ~ student rights, and plays a doublyll!r;: ll!r;: vital role in safeguarding them,"~The Amencan Explorers Asso~~ he said. 
current AAUP president~ciation is currently recruitin In making thz announcements Sr. Franzita Kane ll!r;:applicants for salary-paid sum of the election Sr. Franzita also Sr. Franzita is the first woman ~mer and fall positions wit~' disclosed that a joint program by to have held the presidential post~private and institutional-affil~l the St. Mary's and .:~·otr~ ~arne of the St. Mary's chapter. She ll!r;:iated expeditions to North ant AAUP chapters on Institutional brought campus-wide attention to 
~ . . Merger and Faculty Status" has the AAUP in February with the ll!r;:South Amenca, Afnca and th been scheduled for April 21-22. statement of censure directed at ~Far East. 1111: She noted that this is the first Sr. Alma Peter, acting president, ~ Positions are available fo~ time that the chapters have and the St. Mary's board of 
~both experienced and inexperi-~ jointly sponsored an event. trustees 
ll!r;:enced male and female student~ *********************************~ ~in all fields. St~dent~ wit~ inter~ : The~e G0 es the Tune ~ ~est and/or onentat10n m lan: * ~ ~guages engineering archeology.:'~~~ * VATICAN CITY (UPI)-The weddin g march from ~ llll:art, photography, teaching an..a.;: ~ "Lohengrin" is out in Roman Catholic Churches from ~ 
• f .~ * now on. ~
~: 11 1SCiences are o specla!lllll * The Vatican's Department for Divine Worship has it
ll!r;:~ natura ~Interest. ll!r;: * advised that this and other popular wedding music it ~ To apply complete a one pag~ * should be replaced by something more sacred. it lllltyped resume that includes th~ ~ The department advised in its monthly news letter it ~allowing information: name~ * "Notitiae" t?at P!iests sh.ould prohibit. "cer~in t ~dress, age, phone, relevan\; * profane mu~IC durmg marnage ceremon.1es, wh1ch it lt.......ork or recreational experience~ * have been mtrodu~~d by cus~om but wh1ch hardly it 
~ 
:.V . . . .: * conforms to the spmt of the liturgy. it ducat10n and/or ~reas of specla~ * This applies especially to the wedding march of it ~nterest, dates ava1labl~, name(s~ * Mendelssohn and to that which Wagner composed for it ~~ ot~er students With who~ ~ the opera "Lohengrin." it ~ou WISh to work, and any othe~ * Richard Wagner's wedding march is a tune to which t ~ertinent information. ~ * millio~s of couples have .been married in both Roman • ~ In May your edited resumell!r;: * Catholic and non-Catholic churches. it 
~ill be included in our Directory~ ********************************** 
~hich will be sent to over 10~ The Ombudsman s ~ffilia.ted. gr?ups, or.ganization~ Service 
~and mst1tut1ons actively ·plan-ll!r;:~ning overseas expeditions. ~ recommends that ~ Sen~yourresumewith$6.00~~ no money be sent 
~ 
processmg fee to: • . American Explorers Association 1111: to 10b reC ru l tm ent ~ P. 0. Box 13190 ~ agencies before
1111: ~ ~Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 1910 h . d 'b '/"t 
~ Kindly complete and mail t ezr ere l l l Y ~your resume no later than May~ is established. ....~~.].,..-"-""-"'-"-"'~ Call 7638 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 
8:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Donald Abbott, c.s.c. 
9:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. J. Bernard Clark, c.s.c. li:OO a.m. Sun. Fr. Carl Dehne, s.j. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, c.s.c. 


i••••••••••••N•e>ticE•••••••••••••: 

* ~ New * ~ : Advertising Deadline : * *
* *
* ~ All ad copy must be in by 2: 00 on~ * 
/

* *
* * 
!* the day prior to the publication of *~ * * 
includes:

* * 
: the advertisement ~ *4 Spd Sync Trans *Radial Ply Tires 
*Front Disk Brakes *Full Instruments
* *
* * *Stabilizer Bars F & R *Undercoating
* * 
*4 Wheel indepen. *Heater Suspension *35 mpg. & more
** Ads received after 2:00 will ** 
~ not appear in the next Day's ~ 
Call Bob Sullivan For Free Demon­Campus Rep-259-9565 stration Ride and Info
* ~~ * 
*~ The advertising staff *~ 
Bill Elsey Ollis Cadillac -Elkhart, Ind. 
*••••••¥••························ 
Professor fined 
Fines totaling $75 were levied incitycourtWednesdayagainsta University of Notre Dame 
sociology professor accused of striking two Roseland policemen when they attempted to arrest him for public intoxication. 
RobertL.Hassenger,44,of2020 
~::~~f8n:t~ ;~~c!ino~~ic!~4 :~~ 
fined $1 for public intoxication. 
He was also charged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest but these charges were stricken. Hassenger pleaded guilty to the two charges for which he was fined. 
Theology Department presents WALTER JOHN­STON, S.J. speaking on Mysticism: East and West. Sunday, April 18; 8:00 pm; Law Auditorium; Free. 
*~··············~ 
~ ** GINGISS ~ ** 
~ Formal Wear Inc. :
* * 
$10 per cent off for ND & SMC:
* *
students 

·* :
* * 
"IF YOU LONT SHOW UP
* * 
IN A GINGISS TUX­*
* 
DONT BOTHER TO SHOWUP 
* 
AT ALL!" 
* 
* 
1622 Mishawaka Ave. ** 

* 
So. Bend Indiana ~


* iPhone 287-5938 
.****************•
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 



Friday, April 16, 1971 
Page 3 

SMC presidential search shows little progress since summer 
by Ann Therese Darin 
Observer Associate Editor 
When Monsignor· John J. Me Grath, president of St. Mary's died early last summer, one of the first acts of the newlwly­appointed acting presidenh, Sr. Alma Peter, was the creation of a presidential search committee composed of stu<;lents, faculty: alumnae, administrators, and Board of Trustee members. 
'More than 100 candidate in­terviews later, the school is in relatively the same position as it was last summer -no president-and the prospects look slim according to members of the search committee. 
llbserver l~ht 
Originally the Board of 
· Trustees requested three can­didates for consideration. In judging these candidates, the Board planned to evaluate them on their academic stature, ad­ministrative experience, interest in young people and com­mittment to religious values, which do not have to be Catholic. What the Board wanted and what the Board is getting, however, seem to be two different things. Before the joint ND-SMC trustee meeting in Florida, the presidential search committee had four candidates, one each from Albany College and the State University of New York at Albany, the University of Michigan and St. John's University in Minnesota. Since then, two of the can-
Knights of Columbus presents



Steve cQueen 
in 



EULL~T 
Friday 7:30 9:30 
Saturday 2:00 7:00 9:00 11:00 
Sunday 2: 00 7: 30 9: 30 
Admission $1.00 
Proof of age 

NOW 
required 
didates have notified the com­mittee that they are no longer interested in the job because they want to be full college presidents and not share the authority and regulation with Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh. 
Although the withdrawals reduce the list of official con­tenders to two, another result from the Flrorida meeting has also modified the list. 
Apparently at the meeting, the Executive Board of St. Mary's stated that they did not agree with the Park-Mayhew report suggestion to hire a coeducation coordinator. They expressed the belief that the person who coordinates activities at the college should be someone ·presently within the college community. To bring in someone from the outside, they felt, would waste a year while the outsider 
familiarized  himself  with  the  
school.  
With  this  criticism  in  mind,  

some members of the search committee speculated that two St. Mary's administrators will most likely be considered by the Board as candidates. 
One administrator is Sr. Alma. She has served as a vice­president, and as coordinator of the foreign studies program, a position which she retained this year. Although several ad­ministrators close to her have acknowledged that the acting president would like to return to the foreign study program full­time, she has not officiallywith­drawn from consideration. 
COLOR

THE SALVATION OF MANI<INO 
FROM UNNATURAL TEMPTATION 
"Plenty of jousting along with the jokes to make the whale thing come off like bangbusters I" 
RATED X 

COlOR

caught 


the can! 
Publicly, the only comment she has made came at the All-School Convocation to discuss unification March 25. When questioned on the search for a president, Sr. Alma replied, "It may be someone from the faculty or some outsider who will be on leave from another university." She added that her own contract expires in July. 
The other administrator, which the search committee regards as a possible candidate, is Dr. William Hickey, acting chairman of the biology department. Many students, faculty., and ad­ministrators believe that Dr. 
Continued on p~ge 8 
Third Conference of 1971 Marriage Institute 
PERSONAL GROWTH IN MARRIAGE 
Mr. and Mrs. Gene Guissler Personal growth as seen after the children have left home Sunday, April 18, 3:30p.m., Library Auditorium 

HELP WANTED 
Newly formed waterbed company
ADVERTISEMENTS 
wants campus representatives for Mail in or come by Observer office hottest selling item in states. For information call 7471 Good commissions for a few hours 
HOUSING 

-----~--:__~--­
Apartment for rent during summer months. Frunished, carpeted, freshly-painted, air-conditioned; has bedroom, living room, bathroom with shower, small hall, and two closets. Call Tom 282-2250 
For rental, Summer· June JulyAugust. Near UN D· 4 bedrooms: 
Utilities, Furnished: $150 per month-Call 284-1774 after 5:30pm. 
Efficiency apartment close to N D, hospitals, ad downtown. Call 287-5371 after 5 pm 
TRAVEL 

Want to take a trip to EUROPE this summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the NATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS and SAVE! Approx. 60 dates available for round trips betw. London and N.Y. this summer for $245. From London connect to any of 50 European cities at discount fares. For example: London Paris: $12.60, London . Amsterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich:$15.00, Zurich -Rome: $20.00. Many other benefits (travel passes, hotel discounts, etc. ( Also available. For info or application call Tom 282­2250 5-10 Mon.-Fri. 
AUTOMOTIVE 

For sale 1969 Fiat '24 Spider $2195 Dave 232-1611. 232-2322 
For Sate -1966 Ford Econoline Paneled, carpeted, 'Nith bar and bed, 10 Speaker Stereotape System and more. $850 or best offer. Call John 233­9508 
For Sale -1967 Sunbeam Alpine . very good condition -Call 7938 -312 Lyons 
Hall 
Words  1 day  2 davs  
0-10  .50  .75  
'11·15  .60  1.0fl  
16·2P  .70  1.15  
21·25  .85  1.:35  
26-30  1.00  l.~J  
31-35  1.20  1.90  
36-40  1.35  2.10  
.<'1·45  1~55  2.30  
4€-;)0  1.7E  ;? •.;o  
::1.30 4.50 3.50 


... -.................... .
close ~ 

Free RIVER PARK Phone 
• • • • • II • II II II • 't • • • • • • II • •
Parking 288-8488
MISHAWAKA AVE. Af 30fH. 

Held Over 
• ROSS HUNTER PRODUCTION 
AIRPORT
-

BURT UNCASTER •DEAN MARTIN dEAN SEBERG •JACQUELINE BISSET 
AUNIVERSAL PICTURE • TECIINICOLOR® • PradiiCIII ill TDDD·AO ® 
~ ..... -·-~~
l!:!J 

Gener-' Audtenc" 
Academy Award Winner 
work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. 
LOST AND FOUND Write: Lightrays Designs, Inc. 
LOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard, Love sleep water beds division 
lost after break: tasty reward. Call 3727 Walnut St. 
Tom 8014 Philadelphis, Pa. 19104 
----~~-····------Pr Call: (215) 349-9330 Found: Set of keys behind Admin.-::------------­
Building. Call Bob 3721 
Lost . Wallet at Frankie's. Reward. 1156
Call 
LOST: Gold charm bracelet with 7 
charms on it; of great sentimental 
value. Reward $5. Call 232-6736. 
SERVICES 

:rypt-New Hours 12:30-4:00 Now on stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love. $3.60 Cat Stevens-T~ for Tillerman-$3.H Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection >3.10 Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 
FOR SALE 

Nater mattresses for sale: to obtain info or place orders call Tom at 282· 2250 from 5-10 pm Monday-Friday. 
;torage space available during summer. Call Tom: 282-2250. 
Hot News Flash: New company born-VANGUARD LEATHER GOODS, INC-823 Flanner Hall. 283­1176-Specializing in: watchbands, wristbands, belts, wallets, headbands, hair barrettes, custom-made dandals, jeans, and anything else made of leather-· Owned and operated by Milt Jones, Wayne Hall. 
RATES 

3 days 4 d<'/S 1.00 1.15 1.35 1.75 1.70 2.40 2.00 2.9() 2.35 3.40 2.80 3.85 :uo 4.25 
1 w9, 
t.25 2.15 2.80 
4;1( 4.7C 5.10 5.50 ii.O(I 

Bass player and Lead singer needed immediately. Call Jim 1859 
College Students with car needed to demonstrate technicolor photo and movie equipment--guaranteed $1,90 a week -· top men make" $200 working .~venings 5·9. Call technicolor sales 
'fice 289-3662 for appointment 
Jobs available. full or part time. Transfers possible. Mr. Frank 287­8774 
· Summer Camp Job-Watefront Supervisor: Boy Scouting Experince 21 years old, Red 
Cross  Senior  Lifesaving.  
$800.00.  Call  1253 after  11:30  
p.m.  

Unwanted But .vouh oike to be: Available for ,;me-night stands-i.e. (Sophomore Prom) Want to take me? Call Tim 287-4069 
N D-SMC Students interested in 
working for McGovern fpr President will meet in 
Walsh Hall Basement 
Monday at 7:00 p.m. 
SOFTBALL 

Chicago Club Softball Tournament cash prizes . Call Dan 1657 
RIDES 

Need ride to Indianapolis or Muncie this weekend. Call Ohle at 6805 
PEANUTS PERSONAl 

Here's to my best friend named Fanny Otherwise known as OshKosh Annue. On this happy day of your 21st birthday, We'll all be drunk with you, Fanny. 
Howard Hall Wierdos, Servite Guys, Arkies, Barb, Chris, Maureen, Debbie, Rinnie: I got by with a little help from my friends, thank you. Happy birthday on my birthday. 
chip 

711B OBSERVER

Page 4 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 

Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
No society can surely be flourishing and happy, of which the far greater part of the members are poor and miserable. 
-Adam Smith 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Why and How: The FBI Must Change 
The late charge by Senator Edmund Muskie that the Federal Govern­ment had established surveilance units at Earth Day rallies is a serious one indeed, and if correct it has implications altogether unpleasant to contemplate. 
Muskie made the contention in a Senate speech two days ago. Though he refused to disclose the source which led him to allege that the FBI secreted in its files between forty to sixty reports on Earth Day rallies, it appears unlikely that the Senator would manufacture the report himself, or accept the report from an irresponsible source. 
The fact that Muskie's charges have been reinforced by charges from House Majority Leader Rep. Hale Boggs (D., La.), that the FBI had tapped his phones and the phones from other representatives tend to add a special measure of credence to the criticism. The FBI has acted outside the limits it must have to be functional and beneficial in and to a free society. 
What, then, is to be done? In the past forty-five years, the influence of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been both dynamic and good. The Bureau withered the death-grip organized crime had on this nation's economy. When the quote-unquote red menace in this country was considerably more serious than citizens legitimately interested in ecology, the war, and racism, fringed with ineffectually caterwauling syncophants, the FBI was important in supressing violence. 
As long as organized crime remains an important factor in the American civilization, and as long as there remains the possibility of gross political violence, the FBI will continue to have an important function. So to suggest that the FBI's excesses can be eliminated by eliminating the FBI is to make an unnecessarily dramatic and perhaps dangerously drastic proposal. 
The proposal Senator Muskie made in the same speech he criticized the Bureau is a far more reasonable one. In his speech, Muskie proposed that a civilian intelligence board monitor the activities of all intelligence­gathering organizations. We suspect the idea is a good one. Organizations like the FBI tend to become ideologically inbred and insensitive, and a civilian monitoring board would be more responsive to the good public need for privacy. 
The FBI has shown an increasing inclination in the 60's and 70's of becoming a power unto itself. J. Edgar Hoover runs the organization so tightly that no Attorney General can claim he exerts any type of control over it. The one thing which could partially force him to relinquish this tight grip over the Bureau's affairs is responsible criticism from persons with unimpeachable sources of information. A monitoring board could act in this fashion and act effectively. We sincerely hope Sen. Muskie moves beyond his pall of rhetoric and translates his words into a bill mandating the creation of such a board soon. 

NO TICI<EE , NO Wf\SHEE. '? 
Letters 
'-'SA -C."''NA 

?J N<r-'PoM(;o 
.r.t~,.~ 
Friday, April 16, 1971 
TttE't CAN'T AG-lEE ON 11t£ SHAPE oF 

II 
Editor: 
In reference to your article, "HPC discusses roompick policy," Tuesday, April13, 1971: I am sure that Buzz Imhoff knows my concern of every aspect of hall and student life which in­cludes room selection. In order to have successful hall life, we need much concern and generosity. 
As to my unavailability for comment, to my knowledge, no reporter called. 
With all good wishes, I remain 
Sincerely yours, Rev. Thomas E. Cham­bers, C.S.C. 
Director of Student Residence Editor's note: If Fr. Chambers was available for comment it would, in all probability, be to his knowledge. 
Editor: 
What's the refugee aid program' I saw a poster about the program and decided to attend the talk Tuesday night given by the director of the overseas refugee program, just to find out what it's all about--what I as a student can do about the war, because a strike or demon­stration does not help anyone. It lets people know we are against the war--and who isn't? 
The director told us about what he does. He replaces arms and legs blown off by land mines and gives skin grafts to the Viet­namese people. He told us what living conditions are like. The people are starving to death. Their farm land has been ruined by the war. They live on banana leaves. I wish the whole University could have heard him speak. 
This is a truly Christian program. Anyone who has always waanted to do something constructive to give help where it's really needed, now has a chance. The program is non­partisan. I will do everything I can to hlep now. The program is sponsoring some fantastic films, lectures, discussion series, a folk concert--all for free. More is being planned. A student can substutute these activities for going out drinking, out for pizza, shows in town, or something that costs him money. With the money he has saved himself, if he wants to, he can donate part to the fund. 
Lynn Milenkevich 318 Regina North 
Editor: 

I am the parent of a college freshman and I am writing to a number of college newspapers in reference to the revision of the Selective Service Act. 
I am opposed to the provision just approved by the House of Representatives, and now under consideration by the Senate, which permits the President to abolish student defer­ments ... retroactively to April 23, 1970. 
Sincerely, Herbert Gross 

The following letter was sent to Captain Danial III of the United States Army. 
I support your conviction that our laws and judicial processes must be beyond illegitimate influence. In regards to the "Calley case", I view the evidence as clear and straight­forward indication that Lt. Calley is guilty of premeditated murder. 
One can be sympathetic to Lt. Calley on many levels, but not on the most important level of humanism. His actions and commands on 16 March 1968 belie the responsibleness he is ex­pected to possess as a reasonable human, never mind as an American military officer. At the time of their deaths, the My Lai villagers could not reasonably be termed "the enemy". I would guess they were murdered as a matter of convenience or revenge, due to the stupidity and savageness induced in a warrior by war. 
I share your compassion for the disservices done the court members. The fact that they are treated so after having per­formed a most arduous duty with such integrity and dedication is outrageous. That their most trying criticism will surely come from the military community and hierarchy is especially tragic, because they :>erved the military and the Nation well by doing their duty. 
Sir, your recent letter to the President has . been a service to the American military because it clearly indicates the safeguards for upholding stan­dards of morality and integrity which comprise the code of military justice. I agree with and will support your convictions, and I am inspired by your 

dedication  to  the  truth  of  the  
"Calley case".  
GREGORY  W.  McKILLOP,  

Cadet Major, AFROTC 

Friday, April 16, 1971 Page 5 



but if any one has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does god's love abide in him? 


1 iohn 3;17 
Page 6 
Seminar On 



VIOLENCE AND SOCIAL CHANGE 
Domestic and International Aspects 
University of Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education 

sponsored by: The Adlai Stevenson Institute The Institute for International Studies ND -SM C Academic Commi.ssion 
8·00pm Saturday Eveni~g Sunday Evening Taik: The Battle of Algierrs~pril 17' 1 971 April 18,1971 
Perspective on the Film 
EQBAL AHMAD (former 
Assistant Professor, School of 
Industrial and Labor 
Relations, Cornell Univer­
sity, author of Politics and 
Labor in the Maghreb.( 
9:OOam 
EDWARD W. GUDE (assistant Professor, Dartmouth College, former research scientist working on unilateral arms control measures and progressive zonal inspection for general and com­
plete disarmament.( A THEORETICAL APPROACH TO POLITICAL VIOLENCE IN THE UNITED STATES 
10:30am 
Coffee Break 
10:45am 
JOEL F. HENNING (Lawyer; Chairman, Governor's Advisory Com­mission on Financing the Arts in Illinois; consultant to O.E.O., Chicago's Afro­American Patrolmen's League.( 
VIOLENCE, INDUSTRY AND TECHNOLOGY 
8 : 4 5 p m 7 &9 p m 
Film: THE BATTLE OF Repeat Showing of the Film: 
ALGIERS:::...---­
Tuesday 
April 20,1971 
11 :30om 
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. Com­mentary on the Violence and Social Change in the United 
States. 
2:00pm 
EQBAL AHMAD 

THE BATTLE OF ALGIERS 
3:30om 

WILLIAM R. POLK (President, Stevenson In­stitute, former member of the Policy Planning Council of the U.S. Department of State, Professor of History, University of Chicago, author, The United States and the Arab World, Voilence and Man's Hope.) 
VIOLENCE AND MAN'S HOPE 
4:45pm 

DIPAK NANDY <Director of the Runnymede Trust, London, England-an educational charity con­cerned with promoting un­
POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT derstanding of racial and AND REVOLUTIONARY WAR--A minority problems; THEORETICAL PERSPECTIVE executive member of the 
Campaign Against Racial Discrimination; member of the Council of the Institute of 3:15pm Race Relations in London.) 
Coffee Break Commentary on VIOLENCE IN A CHANGING WORLD 

Friday, April 16, 1971 

Markosek, Siernion, Loring .win election 
Dave Loring, a junior history major from Park Forest, Ill., was elected president of Keenan Hall last night. He collected 102 of the 202 votes cast to easily defeat three other candidates. 
Loring ran with Dave Kaminski, a freshman from 

The worlds great sma1t car. See, drive and buy at 
Bertles Volkswagen Inc. US 31 N. 

South Bend. A hall senator for 
the past two year, he will succeed 
Tom Blumer. 
Joe Markosek, a junior from Pittsburgh, defeated Sophomore George Block in the elections at Farley Hall last night. Markosek , succeeded Rich "Ders" An­derson by collecting 119 votes to Block's 86. 
In the vice-prsidential elec­tions, Bob Kelly, a Palatine, TIL Sophomore, received 145 votes to easily defeat Sophomore Dan Curtin, who received 72 votes. 
St. Edward's Elections In an election at St. Edward's Hall, Marty Siemion of Valparaiso, Ind. won the presidential race, defeating John Mazza by a 54 vote margin. Siemion ran on a ticket with Brian Hurley, who won the vice­presidential election. Both Siemion and Hurley have had experience in hall govern­ment, Siemion having served as academic commissioner for the hall last year, and Hurley working as a section leader. 





I ,.::::.s:::W~re0~~:~~~'~ I 
l=:=:=:=:~:::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=:===~=~===~====::::::::::::::::~~..;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:i: 


Friday, April 16, 1971 Page 7 
All of Notre Dame's athletic excellence in large yacht com­teams, at both the varsity and petition, will compete in the 
club level, will be in action this regatta. The weekend's set of five weekend. The lacrosse and crew races will be sailed in 44-foot squads are the only teams Luders yawls.
playing at home however. Returning to defend their title The Notre Dame stickmen host will be a Tulane University crew Wooster College Saturday at 3 with skipper John Dane. Dane, 
p.m. behind Steran while the probably the nation's no. 1 
rowers race Wayne State on the collegiate skipper, won the event St. Joseph river in Mishawaka last year.Saturday at 2 p.m. Skippering for Notre Dame will 
The Irish baseball, tennis, be junior Tim Flood, a veteran of track, rugby, sailing, and golf Long Island Sound keelboat teams all take to the road to meet racing and Lightning com­their opponents. petition. 
Here.s a rundown of the Other schools taking part in the 
weekend's sports activities: regatta are Cornell, Western Washington, the Citadel, Mavy, USC, Stanford, the University of
Sailing 
Rhode Island, and Yale. 
Some of th~ top young sailing Baseballtalent in the country, including a 
The Irish baseball team takescrew from Notre Dame, will to the road once again thiscompete in the eigth annual John weekend, traveling. to Toledo U.
F. Kennedy Memorial Regatta for a three game series. Notrebeing held at the U.S. Naval Dame will play a single game onAcademy this weekend. 
Friday and twin bill Saturday. Crews from 11 colleges, chosen The Irish take a 5-8 record with by the Intercollegiate Yacht them to Toledo. Racing Association for their Ace right-hander Ron Schmitz 
Jim Donaldson ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,:,::::':''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''~ 


The Irish Eye 

Since Coach Ara Parseghian began conducting Spring drills three weeks ago the attention of Irish football fans has centered on the b~ttle for the quarterback position left vacant by departing All-American Joe Theismann. 
There are three candidates in the running for the field general's job in '71. Sophomore Pat Steenberge, who served as Theismann's backup man last season appears to have a slight edge on sophomore Jim Bulger and freshman Cliff Brown, who are pressing him for the number one spot. 
Backfield coach Tom Pagna talked about the qualifications of each of the candidates the other day in his office at the ACC. 
"Steenberge is running the number one offense right now and he has been moving the club. He throws well and he has experience," Pagna commented. 
"Bulger has an exceptionally strong arm but because of his build (6'5", 200 lbs.) he isn't a good scrambler. Brown is a very good thrower and he's quick. Cliff lacks experience though." 
"Every day there is a constant evaluation our players," Pagna continued. "We've got to go with the man that gets the job done. Based on what we've seen, Pat's experience makes him the front-runner. He's the man to beat out. If either Bulger or Brown really stands out though, the situation could change." 
It is certain that the coaching staff will decide just who the number one man is going to be by the end of Spring practice. It's impo~ta~t that the quarterback question by settled before workouts begm m earnest next August. 
"We will try and resolve the position before May 1," Pagna said. "We have to choose one man and stay with him. Telling a kid that he is going to be the number one quarterback takes a lot of pressure off him and gives him confidence. It helps the team too, knowing who the leader is." 
Thus, it would seem that the starter in the Blue-Gold game, just two weeks away, will be the quarterback for the Irish come September. The other backfield positions are not as questionable as the quar­terback spot. The '71 Irish will boast a number of good runners. 
John Cieszkowski, a junior who really came into his own at the end of last season, looks like the best fullback on the squad. "Chiz" is a fine blocker, a hard runner and he can catch too. 
Any Huff, who sat out last year after a fine sophomore campaign in '69, has been looking solid while running with the number two offense this Spring. 
Dick Zielony, a junior, is also awailable and he's seen action the past two seasons. 
The halfback spot is even more solid, with at least a half dozen capable runners who can step in and do the job. Sophomore Larry Parker, a scoring threat from anywhere on the field, and junior Ed Gulyas, the leading rusher last season shape up as the top tandem thus far but Bobby Minnix, a junior, and Darryl Dewan, a sophomore, both of whom saw plenty of action last Fall, could win a job. 
A pair of freshmen, Greg Hill and Gary Dominick, have also been impressive during the first weeks of Spring drills. 
Since Parseghian and Pagna arrived on the du Lac campus the Irish have been blessed with outstanding quarterbacks and strong runners. It would appear that, next season, Ara can count on a solid bunch of ball carriers but his quarterback will be unheralded. At another school, that might be cause for concern but at Notre Dame, unkn~wn quarterbacks have a way of making themselves heard about m a hurry. 
After all, who'd ever heard of a kid named John Huarte before 1964'? or of a skinny guy named Theismann who came off the bench in '68 to stun the Trojans'? 
Place your bets on the Irish, boys. Whoever the quarterback is next Fall, he'll lead Notre Dame to the top. 

is slated to start for the Irish 
Friday while sophomore righty 
Mike Riddell and freshman right­

hander Jim Noe are listed as 
probably starters for Saturday, 
doubleheader. 

Rugby 

Notre Dame's rugby team, which dropped its season opener two weeks ago to the Indianapolis Reds will attempt to chalk up its first :.Vin of the year against the Cleveland Blues Saturday in Cleveland. 
The Irish suffered a number of injuries against Indianapolis and two of the N.D. starters, Bill Choquette and John Zukaitis, will probably have to sit out Satur­day's game. There will be plenty of ruggers on hand though. 
In addition to the first unit, the 

Irish will also bring along "B" 
and "C" teams to take on the 
Blues. 

Crew 

The Notre Dame crew team is also in action this weekend. The Irish rowers will host a crew from Wayne State Saturday at 2 
p.m. on thz St. Joe river in Mishawaka. 
Last weekend the Irish rowers were in Springfield, Ill., com­peting against crews from Purdue, Morris-Harvey and Washburn. 
The freshman and junior varsity boats placed second in their races while the varsity crew had to settle for a third place finish. 

A lethargic showing in the first half proved to be the demise of the Notre Dame lacrosse team's four game winning streak as the Irish stickmen went down to defeat 7-4, to the University of Michigan. Michigan blitzed Notre Dame with six first half goals and the Irish were unable to overtake the Wolverines despite a 3-1 advantage in the second half. Coach O'Leary commented on Notre Dame's sluggishness in the first half, "Michigan came out and played excellently and we just weren't ready for them. By the time we settled down it was too late." 
The loss was the first official defeat that coach O'Leary has experienced and he treated the 

Tennis 

The Notre Dame tennis team, idle since hosting the Irish Indoor Invitational Tourney March 25 through 28, will be back in action again this weekend, playing four matches on the road. 
The Irish start their junket today, taking on Indiana State University in Cincinnati. The ND netmen play two more matches in Cincinnati tomorrow, opposing the U. of Cincinnati and Bradley University. Sunday, the Irish wind up their trip in Muncie, Ind., playing a match with Ball State. 
The Irish led by standouts Buster Brown, Bernie Lesage, and Mike Reilly, boast a 7-5 record this season. 

Golf 

The Notre Dame golf team finished far back in a field of nineteen teams last weekend in the Ohio State Invitational. The Irish golfers, still feeling the effects of the winter lay-off, placed fourteenth in the 54 hole tournament. 
Fr. Durbin, coach of the golf team, expressed slight disap­pointment with the team's showing. "I knew that the Big Ten teams were pretty strong, but I hadn't expected Miami University, Ohio University, and Ball State to be as tough as they were. However, all those schools keep their golf courses open over the winter and have a little bit 
matter •in stoic fashion. "We knew that Michigan would be the best team we've faced all season, we just didn't perform properly in the firsthalf. In the second half we played the game we should have played from the start." Asked if he thought there was that much difference between the two teams, O'Leary answered, "No, the reversal of play in the two halves proved that we're about even." 
The game was played on tartan turf and the majority of Notre Dame's players were not properly attired for the slick surface. "We had a lot of boys slipping because of the artificial turf and a light rain, but I don't think it was that great of a factor. 

better weather to work with." 
Jimmy· Dunn took medalist honors for Notre Dame with rounds of 77-83-79. Denny Conroy turned in scores of 85-82-78 to. finish second for the Irish. The other members of the team finished in the following order, Chuck Voelker, 241 total; Bob Bettaglia, 247; Mike LaFrance, 253; and Chris Byrd, 258. 
Fr. Durban evaluated the team's performance by saying. "The boys' scores right now are as bad as they'll be all season. I expect steady improvement from here on out." 
The team will get an op­portunity to improve on last week's showing, this Monday when they take part in the Mid­American Invitational tour­nament to be held at the University of Miami, of Ohio. The field will consist, mainly, of ­teams that competed in the Ohio State tourney of last week. 

Track 

The Notre Dame track team, coming off a second place finish in last weekend's triangular meet with Miami of Ohio and Bowling Green will be in action this weekend too. 
The Irish will participate in the Ohio State Relays today and Saturday in Columbus, Ohio. 
The dual meet with Army that had been scheduled for this Saturday at Carier Field was cancelled earlier in the week. 
Maybe it cost us one goal," opined O'Leary. 

Ed Hoban tossed in two goals, Ken Lund, one, and Paul Reagan, one, to account for Notre Dame's scoring. The Michigan goalie had been labeled as being somewhat weak on shots from out front; however, as O'Leary pointed out, he managed to handle the bounce shots of the Notre Dame at­tackmen quite well. 
The Irish will try to revert back to their winning ways this Saturday when they host Wooster College of Ohio. The game will begin at three o'clock behind Stepan Center. O'Leary ex­pressed the view that the game would be a spirited one, in that Wooster is a young team that likes to run. 


Page 8 THE OBSERVER. Friday, April 16, 1971 
SMC still looking for pres. 
Continued from page 3 
Hickey would be ideal for the job because he is experienced with the situations at St. Mary's and Notre Dame. 
As a faculty member, he, his proponents feel, would take a serious interest in the honoring .of rank and tenure and the merging of departments. As president, he could act as a spokesman for the faculty in negotiating thei.r contracts with Notre Dame, something the faculty thinks is very important. 

Dr. Hickey's supporters also believe that his work on com­mittees in the college will also be an asset if he decides to become a candidate. His experience at Notre Dame (he received his degrees here) may also prove valuable in working with Fr.
-Hesburgh, who, one represen­tative on the search committee revealed, has interviewed several of thz candidates himself. Although Dr. Hickey has not responded to the committee's invitation to submit his credentials, he said yesterday that he is giving the idea serious thought. Now that St. Mary's and Notre Dame are planning to merge, the Board's chief concerns seem to be negotiating a reasonable fee for the rental of the SMC buildings to Notre Dame, determining how many St. Mary's Board members will sit on the Joint Board and restoring good working relationship bet­ween the faculty, students and administration of St. Marv's. Mter several meetings with the Board, some of the represen­tatives of the search committee believe that Jhe Board, con-

on campus 
:};~~~ay••• 
SUNDAY 
2:00 & 8:00 movie-god­dard: peirrot le fou, cinema '71, washington hall, $1.00, patrons free. 
3:00 poetry reading­stephen spender: potius, carroll hall, smc. 
2:00 & 7:00 & 10:00 movies-non-violence program: the selling of the pentagon, cbs documentary, 122 hayes-
Transcendendal Meditation as taught by 
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi 
Transcendental meditation is a natural spontaneous technique which allows each indiviC. .al to expand his mind and improve his life: 
Introductory Meeting 
April 19 
4:30 at 205 O'Shaughnessy 
8:00 at 104 O'Shaughnessy 
STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL MEDITATION SOCIETY 

sidering the present state of appointment of a new president. affairs, is willing to do almost The response to a letter sent to anything to please the students. every student last summer 
But, the committee members asking for suggestions for can­contend, the students haven't didates was poor. Interest durinv VoicE:d much concern over the the year has been minimal. 
'Sex with out babies' 
Continued from page 1 
"Sterilization is removing of a " he said. 
CORRECTION Co-ex dinner tickets for Notre Dame students will be available in LaFortune ballroom only on Monday, : : April 19th from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. At this time students will be able to choose one day of : the week on which they : would like to eat at St. : Mary's the remainder of : the semester and obtain : tickets for those days. : 75 sets of tickets will be available on a first come first serve basis for each day of the week. If a student decides not to participate regularly in the program he may still ob­tain a ticket for an in­dividual day from the Student Union secretary on the fourth floor of . LaFortune. Approximately : 25 tickets a day will be : available in this manner : beginning April 21st. The : program will continue · through May 15th. 

University Arts Council 
Presents A LECTURE by 
Richard Bizot 
Black Music, and its Relation to Black Literature 
Sun 2:00p.m. Old Fieldhouse (Arts Center) 
' 

The Hall Life Commission needs staff members Contact Bob Higgins 
/ 

at 6413 or 8033 
He explained that today it is safe, quick, and easy for either men or women to be sterilized. And he added that the sterilized person is "biologically and physiologically the same" with the exception that he cannot produce children. 
Dr. Wood's opinion was that, in most cases, the woman should be sterilized. First, divorce and remarriage patterns make this more feasible. Second, since the woman bears the child and does much of the rearing, she should decide when to stop having them. Finally, the incidence of psychological problems resulting from sterilization, although not high in men, is very low in women. 
"It is really important," said Dr. Wood, "for the man to, emotionally as well as psychologically, accept the vasectomy and not consider it as a reflection of his masculinity." 
He also explained that the operations are sometimes reversible. Depending upon variables such as quality of first surgery and ability of second surgeon, between 0 and 85 per cent of reversals have succeeded. 

Concerned About the Future 
POLLUTION 

Lake Erie Dies! Is Lake Michigan Nexf? New York City Suffocates in own 
Waste! 

4000 Die in London Smog! NUCLEAR ENERGY Pesticides Found in Artie! 
Thermal Pollution? 
Oil smothers in Santa Barbara 

More Brownouts? Peaceful Nuclear Explosives? Controlled Fusion Fallout? 
CE 213 MAN AND HIS ENVIRONMENT 
2 MWF THIS FALL ME 213 NUCLEAR ENERGY 3 MWF THIS FALL 
OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS Notre Dame and St. Mary'sSophomores and above 
You've read about it in the Observer...you've heard you're friends talk about it...Now Experience it! 
- - - 
Cape Cod ­ Toledo  -Ka nKa Kee  
presents  

Resurrection 
(an expanded version of our initial Elbow-Bender) 
Friday April 16 "Beer Slayer" will 
8:30 p.m. til 1:30 a.m. make an appearance Held in the 
Basement of Alumni 
(enter by rear entrance) 
-Revive and Imbibe after a long winter ­
Guests and members urged to attend! 
Pepsi's got alot to give.

If you want to help people, If you want to help improve the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community, then the 
Human Affairs Commission 
Needs YOU to work on: 
Co-education  Counselling  Programs  
Freshman  Y e a r  Minority Programs  
Programs Crisis phones  International Orientation  Students  

For further information call Steve Fortunato at 8515 or contact him through the Student Government Offices. 


