-----~--~~--


Homecoming weekend happened without the traditional revelry except, of course, for the obvious ...... . 
If new plan passes 
Nine-man board may run ND, St. Mary's Student Government 
Tlw Constitutional Revision Committee 
will n•eornmend thP creation of a nine-man 
hoard to run lhP combined ND-SMC 
studPnt govPrnmPnts, Chairman Ed Ellis 
rPvealed last night. Under th<' plan, the 
n<'W body would rPplace both ND's studPnt 
senatP and SMC's assPmbly. 
Tlw plan, drawn up by I<:llis, Hall Life ('ommissiorwr Bob Higgins, and Academic Com m issiorwr FrPd Giuffrida. would dividP thP merged campus into six districts. ThP Board would b(' composed of a r·pprcsPnlative or "commission~r" from Paeh district, lhP Chairman of the Hall PresidPnls' Couneil, and the StudPnl Body Prcsid('nl, and Vice-PresidPnt. both of whom would hP elected as they eurrently an•. 
Under the plan, the Board would be the sole student legislative body. Minus the SBVP, it would serve on the SLC as student representatives. Each district com­
missioner would determine the policy of one cabinet position in student govern­ment. 
ThP Constitiutional RPvision Commit!<'(' is eurrl'nlly split into six subcommittt('eS, Pach one <'om'<'rrwd with drawing up a diffPrPnl sel'lion of lh(' plan. ThP nPw eonstitution will contain chang('s in the eomposition and roles of the .Judicial ('mmeil. Studl'nl Union. and llall LifP ('ommissiorwr. ThP systPm l•:llis HopPs will go into <'ffpel on April I. 
l•:llis fp(')s that this systPm will hP far supPrior to th<' curn•nt on<'. Aecording to l•:llis, "thl' nPw system will takP th<' 50 man S<·nat<·. the (i SLC m('mlwrs and lh<' 10 eahirwt rn<'mhPrs and eomprPss thPm into it mon• pffieient group. It will also plae<' tlw Ill'(' ehairman on lhP Board of ('ommissiorwrs and thP SLC. This will alios tlw various vipws of halllifp to hav<' a din•et voi<'<' in all decisions." 
Tlw rww constitution must he ratifiPd by <•itlwr a eampus wid<• rpfprendum in which fill p<·r· ePnl nf lh<' l'>tudPnts must votP and a fifty p<•rcPnt majorityofthosPvoting must h<· aehi<'VPd. or thP eiiiT<'nl StuclPnl S<•nal<• and the SMC ass('mhly. 
Blantz attacks hall autonomy 
SLC members analyze new hall life rules 



Rev. Thomas Chambers C.S.C. "The systems of hall councils, RA's and section leaders have brought the students closer together." 
fJhotos by mike murphy 
By Daniel P. Rock 
Four members of the Student Life Council endorsed the resolutions passed last Thursday night but a fifth, Rev. Thomas Blantz, an Administrative repre­sentative, attacked the concept of hall autonomy and expressed grave reserva­tions about the bill as a whole. 
"I voted against the Resolution by the Hall Life Commitee because ... I was opposed to the substance of them," said Blantz, Studenti·Affairs Vice President 
The other four members laso protested, "the method in which they were submitted and passed." 
Hall Life Committee Chairman Buz Imhoff, Hall Life Committee members Prof. Peter Thornton and Rev. Thomas Chambers. and Student Body President John Barkett agreed that the SLC is moving in the "right dirction." 
"The SLC is a workable force," Imhoff. "This is by far the most formal proposal made by the SLC regarding parietals and since it has been so thought out it shows where the student body stands." 
Proposals from the HLC 
1. 
(accepted by the SLCJ -establishi!d University :,anctions against larceny, assault, and sale and distribution of drugs. Recommended sanctions against drinking and parietal violations be established by the halls. 

2. 
(rejected by the SLCJ established the hall judicial boards as the courts which would initiate the trials of the violators of Univerity rules. 


3: (accepted by the SLCJ · would have halls establish the1r own rules pertaining to the "good order of the hall," including parietal rules. · 
The four assenting members agreed that hall life has changed in recent years and for the better. 
"The systems of the Hall Councils, Resident Assistants and Section Leaders have brought the students closer together." said Chambers. "The students have the greatest respect for the resident assistants and the resident assistants have hl'en very effective in maintaing good ordPr." 
Rlantz, howPver, expressed deep con­cPrn over the resolutions. 
"These two resolutions entail a very fundamPntal changl' in the UnivPrsity's Disciplinary Cod('. This Cod<' was the result of long Wl'eks of study and discussion and yl't, Thursday night the SL(' votecl a majpor revision of the Code aftpr discussion of a little over an hour." 
ThP second proposal of the Hall Life Committe(' was not accepted by the SLC. ThosP intcrvicwPcl concurred that they are not sUI'(' what changes will be madp by thP HulPs and RPgulations Committel' of the 
SLC hut it will not hP brought about bl'forP thP Roard of Trus!('es on October 22 
(Continued on page 3) 
----~ -------~--~-----------., 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Monday, October Ill, 1971 

Brown :ntet with :ntilitants 
•

prior to shooting, cops say r~«~?!~~!~I;~l
lcl 1!171 New York Times shootout with the police at the Neither Brown's family nor his 
I!Pd C'arpd Lounge. They were I<~V.)'I'I'S would identify him at London -Prime Minister Heath of Britain ordered an immediate Nt>w York. Oc:. 17 -The St. identified as Arthur LPe Perry, tlw hospital on Saturday. inquiry into charges, printed in a London newspaper, that brain­Louis police said Sunday that H. 2:1. Sam PPtly, 2:l. and Levi William Kunstler who is washing and third-degree interrogation methods are being used Hap Brown and three men seized \';dPntinl', 24. l'etty was said to n•pn•spnt ing Brown in fedC'ral against men detained in Northern Ireland. The Prime Minister invited with him early Saturday mor­havl' hPen known as Brown's chargPs, said after viewing the two leaders of the opposition Labor Party to a meeting Monday to ning after a robbery at a West hodyguarrl. All three nwn arc 
prisoner through a small apar­discuss the charges.Side bar here were seen together wanted hy the St. Louis police on 
ture into his hospital room that in that city several weeks ago. criminal charges. inelurling an 
he could not determine that the The Hague, Netherlands-Dutch officials, having seized a planeloadAccording to an informant for indietm<•nt for carrying 
man was Brown. of Czechoslovak-made arms they believe was intended for the Irish the St. Louis police, the fugitive fi n•a rms. 
llaywoorl Burns of the National Republican Army for use in Northern Ireland, began a search for black militant leader had been Brown's identity bt-canw 
<'ouneil of Black lawyers. who David O'Connell, the chief of staff of the militant wing of the I.R.A. nweting with the other men, known after he was shot twice on 
was admitted to the recovery They said that the arms were to have been turned over to a "Mr. members of the black liberators, the roof of a building on West 
room sairl the man "rlid not look Doogan" in Amsterdam who may have been O'Connell. an activitist group in that city ll:lth Street, where he had been 
lik<' Mr. Brown." that had lost its influence in follow<'d by a policemen after the 
HPiat iV<'s of Brown who visiter! recent months. bar robbery. Police here and I<'BI the hospital declined to comment. Athens -Vice President Agnew met secretly for three hours with The St. Louis police reported agents in Washington eonfirmC'd While the police were c<·rtain Premier George Papadopoulos, the Greek regime strongman, near 
that one of the men, whom they his identity through separate 
that the man was Brown, they Athens. Later, Agnew, who is on a controversial official visit to could not identify, had gone to checks of his fingerprints. 
wt>r<' busy today trying to make Greece, called the consultations with the Greek leader "Useful and Cairo. TIL, and that they had lost Meanwhile, Brown was booked 
arrangements for his encouraging." Despite Agnew's indication that the talks were about track of the other two. by telephone at a West Side prosecution here on charges of NATO affairs, it was believed that the restoration of democracy to The men were being held here station house, but his arraign­armed robbery, assault and Greece was discussed. in $150,000 bail each after a ment was delayed until he is 
possession of weapons.Corso announces physically able to appear in "Our charges will take court. He suffered two gunshot Jli'C'CedC'nce over all others," a Ottawa-Soviet Premier Aleksei Kosygin arrived in Ottawa for an appointments wounds and was taken to police department spokesman eight-day visit to Canada that many diplomatic observers believe was Hoosevelt Hospital, where he is said."There obviously was an timed to convince Canadians that they have other possible friends J<:ditor-in-Chief Glen Corso 
under guard by the police. attempt to kilL" than the United States and China. 
announced yesterday several new appointments to the 


editorial staff of the Observer. Named as Assistant Editors were T. C. Treanor, former Executive I<:ditor and John M. Ahowd, former News Editor. .Jerry Lutkus was named to fill the post of News Editor, while Don Ruane, former Managing I<:ditor, was named Campus I<:ditor. 
Corso said the appointments were effective Monday October tilth. 


Save up to $3.00! Major label LP's! Top artists! 
Many, many selections in this special purchase. Classics included! Hundreds. of records! Come early for best selection! 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE 
Sale starts today!
TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Please add sales tax where applicable 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the 


The Hammes 
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 

Notre Dame Bookstore 
46556. 
Monday, October Ill, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Blantz calls Parietals 'Christian'. 
(Continued from page I) 
llall Life Committee's second 
proposal, d~aling with judicial 
policy, Imhoff said, "I really 
wasn't disappoinll.'d. We might 
h<t VI.' been a little out of our field. 
W<> just don't have <'Xpl.'rts and it 
was the least important of the 
thrl.'<' resolutions." 
Professor Thornton respondl.'d Ihat aIt hough he is not acquainted with th<> composition of lh<' judicial boards, "All viol<~ I ions will still go before the Dean ot StudPnts. The actions votPd on wouldn't affect a chang<' of rnachin<>ry, but we did fpp( it was a worthwhile reeommendation." 
It was the third proposal which achil'vl'd thP most controversy. Chamhl'rs said that he is very much in favor of "thl' respon­
27 student nurses 
help MANASA 
MANASA opened its member­ship to the students of Memorial Nursing School, according to President Bruce Hooper. 
Twenty-seven student nurses out of a total student l'nrollment of one hundred and l'ighty signed up at the meeting held thl're. Memorial Nursing School SBP Debbie Powell and SVP Janet Stults will act as the t•oordina ling officers. 
MANASA, the ND-SMC chapter of the Mental Health Association, has about one hundred and twenty volunteer!' from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
sibilities of hall autonomy." 
Imhoff  said  that  he  was  
£'specially  pleased  "that  our  
third resolution passed."  

Student Body President John BarkPit contended, "I think it is a good report. Like I said earli<·r. if implemented, I'm sure many fears will be disproven." 
Blantz on the other hand, opposed and voted against the third proposal. "Hall autonomy first of all needs a clear d<'finition.• We speak of complete autonomy' or limited autonomy, but 1wrhaps this isn't correct. Perhaps autonomy is like pregnancy: you cannot be slightly pregnant or partially pregnant; you are either pregnant or you are not. Could a hall decide that it no longer wanted thP University's maid service or fire insurance or electricity, for example? It is my optnton that Hall autonomy needs a lot more thought nd study." 
Fr. Blantz's final objection was that he feared the resolution 
would invite open visitation in the halls 
"I am not arguing that the hours have to be eleven o'clock or two o'clock, but that we should have some hours. There is a question of the moral en­vironment. If public hotels show 
some concern over unmarried men and women spending the night together, the I think a Catholic university professing publicly to be following the teachings and example of Christ should be much more concerned with the creation of an en­vironment here of high Christian standards and ideals. Fur­thermore, given the academic nature of a university and the importance of personal study, I think it is good that there can be a time when such socializing ceases and an atmosphere of study and quiet can prevail." 
Whether or not the resolutions will be accepted by the Board of Trustees is another story. Buz Imhoff said, "I don't know, but it should be interesting." 


Cat Stevens here Nov. 5; seating limited to 4,000 
Cat Stevens will appear in concert at the ACC, Nov. 5 at 8:00 p.m., according to Social Commissioner Don Mooney. Tickets will be made available on WPdnesday evening. 
The two hour concert will incluck a performance by singers Mimi Farina and Burt .Jans. 
Limited sealing is available sincP Stevens' contract will permit an audience ol no more than 4000. Because no bleacher seating will be sold, Mooney suggested that students shoiuld purchase tickets as soon as possible before they go on sale to the general public. According to Mooney, tickets will be sold at $4.50 and $3.50 per person. 
Further information ex­plaining whenre tickets will be sold will appear in the Observer laler this week. 






AKAI 250D TAPE DECK 
Reg. $399.95 Save $1 00.00 Introductory Sale Price $299.95 




sates and. scr'J\ce 
3\0 n,m\c\,\gan ~2-\b\\ 
4 heads 3 motors 

automatic reverse solenoid operations automatic shut-OH pause control sound-on-sound mixing 

remote control option 30-22,000 cycle response 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER '\Iunday, Odober Ill. 1!171 
Hunt finds no help in councilntan bid 
by Anthony Abowd 
You'n, making a big mistake if ~·ou count too heavily on citizen participation in your campaign for office. Or at least that's what Douglas Hunt a Notre Dame gracluatc, has learned in his t'UlTPnt eontest for the South lknd Common Council. 
"The single most important :mistake I've made" said Hunt "was overestimating people's receptivity to getting involved in politics." He is running as the lkmocratic candidate for Third District City Councilman. 
With the election barely two weeks away Hunt is appealing to local college students to help in his campaign. "It's not as prestigious as campaigning for a prcsidPntial candidate but it has a much greater chance of suc­cess." he said. 

This summer Hunt walked through his entire 5,000 household district and broke it clown into neighborhood sections. 
l·~ach sP!'fion was supposed to ha\'1' a campaign nwn;lgPr from !lw nt'ighburhood. "l had high ambitions for the campaign and had Pliminated much of the drudgt-ry of campaign work hut I'm not getting cooperation from thP resiclents." 
"<:1'1 I ing people to work in politics is like pulling your head against a grinding wheel," Hunt says. This is ironic he claims because his platform stresses citizen involvement in local government. 
llunt believes that students coulcl wm·k for the common council for college credit. "They could be invaluable for insight and reports," he said. 
The third clistrict has never elected a Democratic coun­cilman, and this is an aclvantage for Hunt's opponent, according to the candidate. But Hunt points out that a recent reap­portionment and new housing have changed the political climate of his district. 

!SearsI •••••new from Sears 

behold, the beautiful specially designed posters glow with scin­tillating color. Posters, in sets of 3, in many designs. Choose from 6 sets. 
$13 9~ 
\ 
I 
8 ww black\light Posters ... $.99 

Black light, good-looking in wood-grained finish with chrome trim. South Bend Mishawaka 
Plymouth 
Goshen
Elkhart Niles 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up this week for job interviews for the week of October 18 through 22. 
Interviews are open toN D and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 
B: 00 a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding interviews and prodedure. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF OCTOBER 25 29. 
Oct. 25 INTERVIEWS FOR GRADUATE BUSINESS AND LAW SCHOOLS Oct. 28 GRADUATE SCHOOLS OF BUSINESS Oct. 29 
Thunderbird Graduate School of International Management New York University SCHOOLS OF LAW Boston College 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS JOB INTERVIEWS Oct. 25 Sears, Roebuck and Co. -Data Processing. 
All Liberal Arts graduates interested in Data Processing Management Training Program. Oct. 28-29 General Electric Company. 
Liberal Arts graduates for Financial Management Programs, only. COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION JOB INTERVIEWS Oct. 25 Crowe, Chizek and Company. 
BBA and MBA in Accountancy. Sears, Roebuck and Co.. Data Processing. Oct. 25-26Bethlehem Steel Corp . 
BBA in Accountancy. Oct. 26 Amoco International Oil Co. BBA in Accountancy. 
Oct. 27-28Arthur Young & Co. 

BBA in Accountancy. MBA. LLB with undergraduate emphasis in accounting. General Electric Co. BBA in Acct., Fin., Mgt. for Financial Management Program only. 
Oct. 28-29Monsanto BBA in Accountancy. Oct. 29 Detroit Bank and Trust Co. 
BBA and MBA. 

E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. BBA in Acct. MBA. (May and August graduates only.) 
There are still a few seats available for 737 UNITED JET for Thanksgiving Ticket Prices: $30°0 
1) Departure: Nov. -one way $52°0 ­
24, 1971 South 
round trip Bend -Wed. at 
2:00 pm. Arrival: 
Transportation from 

National Airport Campus to Airport at 3:45 pm. included 
2) Departure: Nov. 
28, 1971 National Airport -Sun. at From the (;olden 

10:00 pm. Arrival: Dome to the 
South Bend Airpor Capitol Dome at 11 :45 pm. 
For reservations call 6934 -Way, n.~J~911 or 1765 -Bill
1 

Fettan after 5:00 on Monday On Tuesday call Wayne Hall at 6934 after 5:00 
-------~------------­
1\lomla~.'. lll"luht•r Ill. 1!171 
THE OBSERVER. ~age 5 
kelly flynn 

poco & liv-rapport plus 
Poco delivered a superb concert last Saturday, but their music served it's full impact during the magnificent encore set. Richie Furay's twelve string lead'>, backed by Paul Cotton, and an impromptu drum solo by George Grantham drove most of the convo ~udience to a new understanding of Poco's country­
based rock style. "A Man Like Me "Showed theit remarkable spontaneity in a strong bass line layerf'rt with improvisations by l<,uray and Cotton whict. Clapton would have been proud to call his own. 
"Oh, Forgiver", featuring the steel guitar of Rusty Young seemed a blend of country sounds with the latin rhytms of Carlos Santana. Country funk, toe-stomping, hand-clapping, and an enthusiastic audience coupled with a twangy steel guitar heard above all turned the concert into a live affair. 
People left their seats in the upper rows, much to the chagrin of the convo ushers, and gleefully danced to the center of the floor. A true rock concert now developed. Forgetting the artificial boundaries of the convo sections, pure joy and enthusiasm carried the free spirit of Poco to those present. No rock concert with a group as dynamic as Poco should be held where the listeners have to confine their enjoyment to narrow scats. 
Audience reaction to Poco remained high at all limes. The start of a new song didn't raise th "Ahiyes" reaction of a top-40 group like3-Dog Night, o, even the Beach Boys, but rather an expactant waitini. from an appreciative audience. For their personal 
style of music, they showed a great degree of ver· satility both in their instrumental work and their vocal harmonies. Their vocal style has more balance and subtlety than Crosby, Stills, and etc., a grour frequently compared to them. There was nothing to bP desired in their fourway harmonies. 
Any of the wild dancing crowd will testify to the l'nthusiasm Poco stirred up in the Notre Darner crowd often noted for Lethargic behavior at concerts. Poco did just what they promised, they "kicked up their heels, and never slowed down." 
Livingston Taylor, with a voice so close to James they could be brothers, was mellow and easy. He was a "little country, but not too much." With his back-up group consisting of only Walter Robinson on bass, he was completely at ease. His music ranged from a felician()-Jike quality of string and voice to a rendering of "Somewhere Over the Rainbow". With a light rapport established with his audience, he rendered a blues style "6 Days On the Road", definitely a truck driver's song complete with the audience's happy clapping. 
His guitar style never varied from his clear simple rhythms. Liv plays a lyrical melody, either on guitar or piano, with no complications to cloud the honesty of his contented voice. Calling McCartney a "talented guy, 
kevin rogers 

mostly", he did his most soulful song of the night, his version of "A Little Help from my Friends", probably the most original interpretation since Joe Cocker's. 
Outside of his coke commercial and similar homorous comments , tenderness best describes his sound. The people still smiled as he left the stage after the warm reception of "Carolina Day". An un­pretentious encore of "Dixie", and Liv was gone. What was that he said,"... a twist of lemon, shake, not stir." 
ufwoc and the farm workers, life and death 
Tlw history of farm lahor in the lJ .S. is a history of J)(;verty, discrimination and the Pvils of an unbalanced farm economy. Farm workers have met poverty and lost to illlwalth. malnutrition and a eentury of invisibility. Farm workers have met discrimin~ttion and lost their 'selves' to the catPgorieal dpstruetion of institutionalized ral'ism. l•'arm workers have met the farm industry with repeated organizational alll'mpls for humane wages and working <'<mditions. losing t'ach time to the in­diffen•nc·c• of an ever-growing eorporate strudure -i.e. agribusness. 
The• farm workers' goals of human dignity and organization are basic to survival and are, indeed, difficult to sc•p<tratP. To become a 'new man' chara<'tl'rized by pride and self­awan•m>ss; it is necessary for the poor to lweornP, at the same limP, 'economic man' l'h<tral'IPrized by power and social in­rJuc•m·c•. To live with self-worth and organize for eollective needs are basic to ciPmocrac·y and capitalism-the American way uf life. 
The farm worker is geographically and s<M:ially isolated. He is as near as fifty milc•s and as far as ignorance will allow. II<• is the bla<·k, brown and white American trapped in a cycle of pov~rt){ 1 ..an,d mi~ration. l<'ew of his fellow work,ers ~~I livP hl'yond forty-nine years, his child has a 125 per cent greater chance of dying during ~l'Station and his wife is not likely to su<·ceed birth. Illness and debilitating aceid<•nts on the job oceur 200-:JOO per cent above the national avcrage. The above in eombination with an annual income bt'low thrce thousand dollars is a slight portrait of t hc farm life. 
Since Jhc early sixties the dPprivation and discontPnt of the farm workers has hc•pn amplified by the flpdgling United l•'arm Worker Organizing Committee of ('psar Chavez <in 1966 supportPd and n•eo~nized under the Al<'L-CIO banner). ! WWOC. by nPcessity, was a true grass roots movemPnt by the farm laborers ­isolation demands such initiation. 
I>Pspite ensuing strikl's by workers, following initial civil rights and union a<'I ivity. agribusiness progressed unim­peded by virtue of illegal, foreign < MPxican nationals) strikPbreakers. 
Five ypars of strikes and strikebreaking rPsultcd in the cxtension of picket lines ovPr the world -wherever scab grapes wc•re s<•nt. 
SU<'<'l'SS is not unknown to the lJRWOC, how('ver, influential 'hold-out' growers remain intransigent and refuse the union r<•cognition or elections. 
HPrP and now. the boycott of scab grapes is actually opposing wholesale and retail outlets dealing with farms that bar a just struggle and condcmn their labor to a 'ma<·hine' <•xistence. 
Thc Indianapolis Boycott Office is prt•s<•nlly waging a campaign to involve Indiana's universities in a coordina.ted Pffm·t to bring justice and dignity to these Jhousands of California's farmworkers. W<' arl' looking for bases of opPration to proCPf'd with intra-city organizing in conjudion with the priorities of the In­dianapolis office as well as the national priorities. Hopefully, these contacts would h<' used to secure as wide a power base as possible, inducing clergy, teachers, housewivt's and labor to join with the studPnts and farm workers in this struggle. A filmstrip and commentary are being circulated in an attempt to publicize thc often ignored plight of America's farm workPrs. The Notre Dame showing will shortly be announced. 
Thi~ type of volunteer work, on which lhl' lWWOC so heavily relies, is an ideal way of learning through experience the tac·tics of community organizing, politics. Peorwmics and labor management relationships. 
The situation in Indianapolis has been or1e mainly of conflict with t.his countries Jhrl'e largest food chains : A&P; National <Standard I: and Kroger. Cha'lns of this size have buyers that deal directly with the growc•rs that comprise California's agribusiness. These companies have c•rwrmous <'conomic interests in these grow<•rs and of course vice-versa. The ehains have bPen regularly insistent in holding out against the farm workers for as long as it was economically feasible 
<i.e. for as long as the growers, in an at­tc•mpt to break the boycott. could afford to rPimhursp tlw chains). When it rt'aehed tlw point of monetary roily for hot h the ehains and the growers to eontinue the haliiP eontract.s between the growers and farmworkPrs wPre signed. II was in this mamwr of ehanging the stores' buying polieies that 90 percent of California's table grape industry capitulated in the summc•r of 1970. The non-violent boycott was provl'nto be the backbone of the farm workPrs. 
llowev<•r, since it is legally impossible to for<'<' a written agreement from the chains in rPgard to I heir purchasing policies, they oft-limPs wave and carry segments of the rPmining 10 percent of unorganized grap!'s. Nonetheless, even 10 per cent of thl'Sl' grapPworkers being subject to the dchumanizing conditions of subsistance housing and food, child labor and pesticide ahus<' is simply not to be tolerated by the farm workers, the union or the American ~·onsumPr. So the boycott continues. 
· Legislation is trying to be passed in California that could mean the death of the !WWOC. Letters must be sent im­mediately to Lawrence O'Brien DPmocratic National Committee 2f,()ll Virginia Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 
I<'or further information as to this legislalion, and what to write as well what you can do directly to aid the plight of the farmworker call Mike Rogers 310 Keenan Hall phone 28:\-3318 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER Monday. Oelober HI, 1971 
Letters to the Editor-Beerslayer defended 
Editor: 
Amidst flashbacks of previous ~·cars tarnished with authoritarianism and repression at the hands of secondarv school principals. nuns. and the-like, we are. needless to say. stunned bv the orthodox voice~ crying out i~ 

the  Letters  to  the  Editor  on  
Wednesday  concPrning  the  
refreshing  spontaneity  of  

NO-Michigan St. halftime. It is indeed unfortunate that the band was obstructed considering their hours of practice and efforts (to what turned out to be their usual fine performance) and we certainly do not condone any repititions of this. But are we to bdieve the conformists' reprovals, like so many slaps on the wrists. will be tolerated by Notre Dame's collective free souls? To all you image­conscious nit-pickers who would prefer the suppression of those "20-30 percent" unabashed Summerhill children, we say, "Hot Chili is Groovy," and "Go Irish!" 
Mike McQuestion Steve Podgorski 
.Jim Neff 
Kurt Bottjer 
324 Lyons 

Editor: 
On Friday, October I, there was a pep rally where the sam·e "grossness, nudity, immaturity, and drunkenness" occurred as on the field during half-time of the Michigan State game. At­tending such Friday night rallies 
Some research "experts" say you can't taste the difference between beers... blindfolded. 
WHEN YOU SAY 

Budweiser 
YOU'VE SAID IT ALL! 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 

has. is. and alwavs will be a mu::.t for visiting pare~ts . friends. and alumni. By their presence and participation, we must assume they both enjoy and condone this type of spirit. 
Admittedly, a pC'p rally should not o£'eur to its fullness during a game. out of eonsideration for others in attendance who come to watch the game. Nevertheless, throughout the stadium, openly in I he student section, and in thousands of homes, the same spirit is felt or actually acted out. 
During the Michigan State gamP, pPrhaps because of the regional telecast, the students got out of hand. Would one condemn them for their im­maturity or because therir ac­tions were broadcasted by ABC? From the tone of previous letters we conclude the writers were outraged because of this same spirit. hell raising, immaturity, C'Xhibition, or whatever one may eall it. was publicized to millions. 
They were outraged because the so called ND image was tar­nished. Isn't it hypocritical to eondone actions private to the ND community and then con­demn those same actions when publicized? 
We agree that the band deserves an apology for the rash and ill-timed actions of those of the field. But we do not propose to judge the maturity, class, or emotiona I stahili ty of those students. By this one incident, our alumni propose to pass this judgment. However, is this judgment secondary to their concern for our national image? B£'n Brees Tom Leitinger .James Gallas 627 South Fellows Editor, 
It was with considerable amusement that I read the let­ters to the editor concerned with the alleged gross and crude 
behavior  of  a  segment  of  the  
student  body  during  the  
Michigan State game.  

My question-Why weren't the actions of the players on the field consid£'red gross and crude also? 
I didn't find their actions to be particularly refined and gen­tlemanly. Anyway, in all probability there were fewer student injuries in their ac­tivities than those of the football players. 
But don't get me wrong. I enjoy these refereed grossidities truly; the game was on a higher level than the halftime display. After all, football has rules, precision, organization and structure. 
See you next Saturday Ed Watters Flanner 
Editor: 
I find the comments of Notre Dam£' supporters, i.e. Alumni, very enlightening. The in­nuendos and implied references arc simply astounding,in par­ticular, the letter opening with comm£'nts on "fringe groups" and their obvious connections with those shameful in­stitututions like Harvard Princeton, etc. really made m; nwrry. I would presume that this University actively pursues the goal of being thought of as the Catholic Harvard. Perhaps it is also wished that Notre Dame will retain its rough "jock image" 
!although in the heart of its not understanding what dif­Alumni. not on the tubel. It is fpn•nce football season makes obvious how much this would hut I)(' that as it may, it appear~ !'nhan('C thP worth of the Notre lwll raising is acceptable as long Danw diploma -you graduated as it isn't in front of a camera from somewhere and you are tube. sonwonl'. totally masculine to be I would agree that the band's sun•. "rights" were cnroached upon, 
This brings m£' to a second hut whil£' I thought the field point -both students present and display was pretty shoddy, it was past have this bewildering morP imaginativP than the identification with the football hand's produetion. As gor G­!Pam. It is thought that somehow Man's l£'tter, isn't breaking both thP football team's being a guy's legs a hit of a "coarse Number I makes all Domers aetivity" and not the action of a Numh£'r I. I would hate to maul re responsible, con­shattPr illusions by submitting sid£'rate .... that the achievements of the l\1(•anwhile folk hero Jamie football team belong to them Egan rates a f£'ature article. 
alorw. Any athlete worth hi's salt dopsn't need someone cheering Bill Godrey in his ear to tell him he is good, 
264 Morissey Manor 
he realizes that his test lies in proving his skills agaist an op­ponent not to an irrationally critical or idolizing rah-rah. 
Nt•w \' ork -Thirty-seven 
. To get back to the concrete drama. dance and opcr~ groupsIssue of the field display. The will receive $Hl million in grantsreal irony enters when Mr. Funk und£'r a new program disclosed usc~ ~~ch words as "creeps and by the Ford Foundation. The<'Xhibitwnists" when referring to purpose of the grants was said tothe fieldlings while saying that ht• to ('nablc th economically"no one can find much fault with troubled organizations to copeyouthful enthusiasm or a little with their aecumulated deficits.
hell raising on campus in the lwat of a football season." I must confess ignorance in my 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
Giant pillows 
Great ~o sit or lie on Fully Washable. Call Jim 8857. 
S-track Player;35 tapes. All for $125. Call Pat 1789. 
STUDENT RECORD SALES is open 
now. 
Save on new albums, large stock of latest cuts. 313 Morrissey Hall-Open Continually Ph. 3575 
Electric typewriter -Brand New! $125 1331. 
Quality 8-track tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50 Call 6715 
Prices slashed on all posters to reduce stocks. Posters that were $1.50 now $1.00-$1.25. For information come to 815 Flanner, 611 Grace or 315 South Regina or call 1694, 1167, or 4258. 
For Sale: 66 Jag For Sale: 66 JAG X TYPE E COUPE 4 Gear, 48,000 mi., AM-FM RadiO. Pirrellis Britsih Racing Green. Ca 11259-0662 John or Fred or see at 739 
E. 9th , Mish. 
Tameau Top for 1962-65 Triumph TR­
4. New (still in box) Originally $35. Now $25. 283-1762. 
1966 Valiant, 6 cyld., stick, con­vertible, $560 or best offer 233-9787. 
PERSONALIZED STATIONARY. 25 sheets and envelopes $2.95. Other styles and quantities available. Great fer gifts. Call Don 3729. 
Be safe. Prevent criminal assault with SHERIFF 50. New invention stops an attacker, even a gang, 1N­STANTLY. ONly $2.98. Richard Dunlap, 717 W. Marion, Mich. Call 259-4873. Free Delivery. 
FOUND 
Brown glasses by Regina parking !ot. Steve 1789. 
Ellen, whY do you keep me in suspense? Where-ever you are please call. Cliff Drysdale. 
Baby Browns, Baby Browns, Despite the cold war . Happy Bir­thday, Kid! 
WANTED 
Persons wanted to run a very profitable business. Earning abilities are unlimited and well above average. Mail qualifications to Mr. Warren, P.O. Box 503, Malden Mall., 02148 or call 617-261-1964. 
Need 2 adjacent general admission tickets to USC. Call TOM 287-2731. 
Wanted: Five general admissioo Navy tickets. Call Annabelle 5114 
ROYAL VALLEY SKI RESORT Main St. Buchanan, Mich. Wanted: certified and non-certified 
Ski Instructors and a ski director. 
Part-time help in lodge and on lifts. 
Phooe (616) 695-5862. 
NOTICES 
Fix your own car. Tonight. We have the SPACE+ TOOLS + PARTS AND HELP. You do the work and SAVE. Auttech-Rt. 31 South in Niles. 684-1960. 
Open evenings and weekends. 
Ma-rissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 
11:15-12:15. 
Will work on Volkswagens II years experience-reasonable. Call 272-3980 a-272-2765 after 4:00 PM. 
Share a two bedroom apartment one mile from campus. Apply in persoo 
5:30 pm at 638 N. St. Louis. 
Free . Viviane Woodard make-up lessons, samples, catalogs, gift wrapping. For appointment call: Mary 234-3839. 
Xall JOHANNA at 287-2731 for Appt.'s and Infor. concerning Viviane Woodard . Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE-UP LESSONS. 
Classified Classified Ads paid tor in
PERSONALS 
cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 12:15-5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on cWi before publicatioo.
All that is gold does not glitter---6719 



1\fonday, Ol'lolwr Ill, 1!171 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
The Irish forward wall rises up to block Ken Craven's field goal attempt in the third quarter of Saturday's game. This play enabled the Notre Dame defense to recm·d their second.straight shutout and 
boost their string of scoreless quarters to 14 and touched off ... 
' ' l ' ,,--.j 
bv .Jim llonaldson Sports Editor 

North Carolina eoach Hill Dooley n•marked Saturday, "NolrP llanw is the best dt'fPnsiv<' fool hall !Pam I've ever Sl'Pn." liP wouldn't hav!' gotten an argumPnl from any of th!' :,!1,07!i fans who watched the Fighting Irish whip th<• Tar llel'ls l!i-O in Notre I>ame Stadium. 
Tlw Irish dPfensivP unit, which has bPPn thP mainstay of th!' dub all spason. lurnPd in anolhPr outstanding pPrforrnanc!' Saturday, highlight!'d by a thrilling goal-line stand which pn•sPrvPd lhPir second con­SI'l'UiivP shutout and !'Xtl'nd!'d to 14 llw nurnbPr of quarters in which an oppon!'nt has been unabiP to score. 
Tlw Tar lll'£'1 d!'fenders were :1lmost as stingy as their Irish count!'l'parts, stopping Notre Dam!' driv!'s less than ten yards fmm llw goal line on four oc­casions before yielding a fourth quarter touchdown pass from sophomore Cliff Brown to his AII­Am£>rican split end, Tom l.ai!'WOOd. 
PlacPkiekPr Bob Thomas gave lhP Irish some breathing room, how!'v!'r, hy hooting field goals from 2R, 27 and 24 yards the first thr·e!' limPs Notre Dame had the hall. Tl.omas' trio of three­pointers tied the all-time Irish mark for field goals in a single gamP. sPI by Gus Dorais against TPxas in 1913. 
<:atPwood also set a record Saturday, surpassing Jim SPymour as thP premier receiver in Irish history by making his 1:19th car<'Pr r!'cPplion in the first 
quar!Pr. Cliff Brown. making his first start of the year, ran the Irish attack Saturday and performed capably, although he had pmbl!'ms nPgotiating the fin<' I few yards to the goal line on a l'oupll' of oe<'.tsions. 
One<'. lw underthrew Darryl lkwan on a short pass at the Tar 111'1'1 two that, if completed, would have been a sure six points, and a fourth quarter Bmwn fumble at the Carolina two cost th!' Irish a scoring opportunity. 
llis overall statistics were: nirw yards rushing in six carries and five pass completions in 14 
,'~ 
,,, 
< 

Tom Gatewood became the all­
time leading receiver in Notre 
Dame history when he made his 
I 59th career catch in the first 
quarter of the Carolina game. 
at tempts. good for R2 yards and a 
tou<·hdown. 
nrown's performance pleased Irish coach Ara Parseghian, who said, "I think Brown did a very good job at quarterback. He made some mistakes, but that is to he expected of a sophomore starting his first game." 
"Rased on his play today, T would say that Brown will start again," Parseghian added. 
The Irish wasted no time in g!'tling on the scoreboard Saturday. The Tar Heels made two first downs after receiving lhP opening kickoff hut Notre Dame gained possession when Walt Patulski dropp!'d Carolina quarterback Paul Miller for a loss and caused him to fumble. .Jim Musuraca recovered the bohhl!' at the T1r lleel 45. 
The Irish then pick!'d up a pair of first downs, to the Carolina 1R, on sPven running plays, hut after lkwan carried for five yards and c:ary Diminick for thre!', Rob Minnix was dropped for a loss on third down at the Tar H£>el 10 and Thomas came in to kick a 28 yard field goal. 
North Carolina registered a couple of first downs after the Pnsuing kickoff before being forced to punt to Mike Crotty at thP Pight. Crotty returned the hall to the Irish 11 and Notre 
ll;11111' slar!Pd to march clown­
f'iPid. 
Bill c:allaghPr and Dewan carriPd for a first down lo get the drivP rolling and Brown add!'d anotlwr hy gaining 12 yards on a kP<'JWr. Tlw soph signal caller tlwn unloadPd his first pass of the 
Hftt'rnoon. hitt in~ Catewooct for 
2!i yards at tlw Carolina :l9. 
I luff followl'd with a four yard adv<lll<'l', and, wlwn a Tar Heel playl'r tnt th<' Irish fullback after th!' whistle. l!i morP yards were tackl'd on. lliminiek and (~allagh!'r ran for anotlwr first down to the Carolina six hut th!' drive stalled tlwre. 
Minnix picked up a yard to the f'iv<' as the first quarter ended. On sN·ond down, at the south end of the fi£>ld. Brown missed DPwan in the open and, on the n!'xt play, Tar Heel linebacker .John Bunting blew in to drop Brown for a loss. Thomas salvag!'d three points with a 27 yard field goal. 
The Tar Heels almost came right hack to score with a razzle­dazzle play on the kickoff. Lew .Jolley took Scott Smith's boot at his goal line and ran up the middle to the ten yard line, then turrwd and passed to Earle lkthea standing near the sid!'line, behind a wall of hlock!'rs, at the Tar Heel seven. Bethea raced to the Irish 42 before Clarence Ellis forced him to trip over one of his own blockers. 
Explaining the trick play, Dooley said, "We had noticed that when the receiver ran straight to them iddle of the field, Notre Dame would really close in and converge on the runner. That's why we put in the lateral pass play. Tt worked well and could easily have gone for a touchdown." 
Ellis' outstanding effort saved six points and earned Par­sPghian's praise. "That was the gr·!'atest play I've !'ver seen in this stadium," he commented. 
Ellis earn!' up with another fine play just a few seconds later. Miller tried to pass on first down hut the hall !'nded up in Ellis' arms and Clarence returned th!' interception 18 yards to the Notre Dame 45 and, again, the 
-~ 
!lliJQ!Iil!gjl 

Bob Thomas etched his name In the Irish record book by booting three 
field goals against the Tar Heels. Irish headed toward paydirt, Patulski so the Tar Heels elected only to be thwarted a few yards to attempt a field goal. 
short. Not satisfied with protecting their goal, the Irish put on a big ..
It took Brown six plays to move the Irish to rush in an attempt to block the
the Carolina seven. Dewan ran for three field goal preserve
and their yards on first down but lost three shutout. The pressure was ef­on the next play. On third down, fective and Mike Kadish got 
a Rrown. under heavy pressure, hand on the ball, foiling Ken threw incomplete and Thomas Craven's three-point try, and kicked another three-pointer, setting off a celebration in the 
from 24 yards out. 
stands and among the Irish d!'fenders.

Neither club came close to The Tar Heels were kept inscoring for the remainder of the 
ch!'ck the remainder of the wayhalf, and the Irish left the field at but the Irish still had a few of­intermission leading 9-0. 

f!'nsiv!' thrills in store. 

The seeond half opened mildly A 4R yard punt return by Crotty Pnough, with the Irish and !'arly in the fourth quarter gave Carolina Pxchanging punts,but Notre Dame a first down at the the tempo picked up early in the Tar ll!'el seven, hut that op­third quarter when the Tar portunity faded quickly when lle!'ls recovered a Notre Dame Brown, after picking up five fumble on the Irish 35. yards on a k!'ep<•r, fumbled the 
hall away to the Tar Heels at thPA pass interference call gave Carolina two. 

the Tar Heels a first down at the 1R and, on a third-and-16 play, Th£' n!'xt tim£' th!' Irish got the 
Miller hit Rethea for a first down 
football they were not to lw at th!' four. Rut the aroused Irish 
d!'ni!'d. Starting on the Carolina d!'fense ros!' to th!' occasion. 
41, Notre Dame drove for lh<' game's only touchdown in 10 Billy llite picked up a couple of plays, Brown tossing four yardsyards to the two before being to C. a tewood for the score on a 

stopped by Stepaniak on first fourth and three situation. 
down. The Tar llePis went to Hite again on the next play hut he was 
The victory gave the Irish a 5-0 mark at the midpoint of th!'

dropped by Stepaniak again at season while the Tar Heels,
the line of scrimmage. On third absorbing their second straight
down, Miller wus dumped for a loss, dropped to 4-2.
loss of two yards by big Walt 

this celebration Mike Kadish (72) blocked the three-point try. Other happy Irish In­clude Clarence Ellis jumping on Kadish's shoulders, Jim Musuraca. 
with arms around Kadish, and Walt Patulski, in the background . 

$10.0° CERTIFICATE 
This certificate will be good for $10.00 reduction on any suit or sportscoat'slack outfit from our 
regular stocks. you can choose from a fine selection of university styled apparel including the great 
new double knits. We make this offer to win new friends and keep old ones. Stop in soon. Use your 
Campus Shop account. 
Offer expires Saturday, December 18 
*PAY NEXT JUNE, JULY AND AUGUST! 
Wear your apparel now, pay one-third next June, one-third next July and one-third next August... and you pay no service or carrying charges! This is the exclusive Campus Shop Way to buy. 
GALS! VISIT OUR NEW FASHION CORNOR 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME

JUST FOR YOU! 

• 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
Pirates win the Series 
by J~ Durso tC'> 1!171 New York Times News Service 
Baltimore, Oct. 17 -The Pitt­sburgh Pirates completed one of the most dramatic reversals in baseball history Sunday when they defeated the favored Baltimore Orioles, 2-1, and won the 68th World Series in the seventh and final game. 
The National League cham­pions did it in the face of long odds, against the team that had tak<'n three straight American LE:'ague pennants and had swept the first two games. 
But the Pirates came storming back to win four of the next five, and lh<'Y dethroned the Orioles in a tingling duel behindthe four-hit pitching of Steve Blass. 
The 29-year-old right-hander already had stopped the Orioles on three hits on Tuesday in Pittsburgh, and Sunday af­ternoon. before a roaring crowd of 47.291 persons in Memorial Stadium. he stopped them for the second time in six days. 

.. 
He enjoyed support from Hoherto Clem<'nte, who capped his 17th season in a Pittsburgh 
uniform by hitting the home run that put the Pirates ahead in the fourth inning. 
The Pirates' other run was driven home in the eighth inning on a double by Jose Pagan. It proved to be the deciding run, when Ihe Orioles finally rallied in the bottom of the eighth, but Blass retired the last six batters to prevent any last-minute upset. 
The final act unfolded today just after the first ball had been thrown out by Secretary of State William P. Rogers. He then turned the pitching over to Blass and Mike <'u<'llar, the :~4-year-uld Cuban Jeft-hander, whom Blass had out pitdwd in IhE:' third gam<' Tuesday. 
This Iim<'. Cu<'llar had pl<'nty of stuff. and hl' retired the first 11 Pirates hd"ore Clement<' went to hat with two down in the fourth. <'l<'m<'nle swung ·~tl C'u<'llar's first piteh and bombed it over the :mo foot sign on the green fence in l<'f\-('<'nter field. 
Entering the sixth inning both pitch<'rs had two-hitters going, and turning into the seventh and 
Pighth. they still had two-hitters going. The only difference hPIW<'<'n th<'m was the hom<' run by ClPmenl<' in the fourth. 
But for Ihe Oriol<'s. the dif­f<'r<'nce put them six outs from Pxtinction. 
Their pr·ohlem grew Pven more grim in the l'ighth, when Willie Stargl'll grounded a single to the left of second base off Bdanger's glove. Then. on a l­and-! pitch. Pagan made it a 2-0 ganw. 
Th<' third-baseman had spent most of the summer on the bench with a broken wrist and had hal It'd in only 15 runs all season. In fact, he was made eligible for tlw series in a late choice by manag<'r Danny Murtaugh. 
Pagan verified th(' choice by driving th(' pitch deep to left­l'Pnt<>r b<>hind Merv Ret­IPnmund, who fielded the ball off the ferwP. But Rettenmund had I rouhl<' getting his throw away, and by the time Belanger rl'layt•d it to the plate, Stargell was sliding across while Powell <'UI it off on the grass. 
Now thl' Orioles were two runs down with ~;ix outs to go, but they honw h;tlf of Ihe eighth by ntlllllling a sing!<' over spcond hasP. lklanger followPd by lobbing a single ovE:'r S<'COnd has<'. and Baltimorl' harl its best shot. 
WPavPr thPn sent up Tom Shopay to pinch-hit for Cul'llar. and he hunted the third pitch haek to Blass. The pitcher threw tlw hall to first base-where Cash <'OVl'n'd for llw out on Shopay. 
But tlw Orioles harl the tying runs on st'cond and third, with Buford hatting and the stadium rocking. Tlw little left fielder pull<'rl a l·and-2 pitch behind first hasP. lie lost the r<H'<' to thP hag against Hohertson. hut l!Pn­ch·icks scorPd and it was 2-1 with two clown. 
Th<· issu<' then was put to Dave .Johnsm'. who had singled homP tlw tying run with two down in tlw t•ight h y<'sterday. But this time lw ramnwd a 2-and-2 pitch to dt'ep shortstop and was thrown out hy .lack lkrnandez to end the rally · on<' run shy. 
In the ninth, the Pirates almost fattl'n<'d tlwirleadwith a pair of two-out singl<'s off Pat Dobson. But Weaver brought in Dave MeNally, who retired Stargell on cml' pitch. k<'<'ping them on<' run apart going into lh<' last of the ninth. 
Then. suddt•nly. it was over. Fiw pitches to Powell, who groundPd out to Cash. On<' pitch to !<'rank Hohinson. who popp<'d up to ll<·manrlez on the grass. Two pitehes to H<'ltenmund. who was thrown out by I!Prnanrlez. 
Tlw Orioles were the ex­champions. The PiraiE:'s, countPd Oll I by Ill OS t obserV<'I'S IH'fnrPhand. wPr<' lh<' new l'hampions and about $18.01)0 

Nl'ws Editor: .!Prry Lutkus 
Layout: Glen S. Corso, T. C.
SMC News Editor: Ann Conway 
Tn•anor
l•'patun•s Editor: rick smith 
Pieture Shooter: Hob Hughes
Sports J•:ditor: .Jim Donaldson 
IIPadlin<' Man: Mick Kane
Night l•:ditor: Marty Mill<>r 
Controller of the Night: rick
Headlines: Gene Slason 
smith
and .John Abowd 
SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat Every Wednesday evening 
. PITCHER

zs••• 
$1.00 
NIGHT 
Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 
POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. ­
LAUREL &HARDY 
PIZZA PALACE 
4ti1 0Western Ave. Belleville Shoppinr Center 




