
cold and sterile 
Vol. VI. No. 56 
--· 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, December 3, 1971 
'Unmerger'protest continuing 
Students plan to hold tuition 
by Ed Ellis 

Observer Associate Editor Mountains of m-ailings, statements, prt-ss releases and national TV coverage highlighted thl' third day of Saint Mary's ('ollt•ge student protest against action taken by the Executive Board of the Board of Trustees to "indefinitely postpone" the planned merger with the University of Notre Dame. A checklist poll taken by St. Mary's studt•nt government last night revealed that over liOO students have already or are planning to withhold next semester's tuition. Nearly six hundred women, ac­l'ording to thl' poll, arc planning to tran­sfer. with :!21i indicating that they have already takt•n action on transferral. Over one thousand girls said they have wriltl'n to their parents concerning the situation. whilt• 137 have written to alumnae and over 500 arc planning to do so. Only fi2 girls have written to the Trustet•s. hut nearly 750 indicated they are planning to do so. 
letters being sent 
L(•tters and statcmc>nts arc being sent to Alumnae Club Presidents, members of the Board of Trustees, individual alumnae, parc>nts of students, and prospective high school applicants by students of the College. 
SMC Student Body President Kathy Barlow met with NBC news reporters at 10 am yesterday in an interview taped for national tl:'levision. CBS people are on campus today. Acting SMC President Sr. Alma Peter, C.S.C., also spoke with the reporters and reportedly said that she believed 95 per cent of the student body to tw dissatisfied with the merger. 
explanations to alumni 
The mailing to Alumnae Club Presidents inel.uded a ll:'tter from Eileen Fitzpatrick saym.g, ''As members of OUI' community, we Wish to keep you informed of the most recent events and the implications to you. The lime is crucial in the history of Saint Mary's and its existence and its quality arc at stake." 
The letter goes on to explain the rationale behind the demands of the students and faculty made this week. 
Another letter in the packet is from the Class of '75, this year's freshmen. This IPtler stales, in part, "Wc ... wish to make known the fact that Saint Mary's College has done us a definite injustice. Upon acceptance by this institution, there t•xisled no doubt in our minds as to con­tinuation of merger plans between Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame." 
"We now demand," concludes the stateml:'nt, "that the Executive Board of the Board of Trustees of Saint Mary's College immediately justify their decision." 
Also included in the packet is a copy of the statement Dr. Paul Messbarger, Chairman of the £<'acuity Association at SMC, released yesterday, and a copy of a Student Government statement asking alumnae to write the Board to protest their action. 
A sample letter prepared to be sent by SMC Seniors to alumnae protests the Board's failure to justify its action to students and faculty. It concludes by asking that alumnae send a personal letter to Mother Olivette Wholan, Chairman of the Board, expressing their disapproval and telling of their intention of cutting off donations to the college. 


600 transfers asked 
According to the Student Office of Public Information at SMC, over 600 students have thus far applied for transfers to other schools. 
Five programs are now being used to 
bring pressure to bear on the Board of 
Trustees in an attempt to get an 
emergency meeting. The letter-writing 
campaign is under way already, as is the 
campaign to withhold spring semester 
tuitions and the transfer campaign. 
Negative recruitment is beginning, and 
will be expanded in the next few days. 
Also, the program will include second 
semPster transfer students. 
faculty meeting pushed 
Plans for this weekend include having students "push" the Faculty Assemby meeting slated for 4:30pm today in Carroll 
Hall. SBP Barlow said that she would like 
to impress upon the faculty th~ idea that 
the students and faculty "are in the same 
boat," and that the students will support 
the faculty in any action they take. 
From Friday to Sunday night, Miss 


bulletin board 
LeMans Hall residents, with a little help from friends all over the SMC campus, declare their dissatisfaction with St. Mary's Board's actions. 

Barlow: Plans being set for future action. 
Barlow suggested that students recuperate from the work of the past week. She supported the Sunshine Festival to be lll'ld tonight in the Fieldhouse as a good idea to unwind. 
A meeting to assess the state of the student protest is scheduled for sometime Sunday night. 
For students who wish to transfer next semester, it was discovered that Barat College in Chicago is still open for tran­sfers, and research will hopefully provide 
more in the next few days. 
A bus trip is being planned to Barat for 
December 7, the anniversary of Pearl 
Harbor. 
SHP Barlow has formally requested 
that a Board meeting be held within the 
next ten days, and her request has been 
transmitted by Sr. Alma to Mother 
Olivette. 
Miss Barlow said, "We don't want to 
deal with the December 18 me~ting 
because that has been called to discuss the· 
future of Saint Mary's College as separate 
from the University of Notre Dame." 
"We want to talk .about the decision at 
hand." 
Asked whether the pressure tactics used 
so far will be sufficient to move the Board 
of Tmstce. Miss Barlow responded, "Yes, 
and we will make sure it does." 
She said that the methods were working 
already and expressed optimism as to the 
impact within the next few crucial weeks. 
Shc> said that she had talked to several 
parPn\s yesterday who were visiting their 
daughtc>rs to discuss the current crisis. 
!<'rom these few nwetings, she concluded 
that tlw parPnts were serious in both 
withholding tuition and in their desire to 
havP tlwir daughters transfer should the 
tlc>cision not be reversed. 
Miss Barlow also eommented that the conversation last night between Sr. Gerald llartm•y. C.S.C., and four students was hc>Iwfidal, but not enough hard facts came out to lwlp the students formulate a course or aetion. 



Released last night 
Barkett supports 'intent' of statement 
by <.;t"nt" Slason 

ND Student Body President John Barkptt last night announced that he "supported the intent" of a statement which he and other ND and SMC student government leaders signed and which was distributed across both campuses, but that hP "didn't like the wording." 
signed 'reluctantly' 
In an interview, Barkett said that he signPd the statement "reluctantly" only because "there were too many signatures on it before I saw it to have the wording changed." 
Barkett had comments on all three demands in the document. The SBP ex­pressed confusion about the meaning of the first demand, which called upon the Trustees to "justify" the merger. "What does justification consist of?" he asked. "If it means hearing the Trustees, I think it's a great idea, if only from an interaction standpoint. As far as documentation goes, I doubt if minutes were kept at the sessions on the unification and the Ernst & Ernst report would simply show that unification would be a very costly separation for the unified Notre Dame." 
He said he favored the second demand, which called for a "Reversal of the decision." According to Barkett, however, the demand is "predicated on the results of the first point." 
"If the decision is justified -a nebulous point in itself -there should be no rever­sal," the SBP said. 
outsider 'not the way' 
Barkett also said that an outside ar­
bitrator was "not the way" to resolve the 
two school's differences. 

"An outside arbitrator would have no 
authority, and I don't think either school would submit to legally binding arbitration anyway." 
Barkett said he was against holding discussions on the Notre Dame campus in order to enlist Notre Dame student support against the Trustee's merger action. 
"It would be a misuse of their <St. Mary's people's l energy," Barkett said. 


ND meetings useless 
"It would be a misuse of their <St. 
Mary's people's) energy," Barkett said. 
The SBP suggested that St. Mary's students. should enlist alumni support, urge their parents to write to the college administration, or "apply for transfer if they really feel that strongly about it." B~rkett s~i~ these actions, if performed w1th suffiCient frequency, might bring about an opportunity for SMC students to get ND degrees or "better yet" bring about a reversal of the decision. 

Barkett: Not entirely satisfied with statement to students. 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER Friday, December 3, 1971 


'information inadequate' 
Faculty seeks community meeting 
by Jack Kelly Courrey, Quigley, Heinny, Tihen, The Executive Committee of Goodfellar, and Messberger met 
the Notre Dame Faculty Senate at the University Club and yesterday passed a resolution released the following statement requesting a meeting of the ND-regarding their feelings towards SMC community with the merger. representatives of both boards of "We will continue to invite the 
Trustees, to hear a candid ac-current SMC members of the count of reasons for the break-Faculty Senate to remain as down of negotiations. members for the remainder of 
The committee, consisting of the academic year." Professors Swartz, Thornton, "We also feel that the efficial 


A Queen's Ransom? 
(C) 1971 New York Times  
London, Dec. 2 -­A House of Commons committee today  
recommended massive pay rises for Queen Elizabeth II and  
other members of the royal family.  
The Civil List -the term for public funds alotted to the  
upkeep of the monarchy -would more than double to  
$2,352,000 a year. Since 1952 the sum has been $1,140,000.  
Prince Philip's annual income would go from $96,000 to  
$156,000, and that of the Queen Mother from $168,000 to  
$228,000. Princess Margaret, the Queen's sister, would rise  
from $36,000 to $84,000, and there would be increases for other  
royals.  
All the pay rises are designed to meet the impact of in­ 
flation on the public functions of royalty. The committee was  
set up after the Queen appealed for more money last May.  
The recommendations split the committee on strict party  
lines. TThe key vote for the report was 8 to 7. All eight were  
conservatives and the minority six were labor members,  
together with the leader of the liberal party, Jeremy Thorpe.  
The division means that there will soon be a rare event in  
recent pariliamentary history: a Partisan debate about the  
monarchy. The conservative government will move to push  
the pay rises through immediately, and the labor party will  
resist.  
The labor proposal was that the royal household be made a  
regular department of government, subject to annual ap­ 
propriations and scrutiny by Parliament instead of the  
;:;:  automatic income of the Civil List. Among those voting for this idea were the labor leader and deputy leader, Harold  :;:;:  
:~;~  Wilson and Roy Jenkins.  ::~::  

===~=~=~=~=~=~:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:=:::~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::~:=:=:=:=:~:~:~:=:::~:::::::~:::~:::~:::::~=~===~:=:;: 
Here's power and pep 
See us today for our 
CERTIFIED CAR CARE 

ENGINE TUN SPECIAL 

• CLEAN, regap spark plugs. 
• 
CLEAN, adjust ignition points, inspect distributor • SET ignition timing • CHECK compression • CLEAN and INSPECT battery, cables, terminals • ADJUST carburetor, service air cleaner • TEST fuel pump • CHECK crankcase vent valve 

• 
INSPECT cooling system, adjust drive belts 



account of merger negotiations and faculty participation has been clearly inadequate to date. This led to unfounded speculayions concerning the cause i·or breakdown of negotiations and for future prospects of negotiations. It is possible that the faculty with greater participation can con­tribute to the success of future 
negotiations." 
The resolution will be voted on by the entire Faculty Senate on December 16. 
Xmas in the halls 
Rev. James Riehle, Dean of Students, yesterday reminded students that all of the residence halls will be closed from December 20 to January 14 "in a continuing effort to strengthen the security of the residence halls and the individual rooms." Since the dorms will be locked, anyone wishing to reside in the halls over the break must receive "special" and "explicit" approval of the Dean of Students before December 10. 

c 
L H 
, 4 
r 
I' 
F. 
D 
Schlitz and the Senior Bar Present 

Sat: A Christmas Part)' 
with -Chapped lips -An Appearance by Santa Claus. 15¢ Schlitz Malt Liquor on Tap 
Bar Opens at 7:00 Also: 1 free drink for anyone dressed as a Reindeer 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 
Indiana Bell 



Friday, December 3, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 3 
New Delhi --Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India told a rally in fridayNew Delhi that "these so-called big nations" could not give orders to 3:30, 7:00 & 9:00--film, diary of a countryIndia -a reference to British and American efforts to de_-escalate !he 
priest, little theatre 

near-war with Pakistan. The fighting escalated with an Indian announcement that troops were entering East Pakistan near Agartala 3: 30--lecture, den is curtin, communications 

veningRaid Uncovers· 
Indian force cuts supply line 
world briefs 
<C> 1971 New York Times 
Three Tons of Tea 
<C> 1971 New York Times New York, Dec. 2 -Federal agents announced today ~he seizure of three tons of marijuana at a Long Island City warehouse and the arrest of three young men described as the drug's wholesale distributors. Fifteen agents of the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs raided the one-story redbrick warehouse at 44-15 lOth Street shortly before 7 p.m., wednesday. They confiscated 67 fiber drums, each containing between 90 and too pounds of crude marijuana. J(.'rry N. Jenson, th<! Bureau's acting regional director, called it the biggest seizure of marijuana ~n the. New York metropolitan area and the second largest m U~1~ed Stat~s History. He estimated its wholesale value at $1 million and Its street sale value in excess of $2 million. The raid culminated a three month investigation that began with information receive? from .i~formants. ~e marijuana originated in Jamaica m the Bnhs_h We_s~ Indies, whence it was shipped in Burlap bags to an umdenbf1ed area in Florida. 
The shipment then was loaded.onto a ~ruck and deliver~ to the war(.'house in the heart of an mdustnal-warehouse section of long island city. Narcotics agents too~ into custo~1 the 
thr£>e men as they allegedly were emptymg the mariJuana into the drums. These are three feet high and two feet in diameter. 
Sorting the stock on the 1,300 square feet of floor space, the agents uncovered large wood crates bearing a "production eompany" title. Jenson called these "a cover" for the shipment of the marijuana-packed fiber drums to other parts of th(.' country. 
He described the operation as "top echelon wholesale" and predicted that the seizure would result in a shortage of marijuana and a rise in the drug's price in the east, "for a few months." 
to silence Pakistani guns shelling the area. 
Paris-Reacting to an implication by Treasury Secretary _connally that the United States was considering a 10 per cent devaluation of the dollar, currency traders in Europe and Japan sent the dollar to re~~rd low levels against the german mark, the japanese yen, the bnbsh pound and other currencies. 
.. Washington -President Nixon conferred alone with Prime Minister Golda Meir of Israel for two hours at the White House, and it appeared that Mrs. Meir had received long-term assurances of Americ~n support for Israel but not immediate delivery of the supersomc warplanes she has been requesting. 
.. Santiago -As street skirmishes between marxist and anti-marxist youths continued in Santiago, President Salvador Allende Gossens declared a state of emergency and gave control of public order to the Chilean army. National riot police fired teargas at rock-throwing youths and arrested more than 100 of them in downtown Santiago. 
Washington-House-Senate conferees working on the tax bill ac­cepted a compromise proposal by Rep. Wilbur D. Mi~ls po~t~nin~ any public campaign funding until at least 1976 and makmg dist~Ibubon of public money collected for president!~! cam~aigns contmgent on congressional approval. With the provision to fmance the 197~ cam­paign removed, the White House said President Nixon would sign the bill. 
Beirut -Six tiny Persian Gulf Sheikdoms proclaimed their in­dependence as the Union of Arab emirates at a meeting at Dubai. 
by Charles Mohr 
(e) 1!171 New York Times 
New Delhi, Dec. 1--The large Indian force that entered East Pakistan five days ago has ad­vanced and cut a railroad line that supplies the northwest corner of that country, Indian government spokesmen said tonight. 
An official statement said that today "there has been a lull in the fighting" in the area near the Indian-Pakistani border town of Hilli, about 185 miles north of Calcutta, following a Pakistani withdrawal. 
The Indian intention seemed to be to remain within East Pakistan for the time being. 
One spokesman said that the immediate objective of the In­dian military action was to silence Pakistan artillery that has shelled Indian border villages and positions, but he said the main objective of India's policy was to "make it possible for 10 million refugees to go back." 
>t 
tJ 
"'tS 
..0 
U2
::s 
D. 
e 
tJ 
u 
a 7:00, 9:00, & 11:00--film, in the heat of the night, k of c hall 
sunday 
2:00 & 8:00--film, midnight cowboy, washington hall 
7:00, 9:00, & 11: 00--film, in the heat of the night, k of c hall 
8:00--concert, smc glee club, christmas concert, church of the loretto 
The refugees have fled to India the latest of several of what India 
since Pakistani forces--largely calls "defensive action" border from West Pakistan--began to use incursions. military force last march to Indian officials again todaycrush an autonomy movement declined on grounds of security to within the East. give the size of the Indian force 
The Indian force crossed the border near Hilli on 
satellites and their subsystems, 303 engineering building. 
7:00, 9:00, & 11:00--film, in the heat of the night. k of c hall 
8: 30--dance, toronto dance, o'laughlin auditorium 
8:00--concert, sunshine festival with atlantis and nazgur, the fieldhouse 
::s 
saturday Q. 
2:00 & 7: 30--circus, polack brothers-shrine rh circus, ace 
a 
n
7:00 & 9~30--film, midnight cowboy, washington hall 

0 0 ,.· ~ 
!HELLSTRoM-CHRONICLE! 
\) '-'-)~-~ ~~"'I J, _;· 
'Th ct :. t4.... DJK 



Text of Student GovernJDent joint state~nent of de~nands 
The joint decision by the University of Notre Dame -St. Mary's board of Trustees to suspend merger proceedings is viewed with extreme distress and disappointment by those whose time and effort have been put into co-education in the past years. This disappointment is com­pounded by the lack of in­formation which accompanied this announcement from both campuses. The issues raised in the last few days enlarge upon the basic notion of co-education, involving further issues of trust ancl honest communication with one another. To remain silent at this time would violate one of the most basic components of the oft quoted "Christian Community." 
At this time it is only ligical that we, as one University of Notre Dame-St. Mary's, support and demand the basic three points drawn up at the SMC convocation of November 30. 
USSR's new missiles soon to be readied 
<C< 1!171 New York Times 
by William Beecher 

Washington, Dec. 2 --The Soviet 
Union appears to be nearing the 
suecessful conclusion of tests of a 
new long range submarine-based 
missile and may deploy the 
weapon next year, according to 
Pentagon analysts. 
The missile, dubbed the sawfly 
by western analysts, has a range 
of up to 3,500 miles, ap­
proximately twice that of the best ~;:;viet operational sub missile. The longest range American submarine-launched missile, the Poseidon, has a range of about 3,000 miles. 
Analysts say there have been 
about 15 tests of the sawfly since 
mid-1969, with a flurry of firings 
this fall. All but four of the test 
were successful, sources say, and 
the failures came early in the 
program. 
"We think they can and 
probably will deploy next year," 
one senior official said. 
Most analysts believe the new missile will initially be carried by one of two existing Soviet sub­marine types, either the H-class or the Y-class. Later on, it is expected to be carried by a new submarine designed e~pecially for it. 
Earlier this week, the defense department awarded a contract 
(continued on page 12) 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Bill McGrath -Student Union Kathy Barlow -SMCSBP 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER Friday, December 3, 1971 
FRANKIE-'S 
Dinner Special Chicken, Steak or Perch Dinner with Turren Soup, Salad & Coffee 
$1.50 
South Bend Only 
Allied powerful 125-watt Stereo FM-AM Receiver 
Was 299.95 
In short, these demands include: 
( 1) Justification for this decision 
-the immediate appearance of the Executive Committees of the 
Board  of  Trustees  before  the  
students and faculty.  
documentation  of  the  
decisions.  i.e.,  minutes  of  the  

recent Board meeting, Ernst and Ernst financial report. 
(2) Reversal of this decision 
(3) Appointment of outside arbitrators to resolve differences between the two schools con­cerning the merger. 
It is impossible for us at this MisSYUndermar•. -SMCSBVP Thomas Pitferetti -Senior Class President 

Eileen Fitzpatrick Jim Clarke John Short Jerry O'Connor Dan Hyde Jack Candon 

Cultural Arts Commission's Performing Arts Series presents 
Toronto Dance 

Fri. Dec. 3 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Adm.-$2.00 
Performing Arts Series Patrons -$1.00 
It is an opportunity not to be missed. The Toronto Dance Theatre, through its use of highly disciplined movement, music & state design to create striking dramatic effects, has truly developed an identity all its own. Now beginning its fifth season, the company has come to occupy a unique and special position in Canada's cultural life. 
Guaranteed to soothe the end ofthe term blues. Don't miss it! 
Also: A workshop in Modern Dance.Sat. Nov. 4 lla.m.. Angela Hall-Ad­mission Free! · 

Ski StUll 
by Alex Petrie 
Come on to our Haus and I'll show you the most fascinating ma­chine ever built. It's the Nordica Foam Machine (updated this year with denser foam) and I'll guarantee that when we "foam" you, you'll have the ultimate in ski boots. Fit is basic to foaming (they fit like your feet) but it also brings other things. Great control. Comfort. Warmth. I used foam-injected boots last March in Snowmass and I'm sold on them. I'd like to sell you. Come on to our Haus. Open 9:30-5:30. 
Mon. & Thur. 'til 9. 



Save 100.95 
Ston• llom·s l\1TWS IU a.m. -li p.m. Th. ,'\ Fri. JU a.m. -!l p.m. Sun I Jl.m. -!l p.m. 
time to speak in terms of positive and constructive actions from the University of Notre Dame, until we ar~ sufficiently aware of the implications of this decision. In order to implement this awareness, simultaneous meetings and discussions will be held in all of the halls on Notre Dame's campus on December ·2nd. light of the fact. as Father Hesburgh commented in his news conference, that both institutions hold equal responsibility as to this decision, it is only logical that both student bodies hold equal responsibility to take ac­tion. 
John Barkett -NDSBP Orlando Rodriguez -NDSBVP Steve Flavin -Student Union 
4035 S. Michigan Ph. 291 -4888 

HIGHLAND PARK: 1672 Old Skokie Rd., 831-4300. North on Edens? Deerfield "Wesl" exit. Fronlage Rd., follow to Old Skokie. South on Edens? Deerfield "West" exit, follow to Old Skokie. OAK PARK: 6606 W. Roosevelt Rd., 848-9600. Exil Eisenhower Expressway at Harlem. 
Friday, December 3, 1971 THE, OBSERVER. Pa s 
Psych majors to pay fees 
by l't>h• Frier 

Students from St. Mary's College will be able to continue their major in the Notre Dame Psychology department an­nounced Professor Robert Farrow. department chairman. 
llow£'V('r, Farrow cautioned that any financial difference would lw paid by the individual studPnt. 
At the pn•sent time there are 75 psychology majors at SMC and a 100 majors at Notr£> Dame. The SMC girls arc taking most of thrir t•ours£>s at ND; this, com­binPd with an additional 22 grad students has placed considerable presure on the Psychology dt•partment. Farrow felt the dPpartmPnt would have "serious 
trouble"  handling  any  new  
majors.  
Farrow  was  unsure  of  SMC  
students  petitioning  for  ND  

degre£>s. He felt it a "fair to n•quest recognition of courses" but was "not sure if that warrented a degree." However Farrow had no objections for SMC students getting N.D. dPgr£>eS. 
Professor Ronald Weber, chairman of the Communication Arts and American Studies department said he received no 
.word from the administration 
concerning the future SMC 
majors in his department. 
Weber lacked knowledge of any l'hanges in the present system and suggested that SMC majors proceed with normal pre­regigistration. 
There are currently 9 senior SMC majors in American Studies and 11 senior SMC majors in Communications Arts. Weber statt•d that 60 new majors would lw accepted for next fall and that 
thcrc was  no  specific quota for  
womcn.  
Wcber  concluded  that  it  

"makes considerable sense for SMC studcnts to want ND dt•gn·es anri if a girl came under tlw impression she was obtaining a Notre Dame degree she should have one, or bf.' allowed to 

transfer." Fa~row: Fees for SMC psych marors next year. 
Servm programs need funds 
Sharon Clancy, a member of llowever, the sorority cannot the South Bend alumni chapter of continue these programs or the Alpha Iota Sorority, related initiate their program of yesterday the chapter's service Christmas shows without some programs for the South Bend money. Presently, in an attempt area and noted a particular need to raise capital they are selling for economic assistance. address books. 
The sorority has performed Miss Clancy who is co­many puppet shows in the past ordinating this effort can be semester for the children and the reached at 283-6419 or at 255 sick people of this area. Hayes Healy. 
Eichmann prosecutor 
Hausner to speak 
Notre Dame, Ind.--The chief prosecutor in the Adolph Eich­mann war crimes trial, Gideon Hausner, will present a retrospective view of events of 10 years ago at a public lecture at 7:30p.m. Monday <Dec. 6) in the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Legal Education study receives research grant 
Notre Dame, Ind. -A study of the process of professionalization in l"'gal studies will be un­dertaken by the University of Notre Dame Law School with a $28,900 grant from the Spencer f<'oundation of Chicago. The research and development project will be directed by Dean Thomas L. Shaffer and Dr. Hobert S. Redmount of Hamden, Conn. 
"Law is the oldest system of professional education in the world, and the system that knows lt>ast about what it does to its students," Shaffer said, adding that virtually all past research has concentrated on courses, not p1•ople. "Legal educators agree that American law teachers somt•how professionalize their students, hut no teacher knows how he or anyone else does it," he commPntPd. 
Shafft•r said tht.• research project. lwadquartered at Notre l>anw. is d!'signed to acquire the t'mpirical information needed "to make tht• process more efficient, dirPct it to l'ducation for com­munity lt'adt•rship, or purge it of its inhuman side effects." 
Assisted by a psychologist and n•st•arch assistants, Shaffer and Ht>dmount will conduct on-site rPcording, interviewing and !!'sting sessions at several law 
-

schools where a broad sample of teachers will be tested and correlation studies completed. The researchers hope to publish a casebook, sourcebook, casette tapes, and syllabi in a follow-up project. 
Named dean of the Notre Dame school earlier this year after eight years of teaching, Shaffer has published two books and a dozen periodical pieces in the law-psychology field. He has developed experimental law­psychology courses at Notre Dame and at the University of California at Los Angeles. 
Redmount is a lawyer, ad­mitted to practice in New York and Connecticut and a principal planner and teacher for the Association of American Law Schools. He is also an author and a licensed clinical psychologist who is a specialist in the field of law and psychology. 
FoundPd hy the late I~yle Manley Spt'ncer, the Chicago foundation bearing his name is currcntly supporting innovative programs bearing on the central problems of education. One of t hf' subsidiary aims of the foundation is to encourage links bctween widely separated disciplines and schools within universities. 
People & Song 
this Friday Alumni lounge 
presents 
Jim Moran and Paul Guernsey 
for the first time on campus this year! 
Refreshments P ~ u s ~ o~e 9 -2 am -25 AdmlSSwn Everyone _~_e_lco_m_e_______. 
Hausner is a former attorney general of Israel and is presently a member of the Israeli delegation to the United Nations. He also serves as a lecturer on law at Hebrew University, 
Israel, and is the author of "Justice in Jerusalem." 
Eichmann, a former Nazi SS general accused of playing a major role in the killing of millions of Jews during World War II, was captured by Israeli agents in Argentina in May, 1960. After a four-month trial in Jerusalem, he was sentenced on December 15, 1961, for crimes against humanity, and hanged on May 31, 1962. 
Hausner's appearance is jointly sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School and the In­stitute in International Studies. The talk is open to the public without charge. 
Fat Daddy's 
Flare and 

Bell Bottoms 
only $3.75 
518 S. Michigan 
Christmas shop at your Golf Pro Shop "in the Rock" Golf balls· gift wrapped. Alpaca Golfing cardigans Jantzen Golf Shirts Munsingwear Golf Jackets -Monogrammed caps Socks Ski & Toboggan hats-Novelty items 
OBSERVER NEWS STAFF MEETING 
6:30 MONDAY DEC. 6 
All old reporters and anyone interested in writing second semester should attend. 
2-D La Fortune 
Concerned about Pollution? 4000 Die in london Smog Oil Smothers Santa Barbara New York City Suffocates in own waste lake Erie: The Dead lake 
ENROlL IN CE 213 
Man and his Environment 2MWF Open to all Undergrads 
SONNEBORN'S 
Your Headquarters for Handball gloves & Athletic Supplies indlrlng 
The "Super Tiger" Glo\e 
by Champion 
Also: Selection of Squash 
Racquet BaII Equipment 
Sonneborn'5 
11 5 W. Colfax Ave. ph. 232-1451 

~-------==========~============================-~==-=-=~­
Student UniO·"' Christmas Busses to O'Hare 
$5 one way -All Sales Final. 
leave, Friday 12-17 at 4:45 p.m. 
Saturday 12-18 at 4:45 p.m. 
Sunday 12-19 at 9:30 a.m. 
Return: Monday 1-17-72 at 8:00p.m. and 
10:00 p.m. 

Tickets on Sale at the 1st Bank Campus Travel Office in Badin Hall From 9:00 -4:45 
--------~ ----~ ~~ --~ ------~­
~-­
THE OBSERVER
Page 6 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
•;ditor-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso Assistant EditorAssistant Editor 
All successful· newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
Advertising Manager 

Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle
Jim Jendryk 
they tackle it by deno<~ncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

News: 283-1715Business: 283-7471 
Two New Ways to put the Heat on at St. Mary's 
The Unmaking of the Merger, produced by the nuns of the Holy Cross, has made the national news scene, in case you haven't heard. NBC filmed activities on campus yesterday and CBS is due in soon, while the New York Times and other papers ran stories yesterday and the day before. 
Student interest, just like national news coverage, has a habit of fading into the great gray mist rather quickly, unless there is some sort of sustained and ef­fective action. 
There are two weapons, which if used properly, cannot and will not be ignored by the nuns. One is withholding tuition. Money makes St. Mary's run. Without that river of green flowing in during December and January we may see the nuns reduced to peddling apples and darning socks to bring in money to run the school. Or better yet, they may have to give in and allow unification to go through. 
The second weapon is transfering. Over three hundred girls indica ted, in yesterday's student government poll, that they had taken action on transferral. If that number swells to 1000 or better we may see the good sisters flying off to Austrailia and Iceland to recruit women to fill the school. 
Neither of these actions will do any good unless a substantial number of girls go through with them. Talking about withholding your tuition is fine, but unless you get your folks to toss the St. Mary's semester bill into the rag bin, or wherever you keep things used to wipe up spilled grape juice, it won't do anybody any good. 
The same stands true for transfering. Go down to the registrar, ask for a transcript and fill out an application to another school. Let the administration know you're leaving, just as soon as you can. Let them know you aren't going to allow your education to be blighted by a bunch of sock darners. 
While you're waiting for the semester bill to come from the accounting office, so you can have a good laugh over it, and while you're waiting for your ap­plication from Georgetown or Boston College to come you might drop over to the faculty meeting at4: 30 this afternoon in Carroll. 
The faculty, who have lost just as much as the students in this latest Holy Cross classic, can exert effective pressure on the administration. They might not do anything though, unless they get strong and vocal support from the students. The only way that can happen is if a lot of students show up at the meeting, let the faculty know they'll be willing to join them if they take off after the nuns and willing to stone them if they don't. 
Nuns, and most people in general, tend to harden their position when they're attacked. But nuns, just like most people in general, can't afford to stick to a position when their employees are villifying them, and when the people they are supposedly serving are leaving. 
Ifstudents act and if they make sure the faculty acts, then the Holy Cross nuns just won't be able to afford the price of an independent, private all-girls school. In fact they won't be able to afford the price of much of anything, except a couple of apples maybe. 
the staff 

Nite Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editor: (she's learning!) Maria Gallagher Friends, Weird-ohs, and other Acquaintances: Jim McDermott, Ed Ellis, Glen Corso, etc. 
Headliner: Don Biancianamo Nite Controller: Helen Smudski 
I. thanx a heap, "staff" 
2. i and m couldn't resist the urge tonight 
J. mcd: where's the story, camarry? 
4. g: who says i'm not soliciting love letters, lefty? 
S. thanx, m; really 
) ·I 
I 
/
,, 

The joke's on them! I'm not even thirsty! 


Peripheral Division--------­
St. Mary's Course Selection Booklet, 1976 
---------------------T.C. Treanor 

It is colrrently popular to believe that the merger cancellation is a 
new thing, whooped up over the past couple of weeks, but that is all a 
superstition. My spies over at St. Mary's tell me differently. The Holy 
Cross Nuns have been investigating plans to cancel the merger for at 
least as long as the Notre Dame administration has benn investigating 
plans to merge the two schools. 

We have seen several small indications of this interesting but 
nauseating fact over the past week. One was the strange demonic glint that appeared in the eye of Sister Alms Peter, C.S.C., Grande Dame of St. Mary's, every time she talked about the scuttled merger at the O'Laughlin meeting·. Another was the fact that despite post -merger plans to terminate the position of St. Mary's President, Sr. Alma never 
lost that fixed grin of hers. 

The cincher, though, floated across my hands the other day as I was 
awaiting S.A.P., C.S.C.'s regularly scheduled noontime blessing, in a 
form of a piece of paper wafting from an open window. Ever anxious to 
prevent Sr. Alma's office from being cluttered up with more garbage, 
I grabbed the paper before it hit the ground. 

To my dismay, I found that it was a St. Mary's course selection sheet 
for 1976. The gentle sisters, evidently taking into account Notre 
Dame's prospective coeducationalness , have adjusted their courses 
to the calibre of education they intend to present five years from 
now. 
I here reprint the course selection in full. 

l. Penmanship 101, taught by Sister Alma Peter, C.S.C. Sister Alma's "dissertation on crossing out" marks the high point of any young girl's Academic Career! 
2. Darning Socks, 115, by Mother Olivette Whalen, C.S.C. Remember -"the hand that darns the sock rules the world" -from the popular teacher of last semester's popular course in "Socks and marriage." . . 3. Retarded Finances 127, by Sister Gerald Hartney. Fed up with "Advanced Finance" courses? Text will be Minimus, by Platudino, the Roaman tax collector during the Visgoth invasion. 
4. Poverty 145, team-taught by the St. Mary's tenured faculty . . .5. Chastity 152, team -taught by the Holy Cross order (bar two or three). 
6. Obedience 157, team-taught by the advisors to Sister Alma (bar none). 
7. Advanced.Chastity 252-for those of you who want your souls not 
just white -you want them bright! . -8. Chastity Lab, 052 With field trips to Chicago . . -9. Piety 180-team-taught by the St. Mary's Trustees . .10. Fear of the Lord 193-Sister Alma in a repeat performance! .. II. Wisdom 199-this course will be offered as soon as we can find an instructor. 

Friday, December 3, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
fr. robert griffin 
what's it all about, a/fie? 
As a man without ties, I am constantly on the 
outlook for a family to whom I can belong, and who 
can, in turn, belong to me. An old codger needs a 
familiar chair beside the fireplace; a napkin ring, 
initialed, awaiting him, with stains from a recent 
supper fresh on the linen; children climbing up and 
down his knee, on their way to or from the story 
hour. Old codgers get--if they are bachelor priests-­
lots of love and hospitality, and welcome mats 
stretched, full length, from the hearthstone to the 
front door. 
In the end, none of these family adoptions are 
fully successful. Parents are shy about trusting 
their guests with news of the domestic tragedies: 
pestilence in the nursery, or the latest outbreak of 
sibling rivalry when Junior tried to flush the baby 
down the toilet. The instincts of children are too 
sensitive to strangers to trust the domesticated 
cleric in those emergencies when pain or heart­
break must be comforted. Bee stings, for example, 
or prickly heat, will make an instant alien out of the 
most adorably denimed urchin; approach him with 
hPaling, and he will regard you with a horror 
usually reserved for a spectre at the wedding feast. 
Other epiphanies of your status as a stranger on the hearth come when you discover household pets like the goldfish, treating you with the malice of cannibals. I remember last week, on Thanksgiving Day in Jersey, when I was playing Uncle and Santa Claus to eight loving children. Alphie, the dog, approached <as I thought) for his share of loving; and I suddenly discovered, from his detached posture, that he was peeing in my tossed-off shoe. After two years of Jiving with my own pup, Darby O'Gill, I know that housebroken animals, living among families that they care for and respect, do not make urinals out of the Thorn McCans'! 
I would have forgiven Alphie his indiscretion except that, the next evening, at a posh affair in New Rochelle, another pet insisted on sniffing at the fuming shoe leather until I was afraid I would have to give him the damn thing to marry, and so end, with only one shoe, travelling through the snows of winter. 
There are Alphies everywhere, guarding the Pnclaves of family life against crashers; and just as you are about to settle down, snug and secure, as a third parent or an over-sized, elder child, they treat you as impersonally as a fire hydrant, and send you reeling off from the family circle, with urine sloshing in your instep. 

Nevertheless, I am in love with family life; and given my choice--as an orphan rescued from the storm--of homes I would choose to shelter me, I would want to belong to a family I will call the Huntingtons. There are nine children in the family, seven boys and two girls, ranging from ages twenty­six to five. They live in a large, life-filled house in southern Indiana. The older children are married; several are away at school. The parents are archetypal in the spiritual strength and beauty they communicate to the rest of the family. 
I met most of the clan in an overnight visit just a few days before Thanksgiving. The second oldest son, a Senior at Notre Dame, returned his draft classification card to the Government last Spring. With graduation coming up in December, the boy will have to face the consequences of his decision very soon. What does one say to a youngman-­sensitive, intelligent, sincere, committed--faced with exile or prison? I don't know, but I needed to 
talk with his parents. Thus, my visit. I remember the dinner table that night: the father, the mother, six children ... snowy linen, fresh flowers, roast beef, and silver serving dishes engraved with greetings from the children to their parents on the occasion of a twenty-fifth wedding 
anniversary. At the contusion of the meal, in 
response to a general invitation, Mr. Huntington 
read the Dr. Seuss saga of the Star-bellied Sneet­
ches. Love was a guest at the table that night, and 
from the way I ate, so was Gluttony. But more 
remarkable than my appetite was the conversation­
-of football, school, family memories, a Mass 
homily summarized by an altar boy son--a 
revelation of the way in which people show concern 
for one another without self-conscious effort. 

Very late that night, there was another 
remarkable scene: the two sons from college 
discovering, packed away in a basement room, 
their favorite stuffed animals from childhood, while 
their mother sat reading, for the first time, the story 
of the Velveteen Rabbit. Ths situation as described 
could seem silly or sentimental; but it wasn't. The 
sons were just unsophisticated enough to enjoy 
seeing the battered animals--a dog and a bear--that 
they had once played with. Someone produced The 
Velveteen Rabbit as a commentary on the life­
expectancy of toys, and I become a witness of their 
journey back to childhood. 

The principal thesis of The Velveteen Rabbit is 
this: if a child loves a toy strongly enough, even­
tually in old age, fallen upon shabby days, the toy 
will become real. This is how, in the story, the 
Velveteen Rabbit ended up as a live bunny playing 
in the lettuce patch. My thought that evening was: 

the Velveteen Rabbit has it w1·ong; if you love 
something--or someone--strongly enough, it is you-­
not the object, who becomes Real. 

I left the next morning without ever really speaking to the Huntingtons of their son and his future, but there was really nothing I had to tell them. It is my feeling that these parents prepared their son for his decision to live as a peacemaker; it happened so long ago, and at such hidden depths, that even they don't understand the Reality which their love created. In some of us there is a touch more of loving than in others of us, and the reason for the difference lies somewhere in our lost childhood. 
So, in my search for identity with family life, I hunt for my own lost childhood, and for the gleam of of love necessary if any of us is to feel whole and authentic, as a reality that is grounded on God. Heaven is a time when all lost childhoods are recovered; until then, most of us must live with a restless sense of not belonging anywhere, and the news comes like a damp message in the shoe left by the watch dogs of life named Alfie. 

it's beginning 

a lot like 


THE OBSERVER Friday, December 3, 1971
Page 8 

TWA INTRODUCES STUTELPASS. BED, BREAKFAST AND SIGHTSEEING IN 50 EUROPEAN CITIES. 
$4.30ADAY. 
NOW TWA GUARANTEES YOU A BED WITHOUT ANY ADVANCE RESERVATIONS. 
TWI\.s Stutel pass* is a book of coupons that gives you easier travelling in Europe. 
Here's how it works. 
Suppose you're in London, just drop into the Stutel pass office before 3 PM and ask them to get you a bed. 
And we guarantee they will. 
Or ifyou're heading for Paris, the London Stutel­pass office can get you a bed there also, or in any one ofthe 48 other European cities. 
You can buy a Stutelpass book of coupons for 10, 15, 20, 25 etc. days from TWA and either pay cash or charge it on your Getaway* Card. 
And when you come back from Europe, any un­used coupons may be turned in for a refund. For more ways theStutelpasscansave you money in Europe, call TWA. 


Friday, December 3, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 
Nixon and Meir discuss U.S. aid 
({') 1!171 New York Times 
Washington, Dec. 2--lsraeli Premier Golda Meir and President Nixon conferred privately for two hours at the White House today in an effort to reconcile the differences between their two governments. 
Earlier, Mrs. Meir held a three­hour working lunch with Secretary of State William P. Rogers at the State Department. 
The President and the 73-year­old premier met alone, with neither stenographers or aides 
Armored Car ReallyDoes Give a Dime 
<Cl 1971 New York Times 
New York, Dec. 2-The patrons of the Paris Bar and Grill here were talking about the armored car caper today, which is what they're calling it in Paris. 
It really wasn't a caper, but it could have been one. It had all the elements: A wells Fargo armored truck; screeching tires; bags and bags of money frantically being scooped up; drawn guns; action in seconds. 
But it wasn't a caper, merely an accident. 
Bags of dimes spilled from the rear of an armored truck after it hit a deep rut in the roadway and its bolted doors flew open. Four thousand dollars in dimes hit the road, $1,500 of it spilling from three bags that split upon impact. 
The truck, loaded with the bags of coins was enroute to the federal reserve bank. Coming the opposite way was a cement truck. 
It seemed, according to Lawrence Sarnelli, that the cement truck and the armored truck were about to collide or at least sideswipe," But at the last minute the armored truck swerved to the right. It smacked a bump hard, and kept on going." But the rear doors flew open with the impact and eight bags of dimes, each containing about $500 thudded into the street. 
Three of the bags split open, spilling a horde of dimes in various directions. The police calculated that $1,500 spilled into the roadway. 
Sarnelli and his buddy George Apostolou, who park cars for Sarnelli's Brother at the A & J Parking Lot, said there was "about $18,000 worth of dimes all over the place." 
"I never seen so many dimes. It was crazy," said Sarnelli. 
They shouted after the armored truck, which either heard them, or the dimes, or the rear doors flapping freely against thP truck body. It stopped. One guard jumped from the truck, gun drawn and ran back. The truck began to back up. 
The patrons of the Paris Bar and Grill raced out onto South 
Street only to be met by four guards from the armored truck-­
all with drawn guns. 
Butchie said "They really looked like they were gonna shoot. I was scared as hell. They didn't want nobody near them was what it was. Who wanted the damn dimes anyhow." And Paul added "even when it looked like we were going near the money they shoved the guns at us. That's stupid. They could've killed somebody." 
A Wells Fargo spokesman said late today that "it was nothing major. Only coins were involved." It was explained by another Wells Fargo employee that "there are bill days and coin days. Thank God this was a coin day." 
Indian force attacks 
(continued from page 3) 
involved at Hilli. 
Informed sources, however, said it was a reinforced infantry hrigade, or more, accompanied I>y about 45 Russian-built nwdium tanks. This would be more than 3,000 mPn and possibly more than 4,000. 
The Indians say they were opposed by a Pakistani brigade :md 14 light tanks, but that the tanks have been withdrawn from :1ction after five of them were knocked out. 
ThP spokesmen said today that 
the Indians had penetrated to a 
distance of "three, four or five 
miles." On Monday they put the 
distance at two or three miles. 
Tlw Indians had reached and 
hlockPd a railroad line north and 
Past of llilli. the spokesman said. 
lie addPd, howevPr, that "our information" is that guerrilla activity by the East Pakistani Mukti Bahini insurgent forces had already stopped the trains running from Jessore City in the south to Hilli. 
ThPre is also a highway or road in thP Hilli area that may have hPen Pndangered or cut. 
The Indian spokemen said that the Pakistanis had now "vacated" their original positions ncar Hilli and that these positions had been occupied by the Indian force. 
Questioned about Pakistani President Yahya Khan's request lo United Nations Secretary (;eneral Thant that United Nat ions observers be stationed on the I<:ast Pakistan side of the border, a spokesman said that 
India  could  not  guarantee  the  
physical  safety  of  such  ob­ 
servers.  

MAlN. CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Bob Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Jim Buckley, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Rill Toohey, C.S.C. 
present, in Nixon's oval office. It was announced later that they agreed to keep the specifics of their discussion confidential. 
However, from the carefully phrased statement made by a spokesman bter, it appeared that Mrs. Meir received long­term assurances of American support for Israel, but not the immediate delivery of supersonic warplanes she was seeking. 
This seemed implicit in the prepared statement that Ronald 
L. Ziegler, the President's Press Secretary, worked out with Nixon and read to reporters after the meeting. 
The President, Ziegler said, "confirmed that the United States will continue to maintain its on-going relationship of financial assistance and milita~~ supply to Israel. 
"In the context of this," he said, "it is recognized that the Israeli armed forces must maintain a long-term program of modernization and that the United States will continue to discuss how it can help in that process." 
To observers here, that seemed to fall short of the renewal of shipments of the F-4 Phantom jets that Israel has insisted she needs to maintain her deterrent power against the Arab nations. None of the planes has been delivered since June. However, the statement does seem to suggest that Israel will eventually receive what she needs to modernize her air force. 
The 73-ycar-old premier, in 
meetings  with  Rogers  and  
several of his top  Middle  East  
specialists.  She  was  ac­ 

companied by Yitzhak Rabin, the Israeli ambassador to the United States, and several political and military aides. 
The focus of this session, ac­cording to Robert J. McCloskey, the department spokesman, was mainly on the diplomatic efforts that could be made to reach a peaceful settlement. Rogers apparently repeated his suggestion that Israel and Egypt hold indirect talks "in close proximity" in an effort to reach a 
Fri. & Sat. at 

Fischer Glass 707 Marker Rotomat Heei Marker Simplex DL Toe All Sop Champion Poles Regular -$188.50 
Special -$150 
partial agreement to reopen the Suez canal. 
McCloskey said that both sides had agreed that the Middle East debate at the United Nations, which began today, would have to "run its course" before other diplomatic efforts could be launched. 
SISTER FANNY 
2 Legal Proofs of Age Always 
/ 
/..-/ 
We carry a full line of Yamaha, Blizzard, Northland and Fischer Skiis and the finest in White Stag, Auba, Cortina clothing. Come to see our Ski Fashion Show, Saturday, December4, 11:00 1.m.­4:30p.m. and see our Stein Erikson ski film. WJUA will broadcast live from U.S.L. on Saturday. 

IlL
S•Jm Agassi's 
U. S. LEISURE CENTER 
'2607 SOLI1H U.S. 31 NILES. MICHIGAN 49120 /PHONE. 616-684 07!:>0 
Page 9' 
Notre dame 
invitational relays swim meet 
7:00pm Friday Dec. 3 
Rockne Memorial Pool ~dress cool 
Records Phonos Discount Prices ! ! ! 241 Dixie Way N. 272­7510 
Excellent Beginners 
Package Northland 6T 2000 Solomon 404 Toe Northland Thunder Heel Aluminum Poles Regular $155 
Special -$99 


.. 
~Pa~g~e~l~0__________________________________________?:_1lE O_~S._~_R V_~_~_____________________________ __ __
____ __ __ F_r_id_a~y,_D_e_c_em be_r_3_,_1971 

Seniors to have opportunity to teach Freshman Seminar next semester 
by E. lmhorr 

Informal seminars, taught b: seniors, are being offered by th• Colle iate Seminar departmen this semester. Reactions o participants indicate that Fresh man Seminar 181 has prove1 itself an "interesting , original and unique approach" to th freshman year cirriculum. 
The course, originally aimed a familarizing seniors with th1 teaching situation, has evolvec into more of a freshman orientec program, Prof. Robert Vacca Director of the program pointe~ out. 
"The freshmen are realizin1 the worth of critical reading am discussion skills in the context o a class where a premium i placed on one's own con tribution," Vacca stated. 
"In the 181 sections," h1 continued, "both freshmen am seniors are demonstrating a1 awareness of and the desirabilit: for active participation in thei1 education." 
"My imagination and powers o expression are constant!; challenged," one Senior in structor pointed out, " neve: before have I been forced to be so aware and receptive to so many alternative ideas in such rapid succession." 
Freshman reaction seems generally enthusiastic. Many cited the close personal contact with other students they had in the course and contrasted it with their regular classes. 
"I found out learning need not be a drudge," one freshman claimed, "nor a painful ex­perience. I found this to be one of the most profitable course.> I've <'Ver had or been offered." 
The 'leminar is open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's freshmen. It meets once a week for two hours. The meetings are usually at night in the residence of the senior instructor. 
Readings for the course were described as "an attempt to come to terms with serious issues ... works, relevant but not superficially obvious," one senior instructor commented. 
Any freshman wishing to enroll in Seminar 181 must pre-register at the Collegiate Seminar office, 103 O'Shaugnessy, by Friday December lOth. 
Notre Daine to sponsor American Indians' visit 
Notre Dame, Ind. -University of Notre Dame students will be hosts to approximately three dozen American Indian students and adult leaders at a campus visitation program December 9­
12. The majority of the visitors are students or staff members of Sinte Glesca, a junior college recently opened on the Rosebud Reservation, South Dakota. 
The visitors will be housed in student residence halls, take their meals in campus dining halls and visit classes in progress. They will be guests of the Notre Dame students at the basketball game with St. Louis University on Saturday af­ternoon, December 11. 
Jointly sponsored by the Notre Dame Native American Club, the Robert F. Kennedy Institute for Social Action, and the Faculty Indian Affairs Committee of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Raganathan­anda to speak 
Two swamis will lecture on the campus of Indiana University at South Bend Sunday. The lec­tures, open to the public without charge, will start at 7 p.m. in room 126 of Northside Hall. 
The visitors are Swami Raganathananda, of Ashram at Ganges, Mich., and Swami Bashananda, a resident of Vivekananda Temple in Chicago. 
College, the visitation weekend will be highlighted by a demonstration of Indian dances and welcoming ceremonies at 8 
p.m. Thursday <Dec. 9) in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The public is invited to the program and admission is free. 
The University groups have been participating in a series of projects designed to increase the scholarship funds available for worthy Indian students and to assist accepted students in the realization of a full and profitable university career. Other projects have included participation in area tribal council affairs, assistance in construction of a neighborhood center to be used mainly as a location for tutoring both children and adults, establishment of a center of Indian history and legal literature, and counseling in the management of business affairs. 
Pitt Club 
Sign-ups and payment for Christmas Bus. 
Wed. Dec. 8 

7:30 pm to 8:30 p.m 
Room 2-D La Fortune 
SUNSHINE FESTIVAL 
with 
ATLANTIS Nazgur 
Greater North Bay Alchemical Co. Lightshow Friday, Dec. 3 8:00 N.D. Fieldhouse 
Sponsored By ND-SM C Social Commission $1.50 
Vacca: Frosh realizing worth of critical readings. 
on's Drugs .lust 5 minutes North -Prescriptions -Complete Line of Name Brand Cosmetics -Everything for Baby Giftware -Cameras and Film 
pen 9 am to 9 p 50970 U.S. 31 N. South Bend 
ph 272-4884 
'YHE IMPACT 0 f, NUCLEAR ENERGY ON SOCIETY 
A course designed to introduce students in the Liberal Arts to a technology thich will sub­stantially effect their world now and in the years to come. Topics will include thermal pollution (is it necessary?), Radioactive Fallout (what has it done, what can it do?), Energy Shortages (which city will have a brownout next?), and Crime Detection (have you ever seen a nuclear finger print?). ME 213 2 MWF 
RoGERS 
Optical 
HOURS: MON • TUES • 1lMt • FRI 9 AM 5:30PM WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPBCrACLE 
SERVICE All fYE DR.'S 
PRESCRIPTIONS HONORS: 
Cal/ 
289-7809 


Strohs...From one beer lover to another. 
THI'Sl'llOH BllE~'f.RY (O~If'A;>.;Y.I.>nltnlT. MtOII(iAN -~~~u, 

Friday, December 3, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
Irish sextet visits Wolverines 

by Jim Donaldson with the Huskies, brings a 4-2 start again this year. He leads the 
,
.. ­

Sports Editor record to Michigan. The Wolverine scorers with 13 points ' Wolverines are 1-3 in the WCHA, on eight goals and five assists.
Michigan may have knocked ~.
.. .

off Notre Dame in basketball but losing twice to Wisconsin and Michigan looks to center Rich
splitting with Michigan State a .. ' 
Mallette, forward Buck Straub
the Wolverine hockey team week ago, and 3-3 overall. 
and highly-regarded freshmen,
figures to have a bit more trouble Michigan suffered through a 9­
Paul-Andre Paris, Randy Neal
proving their supremacy over the 21 season last year but figures to 
Irish icers this weekend. and Pat Donnelly to assist
be an improved team in the '71-72 
Gagnon in providing the
Notre Dame's WCHA-Ieading campaign. The return of of-Wolverine offense.
sextet, after winning three of four fensive standout Bernie Gagnon consecutive games on home ice, and goalie Karl Barnell and the Captain Brian Skinner and takes to the road for the second addition of what Wolverine coach veterans Punch Cartier and time this year, traveling to Ann AI Renfrew calls, "The best Jerry Lefebvre are the best of a Arbor to take on the Wolverines freshman crop I've seen in a long mediocre defensive crew that l<'riday and Saturday nights. time at Michigan", makes the allowed opponents to fire up­
Notre Dame, coming off an Wolverines a team to be reckoned wards of 40 shots a game at important, 6-5 overtime victory with. Wolverine goalie Karl Bagnell in 
over Michigan Tech last Gagnon, a wing, racked up 26 '70-71. Bagnell, now in his third Saturday that gained the Irish a goals and 22 assists, 48 points, year as a starter, stopped an split in their eight-point series last season and is off to a good average of 36 shots per game last 


season and is considered to beJim Donaldson ===========:=:============================================================================ one of the better goalies in the WCHA. • 
·'Michigan has pretty good 
Eddie Bumbacco, at left, and John Campbell, shown here in action'

speed and likes to play power
The Irish Eye 
against Michigan Tech, comprise, along with Ian Williams, two-thirds 

hockey," according to Irish 
of Notre Dame's number one line. The threesome has accounted for 19

coach Lefty Smith. ''They like to 
of the team's 29 goals this season.

dump the puck into their op­
Of Digger's debut and other things 
ponents end and put the pressure he added. Co-captain Bill Green, Bill 
·;;~;;:~:~:~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::=:::::!:::::::::::!:::::::!:!:::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:::~:::::~:::::::::::::! 
on." The Irish have made a couple Nyrop, Ric Schafer and Steve Digger Phelps may not really be a magician but he pulled a little of lineup changes as a result of Curry will handle the defensive
Notre Dame proved that they
something out of his hat Wednesday night and almost turned the the Tech series, Freshman Tum chores for the Irish, along with
can handle pressure last
highly-rated Michigan Wolverines into bunny rabbits. Lindsey has won a starting b~rth freshman Les Larson who has
Saturday when they came from
Phelps' sophomore-laden team put on a better show than a lot of at center on Notre Dame's third been improving lately. 
behind three times and posted an
people expected. When you send a team onto the court that has zero line, between Larry Israelson use
overtime win over Michigan The Irish are expected to 
minutes of varsity experience, is missing its center and veteran co­and either D' Arcy Keating or Jim Dick Tomasoni and junior Chris
Tech, the pree-season WCHA
captain, and whose tallest man is 6'7, you don't figure to have a Cordes. Smith will keep the high Cathcart in the nets this
favorite.
powerhouse ball club. scoring trio of John Campbell, weekend. Cathcart has yet to When Johnny Dee left Notre Dame last spring, he took virtually "I was pleased with our Ian Williams and Eddie Bum­start this year but posted Cl mere everything with him, including the furniture in his office. Phelps has comeback on Saturday, it shows bacco together as his top line and 2.83 goals against average in six taken what players remained and turned them into a hustling, what we're capable of doing when send John Noble, Paul Regan anc games last season. respectable team. l'veryone plays together," Smith either Ray Delorenzi or Joe Bonk I<:ach game in the series is The Irish had Michigan on the ropes for a while before they ran out said. "We learned about how our on the ice as the second set of worth two points to the Irish. of gas in the final ten minutes. The Wolverines ended up winning by 18 personnel reacts under fire, too," forwards. J<'aceoff both nights is 8 pm. hut it wasn't that easy a victory. Notre Dame made them work for it. "I was really proud of our kids, " Phelps said afterwards. "They didn't quit, they went after them all the way." 
ND cagers play Valparaiso
With the exception of an overabundance of turnovers (18), the Irish had no glaring weakness. They did commit plenty of fouls (28) but that's to be expected when a team plays a scrambling, gambling, full Seeking to even the Irish points. Another ex-St. Joe's grad, against Michigan, Wednesday. court defense such as the Irish largely employed. basketball record at one and one, Paul Fredlake, serves as the Sophomores Tom O'Mara, Gary 
Digger's strategy to play the Wolverines all over the court most of Digger Phelps and his cagers sixth man for the Crusaders. Novak, Bob Valibus, Tom Hansen the time was an excellent move. Michigan was a bigger and stronger travel to Valparaiso Saturday to and Chris Stevens, juniors Don
Defensively, the Irish will have

dub than the Irish and, if they had been allowed to run their normal meet the Crusaders. Valpo won Silinski and Willie Townsend and 
to stop a 1-2-2 offense that Valpo

offensive patterns, undoubtedly would have worked the ball inside their first game of the season seniors Jim Regelean and John
coach Bill Purdern has installed

where they just had too much for Notre Dame to cope with. Wednesday, beating Carroll Egart all saw considerable action 
around Wolfenberg and Valpo's

"That's the kind of a team we'll be," Phelps commented. "We've got College of Wisconsin 110-74. against the Wolverines.
all-junior starting line-up. 

to play the all-court game, be aggressive and we'll have fouls, tur­The Irish five will have to stop 
O'Mara and Novak were novers, give the opponents some easy baskets. We can't overpower the potentially explosive Valpo The Irish, who have won 14 of 16 standouts for the Irish in the

anyo~e." offense, led by 6-8 center John meetings between the two Michigan game, scoring 25 and 23The Wolverines' front line strength was evident in the rebounding Wolfenberg. Wolfenberg carries schools, will most likely employ a points, respectively. Valibus also statistics, which showed Michigan hauling down 52 caroms to Notre a 14.6 points per game average number of players against the scored in double figures, hooping Dame's 40. The smaller Irish did an outstanding job on the boards in into the new season. Up front, he Crusaders, just as they did 12 points.
the first half, outrebounding the Wolverines by a slight margin, but will be joined by 6-5 Wally Schultz Michigan's power was a telling factor in the final20 minutes. and 6-5 Tom Hoerl. All in all, Digger's debut must be considered a successful one, since In the Valpo backcourt, Tom 
Dampeer, Marx named 

it exceeded expectations. It may be a while before the Irish start Haborle (6-0) teams up with Dale burying their opponents but they may trip up a few unsuspecting clubs Lisecki, a sharpshooting along the way this season. graduate of St. Joseph's High 
'72 Irish grid captains

Disa and Data: School in South Bend. Lisecki was 
Top performers for the Irish cagers were sophomores Tom O'Mara high point man for the Crusaders All-American Walt Patulski an l'xcellent blocker. and Gary Novak. O'Mara hit on 10 of 17 field goal attempts and five of 
29 was named Notre Dame's Most Patulski, the leading vote­nine free throws to take team scoring honors with 25 points. Novak Valuable Player and juniors 
getter on two recent All­

netted 23 points and led the club in rebounding, with 10. Greg Marx and John Dampeer American teams, anchored the 
Wednesday night's loss broke a string of 15 consecutive opening were elected co-captains for Irish defense while recording 74 game victories for the Irish, dating back to the 1955 season. 1972 by their teammates tackles and handing runners The Irish icers will be one-third of the way through their WCHA Thursday night. losses of 129 yards on 17 oc­schedule after this weekend's series at Michigan. The games at Ann The announcement was made 
casions. 

Arbor are worth two points apiece so, after Saturday night, Notre at the annual football banquet in Dame will have played for 24 of a possible 72 WCHA points. the Athletic and Convocation 
Swim meet

Once again, for those of you who may still be in the dark about the Center. Ara Parseghian 's Irish Western Collegiate Hockey Association's point method that's used to finished the 1971 campaign with determine the league starlings, here's the explanation: If the Irish an R-2 record. 
tops minor

meet another WCHA team only twice during the year,each game is In addition, senior linebacker worth four points; if they play a club four times, each game is worth !':ric Patton was named the two points. Thus, there is a total of eight possible points available in recipient of the John McMullen 
sports catd 

each series and, since there are nine other clubs in the league, it's Award for outstanding leadership 
possible to accumulate a total of 72 points during the year. on the field and in the classroom. Three of Notre Dame's winter Notre Dame swept a pair of games from the Wolverine icers last Patton, a three-year regular sports l!'ams -in addition to season at Ann Arbor, winning by 4-2 and 5-4 counts. from Santa Ana, Calif., follows basketball and hockey --will be 
Willie Townsend, who gained notoriety as a wide receiver on the All-American Larry DiNardo as active this weekend. Irish football team, made his ffirst appearance on the hardcourt the second winner of the annual This Irish swimmers will open Wednesday night and he looks like he'll be a big help to the team, award. their season at home with the especially in the rebounding department. He still isn't ready to go full Marx, a 6-5, 255 pound defen­annual Notre Dame Relays steam yet, though. There aren't any huddles where one can catch his sive tackle from Redford, starting at 7 p.m. Friday in the breath in basketball and Willie's got to work himself into shape. Michigan, helped anchor a unit Rockne pool. Bradley, 
Although I've only seen Colorado and Michigan Tech among the rest that was ranked among the top Valparaiso, Wayne State, of the WCHA clubs, if anyone asked me, I'd tell them that Notre nationally in both scoring and Oakland University and Drury Dame's line of John Campbell, Eddie Bumbacco and Ian Williams has rushing defense. Marx was the College <Springfield, Mo. l will to be as fine a set of forwards as one can find in the league. The trio second leading tackler on the compete with the Irish. are running 1-2-3 in the Irish point parade this season. Left-winger team with 85 including opposing Notre Dame's wrestling team Bumbacco heads the group, and the entire WCHA for that matter, in runners for losses 12 times for 44 will face rugged competition in scoring with nine goals and six assists, for 15 points. Williams has 7-6-yards. the NPw York Invitational both 13 and Campbell, an outstanding freshman center, has three goals and · Dam peer, a 6-2, 240 pound Friday and Saturday. seven assists, 10 points. offensive tackle from Kermit, The Irish fencers will meet 
After this weekend, the Irish don't play another WCHA game until 1 Texas, has been a regular for the Vanderbilt at Culver Military January 7th and 8th, when they visit Colorado College. Tom O'Mara past two years and is considered Academy on Saturday. 


Page 12 THE OBSERVER Friday, December 3, 1971 
UN halts relief to East Pakistan 

b;; Bt"njamin \Vt"lles ((') 1!171 Nt"W York Timt"S 
Washington. Dec. 2-­Diplomatic informants here said today that the $100 million effort of the United Nations Relief Agency in East Pakistan is "grinding to a halt" and that the agency has abandoned 162 new trucks, bought with international relief funds, at Chittagong because of fighting in the area. 
The informants said the agency had removed the rotors from the trucks' engines to prevent seizure of the vehicles .either by the Pakistani army or by local Bengali guerrillas. Pakistani authorities in the area, the in­formants said, were furious about this. 
The U.N. agency has left one staff man at Chittagong to watch over the immobilized trucks, which cost between $5,000 and $10,000 each, in the hope that the fighting will die down soon and the distribution of food grains and other goods can be resumed. 
But in recent weeks. according 

to trustworthv sources. the 
agency has reduced its operating 
personnel in East Pakistan by 
approximately three-fifths. 
Secretary General Thant and Paul-Marc Hl.'nrv, assistant secretary genE.'ral ·in charge of East Pakistan Reflief operations, have authorized their representative at Dacca, William McCaw, an American citizen with 25 years U.N. experience, to evacuate personnel whose lives are in jeopardy or whose ac­tivities are circumscribed by the fighting. 
McCaw is said to have slashed his combined staff of 107--which was building up toward a target total of 165--by 62 U.N. personnel, plus 4 dependents who have been flown out to Bangkok to await events. 
Most of the remaining 45 U.N. personnel --representing also UNICEF, WHO, ILO and a four­man crew for a chartered U.N. airplane ··have now been pulled 
Ne-w Soviet ~nissiles 
(continued from page 4) 
to Lockheed Aircraft Corporation to develop a new long range submarine missile. Unofficial estimates are that this weapon will have a range of about 4,000 miles. It won't be available, however, for several years. 
The importance of range in this context, analysts· explained, it that the greater the range, the larger area of ocean a submarine may hide in while still being able to reach its target. 
Sources say there have been at least four Sawfly test firings since September. They are launched from a naval missile testing center near the White Sea and fly across the Soviet Union, impacting in Kamchatka Peninsula in Soviet Asia. 
Sources say the Sawfly carries a "significantly larger" warhead than the Soviet SSN-6 Missile, 16 of which are carried on each Y­class submarine. The SSN-6 is estimated to carry warheads of from one to two megatons. A megaton is equivalent to one million tons of TNT explosive force. 
Most American polaris missiles carry a one megaton warhead. The poseidon missile, which is being placed on 31 of the 41 polaris submarines, carries from 10 to 14 warheads of about 40 kilotons each. A kiloton is equivalent to 1,000 tons of TNT. 
Sources note that while the Soviets have been actively testing various multiple warheads on their missiles, none of these tests has been specifically associated with the Sawfly to date. 
BANDY NE\VMAl\1 
BONNIE RAITT 
... 
Friday, December 10 8:00p.m. O'Laughlin Aud. Tickets $2 at S.U. Ticket Office & Pandora's Books 
haek into Dacea for safety's sake. 
Previously UNEPHO had been gradually moving its personnel out of Dacca into ten field stations at strategic sites throughout East Pakistan. These stations have now been turnE.'d ovE.'r to East Pakistani Relief ageneies, informants say. 
John Kelly, an Irish national and former commando who repressents Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan, U.N. high com­missioners for refugees has rE.>portedly ordered his four assistants out of the area. Kelly has been in charge of observing conditions of an estimated 48,000 refugees who have returned voluntarily from India. 
A total of $100 million on con­tributions from the U.S. and 14 other international donors has been earmarked for distribution through UNEPRO starting in June when Pakistan requested world assistance, informants say. But of this total, they note, only "fifteen to twenty per cent" has actually arrived on the scene --either in convertible funds, in 

BOOK SHOP 

GIFTS • BOOKS POSTERS LOVE NOTES GREETING CARDS RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 
MATERIAL 
ONE 8LOCK f..A.Sl :Jf NOT Rl DAME 

BROWSERS WELCOME FREE PARKING 
OPEN MONDAY & THURSDA'r TIL 7:00 PM 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 

18717 BULLA ROAD SOUTH BEND, IN 46ti37 PH. 272·1704 
food grains, in trucks, chartered boats or other tangible forms. 
According to U.N. informants the ll.S. aid pledged so far is !65 million of which !60 million is in the form of surplus foods, trucks, and ships. However, U.S. agency for International Development sources point out that the U.N. 
WANTED 
Need a ride to New York·New 
Jprsey area for Christmas for a freak and his brother. Will share expenses and anything else. 
Please call 8713. 
Need ride from Midwest (i.e. closer to Springfield Illinois than to N.Y.) to N.Y. area between Xmas and New Years. 6719. 
Wanted: Please sell me one good bicycle for Christmas. Like my qirl: Used and Cheap. Call Randy 8726. 
Wanted: SMC female Partridge Family fan. Meet Ken in Holy Cross Hall (SMC) TV room at 7:30 
p.m. tonight. 
Needed: Garage storage for car over Xmas break will pay. Call 8520. 
FOR SALE 
Unique personalized stationery, the perfect Christmas gift for that special someone. Inquire by call 1167 or come see our vast selection at 611 Grace or 315 South Regina. 
For Sate: Fisher stereo amp, FM stereo tuner, Garrard turntable, Large Bass Reflex speakers, $200.00. Call Tim 272·5374. 
FOR SALE: Men's figure skates, size 10, hardly used; 8648. 
For Sale: one year old Sony stereo system containing BSR turntable and 42 watt amp. Also new Sony stereo combination 
receiver -cassette player. offer. Toney 1057.  Best  
Christmas  give.away.  All  s.  

tracks now only $3. Call 6715. 
Sale: Sony TC 8 track cartridge recorder. New $135. Now only $90 or best offer. Frank 3238. 
Unworn men's Wyler watch. Retails $50 will sell for 30. Original guarantee included. Call 3662. 
For sale: one pair Head Killy BOO skis. Brana new, perfect con­dition. Good price. 318 Howard, 8240. 
Great Xmas present: Portable S­track tape player; like new. Call Tom 1208. 
For Sale: Sony Stereo Taperecorder, accesories. Garrard SLX 2 Turntable, Complete Excellent Condition. Must Sell Best Offer. Mike 8712. 
for Sale: 1970 VW squareback AM FM radio; recent tuneup, reliable. $1300. Call 234-4957. 
What? Can't Type? Will type papers of any size for reasonable fees. Bibliographies and footnotes too. Want to do them over the weekend and even through exam week. Call Chip at 8257. 
"LAW SCHOOL WILL I LIKE IT? CAN I MAKE IT?" A new book by a recent law graduate for prospective law students. II looks ,,t how to best prepare for law school. including what books to read, and analyzes several for­mulas based on admission studies to predict first year average. 11 is possible to determine how one will do in law school. For your copy send $2.95 to Kroos Press, Box 3709A. Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53217. 
Wot ds Ida. 2da 3<lil .\da Sda 
1·10 .65 .9S 1.15 1.35 1.55 11 IS 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16·20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·15 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26 30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31·35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.35 ti.15 36·•10 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.7S 7.75 41 ~5 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46·50 3.55 5. 20 6.50 7.80 8. 95 

does not include U.S. relief t'armarked for West Pakistan after last autumn's cyclone and before the current crisis flared up on March 25. This rP!ief, plus normal foods from other U.S. sou.rces, reportedly adds more than 1,000,000 tons of food grai~ to the relief picture. 

LOST 
Lost at SMC-engagement ring. 2 diamonds-gold band. 4712 Reward. 
Lost Will Mary Mulligan please 
call Ken.  Miss You! 6442.  
FOUND  
N D. ring 8670.  at  Convo. Call Mark  
Found:  1971  St.  Charles  

Prepatory ring. Call 3438. 
NOTICES 
Christmas Loans up to $150. Pay back January 20. Morrissey Loan Fund Closes Dec. 10. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 
11:1512:15. 
Fantastic offer to ski the Alps during Christmas vac.:ation $270. Includes everything. Call 8853. 
Paperbacks Bought and Sold. Underground Newspapers. Pandora's B·Joks, N.D. & S.B. lwes. 
Need research aide for your term paper? Call Steve 234·6873. 
Faculty: Why break your back? Let Shamrock Services fret over snow. Sidewalks as low as $iO monthly, driveways $25. 288·3639. 
Need added income? Sell a needed tamily service. Call 250. 0339. 
Fly a 747 to Aspen with the Ski Club or drive... Into 6875, 8424, or 7857. 
Take time out for you! SMCND Ct1ristrnas Retreat. an experience in Christian sharing. This Saturday, Dec. 4th, 9 a.m . Midnight. For Info and sign ups call Fr. Roger (5389) or Tom Stella (1168) or Mary Gail PPterson (4494). 
PERSONALS 
Ttw Dairy Queen of Skokie is still making MAGIC BOTTLES. CStop in 416 Augusta 5106. 
Estimo Miguel, T11e invitatio" to the wild fiesta scheduled for the 4th has been qratefully accepted. 
Your Senorita 
Undone Death is dying to know how the second death was died nnd from whence came the \ake or fire.. 
Tl1anx to all the girls who par­ticipated in the Howard Hall Tl1anksg iving Experiement. 
Jackie says, "Hi, Pwop!" 
GO VOLS! 
BEAT PENN ST.! 
Hey Beck, 3110urs Whew. I died around 5:00 nnd killed my French, but so what. II was great. 
FOR RENT 
Single room for rent second semester. Good hitching. Call 233·6534. 
WANTED 
Make extra money on immediate commission basis. Call 250·0339. 







