


Vol. VI, No. 3 Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Friday, September 10, 1971 
Stephan defends new alcohol, parietals policy 
by Kevin McGill 
The Board of Trustees decision for stricter enforcement of University parietal and alcohol rules was defended by Chairman Edmund A. Stephan Thursday. 
Stephan noted that students had a voice in making these laws and said he expects hall judicial boards to enforce the laws even if they don't believe in them. He said that students have been given more and more voice in their own affairs and have made great progress in the areas of civil rights, coeducation, and minority students' problems. 
But in other areas, especially in hall legislative and judicial functions, the Board of Trustees has been "pretty disenchanted in the way in which students have responded," Stephan added. 
Not all legislation should be left up to the students, Stephan said. 
"First of all, the University does have an interest in the en­vironment as well as do the students, and a responsibility to keep order in the halls and the community. Secondly, the University has a long term in­volvement and can act as a continuing influence. We can't have the laws change every few years as each new group of students comes to office. That would lead to chaos." 
The most specific concern of the Trustees is drinking in the halls, according to the Chicago attorney. He thought the in­terference with others in the halls and the great risk of conflict with civil laws when there is drinking in the dormitories to be more serious than the problem of drunk students returning from town. 
Since the hall rector has the ultimate responsibility for order in the hall, inequality could result in the strictness of enforcement. 
Stephan said, however, "The role of the rector from hall to hall has been subject to variations even in the past. Some rectors, 

Merger of academic departments 


Faculty cuts expected low 
by I>anit>l Hock 

Aecording to four deans of Notre Dame-St. Mary's Csllege, relatively few faculty cuts are expeded next year, including 
both  tenured  and  non-tenured  
faculty  members  from  both  
campuses.  

Dean Frederick Crosson, College of Arts and Letters, said that concrete guidelines with regard to faculty members have been laid down. All SMC tenured faculty will receive new contracts 

Crosson: Guidelines have been laid 

in the summer of 1972 and non­tenured faculty will be reviewed by their respective departments at Notre Dame in the summer of 1972. New contracts will be issued thereafter. "Not very many cuts are expected, but most questions concerning the merger remain unanswered, "noted Dean Crosson. 
Sister Jeanne Finske, SMC academic dean, outlined thz merger this way. "All depart­ments are affected and are working together now under the Notre Dame chairmen, the SMC ehairmen will become assistant department chairmen." Sr. Jeanne does not anticipate much change in the department procedures this semester. mainly because many girls have retained their SMC academic advisors. Sr. Jeanne expects few, if any, faculty cuts for next year. 

(;ordon: "Trt>mendous growth" 

Dr. Bernard Waldman, Chairman of the Science Department is prasently out of the country. His secretary referred the Observer to former assistant dean of the Science Department, Dr. Robert Gordon. Dr. Gordon sees no faculty cuts on either campus because of ths amazing increase in science students alone. "The Department at Notre Dame is experiencing a tremendous growth. Over four hundred Freshmen have entered the pre-med program alone." Asked about the location of the Science Department Dr. Gordon said that the expenses and in­vestments in the science laboratories require the department to remain here at Notre Dame. 
Dean Thomas Murphy of the Buysiness College said that because the Business-Economics College at St. Mary's is relatively small, St. Mary's students will be given a choice to enter either business administration in his college or the economics department in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Father James T. Burtchaell, university provost, projected the date of completion of the academic merger to be Sep-


Murphy: Choice for SMC students 
tember 1972. Admissions are already being processed by thz Notre Dame Admissions Office and all diplomas will be issued to girls from Notre Dame with the stipulation 'from the College of Saint Mary's.' 
~-~~~~,w~~~,~~ 
WASHINGTON--The United States, in its opening statement at the talks with Japanese officials in Washington, said Thursday that only a "major" change in the exchange rate between the yen and the dollar could solve American and world economic problems. But Japanese Foreign Minister Takeo Fukuda's statement suggested that the dollar's problems stemmed from other causes than unbalanced ex­change rates. 
BEHLIN--West Germany's State Secretary, Egon Bahr, broke off the negotiations between the two German states on implementing the four-power Berlin Agreement after the bilateral talks hit a snag. Knowledgeable sources said the East Germans insisted that only West Berlin, not West Germany, was competent to discuss transit across East German territory. 
LONDON--Britain's Cabinet was recalled to deal with the crisis in Northern Ireland. The Government said the House of Commons would sit for two says, Sept. 22 and 23, and the House of Lords for one, Sept. 22, so that they could receive an account of the Government's policies in Northern Ireland, including internment without trial. 
PARIS--William J. Porter, the new American negotiator at the Paris Peace Talks on Vietnam, began his job by suggesting that publicity about the talks be restricted to further chances of progress. The Communist delegations rejected the suggestion, which was similar to ones made by Porter's predecessors, but suggested in turn that the Americans meet privately with the Viet Cong. The United States has denied such requests because they exclude the Saigon Government. 
PITTSBURGH--Thousands of shrieking students poured into the streets of Pittsburgh in a demonstration in favor of Mayor John V. Lindsay, who was campaigning there for voter registration. But the demonstration was found to have been carefully staged and controlled by Donald Evan, the Mayor's advance man. (See page 5 of today's Observer) 
just like some parents, are some might voluntarily resign.
stricter than others." 
He added that a continuallyHe said that University-wide changing personnel is to be found 
norms should bring about more in any organization.uniformity. In his opinion, all About next weeks meetingresident assistants should be 
between four members of the 
expected to enforce the rules. SLC and four members of the Prof. Eagan, Chairman of the Board of Trustees to discuss SLC, said that some existing sanctions for offenses, Eagan
resident assistants might be said, "I don't know what the found undesirable at present, and results will be." 
SMC questionnaire explores coed problems 
by Ann Conway 

More than 59 percent of the 
student body attending SMC 
second semester last year 
responded to a coeducation 
commission questionaire sent out 
over the summer. 
Covering such areas as 
parietals, co-ed Jiving, and dorm 
regulations, the questionaire was 
prepared last May by Co­
education Commissioner Jane 
Sheehy and Ex-SBVP Jean 
Gorman. 
"The reason for the 
questionaire," according to Miss 
Sheehy, "is that one of the 
biggest jobs in the merger is 
going to be drawing up one set of 
rules and regulations, because 
the way things stand now, the 
rules on the two campuses are 
much different. Changes will be 
definitely made in St. Mary's 
rules, and it will be valuable to 
have student opinion on present 
rules." 
The broadest question posed was whether or not a women's dorm should be more closely supervised and regulated then a ·mens' dorm. Sixty-one percent 
respondents answered yes with 
the major concern being 
security. The girls, according to 

Miss  Sheehy,  felt·  a  need  for  
protection  rather  than  
regulation.  

Ninety-five percent of the SMC students wished to see men and women living on both campuses while 67 percent wanted both separate and coed housing with the student being allowed to choose the type of housing they prefered. Only 6 percent however, opted for complete integration of dorms. 
The question of extension of male visiting hours in the SMC dorms drew a 61 percent favorable response. Of the ex­tension alternatives presented, 21 percent opted for 24 hour parietals 7 days a week; 25 percent for several weeknights and weekends, 5 pm until dorm closing, and 27 percent for weekends, 5 pm until midnight. Only 4 percent of the girls an­swering the questionaire wanted male visiting hours to remain as they presently are, Sunday, 1 to 5 pm. . "I think that this question of parietals )s one of the more important on the questionaire," said Miss Sheehy. 
"We have the idea now that 
(Continu_ed on page 5) 
Workers regild the statue of Our Lady atop tht> Goldt>n Dome 

Repairs grace campus 
Freshmen aren't the only new look at Notre Dame. During the summer months du Lac added a few new fixtures and polished up some old ones. 
The new look includes an im­proved Main Gate guardhouse, and a 500 car student parking lot. Polished old looks include seating renovations in the stadium and a reguilded Golden Dome. 
Main gate improvements, estimated to cost $17,000, will include a relocated guardhouse with electronically controlled gates to regulate the traffic flow entering and leaving the campus. 
The repair and resurfacing of Notre Dame Avenue from Angela St. to the main gate is being completed at a cost of $6,100. 
A 500-car parking lot, located east of Juniper Rd. at the north gate, is being completed at a cost of $35,900 and will be for student use. 
Workmen completed the replacement of seating and other renovations in the Notre Dame Stadium in mid-August, a project begun last year and estimated to cost in excess of $520,000. 
Other projects completed this summer included the replacement of tucking in the mural on the Memorial Library, waterproofing of exterior library walls, renovation of sidewalks in the library mall, and regilding of the statue atop the Golden Dome. 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Friday, September 10, 1971 
Rent a refrigerator for your room. 
,, 
. ­

---I 
ust ' 




5.00 a month.* 

You can keep a complete supply of snacks and refresh­ments-including milk, fresh fruits and other perishables EXTRA EXCLUSIVES -right in your dormitory room with a Mini-Kool refriger­
• Free pick-up and delivery 
ator. And the convenience of a Mini-Kool can be yours for just pennies a day. • We pay interest on your deposit 
• Mini-Kool Protection Policy-for $1 a term it relieves Nobody can match these exclusive Mini-Kool advantages. 
you of all liability for fire and theft. And it's free to all who pay a full academic year's rent in advance. 
• Compact-dimensions are onry 20 x 17 x 18" • Guaranteed-if one of our refrigerators malfunctions, • Spacious-Two cubic-foot capacity, holds up to 36 we'll replace it within 24 hours. 
cans of cold drinks • Purchase option-you can buy your refrigerator if
• 
University-approved for dormitory use 


you like, and 75% of your rental payments will be 
• 
Versatile-makes ice cubes, doubles as end table applied toward the $89.50 purchase price. 

•rhe monthly price stated is an average based on rental for the full academic year. Refrigerators may be rented for shorter periods as well, with some adjustment in the monthly cost. 

LL288-2519 
A service project of 
ALPH 
PHIO 
EGA,
iJ.l., ll -·, .,·.cJ J' ;· 
,.;7' 

I 1'dr· · · 
The proceeds of this project will be donated to the 
SISTER MARlETT A SCHOOL and CAMP MILHOUSE. 
~-.: ~: f i 
Friday, Septe'mber 10, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
Nixon: No extension for wage-price freeze 


<C) 1971 Washington Star 
Washington, Sept. 9-President Nixon announced today he will not extend the wage-price-rent freeze beyond its scheduled expiration Nov. 13 but will follow up the freeze with effective measures to restrain inflation. 
"I assure the Congress and the American people that when this first temporary and necessarily drastic action -the freeze -is over, we shall take all the steps needed to ser that \merica is not again afflicted by the virus of runaway inflation," the President said in a speech to a joint session of Congress. 
The WhiteHouse simultflneously announced that Nixon would meet tomorrow with A.F.L.-C.I.O. President George Meany and other labor leaders to consult them about 
Reuss, Gross to speak 
by Anthony Abowd 
Plans for two campus lectures have just been announced by the Student Academic Commission. The guest speakers will be Rep. Henry S. Reuss, appearing Thursday, September 16, and Dr. M.. Grant Gross, speaking Tuesday September 21. Both lectures are a part of an en­vironmental awareness program planned by the Student Academic Commission. Both will begin at 
8:00 pm in the Library Auditorium. 
Rep. Reuss is a Democrat from Wisconsin and the chairman of the House Conservation and Natural ·Resources Sub­committee. His program will concentrate on Congressional efforts to protect the en­vironment. 
Dr. Gross is the Associate Director of ths Marine Sciences Resources Center at Stony Brook University in New York. The topic of his address will be "The Crisis in Wasteland." Dr. Gross will cover the problems of waste disposal around urban and 
Rectors named for ND dorms 
The names of four new rectors were announced Thursday by the Office of Student Affairs 
They are: Revs. Edward Hoffman, Howard Hall; Richard Zang, Sorin Hall; Lawrence Faye, Cava-naugh Hall; and William Presley, St. Edward's Hall. 
No stranger to Notre Dame, Fr. Presley served as Keenan Hall rector last year before his transfer to St. Edward's. A diocesan priest from Erie, Pa., he is studying for a master's degree in educational ad­ministration. 
No longer assistant rector at Morrissey, Fr. Hoffman's assignment is Howard Hall. Having graduated from Notre Dame as a philosophy major, he has held both administrative and teaching positions for the Holy Cross fathers in Pennsylvania. 
Sorin Hall is Fr. Zang's first experience as rector. He holds a master's degree in business administration from the University of Virginia, and will assist the university investments officer. 
Fr. Faye, a Basilian priest, has been assigned to Cavanaugh Hall. He also will work on a doctorate in edu~ation. Although this is Fr. Faye's first complete year at ND, he spent five sum­mers here working on a master's degree in educational ad­ministration. 
marine areas. A slide show will complement the lcture. 
The speakers will talk for approximately an hour and a question-answer session will follow each lecture. 
The Academic Commission has booked other prominent speakers. Larry O'Brien who is Chairman of the Democratic National Committee and author Merie Miller will be coming to ND in September. Steve Flavin, Director of the Student Academic Committee said he was trying to get as many speakers as possible for a well anit-inflation policies to follow the freeze. 
Observing that "the system of wage and price stabilization that follows the freeze will require the fullest possible cooperation," Nixon said he also would meet in the next few days 'with representatives of business, agriculture and Congress "for the purpose of helping plan the next phase." 
The President gave no hint of what kind of wage and price stabilization program he con­templated after the freeze. Ad­ministration officials have said no decisions on those questions have been reached. 
But Nixon appeared to rule out all-inclusive mandatory controls, as rigid as the 90-day freeze, which he said was necessary only "to hold the line." 
"Nothing would be detrimental to the new prosperity in the long run than to put the nation's great, strong free enterprise system in a permanent strait jacket of government controls," Nixon said. 
"Regimentation and govern-beyond his program, the ment coercion mush never President said, "The Congress become a way of life in the United faces many temptations to raise States. Price and wage spending and to cut taxes in stabilization, in whatever form it addition to the recommendations takes, must be only a way-station I have made." on the road to free markets and While such proposals may be free collective bargaining in a "popular measures" he said, new prosperity without war." they would be "certain to start us 
Nxion called on Congress ior again on a spiral of higher bipartisan cooperation in prices." promptly enacting his tax Nixon said he would send proposals, and in maintaining Congress next year new control of federal spending. proposals, including tax in-
In an apparent effort to head centives, to encourage off Democratic proposals going creation" of additional jobs. 
~~----------------~----~ 
Main Church Sunday Masses 
5:15pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30pm Sun. Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. 
10:45 pm Sun. Fr. Andrew Ciferni, 0. Praem 
12: 15 pm Sun. Fr. William Toohe C.S.C. 
West Side of the Library 
Used Book Sale
·-..__ 

Friday, Sept. I Oth 
10 am-5pm 
roundedpr~oggr~a~m~.~----------~===============================================================:::::::=. 



WANTED: 
H.L.Mencken W.R.Hearst Horace Greely Lois Lane or persons of similar repute and stature to work on The Obse-rver, Notre Dame's Student Daily. 
OPPORTUNITIES! 
Rapid advancement possible. 
(Become an editor in 60 days or your money back). Have a chance to sneer at : J.T.Burtchaell (Provost), Edmund Stephan (Trustees Chairman) and Fr. T. Hesburgh (Celebrity). 
WHEN & WHERE: 
In front of LaFortune Student Center, 
6: 45 p.m. Mon. Sept. 13th 
Friday, September 10, 1971
Page 4 THE OBSERVER 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
Editor -in -Chief Glen S. Corso  All successful newspapers are ceaselessly queruoous and bellicose. They  Business Manager James Jendryk  
Executive Editor T. C. Treanor  never defend anyone or anything if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, they tackle it by denouncing someone or  •  Ad Manager Bill Bauerle  
Founded Nov. 3, 1966  something else. -H. L. Mencken,  Notre Dame, Indiana  
Business 283-7471  News 283-1715  

When the Student Life Council finally meets -they haven't scheduled a meeting yet, and show no eagerness to do so· it will have before it the most serious challenge to its existence as a serious, autonomous body of University law. 
When Edmund Stephan and the rest of the Board of Trustees twice denied the Student Life Council request to allow Halls to determine their own Parietal Hours, the Trustees demonstrated their own ignorance, but the decisions did not seriously compromise the in­tegrity of the SLC. Students, after all, knew that the truly represen­tative University body approved of halls determining their own parietal hours, and acted accordingly. But now, since the Trustees insist that the SLC enforce a law it had no voice in making, there is no way that the SLC can react without either affirming its own dignity as a University body or surrendering any pretense to power or respon­sibility. 
As we see it, the Student Life Council has two options open to it: 
1) It can back down to the Board of Trustees and agree to set up· the mechanisms for rigid enforcement of Parietal Hours. In such an event, we urge the student representatives to walk out, denying the Council a forum. There seems very little sense in keeping thz SLC operative if all it's going to be is handmaiden to the Board of Trustees. 
2) To respectfully, but firmly, inform the .. Trustees that it has no intention to enforce the fiats of an outside organization like the Board of Trustees. Such an action would force the issue to a head; would force the Board of Trustees to directly face the the Student Body with its own enforcement. 
Needless to say, we advocate the second choice. The students at this University have too long been in doubt as to the extent that the University will recognize their rights to determine their own lives. 
Both choices will dispel that doubt, but only the second choice will force the Trustees to dispel that doubt. Therefore, we urge students to contact their representative to the Board of Trustees, and remind them of the need to force the issue. 
The student representatives to the Student Life Council are: Notre Dame-John Barkett, Student Body President Notre Dame-Orlando Rodriguez, Student Body Vice-President St. Mary's-Missy Underman, Student Body Vice-President Notre Dame Off-Campus -Dave Tushar 
Notre Dame Towers (Flanner and Grace)-Floyd Kezele 
Notre Dame North Quad (St. Ed's, Cavanaugh, Zahm, Stanford, Keenan, Farley, Breen-Phillips)-John Cullen (second representative to be chosenlater)
~-
Notre Dame South Quad (Alumni, Dillon, Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, Howard, Badin, Walsh, Sorin) -Buz Imhoff, Rich Urda. 
•• • ct.m.Q.. 
ilfto 


View from Fleet Street 

By James Reston 
(C) 1971 New York Times News Service 
London, Sept. 9 -If you read only the headlines these days, you get the impression from Fleet Street that the British people are mainly interested in the "Irish Question" and the "European Question", but as usual the British people are involved in a lot of other witty arguments about life at home. 
There is, for example, the question of selling old churchss in villages where the population or the faith, or both, have declined. This tells us 
something about life in England. If the villagers and the church authorities cannot maintain the churches, and the government won't , you can always sell them, but on what terms? How will they be used and who will maintain the graves? Thi~ is not a national iusue, but in some places and for some people it is a fundamental issue of principle. 
Ther.,s-of course, even if you decide what to do with the village church, there are the related issues of moral standads in the nation. These are even more on the public mind in Britain today than the church. The church can go, but what to put in its place? 
London has never seemed more beautiful in the last generation than it does today. It is an architectural museum. It retains the huddle of low unpainted buildings and narrow streets and unexpected in­stitutions and invitations, but in the central city its lovely houses and rr.any of its distinguished imperial and commercial buildings have been scrubbed and painted to perfection. 
Its parks are a glory and put those of New York to shame. They are used just as hard as is Central Park but they are putting-green clipped and precise, blazing with flowers, shaded with old sycamores and elms, and dotted with ardent and shameless public lovers. 
Still, there is an obvious conflict here-and this is the fascination of contemporary Britain -between its past, its present, and its future. The question of how to resolve the love-hate problem of Ireland, which is the tragic question of the past, and the question of Britain joining Europe, which is the love-hate problem of the present and future, are the most prominent symbols of Britain's dilemmas, but in human terms ths most interesting thing is the struggle within the British people themselves about where they are and where they are going. 
This more personal philosophical question is in the papers every day. The letters columns this week in the Daily Telegraph, for example, have been debating the nation's "standards of decency." The Earl of Longford has been conducting a campaign against por­nography. That wonderful, amusing, talented journalist, Malcolm Muggeridge, has been arguing on the television that Britain is slack, sex-ridden and purposeless. 
Even Stephen Spender, writing about the underground press in Britain, has been saying that, much as he tried to find some purpose in the new permissive philosophy of the ~ou!lg_ underground journalists, he has not convinced, and he implied that Britain was declining even faster than Rome. 
All this you find here, not so much in the headlines of the British papers but in the letters columns,in private conversations, and in the streets of London, which are a hairy (masculine) and recklessly naked (female) symbol of the controversy. All London now really is a stage. It is a costume party, and it is as exciting as a dog fight, but back of it all is London itself, the backdrop of centuries of history, with its noble buildings, its churches, its wide expanses and great avenues and, obviously its purpose and determination out of the past. 
What obviously troubles the letter writers in the papers is not so much the "Irish Question" -they have heard all the before -or the cheap political arguments of Harold Wilson, the labor leader, against Prime Minisher Edward Heath. They are not even even very excited about Heath. But in Heath's argument for taking Britain into Europe, for making a new start in a new role for Britain to balance the power of the United States and the Soviet Union, there is clearly substantial and growing support, mainly becauss there is hope in all this of a new purpose . 
Former Prime Minister Harold MacMillan said the other day privately that British politicians had had only two really historic ideas in the last hundred years. One was to create a truly British Federation, with a single Parliament here in London representing not only the British people but the people of the dominions, and this was defeated in the end because it would have raised the price of bread by a penny on the loaf. The other was the present proposal for a United Europe including Britain, which was now in danger of being defeated becauss it might raise the price of butter and other things temporarily. MacMillan, who is in philosophical retirement, was hoping that the tragedy of the British Federation would not be repeated in the rejection of the British movement into Europe. 
The guess here, however, is that the British will not make the same mistake this time, and part of the reason is that, comfortable and elegant as London is today, it admits at least in private that it needs a 
new challenge equal to the scope and imagination of this great city . 
Night Editors: Joe Abell, Gene Slason Layout and Headlines: Joe & Gene, Rick Smith, 
John Br~dy, Glen Corso 
Sports Editor, Jim Donaldson News Editor, John Abowd Associate Editors, Ed Ellis, Ann .,,I ::$ Therese Darin ·1:1 1j !•(::i:ilai' 
:~:: 1\'l:f I '! ~ "c.H ; "it~=~·(:~(l
;:;;; SMC Editor, Ann Conway · ;:;: · 
[~~~ Managing Editor, Don Ruane · ~l~l 
!:§: , ··~>l'h! · '" ... t 1 :n) I" c ~~;:u ~~;:;:;:;:~;:~!:!:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::=:::::::::::~· {!' 
Friday, September 10, 1971 THE OBSERVER Pages 
Shipped-in students cheer 


Lindsay fakes hysterical Pittsburgh welcome 
Pittsburgh, Sept. 9 --Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York was thronged here today by thousands of shrieking students in a carefully staged demon­stration as he took the stump to campaign for voter registration to help build a new political coalition. 
Lindsay's party sped into the city in a 10-car caravan, can­didate style, escorted by four motorcycle policemen with sirens wailing. He then walked six blocks from city hall to point state park to address a voter registration rally estimated at :lo,ooo persons by the police, 8,000 to 10,000 by Lindsay, and 4,000 to 5,000 by six newsmen who ac­companied him on the trip. 
Students bused in from nearby colleges lined the streets during the walk, and waited at various intersections under the direction of marshals with bull horns, who responded to hand signals given by Donald Evans, the Mayor's advance man. 
The whistle stop visit, Lind­say's I<'irst national appearance since his conversion last month as a democrat, was the first in a series that will also take him to Boston, Syracuse, Manchester <For an aide's wedding) and San Francisco--all before the month is out. 
The mayor was accompamed on the walk through downtown Pittsburgh by Mayor Peter Flaherty of Pittsburgh, Mayor Sam Massell of Atlanta and Rep. Shirley Chisholm, D-N.Y. 
They were surrounded en route 

S U headlines soul, folk groups 
Ike and Tina Turner, the Beach Boys, Poco and Livingston Taylor, and Cat Stevens will headline Student Union shows this fall at the Athletic and Convocation Center. Each show will start at 8:30. 
Student Union is bringing these groups, according to Social Commissioner Don Mooney, not only because they are "good musically" but also because they are known for their concert performances. 
Ike and Tina Turner's Revue can't be adequately described, suggested Mooney. 
The Beach Boys will come to Notre Dame just a few days after a Carnegie Hall performance, which is already sold out. 
They will combine their old surfing sound with their new material in a two-hour solo performance. 
Poco has been labeled as "country rock", a tag they don't agree with, Mooney said. 
Many feel that althoughLivingston Taylor may not be a James Taylor on record, "he can 
Questionnaire 
(Continued from page 1) 
most girls want parietals now. Now the only decision to be made is how much to increase it. As soon as the Student Assembly is elected the question of parietals will be turned over to them to go up through the student affairs channel and eventually to the board of trustees, at least until the Interinstitutional team working on merger decides on another method of handling such decisions." 
Students also answered af­firmatively to allowing students 21 and over to drink in the dorms. 
The majority of students agreed with the necessity of maintaining freshman hours, at least for the first semester. 71 percent however, stated that curfew for freshmen should be suspended at the end of that time, and they be granted no hours. 61 percent were also against the presently required parental permission card and 62 percent stated that students should be granted no hours without parental permission. 
The question of hall autonomy also received favorable response from the students with 45 percent opting for individual rules and policies in each dorm rather than a uniform set of rules for all ,, dorms. Miss Sheehy feels that I this is significant since "once we
I do merge our halls would be forced to more autonomy since Notre Dame is that way." "I don't think our rules will change to meet theirs. At least ip the ··near future, whate~er changes that are made will prob~bly affect all women students. This eventually could evolve into a hall autonomy situation where rules would differ 
outshine brother James in con­
cert", according to Mooney. 
Cat Stevens will perform on a weekend with the football team on the road. Mooney feels that this will be "a breath of fresh air-to listen to music" at a time not right after a home football game. 
The dates for the concerts are as follows: Ike and Tina Turner, September 18; the Beach Boys, October 2; Poco-Taylor, October 16; and Cat Sevens, November 5. 
Mooney is "generally happy" with the schedule of concerts although the Commission did face difficulties in arranging it. 
Booking groups for concerts 
0
hhaassslbe~~oams em'u'psri·cethtyasmbuecchomef aa 
Availability of date:;: was made known too late to allow the Commission to book certain people. Demands for large guarantees threatened the SU's ability to break even, 
disqualifying other groups. 
Mooney hopes that, in the future, groups will be willing to "put their reputations on the line as Chicago did last spring, and agree to play for a percentage of the net proceeds." 
The Union is limited to 4 con­c~rts per semester in the ACC, with. about a $900 ceiling on its. profits, any excess going to the University. Non-Ace concerts are 

X:·~~.~.;.~.~~.~~.~~~:t~~~!·:~·?-:!2..!&~.~~}: :..,..
a;;;,• •••••-••••••••••••••••••••• ·-·-· -~·~·~·=·=···=·=·=·=·=•.IIJ!I,! 
big business with groups asking ::::The Student Union Social Com-::l:i for too much money and ::;:;mission will kickoff its fall~~: becoming picky over such ;::~semester of concerts at Stepan::=:: m~tters as playi~g time" Mooney ~~Center tonight at 8:30, featuring~ 
said. In Mooney swords, some of :;:~Leo Kottke, Joy of Cooking, and:;::: FREE DELIVERY Serving ND Students since 1948
these demands have gone ;:;:;Joyous Noise. s::L___________________________. 
"beyond a sensible point.'' :~!a::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=;:::::::::::::::~~ 

THIS MAN READS THE OBSERVER. Why not your 
with ~e .wishes of the residents." ...:1-.,..,...,.,.,.,....,----"'--,----~------­
by pushing, shoving, squealing students--mostly from Duquesne and Pittsburgh Universities, while shop girls and customers waved from inside store win­dows. Flaherty himself acted as an advance man of sorts, walking into stores and telling onlookers. "Say hello to Mayor Lindsay." 
Sidney Rosen, a florist, ran out of his shop to pin white carnations on the Mayors. 
"There's your headline; ;Rose petals thrown in the Streets," Lindsay told the accompanying, jostling newsmen. 
Lindsay's role in the drive for registration of 18 to 21 year olds is regarded by some political ob­servers as an effort to convert youthful enthusiasts into possible constituents in the event that he makes the race for the Presidency. Lindsay, asked more than a dozen times whether he was making the race, said that his decision had not changed since he announced last month that he had not yet made up his mind. 
Need a 

CHEST OF DRAWERS 
BOOKCASE OR RECORD CABINET 
Buy it unpainted ~Save Y2 or more Save $on Room Size Rugs 
Now on Campus at old Fieldhouse 



WILLIAM'S 

Unpainted Furniture And N.D. Student Union 
Also at 2609 S. Michigan 288-2181 for Free Delivery 



Parents? 
MAIL YOUR CHECK $14 I year $8 I semester to PO BOX 11, NOTRE DAME, IN.D. 
~,,"... w ••,_..,,.",'"'<""''"'''"<',,,,,,,,,l 

·~· ADDRES ZIP ····· SENT BY 
t. :~, ,ff'tCl \'­r i, :II ·>. •· 
,,, .... , , , , 
•
• 
46556. 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER Friday, September 10, 1971 



East Pakistan forewarned
Summer Storage 
Closes Friday Sept. lOth, Afternoon 


of desolate, hungry future 
Any items not claimed will be auctioned on Fri. Sept. lOth 12: 30 pm 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Need ride from N.Y. area to Notre Dame on Army home Football weekend. Call Jack 289-7433. 
For Sale: 1965 Ford Falcon :m dollars. Call:Z34-5889 after 11:00 p.m. 
ew Posters of all varieties in 
tock at great prices. Come to 815 
lanner or 611 Grace or call 1694 
r 1167. 
esire to hire students as eaders. 
ourly wages. Call 8539 • 
FRESHMEN BOOKS FOR SALE Individuals, Strawson 1.00 Phaedo, Plato .50 Meditations on First Philosophy, Descartes Modern Materialism: Readings on Mind-Body Identity, O'Connor 
Rumor of Angles, Berger 
1. 
URGENT! Need Ride as far East as possible Sept. 17th. Will share 
expenses-Lois 4820. 
(cl 1971 New York Times trends m East Pakistan are WASHINGTON A Harvard ~triking. S_ome 2.9 m~llion tons of Medical School team has warned Imports w~ll_be r~qmred ~o offset that East Pakistan faces the the d~ficit m indigenous "largest food deficit" since the productiOn, but the ~akistan Bengal famine in 1943, when government ~as !~!led to three million people perished ack~o~~edge thi~ criSIS, much The warning and a prediction le~~ Imtiate effecti~e pr?gram~."that some 25 million East Already, hoardmg IS ~akmg Pakistanis would be affected by P!ace, an~ the market, J?riCe of food shortages is contained in an ~.ICe has nsen s~a~ply, It adds. article in the forthcoming issue of Much of the existing food stocks The Lancet, the British medical have been taken to the militarypublication. cantonments. to feed the army. 
The article was written by Dr. T~e .malnounshed state of the 7.5 Lincoln C. Chen and Dr. Jon E ~Ilhon re~ugees who have fled Rohde, who returned from East mto . Indi~ a~test~ to . t~e Pakistan in April and are now detenor~tmg ,~Ituatwn Withm associated with the Harvard East Pak~stan. medical school in Cambr'dge The ar.ti.cle rurth~r warns t?at 
Mass I ' "the cntical period hes Im-Th~ Lancet article, entitled ~e~iately ~head" a~d that 
"Famine and Civil War in East reliable estimates proJect th~t Pakistan " is th t the current food shortage will pessimistic assessmenteyet ::::Je affect ~pproximately 25 million public of the situation in people. . . . Pakistan's eastern region since It says ~hat the civil war 1s last year's devastating cyclone compoundmg the no~~al and this year's suppression of the prevalence of ~alnutnti~n East Pakistani secessionist before .the harvestmg of maJor movement. crops m November and "may 
The authors write that as a precipitate a famine of un­result of the cyclone and the civil precedented proportions over the war, "East Pakistan now faces, next thre~ months." . for the first time in recent Accordmg to the article, memory, reduced (food) tran~portation facilities in E~st production in two consecutive P~k1stan cannot handle rehef years and the largest food deficit shipments from abroad. 
since the Bengal famine of 1943." They say that the Bengal famine was "perhaps the gre.atest famine of our lifetime," and recall that it was "accompanied The Observer will be 

by complete social disin­

published Monday, Wed­tegration; suicide; selling of nesday and Friday of this children into slavery; banditry; week. Daily publicationand disruption of existing family <Monday through Friday)structure." 
will resume on Sept. 20. 
The article continued: "The similarities between the famine of 1943 with present 

Therefore, the authors say, "the opportunity to prevent a najor famine is rapidly slipping away." 
Wilson F ellowsht.ps 
11 d cance e  •this year  
Competition  for  Woodrow  

Wilson Fellowships has been suspended this fall, the first such move in more than 20 years, it was announced Thursday by H. Ronal Rouse, national director of the national Fellowship Foun­dation. 
"Funds Currently available to the foundation for first-year graduate fellowships are being used to support over 200 fellows during the 1971-72 academic year. Prospects for securing new funds are uncertain," Rouse said. 
A new program, taking recent developments in graduate education and the teaching profession into account, will be designed during the coming year by foundation and academic world representatives. 
Rouse said the suspension is the result of a wave of anti­academic sentiment sweeping the country and the economic recession which have combined to drastically reduce the money available for college faculty salaries. 
"The officers and trustees of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation are convinced that there is not, and never will be, and over­supply of truly outstanding teachers", said Rouse. "They are determined to find some means of continuing to identify, en­courage and assist young people with these qualities in preparing for careers appropriate to their talents and soc iety's needs." 




EAST WOOD 
8:30 Friday Stepan Center 1.50 at the door Presented by Social Commission & the North Quad
A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS 

FRIDAY-SATURDAY-SUNDA 
7.9.11 $1.00 K. of C. 
he Advertising Department would again like to welcome the Notre arne-Saint Mary's students back. Our classified Ad Department is ere to help you. We Can Help You with Almost Any Mass Com­
unication You Would Like to Under Take. 
xamples--Lost & Found-Buy or Sell--Looking for a Job-Got An extra ob--Want a Ride-Need Riders--Books for Sale--Books Wanted-­ickets for Sale-TickP.ts Wanted-You could even say hello to all your riends that are back now, but that you haven't seen yet, Just like I'm oing to do now, Kirk Robbins says Hi. 
The rates are listed belo.w and payment must be received before publication. so if you need us, simply maD the message with payment to Box 11 or drop by our office on the third Door of La Fortune any weekday between I and 5. 
We wish you the best olluck at ND aQd St. Mary's and hope we can be of service. For!!uestions call7471. 
ords  1 day  zdays  3 dayil  4 days  
1-10  .50  .75  1.00  1.15  
11-15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  
y  
16-ZO  .70  1.15  1.70  %.40  :I  
%1-25  .85  1.35  z.oo  %.90  
Z&-30  1.00  1.60  %.35  3.40  
31-35  1.%0  1.90  %.80  3.85  
36-40  1.35  Z.lO  3.10  4.%5  
41-45  1.55  %.30  3.30  4.50  
46-50  1.75  %.50  3.50  4.75  ,  II  



CLINT 
CARPET TOWN 

U ·S· A· King 78" X 90" $19.50 
223 N. Lafayette 
Single 45" x 90" $18.50South Bend Ind. Ten Year Factory Warranty 
Send Check or money order to:
Phone 234-4086 Water Beds 
P.O. Box 237
Carpet Remants 

Coloma, Mich. 49038 
room look beautiful 



..
Friday, September 10, 1971 
THE OBSERVER Page 7 
1 

Steenberge strives to startfor ND I 

by E. J. Kinkopf Pat Steenberge is no physically imposing figure by any stretch of the imagination. The 1971 Notre Dame Football Guide lists Steenberge as 6'1", 175. The 175 is believable, but it seems as though he's straining to reach the 6'1" mark. And in this age of Gabriels, Lamonicas and even Plunketts and Mannings his physical stats could be called into question just like his predecessor's, Joe Theismann's, were. But there is something else about Steenberge, something intangible about the QB cam­didate that one can sense after meeting and talking with him. It's a kind of intense desire mixed with just the right amounts of cockiness and brashness that are molded into a fiery confidence that must be expected of a winning quar­terback. There is that little something about him that makes you feel that this kid has got it. The little something that extends skills and abilities that may be less than fantastic, to the heights of a blood and guts winner. Steenberge came to Notre Dame from Cathedral Prep in f<~rie, Pennsylvania where he 
Jim Donaldson :=========================================================:====================================· 


The Irish Eye 

The college football season gets underway this weekend, and for the next 14 weeks, the interest of millions of fans across the land will center on the outcome of collegiate pigskin encounters. 
Again this autumn, the Irish Eye will be engaging in its annual fall folly of trying to pick the winners of the big college games each and every weekend, a pasttime which captures the interest of perhaps 32 football fanatics on the N.D. campus who get more laughs on Mondays chuckling over my errors than they did at the Bob Hope show in the 
A~~~~~:::~. my percentage right now is .000, so I'm bound to im­
prove. Here goes: 
Southern Cal over Alabama--Trojan coach John McKay has been quoted as saying that, "Our 1971 offense will be improved". When one recalls that last year SC scored 343 points in 11 games, the highest 
Trojan total in 40 years, it would seem that McKay is going to have quite an offensive machine this season. Bear Bryant, starting his 14th year at 'Barna, also has a team that can put points on the board but his defense is qu~stionable. Look for Jimmy Jones, Sam (Bam) Cunningham, Willie Hall, John Vella et als-to top the Crimson Tide. 
Boston College over West Virginia --Offensive stars Frank Harris and Fred Willis are gone but the fans at the Heights are still smiling, chiefly because 9 of 11 defensive starters from last year's 8-2 cl~b return. The Mountaineers, in contrast, lost 16 of 22 starters from their 1970 club and, even though they are in Morgantown, they won't have enough to stop the Eagles. 
LSU over Colorado-The inexperienced Buffaloes won't be a match for Charley (co-coach of the year in 1970 ) McClendon's Bengals. Sports Illustrated's choice for player of the year, Tommy Casanova, heads a tough defense while Art Cantrell and Andy Hamilton lead a potent offense. There'll be smiles in Dixie after this one. 
Georgia Tech over So. Carolina -This is one of just three road games the Engineers will play this season and Tech can be expected to wreck the Gamecocks, who will be playing their first season as an independent after a number of years in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Nebraska over Oregon -The Cornhuskers will get first chance to Prove that they're number one. . 
Michigan over Northwestern -I was almost tempted to pick the Wildcats to upset the Wolverines in this one, but Bo Schembechler's gang figures to be just a bit too strong for Alex Agase's club. It's too 
bad these teams have to meet so early in the season. 
UCLA over Pittsburgh -The Panthers may have one of the better clubs in the East but they're stepping out of their league against the Bruins. 
Arkansas over California -The Razorbacks should gobble up the Notre. Dame IS ~gam second--but defensive end is another senior, 6­Bears. the Irish have yielded an average 4, 235 lb. Fred Swendsen. Toledo over East Carolina -The Rockets will have no problem of only 1.7 more yards per game Swendsen saw regular action as a extending their win streak to 24 games, longest in the n_ation. ~~a~ Toledo, the leaders in total sophomore, but was sidelined last 
North Carolina over Richmond --The Tarheels Will meet Notre 
Dame later in the season and beating clubs like Richmond isn't going 
to help prepare them for the Fighting Irish. 
Ohio State over Iowa -Frank Lauterbur was hailed as a genius at 
Toledo but his club comes up against the team of a master, Woody 
Hayes, and will come out second best. The Buckeyes no longer have a 
super club but they'll be plenty good enough to beat Iowa. 
Michigan State over Illinois -Bob Blackburn's Big Ten _winning 
percentage won't be close to what it was in the Ivy League (this year>. 
. Texas Tech over Tulane-The boys could be laughing at this one :come,Mondi!)'• . · , , .. 1 . . ·. , . . : · Navy ov~r Virginia -~~The Mfddres, &esMe the losS" o~ Ade Dillon, 
can handle the Cavaliers. 
Morgan State over Grambling--This one'll be on the tube tonight so 1 may be embarrassed earlier than I thought. 
~· ·-: .':: . 
lettered in football, basketball and baseball. He came to Notre Dame after captaining both the football and baseball squads during his senior year. 
But he also came to Notre Dame with a knee injury that kept him sidelined during his freshman year. 
During his sophomore season Pat suffered a few nagging in­juries that caused some to label him injury prone. 
"I injured my knee during an All-Star game before coming to Notre Dame, and then last fall I had a groin pull that hampered me during the season. During the spring I broke a finger on my throwing hand and repulled the groin muscle. And then while working out at home this summer I pulled a hamstring. And that last one really made me mad." 
None of the injuries have sidelined Steenberge for long, but they have hampered his progress in the battle for the top job in the ND backfield. 
If Pat does overcome the nagging series of injuries and win the starting job, he will inherit an All-American end by the name of Tom Gatewood. 
But Ara 's constant shuffling of quarterbacks would seem to minimize the time needed for any D · season in favor of Neidert. 
And Parseghian's 1971 unit At the tackle slots, Parseghian should provide NCAA will be relying on another pair of statisticians with bundles of experienced performers, Mike similar figures to mull over. Kadish (6-5, 250) and Greg Marx 
Notre Dame's '71 defense will (6-4, 250). Kadish, who sparkled be returning eight regulars from against Texas in the '71 Cotton last year's 10-0-1 team, and the Bowl, underwent knee surgery talent to replace graduates Jim during the spring, and the Irish Wright, Tim Kelly, and Bob are banking heavily on his 
Neidert is there in abundance.
"Our defensive team here has a return. special pride and a special spirit Behind the front four are the all its own," said en.d Walt linebackers, the heart of Par-Patulski, "and we know that our seghian's defensive philosophy. job is to hold the opponent so the The Irish Iinebacking corps was 
one of the four candidates to get 
the pinpoint precision and timing 
down that is needed between 
passer and reciever, even with 
the luxury of a Tom Gatewood. 
"No we don't really get as 
much time to work with the in­
dividual recievers as we need. 
Coach Parseghian has been 
alternating two quarterbacks 
with the first team, and he's been 
working both Tom and Willie 
Townsend at the wide posts. But 
yesterday I hit pretty good on 
a bout six or seven and Tom broke 
a few for long gainers." 
No doubt about it, Pat would 
like to have that number 1 job 
right now, but he also feels, like 
Bill Etter, that the competition is 
healthy. 
"Oh yea, I'd rather be tops 
right now, but the competition 
makes me work that much 
t.arder. There's no time to ease 
up out there." 
Steenberge also foresees the 
Irish working more out of the 
Wishbone T spread this year. 
"We'll probably be going more from that spread. And there's lots we'll be able to do off it. The option set is great." 
Steenberge is understandably pleased with the pre-season polls, but he echoes the sentiments of 
both the coaches and athletes when he says it doesn't mean much right now. 
Nebraska, considered by most to be the team battling the Irish for the mythi'cal title this year had a few quarterbacking problems of their own last year. 
Their problem was sim'ilar to Notre Dame's, too many capable 
quarterbacks. 
So, Bob Devaney solved that problem by shuffling Steve Tagge and Van Brownson all the way to the coveted crown. 
Considering the abudance of turn potential Irish celebrations signal calling talent on the '71 into Irish wakes.
fi


N. D. ·de ense 10 0 
by Vic_ Dorr '7.4 . 

Football wnters, chche artists , 
that they are, have never lacked 
cleve~ phrases when tr_ying ~o 
descnbe a potent defensive gnd 
squad. 
In Dallas, it's the "Doomsday Defense." In Minnesota, they speak of the "Purple Gang." And in Los Angeles, praise is heaped upon the "Fearsome Foursome" and the "Wild B~nch.". 
But no defensive umt under Notr~ Dame coach Ara Par­segh1an h~s. ever owned such a label, a~d It IS p~obable that none ever will. For m a way, Par­seghian's defenses speak for themselves--or at least they let their statistic~ ~peak for them. A_nd the statistics;_ those com­piled over the past fi_ve seasons -­are these: In scormg defense, Notre Dame ha~ allowed an average of 10.8 pomts per g~me! · k d f · t
d k d 1 t M13.m1 Ra1p h 8tepama -e ens1ve s ar
an r_an s sec~n on Y 0 ?f OhiO. ~he Insh lead the nation offense can get to work." 10 defensmg the run (B~.B yards Patulski, one of the team's co­per. game) • and are nmeteenth captains, will be using his 6-6, 260 agamst the pass 0 30.4 yards per lb. bulk to anchor the first line of game). the Irish defense--the front four. 
In the tota_l defe!lse category, Patulski's counterpart at 
~ 
.........;.,.;.., ... ' 
Junior Pat Steenberge Is Irish squad, perhaps Ara might try the same. 
"I doubt if he'd do that. In fact I'm almost sure he wouldn't. He's never done it before, and it's not a part of his coaching philosophyto ~u something like that." 
Steenberge said that the defense will be out "just destroying people this year", and he named Bill Gallagher as a real comer in the battle for the 
starting halfback slot opposite 
Gulyas. 
Pat refused to single out any opponent this fall as the toughest, but he did name a few that could transformed into a stoic mask of concentration.
k h 

s t0 ug 
fairly hard hit by graduation-losing Tim Kelly and Jim Wright­-but again, replacement talent is plentiful. 
Linebacker coach George Kelly will be molding his '71 unit around two returnees Eric Patton and Rich Th~mann. Patton who made 12 tackles in the Cotton Bowl, will be calling the defensive signals for the second straight year. 
"Having Eric back as our swing linebacker is a great feeling," said Parseghian "and his experience and leadership should be invaluable." Filling the vacancy left by Kelly will be six-foot junior Jim Musurca and Gary Potemoa--a sophomor~ who 
started at offensive guard for the freshman team, will be stepping into the one remaining position. 
Notre Dame's secondary is one of the brightest parts of the defensive picture. All three deep defenders return from last year's squad, and the trio is headed by Clarence Ellis, a pre-season All-America. 
Paired with Ellis as a deep back is Ralph Stepaniak, a 6-2 performer whose six in­terceptions last year gave him a career total o_f 10 (Ellis also has 10 thefts to his record.) 
The third Irish defensive back is safety Mike Crotty. Though only 5-9 and 180 lbs., Crotty made 65 tackles from his free safety position last season, and saw extra service as a kick returner. 
As in past years, this Irish defensive team may never earn a flashy title for itself.. It may
b k th th 
never ~. nown as any !ng o er than .~otre Dam~ s 1971 defense. But t,h~n, bemg known as ~otre Dames 71 defense may be title enough. 
'J 
a quarterback candidate "SC has always been tough on us, and I think LSU has won about fifty straight at home. And Northwestern's gonna be tough too, especially if they knock off Michigan on Saturday." Whatever, come September 18th we'll all be able to see who gets the nod from Ara. Until then, the competition will be rougher, and the concentration greater. One thing you can be sure of is 
that whether or not Steenberge gets the opening nod he'll be ready when called on. And when he takes the field this fall, the friendly, boyish grin will become 

~~~------­
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Friday, September 10, 1971 

Kottke: A half-dollar short 
. . Th~ following was supplied by Shopping Center and put the Capitol Records Publicity whole town of Muskogee to sleep Department and so is sort of during an important civil defense propagandistic, but is also in­drill. formative -ed. Eventually, Leo moved to 
Minneapolis and became an 
accomplished guitarist. He cut 
All his life, Leo Kottke has been his first album for the Oblivion half a dollar short. For a start, he label, before realizing the was born 25 years ago in company was accurately named. Muskogee, Oklahoma, where he The copies that were bought were worked hard to achieve nor­returned when they turned white malcy. He managed some suc­and crumbled around the edges. cess, for little is known of that A couple years later, he cut an period in his life except for the album for John Fahey on the day he turned up the volume on Takoma label. It has remained the Muzak in the Fernwood almost as obscure as his first. but 
There 
will be a meeting today at 4:30 for all returning Observer reporters4 
it lasts longer. It was cut in three hours on a Sunday morning in Minneapolis, next to a half-built taco stand. And although Leo has expressed some discomfort because the last four or five songs on the first side are all in the same tuning and key, it remains a good album for those who like to hear the impossible. 
Now Leo is married, has a baby girl, and a new album. The album features bass and drums on some of the cuts, and Denny Bruce and John Fahey as producers. It also contains some cuts on which Leo actually sings --a significant departure from the past con­sidering the liner notes from the Takoma album which claimed he didn't sing because his voice sounded like geese farts on a muggy day. 
Leo's solo concerts in the mid-west are becoming legend. And now that he's got a new album out, he. anticipates that time in 

New Bus Schedules 
The new "express" shuttle bus schedule from Notre Dame to SMC and back is as follows . 
On Monday's, Wednesday's, and Friday's the buses leave three minutes after every fifty minute class ends. On Tuesday's and Thursday's the buses leave three minutes after the seventy-five minute classes. 
They depart and arrive beyond Nieuwland Science Bldg. at N.D. and Madeleva Hall at SMC. The routes and times are designed to get the student to his or -her class in the fifteen minute interval between 
classes.  
MWF  TT  
7:45am  7:45am  
8:53  9:18  
9:58  10:48  
11:03  • 1:03pm  

1:03pm 2:33 2:08 4:03 3:13 4:18 
The local service shuttle bus, which is not an express service, rull$ daily from 8:05am to 12:30pm at approximately twenty minute in• tervals. Weekend shuttle service is: 
Friday 8:05am to 3:30am Saturday 12:00 noon to 3:30am Sunday 12:oo noon to 12: 30am 
the near future when he's no Bc=ICCIOCIOC~~aoccociCCIOCIOCIOC:aol~aoociCCIOCIOC~:~G::IOCIOCIOOO" 
longer half a dollar short. 
Joy of Cooking has the sweet, mellow sound of devotion. Its music is sometimes like being very sad, then going to church, being very happy. You just have to feel it. Whatever the mood, it is unsullied by anxieties or ne·uroses in a troubled age saturated with them --and it is free. 
Sometimes it seems that human nobility has been im­prisoned by the times --old ideals float over freeways with old truths blown by the wind. Joy of Cooking (an American Band) has lived through these times, 
making music and being free. 


PORTABLE TYPEWRITER SERVICE CLINIC 
We service all brands 
Clean & Adjust 

10.95 
Install new ribbon with this coupon ROYAL TYPEWRITER OF SOUTH BEND 
1501 N. Ironwood 
Typists needed to -work for Observer. If interested call 7605 or be at Observer office at 3:00 pm on Friday. 
l ne UDMrver Is puDIIsheel ClliiiY during the college Mmester except vKAtlont by the students of the University of Notre Ollme llnel St. Mery•s Colle9e. SubScriptions m•y be purcha•d for 11 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Ollme, InCl. 46556. second cte• p01tege peld, Notre o.me, Incl. 46556. 

Miss Mulaney named SMC dean ofstudents 
Kathleen E. Mulaney has been Saint Mary's post of dean of named dean of students at Saint students, Miss Mulaney was Mary's College, it was announced previously administrative today by Sr. Alma Peter, C.S.C., assistant to the Washingtonpresident. She will assist the new special projects director of the vice president for student affairs, Children's Television WorkshopMiss Mary Alice Cannon. which developed "Sesame 
As dean, she will be primarily Street." responsible for counseling young She has also worked as women as they adjust to the new production manager for San academic and social life ac­Francisco Magazine and as 
companying the unification of editorial assistant for Traveler 
Saint Mary's College and the Magazine. She is a graduate of University of Notre Dame. the Marquette University School 
The first laywoman to hold the of Journalism. 


Group Health Insurance 
· Sponsored by Notre Dame Graduate Student Union For 

Graduate Students 
For Information Mail to--ASSOCIATION PLANS 1101 EastBelmont South Bend, Indiana 46615 
Check Information Desired GROUP HEALTH ASSOCIATION LIFE 




TO THE GIRLS OF ST. MARY'S 
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED 
TO AN OPEN HOUSE AT THE 
NOTRE DAME KNIGHTS of COLUMBUS 
o Find out about membership in a new, excitin rganiza tion, This Saturday From 2 p.m. until5 p, m. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL SUE AT 4963 







