

Volume VI, No. 20 Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Thursday, October 7, 1971 
Tax cut bill passes in House vote 
by Lee M. Cohn 
(cl 1!171 Washington Star 
Washington, Oct. 6--A bill aimed at spurring the economy by cutting business and in­d.ividual taxes by an estimated $15.4 billion was passed by the House today by a voice vote. 
The action sent the bill to the Senate, where the Finance committee plans to begin brief heari tomorrow r to 
sending its version to the floor 1u1· 
debate  before  the  end  of  the  
month.  
It  is  highly  unusual,  if  not  

unprecedented, for the House to pass a major tax bill without a roll-call vote. 
No audible votes were cast against the bill and only about 50 House members---far short of a quorum---were on the floor when the tally was taken. . 
Major efforts are expected m the the 
~ 

The Notre Dame Infirmary will be merged with its SMC counterpart prior to 1975. Fr. Thomas Blantz reports, however, that the merger will not be completed before September, 1972 
sanctions, and hall autonomy. Continuing his comments,
Health Services merger 
Professor Thornton said, "I was 
uncertain before 
By Jodi Campbell 
A merger of the St. Mary's and Notre Dame infirmaries will take place sometime within the next four years, but not before Sep­tember, 1972. 
I•'r. Thomas Blantz, Vice President of student affairs, stated that the total merger of the two institutions is scheduled to be completcd by 1975. The health scrvice mcrger will take place by or lwfore this date. 
The financing of the changes that need to be made in the physical plant of the infirmary and the availability of qualified personnel are the major issues slowing the merger. 
The proposed plans call for one main infirmary, for both male and female students, located at the present Notre Dame in­firmary. A smaller branch in­firmary or a small out patient clinic with no beds may be set up on the present St. Mary's cam­pus. 
The health services, 'for the remainder of this year, and until the merger is completed, will 




I '"~~~~~.~~~~~~ 
Washington---The Whit House announced that Presi~ent Nixon 
will disclose his "phase two" economic plans in a televised speech 
Thursday evening. Congressional sources said that the pla_n was 
two-tiered with separate wage and price boards. Over-all policy for 
allowing increases would be based on productivity, but there would 
he no rigid formulas, the sources said. 
Washington--President Nixon ordere? the Justice Department ~o 
seek an injunction to halt the doC:k stnke on the we.st coast a~d m 
Chicago. At the same time, the White House said that_ Nixon 
decided not to seek an injunction agianst the East Coast stnke 
llnited Nations, N.\'.-Egypt will reject any interim agreement with Israel that would leave Israeli troops in possession of any Egyptian territory, Mahmoud Riad, the_ Egypt~an Foreign Minister, said today. In a speech to the Umte? Natl?n~ General Assembly, Riad said that any agreem.ent that did not msi~t on full Israeli withdrawal from Egyptian terntory would be a sprmgboard for aggression. 
Washington--A military procurement bill containing an amend­
ment calling for the withdrawal of American forces from So~th 
Vietnam within six months was passed by the Senate. The bill, 
which must now go to a Senate-House conference committee, also 
contains a provision permitti~g the i~portation of chrome from 
Rhodesia in defiance of a Umted Nations embargo. . . 

· Algiers--Eldridge Cleaver, the Black Panther l~a?er n~w hvmg 
in Algeria, said that President Nixon'~ plan~ to VISit Pekmg ha~e 
thrown the revolutionary movement mto disarray. Co~mumst 
China's apparent defection from permanent struggle ag~mst the tax relief for consumers and to reduce the proposed benefits for business. 

Sen. Russell B. Long, D-La., chairman of the Finance Com­mittee, also plans to try to add to the bill some form of controls on interest rates, perhaps through a penalty tax on rates above specified levels. 
The House completed debate on the measure yesterday and passed it today under the procedures barring floor amendments. This "closed rule" frustrated those who wanted to shift the bill's benefits to favor consumers. 
As passed by the House, the bill would cut taxes by an estimated $15.4 billion in the first three 
HLC meeting 
years---$5.67 billion for busin~ss and $9.74 billion for individuals in their capacity as conssmers. 
These reductions would be in addition to tax reliefs scheduled for consumers under existin~ law and tax cuts for busmess provided by President Nixon earlier this year through ad­ministrative action I_ibt;ralizing deductions for depreciatlon. 
Although more than half of the 
bill's initial benefits would go to consumers, the balance would shift in the future. Beyond 1973, tax cuts for individuals would taper down to about $1 billion a year, while reductions for business would continue at a high level. 
The basic argument is whether tax reductions to boost consumer purchasing power or tax in­centives to encourage business investment are more important for stimulating the economy. 
In revising Nixon's proposals, the House Ways and Means committee increased tax relief for business---although the committee's bill gives bigger tax cuts to business over the long run than the president had recom­mended. 
If the bill becomes law in time, provisions cutting individual income taxes will be reflected in reductions in payroll withholding taxes starting in mid-November. 
(continued on page B) 


Mission well accomplished 
in gammg information from 
by Joe Tanzosh 

students on their side of the issue. 
Tuesday's open meetmg ot tne 

Professor Peter W. Thornton 
Hall Life Council accomplished 
felt the meeting very worthwhile
its purpose very well, as reflected 
in gaining information from
by comments from some of its 
students on their side of the issue. 
members. 
He said he was sorry more
Professor Peter W. Thornton 

students idd not attend but felt a
felt the meeting very worthwhile 
good variety of viewpoints on the 
I 
and from 1-5 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. There is a doctor at the Notre Dame infirmary from 8 a.m.-5 p.m. and a nurse on call at 
HPC president Buzz Imhoff 
all times. expressed pleasure over the meeting 
Candon to offer counter proposal to SLC report 

for their signatures before being presented to the SLC, said Jack Candon yesterday. Candon is the St. Mary's Community Affairs Commissioner, formerly holding that post for Notre Dame. 
At present, Candon isn't sure of the proposal's contents. It will be written with the help of Don Mooney, Dan Sherry, Larry Burns, Becky Minter and Kathy Barlow, SMC student body president. 
Candon, a senior English major, claimed that the sanctions report was "unrealistic and paternalistic," He opposes theA petition meant to counter the 
sanctions because they wereSLC sanctions report has been ordered by the Executiveoffered by Jack Candon 
Committee of the Board of By John Powers Trustees and are not represen­tative of the students. "The A proposal to counter the students should have a more 
very impressed by the tenor of the meeting. It was carried out in
1975 
good faith with no spirit of con­continue to operate on their frontation." He now better present schedules. Minor first realizes the students' desire foraid will be administered when good community life andneeded from either infirmary, responsibility for their affairs. "IFr. Blantz said. Illness and was impressed by the pride
major emergencies will be referred to the students home campus health service or to a South Bend hospital, after first aid is administered. 
At present there is a doctor available at the St. Mary's in­firmary at 8 a.m. Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. A Registered nurse is on duty in the office of the Health Center from Ba.m.-4p.m. and 6:30p.m.­
~;~:~:~:~:~:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::~:~:~:~:::~:~:::~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;.: 9: 30 Monday through Friday, 

("',;<,:i~'--~~ 
I 
I 

Prof. Peter Thornton, who called the Hall Life Council meeting, very worthwhile. 
students showed in their own 
halls," he commented. 
As a member of the ad hoc 
Committee, Professor Thornton 
felt that group had the limited 
function of taking some 
regulations and drawing up 
sanctions for the S.LC to 
examine. He feels that this 
committee may have the broader 
function of probing deeper than 
enforcements and perhaps 
questioning the validity of some 
rules. 
HPC president Buzz Imhoff 
was also pleased with the 
meeting. ''The students in­
telligently brought up some 
things that the faculty members 
hadn't heard before," he ex­
plained. He feels that the 
meeting will have a big im­
pression on the committee's final 
recommendations. He also 
thinks the students now realize 
the council's difficult job of 
drawing up sanctions. 
A third member o the group, 
SBVP Orlando Rodriguez was 
glad the students had a chance to 
voice their opinions to the 
council. He said there were no 
specific goals for the hearing; it 
was only a means of gathering 
information and opinion from the 
university community. 
l' ~;.; 
,;.. 
( 


-~ .. ·~ 
United States has led him to believe that the two countnes were existing SLC sanctions report will realistic say over their own Orlando Rodriguez, SBVP, was contemplating a deal to divide the world. be written and offered to students lives," he said. glad to see student opinion voiced 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, October 7, 1971 



by Ann McCarry 
The main issue at the SMC Student Assembly meeting last night was a proposed amendment concerning parietal hours for Saint Mary's dorms. 
The proposal, drawn up by Darlene Gallina, Gary Caruso and Mary Kay Tobin, would delegate the power to decide on parietal hours autonomously to each hall council. This measure would amend 

Gary ruso, one of Article VII, Section II, 
proposers of a new parietal policy· Paragraph J of the Student co-ex courses on transcripts for 
for SMC dorms 
• c • •
Human AffOlrS ommiSSIOn
•IS


to Pub I h 
Human Atta1rs commissioner Steve Fortunato has compiled a 
d b. th t 1bo kl 

sex an 1r con ro o et to be 
P bll.sh d d d" t ·b t d · th
u e an 1s n u e m e near future. 
According to Fortunato, it will 
·nfor t· 1 d

Contal·n 1 rna 10na an 
educational material which he feels will be beneficial to the 
Communl.ty. . Fortun.ato has been exchanging Ideas w1th SMC senior Kathy Murphy, who is working in conjuction with Jack Deschauer on a separate sex education project at SMC. 
The SMC undertaking consists of a planned questionnaire which was initially under study last year by the campus health ser­vices. The object of the survey is to compile valid data to show the need for seminars, discussion groups and literature, dealing · with sex education to be made 
·se • f t•
X In orma IOn 
availble on campus. Miss Murphy optimistically
· 
v1ews the survey as an "op­portum·ty to enhance in­terpersonal relationships, and 
hepl us better understand our­
selves." 
She further stated that it would permit an accurate examination 
· 
and would be an aid in deter­mining whether a problem exists on campus which is inherent of Notre Dame, or whether our social complaints are merely figments of our imagination. 
Miss Murphy stressed the importance of a "spiritual and humanistic approach" to the aspects of sex to be presented. Fr. Thomas Blantz, vice­president of student affairs, has already proposed the institution of a lecture series under his direction. 
of the campus soc1a· I s1·tuabon, 

---------~-------------------­
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
You're Invited 

NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL OPEN HOUSE 
Saturday, O::tober 9, 1971 Law Building beginning at 9:30a.m. 
law As A ProfessiOn LSAT Exam --What It Means, What It Is 
How To Take It Legal Educational Opportunities In The U.S. Program At Notre Dame taw School Notre Dame's Admission and Scholastic Policy Legal Educational Methods Career Opportunities In Law 



Procedural Manual and allow each hall to determine visitation hours, procedures to be followed during these hours, and to assume the responsibility for hall security. 
After a lengthy open discussion, the proposal was unanimously passed and will go before the Student Affairs Committee and Student Affairs Council next week. 
The other major topic discussed at the Assembly concerned the final designation of 

Miss Murphy said she has already obtained "between $SOO­600" for research on the questionnaire pro)·ect, but ~a 1·d
-

that more is needed for effective 
planning. As these funds are as yet unavailable, she is not yet
certain when things will be complete. 
1972 Saint Mary's graduates. 
Greta Anderson and Paul Dzedick formulated the proposal which states: 
"Having spent four years wet nursing the idea of co-eaucation , the class of l!:172 will realize no tangible rewards of co-education. They have already been denied Notre Dame diplomas. But this denial does not erase the class hours many of these women have taken at Notre Dame." The registrar was consulted by
Anderson and Dzedick and said that such a designation was possible because it had been
made on records previously. 
DeanSherryofStudents'WorldConcern-Bengali Relief Center, 
came to the meeting appealing for help. He stressed the present
situation in East Pakistan. The Notre Dame group, which
is the national center of the 
Concern, is asking for people to 
type letters to senators, 
congressmen and state governors and pressure for action in this 
,----~-------__:___m_a_t:_t..:.:er:_:_.___________~~~~~------­
co-ex courses 
1 
Sherry asked all assembly members to help raise support for this cause. He advised any interested persons to contact himself or Tom Hamilton, or to stop by the center in the basement of LaFortune. 
The Assembly also voted to support a "peace carnival" which will take place Wednesday afternoon Oct. 13 at Notre Dame. This carnival is sponsored by members of the non-violence department and hopes to relate students to the war in VietNam. 


...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card e.liminates the ~S-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 

Indiana Bell 
---------~ -------------------­

Thursday, October 7, 1971 THE OBSERVER. __________________Page 3 
-






-LETTERS­
Let's talk about respect. Let's of {'nforcement. To fully im­Editor: talf about the respect we have for plement these new regulationsJ<:ditorials such as the one you 
offered us Monday are righlly all the pPople in the front rows of would require placement· of at 
written with deep feeling that Notre Dame stadium--you know, least one security guard on every 
springs from serious and real the ones we love to see get floor of every dorm on campus. 
brained with e roll of White Sheer financial expense
need. It is an affront to students that they an> not better heard, Cloud. Let's talk about the precludes this. It is intolerable 
understood and trusted-­

respect we have for the main­from the standpoint that it l'specially here. As their tenance people and stadium violates most of the personal n£>wspaper, you speak for the 
personnel who have to clean that rights guarenteed by the United students, and you are right to 
trash up, not just after the game,' States Constitution for all persons 
scream when you believe that. but during it. Let's talk about over th of 18 years, which cer­
some need to listen to them bout the respect we have for the tainly includes the student body 
better. The turnout at the SLC band as it performs, or attempts of Notre Dame. 
nweting certainly showed strong to perform, during half-time. The most basic flaw in the 
student support for your con­Lastly, let's talk about the l'lltire code is that the rules are so 
tention the some lX'tter listening respect we have for ourselves, as worded that once a student was 
is necessary. several million people throughout arrested on an alleged violation, 
But you are in vast need of the country watch these things the student is automatically 
doing bdter. At supper Monday I happen and nod their heads assumed guilt~, and the burden 
could not find any students who saying, yes, Notre Dame really of proof is his. Even with Perry 
had read your editorial and 

has a distinctive student body. Mason as his lawyer, he wouldn't several Wl're asking questions If the TV cameras come to du stand a chance of beingacquited. that howcd real dissatisfaction 
Lac and record the types of in­Even a murderer gets a chance to with your reporting. Yet your cidents to which we lowered tell his side of the story. non-student readers do read your ourselves Sunday, perhaps it In conclusion, we, the un­Pditorials, and even go so far as 
would be better to refuse network dersigned of 3rd floor Stanford to take them to represent what 
coverage in the future, that way agree completely, in both tone students in general think and 
only 50,000 people will have to and content, with the Observer watch. editorial on page 4. This is justfeel. This lands vou with a 
Sincerely, too much to take!
responsibility, and you are 
Stf.'ve Bennettmanging it badly, I fear. 
Michael T. Kowalenko Rm 333

Monday's editorial <par­ticularly the castration (The following is an open letter to Robert B. Karlin 319 
rcfprence > can hardly be read f<~ather Chambers:) ed. Mark Miller 315 
Joseph La Flare 313

without imagining that the writer is demanding freedom for for­Dear I<'ather Chambers: Lee Schneider 322 
Michael Norell 315
nication on campus without 
Blake Wordal 333

rl'prisal. If so, it is totally The sanctions and regulations misread my experience. In set forth in the text of your letter Steven H. Reiff 325 
portraying such an irresponsible which appears on page 5 of David H. Pohndoff 325 
Jay Richey 320

opinion to the side audience you Monday's Observer are both n•ach, you grevioulsly add to the impractical and intolerable from .John F. Reinhardy 327 problem. Pl'ople who badly need lh£> standpoint of the Notre Dame Tom Armstrong esq. 329 Drew Carroll 328
to be hPard should take real care student body, of which we are in what they say. only a small part. They are Peter A. Lenk 340 Things will improve only when impractical from the standpoint 
,-------~..:.____________
people really get to understand 
each oth<•r. Please help. 
Fr. John L. Young, esc 
assistant rector. Flanner Tower 
Editor: 
I writ£> in elation to a series of 
incid<•nts that oceured Sunday 
afternoon during the Notre 
llanw-Mit·higan State game. In 
gen£>ral. Notre Dame has spirit 
and loyalty unlike any other 
roll£>gl' or university in the world, 
tlw unfortunate thing is that our 
spirit is losing something called 
n'spect. 
When we talk of Christian t•ornmunity, we must include the an·a of respect. If certain events of Sunday afternoon are any indication. the University of Nofr{' Dame or at least a goodly numb<•r of its' students fail to Pxhibit PithPr th£> attrihutes or till' appparances of a Christian l'nmmunitv. 
BLOW 

YOUR· 

SElF UP 
TO POSTER SIZE 
11/z X 2 Ft. $2.50-3X 4 Ft. $7. 
A great gift or gag Idea. 
Ideal room decoration ... perfect lor parties. Send 
. 
any b&w or color photo, Polaroid print, cartoon or 

a total service card-charge air fair magazine photo. For slides and negatives, add $1.00 
hotels, meals, car rentals and cash 
per poster. Better originals .,-~-~ 
checks. 



produce better posters. Giant b&w poster mailed In tube. 
BLOW-UPS IN PSYCHEDELIC COLOR. Any ade into a poster in psychedelic Red, lue or Yellow. Only in 1¥2 x 2 ft. @ nd 2 x 3 ft. @ $4.50. Specify desired 
USH SERVICE ordo11 uuppod '" 1 dar br IIU 1'1'1111 Add U ptr post•r ord•r~. 
:~~~~:~··ro~' (~~~"~·~":~~.~~· ::': ~~J:~,:O!~?· 
•• Send check. cun or M 0 (No cO.D.) to· MAXI-POSTER Dept. ooo, 
__ _ ' 210 E. 23 St., N.Y. 10010 
The Ob~Nvcr is published daily during lhe college semeMer except vacations by lhe students of the UniversitY of Notre Dame and St. M<~ry's C'olleqe. Subscriptions may ilc purchased for $8 per ~emel'>!!'r from 1foe Observer, Box Q, Notre n.un<', Indiana 46556. Second class postaqt• paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
·16~~6 --------~----------­

e IHE SIUIEL PASS 
Guaranteed student accomoda tions in 50 European cities for·$4.30 a day without advanced reservations. 
0 CAR RENTALS 
Drive yourself crazy in Europe for 
only $3.65 a day, plus 4lf2 ¢ km plus 
gas. 

It's all happening on TWAIll 
Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '72 Season Schedule 
Oct. 9, 10 "Z" 

Oct. 23,24 "Grand Illusion" Oct. 27,28 "Man Who Lies" Nov. 1.2 "Le Depart" 
Nov. 15-19 "Eastern European Festival" 15 "Sign of the Virgin" 16"Love Affair" t 7 "The Peach Thief" 18 "Intimate Lighting" 19 "Crane are Flying" 
Dec. 10, 11 "Mandabi" Jan. 28,29 "Destroy, She Said" 
Feb. 7-11 Underground, Experimental Festival 7 Shorts 8 Shorts !l "Trash" 10 "Greetings" 11 Shorts 
Feb. 12,13 "The Ritual" Feb. 19,20 "Black Orpheus" Feb. 27,28 "Barren Lives" Mar. 4,5 "Media" Mar. 13-17 Fellini Festival 
13 "8 1/' 14 "Juliet of tt: Spirits" 15 "I Vitonelli" 16 "La Strada" 17 "La Dolce Vita" 
~pr. 7,8 "Le Bonheur" <Happiness 22.23 23 Weekend" May 6,7 ''Rise of Louis XIV" 
Patron cards will be available 
on Friday Oct. 8 at the dining halls 
and Sat. and Sun. at the door. Price $6 

MAKE DEPOSIT AT CAMPUS TRAVEL BUREAU NOW!! 
OPEN TO ALL ND-SA~C 
students, faculty, etc. 
info: ph. 6875 
_:P=ag~e=4==~==;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;==;;;;;;7:=.H.='E=0=1JS.;;'E~'R;.i[).;:;;i'£.~R.~~--;:::;-;-~~~~===----· ._Th_u_rs_day, October 7, ~ 971 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
Editor-in-{'hie( Busint•ss ll:anag•·•· Glen S. Corso .James .Jcndryk 
All successful newspapers are ceas.eless.ly querulous and bellito">e. They never defend anyone ~r anythmq ,, they ,\d "anal{t•r
Exl'culivl' Editor can help it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill lttu!'rle
T.C. Treanor 
they tackle it by denouncing sorn~one or something else. -H. L. Mencken,
Founded NovPmber 3, 1966 Noln' Dana•, Indiana Business 283-'/471 News :?lt{·l715
~;::,:.;.=.,,;;;;;.~;__---------------------·­
The Petition 
The students have been slumbering since the sanctions were rejected. The small turnout at the first Hall Life Committee underscored the in­stability of the Student Committee to a free student Life Council. And before the Student Life Council will have the courage to assert it own freedom, it will have to have such a committment. 
That's why the petition being drawn up by St. Mary's Community Relations Commissioner Jack Candon is so important now. If successful, it will provide the SLC -and the Board of Trustees -with a strong and continuing reminder of what student sentiment is. 
The petition hasn't been precisely worded, but no doubt it will afrim the SLC's autonomy, express a contempt for the Trustee's attempted im­position of sanctions, and call for hall autonomy. As such, it deserves the firm signature of every student who doesn't think that student life ought to be in the hands of plutocrats. 
The exact terms of the petition should be ready tomorrow, and tables in the dining halls ought to be set up soon after that. We urge members of the student body to soberly reflect on the petition's urgency, and to sign it. 
Lower house 
The most complex -and the most urgent -aspect of the debate on Nixon's economic policy -is the role of big business and their in­vestments. It is an issue that can still be settled either through expert testimony and sober discussion, or through political subtrafuge. The first alternative will be of ultimate benefit to every man in this country. The second alternative could quite possibly be disasterous. 
That's why the House's voice-vote acceptance of the extremist tax bill it passed yesterday was particularly depressing. The bill featured major reductions in business taxes, and it passed through the House on a voice vote. Attendance was nowhere near quorum figures. , 
Cute trick, but what happens after the bill goes into effect and loopholes not ever thought of weaken it? Fortunately, the bill has yet to appear before the Sen«te, and we can only hope that those bon. Leaders of the People will act with a little more sobriety than the members of the lower 
twuse. 
Editor: 
We would like to correct an article which appeared in Wednesday's Observer unQ.er the title "Afro-Am Society pleads for $15,000." The last part of this article referred to the In­ternational Students Organization. 
The article claimed that Father Daniel O'Neil, ISO advisor, denied a request for new ISO elections. This is completely incorrect. Father O'Neil does not work that way. Father O'Neil seriously consieder Ghalib's demands and called a meeting of international students to decide the matter. 
The meeting was held on Sunday, September 26, 1971. A record number of students at· tended. Ghalib did not attend. The meeting decided not to have new elections, and passed a vote of confidence in the ISO Executive Committee. The proceedings of the meeting were recorded and are available to any interested person. 
Sincerely, John Krasnostein, President International Student Organization 
Letters 
Dear Sirs: 
Once again, a Notre Dame home football game was prefaced by an open indulgence in those bottled offenses to the sanctity of Notre Dame. A truly awesome spectable. Sirs, on your way to this game, did you merely overlook the imbibers, or were you, in fact, practicing that important facet of the double standard, "benign negligence"? 
We, the undersigned realized the difficulty in dealing with these great numbers of weekend "friends of Our Lady" and are here, seriously offering our hepl in this common quest for strict decency and strong moral commitment for our beloved campus. 
We offer to cover the parking lots, hallowed homes to band practices, interhall football games, and mobil home shows, on the day of the North Carolina game, October 16th, and pass out leaflets, informing each "trunk drunk" of his position in the decline and fall of Christian sobriety. We will be tactful at all limes, refraining from snide comments, and emulative of the example shown by our betters. This will be the context of the note: 

"Step from behind that raised 

. trunk bretheren; step around the running Greyhound, and look to the north. There, gold on blue, is our Lady, symbol of this University. You, sir, by par­taking of alcolholic beverages on her campus, are not only breaking the rules of this University, but are, cognizantly or not, contributing to a double standard of ethics here on said campus -the students are not allowed to drink in public places". 
We will be wearing identifiable clothing, preferable with bookstore scapulars con­spicuously pinned over our hearts. 
This is our offer gentlemen, Will you accept it in the better interest of the University? 
Devotedly your at Tailgates, Merry Pranksters 
William v. Shannon 
The Best Balance 
The Times 

The Supreme Court is the most ingenious political institution invented by Americans. It is the highest court of appeal such as all lawful societies have but it is also the third chamber of the national legislature. 
When contending social forces or outworn political mythologies make it impossible for the House and Senate to resolve a major issue, the Supreme Court ultimately intervenes. Racial segregation, legislative malapportionment, and church-state relationships are three of the complicated, impassioned subjects which would convulse the national parliament in any other free country but which in the United States are largely left to the Supreme Court. 
Because the court performs this unique and essential function, justice Felix Frankfurter and others have shown a curious misunderstanding of the American system in their contention that some issues are non-justiciable. Our government has so many checks, balances, and shared powers that it could not function if every question could not eventually be decided by somebody somewhere. 
In this framework, President Nixon's desire to reshape the court along more conservative lines is entirely understandable. The power to influence the future course of this powerful institution is one of the cherished prerogatives of the presidency. It is equally understandable that liberals in Congress who have a different philosophy and who speak for other elements in society should scrutinize Nixon's nominations with care and resist them where resistance is feasible. 
In the exerdse of its confirming power, the Senate normally and properly defers to the president's initiative unless it discovers evidence which reflects seriously upon a nominee's character, judgment, or professional competence. Thus, Judge Haynsworth has not been as vigilant in guarding against the appearance of conflict-of-interest impropriety as he should have been, and in the aftermath of the Fortas case, the Senate was not disposed to extend him the benefit of the doubt. Former Judge Carswell's disingenuous testimony and shoddy public record showed him unfit to serve on the court. 
But Representative Poff who has withdrawn his name from consideration for one of the current Supreme Court vacancies powed a quite different issue. He is vulnerable not on grounds of character or intellect but of outmoded legal philosophy. In the last 20 years, the court has enabled Negroes to make dramatic legal gains by its broadened interpretation of the first section of the 14th amendment which guarantees every person "equal protection of the laws." To his opponents, Poff's voting record suggested that he is fundamentally out of sympathy with this modern approach. 
In law as in other areas of life, there are broad movements of on'nion which are irreversible. There is a narallel here with the 
way in which the Roosevelt-appointed court of the late 1930's and '40;s expanded the interpretation of the interstate commerce clause once defended by Justice Willis Van Devanter and Justice George Sutherland would now be regarded as a fossil. Similarly, any nominee who holds Poff's anachronistic view of the 14th amend­ment can expect fierce resistance to his confirmation. 
Undesirable as another protracted nomination fight would be, what most damages the court is not controversy but bad ap­pointments whether they are quietly or noisily received. Public uproar of varying intensity accompanied the elevation of great justices such as Louis Brandeis, Charles Evans Hughs (to the chief justiceship l, Hugo Black and Frankfurter while some mediocrities have moved to the court accompanied by universal murmurings of approval. 
An institution which has broad but undefined political respon­sibilities necessarily has to have a certain representative character. For that reason, it is not wholly a bad practice for presidents to bear in mind the race, religion, regional origin and even sex of prospective court nominees. 
But if Nixon really wished to strengthen the court, he would look beyond these less important factors and consider the range of abilities and experience which should be present. The court needs a brilliant legal scholar to contribute the subtle analyses justices Frankfurter and Harlan provided. 
It also needs a former elected official who has a "feel" for public opinion. Some of the giants of the court in this century---William Howard Taft, a former president and cabinet officer, Hughes and Warren, former governors, and Black, a former senator---were impressive partly because they brought to their judicial work the insights into practical affairs which political experience affords. 
Instead of a man and a woman, or a Northerner and a Souther­ner, why not a "balanced ticket" of scholarly erudition and robust common sense? 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY GRIFF! 
Nite Editor: Jerry Lutkus Night Controller: John Brady Headlines: John Kloos Proofreaders: Jim Roe, John Layout: Ken Kampman, Jack 
Powers Frischkorn, Pete Fries, Kathy Day Editor: Lyn Leone Schwille Night People: Mary Wilkie, Night People: McDermott, Connie Long, Bill Weber, Hawk, Miller, Noli Kane, Sue Pren­Hawkeye, Ed B., Autolah, Dave dergast, Maria Gallagher, Ken Pabarcus, Abell, Mike Whalen, Wright Kevin Carroll and Barrett 
Thursday, October 7, 1971 THE· OBSERVER Page 5 
fr. robert griffin 
the parabJe of the prodigal god 
This is the Birthday Week for an Old Gent. Ithought the whole world was a nightmare of eemetery three times between Christmas and Monday crowds upon Tuesday; Tuesday waits to pain. Every beauty I knew or cared about lay Pentecost, aild other losses occurred which seemed hustle Wednesday; Wednesday will have a strewn around like the fragments of a toy a child to totally empty the world of light, I tried to view the pushiness all its own; even Thursday will be im­has loved. Home for me became the city hospitals horrors as though I had the eyes eyes of a man patient to die. But when Friday dawns, eager to get where an only brother would remain a victim of hanging on a cross. Instead, in a parody of God as into the mad tumble of time towards eternity, the violence forever, and an only sister shivered in a the Unmoved Mover, I developed my own day celebrating my nativity will already have 
metaphysics of disbelief: God as the Unreamed ended, and the Old Gent will be squarely caught on Reamer: He who reams but is not Himself reamed the gray tide of years that stretch midway across by others. the fourth decade of life. Fortunately for the Blasphemer,there is therapy, 
Ask not the exact age, for the candle-count would and His name is Love. A Father awaits the b£' awkward Ten more tapers would be venerable; prodigal's arrival from the far distant country; and ten less would be youth, or so it now seems. To be for the son who feels more sinned against then one's own age, next Thursday, is merely shabby. sinning, it is almost as though the Father through 
In the jungles, young men die before twenty; for His gifts of reconciliation, had fallen upon om­them it is too late to celebrate the gift of life, and nipotent knees and said, "I have offended against death lights no candles on a cake. Children die at Heaven and Thee." £'very moment; in hospitals, in the streets, in the So on this birthday, I acknowledge with love the 
Father Who once seemed to waste the substance otghettos, in the suburbs, m the safety of sheltering -~. .·.··' ··~ ·.·.. ·. ···--·-.. ·-:.~. ··--­
arms. In nursing homes, aging guys and dolls ,...-• . ·._........., -~ my inheritance in riotous dying as He allowed the feast on the birthday treat, proud to have survived / .r""' ........___ ·~,1' • best creatures I have ever known to be lost to life wars and famines, diseases and pestilence; hopeful,;./ ." · ~...........__ ..• ---.. beauty, health, and hope. '
·~~.'~t:~ for more years that will separate them fom eternal / --....._, \ "'·~ At this point, the sick are still sick, the dead are birth. In sic_krooms, well-wishers crowd in on the f ... ··.,......... ,·.:~ • still buried, and other dear ones have followed them birthday ch1ld, but sometimes death would be ..:~ l. on the oath of suffering. Like other Christians I
1

greeted more festively in a relative world, even i / l must forgiveGod every day of my live, just as He death or 111e are not absolutes to be clung to or '· \ '• must forgive me, until the time when birthdays are avoided. f<'or the parents of half-grown children, \ over, and in eternal chattings, the Father can make death is more frightening than a burglar. A father ·-,, -.....-.. truth out of eyewash: in heaven more than on earth, blesses his survival, for he considers birthdays not ......... , ""-. Love means never having to say You're sorry. as landmarks of his own decay, but as the promise ·•••·• .............. _ In a world where, within a year, one peacemaker of summer following the springtime, when he waits .... '"' ........................~-.-......... _ ........ ~;;.,....,.., named Tim lies dead, and the other is in jail, and the 
upon the growth of life whose maturing is more ....... ...... ., .. --· Calleys. live more comfortably than the Berrigans, important than his own journey into grizzled time. .... -._..,... ... .... -·-··--. ,_.......,.. ,.....,.,.,..-· and Richard sits on Pendragon's throne, and 
Ev£'n on the shabby side of forty, it is beautiful to Camelot looks like an inner city slum---on a feast be alive. I have been too close to the brink of the haunted twilight where the chief language is day of the Virgin called the Mother of Sorrow, I other alternatives to be cynical of life and its weeping, and an only mother lived, remote, and celebrate the mystery of birth and the holiness of promises. It seems like indulgence in self-pity to isolated, in senility. life. admit that one has suffered: but if you really give a When best friends who were contemporaries Happy Birthday, old Gent! damn~ I will tell you. Once, not too long ago sickened and died until I had made the trip to the 
ken wright 
making of a cheap man 
As things are beginning to settle down prices that say "jock 6 cents"it does not winter is coming and there are a few an unnessary laundry problem caused by lwre at Notre Dameyou are becoming used mean that you can takea football player things which modesty or colder weather sloppy eating habits, we suggest that you to life here, you are probably in doubt as to in your section and give him a bath for six require us to wear. protect yourself from spillage by strap-how to get along on $2.60 worth of laundry cents. It means your supporter. We think 5. A number of mothers have already ping a tray to your front and your back in p<'r week. There are many different one supporter is enough for a week. We informed us that they want us to remind the cafeteria. Remember you are paying solutions and or suggestions that you have are really big on tradition here and their sons to carry a hanky· Fellas, we for your laundry and some other jerk is !ward on how to conserve on what you wearing one clean jock a w£'ek will really advise you to carry one for your mother's getting paid to do your dishes. wPar. f;'or example, if you have been to add to the traditional smell of the locker sake, the cost 5 cents. 7. Now you have enough left over to the Hock, Fat f;~ddy probably suggested room. 6. You have been wondering about wear a pair of pants a week, provided that that the best way to keep your laundry bill 4. Towels are probably the next most shirts. Our suggestion is two polo shirts a they are wash pants (Levi l. This is more down is to· spend a lot of time down in the important item on the list. There was a w<'ek. i''or those of you who who ar!': than enough because with these next locker room sitting around naked. We pointers you may find that you will be able have our doubts that you would think that to wear the same pants all semester. it is the most adventagous way to keep 
f;'irst. you can carry out the previously your laundry bag empty. We are also mentioned dining protection step further aware that your mother is concerned that by outfitting a plastic garbage bag so you you wear clean underwear every day. can wear it on your legs. Then anything RParing that in mind, we would like to that runs from your tray to your lap can familiarize you with our solution to this run on to your shoes. That is no problem. problem. Secondly, if you start to chafe from 
1. 
Cl£'an underwear on a daily basis wearing the same pants you can go ,J the costs you 70 cents per week. john and mummify yourself with toilet 

2. 
other essentials are socks. Our paper. You better stock up while you can suggestion is two pairs a week, 24 cents. because after Saturday toilet paper will You may find this hard to live on but if you only be available in the stadium. We l'an afford to thoroughly dust your socks would also like to pass that word on to with Desenex after every wearing you willl anyone who contemplates getting diahrrea find this minimizes the discomfort of dirty six cents to clear him for the rest of the term. If you are a Saint socks. You will also find that come next lime when the refreshing aroma of mildew wondering what a Polo shirt is, it is a puH Mary's s~udent _and feel ~e have neglected sumnwr when you go home for the sum­was quite popular, however, as that craze over shirt with the writing on it, or with some thmgs, hke brass1ers, we suggest mer that you will have a dozen or so pairs has died out we feel that seven towels, or stripes on it, or colored, or any T-shirt that that _you do not wear o~e. of white socks, because Desenex washes an outlay of 70 cents per week is the ab­is not marked specifically as an un-It ~~ our hope that this note has helped out of socks after a while, to a certain solute minimum number one can use in a dershirt. Two of these will cost you 40 you f1gure out yol!r laundry problem. Pxtent. week. cents a week. we feel that two shirts a Lastl_y. we would hke you to remember 


:1. Because we like to work with round NOTE: The essentials have been w<'ek is sufficient if you follow this little that 1f clot~es make the man and you are numbPrs the next thing on our list is your covered, one way or another, and your tip: after wearing your shirt, spray it well only spendmg ~2.60 a wf'ek to clean them, jock. Now, if you have a list of laundry total outlay has been $.70. However, with scented deodorant. To guard against then you are cheap! 
helping the retarded, helping yourself 
A little over three years ago our group, a pPrplexing problem because the ~hort. there are some people who learn can'I concentrate unless someone takes an llw Notre Dame-St.. Mary's Council for 111 isinformPd attitudes of the general quickly and some, like me, who learn intPrest in me. Please, just don't call me lhP l{P!arded, was founded to assist the public, which often includes those who slowly. I really am like other children. I dumb. for after a while it hurts. Just let nwntally n•tarded person in adjusting to dPsir£' to work directly with the retarded, can laugh, cry, fear, hate, and love. I can me be your friend and we'll both work lhl• life within his community. Also, our has to he dispelled before even the run. jump, swim. and fall down as almost things out together.' organization supplements his life in those smaiiPst amount of success can be at­·anv child can do. Most of the time, it may There are hundreds of children just like an•as which are not accessible to him laim•d. So. perhaps it is best if we let a take me a little longer and it may not .Jimmv in the South Bend area. Without hpcausp of his retardation. ~mall guy namPd .Jimmy Jones relate look too good, but I can still do it. You care ihese children can develop serious 
To convey our feeli11gs and experiences \\'hat lw fpels. know, I never did win anything. People et·onomic. emotional, and social problems about lhP rPal world ·of the retarded in­.Jimmy is a five year old child and a dear used to wait on me hand and foot or else and become burdens to their parents, their dividual is a difficult task. The misin­friPnd of our group. He cannot talk yet, but just about place me in a dark closet to sit community, and worst of all, to them­lonned altitude of the public concerning if lw could this is what he would say: lon'v£'r. Rut last year at Logan Center I sl'lves. Much of what happens to these the retarded has cr<'ated a distorted image 'l'lPase don't be afraid of me. I want \Inn sonwthing. I earned it. My prize rdardPd children and adults depends on of them. an image which makes them l'V<'ryone to know that I am five years old \\'asn't just a dream. I did win. Now, I am llS. sonwthing l£'ss than ful;y human. To and a retarded person. Being retarded is \\'inning over and over again. But I don't Anybody interested in doing voluteeer invit£' sonwon£' to help us in providing a nothing to h<' made fun of and nothing to be 1rant your sympathy or your money -all I work for this worthv cause should contact prognun to further the retarded's social ashanwd of. .Just as there are some people \\'ant is your friendship. I know I am not so Bill Greeley, care of Student Government. dPv£'1opnwnt and community placement is \\'ho are tall and some people who ·are quick. ll•ven get quite restless at times. I 
Thursday, October 7, 1971

Page 6. THE OBSERVER 
Attica-lines of command blurry 
The following was prepared by Joseph Lelyveld, Francis X. Clines, Michael T. Kaufman, and James M. Markham, members of the New York Times Reporting Staff. This is the third of a four part series. 
(c) l!lil New York Times 
While the leaders concentrated 
on shoring up the organizational 
structure they had improvised, 
other inmates in the yard were 
free to wander. Some filled 
pillowcases with cigarettes and 
cakes from the looted com­
missary and carried them across 
C yard--a no man's land--to A 
Block where inmates still under 
control had been locked in cells 
on the ground tier. 
Under the gaze of armed state 
troopers who had turned the cells 
on the upper tiers into outposts, 
they passed their booty through 
the bars and also reported on 
developments in the yard. 
''I'll remember you when we go 
in there," a trooper shouted 
angrily. 
"I'll be waiting," a man from D 
yard retorted, unimpressed. 
As the hours ticked away, the resentment of the troopers and guards over the restraints that had been placed upon them became almost palpable, a force with which Oswald would have to reckon. 
1 naay night--while the ob­servers were in D yard com­pliling a list of the inmates' demands--the governor's secretary, Douglas, and Almerin 
C. O'Hara, a retired general who runs the state's Office of General Services, arrived at Attica. They were never to take ultimate responsibiltiy from Oswald, but from then on, the lines of com­mand were blurred. 
After the observer committee 
left the yard, it caucussed in the 
cramped quarters that had veen 
allotted to it, the stewards' room 
on the second floor of the ad­
ministration building. The issue 
of amnesty on criminal charges 
arising from the rebellion itself, 
the committee quickly afreed, 
was the largest obstacle in the 
way of a settlement. 
Shortly before dawn, a three­
man committee was appointed to 
confer on the issue with the 
District Attorney of Wyoming 
County. Louis James. Two 
members of the committee were 
lawyers, Clarence Jone3, 
publisher of a black New York 
City newspaper, The Amsterdam 
News, and a seasoned cam­
paigner for civil rights in the 
South, and Julian T~pper of the 
National Legal Aid and Defen­
ders Association. The third was 
Tom Wicker, columnist for the 
New York Times. 
James at first was adamant: 
he could make no commitments. 
But over a pancake breakfast, his 
attitude softened. 
"We talked philosophical 
concepts. We asked him to go to 
the outer limits of the discretion 
of his office," Jones said later. 
"In the end, he signed a 
statement that Frank Hogan, the 
most powerful district attorney in 
the state, would never have 
signed." 
That statement, drafted 
cooperatively by the four men 
and typed by Wicker, promised 
there would be no "in­
discriminate mass 
prosecutions." The committee 
was delighted with 
the statement but when it brought the Jetter back to the stewards' room Kunstler argued that it should not even be presented to the inmates because it would serve to "legitimize" any indictments brought by James. Finally it was agreed the statement would be presented­without comment. 

A whole afternoon and part of an evening would pass before that happened as the committee-­first on its own, later in con­sultation with Oswald--fashioned the inmates' original demands into proposals the state was willing to accept. 
Major concessions were made, but sometimes they were heavily qualified. For instance, the in­mates had demanded: "End all censorship of newspaper, magazines, letters and other publications coming from the publisher." 
As amended, this became: "End all censorship of newspapers, magazines, and other publications from publishers, unless there is determined by qualified authorites ... that the literature presents a clear and present danger to the safety and security of the institution ... " 
Unkown to the observers, while these negotiations were taking place, those around the com­missioner favoring armed in­tervention were unexpectedly presented with new information they could use to bolster their arguments. 
It came late that afternoon 
from a black inmate who used a 
steel pipe to fight his way through 
surprised rebel security guards 
into A Block, which was held by 
the state police. Correction 
guards fired tear gas into the 
passageway behind him to cover 
his flight

Alte,· tnat, officials would 
sometimes indicate to panelists 
that they had independent 
sources of information about 
conditions in the yard. About the 
inmates sharpening poles into 
spears. "We have our ways." 
they would say. 

As the hours wore on in­
conclusively, reports of atrocities 
by the rebels gained wide 
surrency among guards, troopers 
and even high officials. The most 
lurid of these--the report that a 
hostage had been emasculated-­
was heard and believed as early 
as Saturday. Three days would 
have to pass after the rebellion 
was put down until it was finally 
discredited. 

Dr. Warren Hanson, a surgeon 
from the town of Warsaw who 
had been making daily visits to D 
yard, heard Saturday night from 
Oswald and his deputy, Walter 
Dunbar, a report that inmates 
had forced two hostages into a 
bathroom, thrown wood in after 
them and set it on fire. "I told 
them that was nonsense" Hanson 
said. 

That same evening Hanson had 
been menaced and briefly 
detained by an inmate leader. He 
also described what -he in­
terpreted as a pattern of 
"psychological deterioration" of 
the prisoner population. 

To the correction officials, D 
yard seemed to be veering 
toward bedlam. 

Meantime, at 4:30 p.m., in 
Rochester General Hospital, 
Quinn--the guard with the 
fractured skull--suddenly went 
into a state of cardiac arrest and 
died. Now the thorny amnesty 
issue was complicated by a likely 
homicide charge, which could 
carry the death penalty. 

More than 21 hours--a period of 
gnawing uncertainty for the 
rebels--elapsed from the time the 
observers leftD yard Friday 
night till they reappeared 
Saturday night at 9:30. 

Their arrival had been delayed 
by initial objections by Douglass 
to the admission into the prison of 
Hobby G. Seale, the Chairman of 
the Hliick Panther Party, who 
had flown in from Oakland, 
Calif., to stand in for his 
eomrade, Newton. Kunstler had 
led the other observers to hope 
that the Panther l~ader's en­
dorsement of the proposals 
fashioned that afternoon would 
be sec;sive with the inmates. 
Privately Kunstler hoped that his influence would be decisive with Seale, for he believed that a settlement on the basis of the proposals--qualified as they were--would represent "a great political and moral victoy" for the inmates. 
But the one Seale appearance in D yard proved an anti-climax Staying for less than 10 minutes and speaking for only three, Seale said only that he had to leave to consult with Newton, but that he would return in the morning. . 
Back in the yard, the delicate and potentially risky task of presenting the district attorney's letter and the qualified proposals fashioned during the afternoon fell to Jones, the publisher, who b~gan his remarks with a homily on politics as "the art of the possible." 
Jones said he could neither recommend nor guarantee this package, but he stressed again and again his conviction that it was the best possible." 
"I knew goddam well," he said lc>ter, "that if a settlement were broken off, they were going to come in there and mow these people down." But even as Jones was speaking in the yard, he recalled, he could "sense" that some of his fellow observers wer busy at the tables behind him talking down the proposals as "a sell-out document." 
The inmates massed in the darkness behind the row of security guards were invisible to the speaker. When Jones was done, the silence with which they had listened to him was shattered by emotional denunciations of the pormiscs he had brought. Jones and other observers felt per­sonally threatened. 
"That trip into D yard was a trial mindblower," said Lewis Steele of the National Lawyers Guild who was there. 
Kunstler. returing from seeing Seale off, took the microphone in his hand. It was, he said, "a moment I dreaded." 
The night before Kunstler had agreed to serve the inmates as their legal counselor. Now, speaking in that role, he echoed Jones. "It's the best we could do." he concluded. "If you say 


Saturday1 October 16 
8: 30 pm m the ACC 

it's not good enough, it's your life and your decision." 
The committee's dwindling hopes now rested, briefly, on Seale, who, it was wishfully Pxpeeted, might be ready to put the Panther imprimatur on the proposals when he returned. Instead, Seale arrived in a forlorn drizzle at 8:30 Sunday morning with a prepared staement that made no mention of any of the 28 proposals. 
The statement stressed a demand Kunstler had not even taken down Friday night when he 
Tickets $4.50, $3.50, $2.00 at 
The Student Union Ticket Office and Dining Halls 
Starting Monday 

pn•st•nl<'d by Student Union Social Commission and ACC 
-recorded the prisoners' wishes because he regarded it as basically unserious--the demand for safe-conduct to a "nonim­perialistic country." 
Oswald was reluctant to allow the Panther leader back in the yard unless he promised to speak 
on  behalf  of  the  list  of  28  
demands.  Seale,  affronted,  
turned  on  his  heel  and  left,  

followed by Kunstler. 
"If they're not ready to urge acceptance," Jones exploded as the door shut, "then let them give their afenda of rleath." 
(continued on page 8) 

NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY's ACADEMIC COMMISSION 
Meeting: 2:30, Friday, Oct. 8. 
IN THE 
Academic Commission Office 4th Floor LaFortune 
any questions call office :6244 or Becky: 233-8123 or Steve-232-5430. 
640AM
WSND 

88.9 FM 
PRESENTS 

THE ORIGINAL THRILLER FROM THE 30s, 40s, 50s, starring LaMont Cranstons and Margo Lane 
11 :30 PM THURSDAY 
1. ade possible by a generous grant from GILBERT'S 
11ttt~-­
**** 
li\'iii!JSfttll f;)\Tittl• 

~--~ 

Thursday, October 7, 1971 
7HEOBSER.~V.~~=R~--------------------------~P~a~~7 
Brian booms long-distance hoots 
by Vic r>orr '71 Portlan~, ?re., has been Ara A lapse f e year and an Parsegh1an s only punter since . 0 t or t d the season opened three weeks 
•mtprovemten .0 ent yatr s m~y ago. 
no seem oo 1mpor an --even m A d h . ,
the game of football--but to Brian . n now ere IS Doherty s D h t ·t h ade ll the Improvement better reflected d .<~f er Y 1 • tahs m ld a than in his statistics. To date he 
11 erence m e wor . . ' 
has punted 19 times for 750 yards

Doherty· the first-string punter and an average of 39.4 yards per 
on the Notre Dame football team, kick. His longest kick of the year 
was kicking for the Irish fresh-has been for 61 yards, and it came 
men last fall, and he did not have last week against Michigan State. 
a good year. He punted 14 times :·I think the differen~e between 
for an average of 29.6 yards, and this year and last year IS that I've 
was so erratic in the season's got a 1ot more confidence,'• said 
finale against Michigan that Doherty. "I believe that positive 
('?ach Dl'nny M~rphy yanked thinking is important, and I 
hi.~ m favor of tight end Dave rea_lly don't feel neervous when I 
Casper· . . get into a game. 
But thmgs have been different. "I look forward to kicking "he · l~or the li-2, 180 lb. doherty this continued. "The first couple of sl'ason, as the sophmore from games this year, the offense was 
Ml.ke Pavlt·n .........................·
..·.t_.•,o,•,o,•.•.•.•.•.•.·.•.•.•;.o,•,•,•,•,•;•;•,•;.o;•.•,•.:,.•.•.•.•.:.t.·:·:·:·:·:·. 
.......................... ~.·-·-·-·-·-··················...···················_._.....·.···-~---··· 

The Graduate View 

This W£'ekend marks the beginning of serious conference com­
petition with the pictures in many of the major conferences greatly 
alterl'd since the beginneng of the season. Here's the way I see five 
races. 
lUg Tl'n --It seems that every year now the Big Ten spends a great 
deal of time trying to explain away its horrible record against non­
conference foes. This season even the mighty Buckeyes have dropped 
an "outside" game. No great surprises have been uncovered so far; 
it's still Michigan first, chased by Northwestern, MSU and Purdue. 
Don't be too surprised if Duffy upsets the Wolverines this Saturday at 
East Lansing. 
Big Eight --Originally seen as pretty much of a cakewalk for 
N£'braska, this race has taken on renewed interest. Oklahoma 
unleashed a mind-boggling rushing attack against USC while Colorado 
has taken the measure of LSU and Ohio State. It's my view that 
Nebraska can handle both the contenders' powerful ground games. 
The Sooners and Buffs will need timely passing and especially great 
degensive work to upset Nebraska. But I think that the great Johnny 
Rogers is undefensible and that Nebraska will prevail. 
SE('--The big news down South is the resurgance of Alabama. The 
B£'ar has been taking it on the chin lately and this lately and this year 
he's going to dish it out. He's got an excellent option attack 
spearheaded by Johnny Musso. LSU is tough, but the suspicion is that 
the defense has weakened. Auburn is a step ahead of everyone after 
beating Tennessee. When the Bear has got talent, he's tough to beat. 
l.ook for Aububurn or 'Barna to take the crown. 
SW(' --I had a chance to talk to a Texas alumnus the other day and he 
hacked up the prevailing view that the SWC, supposedly stronger this 
year, is weaker than ever. Arkansas has already suffered an in­
credible upset at the hands of Tulsa and the Longhorns just lost three 
n•gulars to injuries. Once again, everything will come down to one 
game and that one is too far off to pick yet. 
Pat·ific Coast -What began the year as a power-laden aggregation 
has fall{'n upon hard times. Stanford, touted as equal to Jim Plunkett's 
squad, lost to Duke. UCLA is a Prothro-less 0-4 and USC seems in­
capable of defensing the run. So the Sports Illustrated "jinx" appears 
to me to be the only obstacle to Sonny Sixkiller and his Washington 
Huskies. 
Several questious will be answered this weekend when Oklahoma 
meets Texas. The game's in Dallas ('neutral' Dallas, ..,ays my 
Longhorn friend with a grin) and the dust may not settle for weeks. 
Last Sunday morning's films showed Oklahoma's rushing attack to be 
truly awe-inspiring. And if the Sooners prevail, they will turn the 
Cotton Bowl into a second-rate attraction. 
With three excellent teams in the Big Eight, a tough race shaping-up 
in the SEC, and Michigan and Wahington out of ND's reach, would you 
believe--ND vs Arizona State in the Orange Bowl? 
.JlJST FOH THE HECORD 
TEAM -(;ENEHAL 
1) <new record) Most Consecutive Games Scoring: 55 
TEAM -SINGLE GAME I l (new record) Yards Interceptions Returned: 185 
2) (record tied l Interceptions: 7 
3) <record tied l Interceptions for TD's: 2 
TEAM -SEASON (3 games) 
I l Interceptions 26 : 9 
2l Yards Interceptions Returned 497 : 185 
:Jl Yards per Int. Return 17.8: 20.6 
INDIVII>lJAL-SINGLE GAME 
I> <record tied) Interceptions: Ken Schlezes 3 2 (record tied) Interceptions for TO's: Mike Crotty, Ralph Stepaniak 
INDIVIIlUAL-SI<:ASON <:1 games> I l Lowest Pass percentage Had Intercepted 3.5 : Pat Steenberge 2.38 2l Interceptions 9 : Schlezes 4 3l Punts 67: Brian Doherty 19 4l Punting Average 40.02: Doherty 39.4 5 l Interceptions for TD's 2 : Crotty, Stepaniak 1 
INDIVIDUAL -CAltEER 
l) 
(new record) Passes Broken Up: Clarence Ellis 24 

2) 
(new record) Tackles for Losses: Walt Patulski 26 

3) 
(record tied) TD Pass Receptions: Tom Gatewood 16 

4) 
Pass Receptions 138: Gatewood 134 

5) 
Reception Yards 2113: Gatewood 1975 

6) 
Receptions per Game 5.3 : Gatewood 5.8 

7) 
Interceptions 15 : Ellis 12, Stepaniak 11 


having a little trouble getting together, and I felt that I was needed then. That helped to settle me down, and it didn't give 
h f bo 
m~ muc 1me to worry a ut bemg a sophomore." The kicking game is one of the 
.

fundamentals which Coach 
Parseghian stresses most 
heavily, and Doherty and the rest 
of the ND kicking specialists put 
in at least a half-hour of work 
every_ day ~efore the regular 
practice sessiOns. 
For Doherty, the extra thirty 
minutes is spent kicking into the 
wind, kicking with a cross-wind, 
and aiming coffin-corner punts to 
both sides of the field. 
But that is the extent of his 
punting practice; after the
~ickin~ session, Doherty_-who is 
·hsted m the Football GUide as a
quarterback, not a punter--joins Jim Bulger at the helm of the Irish prep unit. "I haven't given up on the idea of playing quarterback," said Doherty, "but there are so many things that I've got to improve. My passing, mostly, needs work, and I've got to get some kind of overall consistency. That'II be kind of tough, though, because they <the coaches) are trying to keep me healthy, and sometimes I don't even play in the mid-week scrimmages." But even though he has found himself as a punting specialist, Doherty still has a quarterback's appreciation for the protection which the Irish offensive line has been allowing him. "The protection has been real good," he said. "It's been extra good. I'm supposed to get my kicks off between 1.8 and two seconds after I get the ball, but our line this year has given me much more time than that. Sometimes, I've even been able to wait before kicking it. "If we're oh, 55 or 60 yards away from the goal line," he continued, "then I'll try to aim for the corners. Any further back than that, and I'll just try to kick for distance. But on those long kicks, a lot depends on the returner. If there's a guy like Allen <Eric) or Armstrong <Otis) back there, then I'm going to try to kick it away from him. 
"If I can keep the ball inside an opponent's 20, then I figure we're in pretty good shape. It's not that easy to put together an 80-yard 
• ~~r.~--_; ~~ ~·-r~ • X-II!" 
., f) _ . ~~ ,#"' 
• ~ ~ ..... · « · ' 
l {~ :.:.. · ~• 
, • · • 1 
, It• •• . ,
~J{· t "~a 
•·""~ . T'• """''l 
· ~ • 

~ :~ ,fir, \. •-';· · .....,~<"'t. 1 • ~--•~~-~ ,. -,_ • ~.J'1.a 1':_;\... t~' 
~....l,~ J. •t. ,....., ..fl\ ,;.. "" • • • '4"
6J-• • ·• .. · ~, .. 
_,..~~ • 1· • · \
'"f -p •
\N 

•· . ~ ~ -· • "·• .. . 
~ • · ~ • C . ;;; 
' '* .. '.. ·. ·""" t '\·-......_
"<.-·f'\"'•'-l"\, ~ .. ~ •· .... ~ 
' -" r• ., .
) 

• 

•. ~ .•.., ' 
Brian Doherty could put his name 
punter drive--especially against our defense--so I guess I'm kind t>f helping our both ways." 
And that's the way Doherty is looking at Saturday night's matchup in the Orange Bowl, which will pit Notre Dame against the Miami Hurricanes. 
Everyone's been saying that Miami isn't too much," Doherty commented, "but they've looked pretty good in our scouting reports. They're young, talented, and quick, and they're very enthusiastic. 
"This game figures to be a switch for us," he said. "So far this year we've played in sun­shine, rain, and on regular grass. But Saturday night we'll be playing in humid weather, probably, and we'll be playing on a poly-turf field." 
The Irish coaching staff has never been overly enthusiastic about artificij:ll turf, but Doherty feels that the poly surface will make for a definite improvement in the kicking game. 
in the re«"ord book as NO's top 
"There are no holes or divots to step in, " he said, "so there's better over-all balance and more control. I think the poly-turf will help Bob Thomas (the ND placement man) too, because he'll be able to dig in better. Now, the bounces we'll get will be something else again. They'll be high and hard, and they can go either way." 
Doherty, who stepped into the first-string position when Jim Yoder was injured in spring practice, is at Notre Dame because he wanted to play major college football at its best. 
"For a long time," he said, "I wasn't sure where I would go. But I've never regretted coming here--not for a minute." Then he paused. "It's funny, though. I went to an all 'boy Catholic high school, and when I got out of th£'re I swore that one thing I would never do was go to an all male Catholic college. And here I an1." 
Harriers to host N D Invitational 
by "Lefty" Ruschma.m 
Homecoming will arrive a couple of weeks early for Coach Alex Wilson and his troops. While the Irish gridders visit the Orange Bowl (presumably to case the joint for New Year's Day), cross~ountry squads from 24 schools will descend on campus to run in Friday's six­teenth annual Notre Dame In­vitational Meet. 
Last weekend, the ND harriers were ambushed by a surprisingly strong Chicago Track Club in a dual meet up in Windytown. "We took quite a beating," sum­marized Coach Alex Wilson. The score was 17-38, with the Chi runners taking four of the five top positions. Two ND competitors, Dave Bell and Pat Holleran, were slowed down by stomach ailments, but their coach refused to make excuses. "Even if all of our men were healthy, we still would probably have lost. Chicago had a surprisingly good tl'am. Since they're a club team, you're never sure of what kind of talent you'll face." Evidently the club's collection of ex-collegians and journeyman runners was too much for the Irish to cope with. 
The top 'Irish finisher, with a fifth-place time of 25:21, was Dan Dunne. Following him was Gene Murcer <in sixth place at 25:29), Marty Hill (eighth), Jeff Eichner <ninth>, and Mike Hausley <tenth l. In the defeat, Coach Wilson saw continued progress toward depth and consistency; going over the Chicago meet he saw hopeful signs for the In­vitational. Wilson maintained, "We'll be ready. Everyone should be healthy for the meet, and I'm sure we'll be battling for one of the top spots." 
Admitting that handicapping a cross-country meet was difficult business, the coach nevertheless played sage and took a stab at forecasting the results of the Invitational. Atop the Wilson Poll was defending champion Bowling Green, and with good reason. They return four of their top five runners, including three top ten finishers from the 1970 In­vitational. The Falcons' best runners are Dave Wottle, Steve Danforth, and Tracy Elliott, and all ran better than 24:40 last year. 
A number of teams were seen as contenders to Bowling Green, including the Irish. Others likely to be in the midst of the title chase (with Wilson's analysis provided l are Ball State ("they beat Miami, who beat us), Eastern Michigna("they were third last year, and they're tough every year"), Purdue ("we expect another good team from them"), and Western Michigan ("a perennial power"). Other competing teams include DePaul, Michigan, Southern Illinois, and Valparaiso. 
Individual performers who bear watching include Bowling Green's mercury-footed trio, last year's champ Gary Harris of Western Michigan, trying to improve on his 23:59 winning time, Illinois' Richard Gross <third last year) and David Antognoli of Edinboro (Pa.(( State (eleventh>. Though the Irish placed no men higher than 28th place in last year's meet, they hope to parlay their across­the board depth and im­provement into a championship. 
Offering a final analysis of the coming meet, Wilson said, "We look for a number of improved teams here. I don't think anyone's going to run away with it." 
The showdown takes place at 2 
p.m. Friday, on the Notre Dame golf course, when both Coach Wilson's runners and predictions will be put to a stiff test. 
~--~----­
Thursday, October 7, 1971

Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
•

Tax cut bill passes House on a vo1ce vote 
I· 
(continued from page 1) 
The bill's major provisions would: 
---Increase the personal exemption from $650 to $_675 on 1971 income and to $750 m 1972. Under existing law the exemption would rise to $700 in 1972 and $750 in 1973. 
---Raise the low-income allowance---a flat deduction in lieu of other deductions and in addition to personal exemptions-­-from $1,000 to $1,300 starting in 
• 1972. This would make up to $2,050 of annual income tax-free 
Prison violence expected 
(continued from page 6) 
Now in its one hour of unanimity, the committee was seized with a vision of a massacre of hostages and inmates both, which only a providential in­tervention cou.d avert. In this moon, the committee members 
• felt their duty was clear: to tell the inmates what Kunstler, back in the room, termed "the ab­solute, utter truth as to what their situation is." and to buy time by appealing to Rockefeller to travel to Attica to confer with the ob­servers. The premonition of the com­mittee members, based on military preparations they could plainly see through the window of the stewards' room, was correct. At that point, a decision had already been made to storm D yard Sunday afternoon and quash the rebellion. This was later confirmed by a number of sources. Oswald, according to Rep. Charles B. Rangel, D-N.Y., later told members of the House Select Committee on Crime that an attack was delayed at the last minute because of the observers' pleas. 
Shortly after 1 p.m., the commissioner told the observers 
he was drafting an ultimatum to the rebels and that no members of the committee would be allowed to re-enter D yard under any circumstances. 
Despeate now, the observers decided to call the governor 
~ directly. Dunne had a private number, but he doubted that a call placed in his name would be accepted. Everyone agreed thwt Wicker had the best chance of getting through. For the next 40 minutes--while Wicker, Badillo, Dunne and Jones were on the plone to Rockefeller's home--orders 
overpaying for the records you factory-fresh records by original 1 
inaI labels at unbelievably low prices. not a record club. There is no obligation kind. Fast shipment of all arden. 
__________ CUT HERE. _______ 
Super.tar Records, Inc. Dept. 166 
210 E. 23 St., New York, N.Y. 10010 
Please check boxes for selections 
Our l'rlco List 0 I WilD/WilD' I Ntxl . . . ...2.19 5.11 0 2 Carole Kln11Tapestry . . . . 2.19 5.91 0 3 Moody Blues/ /Every Good Boy .. 2.99 5.91 0 4 Paul 1o Linda McCartney/Ram .. 2.t9 5.91 
0 5 ~~~s s:e;:~~E~ery _Picture_ . . . 2_ 5_ 1
99 91 0 6 Black Slbbalh/Master of Reality 2.91 5.91 0 7 John Lonnon/lm11lno . . ..... 2.99 5.91 0 I lottonon Alrplone/llrk . . . . . . 2.t9 5.91 0 9 Jesus Christ Superstar (2 LPs) .. 5.99 11.91 010 James Gan1/Live In Concert.... 2.99 5.91 0 11 Beach Boys/Surf's Up . . . . . 2.49 4.91 0 12 Poco/From the Inside . . . . . . . .2.99 5.91 0 13 Grateful Dead (2 Lp's) ......... 4.99 9.91 014 10 Years After/Space In Time .. 2.99 5.91 0 15 The Band/Cahoots ............ 2.99 5.91 Add 50' pstg., hdlg., insur., lor 1st LP and 
354. for each additional LP. NY residents 
odd soles tax. Enclosed is $ _____ cosh, check, M.O. (no COD) 
Name 
Address City ....... .. State ........... Zip .... .. 
for single persons and up to $3,300 nontaxable for a family ot tour. Taxes on those with incomes moderately above these levels also would be reduced 
---Enlarge the benefits of the low-income allowance in 1971 by eliminating a "phase-out" provision, which otherwise would reduce the tax relief for those slightly above the poverty level. 
---Increase the standard deduction from 13 per cent of gross income up to a maximum of $1,500 to 15 per cent and $2,000 in 1972. Existing law would raise the deduction to 14percent or $2,000 in 1972 and 15 per cent or $2,000 in 1973. 

---Repeal the 7 per cent excise tax on automobiles retroactive to Aug. 1 and the 10 per cent excise on light trucks retroactive to Sept. 23. 
---Provide an investment tax credit at a 7 percent rate (4 per cent for regulated utilities) for machinery and equipment or­dered on or after April 1 or delivered on or after Aug. 16. The credit would subsidize business outlays by allowing companies to subtract 7 percent (or 4 percent) of the cost from federal taxes. 
positioning state troopers within the prison were cracling over the police radio, fire hoses were being pressurized and traces of CN gas waftP.d across the lawn in front of the prison. 
The governor took the view that he could do nothing to break the deadlock on the amnesty issue. Despite pleas from the observers that time might make a dif­ference, he held to a literal in­terpretation of the rebel position that the issue was "non­negotiable." . 
That the plone call was un­successful was made clear within minutes as Oswald reappeared in the stewards' room with a copy of the ultimatum he had already sent to the prisoners. A paren­thetical phrase in the statement ruptured the fragile unity of the committee and uncapped some of the emotions these exhausted men had been struggling to hold in check through the long, tense weekend. That phrase was a description of the 28 proposals as "the recommendations of the committee." 

"Man, you've just signed my death warrant," shouted Eve, who thought the phrase implied ,that the committee had joined in the ultimatum, betraying the inmates' confidence. Finally the commissioner gave way before the abuse of the committee and agreed "against the advice of every adviser in the state," he said--to one last lisit to the yard. 
NEED MONEY NOW? Morrisey Student Loan Office 
OPEN 
Monday thru Friday 11:15 • 12: 15 
Basement of La Fortune 
Borrow up to $150. For almost any need 
CLASSlCAL 

Notre Dame Bookstore 
---Uphold the president's ad­ministrative action allowing companies to depreciate---deduct fom taxable earnings---the cost of machinery and equipment over a 20 per cent shorter period of time than provided by previous guidelines. But the bill would cancel a provision of the depreciation program allowing extra-large depreciation deductions m the first year of a machine's use. 
---Defer taxation of certain export earnings by domestic international sale corporations that would be set up by U.S. companies. 
CLASSIFiED ADS 
__, ..... _~___t>U>..:_T__,_ce..s WANTED
I____ 
Are you as beautiful as y~u can be? Let Viviane Woodard teach you how ... . witn two free make-up lessons. (Call Johanna at 287-2731 for appt. l 
" -· -·---------~-­ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FOR PARACHUTING CLUB-THURSDAY 7:30PM 1-C . LaFortune. 
Need 2 adjacent general admission tickets to USC. Call TOM 287-2731. 
Will work on Volkswagens: 11 years 
experience, reasonable. Call 272-3980 
Need ride to Boston at Thanksgiving . Will share drivings and expenses. Lidan 8978. 
Need 6 general admission tickets lor Tulane game. Call Jim 3165. 
DESPERATE: I NEED 4 LSU TICKETS. CALL JOE 3413. 
NEEDED. One general admissions licket to North Carolina game. Call Kevin 289-7433. 
Help. We need volunteers to"help plan cchildren's radio soow. We need stories, fun facts, and interesting conversation. Call Marie 4044 or Mike 3701. 
---------------~-­
or 272-2765 after 4:00p.m. .LP. I need a considerate SMC
L---:-:-=-:=========-·-frosh who is willing to let a hometown
1 1need 15 young ladies to show Kosco! Kosmetics. short hours . high earning From 9:00am-6:00pm. Saturday the 9th and Sunday the lOth. Bus will depart the Shell Station W side US 31 Roseland near Toll Road entrance. --'­
~~-­
ATTENTION: All students in Mr. Spoleader's MWF design class owe 65 cents to pay for materials for the model and photographs of the alley project. Pay Bob Palmiter in class. 
"FREE BEER" and food at St. Matthews Smoker, Saturday, Oct. 16 at 8:00 Donation $1.00 single, $1.50 couple Wl1ere: 1700 Miami Street 
Tickets available at the door. 
?r.d ND NAVY. Call Mr. Kranz
1--:---==========:--.JJ collect and 
person-to-person in Sun-

Attention all SMC tennis players in­lerested in forming a team ? Call 4879 before S~t.urd~y. .­
-------------·~ 
1976 Ford Galaxie, 390, 4 door. auto. 
P.S. See at Cir's MarathOn, 191 Miami or call 289-5100. -·---·-·· ·------·--------­
NEW, GUARANTEED 8 TRACE TAPES ONLY $3.50. CALL 6715. 
1----...:....____---~ --­
MorriSSE'Y Lnan Fund 
BasemPnl of Lil Fortune II: 15 12:15. 
1---------__:~---~--­
Classified Ads paid for in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 122:15·5:00. 
3. Ads in by 12:30 pubIicalion. :t-.aa~-~~-..,­1-11 .. 11·11 ••  on  day before z..,. .75 •••  
11-11  ',.71  r.u  
Zl·J5  .15  ,..  
Zl-30  1.10  ....  
31-35  I.Zt  uo  
36-40  l.U  2.1t  
41-45  1.55  Z.31  

qirl stay with her on Homecoming weekend. If interested call Kevin 
1584. 
BEAUTIFUL 5'5" BRUNETTE fits well ... into bucket seat for D.C. Need an eye-opening experience THIS SATURDAY Oct. 8. CALL this girl. Susan 4884 (If a man answers Hang Up.) 
-------------·-­

NEEDED. ONE GENERAL AD MISSION TICKET TO NORTH CAROLINA GAME. Call Kevin 289­7433·. 
LOST: Microphone in black for Sears tape recorder. REWARD call Kevin 3443 21 Morrissey. 
-------------·--­

Member of SUBWAY Alumni needs 2 (two) side by side tickets for N D-USC 
nyside, Washington, 509-837-6646. 
. _____ -·----------~ 
. Looking for the following editions fo the DOME: 1908,1914,1919,1923,1940, 1043, 1944, 1945, 1946, 1959, 1963. Will 
negotiate price. Call 2557103 after 6:00PM M-F. 
Rufus and Tyrone need lund for this weekend. Please oblige. Only $8. Sapphire and Ruby. 
STEVE (6730) Where's my dollar ? Ann 
Men's Golf Clubs and bag $20.00. Blond Pine Desk 29" high, 34" long, 17" deep, 3 side and one top drawer. $15.00. 272-0513. 
---..
---------~-~--~~---­
----~·­

"Jjijl"---··4~..,..-­
·~

••• us 1.7t  1.1$ 1.71 1.41  I ul 2.11  
uo  Z~lf  3.41  
1.35  ue  .....  
Z.IO 3:••  ~~ 4)5  4.7t 5.tt  
.ue  4.51  U4  





