

Vol. V., No. 121 Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Tuesday, May 4, 1971 

Peace Demonstrations Stalled 
ND students
7000 demonstrators 

arrested in 
arrested by police 

DC protests 
WASHINGTON <UPil--Anti-war demonstrators filled the streets by Cliff Wintrode with logs, nails, abandoned cars and their own bodies yssterday but Special to the Observer 
police stopped them from crippling the government by ficing tear gas and arresting a record 7,000 persons, including protest leader Rennie 

WASHINGTON, D.C.-EightDavis. 
people from Notre Dame were 
With up to 10,000 regular Army troops and Marines aiding helmeted arrested and eight more were police squads, Davis and other demonstration leaders claimed only unaccounted for yesterday after limited success in snarling rush hour traffic on Potomac River bridges a confusing day of demon­and major streets. 

strations aimed at blocking
Most of those arrested were not expected to go free in time for traffic into Washington, D.C. and protests early today. 

thus halting the functions of the 
The protest, which launched a government. Bond for the eight third, more militant week of arrested students was set at $250. demonstrations for an early U.S. Most of those arrested spent withdrawal from Vietnam, was last night in a compound near the

Protest events announced 
nonviolent for the most part. Robert F. Kennedy Stadium With the exception of scattered the May 5 strike and calling for advantage." where there were no sanitary
incidents in frings areas, the Both SMC and ND student the entire St. Mary's community The Notre Dame-st. Mary's facilities. They were fed C­participants offered little governments have announced of students, faculty and ad-Peace Action Committee's rations last night. Frost warningsresistance to police. plans for extensive activities for ministrators to stop normal schedule of activities for were forecast. 
Several hours after the streets today's moratorium. In addition business. tomorrow's Moratorium were According to two Notre Dame were cleared, Davis was picked to the activities, the American The statement signed by Kathy also announced. people who were not arrested and up by FBI agents as he walked on flag will be flown at half mast on Barlow, student body president, At 1:00 p.m. Fr. William who asked to remain uniden­a downtown sidewald.The 30 year the main quad. and Missy Underman, student Toohey, University chaplain, will tified, police were "very in­old veteran of many previous Paul Dziedic, Ombudsman, is body vice-president, said "The offer a Mass on the South Quad discriminate," as they tear­antiwar campaigns, best known heading a committee which is consensus of the convocation was with the Refugee Aid Program as gassed a Methodist Church where for his role in protests during the circulating student pledge cards to participqte in this moratorium the beneficiary of the collection. many demonstrators had sought1968 Democratic National Con­for peace candidates. The Notre by boycotting classes in order to Following the Mass, speakers, refuge. The police had reportedly vention, was charged under a Dame student government has attend the activities scheduled including the man who wrote Sen. promised the demonstrators that federal law that prohibits con­also proposed that the flag be for the east campus, main quad." Edward Kennedy's report on nothing would happen to them. spiracy to interfere with another flown at half mast during the · "As the elected spokesmen for . Refugee Aid and a representative The Notre Dame people reported person's civil rights. proceedings, and has printed fact the student body, we therefore from the American Friends, and being tear-gassed several times. 
He also was accused of sheets on the draft extension and announce that the west campus Mrs. Marece Neagu, a South Also, according to the self­violating a law that forbids any the history of our involvement in will stop 'business as usual' on Bend resident who went to Paris named survivors, police, national intimidation or obstruction of Vietnam to be distributed Wednesday," the statement to confer with North and South guardsmen and marines nom­federal workers. tomorrow. continued. Vietnamese Peace Conference bering 15,000 arrested almost 
Jerry V. Wilson, the District of After an "all-school" con­"It doesn't matter if everyone representatives, will speak. anyone who was on the streets or Columbia police chief, told a vocation at St. Mary's attended goes to the dunes," Miss Barlow Also on the Quad, there will be sidewalks. news conference at mid­by less than 40 students, St. replied to a question of how many a list of the non-violence study Many innocent by-standersafternoon that most of those Mary's student government students will treat the centers in the country for were reportedly arrested, in­
continued on page 6 drafted a statement supporting Moratorium day as a free day students who will not be working eluding students at Georgetown rather than a day of reflection on this summer and want to help and George Washington the war. "If one person's mind is with peace activities. According Universities who were going back 
Pears: Students on file changed, the Moratorium will be to Peggy Thompson, there will and forth from their classes. 
successful." also be a list of congressmen and The Notre -Dame 'survivors' "They have decided that a day congressional candidates who said they were "stunned" by the Qf information is not needed. have proposed peace measures. bond amounts and asked for
Security Director Arthur Pears activites and beliefs is kept. 

Instead they plan to urge contributions from here.
last night confirmed reports that According to the former Niles, 

students to do nothing, and to Several Congressmen were
student files are kept by the Mich. police chief, the FBI only 

mobilize this spirit in much the reported to have visited thesecurity department, but only for checks a students background same way that Nixon has SENATE: There will be a compounds where the peoplethe term of a student's when making a security em­
enrollment and then only for ployment investigation or when mobilized his silent majority. meeting of the Student Senate were being detained. Other "There should be no massive tonight, May 4, 1971, at 7:00p.m. people were reportedly being
routine reports of theft and in­the student is involved with reflection," commented Kate in the ampitheatre. held in jails in Maryland and

jury. something originating outside of 

Cassidy. "If we simply do Virginia, with still more in thePears was speaking on security his campus activities. 
in general in the Keenan-Stanford Surveillance by was nothing, it will be a political 11============:::111 National Guard Armory.
the FBI Hall lobby, when he said the fHes ruled out by Pears whenhe said are "thrown out after student's that the South Bend field office graduates, unless he returns for only has four or five agents, and 

Hoeffer delivers An Tostal 
graduate studies." He added that that they could "read all about it in the Observer anyway." The informal discussion began 


report to hall presidents
with a short description of the security department's functions 

by Milt Jones Hoeffer also said that he felt th-and members. Pears contrasted wt only ND-8MC students withit with a police department With Fritz Hoeffer presiding in identification cards should havesaying that security's primary the absence of Buzz Imhoff, the been allowed into the concert inconcern is the protection of "life HPC held its last meeting of the Stepan Center Saturday night. He and property, and not the policing year last night in Lafortune stated that if any damage hadof people." 
Center. An Tostal, and student been done by the crowd, NDHe described this concern as 
making sure are smoke participation in the Kennedy students' rights to use Stepan
there 

Institute and St. Vincent DePaul would have been in jeopardy. He 
detectors, adherence to fire 

Society Day were among the added that the student activityregulations, sufficient water main topics discussed. fee paid for the concert and
pressure and proper traffic 

Speaking on An Tostal,Hoeffer because of these reasons thecontol for "safe pedestrian stated that most of the events concert should have been limited. 
movement" in the halls. Pears were fairly successful. He added The HPC incurred unexpected

condensed this to "making the Fritz Hoeffer
that "the Irish Wake had too added expenses due to the con­most property available to the many people. We turned away · cert. Hoeffer said that he had to three events of An Tostal metmost people." 
about 300 people." Hoeffer pay for three extra policemen with strong cirticism and andThe hall monitors, elderly men apologized for running out of and for the rental of Stepan added that "because this causedwho patrol the halls late at night beer, and cited the fact that they Center. He then asked for ten divisiveness in what is meant to
"smelling for smoke," were 

hadn't estimated so large a dollars per hall to cover the bills be a unifying affair, it is mydicussed next by Pears. There crowd as the reason why they which the Council agreed to. personal opinion that theseare approxiamately 18 monitors only ordered 22 kegs. Hoeffer acknowledged that continued on page 4
continued on page .:2. 





Page 2 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, May 4, 1971 
• Money is being collected to help pay the bonds of
2000 to be questioned zn survey those arrested in the .. Washington protest 

AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY! 
only at••• 
HOURS 
eSALES 
to 9:00p.m. 

Tues . Wed. and Fri. e SERVICE 
to 6:00p.m., 
• PARTS 
Academic questionaires, prepared by the Student Government academic and research and development commissions will be handed out to 2000 students today. 
They will be distributed door to door in Walsh, Lyons, Morrissey, Badin, Holy Cross, Grace and Flanner. 



Reveal files kept on students 
continued from page 1 
There are three command Pears said the largest prt.Jlem for the security force is the officers who answer complaints "turnover of personnel." He said involving disruption "where any there must be an "interest am.l decisions have to bed made.;• reason" for someone to join the There are a night an an a -force. Often, an officer will ac­ternoon commander • who carry cumulate five years experience
side arms. Pears answers any with Notre Dame and then resign ties." 

complaints during the day· to work for another agency at a 1=::a:::=============a 
The rest of the security force is better salary. Pears said he could . News Editor: John Abowd 
composed of police veterans, not hire and keep "good men" "moonlighting" South Bend without more money. , police and ROTC sergeants. They When asked about the pending do not carry side arms but do merger with St. Mary's. Pears carry a chenical spray sinilar to said he has discussed the MACE. They are trained in first situation with SMC Capt. William aid techniques and usually work Parker and Sr. Gerald Hartney, in four-man shifts. secretary of the college's Board' 
~......................................................~....................................~ 
~OBSERVER S'TAFF I!MEETING WED· 4:45 I 
~  IN OFFICE  I  
~  Party Plans to be announced  ~  
Editorial Board Rep. to be elected  ~  



....................................................................................."""'"""'~ 
The questionnaires deal with topics such as cheating, language, theology and collegiate seminar requirements, the counselling programs in the various colleges, the grading system and a junior year away program. 
Fred Giuffrida, academic affairs commissioner, says, "In of Trustees. He ad-ded that nothing definite has been arranged with Capt. Parker, but no problems of merger are an­ticipated. Pears said Sr. Gerald is considering the idea of SMC "maintaining its own proper­some areas we have strong feelings concerning the problems that exist, but we wish to verify 

the validity of these feelings and 
to possesss concrete evidence which can be used in our at­tempts to remedy these dif­ferences." 
He added, "In other areas we are unsure as to the direction 
SMC Editor: Ann Con\V~ Managing Editor: Don Huane Features Editor: rick,stnith Features Artist: bobby slliel Sports Editor: Jim Donaldso Advertising Mgr.: Bill Bauerl 
Monday Night--The "Party" 
Night Editor: Jim 111\CDermott Headlines: Chris Johnson, Dan Ryan Layout: Deb Carella Moral Support: Larry Ballantine Night Controllers: Sieve Raper, John Brady Grouch: Annie 
And a good time was had by all, all year! 

toward which our efforts would be best directed. Therefore, we are turing to the students for guidance here." 
He feels that student par­ticipation in student government in such manner is essential for the student government to adequately represent the students. 
One program suggested in the questionnaire is a College of Science program similar to the General Program in Arts and Letters. 
::::::::::::::::::~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~;:::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
SMC Moratorium 
In order to discuss the call for a national moratorium by the National Student Association, the Association of Student Governments, and the Student Mobilization Committee, the student b<t!ymet in convocation Monday. The consensus was to participate in this moratorium by boycotting classes in order to attend the activities scheduled for the east campus main quad. As the elected spokesmen for the student body, we therefore announce that the west campus students will stop "business as usual" on Wednesday. 
Many who supported anti-war actions last year were disillusioned because their efforts were not immediately productive. The focus of this year's action is to re-educate people to the fact that opposition to the war must be con­tinuous, that change cannot be expected overnight. Con­sequently, Wednesday's efforts will be directed towards informing people of the avenues open for constructive action to end the war. We are not impotent. 
The May 5 Moratorium is the opportunity for all of us tore­assert our opposition to the war, and to re-commit ourselves to action to end the war. 
We urge all members of this community -administrators, faculty, and west campus students -to join us in stopping "business as usual" on May 5. 
Kathleen Barlow Melissa Underman 
yesterday. The bonds have been set at $250 per person. In order to free the people, only ten per cent of that amount is needed, i.e., $25 per person. If you wish to contribute, please take your funds to the Rectors Office of Flanner Tower (Fr. Amen's office) bet­ween noon and 9: 00 this evening. Please leave your name and the amount you contribute. 

Sports Car Club of America Drivers Call Them Champions 
We Call Them the · 7977 Triumphs. Period I 
916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka 


Tuesday, May 4, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
Minority aid decrease expected for '72 

by Bob Ohlemiller funds for minority aid. The ad­
is a more substantia£ source than students eligible for academic worked l~st year in the Ad­
ministration must also take
just Cotton Bowl money, but it's scholarships will help to offset missions office and did a great
Financial aid for next year's prel!autions so that a co-ed. No~re
only a gesture. If the university is the decrease in financial aid and deal of work with RAP.
minority freshmen will come Dan. e will be co-ed for mmonty
truly committed to minority avoid a decrease in minority The future of minority
from interest on funds invested studtnts as well.
education, the amount of freshmen next fall. He adds that recruitment at Notre Dame is a
by the university, according to Rec.Iizing this committment
financial aid to minorities alumni have been very bright one. An increase in
Father Charles McCarragher,. could !Veil be as Dave Krashna
coming from the university cooperative in locating outside recruiting efforts however is . ' 
Director of Financial Aid and has :;,aid, "Notre Dame s
should certainly never sources of aid. senseless as long as the
Scholarships. Greatest Challenge."
decrease," says Ellison. The Nixon administration's university continues to turn away 
Dolan was aided in drafting the petition by Dr. O'Leary and Dr. 

St. Walturgis
James Danehy, of the Chemistry department. It was signed by 20 faculty members and 40 students. 

Dolan remarked that similar Used Book Sale Todayaction is presently being un­dertaken at several other colleges around the country. May 4th until 5: 30 p.m. Many students, however, declined to sign because they felt they would meet with some 
In Front of Memorial Librarydifficulty in getting jobs if they did. 
@®~ [f@~~~~ ~~f@~~f ~~@ ~~~~Q~ ~~B~ 'Th~r 
&~'iff[}{)~ ~OIT~~fMH~~~ ~EF~~£f$ @@li\'!J1JD~t!a~ lre ~Wf?f1E~o 
rFB~ me~rg 0\? <)(@@1 00ll{JCJ t\117J~1! ~D~&Uib @000fiE0[3~1fOG~~ ~ ~JJJ~\Z p ~fi WUtb~ @efbth~@? rPeb3lf'IX]~ ~~~'r~~~ ?O~O~OOlf v~ n~ \!)nw qooc;.ooro%o'b~ 
These funds are made up of Last fall Ellison and ex-Student cutback in National Defense aualified minority students bymoney donated by the local Body President Dave Krashna Loans and Economic Opportunity not providing them withCouncil of the Knights of presented a report to the Student Grants have also had a necessary financial aid.

Columbus and a portion of Cotton Affairs Committee of the Board detrimental effect on university 140 blacks, 58 Chicanos, and s1x

Bowl receipts, says 

of Trustees concerning minority efforts to provide minority American Indians have beenMcCarragher. 
recruitment. The report financial aid, according to accepted for next fall. Only 61The amount of aid for next year requested $12 million in financial Saracino. have been offered financial aid,resulting from their investment aid to minorities over a ten year Both Ellison and Alonzo were according to Saracino.
will be slightly less than that period. According to.Ellison such very critical of Saint Mary's "Our interest in minorityobtained from the 1970 Cotton funds would double the number of failure to recruit minority students outstrips our sources,"Bowl, according to McCarragher. 

such students during that period. women. Pointing out that there says University Provost FatherHowever, he believes that more Student Body President John are no Chicano women at St. James T. Burtchaell.
funds will be invested towards Barkett says he will "make a Mary's, Alonzo says that Presently this seems to sum upminority financial aid in future special effort to follow up on the recruiting minority women is a the university's position veryyears. 

report." necessary step in the im­well. Yet the university has long Approximately $160,000 from plementation of a meaningful co­claimed a committment to in­the first Cotton Bowl trip went to Observer Insiglit education program. Ellison takes creased minority enrollment. Ifminority aid. 
an even stronger stand on the this committment is to beCarl Ellison, head of the Armando Alonzo, President of issue. maintained it will not be enoughRecruitment Action Program the Mexican-American Student "Unless St. Mary's makes a for the administration to accept(RAP), is critical of the ad­Movement (MECHA), is not only definite moral and financial the present situation. Thzministration's latest minority aid displeased with the amount of aid committment to black women by university must obtain a sub­plan. but feels that too little emphasis October, we in RAP will no longer stantial amount of additional"It's a nice gesture in that this has been placed on the recruit­aid the Admissions Office in ment of Chicanos. He feels that recruiting black students for
Petition calls spring the university should hire two ND-SMC Theatre
Notre Dame. In fact we willfull-time personel to work solely 

attempt to persuade blacks not to graduates to action with Chicanos. come here," says Ellison. presents 
"The university can get funds This year blacks, cmcanos,but they aren't really committed 
A petition issued yesterday by and American Indians were all
to establishing a program," says
a number of students and faculty recruited ·under the RAP

Alonzo. The Musical
of the Colleges of Science and program. Next year RAP will
Speaking of the expected 
Comedy· S01ash
Engineering called upon students recruit only blacks and MECHA
decrease in minority aid, 
Book, Music
from these colleges to refuse to will conduct their own program. 
Lynes by
Assistant Director of Admissions 
work for any industrial concern Alonzo and Ellison believe the
Daniel Saracino says, "this is the 
or research project directly change wi:ll be beneficial. Both
poorest time to do it. .This is a
supportive of the war effort in intend to approach the Student 
more important year than last
Southeast Asia. Senate next fall for funds to 
year because we've gotten better 





OLIVER!
The petition, initiated by Dave finance recruiting.
students to apply."
Dolan, a senior chemical Don Wycliff, a black and a 1969
Fourteen blaclts have been !\lay I, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30pm. May 2 engineering major, is aimed at graduate of Notre Dame, will
offered aid as Notre Dame at 2:30 pm. O'Laughlinserwrs who will soon be taking return next fall to aid in all
Scholars for next year as com­
jrJs in industry. phases of minority recruitment. 
Auditorium. $2.00 Tickets.
pared to one this year.
Prompted by Basil O'Leary's John Goldrick will return as ; Information: 284-4176.
Saracino says that this in­
article on non-violence Director of Admissions. Goldrick 
creasing number of
(February 24, 1971, "Non­violence and Notre Dame"), 

"We want to 
,1
serve you hetter 
1 
ALL_YOU 
CAN EAT 
Mon.-Thur. 5 pm-10 pm 
· All the chicken or batter fried cod, served with ranch toast;: french fries, and cole. slaw. $1.45 chicken, $1.15 Fish 

PaQe" THE OBSERVER. 
Acollege graduate just doesn't getthe warm welcome he used to. 
There's a lot of competition in the job market" today. And a college degree alone just doesn't carry as much weight with some employers. 
That's why Honeywell developed their Postgraduate Studies Program. A program designed exclusively for college graduates. 
No matter what your college major is. If you can qualify you'll be ready to learn com­puters from one of the world's top computer manufacturers and leading educators, Honeywell. 
You'll be ready to start right off in the fastest growing industry around. An industry that doubles in size and opportunity every five years. 
There still won't be any brass bands around to greet you, but you will get a warm handshake. All you have to do is mail this coupon. Or call (312) 368-0688. 
r----------------,
Admissions Officer  1  
Honeywell Institute of Information Sciences  
La Salle Wacker Building, 221 North La Salle St. Chicago, Illinois 60601  1I  
D I would like additional information  
on your program.  
I am interested in  
D Day  D Evening classes.  
Name.;________________________~  
College Address: ______________________  
______________Phone:____________  
Home Address: __________________  
_______________Phone:______  

Approved for veterans. I




L----------------J 
TheOtherComputerCompany: 
Honeywell 
Approved by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction State of Illinois. 
Tuesday, May 4, 1971 

For beuer or for worse 
WASHINGTON (UPI) --Two New York teenagers involved in antiwar demonstrations found themselves arrested and con­fined yesterday to a football practice field sometimes used by the Washington Redskins. To mark the occasion, they ex­changed wedding vows under one of the goal posts. 
Linda Jones, 18, of Newburgh and Bill Lyons, 19 of Staten Island were among 1,200 demonstrators taken to the fenced in field a short distance from Robert F. Kennedy Stadium. 

--~~ ~ 

Lyons said he and Linda had Two demons-trators arrested in known each other for three years Washington. ( UPI Telephoto) and had planned to marry. After legal as soon as the couple ob­being arrested, he said they tained a license. decided, "The hell with it -we'll Linda's outfit featured a knee get married here." length Navy pea jacket and 
The ceremony was conducted bowling shoes. Lyons wore a pink by the Rev. Gary Anderson, who sweatshirt and blue jeans. said he was associated with the He said they planned to 
Free for All Baptist Church in honeymoon in Gainesville, Fla., Atlanta. "but first we're going to New He said the marriage would be York to tell her mother." 
An Tostal report given 
continued from page 1 
events should be cancelled." 
The three -events were the pig chase, kissing marathon, and piano smashing. Hoeffer said that there were no criticisms of the these events or of the date of An Tostal itself when he was planning the Festival. "They came up two or three days before An Tostal and they should really have been brought up earlier," Hoeffer added. 
Bruce Bower, a junior involved in the Kennedy Institute, talked 
to  the  HPC  about  his  
organization.  He  said  the  In­ 
stitute  was  founded  after  the  

death of Bobby Kennedy to get students involved in affairs on campus and in the community. 
Bower also said that the main goal for next year is to find out who South Bend's main polluters are and to try to get them to stop. He added that he would like the 


AUTOMOTIVE



CLASSIFIED 
1962 VW Bus, newly rebuilt engine, highway condition, seats remove if


ADVERTISEMENTS 
camper desired, dune buggy rear­
Mail in or come by Observer office 
end later on; Call: Calhoun 283­For information call 7471 7274, days. TRAVEL 1959 TR-3. Excellent condition, ne
Spend the summer in Europe. Charter All organizations must be charted battery, generator, regulator, tiresjets to London. Amsterdam and Paris. 
through the University for the and more. Price to sell $650. Call 232MOre than 40 dates available. IN­4896 or 272-2568.
coming academic year. Register
TERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
in the Services Commission:
ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY. Also 
'66 Mustang Must sell; gettin
4th Floor La Fortune, Afternoons.
eligible for many other benefits­married. $500 Call Roy 8438Call 7757(railroad passes, hotel discounts, etc) For intormation call Frank 233-8142 
German exchange student offers 1966 VW Bus -Factory rebuilt, her services in tutoring. Call 233­
best installed -Call 234-0225.
Want to take a trip to EUROPE thi!. 
6966.
summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the \IATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS 
HELP WANTED
t..N D SAVE! Approx. 60 dates HOUSING JVailable for round trips betw. London 
Jewly formed waterbed company 

Eric Andres spoke against the hall presidents to inform students pig chase saying that the South in their respective halls about the Bend Humane Society has Institute and to try to get them written grfevances for the p_ -involved. three years against the event. 
Mock Stock Market ends; program format praised 
The Finance Club's Third Bruce Rieck said yesterday. Annual Mock Stock Market The top prize went to Kurt closed a week earlier than the Johnson, a junior from Stanford originally stated closing date 
Hall. A tie for second place
with the announcement of the existed among Richard Or­
winners, outgoing President 
zechowski, George Gagnon, 
md N.Y. this summer for $245. Froni For rent -June 1-Sept l. 3 bedroom
wants campus representatives forLondon connect to any of 50 Europear home -excellent condition & location,hottest selling item in states.

:ities at discount fares. For example: air conditioned, dish washer, fur­Notre Dame "Men" 
Good commissions for a 'few hours

condon, Paris: $12.60, London Am­nished, carport $125 a month-call 8100 You've made us what we are
work per week that can be fitted easily
sterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich $15.00 or 8229 after 8 p.m. 
today...SMC's.
to your schedule.
Zurich-Rome $20.00 Many othet 

Write: Sincerely,
benefits (travel passes, hotet 

Lightrays Designs, Inc. S,_mmer Apart. for Rent. Near Susie, Christy,discounts, etc.) Also available 
•llay flights,· one-way flights Love sleep water beds division Campus, air conditioned. 1 5228 
i$125). Return on any date, J727 ~lnut St. bedroom. Call Terry 288-1120 Philadelphia, Pa. 19104
1eachers, students, and immediate 
.Pr Call: (215) 349-9330. For rental, Summer.June, July,

family eligible, group rates. For MISC.
August. Near N.D. 4 Bedrooms,
info and application call Tom 282­

Anyone interested in working in utilities. Furnished: $150 per ATTENTION PITT CLUB2250, 5-10J>.M. Mon.-Fri. 
Student Center pool room next month pi us refundable deposit. 

Meeting -Mon. May 10, 7:00. 2n year ca .. Br. Gorch at 7558. Call 287-1777. After 5:30. 
floor La Fortune. Elections anSERV.ICES 
1uggage truck. Any membel'lUY AND SELL wishing to run for office, contact
Crypt-New Hours For Sale LOST AND FOUND Charlie 3653 or Bill 1730 by Tue
12:30 -4:00 Maxi White Sheepskin Coat -Small. 
May 4.
Now on stock Call 272-4709 
LOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard. Hendrix -Cry of Love -$3.60 lost after break: tasty reward. Call 

Cat Stevens-Tea for Tillerman -$3.10 Most Books for: Smelser­Tom 8014. Refrigerators Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection­American Revolution, Menard­All Compact Cool Refrigerator $3.10 American Constitutional. will be picked up this Wednesda Mountain-Nantucket Sleighrid_e Norling-Europe since 1920, Sz­Lost: Gold Timex watch with and Friday from noon -4. Pleas 
Refrigerators -all compact cczesniak-Russia, Colliegiate black band; also meal card. have someone around to let us pic it up. Thanks. Dick 6723.
Seminar; Also many others. Call In or around Stepan last Sat.
cool units not picked up either 

night. Please call 3460. Gil!dent Unio-n Trip--Europe
tomorrow or Friday will have 
Must Sell: Ampex stereo cassetteto be carried to the 4th Floor 
$209 DP.t. -Amsterdam-Det.,
deck full-length Afghanistan coat.

Lafortune. Please have NY-London-NY Contact 1st
289-1861. 
RIDES 

someone around from 12-4 to Bank Campus Travel Bureau let us pick it up. Dick 6723. High Quality Kane Kelon Wigs 
283-7080 9-12, 1-4:30. Need Transportation? We need for Sale Clearing Stock. 1 for
Mail Contributions for the medical drivers for new cars being shipped RATES$20 2 for $30. Call 234-5605 to: Boston, New York,
aid center of Quang Naito Box 626, 
,._

after 6 p.m. Weekdays Philadelphia, Washington, ...... 2­Carolina's, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, D-10 UJO ·-1.15 1.21 
Notre Dame Indiana. The 
-_.. _,. ·-· 
Refugees need help. Please con­

For Sale Cleveland, Cincinatti, Memphis, 11·11 ... 1.110 131 ,_,. 2.111
tribute to the Refugee Aid Nikon F with meter, flash, tripod, Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, 10-20 _,. 1.15 ,_,. 2AD 2.111
Program. 
($250). Call 1081. Denver, Phoenix, Salt Lake City, 
~~ 131 2-00 2.10 lAO 
Los Angeles, San Francisco,

SINGLE? COLLEGE GRAD? ,._,. 1.110 1.10 2~· UD 4.10 
Seattle, and vicinities. Take your

Meet others. Join the CAC's for ,_,. uo uo 4.70
Moving off campus next year? 31-311 uo
things home! You pay gas and

social, recreational, or cultural You'll need pots, dishes, heets, 131 2.10 3.10 ._.. 1.10
tolls. Must be 21. Call Brian Furey, 
-~·

activities. Write: Catholic Alumni toaster, etc. Get a complete set at .... 230 uo ._.. ._..
283-3651. 

Club. P.O. Box 2171 South Bend, low cost. 289-4221 ,_,. 2.00 UD ..,. .... 
• ... rt ~1. 1 
PEANUTS PERSONAL 
James Mertzlufft, and James McCullough. 
Bruce Rieck, president of the finance club, said that he con­sidered the program a success. 
Tim McCarthy, chairman of the MSM, said that he was pleased with the new format of the program. This year the crft.. dit given to the contestants wae raised from $2,000 to $10,000 in order to create more flexibility and also allow the partiepants to more easily take part in the hypothetical security trading situations. McCarthy said that this helped to enhance the pur­pose of the MSM, which is to offfer greater understanding of the workings in the stock ex­change system. 
However, McCarthy expressed disappointment with the many 

technical  difficulties  which  
caused  a  late  start  in  the  
program  and  the  lack  of  

promotional advertising. The spring break also added to the apathy during the contest. 
The MSM was sponsored by Thomson, McKinnon, Auchin­closs, & Co., members of the New York Stock Exchange. McCarthy thanked the account executive at Thomson and McKinnon, William 
H. Meyer, Jr., who was "ex­trememly helpful in coordinating the program." 

Prizes were awarded to this year's winners yesterday af­ternoon in the basement of the Hayes-Healy Building. 
Tuesday, May 4, 1971 THE OBSERVER !='age 5 

franklindevineo/iver I ... just for f_un _. 

The ND-SMC Theatre opened its last production of the current season Saturday night when it presented Lionel Bart's piece of musical fluff, Oliver. The Theatre made no pretensions of of­fering any more than a fun evening of song, with an occasionally intruding plot. It was a fascinating, campy, colorful production which will be swallowed up by the visiting parents over the graduation weekend. (What shame the Wednesday-afternoon Long Island Hadassah groups can't drive out for this one--they'd love it.) Director Reginald Bain emphasizes over and over the good-timey slant of his production. He has added the character of Charles Dickens who chats amiably with the audience during the musical. "Dickens" then plays a part himself--stepping out of character on occasion to talk to the audience as "himself". Marc Genaro handles the dual part admirably. Richard Bergman's set picks up on the theme set by Bain's adaptation. The rickety-appearing series of steps, platforms, and ladders,--coupled with a mammouth banner, Charles Dicken's Oliver, leaves no doubt that this is a show. Even the dramatic portions of the musical--those involving the Bill Sykes are played so broadly by James Hawthorne that they can hardly be taken as a serious threat to the audience's mirth. Sykes drawn-out death is reminiscent of a Saturday movie serial <will he ever die?). Mr. Hawthorne has managed to create a caricature of a villian without quite making the thing absurd. Irvin Sikorski (a twelve year old from South Bend) gives a strikingly impressive voice to the title roles. He, along with hordes of moppets, steals the show. They all radiate an obvious delight in such numbers as "Food Glorious Food" and "Pick a Pocket or Two". The best part of the show is the pleasant surprise  of .finding that s~me of the less "popular" songs of Ohver are the highlights of the performance. Tom Broderick ~nd Carol Riordan as Bumble the Beadle and the Widow Corney prove'to be an ideal comedy team in "I Shall Scream". Their mugging and timing were outstanding. Miss Riordan's clear singing voice-perhaps the best in the whow--will undoubtedly be heard often in ND­SMC productions in the future. "Consider yourself" is designed to be one of those numbers--it was, complete with cast mingling with  me audience. J1mm~ ~oland as .the Artful .Dodger ~n~ the rest ?f Fagm ~ boys did everythmg but mvit,~ th~ au~Ie~ce to smg along. _yet, "Who Will Buy wh1c~ Isn t usually thought of as one of those numbers IS even more impressive-exhibiting perhaps. the b~ightest bit of choreography in a production which generally has dance numbers. Sikorski's boice carries an unmuddy warmth. The cast manges to move and react in the number with a discipline as opposed to the joyous chaos which prevails in most of the other numbers. Jack Fiala's Fagin, however, gives the audience the musical thrill of this production of Oliver. His "Reviewing the Situation" was masterful. Fagin becomes a loveable rogue--in keeping with the entire mood of the play. The song is shamelessly played to and for the audience. His singing voice manages to carry emotion, as well as a tune. Grace Hartigan has created a Nancy who is not quite the frail victim often displayed in the part. No one would bother to ask Miss Hartigan's Nancy, "What's a nice girl like you doing in a place like this? ) " Nancy is a gutsy, busty whore quite at home with her lover Sykes. Her voice is in keeQing with the character. This emphasison the character and spirit seems occasionally to put the music-­particularly "Where is Love" in a back seat. The costumes, designed by Anne Patterson, manage to lookenough like rags to set the place, while looking enough like show costumes to set the mood. Miss Patterson has accomplished quite a feat in pulling this off. After displaying her acting ability for a number of years with the Theatre, she has, in her final show, displayed still another facet of her feeling for the stage. Oliver is just for fun. Not the theatre's best of the season, not for the "serious" student of the drama, not free of gimmicks, fun .....Oh, and not for going to alone, bring a friend, this one's for sharing.  
lance corey  

the future •IS ours, or nobody's 
control and sterilization as responsible fathers andthe basis (directly and indirectly) for all our ills. We not as signs of impotentcy. Sterilization and birthmust agree that this is the problem and begin im­control information should be free and uponmediately the process of educating the masses to demand for both sexes.the correlation relationship. We must overcome our Support the repea·ls ofour present archaic anti­fears of each other: Alienation, polarization, abortion laws. I do not look upon abortion as "theracism, hate. This will be very difficult because final solution" to our population problems. Un­many of these symptoms of fear are reinforced by wanted pregnancies can and should be avoided.the difficulties of facing our turbulent world. I am Until they can be avoided through better education very pessimistic; I kn()W many of you already and preventive devices, no law should exist thatdisagree with me. You neglect to realize I too am a prevents a woman from determining whether or notfrightened individual; a human with desires to live she shall carry an undesired, unloved fetus. I amand let live. I desire to see my little brother grow up. not going to argue the morality of abortion. I am notThis is not only my future at stake, it is ours.We 
putting a cheap price on human life; rather, I ammust realize the scope and complexity of our putting value on the lives of people who do exist. I
After hopefully alarming you in my last two ar­problems: not only treat the symptoms, but also the ticles concerning the enviornmental condition of the causes. am concerned with the reality of the slums and the world, I don't wish to leave you completely without I wish to see our children grow up, free from war poor; many of whom cannot have a safe ter­hope for a future. There is a possibility Mankind will and hunger; free from pollution and disease; free mination under the present laws. After working 
continue to exist beyond the next 10 or 12 years. from want. I will have my two children and adopt. with blacks from the ghetto, I can not look into their 
However slight that possibility, the answer is to be Love of children is not necessarily proven through eyes and say "No." 
Minorities cry out genocide, but populationfound in US. unlimited and irresponsible procreation. It is shown 
There is no need to re-state my prophecies of stabilization needs to be practiced by everyone, rich 
by realizing the dangers of the future and summing 
doom. What is needed is for us to realize the and poor alike. Though the lower class family may
up the courage to face reality. It is proven by
correlation between our pollution problems and our be the largest, the aggregate number of offspring is 
providing our children with a chance. We must 
ever-growing world population. We cannot argue far below that of the middle and upper classes.
abandon the traditional 3 child family as standard that our population problem is a matter of density. and voluntarily limit our family to 2 children. There This is a problem facing the world. Our country 
Our resources are finite. Even with an accelerated, are many orphaned children who desire to be loved. demands the most from the environment; we must 
100 per cent efficient process of recycling these ADOPT. The "Mother of The Year" should be the have the courage to face the sacrifices of the future 
resources, a growing population diminishes the woman who adopts 10 kids. This unselfish love of and exemplify the need for population control. 
amount of resources per individual. The present children for childrens' sake. Greed and War may not necessarily be eliminated, pressures from our expanding population will not I intend to voluntarily be sterilized through a but if we do not recognize the need to act NOW, War allow us the opportunity to develope a 100 per cent vasectomy at some time in the future. I need not for the sake of survival is inevitable. There can be efficient technology. prove my virility by the number of mouths I feed at no alternatives. Man is an animal; if we do not 
Therefore, our most difficult problem is to my table that are of my own flesh and blood. control our pollution and population soon, very soon, recognize and understand our population growth as Hopefully men will be encouraged to accept birth Man as a species will cease to exist. 
prof. morton kelsey irving stone: the passions of the mind 
scientific-world at the University of Vienna others) who defected from the describes the contents of each Viennese in the late 19th century. Rationa! psychoanalytic movement. Freud's market and coffeehouse as well as every 
It is difficult to write a biography or a materialism was at its zenith. Into this leadership and direction of the movement place that Freud traveled. biographical novel about a person who has world Freud brought the evidence that is well portrayed. The most sympathetic In spite of these shortcomings and the changed the very direction of recent there were other factors besides the and moving passages of the book occur number of pages that I had to wade human thought. The writer who un­material ones, evidence which was to towards the end where Stone describes through, I am still grateful for the six dertakes such a task successfully has to shake the world view of the 19th century to Freud's bout with cancer of the mouth and years of continuous effort that Stone put understand the thinking of the amn, the its roots. The development of Freud's the courage with which he bore it and then into bringing forth a readable biography of thinking of the world into which the genius thought is well presented as well as the the detective story flight from the Nazis in one of the greatest men of our time. I can appeared, as well as the dramatic aspects struggle against the hostile scientific 1937. only agree with Bleuler, the great Swiss of his personal life. Irving Stone has community. The whole gamut of Freud's The biographical novel is marred by psuchiatrist, in his tribute to Freud: 
written a remarkable novPl about thinking is presented, from his first use of three serious defects. First of all the "Anyone who would try to understand Sigmund Freud in the recently published hypnotism, the "talking cure" though the reader must wade through one hundred neurology or psychiatry without The Passions of the Mind (Doubleday, idea of the sexual etiology of neurosis to pages of romantic sentimentality as possessing a knowledge of psychoanalysis 1971, 808 pp plus appendices, $10.00). From i1is most mature thought about the Ego. Freud's engagement with Martha Bernays would seem to me like a dinosaur. I say the pages of this biographical novel Superego, and Id and the waring principles is described. The story is not relevant to 'would seem' not 'seems', for there no emerges a vivid picture of a very human, of the eros and the death wish within the the theme of the book. As a novel one hears longer are such people, even among those creative, determined and daring man. In Id. All this is presented against the Irving Stone through the mouth of the who enjoy depreciating psychoanalysis!" addition, one grasps the magnitude of the background of Freud as family man and characters rather than the characters The same can be said about those who influence of his taught and the changes friend, as father and doctor. themselves. The conversations often sound would understand modern literature and that his thinking wrought upon con­Good taste and fairness are evident as just like the author. And then without the arts. I am grateful for the monumental temporary culture. Stone discusses Freud's relationships with losing anything of value the length of the and largely successful attempt to present 
Stone paints a vivid picture of the his friends, (Adler, Rank, Jung and book could have been cut in half. Stone Freud and his contribution. 



Tuesday, May 4, 1971
THE OBSERVER
Pape 6 


DC police arrest Washington demonstrators 


, concerning information on Summer Baggage Trucks
I tO ! I 
~ stan~ ~ Anyone whishing to ship baggage~;;~ ~:~d.




: u : 
7o00 p.m. at 127 NSH 
~ Why be left at the gate when tor just a little more 
~ 
JOINT STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
~ you can get a reserved seat on Delta? ~ ~ Delta's reserved seat Youth Fare Plan saves you 25% IIi: ~ compared with regular Day Tourist. Costs just a trifle more ~ 
Co-ed Commission 
~ than standby. No waiting (and waiting!) You know ~ ~ exactly when you're scheduled to leave and arrive. We honor ~ ~ Youth Fare cards from all other airlines. Or purchase ~ 
Needs People
~ one from us for only $3.00. It's accepted by all carriers. Anyone ~ ~ from 12 to 22 years of age is eligible. 
i w To help with merging of
*Student governments
I BeW~~~:r~~~~=~:~~;!::~{~~~~~~:~~~~;~~~~T !I
* Academic Standards *Hall Life 
~ Miami/Ft. Lauderdale to Chicago $58 $67 ~ l *Rules and Regulations $47 ~ $57 

*All other areas of
$63 $68 ND-SMC Cooperation $79 
J.eave name and phone number with

IIi: Kansas City to Atlanta $39 $45 ~ Dallas to Phoenix $46 $52 Bill Wilk . or 
Jane SheehyBox 522 N.D.
~ Houston to New York City $68 $77 SMC Student Gov't 
283-7668 or 284-4538 er 
~ Atlanta to Miami $34 $38 
282-1726 284-4105 
Chicago to Houston $49 $55 

will spend the night in jail" and at 
6 p.m. EDT, only about 50 arrested were charged with protesters had been given court disorderly conduct. hearings.
He added that judges were Most were required to post processing them "as rapidly as bond of between $250 and $750 possible" so they would not be pending trial. held unnecessarily. President Nixon, returning 
But he said "the vast majority home after a weekend at the 
continued from page 1 
Positions Are Still Open for 
Student Representatives on 
SMC 

Academic Committees 
Academic Standards Curriculum Admissions or scholarships Cultural affairs Teacher education Library 
Interviews are 7:30 p.m. Tuesday in the basement of Holy Cross Hall. Questions call Maureen Elliott: 4868 or Student Govern­ment office 4017. Students on either campus are welcome to 
apply~
•
r
IIi: 
~ 
IIi: 
I ~ 
~ 



~ gooab,e ~ 
Western White House in San Clemente, Calif., was understood to have concurred with the action taken against the protesters. 
He warned Saturday that the government would stop any illegal demonstrations and Wilson, who personally kept him informed on conditions Monday, said the President wanted the city kept "open for business." 
Wilson estimated that between 4,000 and 5,000 demonstrators remained in the city. 
Leaders of the protest, in­cluding Davis, before his arrest, vowed it would continue. They estimated there still were up to 13,000 protesters on the streets. 
The protesters, who were ousted at dawn Sunday from the sprawling Potomac River campsite they had planned to use as a base for their offensive Monday, waded into streams of cars carrying federal workers across bridges and down main thoroughfares in the city. Police moved swiftly to repulse them. 
Tear gas fum~s filled the air over some of the city's most famous monuments and grassy flowered parks. Garbage cans, trash, abandoned automobiles and other obstacles littered some 
chief arteries. 
In some cases, demonstrators 
threw big tree stumps, rocks, 
broken glass and nails on roads to 
try to halt traffic. 
,:., 
~~ 
~ 
IIi: 

: Antiwar demonstrators scatter at 23rd Street and Constitution Ave. yesterday as police use chemical snray. 
They also overturned some cars and slashed some motorists' tires. A few motorists reacted by getting out and fighting the protestors. Most people had started for work early. 
By noon, street traffic was virtually normal and those protestors still at large roamed around in small groups, making it impossible to estimate how many would be available for a second schedule round of tie-ups today. 
Leaders of the May Day Tribe, which sponsored the action,
claimed partial success but acknowledged their failure to "stop the government." 
But they predicted that "tomorrow we'll be more together." 
The mass arrests, which began about daybreak, enabled t f d 1 1 t
mos e era emp oyees o reach their desks without too much trouble, but they overwhelmed 
judicial and CMrect~Ml authorities. 
More than 1,000 protesters had to be herded into a fenced practice football field next to Robert F. Kennedy Staduim, which one police captain termed 
N~~,j~·;~ey ci·~bMeeting 
Hundreds of deputy U.S. marshalls and prison guards were brought in to help maintain security and process the demonstrators in court, where the majority faced charges of unlawful assembly. 
The main targets of the protest were the four big bridges across the Potomac Riber linking Washington with Virginia and the major roads used by commuters coming in from suburban Maryland. 
The posh Georgetown section of the city was a critical point. Thousands of protesters massed there throughout the morning while countless others gathered at the 14th Street Bridge as six helicopters loaded with battle garbed Marines landed at the nearby Washington Monument. 
As other surveillance 'coptershovered over the city, the first confrontation occurred at the 
~~~B~~.~~~~~ 
four. Police fired off a heavy barrage of tear gas there to beat back a group of several hundred demonstrators led by Dr. Ben­jamin Spock, the noted pediatrician and a well known 

All fares include the 8% U.S. Transportation Tax.
• d h I 
~ The Observer is published dally during the college semester except 
~ DeIta IS rea J ~~~~~~n~o~l~g~~e s~t~s~~~:IO~fs t~:yu~~e~~tr~h~:e~ 0 ~~~ ~~mf~oa~d T~~
y w en you are. 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage pa1d, 
• ___.___._._.__ .__N_o_t_re_o_a_m_e~
1 -ln~d~.4~6~5~5~6·------------------------------~
--------------~_.,...,...,..,,.,""'""'""'~..,..,..,..,..,,.,,.,,.,~~ 
--~---------------------1 
•
Tuesday, May 4, 1971 
THE OBSERVER Page 7 

Netmen share 1st in Huskie lnvit. 

Rob Schefter, playing number five, and Greg Murray, filling in at the number six spot, swept their divisions and added six points apiece to the Irish total. 
The doubles team of Brown­Allare won the .number one doubles bracket as they defeated the Gullikson brothers of Norhtern Illinois in the finals. 
The Gulliksons' owned a 24-5 doubles ledger going into the tourney, so the Irish victory was a big one in their bid for top honors. 
The Brown-Allare sweep ac­counted for six team points. 
The LeSage-Schefter combo lost in the second round to the Indiana State team, but tallied two team points for their first round defeat of Ball State. 
The Walsh-Murray team tasted defeat for the first time in fifteen straight matches to the Northern Illinois combo of Nold-Kilbride. 
The defeat was also the first losing match Greg Murray has played in since returning from the California trip this spring. 
The only real disappointment of the weekend was the play of Buster Brown. Buster failed to win a singles match, but he could have been a little discouraged after his first match. 
Buster lost to Rick Shafferman of Miami of Ohio in three sets, 2-6, 7-6, 7-6. The last two sets were decided by tie-breaking points. 
Coach Daly remarked that in those two tie-breakers, Shaf­ferman was "returning some shots that seemed to be humanly impossible to play." 
The team returned to action Monday as they traveled to Purdue to battle the Boilermaker netters. Today they will again hit the road, this time for Bloomington to take on the Hoosiers. Wednesday the netters will host both Northwestern and Valpo, and then ready them­selves for weekend action in Kalamazoo, Michigan against Western Michigan and Kala 
mazoo College. 
ND coaches back Sullivan 
By E.J. Kinkopf Observer Sports Writer The· Notre Dame Tennis Team tied Northern Illinois as co­champs of the Huskie Tour­nament at DeKalb, Illinois this past weekend. Competing in an eight team field that included Akron Missouri, Ball State, Indian~ State, Miami of Ohio and the host team, Northern Illinois, the Irish racked up 36 points in the team tourney. Two points were awarded for every victory in the three-round, single elimination set-up. Two points were also awarded to the winners of the consolation brackets. Captain Bernie LeSage initiated the Irish scoring by placing second in the number two singles division. Bernie, elevated to the number two 3>ot j_n _the 
absence of Mike Reilly ,advanced all the way to the finals where he was defeated in three sets by Tom Gullikson of Northern Illinois. 
The final set of the match was decided by a tie-breaking point. Bernie accounted for four of the Irish markers. 
John Allare won the number three singles division by defeating Sam Peden of Ball State in straight sets, in the finale. 
Allare had defeated Peden earlier this year in three sets, but wasted no time at DeKalb in disposing of the Ball Stater. John accounted for six team points. 
Brandon Walsh lost in the first round of the number four singles, but made a strong comeback and won the consolation crown. 
The consolation victory earned the Irish two more points. 
by Jim Donaldson Observer Sports Editor 

Since Notre Dame basketball coach Johnny Dee announced his resignation last Friday there has been considerable discussion among followers of the hoop sport concerning Dee's successor. 
Names like Jack Kraft, Don Donoher, Dean Smith, Frank McGuire, and "Digger" Phelps have been tossed around. And, of course, Dee's assistant, Gene Sullivan, looms as a possibility to assume Dee's spot as Irish mentor. 
Sullivan has received a great deal of support in his quest for the head coaching job. Dee, when asked who he would recommend as his successor, answered, "Gene Sullivan -one hundred per cent. He's an outstanding young coach and I hope he gets the job." 
Sullivan has plenty of backers on the Irish sports scene. In an almost unprecendented show of support, the entire athletic coaching staff at Notre Dame endorsed Sullivan's bid for the head coaching position. 
The endorsement, sent to Father Joyce, read: "John Dee having resigned as Head Basketball Coach at the University of Notre Dame, we the undersigned both recommend and support the candidacy of Mr. Gene Sullivan." Those signing the letter were Ara Parseghian, John Dee, "Jake" Kline, "Lefty" Smith, Alex Wilson, Tom Fallon Dennis Stark, Terry Mather' Brian Boulac, John Counsell Bill Hickey, George Kelly, 'Tim McNeill, Wally Moore, Dennis Murphy, Tom O'Connor, Tom Pagna, Paul Shoults, Michael Stock, and Joe Yonto. 
Father Joyce is executive vice­president of the university and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics. The selection of the new basketball coach is the board's decision. 
Sailors win Area C crown 
The Notre Dame sailing club placed first in the Area "C" eliminations held on Lake MacBride in Iowa City, Iowa, over the weekend, and won the right to compete at Michigan State for the midwest cham­pionships two weeks hence. 
The Irish defeated clubs from 

Iowa, Oshkosh, and Marquette to 
cop the area "C" table. 
Tom Willison was the skipper 

in the "A" division for the Irish 
and, with his crew, Jeege Mor­
timer, placed first in his division. 
Willison and Mortimer recorded 
two victories, a second and a 
third place finish in the four races 
conducted. 
In the "B" division, Will 

Donelan and his crew, George 
Gaw, finished second. 
A couple of other big name coaches, who are former Notre Dame All-Americans, have also voiced their praise of Sullivan. 
George Ireland of Loyola of Chicago said, "I think Gene Sullivan and Buzzy O'Connor (Dee's other assistant and Irish frosh coach) would be a tremendous team. They are good solid coaches and citizens. I've known both for many years and they're very capable young men." 
"I'd like to see Sullivan get the job," said Ray Meyer, coach of the DePaul Blue Demons. "Notre Dame doesn't have to look very far to get a good coach." 
In the local media, Forrest Miller of the South Bend Tribune has voiced his support of Sullivan while Tom Dennin of WNDU television is also in the Sullivan camp. 
Just how much attention the faculty board is paying to the Sullivan backers should soon be apparent. It is expected that they will announce their choice for the job either today or Wednesday. 
The Notre Dame tracksters returned to the friendly confines of the ACC yesterday after being soundly trounced by Eastern Michigan last weekend in Yp­silanti. 
Coach Wilson has not received 
official point totals as of yet, but 
he approximated the score to be 
something like 100-50, as Eastern 
doubled the Irish output. 
Elio Polselli accounted for two 
of the three Notre Dame first 
place finishes. He won both the 
shot and the discus, with efforts 
of 52'8" and 169'7" respectively. 
Tom McMannon copped the other first as he won the high hurdles. His time was a slow 14.5 seconds, .7 of a second off the record he set last week. Coach Wilson explained the overall slow times to be probably due to the cold and blustery day on the Eastern campus. 
Rick Valicelli placed second in both the 100 and 220 yard dashes and Mike McMannon won seconds in all three jump events, the long, triple and high jump. 
Freshman Scott McFarland 
placed second in the javelin 
throw, and capped a third in the 
pole vault. Mike Kosich, also a 
freshman, finished right behind 
McFarland in the javelin. 
Gene Mercer and John Duffy finished 2-3 in the 880, and Don Creehan won a third in the 440. 
Joe Roe, Polselli's back up man in the shot, did just that as he rounded out the Irish scoring with a second in the shot put, behind the muscular Canadian, Polselli. 
Today, the Irish travel to 

Muncie, Indiana, to take part in 
the Indiana State Meet. 

Morrisey wins Interhall opener 
Morrissey Hall won the opening 

game in the best-of-three, final 
series for the Interhall baseball 
championship Monday, defeating 
Off-Campus, 7-6. 
Pat Casey gave Morrissey an 

early lead when he led off the 
game with a home run and the 
South Quad nine was never 
headed. They built up a 7-2lead at 
one point in the contest before the 
Off-Campus club got their bats 
warmed up and almost came 
back to win. 
Darrell Coppin was the winning 

pitcher in the game and Roy Seitz 
was credited with a save. 
The second playoff game is 

scheduled for Thursday af­
ternoon. 


The Irish Eye 

·'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''Disappointment at the Derby 
Many people claim that the Kentucky Derby is horse racing's gre~te~t spectacle. I. c~n only say, a~ter spending Derby Day in Lomsville, that the mfleld at Churchill Downs is horse racing's greatest debacle. I can't say much about the race itself-I only saw ten seconds of it and consider myself lucky to have caught even that fleeting glimpse of the Run for the Roses. . I had looked fo~ard to attending the Derby this year, figuring that It would be tJ:le chmax of a long love affair I have had with the equine sport. I had mtended to spend all day Saturday drinking of the color and atmosphere in the Churchill Downs infield on Derby Day. I drank deeply-and found the taste bitter. I was disappointed. 
y~terans of past years i~ the Derby infield compared the scene to a mmi-Woodstock. I found It to be more like the New York Subways around 5: 15 any weekday afternoon. 
Finding space in the infield big enough to spread a blanket on was a more difficult task than trying to pick a hole in the N.D. front four. People, mostly college kids, were covering virtually every foot of the infield. 
Thro~ghout ~he long afternoon I was surrounded by this mass of humamty. At first I was amazed by the immensity of the crowd but, as the afternoon wore on and the number of inebriated souls in the infield incre~sed, I was overcome by a desire to be off by myself. _ 
Seemg the races was out of the question. If one was lucky enough to find a perch on one of the few green benches scattered about the in­field, or able to squeeze into a spot against the fence, then one might see, for a few seconds, the horses thundering past. But from the infield it was impossible to view any race in its entirety. 
Of course, most of the people in the infield had come to Churchill Downs. just to be a part of the scene. To say they had been there. I doubt 1f any of the people in the infield even cared that the most prestigious event in thoroughbred racing was to be run that afternoon. 
I waited for an hour beside the fence near the head of the stretch so that I would be sure to see at least part of the Derby. And I thought unsolemn thoughts about the millions of television viewers who would be shown the horses in the paddock, who would be able to follow all the pr~-race festivities and could scrutinize every second of the race­while I, who was really at Churchill Downs, could only listen for the bugle that would tell me when the horses came onto the track. 
Yet when I heard the bugle, all my disenchantment with the af­ternoon disappeared. While the strains of "My Old Kentucky Home" filled the air and the horses paraded onto the track past the grand­stand, I.was experienci.ng the thrill I get at every great sporting event. T~e thnll I ~ot when I first went to the World Series: saw Jim Bunning pitch a no-hitter: when I saw my first Notre Dame football game. 
The Derby's charm won me over during those few minutes before the race starte~. I watched the horses trot past, their tiny riders perched on their backs, and wondered if they could sense the im­portance of the occasion. I thought of how proud the owners must be to .see their colors present in the race. And the trainers, the jockeys,­this was a moment that would stay with them all their lives. 
Then the horses were put into the starting gate. And they were off. I was able to see the start well and watchea tne colts gallop past me straining for the lead. Then all I had to watch was the faces of th~ people in the seats in the grandstand across from me. I followed the horses progress around the track by the direction of the faces. And w.hen they faced to the left and the waterfall of sound rose to its highest pitc~, I knew that the horses were entering the stretch and I pressed aga~nst the fence to watch Canonero II, hoofs flying, take the lead, and agam the horses passed by me. Then the noise stopped, as if someone h~d taken the arm from a record player, and the race was over. But I didn't know who won. I didn't find out which horse was awarded the blanket of roses until his number was flashed on the totalisator board And I felt deprived. _ · 
In the three hours that it took me to get from the track to my car three hours spent waiting in yet another crowd for a bus to the parking lot, I had plenty of time to savor my Derby experience. 
I was glad that I went, to be able to say that I had "seen'~ the Derby. But next year, when I'm sitting comfortably in my "box seat" in front of the television, and they show the crowd in the infield, I think that's the moment I'll enjoy most about the '71 Derby. 

.. 
I 
I ~ . 
-
Page 8. 

This Week Only 
End of the Year-Sale 
All D Now 2.99 E Now 349 6.40 Now 5.99 
12:30-4:00 7.40 Now 6.99 Below Huddle 
Rolling Stone -Sticky Fingers 3.49 Jethro Tull -Aqualung 3.49 
Student 




d.iSEDUDt 
We give students a break, with special reduced I
·-----------------iI 
1 rates in Hilton Hotels from Boston to Honolulu. 
(FacultY dnd graduate school students get a dis-1 I count too.) 1 I Let us send you a pamphlet listing the Hilton I 1 Hotels and Inns that offer special student rates. Also 
a Hilton Student Identification Card to use when-1 I ever you register. 1 I Mail this coupon to Hilton Hotels Corporation, II Travel Department, National Sales Division, 9880 
Wft'Shire Blvd. Beverly Hills, California 90210. 1 I Wi want to' make it easy for you to come visit I I the Hiltons.][ 1 
I Name I I I
1 Address;________________ 
I City State Zip I 
I
I College Class of 19 I 


:HILTOn HOTELS: 

·-----------------· 
GO ALL THE WAY... 
Tuesday, May 4, 1971
THE OBSERVER 

Security Tnen discuss their job 
by Kevin McGill 
The most important trait of a good security policeman, several officers of the Notre Dame Security Force told me, is the way he approaches a problem. "Some guards make things a lot worse just by the way they go about them,"one officer, who taught ROTC here a few years ago said. "I would never provoke 
a confrontation unless I had to make an arrest." "I get along with the students pretty well," said another. "I· don't use force, and if there is noting I can do to stop certain troublemaking, I let it go." One man who has worked for Notre Dame Security for five years explained that he feels the student should be treated the way he wants to be treated. 
His own personal philosophy is to "get along with people and enjoy life." 
The guards made it clear that they, and even Mr ·· Pears, Director of Security, most of the time have to follow instructions that come down from above. 
Most of the men who would talk to me considered themselves 
ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
1/5 OF CPA'S IN USA ARE FORMER STUDENTS OF 
Beclk:er CPA Review Course 
--~----------­
STUDY SO.fJND~i 
IMPROVE GRADES n..1 S:~~· A~~~~~ ~~rm~·~~~;~f.~r~~ ' 
USE STUDY SOU!-'lS 
•1Crease Your Concentration • or'l'lrove
Moj(J 
Your Comprehension. Study /\t J Fastt:r Rl!'te. ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED &OL ~OS CAUSE THI5 TO HAPPEI-I 
f>l~.e~se Specify 
8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record Send Check or Money Order -$9,95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage 
Sound Concepts, Inc., -Box 3852 Charlottesville, Va. 22902 

respected and obeyed by the students. Of the hundred football games that one guard has broken 
up on the South Quad, only two groups have caused any tr.ouble. 
He knows a lot of students on campus, at least by face, and he is usually greeted with nods and "hi's" by people he passes. He thinks that an even closer relationship between people and all the guards would be beneficial. 
....--.....=-....--.....,~~~-­
OBSERVER INSIGHT 
A couple of officers who patrol the campus at night, presumably because they come into contrct with students only as troublemakers, comapred their work here to work on the South Bend police force. 
They said that their job con­sisted of answering calls and making reports and was no worse here than in the city. 
Only a few of the men I talked 
to complained about verbal abuse, and they said it was not as bad this year as last. I found that all the guards had been called names and cussed out, but they look on it as immaturity and try to put up with it. One five year veteran of the force said, "I'm pretty thick-skinned by no":." Another officer laughed and sa1d, "After working with dangerous criminals in South Bend, I can find the words of the students pretty amusing." 
All the guards were in agreement that most of the students know why they are in college and only a small per­centage are troublemakers. Many said that a lot of the thefts are committed by people who don't even go to school here. A few officers said they had no problems or complaints about the students at all. 
To Sgt. Nova who heads the evening shift, cars are a major problem. Besides the difficulties with parking and traffic they cause, he feels that many students would be more serious students if they didn't have cars. Sgt. Nova is also concerned about larcenies, and he urges . students not to be lax in locking
h · d d t I' th · 
t e1r oors an o po 1ce e1r 
own halls and watch out for 
outsiders. 
Paul Shirtz mans the south 
gate during the night. He com­
plained about the conduct of 
drunken students who roll in 
around two in the morning and 
sometimes try to crash the gate. 
Many of the guards I talked with 
think that the drinking on this 
campus is excessive. 
While Sgt. Nova said that the 
security force has a high tur­
nover rate, one fifth of the force 
every few months, most of the 
men who would talk to me liked 
their job and had held it for from 
two to five years. 
One officer explained to me 
that he didn't think a young man 
just getting started in life, or a 
man with a family could earn his 
living on the Notre Dame 
security force. I talked with only 
one man, a policeman from South 
Bend, who works here part time; 
almost all the others are in their 
fifties and retired with pensions 
from the police force or the Army 
to supplement their pay. 
A guard at the south gate told 
me that many work as amny 
months as they can while still 
collecting social security and 
then quite for the year. ~ 


_.,_.,..,..,..,..,....,.-r"""'_._._------..,_ ~ 
I SENIOR BALL I 
I DINNER DANCE I 
~ Friday May 7-9:00p.m. -1:00 ~ ~ a.m. ~ 
~ Price $10.00 Ticket Sales: ~~ ~ Tuesday & Wednesday ..: 5-6:30 in the ....:. 
~ University Club Dining Halls ~ 
__,__,~~~~---..,..,~ 
SUMMER71 LECTURE LABS WORKSHOPS 
I PHOTO FORM& COLOR& WORD& BASICS PROCESS SOUND IMAGE 
l.tonuruttl""l6ott.t><k 
...ldtnq
1. ~!::it l . .lrt,att.o.... r.... u-httos:
~<~ldoortnq "-rt...,..{tlcwtophn~~-1 
Soeedl,ltlll"!'ll prtn1t119 l«ll!llq~>n th""'flnqonlJM...,ol-11119 J-ll"''ni'OCIISH 
41.,11,)' 
lt~t•tor 


2. llltortoh rti•PTO<tnl.,q ~r1•t OI'Oalllnq 
l. ~1'1"1euh• proJoctotartlllocltool
_.. 
Ptreettdby 
D1rtc~l>y
Sbt.orllouEll...,,C.!,C, ShterRosoEll..,,t,l,t, 

ART DEPARTMENT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
Ta .,,..11, ..,~lo.. cllo~k orltll tho fQll(JW!IIQ !nfonlltton ond •tl to: "-<!totror, ...tnt 1411'1''1 eon-. Not..., 0.., !ndl0111 !Ms.li ...__Soc.S.c,_____So~.S.c. _____Soc>o<.__ 
I MO...,., Md...,.,._____
~~ 
"n__Stote_zt~_ thy__uue_zt~_ ctt~--'""-lt•_ Ctty__ltolo._lto_ .J!!.!!!ll&,_, IUO.DG 
Twlt!OfiiFftS S15.1Jl 




YOU'VE SAID IT All! 





