

New election called at St. Mary's 
SMC to rehold election, 
Blacks submit proposal discrepancies in recount 

demand action by Monday 
Because of their workingby Ann Therese Darin by Ann St.George Notre Dame and St. Mary's byknowledge of student and com­the deadline, "Notre Dame andmunity government, they would Approximately 50 black
Last minute endorsements for St. Mary's will be taken by the the candidacies of Kathy Barlow -students."
be able to effectively work in students yesterday presented Sr. 
Missy Underman and Jane these spheres. Probably one of Alma, acting president of St. 
According to the release, Misstheir best qualities would include Mary's College a list of seven

Sheehy Sue Welte are Jackson did not elaborate on
being able to speak out for the requests
highlighting the second SBP for improving black what she meant by appropriate
students." 
student life on the college
contest slated for today. action. She did state the students 
Miss Barlow served this year campus.
Because of a nine vote have been asking for a greater
as co-chairman of the joint In the proposal, the students
discrepancy discovered in a committment to blacks without
student government report on
ballot recount last Sunday, the asked for a real effort for bvl response from the administration 
coeducation and as a com­
election commission, headed by In the proposal, the students for some time.
missioner for the combined ND­
Jean Gorman, student body vice­asked for a real effort for black The proposal also requested the SMC off-campus commission.
president, set a new election for recruitment, the hiring of two reactivation of the Office for 
today. Missy Underman, her vice­black faculty members by Intercultural Affairs, established presidential running mate, September and increased
In last Friday's contested by the late John J. McGrath, 
election, the Barlow­presently is co-chairman of the amounts for the inter-cultural former president of the college in ND-8MC Academic Commission. affairs office to enrich black
Undermanticket polled 541 votes, 1968, to be directed by 1\Ir. Lem
Jane Sheehy, the other aspirant campus life.
Sheehy -Welte 299 votes, and Joyner of the St. Mary's Art 
Cassidy-Bayer 194 votes. for Miss Tracey's post, com­"We have talked too long and department.
mented, "We're hoping for a good much,"
Kate Cassidy and Laura Bayer, too stated one par­During Fr. McGrath's ad­
who received 194 votes in Last turn out in voting tomorrow so ticipant. "Rather than send the ministration, he supported the Friday's election, will not appear proposal to be bottle-necked in St.
that whoever is elected will know Kathy· Barlow idea that no black student should that she has substantial student
on the ballot today. In a Mary's committees, we want have to work at an outside job
body support." They also advocate a joint Hall 
statement released last night, action. That's why we gave the during her freshman year. HePresidents' Council, jointThe McCandless Hall president 
they disclosed, "We are no longer proposal directly to Sr. Alma." also encouraged the students to
and Sue Welte, sophomore class cabinet !~commissions, and
candidates -we are simply in­The group, which included live on campus. To facilitate
creation of an Ombudsman'spresident, have received en­
terested students." Office at SMC. black students and faculty these ambitions, he funded the
dorsements not only from the members from both St. Mary's
"We feel that the pastwo weeks office with a $14,000 endowment.
Cassidy-Bayer ticket, but from In discussing their platform,
have given us an insight into the and Notre Dame, has given the From the 40-50 black students
other student government of­Miss Welte stated, "Our platform 
issues involved in this campaign administration a Monday that Father McGrath projected
ficers as well. remains the same. We desire deadline to act on the proposal.
and a chance to observe both the would be admitted into each
The list includes Debbie complete coeducation in both the In a news story late Thursday
Barlow-Underman ticket and the freshman class, only seven were
classroom and in social areasCarvatta, Jean Savage, Ann
Sheehy-Welte ticket close at reported United Press In­numbered among this year's
Ryan and Marge Orban, Holy including exchange of residence: ternational that Miss Susan
hand. We have considered freshmen. With these seven
Cross officers; Kathy Murphy, dining and recreational facilities, 
carefully which team would best Jackson, president of the campus students, St. Mary's total blackstudent assembly represen­and also a gradual merger of
implement not only our ideas, but Black Students Union said, if enrollment is 24 students. 
our concept of student leader­tative; Marianne Metuska and student governmnts." appropriate action is not taken by
Kathy Driscoll, McCandless Hallship." 
officers.

"We have decided to endorse ND faculty, students seek to aid
Jean Seymour, newly-electedJane Sheehy and Sue Welte and student affairs commissioner·
encourage. our supporters to carefully consider their plat­Lonnie Donahue and Kerry junior colleges, other Indian activities 
Meyer, Senior Class officers andform." 
Professor Frederick Dow of the they can make the adjustments toDiana Shahade, student ser~icesQuestioned on why they were organization director' are also by Kevin McGill Department of Marketing and a white man's college. Terminal not running again, Miss Cassidy others are working to establish a education is alst) available on asupporting the Sheehy-Welte According to a report of Prof.
replied, that they consider this "Craft cooperative, a small technical level.
ticket. Adolph Soens, chairman of aelection a run-off between the top business venture" for the The courses now taught areMisses Barlow and Underman committee on American Indiancandidates. 
Rosebud reservation in South accredited by the University ofare running on a platform which Education, Notre Dame wasIn other election eve en­Dakota. South Dakota or the University ofstres~es hall autonomy, the "founded on Indian land anddorsements, Ann Marie Tracey, They hope to provide a steady Colorado or Black Hills Stateretention of St. Mary's within chartered, at least in part, tostudent body president, backed income for some of Rosebud's College.
Notre Dame's corporate struc-educate Indians." Following this Kathy Barlow and Missy Un­craftsmen and distribute their Notre Dame has alreadyture as an experimental college tradition the University isderman "Because they've had art objects on a nationwide basis, collected 40,000 books which willand immediate and complet~ assisting two Sioux Juniorexperience in campus-wide but without requiring the be donated to Spotted Tailmerger of both SMC-ND student Colleges and aiding an arts andissues that are important now. 
sacrifice of Indian social, College. Hopefully next fall agovernments. crafts coooerative. 
cultural, or religious values. number of Sioux students will be The business is presently able to visit the campus over a

Academic Commissions planning 
without a head, and Dow is football weekend, "to expose looking for someone to run it for a their young people to white year. He hopes a graduating society and varied experiences senior from Notre Dame or a law off the reservation."

speakers for ND-SMC campus 
student with business skills will The University will provide want the job. financial assistance to graduates by Steve Kane "The person must be a self­of the two schools who come to
April 19. Lent defeated in­sessions during which four 
starter and socially dedicated," Notre Dame for their junior and Next week on April 7th, the cumbent Allard Lowenstein, last members of the Adlai Stevenson he said. "I think this is a real senior years. Faculty will beAcademic Commission will year's Senior Fellow in last Institute in Chicago will speak. 
challenge to the Notre Dame provided to teach for one or twopresent Supreme Court Justice, November's election. Of considerable interest is the students." He mentioned Tim years at the colleges, and theWilliam 0. Douglas, speaking at Four days later Melvin Belli, symposium of April 29 & 30, Sweeney, a Notre Dame graduate University will accept membersStepan Center on the "Con­attorney from San Francisco which deals with ths writings of who taught at one of the Indian of their faculties who would actservation of Man". Commission will speak. Belli has been a triai Eric Voeglin. Prof. Voeglin, colleges for a year and coached
chairman Jim Metzger said that attorney for over 20 years and author of many books including (continued on page 6}
basketball and football. 
the commission has been seeking defended, among other order in History, resides in to schedule a lecture by Justice noteworthy people;Jack Ruby, Munich, Germany where he According to Dow, the Sioux 
are the second largest group of
Douglas for a year and a half. the assasin of Lee Harvey teaches at Munich University, American Indians in the UnitedHe also noted that the Justice Oswald. but periodically he visits the 
***** 

States, and most impoverished.
was slated to appear three times On April 20 there will be a United States, and more Spotted Tail Community College, 
Beginning Monday, March at Rosebud, and Pine Ridge
last semester, but all three dates conference entitled "Aspects of especially Notre Dame, where he 
8, the shuttle bus will make 3 Community College in Colorado, 
resulted in cancelations. Justice National and International is presently a visiting professor. 
stops daily, Mon-Fri., at two of only about four colleges
Douglas will speak at 8:00 p.m.; Violence". Preceding the con­Notable faculty scholars from 
University Village on High­fbperated by Indian com­
questions will follow. ference, but in conjunction with Notre Dame and other univer­
way 31. The 7:30a.m. bus and forced to cancel his appearence Algiers." Egbal Ahmad will be and submit their own political munities themselves, were 
Another personality who was it, will be a movie, "The Battle of sities have agreed to participate 
the 11:45 a.m. bus from SMC started in 1971 and 1970. They 
will stop at the Village on their serve some 20,000 Sioux. 
last year is Alan Watts. Watts is the commentator during the papers in connection with the 
way to ND. And, the 5:00p.m. The idea behind the schools is 
the author of many books, in­movie. Ahmad, presently symposium. Interested students 
bus from ND will stop at the talk will focus upon the religions "Harrisburg Five" was a par­portunity to earn one credit by to bring the first two years of
cluding Beyond Theology . His awaiting trial as one of the who attend, will have the op­
Village on its way to SMC. college to people living at home,
of the East. ticipant in the Algerian writing a paper dealing with the helping them become moreCongressman Norman Lent Revolution. subject of the symposium during 
*****

mature and self assured so thatfrom New York will appear on The conference will have two the summer. 
Page2 

THRU FRIMon thru Fri 
"When Dinosaurs ... " Doors open at 6:30 
at 6:45-10:00 Sat &Sun 
"One Million ... " Doors Open at 1:30 at 8:25

SAT-SUN "When" 3:20 6:35 9:50 "One" 1:45 5:00 8:15 
Warner Bros. presents AHammer Film Production 

WHEN DINOSAURS "'"·"i RULED THE EARTH" VICTORIA VETRI 
Technicolor· 
Telling 
It 

Li~te 

IPLUSI 
_ 
f~Uo!Ki Warner br!li.[,.,l
• nney company ~ 
Sat. -sun. 1:45 5:00 8:15 

'' ONE MILLION
YEARS B c '' Starring 
Was! Raquel Welsh 
RATED [GJ ~eluxe Color 

Starring _________ 
RON FUNK·MIKE ZUETELL·EO RICKS. TECHNICOLOR 
Friday, March 5, 1971 

Bureau lists job openings 
Richard Willemin, Director of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, announced new op­portunities for both career and summer exployment for Notre Dame students yesterday. 
Three distinct possibilities were ennunciated by Willemin. These were being offered by Lake Michigan .Junior College, the Archdiocese of New York, and the Boy Scouts of America. 
Lake Michigan Junior College 
EVE: 7:45 Sat & Sun mJ Continuous From 1:45 
COMEDY 
SMC Little Theatre Thursday, Friday and Saturday evenings -March 4, 5 & 6-8:00PM 
Miscellanei­Comedy Review 
Sponsored by SMC Social Commission 
in Benton Harbor has announced that they are expanding their academic program for the 1971-72 school year thereby opening up 16 vacancies on their staff. 
Willemin said that the JC needs a Dean of Arts and Sciences an instructor-program c~or­dinator , a law enforcement coordinator, and an apprentice coordinator. 
The school is also looking for instructors in Technology, Nursing, Biology, Psychology, Music, Physical Education <Basketball Coach), Business, German-English, Education, English, and Reading Im­provement. All teaching fields require a Masters degree. 
Mr. Willemin should be con­tacted for further information and application. 
Sister Marian Seton has begun 

';ft**~LATE SHOW 
HIGHEST RATING. ­
-N-I'o•-D•••~N~*I rRl~ 
FRI&SAT 
a volunteer teaching program in 
New York, and she has asked for 
application for teaching 
positions. The school is a 16 class 
elementary school in South 
Bronx. 96 persent of its children 
come from impoverished 
families. 
The program requires a BA or 
BS degree and a teaching cer­
tificate. It offers $2000 a year for 
the teacher while supplying his 
room and board. 
On Monday, March 8, 1971, Mr. Gary Labeau will interview students for permanent and summer positions with the Boy Scouts of America. 
Willemin has listed job op­portunities with the camp at Wood's Lake, Cass County, Michigan, trough Labeau will interview students for placement with the BSA all over the country. 
The program runs from June 20 until August 15. The contract includes room and board and it offers payment of $300 to $700. 
All interested students should sign up immediately at the Placement Bureau Room 207 Admistration Building. Fo~ further information on these and other job opportunities, students should contact the Placement Bureau. 
+1f¥-Jf¥-Jf1f1f1f¥Jf1f1f¥-Jf.. : The Pin-Up Girl :
* Starring-(1944) * 
~ Betty Grable ~ 

;f: *
March 5,6,7 
: Badin Vintage Cinema : 
*•·~···········* 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY Law school interviews. Professor James P. White of Indiana University School of Law, Indianapolis, Indiana will interview prospective law students Monday, March 8, 1971 in room 205, Business Administration Building. Sign up outside Room 101 0' Shaughnessy 
... Everything you always wanted to know about jazz. 
TICKETS: $1.50 Afternoon session $3.00 Evening session $4.50 All sessions 
Available at the door 
THE BIGGEST BASH OF THEM ALL. .. 
Time 

Friday, March 5, 1971 
Page 3 

R.A. 's may enter 
Concerning the duties of a Resident Assistant, Father Riehle, Dean of Students, con­firmed the right of an R.A. to enter a room suspected of drug or parietal violations. 
Father Riehle stated that one of the duties of an R.A. was that of a "policeman", that he was responsible for enforcing the rulse of the University. When asked if the student could deny the R.A. permission to enter the room, Rather Riehle said the student had better have a good reason. 
He also stated that in a case 
One weekend onlv! The ND-SMC Studio Theatre will present 
DARK OF THE MOON 
a powerful dramatization of an American folk ballad by Howard Richardson and William Berney. 



WASHINGTON HALL 
March 5th & 6th at 8:30, and 7th at 7:30 PM. 
subscribers free. tickets $1.00 call 284-4176 
RRIS AUOITUHIUIV1 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
where an R.A. had entered a However many R.A.'s in­room suspected of serious terviewed stated that they would violations without the permission not enter a student's room of the student, he believed that without the student's permission. the University would support the One· Resident Assistant said that actions of the R.A. if denied permission to enter a 
Father Riehle went on to say room suspected of drug or that the power to enter rooms parietal violations, he would was to be used with discretion, either, "ignore it or report it to and that this right to entry is the Rector." But under no cir­nothing new, but a traditional cumstances would he enter the University policy. room without permission. 
.-..~~~._.~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t  live Entert2inment  t  
f I tft  Wed. to Sat. Dancing r:kt ,Milllt/0 "THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST'' 525 North Hill Street SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619  f ', t ft  
f f  A trended Parking In the Rear  f f  
f  THURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY NIGHT  f  
f ,  'lownstairs starting at 9 !Jm  ,  
t t  Even.oone 's Wdcome Happy Hour 5-!: Dail:; Live Entertainment All _beverages $.60 Wednesday thru Saturdaydunng Happv Hour • Upstairs Only Pitchers of beer at $1.60  1If  



~--------------~ 
' 

CASH FOR SPRING BREAK Loans up to $150 Up to 30 days to pay I% interest charge 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
BASEMENT OF LA FORTUNE 
11:15--12:15 DAILY 

CHIMES 
is accepting: poetry short fiction black and white photos essays sketches 
deadline: the ides of March Chimes 124 Made/eva St. Mary's College 

March 8,1971 WORLD'S HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP 
There will be one champion and only one champion 
JOE 


FRAZIER 
vs 

MUHAMMAD 
ALl 

Closed circuit television live from Madison Square Garden 
NO LIVE OR DELAYED HOME TELEVISION 
Tickets now on sale 

Student Tickets Sold Out 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 1nd. 46556. second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

SAVE UPTO $3.00 
Top Artists! MaJor Lahelsl 
Many, Many More! Classics Included! Come Early lor Best Selection. 
AT NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE TODAY 
Get Your Favorites at Big Discouatsl 
Friday, March 5, 1971 

Page 4 •:'.'•''' 






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
Bruce Rieck , Business Manager 
John E. Knorr. Executive Editor 
A castle called Doubting Castle, 
the  owner  whereof  was  Giant  
Despair.  
--John BunY.an  
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966  NOTRE DAME,INDIANA  


Black Studies 
The black students, with Dr. Joseph Scott in the lead, have presented a proposal to Father 
Burtchaell and Dean Corsson that recommends that the university establish a Black 
Studies 

The call for departmental status springs from acute dissatisfaction with the status quo 
program status; specifically with the inability of Dr. Scott to hire independently hire 
competent black teachers. With the present status of 'Black Studies· as a program, new 
faculty members can only be hired through the approval of other department heads. If Dr. 
Scott wishes to bring a black economist to Notre Dame, for example, that economist can, at 
present, only be hired if the chairman of the economics department includes that man in 
that department. Most importantly, since the Black Studies Program 1 possesses no in­
dependent funds, faculty salaries for black scholars come from already impoverished 
liberal arts departments: As one department chairman candidly advised Dr. Scott, "He who 
pays the piper calls the tune." 
Without independent funds, and without the ability to hire its own faculty members, the 
present Black Studies Program is essentially powerless. Dependence upon the monies and 
decisions of white department heads allows these men to control the nature and size of the 
Balck Studies Program. It is easy to understand why the black students and Dr. Scott are 
acutely dissatisfied with their present relience upon the benevolence of white department 
heads. 

Secondly, the proposal recommends that a complementary administrative structure be 
created within the University administration to server the special academic, economic, 
social, and psychological requirements of the black students. A black counselor, financial 
aid advisor. recruiter, and other black administrators are needed within the the system of 
present administration. The need for these administrators springs from the extraordinary 
difficulties that blacks face at a predominantly white-oriented university. 
Dr. Scott and the black students feel that a Fr 1 deadline for a response is 
necessary if black faculty are to be brought to a Notre Dame BlackStudies Department 
next fall. 

What will be the response of Dean Crosson and Burtchaell? The argument that the 
University cannot afford the monies to fund a Black Studies Department has already been 
offered. An above the the board description •of how and where <Cotton Bowll revenues are 
spent is required to clear the air. 
Yet two things are immediately evident. First, the power to hire faculty must be tran­sferred to the Director of Black Studies. Secondly, black recruiters, counselors, and othzr administrators are necessary if Notre Dame is to be sincere to its commitment of racial equality. 
The need for Black Studies--whether as a program or as a department--should be self­
evident, for no problem plagues the spirit of this nation more than the covert and overt 
racism that has produced our festering ghettoes. Full scale academic research into these 
racist perversions is of primary importance to the future of all concerned men, black and 
white. Anything less than concerted fulfillment of the black students recommendations can stitutes that benevolent tokenism that is the thinly disguised form of much modern day racism. 

GSU Elections 
The upcoming Graduate Student Union Elections have thus far attracted no candidates for the office of President. Bill Lorimer, who presently heads up the GSU, has said that unless someone comes forward to run for presidnet, theorganization will fold. 
Such an occurence would be an unqualified disaster. Just at the point when graduate students are finally entering in the mainstream of university life and making their needs known tothe administration, their representative body is on the verge of collapse. 
A group insurance plan, a residnece hall for male graduates, and a graduate stuedent council are among the more important accomplishments of the GSU in the short time it has been in existence. It's potential is great, but if the graduate students are so diinterested that they allow ti to disppear all the work that has been done will come to naught. 
Perhaps the .. GSU has not responded to the real needs of the graduate students. If that is the case then there should be people willing to step forward and campaoign for theoffice onthe promise of major reforem. 
If the graduate students fail to respond to this then they have no one to blame but them­sieves for any unfortuante situations they may find themselfes in, in future years. 
Night Editors: Joe Cassini, Jim Layout: Pat O'Keefe McDermott Sporting Editor: Terry Shields Headlines: Dave Bach, Brian Controller of the Night: rick Hickey smith 

In response to public demand I feel compelled to help foster a spirit of open mindedness at Notre Dame. And I can think of no better topic on which to foster such a spirit than coeducation. 
The most intelligent thing I have heard spoken on this whole issue was the comment that it is simply not a question of absolutes. It is not true that education either with or without coeducation is "objectively" better than the opposite alternative or that one brand of education is better for all people. Some people would be better educated at a coeducational institution. Others would be better educated at all-male or all-female institutions. 
Now the case for those who prefer coeducation has been Iengthly stated by many people. The case for non-co-education is less often presented by anyone, but sit should be. It goes something like this; the primary purpose of a college education is the development of the in­tellect (as opposed to the physique or manners or whatever). The development of the intellect is not a particularly easy task under any conditions. 
Now for unmarried post-puberty males in our society the fair sex seems to exert a considerable attraction. The effect of this attraction on the development of one's intellect can vary considerably. Some people who feel very thwarted in this attraction may be distracted from their academic duties by frustration (thus the case for coeducation). On the other hand, some people may be distracted from 
academic duties by indulgence in this attraction, and this is the reason why coeducation would be less suitable for some people. 
Having established thus in-{)ne fell swoop the arguments for and against coeducation, I proceed to draw the fairly obvious conclusion: there ought to be diversity among schools-some co-ed, and some not. Instead of having a uniform system, it makes sense to foster a variety of styles of education. 
One would hardly worry about the lack of co-educational nuvuv­scyqties in our society -the trend is overwhelmingly in that direction (primarily because the co-called major universities have acceded to student pressure on the matter, and most other feel compelled to be equally progressive). But there are legitimate grounds for worrying about the availability of non-co-ed schools. 
Notre Dame has an element of tradition still. Part of that tradition 
involves being a sort of huge all-male fraternity (admittedly with 
frequent access to a nearly all-female sorority). Therefore Notre 
Dame is singularly suited to fulfill a certain necessary role in our 
educational system, and in fulfilling the role can return an aspect of 
the long-standing tradition. 
Thus my contribution to open-mindedness at Notre Dame ... 
LETTERS 

Editor: 
In reference to the article on page one of the Observer today, March 4, 1971 regarding room selection policy. I would like to call your attention to the paragraph in your article con­cerning room selection in Grace and Flanner Halls: 
"Chambers said that students will will have to be kicked out of the towers because these halls are more attractive than the other halls so fewer people want to move out. These halls also have been used 'l:IS depositories by outcasted the fact that many students have moved into these halls from other residence halls on the campus. I did not infer in any way that they were outcasts' from other halls. 
I would also like to clear up your statement that "there is a possibility of separating the room and board fee from the laundry fee is being considered". If this is being considered, I am not aware of it. The room, board and laundry fee will be one unit -as always. 
With kind wishes, I Temain 
Most sincerely yours, 
(Rev.) Thomas E. Chambers, 

c.s.c. 

students from other halls." 
I consider this a total ina~­curacy. I did mention that there may be a more difficult situation in Grace and Flanner halls due to 
letters should be addressed tu The Observer, Post Office Bo~ 11, University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 

Friday, March 5, 1971 
I'. If. · I 1' Page 5 
Mike Lenehan 
Collegiate Jazz Festival here this weekend 
"Jazz rocks , That's what the eo le from the Coliegiate Jazz Festiv~ 'ire telling us this year, and it's true, too. For that matter, rock jazzes too, and what they are trying to tell you, what I am trying to tell you, is that right here at Notre Dame there is a musical experience offered that all us little music freaks can't afford to 
pass up. 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival has come a long way since that day about four years ago when the judges refused to award a "Best Combo" prize because none of the finalist groups, in their opinion, played "music deserving of an award from the Collegiate Jazz Festival" or something like that. What they meant to say was, nobody played any JAZZ, at least jazz in the Tommy Dorsey or some equally ar­chaic sense, which is about all that many "buffs" were willing to accept at the time (and, sadly enough, at this time too, for some.) 
That "some" is in the minority now, though, and I don't think jazz has been healthier in a long time. You're not about to find the judges of this year's festival pulling one of those "but that's not jazz" moves this year. One reason is that CJF won't let them--the competition at CJF, compared to a few short years ago, is almost non-existent. But even if they "Yould let them, the problem wouldn't be hkely to appear. ~fter t~e val?' strange and fantastically mventive thmgs Leo~ Thomas ha_s done on Pharaoh Sanders kar~aan?Jewels of Tho~ght (not to m~ntwn his o~n albums), he s _not about to crmge at the sight of an electnc base. Nor is Charlie Haden, whose album Liberation Music Orchestra, complet~ with re~ec­tions on the 1.~68 Democratic Conven~!on, was awar~ed Best Jazz album of 1970 by England s Melody Maker ?r Dan Morgenstern, the ~own beat ~ditor who h~s no t~ouble r~ppmg Duke Ellington and Little Richard m the same breath. 

And even if the judges were a collection of invalid refugees from the Robie Lan­scombe Rest Home, I doubt if that would phase Hank Levy, who leads the Towson State band in playing unbelievable charts that he later sends to Don Ellis ("Rock Oddyssey" and "Antea" from the 
Fillmore album, for instance, both of, which Towson previewed at last year's festival), or John Garvey, whose Illinois band goes on more State Department tours than Melvin Laird. 
All these "but nots and even ifs" mean to say that as much as your Chicago and Blook, Sweat, and Tears and Sons have been looking to jazz for the inspiration that has been creating some of the more in­ventive rock music of late, the jazz cats, too, have been looking around, and coming up with some real neat things. Rock rhyth­ms, instrumentation, electricity, and 


MAIN CHURCH 
*DETROIT CLUB * 

SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
SPRING BREAK BUS 
8:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C. 
call 8132 tonight for 
9:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Robert Nogosek, C.S.C. 
information and 
11:00 a.m. Sun. Fr. John Quinn 
reservations 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.. 
they've been using them with an ingenuity and a passion that most of the rock guys never thought of. Take it from an avowed 
rock freak--there's very little in rock 
music, in any music for that matter, that 
can match the emotional intensity and 
pure-gut psych that you'll find in the best 
of big jazz bands. 
And as we see the rock guys growing up and the old jazz guys looking down benignly on the youngsters just like your grandmother doesn't understand what all the fuss over blue-jeans is about, we might hope that what we are starting to get now is a bunch of young musicians that don't give a damn if it's rock or if it's jazz or country or blues or honky-tonk piano, and that would be a good thing. Because, face it man, 4-4 E-A-B is nice to dance to, but you can't listen to it. 
What you can listen to is music by some of the country's most creative young musicians at this year's CJF. Granted, OK it was probably our guys, the rock guys, that started "looking around" first and better, but now the jazz guys are holding up their end, so buy a Gery Burton album Mld go to CJF and do your part for the Mare of music and motherhood. 

Waches in Washington Hall 
Following close on the heels of Little Foxes, the ND-SMC Theatre will present l>ark of the Moon in Washington Hall on March, 5,6,7. The second Studio Production of the season will be directed by Charles A. Ballinger a newcomer to the Drama Department. 
The action of this theatrical folk ballad centers around John, a witch boy who becomes human in order to marry the beautiful Barbara Allen, who is already carrying his child. It is set in a valley of the Smokey Mountains and none of the color of the region is lost. All the superstition simplicity and honesty of the people comes across as we watch them in their fight against the witches. The direction of the play focuses on the unreal elements including the mountain-ridge scenes with Conjur Man, Conjur Woman and the seductive wit­ches. The play is alive with in­tense drama, high comedy, song and dance. Technically, the show will be enhanced by John Colton's set design as well as be eerie lighting, mysterious music and sound effects. Period costumes were designed by Jane Shan­barger, and choreography is to be directed by Kyra Quinlan. 
Bob Urbanic will be seen as the tormented witch boy, John, whose humanness is at times too much for him. Mary Beth Fencl plays "blue-eyed Barbara Allen of the copper hair" whose fidelity to John will determine his fate. 
The play may be seen on the 5th and 6th at 8:30p.m. and on the 7th at 7:30p.m. 
In the life of a HOLY 
CROSS BRO!rlER all of these pieces fit together. 

For information about 


~COMMITMENT 

these Brothers, write to: 
Brother Robert Fillmore, C.S.C. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
ROMA's RESTAURANT 
ROOM DELIVERY 
Open til 4 a.m. 

PIZZA -SANDWICHES 
JOHN ON THE ORGAN NIGHTLY DANCE TO CHAPPED LIPS FRIDAY Tel : 234-3258 
Friday, March 5, 1971

Page 6 171BO~ 
ND seeks to aid Indians


CLASSIFIED 
Notice to ALL ND-SMC students: With Spring
ADVERTISEMENTS appraoching we
Break would advise placing a
Jl;bil in or come by Observer ojjice. 
classified ad if you plan to 
For infonmtion call 7471 get a ride home. Try it-our readers outnumber the rider board patrons.
TRY-OUTS The Advertising Staff 

ND-SMC Freshmen -ND 
LOST
Varsity Cheerleaders invite you to 

Need ride to Dallas 
CheerIea dertryo uts-Organiza­

anytime after March 12
Lost: one 16lb. turkey. If
tional Meeting-6:3Q-Wed. March 

Will share expenses
located please return to 824
1 Q-Beare's Crawe (B-P Base­

call 6720South Bend Ave.
ment. 

Rides needed to Pittsburgh for Spring Break 
Leprechaun Tryouts-Are you 

Maureen 4285
Red knitted scarf lost last
under 5'5", a rah-rah, and inter­

Kathy 4459
weekend, possibly in Law
ested in being the N D mas­

Library. If found, call 3681
cot?-Come to Beare's Crawe (B-P 

evenings. Reward.
Basement)-6:30-Wed. March 1 0. 

PERSONALS 
B.J. SMC SERVICES The sungod appears to
Misplaced: MONGOOSE. 
describe thee well. Does this
sreen·Phlllips Food Sales. 

Great sentimental value ­
call in pizza orders before 

archer rightly sense the
high school graduation
11:00 pm. 1294 or 1705. 

coming of the royal shaft?
present. Engraved BHF.
Pick up at 11:30. Stop on 

Zodiac Kid
your way.. home from the 

Call 7336. 
library. $1.2 5 cheese 

To David
$1.40 Mushroom $1.50 Pepperoni 

Thank you for being so 
$1.65 Everything 

understanding
FOR SALE 
Sue 
Crypt-New Hours 

Hey Generous Holy Cross
12:30-4:00 

·Time, Inc. 282-2250 
Resident,
Now on Stock Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 

Available at Student 
I still have your 
beer mug from Rugby
Cat Stevens-Ten for Tillerman 

Rates: Time, Life, Sports
--$3.10 

party Saturday. Call 
Illustrated, & Fortune
Elton John-

me at 1692 for return. 
Tumbleweed Connection $3.1 (' 

Dave
Magazine. Call Tom, 
'Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 

282-2250. 
Patti Bailey-Love, Kisses, Smiles and Sunshine!
BIG DEAL:
Free taxi service Magic genie says be

Rosignol Strato Skis,
available: limited to happy!

Nevada Look Bindings,
female aged 11-99. Phone Your lollipop and lord

Apollo Poles. Good Skiers
Norwood or Evil, 1993 or protector,

Know. 8063 Nightly.
233-9508. Day or night L.E.E.

(preferably night!) A matched set of Ram 
Are D-Man and Nick De 
Mike Hill golf clubs, 
Shevas one and the same?
HOUSING 

aluminum shafts, 4 woods, 
Only Beachball and "Doc" 
9 irons, a large bag and a 
Luby know for sure. 
putter. 1 season old, cost 
Sr. Conagunda, SchultzTo Be Married Student needs 
$360, asking $240. Call Mike 
and The Ju Ju Bee Theatre suitable Off-Campus housing 
at 1157, 262 Alumni.
for 71-72 school year; Preferably furnished, Close to 

Sam: Did you know campus, and Reasonable 
Michelle is pregnant?
STEREO DISCOUNTS 
The StorkCall Tom 282-2250 
PIONEER SX-990 $239.95
Leave Message PIONEER SX-770 $199.00 

To whom it may concern: KOSS PR0-4A HEAD-
the purple monster is alive PHONES LIST $50 DIS. 
and well. Who & where are $34.95 
you, Limosene Lady?
WANTED 

ALSO DISCOUNTS ON 
OTHER EQUIPMENT
Help Wanted 

To the lovely lady who sent 
TURNTABLES, TAPE 
me a lock of her hair-Give RECORDERS, 
Student artist caJJable of 

me a hint.
doing lettering & artistic 

SPEAKERS, ETC. 
Mike 
conception drawings. Call 

ALLOW 10-15 DAYS DELIVERY KCAJ,
272-8448. 

CALL MARK 1501 
The Dutchess suspects nothing. Love,
Looking for small, cheap (fully 

Comfortable turquoise 
Reenie, Marilyn, Mary
tacked?) refrigerator unit. Call 

Lazy-Boy. Reclines -only 
Kay $25. 289-4221 after 6. KCAJ: 
Mcgoo 4614 
Wanted one roommate-Condi­

For Sale: one pr. Rossignol 
You're right, I suspect 
tions: must have full stereo 

Stratos, 207cm. Very good 
nothing. 
system and television-have no 

condition. Moving to 
The Duchess 
girlfriend in Elmira, N.Y.-be 

Florida, must sell. Call8265 
Mean Joe Green fan-not have 
after 5:30. 

Henry,
Zappa poster-be extremely gul­

Help! Room needs cleaned. 
RIDES
lible. Advantages: learn keen card 

God bless,
tricks, enjoy jags (on you), learn 

Kelly
-
about neato Pittsburgh -Call 
Ride to St. Louis­
2106, Ask for "the Dude" 

anytime -Don 3252 
Get ready-The pranksters are here! ! Ride needed to Boston 
Wanted: A telephone 

Tom and Fried, that rings -4719 
March 12 -Will pay 
have fun and b-ball games Two straight broke 
Mark -1863 

in Aurora. dudes will do anything 
Be good. for money. Desperately 
--the protagonist. serious -Tom, Pete 
*CLASSIFIED AD RA1ES * 
reen, 1 .... ,...,. ....... 1­
7994, 7967 

how many lemons 
in your tea?
-
0.10 ... ·-.75 1.00 1.15 1.25 
Not sure.
11·115 ... ..... 1.30 1.75 2.10 
..... .... ..,. 1.70 2.40 .... 
M. Poet, jr. 
he classified advertisement 

21·20 -1.36 2.00 .... lAO 
..... 1.00 uo 2.30 uo 4.10
ection of the Observer is being 

oce o,
ffered to the ND-SMC commu 

31.,. 1.211 1.10 1.00 .... 4.70 
beautiful 
1.36 2.10 3.10 .... 1.10
it•; as a student service. USE 

feline 
-
..... 1.50 2.30 3.30 .... ....
IT! -CLASSIFIED ADS GET· 

Superstaress,
Z.IO 4.70
..... 1.711 3.00 ....
ESULTS'. 

Remember Me, reenie. --Poet Pal. 
(Continued from Page 1) 
as counselors and familiar faces to the students who transfer here. These visiting teachers could also study while they are here and improve their teaching ability. 
The Mondale Bill which will be introduced before the House soon will provide help to these colleges. The University will ask Congressman Brademan' help on this bill, and seek funding -and assistance from foundations, such as the Robert F. Kennedy Fellowship Program. 
"These colleges have only been operating a few years now, and it would be catastrophic if they _fail," said Dow. 
Cinema 71's film Cul-De-Sac was scheduled to be shown last Monday. The film did not arrive on schedule. It will be shown this coming Friday at 7:30 and 9:30 in the Engr. aud. The film which was scheduled to be shown on Friday was shown last Wed­nesday. The Cultural Arts Commission would like to apologize for the mix up. 

GRADUATE STUDENT UNION KEGGER WHEN: SATURDAY, MARCH 6, 8:00p.m. WHERE: CARROLL HALL, FIRST FLOOR WHO: ALL GRAD STUDENTS; WIVES; SMC JUNIORS, SENIORS; GRAD FACULTY MEMBERS; AND GUESTS OVER 21 
in response to numerous complaints about social life (or lack there of) the action will be at CARROLL, if you are. 
ADMISSION: 25~ Ius ID 
Tonight 
Live at the 

ROMA RESTAU RANT 
CHAPPED LIPS 
from 9:00 -2:00 
no cover charge 


.... 


Friday, March 5, 1971 
Page 7 
Austin says "On to Houston!" 

said. Then raising the net over his Pleick with 5:43 to go and Big With 25 seconds left to play, the game and the noise level rose
by Jim Donaldson 

head, he shouted, "All I can say John, who played one of the finest Coach Johnny Dee reinserted his another notch. Carr added two
Observer Sportswriter 

is, on to Houston." games of his career, received his five starters, Carr, Jones, free throws in those final seconds The clock read 0:04 when Carr netted 31 points, 24 of share of acclaim. Catlett, Pleick and Meehan into and then the game was over. 
Auustin Carr stepped to the foul 

Collis Jones, who in addition to
them in the second half, Collisline to take his last shots in the 
his 26 points had hauled down 25
Jones h.ooped 26, John PleickedACC. tossed m a career high of 24 reboun<;ls, made way for Don
The all-time Irish scoring 

Silinski at 4:24 and, again, the
points, and Sid Catlett added 15leader dropped both of his free 
Irish fans "shook down the
as the Irish coasted to their 19ththrows through the hoop, adding 



The Irish Eye
victory of the year, against 7 thunder."
the final two points in Notre losses. Tom Sinnott was the nextDame's 110-79 rout of Western Western Michigan managed to senior to leave the court (with

Michigan, and the crowd, which stay fairly close to the Irish for 3:38 remaining) and with2:33 to ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::8;:;;;:::::: BengaI Picks 
had been giving Carr in par­most of the first half and trailed go, after Carr sunk a pair of free

ticular and the Irish seniors in The fortieth annual Bengal Bouts wind up this evening starting at
by only five points, 43-38 with 2:34 throws, Austin was replaced by
general, a continuous ovation for 8:00p.m. in the Convo Arena. This year's matches, dedicated to the
Jim Hinga, a senior making his
to play in the opening stanza. The 
over 15 minutes, roared their fmunder and promoter of the annual donnybrook, Dominic J. "Nap­
first appearance of the season
Irish scored the last seven points
approval. Austin had made his py" Napolitano, promise to be wide-open, free-swinging affairs and no
because of a knee injury.
of the half, however, to open up a
last shot, and had gone out a division has a real sure thing winner.
Everyone in thz Convo was on
12 point half time advantage, 50­
winner, as just about all of the 11, After obseryin~ the first two evenings of the Bengals, I'd like to try
their feet applauding Carr, the
38. Big John Pleick led the late
345 fans jammed into the Convo my luck at ptckmg the champs in each division. Possibly I can ap­
great.est player in Irish
Notre Dame surge, scoring five
to see the season finale expected proach my average of. 725 as in football season.
basketball history, as he left the
of the seven points.
he would. . JACK GRIFFIN vs. JERRY BRADLEY (125 lb.): Both of these
court
The crowd was streaming onto Jack Meehan was the first of ftghters were given byes into the semi-finals and they proved why on
While the game went on, while
the floor as the buzzer sounded, the Irish seniors to leave the Wednesday evening. Griffin and Bradley both had trouble with their
shots were taken, fouls com­
hoisting Carr, Jones, Catlett and game, giving way to Tom Sinnott oppor;te':lt~ but t.he wiry. Griffin seemed a little smoother. The nod goes ....
mitted, passes made, the crowd
Meehan holding the game ball, to at 8:21 and the slick playmaker to Gnffm man mterestmg battle of the little guys. 
remained on their feet, cheering, 
their shoulders. from Philadelphia received the PAT 1\kGfl:ATH vs. MIKE LOUGHERY 035lb.): Mike Loughery is 
clapping, and singing the
After cutting down the net, first of many ovations the a tough cookie and he showed some devestating power in knocking
"Vicgory March" over and over
Carr managed to make his way to graduating players were to get dow':l.Matt .cavana~gh in the semis. McGrath has a lot of family
again, voicing their appreciation 
the scorer's table to say a few from a grateful student body. tradition gomg for him and also some of the quickest hands and feet in 
for all the great movements that
words. Catlett left the game a minute the entire tourney. McGrath to out-box Loughery for the title. 
well-built man with the beautiful
"I just want to thank the later to roars from the crowd and TOM KRESS vs. STEVE DUFFY (140 lb.): Tom Kress looked like a 
moves and shot, number 34, had
student body for supporting us the chant, "Sid, Sid, Sid ...'". r~al ,slu~ger in both of his matches. Duffy was a quick man but he
given them during his three
this season," the Irish immortal Jimmy Regelsan went in for John dtdn t dtsplay nearly as much power as Kress. Tom should win the
varsity seasons at Notre Dame. 
jacket with "Champ" inscribed on it. TOM SUDDES vs. GARY CANORI 045 lb.): This could be the best bout of the evening for those who like boxing with a professional touch. 





Sports schedule IS• busy 
Both men know what to do in the ring. In Suddes match the decision was u~j~stly booed when he won unanimously over Dav~ Pemberton.
Notre Dame, Ind. --Notre o), Cirt Donaldson ( 118, s-o-o) and Notre Dame track coach Alex He deftmtely showed the fastest movements of any boxer in the Bouts. 
Dame's wrestling team will hold Ken Donaldson (134, 9-1) anchor Wilson will take six trackmen to Canori :-v~s a gutsy free-swinger so this should be an interesting and the home spotlight this weekend the Falcons. Notre Dame the annual IC4A Indoor Cham­entertammg match-up. I like "Sudden Tomm" to retain his cham­while both the swimming and heavyweight Phil Gustafson is 28-pionships this Friday and pionship over the rugged Canori.
fencing teams face tournament 0-0 this year while Tom Ciaccio Saturday at Princeton Univer­MIK~ SUDDES vs. JIM LUSK (150 lb.): Mike Suddes looked verycompetition. (118) will be seeking his 45th sity. 
~uch hke older brother Tom in putting away Tom Bole in the semi­The Irish wrestlers, 6-8-1 in career win. Wilson indicated that Rick fmal. Lusk also looked very quick in disposing of Mike Harrington.
The Irish fencers, with a
dual meets, will host a strong Air Wohluhuter will run in the 600 Just a hunch, but the Suddes family should cop two titles.
sparkling 19-3 overall record, will 
Force Academy team in the yard dash. Wohlhuter, the .AARON BA~R vs. KEVIN KERRIGAN 055lb.): Kevin Kerrigan, compete in the Great Lakes
Athletic and Convocation Center defending NCAA 600 champion, With that boxmg headgear on, reminds me of the original Irish at 7:30 P.M. Saturday. Invitational at Tri State College won the 880 in the Ohio State barroom brawler. More than anyone else in the tourney he has shown The Air Force enters the meet in Angola, Ind. Captains John Invitational last weekend with a the "kil~er instinct." The fast and fancy Baker has sho~n some veryLyons (foil), Doug Daher (sabre) 
with a 9-1 dual meet record, the 1:53.5 effort. 
smart rmg savvy however. It may well be the most exciting match ofand Rich Deladrier (epee) are 34­
lone setback a 17-16 loss to Tom McMannon and Joe Utz the evening. If Baker can score early and keep away it will be his Okla~oma. Jim Callard (150, 10-1-17, 38-11 and 31-9 respectively. first (8.5) and third respectively match. If he has to slug it out with Kerrigan you have to go with theND's swimmers, slim 58-55
o), Ctrt Donaldson ( 118, s-o-o) and a in the 70 yard high hurdles last tough Irishman. I think Baker can do the former. 
loser at Norther Illinois in the
Ken Donaldson (134, 9-1) anchor weekend, are also entered. 
ED. CA~NEY vs. T~M O'HEARN (160 lb.): Carney was very im­dual finale, will close their season 
the Falcons. Notre Dame Irish fieldmen Elio Polselli presstve m the short time that he was in the ring in the semis. Heheavyweight Phil Gustafson is 28-at the Motor City Invitational in (shot put) and long-triple jum­TKO'd Gary Hunt in short order in Round 1. O'Hearn wasn't theDetroit. A total of seven schools pers Kevin McAuliffe and Mike
o-o slugger that Carney was but he stayed smooth for three rounds. On the
The Air Force enters the meet will compete with Eastern McMannon round out the IC4A strength of his short performance 1"1 stick with Carney. 
with a 9-1 dual meet record, the Michigan the favorite. Notre competitors. Polselli set a new MARK McGOWAN vs. NORM BARRY (165lb.): Mark McGowanlone setback a 17-16 loss to Dame finished its dual meet OSU and fieldhouse mark last was an agressor from the opening bell in his semi-final win over NickOklahoma. Jim Callard 050, 10-1-season with a 5-7 record. Saturday with a 57-3% effort. 
M.alon~. N?rm Barry has to be the Cinderella fighter of the tourney wtth his btg upset of d.efending c~amp Ro~and Chamblee. Barry may have peak-ed to soom JUSt to get mto the fmals. McGowan is the solid
1cers

ND • host U.S. Nationals 
choice here but the courageous Barry might surprise once more. team decisioned Colorado MIKE BURNS vs. DENNIS CLARK 075lb.): Burns was the pre­tap Wednesday (March 3)
Notre Dame, Ind. --Notre 

College twice, won two of three tourney favorite in this division but Clark was impressive inagainst Minnesota.
Dame's hockey team will at­from Denver (including a 12-2 decisioning Byron King. My vote goes to Clark in this weight class. 

The U.S. skaters will depart for tempt to regroup this week in victory) and tripped Wisconsin 7-BOB MINNIX vs. MATT CONNELLY <HW): The classicPrague, Czechoslovakia, nexttime for an interesting 
1. Western Collegiate Hockey heavyweight battle of "the boxer and the slugger." Minnix isWednesday with the Worldexhibition series against the US Association champion Michigan amazingly fast for a man his size but he has yet to display the goodChampionships slated for BernNational Kockey team here this Tech nipped the Nationals, 5-4. power punch. Connelly will be seeking revenge for losing his title last and Geneva, Switzerlandweekend in the Athletic and The Irish hockey team split with year. In a close one to wind up the evening's action I see Connelly overstarting March 19. The team wiliConvocation Center. 
Colorado College and Denver, Minnix.
play a total of 10 games in theThe Fighting Irish skaters will lost two close decisions to Tech IRI.SH EY~-TEM: While we're on the subject of boxing, we ought toWorld tourney.
entertain the Nationals Saturday and gained a victory and a tie mentwn the fight. All student tickets have been sold out at the Student The Nationals, whose scheduleand Sunday starting at 8:00P.M., 

against Wisconsin. Union ticket office for Monday night's fight. If you still want to see thethis winter has included aE.S.T. Tickets are still available Gary Gambucci leads the fight for the championship of the whole world, tickets can be pur­at the ACC ticket office. number of outstanding minor Nationals in scoring with 38 goals chased for the adult price of $10 at the Morris Auditorium. Hurry,Notre Dame's icemen will league professional teams, and 
and 76 points while Keith sales are going fast.
Notre Dame have faced fourenter the series with an 11-14-2 Christiansen and Craig Patrick If space permits, and the new justifying machines are in workingcommon opponents.
record following two losses last 
weekend to Bowling Green, 5-l and 3-2. The Irish have two regular season games remaining here March 12-13 against the Air Force Academy. 
Freshman wing Ian Williams leads the Irish in scoring with 14 goals and 36 points but an injury will probably keep him out of the series with the Nationals. John Noble, the center on the first line, is second in scoring with 34 points while third line center Paul Regan is next with 33 points. 
Williams, along with regulars Bill Nyrop and John Roselli missed the second game of th~ Bowling Green series. 
The U.S. Nationals showed their strength last Tuesday in a home game at Minneapolis, downing Central Hockey League power Omaha 5-3. That lengthened the Nationals' record to 21-9-2 with the home finale on 

have 57 and 52 points respec­or~~r, there. will be. a special section to Monday's sports page con­
Coach Murray Williamson's 
tively. tammg the bwgraphtes of both Joe Frazier ~nd Muhammad Ali. 

Noh Datne Ave. Apts.

Do you ~esire to Iive off-cam pus? Now taking reservations for Sept. 1, 
800 blodr N.D.A. 

1971. Nme month lease, accomodations for four or five to an 


Phone Mr. Zlnn
1partment. 


234SU7 
Page 8 
No one runs for 

GSU President 

According to Bill Lorimer, GSU President, no candidates have yet been announced for the up­coming GSU Presidential elec­tion. If there are no candidates, the Grad Student Union will cease to exist. 
The current president says the grad students want things handed to them, but don't want to expend any effort to help the GSU. He also stated that people seem to expect the Grad Union to exist indefinitely, but warned that "We aren't going to go on forever if people don't start lending a hand." 
The Graduate Student Union no longer needs to "justify its existence," according to Lorimer, because it is only since the institution of the GSU that grad students have become a part of the University com­munity. 
While he admits that there are s still many unresolved problems facing grad students, Lorimer feels that these could be over­come, and that the only threat to the GSU's future is grad student apathy. 
If no candidate turns up for the GSU elections, the grad students will lose their representation, presently provided by the Grad Union, on the Faculty Senate, Board of Trustees, Academic and Graduate Councils, and the Advanced SHstudent Affairs Committee, as well as the Traffic Appeals Board. 
According to Lorimer, the grad students "may not miss this at first, but they will eventually miss it very much." 
Big 


,, .. '·'·' 1 

CAC's Cinema '71 presents 
Cul-de-Sac by Polanski 
Friday, March 5 7:30 & 9:30 

The End of August at the Hotel Ozone 
Sat, March 6 & Sun, March 7 2 & 8 p.m. All showings in Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00, CAF patrons free 
---------~--~­
Applications for the position of 




STUDENT UNION DIRECTOR 
may be picked up in the Student Government office today and Monday. Applications must be returned to' John Barkett 354 Morrisey by Midnight Monday March 8. 







other. 


"For sports car lovers only" 

Available only at ... 
SATISFACTIO 
SERVICE Hours 

Open Monday and Thursday nites to 9:00 p.m.


I II 
Tues., Wed. and Fri. to 6:00 p.m.,
IILVE MAll 
I Formerly Brook Motor Sales, Inc. 
*DODGE CARS AND TRUCKS* TRIUMPH*

I 
*ROVER* LAND ROVER* 
916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka ph. 255-4751 Friday, March 5, 1971 

Dear Bill Carter and John Knorr, 
It appears that the contagion of our "promoting sleep" has infected you also. This year thz Notre Dame-st. Mary's Academic Commission has presented the following guests in an effort to enliven the admittedly dull academic atmosphere here: 
Wesley Marx Dr. Nathan Wright Dr. Prof. Paul Hadrossek The film "Pollution is a Matter of Choice" 
B.V. Raman 
Senator George McGovern Latin American Columbus Day Presentation Ti-Grace Atkinson Representative John Brademas Alex Haley David Hawk The film "The Holy Outlaw" Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer Lee Harwood Dr. Alexandre Bennigsen Thomas Raworth Jane Fonda Professor Mortimer Adler Robert Scheer The San Francisco Mine Troupe 
I.B. Tabata Kevin Philips Drug Conference, with 
Allan Cohen and 
Florrie Fisher Elizabeth Keebler Ross Nathaniel Tarn Allard K. Lowenstien Carlos Arce David Rowe Dr. Wyatt Tee Walker Dorothy Day Clare Hut-Bishop Jess Unruh Morton Marcus Dr. and Mrs. J.C. Willke Florynce Kennedy Saul Alinsky 
R.G. Boyd Professor Will Herberg John Ali William D. Ruckelshaus The film "The Migrant" John K. Fairbank Professor Hugh O'Brien Kan Ori Antonio Orendain Warner Saunders Lee Swenson and Will Kirkland Fr. Ralph Beiting 

March 26-Rousas Rushdoony
The Abortion Forum, in­
April 5-Harold Roellig
cluding 
April 6-Rev. Lucius Walker
Professor Thomas Poulson 
April 7-Alan Watts
March 4-Dr. Rudolph 
April 12-Eric Voeglin
Gerber 
April 14-Robert Jay Lifton
March 9-Dr. Julian 
April 15-H. Curtis Wood
Pleasants 
April 18-"Battle of Algiers"
April 4-Rev. Forest Whit­
April 19-Congressman Nor­
man 
man Lent

April 26-Dr. Stanley 
April 20-Symposium on
Hauerwas 
National and lnternat.
AND, 
Violence

March 3-Gordon Sherman 
April 21-Robert Francouer
March 7-Warden Lash 
April 23-Melvin Belli
March 11-Justice William 0. 
April 27-M. Grant Gross
Douglas 
April 29-30-Conference on the
March 24-Georges Borgstrom 
Thought of Eric Voeglin
March 25-Townsend Hoopes 
May 3-Merle Miller 
ON SUCH SUBJECTS AS: 
Racism, National and International Politics, Women's Liberation, The Environment, Urban Affairs, The Asian Situation, Astro-Psychology, Poetry, Revolution, Drugs; etc., etc., etc., 
Sorry that you have missed us so far this year, gentlemen. I wou~d su~gest that you stick your heads into The Library, Engmeermg, or Carroll Hall Auditoriums some evening about 8:00p.m. and check out what has been going on. 
James E. Metzger 
Melissa Underman 
Academic Commissioners 



