Today: mostly cloudy, warm temperatures, with increasing chance of afternoon showers. Tomorrow: Cool, rain likely..... as usual. .... 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 34 


Rogers lauds U.N. Red China decision,/ hits Nationalist ouster: Congress reacts 
Washington, Oct. 26 -The Nixon ad­ministration welcomed today communist China's admission to the United Nations but said the decision to expel Nationalist China was "a mistake of major proportion" by the world body. 
In a carefully-worded statement approved by President Nixon, Secretary of State William P. Rogers sought to express the administration's disappointment with its defeat in the United Nations without damaging its own plans to improve ties with peking. 
Rogers, speaking at a news conference at the State Department, also pledged that American support for the Taiwan government would remain "unaffected" by last night's United Nations General Assembly action in admitting Peking and expelling Taiwan by a 76-35 vote, with 17 abstentions. 
Aware of concern and anger expressed on Capitol Hill over the U.N. vote, Rogers argued against any move to cut off American support for the United Nations in direct retaliation for the Taiwan expulsion. 
But he indicated that the administration might not oppose a reduction in United States allocations on other grounds because he said the United Nations may be spending too much money and be "living beyond its resources." 
Warms climate of Peking trip 
The mood within the administration was described by a key official as one of disap­pointment with the final vote, but not one of anger or resentment. He said the ad­ministration's main problem will be to combat an erosion of American support for the United Nations, which he said had been weakened by the crushing defeat of the United States last night. 
At the same time, he said, plans will go ahead with Nixon's plans to visit Peking. The U.N. vote, in a sense, improves the climate for that trip. 
Henry A. Kissinger, the President's National Security Affairs Adviser, arrived this afternoon at nearby Andrews Air Force Base after spen­ding si, d,. ys in Peking making final arrangements with premier Chou En-Lai and 
other Chinese officials for the President's visit. 
He was to have his fit·st formal session with 
Nixon and Rogers tomorrow morning, but was 
expected to meet privately with the President 
tonight. 
Although the administeation as recently as last 
friday had asserted confidence that it would 
carry the issue in the United Nations Rogers 
said. that yesterday "we got reports that there 
was some slippage." 
"And before the vote was taken, I felt that the 
outcome was probably pretty well determined 
against us," he said. 
'Will of majority' 
He said that the administration, which thought it would win by two votes last friday, was not trying to deceive the public. Rather, he said, some nations changed their minds, in some cases without informing the United States. 
Rogers, noting that the administration had backed Peking's admission to the United Nations while seeking to keep Taiwan also represented, said in his opening statement that last night's decision was "consistent with the policy of the United States." 
"President Nixon hopes that this action, which will bring into the United Nations represen­tatives of more than 700 million people, will result in a reduction of tensions in the Pacific area." 
"At the same time, the United States deeply regrets the action taken by the United Nations to deprive the Republic of China of Representation in that organization," he said "We think that this precedent, which has the effect of expelling 14 million people on Taiwan from representation in the United Nations, is a most unfortunate one which will have many adverse effects in the future." 
But he said that although the United States believed "a mistake of major proportion has been made in expelling the Republic of China from the United Nations, the United States recognizes that the will of a majority of the members has been expressed." 

Congress eyes UN. lund cuts 
Washington, Oct 26 -In an emotional often 
an~ry reaction to the expulsion of nati~nalist 
~hma from the United Nations, a strong sen­
bme~t d~veloped in Congress today to reduce 
contributions by the United States to various 
United Nation agencies. 
The initiative was coming from the con­servative side, where Sen. James L. Buckley, Conservative, of New York, teamed up with Sen. Peter H. Dominick, R-Colo., in drafting an amendment to the Foreign Aid authorization bill to re~uce U.S. contributions to specialized agencies of the United Nations. 
But significantly the movement to cut back on 
U.S. contributions to the United Nations was supported by senate Democratic leader Mike Mansfield and Senate Republican Leader Hugh Scott, both of whom stressed that their position was not related to the ouster of the Taiwan Government. 
What appeared to be developing was a coalescing of forces between senators who wanted to take reprisal for expulsion of the Nationalist government and senators who for some time have felt the United States was carrying too much of the financial burden of the United Nations. 
The administration did not appear to be discouraging this congressional mood to reduce 
U.S. contributions, which now total about $300 million annually. 
At a news conference at the State department, Secretary of State William P. Rogers suggested that the United Nations was "spending too much money," complained that the United States has "probably contributed more than our share" and indicated that the administration would not be opposed to reductions in the U.S. contributions so long as they were not made in retaliation for the General Assembly vote ousting the Taiwan government. 


Don't disappoint the kids-------------­
The ACC ticket office has agreed to voluntarily extend the ticket deadline for one last day. Students may turn their tickets in between one and four tomorrow afternoon at the

Donate your 
ticket office in the Convo. 
The Observer urges all students to help make this program

Navy ticket now. 
a success. All the Observer e:ditors have donated their tickPts to the game. 
SMC contmitted to nterger -Sr. Alma 
Sister Alma Peter I esc 
President of Saint Mary's College 
stressed last night the fact that 
St. Mary's College is definitely 
committed to the joint statement 
on unification that the Trustees 
issued in May, 1971. 
Sister Alma :stated in a meeting with fifteen students in the Carroll Hall auditorium that this fact was stressed at the Trustees meeting last weekend. She read the gathering a memo that had been issued to the faculty of SMC from the Board of Trustees, concerning the status of the unification. The memo consisted of three parts. --SMC is still committed to the unification statement of last May. The merger is hopefully to be completed by 1974-75. --Notre Dame has asked for a seperate budget for 1972-73 to allow for their accountants to finish the studies that are being done on the effect unification will 

have on the budget. The SMC The plans for the merger are budget report has been com­moving ahead, Sister Alma said. pleted but a combined budget The financial problems have 
cannot be drawn up until both ~lowed it down slightly but that is reports are finished. "not unusual" in this type of merger.
--The faculty of St. Mary's was 
(Continued on page 4)

asked to submit, in writing, any 



THE OBSERVER Wednesday, October 25, 1971
Page 1 
Students asked to donate 

New Pakistan 

h:v Bill Sohn 
Three s.eparate drives for Pakistan Relief will occur in the next two weeKs, according to Tom Hamilton, co-director of the Student World Concern. What he dl.Ued the potential deaths of 25 million people, Hamilton said, "We can't overemphasize the urgency of this." 
The S.W .C. will co-sponsor a National Fast Day on November 3, along with Project Rel~ef and Ox-fam Inc. Hamilton said that 

LeMan's hall parietals proposal sent back to committee by SAC 
by Sue Pendergast 
The St. Mary's Student Affairs Council has sent the Le Mans Hall parietals proposal back to the Student Affairs Committee. 
The proposal was voted back to committee until valid evaluation can be made of existing policy. Existing SMC parietal policy is that boys are allowed in the livin ~ areas of the dorm on Sunday 
.-.-.-·······<\····,-.-.-.-•.•.•.•...-.-.-.­
··~········~···········································.. .~=:.::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::;:; 

r,~-w;;;rd~-·-·-Briefs I 
.. ::::
I I
:·:· (C) 1971 New York Times ~~ 
•...~:: News Service ::!: 

.... Taipei--In a message to the Chinese people on the mainla.nd and on Taiwan, Nationalist President Chiagn Kai-Shek said that his govern­ment would never recognize the validity of the "illegal" vote expelling his nation from the U.N. He also renewed his pledge to restore freedom to the mainland. 
.. United Nations, N. Y.--Diplomats at the United Nations said that American "steamroller tactics" and contradictions in its China policy. led to the defeat the United States suffered. American officials, however, s;1id that many governments that had given indications of support changed their vote without telling them. 
Washington--The Supreme Court avoided the controversial issue of busing to achieve racial balance in Northern schools when it declined without comment to review a busing order that had touched off violence and boycotts in Pontiac, Mich. The effert of the action is to 
leave the order in force. 
The campus Voter Registering Drive will hold an organizdtional meeting Wednesday night at 7:30 pm in the Fiesta Lovnge of the Lafortune center. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students interested in becoming· part of lthis registration drive are urged to attend! 
on campus 
7: 30--meeting, biology club, rm 105 smc science hall 
8:00--lecture, dr. irwin press, witchcraft and folk medicine in south american cities, library lounge. 
8: 
oo..lecture, prof. reginald allen, legal obligation and the crete, library auditorium 

8: 
oo..concert. israeli trio and folksinger, o'laughlin auditorium, students $1.00 


4:15--lecture, john houck, pldnning toward the year 2000, 127 nieuwland 
7: 00--flick, america's cup challenge films, the sailing club, 303 engineering building 
7:00 & 9:00-·flick, the man who ties, engineering auditorium 
lhe Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, lnd .1655<'>. 
afternoons from one to five p.m. The council raised two major objections to the proposal. First, the objection was raised that the students were abusing their Sunday privilege by having men in the living areas of the dorms at times other than on Sunday. According to Jean Seymour, student representative to the Council, it was the Council's 
~tudl'nts on over 500 college l'ampuses across the nation will sign away their meals for this day and the money will be sent • Pakistan Relief. 
At Notre Dame this will not occur because, according to Hamilton, "The University has forbidden us the right to have students sign away their meals and receive repatriation by the food services on the November third fast day. The University 

Folk II benefit 
Vintage Folk II, a benefit 
concert for the Notre Dame 
InPIRG organization, will 
"happen" tonight in the 
LaFortune Ballroom 
The Folk show, which features 
some of Notre Dame's finest 
talent in that field, is co­
sponsored by InPIRG and the 
Student Union Social Com­
mission, according to InPIRG 
leaders John Bachman and Bill .Rahner. 
Bachman, who will be one of 
the performers said that all of the 
talent had donated their time. 
"The concert," he said "is a 
benefit performance for 
InPIRG." 
The show runs from 7:30 until Midnight tonight and the donation is 25 cents. 



G 22 

cited as a reason a $300,000 loss hy the food services last year." 
Hamilton said that the S.W.C. is asking all people on campus who buy their meals to fast and donate the money they would have spent to Pakistan Relief. 
A door to door campaign will take place on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses on November 2nd. Hamilton felt that a minimum of $10,000 should be collected from this drive alone. 
Plans also call for a Halloween 
feeling that if the students aren't responsible under existing rules, then how can the existing rules be ('Xtended. 
The second objection to the proposal was based on a number of complaints received by the D('an of Students office. These concerned widespread use of drugs and alcohol at parties during the Sunday parietals. 
Miss Seymour commented that, "I was really surprised at this turn of events. I got the feeling at the meeting that something had happened over the weekend and now I can see why these objections have to be raised." 


VINTAGE FOLK II 
featuring John Hurley Tonight Occassional Blue Grass ' Band Terry McManns 7:30-12 pm Mike Powers 
Denny Lopez David & Sorrel
La Fortune 
Paul Guernsey

Ballroom 
John Bachman Bob Ewan


Admission 25 c 
Peter Peterson presented by lnPIRG and social commission 
drive by the school children of South Bend this weekend. 
The S.W.C. held a hot dog sale last weekend. 7-up, Kreamo Bakery and several other South Rmd companies donated the hot dogs, buns and soda. 
Hamilton also mentioned a possible benefit concert to be co­sponsored by SWC and the Student Union. Don Mooney, Student Union Social Com­missioner commented that they would like to have their share of the profits from concerts given to Pakistan Relief after they have rPached their University-set Union profit ceiling. However, he said the approval of the Ad­ministration is needed before they can do this. 
Mooney added that University President Rev. Theodore M. liPs burgh has expressed interest 
in helping out the Bengali Relief
Fund, he hopes approval for this 
project can be ob~ta~i~n_:ed~·:___~===========~ 
noon to midnight 


book1 
FOR GIRLS WHO'VE HAD EVERYTHING PLUS IN COLOR Seven Arts·Bryanston 
presents 
\\ancyKwan 
ni 
w~w 


A{fa~r 
and Guest Star 

Pff].,1 ..··''iotnas
..."e··
..nyJ?I
1Jt1 1.l 11(1 111 


The Hideaway Lounge Find it at ... 
122 W. First St., Mishawaka 
tz,  
~  &0'  
featuring  o~. &..r  . • ~  
~ &&  oi'V"'/$\r  
Q  ~/  
Party  ~ \9.-t'..r #'~.~~ 18'/  
·o0  


w__ed_n_es_da~y_,_o_ct_o_be_r_2s~,-~_97_I__________________________~TlfE OBSERVE~ 
Pa e 3 





Creaney:Tight end by default 

-l'inisht>rl as the number two "YPah we're supposed to lose!Jy K .J. Kinko1•f '72 

I'<'CPiver with 18 catches for 418 ac<'ording to that thing, But llow dot>s one get to be the ~·ards, a 23.4 average and two sPriously, the Navy team is starting tight <.'nd for the prl'lty good. They have a lot of
'I'D's, llnivt>rsity of Notre Dame -and I'Pcorded the longest TD quick. little people that never football h•am? pass of lhe season with the stay down after being blocked n•el•plion of a 78 yard Theismann out. They kPep coming back, and 
Tlw way Mike Creaney tells it, homh against Pittsburgh. swarm all ov<.'r you. And they areI gut•ss you just stand around and 
a well conditionl'd football team.

wait until you win by default. Slats like !host' are nice. But 
II is virtually impossible to

lhPy really don't mean a thing
You Sl'e, Mike Cr<.'an<.'y starred out hustle the Middies. Last year, 
conw the following season when
in high school as an interior our roughest week of preparation
~·ou haVl' to begin proving
lirwman on both offense and was before the Navy game."
~·oursplf all over again.
dPf(•nsl'. But around th<.' fall of 
As for the game last Saturday,

last y<.'ar, Mike found a big 91 And Cn•aney, picked by Sport 
l\1ikl• fl'lt that the Irish offense

paslt•d it on the front and back of MagazinP as an All-American 
could have beaten the USC

his jerst'y, grabb<.'d a helmet candidatP for tight end, has been dd'Pnse.
with a cage mask <hiding that proving himself over and over. hoy ish. l'hPrubic smill' > planted liP hasn't seen the ball as much "Wl' felt we could run the baiL 
himsplf on the end of the of­this yPal·, but his crunching Wl' wpre having success with fpnsive sl'ls, and promptly blocks have been important for power plays off tackle, and the hPl'amP lhP biggest surprise of till' success of the Irish ground swePps. We knew we could run 
llw '70 sPa son. ga mP. lhP ball. They didn't do any stunting, and we didn't have any 
"In high school 1 was an in-But the Irish team as a whole 
hlocking problems. They just got 

!Prior linl•man on both offense has to bPgin proving itself all 
ahead too fast. We still tried to

and dl'fl•nsP. And when I started ovpr again coml' this Saturday 
control th~ game on offense, but

playing hPre that's where 1 was afternoon. And, as Mike says, 
Wl' finally had to abandon our

tPsll'd. But after my freshman "it's time to start picking up the ganw plan."
~·par. DPwey Poskon and Tom piecps and start all over again." Lawson. the starting tight Pnds Don't snicker about the up­ThP only other team to Wl'rl' graduating. Scott Willliams l'Oming Navy game. The Navy challenge the Irish this year, 
Mikt> Creaney, Irish tight end. hauls in a pass

ll'ft school. and the year before team downed a good, solid Duke before SC, was Purdue. But Mike !hal Jim Winegardner had IPam ... that upset Stanford ... that hedged a little before making a "Well, they're both big, and you r<'m<'mber, we went to the 
good. But it's really hard to Cotton Bowl in '70 with an 8-1-1

graduah•d_ At first the coaches whipped USC. comparison of the two squads. 
compare them, because we record, and last year we returned lril'd Gary Kos at tight end, but ND ranked 11th and 12th played Purdue in the mud. And to Dallas with a 9-1 slate. With
lw was nl'Pded at guard. So they you really don't see the real team Nebraska having to playmovPd .Jim O'Malley from his under conditions like that. Then Colorado and Oklahoma yet, andlint'backer spot for a shot at end. 
Despite Oklahoma's 75-28 31 of 55 AP votes. Oklahoma (6-0) again, maybe if we had played SC 'Barna and Auburn stillBut he too was too valuable at his in the mud it would've been sch<'duled to meet, I wouldn'trPgular position." destruction of Kansas State's remained a strong second, with different. I don't know. But one rule us out at all."
Wildcats. the nation's coaches
"So in the space of two years, 21 of the remaining first-place AP thing I do know for sure, is that If everyone on the team has
ahout four tight ends had left or and writers continued to honor votes. Third-rated Michigan (7-Southern Cal has the best that kind of attitude. maybe there college football's reigning king, Ol, 4th-rated Alabama (7-0), and assemblage of natural talent of
graduatl•d. The other ex­are still a few miracles left ... 
Nt'braska, in their latest wire­5th-rated Auburn (6-0) each
pt>rinwnts didn't work out, so I any team I'vP seen. And they'rekind of won by default." received single first-place votes not even as big as Purdue."
service polls. This week's standings feature a near­in the AP grid race. 
Navy cites

And for somebody who claims 
eonsensus on the top ten teams, Gl'orgia and Penn State, both And how about that LSU game? 
to have won a starting position by 
which did not include the undefeated, nip-flopped sixth and "Ev<'rybody, most of thedl'fault,Creaneyhad some pretty I<'ighting Irish. seventh places, the Bulldogs students, seem to be looking past ND stars 
impressive statistics for a rookie taking 6th in the UPI poll, the Navy, Pitt and Tulane. And as I Ten Notre Dame players, six of Defending champion Nebraskatight l'nd. 
(7-0) took 26 of 34 first-place Nittany Lions 6th with AP's poll. said before, this Navy team isn't whom are on the Irish roster speoncl only to John Dampeer vott'd in the UPI poll (with Filling out the top ten, in the too bad. Nobody on the team is again this season, were named to in total playing time last season, Oklahoma taking the rest), and same order in both polls, were : PVPn thinking LSU until we begin Navy's 1970 All-Opponent team. 
No. 8 Arkansas (6-1), No. 9 drilling for them. Our goal now is Thl' Middies selected five Irish Jim Donaldson;:;:::i::::====~===~=~=========~===============:=:=:=:=====:=:=:=:=:========================: Colorado (6-1), and No. 10 Ohio 9-1. And that means playing standouts to the offensive club 
State (5-1). l'Very game one by one. The LSU and five to the defensive unit. Notre Dame, following its loss game will mean nothing if we lose Hl'turning Irish Notre Dame 
to old nemesis Southern Cal, was to Navy, Pitt or Tulane." players honored by the Mid­ousted from the Top Ten, but BPyond the regular season are shipm<'n are Tom Gatewood, split r<'mains in contention by virtue of the bowls. Seemingly a shoo-in Pnd Mike Creaney, tight end, :===================================================-Better late than never its 11th-place UPI standing and for the Orange Classic as late as Walt Patulski, defensive end, 12th-place AP standing. In-last Friday night, Irish fans are Greg Marx,defcnsive tackle, and I remember one night last spring at Louie's, when Jim Humbert cidentally, USC crept into 20th now beginning to wonder about a Halph Stepaniak and Clarence 

The Irish Eye 
jokingly asked me why he and the rest of Notre Dame's offensive place in this week's AP balloting. post-season bid. Ellis, defensive backs. linemen "never" got any publicity in the Observer. I agreed that the Other teams rated by both wire "There was a real blow to our Tackle Mike Martin, guardinterior linemen often toiled diligently for little recognition and 
services include future Irish ehances last Saturday in that Gary Kos, linebacker Tim Kelly
promised him that the first lineman the Observer would feature this opponent LSU, still-undefeated loss. The possibility for a bid is and quarterback Joe Theisman, year would be none other than James Humbert. 
Toledo, Arizona State, Ten-still there, but of course the all seniors last season, were also 
I was late making good on that promise and now, it's too late. Too nesse~, Texas, Florida State, and chances aren't as good as they cited for their performance late because Jim Humbert won't be playing any more football for the A1r Force Academy. Only 18 w<'re before the SC game. But if against Navy. Notre Dame. His senior season was brought to an abrupt end Saturday teams received votes in this-------------------------------. 

wPek 's UPI poll.

afternoon when he suffered torn ligaments in his knee against 
Southern California. He'll undergo surgery today to repair the 
damage. U. P.I. Grid Poll 
Humbert is no stranger to the operating room. Twice before in his 
Team W. L. T. Pis.

eollegiate career, the young man from Cincinnati had surgery per­
1. Nebraska [261 7 0 341 

formed on an injured knee. And each time, he battled back to play a 2. Oklahoma [81 6 0 326 major role in Notre Dame's football successes of the past few seasons. 3. Michigan 7 0 0 271 
4. Alabama 7 0 0 258

Coming back from a knee injury isn't easy to do. It requires hard 
s. Auburn 0 0 196 work, lots of hard work, and the guts to withstand pain in order to 6. Georgia 
0 0 "' 

progress from a convalescent to a starting tackle. It requires courage. 7. Penn Slate ' 0 0 137 And Jim Humbert has never been short on courage. 1. Anc:ansas ' 1 0 87 
9. Colorado 6 1 0 48

Humbert's first operation came after his freshman season but he 10. Ohio State 5 1 0 46 whipped himself back into shape and logged 56 minutes of playing, 11. Notre Dame 5 1 0 20 
12. Louisiana State 5 1 0 14

time, at guard, as a sophomore. 13. Toledo 7 0 0 14. Tennessee 4 2 0 5 
' 

But, the injury jinx struck him again and he went through a second 15. Arlrona Stall 5 1 0 4 16. Florida Stott 6 1 0 I
operation. He came back last season and filled in capably for Larry 
17. Texas 4 2 • J

Dinardo when the All-American guard was forced out of the lineup 11. Air Force s 1 0 1 with a knee injury of his own. In Notre Dame's 24-11 Cotton Bowl victory over Texas on New A. P. Grid Poll Year's Day, Jim Humbert was in the lineup, doing his job quietly and 
W. L. Pis.

efficiently, and he was a big factor in the offensive success of the Irish 
1. Nebraska [311 7 0 1,044

against the tough Longhorn defense. 2. Oklahoma [71) 6 0 1,070 
3. Michigan [1) 7 0 133 

This season, Humbert came into his own. He no longer had to come 4. Alebama II I 7 0 7U 
s. Auburn [II 6 0 637

off the bench, but was a starter in his own right. He had been switched 6. Penn Slate 6 0 Sj7
7. Ge··rgia 7 0 503

from guard to tackle during last spring's drills and had won a first 
1. ArkanHs 6 1 423 team berth. . C ' radu 6 1 331 
10. Ohio State 5 1 305 
11. Louisiana Stolt S 1 273

On each of the lineup sheets sent out by Notre Dame's Sports In­
12. Notre Dame 5 1 235 

formation Department for the first six games this season, the name of 13. Arizona Start s 1 110 
14. Texas 4 2 94

Jim Humbert (6'2, 225), could be found opposite the letters LT. Itwon't 15. Toledo 7 o 10 
16. Tonnesset 4 2 67

be there any more. 17. Stanford 5 2 57 
18. Air Force 5 1 44

Jim Humbert may not of gotten a lot of public recognition. But the 19. Florida State 6 1 16 
20. Southern Cillfornlo I 4 13

coaches, and his teammates, knew he was in there, every game, every 
Others recelvint votes, listed llplllbeti­play, carrying out his assignment. He was tough, he was courageous, c•llr: California,. Cornell, Houston, tow• 
Slate, Northwestern, O'"on, Washlntlon,

he was talented. And he'll be missed. 
west Vir'illnia. 

The Importance of LIVING BENEFITS to the College Man -­
If you plan to die during the next 20 years, as only about 5 out of I00 your age will, do not buy any College Plan -buy the cheapest term insurance you can find-B-U-T-
If you plan to live beyond 20 years, as 95 out of I00 your age will, then you should consider the LIVING BENEFITS of the C. I. P. (Col­lege Insurance Program) -because 71 of you will still he /il•inf.: at age 65. 


American General life Insurance Co. 815 La Salle Street South Bend, Indiana, 46601 219-234-3480 
-


Page 4 THE OBSERVER. 
SMC grads may ask for ND degrees 
by Ann Conway 
The St. Mary's Board of Trustees yesterday announced that it has decided to allow two SMC seniors to petition the University of Notre Dame for their degrees. The Board reached its decision at a meeting held Octobrer 23, according to the announcement acting Sr. Alma Peter read at a meeting of the SMC Academic Affairs Council. She did not release the names of · the two seniors. 
The resolution also gives all SMC seniors credit for courses they have taken at Notre Dame. SMC seniors who have Notre Dame majors will have their ND majors noted on their transcript. 
According to Sr. Alma, the trustees made their decision when they learned that the two girls in question are getting specialized degrees which are not conferred by St. Mary's College. According to the SMC ad­ministrator, it would "Seem very strange" if the college granted degrees in departments which do not exist there. She said that Alma presented a list of 18other SMC seniors had applied 
possible commencement
for ND degrees in majors from speakers. The Council examinedthe colleges of arts and sciences, the ('ighteen and announced thatbut that "St. Mary's has been it will contact them to determinegranting similar degrees for their availability. The Councilseveral years," and it will con­will announce their selectionstinue to do so this year. 

when final commitments areIn other Council action, Sr. 
made. 



Transcripts to be altered 

The Notre Dame Registrar has diplomas will not be rewarded to agreed to alter the transcripts of the St. Mary's class of 1972 and all graduating seniors to yet many women have ac­designate co-exchange classes cumulated semester hours of taken during the last four years, Notre Dame courses. We feel that according to Greta Anderson and recognition should be given to the Student Government Om­co-exchange program." budsman Paul Dziedzic. Meetings between the 
Although the transcripts have representatives and both Notre not yet been altered to include the Dame Registrar Richard co-exchange designation, the Sullivan and Burtchaell proved move, which originated in the St. fruitful and they agreed to have Mary's Student Assembly, was the mechanics of altering the approved by Notre Dame Provost transcripts completed by the Reverend James Burtchaell. tim£' the class of 1972 graduates. 
In a letter to the Provost, the Anderson and Dziedzic said in a stated that "Notre Dame joint statement, "We are pleased Assesembly representatives with the outcome because it 
provides just recognition for 

SMC Commt.tted to merget• 
courses taken through the co­
(Continued from page 1) 
"Many  of  the  stories  going  
around  are  false"  Sr.  Alma  
stated.  
The  Sisters  of  Holy  Cross  

receive nothing from st. Mary's but the salaries they earn, which · are the same as the salaries of the lay persons working for the 
college. In the past half'of these salaries were turned back over to the college. Tuition received is used for academic purposes, Sr. Alma stated, none of this money is used to take care of the Sisters. 
St. Mary's is not mortgaged.
"We have been operating in the black for the past two years and next year's projected budget is 
also in the black.4' Sr. Alma said. The college buildings at SMC are 
valued at approximately $21 million. 
Sister Alma rteiterated a previous statement that St. Mary's was non-negotiable at the present time. Above the Board of Trustees there is the Sisters of the Holy Cross Incorporated, a body of 1,300 sisters. For the 
buildings of St. Mary's to be sold a meeting of this ~corporation must be held and a vote taken. The incorporation meets every third summer, she stated. The next meeting is scheduled for the summer of 1973, though it is conceivable that a meeting may be called before this time. 
If the budgets are not combined the St. Mary's faculty will remain associates to the Notre Dame faculty. Rumors that Notre Dame will refuse to accept St. Mary's faculty are false, Sr. Alma stated. 
Sis ter Alma stated that she 

I G 22 
! MAIN FLOOR 

H001.:1 NIVW 
wmYo.ugnv NllH~nv,.o ,
-ll l:JS,J.:>O I 
..., "31\l "va.CJ3M . 
~ AlNO OJOO 1 
zz 

('XChange program". 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 
didn't believe that the failure of 
e 
the budgets to combine would hinder the movement to combine Gulf the student governments or the progress toward mixed housing. 

1Q 0/ Q F F 
Saga Food services will remain / 0C at SMC thru next year On any mechanical probably. k 

Notre Dame degrees will be wor and winterizing awarded to SMC students (snow tires includecJ) beginning next year unless St. Roseland Gulf Mary's degrees are specifically 402 U.S. 31 North Across requested. from Burger King
r------.':"""--:-----...:..;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;=::;::::_ 
( If I A f
U U r a r 5 ( 0 m m i5 5 i0 n 1 5 cinema 1 7 2 pre5 ent5 
Man Who Lies 
Engineering Auditorium Oct. 27 & 28 (Wed. & Thurs.) 
7:00 & 9:·00 pm
Admission: $1.00 




HAIR.
r,.,e Amer~can Tr~tJai-Love Rock Mus1ca1 
Good Seats Still Available 
BOX OFFICE NOW OPEN 
Noon to Showtime MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
211 N. MICHIGAN STREET 
Orchestra & Mon. Oct. 25 8:30 p.m. 
7 PERFORMANCES 
Mezzanine Seats Tues. Oct. 26 8:30 p.m. 
$7.50 
Wed. Oct 27 8:30 p.m. 
OTHER SEATS AT:
Thurs. Oct. 28 8:30 p.m.Sat. Oct. 30 6&I0:30 p.m. 
$6, $4.50, $3.50 Sun. Oct. 31 3:00p.m. 
AU SEATS RESERVED 
Wednesday, October 25, 1971 

AUTUMN RETREAT 
n experience in Christian sharing 
Sat. and Sun., Nov. 6 and 7, SM C Clubhouse Open to 32 ND-SM C Students Deadline: Tue. Nov. 2 
for info and reservations call Fr. Roger Cormier (5389) or Tom Stella (1168) 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need ride to Pittsburgh, Oct_ 28 or 29. Call Suzy -4864. 
Need ride to Bowling Green or Rock­ford, Illinois any weekend. Call Irene 4997. 
Need 2 general adm. tickets to Navy game. Tom 287-2731. 
URGENT: Need 1. 2 or 3 genera~ admission tix to Navy game; Need not be adjacent. Call Leo at 1607. 
Wanted: One Electric Typewriter good or great shape. Call Tom 287­2731. 
Paper Clips for Easy Rider. Donations only. To the Observer Ad. Dept. 
WANTED: 4 general admission 
Tulane tickets. Call Bill at 283-6843. 
-
-
Need two general admission tickets to Navy Game. Janet 4037. 
Desparately need 3 general ad­mission tickets to Navy, at least two together. Dan 6987_ 
Help show Nebraskans real football ­I know, with Navy? Anyway, need two general admission Navy tickets. Call Kevin 1285. 
----· ---·-------­

SPARE TIME TYPING. PHONE 234 1320 AFTER 6 P.M. 
NOTICES ----·---------­

Fix your own car. Tonight. We have the SPACE t TOOLS+ PARTS AND HELP. You do the work and SAVE. Autotech Rt. 31 South in Niles. 684­1960. Open evenings and weekends. 
,., _____________ _ 

~IEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 
11:15 12:15. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Into concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only t11rough indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
New Jersey Club Thanksgiving Cl1arter Final sign ups-Tues. Nite 7­
8. Rathskellar Those who have not reserved a seat must tonite. 
Hayride: Fri. 8:00 pm at the Diamond D Ranch. For reservations call 5176. Admission 75 cents. '.ponsored by Sophomore Class. 
WANl TO MOVE ON CAMPUS? Campus room available tor seconcl semester. Greg 8086. 
FOR SALE 
One ( 1) bicycle. Used but runs amazingly well. Includes these extras -1basket, 1speedometer_ Call Bob 3110. 
Quality S-track tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715 
Prices slashed on all posters to reduce stocks. Posters that were $1.50 now $1.00 $1.25. For in­formation come to 815 Flanner, 611 Grace or 315 Regina South or call 1694, 1167 or 4258. 

Prices Slashed Sale on now at Student Record Sale. $5.98 LIST $3.65. $4.98 LIST $3.15 313 Morrissey. Ph. 3575. Open continually. 
ON SALE: Brand new, guaranteed S-track and cassette tapes. Fantastic selection. Alltapes-only$2.99. Call1781 (Paul) quickly. 
1953 purple School Bus (in Stepan Ctr. lot). $75 or best offer. 1508 -Crew Club. 
'65 Buick Special. Stick, Clean, Good 
Condition. '66 Plymouth Fury I, Automatic, Power steering, Good Condition. 
Must sell. Will Sacrifice. Call 233-6487 after 5:30. ·----------------­For Sale Must Sell _cheap '66 Ford Fairlane Runsgood. Call Mike6729. 
----------------­
PERSONALS. 

Worried about midterms? Come to our suicide party! 4772, 4777' 5181. 
snoregalldork -type nonsense is fun, too Zapd. 
Stephen I'm psyched. Thanks, Purple. 
Hannah, Gunning tor a June wedding -need a Bride! 
RJWB 

To the suicide ladies of third floor HC: Many thanks for a pleasant afternoon. The Grateful Dead 
To, Carol Ann, the Kid: Your delightful card made No. 50 for me. Give Blithe a lot of Spirit. 
The TAR Baby. 

BEWARE· Winter starts early with Frigid Fran. 
Happy Birthday, Susie. I love you, Dave 
B.B.: I love you so very much Because you are so nice nnd if you really love me too You'll do some exericse. 
Happy Birthday again, Boinger 

DC'a~ Tunes Some of the best people 
Ski trip to Aspen, Col. at I've 1n Dillon, and one of them is you. lhanksgiving. Open to everyone. Thank you. "Compliments of Faith" Siqnups Wed.,Thurs.,Oct.27,28 7---­9 Pill. Coke Bar in La Fortune. 
"Animals" are always man's best friends. Thank you, Michael.
W..1da. 2da. lila. 4d~-Sda. 
, -. -. "Celeste" l·ll .II .71 1.11 1.15 US' 
Said t11e other long brown haired11-ll .It J.lt 1.15, 1.71 Ul .lrkie (cheerfully). "The guy put his hands
tl-2t .7t 1.11 •~?'-z.4i --2•111 

On your waist and then youZl·· .IS 1.35 2.1t iii-3.45 CIO down another time... " 
.... I
1·11 •·• z.•u• ul 31-35 l.zt •·•~u• us 4~7tl 

Classified Ads paid for in cash when
31-11 1.35 Z.lt 3.11 4.25 Uti 

ordered. 2. Office hours 12:15-5:00. n-tsus u• 3_.31 u1 ulj Ads in by 2:00 on day before publication.
41-Hus ue :t.SI 4.75 a.tl 
0 





