

Vol. V, No. 95 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt Mary's College ('ommuni~l' Wednesday, March 10, 1971
. 
rrotest diversified by black students 
by Milt Jones 
Susan Jackson, president of ABCW, yesterday burned a written response she received from the office of Sister Alma which suggested the instigation of a task force to look into problems of black students at SMC. 
Miss Jackson termed the letter an insult becuase "it was a rough mimeographed copy with typing and spelling corrections made on the sheet, it was not dated, it had no signature and the envelope was not even addressed." Mter reading the statement in the lobby of Leman hall Midd Jackson burned it. 
The incidnet, which took place in a central point of traffic during the noon hour was witnessed by a substantial number of students. It was also covered by television, radio, and other press services. 
A series of readings and singing followed the burning. Readings included original poems by Nate Angle, a black ND student, some selected letters of George Jackson, and some reading from Black Rage. 
Loretta Johnson sang the song television cameras. In spite of the "Trying Times." rain and cold weather the group 
Miss Jackson terminated the marched until 2 p.m. ceremony calling for total SMC The Society was protesting five student body support. She stated main points. The points were: "What affects us, affects you first, the lact of hiring black since we are all students, and faculty and staff, second, the lack what is happening to us could 
happen to you. The Afro-American Society 
Mardi Gras nets $12,000
picketed in front of the ACC and Stepan Center Saturday protesting the University's ac­
Exceeds 1970 profits
tions concerning black students. 
The pickets, as planned at a meeting on Friday night, were by Jerry Lutkus
orderly. A group of students marched with signs carrying According to Mardi Gras such messages as "No more Chairman Greg Stepic and Delays" and "Is Hesburgh A Student Government Treasurer Moral Man?" in front of the ACC. Dennis Conroy, this year's Mardi The Indiana Sectional Tour­Gras netted approximately naments were taking place at the $12,000. Though both claimed the time, and the picketers were profit to be in this area, they both noticed by quite a large number made note that of now "it is still of people. The protest at the ACC an estimate." lasted until 1 p.m. and then the Stepic said that "General group hoined another group at response to thz raffle this year Stepan Center. was better than in the past 
At Stepan, where the Collegiate several years and as a result the Jazz Festival was occurring, the net profits from Mardi Gras group again drew public at­exceeded those from the past tention including WSBT three years." 

by Bill Weber 
Dr. Peter P. Grande has been replaced as Director of Ad­missions for Notre Dame by John 
T. Goldrick, a former admissions ~ounselor at the University. Dr. Grande will return to teaching dutires in the department of education. Goldrick, who is currently a counselor at the American· Community School, operated in Beirut, Lebanon, by the 


Fr. Riehle's Reply 
Admission Dept. head replaced 
Dear Dave and Mark: 
I would like to comment on your letter concerning my "new variant of the no-knok rule." Although The Observer is not always accurate in their quotations given during an in­terview, there is no way you could interpret their reporting to mean "no-knock." However, I would like to personally convey to you the University's position regarding rights of students to privacy in their rooms. It has always bee held here (as well as in the civil courts) that the student has a right to reaionable privacy and protection from room entry. This is not an ab­solute right. Any official of the University (Rector, Resident Assistant, Security, etc.) always has the right to enter a student's room upon reasonable suspicion that Rules of Regulations are being violated. It has always been the policy (explained to Resident Assistants each Sep­tember) that they should first knock and obtain permission. If they cannot obtain permission, they should report the matter to the Rector. No official of the University should ever enter a locked room if no one is there, unless in the company of another person. Needless to say, I am not talking about the maids. Hence, I assert to you once again that th Resident Assistants are not to b "policemen" (See Monday' Observer). 
In regard to your announce intention of violating Universit Rule No. 5 concerning th visitation hours established b Howard Hall, it is clear <Rule No. 5-<:) that "the staff, Hall Counci and students in each hall shall each be responsible for enforcing these policies." Your publicize intention to violate this rule amounts to a "charge o violation" against yourselves as individuals within the hall and, therefore, should "be brought before the University Board for appropriate action according to the principles of the judicial code." I am enclosing a blank copy of a NOtice of Violation which you may fill in with the appropriate details of the vilation and forward to me, with a request for a hearing before the University Board, if you manage to consummate the violation. You may, of course, exercise ynur right to a private hearing before Dean of Students if you prefer. 
Sincerely yours, Rev. James L. Riehle, C.S.C. Dean of Students 

American University of Beirut, will assume his duties around Auguest 1, Rev. James T. Burt­chaell, C.S.C., Notre Dame's provost, said in making the an­nouncement. 
Informed sources stated that Dr. Grande's termination as Admissions Director came as a result of a wave of clerical tie-ups in processing applications and his inability to maintain a good rapport with minority group applicants. 
Grande, who has directed Notre Dame's Admissions Office since July, 1969, holds master's and doctor's degrees in educational psychology and guidance from Notre Dame. As a member of the department of education faculty, he taught in the area of counseling, testing, and educational research bet­ween 1955 and 1965. 
He participated in a three­month Stanford University seminar on learning and the educational process in 1965 and then spent a year at the University of Chicago on a postdoctoral research fellowship. His appointment to head the newly created office of in­stitutional studies came in 1967. His institutional research has been primarily concerned with the analysis of student test data and the prediction of academic success, follow-up studies of Notre Dame graduates, and the development of an academic interest inventory. 
Goldrick, the recipient of both a bachelor's degree and a master's in counseling psychology from Notre Dame, served as an ad­missions counselor at Notre Dame between 1967 and 1970, specializing in minority recruitment programs. 
A native of Hamilton, Ohio, Goldrick taught in elementary and secondary schoolsfollowing his undergraduate training at Notre Dame. He also taught two years in a girls' secondary school in Thailand while in the Peace Corps. 
of leadership in the area of civil right s here at Notre Dame, the administration's failure to live up to moral and material com­mitments made to black students, fourth, the lack of planning eshibited in the area of black studies and black student affairs, and finally, the fact that Hesburgh had not dealt with students at Notre Dame in ac­cordance with his position as head of the U.S. Civil Rights Commissimn. 
Charity -Chest Committee, BoxConroy made note of this 
saying that this year's profit of 522, Notre Dame. 
$12,000 exceeded last year's 
$4,000 gain. He also said that in 
1969, the Mardi Gras lost $2,000, 
while in the year prior to that it 
made $7,000. 
The Mardi Gras Chairman was pleased with the carnival and he said that "Approximately $12,000 has been grossed from both Mardi Gras raffle and carnival combined. The entrance fee brought in approximately $3,000 and approximately 15,000 people went through Mardi Gras car­nival." 
A closer breakdown of the finances was ennunciated by Conroy. According to the SG Treasurer, the raffle brought in 
Douglas talk
$22,000, but it's expenses were $13,000 resulting in a $9,000 profit. Supreme Court Justice William The carnival itself had a revenue 0. Douglas will speak on "The of $15,000, but the expenses Conservation of Man" at 8 p.m. totaled $12,000. The Supremes Thursday (March ll) in Stepan concert broke even. Center. The controversial justice 
Conroy was optimistic for is the author of ..Points of future success of Mardi Gras and Rebellion" and is a noted he stated, "It's starting to build champion of civil rights and up again." He credited the conservation. success to Stepic and Tom Flood, Appointed to the nation's business manager of the event, highest court by President 
terming their work Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1939, "phenomenal." Douglas has authored 20 books The profits from the Mardi and travelled in over 15 coun­Gras go into the Charity Chest. tries. He practiced law in New 
"Any charitable organization," York City, has served on the law Stepic said, "wishing to apply for faculties of Columbia and Yale money from the Mardi Gras fund and directed the Protective 
can do so any time. The com­Committee of the Securities and mittee to disperse the funds will Exchange Commission in 1937. meet after the semester break." He recently weathered a move 
All requests should be sent to by some some Congressmen to 
impeach him. 

College finds no chief 

by Greg Rowinski 
The Experimental College in the works for Notre Dame's Holy Cross Hall for several years now, will not be a reality, at least not next year, because of an inability to find a director. 
The Academic Council of the University of Notre Dame and the Academic Affairs Council of St. Mary's College "reaffirmed their support for an experimental educational program" after they learned of the problem, .eaving the opportunity for future ex­periments open. 
Dean Frederick Crosson of the College of Arts and Letters reported to the Counvil that the "Committee plan for a co­educational experimental sophomore year program cannot be implemented for want of a director," acc·ording to a Public Infromation release. All of the 13 committee members bowed out of the ddirectorship for various reasons. Crosson expressed the opinion that because "the nature of the proposal is so tied to the philosophy of those who planned, the search for a non-<:ommittee member would not be "feasible". 
The Council went on record requesting further suggestions on educational innovations, in­dicating that the experiment is far from dead. 
According to Student Govern­ment Academic Commissioner Bill Wilka, one of the writers of the experimental college proposals, the discussion of thz program at the meeting passed no further than the question of the directorship, delving into none of the other particulars. 
"Questions didn't come up," summarized Wilka, because of the inability to find a suitable head, which prevented any im­plemenation in September. A proposal to add members to the steering committee, in order to enlarge the field of possible directors, was doomed to failure, added Wilka because March "was too late in the year" to begin such efforts. 
However, Wilka also stated that many of thofe who had worked on the program would return next year and could renew their efforts in the future. 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER~ Wednesday, March 10, 1971 

Job Opening 
The Observer is accepting applications for the position of Publications Manager. 
The position will be open to all students presently in their sophomore year at the Univer­sity. It is preferred that the ap­
. plicant be enrolled in the college of Business Administration; however, this is not a necessity. 
Duties of the posit~on en-

ALUMNI CLUB 
SENIOR BAR 

Wednesday-March 10 
Pre-St. Patricks Day Party Green Schlitz Malt on tap -15¢ 
9 -while it lasts Any pizza & 3 beers -$2. 

Schlitz Makes It! 
DOWNTOWN TOirlN & COUNTRY SOUTH BEND SHOPPING CENTER
• 


Applications for the following cabinet positions are available In the Stud•t Gowrnment office this week.: 
compass all gamuts of management. The manager is 
responsible for all publication personnel, inventory, and 
operations supervision. 
A full description of the duties and expectations of the position will be furnished each applicant upon request. 
Please contact Scott Braley at 287-9367 after 7:00 p.m. any 
evenin · 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
HIA1AN AFFAIRS HALL LIFE PUBLIC RELATIONS OMBUDSMAN 

Applications should be sent to John Barkett, 354 Morrissey, no lifer than Thursday, March 25. 
(Ca 11 3626 for job dt-s(Tipt ion) 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT' COMMUNITY RELATIONS OFF-CAMPUS JUDICIAl COOR~. 
Watts Co. hailed by Mullane 
by Kevin McGill 

Mr. Wayne Mullane, Executive 
Vice-President of Aero··Jet 
Corporation, spoke to a seminar 
in Minority Business Planning 
yesterday about the establish­
ment of Watts Manufacturing 
Company. 
According to Mr. Mullane, the company was organized by Aero­Jet General to provide jobs for the people of Watts and hopefully to enable them to procede on to better and higher paying jobs in the business world. 
"Watts is a state of mind, not a physical condition," Mullane said. He pointed out that living conditions there are comparable to other working class districts in Los Angeles, but said that the problem with Watts, as with most ghettos, is that people, especially males, are unable to find work. The family balance is upset, and those people with ambition and intellegence use it only to get into trouble. 
Mullane said that he was op­posed to the building of hospitals and parks that has been done in Watts. He thought the large amounts of money wasted, as far as minorities are concerned, because the funds went to "contractors in Beverly Hills" who hired white construction workers. He mentioned that money that is put directly into the community, on the other hand, has a multiplying effect: it will exchange hands four or five times before it finally leaves the community. 
He also criticized training programs that try to make proficient craftsmen out of inexperienced people in short periods of time. "They get people's hopes and expectations up and they drop them." He said thwt the people would be unable to get jobs because they weren't really what their trainers had promised they would be. 
Aero-Jet is in the munitions business, and, Mullane said, as 
Vietnam war grew it ex­panded. The head of the Executive Committee, Mr. Kimball, pushed to have a plant established in Watts, since it was a source of cheap labor, after the 


Seniors: 
Decided what you are going to do when you grow up yet? If not please consider the Marist Brothers LAY volunlteer program. Choice of locations in U.S. or abroad. Few bureaucratic restraints. No implicit imperialistic in­tentions. For more in­formation call 3661 before you go home for break. 

riots. 
"Our intention," said Mullane, "was to take the basic people who migrated from the Midwest and the South to Los Angeles, a cross section, to train them, employ them, and to let them move out to other industries." 
Trying to make their first contacts, Areo-Jet came across Jim Woods, the black owner of a construction company who lived in Watts and retained an identity with the area and its people. He and his son Leon were en­thusiastic about the idea and took over a lot of the management end. 
The worked they planned to ao according to Mullane had to employ primarily males. It had to have a high labor input with a minimum capital investment. Hopefully, the training period would be short so the employees would become productive soon and not become discouraged. He also desired the work to be dif­ferent from the other Aero-Jet concerns to avoid union trouble. 
The government had promised support, help with training, and contracts, but they ultimately lacked the authority to do what they had promised in good faith. The basic laws of procurements allowed them to finally give Watts Manufacturing a contract for making tents, but the red tape 
for  training  was  such  an  "ad­ 
ministrative  headache"  that  
Aero-Jet  finally  financed  and  

established a training program on their own. 
The training extended to filling out a time card and the proper dress for the job. A number of people from the black community were found for various semi­professional areas. 
Mullane said that the company, unlike government programs, gave its employees "the op­portunity to work, not the right to work," and that those who didn't work were layed off. This, he thought, gave the employees a high sense of morale. 
The company, according to Mullane, has made a profit to date, and two years after its organization it was sold to thz Chase Manhatten Capital Cor­poration where it now has the status of a small business and receives government assistance. All but three or four of the fifteen or twenty people in management 




Juniors! Juniors! 
last week to make your appointment for your Senior Portrait for the 72 Dome. Those not photographed now will not be in the 72 Dome. 
YOUR LAST CHANCE. 
Phone 283-1832, Hours: 9 AM -6 PM 

An exact, plastic replica-29" high. Shape, size, and color periect. Complete with flowerpot and weighted base. They're $5.70 each, postpaid. Send check or money order to Riverboat of Menlo Park, Edison, N.J. 08817. 
are  now  blacks,  he  said,  and  
some  300  people  are  presently  
employed.  

Mr. Mullane answered questions after he spoke. Prof. Frederick Dow, of the Business College, voiced his opinion that the government should allow private enterprise to operate less efficiently for a period of time specifically to help various social areas by sreading the burden of this inefficiency over the whole society. 
Dave, Mark issue letter 
From the words and actions of ­in the latter case lack of -the Dean of Students office, it seems obvious, treat stuthat students can reasonably assume that they have the same rights as either or us. This or course means that their rooms are private and that, regarding pariietal hours, they are free to have women in at their discretion, contingent upon the regulations of their hall com­munities. We must assume that by their example the university administration has adopted the wisest and certainly most popular course. If this is in fact their position, we compliment them on their displya of maturity and look eagerly forward to working with them on the im­plementation of coeducation. 
Devotedly in Notre Dame, 
Dave & Mark 
Student of Yogi to offer lecture 
The lecture on Transcendental Meditation scheduled for Room 121 O'Shaughnessy tonight at 
8:00 will be given by a student of Maharishi Makesh Yogi, not by the mystic himself. The speaker, Michael Paquot, a representative of a student group seeking to involve people in the practice of transcendental medictation. 
Wednesday, March 10, 1971 THE OBSERVU. Page 3 



N.D. •Increases aid to Indians 
Notre Dame has redoubled its marketing at Notre Dame and evidence, he reports, that one efforts to aid the American In­the recommendation of a sales early student, Juan Patron.. dian, described by its president campaign for craftwork. befriended and gave shelter to as "the low man on the nation's -Accelerated attention in the Billy the Kid, the notorious educational totem pole." recruitment of outstanding "Robin Hood of the Plains," The Rev. Theordore M. American Indian students to when he was sought by U.S. Hesburgh, C.S.C., who is also attend Notre Dame on funds troops for his support of Spanish­chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights provided by the minority American and Indian land rights. Commission, made the reference scholarship program. As many Others at Notre Dame par­to the educational plight of the as eight students of Indian an­ticipating in the program include American Indian at a national cestry are expected to be enrolled the Rev. ERnest Bartell, C.S.C., conference on the problem last next semester, compared to one economics professor and director year on campus. Since then, last year. of the Center for Study of Man in faculty and students have --Several Notre Dame students Contemporary Society; Vincent reported the following ac­spent last summer working with R. Laymond, assistant dean of complishments: Indian youth, and one student the College of Business Ad­-More than 3% tons of books, leader, Tim Sweeney, is com­ministration, and students collected by students, faculty and pleting his first year at Rosebud William H. Kurtz, a senior from friends of the university, are as a social studies teacher and New Orleans, and Richard J. being readied for shipment to the atbletics coach. Hunter, a senior from Belmar, newly-founded Rosebud In addition to these actions, Dr. N.J. Admissions counselor Dan Reservation College in South A.L. Soens, Jr., associate Saracino has visited the Rosebud Dakota. professor of English and long­Reservation to talk to prospec­
-The Rev.lvo Thomas, O.P., a time champion of the Indian tive students. 
as taught by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi
professor in Notre Dame's cause, has spearheaded a Also involved are Dr. Julian general program of liberal campus-wide program of concern Samora, professor of sociology; studies, and Dr. Frederick W. among students and faculty. Dr. Wayne F. Echelberger Jr., 
Introductory meeting 
Dow, professor of travel Soens reports that the univer­associate professor of civil Wed. Mar. 10 at 8:00PM management, will attend the sity's concern for Indian affairs engineering; Dr. Vincent P. 
1210'Shag.
dedication and an "education has been constant over the years DeSantis, chairman of the ND-SMC Academic Commission
pow-wow" this weekend at since the Potowatomie tribe department of history, and Dr. Rosebud, one of a series of occupied the land on which Notre Harvey A. Bender, professor of 
Students' International Meditation Society 
meetings designed to increase D~me now stand. There is biology. 

reservation educational capacities and to encourage outstanding students to seek advanced degrees so that they might become future teachers for their people. 
--The establishment of a marketing cooperative program for Indian craftsmen and providing an outlet for their headwork and other articles in South Bend, Chicugo, and other area communities. 
--A study of economic procedures by students of 
YACHTING SUMMER··· 


POSITIONS 
The American Yachting Associa tion with listings on the Eas Coast, West Coast, Gulf Area and the Great Lakes is solicitin 

Have you ever wanted a convenient Have you ever failed to make your Mter you mail the original card yo 

way to speak out to your elected and voice heard by written words because can keep a copy, send a copy to a for summer crew applicants. 
Positions are available fo appointed officials about an issue that you did not know where to send them? interested person or group, and use experienced as well as inexperi 
affects you? last copy to take advantage of an unusuaenced male and female colleg The National Response Directory National Response Service to which yostudents and graduates. Experi ence in cooking and child car 
may be particularly helpful. 
Crewing affords one the opportunity to earn reasonable sums while engaged in pleasant outdoor activity. 
To apply type a 1 pag resume followir:~g as closely a possible the form shown below. In April your resume will be edited, printed and sent to approximately 1500-2500 (depending on area) large craft owners. 
RESUME F,ORM-(1) name, address (homeland school), phone number, age; (2) relevant work or recreational experience; 
(3) 
dates available and area{s); 

(
4) 2 or more students wishing to work together, state name of other parties; (5) other informa­tion. 


Send your resume with $6 processing fee to: 
American Yachting Associatic 
Suite 50.3, 87 30 Sunset Blvd. 
Los Angeles, California 90069 
our resume must be received 
o later th~!JfMa[ (:,h 26, 1971. ' tuJ;!' 1 lr' 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students ,of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Have you ever wanted to make your tells you where. are entitled. views known about a consumer product or service at the time you had something The Directory contains many helpful If you have something to say-say it! 
to say-but found it too inconvenient? facts and several tips on how to be You'll feel better. an effective citizen through the use of ational Response Carbon Cards 
National Response Carbon Cards. provide the way. 
NATIONAL RESPONSE DIRECTORY AND CARBON CARDS 
P.O.  Box  337  
Mclean,  Virginia  22101  
D  I'd like to order your new NATIONAL RESPONSE DIRECTORY  NAME  
and  5  CARBON  CARD PACKS  
for  $3.50.  
D  Please send for $9.00.  3  complete  sets  ADDRESS  
D  Send 10 CARBON for $3.00.  CARD PACKS  CITY  STATE  ZIP  

Page 4 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday, March 10, 1971 


classification pending the decision of the Supreme Court., because he 
._..__________________________________rJI had applied as a selective conscientious objecter. 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
GlenS. CorSQ. Editor-in-Chief 
John E. Knorr. Executive Editor Bruce Rieck Busines:i Manager When once the itch of literature comes over a man, nothing can cure it but the scratching of a pen. --samuel Lover 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INOIANA 
Hopeful Signs 
The ambivilent committment by the administration exhibited in Rev. James Burtchaell's letter to Dr. Scott~ and, more importantly1 the partial recognitionthe University Provost has maae of the extent of the Umvers1ty's failure' to deal 
for its Black students are the first hopeful signs we have seen in regards to this 
problem. . Hiring eleven Black faculty members will go some way--though not nearly all the way, as Father Burtchaell himself admits--towards rectifying that failure. 
Black students, incubated in a Black environment and educated by .I:HacK mgn-­and secondary--school teachers, are often bewildered and even more often frustrated by the nearly all-white surroundings that made up Notre Dame. Since the faculty glut in all departments has guaranteed this University qualifiedfaculty in the race of its choice, there is no reason at all not to hire enough Black faculty to make the adjustment those students have to make a bit less difficult. 
Moire 

More important than the hiring of Black faculty members, however1 is the hiring of Black counselors. If thz transition from a primarily Black setting to a primarily White one is disturbing to Blacks,. it is doubly so when most important
More important than the hiring of BlacK faculty members, however) is the hiring of Black counselors. If thz transition from a primarily Black setting to a primarily White one is disturbing to Blacks, it is doubly so when the most im­portant emotional and experiential adjusters are unanimously White. Father Burtchaell, in his letter, revealed that the Dean Burke has made arrangementsfor a black Freshman Counselor to assume office next September. But if there is to be any increase in the number of Blacks admitted to this UniversityJ one Black Counselor will not be long adequate. We suggest three more be hired ror thz next 
school year.

Perhaps the most distressing part of the letter is Burtchaell's revelation that the University spent only $40,000.00 for scholarships. This low amount is thoroughly inconsistent with any attempt to make this campus a heterogenousinstitution. Itis true that the University 1s in the throes of monetary difficulty but there will be additional revenue garnered from this year's Cotton Bowl that can be used to suoolement this meae:er total. 
Fr. Burtchaell was also technically correct when he said that the issue of changing Black Studies from a :program into a major must be done by the College of Arts and Letters. There is httle question thou~h that if the Provost were to indicate clearly that such a move would enjoy his full support it would have a greater chance ofbein~ enacted. We strongly urge Fr. Burtchaell to make such a statement and make 1t quickly. 
Excellence 
Father Riehle's letter to SBP Dave Krashna and SBVP Mark Winings was an 
excellent one. Rather than engaging in cheap moralizing or drumming up a 
posse to apprehend the duo in the act of violating University rules, Fr. Riehle 
played by the rules and pitched the responsibility of enforcing the rules back to 
the students. 

Itwould have been easy for Riehle to instruct the Resident Assistant concerned 
to go to Wining's room and demand entry and if refused to ask the Hall Rector to 
unlock the door. 

His action clearly shows that he did not intend his remarks to be interpreted as 
general University policy, though theydld come oufthat way.
We congratulate Father Riehle for his finesse in hanaung the situation and for 
demonstrating clearly that he and the University do not expect resident 
assistants to invade the privacy of a man's room on suspicion of a violation of 
rules. 
Staff· 

Managing Editor: Bill Carter 
Editorial  Page  Editor:  T.C.  
Treanor  
Features  Editor: Dave  Lam­ 
mers  

Sports Editor: Terry Shields Assistant Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Steve Lazar News Editor: Ed Ellis 
My mind travels back many times to the political activity of last year, and the decision by the Court has sent me back again to past days that, it seems, may never return. Charlie McCarthy the ex­director of the non-violence program nad a graduate of Bosto~ College Law School, had poured his considerable energies into generating interest about conscientious objection. I can still hear him say in that Boston twang, "Does the state have the right to force a man to kill if he perceives that killing to be neither right, nor good, nor just?" He was adamant that selective conscientious objection was an inalienable right, and for Catholics who believed that a war must be just before they could rightly participate, selective conscientious objection was a duty. 
I can remember mimeographing 50,000 petitions that were taken to Washington, D.C. during the November Moratorium by Notre Dame students. I remember Dave Johnson and a bunch of non-political people taking petitions into the North Dining Hall, asking that students support a bill that Professors Bill Lours and Thomas Schaffer of the Law School had drawn up that would amend the Draft Law. And I recall some of the North Dining Hall students asking us if we were chickens, if we were afraid to fight for our country. Memories of let­ters typed to all the Senators and Congressman, and of the few weak­kneed replies, are especially painful. And the memory of Phil McKenna and an entourage of seniors traveling to Washington to visit their Congressmen in late spring is still vivid. 
Without trying to be sentimental, I am trying to show that a hell of a lot of personal effort from faculty and students at Notre Dame was expended last year. The just war tradition of the Catholic Church was never more discussed than last year, even by people that beleived that no war could ever be just. And I remember our departed brother, Gaetano DeSapio, talking about how if a person truly believed that kill_in_g Vietnamese was unjust, then that person must be willing to go to Jail as a consequence of those beliefs. 
To be honest about it, I don't think any of us ever believed that selective eonscientious objection would become a reality. We petitioned and organized and wrote letters mostly because of a sort of personal loyalty to Mr. McCarthy, and because we believed that there were enough people that objected to Vietnam in particular to make the effort worthwhile. 
So the effort was made at Notre Dame and around the country, and the effort failed. Eight men decided that the political necessity to draft men for war overruled the moral arguments. 
Mr. McCarthy, in what was perhaps a rash moment, said that if seleetive conscientious objection was not made a part of the draft law, he would leave the country. And the decision by the Supreme Court has further embedded my belief that men of conscience are exiles in any nation, but especially in a nation that cannot admit its own sins its own guilt. ' 
Once we realize that nations are largely based upon their ability to inflict pain upon the citizens of other nations, and upon its own citizens, should we give up resisting that evil as a hopeless fight? I don't know. Our battle to become moral men can be won, but our ef­forts to create a moral nation seem to be ultimately destined to failure. But just maybe that is not important. For this much I know: last year, in the acts of resistance to evil and injustice, we were men. No Supreme Court can destroy the common solitarity, the individual dignity, that was ours last year. Only our own indifference can destroy us, and I am afraid that it is precisely our present lethargy that makes us half-men. 
Letters to the Editor 
sincerity, their frien-dliness and Editor: their willingness to laugh, not 
I would just like to make a only at others but at themselves. short comment on Bob Webb's In these "modern". letter which appeared on .March "progressive" times, it is ·a 2, 1971. It concerns a group of genuine pleasure to see a group of second floor Dillon residents fellows with their feet on the known as the "Vikings." To ground instead of their heads in 
people like Mr. Webb, the Vikings the clouds. are simply a group which does In closing I would like to givenothing but contribute to the Dillon a "10" rating for living
"abject misery" in Dillon. But to conditions for the simple reason many others, including myself, that the Vikings will continue to the Vikings are a refreshing be there this year and next. And break from the so often hum so for Mr. Webb who seems to 
drum existence at Notre Dame (a enjoy peace and quiet, I invite major point in several SBP him to move over candidate platforms). to Sorin, which, for tranquility,
Although not a resident of runs a close second only to the 
Dillon I am personally cemetery. acquainted with several of the Thank you, Vikings and am always im­Kevin O'Neill pressed and encouraged by their 253 Sorin 
Issue Staff" 

Night Editor: Jim Graif Layout Design: Jim Farrington Headlines: .. Chris Sullivan Layout: Jim, Jim, Chris, Glen, Rick Controller of the night: rick smith 
])ave La~~ers****************** 
Memories "********************************** 
Fred Dedrick, the ex student body vice-president, may very possibly face prison because of the decision of the Supreme Court to disallow selective conscientious objection. Fred had received a C.O. 
Wednesday, March 10, 1971 
Page 5 
Steve Raymond 

•
Elevating the war 1n S.E. Asia 
After two years of the mandate by the 
American electorate, we can look back 
with satisfaction on the greatest 
distance we have traveled ... Winding 
down the war is my greatest 
satisfaction in foreign policy, failure to 
end it is my deepest disappointment. 
President Nixon 
February 24, 1971 

Many people who had become politically active last spring did not turn out to work for peace candidates in the fall elections. In a January telecast President Nixon explained that this showed that American youth were "satisfied that this Ad­ministration is sincerely trying to end the war." In the same way that Mr. Nixon has used the "Silent .Majority", students are today being told they agree to what most of us have lately been too busy to consider. As a member of the group to which the President refers, I am asking myself today if I am satisfied. 
I am not a Southeast Asian scholar, nor am I an expert in Political Science, yet as a human being and a reluctant citizen of America I feel compelled to try and find out if the President has in fact ''travelled a great dista~ce.".Being a ?it suspicious of allowed American bombing to be steadily increased to "protect the security of our troops." 
. The Administration has stepped up bombings of North Vietnam as well as Laos and Cambodia: 
"The United States continued widespread bombing raids today, sending more than 1000 planes into action against enemy forces in Laos and Cambodia. 
Some of the raids were.in support of two South Vietnamese operations in Cam­bodia. American planes also carried out heavy air strikes around Tchepone ... In addition, U.S. helicopters are flying thousands of support missions -armed cover, medical evacuation. and troop transportation. ~NY Times, Mr 8, '71) 
Devistating effects 
The effects of the bombings are 
devestating. In Laos, for example, where 
the U.S. has been steadily bombing the 
Ho Chi .Minh Trail complex since January 
1965, the last six months of 1970 saw the 
creation of one million new refugees (Tom 
.. Wicker N.y. Times). 
Followi'ng.Mr.Nixon's0ctober8thpeace 

recent Presidential rhetonc, I f~el I should initiative (which has been totally rejected 
check t? se~ as best I can ~hat IS actually happenmg m Southeast Asia. Has the war been "winding down?" 
Complex issues 

The issues admittedly are complex and allow for diverse interpretations, yet there is little doubt that the Indochina War is wider today than it was in the Spring of 1970. As ex-senator Eugene .McCarthy said two weeks ago at Harvard: · "The President has not escalated the war, he has elevated it!" Though Nixon has with­drawn 100,000 men since the Cambodian "incursion" at the same time he has by the North Vietnamese), the United States bombed Laos for sixteen con­secutive days. 
The results of the expanded activities into Laos which began on February 8th are totally supported by American ground troops as well as air power. Typical results of the increased bombing : 
"A South Vietnamese communique said that 5699 North Vietnamese soldiers had been killed since the Laos Invasion began. About a third of this number was at­tributed to United States air strikes." 
<N.Y. Times, Mr 8, 1970) Two points are relevant: bombs cannot tell the difference between soldiers and 

civilians, and second, the Ho Chi Minh network we are attacking is not simply a trail. The trail complex resembles America's Civil War Underground Railroad. Just as this was not really a railroad, neither is the Ho Chi Minh Trail 
simply a trail. It is rather a complex 
network made up of numerous varied 
.artieries, often leading from one peasant 
cave to another. What we must do to 
destroy the trail is to destroy everything 
living and livable in sight. Yet even if we 
manage to disrupt the supply line at a 
point 25-miles from the Vietnamese bor­
der, (this is the point which American­
supported South Vietnamese are currently 
occupying) it seems likely the trail will be 
moved farther westward, deeper into 
Laos. A fact, I might add, which is readily 
admitted by the U.S. Command in Saigon. 
Hard to believe 
Again as a layman, naive to the ways of 
politics and war, I would be anxious to 
know how the State Department can ex­
pect one to believe its statement on Laos, 
which opens: "This limited operation is 
not an enlargement of the war . . . (Feb. 
9th)", when we are given daily reports 
such as this one: 
"Tchepone (in Laos), long a target of 
'American air power has about a dozen 
buildings standing in rubble ... 'Don't 
know how we missed them,' said an Air 
Force officer." (NY Times, Feb. 14th) 
Or Contrast the Department's: 
position on the use of air power in Cam­
bodia: 
"Laird rejected a request from the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff to permit American tran­
sport planes and helicopters to help ferry 
ammunitions and South Vietnamese 
reinforcements to forces operating in deep 
Cambodia. The Chiefs argued that such use of aircraft was not specifically barred by either Nixon's pledge not to use either American ground troops or military ad­visers in Cambodia or by like prohibitions written into the supplemental aid bill. Secretary Laird reportedly feels such use would violate the spirit if not the letter of the ban on use of American troops in Cambodia."(NY Times, Jan. 14, 1971) 
Hard to believe 

The facts seem to crack one over the 
head. In the first place the use of American 
air power is seen to violate the Cooper­
Church Amendment, a Congressional 
attempt to limit the expansionary nature 
of the Indochina War. Yet two months 
later and at this very instant as we have 
already seen, U.S. bombers and 
helicopters are breaking the "spirit of the 
law," not only in Cambodia but in Laos. 
Clearly, the "mandate" to which J\.lr. 
Nixon referred in the opening quotation is 
not being served by an Indochina War that 
is larger today, not only in total activity 
but in American involvement, than it was 
in the spring of 1970. That a recent Gallup 
Poll shows 78 percent of the American 
people dissatisfied with Nixon's.conduct of 
the war leads me to think that the 
government's claim that the war is 
"winding down" is not believed by many 
Americans. Do you think that the war is 
WINDING DOWN? 
Franklin 1. Devine 

"Dark of the Moon" reviewed 

The Studio Theatre is a special place relatively free of many of the pressures of where the less experienced members of the "major" productions .. .including the the ND-S.MC are able to experiment with reviewer. techniques and styles. This isn't meant to Nevertheless, the Studio Theatre put make the Studio Theatre seem less im-together such an exuberant, such an ex­portant or less professional. In fact, some citing, such an entertaining show, that of the best productions of the last two Dark 'of the Moon deserves mention and seasons have been products of the Studio consideration. Theatre. Still, it should be a place This story of the doomed love affair of a 
r-::R=--o_r_y_"""H;;-o--;l~s-c-h=--e-r-----=-------_:_-----------4 
d ''J } '' 
Secon ugg er appears 
We want, firstly, to let you know that the winter edition of JUGGLER is finally out, on sale at thz bookstore and in the Huddle. I think that the quality of the poetry in high enough to make the magazine appealing to anyone, whether or not he has a special interest in literature. Then too, all of the work printed here has been done by people we know and have lived with. This cir­cumstance makes the poetry doubly im­portant. Here is one poem, by Vince Sherry, that is a special favorite of mine: 
AFTER SUICIDE for L.C. (1949-1970) 
No one saw you 
stumbling through the air, 
swollen angel; 
the searchlights lurched 
and bounced across the night them.
but you dropped between 
You always did. We only heard you. 
whatever gibberish it was skull
the cracked bell of your 
stuttered, into the flickerings. 
I thought I saw your soul 
rising out of the rubble of that body 
like an artifact God kept trying 
to stash into space. 
But you were too young for Him, 
you ~ere ~ bagful of brok?n promises. emptied mto the crowds rummagmg place.
How could you leave yourself that way'? 
I wanted to gather you up and take you home like a harvest. 
It is hard to say enough about the value of a poen like this, one that begins from the utter defeat of a suicide and manages, in the space of seven stanzas, to find hearty and strength in spite of what has occured. JUGGLER is able to present this poem and many other good ones, by Brian O'Neill, John Hessler, Steve Brion, John Stupp and many others, as well as a fine critical essay by Margaret Fogarty. In short, I think you ought to have this magazine: you will be glad for it. Secondly, everyone should be told about plans for the Spring edition. Although we've tried to publish as many different artists as possible in our first two num­bers, we have been restricted somewhat by a limited amount of space. {Then too, some poems are simply better than others, and the good new ones are often done by the same writers who did the good old ones.) But there are, surely, many person here who deserve to be published and have not been thus far. Therefore, the Spring edition will focus mainly on work by writers who have not appeared previously. The University Arts Council has generously offered to make extra money available, so there will be plenty of space. All we need now, of course, are poems, many poems, or anything else literary that you have in hand. Spring break will be a good time to get something ready, and if 
you can send it to us soon after you ~et back--PObox 583, Notre Dame-we'll have it in time. We are looking forward to 
it 

mortal and witch-boy lover brought a special excitement to the Washington Hall stage. It wasn't the most polished of productions, maybe purposely. It brought a primative basic story to life in a primative way. Director Charles Ballinger's special quality that a Grandma Moses painting portrays -an ideal im­pression for a mountain ballad steeped in the traditions and superstitions of the American experience. 
Maribeth Fencil's Barbara Allen was particularly remarkable. Her partdemand the gamuet of moods, from the ecstasy of love to the anguish of giving 
birth to a still-born creature, to the pain of death of a broken heart. She carried it off without strain, without unnecessary theatrics, yet with grace. Miss Fencil's delicate, clear singing voice will be an asset to the ND-8MC Theatre for another three years. 
Bob Urbanic created John, the witch­boy-turned-mortal with appropriate awk­wardness, unsure of himself as a newly made mortal. This constrasted sharply with his sure and supple dance sequence as a witch at the start of the production. 
Much of the music was provided by the team of Rick Homan and Paul Guernsey who strummed and picked the music of the mountain people. Their warmth both during the show, and in an informal per­formance before led the audience in and out of that area of our minds in which the American folk tales and superstitions lie dormant. 
Mark Skrabacz left his usual back-stage duties long enough to delight the audience as the foot stomping, Spirit and mountain dew-filled Preacher Haggker, 
The entire cast is a well-disciplined company. Their performance as an en­semble was reminiscent of The Hostage , earlier this season. The parts were brief, but consistently solid. 
John Colton's set of dark boxes and ramps, which became whatever was necessary, succeeded in drawing the minds of the audience into teh shadows of their own minds. 
Yet much of the credit for this out­standing production must go to director­acting coach Charles Ballinger. J\.lr. Ballinger's blocking set kept much of the mood. He succeeded in molding a relatively inexperienced group of actors into a competent ensemble. His use of the dance and group movement was striking. 
The production's life was brief. It won't do any good to urge you to see this show. Still, you might be encouraged to take a look at Studio Theatre Productions in the future. Even the audience seemed a little warmer and much more interested in the production rather than just the idea of seeing a play. The Studio Theatre can be an entertaining and interesting way to see what's happening in theatre. 

New Voice arrives 
The new Voice is finally out, and without 
doubt is was worth waiting for. The ar­ticles draw material from every facet of life here at Notre Dame, running from an insightful article dealing with coeducation which shows that besides those who are demanding coeducation, there are a few that are actually against it to an interview with a man who was cussed out by general Patton, struck out by Satchel Paige and is now the stalwart guardian of the Golden ­Dome. The layout and general con­struction of the magazine is unlike that of any publication printed here on campus. 
There are no bylines of any sort in-thz NNEW Voice; their philosophy is not to be voices, but a unified voice. Most articles were team produced with three to fokr staff members doing research and writing. It is a new publication trying to establish itself and it needs help. As the new Voice states in its Voice print attempting to define itself "It surpasses the pooled talents of all twenty-~me staff members. For you are the Voice if anyone is-the Notre Dame community." Buy the new Voice, give it a boost. It will be well worth your efforts. It will be on sale in the dining halls tonight. Get a copy. 
Wednesday, March 10,1971




I ·_Pa~g~-6-----------------------~ZM=~=~·~~====~
Soph. Literary Festival to focus on fiction, drama 
Gordone's play, No Place to be play To Be Young, Gifted and Somebody, merited him the 1970 Black, the autobiographical story Pulitzer Prize for drama, making of llhe black playwright Lorraine him the first black man to ever Hansberry. Miss Hansberry, who receive that award. As well as is perhaps best known for her speaking generally on black award-winning play, A Raisin in people and drama, Gordone is the Sun, died in 1865 at the age of expected to deliver monologues thirty -four. from his play while he is here. Observer Insight 
Also included in the Festival's ..Auong with the emphasis on events will be a production of the plays and playwrights, the Festival will also feature a drama critic, two nevelists and a film producer. 
Richard Gilman, former drama dritic of Commonweal and now Professor of Drama at Yale University will be the keynote speaker of the Festival, which traditionally is opened by a critic. Author of two books of criticism, The Confusion of Realms and Common and Uncommon Mask,s Mr. Gilman is described as one of the tope three drama critics in the nation. 
Heading the fiction writers appearing at the Festival is the novelist and short story writer John Hawkes. Hawkes, who is regarded by many as among the best of Americans now writing in the fictional genres, has been the recipient of a Guggenheim grant and a National Institute of Arts and Letters award in 1962. 

John Hawkes 

Among thz novels that Hawkes has produced are The Beetle Leg, The Cannibal, Thf.' Lime Twig and his latest work, Second Skin. He has published a book of short plays, The Innocent Party, and a collection of short fiction titled Lunar Landscapes. 
Hawkes books, as well as those of all the other participants in the Festival are currently available at the bookstore. 
Along with Hawkes, short story writer Leonard Michaels will also appear during the Festival. Michaels, a three time recipient of the O'Henry Short Story Award and honoree of the National In­stitute of Arts and Humanwities has published his stories in a number of American journals including Evergreen Review and Esquire. Presently he is teaching at Berkely and working on a novel. 
The final person currently scheduled to participate in the Festival is the actor and movie producer Tony Bill. Bill, who is a graduate of Notre Dame, has starred in the film Come Blow Your Horn with Frank Sinatra, and has also prod_uced a yet to be released film starring Alan Arkin. There is a good chance that Bill will show film clips along with his address. 
The exact dates and times of all the Festival's events have not been disclosed as of yet. 
by Ste¥e Lazar 
Featuring the voune: and 

active breed of British and American authors, playwrights and critics, this year's Sophomore Literary Festival will run for seven days starting on the first Sunday after the conclusion of spring break, March 28th. 
Among the featured per­sonalitires who will participate in the Festival, which this year concentrates mostly on drama, are British playwright Tom Stoppard, author of the play Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dea, and Pulitzer Prize winning playwright Charles Gordone, the promising young black playwright who was born and raised in Elkhart, Indiana. 

CLASSIFIED 

ADVERTISEMENTS Jbil in or come by Observer ojjice. For inforrmtion call 7471. 
TRY-OUTS 

ND-SMC Freshmen -NO Varsity Cheerleaders invite you to Ch eerieadertryo uts-Organiza­tional Meeting-6:3Q-Wed. March 1 Q-Beare's Crawe (B-P Base­ment. 
Leprechaun Tryouts-Are you under 5'5", a rah-rah, and inter­ested in being the N D mas­cot7-Come to Beare's Crawe (B-P, Basement)-6:30-Wed. March 10. 
SERVICES 

sreen-Phlllips Food Sales. Call in pizza orders before 11:00 pm. 1294 or 1705. 
Pick up at 11:30. Stop on your way.,home from the library. $1.25 Cheese $1.40 Mushroom $1.50 Pepperoni $1.65 Everything 
Crypt-New Hours 12:30--4:00 Now on Stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 Cat Stevens-Ten for Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection $3.1() 
Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 
Free taxi service available: limited to female aged 11-99. Phone Norwood or Evil, 1993 or 233-9508. Day or night (preferably night!) 
HOUSJ~JS 

To Be Married Student needs suitable Off-campus housing for 71-72 school year; Preferably furnished, Close to campus, and Reasonable 
Call Tom 282-2250 
Leave Message 
Responsible female grad student desparately in need of summer housing. Ideal person to maintain home during summer months. 
Call 7159 
WANTED 

ooking· for small, cheap (fully tocked7) refrigerator unit. Call ~cgoo 4614 
Wanted one roommate-Condi­
ions: must have full stereo ~ystem and television-have no girlfriend in Elmira, N.Y.-be Mean Joe Green fan-not have Zappa poster-be extremely gul­
ible. Advantages: learn keen card tricks, enjoy jags (on you), learn about neato Pittsburgh -Call 2106, Ask for "the Dude" 
Wanted 1951, 1952, 1953 DOME to fill collection. Call Tom Kirschner at Gen. Accounting 6262 or 234-3790 
~ r---------------------~1 
Wan ted: Anyone who can prove a tomato is a vegetable. Call 3348. 
Musicians  needed  for  
Established Group.  
Call  Bob  at  1760  

NEED Someone to share cheap hotel room in Bahamas over Break John 8208 
Men of all trades to North Slope, Alaska and the Yukon -around $2800 a month. For complete in­formation write to Job Research, P.O. Box 161, Stn. A, Toronto, Ont. ­Enclose $3.00 to cover cost 
LOST 
Lost : One Sony Cassette Tape Recorder in the front of LeMans Lobby, Wed. March 3 between 5: 15 and 
6:00 pm. If found it is imperative that it be returned. Reward offered. Rose 5254 
Red knitted scarf lost last weekend, possibly in Law Library. If found, call 3681 evenings. Reward. 
FOR SALE 
Time, Inc. 282-2250 Available at Studant Rates: Time, Life, Sports Illustrated, & Fortune Magazine. Call Tom, !82·2250. 
BIG DEAL: Rosignol Strato Skis, Nevada Look Bindings, Apollo Poles. Good Skiers Know. 8063 Nightly. 
A matched set of Ram Mike Hill golf clubs, aluminum shafts, 4 woods, 9 irons, a large bag and a putter. 1 season old, cost $360, asking $240. Call Mike at 1157, 262 Alumni. 
STEREO DISCOUNTS 
PIONEER SX-990  $239.95  
PIONEER SX-770  $199.00  
KOSS  PR0-4A  HEAD­ 

PHONES LIST $50 DIS. $34.95 ALSO DISCOUNTS ON OTHER EQUIPMENT 
TURNTABLES, TAPE RECORDERS, SPEAKERS, ETC. ALLOW 10-15 DAYS 
DELIVERY CALL MARK 1501 
Remington Electric Razor for sale ­Christmas present worth $35 -will sen for $20 ­Call Joe 8638 
For Sale: one pr. Rossignol Stratos, 207cm. Very good condition. Moving to Florida, must sell. Call8265 after 5:30. 
Comfortable turquoise Lazy-Boy. Reclines -only $25. Q89-4221 after 6. RIDES NEED RIDE to Newark, N.J. Area. Lou 1947.  
Ride to Boston, Hartford, NYC March 12 Call Bob 287-3008. Notice to ALL ND­SMC students: With Spring Break appraoching we would advise placing a classified ad if you plan to get a ride home. Try it-our readers outnumber the rider board patrons. The Advertising Staff  
Need ride to Dallas anytime after March 12 Will share expenses 1----'c""a~ll-6720 Rides needed to Pittsburgh for Spring Break Maureen 4285 Kathy 4459  
Ride to St. Louis­anytime -Don 3252 Ride needed to Boston March 12 -Will pay Mark -1863 1----· Ride wanted to Conn. or N.Y.C. after 3:00 pm Thurs. -Pete 1842  
Need 2 riders to Colorado skiing -Leave Thurs. -Call Rick 1877  
Need ride to Iowa -Des Moines, Ames area. Can leave Thurs. p.m. -Call John 1402  
Riders wanted south­preferably to Miami. One way or round trip. Call Dave 3286  
Riders wanted to Washington. Leave noon Friday. Call 6787 or 4105  
TEMPORARILY GROUN­DED JET-SETTERS NEED TRANSPORTATION TO FLORIDA (MIAMI'?). WILL SHARE DRIVING, EX­PENSES, AND CONGENIAL PERSONALITY. CALL RILES 232-1860.  
Ride desperately needed anywhere in Massachusetts. Leave Friday -Kevin 7955.  
Riders wanted: Leaving  
..... 1.00 .... 230 3AO 4.10 


* 1CLASSIFIED AD RAJES * 
...,.
1doy 
'"'" 
-
... ··-·"' Ul
1>10 1.00 UJJ 
n-15 ... 1.00 1.30 1.70 2.1. 
\""..___ .70 1.15 1.10 iAO .... 21·ZI ... 1.311 2.00 :uo ,.... 
31-30 1.20 1.90 .... .... ..,. 
1.36 ..1. 3.10 .... 1.10 
-
..,... Uii 2.30 .... ....
'"" 
..... 1M 2M 
Kelly Help! Room needs messed up. .fohn Henry 
GOOD RIDDANCE MARK WININGS! -Sponsored by Sand-Oak (Students at Notre Dame Organized Against Krap) 
mr. anarchy, BE HAPPY, birthday today! 
love, misorderly 
la, atanned tiger is just another stripeless cat. 
neer 
Barb, 
Good-bye, I'll miss you. Love Moondoggie 
Jo-D, Susie College and Valentine Freak are coming! Aren,t you 
thrilled?  •  
-Valentine  
should  have  known  

something was wrong when you said I looked good in the dark!! 
HOUSING ICONT.) 
Wanted to Rent House for Fall-Spring 1971-72. Single Woman SMC Faculty. Call AnnClark 4503. 
SERVICES (CONT.) 
PAINTING Student needs indoor painting jobs over break, and has had experience. Free estimates given. Steve li964 or during break 288-8403 
D A sweater was found at the Ali:Frazier showing at Morris Civic Auditorium last night 


OBSERVER 
NEWS MEETING 
March 15 for Miami; Call Jim -6777 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY 
'I-·-~~P-=E=-;;.~-'"'~=='O"'"'N"-"A=L=S___j All classes will be can­celled from March 13-23 in honor of the 20th Natal Anniversary of the 
6:30pm
GRAND DRAGON OF 
THE POLISH UN­

Room2D 
DERGROUND. Festivities 

laFortune 
begin on March 12. P.U. members and auxiliary ­
Paul Dziedzic-Grand Dragon, 

IMPORTANT!! 
0. Wroblewski, Luci Pearson, West Sides Finest, Richard Myslirvy Hunter, Barbara Strickland, Patty Polak, Tom 
Everybody be there
Caye, Theodore Hesgurghski, Chris M!:'cca. 
-----~--------, 
Page 7
Wednesday, March 10, 1971 THB OBWlfiBR. 
J. Collis Jones has two goals 

by Vic Dorr 
Observer Sportswriter 
When Collis Jones enrolled at Notre Dame, he had two goals in mind. He wanted to play basketball, of course; but he also wanted to get an education. And now, some four years later, the 6­7 senior has reached both of his goals. It is hard to tell, in fact, whether he attaches more im­portance to the weekend of May 23rd (when he will graduate along with the other members of the Class of '71) or to the weekend of March 13th (when the Notre Dame basketball team will play its opening game in the NCAA tournament.) 
Collis, if pressed, will probably admit that the upcoming tour­nament holds first priority with him right now. At the same time, though, he'll point out that he is at Notre Dame because of her academic reputation first, and because of her athletic program second. 
"The academic standards were 

the big reason for my coming 
here," he said, "but there were 
some other reasons, too. My 
parents liked Notre Dame, and of 
course the three of us (Collis, 
Austin Carr, and Sid Catlett) 
wanted to come to school together. 
"The three of them" were not exactly strangers when they arrived in South Bend in Sep­tember of 1967. They had played against each other for four years in the Washington, D.C. Catholic League, and they had played together on the D.C. playgrounds for nearly as long. It came as a surprise to no one, then, when the three talented players caught on immediately with the Irish basketball program. Carr developed into--well, he developed into Austin Carr. Catlett became primarily a rebounding threat, and Collis fit in somewhere between the two. 
He has fit in so well, though, that his high-caliber per­formances are often overlooked by those who would rather point to Carr's not shooting or to Catlett's flashy rebounding. And, despite the fact that his scoring 
(23.0) and rebounding 02.3) averages for this season alone cry for attention, Collis Jones wouldn't have it any other way. 
"All I want to do "he said "is be able to help th~'team. I don't really worry about scoring, and I think my rebounding is better this year because I'm more relaxed. Things are a lot easier 



The Irish Eye 

We were walking out of the Morris Civic Auditorium on Monday night and headed down LaSalle Street to the car. All of us were disgusted with the final results of The Fight.. Just as we neared the car Dave forlornly asked, "Are there no more heroes?" 
It was a fitting comment on the evening's action. Muhammed Ali, the self-proclaimed but unargued "greatest" up until Monday, had lost the biggest bout in the history of boxing. This was one for the hard hats, a moral and physical victory for the great silent majority. 
Before the fight I felt that this was just another heavyweight title fight, that everything was being blown out of proportion concerning Ali and what he symbolized. I was much mistaken, however. By ob­serving the audience I could tell that there very definitely was a symbol in the ring. ' 
The guy behind me may well have been a construction or factory worker and he was living and dying with each punch that Frazier threw or was hit with. Mter the decision, I saw a black student crying. It wasn. 'T JUST A CASE OF Joe Frazier beating Muhammed Ali. It was a case of another victory for the establishment and possibly in the long run, the beginning of the end for the sport of professional boxing. 
If this is so, it was a grand ending though. It was one of the most bizarre title fights ever. Both men taunted each other throughout the match. At various times in the match it didn't even seem that both were serious. Each man threw his best punches into the other with weemingly zero results. Ali shook his head when Frazier connected. Smokin' Joe laughed when Ali would land a combination. 
But even though it was a great fight, one that lived up to the weeks and months of hoopla preceding it, it could well be the end of the sport. Ali was the unbeatable fighter. He was a living legend. There was no other man in the history of boxing who could gain so much notoriety. He had become more than just an athlete. With his controversial refusal to enter the military he stood for something much greater than one man, which he was before that time. Although the greatest in­terest in him was shown only by boxing fans, there were uncountable people who felt haunted by the figure of Muhammad Ali. He had brought the dying sport of boxing back to life. 
Then came Joe Frazier. Frazier was not trying to be a symbol or standard bearer for anyone or anything except Joe Frazier. He was adopted by the public, however, as the man capable of destroying the Ali ghost. But Joe Frazier will never be known for anything more than simply a great boser. He is an athlete, nothing more. 
Some feel that a re-match is inevitable, that it will arouse even more interest. I doubt this very much. Even if both fighters consent to a re­match it can't possibly mean all that the first fight meant. 
The "Ali thing" is not the same as, say, Notre Dame football. The 
Irish can lose a game but come back with revenge to satisfy their fans 
such as the satisfying Cotton Bowl win. Ali can't do this. 
He made himself into the unbeatable fighter, the self-proclaimed 
greatest, and because of his defeat his constant talking leading up to a 
fight will be taken as only "mouthing off." It was apparent that Ali 
could have won this fight had he boxed in his own fashion but he 
wanted to prove to the world that he could beat Joe Frazier at 
Frazier's own game, slugging. Ali just wasn.t that good. He could have 
won and won easily by making Frazier chase him but he refused to do 
this. Instead he chose the road to defeat. But it was a glorious road. 
Maybe I,m wrong, maybe there will be even more interest in a re­
match. All I know is what i saw and heard after The Fight. 
On the drive back to campu Dave and I agreed that we would never 
pay six or ten dollars again to watch a closed-circuit telecast. Not that 
we felt robbed, far from it. That was a tremendous show. But like 
Dave asked, "Aretherenomoreheroes?" 

with John (Pleick) and Sid in there to help out. To me, it's all a team thing. I mean, personal glory is not what it's all about." 
Nevertheless, Jones has come in for a good deal of acclaim on several occasions this season. One such occasion, of course, was the UCLA game, in which he scored 19 points, grabbed 14 rebounds, and turned in a sparkling defensive job on the Bruin's Sidney Wicks. 
"I didn't think that was one of my better games. I didn't shoof real well ...and as for the defense on Wicks, we were just trying to keep him from going wild. We wanted to give him his points (he got 23) and shut down Patterson and Rowe." 
Collis feels that he played a much better game against Michigan State, but he does rate the UCLA encounter as one of the better team efforts of the year. "Of course the UCLA game was a good team effort, and maybe it was our best. But I think the team played a good game at Kentucky, too. It's hard to say just which one was the better game." 
But while there have been good 
games, there have also been 
disappointments. There have 
been losses where losses weren't 
expected, and the resulting 
criticism--both of coaches and 
players--has proved more than a 
little upsetting. 

"It gives us a feeling of in­
security to hear one of the 
players being booed when we're 
in front of a home crowd. And the 
individual himself doesn't ap­
preciate it either. Mter all, he is a 
member of the team." 
It's easy to see that Collis Jones 
is a man who appreciates the 
value of team play. And this is 
precisely why he refuses to take 
sides--one way or another--over 
the discontent that has centered 
around head coach Johnny Dee. 
"I guess people are entitled to their opinions," said Collis, "but I'm in no position to criticize. We've got this tournament coming up, and talk like this doesn't help the team one bit. So I wouldn't get involved in this business even if I wanted to. He is the coach, and as players we have to go out and do what he says. If we don't do what he says, and we lose, then it's our fault and not his." · 
What Collis left unsaid is that hopefully there will be no more losses, especially during the Midwest Regionals of the NCAA tournament. 
"We don't know anything about Texas Christian (ND's first­round opposition), or about the kind of ball that they play in the Southwest Conference, because we haven't received any scouting reports yet. But I can tell you this: we're looking forward to it." 
He didn't say "I'm looking forward to it," he said "We're looking forward to it." He was speaking, again, about the entire team, and from the tone of his voice, it was obvious that J. Collis Jones knew he was right. 
So maybe the upcoming tournament does rank first on his list of priorities. And if it does, wouldn't it seem only natural that the possibility of a pro career would be the next most important thing? To most people it would. But not to Collis Jones. 
"I'll play if I'm drafted," Collis said, "but I can't even begin to be concerned about that. I've got to graduate first." 



lnterhall all-stars selected 
by Stan Urankar 
Bernie Berry of league champion Pangborn and Tom Kemps of runner-up Flanner led the All-Interhall All-Star Team released by the Interhall Office yesterday. 
Joining Berry and Kemps as the five best players in the league are Willie Townsend of Fisher, Dale Mitchell of Alumni, and Joe Peterson of Stanford II. 
Berry, Townsend, and Mitchell 
·also earned berths on the All-· South Quad first team, along with Berry's teammate and the MVP in thz playoff series, Pete Far­batke, and perennual all-star, Dillon I's Mike Kirby. 
The second team for the South was led by Bob Singleton and Chuck Nightingale of last year's champs, Alumni I, Mike Townsend of Fisher, Sonny Frazier of Alumni II, and fresh­man John Arpin of Howard. 
The North Quad's first team had Kemps, Peterson, Fritz Hoefer of B-P, Earl Charles of Cavanaugh, and Tom McGraw of St. Edward. 
Second team from the North was led by Bob Bingle and Clark Keller of Stanford I, Tom O'Conneor of Stanford II, Pat Freeman of Grace IV, and Zahm I's Dick Reynolds. 
All-star squads were also selected for the individual leagues in Interhall. League One. had Mitchell, Nightingale, and Singleton from Alumni I, along with Brain Duncan of Lyons and! Mike Stella of Holy Cross. 
Phil Olson of Dillon I joined the two Townsends, Frazier, and Kirby on the League Two squad, while Berry, Farbatke, Arpin, 
Ron Hein of Howard, and Joe Farley. Butler of Badin led the League Jim Carr of Flanner joinedThree team. Kemps, Peterson, O'Connor, and 
Bob May of B-P and Jerry McGraw rounded out the 
Samaniege of Grace I joined selections with the League Six Charles, Hoefer, and Freeman on squad.the League Four squad. The Possibility of an all-star contest 
League Five team had Bingle, between tlie South and North Keller, REynolds, Larry Parker Quads is being considered for a of Keenan, and John Conlisk of later date. 
Net:rnen head west,_ 
Notre Dame's tennis team, the host team for the 1971 NCAA Championships, faces its most demanding schedule in recent years this spring starting with eight dual meets in Southern California, Athletic Director Ed <Moose) Krause announced today. 
The Irish netters, coached by 
veteran Tom Fallon, will play a 
total of 28 dual meets, including 
20 in the regualr season, while 
participating in three tour­
naments in addition to the NCAA 
meet. 
Following the spring trip to 
California, that starts March 13 
and includes a match with 
national power Southern 
California, the Notre Dame 
netmen return home for the Irish 
Indoor Invitational Tournament 
March 25-28. Florida, Michigan, 
Illinois and Indiana will also 
compete. 
Notre Dame will also face · seven Big Ten Schools, five on the 
home courts, and two Mid­
American Conference powers, 
Toledo and Western Michigan. 
Notre Dame also participates in 
the Huskie Invitational at Nor­
thern Illinois and the Central 
Collegiates in Muncie, Indiana. 
The NCAA Championships are scheduled for the Irish courts June 14-19, with all of the nation's leading teams and many of the best amateurs in the world competing. 
Cheerleaders 
All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's freshmen interested in becoming a cheerleader for fall of 1971 are asked to come to an organizational meeting this evening in the Baer's Crawe ( Breen-Phillips Basement). Also, any student under 5'5" who is interested in being the Leprechaun is asked to attend. 
If you are unable to attend the meeting or have any questions please , contact either Tom McGowan at 1294 or Missy McCrary at 4524 for futher in­formation. 

Sorry! 

The Observer wishes to apologize for· any inconvenience to students who tried to buy closed-circuit TV tickets for Monday' fight. It seems the advertising dept. made an error in the number of tickets available and the information in THE FIGHT was incorrect concernin~ student tickets. Sorry. 
Page 8 . 
Wednesday, March. 10, 1971 
STUDENT UNION-SENIOR CLASS TRIP 

Letters to the Editor 
NASSAU 

•Co-ed Committee structural, and academic. Others good support at SMC by students, favored the original philosophy of faculty, and administration. This 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Dear Editor: Fo r the committee--to incorporate St. simply is not ture. the last month, the "Committee M.ary's as a college structure of My conclusion is that the 75­for all those going on trip for Coeducation" had worked on the uniyersity whose singular page "Alternative to Park­a follow-up report to that of Park­purpose it would be to create and Mayhew" is precisely as it reads­
Wednesday, March 10 
Mayhew. The committee con­sustain an innovative and per­-submitted by the Notre Dame sisted of a multitude of persons manent alternative to the present Student Government. Compiledfrom both St. Mary's and Notre ND arts and letters curriculum of by many others (over 50 pages212 Computing Science Bldg. 
Dame, mostly students. March concentration disciplines. They are theirs in fact), but in the end, <Math Bldg. just south of 
4th, the 75-page final report fs.lt that for Notre Dame to reflecting the essentiallibrary) 
called "An Alternative to Park­simply "guarantee that the philosophy of the Notre DAme Mayhew" was presented to the College of Arts and Letters Student Government. Evidently

8:00P.M. 

Student Affairs Committee of the (would) introduce broader, more in this report, "the views Board of Trustees of Notre diiverse programs of study and presented there do not BUS SIGN-UPS ALSO AVAILABLE 
Dame. What happened at the not merely swallow St. Mary's" necessarily reflect the opinionsmeeting compels me to put my was neither solving the problem and attitudes" of all who con­


EUROPE $209 
PRESENTED BY STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL IN COOPERATION WITH NOTRE DAMPST· MARY'S STUDENT UNION 
~ 
FLIGHT NO. ROUTING DEPART 
CA SI 040 NY-LON-NY 6-21 TA SI 059 det-AM8-DET 6-16 
RETURN WEEKS PRICE 
8-31 9 $209 
$209
9

8-'l.'f-
Open only to Notre Dame-St. Mary.s students, Faculty, staff, & 
their immediate families. 
All non-stop jets Complete Meals Complimentary Drinks $50 Deposit Only Cancellation Privileges 
PHONE OR STOP IN: FIRST BANK TRAVEL BUREAU 
SI offers these services: Eurail, Britrail Passes Car Purchase, lease, rental Travellers Checks Variety of Mini-tours 
283-7080
ON CAMPUs-Next to Barber Shop 9 am-12 
feelings on paper--not only for the benefit of sorting out my own thoughts, but more importantly, to inform that HD-SMC com­munity of the nature of the report. 
1) Although prepared by members from both Notre Dame and St. Mary's, the cover page to the report states that the report was "submitted by Notre Dame Student Government" only. This attribution is incorrect for two reasons: First, it ignores the many St. Mary's students who put in an equal amount of time on the report's preparation up to the day of presentation. Secondly, it disregards the Notre Dame students who worked on the report not for student govern­ment, but simply as students moved to action by the issue of coeducution. I do not think either group imagined that the report was to be submitted by "Notre Dame Student Government" only. · 
2) The origimal steering committee of this report was divided after the February 13 meeting of the joint coordinating committee. Some favored a modification of the "Burtchaell Proposal", which completely merges the college and the university on all levels--social, 

Seeking a better clime 
for this vacation ???? 

STOP HERE FIRST: 
we must stop you before you get out of town! ...We have the warm weather things you're going to want.. .. short sleeve shirts, knits, walking shorts, beach wear, socks (if you need 'em), belts, flares, etc. etc. 
of merger in an educationally creative and contemporary way, nor did it seem to truly guarantee any face-lifting of the ND c111rriculum at all. (Something like the "guarantee" to un­tenured SMC faculty ... ) They fdt, in fact, that a face-lifting was not the question, but that a definite structure providing genuine undergraduate educatignal diversity was. 
At any rate, the former spent long hours last Wednesday night compiling the final collection of reports--and prefaced all with the first point of view on how the actual merger should be effected. The only mention of the latter points of view was a paragraph explaining that it had "no valid educational purpose." 
3) I commend the "Notre Dame Student Government" for presenting an alternative plan for merger, yet I strongly protest (as I had that Wednesday night) the fact that the nine independent student committee reports treating all aspectsof coeducation were presented along with the first-mentioned philosophy and merger plan as if aII members were in support of it. Quite the contrary. I think I speak for many members when I say that we had little idea that the reports were going to be presented as a unit in support of this specific merger proposal. 
Also in the verbal presentation to the Student Affairs Committee of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees last Thursday, it was said that this plan for merger had 
tributed. Unfortunately, that's · just the way it all turned out. 
Peace, 
Carol Henninger 

Co-Chairman of the Committee 
"for Coeducation 
.J.....: 
The Rifleman 
Dear Mr. Corso, 

I am writing concerning you 
editorial of Tuesday March 9. 
Again, the Rev. James Burt­
chaell was the target of your 
"splendid verbage." 

Repeatedly, Fr. Burtchaell has 
been the subject matter of much 
of your criticism. In the begin­
ning your editorial comments 
we're in part well founded. 
However, there is a growing 
undertone . in the editorials 
concerning the Provost. 

It appears Mr. Corso that your personal feelings are beginning to creep into your editorial opinions. It is obvious, at least to me, that you are not extremely fond of the Reverend. However, please leave your personal feelings to yourself in personal letters and stop the pot-shotting in the editorials. 
Sincerely, 
Scott Braley 


NEW JERSEY CLUB 
Nominations for 1972-73 officers will be accepted. If you would like to be an officer contact John 1754 by Friday 3-12. 


DONT READ THIS ... 
If you are NOT interested in 
-financial assistance -a chance to fly -an Air Force commission 
If yo'u are NOT a full time student, 
in BAD academic standing 
and physically UNFIT. 
then DON'T contact the 
Department of Aerospace Studies 
ROTC Bldg. 283-6635 283-6634 
The 2-year Air Force ROTC program is NOT FOR YOU! 
otherwise, give us a call. 








