

Mass desertion causes wea" laotian defense 
VIENTIANE, Laos (UPI) -Yang Pao's soldiers have fled the hold the position. Desertions and the absence of big base, 95 miles north of Vien­The Communist newspaper the commanding general from tiane, in the past several days. Pravda said Sunday the U.S. his headquarters at Long Chong They said Yang Pao himself has Central Intelligence Agency have caused a serious deteriora­been in Bangkok, Thailand, since (CIA) is commanding Laotian tion in the defense of north­the middle of last week, osten­special troops now fighting in eastern Laos, a Laotian govern­sibly seeking medical treatment Laos. 
ment official said yesterday. for one of his aides. "Agents of the CIA during the 
In the meantime, he said, No­The official said this was in­Vietnam war years built up be­tre Vietnamese troops have all terpreted as meaning the Com­tween 25,000 and 30,000 La­but surrounded Long Cheng and munists were prepared to seize otian special troops that are un­appear to be preparing a major all territory that formerly be­der the direct command of the attack against the base. It serves longed to the neutralist faction Cli\. Now the hirelings of the both as headquarters for the in northeastern Laos under the CIA play the key role against the Meo army of Gen. Yang lao and tripartite arrangement from the patriotic forces in Laos," a Prav­as a communications center for I 962 Geneva Accords. da commentary said . 
.the U.S. Central Intelligence A­The neutralists held a huge In Washington, Sen. Edward gency CIA. block of territory extending M. Kennedy, D.-Mass, accused SAIGON. The U.S. command ended the tightest news embargo of The official, who asked not to from Yang Vieng on High way I 3 the CIA of diverting half the the Indochina war Thursday to announce a 29,000 man allied drive be named, said about half of the north of Vientiane to Khang U.S. aid for refugees in Laos to 
in South Vietnam's northwestern corner bordering Laos. Meo civilians and "many of Kaha on the Plains of Jars. me·rcenaries fighting the Com­But some of the neutralists went munist Pathet Lao. over to the Communist Pathet Pravda said the United States Lao, laying the basis for the is trying "tofrustratethe political Communist claim to the entire settlement of the Laotian prob­neutralist holding. lem, to suppress through armed
SB gunslinger fined 
The official, who said that com bat the patriot forces and to he visited Long Cheng last Fri­extablish in Laos a regime thatroom and then walked out after this year said Pears. 

by Cliff Wintrode day, said Yang Pao apparently would be ·obedient to the Uni­
he discovered t.hat they had been left his headquarters after having
awakened. Brandt followed the Gattas said yesterday that ted States. 
A South Bend resident was a bitter argument with his Meo
intruder to a men's restroom and Jones was seen in Farley two Western newsmen were kept fined $1 84 in city court Friday asked him who he was whereup­weeks ago yesterday in the lob­officers over whether to defend at the border by South Vietnam­night after he pleaded guilty to on he pulled a gun on Brandt by early in the morning, but that the fortress or abandon it. The ese military police armed with charges of pointing a firearm at a and left the hall. although no one knew why he officers, according to this ac­M 16 rifles. 
Notre Dame student and trespas­was there, there count, said they wanted to with­At least 18 armored person­
A gas gun, which Pears said is was a constant 
sing in his room early Friday a legal weapon, was found on flow of people in and out the draw to the west and criticized nell carriers made the first cross­Yang Pao for accepting orders
morning. hall and no one questioned ing, UPI correspondent Kenneth
Jones when he was frisked dur­
DeWayne Jones, 22, of 1228 from the Laotian army and A­
h'nes. J. Brad dick reported from theing the arrest.
Washington Avenue, merican agents who want to
West was frontier.
Pears said Jones told the arres­arrested about 5:40a.m. Friday ting officer that he was on cam­morning by a security officer on pus seeking employment, butthe road behind Farley Hall with the earliness of the hour made 
Commission studies tenure
orders to arrest Jones on sight this excuse ridiculous. Pears add­on campus said Director of Se­ed that Jones has used this ex­curity Arthur Pears. 
cuse in the past when arrested. In preparing a supplement to sity Professors (AAUP) in order 
to offer a concrete timetable for Jones has two previous con­Brandt and Gattas, when noti~ the Park-Mayhew report the to find out "to what extent co-education in place of thevictions for trespassing on camp­

fied by the security office that a Co-Education Commission has Notre Dame and St. Mary's have "ambiguous" timetable of theus and Pears said that the only man fitting the description of created sub-committees to study followed the guidelines . ." Park-Mayhew report. 
way to keep him off the campus the intruder had been arrested the problems of tenure and de­According to a reliable source A second coeducation reportin the future is to warn him that 
went to the security office and gree accredidation. the committee contend is being compiled by 14 commit­musthe will be arrested if seen on identified Jones as the intruder. Ron Walro, head of the tenure with the distinct tenure policies tees organized by the Notre campus. 
s "We have been trying to get committee, said, "We don't of St. Mary's and Notre Dame, Dame-St. Mary's student govern­Walter Brandt and James Gat­Jones for weeks on weeks," said know precisely how tenure is examining a number of problems ment. Two of these committees, las, residents of 21 2 Farley, Pears. A man fitting Jones' de­granted." The committee is including discrepancies in wages. the Academic Regulations Com­complained to the security of­scription has been cited in stu­studying guidelines set by the It must study and propose solu­mittee and the Merged Depart­fice just prior to Jones' arrest dent complaints from other halls American Association of Univer-tions to "snags in merging regis­ments Committee, are coordinat­that a man had entered their 
trars and departments... The big ing the academic aspects of the crisis is still the identity of St. report. 
Mary's." The committees were original­
Advising the students on this ly chaired by Eric Andrus and committee are Dr. Michael Jack Candon, who later had to Hinkemeyer of St. Mary's and give up their posts because of 

Hesburgh answers queries in 
open discussion assembly 
Professor Paul Rathburn of "other committments to student ed to be going well until then," people arc looking fore some­Notre Dame and a member of government." They are now be­by Andy Mooney Hesburgh replied to a question thing else.'' .he said. the AAUP. ing run under the unofficial 
about the Cambodian invasiOn, Barney Gallagher, head of the leadership of Carol Henninger,
Finally, Hesburgh touched on 
Opinions concerning coeduca­"and his withdrawal of troops is the closure of the computer-sci­committee studying degrees and SMC student coordinator of the tion, the computing-science de­still proceeding well. But I think ence department stating that the accredidation said the prupose report. No new chairman has yet that he will have to pay more of this committee includes been named for the committee.
partment, campus unrest, and closing came as a reaction to the Nixon administration's for­attention to domestic affairs financial problems. However, "looking at the problems of According to Andrus, the eign policy were pitched at Uni­within the next one or two Hesburgh did say that new tea­what kind of degrees should be Academic Regulations versity President Father Theo­years." chers would be hired in each given and the troubles, if any, in Committee began its research by 
dore Hesburgh by off-campus According to Hesburgh, do­college, who, besides instructing getting accredidation." obtaining course catalogues from and St. 1oe Hall residents last mestic problems are in a college curricula, could also de­Gallagher noted that his com­both Notre Dame and St. week in an open discussion. "god-awful mess, and need more mittee. is dependent upon find­Mary's. The committee members
monstrate skill in computer 
Fr. Hesburgh began with ane­aid than the President is proba­ing.~ grom other groups. "Our then compared such things as
fields. 
dotes about St. Joe Hall, but bly willing to give, or perhaps Fr. Hesburgh spoke for a­hands are tied. We have to wait requirements for graduation and quickly asked for "frank" ques­even able to get," because of the for the overall picture," he said. credit hour loads.
bout 45 minutes to the St. 1oe 
tions. problems in Washington. The Co-Education Commis­They also searched for "dif­
residents, after which they broke 
Later, he commented that sion's Co-qrdinating Committee ferences in opinion" in academic
Reiterating his stand on co-for refreshments, and small . education Fr. Hesburgh said, "I "Civil Rights has slowed down group discussions. is scheduled to meet Saturday, regulations between the two February 13. The two sub-com­schools. As an example, Andrus
believe in co-education, and I to a walk or a crawl" from the 
I--------·----~will an all-school1
There be
hurried pace it had previously, mittees are trying to have out­cited the fact that SMC studentsbelieve that it will come, with 
lforum Tuesday February 9 at 71
the approval of the board and adding that this must be correct­lines of their studies prepared are charged a fee for adding or 
lp.m. in the Little Theatre fori 
for this meeting. The Co-Educ­dropping a class. He added thatthe two colleges. Naturally, we'll ed soon. 

ldiscussion of the Park-Mayhewl
have to work out a time-table Fr. Hesburgh then spoke of ation Commission plans to re­there are "a number of similari­
lreport on coeducation. All SMCI 
port to the Student General As­ties" in the two systems. 

and other matters before achiev­campus unrest, saying that peo­
ttudents, faculty and administral
ing the goal." ple were generally tired of vio­sembly and, ultimately, to the
1tors are encouraged to attt>nd. .I (Continued on Page 3)
"The president's policy seem-lence and fear. "I think that Board of Trustees. Its purpose is
·-----------­

THE OBS£RIJER. Monday, 1971
February 8, 


WITH MAX SHULMAN 
(By the author of Rally Round the Flag. Boys . .. Dobie Gillis . .. elc.) 

Everything you always wanted to know about college ... but were too classy to ask 
The other night when the little woman and I got home from our 
encounter group, I said to her, "Isn't it odd, my dear, that colleges 
still haven't tried non-verbal communication?" 

(Incidentally, the little woman I refer to is not, as you might 
think, my wife. My wife is far from a little woman. She is, in fact, 
nearly seven feet high and mantled with rippling muscle. She is a full­
blooded Chiricahua Apache and holds the world's shotput record­
908 feet. The little woman I refer to is someone we found crouching 
under the sofa when we rented our flat back in 1924. She has been with 
us ever since, although to be perfectly honest, she's really not much 
fun to have around. She never speaks except to make a sort of moist, 
gagging sound when she's hungry, and she'll often sneak up and tusk 
you while you're busy watching television. Still and all, with my wife 
away putting the shot most of the time, at least it gives me somebody 
to hack around with.) 

But I digress. "Isn't it odd, my dear," I said the other night to: 
the little woman, "that colleges still haven't tried non-verbal commu­
nication?" And it is odd. Why do teachers keep talking to students'! 
:;urely they've learned by now that talkJ:ng is no way to communicate. 
t's been proved over and over in encounter groups, T-groups, sensi­
.ivity groups and grope groups that people don't really, truly reach 
other people with language. How can they? Words, by their very na­
ture, are ambiguous and artificial and conceal more than they reveal. 
There is only one way to really, truly communicate with another hu­
:nan being, and that is to touch him and feel him. This is honest and 
natural and basic and beautiful and legal in some states. 

And yet teachers go right on talking. No wonder they get no feed­
back. Let us say, for example, that a teacher is trying to get a student ,to learn Boyle's law. Talk won't do it, not even if the teacher talks the whole semester long. But if one day he will simply and silently reach out and just hold the student for a minute or two, maybe even dance with him a little bit, he will find that the student has learned not only 
Boyle's law but probably the fox trot too. 

And what is more, the teacher will discover he has a new friend. 
No longer will student and teacher snarl and make cparse gestures 
when they see each other on campus. Instead they will run together, 
clasp and nuzzle, trade hats, and finally, without a word-for what do 
friends need with words?-repair to a nearby tavern for that friend­
liest of all ceremonies: the sharing of Miller High Life Beer. 

No beer binds a friendship the way Miller High Life does. I could tell you why if I wanted to. In fact, I could go on for hours about the glories of !-'1iller High Life. But I won't, for we all know, don't we, that language Is not the way to communicate? So here is all I will say: 
Get yourself a can or bottle of Miller (a keg if you are a very large person). Pour a glass for your friend, a glass for yourself. Link arms. Tie your neckties together. Drink. 
Can words describe the ,resultant euphoria, the enveloping one­ness, the ripening occlusion? No; words are useless. Just Miller and a friend; that's all you need to know. And if, by chance, you don't have a friend, get two Millers. You'll never walk alone. 
But I digress. Talking, as we have seen, is obsolete. And of course, writing is on its last legs too; in fact, I give the literature game another six months at the outside. Naturally, being a sort of writer, I'm a little sorry to see this happen, but on the other hand, I'm not really worried. The shotput game, thank Heaven, is better than ever, and I feel confi­dent my wife will always earn enough for me and the little woman. 
* * * 

The brewing game also looks healthy from where we sit, which is in Milwaukee, from whose storied environs we have been bringing you Miller High Life, the Champagne ofBeers, for more than 115 flavorful years. Try some; you'll see why. 
The Observer is published-daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the 

Lost: dark brown wallet 
University of Notre Dame and St. 

R:eWdrd, Contact David Mayer
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The 
337 B-P 1333 Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 





Reorganization marks Alumni Board meeting 
. 
A partial reorganization and a change in election procedures were among the achievements of the Alumni Board at its winter meeting which concluded Satur­day. The Board also considered other issues involving the alum­ni, the administration, and the student body. 
The theme of the meeting, according to James Cooney, Ex­ecutive Secretary of the Alumni Association, was "introspection" of the alumni, a "look at who we are, what our role is, where we are going, and what we should do in I 0 years that we aren't doing now." This was in keeping with the suggestion made by Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, University President, at the beginning of the first semes­ter that this be a year of "con­solidation." 
One of the most vital accom­plishments of the meeting, ac­cording to Cooney, was a re­vision of Board election pro­cedures. The Boar<!__s:aw a need to gain some younger members, since, at present, there is no representative from a class that has graduated since 1957, Cooney said. At the next elec­tion a representativ'e of a class that has graduated within the 

Apollo alters path 
SPACE CENTER' Houston (UPI) -Apollo 14's astronauts, their spaceship crammed with rocks that could be part of the moon's primitive cnJst, trimmed their course yesterday to line themselves up for a Pacific O­cean splashdown near the Inter­national Dateline. 
Depending upon which side of the Dateline they land, the end of their $400 million mission techni-cally could come either tomorrow or Wednesday. But whichever side it is, it will be midmorning in the South Pacific and about 4:05p.m.. EST tomor­row. 
The men who will fish the astronauts from tht: warm, four mile deep waters of the Pacific, near Pago Pago made their final practice recovery Y'~sterday and all was reported in readiness. 

Sendlyour lovebundle outr 'LoveBundle:T
M 


Usually available Sll SO* 
• 

What better word than "Love"? 
What better way to say it than with the 
"LoveBundle"? 

A special Valentine's bouquet, with a lift-out 
LoveBug corsage to wear on Valentine's Day. 
Order it to arrive early. Because it's designed to 
stretch Valentine's Day into a whole week. 
Why squeeze your love into one day? 
Available only at an FTD florist. At a special price. 
Send the FlD 11Love8undle" for Valentine's week. 
*As an independ•ent businessman, each FTD Member Florist sets his own rices. 
last 5 years will be chosen along with the 5 regional representa­tives. This at-large member will hopefully bring a fresh dimen­sion to the Board which has lacked youth. This scarcity re­suited because younger memhers were "not visible in normal channels" and thus were not nominated, Cooney said. 
A progress report on the alumni's role in recruitment was presented. 
The state of the SUMMA fund raising program, which is one year from completion, was studied at the meeting. This 5 year capital campaigning fund has been run in conjunction with the annual alumni fund, which was formerly the single most important channel and will re­turn to its number one position as "SUMMA's sun sets," ac­cording to Cooney. 
A progress report on the alunmi recruitment role was pre­sented. Intra-alumni affairs, such as class vs. hall identity and future alumni seminars in the vein of continuing education, were also of concern. 
Thereportonannexationwas in keeping with the informa­tiona! aspect of the Board meet­ing. The alumni were reminded ot 
Generally clear skies and gentle sea swells of three to six feet are expected at the time of touch­down. 
Mission commander Alan B. Shepard and his two copilots, Edga r D. Mitchell and Stuart A. Roosa, enjoyed a hard earned restful day in space yesterday. They ran some oxygen supply tests related to future space­walks in lunar oribt and arranged to hold a news conference bile hurling horne at 4000 MPH this evening. 
Ground controllers said the three space fliers would spend 30 minutes before their televi­siQn camera today answering re­porters' questions relayed to them by ground controllers. 
News of the day was read to the astronauts yesterday, and one item contained quote from the commissions working on the feasibility and "dollars and cents" of co-education. The 47,000 alumni nationwide will be polled for their reactions to the Park-Mayhew Report, with the results to be presented at the Board of Trustees meeting in early March, added Cooney. 
One of the final activities of the Board was to visit with rnem hers of the Athletic Depart­ment, which provides the best contact between university .and alumni, Cooney said. "The guy in Seattle," suggested Cooney, "hears more about his university when Notre Dame beats UCLA," than in its academic or social accomplishments. 

Shepard's golf pro to the effect 
that Shepard has a good swing, 
and could be a good golfer if he 
worked at it. The observation 
was prompted by the now fa­
mous golf shot Shepard made 
before leaving the moon. 
"The only way AI can keep 
his arm straight though is to 
wear the space suit and that gets 
cumbersome on the golf 
course," Mitchelljoked. 
The Apollo astronauts have 
I09 pounds of moon rocks load­
ed aboard their spaceship, and 
scientists are hopeful some of 
them may be fossil chunks of 
the primitive lunar crust. 

If so, the rocks would be a · billion years older than those returned by other Apollo crews. This would help fill in a miss­ing chapter in the geological 
history of the universe. 
The astronauts had difficulty 
finding room for all their lunar 
treasure and long after ground 
controllers thought they had 
bedded down Saturday night, 
they were still busy stowing the 
rocks away. 
"We'd thought you'd all gone 
to sleep up there," astronaut 
chief Deke Slayton said. 
"Yeah, we're working on 
that," Roosa said, "but we did­
n't have any place to sleep. 
We're inundated So, we've been 
trying to get things IIi some sort 
of order." 
The astronauts were awakened 
at I 0:45a.m. EST yesterday and 
reported they were "feeling 
great" despite a restive night's 
sleep in the cramped quarters. 
In addition to the moon 
rocks, the astronauts also had to 
find room for an 80 pound 
docking mechanism that once 
proved troublesome. 
Normally, the probe is jetti­
soned, but experts want to in­
spect it and correct any flaws so 
future flights will not be similar­
ly trpubled. 
The probe is stowed beneath 
one of the astronauts' seats and 
lashed down with a 100 foot 
(Continued on Page 8) 

Monday, February 8, 1971 711E OBSERVER. Page 3 

Co-Ed Cominission form committees 
(Continued from Page 1) 
Having analyzed the various categories, including some not found in the catalogues, the com!Tiittee has begun to '·'outline the policy of the two schools." 
The Merged Departments Committee has been sharing goals similar to those of the Academic Committee. Currently they are concentrating on the departments that could eventual­ly merge when the colleges be­come coed. 
Candon said his committee is 
"studying the feasibilitY of merging where there are comple­mentary departments on both sides of the road." He also point­ed out that in some areas Notre Dame and Saint Mary's "stress different types of education." 
Referring to the Park-Mayhew 
Report, Candon felt that there may have been a "misunderatinding" in the pur­pose of the report on campus. He said it was supposed to "give direction" and that "it wasn't 
designed to give details." 
"I thought it would be more specific" Candon said, He evalu­ated it as "mediocre at best." 
After all of the committees have organized the report it will be presented at a student assem­
bly  later  this  month,  and  will  
also  be  taken  to  the  Trustees  
meeting in Florida.  

Candon feels that "the stu­dent assembly will be of para· mount importance" and that the coed supplementary report"must have student sup­port to bring to the Trustees." 
Ecology course 
offered at I U 
Five members of the faculty of Indiana University at South Bend will offer a lS-week, non­credit course on "Man and His Environment" during the spring · semester. The course is an offer­ing of the IUSB Program of Continuing Education. 
The· course will be presented from 8: 1S-9:4S p.m. on Mon­days, starting February 8. It will attempt to put current questions :1bout the ecology of our planet ir to scientific and social perspec­tive. 
Dr. Earl J. Savage, chairman or the lUSB Department of Bio­logy, will serve as co-ordinator of the course. He will introduce the lectury ~eri,es on Feb. 8 with a discussion of. "the Nature of Man; Man.'s Piace on Earth, and How Man. H(J.s Changed His En­
•:ironment." Other topics, lecturers, and dates are: 
"What Is Ecology; Food Chains," by Dr. Romt:sh C. Mehra, assistant professor of bio­logy, Feb. IS. 
"Relationships between Or­ganisms," by Dr. Thomas Joseph, assistant professor of biology, Feb. 22. 
"Human Reproduction; Sex Education," by Dr. Savage, March l. 
''Population Problems and Population Control," by Dr. Savage, March 8. 
"Food Production," by E. Thomas Hibbs, biology labora­tory supervisor, March IS. 
"Pollution Problems I," by Hibbs, March 22. 
"Pollution Problems II," by Hibbs, March 29. 
"Man, D1sea~e, and Medicine: Past and Future," by Dr. Joseph, April 12. 
SUAC presents 
Will Herberg 
Will Herberg, Graduate Profes­sOr of• Philosophy and Culture at Drew 'University, will speak at 8 p.mi 'tomorrow night in Carroll Hall a~ St.·Mary's College. Her­berg is a rroted author on social philosophy, theology, and cul­tural matters, and has written numerous books and mono­graphs on a variety of subjects. 
The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame -St. Mary's : Academic Commission, and ad-· mission is free. 
"Environmental  Effects  on  
Early  Development,"  by  Dr.  
Joseph, April 19.  

"Genetics and Man's Future, 1," by Dr. Mehra, April 26. "Genetics and Man's Future, II," by Dr. Mehra, Mav 3. 
"The Brain," by Dr. Sandra Winicure, assistant professor of biology, May 10. 
"Stress and the Nervous System," by Dr. Winicur, May 17. 
"Drugs," by Dr. Winicur, May 24. 
Registration for the course may be accomplished in person or by telephone at the Office of Continuing Education, IUSB, Room l OJ, Greenlawn Hall. 
Today is the final day for registration, with the office open from 8 a.m. to noon, 1-S p.m. and 6-9 p.m. 
fYiw 
~w 


!Yiffan!l 

/}Jette~ 

........ ver1oo years invented "The Ti Setting" for engag rings which has beet\. ···· standard ever since. •.0 3.1 
~-·:·'·'···.,0

Now, in addition, we introduce the ?~i' "New Tiffany Setting" J 
designed by Donald Claflin. .Rings start at $295. 



nFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Design Copyrighted 1971, T.&Co. 
"If this is to be a good, factual 
report,  we  must  have  student  
backing."  
According  to  Carol  Hennin­ 

ger, there are about 80 people now working on it, with the aid of about 20 administrators and faculty members. Both Andrus and Cahdon stressed the need for full student participation in this effort, and added that it is not just a student government project. 
The two students involved in proposals handling co-ed housing, James Thunder and Michael George, are confident that co-education living conditions will become a reality by the fall of '71. 
Jim Thunder, co-author of the Thunder-C'onway report, sees his proposal as both feasible and practical. The displaced students from Stanford, said Thunder, can be absorbed into Keenan, and with solely women in Stanford, a separate living situation will definitely exist. Both these aspect<; should carry weight with Board of Trustees consideration of the plan at their March meeting in Florida. 
Thunder sees as a major question the SMC reaction to the exchange, To realize a more 
definite stand, he plans to 

Escape to Acapulco for a full week of super sun and top notch night life. Visit the tequila factory and other famous Acapulco nightclubs. *Escape International will take you to Acapulco any. Saturday from February 27 to April10. 
Your package inc;ludes: e Round trip air transportation to Acapulco, Mexico. 
e Transfers  between  Acapulco  International  Airport  and  the  Del  
Monte Hotel.  
e Seven  days and  nights accom'modations  at  the Del  Monte  Hotel  
overlooking Acapulco.  

e A fiesta from arrival to departure -.a. welcome party, water skiing, 
3·hour cruise of the bay with native music and an open authentic Mexican bar. 
e Tips and taxes on services are also provided. 
Membership in Escape International Air Travel Club required ... six months dues just $12.50. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 


CAll TOll FR££ COllECT (324) 731 J933 


ESCAPE INTERNATIONAL I THE TRIP CLUB 
dsso1,1ss the proposal with Stanford-Keenan residents tomorrow. 
The final form of the Flan:ner Academic Commission report of co-ed housing will be ready by this Friday, according to George. 
George's main objective is to "get to the people that make the decisions" with the Flanner proposal. 
He feels that an exchange with Flanner will prove "very beneficial" for SMC. St. Mary~s the Flanner Commission reveal than an exchange with Regina Hall can be realized. 

"The University has already admitted that the question of co-education now is how far and how soon," said George. "Co-exchange was a logical step -this is the next logical step." 
George would like to either send representatives to the March meeting, or make information available for queries received from the trustees. 
The Flanner report will also 

' 
~"',
Eric Andrus 
be submitted at the Trustee's meeting in Key Biscayne. The Commission forsees questions arising from the trustees at the 


Redu.ction 
What the Notre Dame College of Arts and Letters needs, apparently, is a good five 
cent Professor. Failing that, they will need to somehow streamline their operation. 
The Arts and Letters budget is being cut,.and there is a good possibility it will be cut 
again next year. 
The most immediate consequence will be a cutback in the faculty, further 
impairing the all-important student-teacher ratio. This consequence, of course, 
appeals neither to the student, who would be part of that new student-teacher 
ratio, nor to the teacher, who might not be part of that new ratio. A good student ­
teacher ratio often motivates serious and intelligent high school seniors to choose a 
college; add a grosser ratio to the present depraved coinstitutional system and the 
calibre of student applicants would in all probability decrease notably. Obviously, 
then, Notre Dame's best choice is to make this move a temporary one. 
The realm of permanent moves, otherwise, known as solutions, is, however, 
unfortunately limited. One solution which appeals to a lot of people -· particularly 
Arts and Letters Majors -involves taking money away from the Engineering and 
Science departments (where the amount of money spent per student is 
disproportionately high) and pouring it into Arts and Letters. Unfortunately, any 
sustained cutback in the Science programs will cripple those programs far worse than 
the proposed Arts and Letters programs, for the need for Professors in the Sciences 
is as great as it is in Arts and letters, and there is additional demand for Laboratory 
and Research facilities in Science. So, despite the Elysiac promise of budget 
relocations, the program would be quite impracticable. 
Nonetheless, the problem remains: how to reverse the ominous trend in the College of Arts and Letters towards unpleasantly high student-teacher ratio? The answer, painful always, is staring us all in the face. It is to reduce the number of students in the College of Arts and Letters until the student-faculty ratio is once again both financially supportable and scholastically respectable. 
Two things must be done before the number of students in the College can be reduced to an acceptable level: the University must be resolved to be more selective in its A&L Freshman admittance, and the College of Arts and Letters itself must be more willing to block the admittance of those people who are intellectually unable to succeed in the other departments. 
Let's face it, half a semester of Emil T. drives a lot of Engineering Freshmen into the noble and glorious pursuit of the Christian Aesthetic. Rather than automatically accepting the refugees from all the other departments, the College of Arts and Letters ought to consider applications to their department as though those applying were transfer students -that is to say, the College of Arts and Letters ought to reject most of them. The action, supplemented by a corresponding rise in the College's admission standards, should raise the calibre of the average student,which should encourage good Professors to come here, while at the same time improving the student faculty ratio, which would not only encourage good Professors to come h~re but good students to apply as well. The subsequent improvement in the quality of the department will encourage alumni who are interested in the school's Academic reputation to contribute more money,thereby negating the loss of money the University might s_uffer by the loss of immediate. tuition. (Since the University act~~ly l~ses money, m the e11d on each student, it is a short-range loss indeed.) In addttiOn, tf the decrease in A&L students is not accompanied by an increase in other students, the move might do quite a bit towards alleviating the housing problem. 
Sometimes the best solution is neither the most obvious nor the most pleasant solution. But since the University has decided to reduce its losses and its aspirations, and most importantly, its budget. might as well reduce its student body as well. 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter  Sports Editor: Terry Shields  Night Editor: Don Ruane  
News Editor: Ed Ellis  Campus Editor: Steve Lazar  Headlines: Jim Roe  
Editoria.l Page Editor: T.C. Treanor  Advertising Manager: Bill Bauerle  Layout: Joe Abell, Glen Corso  
Features Editor: Dave Lammers  Vari-typer: Bill Clemency  Controller of the Night: rick smith  

Monday, February 8, 1971 


~·· 
Imagine that suddenly by some unknown meth_od Y~>U were totally deprived of all your physical senses. In a state hke thts, where you could not see anything, nor he~.r any sound.~, no.~ tas~;· smell or feel the touch of any object, your personality or self would be thrown back into the remoter caves of your deeper consciousness. Not being able to perceive anything from the physical world you would be more or less "lost" in an unfamiliar and potentially 
terrifying dimension. 
This new dimension would necessarily exclude some of the more familiar dimensions within which we ordinarily live our lives. The dimension of space, for example, being physical, would automatical­
ly be eliminated from this new state. The dimension of time, ti would seem though, may not be so readily excluded. Just what the nature of time is is hard to say obviously, and usually we would not think of it as something physical. But despite the nature of time, our perception of it seems to be distindly physical. We measure it t!wrugh our senses; for example, when the sun comes up there is light and when the sun goes down there is darkness; our eyes perceive this phenomenal shift and our mind, reflecting on it, concludes that time has passed. Our ears, too, help us perceive the passage of time: the varied rhythms and melodies of music let us know as they themselves are changing that there is a change in the time element. Similar examples can be cited for taste and touch and smell, but the point is that in every case we perceive time only by the changes in physical states. Whatever time itself is, we can know it only as it passes. 
It would be interesting to ponder what would happen if time, like 
any other dimension, were suddenly to collapse. If space collapsed, 
for example, everything would suddenly become two dimensional, 
and for once (at last!) we'd all be up against the same wall. If, on the 
other hand, time collapsed, everyone and everything that ever 
existed would all be present at once. This situation would be just as 
sticky as the last one but invariably more fun. The creation and 
destruction of the earth would take place at the same instant, and all 
of us would be both born and dead at the same time. And yes, we 
finally could have our cake and eat it too. 
Being humans and being aberrant creatures by our very nature, we 
sometimes stumble upon instances in which the dimension of time 
really does seem to collapse, at least partially. Most persons have had 
at least one experience about which they remark afterward, 
"everything happened at once." And likewise nearly everyone has 
had the deja vu experience in which he gets the feeling that 
somehow "this has already happened before." This may well be an 
illusion, but so may everything, including our perception of these 
words now as we read them. Such questions are bummers however. 
To get back to the original example now, it would seem that being deprived of all our senses would be a rather timeless experience. Possibly it could be compared to the state of sleep in which the notion of time is either very distorted or is lost altogether But sleep would be a significantly different experience. For one thing, the physical senses, though reduced, would not be lost entirely. Another difference is that in sleep the conscious mind is willfully seeking the relief of being subordinated to the unconscious, but in the hypothetical case we have put ourselves into the process would be just the opposite --the unconscious mind would seek to regain equilibrium by making contact with the physical world. Thus in this second case the experience of time is the thing for which we're searching, whereas in sleep it is one of the things we're trying to forget. 
Now the point which is trying to come out here is that time, like space, is an abstraction by which we orient our physical and mental lives. But the paradox of this conclusion is that when we are deprived of our ordinary physical and mental capacities time and space seemingly disappear too. Thus maybe our physical lives are the abstractions and time and space are the only true realities. Perhaps it would help us out of this dilemma if we pondered in our spare time the antithesis of what we have examined here--in other words, what happens when time is too much with us. 
S~ve lazar-----------­
Time 

--------------------· 
Monday, February 8, 1971 
GOODTIME 
WAS HAD BY ALL 
As I have explained before (perhaps we'd better make that "as I have opined before") there are groups and there are bands. Add now, to these categories, a third, which we will call by the name of act--The Supremes is an act. 
An act is something that just got back from playing the Royal Bux in New York or The Thunderbird in Las Vegas or some other place similarly glittery. It comes with about IS or 16 middle-aged musi­cians in tuxedos, a couple of trunks full of shiny costumes, a small box of sheet music. and a number of full-fledged stars. 
More and more in the past few years, acts have been coming out of Detroit, home of Berry Gordy, Smokey Robinson, and the Billboard-revered "Motown sound." As the Motown record industry started to suffer from over-exposure, its people began to abandon the famous Detroit studios and took to the nights spots where people spend big money and come to see a big show. 
The transition required a few small adjustments. For one thing, the most 

The Supremes in the ACC
basic success factor in the Motown sound, 
the Detroit studios, could be brought tentious, no, and it was refreshing and along. Also, some of the bass=beat=mu· fun to watch. You see, The Supremes give sicc punch had to be toned down, and a you a show. Not truth, not peace, not a few Bacharach tunes had to be added to force to unify soul and body and bring us the repertoire as a concession to "give me :o a realization of the awareness that is something I know and make it syrupy" 
necessary if we are to live meaningful and

nightclub patrons. For the most part, 
relevant lives in the midst of an opprcs­

though, the slickly-choreographed and 
sive capitalistic society, but a show, pure

highly visual Motown acts were just about 
and simple. Some music, some glitter,

perfect for the club scene, where what 
some dance, and just the right touch of 

you see is about 90% of what you get. schmaltz. And so the legend goes, The Temptations, The Four Tops, and most notably The Personally, I think the show could have Supremes went the club route, and in a been a little better. Being caught up in big way. the spirit of this show thing and all, I Now to get a little closer to the point, would've liked to hear a few more of tht: The Supremes gave a concert here the big hits and a little more oomph in the other day. To add another point, it was band. And Diana Ross would have been a nice. I mean, I had a good time, and it nice touch, especially when you consider was evident that most of the other people that what she's doing now isn't a bit there did too. Now it's hard to say different than what she did then, except exactly why, but I'm thinking the reason that now she doesn't have split the is, because this type of thing is so money three ways. But it all doesn't unpretentious. Ostentatious, yes, but pre-matter that much. For me, the nice thing 
was seeing those girls on the stage all smile and glitter and knowing that they probably can't stand to sit next to each other on the plane. Or watching them leave the stage, count ten, and prance right back on for another phony encore. 
h' h f f 1
0 r watc mg t at group o ormer y un­
d d' h
employe stu 10 musicians, w o were
C F' r' f 45
perf~ctly happy to play -" or minutes and collect their checks on the way out. 
What I mean is, look: the whole thing was nothing more than a show· The Supremes knew it, the audience knew it, ­and what makes it gooQ was, they knew that we knew it, and they didn't give a damn, and neither did I. 
Music can be art, but it doesn't have to be. Rock music rarely makes it, but alot of the time (lately, must of the time) it will do its best to fool you into believing otherwise. Well, The Supremes weren't trying to fool anybody, and a good time was had by all. 
Dennis Wall -------------------------------------­
·----------·------We shaII never f0 rget 
DAC'HAU' GERMAN FEDERAL RE­PUBLIC --The train stops at a small station in Germany This village is like so many others that line the tracks from Munich to the north. Yet this place is imprinted on histor's pages. A quarter of a century ago, thousands of people had Dachau as their destination, though they did not wish to come here They were the unwilling victims of man's most brutal arrogance. 
A bus-trip today completes the "pilgri­mage" to what was their destination so long ago. As I walk from the bus-stop, I can see children playing soccer on what was, twenty-five years ago, an excercise field. Another hundred yards and I walk through the entrance of a massive wall, flanked by two white washed guard tow­ers. This is the Dachau Concentration Camp. On the inside of the wall is a moat, with barbed wire fences on the far bank. I enter the first building I see, then admini­strative offices, today a museum. The exhibits of the museum are graphic, poignant and detailed. Inmates in their seemingly God-forsaken wretchedness and jailors in their inhumanity are shown, and the story of this camp is told, fron; the very beginning to the end. 
The photograph in this exhibit that most struck me was one portraying an American Army Medical Corpsman, the picture having been taken on the day of the camp's "liberation from terror." The Corpsman is standing amid a pile of corpses, corpses whose facial expressions show only too clearly that they did not die naturally. Their emaciated, broken bodies tell the same story. The Corps-man's own facial expression serves as a summation for the entire Dachau experi­ence: I hope never again to see such a look of horror, anguish and futility upon a man's face. He was struck dumb by the horrible reali1.ation of what had happened here, and by his own inability to do anything about it. He was here then, I am here now -and yet there is still a horrible realization that comes with experiencing Dachau. The last exhibit in the museum is a quote from Santayana: "Those who do not remember the past are condemned to repeat it." 
I leave the museum now and walk the road that the prisoners here tread so many times. On my way to the prisoner's quarters I pass a monument. It says, in five languages, "Never Again." Someone has placed a flower on the top. The prisoner's rooms are small and tidy. They 
were originally built to serve 52 inmates per room, every two rooms sharing one wash-room and one lavatory. However, when the Reich expanded, the number of people here followed suit, although the "accomodations" available for them did not. 
Tri-decker beds, originally one per person, gave way by the end of the war to triple-tiered arrangements of boards, sleeping as many people as it was possible to squeeze onto them. I leave this build­ing and travel the "main street" to the gas chambers. Never used hear at Dachau, and covered with rust, they are neverthe­less frightening. 
Even more so are their bloody neigh­bors, the ovens . I do not wish to go into 

detail about wha~ h~ppened here. 1 d J 
not need t?. Suffice It to say that at least justified the higher price by syaing that to 31,951 pnsoners ~ere m~rdered here -ring up a pack of gum on the register where 1 am standmg. (It 1s known only t . t h ·f th h h d 
. . cos s JUS as muc as 1 e pure ase a 
that at least 31,951 pnsoners d1ed here; b f fi d ll d th t th · 
that is all there are records for.) Behind een or lVe ~ ars, an a ere IS. a me another figure is standing -a stature very small margm to be made on gum, m of one of these nameless martyrs. "His" any case. 
Page 5 
•

Price IS rightl 
What this University needs is a good five-cent pack of chewing-gum. And, by all rights,, students at N.D. ought to be able to get it at the Huddle candy counter. However, even though the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co. did not increase its wholesale pr;ces when all its major com­petitors decided to raise theirs, the retail price of the Wrigley's five-stick, "five-cent" pack of gum at the Huddle candy counter went up to seven cents along with all the others, and remains at this price. 
Several months ago, Mr. Ernest Ferro, in charge of the Huddle's operation, was shown a quarter-page newspaper ad run by the Wrigley Co. In this ad, Wrigley's told gum-buyers that if they were paying more for Wrigley's gum now than they used to, they really shouldn't be, since Wrigley's wholesale price had not gone up. Mr. Ferro's only comment was that nowhere in the ad were the prices "0.5" and "0.7" specifically mentioned -­therefore the ad must have been about dealers who were charging ten cents for a pack of gum. The issue died for lack of evidence. 
An article in this week's Time mag­azine reopened the subject, as did a little research. On page 79 of the Time dated February 8 is an article about the rising prices at candy counters. Within the article is this sentence: "Chicago's Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co., the largest chewing-gum maker, is one of the few producers to have kept the price of its basic five-stick pack at a nickel." 
Another article brought into light be­cause of this one was in the August 20, 1970, edition of the Wall Street Journal (on microfilm at the library), page one, column five: "Wrigley Co., the Chicago chewing-gum maker, tries a bit of jaw­boning. It runs ads in 540 newspapers to tell consumers it held the line when competitors raised prices in June. Wrigley says it has increased the wholesale price on its five-stick pack once in half a century (in 1960, to three cents from 
2.75 cents)." 
Mr. Edmund T. Price, director of Food Service, explained the price increase as a result of the fact that the Food Service had simply "grouped all brands of gum together, instead of differentiating," ap-
Jarently because it was easier that way. 
le also said that the Food Service does 

ndced pay as low as three cents a pack or gum, and high· as 4.4 cents, depending on the brand and from which wholesaler 
the gum is obtained. Mr. Price also 
inscription reads as he himself would seem to be saying: "This is a reminder to the living of the honor of these dead." 
The lesson of Dachau, as I see it, is this: noone has a monopoly on opinion. Neither members of government nor "sim pie citizens" have the right to deny any other man his views; no man has the right to claim priorities on judgement. Men may disagree, they may fight and. argue and indulge their passions; this may even be the nature of the world as it is now constituted. It is when men try, overcome by their prideful arrogance, to go one step further, to go beyond these moral limits, that brutality rules the world. If there are those in our own society who seek to portray their own 
opinions as the only opinions, if there are those who choose to deny the rationality that is common to all men, then I would ask them to visit Dachau. Whether they be vice-presidents or housewives or stu­dents, they must Jearn the lesson of this place. So must we all. There is a sign on the Jewish Memorial that reads: "We shall never forget." Neither will I. Let us all, for ourselves and or our children, resolve that this shall happen "never again." 
The "small Margin" the Food Service is making on Wrigley's gum certainly should appeal to many other businessmen who 
are not in the gum game. The "small 
margin"  beiug  enjoyed  by  the  Food  
Service  is  as  much  as  133%  of  the  
wholesale price.  
As  a  monopoly,  the  Food  Service  

should show some sense of fair play in this matter, and allow the student to purchase the bargain brand --if he chooses. 
fee floe peril 
WILLIAMSPORT, Ind. (UPI -Twc Purdue University students were safe Sun· day after escaping possible death on the ice floes in the Wabash River Saturday night.. 
One student, William McGowan, 24, managed to leap onto an island, police said. McGowan was admitted to a hospi­tal here for observation. 
Police found his com.panion, Michael Witacre, 2~ was further downstream. 
The police report did not state what explanations the two men gave for being on the river. 


Page 6 THE OBSERUER Monday, February 8, 1971 
It was a great day for Irish 
by Jim Donaldson Observer Sportswriter "It was a great moment for Notre Dame hockey," said Irish 

r coach Lefty Smith, his face wreathed in smiles, as he sat in his office at the ACC minutes after his hustling, young skaters had upset the Denver Pioneers 4-2 Saturday night and snapped Denver's 12-garne unbeaten streak. Freshman winger Ian Williams scored three goals, registering the first hat trick of the season 
goalie Dick Tornasoni played an outstanding game in the nets to lead the Irish to victory. 
"I was very, very pleased with everyone," Smith commented after the upset. "Beating a club of Denver's caliber is a big ac­complishment." 
Denver coach Murray Arm­strong added his words of praise after Notre Dame's victory, say­ing, "They played well and de­served to win." 
The triumph gave Notre Dame a split of their weekend series edged the Irish in an exciting game Friday night, 4-3. Notre Dame is now 9-11-1 for the year, 5-l 0-1 against WCHA clubs, while Denver is 15-7-1 on the season. 

Both teams played tough de­fense in the first period Saturday and it wasn't until the last min­ute of the session that the scoring ice was broken. With Denver a man short because of a tripping penalty, the Irish tallied the first goal of the game when John Noble, taking a pass from 
upper left hand corner of the net 
from 30 feet out. The Irish led 
1-0 at the period stop. 
Notre Dame wasted no time 
in getting their second marker 
on the scoreboard as Williams 
notched his first goal of the 
game in the first minute of the 
second period. Denver goalie 
John McWilliam had gone be­
hind fhe net to clear the puck 
and ran into heavy traffic on his 
way back into the nets. While 
McWilliam was fighting to get 
back in position, Eddie Bum­
bacco gained possession of the 
puck behind the cage and passed 
out front to Williams who easily 
put the disc into the net. 
Vic Venasky cut the Notre 
Dame lead to 2-1 at the I0: 00 
minute mark in the second stan­
za when he fired a I 2-footer 
past Tomasoni. The period 
ended with the Irish on top, 2-1. 
Both clubs ran into penalty 
problems . early in the third' 
period and it was on a power 
play that the Irish registered 
their third goal. With the Pio­
rteers two men short, Bill Green 
skated over the blue line and 
into the corner to the right of 
the net. Green whipped a pass 
from there to Williams, breaking 
in toward the goal, and Williams 
lit the red light on a I 0-foot shot 
2:51 into the period. 
Less than a minute later Den­ver sprung Rick Bragnalo loose on a breakaway and he headed in alone on Tomasoni. Steve Curry came up quickly for the Irish and hooked Bragnalo from behind, although the Pioneer did manage to get off a shot, which Tomasoni turned aside. The of­ficial, instead of merely sending Curry to the penalty hox, awarded Bragnalo a penalty shot. The record crowd of 4222 was on its feet as Bragnalo took the puck at the blue line and 
skated in on Tomasoni. He faked, shot, and Tomasoni made a great save. The fans roared their approval at Tomasoni's clutch stop. 
Denver kept pressuring the Irish, however, and tallied their second goal on a power play at 
7:09. A Pioneer shot had bounced off Tomasoni's pads in front of the net where Green tried to cover the disc, but it rolled loose and Rob Palmer fired it home from 15 feet out. 
Williams pil:ked up his hat trick, and the final goal of the. night, 9:02 into the period, banging in the rebound of a shot by Bumbacco. 
Denver went all out in an attempt to tie the game, even pulling their goalie in favor of a sixth skater for the final I: 05 of 
··­
Eddie Bumbacco scored Friday night in a losing effort. 
the game but Tornasoni stopped 
everything that came his way 
and protected the victory. 

Tomasoni made 42 saves in 
the game, 20 in the last period, 
and a number of them were 
spectacular. 

Coach Smith was full of praise for Tomasoni after the game, saying that "Dick had a fantas­tic game." ' Ian Williams echoed Smith's remarks, commenting, "I was pretty happy to get the hat trick but Dickie kept us in the game. Everybody just played fantastic." 
The Irish played good hockey Friday night but Pioneer net­minder McWilliam proved to be ti1e difference in that game as he turned aside a number of Irish scoring opportunities. 
Although Notre Dame put on most of the pressure in the first period of Friday's game, it was the Pioneers who got the first goal. Chris Cathcart, who played goal for the Irish, made a good stop on a shot hy Bragnalo midway through the opening stanza but the rebound went out to Palmer who, with Cathcart still on the ice, easily flipped the puck into the net. 
The Pioneers moved out to a 3-0 advantage in the second period, scoring two goals in 29 seconds early in the stanza. Brag­nalo rammed home a power play goal at 3:30 for Denver and Palmer scored his second goal with 3:59 gone. 
The Irish kept hustling though, and their efforts paid off at the 4:51 mark when Larry Israelson took a pass from Kevin Hoene, on a 2-on-1 break, faked McWilliam to the ice and slipped the puck into the net. 
Eddie Burnbacco made it a 3-2 game 8: 18 into the period, pumping in a rebound of a long slap shot by Noble. 
The turning point of the con­test carne at 11:24 when Mike Christie tallied a short-handed goal for the Pioneers, firing home a 20-footer. 
Noble brought the Irish within one again, 4-3, at 4:54 in the third period, when he picked up the puck among a crowd of players in front of the net and put it past McWilliam. 
The Irish just couldn't tie it up, although they carne close in the final minute of play. A Denver penalty at 18:36 gave the Irish a man advantage and Coach Smith pulled Cathcart to put in a sixth skater, giving the Irish two more skaters than Den­ver, with 59 seconds to ~ hut McWilliams came up with three fine saves to preserve the win for the Pioneers. 


Austin Carr tossed in 38 points, and the team shot 67% in the second half as Notre Dame defeated Creighton 102-91 Sat­urday in the ACC. 
Sid Catlett and Collis Jones added 21 points apiece in the offensive battle which was pol­luted by 43 turnovers. Cyril Baptiste of Creighton scored 31 points and tied Catlett for high man in rebounds with 19. 
Sid was the hero for the Irish Saturday. Despite five turnovers and a couple of shots that missed the marl.c completely, Sid put forth his best effort of the season. Pulling down bounds, tipping, ball handling, shooting, everything: Sid did it Saturday. He was I 0 for 17 from the floor ( 5 for 7 in the second half), made his only free throw attempt, had three assists, and amazingly, committed only one foul. Aided by Collis Jones' 11 rebounds, Sid kept Baptiste from controlling the boards. 
But Baptiste showed why he is considered an All-American candidate. The 6-9 junior hit 12 of 18 field goal attempts and converted 7 of 8 from the line. He leaped high in the air for 19 rebounds, even though his ag­gressiveness was hindered by foul trouble. He got his third with 1 I: 03 remaining in the first half and fourth with 16:22left in the game, but managed not to foul out. 
The game was tight for the 
first eight minutes, but ND went 
on a 4Y2 minute spree that open­
ed the gap from 15-14 to 33-19. 
With 3:20 left in the half the 
Irish still held a 14 point edge, 
39-25, but two technical fouls and three straighr turnovers al­lowed Creighton to net I 0 quick points and close the gap to 41-35 at halftime. 
The first technical was called on Tom Sinn0tt who was called on a foul. Then, 30 seconds later, Creighton seemed to be kkking the ball down the court and nothing was called. The ref heard something and called the Ton Johnny Dee. 
With three minutes gone in. the second half, Creighton pulled to within two points But the Irish kept a small lead until another scoring spree started with eleven minutes to go. The lead was stretched from 66-60 to 79-63. Then, with a little over two minutes remaining the Irish led 93-75 and Dee began sub­bing. The lead expanded to 98-77 before Creighton's frantic press began causing trouble for the second string. The Bluejays outscored ND 14-4 in the last two minutes, but ran out of time with the score 1 02-91. 
It was a sloppily played game with much fumbling and errant passing. However, the shooting was often excellent, as Notre Dame hit 53% and Creighton 45%. Creighton converted 73% of their free throw attempts, and the Irish made good on 67%. 
Austin Carr hit 15 for 23 
from the floor and 8 of 11 from 
the line. He was 8 for 9 the 
second half, six of which· were 
right around the basket: fast 
breaks, drives, tip-ins, and fol­
low-ups. He hauled in seven re­
bounds, all in the first half. 
Collis Jones was 9 for 21 from 
the floor and pulled down 11 
rebounds, even though he sat 
out almost half the game be­
cause of foul trouble. 
Jackie Meehan only had one 

);. 
l:;; 

Johnny Dee extends the "glad hand" to Collis Jones for another great performance, 21 points! point, but he totaled an incred-' ruso and John Taylor, hit for 18 The Irish host Butler this ible 17 assists and had six re-and 17 points respectively, and evening at 8:00 with a frosh bounds. sub AI Lewis chipped in 13 for prelim at 5:45. Creighton's guards, Mike Ca-the Bluejays. 
CREIGHTONNOTRE DAME 

FG FT REB PTS Carr 15-23 8-11• 7 38 Caruso 7-17 4-5 2 18 Meehan 0-1 1-2 6 1 Taylor 7-18 3-4 0 17 Pleick 4-5 1-3 3 9 Baptiste 12-18 7-8 19 31 Jones 9-21 3-3 11 21 Bresnahan 3-5 2-3 2 8 Catlett 10-17 1-1 19 21 Bazelides 2-6 0-1 0 4 Sinnott 1-5 0-0 3 2 Ellefson 0-3 0-0 0 4 Gemmell 3-6 0-1 3 6 Lewis 5-13 3-5 4 13 Egart 0-1 0-0 0 0 R. Baptiste 0-0 0-0 0 0 Regelean 1-2 0-0 2 2 Team 8 Silinski 1-2 0-0 0 2 -----------------------------
Hinga 0-0 0-0 0 0 TOTAL 36-80 19-26 35 91 
Team 8 
TOTAL 44-83 14-21 66 102 CU had 18 turnovers.
ND had 25 turnovers. 

CU shot45%.
ND shot 53% 

Sloppy frosh are beaten 
by Joe Passia tore the Leprechauns, O'Connor re­Notre Dame was John Shumate Observer Sportswriter plied, "Put it this way, it didn't who was held at bay by Creigh­Some costly turnovers and an help us. I don't think it cost us 
ton's Ted Wuebben. Coach O'Connor reasoned that Shu­

overall lacklustre performance the game though. Maybe Bob sent the Notre Dame freshmen could have handled the pressure mate was the victim of a let­basketball team down to defeat up front a little better and cut down after a superb perfor­Saturday, 90-76, compliments of down on our number of turn­mance 'against Marquette. Shu­Creighton's unbeaten freshmen. overs, but 1 didn't want to run mate, for the most part, was The Irish were guilty of a hor­the risk of playing him while he restricted to long jumpers rendous 31 turnovers, and were wasn't at full strength." against Creighton. He finished 7 lacking the aggressive rebound­Midway through the first half of 16 from the field along with 2 
ing game that had been evident the game was fairly even with free throws and 11 rebounds. in their past few performances. the lead exchanging hands. With Steady Gary Novak turned in Coach Tom O'Connor Summed 6:02left, Notre Dame led 33-32. the team's best effort as he· up the game by saying,"It was a This was the last time the Irish produced 25 points and I I re­disappointing performance. I felt were to be on the long end of bounds. we had been playing very well the score all afternoon as a Creighton, meanwhile, moved up until this game. The past nagging press by Creighton and well against Notre Dame and 
couple of weeks we had worked the Leprechauns inability to get placed five men in double figures 
together and had kind of the good shot resulted in a 47-39 in the scoring department. 
reached a certain plateau. To halftime lead for the Bluejays. "Creighton showed a lot of poise 
play well and get beaten is one By intermission Notre Dame had against us and they tried to 
thing, but when we play ragged committed eighteen turnovers to 
outquick us, which I guess they and lose, that's another." only five for Creighton. did," admitted O'Connor. The 
One factor that weighed The second period was more Bluejays frequently drove the heavily in the outcome of the of the same as Creighton domi­baseline on the Irish and scored game was the absence of Notre nated the boards while Notre lay-ups on numerous occasions. Dame guard Bob Valibus. Vali­Dame was unsuccessful in its O'Connor and his team will be 
looking to regain their impres­bus, the man who makes things futile efforts to penetrate the 

go in the frosh offense, was Creighton defense. The Irish of­sive form of the pre-Creighton 
nursing a swollen knee and was fense consisted, at times, of days, when along with a recu­
witheld from the game by everyone standing around and perated Bob Valibus they en­
O'Connor. When asked to what taking turns at firing up long counter the Butler freshmen to­degree the loss of Valibus hurt jumpers. Notably ineffective for night at 6:00p.m. 

WILMINGTON, N.C. -Gunshot victim Harvey Cumber, a 1:1iddle-aged white, is carried into the hospital here. Cumber was apparently killed by a black sniper as he walked down the street in an area beset by racial violence for 4 days. (UPI) 
Bayh, McCarthy thinking about '72 
TEL AVIV (UPI) -Senator Birch Bayh, 0-Ind., said Sunday he was giving "serious considera­tion" to joining the race for the 
U.S presidency in 1972. 
He made the comment after touring a Negev Kibbutl. and the Weizmann Institute on the first complete day of a four-day fact finding visit to Israel. 
In reply to a newsman's ques­tion as to whether he was seek­ing the Democratic party nomin­ation for 1972, he said, "No, but I'm seriously considering it." 
"I'm going to spend the next two months touring the country talking to the opinion takers to determine if there is enough support for this effort." 
Bayh said the Unitd States sho•:ld continue supporting ls­r".el with economic and military aid. He reasserted his opposition to the latest Egyptian proposals and said it would be wrong for the Big Four to attempt to impose a Middle East peace set­tlement. 
"Any settlement that doesn't have the approval of the parties involved -ih this case the Arabs and the Israelis -is doomed to failure in the final analysis," he said. 
At about the same time, half way across the globe, former Minnesota Senator Eugene J. McCarthy Sunday declined to spell out his presidential plans but did not rule out another bid for the presidency in 1972. 
"I haven't said that I wouldn't be a candidate for the Democrat­
ic party," McCarthy said. "I 
expect to live until 1972." 
The 1968 presidential peace 
candidate made the remarks dur­
ing a meeting in New York New 
Democratic Coalition, an organ­
ization of reform and liberal Democratic groups in the state. 
McCarthy also commented 
that the manned space program 
was "too expensive for its limit­
ed gains," adding that the only 
difference between the Apollo 
14 mission now underway and 
the two other moon missions 
was ''those two lost golf balls," a 
reference to Capt. Alan B. Shep­
ard's playing with two golf balls 
on the moon Saturday. 

THE OBSERifJER. Monday, February 8, 1971 
•

Man !killed •1n race r1ots 
WILMINGTON. N.C. (UP!) Rat:ial violence flared anew in Wilmington yesterday when a white man was slain by a sniper in a troubled black neighbor­hood. Cov. Bob St:otl ordered National Guard units into at:­tion. 
Sporadi<.· sniper fire echoed around the black sections of this tense seaport town again Sunday after the situation appeared to have calmed down. Police re­ported trading gunfire with snip­ers in residcn~.:es ncar downtown Wilmington. 
Authorities said a white man, identified as Harvey Cum her, was driving his pick up truck through a black neighborhood when he was shot in the head. He was the second person to die in the four day old di~tur­ces. A teen-aged sniper, armed with a shotgun, was killed by a polit:eman Saturday night. 
David Murray, an aide to 
Scott, said the number of 
guardsmen to he deployed in 
Wilmington would be decided 
later yesterday. State Adjutant 
(;en. Fcre Davis rushed to Wil­
mington to take charge. 
Trouble erupted Thursday in 
the wake of a dispute by young 
blacks who issued a series of 
demands to school officials. 
The situation approached its peak Saturday night with gunfire and fire hom bings. Several per­sons were injured and one po­lit:eman was shot in the leg. 
Officers rushed to a white­owned grocery store which was set on fire for the fourth time. While guarding firemen, oen of the policemen shot an·d killed Gib Corbett, a 17 year old black youth, who was armed with a shotgun. Poli~.:e Chief E. William­son said there was "no question" but that the shooting was justi-
Tornado hits Pensacola 
persons for mostly minor mjur­GULF BREEZE', Fla. (UP!)­
ies from the tornado and sher­A "Small but devest at ing" torna­iff's officers said at least thatdo swept over Pensacola Bay many more were hurt but didbefore dawn Sunday aTJd ripped not require hospital care.
into this Gulf Coast resort town, destroying an apartment com­At least 65 of the apartments 
plex and injuring more than I00 
were destroyed. Many cars in the persons. 
complex's parking lot were pick­Miraculously, no one was kill­ed up like toys and hurled into a ed. pile. Glass, roofing, pieces of Three hospitals in the area furniture and other debris litter­
reported they had treated 51 ed the white sand beach. 
RA receives concussion 

Two victimized at festivities 
by Don Ruane 
A resident assistant at St. Edwards Hall received a concussion Saturday night and a friend had two cigarettes crush­ed out on his forehead when they were attacked inside Stepan 
•Center during the Mardi Gras. 
Chuck DeMonaco was admitt­ed to St. Joseph's Hospital last night after being treated at the infirmary. He was taken to the hospital by a friend, Joe Gagli­ardi of Howard Hall. 
Gagliardi said DeMonaco and Chuch Jackson of 127 Howard were with dates at the festival when a ou numberin five or 
The Carnival 

more approached. One member of the gang put his har.d on DeMonaco's date and he told him to remove it. The hand was removed and when the man put it back a shoving match ensued. DeMonaco was struck on the forehead by another member of the group and Jat:kson was shoved around by three others while trying to help. At this point two cigarettes were crush­·ed out ,on the side of his head. 
DeMonaco immediately re­ported the incident to a security guard at the front of Stepan Center. According to Gagliardi, the guard told him he couldn't 

Is Open Tonight! 
7:00 to 12:00 

(Those wflo have not yet redeemed their SOL 0 r1ffle books for their admission button may do so at the Carnival. OtheR will pay 25 cenu per night ta be admitted or $1.00 
-~·--..............-a_ 
aco to see a guard at the rear of the building. The guard at the rear told DeMonaco to go to the front of the center. 
Saturday afternoon DeMon­aco fell sick and went ot the infirmary. A nurse there suspect­ed a concussion and suggested he go to the hospital. Gagliardi took IJemonaco to the hospital. 
fiahle. 

The trouble stemmed from 
the dismissal of more than a 
dozen blat:ks from the city's two 
high schools after they disrupted 
dasscs to back demands for 
black studies and other conces­
sions, including making Dr. Mar­
tin Luther King's birthday a 
holiday. 
Apollo 
(Continued from Page 1) 

rope which Shepard and Mitchell saved from their moon walks. 
The rope was to be used as a tether while they were dimbin'g around the rim of cone crater, but the two explorers ran out of time hefotre they managed to scale the 400 foot high rise. 
Astronaut Charles "Pete" Conrad, who flew aboard Apollo 12, pointed out the probe could prove a "lethal weapon" if it ever got loose in the spaceship during the buffeting, 18,000 
m.p.h. re-entry. 

Shepard piloted the lunar lander Antares to within 87 feet of the programmed landing spot on the moon, and ground ~.:on­trol said he may just bring the command ship down within "87 feet or less of the International Dateline." 
Apollo is scheduled to splash into the ocean 900 miles south of American Samoa. 
Student Union 
Crypt 
Has moved below the Huddle 
special 
Elton John Tumbleweed Connection 

$2.89 Open 2-5 

Proof 
ENDS 
ufAge 
TUES. 
Required 

THEY SHARED EVERYTHING ... THE MONEY •.. THE DANGER ... AND THE WOMEN.,. IN A ••• 






