
Cormnission studies government 

Commission led the Commission in discussion concerning restructuring student government. 

Minority aid 
Frosh grants outlined 
Ry Jodi Campbell 

Eight of the 77 minority students in the freshman class are not receiving financial aid, according to Daniel J. Saracino, assistant director of ad­missions. 
Eleven of the students are Notre Dame Scholars. Five received ROTC scholarships and eight are on athletic grants Saracino reported. The rest receive aid from non-university sources. 
More minority students qualified for academic scholarships Saracino said, and generally ranked higher in their graduating class than the average student. However, they averaged 200 points lower on SAT scores. 
Fifty three percent of the minority students graduated in the top ten percent of their graduating class compared to a University average of fifty percent. 
Saracino said 85 percent of all students applying to Notre Dame apply for financial aid. In the 1970-71 academic year, 53 percent of the student body received some type of aid. 


by Maria Gallagher 

Discussion of plans for a complete restructuring of student government highlighted last· night's meeting of the Con­stitutional Commission. 
Fred Guiffrida, student government academic com­missioner, presented a general outline of proposed structure based on what he considered to be the three main weaknesses in the existing one. 
"First, the label of 'student government' should be dropped, because its function is primarily that of a lobby group rather than that of a governing body." 
"Second, we muyst consider the diffusion of values in the system as it stands. Are the SBP 
"A minority student is not being discriminated at Notre Dame, but he's not getting a heck of a lot cause there just isn't a heck of a lot to give," Saracino stated. 
In addition to the Notre Dame Achievement Grant, which averages one thousand dollars, the minority students also receive funds from 1970 Cotton Bowl profits, the Work Study Program (WSP), National Defense Student Loan (NDSL), and Educational Opportunity Grants (EOG). 
Students in the work-study program are provided with a twelve hour per week job and earn about $650 per year. 
National Defense Loans are awarded on the basis of financial 
aid. No maximum family income 
is stipulated, the student must 
file a financial report each year 
and the University decides how 
(contiiJUed on page z; 

and SLC both necessary? It seems strange that the student body should elect a single person to represent them while another body actually does the representing." 
"Third, we must avoid the concept of government by an 'elitist group.' Small group control is not representative and not what we should strive for." 
What Guiffrida then introduced was a "township" type of government. Halls would be divided into 7 districts, and a "board of commissioners" composed of 7 members would serve as the legislative body. 
by Milton Jones, Jr. 

Mro American Society has requested a $15,000 appropriation from the student senate to meet "broader objectives" for this year, Ronald Irvine, president of the Society stated Tuesday. 
Approxiamatelv 60 black 
Each commissioner would head his individual committee and staff his own department. From this board a chairman would be elected by the membrs, thus eliminating the system of checks and balances and the proposition between the student body representative and the legislators. The board would be both executive and legislative, not judicial. 
Policy making would be con­centrated in the 6 commissions: academic, hall life, co-ed, human affairs, community relations, and judiciarv. The chairman of 
(continued on page 2) 

students have been added this 
year bringing the membership to 
150. 
This membership is con­centrated to a large degree in Alumni and Dillon but members live in every hall and off-campus. 
Six speakers are planned for 1971-72 in addition to several trips. 
Proposed trips are to the Topographical Research Center in Chicago, the National Association of Black Collegiates' convention,and to the Indiana University Nairobi Serres. 
Freshman orrientation funds for next year's incoming black freshmen are also included in the budget request. 
"More and better social func­tions for the brothers and sisters on the two campuses are also part of our new objectives," Irvine added. An allotment for these functions was also madae in the budget. 
Funds for improved com­munications were also included in the budget. These funds in­clude stationary and other such items.The Afro-American Society is planning to show films this year, and an allotment for thil' also was included. 
A general meeting of the Mro­American Society will be held thursday at 7:30 in the Am­pitheatre of Lafortune Center to discuss the budget and other items, Irvine stated. 
In other minority student news the International Students Organization, composed of 300 students and governed by a central committee, is currently in a state of internal conflict, according to member Ghalib 
(Continued on page 4) 


United Nations, N. Y.--The Soviet Union, "In Principle," regards the improvement of relations between Washington and Peking "as a natural development," Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko said Tuesday at the United Nations General Assembly. This was the first formal statem~nt made on President Nixon's new China policy by a major Soviet government or Communist Party figure. 
Home--Jozsef Cardinal Mindszenty, who was convicted of treason in 1949 by a Hungarian court and sentenced to life imprisonment, arrived in Vatican City after 15 years of self-imposed exile in the American Embassy in Budapest. It was believed that the 79 year old Cardinal would be given an honorary post in the Vatican and live there per­manently. 
National 

Washington-A new World monetary system not dependent, as in the past, on the United States dollar was proposed by a number of leading industrial countries. The dollar will no longer function as a "reserve currency" for other nations and like those nations, the United States could devalue or upvalue the international exchange rate of the dollar, it was also proposed. 
Washington--Legislation to create and independent federal agency with the authority to advocate and defend consumer interests was given support by the White House, in a change of policy. Ra~ph Nader, who called the White House's announced support "a reflection on how weak the bill is," had helped draft an earlier and stronger version. 
Washington--Critics of President Nixon's economic policies were assailed by Secretary of Commerce Maurice H. Stans for making inaccurate statements about the program and "bringing it into the political arena." 
Fort Meade, Md.--Col. Oran K. Henderson testified before a Pel)­tagon Board of inquiry that he had been aware on the day ofthe attack on Mylai 4 that a number of Civilians had been killed, Lt. Gen. William H.. Peers told the military court hearing the case against Henderson. 
Albany, N.Y.-A facility that would house as many as 500 of the New York state prison system's most aggressive inmates, isolating them from the rest of the state's 16,000 prisoners, is being sought, Russell G. Oswald, State Commissioner of Corrections said. 

By Bill Davidow 

At the introductory meeting of the new Student Senate last night Student Body President John Barkett announced a for­thcoming resolution, to be presented by himself at the next meeting, regarding sanctions and parietals. 
After listing the various committees of the Senate, Barkett said the resolution would establish a stand, by the Student Senate, against sanctions and in favor of each hall's ability to decide its own parietal hours. 
Concernning future activity of Senate, Barkett expressed his wish not to "battle" the Senate, but rather he hoped that they might work together. 
Work on the student govern­ment budget should begin as soon as the Budget Committee makes its recomendations, according to 
(Continued on page 4) 


Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday September 29, 1971 
Financing and scheduling questioned 
Student Union warns patrons of CAF 
by Anthony Abowd 

McGrath, will not receive 
Student Union Director Bill financial support from the McGrath said Tuesday that the Student Government or Student Contemporary Arts Festival may Union because it did not file a be misleading the student body budget request with the Stttdertt because of its financial state of Senate by the Sept. 28 deadline. affairs. In the past this has been CAF~~ 
The CAF, according to primary source of funds' sup 
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS COLLEGE COUNCIL 

is soliciting applications for membership from ND Sophs, Juniors, and Seniors. If interested submit name and phone number to Dean Frederick Crosson,s office (O,Shag Hall) or c.all Dan Moore 234-3638 Friday Oct. 1 is final date. 

plemented by the sale of patron People should be aware of these year."cards. factors when they consider However, scheduling dif­
The ND-SMC Student Union purchasing a CAF patron card," ficulties may prevent this ac­h.as ''no financial or moral McGrath added. cording to McGrath. responsibility for any program" Patron cards are now on sale Two days were held for the first the CAF sponsors, McGrath for seven dollars. They allow free CAF events but the organizatio111declared. entry to most activities, but a failed to register with the Student 
''CAF is running as a com­minimal charge will be made for Union's scheduling committee. pletely independent organization some larger events, according to "Because of this fact CAF will witkout funds from the Student Co-chairman Casey Pocius. experience difficulties in ob­Union· or. -,Student Government. Pocius hopes sales to outside taining dates for their events,'' 
alumni groups will help support McGrath said. 
the program. The CAF expects to present aCommission•.• "I like to turn people on to art," poetry series, electronic music, Casey said, adding that he has a multi media performances, (continued from page 1) "Very good reason to believe we special theater and dance, and 
the bQard of commissioners 
will have an excellent CAF this films during this year. would stiJJ control some general appointive positions (such as 
Fr. Rover to speak at SMC 
public relations), but they would be subject to board approval. The Student Union would function A playwright and author, Rev. Dominican order at Providence independently of the legislators. Thomas Dominic Rover, 0 .P. College, Providence, R.I., Father 
Guiffrida believes that this ·will discuss "The Impact of Rover is the author of four plays, division of power would cen­the Mass Media on the Formation lo television scripts and several tralize representation, and of Christian Conscience" at the articles for religious magazines. 
provide for more rational second cultural event of the Saint His works have been performed discussion and detailed Mary's College series, "The at the Blackfriars theater in New arguments. His proposed American Scene," at 7:30 p.m. York and on the Catholic Hour 
judiciary would consist of five today in Carroll Hall of Madeleva television program. judicial board chairmen and Classroom Building. The He is a graduate of Georgetown would function independently of programs are open to the public University, attended two years of student government. without charge. . law school, and received his 
Presently serving as promoter licentiate and lectorate in of communications for the theology at the Dominican House of Theology, Washington, D.C. He later studied under Robert Penn Warren at the Yale Drama School. Future events in the cultural 
series include an exhibition of photographs by James Raymor in the Moreau-Hammes galleries 

Afterallthatsbeen 
written, themost 
of Sa tint Mary's during October, and a discussion, "Luther Comes to the New World," by Jaroslav

uniquethingssaid 
Pelikan, Yale University, on October 8. Robert E. Gorman,

about Kris Kristofferson 
director of launch operations at Kennedy Space Center, wiH speak on "Space Technology

are stillsaidinhis 
Utilization" on October 13. 
words. 
Minority aid 
(continued from paRe 1;
~KRISTOFFERSON 
much aid will be awarded.
t~~f;m~fUED 
The federal government covers 
JodyAnd The Kid~utding: 
the interest on the loan the foutr 
(ThanLoAnving. Her 'W:~Balsack And Blue) 
years the student is attending
Yttling I'll E ler 
When I Loved H v/eThrOo Again) 
school. The student begins paying off the loan nine months after graduation. 
Educational Opportunity Grants (EOG) are completely government subsidized. These funds are given to the University with the stipulations that they be awarded only to students from families with an annual income of no more than $ 6,000 and that the grant be matched by University funds. 
. . er eTa<er 

His highest praise is that so mar.y artists have re­corded his songs. 
"When we run out of money we look for other means." Saracino

Besides Janis Joplin's version, there are now 49 
stated. Financial aid has been

other recordings of "Me and Bobby McGee." 
received from alumni, the Model

Kristofferson also wrote "Sunday Mornin' Comin' 
Cities of Philadelphia provided

Down" and "For the Good Times." And "Help Me Make It Through the Night" is now beginning to rival 
funds for one student, and the 

"Bobby McGee" in total recordings. 
mayor of Athens, Georgia set up 
a scholarship for another.

All four of those songs came from his first Monu­ment album. And the result was more press and publicity than the average musician receives in a life­time. He's been called "one of the most poetic writers 
BRIDGE

in popular music." And The Village Voice said he writes and sings "some of the most beautiful songs around today." 
LESSONS 

But all that shouldn't drown out the real source: Kristofferson's music. That's what musicians react to. 
10 weeks Oct. 3 -Dec. 5

And now there's a new album. "The Silver Tongued Devil and 1." 
Sunday evenings 7:00 ­
9: 00 Flanner Hall Card

It's got ten new songs that are as tender and per· 
sonal as any he's written. Ten new songs that every­
Room $5.00 per person
one will be singing. 

Only this time you can hear Kristofferson singthem first. 
ON MONUMENT RECORDS~ DISTRIBUTED BY COLUMBIA RECORDS The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the
The Hammes 
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may

Notre Dame Bookstore 
be purchased for $a per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Aill.6.. 

Wednesday September 29, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
Mike Kadish IS• silent and strong 

has played without the glory and Despite numerous knee in­by K J. Kinkopf '72 headlines that offensive and juries in the past, the Irish 
Unlike last year, when the defensive backs receive, but he is coaching staff rates Mike as defensive unit played second constantly proving himself as one oneof the best defensive tackles fiddle to Theismann and the Irish of the top defensive tackles in the in the nation. But one must scoring machine, the Notre nation. wonder where his potential would Dame defensive team has gar­lead him, had he not been con­
Mike was switched from of­

nered most of the ink and copy stantly beset with knee problems. 
fensive tackle to the defensive

that has graced the daily sports "I've always had trouble with
spot back in '69, four days prior to

pages this year. my knees, even in high school.
the first game. Since then he has 

With eight more games to go, I've had cartilege removed from 
teamed with Mike McCoy and

and an offensive unit that looks my right knee, and the ligaments 
Greg Marx in giving the Irish the 

more unimpressive every game, really messed up in my left. I
best set of defensive tackles in

chances are that the Irish defense twisted my knee a little in the
the country for three years

will become more publicized and Purdue game, but right now it
running.

acclaimed as the season rolls on. feels pretty good."
Which means that Mike A Grand Rapids, Michigan, With the Irish attack bogged
Kadish, one of the giants of the native, Mike's football career down by lack of a competent
Irish front four, should find his began in high school. At that cheerleader (a Ia Dan Jenkins), 
name in print more often as the time he was listed as a 5'9" many of the Irish fans are 
1971 Notre Dame football story 170pound offensive and defensive beginning to view the squad as a 
continues to unravel. tackle. Since then, Kadish has 
mini version of the Minnesota Kadish is part of the defensive grown, and grown, and grown, Vikings, whose defense alwaysline, and has been a solid per­He's finally stopped, I think, at seems to come up with the bigfomer there for three years. He 6'5%" 265 pounds. play. 
Many are also wondering if the
Mike Creaney ============================================================================================== lack of offensive thrust puts an 
added burden or pressure on the Mike Kacllsh has played a big part in the fine performance of the Irish 
defensive unit. 
defense this season.
The Undergraduate View 

"No, I don't think so, if we can Even though last year's the run. But that's what we stress give the offense good field defensive unit finished second in in the type of defense we play. ··===============================================================================================Analysis No. 3 position, they'll be able to score. the nation in total defense, And actually, college ball But last Saturday in Lafayette, Kadish feels that this years revolves more around the run
Editor's note: Mike Creaney has been Notre Dame's starting tight 

the weather conditions just defense is the best he's played on. than the pass anyway."
l'nd this season and in the 1970 campaign. It was Mike who caught Pat 
neutralized everything. And "Yeah this is the best defensive As for the future, Mike would
Steenberge's pass for the game-winning points against Purdue last 
Saturday. actually, we could have had a team in my three years here. like to give pro ball a try. He has shutout except for the one play Actually a lot can be attributed to filled out questionaires sent by
This column, written in reply to Mike Pavlin's "The Graduate 

we got burned on." the fact that for three year most pro teams, and has been ap­
View," which appeared in Tuesday's Observer, shows that Creaney is adept with either a pen or a football in his hands. "On that screen to Armstrong, of us have been playing together. proached by scouts. But those 
The experience that we have as a knees are a formidable barrier to
Danielson faked the draw and
Savoring the fruits of a last minute miracle or fondly remembering Kadish's shot at the pro ranks.
swung the pass out to Armstrong. unit is the biggest factor."
the fun of an old fashioned stomping are, unfortunately, luxuries af­Larry Di Nardo, perhaps the
We were in a blitzing situation For years the grandstand
forded only to the fans and friends of Notre Dame, not to the team best pro prospect among all the
and had just about everybody coaches have criticized the play
members and coaches because, for them, another Saturday looms on shooting the gaps. That left of the Irish front four, more quards in the nation last year,
or

the horizon, another challenge to the mystique and power of which saw his pro dream shut down by 
Ralph <Stepaniak) out there all specifically their type of rush
we're all so proud to boast. a knee injury during a nothing
alone." labeled containment, where the
While Purdue is now history, and a happy win for the '71 edition of game with Army last year.
And to many of the doubing defensive line just tries to keep
the l<~ighting Irish, I think a few lessons could still be learned on and off "But Larry's injury came
Thomases, perhaps the Purdue the opposing quarterbacks in the
the playing field. Last Saturday,whetherby the hand of Odin, or by just during the middle of his senior 
game proved that God really is on pocket, sacrificing an all-<>ut
the plain guts of a score of individuals, the Notre Dame team edged hear. He really had no time to 
our side. "banzai" type of rush.
Purdue 8-7 in the muck and mire of their own backyard, a feat Irish test the knee before the pro camp
"Actually, it's not con­
fans have not seen accomplished since 1961 -10 years age. "Oh, there was a little bit of opened. But for me, my senior
tainment. What we do is try and In light of this, let's talk about this Irish team -the offense and the luck I guess. But actually we had year should be the test. If theread the play before we make a
defense. been trying to block the punts all knee holds up, I think I'll get a 
The name of the game is still defense, and you need travel no further day. And their punter had move. The basis of the defense is fair shot at the pro's."
waiting until the offense makes
than the stadium to see the best one in the country. They're super and trouble with the snaps too. We But for the time being, the
the move. The two tackles, Greg 
they've done super things in just two games-eight interceptions, two figured we'd get to him sooner or future of a pro career for Kadish
and I have to react to the pass,
blocked punts and three touchdowns. By themselves, they've out­later." keeps dropping further and
and still be ready for the drawscored our two opponents and have been, undeniably, the strength of further back into the distance 
the team thus far. But let me sidetrack for just one moment. and the screen. The defensive with the Irish season beginning to 
ND4th in ends are the ones who really
Realize that the toughest thing to accomplish in football is a look longer and longer with every 
pinch in and put the pressure on
sustained drive. Ten -fifteen -twenty consecutive, positive, flawless game.
the passer."
plays; no wrong alignments, no missed assignments, no failures in So for Kadish and his mates,
both polls technique, no fumbles, no interceptions -no mistakes by 11 men, 15 Mike feels that his strength lies the future is immediate ­consecutive times. in defending against Texas in last Michigan State on Saturday. And
Notre Dame's narrow victory
If a defense can eliminate the "big play", the long gains, the bomb, over Purdue last Saturday failed year's Cotton Bowl, while his cheerleader or no, you can bet and force an opponent to execute a sustained drive, the odds are to impress the pollsters and the weakness, though seemingly well that the Irish 'D' led by Michael overwhelmingly in their favor that someone, somewhere, will not Irish dropped to the number four hidden, is defending against the Kadish will be out to prove once execute and the offense will stop themselves. There, in a nutshell is spot this week in both the pass. again that the best offense is a the Notre Dame defensive philosophy, based on facts, 20 years of Associated Press and United "I guess I'm stronger against great defense. coaching experience and the talents of 11 exceptionally gifted in­Press International ratings.dividuals -not on the premise that the offense will score 40 points a Nebraska's Cornhuskers, 34-7 game. In statistics released by the NCAA, Notre Dame is the total Voices from the Crowd 
conquerors of Texas Tech last 
defense leader in the country over the past five years, evidence to the weekend, retained their topfact that this philosophy works. rating in both polls. One Graduate's Opinion 
Offense is a phase of the game entirely different. It requires the The 'Huskers received 44 first For those ND-SMC students imagine Ara would have been coordination of 11 people with techniques, timing and aggressive, alert place votes and 1064 points in the who don't know him, the hung in effigy, and Pat just hung play to turn out a successful unit. Last Saturday we were not a good AP poll and hold a a bulge of 224 Graduate, sportswriter Mike period. offensive football team. We jumped off sides, dropped passes, threw points over second place Pavlin is (believe it or not) a good I'm not writing to plug anyone interceptions and fumbled the football at crucial times in the game; Michigan. The Wolverines didn't guy, even a good athlete. He for quarterback, but whoever we made errors, which almost cost us the football game. But alll these get a first place vote but totaled writes well, too, and his articles Ara goes with deserves a fair things are correctable-by hard work, practice and patience. · five more points than third­are quite good; however, his shake and certainly no boos. I 
Had our spirit been drained, or had we given up, then perhaps the ranked Texas, which garnered latest one, entitled "The recall a ballplayer in a similar anger of the fans should be up. But remember one thing, in the midst three number one ballots. Graduate View-Analysis No. 2," situation two years ago: he had of all we did wrong, we did one thing right -we won the game, because One voter tabbed the fourth is a gross exception. It is not Mr. to "quarterback" a potential No. we are a team, and we did come up with the big play when we had to. place Irish as his top choice while Pavlin's knowledge of football 1 team also; he made mistakes And we gained valuable experience for a young offensive team. fifth place Auburn and sixth nor even his analysis of the NO­and was likewise booed. I refer 
Mike Pavlin wrote an ill-timed, derisive column Tuesday. His at­rated Colorado each got a pair of Purdue game that annoys me. It to Mike O'Connell who shut off tempts at analysis are not good, even in the advantageous "armchair first place votes. is rather one of those ambiguous the boos and came in to win three quarterback" position he has. His lack of information of the concepts The rest of the top ten terms, the tone or mood, that close basketball games on some
was 

of zone defense as played by Notre Dame is laughable at best, wit­comprised of Alabama, stinks. It wreaks of the same clutch steals and foul shooting. nessed by his statement concerning the depth of our defensive half­Oklahoma, Penn State and pseudo-aristocratic air heard Like it or not, it was a clutch pass 
backs. Stanford. every Monday night coming from from Pat Steenberge that beat If I may borrow one of his cliches, putting a pen in the hand of a Nebraska collected 33 of the 35 the mouth of Howey "I had Purdue at Lafayette. spectator does not make him anauthoritariancommentator-or, in this first place ballots cast and breakfast with" Cosell. In his Therefore, as I see it, Mr. 
case, even right. outpointed Michigan, to attempt to give a candid, Pavlin has three choices: (1) he
348-274 

To him, and to all who would so quickly condemn, football is a three gain the number one ranking in "graduate view" of Sat.'s game, can try to sign on as Ara's No. 1 hour a week affair -the fun and glamor of a Saturday afternoon. We the UPI poll. Mr. Pavlin not only dishes out a Sunday morning quarterback; 
know better. destructive of (2) he can return to writing his
The fourth-rated Irish and criticism Pat Just as winning is a team proposition -not one or two individuals, but sixth-ranked Buffaloes of Steenberge and the coaching usual candid yet fair sports ar­a team-so should be the attitude of the fans. With visions of a National Colorado received the other two staff, but snatches a moral defeat 
ticles; or (3J he can make Championship dancing in everyone's heads, the one thing we need votes for the top spot. from the jaws of one of NO's Analysis No. 3 as smelly as No. 2. most of all is unity -among the team members and also the student Texas was ranked third by the greatest come-from-behind Regardless, Ara will call the body. Let's get off the "Sack Steenberge" kick and "all-Etter does is nation's college coaches, victories. It scares me to think of shots and I sure as hell think the run" stufff and pull together as one unit, with one purpose. Whether Alabama was fifth, Auburn, what would have happened to Mr. Irish can win the National it's Bill or Pat or both, that's the side to be on, shooting for, right now, seventh, ,Oklahoma, eighth, Steenberge and Coach Par­Championship. Michigan State, and, ultimately, a number one ranking for the Stanford, ninth, and the seghian if the former's pass to Tim DiPiero Fighting Irish. Washington Huskies, tenth. Creaney had been overthrown. I Class of. '71 Page 4 

CONTINENTAL HAIR STYLING 
1321 E. McKinley Hwy. Mishawaka, Ind. 
259-7679 SERVING ND MEN FOR PAST 4 YEARS IN ALL HAIR NEEDS. 
Specializing in Long Hair Look 
SHAGS, EUROPEAN LAGER CUTS 

Student Rates Mondays & Tuesdays 
Complete Style $250 Includes Shampoo 

Ticket Office & Dining Halls 
The Beach Boys will play for 2 hours" 
presented by
BO~s 

Student Union Social Commission andACC 
THE OBSERVER Wednesday September 29, 1971 
SLC creates 4 committees 
The Student Life Council, in addition to referring the report on sanctions to committee, re­organized itself around a stan­ding committee system at its first meeting Monday. 
The plan authored by Floyd Kezele, Prof. William McGlinn and Fr. James Riehle, steering committee members, creates four standing committees and calls for a meeting of the full SLC only once a month. 
The committees are: --Steering Committee, the only present permanent committee. This four member committee sets the agenda and time limits for debate at the regular meetings. --Hall Life Committee replaces the Hall Life Board. This com­mittee will deal with problems of hall life, off-campus life, 
YOUR STORE 
Buy now, pay next January, February and March with no carrying charge added! 
For the 
GALS too... 
We have a very special corner of our store set aside for some very special feminine ap­parel... blouses, skirts, pan­tyhose, and more. Stop in. 

in style...price...and terms 

·JEANS AND SLACKS 
·JACKETS AND COATS 
·SHOES AND BOOTS 
·SUITS AND ETC. Short Sleeve 
Now 1/2

SHIRTS at 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

parietals and liquor usage. This is probably the committee to which the sanctions report will be referred. --Planning Committee, a nine member board, will deal with 
First lnPIRG meeting today 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's chapter of the Indiana Public Interest Research Group will hold its first organizational meeting today at 7:30pm in room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall, according to ND sophomore 
.Bill Rahner. 

INPIRG was founded to serve as a lobbying and consumer relations broup for Indiana students. 
All those who are interested are encouraged to attend. Questions on the purposes and activities of the organization will be answered at the meeting. 
Senate meeJs 
(continued from page 1) 
Barkett. 
He hopes, later in the year, to form a committee to investigate the Bookstore. The investigation would include a study of the profits and where these profits go. 
Stay Senator Jim Clarke, of Grace Hall, wound up the meeting by suggesting that, in order to establish closer contact with the halls, each senator try to procure a seat on his Hall Council. 
Night Editor: Gene Slason Assistant Night Editor: Anthony Abowd 
Copy Reader: Jim Roe 
Layout: George lund 
Headlines: Cris Sullivan 
Controller of the Night: 
rick smith 

News Editor: John 'Abowd Managing Editor: Don Ruane SMC Editor: :Ann Conway Sports Editor.: Jim Donaldson Features Editor:rick smith 
HIDEAWAY LOUNGE 
122 W First Street Downtown Mishawaka, Ind. 
For Your Dancing & Entertainment 
We Present The Fabulous 
LITTLE EVA & THE ESPIONAGE 
Mon., Tues. & Thurs. No cover charge Wed.-ladies night -ladies free, guys $1.00 2 drawings every set for free champaigne Thurs. -Beer night -all beer 60¢ Friday & Saturday $1.00 covercharge 
OPEN DAILY 8 pm till 3 am 
YOUR HOSTS-JIM RUSSELL AND MAYNARD JOHNSON 
long-range programs that extend 
beyond one term of the SLC. 
--Rules Committee, a six member 
panel, will handle changes in 
University regulations. 
A new procedure for cutting off 
debate is also included in the 
report. At the end of the allotted 
time for debate a two thirds 
majority is needed to prevent an 
immediate vote. 
This represents a complete 
reversal of traditional 
parliamentary procedure which 
requires a two-thirds vote to shut . off debate. 
Afro Society shows budget 
(continued from page 1) 
The conflict is due to the fact 
that the central committee, 
which rules the organization was 
elected March 31, 1971 by only 12 
students. 
According to Amer, "a new 
election has been requested, but 
Father Daniel O'Neil, ISO ad­
visor denied the request." 
Amer, a strong advocate of the 
new election added, "Father said 
this is no time for an election, and 
his word goes." 
The organization met Sunday, Sept. 26, and 38 members at­tended, the largest attendance in the history of the ISO. 
Amer attributed this to the fact that many thought there would be a new election. 
Amer added that many members are apathetic because they feel they have no control over the organization. 
Amer suggests that all the students in the ISO should be invited to another meeting. At this meeting the students should be promised a new election and that the ISO will work with them and for them. 
***************** 
Anyone who signed up to tutor with the Neighborhood Study Help Program and has not been contacted --we haven't forgotten you. You will be contacted within the next week ... so hang on. Questions: call M.J. 5161; Tom 7927; John 1847; Kathy 5734. 



