
..... 50,000 Chicanos stranded, ~.;unemployed in midwest 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 40 Thursday, November 4, 1971 
Chicano migrant workers meet to discuss ways to obtain jobs in the Midwest. The workers found themselves unemployed after potential employers over-recruited. 
heavy-jacket weather makes its annual rerun and that cool white stuff is not far away. get out• the long-johns. 

by Jodi Campbell 
Fifty thousand Chicano migrant workers are stranded in the midwest without jobs, Hicardo Parra, executive director of the Mid West Council of La Raza, stated yesterday .The plight of the workers is due to the "over-recruitment practices" of the Mid Wcstemployment officers, he added. 
Parra alleged that this practice has "rC'sulted in two workers for every available job at 70 cents an hour." 
"Over recruitment is common," Parra reporh•d, adding that American migrant workers are pitted against Mexican workers allowing employers to pay the lowest possible wage. 
Minimum wage laws vary from state to state but loopholes can be found by paying on a rate basis, or on the number of workers hired. 
"The contractors make some side deals" Parra stat('d, explaining the difference b('tween minimum wage and the migrant worker's slaary. 
Th(' Mid West Council of La Raza, which is associated with the Institute for Urban Studi('s at Notre Dame, is an organization serving ten midwestern states, coor­dinating programs to improve the life of the Chicano migrant workers in the area. 
In res~onse m('chanization  to the would  theory  that  
put  an  end  to  the  
migrant  problems,  
Parra  said,  
"Mechanization  makes  
the  migrant problem  
more  serious.  These  
people looking for work  
have to travel  more  to  
find jobs. Programs are needed."  •  Parra  

(continued on page 2) 
Draft council backs government move 
by Joe Tanzosh 

Student draft counseling head Tom Theis last night endorsed the Govern­ment's recently-adopted termination of student draft deferments. 
"Eliminating student deferments was the right thing to do," Theis said in giving his opinion on the new Selective Service regulations. 
Theis said he "realizes this may be an unpopular position" but he contended that the 2-S deferment caused "an inequity" in the draft before the changes were made. It was an inequity, he argued, because the 2­S allowed college students four year's protection from the draft. That protection, he claimed, was unavailable to non­students. He contended that college students used the four years to find more permanent alternatives to the draft. 
inequities removed 
"The student deferment gave many people great advantages in trying to obtain a conscientious objector classification that those without the deferment could not obtain." Theis said. Although the law governing CO classifications was un­changed in the regulation shift, he con­tended that what he termed the "inequity of the student deferment" connected with CO has been removed. 
Most of the changes were initiated to facilitate classification and streamline the department's functioning, Theis said. According to the counseling head, streamlining has been the policy since Curtis Tarr was appointed head of the system. 

freshmen affected 
The new rules currently effect only freshmen and Theis termed it "important that they be informed immediately of the alternatives to and in military service open to them. "Some freshmen have their lottery numbers already," he said, "and their problem is immediate." He advises freshmen not to "put things off" since, he said, they soon will be asked to make "important decisions about their futures." 
However, Theis contended that if a young man wants to enter college he shouldn't wait until he receives a lottery number. "If you must go into the service, re-admission into college afterward is not difficult, and the G.I. Bill will help with your expenses," he said. 
For September, 1972 Complete merger looks dim 
Ry Ann Therese Darin 
Despite the optimistic merger of Notre Dame and St. Mary's academic depart­ments Sept. 1st, both schools will possibly remain as separate entities next year, Rev. James T. Burtchaell, univer­sity provost, claimed last night. 
"We were hoping and planning that Notre Dame and St. Mary's would be on a single budget, and that St. Mary's would be completely unified with Notre Dame," confided Fr. Burtchaell. 
He cited still to be settled financial af­fairs between the two schools, and the necessity of planning both budgets for next year immediately, as main hin­derances to complete unification in Sep­tember 1972. 
The administration might be receptive to a woman's dorm on campus next fall, he indicated. This move, he felt, would be necessitated by an increase in the number of women in next year's freshman class. The number of men would corresponsingly be decreased since Fr. Burtchaell said the current undergraduate enrollment will remain fixed. 
"My conclusion is probably that the decision (on which dorm would be designated for women) will be made without consulting the residents," analyzed the Provost. 
He cited flaps that occurred last spring; "the opposition to the experimental college plan by Holy Cross residents, when they feared their dorm would be its headquarters, and the will-Pangborn-Hall­be-used-as-a-women 's-dorm rumor prompting hall residents to become suddenly unenthusiastic about coeducation." 
Fr. Burtchaell declined to name the 
dormitaries considered, stating it 
depended on the number of women to be 
housed. 
Everybody, including himself, gets 
attached to the place where they live, 
Burtchaell said. 
"I wouldn't want to particularly want to 
move from Dillon, but I also know that it 

First snow edition....... . 
Yes, Virginia, that white stuff is snow 

Rev. James Burtchaell: Planning of budgets stands as impasse between St. Mary's and Notre Dame merger. 
would be necessary for some girls to move into ND dorms," he said. He dismissed the possibility of a coed dorm saying, "We never talked about it." 
Citing "the tens of of millions of dollars and emotional ties of 126 years, "Fr. Burtchaell believed it "too narrow an interpretation" to blame the Sisters of the Holy Cross for unification hold-ups when asked. 
"I'm not even sure it's even fair to say someone's holding us up," he added. As the officer responsible for academic af­fairs, 
Fr. Burtchaell, speaking as the officer responsible for academic affairs, reported that the merging of the reluctant faculty members by Sept. 1 was not as difficult as everyone had initially anticipated. 
"Right now departments and colleges combined efforts are far better than anyone anticipated," he related. 
With the deadline for faculty tenure decisions drawing near <Dec. 1), the Provost commented that a joint ND-SMC committee will evaluate candidates for 

appointments and promotions  on  both  
campuses.  
(continued on  page 2)  

Page 'I. THE OBSERVER Thursday, November 4, 1971 
Provost talks of finances 
(continued from page 1) 
Questioned on the recent Trustees decision to reject changes in parietals regulations suggested by the Student Life Council ,Fr. Burtch a ell claimed it did not hurt the credibility or effectiveness of the Council. 
As one of the SLC's founding member's, the Provost said "Four times in the past, the Trustees acted in the direction asked to by the SLC on the issue of parietal hours." 
Students at the Keenan Academic Commission spon­sored-talk also seemed con­cerned with university finances in light of merger with SMC. 
Although these facts could not be verified, the administrator said that Notre Dame was third nationally in gross contributions from alumni. He added that the university is ranked eighteenth in total contributions. 
One student suggested that 
Chicanos meet migrant needs 
(continued from page 1) 
The La Raza Manpower 
Program, located in South Bend, 
is trying to fill this need. The 
program provides basic 
education, skilled training and a 
small living stipend for the 
migrant families enrolled. 
The Mid West Council sponsors 
The Mobility Facilitator Unit 
project <MFUl to aid in the 
settling out process in Indiana, 
The United Migrant Opportunity 
Services <UMOS> in Beaver Dam 
Wis., the Illinois Migrant Council 
in Rock Island, Ill., and the 
Minnesota Migrant Council in St. 
Paul, Minn. 

These are transitional centers 
Parra reported. They are pilot 
projects in aiding the transitory 
migrants in the area. 

alumni opinion might have too strong an influence on univer­school. sity policy. Before the question and answer 
During the most restless period, Fr. Burtchaell spoke on university years, Fr. Burtchaell the value of a liberal education. reflected, more than 53 million He urged students to select their dollars was pledged in the majors as if they would die SUMMA campaign. peacefully the day of graduation. 
One might expect, he argued, "It doesn't really matter what that a dissatisfied alumni would your major is," he counselled. try to influence the university by "But how lively is your mind? withdrawing their contributions. The University is predicated on 
To date, he revealed, only .2 the fact that your mind becomes percent of the contributions have · liveliest when you are pursuing a Rev. James Burtchaell speaking before the residents of Stanford and 
been cancelled. study that interests you." Keenan Halls. 
Laissez-faire Indian progran1 called for bv Prof. Gax-bari;po 
· by Noh Kane . . 
Contendmg that Indtans should be left alone to "become
t t b ,
h t th
w a ey wan o _ecome, Merw7n S. Garbarmo, an associate professor of the
f A th 1 g f
D t 0
epar~en ? n ropo? y'
the Umvers1ty of Ilhnms, last 
· ht 1 d d th f th · 
mg cone u e e our, senes of the American Scene series of 
t "A . 1 d"
1
ec ud~t~s onl dm~rlCtan n tan~: 
Tra 1 wna an on emporary.
In addressing the audience 
. d · f t d t t
1
compnse mam y o s u en s a Madeleva Hall last night, Miss Garbarino suggested that the "two greatest problems" facing the Indian today were their current poverty and the prevalent lack of education. The 
speaker said that "many" skilled Indians quit the reservation, leaving few trained laborers b h. 
d 
e m · 
She attributed the steroetype of "the noncompetitive aimless" Indian "happy in his ignorance"
to what she saw as a lack of 
competent teachers "in reser­
vation schools and "meaningless 
curricula," which she said was 
geared toward the middle class 
rather than Indians. 
"It is about time to recognize 
differences as differences," she 
said, "and not as inferiorities." 
In a question and answer 
session following the lecture, 
Miss Garbarino contended that 
most social workers "go in with 
the idea to make a better life for 

The Observer is published dai y·during the college se"'le~ter. except vacation~ by the students of th ~ UnivE:rsity oi Notre Oame and St, Mary's College, Subscriptions IT'"Y be purchased fur $8 per ·;emester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second cla5s postage paid, Notre Dame, lnd, 46556 
Notre Dame .. Saint Mary's Theatre presents Studio I Production 

MY SWEET CHARLIE 
by David Westheimer 
Little Theatre Moreau November 7 · 7:30 pm Hall, SMC Tickets $1.00 November 5, 6 · 8:30pm Reservations at 284-4176 
Cultural Arts t..:ommission's Fund' Raising Film Series presents 


Charly 
Nov. 3 & 4 (Wed. & Thurs.) 
Fund Raising Film Patron Card Holders

Admission $1 
Free! 

the Indians and what they mean is 'I'm going to make them more like me' ,
M" G. b . f
1 0
tsst ar armo wdas ·geneerdy to 

curren programs est
h 1 I d" "I uldn't :c~mm~n~a~~ or a::ation, rh "d .. Y t gas an ·n' 
s e sa1 excep 1 ­
strument for advice and guidance 
. h" b t t · 
m reac mg goa1s u no m
tf th ,
1

seShmg oslel gdoa sth. Ch" g
e ca e e tea o

demonstration of two summers 
. h" hI d" s a d Indian 

ago, m twh_IC n tan nd ut ·n 
sympa 1zers campe o 1
W . F" ld . test f
1 1

~gt ey d ~ h ~. pgroa "b;d 
s~ s ~n ar ou m 
sttu_ahon_ for ?8 pe~~ent of ~he 
Indtans. m Chtcago.. Accord~~~ 
to Mtss . Ga~~armo, 
def!lonstratwn }urned away Indt~n sympath~ · ~~s~ Garbarmo, at another pomt m her le_cture, commented 
that there 1s "not enough 
·t· " f h t h t d

recogm ton o w a s e erme 
correCtl• on 
The Observer reported yesterday that the Student Af­fairs Council of St. Mary's postponed action on the proposal calling for hall jurisdiction over parietal hours. Actually, SAC policy is never to vote on an issue the day of its introduction. So the issue was, in fact, not postponed but adhering to SAC policy. 
the Indtan success story·
"You hardly ever hear of the 
people who don't have 
problems " she said "only
of flamrn;yant disill~sioned" 
. . . ,
people. Briefly outlining Indian history she described the
• . . 
government pohcy m the. past
toward Indians as "conststent 
. .
inconsistency." Accordmg to Miss Garbarino Indian tribes
.d d 

were for~erly co~Sl er~ 
separate nabons and thetr affatrs 
were handled by the War 
.

Department. Not untl1 1924 were 
they made citizens of the United 
States. 




, .....-., ' ...,........,,':_. ' ,,':;_:x., :::x.,,,._;.:,,W, ... '>! 
FM-AM Receiver 

ll.uH ~-::1"..;..J... --.;..' ... -4/.i' -"«"".::"""""' 
~ ~-~if((t~!: e .=-e·..• 
Was 299.95 
Shown in optional walnut case 

Beautifully-styled stereo control center delivers purest 
full-range stereo. Professional controls. 
4035 S. Michigan Ph. 291 -4888 

Californians X-Mas Flight R.T. $130 reserve. Tony i!«i5 Bill 6i05. Call Before Wed. Nov. 10. 
\NY  ND  or  SMC  
Parking  Sticker  Will  
Get You  
rf>Z)  



10 % OFF 

pn any mechanical ~ork and winterizing (snow tires included) Roseland Gulf ~02 U.S. 31 North Arross 
from Burger King 
Clothes and things Men's Boutique 

t~e Pit Stap 
"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center· Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­7:135 
South Bend Only 
Allied powerful 125-watt Stereo 
Save 100.95 
Ston• Hours MTWS 1U a.m. -li p.m. Th. & Fri. 10 a.m. -!I p.m. Sun I Jl.lll. -5 Jl.m. 

Thanksgiving Buses to O'Hare Buses Leave Circle for O'Hare 
Tues. 11·23 at 4:30 PM Wed. 11·24 at 1:00 PM  $5 One Way  
Buses Leave O'Hare for N.D.  All Sales Final  
Sun. 11·28 at 8: 00 PM & 10:00 PM  

Tickets on Sale at the First Bank Campus Travel Office in Basement of Badin Hall Between 9-4:45 
Thursday, November 4, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 .:· 
Novakov:A lack of recognition 
hy Lt•fty Hus<·hmann '7:1 Playing center and anchoring rest." But there is still that 
Pomarico for sharp per­
If somPone ever gets around to the Irish infantry corps is senior personal feeling of ac­formance. Playing together, he Iisting the tragic heroes on this Dan Novakov, not your type-cast complishment: "When I see one added, would eliminate the campus, the interior linemen Stoic, but a quietly articulate of our plays successfully run, I bugbears of the offense this would deserve a high call, man accustomed to the lack of know I've done a good job." Still, season, penalties and fumbles. provided they are not once I'Pcognition given trench warfare Pven a good job is not up to snuff Novakov bristled at complaints again overlooked. Playing in football. "I'm sort of used to by Dan's standards; he is never about Notre Dame's low point down in "the Pits" is a life's it," he admits, "especially with staisfied with his all-around output this season, however. calling which is rated X for all all the talent elsewhere on our performance; he always tries to "Why do we have to run up the hut Stoics. team -Gatewood, Brown, and the learn how to play the position score?" he argued. "That's a lot 
better. of baloney. We know when weJim Donaldson ::=======================================================================================•=== Of all the linemen, the center have a team beaten, when we can 
has the toughest assignment. score at will. Our most important 
Dan explains his main problem objective is victory, not

The Irish Eye 
this way: "I have two respon­statistics." sibilities, to snap the ball and Then, returning to his low-key pick up my man. It's a lot more observations about his team, Dan 
==================Where has the $1 ticket gone? ND center, Dan Novakov
subtle trying to block, because I assured the fans: "People think 
Wh~t this campus needs is a good one dollar hockey ticket. sophomore year at Moeller High that one
can't use my hands as much as loss is the end of the
Notre Dame hockey is going big-time this winter as the Irish icers in Cincinnati. A 6 foot 2 inch, 225­
the other linemen." world around here. But here we
make their Western Collegiate Hockey Association debut and it ap­pound ex-track man, he
As dean, and only senior are, 6 and I. and that means we
pears that student supporters of the sport are going to have to pay big­member of the offensive line, possesses good speed and must be doing something right." time prices to see their heroes in action. blocking ability, along with the
Dan Novakov acts as the key to
The student ticket situation for the upcoming season is this: If a versatility to play elsewhere in
his teammates on the line, 
Shumate out
student does not purchase a season ticket, which allows the bearer to the forward wall, something he
"reading" enemy blocking in 
see 12 home games for $12, then he must purchase a reserved seat did quite by chance. Notre Dame 
addition to his other tasks. And, 
for the year
ticket <there are no more general admission ducats) for $2. The one landed him, not because of the
having played with the Irish
dollar student ticket has gone the way of the five cent cigar. glitter of its Dome or its legends, Notre Dame's basketball team
offense so long, he felt it
Ticket manager Don Bouffard Jr. has made 700 tickets available to but on the strengths of its suffered another major loss
necessary to play public defender 
the combined ND-SMC student body, which seemed like a low figure, academic program. "They take Wednesday when outstanding
in its behalf, answering the slings until one hears how Bouffard determined the allotment. and arrows of outraged fans. a more personal interest here, sophomore John Shumate was 
"It has been our experience in the past that we sell, on the average, and make an honest effort to ruled out for the 1971-72 season.
"They can't comprehend the
only 400-450 student tickets for any single home game. The students graduate all their players. Many Shumate, a 6-8 forward, is
game," Dan fretted. "Our
just aren't that interested." people here take it for granted. suffered from thrombo phlebitis
running strategy is sound. We
Although the faithful who have followed the progress of Notre Dame But when the school pays for your of veins in the left leg according 
have a good ground game, so why
hockey may mourn the passing of the dollar ticket, it should be Pducation, it's a representative to team physician Dr. Francis M.
put the ball in the air? Playing
realized that since the ice sport has achieved a parity with basketball, Pducation, something in return Sellers.
ball-control, we eat up the clock
the ticket prices should do likewise. Ticket prices are now the same for for playing football." "Translated, this is an in­
and reduce the chance of
both basketball and hockey this season, and hockey, at least on a won­In three years at Notre Dame, flammation and clotting of the
mistakes -the kind that decide
lost basis, should give the patrons more for their money. Dan has been found principally at vein wall in his left leg," ex­
ballgames."
Bouffard's reasoning in eliminating the dollar ticket and deciding to center, though he saw action plained Sellers/ adding, "The sell 700 student tickets is basically sound. But there are problems Dan also stood up for the Wish­during the 1969 season at guard recovery period will requirewhich can easily arise. bone-T attack, seeing it as the and tackle, too. In the first three months of therapy and this 
Coming from a hockey hotbed like New England and knowing the offense of the 70's. "The Cotton Bowl, he filled in for Jim would not be consistent with talent on the Notre Dame club and the calibre of teams they'll be complexion of the game is Heilly after the pre-bowl welter playing competitive basketball." playing, it seems almost inconceivable to me that there aren't at least changing, and there'll be less of injuries struck. "I'll be willing "John was a very promising700 people interested in buying a season ticket. The demand might well passing in the future. We are to do most anything," he ad­prospect and we'll miss him, but exceed the supply. working on the Wishbone with off­mitted. we're hopeful he'll be able to 
Bouffard was prepared to cope with this situation, however, should tackle play, and, if it works, it'll Noting that he will be the only participate next year," said it arise. "It would be a problem for us, but we would attempt to get be devastating, because nobody man departing from the Irish Phelps. more season tickets printed up," he said. can defend against all those interior offensive line after this Shumate, who led the frosh in 
There is also an inherent problem in selling a hockey season ticket options." season, Dan predicted "we'll scoring with a 22.4 ppg. and a 13.0 that isn't paralleled in basketball. The hockey team is, in actuality, The offensive line has been have a hell of an offense next rebounding average last year, is home on six occasions---playing games against the same 
teams on Dan's 
home ever since his out Frank from Elizabeth N.J. successi.ve nights six times. People may not want to spend both Friday and Saturday nights watching hockey. But, as Bouffard remarked, "Two friends can split the price of a season ticket and one can use it on Friday nights and the other, on Saturdays." 
If Bud®is your favorite beer•.. 
Another, and, to me, the major problem that may crop up as a result of the new ticket policy, is that, in future years, the students might be detered from watching the games because of the increased ticket price. Or worse, that in future years, the students may find themselves out of luck when it comes to obtaining a hockey ticket. 
Notre Dame is destined to achieve the same heights in the collegiate hockey world that they have in football and basketball. They may even reach that lofty plateau this season. 
There are only 4400-plus seats available in the ACC rink. There are 7000-plus students (and growing) on campus. South Bend area hockey fans have already bought over 1000 season tickets for the coming campaign. 
Obviously in the very near future, there might be very little student representation at the Irish hockey games. This would be a tragedy. The crowds that have watched the Notre Dame icers in action in the past have been unfortunately, well-behaved. There is a definite need for the Irish student body to be on hand to create that mystic "Notre Dame spirit" that makes N.D. athletic teams almost unbeatable at home. 
It would be a shame if, for want of a dollar, the spirit was lost. 
why not

1/2 PRICE COLOR PRINTS? 
make it your

SAVE ON SLIDES-MOVIES-B&WPRINTS, TOO 
This low price saves you up to 50% over usual "drug store" prices, 

regular beer? 

rushes high quality color prints back to your door in 1ust a few days. Try 
the film service used on many mld·west and southern campuses. 
Don't you deserve it? After all ... 

so EASY, SO CONVENIENT ... just use your own envelope and the coupon 
below. Fill in name and address, write name on roll or cartndge, enclose 
coupon and remittance. Or, use the coupon to get film mailers and dis· 
In brewing Bud, our choice is 

count coupons; order film and flashes at low prices ... a better deal than "free" film. Savings and processing quality guaranteed. 
to go all the way. We hope beer matters enough to you that you 

: YOUR ORDER MUST INCLUDE THIS COUPON-
too will go all the way . 
•
•
• Name 

• 
All the time . • City State. __ Zip •••
• Address______ 

• r l Send me free 11Im maller envelope and discount Rea. Price You,., • 
WHEN YOU SAY 

• coupon 0 12 exp Black & White 1.29 .99 e 
[l 20 e<P Black & While 1.99 1.55 • 0 I'm encloSing. _ 1olls of him and paymcnllplus 20 exp. Slides 01 8 mm Mov"s 1.49 1.22 •
0 

• tax in OhiO) . 0 Srnd me fresh Kodacolor film and/ or flashes • n I am rnclosmg an eJC!ra 25¢ per roll lor f>~prcss Ctrcle your site· fhm11 twol 88( each e 
• hdndlmR and ltr~l-clas~, ma1l rellHn ln'ilamatlc 1:?6-12-127-120-620 






Budweiser®
• Rea. flrlc• You,. •., Circle your llash llimitlwo sleeves) sse each • e i-J 12 oop Kod•colol $2.99 $2.33 Cubes-AG·I -M·2-M·3 e 
YOU'VE SAID IT ALL!
• 0 20 "P Kodacolm 4.49 3.55 MagiCubes $1.19 each e ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS
• MAIL TO: SPE·D·PICS ·Box 299 ·Cincinnati, Ohio 45214 ·Dept. NO •
..........__. _._...._ .' ._.... . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .--. . ~ 


-. THE OBSERVER. Thursday, November 4, 1971 


Co~nputer returns to aid job place~nent 
matches a student's degree, mcompatability of career choices "This is far above the national 
The Placement Bureau has abilities, experience, and job with career openings, and two, average," Willemin said. Hereceived the print-out results of qualifications with his job the poor economic conditions of 
placed reason for this success onthe Grad II computer placement preference and prospective the country." 
the Notre Dame name and highly program, bureau director Pmployers. The print-out then HP added that it may be interested employers.
Richard Willemin announced lists the dates when these em­necessary for many students to The Placement Bureau will runyesterday. ployers will be on campus for choose alternative fields of in­the program a second time for
All students who participated interviews. terest. He hoped that they would those who did not participate the in the program should come to Notre Dame had 558 seniors come-to the Placement Bureau first. The forms can be acquired the bureau, Room 222 in the and graduate students active in for counseling. 
in the bureau office. Deadline for Administration Building, to pick the program. Only 233 were The students who found filling out these forms is 
up the results. matched with employers. themselves matched with em­December 17.Grad II is a comouter Willenim was quick to note that ployers though, had an averageplacement program ~hich this was caused by "one, the of four matches per student. 


