
Kunstler says govt. IS• stifling protest 
by Jerry Lutkus conspiracy case was in order.. trial of Benjamin Spock as an Kunstler spoke Friday evening example of his theory. 
Dedicating the evening to before a standing room only "Conspiracy trials can be deceased draft resister David crowd in Stepan Center. brought in any place that there is Darst, Senior Fellow William Kunstler outlined the govern­·an overt act," Kuntsler noted. Kunstler accused the govern­ment's scheming in assembling Spock's trial was set in Boston, he ment of attempting to "in­their indictments. He said that said, before a jury that was timidate and terrorize" the anti­the government "carefully largely Irish Catholic and war movement. selected thiu time. They didn't notoriously patriotic. Kuntsler 
Kunstler stressed that the want people way left of center or explained that the government"Law is being used to chill and stock prototypes because these did this because they thought that intimidate people who are op­have failed." this Irish Catholic jury would posed to the war in Southeast So, instead, the government "enjoy socking it to Protestants Asia." He said that it was the chose "slightly tarnished nuns and Jews." He noted further that government's purpose to and priests who would generate that was exactly the kind of jury
illustrate how dangerous it is to enough fear being also that was drawn and exactly the oppose the war. mnysterious people to the verdict that was decided. On the 
The Senior Fellow detailed the Protestant world that they would Chicago 7 trial, Kuntsler said that background elements of the be ideal defendants," Kunstler "Chicago was picked for the Harrisburg conspiracy case said. He claimed that the conspiracy trial, not because involving the Barrigan brothers. government's reasoning was that anything happened there, that Kunstler is one of the co-counsels people would be amazed that was one of the overt acts places. in the trial. nuns and priests could do this, But the overt acts occurred all 
He felt that all of the actions thereby spreading fear and in­over the United States-Cleveland, carried out in indicting the timidation among more people. San Diego, New York." 
Senior FeUow WOllam Kanstler peopole involved and setting the Kuntsler then explained how The lawyer felt that the case scene of the trial were part of a the government indicted six was held in Chicago because it government plot. people while naming 13 as co­was there that opponents of 
He claimed that the reason conspirators. The indictments, Mayor Daley would be tried by a
SLC to be reduced 
behind the plotting of a con­were only six, he claimed, bench where one of Mayorspiracy case was that the trials because of "logistical" problems. Daley's judges would surely sit. prior to the Berrigan's have not After outlining the assembling of With the Berrigan case, he

if proposal is passed 

been intimidating enough. He the six people to be indicted, noted, the trial could be held in 
said the Chicago 7 verdict "back­Kuntsler commented on the 
Continued on page 8 
fired." So, he reasoned, another location of the trial. He used the 
by Don Ruane 

Senate elects stay senators
The Student Life Council 
membership will be reduced from twenty-four to twelve members next year if a proposal 
The Student Senate passed all by Student Body President John cabinet nominations submitted Barkett and SBVP Orlando by Student Body President John Rodriguez is accepted at today's Barkett and elected five stay meeting. senators for next year. The fifth 
Under the new plan, the SLC stay senator (formerly there would be composed of one ex­were four) will be in charge of officio member and three elected revising the constitution. 
representatives of each group. In his first official act in office,The ex-officio members will be John Barkett Barkett convened the meeting at the Chairman of the Student 7:05 p.m. and almost im­Affairs Committee of the Faculty productive, and easier to get mediately the appointments were
together."

Senate, the Vice-President for passed by a majority voice count. 
Student Affairs, and the Student "Furthermore," said Barkett, There were a few negative ac­


Body President. "we believe a smaller body will clamations. 
The method of elections of be more exposed and forced· into Don Patrick Bob Sauer
The new cabinet members are 

members would remain the better communication with the Bill McGrath, Student Union L. Franklin Devine, Dillon Hall affairs; and Bob Sauer, con­same. The number would be respective constituencies. We director; Fred Giuffrida, senator, ten made the motion for stitutional revision. Tomreduced. Barkett also suggests also believe the Student Life Academic Committee·; Cass a fifth stay senator to head the Thrasher was retained as athat the three administration and Council procedures will be less Rejent, treasurer; Bob Weaver, committee for constitutional constitutional revision advisor.
formal in a group of twelve. We

three faculty members with two executive coordinator; Ed Ellis, revision. A unanimous voice After the above business was 
year terms would remain on the don't feel reducing the numer per research and development; Fred count passed the motion, completed, Barkett made a fewCouncil, while the three students se is the solution to improving the Schaefer, public relations; Dave 
A ballot was taken to elect the announcements concerningwould be elected. Student Life Council, however, Lab, Community relations; Steve nominated stay senators. Those future Student Union activities.
Barkett and Rodriguez support we do feel it is a needed change to Fortunato, Juman Affairs; Bob elected and their committees He reported to the Senate that the their proposal with the following make improvement a greater Higgins, hall life; Dave Tushar, are; Fred Giuffrida, academic final figures for the Chiarity
argument: "It has been our possibility." Judicial Coordinator; Bill Wilka, affairs; T. C. Treanor, human Chest from the proceeds of the
experience that a small body is coeducation coordinator and
Continued on page 8 affairs; Jim Clark, student Mardi Gras were not in yet, butalways easier to work with, more Paul Dziedzic, ombudsman. union; Don Patrick, student Continued on page 3 




Kunstler discusses trials of Calley and the Berrigans 
Civil Liberties lawyer William Oc,tober in "a place very "blasts" by the government on "mass outpouring and mass civil are failing or when they are not 
Kunstler struck out at the con­carefully selected by the the Berrigan case were meant to disobedience and confrontation." quick enough. He used the viction of William Calley saying government." He termed the "saturate" the Harrisburg area It is his hope that these demon­President's release of Calley as 
site, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, to make impartialisty im­strations will help end the war
"He was a stand in for other an example of this. He said that 
"a place designed to insure possible. now.
people," at a press conference "the President released him Friday morning in the donor's convictions." Kunstler expressed his aver­because he was afraid of a room of the Morris Inn. The defense of the Berrigans The Senior Fellow said he has sion to physical violenct;!, but massive outpouring by the 
and the other 11 conspirators is found a "subdued feeling" on the added that he doesn't share that people."
Kunstler expressed some 
being conducted by Ramsey college campuses of this country. belief about disruption.
happiness that the "real The lawyer stated that if this 
Clark, Leonard Bodine, Paul He claims that the country feels
defendant" released Calley and When asked about the situation country became involved in a 
O'Dwyer, and others. He said that the students have "learned
put him under "so-called house in Israel, Kunstler did not revolution, all his beliefs on 
arrest". He also expressed his that the prima work on the the way". "They think we are in a comment except to say that as he abstention from physical hope that the Calley verdict will motions is being done by the new era," he stated. But he saw it the only solution is in a violence will have to be discarded have a "profound effect on the Center for Constitutional Rights. quickly qualified that by adding, little charitable thinking by both because there will be blood. He 
"I think that this will be dispelled 
American people to make the He said that it is all in the pre­sides. He also said that as of now doubts that we are in a 
in April and May."
determination that the war must trial state, but that doesn't mean eh saw it heading for a blood revolutionary stage, but rather in end and by any means he has any faith in the judicial He asserted his belief in mass bath. a pre-revolutionary stage. He necessary." process as a method of deter­confrontation to end the warin Returning to the question of feels if there is not a change in the 
When questioned about the mining whether the 'Berrigans Vietnam right now. For the confrontation politics, Kunstler war, in racism, in the basic Berrigan case, the lawyer and company are guilty or not. demonstrations in Washington on said t::at his belief in it is only causes of dissent, that there will responded that the trial is set for Kunstler felt that the two major April 24, Kunstler hopes for a when the other types of politics be a revolution. 
----~~--~~----, 
Page 2 THE OBSERIIBR Monday, April 5, 1971 
Henry Rothhlatt supports Calley position 
by Tom Bornholdt 
Henry Rothblatt, the defense attorney for the Duffy, Vanossa and Green Beret case, stated that the United &,tates should ·not hold individual soldiers responsible fol' atrocities if they were following orders, as long as the Armed Forces fail to give the soldier sufficient training as to what is expected of him .i.n thos{; circumstances. 
Tm~PtlnPr with a 
new book, "Court Martial," this was the main point of the lecture he gave in the Engineering Auditorium sponsored by a-group of Notre Dame Law students, Friday. 
Rothblatt said that he wrote !'Court Martial " because he was not allowed to reveal anything about the Green Beret case due to security reasons. Therefore he decided to write a fictional story about a military trial. He denied any similarity between any of the 
Now thru April 6. 
CAN SHE COPE WITH WHAT SHE'S ABOUT TO DISCOVER? 
FOR ADULTS 
ALSO 
SACRILEGE 
to Rothblatt, the sergeant was an immediate sentence of life reprimanded by the officer at imprisonment. Upon recon­headquarters who supposedly sideration the jury changed its said, " 'What are you doing verdict to involuntary man­bringing them here? It's bodies slaughter. that we want". 
Rothblatt said that he revisedRothblatt attributed this to a his defense for Sgt. Vanossa, "to"body count" philosophy, which give the jury something they canhe described as, "How many sink their teeth into--a straightgooks did you kill?" Under the McNorton Defense". By this, pressures of this method, Roth­Rothblatt meant that he tried toblatt tried to show the jury the show that Sgt. Vanossa was notlack of responsibility on the parts responsible for his actions since, of Lt. Duffy and Sgt. Vanossa. 
under the circumstances, Sgt.
In Lt. Duffy's case, the jury Vanossa was unable "to came in with a verdict of guilty of distinguish right from wrong".
murder. Rothblatt then asked for 

Dr. Roellig to speak on depletion of minerals 

Rev. Walker to Speak Tomorrow evening the Rev. Lucius Walker, Jr. will speak in the Engineering Auditorium at 8 
p.m. Rev. Walker is the Executive Director of the In­terreligious Foundation for Community Organization (IFCO) and has served as executive director of the Northcott Neigh­borhood House in Milwaulkee for 
Rev. Lucius Walker. Jr. seven years.
Rev. Walker received his 
Dr. Harold F. Roellig will Master of Science degree in speak on the rapidly diminishing social work in 1963 from the mineral supply tonight in the University of Wisconsin in Engineering Auditorium at 8 Milwaulkee and became known 
p.m. as part of the enviornmental as an articulate champion of the series of the ND-8MC Academic rights of the poor and disen­Commission. Dr. Roellig is a franchised of that city. He placed professor of earth sciences at special emphasis on community Adelphi University, Garden City, organization by having the 
N.Y. residents focus on specific Dr. Roellig believes the problems, such as education and 
twentieth century will be housing. remembered as an "exceedingly Since Rev. Walker joined IFCO wasteful century which went the organization has more than through 60 to 80 per cent of the doubled as it concentrated on world's stock and left nothing for stimulating involvement of 
future generations." He also religious groups in creative new forsees the rationing of many approaches geared to self­minerals in the next few ceo-determining efforts of the turies , because we are poverty stricken. "dissipating these minerals over A resident of Demarest, N.J., the Earth in an unrecoverable Rev. Walker is married and has fashion. five children. 
~~"~"""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... 
~ Freshman Arts and Letters Intents ~ ~ --Advanced Registration ~ ~ To advoid overcrowding at the Arts and Letters Deans' orien-~ 
;111111 

tation meetings prior to Advanced Registration, pick the session 1111: ~ that corresponds to the first letter of your last name. If you have ~ 1111: a commitment that prevents this, attend any session convenient ;111111 
~  to you. c;_heck April newsletter for time and place.  1111:  
;111111  Monday  - April 5  A through C  ~  
~  Tuesday  - April 6  D through H  ~  
~  Wednesday- April 7  I through M  ~  
~  Monday  - April 12  N through R  ~  
~  Tuesday  - April .13  S through Z  1111.:  

.,~~~~~~"""~~~~.,~~~.,., 
Going home for Easter? STUDENT UNION'S BUSES TO 
O'HARE 
Leave ND circle (SMC Holy Cross Halll5 min.later) Wed. April 7 4:30 PM 
Leave O'Hare (From restaurant between American and United Terminals) Sun. April 11 9:oo PM 
Contact: 1st Bank Campus Travel Bureau (basement of Badin Hall, next to barbershop) 9:0()-12:00, 1:()()-4:00 daily 
$5.00 one way ALL SALES FINAL 
Monday, April_5~,_197_1______________THE OBSERfiER Page 3 





SU LaFortune ticket office open 
GARY HUNT 

Brown" in the past. tickets in the early afternoon, events in Chicago through the In an attempt to make it easier when he is most likely to be on LaFortune office. Markosek said for the Notre Dame student to campus. that there was a "possibility"
OBSERVER INSIGHT

buy tickets for Student· -Union The Student Services Com­that the office would get such an events, the Student Services mission is attempting to have a outlet. Commission has instituted a They have handled very few Ticketron outlet installed in the The ticket office is also at­
ticket office in the second floor of sporting events this year other office. This would enable the tempting to get tickets to more of
than the Missouri game tickets. student to purchase tickets for
LaFortune Student Center. the events held in South Bend.
However, with the concerts andPeter Boyd, although one of the outside events they have beeninitiators of the office, is no 
ticket distributers for, they expect SMC announces interviews 
longer a member of the ticket to have done $20,000 worth ofoffice staffr due to othzr com­business by the end of the year. 
for cabinet , judicial posts 

mitments. Joe Markosek, the The ticket office was present head of the office took established in LaFortune 
over for Boyd in October of this by Paul O'Connor
because it was felt that this is the 
If you care

year. man class in September.
most convenient place for the
The ticket office distributes Missy Underman, SMC student The interviews wil be con­
greatest number of students. 
enough, maybe
tickets primarily for the Social ~ody vice-president announced ducted by SBP and SBVP, the
The hours for the office are
Commission, although they have today that interviews for seven current judicial board chairman, 
from 11:15 to 12:15 and 4:00 to 
you can meet

handled outside events such as judicial board seats and four the faculy advisor, the Dean of
5:00 on weekdays. These hours
the Ali-Frazier fight and the play cabinet posts will be held today Students and the four class
were set up to enable the off­
"You're a Good Man Charley and Tuesday in the student presidents. the Paulist 
campus student to purchase government offices, Holy Cross The cabinet posts to be filled Hall. are SMC National Student 

;challenge..• 
Despite an upcoming week of Association Representative,


Ombudsman urges caution 
It isn't easy, being a Paulist.
conflicting interests, due to Public Relations commissioner, 
Bridging gaps between young 
Senior-class room picks and the Off-Campus commissioner, and 

Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic American Yachting Association and old, black and white,
four day Easter break, the final the Human Affairs Com­

with listings on the East Coast, past and future. But it is a
announced yesterday that he is decisions should be made known missioner. All of these positions
West Coast, Gulf Area and the challenge.
"Checking out" an ad that ap­by Wednesday. are open to any member of the peared in the Observer on March Great Lakes is soliciting for The Judicial board has an returning classes. The cabinet The Paulist mission is to
31 concerning Summer Yachting summer crew applicants. opening for one senior chairman interviews will be conducted by people ... individually
"Positions are available for
Positions. and six other members. They the SBP and SBVP, Student and in all the societies in The ad read in part: "The experienced as well as inex­may be from any of the three Services Commissioner, the four which they live 
perienced male and female returning classes. An eighth class presidents, four hall 
... to discover Christ 

college students and graduates. 
member of the board will be presidents, and the off-campus

Experience in cooking and child wherever he is acting
chosen from the incoming fresh-representative.


Senate 
care may be particularly help­... to be attuned to the needs ful," another part of the ad read. of the present, yet to form · 
Continued from page 1 The ad then asked the applicant Jeselnick wins in close BP runoff a vision of tomorrow's world. they estimate the funds to be to send in a resume with six If you are interested in 
between $9,000 and $10,000. dollars. Last Friday Breen Phillips Hall President-elect Jeselnick takes 
finding out more about the 

Barkett also informed the "We are checking this out held a run-off election for Hall over from Junior Tim Feeley who 
Paulist priestly challenge, 

through an alumnus whether or surrenders the reins of leadership
Senate of his notion to reduce the President in which Sophomore 
write to: 

current number (24) of Student not this thing is worth the six Steve Jeselnick defeated Junior after the Easter break. During 
an

Life Council members to 12, "To dollar investment. We are also Bryson Cloon, 106-95. Both the campaign, Jeselnick, Rev. Dooald C. Campbell, CS.P. end the stagnant lack of action working through the Better candidates advanced to the run­English major from St. Marys, Vocatioo Director 
and to prevent political overtones Business Bureau. We should off due to none of the original six Pa., stressed his past· con­
tributions to the hall and

in the meetings". The date for the know sometim~ next week contenders amassing the cpauJistth discussion and voting was not set whether or not the thing is all required majority. promised his full energies in the cpa erG 
right," Dziedzic said. future. Cloon's main point was
but it will take place sometime Elected without the need of a Room 111 
after the Easter break. He asked students to hold their run-off was Freshman John that the hall was lacking socially 
415 West 59th Street 

The new SBP also announced a applications until he receives a Morin for the poSt of Secretary­and that he felt qualified to 
New York, N.Y. 10019 

Police Discussion for April 14 reply from the alumnus which, as Treasurer. He defeated change that. The sometimes 
heated exchange brought anwith Ramsey Clark, former U.S. he says, ''should be sometime Sophomore Mike Koppenhoefer 

the 
week." unusually high voter turnout
Attorney General, being next by a vote 82-75. . keynote speaker. However, his acceptance has not yet been affirmed. 

ngan un eva e new product: 
. L. 


Student-Railpass • 

(Would you believe two whole months of can sleep in a Couchette for only $4.50 a night, and eat6~ unlimited rail travel throughout thirteen in inexpensive cafeteria-type Dining Cars. If you haven't got two months, or you prefer the 
JYem European countries* for a modest$125?) 
luxury of First Class, there's our regular Eurailpass. The Our brand-new Student-Railpass gives you all three week Eurailpass costs $110, one month $140, two

~iffon?J 
that Second Class rail travel on the over 100,000 mile months $200, three months $230. But remember-you

!Jle~~ railroad systems of Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, can't get Student-Railpass or Eurailpass, in Europe. You Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, must buy one before you leave, so see your Travel Agent. Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. You'll discover that Meanwhile, send in the coupon below for your free there's very little second class about Second Class. You Student-Railpass or Eurailpass folder. 

r---------------------------------------------------------,
I STUDENJ•RAILPASS The way to see Europe without feeling like a tourist. I 
I *Eurailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, II Sweden and Switzerland. 1 1 Eurailpass, Box90, Undenhurst, NewYork 11757. l92 c 1 I Please send me your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 Or your free Stu_dent-Railpass folder order form. 0 I I I 
I I I I I 
Now, in addition, we intr?duce the "New Tiffany Setting" designed by Donald Claflin. 
Rings s·art at $295. · 


DFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Design Copyrighted 1971, T.& Co. 

Page 4 THB OBSERUER. 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
GlenS. Corso. Editor-in--Chief JohD Abowd, Es:eeutlve Mtar Bruce Rieck Business MaM~« 
"What mute, inglorious Milton lies there? "What Cromwell, guiltless of his country's past?" 
. . . . . . -Gray's Elegy in a Country Churchyward 
FOUNDED IOVEMIER 3,1111 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
Dreant of No Lintits 
Martin Luther King is dead these three years now, and where once his bold voice spoke there is nohing but eerie and wavy silence. Dr. King had a dream, but it has mostly turned to sleep now, and men are saying that the dream is as dead as he is. 
The dream King had was one of true equality and true brotherhood, but mostly it was a dream compressed in the three words tnat were at once the battle cry and moft trite/hrase of the Civil Rights movement, we shall overcome. For King di overcome the dichotomy in his own and every man's soul; the dichotomy between each man's love for himself and that obligation each man has to devote himself to making the world better and more whole. Dr. King overcame the dichotomy by choosing the latter; his life and death were monuments to what all-consumingdevotion to the advancement of thwt most peculiar race, man, can do to 
that race and do to himself. 
The dream King had was a stringent dream, built on a sort of self­sacrifice that few men could take up. A few did. Medger Evers did. Viola Luizzi did. King did. But the vast majority of men, when robbed of King'sbeacon voice, have found the dream too heavy a burden to carry, and have set it down. 
The most fitting monument to Martin Luther King would be for the people of this planet to pick up the dream again-to pledge themselves once more to overcoming the obstacles nature and man has placed before the human animal. The first part will be difficult-for blacks and whites to so overcome man's racist history that race becomes nothing more than a historical curiosity. The second part will be more difficult-for men of all races to overcome the selfishness and misery and depravity charac­teristic of the one great race in order to us to become the one great race. The second is more difficult than the first, but the first is Impossiblewithout the second. And it is to this second part that we must all address ourselves, even as Martin Luther King addressed himself to it. 

Monday, April 5, 1971 
Steve Lazar 

Redeem the Time 


A strange week it was, strange days and nights, a strange time. Last 
week was perhaps the most soul-wretching of any that we have seen 
since those painful days of last May. But this time the reason for our 
pain becomes more clear. As individuals, and as a community, we can 
only be made to feel pain when our conscience and our consciousness 
is disturbed, when events that occur here can serach us over like 
needles probing our skin. Last week, if we didn't succeed in hiding 
from them, those needles found us . 
Last week was a week of language, and that language pricked us 
deeply. There were many who came here to cause us pain, to rouse us 
from our slumber. Among themn was Richard Gilman, who read to us 
from a play in which language was wielded to insult the audience, in 
which there was no action, only the continual spears of words and 
sentences. There was also Leonard Michaels, who told us how life 
itself reek sof dead adjectyves and dead forms. And standing out like a 
wolf in a sheepfold was John Hawkes, who affirmed before us that 
language must be used to banish repression, yet at the same time he 
demonstrated most convincingly that language can terrify us. 
Speaking to us also were other men. There were those who spoke to 
us in The Peacemaker, uttering the peace movement's first cry since 
last spring, calling to us like a returned songbird for compassion and 
an end to war. And there was Steve Brion telling himself, 
paradoxically, beautifully, in "the last word" that " ...my words are 
not inadequate, my actions are not useless. I will speak because that is 
what I can do." 

Last week was a time about language, but more movingly it was a 
time of language. It was a week that culminated for many of us in the 
speech of William Kunstler, a speech by a man who uses language in a 
supremely important function-to insure justice, to preserve freedom. 
And it was Kunstler who echoed for us the cry of Daniel Berrigan, the 
cry that has been echoed since the time of St. Paul, that plaintive, 
inspiring, soul-gripping cry: "Redeem the time!" 
That language can have an effect on persons and events has been 
made clear to us by the pain that the words of last week caused us. 
That it is imperitive for language to be used to redeem the times is 
only made clear to us when we approach those types of cateclysmic 
events that may leave us with no time at all to redeem. The eternal 
dialectic between Father Time and a Child of the time is such an 
event; an event in language, an event in time. 
Father Time: "Time is going by, I say. Time is going by." 
Child of the times: "Why do you think that, I wonder. It does go by of 
course, but it keeps coming back just the same." 
Father Time: "Time is going by, I say. Time is going by." 
Child of the times: "Coming or going, what difference does it make? 
We still have tomorrows, and yesterdays as well." 
Father Time: "Time is coming, going, leaving. It passes in the 
night." 

Child of the times: So let it pass. You don't think it can stop, do 
you?" 

Father Time: "Stop it. Stop it. No more questions. Time is going
by." 

Child ofthe times: 'What of it( Italways has, hasn't it(" 
Father Time: "When it comes it stops forever, when it goes it comes 
no more." 

Child of the times: What do you mean, 'stops forever,'? It comes and 
goes every moment of the day." 

Father Time: 'When it comes it's always going, when it's gone it 
comes no more." 

Child of the times: "But there is an instant, there is a now. And a 
second after that there is another now. And the second after ... Look! 
Look! My watch has stopped. Look, I've got the instant, 12:31 a.m., it's 
landed on my wrist. See, it came. It's come and stopped, and I CAN 
PROVE TO YOU THAT NOW EXISTS." 
Father Time: "Oh, child? Has you watch finally stopped?" Child of the times: "Yes! Look, 12:31. It's a moment frozen in time; a point that we can mark on the contimuum." Father Time: 'But time is going by, Isay. Time is going by." ~of the times: "But it's not! Time has come!" Father Time: "When it comes it seldom passes, when it goes it seldom stops." 
Child of the times: "Butthat's just where you're wrong. You said it 
was going, and when it goes it'!eldom stops. But look here, it's stopped 
for me!" 

Father Time: "Not quite, my poor, unfortunate fellow, my time-
bound, time-weary friend. Ithas not stopped; it's gone." · 
That in our lifetime such a potential wreckage may be avoided that 
a new time may in fact be born, let us use language, coupled' with 
action, to achieve Eliot's vision and fulfill the ancient command: 
The new years walk, restoring Through a bright cloud of tears, the years restoring With a new verse the ancient rhyme. Redeem The time. 

r"''"'""""'''""""''''""'"""?""'"'"""-=""""'""'·"-=-1 
::$:Managing Editor: Don Ruane Night Editor: Marty Miller ;:;~ :;:;:Editorial Page Editor: T .C. Treano1 Layout: Gene Slason ~~ :;:;:Features Editor: rick smith Headlines: Mike Moore ~·:: :;:;;Sports Editor; Jim Donaldson Varityper: Bill Clemency =~~ :;:::campus Editor: Steve Lazar Controllers of the Night: Sue Bank~~ ·:::: SMC Editor: Ann Conway & rick SMITH :~: :;:; Advertising Mgr.: Bill Bauerle :~: 
I I 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~..;::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::;:::::: 
Monday, April 5, 1971 m::.:'B=--Q=B:.::::~.::~:!.:R:..::UEit:..:::::~.--------------------=:_­


mike Ienehan 
Editor's note: In my introductory column I had promised to eliminate all concert reviews -"post mortems" I called them. I had figured that talking about yesterday's concert did as much good as talking about the quality of the local weather or food. But my action provoked a most unexpected storm of controversy ­which is something I really like to do. So, after many hours of meditation, through long and sometimes violent debates too detailed to present here, I have decided to reverse my original decision, and with much pleasure present the following to you. 
How trite would it be if I said the Winter Consort defies musical classification? 
Yeah well, then maybe if I start somewhere else I can get back to that later. 
People who listen to music and think about it a lot have a lot of problems that ordinary regular people probably don't even realize. I mean, they worry about things, like does Eric Clapton get along with Duane Allman, or will Van Morrison ever play the Village Gaslight again now that he's a star, or does the full-color picture on Jerry Jeff Walker's last album mean that he's famous too? 
Take Saturday night, for example. Now Gordon Lightfoot is a guy who's been around for a long time. All of a sudder.., he's got a hit, in America, with violins and everything! God, I could just see it..." AND NOW, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, DIRECT FROM A RECORD BREAKING ENGAGEMENT AT THE COPA, THE CHAOTIC CANADIAN HIMSELF, GORDON LLLLLLLLIGHTFOOT!" as he runs up to the convo stage in a gold sequined jacket, shakes hands with the first violin player, nods cordially but condescendingly to the twelve man brass section, grunts out a funky "one-two-three­four" and swings in a foot-stomping version of "The Theme from Love Story". 
Ridiculous, I know, but they got Tom Rush, didn't they and what about James Taylor's mirror jacket? Because, you see, a folkie,an honest-to-God folk singer, is supposed to wear a buckskin jacket and sit in a pile of hay on a railroad flat car strumming his box and singing songs about the Panama Limited or the time he hitch-hiked from Boston to Frisco in seven hours. And when was the last time you saw a railroad flat car with strings? 
But, if you were there (and not too many 
people were-the record for earliest exodus 
(Photos bY J. J. Cottrell and Joe Raymond)
to the good seats was set at this concert­
first song), you know that my fears were some of the prettiest and the most in­
groundless. Gordon Lightfoot, with a ventive music I've heard in a long time. peter collinsh bassist and a guitar player, played a very Along with the other members of the nice set of very nice songs. He moved quite group, <David Darling, cello, Glenn 


sout bend, ind. 
easily from the gutsy, lamenting Moore, bass, Collin Walcott, percussion, traditional things like the Canadian and Ralph Towner, guitar-all of whom Monday, March 15, waiting for the Rum .Child Care Center now and goes,-Nights, to Farewell tune, to the modern folk tunes, showed outstanding individual Village bus homeward bound. Waiting at high school. Watches 100 kids a week. 
musicianship), Winter and McCandless

like Kristofferson 's "Me and Bobby the bus stop on Washington near Michigan. Sharon's bus comes and is ready to go,
McGee' (at last, my chance to say it in took the audience through a whole range of Waiting from 3:35 to 4:10 or from 5:35 to so she departs, seems to give way to 
print-Joplin, bless her soul, raped the hell musical expression, from the beautifully 6:10, according to the big landmark clock another of Chubby's acquaintances, and 
out of that song), to Lightfoot's own kind of lyrical and classical-feeling "Icarus", to on the corner--American Bank & Trust the tale goes on, with some repetition. The 
kinda folksy but mostly pop-style tunes. David Darling's frightening "Requiem". clock. A cloudy windy day and 41 degrees. new listener is scraggly blond, wearing
And, unless he loses his voice or doesn't In a time where Grand Funk Railroad is Buses come by, but not mine. Sometimes glasses. Chubby reveals that she'd been 
show up at all, I don't think there's much making plans to play Shea Stadium and I think to people or thing-watch. No con-sent up to the Correctional Institute for two 
more to be said, about Lightfoot or about every rock band sounds _pretty much like scious decision today. It just happens. years for using a razor on someone. Only
aP.y other folkie's folkie. Most of what the one before it, it was a pleasure to see Here comes a little man with a green just got paroled a year ago. Her mom and 
makes folk music what it is is a kind of this ingeniously-organized group play a fedora and a red feather in its brim. Collar step-dad were recently divorced. Then he 
basic, breathing vitality that comes out of suite of 16th, 18th and 2oth century music, of dark trench coat turned to the wind. went crazy and is now in an asylum.
and touches a people, railroads and hit­play it seriously, and (1-assume, anyway), Bulbous nose. Leaning against the Bank Chubby'shadsometroublewithdope. Was 
chikers and coyotes, not exactly a getting paid for it. It's the kind of band Building I see an old lady leaning next to flipped out for three days and they didn't 
physically exciting but maybe an that makes you think maybe things aren't me. For ten minutes her right hand never think she'd make it. But she's okay now. 
so bad after all.

emotionally stirring spirit that makes you slackens its grip on her woolen coat collar. She met Earl, who'd been up for seven 
want to go out and get some leather boots Unfortunately, the audience seemed to It's cold for the old today. years, when they both were first paroled.
and read "On the Road" again. The be one of the smallest of the year, and, Loud sirens and two blue police cars, Now they'll be married September 2.1. 
principles, the singers, aren't all that although I was surprised by its receptivity 
other vehicles deferring, fly southward by. Soon after she had become pregnant she and good manners (especially in the case
important, or they're important only to the People stare. A girl, face berouged and . bl~ for a "?-onth and had, to keep her legs point that somebody who does it good is of the Winter Consort), some friends from chubby, walks in front of me. Smiles up m the arr or else shed lose the baby.better than somebody who doesn't do it so Chicae:o who haven't lived with the usual between us. A whore? She leans on the ~at was the baby, asks Scra~y. W~
Notre Dame fans thought they were

good. Gordon Lightfoot did it good. Building too and greets an old friend thmk a boy, says Chubby, but see, It wasn t Now then, back to Winter Consort. They nothing short of boorish. Darling's passing. A black girl tall with high cheek-really born. . 
defy musical classification. Their stuff ''Requiem", a pretty serious lament for a 
bones. Four years ago was the last time Now some words about old fnends. One was usually too sweet and lyrical to oo friend gone in Vietnam, managed to draw they'd met. So Chubby has some tales to girl is on her secon~ hus~an~ already. 
a hearty laugh, and there was an un­

jazz, sometimes too chaotic to be classical, tell Sharon. Just lost her baby, had been Some man had mamed his siSt~. She and I want to say that I heard very little dercurrent of noise during the first act five months pregnant. Has decided not to got pregnant. Then ~e left her for a sixteen blues in there, just in case some turkey from the better part of the crowd, which get married till September 23. Now the year old colored grrl. .
probably didn't realize that the two acts

wrote in some liner notes how they are a wind blows away from Sharon a sales He~e comes B~bous for the fom:tJt tun~, 
were billed equally.

"superb mix of classical, jazz, blues, and receipt important to her. She stomps it wa~mg and gaZing, and Rum Village IS rock." They ain't that, but they certainly­All in all, though, this was without a down before it can reach the curb and cold commg around the corner· . . were superb. Paul Winter ( a CJF prize doubt the best concert of the year. I muddy puddle beyond. More sirens and a .Back.home now, the s~ shming through 
imagine it might have been a financial

winner· some years back, incidently) on fire truck roaring the other way. Sharon wild wmdy sleet and ram and the Blue 
failure, but I hope the Social Commission 

saxes and Paul McCandless on english laughs as she returns with the slip and Danube on the stereo, c~tesy of Johann horn and oboe spent about an hour chasing people were as pleased with it as I was. Chubby continues her what-she's-been-Strau_ss, Herbert von KaraJan, and Stanley 
More failures like this we could use.

after, around and through each other, in doing tales. She works in a Neighborhood Kubrtck. 

the commission as "a type of 
liason between student govern­
ment and the halls," and to ad­
vise and inform student govern­
ment as to the halls' priorities. 
Ex-Observer Student Govern­
ment reporter Fred Schaefer is 
now Public Relations Director, 
hoping that his reporting ex­
perience will help in his present 
position. He intends to con­
centrate on instituting two-way 
communication between students 
and their government. Schaefer 
hopes "to serve as a sounding 
board from students to ad­
ministration." In an effort to 
avoid information gaps that have 
occured in the past Schaeffer will 
"keep the lines of communication 
open at all times. 
Ed Ellis, Observer News Editor for 70-71 has has been named Research and Develop­ment Commissioner in Barkett's administration. He has said that he will treat "practical student concerns ... with an efficiency lacking in the past." 
His plans call for a large staff to be divided into several sub­commissions doing research for the various cabinet and student Life Council officer, as well as developing "smaller programs, such as improvements in the Huddle and the dining halls. He feels that investigation of these areas can "constitute a valuable service to the students." 
In short, the new cabinet of­ficers have formulated a set of plans which they may or may not decide to implement, and which, if they are implemented, may or may not succeed. Perhaps some points have been neglected-at the same time, enough vital points have been examined by the commissioners to keep them busy for the time being. 
It appears that any points they have missed will receive their attention in the future. The new officers also appear eager to do their best to bring their plans to reality. 
Perhaps it is the function of the students to compel their com­missioners to carry out these designs, and the other designs to come. And perhps, if the students find too little concern in them­selves to badger the entire new administration until changes are brought about, then it is the students' collective fault is Notre Dame is less than we wish it to be. 
the student unions of both North 
and South Vietnam, was 
presented to the assembly by Dr. 
Peter Smith of Saint Mary's 
College. 
The members of the assembly agreed to present the treaty to the students of SMC so that )each individual could decide' the proper line of action to be taken. 

In part the treaty states, "The Americans agree to immediate withdrawal from Vietnam and publicly set the date by which all American forces will be removed. The Vietnamese pledge that as soon as the U.S. Govern­ment publicly sets a date for total withdrawal: They will enter discussions to secure the release of all American prisoners, in­cluding pilots captured while bombing Notth Vietnam." 
Also included is the statement that "The Americans and Vietnamese agree to respect the independence, peace and neutrality of Laos and Cambodia in accord with the 1954 and 1962 Geneva conventions and not to interfere in the internal affairs of these two countries." 
THE OBSERJJ£R Page 7
------------------------------_.....::________________________:::__ 



Stick111en down Ashland 
commented on the offense, "I can't complain about our
by Joe Passiatore 
shooting. Ten of 34 is a respec-
Observer Sportswriter 
table percentage, especially The Notre Dame lacrosse club when you consider that their zone coasted to a 5 decision over defense forced us to take a lot of
10_ 
shots from outside."
inexperienced Ashland college of th
Ohio on Saturday. The Irish As for the other aspects of e stickmen successfullly per-game, coach O'Leary was par­meated Ashland's zone defense ticularly pleased with the play of on 10 of 34 shots, most of which Notre Dame's midfielders and 
· h · f eserve
were of the long distance variety. the defens1ve ermcs o r 
Leading the offensive thrusts, goalie Jim Reilly. "For the first most of the time, was senior time this year I used four dif­
·df· ld d
Kenny Lund whose production of ferent sets of m1 1e ers an 
d.d t• f t · b"
two goals and four assists earned each 1 a sa 1s ac ory JO ,
him the game ball. Also figurign stated O'Leary. When queried prominently in the Irish attack about the competency of Notre 
Darne ' s g 1· s , O'Leary repl1
were Ed Hoban, four goals; Dave oa 1e "ed ,
Jurusik, two goals; and John "Jerry Kramer had to be taken Moran and Jim Bingle, one goal out after the fist Quarter -he's apiece. been sick all week, -but I thought Rookie coach Rich O'Leary Jim Rei ;ly did very well against 
Jim Donaldson ::::::;:::::::::=:::::::::=:::::::=:::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=• 
_ 

The Irish Eye 
difficult one because Ohio has 

.:,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,,,,,,,m,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,::::=:=:::::. Spring Foot~a II i~t~'::i!~~ o~~r:t r:~;~~::~rtr~~ 
The temperature was in the low 40s last Saturday and a brisk wind was whipping across Cartier Field, where some several hundred chilled souls had congregated to watch coach Ara Parseghian direct his football squad in their first scrimmage of the Spring. 
It was a mixed crowd that surveyed the action _on the gridiron. Pretty girls, their cheeks flush from the cold, jumped back, frightened, when the half dozen padded giants tumbled out of bounds and into the crowd after an end sweep. Little boys watched wide-eyed as their heroes knocked heads just a few feet away. 
Notre Dame students came out to watch the progress of a room­mate, a friend, or perhaps just to see what next year's varsity would look like. Old men stood in groups together, their collars turned up to protect necks not covered with hair, and spoke of pa~t Springs. 
"I remember watching Theismann when he was a freshman in '68," said a graying gent. "I thought he was too small to make it." 
hat was why many of the people present had turned out--to watch the action and· try to decide who would "make it". Speculation and comment were easy to come by Satruday afternoon. "Patulski looks bigger and stronger thwt ever." "I'll bet Creaney has a hell of a year." "Who's that freshman wearing 77? 
Mter a series of preliminary drills, the scrimmage had begun with the first team offense running plays against a freshman defensive unit. Pat Steenberge the Erie, Pa., sophomore who had been Theismann's understudy in the fall, was at the controls of the first eleven. Larry Parker, Darryll Dewan, Eddie Gulyas and John Cieszkowski shared the ball carrying chores. In the line, Dan Novakov was at the center position while John Kondrk and John Dam peer were at the tackle spots. Filling thz guard posts left vacant by Kos and DiNardo were juniors Tim Zuber and Jim Humbert. Mike Creaney was at tight end wile Tom Gatewood and Jim Yoder divided the wide receiving duties. 
The number one offense was able to move the ball well on the ground during thz scrimmage but was not quite as sharp in the passing department. Gulyas ran for a touchdown early in the afternoon and Creaney picked up a six-pointer later on in the day, combining with Steenberge on a crisp, 15 yard pattern. 
Jim Bulger, who made his only appearance last season in thz Cotton Bowl gave with Texas, quarterbacked the second offensive club. Bobby Minnix and John Clements did most of the running for this unit. The line was comprised of Dave Drew at center, Denny DePremio and Phil Gustafson at guards, Herb Briick and George Rankin at tackle, and John Tereschuk at tight end. Willie Townsend and Bill Trapp were the wide receivers. The most exciting play this culb put together was a long bomg from Bulger to Townsend. 
It was a while before the first team defense got on the field but, once they did get into thz fray, thzy showed who they're number one by recovering several fumbles and picking off a couple of passes. All­American back Clarence Ellis drew some cheers from the crowd after making a long run down the sidelines with an intercepted pass. 
There were lots of familiar faces on thz first "D". The forward wall was comprised of veterans Walt Patulski, Greg Marx, Mike Kadish and Fred Swendson. Eric Patton and Rich Thomann were joined at thz linebacker posts by hard hitting sophs Jimmy Musuraca and Jim O'Malley. Ralph Stepaniak, Mike Crotty and Ellis comprised the secondary. 
The number two defensive unti got a good workout Saturday and sophomore linebacker Mike Webb looked especially sharp, in­tercepting a pass and making a number of tackles. The second "D" had Tom Preistroffer and Tyrone Robinson at the ends and Dick Maciag and Herman Hooten at tackles. Webb, John Raterman, Jim Massey, and Pat McGraw saw action at linebacker while Ken Schlezes, Terry Garner, Joe Hagger and Dan O'Toole shared time in the backfield. · 
There are a number of holes to be filled on the '71 varsity team, most notably the quarterback position. Steenberge has the most playing time but will be hard pressed by Bulger and frosh field generals Cliff Brown and Dan Payne. The offensive guard spots must be considered wide open position while on defense, the linebacker spots vacated by Kelly and Wright are up for grabs. 
During the next few weeks, as the weather grows warmer, the battle for positions will grow hotter also. There will undoubtedly be lots more speculation among the sideline sages this Spring. 

Ashland." ..Statistics backed up O'Leary's opinion as Reilly concluded the day with ten saves. 
Ashland, before Saturday's encounter with Notre Dame, had tied Cleveland's lacrosse club and walloped Oberlin College 12­
1, so, while they are not a 

powerhouse, they could be classified as a respectable lacrosse team. Coach O'Leary
appraised them in this manner, "They're a hustling team despite their ragged style of play. Their 
coach is also Ashland's football 
coach and I don't think he's too 
caught up on the finer points of 
lacrosse. Also, they had quite a 

few freshmen and sophomores, and I don't imagine than many of ~~~:l.r,layed lacrosse in high 
Notre Dame's record for the 

!~~:s~:sef:~e~~; !~;~se~!i!! 
were absorbed in games classified as scrimmages. The Irish will attempt to retain their unbeaten status against Ohio University on April 8 at Athens, Ohio. Their task should be a 


Notre Dame's, is on the upsurge. Ohio recently acquited a new coach and they, too, are an­ticipating a successful season. 

Coach O'Leary sized up the remainder of Notre Dame's season by saying, "I think the outlook is very favorable. 


Nixon on bench for opening day 
NEW YORK UPI -Smugly certain that it still the great American pasttime, major league baseball goes through its tribal rite of throwing out the first 

Rowers win 
The Notre Dame crew club 
opened its '71 season on a suc­
cessful note as the varsity, junior 
varsity and freshman eights 
defeated opposing crews from St. 
Thomas College (Minn.) and 
Grand Valley College (Mich.) 
Saturday on the windswept St. 
Joseph River. 
Coach Harry Hoptchkiss' 
varsity crew, rowing only against 
St. Thomas, sprinted off the 
starting line at 39 strokes per ,minute to gain an early lead over the visitors. The Irish then settled to 34 strokes per minute and steadily increased their lead over the St. Thomas eight. Notre Dame's crew covered the 2000 meter course in 7:15 while the St. Thomas rowers crossed the finish line 20 seconds later. 
Notre Dame's "A" junior 
varsity crew had a much tougher 
race than the Irish varsity. 
Rowing 35 strokes to the minute, 
Notre Dame twice exchanged the 
lead with the St. Thomas rowers 
before staging a strong sprint in 
the final 500 meters to cross the 
ball Monday. 
President Nixon, a real fan, will not use his golden season pass to attend the Senator­Oakland game in Washington. The Chief Executive will get his inning by inning results in his California White House office. 
The National League, which insists subtly on being referred to as the "senior circuit" offers two opening games -Cincinnati, its oldest club, is at home to Atlanta, but staid tradition gets a jolt with a night game in Houston, where the Los Angeles Dodgers, the old exiles from Brooklyn, meet the Astros. 
Gone are days of spring barn­

storming trips on the way north from the Florida camps or the Arizona deserts. Final exhibition games were played Sunday, and after the last outs there were concerted rushes for jet flights to the sites of Monday and Tuesday inaugural battles, the first of 1944 contests which will be played to eliminate 20 of 24 teams ano. 
produce the league playoffs, after which Americans will be ready for the World Series between the league champions, slated to begin Oct. 9. 

As is customary, the baseball commissioner predicts "baseball's greatest year." 
OBSERVER BUSINESS STAFF 
Needs people for Advertising Layout: 
. 
*Paid position $$$ *Afternoon -Early Evening Work 
Call 7471, 8661. \sk for Bill Bauerle or leave a messag 

finish line with a two length lead.""""------------------------~~~~~ 
The winning time was 7:30. St. Thomas was second, Grand Valley third, and the Irish junior varsity "B" crew brought up the rear. 
The Notre Dame freshma crew rowed to a five second victory over St. Thomas, d~spite finishing four lanes off cohrse. The Irish frosh were timed in 8:01. 


Interhall 
TRACK MEET 
The Interhall track meet will take place Tuesday, April 6, at 7 
p.m. in the ACC. All entrants should report to the issue room for instructions regarding the order of events. 


WANT $$$? 
A JOB FOR THIS SEMESTER 
AND NEXT 
IF YOU CAN TYPE 


WE WANT YOUR HANDS!!! 
CALL OR LEAVE MESSAGE SCOTT BRALEY 7471,8661 
• 


Page 8 THE O.&rERIIU. 



Kunstler on dissention 
Continued from page I 
one of four areas. .t<'irst of all was Washington. But the government felt, Kuntsler said, that there were too many schools, Catholics, and black people. The government felt that this would result in an outpouring of support for the defendents. 
The second area was Con­necticut because some of the overt acts occured in Danbury prison. Kuntsler again explained that the government considered these to be "small microcosms of Washington." The third possibility was in New Jersey, in Trenton or Newark. Again, the government felt these to be "prototypes," Kuntsler com­mented. 

So, he said, the government finally settled on Harrisburg, Pa. It was an area almost completely "divorced from the outside world." He noted that it was dominated by the Lutheran Church and Church of the Bretheran. The area's congressmen are strict hawks and the juries for the area are drawn from the southern part of the district which is almost completely non-Catholic. Finally, he noted, thzre wasn't a school within 35 miles. 
Kuntsler then commented on the case assembled against the conspirators. He noted that the plot involved the nuns and priests "stealing through the steam pipes of Washington" on Washington's Birthday to plant bombs at the five junction points. When the bombs went off"all the official sanctuaries of Washington would become cold." 
Then citing an old Washington law, "No heat, no work.", it was reasoned that the government employees would all go home. The next day, the conspirators were to enter the White House disguised as tourists and kidnap Henry Kissinger. "That was the plot," Kuntsler explained. 
The star witness for the case is a man named Boyde Douglas, who was a jailmate of Phillip Berrigan while he was in Lewiburg Prison. He was, for some reason, given free access to the outside world and was a fulltime student at Bucknell. 

viable alternative to be standing and special committee work and fewer SLC meetings -perhaps two or three a semester. This implies research and extensive discussion before leaving the Committee level, adequate study of committee reports before each meeting and hopefully, less discussion, more topics, and quicker decisions at each meeting." 
In their opinion, Barkett added, this could happen with twelve members as easily as twenty 

AUSTIN, TEX: Vernon Holt <R> meets with two of his children as four. He said the Student they prepare for their every other day treatment on a dialysis Government Research and machine. Three of the Holt's ten children have already died from the Development Commission can effects of a rare kidney disease that now afflicts Paula, (L) and Gary, always be an aid in this regard. 20, (C). The Holt's have been advised that their supply of equipment The Student Senate approved for the machine will be cut off unless current bills are paid. <UPI> Barkett's proposal last night. 
Because we appreciate your business 
we are going to do you a favor! 
With this ad well give you 10% off on any easter gift you choose. 
Kuntsler expressed wonderment movement must not die." 
at the fact that after the in­The Senior Fellow expressed 
dictments, Douglas was taken out his hope that this spring would 
of Lewisburg and hasn't been not be a silent spring. He said 
seen since. that the beginning of the 
In explaining the conspiracy demonstrations would be on April 
statutes, Kuntsler commented, 5, at noon, in New York City. It 
"In California, conspiracy to would occur on the spot where the 
commit a misdemeanor is a hardhats "bludgeoned" peaceful 
felony. Committing that demonstrators. 
misdemeanor is a misdeanor." Kuntsler then expressed his 
He also noted that it " has an concern over the William Calley 
aura of secret meetings with verdict. He said that Calley was a 
candles blinking on a table." He scapegoat, a stand-in who was 
went further by saying that a intended to sooth our guilt,"the 
conviction for conspiracy needs guilt of the country." 
very little proof. All it needs is an He said we must ask ourselves 
overt actions and proof that the why William Calley ever oc­
conspirators know each other. cured. He said that Calley oc­
The proof that is required, he because we are taking part in a said, is someone saying I heard "mass attrocity." "We have set you say that to which all you can the foundation, we set the stage reply is I didn't. The jury must for the deaths that took place at take it from there. Kuntsler My Lai and at others. It is expressed concern that a "jury our responsibility." Kuntsler that has been permeated by this, stressed that "We must end that by the word of J. Edgar Hoover, war by whatever means by the word of John Mitchell, necessary. And we must do it 
would be inclined to believe the now!" "I would like to adopt it as informer." a conclusion to this night, one of 
Kuntsler then talked of the the most meaningful and truly resulted terrorizing and in­happy of my life," Kuntsler said timidation that all of this is as he began to read a quote by causig in the country. He said Daniel Berrigan from the that "the country is quiet, quite Catonsville trial. "The truth like the quiet prior to the fall of rules, Christ is not forsaken, in a the Weimark Republic. He said time of death, some men will thwt the country is becoming resist it, those who work heartily more repressive. Many of the for social change, those who things that have happened in thti! preach and embrace the truth, last year, Kuntsler said, are such men overcome death their frightening. lives are bathed in the light of the 
Kuntsler brought a message Resurrection, the truth has set from the Berrigan brothers. They them free. In the jaws of death said that "the fight must con­they proclaim their love of tinue. People must not be afraid.: bretheran, we think of such men They must follow their con­in the world, in our Nation, in the science about the war, short of Church, and the stone in our physical violence." The breasts is dissolved and we take 
heart once more." 



SLC reduction possible 
Continued from page I 
Board of Trustees. It did notBarkett and Rodriguez do not make the agenda of the nextfeel that there would be a lack of meeting, but all members ap­adequate representation in the proached were in favor of thereduced Council, nor would there idea, according to Barkett.
be a breakup of continuity in the Ifthe SLC rejects the reductionturnover. 
proposal, the new studentIn seeking approval of the government is offering an measure, Barkett and Rodriguez alternative. "If the Council doeshave spoken to members of the not agree with our proposal,"executive committee of the says Barkett, "we see the only 
Monday, April 5, 1971 
***************************** 
. *
* St. Marys & Notre Dome students * 
I *
* *
* 
i * 
eligible for * Student Teaching 
* 
during the 1st semester 1971 -72 #* 
I
should come and apply 
in room 320, Modelevo. 
I Application deadline -Friday, April I 
*****************************: 




HARLEM ~-··-.:. 6LOBETROTTERS 
Sunday, Aprilll 3:30 p.m. 
ACC ND and SMC Discounts Ticket prices $4--No discount $3--Purchase for $2 (Limit 2) $2--No discount 

General Admissions--$1.50 Purchased day of game, only: 
Must present ID Card For Discount at ACC 
* THE OBSERVER BUSINESS OFFICE Individual should be oriented toward growth of the ob· ~~rv~:~t~:e ~~~~!:b•~;:.=pe•~rttce ~:fvrr~n•~!f: ministration, loc:~ financial ins~ltutions, and advertJsen and their agenties. Applicant must be willing to devote 15 to20 hours ~rweek. There is a possibility of academic credit in Business Admimstration and the salaryIs $100 per month. :c:~~ ':iu:b::n\~''::~::!ir~Jo:,•:-e·~~~~c~dfnre:~~~ curricular busfness management; a:J other informaUon deemed pertinent via first class mall to: The Observer c/o Bruce Rieck , Business Manager P.O. Box 1100 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 **  
ABSOLUTELY No ads accepted after 4pm on the day prior to pub/ication  







