Black Studies questioned 

by John Abowd 
One hundred black students led by Dr. Jospeh Scott, director of thz Black Studies Program, presented Fr. Burtchaell with a proposal for a , "Black Studies Department and a Division of Black Student Affairs" yesterday in the Provosts office. 
Scott the principal author of theproposal, indicated that he and the students expect>:<ed a response from the administration by "noon Friday". 
"I want to know and the students want to know if the administration is going to allocate money fro a Black Studies faculty because if they're not then I'm cut of a job and i I want to know, on theline," Scott sadi said. 
The proposald calls the current systei)l of hiring faculty for programs "counter-productive" because the final decisions lie with the department heads and a program chairman has only the power ofpersuasion. 
Fr. Burtchaell, University Provost said he had "no com­ment. I haven'T HAD A CHANCE TO READ THEPROPOSAL." --"stripped the Program of all 
The black students and Dr. capability of regualting." new Scott intend to confgront the St. black faculty members since Mary's administration today on they are obligated to those who 
the question of Black Studies at pay their salaries 
1:00 in LeMans Hall. --"stripped" the Black Studies The proposal claims "the Program of "any autonomy to 
existing academic departments select faculty members." have reserved for themselves the -"stripped" the program of perogative of deciding the faculty "authority to control thz teaching 
appointments in their depart­qulaity in the courses presently 
ments; this means that the final constituitng a Black· Studies 
decisions for Black Studies Major."faculty selections are in the --"stripped the Director of anyhands of thz dpartments." authority to appoint a graduate
Scott claims that no money has assistatnt, a secretary" or other 
ever been allocated to him for personall.thepurpose of hiring a faculty. He Dean Frederick Crosson, feels that this has resulted from Colelege of Arts and Letters .. who the status of Black Studies as a also attended the seession program and could be eliminated responded to the criticisms of if Black Studies becomes a thehiring policies claiming "I department. have to agree with Dr. Scott on 
The report indicts the current this." hiring system in six areas "I have sent a letter to all available black people to be claiming that the procedures dpepartment chaormen to candidates for these positions so have: consider them to reverse their thesystem is counter­
--"caused unnecessary delays hiring practices," he said. productive." in the review and selection of new Crosson explained that it was "We will make whatever ad­black faculty members." the policy of department justments necessary (in this 
--"caused conflicts between chairmen to consider the hiring policy () to find black priorities of the various depart­weaknesses in their departments faculty members," he claimed. ments and the Black Studies in term of faculty specialties but, Crosson also noted that the Program." he noted, "There are not enough University "is committed bv 1!171\ 

ri gc to have at least as many black faculty membe~;s as in the general population." 
Burtchaell noted that the "stregnth" of the program ap­proach was that it protected faculty members' careers by allowing them to be hired by a 
(Continued on page 2) 


Chambers reviews new rules·
J 
Room selection policy outlined 
Director of Student Residence favorable." He added that he has cmntract with a student possibility that the fifty dollar Father Thomas Chambers said talked to a"few people involved guaranteeing him a_ room for the charge will create apartments yesterday that there is "no in the decision making." next one or two semesters. instead of Christian communities possibility as far as I have Chambers spoke on various --A "security deposit" of fifty in the halls are holding back the heard" that his office will have to aspects of hall life and room dollars which would be forfeited fee's implementation said cope with co-ed housing problems selection last night in Keenan if "for no good reason" the Chambers. for next fall. Hall in a discussion session student who had agreed to live on However, he said that it cannot 
"There is no planning on it," sponsored by the Keenan campus decided in the fall to be denied that many students said Chambers. "It would be Academic Commission. move off campus. want to live off-campus and the news to me." Chambers outlined possible Chambers said that if the 120 empty beds this semester 
Chambers also said that the procedures, including a fifty student provides the university cannot be financially tolerated byRev. Thomas E. Chambers prospects for an experiemntal dollar room deposit, that might ·with a good reason in the summer the university. 
college next fall are "not be instituted this spring to make for moving off-campus, the fifty Something has to be done to the university and the student dollars would be returned. enable the university to fill as more secure in knowing that he Chambers added that if the many beds as possible said
Probation continued 
will live in a room next fall. student wants to move off­Chambers. He stressed that no 
Chambers said the following campus he can forfeit the fifty one . will be forced to live on changes in room selection which dollars. campus. will hopefully clarify who will be Chambers said that the fifty Chambers also said that the

in student drug case 
living on campus and where he dollars will be returned to the proposed changes would will be living next fall are in the student living on camous at the hopefully keep the cost of roomby Mike O'Hara remain. In such a case, only the "stages of finality." end of the semester or the year. and board down. The possibilityultimate decision of the Board --The student would sign a Reservations about the (continued on page 3)
One chapter in the pre­will be made public. Christmas drug case was Under Board Procedure, the Voting misuse notedresolved last Friday when the charge against the accused is Judicial Appeals Board rendered read by the Board Chairman. The their decision in the. case of the university representative then 
New presidential elections slated
University of Notre Dame vs. presents his case for the 
Mark Hannahan. university, which is followed by SMC student body vice mittee's decision. committee. I think that because it The decision of the Board the presentation of thz case of the president Jean Gorman has "I think we will run again," she is so late after the first vote that reads, "By unanimous decision, accused. announced a new election for the election should have been left 
SBP and SBVP to be held Friday stated, ''but I'm really sort of
the Board has arrived at a In each presentation, witnesses as it was.
March 5. disappointed with the election
decision that the accused will be of character and or of the act "If there had been complaints, continued on probation, with any may be called forth to comment. Miss Gorman, head of the SMC · ;;:;;;;;:;::::~::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::;:::::::::::~::::::::;:::::~::;:: they should have been registered further incident of a disciplinary After commenting,the witnesses election committee, cited inef-:;:: The election committee :~~ with the election committee on nature resulting in immediate may be cross-examined. ficiency of the balloting as the ~~: of St. Mary's student ~;j! Friday," SBP hopeful Barlow dismissal. The rationale behind After both sides have finished reason behind the committee's ;:;: government has decided h ~::: added. the Board's decision will be made their questions, the members of decision to hold new balloting. :::: that due to the close ~ Jane Sheehy, who polled the public in a day or two. the Board may question the "After a recount held Sunday, :~ margin of victory and the ~;~ second highest number of votes in 
Concerning the appeal of Don representatives, the accused, and Kathy Barlow had one vote more :;:: possibility of error as a :;:: Friday'svoting was in favor of Badger, Judicial Appeals Board the witnesses in order to clarify than was needed for a majority," .;::: result of poor supervision :~: the reelection. She stated that she Chairman Greg Potts stated that any points. Both sides then make Gorman said. The election :;:; of balloting to declare the :::; would run again because she and a hearing is tentatively scheduled their concluding remarks and the committee received complaints ;~;~: Friday, February 26th ;:~: her running mate, Sue Welte, feet for 9 a.m. Monday morning. room is cleared in order that the about the way the balloting was ;:~ election invalid. :;:: "that no matter who is elected, According to Judicial Board Board arrive at a decision. done, and one candidate asked :~:· A re-E!Iection will be held ~~= she should be elected fairly and Procedure, Badger will have an The decision of the Board for an in~estigatio~. As a !esult, ~ Friday, March 5th for those ;:;; because the student body should option of either a public or required only a majority, and not the election committee decided to ~ candidates who choose to :;:; have the satisfaction of knowing private hearing. unanimity. Having arrived at a hold an election this Fr~day." :i§ run again. for the offices of :;:; that their SBP wasn't elected by 
If a private hearing is desired, decision, the participants are Missy Un-:~: SBP and SBVP. ;:;: a fluke." the hearing room will be cleared called back into the room where derman, ~BV~ candidat~ w~o :::~ Balloting will b~ hied ~~~~ The third team of Kate Cassidy and only the Board, the accused, the decision of the Board and the won election m last Fri~Y s ;::: from s am to 6 pm m each :;:; and Laura Bayer had no com 
his representative, and the reasons behind it are read by the contest expressed disap-:::· dorm. ;:;: ment on the news of the reelec­university's representative will Chairman. pointment in the election com· :::~:<.:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;··::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:; tion. 
~Pa~ge~2~--------~--~----------------=ZM==~~O~ Thursday, March 4, 1971 
Studies shift asked 



Students ask for Black Studies department
good sociologist than that he is have been using in the past," he
(Continued from Page 1) 

the director of a Black Studies noted. interested in Notre Dame." traditional University depart­Program," Burtchaell continued. Scott reacted to the economic "The Department of Black Suk ment. Crosson claimed that there was arguments claiming that the Studies reports directly to the 
Dean of the College of Arts and
"As far as Dr. Scott's career is "no particular stubborness at University knew that it was going concerned, for example, it is Notre Dame" toward the hiring to be in an economic "bind" when Letters and, therefore, the muc_h more important that he is a of faculty members for the Black he was hired. College should plan its money 
allocations to insure regular and Studies program but that the "I am not going to be the 'house 
University was "caught in an nigger' and hold the title of continuous financial resources 
The Pin-Up Girl : economic squeeze." 'Director of the Black Studies for expansion to the full staff and 

:+••··············* 
thereafter to insure sufficient"The Black Studies Program Program' without any faculty.
* Starring-0 944) 
funds for the continuous~ Betty Grable ~ has come along at precisely the The University must come up 
~ March 5,6,7 ~ operations of the Department."
time when the number of faculty with a better arrangement for "A Black studies major willpositions are declining. No bad hiring authority and money
* * consist of a 24 hour sequence of
: Badin Vintage Cinema : will has been involved, we just allocation if we are going to have courses developed and approved
*.¥.lf.-¥..._............... . can't use the same methods as we a successful Black Studies 
by the chairman of the Black
program or department," he 
Studies Department."
said. 
The staff consists of two faculty
Scott noted that he lost con­
categories "Principal faculty,
fidence in the present system 
who have their primary ap­
"about three weeks ago" because 
Dr. J. W. Scott pointment in the Department of
"even when everyone acts in 
Black Studies and Adjunct
good faith it is a non-productive 
ment of Black Studies and faculty, who have their primary
system. It causes conflicts of 
"Allocate three (3) FTE (Full appointments in some other
interests and a lot of ill-will. What 
time equivalent) faculty and department."
we need then is a separation in 
funds to support these at the The proposal also calls for theterms of money support and associate professor level." 
creation of a "Division of Blackhiring authority for Black "The money will permit the Student Affairs" under the Office Studies." Director of Black Studies to enter of the Provost.
The proposal recommends that into negotiations with prospec­
The proposal claims that black students have: --"no full-time black freshmen 

Dull, uninteresting weekend ahead? 

Not if you get the message! 
ANHEUSER· BUSCH, INC. , ST. LOUIS , NEWARK , LOS ANGELES o TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONVILLE • MERRIMACK 
counselor for next year." --"no full-time recruiter" --"no specifically organized tutorial groups .. .for black students." --"no director of housing and college life" to explain the op­tions available to incoming black students. 
The proposal recommends that the "University allocate five (5) FTE staff members to staff the proposed division. 
MORHI::i AUOITUHIUM SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 

March a,1971 
WORLD'S HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP 
There will be one champion and only one champion 

JOE FRAZIER 
vs 

MUHAMMAD 
ALl 
Closed circuit television live from Madison Square Garden 
NO LIVE OR DELAYEO HOME TELEVISION 
Tickets now on sale Students $6.00 
On sale today 11:15-12: 15; 4-5pm Student Union Ticket Office -Limited student tickets available 2 per student 1D 
Ofl~Y 50 left 


Thursday, March 4, 1971 
Page 3 
Sister Alma clarifies Phys Ed program; explains community government changes 

mit tee meeting Monday,by Ann Therese Darin members questioned whether the 
program was being eliminated 
Tuesday Sr. Alma, St. Mary's without any consideration by 
acting president, clarified the community government. They 
status of the physical education also questioned the status of the 
program and the recent proposed tenured faculty member in light 
changes in community govern­of the supposed program cut. 
ment. "According to AAUP 
Questioned on the rumor that requirements," Sister stated, "a the department is being tenured faculty member should eliminated next year, the acting be offered a position or a choice president replied, "According to of position in some other area of AAUP regulations, a department the college. The tenured faculty or program can be phased out if it member in question has geen is not a viable program. For the given such an offer." past two years, just a handful of Sister also commented on the students have registered for the proposed changes in community program." government, which would 
The program, despite lack of essentially change the mem­interest, will not be phased out bership of some of the com­entirely. It will continue on a mittees dealing with student limited scale next year with one affairs. instructor instead of two. She recounted that last October 
At the Student Affairs Com-Jean Gorman, student body vixe-
Abortion Forum at midpoint 
Dr. Rudolph Gerber spoke In future weeks, the Accdemic Wednesday night on "Abortion, a Commission will present Dr. 
Basis for Decision," in the Julian Pleasants, on March 9, Library Auditorium as part of the who will speak on the medical 
n Notre Dame -St. Mary's and biological aspects of the Academic Commission's subject. Pleasants is a biology Abortion Forum. progessor at Notre Dame. 
Gerber is the third in a six-part Aoso scheduled are the Reb. series that "divides the question Forest Whitman, counselor with of abortion into several com­the Clergyman's Association, ponent questions," according to who will speak on April 4, Mike Spencer and Debbie Bush, Also scheduled are the Rev. the organizers of the program. Forest Whitman, counselor with 
Professor Tom Poulson and the Clergyman's Association, social worker Ruth Pilger were who will apeak on April 4, and 
the first two lecturers in the Stanley Hauerwas, theology prof series, which tries to present the who will ppeak on April 26. 
views of local experts on the theology prof who will speak on 
question of abortion. April 26 
13th Annual 
president, presented the Student students should work together on Affairs Council with the student community government. The section of the governance Council urged the faculty and 
manual, including some pages on students to name their members college community government. and to work during semester Last spring, the faculty similarly break. prsented their manual. "Nothing was done by these 
Sr. Alma stated that the two groups," Sister explained,students' and faculty's "to present their combined statements were found to be thinking. The administration did inconsistent and contradictory. work during spring break. Before At the Student Affairs Council I left for Europe, I sent copies to 
meeting, it was decided that an !?r. Black and Sr. Immaculata." ad-hoc committee of ad­
Sister Alma revealed that itministration. faculty. and 
Chambers does not anticipate co-ed housing at ND next year 
(Continued from Page 1) 
of separating the room and board 
fee from the laundry fee is being 
considered he added. 
However' he said that the total 
cost would' probably still rise. 
He said that for every empty 
bed, the university has to charge 
more per occupied bed to make 
up the loss of the empty beds. 
Chambers said he was hopeful that no students except in Flanner and Grace halls will 
have to be kicked out to make room for the incoming freshmen next fall. 
Chambers said that students will have to be kicked out of the towers because these halls are more attractive than the other halls so fewer people want to move out. These halls also have been used as depositories by outcasted students from other halls. 
Chambers said that the fifty dollar deposit the student now pays is an advance registration fee and on~y guar~ntees the student the nght to plCk a room. The fifty dollars "security deposit" would be in addition at this c~arge. 
A fme s~stem whereby a student who signed up for a room in the spri~g but then decided to ~ove o~f I~, the fall was called 
unf~asible by Chambe~s .. 
This system would ehmmate 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY Law school interviews. Professor James P. White of Indiana University School of Law, Indianapolis, Indiana will interview prospective law students Monday, March 8, 1971 in room 205, Business Administration Building. Sign up outside Room 101 0' Shaughnessy was her intention that meetings and discussion would take place during February and that a consensus statement on college community government would be. ready March 1. 
"Because so many people were involved with the Park-Mayhew report, meetings on college community government had to be delayed," the acting president commented. "Meetings will be taking place before vacation starts March 12." 
the extra strain on a student's budget of the fifty dollar "security deposit" in the spring 

COMEDY 
SMC Little Theatre Thursday, Friday and Saturday evenings -March 4, 5 & 6-8:00PM 
Miscellanei­Comedy Review 
Sponsored by SMC 
Social Commission 
THE BIGGEST BASH OF THEM ALL... Time Magazine 
23 Big Bands and Combos from all over the country 
FRIDAY, MARCH 5-7:30 FREE JAZZ SYMPOSIUM FRODA Y AFTERNOON

SATURDAY, MARCH 6-1:30,7:30 
Tickets: $1.50 Afternoon Session $4.50 All Sessions$3.00 Evening Session 
Available in the Dining Hall 
Thursday, March 4, 1971
_P~ag~e~4--------------------------------~~~Z~0~ 
It IS 1n the blue corner 

by Terry Shields 
Observer Sports Editor 
Of the twenty semi-final bouts on last night's Bengal card 18 of these were won by the man in the Blue corner. However, one of the lucky gold winners was the biggest upset of the tournament. Defending champ in 165 Roland Chamblee was the victim of a fired-up Norm Barry and this was the highlight of the 40th annual Bouts last night at the Convo. 
Barry's last punch of the match turned out to be the clincher as he knocked the South Bend Mauler down. It was a split decision. 
The only other gold corner winner was Ed Carney who won on a TKO over Gary Hunt. Hunt wanted to continue in the first round but Dominic Napolitano the head of the Bengals, made a wise decision in not permitting the fight to go on. 
In the 125 pound class Jack 
One weekend onlv! The ND-SMC Studio Theatre . ·will present 
DARK OF THE MOON 
a powerful dramatization of an American folk ballad. by Howard Richardson and William Berney. 


WASHINGTON HALL 
March 5th & 6th at 8:30, and 7th at 7:30 PM. 
subscribers free. tickets $1.00 call 284-4176 
Griffin and Larry Samerad mixed it up pretty good for three rounds and Griffin won over the counter-punching Samerad by unanimous decision. Jerry Bradley won by the closest of margins over a tough Charlie Gabian. This was also unanimous. 
Jamie "Kahuna" Egan was stripped of any chance to win the 135lb. title as quick Pat McGrath out boxed the Kahuna. McGrath is very impressive for a fresh­man. Mike Loughery decked Matt Cavanaugh in o the other match in this divi~Ion but Cavanaugh made a gusty comeback that just wasn't enough to sway the judge's decision. It was unanimous for Doughery. 
Tom Kress and Charlie MOrrison hooked up in a real slugfest in the 140 lb. class and Kress came away with a very bloddy unanimous decision. In the other 140 match, Simon Kovalik lost by a narrow margin to Steve Duffy. Both fighters were even in the first and third rounds but Duffy got the better of Kovalik in Round 2 and with this went the unanimous decision. 
Gary Canori came out swinging from the start in the rugged 145 class and he and Tom Sykes hammered away for three rounds with Canori scoring big on a technical knockout. The decision was unanimous. 
In a match that may very well have had the best two boxers in the entire tournament, it was Tom Suddes by unanimous decision over a rugged Dave Pemberten. Suddes scored big and evaded Pemberton's power in rounds one and two and this led to his victory. 

All ND -SMC Sophomores 
Interested in Working On: 
Sophomore Literary Festival (March 28 -April 3) 
There will he a meeting 7:30PM Thursday in LaFortune Ballroom t2nd floor) or contact Kevin O'Connor 6819 
·~~.._...._....._.~~~ ~~~~~~~~ 
t live Entertainment t f Wed. to Sat. Dancing f t t



vUifllltfD 
"THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST'' 
t 
525 North Hill Street 
t
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619 
' t t 
A trended Parking In the Rear 
THURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY. NIGHT 
t 
'lownstairs starting at 9 !Jm 
t 
Even·one 's Wdcome A 
Happy Hour 5-t Dail" Live Entertainment ' All beverages $.60 ' 
t
Wednesday thru Saturday
during Happ~' .Hour . Upstairs Only Pitchers of beer 
f 
at $1.60 


~--------------~ 
Tom's brother Mike Suddes won his 150 lb. with a hit and run match against Tom Bole. The decision was unanimous. Jim Lusk will be Suddes' foe in the finals on the merits of his close but unanimous win over Mike Harrington. 
Aaron Baker out-boxed Scott 
Gleason in all three rounds to 
take the 155 semi-final. The Mad 
Turk won on a split decision. 
Lance Corey turned out to be the 
surprise of the 155 lb. class. He 
slugged it out with defending 
champ Kevin Kerrigan for three 
rounds and although the tough 
Kerrigan won by unanimous 
decision, Corey had nothing to be 
ashamed of with his per­
formance. He came to box. 
Tom O'Hearn took a 
unanimous decision over Val 
Bernabe in the 165 bout. O'Hearn 
scored on Bernabe early and held 
off the determined Val's late 
charge to win it. Carney was the 
other winner of this class. 
Mark McGowan had to win the 
award as the Tiger of the night. 
The Chicagoan came out 
swinging from the heels o 
the opening bell. He punished a 
tough Nike Maloni for three 
rounds in taking his unanimous 
decision. He will fight upset 
winner Norm Barry on Friday. 
In another of the evening's 
closer fights Mike Burns built an 
early lead and warded off the 
charges of Jack Ragusa to take 
the split decision. Another upset 
of sorts occurredioccured in this 
same 175 division. Dennis Clark 
used a gutsy display of boxing to 
beat Byron King, a knockout 
winner in the opening night, by a 
unanimous decision. 
In the heavyweight class Bob 
Minnix used his quickness to get 
the better of Pat Marcello in the 
few flurries that occurred. 
Minnix fought intelligently, as he 
hit and ran to get the split 
decision. 
Matt Connelly, the other 
heavyweight, pummelled Bob 
Moorman for three rounds but 
the amazing Moorman took all of 
Connelly's best blows and stayed 
standing. This in in itself was a 
feat although Connelly was 
awarded a unanimous decision. 


Founder 
All You Can Eat Both Nights 
Tuesdays and Thursdays 
5 -11 pm 

Fish $1.15 Chicken $1.45 
Con1er of Edison and Ironwood 



The Irish Eye 
;·;-.·.····································································n·One Last Hurrah
··-·-·-·-·-·-···-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·.·.·-·-·-·.·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·=·=·=·=·=-:-: 
I remember the first time I saw that group of guys in a ball game. 
They were only freshmen at the time, but they were still good enough 
to whip a Notre Dame varsity team that won 21 games and placed 
third in the NIT. They were rlly comething 
It doesn,t seem like frou yars have passed since those first nights 
when "the best freshmen team in the nation, used to put on an 
exhibition against the Irish varsity. The freshmen took six outof seven 
of those exhibitions. 
gwhy, they even use 
to outdraw the varsity for some of their games. When you think aboit 
it, there was little reason why this shouldn,t have been. They were 
truly an entertaining team to watch. 
Bacc then, before he ran into so much knee trouble, Jack Meehan 
was so sharp that some felt his passes were too fakey for his team­
mates to keep up with. He was al o rugged on defense and with his 
quickness he was a constant threat to drive the lane for a bucket. 
Tom Sinnott was always an aggressive defender and he was also a 
very effective sixth man. His brilliant behind-the-back passes foten 
drew the cheers of everyone packed in the old fieldhouse. 
Jim Hinga, the Muncie Milkman, whould have bought a ticket for 
most of those games. He spent more time diving into the close crowd 
after loose balls than he did on the court. 
John Pleick, when dressed in those old green visiting uniforms, won 
the title of the Jolly Green Giant. Opponents didn,t see much to b jolly 
aboit when Big grohn cleared the bords, however. 
It seems that even then, Collis Jones was scoring 22.5 points a game 
and grabbing his twelve rebounds. He never won much praise from 
anyone, he was always taken for granted. He hasn,t missed a game 
since joining the varsity and something tells me that if he did miss a 
gme, he woild finally be appreciated by everyone. 
Another notable figure back in those dabs of the "the Murphy steal, 
the "Dixie jumper, was the mysterious big man that always sat on 
the freshmen bench. He was dressed sharply in trutlenecks and 'Glen 
plaid slacks bit he never dressed in uniform for thse games. All anyone 
knew of this 6,8, individual was tht he played center versus Lew 
Alcindor in high school and his was the only team that could mke the 
statemnt tht they won against the Power Memorial myth. Sid has 
shown moments since then which makes you understand why he ws so 
highly tooted. 
And then there was AVUSTIN Carr, always with his shirt tail oit, 
always hustling, always urging on his teammates to greater heights, 
and always playing backtball the way it was meant to be played to 
~~00. ' 
It,s been foir years since all thse things happened yet nothing much 
hs really changed. Oh sire, there,s been some disappointments along 
the way. Often the team had those bad nights when nothing seemed to 
go right. Weg,ll always remember the loss to Miami in the first round 
in the ,69 NCAA,s and the Kntuckh gme last year was anothr heart­
breaker. 
But somehow, I forget aboit these things when I remembr that Notre 
Dame has one I t chance to show why theh were tagged "best freshmen 
t earn in the nation., Tonight is the la t time tht many of us will ever 
see Austin, Collis, Sid, Jackie, Tom, Jim, and Big John on the court 
as a team. Th~y have provided u with many thrills over the fo ur year 
hre and ~.m Sire ~ht.the ~tudent body recognizes this and tht they,ll 
show their appreciation with a tremendous ovation for each man. 
There is also one other man who deserves an ovation. Unfortunately 
few pople appreciate what he hs done for ND nd the ba 
program here and it,s qiite possible that he will not receive a favorable 
welcome. To do this woild be one of the most bush manuevers that the . Notre Dame students have ever put forth. 
. John Dee ha~ put Notre Dame basketball on the map. He hs taker 
his teams to fmr tournaments in a row. HVE HAS SCHEDULED THE 
FINEST COI_V~PETITION ~OSSIBL~. His team earned a bid as justly 
as any team m the NCAA field. Now It comes to light th what Dee had 
on his mind when he made sich a schedule. Almost half of the teams in 
the tournament have appeared on th Notre Dame schedule an 
the Irish proved tht they are capable of staying with any on them. On a 
ne utral court the resilts may well be different the second time around. 
But tonight the pressure i off th Irish for once. Theh can go oit on 
th at Convo floor for one la t time and play the game in th way that has 
come to be known as Notre Dame basketball. 
Sid mah goaltend, he mah blocc some shots, he may even dunk and 
the crowd will love it. Collis will once again get tht workmanlik~ 22.5 
wheel and deal on the fast breaks and he,ll rack up ten more assists, 
and he,ll know tht part of the cheering that follows a score will be for 
the ~erfect _Pass he,s ju t thrown. Jim Hinga, if he,s able to play 
becaise of his unfortunate injury will hustle as though he invented the 
term. When Jim mkes tht one great save hell hear aboit it. Tom 
Sinnott is going to bomb a few of tho e long one-h~nders and for once he 
ca!l receive the applause tht he deserves. John Pleick may not score 20 
pomts ~nd he may not grab 15 reboinds bit his picks and his steady 
anchormg on defense are always cheered by his teammates. Tonight 
the students ought to show that they know something aboit basketball 
and give John the encoiragement he seserves for doing "the dirty
work ... 
I don,~ thin~ I,ll have to mention Austin Carr. He does a fine job of 
thatby_ his actions. There are some things words can,t express, but 1 
hope I can speak for the whole student body when 1 say ''thanks 
fellows,, for four exciting years of basketball. ' 






