
Vol. V No. 94 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint !11ary's C'ollege Community Tuesday, March 9, 1971 

Court rejects selective CO claim 
Douglas casts dissenting vote in decision 
WASHINGTON UPJ. The conscientious scruples solely ' for refusing to report for in­Supreme Court ruled yesterday against U.S. involvement in duction, and Louis A. Negre of that young men seeking con­Vietnam. Justice William 0. Bakersfield, California,' who scientious objector status to Douglas cast the dissenting vote.. sought to get out of the service avoid the draft must oppose all Marshall held in two far after he had been drafted. wars, not just one in particular, reaching test cases that Congress Gillette wrote a letter to his such as Vietnam. in enacting the Selective Service draft board terming the Vietnam 
The 8-1 decision written by law intended to exempt only "unjust and illegal." Negre said Justice Thurgood Marshall those "who oppose participation if he were to go to Vietnam "I closed the legal door to a growing in war in any form." would be violating my own number of draft eligibles who Rejecting the appeals of two concepts of natural law and claim exemption because of their men convicted of draft violations, would be going against all that IJohn Barkett chairs his last HPC meeting he said for the court: "Persons had been taught in my religious who object solely to participation training." 
in a particular war are not within Ruling against them, the court the purview of the exempting said Congress showed "deep section even though the latter concern" for conscientious ob­objection may have such roots in jections to war in enacting the 
Imhoff elected to chair HPC, 

weekly co-ex dinners announced 
a claimanPs conscience and selective service laws. 
chance to participate. The on Sunday personality that it is religious in Marshall added: "But there by Bob Higgins program will be for the evening character." are countervailing con-The Hall President's Council meal only, Monday through Finally HPC Executive Douglas protested the decision siderations, which are also the 
Coordinator Fritz Hoefer an­
last night appointed Badin Hall Saturday, and the afternoon meal 
in these words: "conscience is concern of Congress, and the 
nounced that Student Govern­
President Buz Imhoff to serve the repudiated ... the court has done legislative materials simply do 
ment does not plan to stage a
remainder of newly elected violence to the basic philosophy not support the view that 
concert in the Convocation
Student Body President John of the First Amendment and we Congress intended to recognize
Center on the Saturday of An
Barkett's term as chairman of take a step backward" " any conscientious claim 
Tostal weekend. To fill the void,
the HPC. The conscientious objector whatever as a basis for relieving
Hoefer asked for the $120 in the
Imhoff, a junior and second cases were brought by Guy the claimant from the general
HPC treasury to hold an outdoor
term hall president from Porter of New York City, who responsibility or the various 
concert with a local group. of military
Chicago, was approved was sentenced to two years in jail incidents service." 
Hoefer also plans to ask for a
unanimously. No other president was nominated. donation of $100 from the Saint i 'AT k k " h ll d 
Mary's Social lVO-nOC C a enge raWS
Cimmission.
Commenting on his ap­
Hoefer's petition was granted
pointment, Imhoff said, "I plan to Buzz Imhoff
continue the fine work that John without dissent. 
response from Burtchaell 
has done so well in the past. I expect that my friendship with 
Hesburgh fields questions
John will be very beneficial in Dear Dave and Mark: 
this regard." 
. Keenan-Stan£ord chapel .I first read your ~etter to Fr.
Imhoff stated that he plans no m 1.1 R1ehle and myself m the same change in the format of the 
with the faculty belonging to place ~hat I first learned of Fr. council. "I would like to retain by Charlie Meyers another department. Riehl€ 's "no-knock" policy: in the informality that now exists in University president Theodore For minority enrollment in the Observer. How I came to be the Council," he explained, Hesburgh spoke to a full audience general, Fr. Herburgh stated that associated with it, since Fr. "because I think that is its of students last night in the "we squeeze every cent we can Riehle and I have never greatest attribute." Keenen-Stanford Chapel. The get" into the minority program. discussed the matter, is 
The newly elected Chairman discussion was one of a series of He also noted that a squeeze is anybody's guess. But guessingplans to make no comment on the speakers engaged by the Keenan­put onto students from blue does seem to occupy the Ob­recent controversial Stanford joint Academic Council. collar families who do not qualify server these days. 
Fr. Burtchaellstatement made 
The president asked for a for any aid. Surely Fr. Riehle will deal with by Fr. Reihle concerning the question and answer session at The question of tenure was your Wednesday morning project role of the University's Resident the outset, noting this as an raised, and the president ad-as he sees fit. I gather that what Assistants. Imhoff explained that "advantage of speaking about mitted that the system has its you are challenging is not the he wanted to "find out exactly things you wanna talk about." flaws. Father would like to see a parietal hour rule (you have Any student now livingwhat has been said before make The students responded with system of period tenure for a solemn words in favor of on campus who intends to any false accusations." queries ranging from student's given span of time. This would legislative authority), but Fr. 
move off campus next year In other business, Barkett rights to the financial situation of help faculty members work on Riehle's opinion about who may must so notify his rector by announced that he and Vice­the university. The tone of Fr. balancing their time between enter campus rooms. You noon of March 26, 1971. AllPresident-elect Orlando Hesburgh 's response was casual teaching and research, a factor mention that you have a lawyer single students who will beRodriguez will spend the entire and objective. He took no which plays the important role in available whom you can furnish under the age of twenty-one Imidsemester break on campus defensive stance on any issue, but permanent tenure. if needed. It might be well to chat in September must have
trying to solve the room selection 
rather offered his opinion on The situation of the four with him before the event, for the 
parental permission to ::;::problem. They plan to get figures various topics. suspended students drew a judicial opinions in the United move off campus. This t'
I
from all the hall presidents Concerning the situation of 
general comment on drugs and States have tended, I believe, to regarding the amount of space student rights, the president felt their users at Notre Dame. Fr. support Fr. Reihle in this matter, 
~!~~ o~~:~d~~t:e~~ ~~a!~~ :..·.·
available and then to adjust the that the students are more free Hesburgh stated that "we want to at least in private universities. 
26, 1971. ::::::
freshman figures accordingly. now than at any time before. He help guys who need help with In any case, your proposal to 
Present off campus :)'
Chairman of the recent co­was unconcerned with last drugs" and let students know that spend a whole night studying is students desiring to moveexchange dinner night, Bob night's stance by Dave Krashna help will be provided, yet the the most challenging feature of Ohlemiller, announced that and Mark Winnings, noting that president felt no compassion for your letter. An invitation to 
I
more of these nights will be held. "they can take care of them­those people who make money by witness the event is tempting, but after mid-semester break. One selves." selling dope to other students. He I am not free to come. hundred tickets will be allotted to The demonstration by the black 



~~i~:~y:~EE~~:ii. 
!·.·i:i·.·i:i····

stayed away from discussing the At the time of writing you had Those students signing up
Notre Dame Students for use at students was cited as an example specific case of the four ND not yet secured "two (2) women" St. Mary's and one hundred sixty to raise the issue of minority students, stating that this takes who were ready to bring their ~~~~~m~~t~ at~caotmt~~;ti~~! :~~::
I

will be distributed on the girls enrollment at du Lac. Fr. one "into a different set of books to share 314 Howard Hall 
campus for use at ND. This 

Hesburgh saw the need to "get a ethics." with you tonight. This could program will be in effect, better system than we have now" The final section of the never happen in a co-ed school. 
Ohlemiller said, every night from for black studies. He saw as a 
discussion concerned itself with All the more reason for our March 26 through May 15. The major problem in building the talk of the economic situation of present efforts. tickets will be distributed to 
program the stance that black the University. The president Devotedly,different halls each night so that studies has to work in conjunction spoke of the Law School, student James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. all students will be given the with other departments, that is, center, more housing. Provost 



Page 2 781!. OBSBIW!It Tuesday, March 9, 1971 
SMC sets up Black Student Task Force 
The Student Affairs Committee Association of Black Collegiate the ltask force. commitment and concern of the Cassidy; Srs. Margareta, and yesterday issued a statement Women. Although the Council did not college for the black students." Raphaelita; Rev. Raymond replying to the six demands made The proposal also states that reply specifically to the The committee will also in­Runde. by Campus Black student last Dr. Joseph Scott, director of the demands, it did "affirm the clude Drs. Mark Bambenek, Rita 
week. According to the black· studies program at Notre statement, the Council will set up Dame, will be invited to be a 
SLC plans ca1npus drug policy
resour~e

a task force composed of person. 
students, faculty and ad­ministration to make an in-depth study of the black student proposals, by April 5. 
Besides being composed of members of the Intercultural Development Committee, the Council has also invited Sr. Jeanne Finske, academic dean; Mr. Jason Lin dower, finance; Dr. Anthony Black, president of the teaching faculty association; Miss Kathy Barlow, student body president-elect; and Miss Susan .Jackson, president of the 
Speaking for the campus chapter of ABCW, Miss Jackson expressed disappointment at the response to the demands of her group including employment of two black faculty members by Sept. 1971 and the creation of a black student affairs office. 
"It is not the written com­mittment that we wanted," she stated. "There is no signiture to the plan. It isn't even ad­dressed." She would not confirm whether she would accept the Council's invitation to work with 

Take a Break 
GLEE CLUB 

SPRING CONCER1 
Tuesday March 9 8:00PM Washington Hall 
Enjoy an Evening of Music 
Admission Free 
by Tom Leahy 

In a considerable display of palamentary-maneuvering, 
the Student Life Council amen-­ded, rephrased, and finally blocked a motion by Chris Ot­tenweller to reject Father Burtchaell 's hard-line stand against drugs on campus. In place of Ottenweller's motion the 
S.L.C. passed a resolution "ac­cepting the spirit" of the Provost's dictum and promised a more complete policy to be drawn up by "the officers of 
University  and  the  S.L.C."  
combined.  
Otten weller,  a  student  

representative on the council, felt that Burtchaell 's plan drew no 
distinction between 'hard' nar­cotics and marijuana. He said that if enforced it would result in a large scale purge of the campus users. Ottenweller also felt it was the S.L.C.'s duty to draw up a campus drug policy and that it shouldn't be left to one or a few members of the administration. 
Father Whelan, rector of Grace Hall who was introduced as a guest speaker, reported that drugs on campus is a big money business and should be con­sidered an 'underground' operation. Father Whelan quoted enormous prices for small amounts of marijuana, hash, and mescaline. He also told of the growing number of potheads on campus. Whelan says that these people are impossible to talk to and present the greatest danger of drugs on campus. 
The final text of the resolution passed by the S.L.C. reads: 
"That the Student Life Council will accept the spirit of the statement on the sale and posession of dangerous drugs issued by the Provost of the University, but recognizes that it is insufficient to meet the disciplinary problems arising from its application and the problems of drugs on campus, and that the officers of the University and the S.L.C. will therefore meet to draw up policies that will serve as per­manent guidelines to the Judicial Code." 
Text of B~urtchaell co-ed plan 
D. Further confusion derives from the diverse motivations brought to bear by different groups. The students, for example, place high priority upon coed residence halls and shared non-academic facilities for dining and socializing. Ad­ministrators, faculty, alumni, 

Sports Car Club of America drivers call it a champion Typical American Understatentent 




AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY! 
Available only atH. 


Hours 
Open Monday and Thursday nites to 9:00p.m. Tues., Wed. and Fri. to 6:00 p.m., 

Formerly Brook Motor Sales, Inc. 
*TRIUMPH *ROVER* LAND ROVER* 
!H6 E. McKinley, Mishawaka ph. 255-4751 
and trustees presently show more readiness to authorize neigh­boring dorms andput high priority upon academic and in­stitutional unity. Another example: Notre Dame students tend to enroll in Saint Mary's courses either to obtain education credits, or to be in a class with girls for a change. Saint Mary's girls, on the contrary, seem more discriminating, and choose co­ex courses for academic reasons, for the sake of the teacher or the subject matter. Proportionately, girls tend to cross the road four times as often as boys. Were Notre Dame to add an un­dergraduate program in education, the ratio could rise as high as eight-to-one. Depart­mental advisors have un­derstandably tried to curb this 


Founder* 
All You Can Eat Both Nights 
Tuesdays and Thursdays 5 -11 pm 


Fish $1.15 Chicken $1.45 

Cor•.er of Edison and lrpnwood 
traffic to Notre Dame, but the pull is indeed strong. Yet another motivation is the communitarian interest of the Holy Cross sisters. For more than 126 years sisters all over the country have regarded Saint Mary's as their mother house, their premier apostolate, and their home. Until only thirty years ago the other religious houses sent in their annual income to subsidize the campus. The sisters' cemetery on the grounds memorializes scores of women who have planted their lives in the school so that Saint Mary's might flourish. Compared with the length of time any student or alumna or trustee or teacher has to invest in the place, the Holy Cross order must plan for a future thwt will outlive them all. A last motive is what one might call personal. Many ad­ministrators and faculty members have given years of their lives to their noble and ill­
compensated profession and to the College. They have careers, jobs, and families to worry about, and incorporation could threaten them personally. Thus so many people contribute to the in­corporation discussion from so many perspectives. 
E. This gives rise to a fifth ambiguity, embodied in the Park-Mayhew suggestion of a Saint Mary's College in thz University of Notre Daem. As they would be a college for women; yet there is little if any support for such a female enclave in our joint academic future. The Park-Mayhew suggestion is supposed to preserve the distinctive educational mission of Saint Mary's yet whereever possible it is recommended that 
(Continued on page 3) 
ND-SMC Freshmen 
Meet Your Major Night for General Program of Liberal Studies 
7::10 Tonight March 9 105 O'Shaughnessy 

Tuesday, March 9, 1971 Page 3
TIIB O&SZIHii'lt 

Undergrad ND seen as "humanizing" also 

<Continued from page 2) its faculty should merge into Notre Dame departments. How does a · college preserve a distinctive educational mission without a faculty of its own? Park and Mayhew speak of the "dif­fering emphases of an un­dergraduate college and a university stressing graduate and professional work," and identify Saint Mary's with liberalizing values, Note Dame with professional values. This description is unfortunate, and we must take exception to it. One reason for the misunderstanding is that more college men proceed to post-graduate studies than do college women. This is an em­phasis deriving from all-male and all-female enrollments, more· than from distinctive in­stitutional orientations. Like Princeton, unlike Berkeley and Chicago, Notre Dame insists that all faculty devote themselves simultaneously to both un­dergraduate and graduate education. Full professors commonly take a hand to teach freshmen. It is objected that a great portion of the University teaching load is handed over to inexperienced graduate students. THis year about eight percent of our classes are taught by teaching assistants, a proportion quite low as universities go. Further, these young teachers handle their responsibilities quite ably. Also, much has been made 
YACHTING 



SUMMER • 

POSITIONS 
The American Yachting Associa­tion with listings on the East Coast, West Coast, Gulf Area, and the Great Lakes is soliciting for summer crew applicants. 
Positions are available for experienced as well as inexperi­enced male and female college students and graduates. Experi­ence in cooking and child care may be particularly helpful. 
Crewing affords one the opportunity to earn reasonable sums while engaged in pleasant outdoor activity. 
To. apply type a 1 page resume following as closely as possible the form shown below. In April your resume will be edited, printed and sent to approximately 1500-2500 (depending on area) large craft owners. 
RESUME FORM-(1) name, address (home and school), phone number, age; (2) relevant work or recreational experience; 
(3) 
dates available and area(s); 

(4) 
2 or more students wishing to work together, state name of other parties; (5) other informa­tion. 


Send your resume with $6 processing fee to: 
American Yachting Associati 
Suite 503, 8730 Sunset Blvd. 
Los Angeles, California 9006 
Your resume must be received no later than March 26, 1971. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
of over-sized classes at Notre Dame. In fact, this year the average class held 29.2 students. The ratio offull-time­equivalent faculty to un­dergraduates is 1:12.3. 
In a word, "we at Notre Dame value our undergraduate program, particularly in the College of Arts and Letters," precisely for its humanistic and liberalizing orientation, and are not persuaded that an internally distinct Saint Mary's College would be justified on grounds of this peculiar orientation. Others have taken up the suggestion of a distinct college, but no one seems to describe adequately just wtrat its character, style, and purpose would be, nor shy we need it. 

What one must conclude is that the real purpose of such a unit is not academic at all, but political. It is proposed as an enclosure which will enshrine the historical dedication of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and protect ap­prehensive College faculty from what they fear may be the hostile context of Notre Dame depart­ments, and preserve the name and identity of Saint Mary's. But to propose an anomalous academic structure for purposes that are not academic, but personal, is unwise. We think that these are interests to be provided for. But a sort of reservation on University territory is not the best way to do it. Even as a transitional expedient to ease the 
passage to full incorporation, this is a poor plan that would en­courage jealousies and an ad­versary mood. The coexistence of parallel and inevitably invidious departments in one school would surely amplify whatever professional aloofness may now exist. 
II.The Proposal 
Coeducation is not an option; it is a necessity for survival. Even more, it is an opportunity for two schools that claim education stimulates personal growth beyond academics to help men and women understand better masculinity and femininity, to learn how to learn to~ether. Friendship and companionship should be fostered, not thwarted. When Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were founded, young men and women never found them­selves in each other's company except under supervision. Dif­ferent times call for different education. 
As an alternative to the Park­Mayhew proposal, I would ask the trustees of both schools to agree to effectuate a complete incorporation of Saint Mary's College into the University of Notre Dame. The ad­ministrations could be instructed to present a complete and detailed time-table to achieve this at a joint meeting of the governing bodies in the fall of 
<Continued on page 6) 

TWA 






INTRODUCES 1/3 OFF. 
With a Youth Pass­port card you get YJ off on all TWA domestic flights, on a standby basis. And reduced rates at many
places you'!! stay. 

Youth Passport cards cost $3 and are avai I able to students aged'12 thru 21. 
AND 2 YEARS TO PAY 
With TWA:s Getaway Card, you can charge 
The Getaway Card airfare, hotels, meals, is available to most 
·cars, just about any­
students in the U.S.A. 
thing to just about For additional 
anywhere. And then information contact TWA 
take two years to pay. 
or your local travel agent. 

TWA's Getaway Program U .S.A./Europe/ Asia/Pacific/ Africa 
..-----------------------------------·­
Page 4 Tuesday, March 9, 1971 
__THB oaruJIDl. 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
As the French say, there are three sexes,-men, women, and clergymen. Sydney Smith 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
Myopia ... 
The Student Life Council's affirmation of the spirit of Rev. James BurtchaeU's drug policy in yesterday's meeting is conclusive proof that that body no longer considers the interests of the students to be important. 
Fr. Burtchaell's fiat was a throwback to the myopic vison of drug use that was prevalent in the 1950's. His dictum draws no distinction between hard and soft drugs, a distinction that many Americans are becoming painfully aware of. Instead he lumps all drugs under the category of "dangerous drugs" with no regard to the differences between them. 
The facts, as they stand now, are that marijuana has not been proven to produce harmful effects. This fact in no way can be construed as support for open usage and sale of grass on campus. It does demand though that the University draw a distinction in regards to categorizing drugs. 
Such a selective enforcement policy is nothing new on this campus-alcohol can 
be easily classified as a dangerous drug--but there is no overt attempt by 
University officials to halt the flow of liquor on this campus. Rather the 
University has recognized the widespread usage and has tacitly ignored it. The 
only punitive steps taken have been against those students who abuse alcohol and 
create disturbances or cause destruction. 
The University, whetheritlikes toadmititornot, has adopted the same stance 
in regards to marijuana. There is widespread usage and sale and the University 
knows it-as displayed by Father Whelan's testimony before the Student Life 
Council. 
The situation as it exists is a decidely unpleasant one. Some students, through 
abuse of drugs, are destroying their minds and their ability to function. The 
obvious step would be to set up a professionaly competent drug counseling center 
and to equip the infirmary to handle people with adverse reactions to drugs. 
The Provost though, with his flair for public relations, knew that the an­
nouncement of such activities would not create a splash in the newspapers and 
would not serve to erase the damage done to Notre Dame's public image in the 
aftermath of the pre-Christmas drug raid. So he opted for the easy, quick, 
headline braging solution, much in the same manner as our illustrious Vice­
President. 
What the SLC should have done was ignore the Provost's enclyclical and in­
stead pledged itself to write a comprehensive drug policy, one including the 
provisions mentioned, one which would have been unfettered by the restrictive 
and medieval spirit of the Burtchaell pronouncement. 
• • • Compounded 
Rev. James Burtchaell's reply to Dave Krashna and Mark Wining's letter is lib, smooth and witty. It totally ignores the issue raised by their challenge to Fr. Riehle's remarks, and neatly sidesteps the question of the Provost's respon­sibility in the formulation of University policy. 
In short it is typical Burtchaell, looking more for effect than dialogue. 
It is true that the Observer did guess in regards to the Provost's complicity in the policy set forth by Fr. Riehle. Yet as shown by the source of the order to suspend the students in the drug cases, it was an educated guess, not mere speculation. 
The brutal fact, which the Provost would obviously love to sweep under th(~ carpet, is that the responsibility for such a dictum is his and his alone. 
Fr. Burtchaell would be totally negligent of his duties if he did not even bother 
to discuss such a matter with the Dean of Students. Given his recent actions it is 
plain that very little escapes the Provost's attention. 
A case in point is a letter the Observer received recently from Security Director Arthur Pears. It stated that no vehicles were allowed on the university sidewalks. A phone call to Mr. Pears determined that the order had come from the Provost. Fr. B urtchaell refused us permission to drive the truck on the walks, 
but wrote a letter to Mr. Price, director of Food Services, instructing him to provide us with hand trucks to cart the papers from from the loading docks. 
We suggest than any man who devotes time and attention to the problem of vehicles on University walks could spend some time on the rights of students in their dormitory rooms. 
We suggest that any man who devotes time and attention to the problem of 
vehicles on University walks could spend some time on the rights of studentc; in 
their dormitory rooms. 

"That's one way to move a glacier." 
Lany Ballantine:====================================================================;=======;=;=;=;:;:;:;;;;;::::::::::: 

PRANK-ON I• 
Somehow or other when Ken Kesey started his Merry Prankster thing seven years ago with da-glo school buses, the Grateful Dead, and kool-aid acid tests in the Fillmore West and everything else that went on in the San Mateo Valley or whereever, I don't think he envisioned the freaking thing branching out with collegiate chapters on northern Indiana's frozen tundra, but be that as it may du lac presently has its very own unique version of the Merry Pranksters, at this point sans da-glo schoolbuses, the Grateful Dead, and kool-aid acid tests in the Fillmore West but then too it's only a week old and these things take time. 
Right now Mooney's Merry Pranksters, grabbing as its motto that old C.M.F.S. cliche' "No one is more insane than he who is sane habitually," is a very loose thing. The first organizational meeting was very loose and so were the members by the time the meeting broke up. No co-incidentally the first organizational meeting was at Frankie's. 
All of which has come before is just to introduce the subject of this wretched column, that is, Mooney's Merry Pranksters. The idea grew out of last Monday's defeat. The election was over and Mooney had lost, but then there were still these 2000 some odd people who were looking for more people things to get in with, O.K. why not give it to them? Certainly if enough minds, especially some of the devious minds that worked on that campaign, got together, some really earth shattering ideas could be born-not surprisingly that's more or less what happened. 
Lest anyone get the wrong idea the Pranksters are not an anti-Barkett movement. Most of the things the Pranksters plan to do are things that John and his cabinet probably won't have time to do. This doesn't mean to imply that John and Orlando wouldn't be welcome at Prankster activitiers either. All the LaFortune pooh-bahs new and old; coming in or going out, are welcome at Prankster shindigs. I shall even go so far as to say everyone is welcome to join the Merry Prankster activities, the only requirement is that you be desirous of a good time and willing to exert a little effort to obtain that good time. 
Now you are asking just what the Merry Prankster's have planned-­well besides the old campaign carry overs like the co-ed quad sleep-in the program has been widened in scope to include a public per­formance of Boss Tweed Candon's Crucifixion Finals, complete with Howard Cosell, Bud Wilkensin and the Goodyear Crucifix. Then there's plans for a "Shake Down the Thunder" rock concert in the football stadium, maybe a bus trip to a Chicago Cubs game, the 
possibilities are endless and like I said before the whole thing is still 

P-----------~-•~-~---~~~~~~-~~~~·~~pre~~~e.~~th~ktheMerryPrnnk~enro~ddrnw~a~art&,
News Editor: Ed Ellis Advertising Manager: Bill Assit. News Editor: Bill t::ngusn Managing Editor: Bill Carter Bauerle Headlines: Bruce Koehler Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Sports Editor: Terry Shields Controller of the night: Eileen 
MuenchTreanor 
Features Editor: Dave Lammers *************** Headline Printer: Bill Clemency 
Campus Editor: Steve Lazar Night Editor: John Abowd 
S.M.C. News Editor: Jeanne Layout: Deb Carella, Jim McDermott, 
.-.swe•e•ne•y---------•C•h•r•is•Jiilo•h•ns;.o•n•,.iiiDiiiialiin.iR.Iil{yiii'aiiia-n-~V.-nd•i•o•m-He-ss•o•n------~ 
set up offices in the student center and then petition the Student Government for money. Who knows-­
Today Frankie's. 
Tomorrow the Student Center. 
After that--maybe even da-glo school buses, the Grateful Dead and kool-aid acid tests in the Fillmore West. Who knows. 
This is how things are going now, but things change--don't they? 
PRANK ON! 

Page5 

Selective C.O. 




Last summer, the Notre Dame country, and very little knowledge of how Language Department sponsored a 21-the rest of the world lives. day study-tour to the USSR. Sixteen of us I could never live under the Soviet made the unforgettable trip to one of the system. And I doubt there will ever be most fascinating countries in the world. another revolution as tumultous as None of us spoke Russian fluently and all the "Great October" one. Furthermore, I of us were infected with the image of the never appreciated America--despite its USSR inculcated in us by newspapers, Ian shortcomings--more than when I was in Fleming, et al: an overly oppressive the home of our potential destructor. But' nation where Big Brother controls or these are just personal thoughts. You can supervises all the actions of the people. form your own because this summer the 
That image was far from what we ob-Language Department is offering a served. The people were cordial and similar study-tour to the USSR from May moved about in relative freedom. We saw 26-June 16 with stopover in Helsinki (1 very few servicemen. It was easy to start day), Paris (2) and London (1) besides up a conversation, especially in the resort Leningrad (3), Moscow (3) and Sochi (11). town, Sochi (on the Black Sea). There The incredibly low fare of $675 (last year it were, of course, the Lenin posters ("Lenin was $655 and I'm still convinced we robbed lived.. .is living...will live.") and the 'the travel agency) includes air fare from "Glory to the Communist Party of the and to New York and between all Soviet Union" signs on the buildings. But stopovers; all accommodations; 3 meals a there was very little night life in Moscow day, except in Paris, London, and Helsinki or Leningrad and very few cars were where only breakfast in included; a 3­visible in these cities, two of the largest in credit Russian seminar; all sightseeing the world. Many typically American sights tour expenses; all transportation fees; were missing, also: no gas station on every tips, taxes, and visa fees. One does not corner, no suburbs (indeed, very few need any Russian knowledge since the houses no neon lights--I didn't even see guides speak English, though a basic a mailman! Russian seminar will be offered April free 
We spent 21/z days each in Moscow and of charge by Dr. Aleksis Rubulis for those Leningrad and 11 days in Sochi. Red interested. Prof. Robert Nuner, Chairman Square, the changing of thz guard at of the Language Department, will conduct Lenin's tomb, the Moscow Subway, the the tour. Might I add, too, that any Kremlin, the Hermitage, Palace Square, relatives or friends are welcome--we the summer home of Peter the Great, the had a mother-4:1aughter pair and five of great Russian ballets, hearing the band in the group over sixty years old! Sochi play the Notre Dame fight song, If you have any interest in thz USSR, in juggling for 700 Pioneers (like Boy Scouts) travel in art, in a good time before working at their summer camp, swimming in the this summer, in a great bargain, don't Black Sea; memory after memory flashes pass up this opportunity. April 15th is the in my mind. And the greatest one is the registration deadline so contact Dr. warm friendships we all developed with Rubulis, G-22 Memorial Library, 283­our Russian friends in Sochi. I say that 6565 (office) or 288-9783 (home), or me because I learned there that the tear and (283-3626) for further information. If thz smile know no language barrier--there is any way you can find the money even in a country where people have no and the time, I guarantee you it will be a freedom of speech, no freedom to leave the worthwhile investment. 
Yesterday the United States Supreme 
Court ruled in an 8-1 decision to disallow 
conscientious objection to a particular 
war. Throughout last year, Charles 
McCarthy, the ex-director of the Non­
violence program, led a Notre Dame 
campaign to bring selective conscientious 
objection before the Supreme Court. The 
following article was written last summer 
by Mr. McCarthy, who is now working in 
Boston. 

l>o you have a right not to kill some­
one? Should a state have the power to 
force its people to kill other people when 
its people do not want to kill? Suppose 
the. people of a state find that the killing 
being asked of them is injustified, then·. 
what should they do? How do you think 
Jesus would have responded to Dick 
Nixon's, Mel Laird's and Bill Westmore­
land's commands to destroy people in 
Southeast Asia? Fortunately for most 
who are reading this article these ques­
tions do not appear to be "real". They 
are "academic matters" in the worst sense 
of the words, to be discussed in an air 
conditioned bar or convent. They have 
their place along side of liturgical reform 
and ecology. But for tens upon tens of 
thousands of young men who are not 
total pacifists but whose consciences are. 
formed in the 'just war' tradition these 
questions are experienced as being ulti­
mately connected with their present and 
future weU being. For tens of thousands 
of our fellow Christians, our fellow hu­
man beings, our fellow citizens existence 
has reduced itself in the realization that 
they are about to be forced to kill against 
conscience-that they are about to be 
commanded to destroy human beings 
when this is seen as neither right, nor 
good, not just. 

Today, if a person of draft eligibility 
finds a particular war unjust, i.e. killing in 
this instance as murder and mass killing 
therefore as mass murder, his only alter­
natives (now that occupational defer­
ments have been eliminated) are these l) 
become a murderer 2) go to jail 3) leave 
the country. That's it -the laws say to these human beings "Kill others or suffer yourself -your conscience be damned." I think this is an intolerable situation to maintain in a society where the vast majority of those called upon to kill have formed their consciences according to the ·~ust war" standard. The right and the obligation not to unjustly kill another human being is absolute. As J<ldn Court­ney Murray said in his report to the 1967 Draft. Reform Commission: "The right of selective conscientious objection (to a particular war) is incostestable." A gov­~mment does not establish this right nor 1mpose this obligation and right or dis­pose of this obligation. The obligation and right, not to murder and not to be forced to murder are inalenable. Yet, we as a people have created and sustained 
legal structur~s that force our tellow 
citizen to murder or to suffer. Clearly a government has no call to tyrannize persons with deeply troubled consciences. Clearly an adult citizenry is called to more that resigned indifference at a time when the "masters of power" are forcing its young sons and friends to commit murder. Aren't we as a people human enough to know that it is neither good­ness or patriotism that motivates a man to kill when he thinks it is unjustified; that it is neither holiness or patriotism that motivates the prosecuting of person­ality desintegration in a society. No coun­try can afford to corrupt and degrade its youth. How can the moral fibre of the United States of America be anYthing but ripped asunder when the government 
itself, by a simple exercise of brute power, coerces a large segment of its youth -by penalty -to disregard an innate command of conscience: Thou shalt not murder. 
The American Catholic hierarchy has· asked that a selective conscientious objec­tor provision be enacted. The World Council of Churches, the Synagogue Council of America, the United Presby­terian Church, the American 'Baptist Church, and the General Board of the National Council of Churches have sup-
Ported a selective conscientious objector proV!ston. 
Twice within the last year a Federal Court has found that Section 6 (j) of th6 Selective Service Act (conscientious ob­
jector provision for total pacifist) placed a burden upon the religious beliefs of Catholic selective objectors and was therefore unconstitutional because it vio­lated the free exercise of religion clause as well as the establishement of religion clause of the First Amendment. The Court also held that Section 6 (j) violated 
the equal protection and due process clauses of the Constitution. When the court was faced with the argument that if an SCO dimension we.re added to the present draft law there could be a sub­stantial drop in manpower, it answered by saying: "In the face of such cinjecture it is helpful to point out that alternative means are available for resolving any such decrease in manpower. In the area of primary freedoms the government is re­quired to show that no alternative means exist to satisfy the same governmental interest Here numerous alternatives are 
· available. (After listing various means.' available the Court concluded) These and other means show that the government can satisfy its interest by alternatives 
other than by refusing exemptions to 
selective conscientious objectors." (U.S. 
vs. McFadden 309 F. Supp. 502C 1970) 
The "real" questions then, for those of 
us who are beyong the pale of the draft 
because of age, sex, health, or affluence, 
is "What must we do for our fellow 
Christians and citizens who are being 
conscripted to murder?" 
Where do we go from here? 
r---------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, March 9, 197i

Page 6 THE OIJSERfJER. 
Fr. Burtchaell's proposal 
The following course which was omitted from the course booklet is being offered by the Free 



'c'""""ed''~9,~ed living at both campuses 
1971, with the understanding that 
University. a unification would b~ achieved by the summer of 1972. The trustees should further authorize 
DRUGS AND OUR­the union of any administrative 

SELVES -A shared offices or academic units that 

search for understanding could be agreeably arranged so as to know our way even before that date. 

around regarding these essential and complex 

III The Resolution of the things in our lives -John 
Problems Young 6978 -Anyone This measure would relieve 
interested may contact 

virtually all of the multipleJohn. 
problems we face: social, academic, administrative, 
CLASSIFIED 
ADVERTISEMENTS 
Mail in or come by ObserFer ojjlce. }or infonmtion call 7471. 
11' '9'

1-----------------------'---c_al_l_Jo_e_s6_38____________L.__.aL..---'-'"'--~----->.J------'L-___.... 
finacial, and personal. 
A. Sol'ial. We would be able to juxtapose residence halls for men and women on both campuses. We do not envision male and female residents in any one building. We would come to a decision about a unified food service system, allowing men and women to dine together in all three dining halls. The ex­perience of comparable private universities suggests that a men: women proportion of two-to­one might eventually be prac-
I Comfortable turquoise Lazy-Boy. Reclines -onlyI $25. 289-4221 after 6. 
---;or Sale : one pr. Rossignol I Stratos, 207cm. Very good condition. Moving to Florida, must sell. Call8265 after 5:30. 
r-------~R~ID~E~S.________1 
Notice to ALL ND-SMC students: With Spring Break appraoching we would advise placing a classified ad if you plan to get a ride home. Try it-our readers outnumber the rider board patrons. 

_ The Advertising S.:.:ta=f~f____ 
1 
Need ride to Dallas anytime after March 12 Will share expenses 

~---~c~a~ll~6~7~20~-----------­
Rides needed to Pittsburgh 
for Spring Break Maureen 4285 Kathv 4459 
Ride to St. Louis­
anytime -Don 3252 
Ride needed to Boston March 12 -Will pay Mark -1863 
Ride wanted to Conn. or 
N.Y.C. after 3:00 pm Thurs. -Pete 1842 
Need 2 riders to Colorado skiing -Leave Thurs. ­Call Rick 1877 
Neearide to Iowa -Des 1\Ioines, Ames area. Can leave Thurs. p.m. -Call John 1402 

~----~P~E~R~SO~N~A~L~SL-____j All classes will be can­celled from March 13-23 in honor of the 20th Natal Anniversary of the GRAND DRAGON OF THE POLISH UN­DERGROUND. l''estivities begin on March 12. P.U. members and auxiliary ­Paul Dziedzii (Grand Dragon), Carol Simantz, Ellen Boerner, Jack Greely, Fnerb Unkydook, Yak Yennik, Connie Kopczynski, Pat Mahon, Monica Groom, Leona Pestka 
GOOD RIDDANCE MARK WININGS! -Sponsored by Sand-Oak (Students at Notre Dame Organized Against Krap)

*CLASSIFIED AD RAJES * 
-·~-~·~-------------------,_
,..,. .

WM..  ldoy  3d•'f1.  ...,.  
..,.  ...  .76  1.00  1.15  1.20  
11·Hi  ...  1.00  130  ..,.  2.15  
11-20  ·"'  1.15  1.10  i.co  ....  
,.,.  ...  136  '·"'  ....  ...  
,.... 31-3&  1.00 1.20  uo "'"  2.3!S Ull  3.40 ,_..  4.10 4.71  
-·  1.36  ~10  3.10  •4.Z5  15.10  
.1...  1.00  .ll.lO  uo  ....  ....  

ticable. After a year or so of coed admissions we should be able to reckon whether that is best for our resources and purposes. All University facilities would be available to all students. 
B. Academic. All parallel departments would merge. The enlargement of faculty should allow for increased course of­ferings and more diversified program design. Most Saint Mary's faculty and students (not all) would come into the College of Arts and Letters, swelling that college even beyond its present disproportionate size (AL:2,285. BA:932. EG:752. SC:701. FY:1,737. SMC:1,574). Some division of the college might be in order, but that is a subject taken up below. Saint Mary's faculty would be assigned to un­dergraduate teaching, and to graduate work when qualified. All students would be enrolled in Notre Dame and be eligible for Notre Dame degrees. 
C. Administrative. One in­stitution should be capable of even more efficient management. The co-operation of parallel offices over past years has created a comradeship that would make the Saint Mary's administrators valued and desired as co-workers at Notre Dame. Most' if not indeed all, would be assured appointments in the new Notre Dame. 
D. Financial. Saint Mary's would come to Notre Dame with considerable resources. But the union involves much risk for the University. The College has a very small endowment, a number of mortgages, and an income from alumnae and other gift sources that is scanty. Still, it enjoys the annual cash gift of Holy Cross religious' contributed services, and a physical plant that is in good condition and is totally contiguous to Notre Dame property. Unity would permit significant savings in clerical help and perhaps in main­tenance. On the other hand, assimilation of Saint Mary's faculty could be very costly, since to maintain its standards the University would have to bring up their salary scales. The girls would have ac<:ess to much more bountiful scholarship resources. The University will incur heavy expense if an im­proved rapid transilt system is installed. Thus, although union could be financially hazardous, with careful management we should be able to achieve it without causing our combined fiscal situation to deteriorate. 
E. Pt>rsonal. There are two groups in particular who have most at stake: Saint Mary's faculty, and the Holy Cross sisters. As for the faculty, Notre Dame would award tenure to all full-time faculty who have received it before union, provided that any tenure awarded sub­sequent to January 1, 1971, be approved by the appropriate department, dean and Provost of Notre Dame. Notre Dame con­tracts would be offered to Saint Mary's full-time faculty without tenure, on terms equivalent to those of their present ap­pointments. Part-time faculty would be considered individually. The University would endeavor to bring incoming faculty salaries up to what is customary among our faculty as this is possible. In short, they would join our faculty as equal colleagues. Tenure and promotion and re­appointment would naturally be offered on terms that prevail at the University. 
The Holy Cross sisters find themselves at a critical time of decision, not unlike that faced by the priests and brothers. They are recruiting fewer religious at present, and many of the more capable young women show 
<Continued on page 8) 

~ 
I 
I 
.,_. 
TRY-OUTS 
NO-SMC Freshmen -NO Varsity Cheerleaders invite you to Ch eerlea dertr youts-Organiza­tional Meeting-6:3Q-Wed. March 1 Q-Beare's Crawe (B-P Base­ment. 
Leprechaun Tryouts-Are you under 5'5", a rah-rah, and inter­ested in being the N D mas­cot?-Come to Beare's Crawe ( B-P Basement)-6:30-Wed. March 10. 
SERVICES 
sreen-Phillips Food Sales. call in pizza orders before 11:00 pm. 1294 or 1705. Pick up at 11:30. Stop on your way._home from the 
library. $1.25 Cheese $1.40 Mushroom $1.50 Pepperoni $1.65 Everything 
Crypt-New Hours 12:30-4:00 Now on Stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 Cat Stevens-Ten for Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection $3.1!' 
Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 
Free taxi service available: limited to female aged 11-99. Phone Norwood or Evil, 1993 or 233-9508. Day or night (preferably night!) 
HOUSJNS 
To Be Married Student needs suitable Off-Campus housing for 71-72 school year; Preferably furnished, Close to campus, and Reasonable 
Call Tom 282-2250 Leave Messa2e 
Responsible female grad student desparately in need of summer housing. Ideal person to maintain home during summer months. Call 7159 
WANTED 
coking for small, cheap (fully tacked?) refrigerator unit. Call Mcgoo 4614 
Wanted one roommate-Condi­ions: must have full stereo ystem and television-have no 
girlfriend in Elmira, N.Y.-be Mean Joe Green fan-not have Zappa poster-be extremely gul­lible. Advantages: learn keen card tricks, enjoy jags (on you), learn about neato Pittsburgh -Call 2106, Ask for "the Dune" 
Wanted 19S1, 
1952, 1953 DOME to fill collection. Call Tom Kirschner at Gen. Accounting 6262 or 234_3790 Musicians needed for Established Group. 
Call Bob at 1760 
NEED Someone to share 
cheap hotel room in Bahamas 
over Break John 8208 
Men of all trades to North Slope, Alaska and the Yukon -around $2800 a month. For complete in­formation write to Job Research, P.O. Box 161, Stn. A, Toronto, Ont. ­Enclose $3.00 to cover cost 

LOST r------------------------­
Lost: One Sony Cassette Tape Recorder in the front of LeMans Lobby, Wed. March 3 between 5: 15 and 
6:00 pm. If found it is imperative that it be returned. Reward offered. Rose 5254 
Red knitted scarf lost last weekend, possibly in Law Library. If found, call 3681 evenings. Reward. 
FOR SALE 

Time, Inc. 282-2250 Available at Studant Rates: Time, Lif€, Sports illustrated, & Fortune Magazine. Call Tom, ?82-2250. 
BIG DEAL: Rosignol Strato Skis, Nevada Look Bindings, Apollo Poles. Good Skiers ~ow. 8063 Nightly. 
A matched set of Ram Mike Hill golf clubs aluminum shafts, 4 woods' 9 irons, a large bag and ~ putter. 1 season old, cost $360, asking $240. Call Mike at 1157, 262 Alumni. 
STEREO DISCOUNTS 

PIONEER SX-990  $239.95  
PIONEER SX-770  $199.00  
KOSS  PR0-4A  HEAD­ 

PHONES LIST $50 DIS. $34.95 ALSO DISCOUNTS ON OTHER EQUIPMENT 
TURNTABLES, TAPE RECORDERS, SPEAKERS, ETC. ALLOW 10-15 DAYS DELIVERY 
CALL MARK 1501 

Remington Electric Razor for sale ­l Christmas present worth 
$35 -will sell for $20 ­


INDIANA MOTOR BUS 




NON­
STOP 
TO 
O'HARE 
$ ••
• 

ALSO DIRECT TO 
INDIANAPOLIS 
WITH CONNECTIONS SOUTH 
Regular scheduled runs: Leave South Bend Union Bus Terminal &Pick Motor Inn.. 8:55AM 1:25PM 4:55PM Arrive O'Hare (Upper Levell---·-.---·-'·-------·--10:00 AM 2:30PM 6:15PM 
Leave O'Hare (lower Level) __ -·_____ ._._.________ 11:00AM 3:15PM 7:30PM Arrive South Bend Union Bus Terminal ______________ 2:0i PM 6:20PM 10:35 PM 
NOTE: Chicago is on Standard time -South Bend on Eastem Standard 
287-0200

travei~:~~08R INDIANA MOTOR BUS or 289-0385 
_T_u~__da_y_,_M_a_rc_h_9_,_19_7_1______________________________~ 'NIS~ Page 7 · 

Frazier shatters the "Ali Myth" 
NEW YORK <UPil -Joe him from outside the ring for four ropes as he became a mere At the conclusion of thz fight, after 31 consecutive pro victories 
Frazier buried a myth to remove years. In the 11th round, the 29 punching bag for the man he had the ring was filled with security and 25 knockouts. Referee Arthur 
the only stain on his world year old Clay fell apart, and in hoped to playfully torture. men, obscuring the fighters. Mercante made it 8-6-1 for heavyweight crown, laying the the last round, the myth came to 
It was a vicious test of "I always knew who the Frazier and judges Artie Aidale ghost of Cassius Clay to rest with an end as Clay was bashed to the manhood, a test of strength with champion was," Frazier said. He followed with a 9-6 verdict, while 
a vicious barrage of left hooks canvas and his face was swollen the fighters laughing and taun­certainly proved it by beating the 
Bill Recht gave Frazier a 
that smashed the challenger's almost beyond recognition from ting at each other. Daring to walk man he had succeeded to the whopping 11-4 margin. It was jaw and dumped him to the the barrage. into the firestorm, Frazier took heavyweight title. Clay, stripped 
Frazier's 27th consecutive vic­
canvas in the 15th round for a Staggering from the power of all the punishment Clay could of the crown in 1967 and banished tory and he barely missed unanimous 15 round decision. the punches chopping in at him, muster and simply walked back from the sport until last year, had gaining his 24th knockout. 
While 300 million watched Clay was lucky to last until the in for more. finally met more than his match around the world, the 27 year old final bell. No dancing steps came Frazier finally caught up with the to him any more and he was left 
man who had taunted and teased sobbing with remorse on the 
Voices from the Crowd 
Sports Editor, 
Wrestlers routed 
the membership to people fromThe following is what I consider 
Moylan, 126 pounds, was pinned those areas. It is simply a name
a much needed response to a 
Phil Gustafson's winning in the last period, but Rich and should be taken as just that. 
letter published in the Observer,
streak was broken Saturday Esposto (134) came back with an You must remember the old
Friday, February 26th. The letter 
night as the Air Force Academy's 11-2 victory. addage, Mr. Urankar, "Never
was written by a one Mr. Stan 
wrestling squad trounced Notre Chris Paige 042) was shut out judge a book by its cover."
Urankar and it concerned the 
Dame 33-2 in the ACC. The loss 13-o, but Ken Ryan (150), Bob widely reknowned Cape Cod­Secondly, Mr. Urankar states set the Irish record at 8-9 Habig (158), and Bob Bennett Toledo-Kankakee Club of the that it is simply a bunch of guys following a 27-13 victory over 067) put together three suc­
University of Notre Dame or the from B-P who get together for Chicago Circle Wednesday. cessive wins to put the Irish C2TK3. As President of the club parties and "stuff", I am not 
Heavyweight Gustafson's 1-1 ahead to stay. Ryan's was a 10-3 absolutely sure what Mr.
and member of its basketball tie broke his 41 match winning win, and Habig followed with a team I feel it is my duty to Urankar considers "stuff". It so streak. The big senior has yet to third period pin. Bennett won 8-1. happens that from the present
respond to the allogations and lost a Notre Dame match, At 177 pounds, Kurt, Bottjer misconceptions that Mr. Urankar membership list which numbers 
however. He is 25-G-1 this season was pinned in period two, but around 300, half of the members
felt a need to see printed in the 
including 14 pins. Rick Aselage 090) and Gustafson are from St. Mary's and of the
Observer. 
Gustafson's tie accounted for finished off Circle with sue-remaining half about one quarter
To begin with I will will take 
all Notre Dame scoring. The cessive pins. Aselage's was a are from Breen-Phillips. This
each error as it appeared in Mr. 
remaining nine wrestlers all lost, first period quickie, and means that less than one eighth of
Urankar's letter. The club was 
two by pin. Gustafson 's opponent lasted till the club is from B-P. Sorry Mr.
titled as it was because the three 
Wednesday's Circle meet was a round three. Urankar.
areas mentioned happened to be 
much happier occasion. Captain The regular season closes Now I come to the crux of the 
the homes of the President, Vice­
Tom Ciaccio recorded his 45th Wednesday with a home meet Mr. Urankar's letter. Mr.
President, and Sec.-Treas. 
career win in a 9-2 decision. Steve versus Marquette at 7:30. Urankar states that four of our
respectively, and in no way limits 


Meehan knew Irish could do it 
dollar pro contracts. There are Carr. And very few ever learn to injuries, the underrated Meehan
by J.W. Findling 
probably also some l~s gran­pass and dribble like Jack has piled up some impr~sive
Observer Sportswriter 
diose young Walter Mittys who Meehan. playmaking statistics. He has 180 There are, all over America, dream of Jack Meehan, of Jack Meehan learned his assists in the twenty games for many young boys who dream of handling a basketball with the basketball on the playgrounds of which assists were kept for a 9.0 Austin Carr and of 38 pt. scoiring efficiency and skill of a surgeon, Philadelphia-aplace that has per game average. Last year averages, and of multi-million and of just playing with Austin offered some pretty fair Meehan had over 200 assists. His ballplayers. Mter a brilliant personal high in a single game is three seasons at LaSalle High 17 against Creighton this season 
School, Meehan's services were and against Ohio University in sought by all of Philly's Big Five. last year's NCAA regional. When "I wasn't really considering asked about the possibility of Notre Dame" Meehan says, national collegiate statistics of 
"until I came out here, talked to assists Meehan replied, "Sure, it Coach Dee, and found out that would be great, but it doesn't 
Austin, Collis, Tom, and Sid were matter to mee ... all that is im­all coming ... ! knew we could portant is winning."have a good team." For whatever Meehan is pleased with the reason Jack Meehan left season. " Philadelphia Austin Carr Meehan is pleased with the 
proabably thanks the Lord every season. "Winning 19 games with time Jack spots him charging our schedule is not too bad. We through the lane. did a lot of traveling, and it wp·Ralph Miller, coach of last very difficult to get psych j year's Big Ten champion Iowa game after game for a tou ~h Hawkeyes, said of Meehan, "He opponent." Meehan continued is the best I've ever seen at hit­about the team, "We are a ve1J ting the open man." Indeed, close-knit team. There is ab­
Meehan's passes have the solutely no racial problem, and 
precision and timing of an Apollo there is certainly no envy of space flight; his poise and Austin. We all enjoy his success. leadership are impeccable. For a Out spirit has been good all year; man who has only averaged 3.1 we have geen aiming for the points per game this season, he is tournament." a remarkably valuable part of To Meehan and his teammates 
this NCAA-bound Irish team. the NCAA tournament is of Jack has been noticeably paramount importance. Jack 
slowed down since freshman year does not mind going to the by a pair of operations-both on Midwest Regional (the Irish had the left knee. Meehan had a Midwest berth in 1965). As operations the summers Meehan says, ,At this pointfollowing his freshman and everyone you play is tough."sophomore years. To make Meehan also reflects the con­
matters worse hs right leg is now fidence and desire that the Irish badly bruised from his knee to his have demonstrated all season. ankle. Although he missed the St. "We can beat anybody ... we all John's gameand saw only limited think we can wn it." 
action against Dayton, the Certainly the Irish have the 
rugged competitor from Philly is personnel and playing style to confident that he will be more 
win the tournament. At times this 
than ready for the NCAA tour­season they have looked like nament. champions; they have often been Despite these unfortunate a mystery. The Irish could win 
·injuries, the underrated Meehan the tournament. They might alos has piled up some impressive 
get bogged down in one of their playmaking statistics. He has 180 occasional lapses of mediocrity.
assists in the twenty games for But if Jack Meehan has anything which assists were kept for a 9.0 to d say about it, his last college average per game average. basketball game is still 3•'"·. weeks Despite these unfortunate away. 

starting five are all-league selections in Interhall Basket­ball. Firstly, on behalf of B.J. Bingle, Bill Schmidt, Fritz Hoefer, and Clark Keller, I would like to thank you Mr. Urankar, for the notification of their selections as none of the above realized their status until we were informed by you. But really Mr. Urankar, our team roster was selected and submitted last Thanksgiving, long before we were to know of any honors that were to have been bestowed on the above members of our team. If you would like we would apologize to you, Mr. Urankar, for having these players on our club team, but we would rather not. Becuase, unlike you, I do not believe that it is a "sad state that the Club league had to allow" our entrance into the league. It seems 
to me that we have done little to destroy the Club League this year. In fact never before has there been such interest in this league, which for so long has taken second seat to the interhall league. For instance, we have never won a game by a forfeit because the other team couldn't garner enough of its team together. Without sounding too boastful I think the spirit which we brought into the Club League this year has spread throughout the league and has resulted in a new spirit of competition that I have been told has not always been there. The very fact !!hat for the first time that I know of, the club champs (and I say this assuming you are correct on one point, in that we will be club champs) have felt strong enough to challenge the Interhall Champs, win or lose, says the club league is on its way up, not down, Mr. Urankar. 
Finally, Mr. Urankar, we would appreciate your not referring to the members of our club as jocks, unless you are referring to the arts and letters variety, because our team was and is composed of a bunch of close friends who wanted to play basketball together. Can you blame us? 
One more thing, l\lr. Urankar, you are cordially invited to become a member of the C2TK3 Club. 
Respectfully, 
Jack Gillis 
President of the C2TK3 
•.
Sports Editor, 
If Notre Dame retired football 
numbers, we would simply run 
out of numbers because there 
have been so many great football 
players at Notre Dame. But in the 
eyes of most Notre Dame 
basketball fans there is only one 
AUSTIN CARR and there will be 
only one AUSTIN CARR. Let's 
retire number 34. 
John J. Horeled 
115 Alumni 

t 
.­
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, March 9, 1971 
Fr. Burtchaell's proposal 
SMC sisters to get ND teaching contract 
Saint Mary's. Cardinal Suenens <Continued from page 6) has pointed out that when nuns preference for work other than at first began active apostolates in 
the 





six shooters 
~ 

From one beer lover to another. 
THl STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 
the Hlth century, they turned their attention to the three most deprived groups in society: the uneducated young, the aged poor, and the sick. Today the state spends heavily on these to provide schools, retirement homes and support, and hospitals. Meanwhile other 
deprived groups are in desperate need of the professional care of dedicated religious. For years men and women religious have maintained their traditional, institutional apostolates, but today interests are more restless. Fortunately, this renaissance in religious orders comes at a time when dedicated lay persons are coming forward with deed, Christian dedication to share in the work: No parent sees a child elaim independence without some pain; put parent-pride is secure when the child does cease to need all the parent's energies. 
The University should negotiate a contract with the Sisters of the Holy Cross, similar to that concluded with the Priests of Holy Cross, Indiana Province The College land, assets, debts, and buildings would be conveyed to the University. Those buildings with mortgages, transfer of which would force a costly renegotiation, could be retained by the community, provided the University agreed to finance the payments in return for title at retirement of the debt. The Congregation would retain what land and buildings pertain to community administration, sisters would be arranged. Twoof the six Holy Cross Priests among the Fellows of the University would be replaced by the Superior General of the Sisters of the Holy Cross ex officio, plus another Holy Cross Sister, and the University's Board of Trustees would be augmented by another three Saint Mary's Trustees who would be nominated by the College's governing body. 
IV. Proposed Re-organization. 
As has been observed, the union could expand the College of Arts and Letters to almost 4,000 students. Some division might be expedient. 
But there are even more cogent grounds for considering division: the physical requirements of the combined campuses. Residence halls can be distributed evenly among men and women on both campuses, but the location of academic facilities is more of a problem. Two academic establishments cannot be moved: the Memorial Library, and scientific laboratories. This necessitates the location of the humanities, science <which might join to pre-medical studies programs in nursing and paramedical professions), and engineering on the Notre Dame campus. 
Which units, then, could most easily be placed on the other campus? Three come to mind: Jaw. the fint~ arts, and the social sciences. If the University receives a major benefaction to finance construction of a new Law Center, this could without enormous difficulty be located on the Saint Mary's campus. If the present Saint Mary's library collection were amalgamated with the University collection, this very attractive building might serve as library to the Law Center. A division of Fine Arts could be created, comprising departments of Art, Music, and Drama. <The addition of Ar­chitecture cokld be discussed.) These three departments all need studio space which might best be found at Saint Mary's. Lastly, I suggest creation of a College of Social Studies, comprising departments of Sociology and Anthropology, Psychology, Economics, and Education. Faculty in these disciplines are all developing compatible methodologies, and seek common work and instructional space that outstrips the capacities of their present installation at Notre Dame, yet does not have such a need to be next to the Library. On the Notre Dame campus we 
Science, Engineering, and Business Administration, and the Division of Humanities <the other division, along with Fine Arts, in the College of Arts and Letters). Humanities would include Theology, Philosophy, English, Classical and Modern Languages and Literature, . History, and Government. 
This re-organization meets obvious internal needs. It is not a structural answer to a problem of 
history and  sentiment,  but  
succeeds  in  distributing  our  
academic  units  according  to  

manageable and rational arrangement, methodology, and plant resot ces. 
V. What of Saint Mary's? 
Notre Dame is ready to move more fully towards coeducation. The decision is not. a bow to strident student pressure, but to our own conviction that young men and worr '.n learn best in mixed company. We should like to unite with the College that already shares our history, our location, our Catholic purposes, our resources. We are not ex­tending a takeover bid for land and buildings and students,, so much as asking colleagues who have become closer friends of late to move into the University. What will be lost? Not heritage, nor history, nor purpose. Many will be apprehensive. We are confident that once the trustees will have made a firm com­mitment to fusion, these fears will evaporate. A few will oppose the plan however presented The many should no longer put aside their priorities for their sake. 
It would be good somehow to retain the name of Saint Mary's, not only as a link with the past (our proposal has many of those), but also to retain the name of the Lady who is patron of the University. This could be done by matriculating all female un­dergraduates into the University through Saint Mary's as a college of record as was the case when Duke Univeristy and Trinity College merged. Or the name could be given to LeMans Hall. Or the name could (as it inevitably will, in any case) designate the west campus. Or is could be given to one of the colleges of the University. None of these gestures seems quite enough, but ·perhaps someone will come forward with a better idea. The point is, if this proposal really is an honest invitation to merge, what becomes of the name is an important, but no longer a crucial problem. 
<Rev.) James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
would locate the Col..:.le:::~g:a:e::::s:........:o:::f'---_P_r_o_v_os_t________ 
THE OBSERVER 1 needs a Photographer 
5 days a week 1• ~ hours a day $1U.OO a week 
No experience necessary 
Call 7471 ask for Scott Bral:Jy or leave a message 
·-----­






