
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
UN admits Red China; Nationalists ousted 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y., OCT. 25-In a tense and emotion-filled session, the General Assembly tonight voted overwhelmingly to admit Communist China and to expel the Chinese Nationalist government on Taiwan. 
Only 1moments before, Lou Chieh, the Chinese Nationalist representative, announced from the rostrum that his government would take no further part in the proceedings of the Assembly. He thereupon led his delegation out of the hall. 
The vote, which brought delegates to their feet in wild applause, was 76 in favor, 35 opposed and 17 abstentions. The vote was on a resolution sponsored by Albania and 20 other nations calling for Peking's entry and the departure of the Nationalist Government of Chiang Kai-shek. 
Thus, the U.S. lost -in its 21st year -its long battle to keep Nationalist China in the U.N. This development came with dramatic and with completely unexpected suddenness at the close of the debate on Chinese representation. 
The key decision that signaled the United States defeat came only a few hours earlier when the Assembly voted 59 to 55 to reject the American draft resolution that would have declared the expulsion of the Nationalists an "important question" requiring a two-third majority. 
Thus the Chinese Nationalists could be expelled by a simple majority. 
The assembly's action, which came with dramatic suddenness after seven hours of continuous meeting, appeared to open the way for the adoption of the Albanian resolution, which calls for the seating of Communist China as the sole legitimate representative of China and the expulsion of the Nationalist Chinese. 
Earlier-in the evening, the assembly narrowly defeated a motion to postpone the voting on all Chinese representation resolutions until tomorrow. 
The proposal for postponement, which came in the closing hours of the China debate, was thought by many delegates to be intended to give the United States more time to seek to win over undecided delegations. 
The vote, which came with dramatic suddeness, was 56 against postponement and 53 in favor, with 19 abstentions. 
The unexpected motion for postponement was made by Saudi Arabia and backed by Japan, the Philippines and Liberia, all sup­porters of the United States efforts to save the seat of Nationalist China in the United Nations. 
The motion was opposed from the rostrum by delegates of Syria, Pakistan and Yugoslavia, in the name of Albania and all others who favor the admission of the mainland government as China's only representative in the United Nations and the expulsion of the Chinese Nationalist government. 
The Saudi move for postponement came after supporters of the Albanian resolution had made it known that they would try to force vote tonight, instead of on Tuesday morning as originally expected. 
In the afternoon. Saudi Arabia and Tunisia presented separate compromise resolutions on the China question. 
Saudi Arabia then asked that to give the assembly time to study the new documents, voting on all pending resolutions should be deferred until Tuesday. 
Besides the compromise resolutions and the Albanian proposal , the other resolutions are the two American sponsored proposals aimed at keeping the Nationalist Chinese in the U.N. while giving the Com­munists a seat. 
American officials passed the word to supporters and others that the 
U.S. opposed a vote tonight. 
Diplomats reported that the U.S. even appealed to delegations op­posing its basic position on China to go along with the postponf'm~>P.• move. 

Did the Convo hassle Ike & Tina Turner? 
Mooney vs. ACC 
Concert :mix-up 
by Jodi Campbell 
ACC management and Student Union Social Commission give conflicting reports concerning the scheduling of James Taylor, Jethro Tull and Jef­ferson Airplane for concerts this year. 
Social Commissioner Don Mooney stated that the ACC management refused to schedule these con­certs on the ground that they would interfere with already scheduled events. 
ACC manager John F. Plouff stated that this was only a minor reason in the decisions, saying "You can't have a concert every night". Plouff also denied that any decision was ever made concerning the hiring of Jefferson Airplane because they were not available for the date considered. 
The Social Commission is given seven dates to use the ACC each year, Plouff stated. Four of these dates are home football weekends, and the others in second semester. Although the second semester dates are nominally Mardi Gras, Grand Prix and Junior Parents Weekend, the dates are fairly flexible. 
Mooney expressed the hope that his commission would be awarded eight rather than seven dates this year due to the expanded football schedule, but stated that no decisions have been made at the present time. 
The Social Commission operates under a University imposed profit ceiling of $9,600 per year Mooney reported. Profits from Commission sponsored activities in the ACC are split 50-50 between the Social Commission and the ACC until 
(Continued on page 6) 

With only one day to go in the campaign, the South Bend Ticket Project has 
Day Care Center proposal approved
collected one hundred 
twenty five tickets for the Notre Dame -Navy game. 
by Joseph Abell by her office. said Miss Mastriani, with a roughAccording to co-chairmen "There was no trouble in estimate amounting to around Eric Andrus and Jack The St. Mary's Board of passing the proposal because th~ $2,000.Candon, this figure is nine Trustees this weekend passed the Center will be self-supporting,'' The actual cost, though, she 
hundred and seventy 
Day Care Center proposal ad­commented Bob Weaver, ND hastened to add, should be much tickets short of the number vocated by Lyn Mastriani and Student Government Executive Jess than this figure. necessary to make the 
other St. Mary's-Notre Dame Coordinator. Hopefully, Miss Mastriani said, 
project work out. 
Students. The proposal was "Every possible condition had money for the equipment will 
The ACC will accept passed at the Board's Saturday been covered," he said so the come from various contributions, ticket loans again today morning meeting, according to board could make no objections though no specific campaign for from nine to four. The Miss Mastriani. when voting. funds will be made. She added Student Union wi II also The nine member board, One major unexpected problem that this money will not come accept ticket loans for the ml.'eting for the first time this that did turn up, however, was an from a raise in the fee to the televised game in their year, passed the proposal by a Indiana State Law requiring fire parents using the care center. fourth floor La Fortune unanimous vote, according to Sr. alarm system in the St. Mary's The opening date of the Center offices from 1 -4 and will Alma Peter, StMary's president. clubhouse, which is to house the is at present indefinite, pending
make arrangements for all CPnter.
I<'inal plans must now be made, the installation of the alarm receipts. she said, and when they are "All kinds of stuff is necessary; 
(Continued on page 6)
Lyn Mastriani: at last! completed, they will be approved bars on the doors, bells, etc.," 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER 

Pending merger 
Fate of Biology Building undecided 
by Gene Slason 
A final decision on the future use of the Wenninger-Kirsch Biology Building will depend on the merger of Notre Dame and 

St.  Mary's,  Dr.  Robert  E.  
Gordon,  Assoc.  Professor  of  
Biology said yesterday.  

This decision, says Dr. Gordon, will depend on a study presently being conducted by the Office of Institutional Planning, headed by Assistannt provost Mr. Leo C'orbaci. 

The study, made considerable progress during the summer months, determining the classroom space presently available, and locating areas in which changes will be needed to accommodate each department. Dr. Gordon said, that the tedious task of reordering the total use of ~pace available to accomodate future needs will be delayed until the present uncertainties of the merger are clarified. "At this point," said Gordon "nobody knows who will use the biology building in the future." 
Dr. Gordon expressed the opinion that, regardless of the effect of the merger, it is very likely that any rapidly expanding department would not occupy the building when the biology department vacates it. This he says is due to the structural 
::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:~:;:;:;:;:?.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:?.!:!:=:=:;:::::::::::::::::: 
The campus Voter Registration Drive will hold an organizational meeting Wednesday night at 7:30 pm in the Fiesta Lounge of the LaFortune Student Center. All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students interested in becoming part of this registration drive are urged to attend. 

Security lists weekend crimes 
A robbery after the football game Saturday highlighted this past weekend in crime, according to ND security chief, Arthur Pears. 
About 4:45 Saturday afternoon, four young boys ranging in ages from about 12 to 15 robbed a souvenir salesman of his money outside the football stadium, Pears said. The four were later apprehended. 
In incidents of vandalism on campus this weekend, several car radio antennas were broken in the parking lots, and several vehicles ran the east gate to get on campus, were caught, and given tickets. 
Pears also reported that theives stole clothing from the men's locker room at the hockey rink and tools from the janitor's room at Washington Hall. 
A food sales oven in Carrol Hall was also stolen, Pears said. 
Pears revealed that security confiscated "In the vicinity of twenty" football tickets at the game last Saturday. According to Pears, people combined "false identification" with the non­transferable tickets to get into the game. Pears refused to call the confiscations a "crackdown," commenting that "This weekend the number taken just happened to be a little higher." 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class Postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Jt.SS6. 

Wenninger-Kirch Biology Building -what now? 
nature of the facility itself. He said that although the Biology building is relatively new, it's foundations would prohibit the addition of any new floors to the building to provide for the long range needs of an expanding department. 
Mr. Gordon added that the completion of construction on the 
Business Review seeks articles 
Know of any quick ways to pick 
up $30.? How about writing a 
short paper which might appear 
in the Business Review, a 
magazine published by the 
College of Business Ad­
ministration students. 
The Review, in an attempt to 
raise the magazine to respec­
tability, is offering first and 
second prizes of $30, and $20. 
respectively for student articles. 
The requirements ? To be 
typewritten and a maximum 
length of ive typed, doubl~paced 
pages on any business related 
topic. 
This offer is, open to all students 
at Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
Submit the paper to either Rich Macchia (217 Breen Phillips (or Mary Jo Russell (213 McCan­dless) before January 20, 1972. 


CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 ·ZIP: 60611 
Please add •ales fax where applicable 



HAIR' 
The Amer1can Tnbai·Love Rocl< Mus1ca1 
Good Seats Still Available 
BOX OFFICE NOW OPEN 

Noon to Showtime 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 211 N. MICHIGAN STREET 

third floor of the New Life Sciences Building is also delayed by uncertainty. "Very little activity" is currently going on due to a delay in obtaining fur­nishing needed for the facility. So, it would appear that the Biology building will not be available for use by another department for some time. 

7 PERFORMANCES Mon. Oct. 25 8:30 p.m.Tues. Oct. 26 8:30 p.m.Wed. Oct 27 8:30 p.m.Thurs. Oct. 28 8:30 p.m.Sat. Oct. 30 6&10:30 p.m.Sun. Oct. 31 3:00p.m. 

.•.and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 

Indiana Bell 
Orchestra & Mezzanine Seats $7.50 OTHER SEATS AT: $6, $4.50, $3.50 
ALL SEATS RESERVED 



world briefs 

Washington -Last Friday's Federal Court ruling upholding the constitutionality of the wage-price freeze was welcomed with warmth -and relief-by the Administration. Some administration sources said that there had been worry that the government might lose the case, which would have severely compromised its economic policies. 
New York -In a letter to the head of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, Mayor John V. Lindsay, said that although many policemen and citizens suffered "discomfort and shock" as a result of the Knapp Commission hearings into police graft, dealing decisively with police corruption was in the best interests of the police depart­ment. 
New York-A small grocery owner, known as "The Shooter" to the police,shot and killed a man who attempted to rob his store. The death brought to three the number of holdup men that Felix B. Toro, the store owner, has killed in eight attempted holdups. He has also wounded four other bandits in the course of the robbereies, in which he said he has "never lost a cent." 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
on campus 
4:00--lecture, prot. nancy charton, recent trends in south african apartheid, 1201 memorial library 
4: 15--lecture, timothy binkley, the justification of violence, 127 nieuwland 
7:30--lecture, dr. emil t. hoffman, innovations in freshman year studies, grace well 
8: 00--lecture, dr. peter moody, political 
developments  in  china  
since  the  cultural  
revolution,  Iibrary  
auditorium  



today 

India-Pakistani border tensions increase 
(t·> New York Times Ham said that if international United Nations Secretary serversbepostedonbothsidesof that India and Pakistan are in a
1!171 p~essure was exerted on _India to (~eneral in the dispute. the border between East state of war. This is not possible, NEW DELHI, OCT. 25--wtthdraw her troops, Ind1a ~ould President Yahya 's views Pakistan and India to supervise a a withdrawal should be made to Defense Minister Jagjivan Ram d(•mand _that the International reportcdly were given in a letter mutual withdrawal of forces positions affording security to reiterated today that India would c_or;n_mumty assume respon-he sent last Thursday in response ttoan agreed distance. both nations, he said. not pull its troops back from the S1b1hty for the early return of the to one he had received from He suggested that troops and The Pakistani President said borders with Pakistan "as long refugees to East Pakistan. O~ly S(•cretary General Thant. armor be withdrawn by both that an immediate visit to the as the Pakistani threat con-after the refugees started movmg According to Radio Pakistan, sides to "peacetime positions," area of confrontation by Thant tinues." back would India "consider" a Yahya proposed that U.N. ob-thus implying for the first time would yield "useful reslllts." In a speech at the Nation~ troopwithdnw~.hesahl. ~-·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Defense college here, Ram said President Agha Mohammad India would not commit Yahya Khan of Pakistan has said aggression against Pakistan but he will pull his troops back from would resist any attack with "full the border if India does the same force." and if she stops all military aid to 
Ham said: "We will not be the B<'ngali insurgents. satisfied mPrely by defending our Secretary General Thant of the borders in case of aggression on United Nations has offered to our teritory. We will push the nwdiate and Pakistan has ac­('nemy back into his territory and dPptcd. India is expected to sec that fighting takes place in dPclin£' the offer. New Delhi's (•m•my country and not on our position is that talks between. soil." India and Pakistan are 
Thc Defense Minister--who is meaningless unless Pakistan gPnPrally regarded as a tough-removes the cause of the crisis-­talking front man for Prime the military repression in East Minister Indira Gandhi, whose Pakistan. own rPmarks have been more-106 In dian modPrat(•ly phrased--declared a we£'k ago that if a war wasthrust troops killed on India, she would not withdraw from any territory that might be KARACHI, PAKISTAN, OCT. occupiPd by the Indian army. 25--Thc Pakistan government 
Mrs. Gandhi left yesterday on a daimPd tonight that its forces thre£>-week tour of Europe and had killed 43 Pnemy troops 

th(• United States. yesterday and another 63 today in 
Tension has been mounting on lwavy fighting in East Pakistan. th£' India-Pakistan borders ever Th£' Pnemy involved was since the Pakistani army moved identified as "Indians and Indian into I<:ast Pakistan last March to agPnt!>," and the communique try to crush th£' BPngali In-said some of the bodies were dependence movemPnt there. An wt>aring identification tags of the Pstimated 9.5 million East Indian army. Pakistani r<'fugpes have fled into If ewn approximately correct, India, putting heavy strains on casualties in such numbers in­the economy. dicate that fighting has reached 
India has bP<'n giving help to its gn•atest intensity since the 
th£' Bt>ngali insurgents and hri£'f war fought by India and 
Pakistan has been threatening Pakistan ov£'r Kashmir in 1965. 
war unless India stops this Pakistan did not mention its 
assistanc<'. The India-Pakistan own military casualties, but said 
eonfrontationworsened over the that Indian shelling of eight East 
last f(•w wePks, as both countries Pakistani villages today killed 67 
mflv<'d th<'ir armies up to the ,·illagers. . bord('rs, in battle positions. MPanwhile, the government Bord(•r clashed, which have been announc£'d that Pakistan's eomrnon since March, have f1n•sid£>nt, Gen. Agha Moham­lwcome mor£' severe in recent mad Yahya Khan,had asked for th(' intercession of the 
1971 
-Compliments of a friend 



SENIOR TRIP 
LSU vs ND 
SlGN-UPS Tuesday, October 26 7-9 PM Coke Bar LaFortune 
THf STROH BRE'WfRV C0r,1f1Mn, DLHtQIT, MICHIGAN 4B::!b 
( $50 non-refundable deposit needed ) 


Page 4 THE OBSERVER 
I' R£MOV£ABL£ APOST'eL>P~E...


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editm·-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso .\ssistant Edifor
As.tant Editor 

All successful newspapers <lire John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaseleMi:ty querulous and bellicose. They neve;: defentl 
.\dn•rtising 1\lanager 
Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help 
Jint Jendryk it; if t~ iob is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle · they tackle it by denouncing someone or something ~lse. 
H.L. Mencken 




So Sue 
Working in a newspaper, as one of our correspondents found out yesterday, isn't all gravy and glory. (In fact, it isn't even a little bit gravy and glory, but that's the subject of another editorial.) Usually they just refuse to serve you lunch (sometimes a blessing) and make you sit on the back of the shuttle bus. Usually, though interviewees are a bit more subtle (or perhaps a bit more intelligent) than the one our reporter saw yesterday. (See page 6) This, to the everlasting gratitude of the alleged Notre Dame community. 
The man in question is Robert Cahill, Notre Dame's top ticket-pusher. Our reporter asked him a reasonably innocuous question-something like "How many free tickets does the football team get to fool around with?" Cahill, noted for his diplomacy and good taste, growled back, "none of your business." 
Well, maybe it was and maybe it wasn't. After all, there weren't enough tickets to go around St. Mary's and it'd be nice for students to know where all the extra tickets came from. But he let it pass. He had to write something, though, so he asked Cahill, "Can we quote you?" 
"You do," he shot back, dead serious, "and I'll sue you." 
So we print this for benefit of Mr. Cahill in particular, and all people like him. You can't sue us. You would have to prove that whwt we said was wrong, and that we knew it was wrong and that we were deliberately careless with the truth. We refer you to the Supreme .. Court decision on Rosenbloom vs. Metromedia, (U.S. 29 L. Ed. 296, 91S. Ct. 1181. --1971). Read it yourself, or get somebody to do it for you, and find out what it means. 
IfCahill wants to establish the illegitimacy of the remarks attributed to him, the best way he could go about it is by releasing the information he finds so vital to suppress. But that wouldn't establish that we were lying. It would only establish his own disingeneousness. 

A Good Thing 
The St. Mary's Board of Trustees did a good thing at their Saturday morning meeting. They approved the proposed Day Care Center play drawn up by Lyn Mastriania and other ND-SMC students. 
The plan was a good one, and the students put in time ironing out the objections to the plan made by the SMC administration. 
Now, because of the Trustees decision, a whole passel of mothers will be able to leave their children at the center and pursue careers or part-time jobs. 
The Center will be an educational experience for the kids, too. It won't feature a structured "class" system, but neither will it have them staring at the idiot box the whole day. 
It will be an educational experience for the students in child develop­ment and related fields that volunteer to work at the Center, also. They will be able to put the theories they absorbed in classrooms to work right on the St. Mary's campus. 
Everybody is a winner because of the Trustees action -the mothers, their children, and the people who worked so hard to get the plan off the ground. 
It's too bad more things here couldn't come out that well, but even if one does, that's an accomplishment. 
News Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
Campus Editor: Don Ruane 
Features Editor: rick smith 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
SMC Edotoress: Ann Conway 
Night Editor: Jim McDermott 
Layout and Headline: Dan Ryan, Jose Abell, Art 
Esposito, Stan the Man (again) 
Friends, Drifters, Vagrants: Deb Carrella, John 
Powers, Edward T. Ellis 
Controller of the Night: rick smith 
Assistant Controller of the Night: John Brady 
"'DD ·n or=-THe.. YEAR
..IJU ON ~~ 
0 nly Castles Burning 
The Finances 
John Abowd 
The only date mentioned anymore in discussions of the unification of the University of Notre Dame with St. Mary's College is the academic year 1974-75 or September, 1974. The public op­timism which abounded in the University's original press statements has either moved underground or disappeared com­pletely. In May of this year the joint statement of the Boards of Trustees of the two institutions listed several interim deadlines. Merger of academic departments was to be completed by thz beginning of this year. Merger of student bodies was contingent on unification of both schools' offices of Student Affairs, which was to have begun this month. Present Juniors. Sophomores, and Fresh­men at St. Mary's College were to receive degrees from the University of Notre Dame with St. Mary's as the college of record. 
The unsteadiness of the financial-legal negotiations puts all of these interim deadlines in limbo. Although many top ad­ministrators on both sides of the rojd are still optimistic that the financial problems can be overcome, as far as students are con­cerned many aspects of coeducation which could have been im­plemented next year will have to be delayed if a financial agreement is not forthcoming in the very near future. These programs include the presence of male residence halls at St. Mary's and female halls at Notre Dame. Also included would be extensive revision of the dinngg system and the legal unification of the student bodies of both schools. Of course, the critical question for St. Mary's students, the University designation of their degrees, is also hanging in midair while Sr. Gerald and Fr. Joyce negotiate a financial agreement. 
The uncertainty is caused by the preparation of next year's budget. Although the final budget for both institutions is approved at the spring meeting of their respective Boards of Trustees, budget preparation has already begun on both campuses. Sometime this semester both schools will reach the point of no return in preparing either a joint budget or individual budgets. Once this point is reached, it will determine whether students and faculty undergo another year of piecemeal unification or somet type of organized full-scale leap toward complete unification. 
After the decision to allow co-exchange classes Notre Dame was forced by finanacial conditions to uddertake a complete shift towards co-educatign. The first year of full co-ex operation ( 1969­
70) cost ND a quarter of a million dollars. This year the university will be running at a deficit of over half a million dollars. Obviously some of any college's financial problems are caused by the prevalent economic conditiQns and an increased reluctance of traditional sources of money (alumni and the federal government) to contribute at an increasing rate sufficient to cover tremendous leaps in the cost of post-high school education. The University cannot afford to engage in any co-educaton problem which would further contribute to its tightening financial situation. 
The proposed solution, unification with St. Mary's College, has several very appealing monetary benefits. It eliminates the ex­cessive cost of the co-ex program by internalizing the costs. This allows the University to calculate the actual value of the program rather than the price set by St. Mary's College. 
There is one important hitch. The Sisters of the Holy 'Cross, Inc. depend on St. Mary's for a large portion of their yearly income. By internalizing the cost accounting from St. Mary's tuition, donations and the rent payments by the College to the order, the sisters have been able to sustain their own existence. By mortgaging the buildings of the college itself, the order has been able to develop high schools and hospitals in many parts of the country. Such an arrangement prevents them from selling the college. 'TThe large capital holdings of ND (relalive to the student population) make purchasing SMC an unwise decision, but a large lease payment would be equally prohibitive. The Sisters of the Holy Cross, though, aftedr they have surrendered the tuition and donation money will have a very limited income. Apparently, the sisters are unwilling to accept financial remuneration in exchange for their teaching and administrative services. Until this dilemma can be resolved, there won't be a merger agreemtn. 
.. Where does all this leave the students <East and West cam­pus)? While there is reason for skepticism now, if the trustees do announce some decision soon, nonacademic coeducation could be a reality next year. It all depends on the finances, which are, of course, the subject of the negotiations. 


Tuesday, October 26, 1971 
THE OBSERVER. Pages 
Big bands sw1ng once aga1n 
by Joseph Abell 
The Big Band Era again reigned supreme, 
complete with Tommy Dorsey, Glenn Miller, and 
B£>nny Goodman, for an all too brief time last night 
in the Farley Hall basement. Old favorites ranging 
from slow, syrupy blues to toe-tapping marches, 
w£>re presented to a very contemporary audience by 
an unexpected speaker: Dr. Emil T. Hofman, Dean 
of Freshmen and well-known frosh chemistry in­
structor. 
Dr. Hofman took his audience of nearly fifty 
slowly and fascinatingly through a complex history 
of Swing music, from its origins in early twentieth 
century Negro spirituals and New Orleans jazz to 
the beginnings of "the boy singer," Frank Sinatra. 
Off-the-cuff comments and personal memories 
dotted his trip through the concert-hall music of the 
twenties and early thirties, the jazzy, speakeasy 
hands of the middle thirties, and the big swing 
bands of the late thirties and early forties. 
Quipping that the development of the big band era 
was somewhat similar to that of the atomic theory, 
Dr. Hofman began his history as close to the 
b£>ginning as possible. He explained that the popular 
music of the early andd middle twenties was similar 
to concert theatre music, replete with vast, complex 
arrangements and orchestrations. Only well-known 
eomposers of classical-type music were played, and 
the bands were so strict that any man who missed a 
note was fired. 
Two types of music growing in popoulatiry at the time were the New Orleans-type jazz music and music based on religious or spiritual themes. The big hand began to emerge though at first playing to the rather limited audiences at funerals (the bands would play bluesy dirges on the way to the cemetery and jazzy marches on the way back), soon graduated to the so called "indecent" speakeasy of Prohibition days. The blues and true New Orleans jazz slowly passed from the great Negro originals to young, talented white men such as Mugsy Spaniard and King Oliver who went far in developing the Swing style. 
In Chicago, St. Louis, and other large cities, the 
big bands, shunned in "decent" high school and 
<'ollege dances, increased their popularity more and 
more. Members of the "respectable" bands 
d£>spised their musically freer counterparts, but 
this soon developed into a type of jealously for the 
<'Omplete abandonment of a stuffy, classical style. 
In addition, the conditions of the classical bands 
was slowly deteriorating; various personal 
problems began to plague the band members, and 
l'V£>ntually, they took to drink, an expensive 
practice during Prohibition. To pay for their new 
habits, these "respectable" musicians began to 
sneak off at night to play with the early-Swing 
bands. They continued to play the music popular for 
so many decades previous during the day, but at 
night, the lure of money and musical freedom drew 
more and more of them. 
The new "big bands" developed, changed, and 
slowly withdrew from the original New Orleans 
music. Melody was in low regard and various 
members of a band became their won composers by 
their improvisions. This resulted in a type of "soul" 
music that later developed into a distinct style. It 
was this distinctness of style, so far removed from 
the original naturality of the Negro spirituals and 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman relaxes with his memories of the big band era. 
jazz that was to remain as the stalwart of popular music for the next twenty years.
December 5, 1933 -Prohibition ends, and with the end of the "dry period" came the end of the speakeasys. The big bands now having no place to play, joined with the regular dance bands and modified both styles and spread their popularity even further. Radio networks featured these newly­merged bands in night-long broadcasts that helped particular bands reach the top. But it wasn't until 1935 that one band emerged as a true leader in the opoular music field, Benny Goodman's. 
Goodman, trained in classical clarinet, took an early fancy to jazz. He formed a band and was soon featured on CBS radio every Saturday night for three hours. His popularity grew as he added such top dance halls as the Palomar in Los Angeles and the Aragon in Chicago to his touring stops. His appearances in these halls, incapable of holding five to seven thousand dancers at once, were also picked up by radio and broadcast "live". 
In 1936, Goodman broke all records at the Paramount Theater in New York, where Dr. Hof­man remembers high school kids such as himself paid forty cents for a movie and an afernoon of Good man music. In 1937, he broke New York tradition and played jazzy music in Carnegie Hall. This signaled the real beginning of the Swing era. 
Big names began appearing all over ghe country: Count Basie, Duke Ellington, Jimmy Lunsford, Artie Shaw. Many of these names, and even some of the bands, encured the Swing and successive eras and continue to record music today. 
In 1939, two things began to turn the American public away from Swing music: the advent of Glen Miller and his upbeat classial music, and the "new" type of band headed by Artie Shaw, a band with strings and other additions formerly unheard of in Swing bands. Swing declined. 
Its death knell was sounded in 1941 with the 
initiation of the draft. The war in Europe had grown to incredible proportions and America could no longer take chances. All able-bodied men were inducted as soon as the ink dried on their forms. 

Unfortunately, the description "able-bodied men" also fit a great number of Swing musicians. Good band members were swept away to fight, and the band leaders were forced to place more em­phasis on vocalists and vocal groups. And to make matters worse, ASCAP (Associated Singers, Composers, and Performers), who had the majority of big bands among its ranks, declared a ban on all their members from radio broadcast of any kind. So, for a few months, Stephan Foster, public domain music, ran rampant, with over 200 versions of "Jeannie with the Light Brown Hair" being cut. A number of new composers and ones not associated with ASCAP tried to fill the void, but the result was worse than before. 
The war itself aided in demolishing the big band era. The few surviiing bands were forced to cancel their "one-night stands," the most profitable of all big band activities, due to gasoline rations. They "settled" in various cities, and tried to recover their lost popularity. 
But the lone vocalist and the vocal group con­tinued to rise. Frank Sinatra, "the boy singer," sang with such groups as the Pied Pipers, and began to accumulate the popularity of the big bands. "Novelty" entertainment was introduced and was an immediale success. The big bands seemed almost forgotten. 
The final blow came in 1943 with the 
Congressional approval of an amusement tax. The 
bands themselves were permitted to play untaxed, 
but if any vocals accompanied them, or any dancing 
took place in the hall, the amusement tax applied. 
Many bands tried to get around this by having their 
vocalists "mouth" their songs without sound. But it 
was no use. The former "Meccas" of the big bands 
closed due to financial collapse, and the big band 
era was over, its only successors being the vocal 
groups and small jazz combos. Presley was to come 
later, to shake up American popular music again, 
but that was not to be for another decade. 
Dr. Hofman completed his talk with an hour of 
songs representative of the various high points of 
his history. The beginnings of the era were relived 
with such songs as "Odd Rugged Cross" and "St. 
Louis Blues". The progression continued through 
Benny Goodman's "Stomping at the Savoy" and 
"Sing, Sing, Sing"; Count Basic's "One O'clock 
Jump", Artie Shaw's "Traffic Jam"; Tommy 
Dorsey's "Sentimental over You," to Glenn 
Miller's "Black Saturday". 
By the end of the presentation, Dr. Hofman's 
audience had been throughly captured by the 
magic of the Big Band Era. Fans of rock music 
found themselves tapping out a beat with Benny 
Goodman's vibes and nodding their heads in ap­
proval of Tommy Dorsey's slow moody rhythms. 
Like Dr. Hofman, they were very much "into" the 
music. And the only discrepancy was the cassette 
tape player in the room. Somehow it seemed a poor 
substitute for the old "big ear" phonographs. 
And the band era lives on in small contemporary jazz bands. 



~~~--------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~--------------------------­
Augusta Hall proposal to be resubmitted 
The Augusta Hall Government determined, clashed with Article proposal was found in violation of 7, S('ction 1 of the Student the student procedural manual at Procedural Manual. The Article 
last night's Student Affairs states that a hall government Committee meeting, and with­must be structured according to drawn by its sponsor. 
university policy. The proposal, which was 
That policy calls for a hall passed by the St. Mary's Student 
council and four officers -a Assembly, will be re-submitted to president, vice-president, that body, provided they make 
treasurer and secretary. the necessary amendment to the Dr. Peter Smith, a faculty procedural manual. 
representative, brought this point A co-democratic system of to the attention of the committee government would have been 
and student representative Paul established under the proposal. Dziedzic proposed that the The hall government structure of 
manual be amended. officers and counccl would have The proposed amendment been set aside and the residents, 
would have given each hall the by vote, would have established 
power to determine the type of their own "structure." Constitution and government This plan, the Committee they wanted. 
Day Care Center to open 
J:<~nsumg m~t:u"'"u" ut:Lermined that the Student Assembly has to make amendments to the Student Procedural Manual and that the SAC is powerless to do so. The motion to amend the manual was then tabled, and the Augusta 
proposal was withdrawn. 
The Augusta Proposal was drawn up by sophomore Nancy Christopher who claimed that it was done within guidelines established by a consensus of hall opinion.
Under the proposal there is
little or no formal structure. A 
treasurer is the only officer and a system of rotational represen­tation is used. 
Augusta Hall residents will vote later this week on the question of retaining this system of representation or substituting a mrod conventional one. Ac-enough to accept responsibility without it being delegated," Miss Christopher said, answering Miss Mulaney's contention. 
more  definition  of  terms  and  
responsibilities.  
"We,  as  women,  are  mature  

Miss .. Christopher, who claimed the proposal was a philosophy of government rather than a constitution, asked the committee to consider it as such. After discussion the committee decided to treat the proposal as a 
· h"
constitution. It was at t IS point
that the clash with Article 7 was 
pointed out. 
If the proposed amendment, allowing each hall to decide its own government, is passed by a two-thirds vote of the Student Assembly, the Augusta proposal will then be re-submitted to the 
body. 
"It is unfortunate that this 
happened," representative Paul 
Dziedzic said of the delay, "but it 
is a good opportunity to change 
the manual. The manual is a 
healthy move in St. Mary's 
Student Government. It will give 
each hall the power of self­
determination. This is a big step 
toward the realization of student 
responsibility at SMC." 
New traffic regulations con­cerning bike and pedestrians are now in ~ffect on the SMC campus, accordmg to Miss Kathleen Mulaney, Dean of Students. 
Bicycles will now operate only on the South path of the St. Mary's Road. Pedestrians will use the North Path. Signs will be posted to this effect at both ends of the road. 

students are studying in child per cent of the residents who
(Continued from page 1) 
development and other similar voted on the proposal last weekequipment. However, the first programs. did not feel systematicmeeting of the Day Care Center The Center will not operate on a representastion is necessary.
staff with any interested parents "class system". No more than The proposal, when firstwill be held tonight at 7:00 in the 
twenty children will be enrolled brought up at the SAC meeting,clubhouse. Miss Mastriani urged at the same time. was questioned by Miss Mulaney, all parents connected with the "It won't be like a regular Dean of Students.
University and wishing to enroll 
kindergarten, with morning and 
The constituency of Augusta,
their child in the Center to attend afternoon classes; it'll be up to primarily freshmen, may lackthis first meeting. 
the parents when the kids will 
the expertise to effect this type ofSpeaking on the workings of the 
come," Miss Mastriani said. 

community government, MissDay Care Center, Miss Mastriani Mulaney claimed. Labeling thedescribed it as an "educational proposal too "idealistic" Miss
experience." Three full-time 
Concert Mulaney stressed a need forstaff members, possessing ex­
cording to Miss Christopher 89 ..-------------------------~ 
At 5:54 AM .. Sunday, after 301 songs, 450 people, $18 for Bengali relief, and 12 continuous hours of "coming together" to John, Paul, George, and Ringo and everyone who came ­thanks from NDRBF: Bill Eiler, Bud Hauser, Harry Soza, Mike Hildebrandt, Chris Verdunk 
P.R. (Dick Shanahan) Equipment (Poke). (Other all nighters) Shadow McKernan and Sleepy Tengalia. Balloting results -Number 1 song -Hey Jude. Number 2-Let ItBE. Number 3-Yesterday. 

perience in pre-school education, 
difficulties
will direct the children in various activities, both entertaining and 
(Continued from page 1)
C'ducational. The kids will be learning by this ceiling is reached. From that fun," she said. point on the ACC receives all the 
Other staff members will be profits. Profits received by the composed of Notre Dame and St. ACC are placed in the General Mary's students volunteering on Fund and used to pay for General 
a part-time basis. Most of these Fund deficits and debts of the ACC. The profit ceiling for this year
None of our 

will probably be reached with the prodeeds from the November 5,business? Cat Stevens' concert Mooney 
stated. "Since the Student Union is aAthletic and Convocation completely student runCenter Business Manager Robert organization with the objective ofCahill remarked in an interview providing cultural services foryC'sterday that the number of the students, we think our worktickets received by the football should be making more moneyteam was, "None of your for student activities. If we arebusiness," and threateneed to sue receiving none of the profit, why the Observer if he was quoted. 
should we bother to sponsor anyCahill stated that the football more activites after the ceiling is tickets are distributed to the reached?" Mooney said.
tC'am by the coaches, and refused Plouff stated that his office and to disclose the number of tickets the social commission workgiven to the coaches. 
jointly on setting concerts andCahill said that student football dates. The ACC managementtickets, cannot be transferred in may refuse to schedule certain any case. He termed this week's groups, Plouff stated, becauseproject to donate tickets to un­"no one wants to book a riot" but dC'rpriviledged South Bend never, he emphasized, cancelledchildren "an exception." 
a concert. 
New Jersey Club Thanksgiving Plane 
Roundtrip SBN-Newark 
All those who wish to reserve 
a seat MUST DO SO Tues. 
Oct. 26 7-8 PM Rathskeller. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up this week for job interviews for the week of November 1 through 5. 
~nterviews are open to ND and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are m Room 207, ~am Bldg. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding interviews and procedure. 
Dates-Nov. 24 return Nov. 28 

Nov. 1  .. american Air Filter Co., Inc.  B.S., M.S. in M.E., E.E., Ch.E., Ch.E., C.E.  
AChmerican Oil Company and Amoco Chemicals Corp.  Ph.D. in Ch.E. and  
em.  
Emory University--Graduate School of Business Admin.  Any degree.  
Harvard University--Graduate School of Business Admin.  All majors.  
S. S. Kresge Co.  Bus. Ad. and Lib. Arts.  
Purdue University--Krannert Graduate School of Industrial Admin.  Any  
degree. Only prerequisite is one of calculus.  
Nov. 1 ­ 2  Alexander Grant & Co.  B.B.A. in Acct. and Fin. M.B.A.  
Nov. 2  Altschuler, Melvoin and Glasser.  B.B.A. in Acct.  
Atlantic-Richfield Co.  B.S., M.S. in Ch.E. and M.E.  
Illinois Central Railroad.  B.S. in C.E. and M.E. Bus. Ad. and Lib. Arts.  
Social  Security  Administration  (and  other  Government  agencies  not  
represented.)  Bus. Ad. and Lib. Arts.  
Nov. 2  -3  Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.  B.B.A. in Acct. M.B.A. or J.D. with least 15  
hours of accounting.  
Nov. 3  Bendix Corporation.  B.B.A. in Acct.  
University of Rochester -Graduate School of Management.  Bachelors and  
Masters.  
Nov. 3-4  Touche Ross & Co.  B.B.A. in Acct. and Fin. M.B.A.  
Nov. 4  Charmin Charmin Paper :roduct~ Co.  B_.S., M.S. in Ch.E., c.E., E.E., M.E.  
and M.E.I.O.  M.B.A. with B.S. m Engmeering.  
Internal Revenue Service.  B.B.A. graduates.  
Nov. 5  O~io State University.  Any candidate with baccalaureate degree or pur­ 
SUing one.  
Travelers Insurance Co.  Bus.Ad. and Lib. Arts. B.S. in Math.  



Tuesday, October 26, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Interhall football races close 
by Stan llrankar '7:1 ThP dt'fl.'nding champs then lockl•d it up two plays later as QB
Only two wPeks remain in Bandy Stasik hit Bill Hoy forlnterhall Football 1971, yet not Pight yards and th!' score.
onl' of th!' leagu!' races has been dPcidPd. Pangborn-Fisher holds Sorin I Walsh o a onP point !Pad over three teams 
This on!' wasn't as close as thein Leagul' On!', although Dillon scon• says. Walsh did not pick up and Sorin have two games to play a first down, a total of only eight while P-F has only one. 
~·ards on offense, and ran a mereMorrissey is two points in front of 12 offpnsivl.' plays. Big JakeZahm in Leagu!' Two, while one WPsthoven shot through to blockpoint separates the top three a punt out of the end zone in thedubs< B-P, KPenan, and Flanner, st•cond quarter, and WalshrespPl'livPiy) in LPague Three. 
snappPd thl' hall ovpr the end line l'an~hurn-Fislwr 22 Alumni 0 in thP last period for thl' safeties that giVl' Sorin thl' triumph.
Alumni was tagged with their fourth straight loss as P-F broke Bn•t•n-Phillips X Grace u opPn a scorl'less game in the 
B-P stayed on top of Leaguethird pt•riod. Bruce Fassler Three with a win in this defensive rdunwd an interception for a 
hattiP. A !at!' drive got B-Ptouchdown to opl'll the scoring. 
rolling, with the big play coming <'huck Voelker then threw 26 on a Bruce Jirole-to-Joe Morihan ~·ards to PPte fo'arbotko to set up pass that covered 25 yards downPhil Dunn's three yard score 
to tlw 10. Two plays later, Bobthat put them ahead 14-o. P-F May scored from the two withicPd it in thl' final quarter as only :lO spconds left on the clock. 
Voelker connected with Hank 
Kt•t•n:•n :!0 Stanford li
1\lul'ttl•rties for an eight yard 
touchdown. Stanford got on the scoreboard 
quickly as George Packer hit 
Dillon lti. Off-Campus 11 Tom O'Connor with a 65 yard 
Dillon won their third straight scoring bomb on the game's first aftt•r thP surprise loss to P-F in play. But the defending North thl• season opener. Todd Carey Quad champs were not even t•appl'd a 70 yard scoring drive in flustl'red. Dependable Joe thl' second quarter on a two yard lh•ams scored from the four dive. Off-Campus was driving in thPn added an extra point rur. t~ the final period, but safety Paul put Kl•enan ahead, 8-6, at the Micha~ls returned an in-half. QB Tom Ewing closed the tl•rcl'phon 50 yards to the 0-C 20. door on Stanford in the third 
Mike Pav lin:::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:::~::::::::::::::::::===========:::::==========:========:=:=:=:::=:=:::; 
The Gradnate View 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::;A I o o k at the bowl picture 
Jim Donaldson decided to handle the analyst's duties this week and, 
since I agreed with his column 100 percent, it would be rather 
ridiculous for me to write another one. So, I'd like to talk about some 
other things, in particular the bowl situation. 
The Cotton Bowl suddenly looks attractive again. Barring a whole 
series of upsets, there will be one unbeaten team from the Big Eight, 
one or two from the SEC and Penn State (if the Nittany Lions get by 
Tennessee) for the Orange Bowl to choose from. The top attraction 
from here seems to be Nebraska-Alabama. 
The Sugar Bowl has plenty left over for a fine package. Should Penn 
State remain unbeaten, the Lions might be worth a try. Other 
eontenders can be chosen from two Big Eight teams (Colorado and 
either Nebraska or Oklahoma> and perhaps three SEC also­
rans <Auburn, Georgia, LSU>. Since the Irish will have already come 
to Louisiana to play LSU, it is unlikely that they will be invited back. 
This leaves Dallas and a date with Arkansas. And should the Irish 
lose to LSU, they will have to be content with a lesser bowl, perhaps 
something like the Astra-Bluebonnet Bowl and a rematch with Texas. 
Then two disappointed coaches can commiserate over what might 
have been. 
H!'re are my fearless bowl predictions: 
Hose: Michigan vs Stanford 
Cotton: Notre Dame vs Arkansas 
Sugar: Oklahoma vs Georgia 
Orange: Alabama vs Nebraska 
Astra-Bluebonnet: Penn State vs Auburn 
Gator: Texas vs Colorado 
Sun Bowl: LSU vs Houston 
Whatever that new bowl out west is called: Arizona State vs Air Force 
I hope that some "good will" was present before and after the NO frosh ran wild down in Mexico. I hope no one's feelings were hurt. What that whole thing accomplished I'm not sure. 
That the score was so high is not surprising. I'm sure that there would have been equally lop-sided results had the ND soccer club gone along to play the University of Mexico. The Mexicans were not con­tent to experiment with just anyone; they had to pick Notre Dame. Secondly, the frosh could take only a limited number of people, so that Coach Denny Murphy had no fourth string to put in to hold down the 
score. 
Since there will be no Records column this week, here are a few selected marks. Individual -Season 1.) Punts 67: Brian Doherty 39 2.l PuntingAverage 40.02: Doherty 39.9 3.) Field Goals Attempted 14: Bob Thomas 8 4.) FG'sMade 8: Thomas5 5.) Tackles for Minus Yards 17: Walt Patulski 12 6.) Highest percent of PAT'SS Made (min. 20 attsl 95.2 percent: Thomas (9-9) 100 percent 
Individual -Career 
1.) (new record) Passes Broken Up: Clarence Ellis 25 
2. l <new record> Tackles for Mmus Yards: Patulski 35 3'l (new record) Pass Receptions: Tom Gatewood 139 
4.l <newrecordl TDPassRec's: Gatewood 17 5.) Reception Yards 2113: Gatewood 2042 
6. l Interceptions 15: Ellis and Ralph Stepaniak 13 quartt>r with two touchdown 
passl'S, a 10 yarder to Tom 
ll;mnigan and an l'ight yard play 
lo Hay Donovan. 
Flamwr :!7 Farley 0 I .oss number four was as bad ;1s tht> n•st for Farley. The High­1{ ist•rs aerial combo of Carl I lhPrzut to Fred Ruckert clicked tht'l'P times on scoring bombs. Till' touchdown tosses were for Ia, aO, and 65 yards. Captain Jim ('arr got the final TO on a 45 yard intPn·eption return. 
'/.ahm t:l ('avanaugh X 
.Junior halfback Kip Browne got his third TO of the year on a !lO ~·arc! SWl'!'P to put Zahm ahead ••arly 7-0. Cavanaugh got it back on a 45 yard bomb from Steve lkCoursl'Y to Bob Stockhoff, with DeCoursey adding two points on a run rm· an !l-7 !Pad. But :Z.ahm rallil'd in the final five minutes wlwn Paul Tufts capped a six play, 70 yard drive with a 11t1arterback sneak for the win­..ing points. Cavanaugh tried a last minute drive, but John Dombrowski intercepted for Zahn• to clinch the triumph. 
I .yons li Badin 0 
A second period bomb from Paul Sokolich to Rick Shaller, covering 65 yards, proved to be all the scoring Lyons needed, as t hPir defense held explosive Badin quarterback Pat "Red­man" Tyrrell to only one com­pletion for the game. 
Rowers lose 
The Notre Dame crew team suffPr!'d a pair of losses Sunday, losing two races to Mercyhurst "oiiPge. 
The Irish "B" boat showed only occassional flashes of speed as Mt•rcyhurst took the lead from the outset and opened up a 29 second advantage at the finish. 
The Notre Dame "A" boat put up a stiffer fight but finished 17 spconds behind the visitors. 
The race was the only com­lll'tition the crew scheduled this fall. I They will continue to practice and conduct a con­ditioning program throughout the winter months in preparation for their more extensive spring schl'dule. 
ND icers scoring well 
Steve Curry and Paul Regan scor!'d two goals apiece Sunday afternoon to lead the "Blues" to a 10-2 victory over the "Whites" as the Notre Dame hockey team eonducted its third pre-season scrimmage at the ACC rink. 
The Blue team was comprised of the first three lines and the top two defensive units, while the Whites were made up of the rpmaining players on the squad. 
Jim Cordes, Mark Steinborn, Hay DeLorenzi, Eddie Bum­hacco, Ian Williams and Larry Israelson also contributed goals in the Blues offensive show and dpfenseman Bill Nyrop was credited with four assists. 
D'Arcy Keating and Mike Bonk accountPd for the Whites' tallies. 
Goalie Dick Tomasoni turned 
in a solid effort in the White's net 
during the first half of the 
scrimmage, yielding just three 
goals to the high-scoring Blues, 
and Parned coach Lefty Smith's 
praise. 
"Tomasoni showed me more in goal than he has all fall," the Irish mentor said. Smith also Pxpressed pleasure at the way his skat<'rs, "were breaking out of the defensive zone and forechecking better". 

League One 
Name, Player TD XP TP W L T Pts K. Browne, Zahm 3 0 18 P. Farbotko, P-F 3 0 18

Pangborn-Fisher 3 1 0 6 
K. Miller, Morr. 3 0 18

Dillon 2 1 0 4 
F. Ruckert, Flan. 3 0 18

Sorin 2 1 0 4 
J. Reams, Kee. 2 4 16

Off-Campus 2 2 0 4 
S. DeCoursey, Cav. 2 2 14

Walsh 1 2 0 2 
B. Hoy Dillon 2 2 14

Alumni 0 3 0 0 NEXT WEEK 
League Two Field 1 Lyons-Morrissey, 1W L T Pts Badin-Cavanaugh, 2 Morrissey 3 0 0 6 

Grace-Flanner, 3Zahm 2 1 0 4 Field 2 Lyons 1 1 0 2 
Breen-Phillips -Keenan,Cavanaugh 1 2 0 2 Farley-Stanford, 2

Badin 0 3 0 0 Sorin-Dillon, 3 Walsh, Alumni, 4League Three 
WLTPts 



Harriers

Breen-Phillips 3 0 1 7 Keenan 3 0 0 6 Flanner 2 0 1 5 

trounced 

Grace 1 2 1 3 
The Notre Dame cross countryStanford 0 3 1 1 tl'am finished a distant third in a

Farley 0 4 0 0 
tri-team cross country meet here 
last Friday. .. 
Indiana finished first with a

Sailors 2nd 
point total of 20. Hoosier runners 

The Notre Dame sailing team finished in the Second throogh finished second in a ten-school sixth spots. regatta held last weekend at the Western Michigan came in University of Iowa in Iowa City. second with a total of 48 points. 
The host school took top honors Th!' Broncos' Gary Harris and Wisconsin State University eapped the individual crown, at Oshkosh placed third, behind finishing first with a time of the Irish. 28:44:2. 
Will Donnelin skippered the And then came the Irish. Notre Irish "A" boat. Betsy Ramsey Dam<' amassed a point total of 69, crewed for Donnelin while placing them at the bottom of the Gerard Schmidt and Tom rung. Irish runners finished lOth, Willison crewed for Gaw., who 11th, 15th, 16th, and 17th. was at the helm of Notre Dame's Dan Dunne paced the Irish with "B" boat. his lOth place finish and a time of 
The Sailing Club will hold a :m:25. Marty Hill finished right meeting Wednesday night at 7:30 lwhind Dan, turning in a 30:27 in room 303 of the Engineering timing for 11th place. Building and anyone interested in The team will be in action sailing is invited to attend. A film again Friday as they travel to of the America's cup races will be Indianapolis for the Indiana State shown. Ml'et. 
Rooters crush Toledo 
The Irish soccer team tied in give Notre Dame a 3-o lead. all-time Notre Dame scoring Jafar Moghadan made it 4-o at mark Saturday morning while 10:05 with an assist from Jeff drubbing Toledo, 7-10. Noonan. 
Thl' victory was the first of the Dd<'nseman Bruce Graves got Sl'ason for the Irish and boosted into the scoring act with six their record to 1-4-1. minutes left in the third quarter, 
Th!' Irish hooters were slow hPading in a corner kick by gdting started but, once Rich rolervan. Col!'man got things rolling with a Chris Hanlon booted home the goal a 7: 15 of the second quarter, sixth Irish goal early in the fourth thPy were virtually unstoppable. quarter on a pass from Kevin Amir Raissi was credited with an Kinealy and Bob Donovan assist on Coleman's score. eom plPted the root by scoring 
The Raissi-Coleman com­with four minutes remaining in bination produced Notre Dame's th!' game. Kinealy also recorded second tally at the 20:00 mark, an assist on Donovan's goal. with Raissi putting the ball in the Thl' shutout was the first of the net and Colman picking up an year for Notre Dame goalie, Karl assist. Straub. ... 
Toledo just couldn't stay with Notre Dame's next game is the Irish in the second half. slated for Saturday morning at 10 Baissi scored his second goal at o'clock, when they host Oakland 
5:20 of the third quarter after University, from Rochester, taking a pass from Gary Troy to Michigan behind Stepan Center. 
.. 
8 

Neil Amdur========================================================================================================== 

Spor)~~ N2!rktJ!e~Ne!!r~ e s 
==============;:;:::;:;:;:;:::::::;To 
be young, gifted and... 
South Bend, Ind., Oct. 24-Around Reservior Park, Harrisburg's answer to the Harlem playground circuit, Jimmy Jones was the magic name. 
"How good are you, Cliff Brown?" the kids on the block would jive during friendly neighborhood sessions of basketball and football. "Good as Jimmy Jones?" 
After his senior year of football at Middletown (Pa.) High School, six miles from the state capital, Cliff Brown was courted by close to 100 colleges, big and small, predominantly white and black. Sign on the dotted line, the scouts told Cliff, and the next four years will be free. 
But Cliff Brown would not sign an athletic grant in aid; he said he wanted time to think. Spring came and went, then summer. Suddenly, it was August, and Cliff was still uncommitted. 
"All right, you're not leaving the house until you make up your mind," Ethel Webb, Cliff's aunt and guardian, finally said one mor­ning. 
Ethel Webb had raised Cliff, his older brother, Henry, and an older sister from the time their father had hied many years before. 
Cliff sat and thought about colleges. Jimmy Jones called from Los Angeles and told Cliff about John McKay, the University of Southern California, and how it felt to be No. 1 in Hollywood. Black athletes spread the good words about Penn State, Pitt and Syracuse. 
"I've made up my mind," Cliff told his aunt. "I want to go to the University of Maryland." Ethel Webb gave her nephew an incredulous look. "Now, you just sit around and think a little longer, Cliff Brown," she replied. Cliff knew what his aunt wanted, what she was thinking, what might be best for him: Notre Dame. "If she says something is better," Cliff said, "you have to consider it." 
Notre Dame sounded impressive, but Cliff was more apprehensive. South Bend, Ind. was far from home, he'd miss his girl, and it would be like starting over: he'd have to deflate his pride and prove himself again. 
"Notre Dame?" the players at Reservior Park said, their eyebrows up. "Cliff Brown, you're black, you're a quarterback. You go there and you'll wind up a halfback. That school's for the very rich and the very white." 
Last Saturday afternoon, in a stadium where Angelo Bertelli, Johnny Lujack, Bob Williams, Paul Hornung, Ralph Guglielmi, Daryle Lamonica, John Huarte, Terry Hanratty and Joe Theismanp called signals for the home team, Cliff Brown was the No. 1 quar­terback for Notre Dame. 
Across the field, wearing the same No.8, but in a different uniform, was Jimmy Jones. Yes, Harrisburg's Jimmy, who had never lost to Notre Dame, who had ended their hopes for a perfect season last year, who had been No. 1 in the neighborhood. 
The sight of a black man standing behind center, the tufts of his modified Mro clinging to the rim of his football helmet, has become a familiar, if belated, development in football, At Notre Dame, where football is a socio-religious experience, Cliff Brown will be watched and analyzed by millions of involved alumni and fans during the next three years. 
"For so long the black athlete was thought of as 'give him the 
f<1otball and let him run--he can't think,' "Brown daid, the day before 
the game with Southern California. "I think a lot a black athletes 
probably haven't come to Notre Dame because people have told them 
they wouldn't have a chance. My being first string should convince 
them that a black man can play at the helm anywhere if he's good 
enough." 
At 19 years old, Brown typifies the young, contemporary black 
athlete. He is confident within himself, conscious of what he 
represnets and eager to justify his status. A stiffness and rigidity in 
Cliff's early games, however, indicate that, in his case, the period of 
adjustment still is on. 
"He's a natural athlete," Tom Gatewood, the articulate Irish All­
America receiver, said of his 6-foot, l-inch, 194-pound teammate. 
"And he's come to the right place. Once he gets coaching and refines 
his talent, he'll be a fabulous football player." 
Southern Cal upset Notre Dame, 28-14 last Saturday. Cliff Brown 
was dejected. He had failed in front of his aunt, brother and family; he 
had let down his subway alumni, Jimmy Jones had won this round. 
"Cliff will make it," Gatewood said. "He's good, and he's not a 
quitter." 
The following halls do not have representatives for the Mardi Gras '72 Raffle: 
Pangborn, Fisher, Dillon, Walsh, Cavanaugh, Stanford, Alumni, Sorin, St. Joseph, Grace, Augusta. 
Please help-

call Greg 6967 for further information. 
Tuesday, October 26, 1971 
Ruggers bow in last minute 
The Notre Dame rugby team lost a heartbreaker this weekend when the Wisconsin "A" team defeated the Irish "A" squad in the last five seconds of play, 11-7, on Saturday. 
The Irish markers were scored by Phil Calandra, on a penalty kick, and by Doug Smego, on a try. 
The "B" team contest was cancelled due to the lack of players in the Wisconsin con­tingent. 
On Sunday, the "C" team lost to the Amoco rugby team by a score of 9-4. 
The lone Irish tally was recorded by Chuck Stimec who scored on a try. 
The next Irish foe will be the 


Heart attack caused Hughes' death 
(c) 1!171 New York Times News St•rvice 
Detroit, Oct. 25--An autopsy disclosed Monday that a heart attack was responsible for the death of Charles <Chuck) 
Hughes, a 28-year-old wide receiver for the Detroit Lions. 
"The findings were that Chuck had suffered an attack of ar­teriosclerosis--an acute coronary thrombosis, a heart attack," said Dr. Richard A. Thompson, one of the Lions' team physicians. "It was something that was bound to happen. It could have happened yesterday, the day before or tomorrow." 
Hughes collapsed in the final seconds of the Lions' game here Sunday. 
"Arteriosclerosis heart disease · had been coming on for some time with no visible signs," said Dr. Edwin R. Guise, the Lions' other physician. "Playing football contributed in that it was a stressful situation." 
Arteriosclerosis is charac­terized by abnormal thickeneing and hardening of the arterial walls, eventually shutting off the flow of blood to the heart. 
According to Thompson, the autopsy, which was conducted by Dr. Taisa Tworek of the Wayne County Medical Examiner's Staff, eliminated the possibility of an amphetamine, or pep pill, having contributed to Hughes's death. 
"The brain was examined," Thompson said. "No medication had been taken." 
midwest powerhouse, Palmer College, at Palmer next Satur­day. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Pages 7 and 8 
~------------------------------------------;
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
NC'ed ride to Pittsburgh, Oct. 2Sor 29. Call Suzy 4864. 
Need Ride to Bowling Green or Rock­ford, Illinois any weekend. Call Irene 4997. 
Need 6 student tickets and 4 general admission tickets to Navy game. Call Ann Marie -5446. 
Need 2 general adm. tickets to Navy game. Tom 287-2731. 
URGENT: Need 1, 2 or 3 general admission tix to Navy game; Need not be adjacent. Call Leo at 1607. 
Wanted: One Electric Typewriter good or great shape. Call Tom 287­2731. 
Paper Clips for Easy Rider. Donations only. To the Observer Ad. Dept. 
4 general admission Tulane tickets. Call Bill at 2S3-6S43. 
Need two general admission tickets to Navy Game. Janet-4037. 
Desparately need 3 general ad­mission tickets to Navy, at least two together. Dan -69S7. 
NOTICES 
--·-----------­
Fix your own car. Tonight. We have the SPACE 1 TOOLS + PARTS AND HELP. You do the work and SAVE. Autotech . Rt. 31 South in Niles. 6S4-1960. Open evenings and W<'ekends. 
NEED MONEY? 
Morrissey Loan Fund Basement of La Forlune 11:1512:15. 
Call Joanna at 2S7-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning \iiviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only lhroug11 indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
Photographs for applications, passports. Portraits. Fast. inexpensive, high quality 6729. 
New Jersey Club Thanksgiviny Charter Final sign ups . Tues. Nite 
7 8. Rathskellar Those who have 110t reserved a seat must tonite. 
Classified Ads paid for in cash when ordered. 7. Office hours 12:15 . 
5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day before puiJI ication. 
FOR SALE 
One (1) bicycle Used bur runs amazingly well. Includes these extras 1 basket, 1 speedometer. Call Bob 3110. 
Quality Strack tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50.?. Call 6715. 
--·------------­
Prices slashed on all posters to reduce stocks. Posters that were $1.50 now $1.00 $1.25. For in­formation come to 815 Flanner ~11 Grace or 315 Regina South or call 1694, 1167 or 425S. 
RPrices Slashed Sale on now at Student Record Sale. $5.98-LIST S3.b~ ­LIST S3.15 313 Morris5ey. Ph. 3575. Open continually. 
-·-----------­ON SALE: Brand new, guaranteed S-track and 
cassette tapes. Fantastic selection. All tapes . only $2.99. Call 1781 (Paul) quickly. 
PERSONALS -· ----·---------­what is all this nonsense? only:... 
knows. do tell. 
Worried about midterms? Come to our suicide party! 4772, 4777' 51Sl. 
snoregalldork type nonsense is fun, too Zapd. 
Stephen I'm psyched Thanks, Purple 
Jeff's in love with Emil T. That's wily he's not calling me! composed by Mary. --·-·--·--------­Seriously, that Rochester MAN is better than Gregory Peck. 
·----------­
Is Masoursky on the bus or the team? 
....... \da. lda. lda. 4da. Sda. 
l-It .II .71 1.11 1.11 l.ZI' n-11 M 1.11 1,35 '1.11 z.is twt .71 us 1_,7'-ul ·-~~ 11-ZI .a us 2.11 iM-3.45 ._. 1.11 1.11 2.35 Ut U~ II-3S I.Zt 1.11 Z.ll US 4~71( 31-tt us u~ u1 us Ul\ 
41-451.55 Ut 3.31 Ut s.SII ~511.75 2.51 :t.s-4.75 .... 






