~---~~----------------~-­

(('l 1!171 NEW YORK TIMES 
WASIIINGTON--The Senate, by a vote 55 to 30, ~ve final congressional appro val to the draft bill yesterday, oermitting a return to military .!Onscription until the middle of L973. 
The legislation, the most eontroversial in Congress this year, was sent to the White House, where President Nixon's signature is asP~red. 
Selective SeTvice System of­ficials said th;s afternoon that they would begin processing men for induction as soon as the Pentagon Tells them how many men to draft. 
The officials said the first men 
could be drafted within two 
weeks. 
Constitutional committee meets 
The ND -SMC Constitutional Ml•rgcr Committee met late last night in the Grace Hall penthouse in informal open session to r<'vicw both current government strul'tures and to run through a number of pat and current proposals for reform. 
I<:d Ellis, ND Research and ­half long meeting, which heard rl'ports from Ellis and ND 1\l'adPmic Commissioner Fred (;uiffrida on attempts to elicit student opinion in Farley, McCandless, and Regina halls before moving into structural eonsidcrations. Aecording to both Ellis and Guiffridda, there is more widespread interest in constitutional revision at St. Mary's than there is at Notre DamP. 
The Committee, which is composed of nine Notre Dame and seven St. Mary's students, q 
The Committee, which is composed of nine Notre Dame and seven St. Mary's students, firmly rejected one proposal and neither accepted nor rejected two others in its first real discussion of possible concrete reforms. 
The rejected proposal, in­troduced but not endorsed by Ellis, would have the combined SPnate-Assembly elected from individual colleges. Currently, theboth legislatures are elected from the halls. According to Ellis, a similar plan was suggested but rejected at the University of Delaware. 
The plan fell under heavy 


.Jt>an St·:vmour, Ed Ellis and T. C. Treanor 

r·w;;id-B~k£;-1 
(e) New York Times New Service 
Saigon -The United States Jets bombed military positions along the southern bordder of North Vietnam in a massive raid, termed the .heaviest since last march. The bombing, according to U.S. spokesmen was "in response to recent increased evidence of North Vietnames~ antiaircraft and missile activity" against unarmed U.S. reconnaissance aircraft. 
Washington -A censored, 7000 page version of the Pentagon Papers was released by the Nixon administration and in effect removed much of the secrecy that the administrastion had tried to preserve through the courts last summer. Jerry Friedheim, a spokesman for the Pen­tagon, said the release was "solely in response" to an order last June from the President that as much of the report was to be published as soon as possible. 
washington -The House Ways and Means Comf!littee voted major changes in the administration's business tax credit proposed on new equipment. Most of the changes were liberalizin~: the effect.ive date was made retroactive to April 1, some used eqmpment was .mcluded and the rate was set at 7 percent, instead of 10 percentthe first year and 5 per cent thereafter. 
criticism at the hand of Towers representative Floyd Kezele, who suggested that "some guy with six roomates in his department would be a shoo-in." 
"Students, once elected, wouldn't have to be responsible to their constituents," Kezele argued. "They wouldn't ever seem most of them outside of class." 
Kezele, who serves as vice­chairman of the SLC said that the system was used at New Mexico State and that the result was "a mess." 
Other members of the com­mittee were also less than en­thusiastic. Stay Senator Jim Clarke suggested that most of the voters would be unfamiliar iwth the candidates, and both Guif­frida and Hall Life Commissioner Bob Higgins raised logistical objections. 
Junior Class Coordinator Gary Caruso, who is not a member of the committee, proposed a bi­cameral legislation with the Hall President 's· Council an upper house and the Senate a lower hoUSl'. 
Although both Higgins and Ellis contended that such a system would delay legislation past the tolerance point, the Committee agreed to defer action until a later meeting. 
The committee also considered the once-defeated motion to abolish the Senate and invest legislative power in the Hall President's Council. Former St. Mary's Student Body Vice President Jean Gorman and Notre Dam Union Associate Director Milt Jones were both vociferous in their denunciations of the student Senate. 
According to Miss Gorman, both the HPC and the St. Mary's Student Assembly are inherently superior to the Student Senate because candidates for Hall President and the SMC Assembly "have the student's interests at heart," while Senate candidates pursue mostly "petty politics." 
Miss Gorman's contentions were disputed by Stay Senator T. 
C. Treanor and by Guiffrida, who is a Stay Senator in addition to his Academic Commission chores. 
Guiffrida, who is beginning his third year in the Senate, con­tended that the Senate presented an image of obfuscation because it was "too large." 
Senate currently elects forty­two members and five stay 
(continued on page 8) 


The vote on final passage came immediately after thl:! Senate had voted, 61 to 30, to end the Debate on the bill. This was one vote more than the two-thirds majority needed to impose closure and block a threatened filibuster by anti-war senators. 
Key provisions of the legislation would increase the pay and allowances of ser­vicemen by $2.4 billion annually and would permit the abolition of student deferments for men who enter college for the first time this fall and afterward. ' 

The bill also calls on the President to withdraw United States troops from Indochina by a "date certain," contingent only on the release of all Americar prisoners of war. 
Debate on the legislation has consumed more than half the Senate's time this year, and, both thl:re and in the House, the debate was entwined with Debate over the war. 
In both houses, the dissatisfaction of a growing number of members with the was 
(continued on page 3) 


SMC starts new security methods 
St. Mary's night security measures announced September 7 have been modified by the addition of four patrolmen and the expected hiring of three more men by the security department. 
A guard will be posted in each hall eliminating the requirement that residents returning to campus after dormitory closing hours sign in at LeMans Hall. 
Under the requirement, ac­cording to Security Captain William Parker, residents of McCandless and Augusta Halls would await a security escort to their halls while residents of Hegina and Holy Cross would rPturn unescorted via a con­necting tunnel. 
Students returning after midnight on weekdays and 2 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays will sign in at their respective halls when the new plan is used full time. 
The plan, which began last 
weekend, is on a limited weekend 
basis until the other guards are 
hired, 
Parker hopes the guards will be hired within two weeks. 
The system initiated earlier this month resulted from a summer study recommending increased security measures. 
A two man mobile patrol and a two man foot patrol have been making their rounds between 9 
p.m. and 5 a.m. 
"We're an open campus. Anyone can enter the campus. Two men in a car were not enough to patrol and protect the campus," Parker said. 
According to the study recommendations, internal hall security was left to the hall directors. However, residents would open doors for lheir tardy friends often leaving them unlocked, thus providing easy access to anyone. 
"We need the cooperation of the students. As soon as thev realize the danger of leaving doors open, our job will become an easier and more positive one," Parker said. 

Dr. Gross addresses ND 
by Jim Gresser 
According to Dr. Grant Gross the city of New York can no longer shove its garbage under the rug. Dr. Gross of the State University of New York pointed out about one hundred people last night in the library auditorium the crisis of disposing solid waste in his lecture entitled "The Crisis in Wasteland". He used New York City as his main point of reference. 
Garbage disposal, he stated,has remained basically the same since the time of the Roman Empire carry it to the ede:e of the 


(contirw('d on pagl' B) Dr. M. Grant Gross 


THE OBSERVER. 

It sure would be great to have all the time you need for all the things you like to do. And if your reading work load is keeping you from some of the finer things, here's an important suggestion. Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will show you how to read 3 to 10 times faster with equal or better comprehension. Once you've mastered Evelyn Wood's method, your reading and studying time will be drastically reduced. You'll know some important secrets of test-taking and be able to keep up better with your studies-as well as those social activities you're missing now. Time-that's what it's all about. Do something about it now. 
ATTEND A FREE SPEED READING LESSON 
INCREAc;E YOUR READING SPEED 
50 TO 100% ON THE SPOT 
TODAY 4, 6, AND 8 P.M. 
TOMORROW 4, 6, AND 8 P.M. 
AT THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION NOTRE DAME AVENUE ACROSS FROM THE MORRIS INN 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 

by Bill Davidow 
Discussion at the Hall Presidents Council's weekly session, held last night in St. Ed's Hall centered on a forthcoming meeting with the trustees, a plan to help incoming freshmen, ~tudent government funds to the Council, and An Tostal weekend. 
Buz Imhoff, chairman of the HPC announced a meeting with representatives of the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees scheduled to be held Monday October 4. The HPC will meet with nine to twelve mem­bers of the Student Affairs Committee, including Dr. Tom 
Carney,  Student  Affairs  Com­ 
mittee  Chairman,  for  three  
hours.  

The range of subjects is the choice of the members of the HPC themselves. Imhoff ad­vanced some topics of discussion including parietals, physical planning of the halls, hall staffs, and improvements of present counseling services. 
In order to supplement the discussion of hall staffs, Imhoff requested from each hall president an evaluation of rectors and their assistants. 
Robert Higgins , Hall Life Commissioner, requested a general description of each president's {)articular hall. This 'information will be used to publish a pamphlet explaining each of the twenty halls to in­coming freshmen, so that they might make a more educated pick of their future living 
last  year  according  to  Hoefer  
attracted  more  flak  and  ac­ 
cusations  of  sexism  at  Notre  

Dame than publicity. 
-ATTENTION­
PAUL'S 
SHOE REPAIR 
Rear of Main Building 
-HOURS­Daily 7 A.M. to 6 P.M. 
Saturday 8 to Noon 
Shoe Strings, Polish, 
Etc. 
QUIK SERVICE 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Higgins also asked for ths presidents to volunteer bed space for accomodations of visiting high school seniors. 
A discussion followed con­cerning the allotment of student government funds to the HPC. The present plan provides $5000 to the Council from student government which will be matched by funds from the Administration. A three-member committee, consisting of representatives from the HPC, Student Senate and Student Government, will oversee the distribution of the money to the halls. 
Steve Hesselnik, president of Breen-Phillips, objected with a claim that the hall presidents knew the various hall situations best, and therefore they should have sole control over the distribution of funds. 
Orlando Rodriquez, Student Body Vice President, explained that, since it is the Student Senate's money, they deserve a say in its use. 
Fritz Hoefer, executive coordinator of thz HPC, rounded up business by suggesting the deletion of two events from An Tostal weekend to be held in April. 
The first is the pig chase, which local humane societies strongly objected to last year. Hoefer said an injunction to prohibit the chase could certainly be expected this year. 
The second event was the kissing marathon. Originally entered in the An Tostal program of publicity's sake, the contest 


THE OBSERVER

Wednesday, September22, 1971 
Nixon's si!(Rature expected 
Draft renewal is assured 
----~-------­

(continued from page I) 
was reflected in their opposition to continuing the draft. 
In the more than seven months that the bill was before Omgress­-beginning with committee hearings Feb. 2-These critics of the war and the draft won several preliminary victories and lost several other attempts to impose restrictions on the Nixon ad­ministration by hairbreadth margins. 
In the end, however, Congress have given Nixon almost con­tinuation of the draft authority to end student deferments and no significant limits on his war or defense policy. 
It removed from the Mansfield amendment two key phrases, one declaring it to be the policy of the United States to withdraw all troops, the other setting a with­drawal deadline within nine months, providing that the North Vietnamese release U.S .. prisoners. 
SAC sets Tneeting 
by Greg Howinski 
The Student Affairs Committee 
fo the Board of Trustees will meet 
in morning and afternoon 
sessions on October 4 in the 
Center for Continuing Education. 
Topics of the morning session 
icclude the problems of off­
campus students, a raport on 
minority student prgblems and a 
preliminary presentation of thz 
drug situalion on campus. . . A 
more detailed discussion of this 
last topic will follow at a future 
meeting. 
,
..... 
.. 
John Barkett Student Rody Presidt>nt 
The afternoon session will be a meeting with hall presidents. Here, the group reaction to Trustees' Chairman Edmund Stephan's letter aznd its effects on parietal hours will be con­sidered. 
SBP John Barkett said this about the Committee: "The SAC is a valuable link in presenting student opinion to the Trustees. Tht> reports presented at each meeting are thoughtfully prepared and usually quite ex­tensive. The Committee's recommendations to the full Board based on these reports carry much weight because of the work that goes into them. Hence, thz Committee members must be knowledgeable and responsible. I think both qualities are quite apparent in Jim (O'Hara), Bob !Weaver), Tim (Feeley), Jean !Seymour), and Jean (Gorman). I am hopeful that we can maximize the effect of the Committee's work through our contributions at the open and closed sessions of the SAC." 
An opportunity to sleep in the 
The Senate began debating the conference report a week ago Yesterday and in one of the crucial votes of the Draft debate decided on Thursday by 36 to 47 not to table the conference report. 
Two other major foreign policy amendments took much of the time on the floor. The McGovern­Hatfield amendment, which would have set a withdrawal date Dec. 1, 1971, was decisively defeated. 
An earlier Mansfield Amend­ment would have required removing one-half of the 300,000 
U. S. troops in Europe over the next two years. It was also defeated after an intensive campaign against it by the Nison administration. 
The draft bill was on the floor with 32 actual days of debate but it had tied up business in the senate almost continually since last sprin~. 


dorms has been offered to Trustee committee members by Barkett. Uncommitted mem­
berfs have been invited to speak wilh residents of some halls on Sunday night, OPctober 3. 
________________, 
LET 
us 
SELL 
YOU 
ANY 
THING 
But, if you buy the idea of a vocation-a I ife of service & prayer for others-we may be able to help you. We are the Passionists. Following the inspiration of Paul of the Cross we pledge ourselves to become in a particular manner disciples of Jesus Crucified. By this discipleship we try to serve others. 
The actual subject of com­pulsory induction into military service was seldom at the center of debate and only 16 senators had voted against the bill on that question last June 24. 
The bill offers a $2.4 billion pay raise package to the armed services effective Oct. 1, the largest military pay raise ever legislated during peacetime. However, defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird has said that the actual date of the raises will be decided by President Nixon's cost of Living Council, because of 
the wa e-price-re_nt !r~~e. 
Look for 


Cont.ct: Br. Kevin o·Malley, C.P. Passionist Community, Dept F 5700 N. Harlem Ave. Chicago. Ill. 60631 
Pa 3 

Group Health Insurance 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Graduate Student Union For 
Graduate Students 
For Information Mail t~-ASSOCIATION PLANS 1101 EastBelmont South Bend, Indiana 46615 
arne 
Check Information Desired 
-=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~ 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 
Indiana Bell 
Wednesday, September 22, 1971

Page <4 THE OBSERVER. 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

Editor-in-Chief Business Manager Glen S. Corso James Jendryk 
All successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend anyone or anything if they Ad Manager

Ext>cutive Editor 
can help it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill BauerleT.C. Treanor 

they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. -H. L. Mencken,

Founded November 3, 1966 Notre Dame, Indiana Business 283-7471 News 283-1715 
Draft for Today 

At least the question is settled. 
We're going to have the draft at least 'lDtil mid 1973 and possibly forever. That's the way it goes, and furthermore, that's the way it's always gone. If the Senate is at all interested in making sure that that isn't the way it goes in the future, it had better take steps to guarantee that the conditions that made the extension of this year's draft necessary no longer exist when the draft comes up again. 
The conditions that caused an extension of this year's draft were brutally straightforward. NATO, SEATO, snd Israel have made it impossible to ter­minate conscription without unilaterally terminating our commitments in Europe, in Southeast Asia, or in the Middle East. Attractive as such courses sound, they are no longer open to us. They were in Calvin Coolidge's day and perhaps even later, but G1ey aren't while we intend to be a part of the active world, giving, acting and receiving as a nuclear nation must. 
Some of the commitments, however, can be reduced. Stable countries have rendered huge internation aid archaic. Some of the conditions which made this extension necessary can be eliminated. 
So that's the next job for the Senate: to stage a massive and complete review of foreign troop assignments. We shouldn't end the draft if it means mass desertion of our allies, but we shouldn't maintain the draft to answer conditions established in 1952 and abandoned many years ago, 
lnPIRG has got to Work 
General Motors' Corvair, a cleverly designed four wheel death trap, is rotting and rusting on the scrap heap now thanks to the efforts of one man-Ralph Nader. 
This consumer advocate, in the face of indifference, corporate-government duplicity and corporate arrogance managed to force Congress into passing stiffer auto safety laws. 
Now one of Nader's "brain children",the Public Interest Research Group, is sweeping out of the gray Indiana sky like a golden winged chariot. The group ­composed of a hard core of professionals, with an outer core of students and faculty -and controlled by a student elected board, is already in operation in Minnesota with a budget exceeding $200,000. 
Groups attacking the problems of poverty, working class alienation, consumer fraud, corporate price fixing, shoddy workmanship and out and out illegality manifested in bribery and corruption could bring about dramatic results in these areas. 
A group of students, headed by Brad Baker from Indiana University, are trying to set up such a group in this state. They are holding their first state-wide convention at Du Lac this Sunday. 
They hope to be in operation by the fall of 1972, provided they get a necessary 
ingredient-money. They estimate that if fourteen schools in Indiana organize 
and if students there agree to tax themselves at the rate of $3 per year, a 
niggardly sum to be sure, the InPIRG can start off with a budget of over $100,000. 
Some Morrissey Hall Students, Pete Homer, Bobo Carbone, Bill Rahner and Jerry Nagle, are setting up Notre Dame's chapter of InPIRG. Their task this year will be an educational one -persuading members of this university that InPIRG is a good and necessary organization. 
The Observer unequivocalluy supports their effort and urges students to 
contribute, not only money but time and effort. 
If there was ever an opportunity for Notre Dame and ...::t. Mary's students to 
cast phony rhetoric in the gutter and do something about reaching the glittering 
goal they espouse the InPIRG sure is it. 

Trustees Open 
Communications Line 
Now that everyone has had time to digest the Trustees' and Fr. Hesburgh's letter concerning parietals and in part alcoholic beverages, it might be informative to know a little about the Hall Life Report on which it was based. 
In Trustee Board Chairman Edmund Stephan's letter to the SLC there are phrases, misleading phrases such as, "Forty percent of all residents" and none of the students questioned would turn in a parietal violator. 
Sounds like a pretty comprehensive report the Trustees studied. Unfortunately the pollsters contacted only 105 students; 44 percent of that total from the South Quad, 40 percent from the North Quad and 16 percent from the Towers. 
It is doubtful that this number is representative of the 6,032 un­dergraduate students enrolled last year. Ifyou add graduate and law students the number jumps another 1,591 students. 
Granted,not all of them live on campus, only 5,215 do, which raises the percentage to .02. 
The Hall Life Report says 11 selected students administered the questionnaire by telephone and the result "corroborated" with an earlier questionnaire incorporated into a report and sent to the March meeting of the trustees. 
Fifteen rectors, 17 hall presidents and 12 Saint Mary's students were contacted in that poll. The Trustees accepted seven of nine SLC recommendations which Mr. Stephan listed. The two they did not accept are: 
Each individual residen"e hall, after consultation with the Hall Life Board, shall formulate regulations and enforcement procedures for 
parietal hours appropriate to that hall. 
That each hall government, in conjunction with the rector establish gu idelnes for section and hall parties within existing University rules. Although the trustees obviously have the interests of the University in mind, they have taken a superifical view of student idealism. Student idealism is a strong force. However, it is not as strong as the 
trustees and administration take it to be. 
It is unreal to think students are going to turn another student in to the hall judicial board for violating a parietal rule or drinking to ex­cess. 
Let's look at some practical considerations. 
First, if a student did report another it would be his word against the defendant. Secondly, the student informer would probably face strong social reaction which could easily reach the extreme of ostracism. 
The student's roommate also could be drawn into the dispute of the social reaction, making life miserable for both. 
Some might counter that the student could move Where? The room situation is a hassle every year, and with a rising admission rate it will become worse. The reporting student might be pressured into leaving the University. 
An example concerning the use of alcohol is also easy to find. How effective do you think it would be if the mayor of South Bend or any city for that matter, said one day: 
"Starting today, all citizens of this city will be expected to enforce the traffic regulations on your street. Each block may form a judicial board and block captain to organize the enforcement of said rules.. " 
Thus, it is feasible for any resident of the block to be prosecuted by his neighbors but how are you going to stop the fellow from across town who speeds by before you can get his license plate number? 
The same question applies in the hall. One can recognize a section member and usually a hall resident, but few, if any, could identify !Some drunk party hopping who decides to rip off an ashtray, break a light or window or set fire to a section bulletin board. 
The solution is to close the street to everyone but residents, therefore each hall should be complete with a control door similar to Alumni Hall. 
It seems the only thing productive to come out of all this is the communication that has prospered between students, student leaders, the administration and the trustees. 
'The Hall Presidents Council held a midnight meeting with SBP John Barkett and a few nights later they, along with Barkett, attended another midnight gathering this time with Fr. Hesburgh. 
Both the HPC and Barkett have written to the Trustees and both met with Stephan, Dr. Thomas Carney of the Trustees and several ad­ministration members last Thursday to explain their views and generally clear the air about the issue. 
By the way, those several administration members are also members of the SLC which is charged with drafting appropriate sanctions for violations of University rules and regulations and sub­mitting them to the Trustees before their Oct. 22 meeting. 
It would be wise for the SLC not to stall and draft the sanctions while students still have some say in the matter. If not, the job will be left to the administration. 
Hall presidents know their hall's point of view, the HPC and Barkett have gotten together with one another, Fr. Hesburgh, several other administrators and two high ranking Trustees and now it is up to the SLC. 
If that tri-partite board can get it together it may be the start of a communications bridge that could stretch from the students to the trustees, from September to May. 
Wednesday, Sep1ember 22, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 
!:»age 5 

jerry samaniego; the need for reform 
Not long ago Notre Dame was definitely a different place. Lights in the dorms went off at precisely 10:00 P.M., and if you can picture having to study by candle light, that is exactly what one had to do if he wanted to continue studying. To add to these "protective' measures every night the hall staff made bed checks, not to rnl'ntion the fact that every student was r<•quired to sign in and out afternoons, PVl•nings and especially on weekends. It was only two years ago when Notre Dame actually allowed females within the walls of the dorms and even this privilege was only on football weekends. 
Toward the spiritual "betterment" of the students, the Notre Dame man at­tPnded compulsory mass at 7:30 every single morning, and he would top his day off by attending the devotion services to the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
The highly regarded academic life of Notre Dame was hardly open to individual pr<'fl•rence. The system was set up as such that as soon as one declared his major, his Pducational schedule and his entire future WPre completely in the hands of the ad­ministration. As far as school itself went, to cut a single class totally unheard of. 
But Notre Dame has been changing <much to the astonishmentment of the outside world l. The spirit of co­
educational classes has gained much 
appraisal from both Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students. Both sexes.can now 
meet in the classroom instead of at some 
stereotyped mixer, and believe it or not, 
both men and women can now actually sit 
together throughout an entire football 
game <WOW). 
Besides all of this, Notre Dame now offers much more individual freedom and responsibility to its students. The l'urriculum is now more looselv strucc­lured, giving the student a little more liberty lobe able to choose the subjects he wishes to take (with some exceptions). 
However, by <iefinition, a Umversity's role is to develop the "whole man ·•. That is to say both intellectually and socially .. Rut this seems to be a myth in the eyes of Notre Dame on the grounds that it still insists on playing the "mother hen" role by enforcing regulations stating when and when not to have girls in your room. This "great" university claims to be in moderate accordance with the times, yet it Pnforces parietal hours which in essense places limitations on the student's social activities. 
A large portion of life is the ability to exist harmoniously with people, and in any form of community living, consideration is the foremost rule. Whether living in an 

...what God has set apart let no man put together... 
john janitor, sr.: 
The recent student reaction to the proclamation by the Trustees on parietals and drinking, even though childish to a point antedating pubescence, was -in a way-justified and perhaps even called for by the circumstances surrounding the announcement. 
One could argue the absurdity of the University (and Indiana ( trying to enforce rules which many other states and a good number of families no longer make any effort to uphold. Times have changed. Soon nearby Michigan will follow N.Y., Wisconsin, etc., with an 18 year drinking law. And everybody knows from the popular press that today's in-coming l<'reshmen are far more "experienced" in sexual matters than were the Graduating Seniors of but a few years ago. Thus the argument might conclude: since Brave New World, at least on these matters of booze and sex (and why the strange silence on drugs?), has arrived its high time the University "got with it" in this area too and stopped trying to buck the times with its sudden and arbitrary decision to reimpose a by-gone era of enfm ced ab­stincce. 
It seems simply amazing in the face of a situation the University had done nothing to discourage and much to foster (one need only recollect its past "experiments" with parietal liberalism; its past efforts to overlook or bury embarassing "scenes" connected with sex, booze, drugs, ... athletes; its whole manner of handling, explaining, and justifying the Saint Mary's absorption( that the Ad­ministration now thinks it can suddenly reverse all trends via a dictate, and expect this to be obeyed without a super-troop of ~nooping gendarmes. If this isn't an in-apartment house or in a small similar community, very often limitations will be placed on its members. However, his social life is his own private business and the only regulations that should be en­forced are to be considerate of the other members of his community and to use his own discretion as to what will or will not bother his neighbors. If by chance his social activities interfere with the privacy of his neighbors, it is his immediate responsibility, as an element of that community, to respect the rights of others and halt such disturbing activities. 
However, dorm life is just another form of community life, and here also the foremost rule is consideration. The in­dividual must be given the proper responsibility to be able to decide for himself what limitations he should place on his social activities. Nevertheless, if for some reason his social life proves to be a nuisance for his roommate or even people freedom in complying with such living conditions, then it is here the person in­volved should be reprimanded and have appropriate limitaitons placed upon him. 
Despite refusing to provide the student with needed responsibility, Notre Dame is acting on the assumption that parietal hours are a prevention of any sort of "immorality" taking place However, who is capable of saying that these assumed moralities do not take place before the restricted time? It seems perfectly· obvious that if someone wishes to take part in any sort of "immoral behavior", he could certainly accomplish this quite easily within the limited visiting hours. By assuming that parietal hours actually prevent such behavior, the University of Notre Dame is in essence turning its back to reality and placing itself in a world of its own. 
Parietal hours are possibly the final strings making the student a puppet bound 

in teh hall, then it is part of his given . by its restrictions. If this univ~risty is to 
responsibility to put a halt to such per­sistent occurrances. 
If the individual's roommate habitually goes to bed no later than 1 A.M. every single night, then it seems that it becomes part of the individual's duty to escort his date out of his room in due respect of the rights of his roommate. However. if the student proves to be unable to use his claim to be in moderate accordance with the times and is to fulfill the role of deceloping its members as "whole men" it must cut these strings by abolishing parietal hours completely This in turn would truly give the student the respon­sibility to be able to make his own decisions and formhis own limitations 
concerning his social activities . 
and ranking of the objects of passion, but 
for the very existence of that passion itself, 
and that this understanding most 
especially applies to the natural passion 
for the opposite sex, the easiest of all 
passions to satisfy and, perhaps because of 
it. abm1e.

c' Likewise in the drug Issue the trusteef seem embarassed tospeak about openly, mightn't the University state that our community need not accept the rigidified procedural standards of justice nor the correspondingly narrow understanding of crime and thecommon good which seem to be all that can be maintained today by the liberal democracy within which we reside? Hence, during the drug fracas last year, Provost Burtchaell could have made clear that the procedural grounds, upon which the State's prosecution of the drug cases failed, were insufficient for failure of our own judicial proceedings when the evidence was otherwise clearly over­whelming, which it apparently was. (Cf. South Bend Tribune, of that time.). Further, and most fundamentally, couldn't it simply be stated that the University is opposed to drugs for the same reason it opposes hedonism, the dogmatic claim that the object of all desire is only pleasure? Isn't such a policy defensible, at least until it has helped the student discover there are other, higher objects for the passions than attainment of pleasure and avoidance of pain? 
Perhaps it was the intimation of what a profoundly radical revaluation of values such a philo-sophic thinking would in­troduce into our midst that led the Tmstees to retrench into business-Iike­usual-dom, and see all of us as having pre­ki~1dergar!~n intelligences. "Don't do 
thiS.... 


attention somebody 
vitation to disaster, what is!? Certainly with the mass disobedience of these die­tates, one can predict the well-known phenomenon of indifference to authority or rule.assuPh 
In face of this impending breakdown of all prerequisits for even speaking of a "university", much less experiencing such a community, perhaps the Administration needs to be reminded of its first duty, which is to "minister" to the minds of those under its guidance. In this instance, the students have a right to expect treatment other than that a healthy five year old child would, with justice, reject, that is,prohibitions of future action without some statement (which may or may not be admitted to question, depending on cir­cumstances( as to the reasonwhy these are now necessary rules. Although these reasons may not be immediately per­suasive to many of us, perhaps simply because we are young, if they be good reasons, eventually they will be seen as such. And, if only grudgingly obeyed at first, their enforcemnt will upon reflection be praised and appreciated. 
Now on the two sujects at hand, and the third not mentioned by the Trustees-drugs•. it seems the University could do the followmg. . . . . 

Whatever the laws on this matter, tne University ought to abide them, while, at the same time, seeking their change--if they are indeed unust or no longer con­tributive to the good mores of the citizenry of Indiana, including those minority residents of this state who are a part of this University. 
b) Regarding parietals, isn't it time some wisdom was finally shown on this matter, and the Administration simply admit they have been rather lacking this virtue in the past? A confession of cor­porate guilt and ignorance might help to clear the air of its present stagnant quality of pompous arrogance. 
Mightn't the Administration then con­vincingly argue that they now, more properly, think of education at Notre Dame as, in large part, being a common effort to help each other, and especially the young <undergraduates), to learn how to discover and rank the various objects of desire available to humans (e.g.. pleasure, honor, justice, wisdom, love). It would then seem to follow that a prerequisite for education, thusly conceived. would be an environment where the young (especially) might experience some possibility of disciplining their wills so as to actively strive after those objects, appreciative of 
a l Regardmg drmkmg laws, It should b€ the objects often varies with the ability to stated. these a~e th~ I~ws of the state fully appreciate them. (For instance, whle wher~m ~he Umversity hes ~nd therefore the merest child can fully appreciate to which It .cannot bu~ be subJect. To seek pleasure, honor can only be fully possessed 
me.ans o.f circumv~ntmg these laws, as the lJmversity. has mdeed. encouraged . or condoned m the past, IS to undermi.ne general respect for the laws and a.uthonty of thl• state. It should be obvwus the Univer.sity be~r~ no smal~ responsibility for this un-civil effect m the past. 

with greater maturity, and it would seem still more time and growth is necessary to fully appreciate objects of sexual love.). 
Might the Administration then argue that a certain tension arising out of the separation of pursuer and objects is a prerequisite not only for the identification 
----~-----­
-----·---·--~--------~------­
Page 6 
CLASSIFIED ADS 


Babysitting in my homeNeed ride from N.Y. area to ~ges 3 and up. Full or partNotre Dame on any home time. 2419 Riverside Drivefootball weekend. Call Jack ' 

289-7433. 
For Sale: 1965 Ford Falcon :nl dollars. Call :ZJ4-5800 after 11:00 +p_.m__. ____________________ 
New Posters of all varieties in 
·stock at great prices. Come to 815 Flanner or 611 Grace or call 1694 or 1167. 
Need ride to Dayton, Ohio or vicinity for this Friday. Will share expenses. Call 1441. 
Furnished efficiency apart­
. ments, private baths, private parking lot. Direct Notre Dame Bus Line. Couples or two students. $86.60 monthly. 233-3257. 
'65 Impala Convert. 396-ss, Automatic, Power Steering, Power Brakes, Blue, Real ­Sharp, $625. Edison Park Sunoco. Corner of Edison and Ironwood. 
Men's and ladies' watches diamond rings, jewelry of al types. Brand name, completE line, not hot. Call Tom 3575. 
LOST -I.D. and football ticket. Vicinity of N.D. Bookstore Reward offered. Call Dave, 1930 
Typing Wanted: Theses manuscripts. Experienced' accurate typist. Jane Smith 233: 
4029. 
For Sale: 2 MSU tickets. 
Call Tom 287-2731. Leave 
message. 
"Beat Purdue" T-Shirts and any special order T -Shirts available. Call 7907. 
Adorable kittens, absolutely free. Call 288-7590. After six p.m. 
THE NATIONAL LAMPOON: Share in the wisdom and insanity of America's College Humor Magazine. Subscribe now and save $1.00 over regular sub scription rate, $4.00 over newsstand. Call for information. Paul 6868 or George 6843. 
Will work on Volkwagen's -11 years experience -reasonable. Call 272-3980 or 272-2765 after 4:00 
p.m. 
GEN. ADM. 
Need 2 or 3 tickets to N. C. 
game. Ken, Stanford 219, 8648 
Reader wanted for partially­sighted student for one hour daily. $2.00 per hour. Marty, 109 Fisher, 1896. 
Attention: All Soccer En­thusiasts. A double tragedy befell Notre Dame and its soccer squad Sunday when the team not only was shut out 3-0 by IU, but also lost its superstar, former All­American and captain Bruth Graves, who was unmercifully trampled over during most of 
·.vords  1 day  2 days  
1-10  .50  .75  
11·15  .68  1.00  
16-ZO  .70  1.15  
Z1·Z5  .85  1.35  
%6-30  1.00  1.68  
31·35  l.ZO  1.90  
.~  1.35  Z.10  
4i-45  1.55  2.30  
*'50  1.75  2.50  

South Bend. 287-1777. ·· 
For Sale: Stereo Cassette player ­Speakers $150 -1401 -153 Cavanaugh 
---------~~~----~~ 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN JOINING A STUDENT FLYING CLUB CONTACT WALT AT 234-5566 OR "BILL AT 1840. 
DREAM JOB No house to house. Part or Full Time. Weekly Income $40-$100 showing make-up techniques. Vivianne Woodard Cosmetics. Call 272­
1174 
~ 
'Desperate -Need Navy and Michigan State Tickets -Call ~evin 1285 
NEW 8-TRACK TAPES. ONLY $3.50. Call 6715. 
TERMPAPERS AND THEMES written by professionals in Speech, Rhetoric, Psychology, History, Biology, etc. 
Original paper -$3.50 per 
page Duplicate paper -$2.00 per page. Cash, Money Order, or Bank Draft. QUALITY COLLEGE TERMPAPERS 
P.O. Box 193, Rockford, 
Illinois 61101. 
FOR SALE -Full sized refrigerator -freezer, good condition 4527 or 232-6509. 
What does a sock-filled SIMON SIMPLE original say about your abilities to bear children, my dear. Love, Persecuted Dentist. 
LOST -gold wire-rimmed eyeglasses. If found please call 288-2933. 
MUST SELL -Gretsch "Dorado" 6 string guitar and case. 1 year old, excellent condition. $150 or best offer. Call Chas 8420. 
NEEDED: Ride to Purdue Will Share Expenses Call 8051. 
NEED RIDE TO WOOSTER, OHIO, NEAR AKRON, THIS FRIDAY 7858 
1. 
Classified ads paid for in cash when ordered. 

2. 
Office hrs. 12:15-5:00. ads in by 3:00 on day before publication. 


Notify us of any mistakes in your ad. Thanks, Kirk. OBSERVER CLASSIFIED 
3 days  4 days  I week  
1.00  1.15  1.25  
1.35  1.75  z.u  
1.70  2.40  2.80  
2.00  2.90  3.45  
2.35  3.40  4.10  
Z.80  3.85  4.70  
3.18  4.25  5.10  
3.30  uo  5.50  
3.50  4.75  &.OU  


THE OBSERVER. Wednesday, September 22, 1971 
New bus schedule announced 
Shuttle express busses now will depart from Moreau parking lot in addition to leaving from in front of Madelava Hall and make a stop at the Grotto. 
These were the two major changes made in the Shuttle Bus service as announced by Timothy 
II. Poley, assistant to the coor­dinator of analytical studies. 
The result from students complaints that they couldn't make it from a class in Regina to the front of Madelava in the allotted three minutes. It was also determined that the shuttles did have enough time to stop at the Grotto. 
Currently there are from two to six busswes operawting at any one time. No further changes are planned initl it can be determined 
how  class  changes  and  bad  
weather  affect  the  passenger  
loads.  

The main criterion used in setting shuttle schedulesis, ac­cording to Poley, "Can a student make it from one campus to the other for back to baqck classdes. 

And the answer is over­percentt rise from last year.whelmingly yes." The busses, which are rented 
It will cost the Universwity an from the South Bend Tran­
estimated $70,000 to run the sportation Authority, may be 
shuttle sdervice this year, ac­rented only in blocks of three 
cording to Poley, reflecting a 20 hours. The rent is $8.50 an hour. 
Grants aimed at minorities 
The Ford Foundation recently announced it is granting 1972-73 doctoral fellowships to qualified 
members  of  several  minority  
groups.  
American  Indian,  Mexican  

American, Puerto Rican and Black students who will have received a bachelor's degree before September 1972 have not undertaken graduate studies, intend to pursue a career in higher education, and are citizens of the United States are qualified to apply for the Phd fellowships. 
The recipients who will be selected upon the recom­mendations of distinguished faculty members in various 
Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club presents 
KING KONG 
Sept. 22nd and 23rd 127 Nielwland at 7:30 and 9:30 P.M. 
-NOTICE-
All organizations must register with the Student Union by Wednesday, September 22, 1971. 
Hot Dog Concessions must be registered by Thursday, September 23, 1971. For information call Mike Kearse 3625 or 7672 or 

And remember girls go bananas for men with Amanas! 
COMPARE BEFORE YOU LEASE WE OFFER BIG 4.6 cubic feet LOW low cost FREE delivery and pickup NO charge for 
•

maintenance 
Call Eslinger Lease Service 
259-2242 t291-5676) 
Applications for the 
academic disciplines will then enter a graduate school in the United States by the fall term of 1972, and study full time for a Phd­in biology, foreign languages, 
political science, or other 
designated academci fields. 
'.Vhile the fellow maintains 
satisfactory progress towards a 
Phd. the award will provide full 
tuition and fees, an allowance of 
$300 for books and supplies and a 
monthly stipend of $250 (along 
with additional financial aid for 
the married student). 
For further information con­
tact the department of graduate 
studies or your departmental 
bulletin board. 
Football weekend crime is light 
Except for nine auto s broken 
into on Saturday, Notre Dame's 
first football weekend was 
"relatively quiet," according to 
the Director of Security, Arthur 
Pears. 
Several suspects were ap­prehended by the N.D. Security Forces along with the St. Joseph County Police who are now holding them. Most of the items stolen, which ranged from a stereo tape deck to a hat, were recovered. 
Mr. P e a r s commented that the students seemed to be obeying the new enforcement policies and that over the whole weekend there was but a single case of a drunken student causing 
trouble, 
on campus 
4: 15 film the holy outlaw, 127 nieuland,by non-violence program 7 to 9: 30 placement night for seniors and grad students: arts and let­ters students tonight, engineering aud.,form­s: 222administration. 
7:30 lectuce -dr. john houck, management dept: toward the ysar 2000, first of "the american scene: a cultural series", sponsored by education dept., carroll hall smc. 
7:00 meeting-birch bayh for president com­mittee: organizational meeting, alumni hall lounge, info: 1196, 3208, 4694. 
today... 

Academic Council are due Sept 27. 
J. 

Include a short resume of your qualifications, and leave appplication in Student Government office 
Wednesday, September 22, 1971 THE OBSERVER Pap 7 
Ann and Mary 

boost 
by Pt>ggy Lawlor, '75 "It's so great to cheerlead here because of the spirit of the fans." That's how sophomore Mary Kraft summed up her feelings after her first weekend as a Notre Dame cheerleader. "At other schools there just isn't the tremendous enthusiasm there is at Notre Dame," she explained. Thinking about her first ap­JWarance as an Irish cheerleader, Ann <'isle, the other SMC sophomore on the squad, said ,"I was nervous before the kickoff Saturday but once the game got underway it was exciting." Anne, a blue-eyed brunette from Hamilton, Ohio, liked the pep rally Friday night even more than the game. "It was our first official cheering job and the studPnts were so responsive. The rally helped to break the ice." Anne and Mary earned their spots on the team by competing with 40 other classmates last spring. Having cheered before, they didn't do anything "special" to prepare for tryouts but Mary, the N a tiona I Cheerleading Assoeiation individual champion while a school in 

Annt> Cislt> 
Irish 
Flint, Michigan, advises any freshman thinking about cheering at Notre Dame to "loosen up for a few weeks before the trials begin." 
The girls now spend two nights a week practicing their cheers but when they were first lear­ning, they practiced ever day. 
They were able to learn the routines without much difficulty, with the help of the veterans on the squad. 
"They are willing to spend as 
much time with us as we 
needed," the girls remarked. 
Although neither came to SMC expecting to cheer, both Anne and Mary admitted that Notre Dame played a big part in their decisions to attend the college. As Mary said, "Here, we have the 
Irish 2nd in polls 
Nebraska's Cornhuskers maintained their slight lead over Notre Dame in both wire service football polls this week. Nl'braska, 2-0, beat Minnesota, Saturday while the Irish drubbed Northwestern in their opening game, 50-7. 
The Cornhuskers received 32 first place votes and 1044 points in ths Associ a ted Press poll this week. The Irish garnered 18 first place votes and 1002 points. 
Texas, which received three first place ballots, was third, Michigan was fourth, and Auburn, which got the remaining two votes for the top spot, was fifth. 
Ohio State, Arkansas, Alabama, Tennessee and Colorado comprised the rest of the AP's top ten. 
In the UPI rankings, Nebraska picked up 25 number one votes and totaled 307 points, 15 more than the Irish, who received the remaining eight first place votes. 
The rest of the top ten was comprised of Texas, Michigan, Ohio State, Alabama , Auburn, Tennessee, Arkansas and Colorado. 
spirit 
advantages of a small school, with the opportunities of a large university." 
While proud of being representatives of Notre Dame and SMC on the field, the girls just want to be themselves out of uniform. 
"We don't feel as if we're on display after the game" Anne emphasized. "When girls first began to cheer for Notre Dame it was a brand new thing. Now, the novelty has worn off." 
Perhaps the idea isn't new and neither is the Notre Dame spirit but Anen and Mary give added zest to the Irish tradition. 

Mary Kraft 
Gulyas has broken leg 
Ed Gulyas, Notre Dame's top ground gainer last season and the starting left halfback for the Irish this year, will be lost to the club for a "couple of weeks" with a broken leg. 
It was thought that Gulyas had merely sustained a bruise in Notre Dame's Saturday en­counter with Northwestern but precautionary X-rays revealed that the star back had a cracked fibula. 

Swimmers lend a helping hand 
by K .1. Kinkopf '72 Upon entering, Logan Center, one cannot help but feel a cold sterility, not unlike that of a spotless hospital room.But as you move down the green cinder block hallways, the building comes alive with a wave of laughter and mumbled chatter that freshens the air with the warmth and sweetness of youth. Logan Center is an orangish, mod£>rn brick building on Eddy Street that serves as a center for the caring and teaching of r£>tardPd children. The hallways, and other rooms adjoining the hallways are filled with laughing, crying, yelling kids, kids whose smtlmg faces belie the innocence and futility of their situation, kids whose lives depend upon those who care. '11tere are many groups from Notre Dame who are giving of their time to help the less for­
tunate. And the Notre Dame swim team, under the super­vision of Coach Dennis Stark, is 
one of those organizations who arc giving up a little free time to those who need their help. 
!<:very member of the team has volunteered at least one hour a wPek to work with the retarded patients. 
But the program is not entirely new to those men who have been coached by Mr. Stark. The volunteer program began back in 1964 as an idea of one of Coach Stark's swimmers. 
Starting around '64, the team members went to the rehab pool at the St. Joe Hospital and worked with the patients there. 
When the Logan Center was first being esablished, using churches as their meeting places, the swim functions were switched to the Y, and the Natatorium. 
But now, the Center has its own pool, a beautifully simple room that serves a great part in the Pducation of the retarded people. 
It is in this room that you can find the Notre Dame swimmers 
helping  out  with  the  swim  
classes.  
The  Notre  Dame  swim  help  

program tailed off last year, and Coach Stark is willing to take the blame for that. But this year he has a simple program and schedul worked out with the Logan C£>nter, and he hopes to carry on the program throughout the year. 
But the ND team and the half dozen St. Mary's girls that work in the program are not enough to fill the need of the Center and its students. 
When I was there on Tuesday morning, there was a one to one ratio of volunteers to patients. But Jan Ellar, Robert Haley's <who heads the swim program) chief assistant said that that ratio is unusual. 
More often she said, the ratio is three pupils to one voluteer. 
Both Jan Ellar and Coach Stark spoke of the need for more volunteers who are willing to give a little time to help out. 
And the prerequisites are relatively simple. 
One is a Senior Lifesaving Certificate. The other is the willingness to give up an hour a week to help those whose lives depend on your giving. 
If you can give of your time, see Coach Dennis Stark in Room 217 of the Rockne Buil~ing or call 283­6222. Or contact Mr. Robert Haley, Logan Center Pool, 289­
'tllJl' ext. 36. 
The Notre Dame Swim team has taken the initiative in this program. 
Now it is up to you, to bring a little more laughter and love into those dull green hallways. 


I know it didn't happen but did you ever stop to wonder "What if?" 
with yourself? To ponder on things as they might have been. Come 
back with me in history now as we examine a few deaths of legends: 
NEW YORK, Oct. 10, 1926"-With the count of one strike on him in the bottom of the seventh, the Yankees' Tony Lazzeri today slapped a hanging curve into the left field bleachers with the bases loaded to lead -" the Yanks to a seventh game victory over the St. Louis Cardinals and the championship in the World Series. With the bases full, Cardinal manager Rogers Hornsby gambled with the ancient arm of Grover Cleveland Alexander who had won Game No.6 the day before. It was a gamble which failed. Alexander, hung over and shaky, failed to act on catcher Bob O'Farrell's advice to "keep it low." The 39-year-old veteran shrugged off the 6-3 defeat and said later, "If that ball would have gone foul, I'd have struck him out and it would have been just another strikeout in Series history. But the ball was just fair and now it will go down in posterity." 
DAYTONA BEACH, July 19, 1940---The local Cardinal farm team in the Florida State League received a big boost in morale today with the news their star young lefthanded pitcher, Stanley F. Musial, was not as seriously injured as at first feared. Plans to turn the young twirler into an outfielder have been shelved. This caused a great popping of corks in the front office of the parent club. "It is a great relief to us to know that Stanley is going to be able to pitch," said Cardinal general manager Branch Rickey," and that we will not have to gamble on him as a hitter. He shows great promise as an eventual spot starter and should be able to make the big club in five years or so. Besides, pit­ching is 75 per cent of baseball while hitters are a dime a dozen. I must say Stan took it like the man he is when he thought he was going to have to give up pitching, but we're glad his career has been saved." 
SEPT.29, 1954--First baseman Vic Wertz of the American League champion Cleveland Indians smashed a tremendous triple off the right center field fence 450 feet away today with teammates Larry Doby and AI Rosen on base in the top of the eighth inning to give the Indians a 5-2 victory in the opening game of the World Series. Giant outfielder Willie Mays made a valiant try for the ball which was just over the edge of his outstretched glove. Some observers thought Willie had misjudged the ball for an instant, but Willie shrugged, "He deserved his triple. It would have been a shame to catch it. Besides, who remembers cat­ches?" 
SEPT.22, 1927--Gene Tunney easily retained his heavyweight championship tonight with a 10-round decision over the former champion, Jack Dempsey. It was a unanimous decision although the old ex-champion brought the crowd of 104,943 to its feet in the seventh round when he floored the champ with a left hook. Tunney rose at the count of three. 
OCT. 1, 1932--The Chicago Cubs drew within one game of the New York Yankees in the World Series today as Charlie Root pitched them to a one-run win in the third game of the World Series. The game was without incident except for the fifth inning when Babe Ruth came to bat with the score tied, 4-4. With the count two strikes, Babe stepped out of the batter's box and then pointed dramatically to the center field bleachers. Then, he took a called third strike. 
SOUTH BEND, Oct. 10, 1917-Knute Rockne, an assistant in the chemistry department, today resigned as assistant football coach at the University of Notre Dame to concentrate his talents on chemical research in the field of synthetic rubber. "You can become famous like me when we develop the formula," Father JuliusNieuwland the head • of the department, told him. "As a football coach, you will be a nobody. No one will even know your name. This way, you will have cars named after you and movies made about you and you will make the 'South Bend' dateline famous all over the world." 
PASADENA, Jan. 1, 1929--The University of California Bears defeated Georgia Tech in the Rose Bowl today, 7-6. The game was a defensive struggle all the way. An interesting sidelight was revealed in the locker room later by Cal center Roy Riegels who recovered a Tech fumble on their 25-yard line in the second quarter. "I almost ran the wrong way!" he admitted, laughing. "I almost headed for the wrong goal. Bennie Lorn stopped me at the line of scrimmage and turned me around. I'm sure glad, otherwise my grandchildren would never know I played in the Rose Bowl. Nobody remembers losers." 
NEW YORK, Sept. 23, 1908--The New York Giants widened their league lead today with a 2-1 victory over the Cubs at the Polo Grounds. The game was won by successive singles in the bottom of the ninth by Fred Merkle and AI Bridwell with Moose McCormick on first base. Chicago second baseman Johnny Evers caused a brief flurry, calling for the ball and touching second, claiming Merkle pulled a "bonehead" and forgot to touch base as he headed directly for the clubhouse. But umpire Hank O'Day just laughed at him. "Imagine a pennant being decided on a technicality like that!" he said. John McGraw wanted Evers cited for poor sportsmanship, but O'Day snorted, "It will blow over and be forgotten in a day or two." 
NEW YORK, June 12, 1908--Chicago Cub manager Frank Chance today moved Joe Tinker from shortstop to third base and moved Johnny Evers from second to right field. He himself moved to left. The moves met with universal approval except for New York Evening Mail columnist Franklin P. Adams who complained he had been assigned to do a poem on a doubleplay combination. "Well," said Chance, "what's wrong with 'Steinfeldt-to Erlanger-to Gottenschmidt?' " 
MUDVILLE, July 10, 1888--Mighty Casey hit a home run. today with ~ two men on base in the bottom of the ninth to bring great JOY to Mud­ville. 
LONDON,April13, 1912--The S.S. Titanic, on her maiden voyage to 
America put about and returned to England for repairs to her 
propelle; today. "There goes the transatlantic record," said the 
captain. "It was a lousy break. If it held out for a couple more days we 
could have gone down in history." 
Page a THE OBSERVER Wednesday, September 2 2 1971 
~~~~==~~==~~~~ 
SMC '72 graduates Constitutional committee llleets 
denied ND diplomas 
by George Lund According •o Mr. R. Sullivan, Registrar of Notre Dame, St. Mary's students who graduate in May '72 will receive St. ' .. Mary's degrees. They will receive either a 'Bachelor of Arts, Science, Music, or Fine Arts. 
Mr. Sullivan stated that the whole idea of the unification was to give students of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's a chance to take courses not offered at their home campuses. The credit will apply to their respective degrees 
~-------------------­
SIMER I s 
I  DELICIOUS Italian sandwiches,  
M  spaghetti and sea foods -PIZZA­ 
E  COLD CARRY OUT  
R  BEER-WINE-LIQUOR 64 oz. Pitcher Beer  
I  I  $ P 2 Daily POOL TABLES  
s  FREE USE OF DINING FOR CLUB MEETINGS, PLENTY OF PARKING  ROOM ETC.  

Call Jim 233-2267, 410 No. Hill. 
from either Notre Dame or St. Mary's this year. In May 1973 St. Mary's students will receive a Notre Dame degree with St. Mary's College as the college of record, said Mr. Sullivan. This will mean that they are offered a wider selection of 
degrees, for example Business Administralion, if they meet thz requirements for the degree. 
MMr. Sullivan said St. Mary's students knew that their courses taken at Notre Dame would be credited to a degree from St. Mary's this year.
I 
(Continued from page 1) 
senators. 
Treanor argued that the Senate "appears more political than the HPC" because ~the HPC "has no legislative power and hence less of a need to reach conclusions." 
Dr. Gross speaks 
(continued from page 1) 
city and dump. Because of the area of dense population around the city of New York si so large, it becomes impractical to dump on land so the trash is taken by an expansive, cumbersome process, to the water. There the waste is used to make new land fill, this having been done to so great an extend in New York that, as Dr. Gross puts it, the city is "built on its own garbage." Other insights her brought out: 
-the most ecologically ef­ficient, natural way of waste disposal would be recycling the 
waste  using  the  highly  un­ 
selective appetites  of  pigs  and  
goats.  

-burning of garbage can be used to provide cheap electrical power. 
-the Mafia charges less to pick up garbage than does the city. 
Dr. Gross placed a great deal of emphasis on the fact that little is being done in the area of trash research. H attributed this mainly to the lack of funds and interested researchers. He issued a challenge to the students present to get involved and to do something about this ever­growing problem. 
PORT ABLE TYPEWRITER SERVICE CLINIC 
We service all brands 

Clean & Adjust 
10.95 

Install new ribbon 
with this coupon 
ROYAL TYPEWRITER OF SOUTH BEND 
1501 N. Ironwood

• 
Send THE OBSERVER home ( or to a friend) 
MAIL YOUR CHECK 
•
$14 I year $8 I semester to • PO Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
NAME__________ 
ADDRES~------ZIP___ 
SENT BY_____________ ADDRESS_________ RENEWAL D 
yes 
New mailing to start 
M N 

Badin Hall President Buz Imhoff, who doubles as HPC chairman and triples as an SLC representative, agreed with the general contention that the HPCshould not take over the Senate's functions, and with Treanor's specific contention that the HPChas no legislative power but balked at his statement on the Council's need to reach conclusions. 
Jones, a former Observer reporter, said that he had "covdred the Senate a couple of times. They stayed up until ten thirty to say nothing. It was the most amazing thing Ihad ever seen." 
Stay Senator Bob Sauer con­tended that there was need for "a new legislative body," but fell short of endorsing the Hall President-as-legislator concept. A bill to make the HPC the legislative body of the Student Government lost last year when only 32 per cent of the student body voted in a referendum. 60 percent is needed to secure ap­proval. 
The Committee which has only recommendative powers, will meet the St. Mary's Student Government offices next Tuesday. 
St. Mary's members of the Committee are : Miss Gorman, former SBP Anne Marie Tracey, Student Assembly Represen­tative Mary Walsh, former Notre Dame SBP candidate and current Student Assembly Represen­tative Eileen Fitzpatrick, Student Affairs Commissioner Jean Seymour, McCandless Hall President Susie Dorin, and Student Body Vice President Missy Underman.. 
Notre Dame members of the Committee are: Ellis, Guiffrida, Higgins, Imhoff, Kezele, Treanor, Jones, Sauer, Stay Senator Jim Clarke,and Walsh Hall President Dave Fromm. 

CCC hegins merger plans 
by John Kuczynski 
The Coeducation Coordinating Committee, headed by seniors Bill Wilka and Jane Sheehey, has begun work on a proposed merger of the ND-SMC student governments. . 
The guiding principle steenng the committee's efforts has been a spirit of receptivity toward incorporating the best ways of merging both student govern­ments and a receptivity oriented toward innovative change. 
An outgrowth from the student government committee ~s ?een the formation of a consbtubonal revision committee headed by research and development commissioner, Ed Ellis. 
In an interview Tuesday, Wilka said his committee hopes the merger of the student govern­ments will be a reality by the start of the 1972 Fall semester. 
Then considerations such as the problem of student fees which falls under the department of Business Affairs of the Univer­
sity have to  be resolved before  
the  merged  governments  can  
operate.  

Besides their dual role as coeducation coordinators for the ND student government, both Wilka and Miss Sheehey serve as members on one of five inter­institutional teams, the student affairs committee. Following the recommendation of the Board of Trustees, University President, I<'r. Theodore Hesburgh set up these inter-institutional teams this past summer to examine the coordination of coeducation at the University. 
The Student Affairs Com­mittee, headed by Fr. Thomas E. Blantz, vice-president for student affairs, is studying the prevailing conditions in hall life on both campuses. Wilka and Miss Sheehey hope to meet with the hall presidents of both in stitutions to exchange ideas and suggestions and then compile a list of recommendations which they will submit to the Student Affairs Committee. 
Also, a look at recreational benefits which could be enjoyed by a coeduca tiona! institution through the student center is included among the committee's future plans. 
"Presently, the SMC concept of hall life differs from the Notre Dame concept," Wilka said. The proposed meeting of hall presidents hopefully will better clarify each institution's concept and coincide with the committees efforts to meet the needs of a coeduca tiona! institution . 


This Friday and every Friday 
the Notre Dame Special 
goes non-stop to Chicago. 
Bus leaves Notre Dame Circle 3:55 P.M. Fridays Return bus leave Chicago 4 and 7:30P.M. Sundays Get your tickets in advance for the Sunday buses. 
For reservations and information call Tom Boyer, 504 Flanner, 283 6984. 
tw.__,.:=::~:::,:*"''""»&~J
~-~---­



