·~------~-­

Vol. V, No. 75 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Wednesday, February 1 0, 1971 

Earthquake hits Los Angeles 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) -The began at 5:)9 a.m. PST and Newhall, a town of 5,000 and worst earthquake in 38 years lasted for more than a minute. It one of the hardest hit. struck Los Angeles yesterday knocked out the seismograph at "I've lived in California all my sending people running from the California Institute of Tech-life but this was the hardest their homes in panic as buildings nology, but it was measured at quake I've ever felt. It scares collapsed, overhead bridges fell other centers at almost 7 on the you. My wife and I ran to get onto freeways and broken gas Richter scale. The shock was the kids and got them under a mains set off fires. centered near Newhall 40 miles desk in a spot where the house is 
Fifteen pecple were known north of downtown Los Angeles structurally sound. dead, seven of them patients in a but was felt from Fresno, 200 "My sons-4 and 3-were veteran's hospital near Olive miles to the north, to the frightened and couldn't compre­View north of the city and 80 Mexico border 130 miles south hend what was going on. They ot.hers were trapped in the and as· far east as Las Vegas wanted to know why the win­rubble of one wing. where residents shrugged it off dows were shaking." 
Scores were injured and hospi­as another underground nuclear The Van Norman Darn, west tals reported dozens of heart blast at the Nevada atomic test of the town of San Fernando, attack cases. Property damage site. was cracked and hundreds of was in the millions. All Los Thousands of people among people were evacuated from Angeles City and County public greater Los Angeles' 7 million their homes in a nine mile area 
schools were closed. residents ran into the streets in to the south of the reservoir as SYLMAR, CALIF.: Water eats away at the dirt retaiJ!ing wall atThe death toll was small in their nightclothes in the pre­water began leaking through the che lower Van Norman Dam in the San Fernando Valley after theview of the violence of the dawn darkness and others fell to embankment. 
concrete wall collapsed during the earthquake that struck thequake which set tall buildings the floor and prayed while lamps Blocks of downtown San Southern California area early 2/9. (Photo by UPI.)
swaying, plate glass windows crashed, cupboards spilled their Fernando were roped off and showering into the streets, darns china and swimming pools sheriff's deputies patrolled the collapsed. The hospital had Three patients in the new $23 suffering cracks, chimneys top­sloshed over. streets with shotguns to prevent about 400 patients and they million Olive View Sanitarium, pling and airport runways buck­"I was in bed when the quake looting in broken storefronts. were carried out on stretches which houses 600 were killed ling. hit," said Travis Greenlee a state Two wings of the San and in wheelchairs while work-when sections of that hospital 
The sharp rolling tern blor police officer who lives in Fernando Veteran's Hospital men dug in the wreckage. collapsed. Mental patients were e e being transferred to the stateSplashdown ends successful mI55I 0 n hospital at Camarillo. A two 
story mental health building at the hospital "is now a one storyUSS NEW ORLEANS (UPI) -recovery forces now-have a the water, frogmen dropped helicopter hoisted them aboard building" silid a county official.

Three U.S. moon explorers happy landing," ground control­from a low flying helicopter and in a bird cage like basket. 
A man in a skid row missionblazed to a triumphant Pacific lers told the Apollo 14 astro­attached an orange flotation Roosa was picked up first, in downtown Los AngelesOcean splashdown yesterday nauts after they were safely collar on the spacecraft. followed by Mitchell and housing about I SO derelicts wasending a nine day, $400 million through their fiery, 24,600 mile One of the frogmen handed Shepard. Both Shepard and killed. A part of the roof col­mission that swept away the per hour re-entry through earth's masks and three clean flight suits Mitchell are Navy men, and in lapsed and the man was buried spectre of Apollo 13 and put the atmosphere. to the spacemen, who will be true Navy tradition, Shepard was under tons of bricks as he flednation's manned space program ''Welcome horne!" the quarantined for 17 days-in the the last man off the spaceship. 

into the street.

back on track. recovery force communicator off chance that they have Forty-eight minutes after they 
(C.ontinued on page 8)

The spaceship, loaded with 96 yelled when the capsule splashed brought back any strange moon hit the water, the astronauts pounds of moon rocks and scien­into the water. bugs. touched down on the deck of 
Carney approves

tific data that could turn outer "We're in good shape in The interior of the spacecraft the carrier, writing a successful space into a boon for mankind, here," Shepard reported, as a also was decontaminated by finish to one of the smoothest 

co-ed measures

plopped into the ocean right on cheer went up in the Mission frogmen. But the exterior was recovery operations to date. target 900 miles south of Samoa Control Center back in Houston. thoroughly sterilized by the Several sailors watching the by Kevin McGill at 4:05p.m. EST. The astronauts triggered their 5,000 degree heat of re­splashdown from this carrier's 
Dr. Thomas P. Carney, a Alan B. Shepard and his co­braking rockets at an altitude of entry-an experience which flight deck held up hand painted Notre Dame Trustee, told a pilots, Edgar D. Mitchell and 400,000 feet and began their Apollo 8 astronaut Frank signs saying "Welcome horne 
meeting of the Committee for Stuart A. Roosa, drifted to the descent through fluffy cumulus Borman described as "a sensa­astronauts." 

Social Understanding last nightsurface of the emerald waters of clouds sprinkled in the bright tion like you're flying inside a Dale Myers, chief of the that he approved of their ap­the Pacific on orange parachutes South Pacific sunshine. blue white neon light bulb." Manned Spaceflight Program, proach to the coeducation prob­that were clearly visible in color It was midmorning in the Shepard, Roosa, and Mitchell said the successful Apollo 14 lem and offered them his help.

television pictures from the South Pacific-out along the finally climbed from the space­mission "sets us solidly on· Dr. Carney stated that he felt recovery carrier New Orleans. International Dateline. ship at 4:40 p.m. EST and sat course" for the remaining three the Park-Mayhew report had "We'll turn you over to the Minutes after Apollo 14 hit waiting in a life raft until a flights in the program. 
both good and bad points, but 

"I think this flight has been a that it had needed to be written tremendous step forward for our as a first step. He said that it whole space program," Myers serves as a base for agreement

Thief takes 2,200 'dollars' 
said. "It's proved that our cor­and disagreement, and as a point rective action as far as the oxy­from which to work. gen tanks of Apollo 13 was He said that the proposalNotre Dame Mardi Gras was In order for the person to Pohl said that two suspects proper. It has moved us into a being drawn up by the Studentrobbed last night for over $2200 make the most of the bogus were discovered as of II p.m. 
much broader explanation of the Government shows the unifiedin the form of bogus $5 bills. bills, he must cash them in for Tuesday night, but the effect of moon, and proven again man's efforts of the students and willHowever, for the thief to cash in dollars at the Mardi Gras bank. the theft will not be known until usefulness in space." therefore be influential with the on the theft, he must redeem the Mardi Gras officials stopped the the financ~;s are finalized some­Myers said he believed "press­Board of Trustees. Tim Connor,bogus bills at the Mardi Gras use of $5 bills at the betting time today. 
ure from a failure on this flight coordinator of the CSU, pointedbank, and festival officials have tables last night and gave none ~.!J.ardi Gras Chairman Greg would have caused a very long this out afterward and askedtaken steps to prevent this. to the dealers. Anyone present­Stepic said that because of the delay in the program." Apollo that the student body show theiring a large quantity of $5 bills at
According to Student Union precautions taken last night, 13 very nearly ended in disaster concern in the matter by corning the bank was considered suspi­
director Bob Pohl, someone hid there will probably be little or inside Stepan Center Monday cious and was investigated im­no loss as a result of the loss of when an oxygen tank in the to the Student Assembly next 
mediately. command ship exploaded. week. He said that one whole
night after the crowds left, and bugus bills. 
night will be devoted toentered the room where the coeducation because it is so money is kept by a door left important, and "all studentsunlocked by one of the workers. 

must make known their

Blue Circle folds due to interest shift
The thief then took a quantity 
attitudes and show their

of $5 bogus bills totaling about situations like Cambodia and students could turn to. If you support."
$2200 in real cash. by Milt Jones Viet Narn than little things that wanted something done you Rev. Charles E. Sheedy,The theft was discovered by The Blue Circle, which was groups like Y.C.S. or Blue Circle came to us. Now, others are C.S.C., a member of the SCU,Student Union Comptroller originally started as a booster are doing." doing these jobs, and our influ­spoke of the chronology of co­Brian Nagle when he opened for organization, ended its existence Sweeney co mrnented that ence and necessity seems to have education, sighting the examplesbusiness at 6:30 Tuesday night. 
on Feb. 1, 1971. The president "various organization such as waned." of Harvard and Radcliffe and 

of the group, John Sweeney, student government, mental The organization has innov­Columbia and Barnard to show cited the reason for the demise health association and others ated many facets of student life that each pair of schools "had to
TUTORS NEEDED 

as the fact that "Students seem concentrate on specialized areas. in its 34 year history. It began a take account of each other," and Tutors are needed for the 
to have a greater interest in more This means that students can primitive form of student gov­that circumstances eventually
Neighborhood Study Help Pro· 
personal matters than tours of now go to these groups instead ernment in I 9 51. The group was "required the merger of the two 
gram on Monday and Wednesday 
the campus and ushering." of corning to us. Before these the only tutoring organization schools" St. Mary:'s and Ntotre
afternoons between 1 and 2: 20 
According to Sweeney, "to­organizations evolved, the Blue Dame, he foresees, will eventual­
pm. Call Mike Heisler at 283·7992 (Continued on page 8)day's students care more about Circle was the only organization ly fall into the same pattern. 
Wednesday, February 10, 1971
Page 2 781!. OBSERIIM 

Co-Ed Committee to Meet., Will Judge Park-Mayhew 
by Matt CavanauW1 and Kevin McGill 

The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College Co-education Coordin­ating Committee, headed by Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C. will meet Saturday February 13 at Laughin' Lodge in Michigan to prepare a report that will be presented to the Board of Trus­tees at their March meeting. In addition to the committee, 12 to 15 invited guests will also attend the meeting. These guests will be representatives from the admin­istrations of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and members of the sub-committees set up by both student governments to study the feasibility of co-educa­tion. 
The primary purpose of the meeting will be to formulate an official position on the Park­Mayhew report and to decide how best to implement coeduca­tion either through or without the report. Fr. Sheedy has sent to the members of the Commit­tee a number of questions deal­ing with specific points made in the report so that the members will be able to prepare their own 
Security doesn't cover Mardi Gras 
by Jack Bennett dent at the Mardi Gras carnival Saturday night because the car­
Security Chief Arthur Pears nival was not put under thesaid yesterday that no Notre jurisdiction of his office. 
Dame security men were avail­"The University of Notreable during the incident of as­Dame does not have anything tosault against a Notre Dame stu­do with the security at Mardi 

Gras," Pears said. "We knew nothing about the incident until after the victim was interviewed 

Happy Valentin-e's Day, Fly 
in the infirmary after the story was published in the Observer.
Love, Peter 
The victim, Chuck DeMonaco of St. Ed's Hall said he was 
-

II t@ Iii,~HJ i!)l 
Wed. Feb. 17 
tltroualt 

Sun.Feb.2J 
IStu-dcnt-TJiscount 
l 
!j for Thu.. ll pm Sdt. 2 P"l _:;on. 6 pm 

Oo1ly $1.25 tix R>lruain (P.r.!j. $2.5C) 
-----------.. 

For full prin: shows so111e S4.5V 1111d $2.50 tix rciT,ain 
Discount tickets must be 

..,. ...... , ; r 

accosted by a group of five youths, after one of the gang had ignored DeMonaco's order to kt>ep away from his date, by repeating his action letting his hand touch the girl's shqulder. 
In the scuffle that followed DeMonaco suffered a concussion and other head injuries. He re­ported that none of the guards ~t the carnival had heeded his cries for help during the assualt. 
The guards were not members of the Notre Dame Security de­partment. . 
According to Pears, another incident took place at approxi­mately 11:30 p.m. Saturday. John Wakachi of Dillon Hall was attacked by three assailants be­hind the Huddle. Wakachi repor­ted that he was knocked down, kicked, and robbed of his wallet and glasses. He said he managed to hold one of the youths after the others ran off with his pos­sessions but could not get any of the passing students to help him. The two who had run .9Jf soon returned and beat Wackicki with a club until he released their friend. 
Wakichi said he had seventeen dollars in the wallet in addition to id's and credit cards. He valued the plasses at about $30. 
positions. The various attitudes that arise will be discussed at the meeting, and items not covered in the report will be taken up. 
The sub-committees, esta­blished as "clearing houses for student opinions," having stud­ied such areas as admission and registration policies, financial aid, student affairs, and housing, will submit their reports to the Coordinating Committee for dis­cussion. 
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, chair­man of the Coordinating Committee, guaranteed that the "general substance" of these stu­dent views will reach the Trus­tees. To insure that nothing is left out of their report, the committee will prepare a 20 to 30 page document from the minutes of the meeting,and sub­mit this document to the Trus­tees, This document will be presented at the Board of Direc­tors meeting in March where it 
will either add weight to the Park-Mayhew p~oposal, or if it differs substantially, it will have an influence of its own. 
Five students will attend the meeting, Jean Gorman, Julia Rak, Carol Henninger, Bill Wilka, and Tim Connor. The stand they plan to take will call for Saint Mary's to be a separate college in the university, but the entire university, including Saint Mary's, will be coeducational in every respect. Connor said yes­terday that he and the other students on the Committee would be interested to hear any­one's reactions to the Park­Mayhew report. 
Connor also hoped "that co­operation will be possible at the up-coming meeting. If both sides arr willing to give just a little, something really good could come out of this." 

purchased at ACC box office. 


TAKE A BREAK 
Proof ofAge 


FREE COFFEE
Required 
-
THE DEEPEST 
FRUEDIAN 
PENETRATION 
THE SCREEN 
WILL EVER 
SHOW! 

MUCH TOO DARING 
SEEK~RS

SEX
lttE 


Rev. Charles Sheedy 

Norling to Speak 
The first meeting of the Ores­tes Brownson Society's Twenty-Nine Minute Club will be Thursday, February II, at 
8:30 a.m. in the faculty dining room on the second floor of the South Dining Hall. The guest speaker will be Professor Ber­nard Norling of the Notre Dame 
History  Department,  who  will  
lecture  on  "History,  the  
Creature of Historians."  

The breakfast starts at 8:15 
a.m. and the "H" line in the east hall of the South Dining Hall is reserved for the club. Students with meal cards will be admitted free; others must pay one dollar. AFter receiving their food, stu­
dtnts should go to the facnltv dining room on the second floor. The talk starts at 9 a.m. and lasts for 20 minutes, with 9 minutes set aside for questioning. 
Future guests of the Twenty­Nine minute ctub will be Pro­fessor Eric Voegelin, Dean Ed­ward Murphy, and Professor Gerhard Niemeyer. 
Any questions should be ad­dressed to Chris Wolfe, Society President, at 364 Cavanaugh, phone 1536. 
Student Union Rathskeller Mon.-Thurs. 12: 00-12: 00 

"TT/E QBIERIJER. 

ND alumni: more than they seem 
---Observer Insight--­
by John Powers 

The guy who stands at the tail-gate of his station wagon mixing the drinks after a foot­ball game is often the only view that students have of alumni. After the wind picks up and the sun begins to set, he goes home to await the next game. 
For some people, this opinion may be valid, but it isn't neces­sarily complete. Aside from Notre Dame's athletic competi­tion, Notre Dame alumni are expressing interest in campus life, student activities, and the social and religious education that the Notre Dame student presently receives. 
Robert Erkins, Alumni Board President, Class of '45 was asked if he thought Notre Dame was being secularized away from the Christian university it has always been. He thought for a moment, and then replied: "If the time ever comes when the individuals who go here -aren't Christian, then the university will no long­er be Christian." 

Erkins owns and operates sev­eral trout farms in the Snake River valley near Buhl, Idaho. He is married and has ten child­ren. Seven are girls. Like every­one connected with Notre Dame these days, Erkins has some o­pinions on key issues such as student responsibility and coed­ucation. His oldest daughter is an Architecture major at the University of Utah,and he feels that "a woman should have just as much right to the kind of education she wants for her fu­ture as a man does. It's as simple as that." 
As Erkins puts it, the social structure of society is changing, and the need for coeducation in 
all institutes of higher learn­ing is a fact of life. A limited education means "you limit your entire society." Because many more women are finding 
careers in the technological sciences,. then "to say a woman shouldn't do it, is wrong." 
"You say you want a Catholic education on the one hand," 








Thrasher petition gains support; Senate to meet despite Krashna 

by Steve Kane After obtaining written assent from twenty-two of the first twenty-four senators he con­tacted, Stay-Senator Tom Thra­sher succeeded yesterday in se­curing more than enough sup­port for his petition calling for the reconvening of the student Senate over the opposition of SBP Dave Krashna. After weeks of enforced layoff the Senate will meet this Thursday night at 
7:00 p.m. in the ampitheatre of LaFortune Student Center. 
Krashna, the chairman of the Senate, has refused to recall the body into session since it last met at the end of the fall semes­ter. Under the student govern­ment constitution the only way to call a meeting of the Senate other than at the request of the chairman is through a sfgned petition supported by a least one-third of the Senators. 
Thrasher had no trouble 
rounding up the necessary num­
ber of Senators to back the 
petition, picking up the twen­
ty-two names within the peti­
tion's first day of circulation. He 
explained that he had taken the 
action because he felt that too 
many important items were pre­
sently being neglected with the 
Senate idle. 

As the chief example, Thra­sher cited the organization of the Student Body elections which is the sole duty of the 
Student asks 

gift pak return 
An effort is being made by a group of Sorin Hall Students to 
yesterday in the Student Center t 
and distribute them to poor people downtown. t 
Steve Fortunate, one of the 
students, asked that all those t who picked up gift paks, es­pecially those who got boxes t which contained sixty tum them t 
into his room, 231 Sorin by the 
end of the week. His roommates t Dave Najar, and Joel Kibler are also aiding the effort. t 
The gift paks will be given to a group of people who are work-t ing, 1with , p9or people on the t West side bf South Bend. 
t 

.------------.l 
The Observer is published daily ' during the college semester except 
t 

vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may t be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
t 

Ind. 46556. Second class postage
L------___.:..______j 
ney added that he had become a
Senate. So far, he said, nothing has been done toward setting up Senator because he was primari­the elections. If the Senate fails ly concerned with the Senate's to meet, he pointed out, there authority over the budget. Moo­can be no elections at all. 
ney indicated that with the com­Thrasher also mentioned the 
pletion of the budget last semes­
possibility of writing a new con­ter, he felt the Senate had ful­stitution within the Senate in filled its only real duty and that the near future. 
the body should have no role in 
Don Mooney, off-campus Se­student government this semes­nat~r, was one of two senators ter. who refused to sign Thrasher's Mooney assured however, that petition. Mooney said he felt he he would attend any meetings 

could work more effectively out­that were called through success­
Tom Thrasher side the Senate than in it. Moo­
ful netitioninl!. 


Faculty seeks financial authority 
by G!_eg Rowinski 
In an attempt to_ gain the faculty more authority and res­ponsibility in matters concerning financial priorities, the Faculty Senate yesterday passed unanim­ously the report of the Commit­tee on the Administration of the 
Univeristy. 
The Committee's resolution stated that, at present, the facul­ty "has little if any authority or responsibility or information concerning budgetary allocation of resources." It resolved that 
the faculty should receive "spec­ific budgetary analyses and planning forecasts" so that it could "shoulder its appropriate share of the responsibility for the continued well-being of the University." It recommended that the Senate authorize the Committee to initiate discus­sions with University officials concerning "the most appropri­ate institutional modifications for achieving effective communi­cation and shared responsibili­
ty." 
The approval emphasized the 
faculty's intention to associate 
itself with more than just classes. 
Professor Edward Manier, Chair­

man of the Committee, com-After a Student Government mented that "the faculty does representative urged the faculty have financial responsibility as to lend its support to the report related to academic policy," es-on coeducation which that pecially when it places "con-group is presently formulating, straints on departments" He Professor John Borkowski of the used the examples of the costs Co-education Subcommittee of a possible co-education and stated that presently, neither the the comparative cost-per-stu dent faculty nor the Senate have of the diferent colleges which stated a particular position on could involve terminations of the issue, or on the Park-some courses or even the entire Mayhew Report, specifically. He departme,nts. The Committee, suggested that the Administra­having received the vote of con-tion Committee prepare a "senti­fidence from the Senate, would ment regarding the Park-Mayhew 
"explore the best device for a-r-~R~e~p~o~r~t~.·-·__________:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
chievement" of their goals. 

Earlier in his committee re­port, Manier had dealt with one of the aforementioned situa­tions. He reported that he had sent a letter to Fr. Burtchaell asking for a review of the pro­cedures taken in the termination of the Computer Science Depart­ment. He asked specifically for "the calendar of events involved in the decision," since that deci­sion was so vital to the Universi­ty as a whole. He felt that it was the faculty's duty to be sure that "academic due process"was foi­lowed. No reply has yet been 
received, reported Manier. 

collect the gift paks given out---------------­
paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

L-,~e Ent ert ""'·· ,. nment t 
-. c t 
Wed. to Sat. Dancing 

t
-rJt f t 
lJ iklldO 

vn t 
"THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST'' 

t 
525 North Hill Street SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619 t 
Attended Parking f In the Rear 
t
t
THURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY NIGHT 'Jownstairs starting at 9 pm t 
E'ver.l'One 's Wdcome t 
t 
Happy Hour 5-9 Daily 

All beverages $.60 during Happy Hour ' Upstairs Only ' 
...,..__,_ 
Jc~rkins continued, "and then you say the girl must attend a Catholic liberal arts college. Maybe she wants more than a liberal arts training." 
Whether the funding of the university would change if it goes coed depends on the atti­tude of the contributors, accord­ing to Erkins. Coeducation "might change the makeup of your givers, but it might not necessarily be bad." 
Erkins pointed out that the most loyal contributors to the university have been the 47,000 alumni who make up the largest group in the university. Taking on the increasing financial bur­den of Notre Dame, the Board of Trustees has recognized that the Alumni Association has "a vital interest in the University," said Erkins and has looked to it more and more for advice on the future of Notre Dame. 
Some of the Alumni activity l)as filtered down to the ordi­nary student at Notre Dame. The Placement Bureau was an idea of the Alumni Board cre­ated in 1938 to serve the post graduate needs of students as well as alumni who return to look for new jobs. Local Alumni clubs also help Notre Dame stu­dents get jobs for summer vaca­tion. The Campus Ministry head­ed by Rev. William A. Toohey, CSC, was initiated by the Alum­ni Board to aid the religious life of students. The Alumni Board also pushed the first Cotton Bowl game in 1970, and got the Senior Bar founded three years ago. The bar's license is held by the Alumni Board, and its mana­ger is Jim Cooney, Executive 
Director of the Alumni Ass'n. 
law School Interviews 
Miss Anne Normandin of lewis and Clark College School of Law 
ortland, Oregon will be conducting interviews on ~onday, February 1 5 


Fu'sEx..,.. SPECIAL PRICES to NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
11101t Important dtirw in buylnt • dlemond 
-...:::;;-•,.....:. Is kncM~dadgl. It '-"• an expert to know the flna Points of cut, color and quality...and what gives a ~llmond Its valua. Thlre'i only ... way to ~ • diamond...and that Is by coming to a lewiler you can trUit. 
DIAMONDS S50 TO $5,000 OPEN A CONVENIENT 
~IRiiijjAiCCOjUNTTODAY 









THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
John E. Knorr, Executive Editor Bruce Reick, Business Manager 
Most of the change we think we see in life Is due to truths being in and out of favor. 
-Robert Frost 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
The Expiration of a Myth 
The sleepy death of the Blue Circle would have won no more attention 
than its sleepy life save for the salient comments of one John Sweeney, the 
Blue Circle President who presided over its recent demise. 
Mr. Sweeney rightly consigned most of the credit (blame?) for the 
organization's late disintegration to the fact that most of its functions have 
been usurped by other organizations-notably student government-but he 
also said that "today's students care more about situations like Cambodia 
and Viet Nam than little things that groups like Y.C.S. (Young Christian 
Students) or Blue Circle are doing," and that "the death of Y.C.S. and Blue 
Circle, decreased enthusiasm for Mardi Gras, and growing ineptness of 
student Government are signs of a shift in attitude and interests on the part 
of the students." 

Those are two interesting quotes; each in their own way, and the connection between the two is also good diversion. Given Mr. Sweeney's hypothesis that students are all heavily involved in the ramifications of Cambodia and Viet Nam, (which we don't), the inescapable conclusion is if organizations do not intend to remain within the range of student interests, they are destined for the common fate of Blue Circle and the Young Christian Whatyamacallits. The Blue Circle is a living Testament: its consistently offensive elitist claims (typified by its Grade-Point Requirement and its title of "Blue Circle Honor Society", both affectations dropped during the terminal stages) and its paternalistic attitude (typified by its most important function, tutoring) ended up in its sad demise yesterday. 
The second quote holds special interest because of the nature of the organizations indicted. Y.C.S. and Blue Circle have departed; the Racoon coat image of Mardi Gras is strangely incongruous with Notre Dame in 1971. Student Government is more worrisome stuff indeed. If Student Government is striving towards irrelevance, as it appears to be doing and as Mr. Sweeney manifestly believes it is doing, then a somewhat longer but equally morbid editorial obituary awaits it. We would hate to see it written. 
NElL.~iN! 

"Well, if we don't get co-education, I can either hang one on or start a riot or mumble a lot . .. or maybe all three ... " 
The dove and Mark Show 
Comes to o Close 
Within the next month, the undergraduates at Notre Dame will be 
asked to elect a leader to replace outgoing Student Body President 
David M. Krashna. For the last four years, the outgoing Student 
Government probably has selected one of its membership, or 
someone close to its membership, to carry on its activity (or perhaps 
inactivity). One may assume this to be the case in 1971. 
Since the voters will be asked in large part to pass judgement on 
the outgoing Administration, and they must in any case vote in the 
context of Mr. Krashna 's activity, let us consider the record. 
One of candidate Krashna's major platform points last March was 
the revision of the Constitution and the elimination of the Student 
Senate. In the eighth month of his twelve-month term of office 
he took a feeble and spectacularly ineffective action on this major 
platform plank. The Constitutional referendum of December ninth 
was an abortion of managerial technique. Sixty per cent of the 
Student Body must vote in such a referendum. Only thirty-two 
percent voted, and twenty-four percent of the electorate as a whole 
approved the new charter. When a candidate who received sixty­
three per cent of the popular vote in his own election cannot muster 
a quarter of the school to his side, there is perhaps a need for some 
alteration of the status quo. 
Consider a second platform plank; also aborted this year by the 
establishment of the Committee for Social Understanding. This 
committee was heavily dominated by Student Govern­
ment -appointed personnel and despite the presence of several 
highly qualified and interested faculty members, the group seems to 
have settled into the same state of Morpheus as the rest of Krashna 's 
innocuous proposals. An ironic consideration is that the Student 
Government people insisted that diversity was being sought, and that 
"most of the students were not from Student Government." 
Consider that Cabinet Publicity Director Don Mooney, Research and 
Development Commissioner Tim Conner, Student Body Vice 
President Mark Winings, and Krashna himself were all from Student 
Government. Only George Holt, an unsuccessful Student Life 
Council candidate on the South Quad last year and Dan O'Donnell 
of the University Arts Council gave any "diversity" whatsoever to 
the group. 

Last Spring, Mr. Krashna took part in a strike out of which the 
Princeton Plan emerged. Student Government's support of this was 
pitifully weak and a phenomenal bust. Another failure on the part of 
the Poobah machine in La Fortune. 
Last election, Krashna placed great emphasis on "getting back to 
the halls." Yet in most halls he has not yet presented himself, and he 
supported a grant of only five hundred dollars (not even enough to 
run Antostal) for the Hall President's Council. The despised Senate 
granted three thousand dollars to the HPC. To Mr. Krashna the 
Senate may be a joke. It redeemed his only redeemed campaign 
pledge. What a riot. 

This year Student Government took it upon itself to call in the 
press and cameras to defend a senior with a 2.5 GP A who lost his 
scholarship, the conditions of which were his maintainance of a 3.0 
GPA. Mr. Krashna had been working on the case for five months, yet 
he never contracted the donor of the scholarship. Observer reporter 
Fred Schaefer talked to Mr. Koch, of Little Rock, Arkansas, in five 
minutes. Ah, the wonders of modern communication. 
In short, it has been a most distressing year for those who believe Student Government should do something for its constituency. Even the co-ed report currently being drawn up in Holy Cross Hall at SMC is plagued by mis-organization and pitiful publicity. At NO, the 
Po~bahs play political games and come to the students only when they need pawns on their imaginary chessboard of imaginary power. As one Hall President said, "They only come to us when they want our help. They never want to help us or the students." 
Sad obituary? Maybe, but the worst is yet to come. A Hall President from the North Quad estimates the odds against the success of the February 17-19 General Assembly at between 98 and 100 to one. 
Student apathy? Maybe, but in that case apathy has increased since the current dynasty of SBP's took over. In Senate elections under Chris Murphy, 80% of the students voted; under Richard Rossie, 70%; under Phil McKenna, 60%; under David M. Krashna, 52%-4% more than voted on the Princeton Plan and 20% more than voted on the anti-Senate constitution. 
Murphy supported Rossie. Rossie supported McKenna. McKenna worked for Krashna. Krashna will work for Don Mooney, popular campus disc jockey and poobah-elite, who has already begun to organize his campaign. 
This year's heir to Student Government must defend his team's incomprehensive record. He will undoubtedly promise new programs, new ideas, new concepts, and bigger and better garbage. 
To murder an old cliche, 
"It's time for a change." 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter 
,.ews Editor: Ed ems. 
Night Editor: Jim Graif 

Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor 
Headlines: Joe Abell, T.C. Treanor Features Editor: Dave Lammen< 

Layout: Joe Abell, Jim Graif Sports Editor:· Terry Shields Knight Controller: Jim McGrath 
Campus Editor: Steve Lazar 

Advertising Manaper: Bill Bauerle Asst. News Editor: A.T. Darin Wednesday, February 10, 1971 711BOBSIBflllt 
Rev. Robert Crlffin 

The Land of God stretches forth 
Somehow, I had thought I knew what the scene of a Pentecostal meeting would be like from the memories of certain Protestant sects in a New England child­hood: Christians of the clapboard church­es, professing a deeper walk with God through shouted hallelujahs and Bible­thumping; the ecstasy of believers soul­raped by Jesus and caught up to the celestial (and diaphanous) bosom of Spirit, Who spins pinwheels of fire in the senses. I. thour;ht I was familar with the idiom of the Charismatically Renewed: 
"Unto Jesus by the glory, brother. Are you washed in the Blood of the Lamb?" I thought I could tell you of the bibliola­try, the fundamentalist reading of the promises of the Word which, in an ulti­mate progression, leads straight to the tents of the faith-healers, where itinerant preachers have danced with serpents. Finally, I thought I would recognize the disinherited children of the earth whose only identity comes from the leases they claim to hold on the mansions of glory. 
It was from this sense of a religious 
experience deja vu that I resisted attend­
ing a gathering of the Pentecostalists until 
last week, when I went to their afternoon 
Mass in Breen-Philips. l entered the 
chapel of Jesus Christ, Superstar. wet 
from the heavy rain of the Thursday 
downpour; I was out of sorts with a 
universe whose weather had conspired to 
build a moat of ice and water around my 
Keenanfront door. Moreover, I was nearly 
mortally offended because the Mass was, 
or seemed, fifteen or twenty minutes late 
in beginning, and I was offended by the 
sight of a stout lady who dashed from 
one encounter group to another, asking, 
"Has anybody here seen the Lectionary?" 
Apparently nobody there had seen the 
Edward Smlflt 
Lectionary, because the damned thing never did appear, and the Jerusalem Bible was used instead, which struck me as a bush-league way of running a religion, the Holy Spirit's or anybody else's. l was also depressed to notice that all those I recognized as regular Pentecostals looked as though they were in need of a good meal. l myself am never in need of a good meal, a fact I have always considered as one of the consolations of religion. I thought to myself, I can't really be expected to respect a faith that forever 
afterwards will be identified with winter rain, late beginnings, purloined lection­aries, and malnutrition. At that point, the guitarist struck up a hymn: "There is a Balm in Gilead." 
Of the Mass, one of the most beautiful I have ever attended, I will mention only the neditation periods: one, after the reading of the Gospel; the other, just prior to the Blessing and Dismissal. I have never been so conscious of the spirit of faith praying, singing, laughing, brooding, not even in convents of contemplative nuns, as I was among that group of young people assembled to celebrate the Eucha­rist without their Lectionary. Every now and again, among that hushed group would come a noise like that of a wind beginning to blow through the branches of a tree: quickly the noise would inten­sify into a roar, as though that wind had passed from the one tree into a whole forest of branches; then, almost as quick­ly, all the commotion would die away, and the group would be hushed again. Without question or surprise, I judged that the Holi Spirit had passed, playing over the ·group like a hand touching the notes of a piano. 
Apparently the event was no such 

masterpiece of sublimity as I have imagined it to be. I know this must be true, because a junior boy in architecture has explained to me that though the exact whereabouts of God --if He has a whereabouts -is uncertain, He couldn't be caught dead anyplace on the Notre Dame campus. 
Evidence of the things unseen rarely means much to anyone but the person to whom the clue is given, and religious experience can never be claimed as objec­tive (though Lazarus, if pericopes be true, might argue the point), even though they leave you as deeply moved and on the point of tears as I was on that afternoon when I witnessed the experience, seem~ ingly, of a young Christian singing (in the Pentecostal way, with the Paraclete as his choir master) in Hebraic tongues. Of course I am moved to tears rather easily; the final moments of Love Story, for example, that movie that Judith Crist in the New York magazine, described (~ut of deference to the favorite noun, verb, and expletive of the McGraw broad) as "Camille with bullshit," left me in so 
sodden a condition that all the salt was 
washed away from my bag of popcorn. 
But Love Story caught at the throat not 
from its own intensity, but out of a 
sadness it evoked from the past. But it 
was presently, contemporaneously mov­
ing to hear the Presence of God pro­
claimed at Mass in an honestly emotional 
way. I do not know the source in nature 
or in supernature, of how it is that 
tongues are set to dancing to the charis­
matic tunes of language; but the moments 
when it happened seem God-touched and 
full of grace. 
Perhaps, for some of us, the Liturgy 
has lost its power to stir us very deeply. 
Our worship consists in priests, clunking like Radio City stage hands around the sanctuary, acting out the charades of grace without mystery; ministers of eternity speaking the imperishable truths of redemption in a textual rhetoric powerless to lift itself heavenward, from altar tables (still, after more than five years, the janitor's temporary master­piece) unworthy to be used at picnics, much less to serve at the Supper of the Lord. Only rarely do the lessons instruct us as a people whose past includes the lost children of Hiroshima and the war dead from the ghettoes; whose present is th~ agony of cities crucified against a potsoned sky; and whose tomorrow seems threatened by the death of the world. 
Three years ago, after the public funerals of the Kennedys and Martin Luther King, some of the commentators pointed out the absence of "soul" in that Liturgy of the Pentecostal group. Perhaps I never will, or never could find it there again; only future visits t~ the Breen­Phillips' chapel will reveal the possibilities of my personal charismatic renewal thro~g~ the ministry of the Spirit-group. But It IS clear to me as a believing son of the Church that. our prophets and poets, our sages and samts, have a work to love to perform, a chore of liturgy to be ~hape.d, if the spirit of contemporary man ts gomg to be served in all its deepest needs in our communal celebrations of salvific Love. 
. It seems only right that a chap, occa­SiOnally at least, should be stirred as least as deeply by Mass as some of us were (with the exception of friend and fellow 
scribbler, Jim E. Brogan) when we watch­ed that soap opera described as "Camille with bullshit." 


The importance of language 

Pascal once said that "he who would act the angel acts the brute," and thus assessed the political paradox of an entire era of history. This confusing and unfor­tunate situation results from "the contra­dictions that grew up between our com­mitment to do good and our commitment to weild power," as writer David Halber­stam correctly ovserves. 
These assessments of our present politi­cal confusion are important since their truth is revealed in certain rhetoric in­volved in a flyer released on this campus recently. The document ("What the Hell Is Going On?"), admittedly a rather simple one, was printed by the Notre Dame -South Bend Coalition to End the War. The manifesto called for "an end to Nixon's tricks'.' regarding secrecy in the Laotian war. 
The disturbing portions of the paper 
however, do not invoke any of the vital 
substantive questions on Laos. Rather, we 
meet with this exhortation: "KNOW­
LEDGE IS POWER. ..POWER TO THE 
PEOPLE. .ALL POWER TO THE 
FIGHTERS FOR PEACE AND FREE­
DOM THROUGHOUT THE WORLD". 
Here is revealed once again, in rhetoric 
and sloganeering, the raw power which 
the "peace movement" has ironically 
invoked to justify the same absolutist 
ends that ignited Marxism, Wilsonian wars 
for democracy, and Cold-War anti­
Communism. Such language has merely 
led to dogmatic politics, with catastro­
phic results -as the quagmire of a 
seemingly inextricable situation in Asia 
illustrates. 

More perversely however, this language 
indicates the apparent abdication of all 
critical thought, and thus poses grave 
questions concerning the continued exis­
tence of a university. When knowledge 
serves only an act of the will, and 
becomes merely a means through asser­
~ion of power to some absolute good end, 
It ceases to question that end. 

Ironically, the proof of this is found in 
a group which "Campus Christies" "so 
loudly abhor. The academic-government 
alliance follows the same dogmatic com­mitment to the belief that knowledge, i.e. more research, facilitates the manipula­tion of men and nature. The tragedy is 
that the University, the place where one should learn to love wisdom and ask ultimate questions, is relegated to a battleground of conflicting ideologies and a factory for the production of superior techniques of control. 
Therefore, the Coalition is hypocritical 
in maintaining a holier-than-thou attitude 
and at the same time entering the power 
game: "THE PEOPLE MAKE PEACE 
BECAUSE NIXON WON'T" and "THE 
PEOPLE OF VIETNAM AND THE 
PEOPLE OF THE U.S. ARE NOT WAG­
ING A WAR AGAINST EACH OTHER". 
But, the fact is the "people" of both 
Pam~la V<R 

countries are killing and being killed. By the very fact that we live and act in this political society the burden of responsibi­lity is upon each of us. That is why alienation as a sanctuary from the conse­quences of political action is a lie 
This should not deter action. But, once 
we enter the realm of action all innocence 
is lost, because our action is always in 
relation to someone else's and ·so is never 
absolutely privileged. As Hannah Arendt 
says, the only thing that saves action 
from becoming absolute power is forgive­
ness and renewal and the realization by 
the actor of the corruption of his own 
soul. 
Universities are, or ideally should be, a place for such realization. Here, contem­pl~tion, reflection, and critical evaluation 
How to date an 
In the lounge in Madeleva Hall, Miss Libbie M' coed spoke in the sixth of a four part series to a frolic filled crowd on the topic "Women -How to Date a Notre Dame Man." 
Miss M' coed's address covered various topics including "Should a Girl have to wait for her date to open the car door", "How to feign off the advances of an attacker," and "How to say no politely when you really mean yes." 
Miss M' coed's symposium was well received by the twenty-two people in attendance. Some members of the audi­ence had arrived one-half hour late but since M' coed was delayed because of a lab practically nobody knew the differ­
ence. 
Addressing herself to the methods young women should employ in their dating relationships with young mrn, Miss M' coed gave her audience what one participant said as "the added interest of her personal endeavors." 
Miss M' coed described her past ex­periences with young men and following each description she advised young women on how to handle similar dating relationships. She described her relation­ship with John as "provocative" and the one with Dick as the same. She did warn that with Joe's type one should not be "naive and sweet." She said that also with Chuck's type "one should disregard one's home background." She said she remem­bered Steve as intellectually stimulating but with men like Omar "the sky's the limit." 

In general, Miss M' coed said that in dating young men women should always "look out for their interests and to not let your emotions get carried away." In getting to meet a man she suggested that the best approach is to drop a physics book on his lap, that way it impresses him with the fact you not only know where its at but that you are intelligent as well. 
Following a question and answer ses­sion Miss M' coed's response to the question, "Is it proper for a girl to make the first move?" was ":.t depends on the move." 
M' coed's advice on how to feign off an attacker was two part: 1.) if you are totally repulsed by him suggest playing a of the human enterprise provide a limita­tion on the cruelty and terror which men produce despite all good intentions. 
There are two other alternatives: as one writer puts it, we may refuse to act and become an "egotist with a good conscience"; or, cynically exercise the ubiquitous desire for power by acquiring superior force or "knowledge" (the scientific fact). In either context the University is superflous. 
Such rhetoric is, regardless of its aims necessarily self-destructive. For neithe; knowledge nor more power will cure the ills of the world. The remedy lies in the hearts of men who question action in relation to a real existence, and summon­ing their moral courage, act knowing they can never do so innocently. 
ND Man 
game of monopoly then while he pro­cedes to get it move from your home address to another part of town; 2.) if you are not totally repulsed have him bring you a few drinks first and a copy of Dr. Rueben's best-selling book and ask questions together. 
After a burst of applause and a standing ovation the attendants were re­minded of the next series of Madeleva Lectures. Everyone is invited and the time is Monday night at i2:30 p.m. 
Dress shop opens 

Saint Mary's senior Karen Grabowski has added her clothesmaking talents to the growing number of campus crafts­men. Miss Grabowski will sell hand made and ready made clothes in Room 312 McCandless every evening from 6-9 P.M., beginning Wednesday. Miss Grabowski will sell Spring clothing such as cotton school dresses, skirts, pants outfits, for­mals, and play outfits. The name of the student clothes store is Jabberwocky, and SMC students may order the style and size of the dress they desire if it is not already available. 
Page 6 THB O&SBRfiER. 
Co-ed committee stresses need for support 
by Jerry Lutkus 
The chairmen of two branches 

of the Co-Ed Committee, which is working on a supplement to Park -Mayhew, revealed their 
findings last night. The heads of the Merged Student Government Committee and the Student Ser­vices Committee stressed the need for student support of the supplement. 
Kathy Barlow, co-chairman of the Merged Government Com­mittee, stated that its basic goal is "the merger of the student bodies of the schools into one body." 
Their proposals cover two areas, the short range ideas and the long range ideas. The short range center around the merger of the Student Services Office of St. Mary's and the Student Union of Notre Dame. With this they hope to initiate a merger of duplicate commissions and cab­inet posts. She hoped that "this could be accomplished after the student government elections." 

"We would like to see St. Mary~s work closely with Notre Dame during the elections. Hopefully, this will have some bearing on the elections. It could measure student reactions to the co-education proposals," she said. 


NEW JERSEY CLUB7:Jo-a:Jo 
MID-SEMESTER PLANE cokeBar 
Sales Thurs. 2/11/71
Round Trip $65 Questions-Pete 1768 
The long range proposals all "aim toward the establishment of one student body." The com­mittee is presently discussing the feasibility of community govern­ment at Notre Dame. Rich Urda and Mary Bernath, members of the committee, are looking into the possibility of the merging of the judicial systems of the two schools. Barlow stresses that the basic point of the committee is the merging of the student gov­ernments and she sees this mer­ger "coming very quickly." 
"The merging of the student governments is but a preliminary step towards the merging of the student bodies. Right now our long range plans are still nebu­lous, they have to be completely worked out," he said .. 
The committee, which con­sists of co-chairmen Mark Win­
ings, Jean Gorman, Bernath, Ur­da, Dan Hyde, and Eileen Fitz­patrick, reacted favorably to the. 


ALUMNI CLUB 
SErJIOR BAR 

THURSDAY NITE SPECIAL 
Feb. 11 SCHLITZ MALT  LIQUOR  
ON TAP ...,  8:30 ON  
15C a &lass  I_'Vhile it lasts  


LAUREL & HARDY PIZZA 
All Types $1.99 
HPC proposal which was re­leased yesterday. They claimed to be especially infavor of co-ed housing, undergraduate degrees for women at NO, and a reduc­tion of the male-female ratio. 
Barlow spoke for them when she stated, "These are good things to aim for. It's definitely worth trying for. If we can work it out with the Administration, students , and the faculties, it's definitley a good step." 
Bob Ohlemiller, chairman of the Student Services Committee, stressed that the merger of ser­vices between the schools is "fin­ancially, the most feasible thing to do." Ohlemiller's committee covered the merging of the psychological services, the coun­seling centers, the campus mini­stries, security, health services, and Student Union with Student Services Office·. 
"There is no psychological center at St. Mary's right now," stated Ohlemiller, "so, it would simply be an extention of our service to SMC. It would probab­ly require a small fee to be included in SMC students' fees." 
The merger of the counseling centers would not result in too much difficulty because there is already good co-operation be­tween the cenyers of the two campuses. The same would be true in merging the campus mini­stries, Ohlemiller claimed. 
Merging the security forces of the campuses could be the most feasible action of the merger, he 
Lost and Found 

Lost small brown purse at Mardi Gras Monday Nite. Contact Ann Marie McGugan 512 Le Man, phone 
no. 4870 
said. The two forces are working co-operatively now and their ex­
istence  "is  a  needless  duplica­ 
tion."  The  only  change,  he  
stated,  would  have  to  be in  a  

common radio channel and a common answering service be­tween them. The campus health services, if merged, would also have to be extended because they are presently limited, Ohle­miller commented. 
In speaking with Sister Im­maculata today, Ohlemiller claimed to have discovered a small handicap with the merger of services. 
Sr. Immaculata forwarded the philosophy of SMC toward stu­dent involvement Ohlemiller said, while he believes that it is a valid assertion that this philoso­phy could be destroyed by the merger. That philosophy is based on more student involvement within the structure, in other words, community government, he commented. This should not 
prove to be a major handicap, however, as even Sr. Immacu­lata, according to Ohlemiller, be­lieves the merger of services is a "feasible and practical action." 
Ohlemiller stressed the feasibi­lity of the merger. 
"Overall, for both schools, this is the most economical and efficient way to go," he said. 
He admitted that"without stu­dent support, this report is noth­ing but a piece of paper. Without widespread student support, this report will do nothing. The Stu­dent General Assembly will be the best opportunity for the students to voice their support. We need the support to pass this report. This is not an elitist Student Government Action. It's a student job, a job done by the 

~==============================================================================~~-------------------------+students for the students 

ANT TO SEND YOUR LADY LOVE OR BEAU A MESSAGE THAT WILL BE PRESERVED FOREVER IN THE N.D. ARCHIVES? 
TAKE OUT AN OBSERVER 

VALENTINE AD 
SI.CO FOR TEN WORDS OR LESS Ads to be run in Thursday, February II OBSERVER 
Stop by the Fiesta Lounae today fro111 2~ to I~ or 
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TOGETHER WITH PAYMENT TO: THE OBSERVER, P.O. BOX 11, NOTRE DAME, lf~jj. 
Please be sure to !JUt a stamp on your envelopJe, all maif without proper postage will be refused. 
JIM MURRAY 




Fencers blast two foes 
by Terry Shields was pleased with the team's The fencers have suffered two Observer Sports Editor defeats this season but these
showing in the Windy City, es­pecially since they bounced back came to number
the one and

Eternal 

It wasn't easy but the Notre Dame fencing squad managed from the near auto tragedy. two teams in the nation (NYU
Neither opponent was consider­and Navy). Aside from that east­
two victories last weekend to up 
ed especially weak. UICC has em disaster the swordsmen have
their season record to 10-2. It 
already beaten Midwest power performed well this season.

Optimist 

wasn't really the competition 
Wayne State earlier in the season The fencers will return to
that gave the Irish a hard time, 
and the psyched up Irish had Chicago this weekend for a
© 1970, Los Angeles Times they beat Illinois, Chicago Circle little trouble with them. 
quadrangular meet with the Uni­

25-2 and scored early versus 
The Wisconsin Parkside match
PHOENIX-To say Deacon Jones is "an optimist" is like saying Wisconsin Parkside to coast to a versity of Chicago, the Univer­
was never really in doubt due to sity of Detroit and MIT.
Napoleon was a soldier. 17 -10 win. 
the early wins by ND.

The Deacon a! ways thinks the next cart is going to be an ace, the The real trouble for N D came next throw will be a seven. He would have wired ahead to New York in getting to the match. One of for hotel reservations right after the Titanic hit the iceberg. The the university limousines literal­Deacon thinks he stands a pretty good chance of making President ly blew up on the trip to the some day. He keeps a hom burg hat at the ready. At the very least, he Chicago campus and all of the figures to be Secretary of State. starting fencers were forced to 
He makes Pollyanna seem like a crybaby. Only a lousy stinking set cram into one vehicle to get to of coincidences have kept the Rams out of the Super Bowl, which the meet on time. they would, of course, have won if they got there, he feels. Once the Irish arrived their 
Deacon is an 18-handicapper at golf, but he expects every shot to troubles were over. go into the hole, including a tee shot on a par-S dogleg to the right, Against Chicago Circle both 
575 yards away. the epee and foil division shut­The Deacon thinks Lincoln probably eajoyed the show that night. out the Illini 9-0 and the sabre­The Deacon knows he is the world's greatest football player, and a men had little difficulty winning 
typical interview found, a writer commenting one night, "Deacon, by a 7-2 count. you played a great game considering they put three men on you." Individual stars were foilsmen "Four." said the Deacon. co-captain J .T lyons, who was 
He revolutionized the art of defense in football. He had such 3--0, Glenn Kalin and Mike deadly speed that when an autograph-seeker was looking for Deacon Cornwall, who were both 2-0. Jones down here at the American Airlines Astrojet tournament, he Co-captain Rich "Rip" Deladrier asked the Browns' Bill Nelsen "which one will be Deacon Jones?" 
led the epeeists with an unde-And Bill answered, "He'll be wearing a quarterback." 
feated showing. He was givenHe is probably the cleanest player in the history of the game. Not 
solid support in this division by
only does his uniform never need laundering, neither do his tactics. 
Tim Taylor and Chuck Harkness.
He has slugged more guys along side the head than Jack Dempsey in 
With the heavy sabre blades
his prime, but this is a legal tactic in the 22-man fist fight which 
there were unbeaten Mike Feen­
takes pla:.:e when the ball is snapped in pro football and it is one ey and Ron Sollitto. 
reason why the players wear plastic hats. 
Wisconsin Parkside made the
Deacon's job is to make quarterbacks start to flinch, but the 
score far more respectable than
words "cheap shot" have never been applied to Deacon Jones. 
the Chi-town Illini but the
A figure of ferocity on the field, he is as affable and comfortable 
swordsmen from du Lac had the
to be around as a collie dog off it. He is people who likes people. On 
·match on ice when they ran the
story will suffice to illustrate: the Deacon is a Protestant by religion, 
score up to I5-5 before letting
but he was in a Catholic church for the first time in his life at the 
up. The foilsmen were whipped
funeral of Bobby Kennedy in St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. Sophomore Gene Krathaus al­
3-6 but this time the sa bremen Irish swimmers hit the .500
The Deacon kept a close watch on the natives. "The Catholics get up so won two events -the SO 
were the· strength of the team mark Thursday when they drop­
and kneel down a lot," he marveled. "I was beginning to feel like it yard freestyle (: 2 2.8), and the
with a convincing 8-1 shellack­ped a meet to the Western Michi­
was the third quarter of the Green Bay game." 100 yard freestyle (:SO.S).Gene 
ing of the UWP fencers. Co-cap­gan University team by a 73 -40 also anchored the Medley Relay
tain Doug Daher and Matt Fruz­score.
Followed the Crowd team and put forth a great effort 
ynski led the sabremen with Missing the meet because of in attempting to catch the Wes­Suddenly, the Deacon noticed the whole congregation seemed to undefeated marks in this divi-upper respiratory problems were tern Michigan team, but their
be going somewhere. They were. To Communion. The Deacon sion. Captain James Cooney, and one lead was a little too great toalways likes to f~llow the crowd. So he ambled up the aisle. Too For the consistent epeeists, of this seasons outstanding fresh­overcome. 
late, he realized what was happening. So, Deacon Jones, all 6 feet, 5 who won their division six bouts men, Michael Kilpatrick. 
In all the Irish had 11 indi­inches, 270 pounds of him made his first Holy Communion at age 30 to three, Mike Metranga, Dela­The team welcomed back viduals post their best effortswithout benefit of baptism, confession, catechism, or any other drier and Harkness all posted Sophomore John Sherk, who this season, and 3 others equaled parochial preparation. "God would understand." explained the unblemished slates. Feeney, a had an appendectomy in De­their best time.

, sabremen, was the day's hero cember, back into the line-up.
Deacon. "God has always taken good care of the Deacon. But it was a Next week the team travels togood thing they weren't going up there for ordination or I'd be along with Deladrier and Hark­John displayt(d his pleasure of New York to meet St. Bonaven­
'Father Jones' right now." ness, as these three went through being back by winning two ture Univ., and Niagara Univ. inThe Deacon, of course, is above the trivialities of religious the entire afternoon without events --the 500 yard freestyle a double dual meet on Saturdaytasting defeat. 
differences. If the church door is open, the Deacon ambles in. As the (5:24.8), and the 1,000 yard February 13th at Olean, N.Y. 
Fencing mentor Mike DeCicco freestyle ( 11: 1 0.2). 
old story goes, the gorilla can sleep anywhere he wants to. And it has never occured to anyone to throw Deacon Jones out of anyplace he wanted to go in. A few Mississippi cops found that out one night some years ago when the Deacon and two friends were sampling the 
Voices from the Crowd
local brew. There isn't really a more popular figure in the National Football 
Sport Editor, 

basketball. It was very discourag­also the case on the other courts.
League than David Jones. Prior to him, the heroes of the game were Will someone please explain ing last week to be told in the Needless to say there were aalways on offense-and sometimes offensive. But the Deacon is a to us the purpose of booing middle of a game that I, the nine number of unhappy guys thatfestive man. His friends come in all colors. He is Deacon Jones, Coach Johnny Dee before the guys I was playing with, the ten afternoon. What was it MooseAmerican. He came out of the grinding pov..:rty and degradation of recent basketball games? These guys playing at the other end of said about working off frustra­Eatonville, Fla., but when he packed up to leave, he didn't put hate particular critics seem to us to the court, and the guys on the tions through athletics? 
in along with his toothbrush. The Deacon travels light. be monuments to the Monday sidelines must leave to make Jim Graif
morning quarterback, the back 
room for ten people. ·This was 333 Alumni Hall 
Singing Great as Well seat driver and the "All-Ameri­can" fair weather sports fan.
He figures he'll become the world's greatest signer as soon as ne 
From our fans, Coach Dee is
can't get to the quarterback anymore-but that, of course, will be 
Just for the Record
receiving worthless personal
well into the 1980's. 

abuse. by Mike Pavlin
Meanwhile, he is available for consoltation at the White House, 
Not three months ago, John
the Vatican, the U.N. or any other place where vision and integrity Over the weekend, Austin Carr set a new season record for the and wisdom are called for. Deacon has no children as yet, but he Pleick was the object of this most points scored by a senior. Last year, he set the mark for a 
same mob criticism. This past
figures along will come a Jones someday to keep his mark in the junior and would have had the so ph mark except for his foot injury.
Monday night John Pl"!ick re­
world. 

ceived a standing ovation for his 
l played golf with Mr. Optimism the other day. I was fearful INDIVIDUAL-SEASON 
aggressive performance.
about a bad back I had. "Listen," the Deacon said,"don't worry. I'll 1.) (New Record) Most Points by a Senior,-Austin Carr 626. 
give moments
probably shoot a 69. I'm playing super." Shouldn't we a 2.) Points Scored-948,Carr 626. 
thought to our obvious lack of
You know something? We won second prize. I never win second 3.) Scoring Average-37.2, Carr 36.8. 
insight? · 
prize. Deacon wasn't even disappointed. "Nobody's perfect," he said 4.) Field Goal Attempts-681, Carr 486. 
Jack Graber

cheerfully ."But I'm close." 5.) FG's Made--376, Carr 253. 
Mike Doran

I asked him-gingerly-what he thought of the new Ram coach, INDIVIDUAL-('AREER 


Tommy Prothro. "Listen!" said the Deacon. "He's going to be great. Editor: 1.) (New Record) Points Scored-Austin Carr 2085. 
We11 probably win the Super Bowl by 40 points." Will the guys play I would like to suggest that 2.) (New Reocrd) Field Goals Made--Carr 840. 
for a new guy a Joe College at that,I wondered? the interhall office discontinue 3.) (New Record) Scoring Average--Carr 33.6. "Listen!" said the Deacon. "This guy is good at offense,right? the practice of allowing the 4.) Field Goal Attempts--1636, Carr 1577. Now, with me, we don't have to worry about defense, right? So, the auxilary gyms to he reserv cd on 5.) FG%--.485, Carr .533. way I look at it, we're lucky to get him." Friday afternoons. Friday after­6.) Free Throw Attempts (3 yrs.)-543, Carr 496. 
noon is probably the most pop­7.) FTo/r-.804, Carr .817. 
The Deacon thought about that for a minute. Then he brightened. "Of course," he added, "he's lucky to have us, too. Especially me." ular time for students to play 8.) Games Appeared In-85, Collis Jones 73. 

Page 8 Wednesday, February 1 0, 1971 
Death toll small considering damage 
(Continued from PaKe 1) 
Three persons died of heart attacks which authorities attri­buted to the fright of the earth­quake. One man was running in panic from his home. Another 
was killed when his pickup truck was buried in the collapse of a freeway overpass. 

The Pasadena, San Diego and Golden State freeways were closed in several stretches be­cause of buckled pavement and collapsed overstructures. The Golden State is the beginning of Interstate 5 which links Los Angeles with Northern Califor­nia. 
Another three tier cloverleaf intersection of freeways which was under construction col­lapsed. 
A spokesman for the city fire department said there had been "so many damn fires it's unbe­lievable." He estimated there were· at least ISO fires, most of them set off by broken gas lines and falling power lines. Two major supermarkets in San Fernando were gutted. 
Lockheed sent home 18,000 day shift workers at its plants in Burbank, Van Nuys, Watts and Sangus Newhall while firemen and guards inspected the build­ings, cleaned up broken glass and checked on gas leaks. 
Was also fraternal group 
(Continued from Page 1) 
for students on campus until student government demanded participation by a larger number of students. 
In 1967 Blue Circle began programs to aid freshmen. Al­most all members participated in one of the four standing com­mittees which were in charge of fall orientation and the freshman advisors program. Most of this work was done in conjunction with the Hall Life Committee of Student Government. 

The Society also had other activities which served the uni­versity as a whole. There were groups in charge of ushering at graduation, pep rallys, guided tours for campus visitors, the annual student trip and other student functions. 
Prior to 1967, a certain cum­ulative grade point average was required for admission. Member· ship remained quite selective even after dropping that require· ment. Prospective members·were screened in a series of interviews. The Circle was interested in the students who put service first and fraternal considerations se­cond. They were not necessarily seeking the all around student. 
LOST AT MARDI GRAS: Hand-made rust plaid Maxi-coat call: 4971 REWARD 

Although it was a service or­ganization, the Blue Circle was also a fraternal group. Raymond Fleming, presently an Instructor of Italian at Notre Dame was a member of the Blue Circle in 1967. He said "The Blue Circle was Notre Dame's answer to fraternities. It was very fake, and they essentially went around campus trying to get into head­lines. It was the token black, and I joined it because it would look good on my records." 
Fleming further stated that ''you had to be very socially outgoing to belong to Blue Cir· cle, they frowned on inteltectua· !ism." 
About 1966, the Blue Circle began undergoing an internal identity Crisis. Members started questioning the purpose and im­portance of the organization. · They changed the name from Blue Circle Honor Society to Blue Circle because the former title "seemed overly preten­tious" according to Sweeney. 
Various factions began to spring up within the society and the strength of the circle steadily drifted to individuals who carred out carious projects rather than the group as a whole. Change in the outlook of many members may have been one of the biggest reason for the genesis of these fatal divisive factions. 
Explaining the decision to dis­band now,Sweeney said, "the Blue Circle wanted to go out now while it was still strong in the memory of the students. We didn't want to let it slowly fade out over a long period." 
Sweeney pointed out that other organizations will hve to take over the duties handled by Blue Circle. "We don't know who will handle pep rallys, but we will decide soon. Student Union will handle the Student Trip. The Office of Public infor­mation will handle guided tours, and other groups will handle activities pertaining to their or­ganizations." 
Sweeney also stated that "the death of Y .C.S. and Blue Circle, decreased enthusiasm for Mardi Gras, and growing ineptness of student Government are signs of a shift in attitude and interests on the part of the students." 
Islam secretary speaks Wed. 
Wednesday evening John Ali, national secretary of the nation of Islam, will speak on "The Separation of Black and White," at 8:00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Ali, the country's foremost inside authority on the Black Muslims in America, is being sponsored by the Joint Acade­mic Commissions. 
Under his administrative lead­ership, the corporate policies of the Black Muslim business enter­prises were created. 
The main runway at the Hollywood Burbank Airport was buckled by the earthshock and planes had to use a smaller run­way, incoming aircraft landing with full flaps to slow ground speed. 
The quake actually was stronger than that of March I 0, 1933, in Long Beach on the waterfront south of Los Angeles. In that disaster, 120 were killed, thousands injured and damage was $40 million. The most recent major quake was in July 1952, when II were killed in the Tehachapi Mountain area I 00 miles north of Los Angeles. 
President Nixon declared California a major disaster area because of the earthquake which struck the Los Angeles area. He also dispatched Vice President Spiro T. Agnew to Los Angeles to expedite federal assistance. 
White House Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler said Agnew, accompanied by George Lincoln, the director of the Office of Emergency Preparedness, and Donald Johnson, the head of the Veterans Administration would fly to Los Angeles Wednesday for meetings with California Gov. Ronald Reagan, Mayor San Yorty and Chairman Warren Dorn of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors. 
The designation as a major disaster area triggers the federal mechanism for assisting in disas­ter relief, which is coordinated by the Office of Emergency Pre­paredness. It involves long term help in grants for rebuilding roads, sewers and public facili­ties. It also expedites unemploy­ment compensation, authorizes OEP to bring in federal workers to help clean up debris and authorizes low cost loans for damages businesses and homes sustain. 
Reagan requested the federal assistance in telephone conversa­tions with Lincoln and Agnew. 
More than a dozen federal departments and agencies, he said, already have representatives in the area. The Small Business Association also has decclared it a major disaster and is prepared to offer assistance in the form of low cost loans for restoring damaged business, Ziegler said. 
•Education: I980' 
Dr. Robert Chris tin will probe 
into the future with a look at 
"Education: 1980" when he 
presents the next in a series of 
lectures on "Trends in Contem­
porary Education" Wednesday 
night, February 10, at Saint 
Mary's College. The Lecture, 
which is open to the public, will 
begin at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll 
Hall of the Madeleva classroom 
building. 
The president of St. Norbert's College, West DePere, Wisconsin, Dr. Christin is a former resident of South Bend. He was a mem­ber of the English faculty of the University of Notre Dame from 1953-65 when he left to assume the presidency of Educational Associates Incorporated of Washington, D.C. EAI served as an educational consultant to the federal ggovernment for over 300 colleges and universities across the nation. · 
Since being named the first lay president of St. Norbert's in July l969,Dr. Christin has been responsible for a number of major innovations including the adoptiong of a "no failure" grad­ing system and a reorganization of the curriculum which in­cluded the establishment of a tri-divisional structure: humani­ties and fine arts; natural sci­ences; and social sciences. 
Dr. Christin 's talk is part of an experimental interdisciplinary course being offered at Saint Mary's during the second seme­ster. Under the joint sponsorship of the department of education and the Student Development Committee, the series presents outstanding speakers in a num­her of fields as a pass-fail elective 



WE SALE ON 

NEWS MEETING 
Notre Dame Staff VERY IMPORTANT Everybody be there 
8:30 PM Wednescl•y 






