
•
Barlow and Underman repeat w1n at SMC 
SMC students re-affirmed the with Notre Dame's new student problems with merging student
election of Kathy Barlow and student approval. she hopes to add provisions to the 
government leaders John
Misssy Underman for student governments since they are only Besides working on merged constitution which would clarify body president and vice­Barkett and Orlando Rodriguez. merging student activities, not commissions, Barlow and Un­the rules for contesting an president in Friday's balloting at They discussed the report on any councils involving the tri­derman also plan to create some election such as this year's.
merged student governments partite government. 
St. Mary's. new commissions, including one Commenting on her un­
prepared by the student govern­According present student
In the election held to clarify a to dealing with minority students. successful bid for the presidency, 
ment coeducation committee. 
nine vote discrepancy which was ,government representatives, "Nominations for these Jane Sheehy, McCandless Hall discorded in the first totals, Both Miss Barlow and Barkett these changes are subject only to commissions and for other president, stated, "Sue and I
had included merged student
Barlow and Underman collected student governments positions were disappointed to lose, but we 
governments as parts of their
606 votes to defeat Jane Sheehy will be after spring break,.. were happy to go through there­
platforms.
and Sue Welte who polled 491 announced Miss Undermann. "I election to make it valid."
At the conference they decided 
votes. hope that the interest and en­"We were pleased with the 
to deal with the short-range goals we
Pleased with the large turn-out thusiasm showed by the students large turnout in voting and
suggested in the report:
of voters (estimated at 76 per­in the election will continue into wish Kathy and Missy the best of 
(1) merger of commissions
cent), Miss Barlow announced a the nominations for the cabinet luck," she continued.
such as Student Union and
schedule of meetings this week positions." Miss Barlow, recognizing her
Student Services Organizations;
which she and Miss Underman As vice-president, Miss Un­opponents' experience in student 
(2) placing SMC hall presidents 
will have with representatives of derman will chair the student government and ideas, has of­
on the HPC;
the administration including Sr. affairs committee and sit on the fered both Miss Sheehy and Miss 
(3) merged cabinets.
Alma and Sr. Immaculata. They student affairs council, while also Welte positions in student
"In order to act on the long
will also hold briefings with the managing elections. In this area government next year.
range goal of the report, onepresent student government student body, we will have to waitadministration. 
until after Key Biscayne," statedThe new student government 
SMC black students
Miss Barlow, who foresees norepresentatives met yesterday 
ND BLACKS PROTEST awaiting response 
by Ann Therese Darin these demands were considered 
by the student affairs council at

IN ACTION SATURDAY 
This morning is the deadline its Friday meeting. She indicated for St. Mary's administration to that she will have a statement 
present the campus chapter of
A group of Black students held program's list. today.
American Black Collegea peaceful demonstration "The program is moving Women's Association, a written
Saturday protesting wfiat they essentially as it was before," Dr. In the proposal, the American 
committment for its proposed
claimed was inaction on the part Scott said. "The whole thing is Black Collegiate Women's 
Office of Black Student Affairs.
of the Notre Dame ad­ironic, I was hired to develop a Association (ABCWA) recom­
Thursday afternoon, a group of
ministration concerning the Black Studies Program, not to sit mended the creation of an office advancement of the University around." black SMC students gave Sr. of black student affairs for Sept. Black Studies Program. "The program is moving Alma their list of six recom­1971 as an administrative unit to 
mendations for the 1971-72
Pr(1gram Director Dr. Joseph essentially as it was before," Dr deal with the total range needs of 
academic year. Friday afternoon black students. They enumerated W. Scott explained the reason for Scott said. 
the acting president reported that 
the protest citing what he termed these needs as: recruitment, the university's "failure" to deep financial aid, academic coun­committments to increase the seling, fund-raising, and social
Provost, Riehle challenged in open letter 
program and add a significant and cultural life. number of Black teachers to the "In short," they state, "a
Council and the Board of nesday morning March 10 
University faculty. The following open letter to Trustees concerning the pater-studying with two women in division of black student affairs Dr.Scott and a group of Notre University Provost Fr. James T. nalistic fiats imposed over basic Room 314 Howard Hall, in direct will be concerned with every 
facet of black student life on thisDame students had presented the Burtchaell and Dean of Student's student rights at Notre Dame. We violatjon of university 'policy;' campus."

University Administration a list James L. Riehle was drafted by plan to talk no longer. To refuse entry into this room to of proposals last week setting a Krashna and his vice-president So this is where we are. We find anyone acting as an 'enforcer' of The proposal also suggests that 
the college allocate funds for this Friday noon deadlir,e for Mark Winings. It concerns the this latest variant of the "no­the university's parietal policy or 

response. Since no positive action program. According to the 
p~wers of university represen-knock" rule repugnant to us as as an example of the university's 
was taken on the proposals by recently promulgated "good proposal the program should
tatives to enter a students's room individuals and wholly in­
that time, the Black students reason" policy. include:
without his consent tolerable as student leaders
decided to stage their peaceful Between now and Tuesday (1) a director for the office of
responsible for the securing and 
protest, Dr. Scott said. black student affairs to work full
We find your new variant of the defending of student rights. Thus evening we can supply you with 
time on matters pertaining only The demonstration took the "no-knock" rule at the University we issue this challenge to you, the women's names who will be to black student life-this director 

form of a small picket line set UJ> of Notre Dame to be absurd, un-Frs. Burtchaell and Riehle: studying with us, thus allowing"around the entrances to the ACC Christian, and intolerable. Also We will not, under any cir­you sufficient time to acquaint will automatically be a member 
of all standing committees of the where the South Bend Regional we believe that the university has cumstances, feel compelled to their parents with their moral High School games were being no business and certainly no adhere to unilateral, ad­turpitude. college; (2) recruitment of two black

held. Beginning at noon the welcome in the privacy of a ministrative fiats from either of What we basically believe is 
demonstrators numbered about faculty members in any dept. by 
student's room. Usually when _YOUr offices when they clearly by­that "unjust laws are no laws at 
Sept. 1971;

twelve, but they were joined by confronted with such absurdity pass the students' sole organ of all." Accordingly, through our others. Later the group moved to we laugh, however, we have legislative power--the Student open disobedience we plan to form their lines outside Stepan learned from our experiences to Life Council. Therefore, we challenge these absurd rules, for (continued on page 6)Center where the Collegiate Jazz suspend our laughter pending intend with full deliberation and we are faced with a pitiful and.----------------------­Festival was taking place. closer exami?ation. Previo~sly knowledge of the consequences: superficially amusing spectacle
Dr. Scott detailed the source we have qmbbled at vanous To spend the entire evening of of an institution seeking to Correction 
of the Black students' 
reestablish its authority by
dissatisfaction with the progress m~~g=~=~======~=~====}=~=~===}=~~~~~L==~=~~~=======J~=~~i~¥:!=~=~=~~~=mt==!=·=·=~=~=~==:=="t· emasculating a self-evidently The Observer story in Friday's of the Black Studies Program. He good "experiment" while paper concerning the requests said that as director he had not ~~ Riehle clarifies Friday remarks f:!) simultaneously trampling on made by black students at Saint been given either the authority student rights-not to mention the Mary's contained an incorrect
~~ The Observer learned "The resident assistant has =~~ 
or the money to move the fact that if the new position of a quote.program ahead. He also claimed resident assistant's power is We reported that Miss Susan that new Black faculty members adopted it means that we have Jackson, President of the Black were a must for the development been lied to foe over a year. For it Collegiate Women's Association, of the department. was in "good faith" we accepted--said "if appropriate action is not 
Dr. Scott pointed out that he dozens of times-Fr. Riehle'~ taken by Notre Dame and Saint,
:.l.\:·.'.1!.: 

~~~~;~~~~~~ ~~~~kJi~~~:!~ '.;..:_;:~.:_;_!·:.·
had submitted a number of • The original article said He went on to say that the assw·ances that R.A.'s were not Mary's by the deadline, Notre resumes from qualified Black .,., "Father Riehle stated that R.A. should knock and .·:· "poli·~emen" and would ·never Dame and Saint Mary's will be teachers to the administration. :~:: d request entrance. If ~ again be used as such. taken by the students." 
;:~:::::: one of the uties of an R.A. :_.::~··:
"Some of these have been on was that of a 'policeman', refused Riehle said, Finally, we would like to deal Actually what Miss Jackson did their desks for as long as four ·, something which has never ···· with two more considerations. say was "If appropriate action is 
:;:; that he was responsible for =:~
months," .. h 1 happened, the R.A. should · · First, if you, Frs. Burtchaell and not taken by Notre Dame and 
:;:: enforcing t e rues of the contact the rector. t Riehle, allow us--with Saint Mary's by the deadline,According to Dr. Scott, the ··· University. When asked if · · foreknowledge of the event-to appropriate reaction on bothcourses presently offered in the r the student could deny the Fr. Riehle said though !~ 
escape punishment, and then campuses, Notre Dame and St.
program are insufficient. He ··~ R.A. permission to enter that the university has .,.. 
proceed to inflict these rules on Mary's will be taken by thewould like to see courses such as 
social psychology of Afro­other students, you will have students."
\. :'.!···.;
.t.i\. 

~~:[~~~t~~~!f~~~ ~~t~~~ ~::i~~i~ ~~~!a~es~~C::::~~ 
acted unethically and illegally, The Observer wishes to
American, Economics of the . . have a good reason." A statement to that effect ;o. 
with the result being that in the apologize to the Black Collegiate Ghetto, Economic problems of ;:;: When contacted Sunday did appear in Friday's .;~ 
future any attempt to enforce Women's Association for theBlack Americans, and Afro­:~; Riehle said he stated that Observer. :.;• 
error.

;:t:::;;at~:;::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::=:~~=:=:=:=:~:-:·;·~·;·~·~·~;~:·=~=~:::;:!!::·:~::~:..~:~~~i:~~~~~!:~~
American Arts added to the (continued on page 6) L.....--------------------4 


page 2 
Monday, March 8, 1971 
Text of Burtchaell co-education plan 
This is the first half of the proposal, dependently to admit female un­students appear to be mostly, though not 
which in an earlier form, was presented by dergraduates. The experience of other all, in favor. Faculty opinion is divided;Father Burtchaell as an alternate to the institutions would lead to an
us expect one senses that there is an articulate 
Park-Mayhew Report at a February 13 upward trend in the size and quality of the minority opposed to union. The ad­meeting of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's applicant pool, both of men and women. ministration is pulled this way and that byCoordinating Committee. No formal action Without expanding present enrollment we divergent forces, but will probably judge on the proposal was taken at this meeting, could displace the less capable men ap­union to be in the College's best interests. and Father Burtchaell subsequently plicants with the more accomplished The Sisters of the Holy Cross, a con­
revised it in the light of suggestions made women, thus year-by-year upgrading the stituency in their own right, and in this by committee members and others. This student body academically. But the more case perhaps the most important, will revised proposal is now in the hands of appealing way to proceed is by union with exercise caution. Yet they are presently
members of this committee, and they will our sister College. The students are reconsidering tlile community's various be polled as to their views before it is set pressing for it, the faculty seem af­commitments (As are most religiousbefore the trustees of both institutions at a firmative, the administration is favorable, 
orders) in a more venturesome light, and Key Biscayne, Florida meeting March 19-the alumni will approve if it is cogently will probably make their decision on 21, 1971. The second part will be printed in presented and we feel that the trustees will of best Catholic
grounds what serves
tomorrow's Observer. accept it. All Notre Dame's constitutencies education, and what will permit the stand in unanimity. 
common Notre Dame-Saint Mary'sI. The State of the Discussion Saint Mary's, on the other hand, would educational heritage to survive. TheCoeducation--understood as joint study experience critical difficulties were Notre governing body will be spokesmen forby men and women scholars together--has Dame to become internallycoeducation::tl. their sisters. Satint Mary's alumnae will
swiftly grown at Notre Dame and Saint moreThe University would become the acquiesce in whatever decision the College Mary's during the last five years. 
successful competitor for superior female makes. Still, significant reluctanceNegotiations . to enlarge coed op­applicants. And if the University were to regarding union--specifically with.i..u thP.
portunities by bringing the two schools into need to withdraw the considerable faculty and the governinb 'oouy--remains. 
closer CO-()rdination have become in­academic opportunities and financial Thus the weight of c.:pprehension is almostcreasingly amicable and optimistic. Yet 
subsidies now afforded by co-exchange 
entirely (}n the Saint Mary's side of thethese discussions are frustrated again and 
and other combined operations, it would road.
again by certain recurring ambiguities. 
create a sharp setback for Saint Mary's. 
B. A second confusion comes from whatThe first ambiguity: Notre Dame does 
Thus it is to Saint Mary's advantage to 
one might call"peer pretense." The
not need to merge with Saint Mary's but 
share in the University's decision to 
courtesies of ongoing negotiations between wants to; Saint Mary's needs to merge, but 
maximize coeducation. Not all College 
two autonomous schools have obscured the is hesitant. Notre Dame could decide in-
constituencies seem of one mind. The 
fact that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are nowise equals. The University has an
Take a Break 
annual budget almost ten times that of the College. Notre Dame has more freshmen than Saint Mary's has students. As Monsignor John McGrath put it shortly


GLEE CLUB 

before he died, the Notre Dame officer to whom he most properly corresponded was not the President or Vice President, but the Dean of Arts and Letters. Thus the
SPRING CONCERT 
Park-Mayhew suggestion of a co-()rdinator is somewhat unrealistic. What is needed is not the merger of two equivalent in­Tuesday March 9 stitutions, but the incorporation of one into8:00PM another. This will have to be the work ofWashington Hall their respective administrations and faculties working together. 
Enjoy an Evening of Music 
C. Third, the relative financial position of the two schools has sometimes been misconstrued. For three years now the University has sustained deficits largerAdmission Free than those experienced by the College. This present year Notre Dame is budgeted 

Have the vision ofthe oneness oflife. 
Beyond all the magnificence of her temples and tombs and monuments. Beyond all the brilliance of her festivals and feasts and holy days. 
Beyond all the beauty of her mountains and valleys and cities. Beyond all this, and more, lies the true vision of India. You will find it within the spirit of the People. For they are the exemplification of the total oneness of life experience. From the seeker of truth and the prince of wisdom. To the scholar and the doctor. To the fisherman and the farmer. The People of India are the soul of India. Let us help you to understand the motivation and the meaning behind her culture 
and architectural masterpieces, her forgotten crafts and magnificent works of art. Let us help you get acquainted with her in a way so few have come to know. We have the means, like our "Meet the People Program," reduced student,rate travel 
fares (at least half the regular fare on rail, bus, and certain domestic flights), youth hostels and holiday camps (less than $1 a day), introductions to our college and university students, and more. 
For more information, see your Travel Agent or contact us, The Government of India Tourist Office, by mailing the coupon to the address closest you. New York: 19 E. 49th St., Chicago: 201 North Michigan Ave., San Francisco: 685 Market St. Oftices also in Canada and Mexico. 
The vision of the oneness of life. A gift from India. Please send me your free 52,page brochure telling me all about India. Name__________________________________________________________ 
Address,____________________________ City_________________State._____Zip·_____ 

See India. Itsanotherworld. 
... 7 


for a deficit of only $70,000, but Saint Mary's expects to close its books with a surplus. It would be most deceiving to conclude that Notre Dame is in a parlous financial condition, whereas Saint Mary's is secure. The contrary is true. The University possesses a considerable en­dowment (more than sixty times that of Saint Mary's) as a partial cushion against costly years. Even when we were suffering deficits, we were able to return income to portions of our endowment. Thus Notre Dame can afford to sustain a deficit. The College possesses almost no reserves, since it depends almost entirely upon tuition and fees, and could be bankrupted by a few chaotic deficit years. Fur­thermore, the College is presently in an impoverished cashflow situation. The prospect of gifts to the two schools mat­ches that obtaining everywhere: the established universities attract more and more benefactions, while the smaller colleges enjoy less fund-raising power. Furthermore, Notre Dame is now sub­sidizing its sister college in many ex­pensive ways. The Memorial Library has virtually become a common facility, and a pro-rated share it its operating budget would, if charged to Saint Mary's amount to something over $250,000 annually. The Saint Mary's share of joint data processing runs to about $10,000, also unrecovered. If we adopt a common, total data base, this figure may rise to $30,000. The co­exchange program appears to even out, since credit hours both ways are roughly equal. But if cost per credit hour is calculated, Notre Dame this year is subsidizing Saint Mary's by upwards of $65,000 for exchanged courses, not coun­ting overhead. These are but a few of the more obvious costs that Notre Dame has willingly absorbed as a contribution to the joint educational effort. If charged to Saint Mary's they could not have been paid. But if Saint Mary's is not now incorporated into the University, and Notre Dame must become independently coeducational, we 
could not justify the continued subsidy, and would probably have to withdraw the shared services. 
Continued tomorrow. 
I 
f!ili~ ~4eeu 
:?Jflfon11 
!hlle~ 


designed by Donald Claflin. Rings start at $295. 
·f.'ll 


CHICAGO 

. . The Sunday night staff predicts Muhammed Ali over Joe Frazier by a knockout . 

Monday, March 8, 1971 7118 O.&rEIHIDt page 3 
~***************************f 


II; f. ' .t'
page 4 
Monday, March 8, 1971 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief John E. Knorr, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck , Business Manager He that would govern others should first be the master of himself. ·-Phillip Massinger 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAM E,IN D lANA 
Bad Signs 
Father Riehle's remarks in Friday's Observer have sounded an ominous note in an area which has not received much attention lately. Fr. Riehle said that a resident assistant has the same discretion as a policeman in entering a person's room if there is an obvious violation of a university regulation. He also said that the university has never considered a dormitory room a person's private domain. 
The implication is that if a resident assistant believes that an activity contrary to university regulations is going on in a person's room, regardless of whether this activity is disturbing the good order of the hall, he should take steps to enter the room and search out the violation. 
Ultimate responsibility for such a policy rests with the Provost of the University. Coupled with his cavilier attitude towards the Werner case and his incredible disregard for the rights of the accused in the Hannahan , Brennan, Holbert, and Badger case, Father Burtchaell's apparent approval of this fiat indicates that he hopes to limit, and severely limit, individual student rights if and when he takes over this University. What a man does behind his own locked door is his own business unless it is a danger or a nuisanse to other members of the University Community, and being in a Notre Dame Dorm and in the same room as a woman at 2:30 in the morning definitely does not constitute either danger or a nuisance to the University Community. Because of that, we applaud and support-and hope that you will support-the courageous move of outgoing Student Body President Dave Krashna and outgoing Student Body Vice-President Mark Winings. By informing Fathers Burtchaell and Reihle in an open letter that they will be in violation Parietal Hours Wednesday morning and by inviting Fathers Burtchaell and Reihle to personally enforce the rule they expect their R.A.'s and rectors to enforce, Messers. Krashna and Winings have challanged the integrity of the order and the personal integrity of Burtchaell and Reihle. If the latter pair truly expect R.A.'s to play informant and rectors to unlock people's doors and invade people's privacy in order to enforce University Regulations on Parietal Hours, they they must be willings to do the same thing themselves. They have positive knowledge of a violation-what could be more positive than an open letter?-and now they must be willing to walk into 314 Howard Hall--Wining's room--and enforce the letter of the law against the Student Body President and the Student Body Vice-President. If they fail to do as much themselves, they they cannot expect the Resident Assistants to do it for them. Frankly, we hope they don't. To have the Resident Assistant play Security Policeman is a per­version of the Resident Assistant Program. How can students trust--or like--a Resident Assistant paid to inform on them to the University, or a rector instructor to invade their privacy with a key? How can they confide in such men? How can such a man be of any help in bringing students and Administration closer together, as Student Body President-elect John Barkett indicated he might be? If no one shows up in Mark Wining's room Tuesday Morning except Dave Krashna, Mark Winings, and the women those two men have invited to that room, it will be a victory not for confrontation politics, not for "Student Power," but for rationality, intellegence, and for the University as a whole. 
We suggest that Fathers Burtchaell and Reihle initiate that victory by ignoring the challange Krashna and Winings have given to them, and, further, by ignoring the unfortunate dictum made 
four days past. --"'·""·--_._.• ._•..,..___u_._.er._.....-....~ LETT'ERS 
Mr. Fleming's open "letter to Anita 'in the Observer of March 2 was one of the more mind blowing exposes (atleast to me) that you have everprinted. If1\lr. Fleming is correct, and his willingness to be specific lens strong credibility to his statement, St. Mary's is in far worse shape that I had ever imagined. His accusations canot go unanswered--a full ex­planation must be forthcoming. The issue of racism at SMC is particularly important in light of the various shcemes for merger. One thing Notre Dame does not need is more racism. Were I a trustee of N.D. I would have very serious qualms about in­corporating such a group of people into the University. Let the students but racists of any kind unwelcome. 
Edwin K. Isely 
Editor: 
At first lance, Milt Jones' comments on "the evil of Christianty" in his review of George Jackson's "Letters from Prison" seem quite reasonable. Here at "Christian University" there are only 120 blacks and, as Professor Ray Fleming points out in · his open letter, "Sr. Raphaelita, who handles ad­missions, feels that the 24 black students in St. Mary's enrollment of 1,711 are too many" The deplorable Dayton situation, in which 48 black students were recruited and then ignored, is another example of blatant in­justice, if not rascism, that still pervades this institutpon. 

Nevertheless, I must disagree with his conclusion that the fault lies with Christianity. Trust Christianity preaches love, justice, and individuality. Chrsit called on men to live by these standards, not the standards of any particular society. Chrsti, too, condemned those who live lives of "selfishness, possessiveness, and greediness". Since I do feel that Christ was "understanding the kind", I too must ask why Notre Dame permits rescisn to exist in its administration. But I do not fell that the problem is Christianity. I thpnk that the true problem here is that by its actions the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community has 
Itbecomes clearer with each day that the condition of society is ripe 
"'"'-•-"--"-...=-•""'..,.__..,_""•---· for change-change of a moral sort as well as a social one. And it is 
not sh10wn tru Christianity. But, if people of Notre Dame do not live up to an ideal, do we scrap the ideal? The leaders of Notre Dame, and indeed the entire , country, must examine their actions and rededicate our in­stitutions to the principles upon which our country and our church 
were founded. 

To scrap the ideals themselves, 
and . become victim to the same 
hates thwt out society is victim to 
is self-defeating. I hope that all 
men will reject the actions of 
those like Jonathan Jackson, 
who, in his quest to gain control 
and take over kidnapped three 
innocent people, and follow the 
example of of another Jackson, 
the. Rev. Jesse Jackson: "Let 
nobody pull you down to the level 
of hate. Don't let the hatred get 
inside of you.". No one, by the 
way, has ever accused Jesse 
Jackson of inaction or not living 
nobly. But, there will be many 
more George and Jonathan 
Jackson's as long as we allow 
rascism and injustice to survive. 
Paul Sanzo 388 Dillon To start off with, let us ~dopt a profound view of woman, profound, 
and yet so marve~ous_Iy SI?Jple: woman is a childbearer, her body 
pro~ects andsustam~first hfe. And let us add to this biological view a 
social m~e, one that IS born and nourished by her biological function: 
woman IS a partner for man. Let us, too, define man: man is the 
compliment of woman, the sower of seed from which first life 
springs. So too, he is a partner for woman. 
This is a good definition, and a very true one· but it is a bit too 
s~mplisitic for any place other than the Garden of Eden. In fact, it is a 
bit too honest even for there. These things we have said now are true 
but this is. n_o~ th~ Garden. This is the twentieth century, and in thi~ 
Western CIVIlization where we reside tile differences between woman 
and man have become very complex, and so greatly exaggerated. 
We find that some'Yhere in the progression of humanity from the 
Garden to the twentieth century, civilization was at first crudely 
formed, and then slowly developed. But, strangely this formation and 
development of civilization was the work of m~n alone· womans 
contributions remained the same basic and positive ones th~t they had 
a_Iway_s been~hildbearing and partnership. But as man spent more 
~1me _m the _construction of his civilization, woman gained a new 
tuncb~n~hildrearing-which she has kept ever since. And man, he 
too gamed some new and more complex functions-those of running 
the civilization which he had created. 
It's not hard to see from this how the roles that men and women now 
own were developed. Man became breadwinp.er and protector and 
thus socially and psychologicall the dominant sex. Woman b~ame 
homemaker and the protected sex; the role assigned to her was 
socially passive, and in time she came to be regarded as the property 
of man, who, when he took her for his mate, imparted to her his name. 
We in the Western world can trace the development of our civilization through the Greeks and Romans, the Hebrews and the Puritans. All of. these civi_liz~tions, at the thime they were flourishing, were male dommated societies. We have maintained this aspect. 
Man, in fulfilling his role as protector and sustainer of the lives of his 'Yife and children, has at times thought it necessary to destroy the hves of other men so that he could survive and grow. Woman, as the passive and neutral partner of man, was taught to keep her place and accept the benefits of conquest that man would bring her. This has been the way of humanity for tens of centuries. 
But this is the twentieth century, and civilization has changed. Survival is no longer a matter of the triumph of brawn over a hostile environment. The moral notion of equality has evolved to the extent that it is written into the constitutions of nations. Slaves base been set free. But despite all this, the male dominated society has persisted. The question is, why? Perhaps because man has cajolled woman into keeping her place by appeasing her with the products of his industrial civilization. Perhaps, even more so, because he has used power and force to insure that she stays there. 
Women .are demanding that this cycle be broken, and rightfully so. They have seen that among the products of a male dominated economic society are discrimination against and expoitation of women, and a kind of psychological brainwashing that teaches them to inhibit the expression of their talents. This type of domination of man over woman has become immoral. For by discriminating against hu~ans be~ause of their sex and by commercially exploiting their um9ue ~t.tnbutes, men have treated women as mere objects. And by mamtammg that women should be passive in all social relations the commercialist male has simply made it easier for women to be manipulated for his own selfish gain. This is no less than a fun­damental immorality. It is an immorality that the male dominated society as a whole must bear, just as it must bear responsibility for its other products-wars of genocide, espionage, military escalation the loss of spirituality. ' 
evident that such a change will not be accomplished by men alone; women must step up to be among the leaders. But they must not become merely the leaders of the local chamber of commerce or the business, for these are not positions of leadership but only positions where a person's true talents rot away in the pursuit of profit. 
No, for women to gain the equal rights but not exercise a moral force superior to the men who now run the society would only be a deeper and more profound defeat. Then they too would be shackled by the mat~rialism of ~ consumer oriented society. Not, the moral leadership of women IS urgently needed; their disappearance into the d~l<II:ums of middle class life-whether it be housewifery or bread­wmmng-would surely only entrench civilization deeper in its ways of unlife. To become the equal of modern man would cost woman no less than her woul. 
Woman, who is perhaps a more moral creature than man because of her closeness to the creation of first life must become all that she can b~, and yet m!lst refuse to pu~ on the shackles that man has built upon himself. And If she can do this, surely her partner, man, will follow And surely their civilization will change for the better. ' 
Change the man Change the woman Redirect the forces of the soul. 
Night Editor: Don Ruane Asst. News Editor: Tom Bor-Asst. Night Editor: Marty Miller nholdt Headlines and layout: Joe Abell, Night Controllers: Rich Smith, Gene Slason Jim McGrath 
Compugrapher: Bill Clemency 


-------------------------------~---------------------------------, 
Monday, March 8, 1971 · 'I1IB OJliiiiJIIt page 5 
~..~.;:;·_.:·;·:~~·:·:·;·~:;:;~::.::::::::~:;:~:;;:;:;;:~;:~:;:~:-i'!~!·":!=~~~~=~:::::::::!!::~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::~~'~'-~'~::..~:::~:::::::::~;;:::;:;t::;:::::::::::::::::::::;::;:::::::::::::~::::::::=: 
f:( ··-R~~~--R~b~~i Griffin 1

i love and spaghetti 1 
As a clergyman in the middle years of of personal worthlessness, which was so commented on how stirred their emotions In other words, young sir, know your life, I am used to receiving mail heavy deep, he suggested, that only a fear of hell were by the things you wrote. A number of own beauty and use it. H you feel im­with the emotion of sadness. Last summer, kept him from self-destruction. The mood, chaps and their girls wanted to know what perfect in some detail, remember that for example, the mother of Bob Depuy (the hopefully, was a transient one; the letter they could do to help. One girl, a very other men are also imperfect. In this Notre Dame student who died of cancer was written, after all, on a Friday night, lovely nurse, left me her name and ad­flawed, faulty world, the girl with the late last September) wrote me the first and Notre Dame weekends often are times dress; she requested I find some way of perfect body is born with a cleft lip; a boy news of her son-s terminal illness, and the when our most constant companions seem contacting you, because she wants to with the soul of an athlete is handicapped memory of that August day will forever be to be the joyless phantoms of our inner extend her friendship and share spaghetti. with a cripple's foot; a scholar who loves edged with grief. Or, sometimes one hears tensions. But it seemed obvious that the These offers werre not made, please be his mind discovers the madness that runs 
from a priest-friend who writes to say that boy had frequently been distressed by his assured, out of an overflow of pity, which in his family line; the saint with a passion he is leaving the ministry because of psychological situation, and that he faced would humiliate you, but out of a sense of for God is daily teased by the demons of difficulties with his bishop, and you mourn the prospects of many another Friday concern by kids who are prepared to ac­apostasy. because a chap exquisitely gifted with the nigpt when he would feel an inner emp­cept you with all your goodness and beauty 
Young stranger with the unknown name, touch of healing souls, will now be em­tiness as dismal as death. Because I am as a human being. 
I really can't think what to tell you about ployed as an unsuccessful salesman for a humanly concerned about this boy--and the choices you must make in the cir­third-rate insurance company. about allk the other beings of whom he is You see, young stranger, some of these cumstances of a life that leaves you soBut there was a special touch of sadness the paradigm-! would like to address the kids have also suffered. Everywhere I lonely, but I am sure that somewhere there attached to a letter I received recently. It following paragraphs directly to him. look, within myself or outside myself, I is a special kind of friends-perhaps the was an anonymous letter, typed on plain Young letter-writer cloaked in find that the ground is covered by birds chaps and the girls of whom I spoke-who stationery, from a student who knows me, anonymity, I thank you for your words with broken wings. Rarely among the are prepared to love you and accept youhe said, only from the scribblings I have written in anguish, though I have no words children of this world does one find a and be concerned about your welfare. But done this year for The Observer; he to mend the bruised places of your spirit, human being who is as fully endowed or for them to accept you, you must firstdescribed himself as one of those people the broken places of your heart. I hope you unblemished as he feels he must be if he is accept yourself as a being of sensitivitysometimes called "gay" or "queer" (his will not be offended with the uses I have to take to the air and sail the sky and lift and goodness, wisdom and grace. H atwords, not mine). The boy wrote to tell me made of your letter : on a recent Sunday, himself into tQz pathway of the sun where times your wing seems a bit more brokenof his sense of loneliness and alienation in for example, I read it during the homily at the trail of the rainbow begins. But a bird than all the others, remember that the a world that is mocking, cruel, or con­Mass (omitting a few very vague details must learn to trust his wings, broken or fallen sparrow was infinitely lovable totemptuous in its attitude toward the here and there, to completely conceal your otherwise, or poets could never sing of One Whose image is the gentleness of ahomosexual, and he spoke of his fear of identity) as a document illustrative of the feathers fluttering heavenward in a Lamb, sensely slaughtered on a cross ofinvolvement with people who could leave hurt thwt sometimes make a nightmare soaring flash of glory on a gray November wood.
him feeling sick and ashamed with out of life. You would have been touched, I morn, and mankind would lose the joy of Until we meet again-in letters or as arejection. The most touching quality of the think, by the concern your classmates looking up to see a touch of meadow soaring redbreateed against the sky. special kind of friend-may God bless you. 
letter was its revelation of the boy's mood showed for you; at least fifty people 
Mike Lenehan 

CJF reverberates Stepan Center 
If there was anything wrong with this festival, Notre J. B. High (Niles, Illinois), The
and Dame's School reportialism isn't becuase the festival was 
year's Collegiate Jazz Festival, it was that Buchanan, doubling o trombone and University of Illinois Hot Five, and The anything that merits it -what happenedthere was too much good music in too short euphonium with Coatis Mundi, received University of Illinois Jazz Band. The 
here this weekend, especially in this a time. Even a seasoned festival-goer and the CJF prize for Best Miscellaneous Illinois bands delighted the CJF fans as musical wasteland, just had too much good avid listener like Dan Morgenstern found Instrumentalist along with Roger Janotta suual, but I think they were shown up by stuff in it. The audience was listening, the 
the schedule a bit heavy, but gien the usual of the Neo-Classicla Quintet. the Melodons, who would be amazing if musicians were playing, and thingsSocial Commission fare, that doesn't seem A few changes have been made in the they weren't high school kids. Like the happened like they were supposed.like anything to complain about. structure of CJF, which this year was .. Towson Band and the other groups that CJF is known to musicians and jazzThis year's CJF featured twenty-three under the direction of Ann Heinrichs, a seemed to be the most popular with the educators as the college festival, and 
bands and combos from almost as many senior music major from St. Mary's. Most crowd, the Melodons borrowed heavily finally it seems to be receiving the different colleges and universities. They notable of these were the changes made to from rock. In addition to traditional jazz recognition on campus that it deserves. came from as far as Albuquerque, New de-em ;hasize the competitive nature of the stuff they did original arrangements of the There were a lot of students there, and aMexico and Cambridge Massachusetts to festival. and these were well recieved on Chicago tune "Make Me Smile" and Al lot of music, and like Charlie Haden told
perform before the thirteenth annual CJF the part of musicians and band leaders. Kooper's "Easy Does It", both of which me on Friday night, "What I've seen hereaudience, the first and oldest collegiate Also, for the first time, festival were highlighted by the crowd-pleasing
the makes me think that there really is hope." 
jazz festival audience in the country. presented three guest bands not in com­performances of vocalist Bob Green. Charlie Haden said that. About Notre 
CJF '71 presented perhaps the youngest, petition, the Melodons from Notre Dame Lest you should be confused, the dry Dame, yep, right here. and certainly the most progressive, judging panel in recent memory. As 
Eugene Molinelli
always, Morgenstern, editor of downbeat magazine, chaired the panel, which this year included Charlie Haden, Leon Thomas, Richard Abrams, and Gerald 

Snow and bad guys
Wilson. The judges awarded seven group feel better and he picks you up and shows 

prizes at this year's festival, four for big All that wonderful snow blowing think someone is throwing them at you.
you you can still walk okay and every­
bands and three for combos. around' up against the houses, sticking So you turn around to see who it is and a
thing. So you sorta thank him but you
Chosen as outstanding big bands were against the window glass that is so cold whole bunch of big guys are standing at
don't say anything you just look grateful 
the Towson State Jazz Ensemble from your hand freezes when you touch it even the end of the block with a big pile of 
Towson State College in Baltimore, The though yor are inside and it's warm. No and all. And he walks away and you see snowballs, and they're picking them upPhiladelphia Musical Academy Jazz how really big he was; as big as an eighth
school today-too much snow-the and throwing them at you. So you duck
Festival Ensemble, The Memphis State grader or something. But now everything
buses'll get stuck and even the teachers and run trying to get away so they will
Jazz Ensemble, and The Indiana State is okay so you head back and on your
probably · couldn't get to class even leave you alone.
University Jazz Ensemble. As expected, way home finish that billion-million miles 
though you think they live at school (but But they see you run and they
the Towson State band, led by professional you were running.
you're not quite sure). come charging after you hitting you all
composer Hank Levy, was the high-point And while Mom undresses you, you
So Mom dresses you up real warm with the time so that your head is cold and
of the weekend. Levy's tell her about the big man that helped
sweaters and scarfs and boots and mittens wet and hurts and all, and you're scared.
charts lean heavily on rock rhythms and you and was on your side against the
and everything so that you can hardly But you put your hands up to cover thepatterns, with some amazing melodic whole army of bad guys that has
expression on top, and they were played to move, and then she lets you go out and back of your head and you try not to cry.
wounded you. And you tell her about
perfection by his band, which comes from play. And you're running in the snow Up ahead you see another bunch of boys
how you and your friend made the 
a school of less than 5000 students. Levy that is sometimes very low and sometimes and are even more afraid. But then you feels that his kind of music is the wave of right up to your knees. And the sidewalks enemy retreat. And Mom smiles and you see your friend with these new guys and 
eat your supper and watch TV and
the future, and most who heard the Towson are icy when you can find them under all you know they came to help you and
pretend you and your friend are doing
band perform will agree with him, or at that snow and stuff so you've got to be fight off the bullies, and you know your
whatever is being done on TV and go to
least hope that he's right. H you want to careful when you walk on them. So you friend is the leader of them all. So you
bed because the snow stopped and you
know what I think, I think it's the most run and pretend you arc a soldier or a run right up to them, but they grab youexciting music I have ever heard. super-big-league-pro-football-player, and have to go to school tomorrow. and start shouting, We got him, We got
When you wake up the next day, the
you get shot or tackled so you must jump him. Then you're scared again and you 
sun is up and it looks like it is going to be
in the snow. And after a real long run look at your firend to help you but he is 
warmer. Breakfast is boiled eggs which
that must be a hundred-thousand-million­laughing with the rest of them and then
Three combos were also chosen by ghe you don't like 'specially but which you
-skillion yards and a new world-wide you don't know him anymore and are all
judges to receive cash awards, Organic must eat because Mom says it is good for 
record, and when it looks like you're alone again. And you can't do anything
Fusion from the University of Illinois, The you like ·she says about vegtables and
gonna run another million-skillion, you because they are holding you, and youNeo-Classic Quintet from the University of milk and stuff. Your lunchbox is sitting
suddenly fall on the icy walk arul bang begin to cry. Then they shout at you,New Mexico, and Whatever, a quintet on the counter and you grab it when you 
your knee so hard it hurts to move it so Grow up crybaby, and they take yourfrom Indiana University. The combo stuff leave the house and say goodby to Mom_
you can't get up and you begin to think lunchbox and throw it far away in thein general was more intellectual and not 
quite as exciting as the big band per­maybe you'll be here until it gets dark On the way to the bus stop you snow and then push you into the snow 
pretend you are grown-up and are going
formances, but then it's supposed to be and you try not to cry but you know too and you get all wet and they leave that wya, and some of those people were you're gonna start because it hurts and to work, and so you walk with your head you there, laughing at you. And you are 
you can't move. up and your back straight like grown-ups all wet and shivering and all alone. Anddoing some mighty interesting things. Ron 
Bridgewater of Organic Fusion was Then some big guy comes along and he do. Suddenly a snowball goes right past you cry and grow up all at once. named Outstanding Instrumentalist of the sees you and he smiles which makes you you and just misses your head you
so 



page 6 




TONIGHT! 
MORRIS AU&•n>R•uM. bDc>AS OPEN .T qPM 
March 8,1971 
WORLD'S HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP 
There will be one champion and only one champion 
JOE 

FRAZIER 
vs 


MUHAMMAD 
ALl 
Closed circuit television live from
Madison Square Garden NO LIVE OR DELAYED HOME TELEVISION 
STUDENT' 1"lcUTS &..oo ON sau: Mow f'I48U
•r M..a c 

L-~-~-~~t4...:..T_TI_M_E_,..___'____~ guerrillas, who never agreed to the cease fire, fired a sal":.o of 
JuniorYear 



inNewYork 
Washington Square College of Arts and Science of New York University sponsors a Junior Year in New York. 
The College, located in the heart of the city, is an 
integral part of the exciting metropolitan community of New York City-the business, cultural, artistic, 
and financial center of the nation. The citfs extraordi­
nary resources greatly enrich both the academic 
program and the experience of living at New York University with the most cosmopolitan student body in the world. 
This program is open to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to which they will return for their degrees. 
There are strong and varied offerings in many areas, 
such as fine arts, urban studies, languages including 
non-European, mathematics in the College and at the 
Courant Institute, psychology, and others. 
A qualified student may register for courses in all other schools of the University, including the specializations in Commerce and Education. 
The University sponsors programs in Spain and France. 
Write for brochure to Director, Junior Year in New York 

New York University NewYork,N.Y.l0003 
Monday;, March 8, 1971 

5 killed, 21 iniured in Cleveland battle 

CLEVELAND (UPI) -Police 
an Ohio and a New York motorcycle gang touched off a chain swinging, knife wielding "near riot" that killed five persons and injured 21. 
The fight erupted suddenly between the Akron Breed and the Violators, a branch of the Hell's Angels from New York City, about 10 p.m. Saturday at the 4th Annual Motorcycle Custom and Trade Show in the Polish Women's Hall. 
More than 200 police and the tactical fighter unit converged on the scene as the battle spilled to the streets of Cleveland's east side. They used tear gas to contain the brawl. 

. . . . Authorities questioned 73 men 
Cleveland Hom1c1de detectives Joseph F. Kilbane <L> and George and four women Sunday but 
Withers <R> look over some of the arsenal of weapons confiscated at charges were not expected to be 
the door of the Fourth Annual Motorcycle, Custom and Trades Show. filed until today at the earliest. 
Twenty-five ofthe men were picked up in Akron, 33 miles south, and returned here. 
Police could give no specific reason for the fight but said they 

Cease fire ended-­
• d suspected a fued between the two 
t..-ng not resu""'e
.A.I..I. ..1. I .I.
h 

MIDEAST (UPI) -The Middle East cease fire, which stopped the shooting between Arabs and Israelis seven months ago, ran out at midnight 5 p.m. EST yesterday but Egyptian, Israeli and Jordanian troops held their fire. 
,"No news is good news," an Israeli spokesman said in Jerusalem after the cease fire 
ended without any reports of renewed fighting between regular armies. However, the Palestinian 
rockets two hours before mid­night from Syrian territory into an Israeli settlement on the oc­cupied Golan Heights, a Jerusalem announcement said. 
Both Israelis and Arabs had placed their armed forces on emergency war footing before the cease fire expired, but they indicated there would be no immediate resumption of hostilities. 
President Nixon said Sunday the United States and Soviet Union are exerting a "restraining effort" on the Arabs and Israelis and he does not expect either side to start shooting. 
In a telephone interview he initiated with United News In­ternational, Nixon said "neither side will gain and both will lose" by a resumption of hostilities. 
CHIMES 

is accepting: poetry short fiction black and white photos essays sketches 
deadline: the ides of March Chimes 124 Made/eva St. N~ary's College 
Applications for the position of 


STUDENT UNION DIRECTOR 
may be pick,ed up in the Student Government office today. Applications must be returned to 
John Barkett ~J54 Morrisey by Midnight Monday March 8. 
gangs touched o~f what they
called the "near rwt." Patrolman Lawrence Davis, 36, a member of the tactical 

Open Letter 
(continued from page 1) parietals through forcible entry will be subject to civil legal proceedings (and we will furnish the Iawver). Furthermore, we 
feel that those, responsible for this "policy"--either Father Riehle or Father Burtchaell (preferably both)-should be personally willing to back up their statements. Thus we will not allow any resident assistant or rector to enter the room. We will permit either Father Riehle 
or  Father Burtchaell  too  enter  
provided  they  expressly  state  
their reason for knocking.  

See you Tuesday, Dave Krashna Mark Winings fighter unit who was treated for a 
knife wound in the back, said he 
and nine other officers went to 
the hall because of a rumor there 
might be trouble. 
A few minutes after they 
arrived, "all hell broke loose," he 
said. 
"We didn't know where to 
turn," Davis' partner, Patrolman 
Thomas Burton, 36, said. "We 
just started clobbering 
everyone." 

SMC reply due 
(continued from page 1) 
(3) 
a black academic and psychological counselor to work full time. 

(4) 
nationwide recruitment of black students; 

(5) 
faculty appointee to assist the director along with a full-time secretary and two black work­study students; and 

(6) 
a feasible budget which would enable the director to successfully execute his responsibilities. 


Besides presenting recom­mendations, the proposal also states the qualifications which the ABCWA would prefer for the new office's personnel. 
They feel that the director should be a college graduate of an accredited college, aware of black life who has had experience living and working with black minority groups. The group wants to reserve the right to review all candidates.. 
The counselor should have a degree in psychology or another related field, the proposal states, and the faculty appointee and secretary should both be chosen by the director. 
The proposal also lists four grievances which the ABCWA has found present at SMC this year. These include: 
(1) no recruitment of black students for next year; (2) an 80 percent budget cut for the Office of Inter-cultural affairs; (3) no active recruitment of black faculty; and (4) little official correlation of courses in the areas of African and Afro­American studies with the Black Studies program at Notre Dame. 
"It is now time for St. Mary's to make a definite committment to black people and toward this end we propose the office of Black Affairs," ABCWAclaims. "In the past black students have gone to administrative officials seeking their assistance in matters concerning black campus life, but our efforts have shown to be counter-productive in so much as the situation, instead of im­proving, has deteriorated." 
"We black students of St. Mary's College" they continue, "feel that the situation now existing is one of pure and simple racism. St. Mary's, having professed to be a Christian community, embodied with the ideals of love for humanity, should feel obligated to alleviate situations such as they exist in our society today." 
NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S 
Theology Major 
<Freshmen and Sophomores) 
'Meet your Ma;or' Meeting 
March 8 7:00PM 120 O'Shag 
page 7

Monday, March 8, 1971 TIIBOBJZIHIIIt 
Bloody battles hilight Bengals 
by Terry Shields_ Another great fight last Friday Observer Sports Ed1tor was in the 135 lb. class. Pat 
Probably more than any other McGrath hooked up with Mike bout in this year's 40th annual Loughery in a donnybrook that Bengal Bouts, the 145 lb. would have made any Irishman championship told told the story smile. McGrath was in control in of what the Bengals are all about. the first round but Loughery It was the dream match of the came back in the second to knock entire tournament. down the last of the fighting 
The principles for the event McGraths. were two defending champions, Pat didn't take long to Tom Suddes, a senior, and Gary retaliate, about 15 seconds to be Canori, a junior. Both are exact. He leveled Loughery with probably the most talented and a very hard right. The two battled knowledgeable boxers in the field almost evenly in the thris round. of fighters. The match was looked The decision went unanimously forward to with more interest to McGrath but he knows that than any other of the evening. Loughery will provide plenty of 
The fight was all that anyone competition next year. could have asked for in the way of The 140 lb. class was a close action and dramatics. Suddes fight for the championship. Tom entered the ring with a huge Kress wore donw Steve Duffy to "mouse" on his left eye, which he take the unanimous nod but this suffered in his semi-final bout was not before Duffy had con­with Dave Pemberton. This nected often enough to turn didn't seem to bother the boxing Kress' mustache a bright blood club president in the first round red. as he scored numerous times on In the battle of the little guys the muscular Canori with un-025) Jack Griffin won each believeably quick jabs and round in a unanimous win over combinations. Jerry Bradley. Although Griffin 
In the second round Canori won by a comfortable margin, came back and wisely moved to Bradley was still slugging away Suddes' left to take advantage of at the final bell. the completely closed eye. He obviously won the round. The Mike Suddes, Tom's brother 

third round told the story of the had a little better luck in his 150 entire Bengals. Canori used all of lb. championship. He and Jim Gary Canori <on right> prepares to a right on Tom Suddes his experience and skill to score Lusk just felt each other out in 
to a halt against Aaron Baker but and he dominated the third round slight lead Minnix continuallyearly in the round and once he the first round withSuddes get­he had piled up enough early a~ Ba~ry tried gamely to stay clinched in the third round asbuilt a lead he knew that Suddes ting a slight edge and in the points to hand on to the decision with him. The decision was split Connelly attempted an attack.
had to come to him. He wasn't second, Lusk started to come on a illl 155 lb. Kerrigan won the first in favor of McGowan. Connelly seemed to score more wrong. little. Mike won the final round two rounds as Baker seemed to Mike Burns captured the 175 heavily with his powerful right inThe former champ of the 145 and by virtue of this he took a hold too much before the final championship over Dennis Clark the third than Minnix did with his division fought back with unanimous decision. 

period. Both fighters were by a split decision. Burns scored jabs in the first two rounds buteverything he had, but his injured slugging away as the final bell in the first and second rounds on the judges thought otherwise. It eye hampered him noticeably. The powerful Ed Carney rang and both had given 100 per the strength of a good jab. He was a split decision for Minnix.
His only real weapon was seemed to have the least trouble courage. of any boxer on the card when he cent. Kerrigan won unanimously. then held off Clark in the third. It This wound up the 4oth annual 
The Cinderella fighter of the was too little, too late for the bouts and these fights were aThe ring announcer, Jack won the 160 lb. title. He knocked tourney, Norm Barry, almost Bethesda Bomber. fitting testimony for theirdown Tom O'Hearn twice in theLloyd, took a little longer than pulled off his second major upset The heavyweight fight may director and promoter, Dominicfirst round. In the second roundusual before he made known the he punished O'Hearn with a of the bouts. He was the agressor ha~e been the biggest disap-J. "Nappy" Napolitano. At adecision. If it had been one of in the first round of his 165lb. title pomtment of the evening. For the banquet held in his honorthose old fight movies instead of number of combinations. 
fight with senior Mark McGowan first two rounds both fighters previous to the fights, Nappy wasAlthough Although Tom hung onthe real thing, the nod would have and he took this round from tried to feel each other out and given a gift of a vacation in Italygone to Suddes on a sentimental to go the distance, most everyone McGowan. The hard-punching Bob Minnix scored on an oc-by his hundreds of firends. Nappy knew the results before thevote. But this was no movie and McGowan turned the momentum casional jab to the head of Matt deserved it for the great job hegolden-throated Lloye announced Canori won on a split decision. He in his favor in the second round Connelly. Knowing that he had a has done with the Bengal Boutsthe decision.
deserved it, but the courage over these many years.

displayed by the rugged Suddes 
will long be remembered by those The boxing machine they call 
who were present at the fight. Kevin Kerrigan started to grind 



Tomasoni to U.S., ND drops 2 
from New York for Prague from Bumbacco.
by Jim Donaldson 

Czechoslovakia early Wednesday Craig Patrick tied the score
Observer Sportswriter 

and will oppose the Czechs in a~ 8:05 on a U.S. power play but
The U.S. National hockey team some exhibition contests before Jim Cordes gave the Irish theleft Notre Dame's ACC this heading for Bern, Switzerland lead once again, at 8:18, firing
weekend with more than just a and the World Champion home a 20-footer. Bob Howe

pair of hard fought victories-­

ship tournament, which made it a 4-2 game at 10:41 while
they also left with Irish goalie 

begms March 19. the Nationals were a man short.
Dick Tomasoni. 

There is a good chance that The Nationals scored their
It was like something you'd 

Tomasoni will see some action in third, fourth, and fifth goals of 
read in a fictional sports novel. 

the tournament as the Nat's the period in the final six minutes 
Tomasoni, who had been out­

number two goalie, Mike Curran, of the stanza, however, to take a 
standing in Notre Dame's 7-5 and 

has a bad knee injury and Carl 5-4 lead into the dressing room. 
4-2 losses to the U.S. National 

Wetzel, who was in the nets for Ian Williams knotted the count
team this Saturday and Sun­

the games with the Irish is at 5-all just 1: 18 into the final
day,was approached by the Nats' 

ha~pered by the flu a~d a period but the Irish were unable
coach, Murray Williamson, after 

grom pull. to go ahead again and Henry
Sunday's game and asked if he 

Somewhat overlooked in the Boucha scored the game-winner
would like to accompany the U.S. 

excitement of the Tomasoni for the Nat~ on a 20-foot slap shot 
team on their trip to Europe for 

incident was the fact that the ~t 16:05. Tim Sheehy added an
the World Championship tour­

Irish played fine hockey against msurance goal for the Nats atnament. 
the Nationals, despite absorbing 18:43 after Smith had pulled
Tomasoni readily agreed and, 

a pair of losses. Tomasoni in favor of a sixth
after getting his parents' and 

"If there is such a thing as a skater.
coach Lefty Smith's approval, 

moral victory, we had two this The Irish fell behind early
and accepting the good wishes of 

weekend," Smith commented. Sunday night as Henry Boucha
his teammates, Tomasoni joined 

"We played very well both scored just 20 seconds after the
the other members of the U.S. 

nights. If we had played as well opening faceoff. The Nats went 
team as they boarded their plane 

all season, we would have won 20 ahead 2-0 on a second period goal 
last night for Minneapolis. 

games." by Schilling but Jim Cordes made 
"I'm very surprised and very 

The Irish held a 4-2 lead in it 2-1 when he beat Wetzel on a 15­
happy," Tomasoni said while 

Saturday's game before the U.S. foot shot just 18 seconds into the
hastily packing his bag in the 

skaters staged a rally that final period.
Irish dressing room. "My parents 

carried them to a 7-5 win. Tim Sheehy netted the eventual 
were pleased and I"M ANXIOUS 

. Eddie Bumbacco's goal 3:48 game-winner for the Nats at 14:40TO GO." 
mto the game gave the Irish an of the third period. Noble closed
"This is a tremendous op­

early lead, which they held the gap to 3-2 when he scored a
portunity for Dick," coach Smith 

th_roughout the opening stanza. power play goal for the Irish at
remarked, after helping 

Tomasoni get ready for his hasty 

departure. "It's a tremendous 

second period but Ian Williams Boucha gained possession of th~
put the Irish back on top 40 puck in the Nats end and fired the 
seconds later, scoring from in puck from his own blue line into The U.S. squad will depart close after taking a fine pass the empty cage.



------------------------------~---~------~--­
page 8 

THB O&IZRflllt ,Monday, March 8, 1971 



Frazier-AI i I how they got there-
Joe was born in Beaufort, S.C., to the attention of Yank Durliam, of a medical disqualification. one of the dreariest poverty a local trainer. Joe was then 17 The injury slowed Frazier's pockets for American blacks. 'Phe and Yank was holding a fulltime ascent into the professional ranks youngest of seven boys in a job as a welder for a railroad. where he hoped to become the family of 13 children, he quit Yank took Joe under his wings first Olympic heavyweight school in the ninth grade and thus and the two are still a team. champion ever to win the pro terminated his hopes of becoming Frazier became one of America's heavyweight title, too. Mean­
a high school quarterback. He best amateurs, a 190-pounder while, financial problems arose. worked on his father's farm, then who lost only twice in four years -But the minister at Hope Baptist migrated north to join relatives --both times to 300-pound Buster Church, where Joe was janitor, 
first in New York, then in Mathis. came to the rl$cue, leading to the 
Philadelphia . He eventually took The second Mathis defeat formation of Cloverlay, Inc. a job as a meat cutter in a almost turned Frazier's career to Frazier ran up a string ·of slaughterhouse. the worst. It took place in the 1964 eleven straight knockouts in 1965 
Only by chance did he return to U.S. Olympic trial finals at the and 1966 before he ran into bullish sports. The work in the packing New York World's Fair. Because Oscar Bonavena. The Argentine 
house hardened his stocky but it was the final match, though, had Joe on the floor twice, but muscular body. When his weight Joe was selected as an alternate. Frazier determinedly fought on reached 230 pounds and the price He became the U.S. heavyweight and salvaged a decision. KO of clothes went beyond his reach, representative to Tokyo when victories over rugged Doug Jones he went to the local Police Mathis injured his hand. Frazier and George Chuvalo elevated Joe Athletic League gym to pare KO'd his way .to the finals of the to the class of contenders. Then down his arms and thighs. A Games, then defeated West on March 4, 1968 -with the pretty good street fight,er from German Hans Huber for the gold heavyweight picture in the air way back (I'm going to become a medal. After the triumph, because of Ali's court case ­Joe Louis," he used to tell his Frazier revealed he had fought Frazier won a share of the con­
sister), Frazier took up organized with a dislocated left thumb, but fused title by knocking out his old 
boxing in the PAL gym and came neglected to tell officials for fear nemesis, Mathis, in 11 rounds. It was the first major bout in the new Madison Square Garden. 
Frazier ran his streak to 25 by stopping WBA champion Jimmy Ellis in early 1970. That made Joe 
face flashed across television 1 champion refused to come out for 
the undisputed world champion, 
screens the most times. If 'the seventh round and thus
Ali's Army not withstanding. In 
statisticians kept such facts, handed the title over to the brash 
his only bout since then, he 
though, they would clearly prove 22-year-old. There was an uproar·
walloped light heavy champ Bob 
that the most famous athlete in about the fight, mostly aimed at
Foster last November with a 
the world-and maybe for all. Liston, but it was nothing com­
jarring left hook in the second 
time-is boxing champion pared to their rematch.
round.. It was Joe's 23rd 
Muhammad Ali. Not long after winning the title, knockout. 
Now 29 years old, Muhammad Clay admitted that he had joined 
Throughout all his battles, 
Ali (nee Cassius Clay) has the controversial Muslim sectFrazier, like Ali, has not one 
mark on his face (except for a always had a knack for being and henceforth preferred to be .seen and heard. His mother known as Muhammad Ali ("Clay
motoreycle accident) which is a 
Odessa Clay, insists that he wa~ is my slave name," he scowled).
tribute to his defensive acumen. 
the loudest one-day-old in the Furthermore, Listons alleged
Offensively, the powerful Frazier 
Louisville, Ky. hospital where he underworld connections and the
left hook is the most devastating 
was born. Boyhood friends recall whole system of championshipin boxing. 
him as the kid who would rather bouts (Liston s people owned the 
In the ring, Frazier is hungry. 
race the school bus instead of ride contract for ali's first title
"There's a man out there trying 
it in his quest to entertain defense!) came under attack.
to take away what you got," he 
schoolmates. And as a young The second fight was bounced
says. "You're supposed to 
professional boxer, he was aptly from town to town until it landed 
destroy him. Why have pity on 
named "THE Louisville Lip" in rustic Lewiston, Maine.
him?" 

because he was forever blowing "Lewiston where?" seemed to be
Out of the ring, Frazier is a 
his own horn. "I ammm theeee everyone's first reaction.
different story. He's quiet, 
greeeatest" he'd tell anyone who But Lewiston became firmly
though his favorite pastime ts a 
would listen. · imprinted in boxing archives
rock group called the Knockouts 
Mostly Cassius Clay was trying before the night of May 25, 1965
which has been booked into 
to build a gate for his fights was over. Only 2,424 fans showed
Caesar's Palace and other class 
(which in the long run helped the up for the world title bout, partly 
spots. He was selected 
opponents he insulted) or was because of an alleged Muslim
Philadelphia's Man of the year in 
trying to call attention to himself plot (LEWISTON AN ARMED
1968, and was named to the 
as a heavyweight contender, but CAMP' headlined on New York
President's Counicl on Sports last 
he incurred the wrath of the paper) which never materialized ,year. 
purist and the naive. plus the fact that Lewiston was
Officially he's the world 
However, the colorful braggard not exactly the boxing capital of
champion, but he was willing to 
backed up his words in the ring. the world. Ali, the underdog
take Ali in the "FIGHT OF THE 
The former Olympic light again, pulled another upset-a
CHAMPIONS" March 8 to settle 
heavyweight champion promplty shocking first round knockout. 
any doubts. There's no question 
ran up a string of 19 victories 05 His "phanthom punch" sent
that he has the tools to do it. In 
of them knockouts) after turning Liston to the canvas at 2:12 and
fact, right after bout

the was another controversy raged.
professional at age 18. On a dozen
announced, oddsmakers made 
occasions he did indeed knock out If Ali's talents were suspect up
Joe Frazier a surprising early 
his opponent in the precise round to that point, they weren't later.
favorite. 

that he predicted. After he He became a fighting champion, defeated veteran name boxers defending his title against the Archie Moore, Charlie Powell, best contenders eight times in the Doug Jones and Henry Cooper in next two years. His style was
the statistics kept in
For all******* 

succession, the public demanded superb. He exhibited extremely
sports, there are no figures to 
that Clay be give a title bout with quick footwork ("the Ali Shuf­
measure which athlete in the 
Sonny Liston. Liston was con-fie") and smooth movements
world has had the most words
You need a certain touch. If you think you can handle 
sidered virtually invincible by interspersed with lightening jabs 
written about him or has had his 
A special drive. Whatever the job, let us know. Our birds 
experts and oddsmakers alike ("Float like a butterfly, sting like 
comes up in Navy air, you have are ready when you are. 

after his pair of one-round a bee"). He remained un­
to handle it. Jockeying a The Naval Aviation Program 
European 

knockouts of ex-champ Floyd defeated.
hot jet off the deck in foul information team will be 

weather. Hunting through visiting your campus on the 
Patterson. But in March, 1964, at But his battle outside of the

Student Travel 

skyways where even the wind date(s) marked below; why 
Miami Beach's Convention Hall, ring with the U.S. government
$245 Round Trip

gets lost. Or bossing the little not drop in and find out more 
Cassius Clay performed the over his draft status was a
black box with the big punch. about the care and handling 
Large selection of dates -study 
impossible dream. A 7-to-1 un-complete loss, though he con­
Whatever you do, you learn our rare birds. 

tours and language courses -year 
derdog, he nearly did not come tinues to appeal to this day. His
to do it right. You learn the When we're through, you'll 
round student service 

out for the sixth round because he licenses to fight were taken away 
difference between taming a have your Wings of Gold and 
Join National Union of Students,
falcon and a wren. commission as a Naval Officer 
was rubbing his eyes and and he spent his time stumping
Inc. now for full benefits -write 
charging Liston with using for the Muslims, lecturing at
January s M T w T F s s M T w T s 

or call for full information and 
something on his gloves to impair campuses, and writing his
2 3 4 5 6 7 9 
brochure.

10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 
vision. But Clay was pushed back autobiography (not yet com­
Carrpus Rep required: Applicants 1 
24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 

for this financially rewarding into the ring and proceeded to run pleted) for which he received a position should mark envelop Liston ragged and pepper him $200,000 advance-a record for a 
s M T w T F s s M T w T F s 

"Programme Co-ordinator." All 
with stinging jabs. The defending sports figure. 
interested write to:

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 
National Union of students 

Travel Service, Inc. Suite gu 159 W. 33rd St. March s M T w T F s s 
28 

New York, New York 10001 
2 3 4 5 6 MQ~s11 1 13
8 
Phone: (212) 565-1732 
(212) 565-4199

i4 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 5 6 27 
Telex: 421437
28 29 30 31 

Offices in N.Y., London, Dublin, Pans

TheN 











