


Vo. VI. No. 23 Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Tuesday, October 12, 1971 
Senate passes this year's budget 

By Tom Bornholdt 
The Student Senate tackled and passed the budget last night, for the most part, in accordance with 
that  which  had  been  recom­ 
mended  by  the  Finance  Com­ 
mittee.  
The  most  significant  change  

was the allocation to MECHA. The organization for Mexican Americans was allocated $2.500 as opposed to the Finance Committee recommendation of $1,750. 
The Afro-American Society received $4,500, an increase of $500 over the Finance Committee recommendation. The Student Life Fund, which would give money back to Off-Campus and to meedy halls, was awarded $5,000, or $500 less that the recom­mended amount. 
After much debate the Senate voted the Student Union the· $37,500 suggested by the Finance Committee. InPIRG was granted $350, International Students Organizaion $1,500, Native Americans $500, and the Finance Forum $100. 
Cotton Bowl AID 
The most impassioned plea seemed to come from MECHA, one of whose spokesmen yelled, "Our people are starving" and asked how many present had ever been starving. 
~~~~~·l 
Washington-United States forces in South Vietnam released a North Vietnamese prisoner-of-war as part of a one-for-one exchange initiated by the communists three days ago when the Vietcong released a United States Army soldier, United States officials said. The American soldier when released was given an oral message to the effect that the Vietcong expected the Americans to reciprocate with the release of a Communist prisoner. 
Saigon--Several American soldiers defending an allied fire base near the Cambodian border "expressed a desire not to go" out on patrol for a time on Saturday, a United States Army spokesman 'an­nounced. When the order was repeated the men prepared to move out but the order was withdrawn because a South Vietnamese unit by then had occupied the position. 
Washington--High Nixon administration sources disclosed President Nixon will ask Congress to create a "temporary emergency court of appeals" to hear cases arising from the new system of wage and price controls. The special court would provide speed and uniformity in handling cases stemming from the decisions of the pay board and price commission. 
Washington--A graduated tuition fee based on family income, believed to be the first of its kind in the nation, was adopted by a private, liberal arts school in Wisconsin. Beginning next fall, fresh­men at Beloit College will pay, depending on their family's taxable income and a portion of their assets, anywhere from $1,000 to $3,300 tuition per year. 
Miami--The Federal Aviation Administration has decided to with­draw a controversial, proposed Federal standard for measuring airport noise and will allow representatives of the air transport in­dustry help rewrite it. Airport managers complained about the original proposal, arguing that it might make them liable to purchase tens of thousands of homes near an airport. 
Washington--Sen. George S. McGovern, in a "clarification of remarks made on a television interview," said that the nomination of Sen. Robert C. Byrd "would be highly divisive, not only in the Senate but in the country at large," and called upon President Nixon not to nominate Byrd. 
MECHA spokesmen noted that it is a year round project, and capable of generating money. 
Armando Alonzo, MECHA president, stated that, "we can't depend on Cotton Bowl aid. '1 
During the discussion of MECHA, spokesmen of the group charged that the University had not accepted one Chicano from Chicago during the last year, despite the fact that MECHA convinced several schools to send a sizable number of applications. 
The senate responded by voting to allocat $2500.00, a figure $750.00 over the reccomendations of the finance Committee. 
The Scholastic came before the Senate to ask for $2,000, chiefly to publish their Course Evaluation. Co-.Editor Joe Hotz said that the magazine could not finance the Course Evaluation by cutting out two issues as the Senate Finance Committee recommended, since they had a commitment to their advertisers to print fourteen issues. 
After continued inquiries by several senators as to how the Scholastic could save money, Co­Editor Mary Ellen Stoltz remarked that more than ad­vertising was involved in the Scholastic's request; that there was a commitment to the staff as well to go 14 issues. 
(continued on page 4) 
/<.• 

Deliberations The Student Senate as It completed dllib erc:dions on thi!' year's budget. 
SMC counselor appointed 
Timothy J. Casey has been humanities from St. John's appointed assistant to the University in Collegeville, Minn., director of Counseling at St. and holds a master's degree in Mary's. guidance and counseling from 
Casey, a doctoral candidate in Notre Dame. the counseling psychology He has also had three years division at Notre Dame's experience as a hall resident Department of Education, assistant, has participated as a received his bachelor's degree in group leader with Notre Dame's 
SMC plans parietal test 
A new parietal policy will be tested at St. Mary's College beginning Oct. 15 it was decided Monday at the Student Affairs Committee meeting. 
Also approved at the meeting was the elimination of freshman hours for the second semester. 
The parietal experiment will be held in LeMans Hall for four consecutive Fridays from 7:30 
p.m. to 1:30 a.m. 

Hall President Margie Rurak said her hall was selected because the residents provide an equal representation of all classes. 
If the experiment is a success, each hall council, under terms of the policy, will determine how parietals will be implemented. 
Darlene Gallina, spokesman for the proposal, explained the rationale behind it as the need for self determination by those directly affected by the rule. 
Some SAC members objected to the proposal claiming lack of 
Co-ex dinners 


'We just aren't attracting the girls' 
Edmund Price, Food services director, said Monday that he does not have control of the co-ex meal-ticket distribution; he only has them printed up. 
"It is primarily a student function," said Price, "and the students have been given the authority to distribute them themselves." 
Regulation through the public cafeteria created a problem for the full-time employees, Price added. 
"There is certainly a problem this year ... we just aren't at­tracting the girls," the food director said, adding that Gary Caruso has been spearheading the co-exchange dining hall program and is working on better ways to get St. Mary's girls to come here. 
Caruso said that a new system of distribution will begin Oct. 19. "I spoke to the hall presidents 
again and we have decided to allow a specific hall 70 tickets and another 20 tickets for other students at the Student Govern­ment office." 
Caruso encouraged the hall presidents to promote social functions to attract girls. The present concensus is to regulate the tickets to the halls, he added. 
When asked about the problem of obtaining tickets for girls at the Notre Dame campus (they are only available at St. Mary's Student Government office), Caruso said he would be willing if Price would agree. 

responsibility ·and consideration among SMC residents, and noting violations of the current Sunday afternoon visitation rules. 
However, proponents replied that it is not a lack of responsibility but a ·lack of belief in a policy the residents did not have a voice in formulating. 
Due to the merger of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, a joint election for the freshman offices of president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer will be held Thursday, October 21, with members from both campuses eligible for candidacy. 
Petitions may be picked up at the Student Govern­ment Secretary's Office, Jrd floor La Fortune experimental education effort, "Project Aurora," and is presently serving as a group leader in the non-violence seminars at Notre Dame. 
Casey will be available to students Monday through Friday afternoons in Room 164 of the SMC student personnel area, in LeMans Hall. He can be reached on campus rhone extension 4835. 
Casey wil also serve as a group discussion leader for the student advisor program serving the freshmen. 
"The addition of a qualified staff member, to the Counseling Department,'" according to Miss Mary Martucci, director of the student advisor program, "un­derlines the commitment of St. Mary's to serve better student needs in the counseling area. 
Tuesday Oct. 12 through Friday Oct. 15, and are to be returned by Tuesday Oct. 19. 
Campaigning is to begin Tuesday Oct. 12 and Is to cease at 2 a.m. Thursday Oct. 21. 
For further Information or questions, contact: 
Mike 1605 Maureen 5176 Mike 1317 Jackie 5145 

_Page 2 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 12, 1971 

Off-campus trouble mars calm week 

By Mick Kane & Joe Tanzosh 
A good deal of ·off-eaw..pus trouble marred a relatively calm week on campus, according to Security Director Arthur N. Pears. 
Two students were assaulted in­front of Frankie's Carry-out by "seven or eight" youths. One of the assailants reportedly had a gun in his possession. They demanded money but, according to the security report, were given only one of three sixpacks of beer in the students' possession. 
In another incident, Pears reported that a student was shot off campus with a pellet gun however he did not release any details. 
On campus, a student was taken to St. Joe Hospital with 
New liaison 
\ 
A Food Services Committee acting as a liaison between the dining hall and students is now in the process of being formed, Student Government Human Affairs Commissioner, Steve Fortunato announced Monday. 
The Committee will be headed by Pete Patriarca, a junior in pre-med. 
The committee will solicit student comment by a series of questionnaires, either distributed at the dining halls or sent to individual rooms. One questionnaire will concern menu preferences, while another will concern the physical make-up of the dining halls, and ask for suggestions to improve ef­ficiency. 
A third questionnaire will concern interest in "special nights" such as Western Night and Hawaiian Night. Additional questionnaires will be distributed as the need arises. 
The committee will also look into the possibility of asking the administration to help alleviate the extremely long lunch lines following II:15 a.m. classes by asking them to schedule half the classes at the regular time,and the other half from 12:10 p.m. to 
1:00 p.m. 
Questionaires will be distributed towards the end of the semester concerning relative success, disappointments, and personal comments. After critical evaluation, the com­mittee hopes to make con­structive suggestions for the future. 
Patriarca met with Edmund Price, director of Food Services, and termed Price's reaction, "extreme:ly enthusiastic." Price asked for both constructive criticism and complimentary comments. 
The Observ~r is p(!blished daily 'dining the college semester except vaeations by the':students of the -University otNotre Dame .nd it:' /lfi~[Y's ~-l:k!ge. ~bscriptipn~ may be purtflased for S8 per semester fr~m The Obse;ver, Pox Q, Notre . Dame1Indiana 465~6. Second class 'postage pard, ~tr-e Dame, Ind. 
lascerations of the hands after to Pears. He refused to release attempting to close a glass any other information on the transome during a "water and case. shaving cream fight," while Both the foot patrol and the another student suffered a motor unit were tied up with broken leg while playing football other complaints when the on the main quad. robbery occurred, Pears com­
Broken windows were reported mented. This is why there was a in automobiles in lots C-3 and C-2. thirty minute delay before an 
A dark blue 1967 Volkswagen officer reached Grace. with Pennsylvania liscense plate "The motor unit also checked C86677 was stolen from D-1. out possible leads in the parking Pears noted that the car also bore lots before going to Grace," a sign reading "Born Loser" on Pears said. the front. Normally the department likes 
Investigation Continues to respond to calls and com-



Saturday, October 16
I I
I Tickets $4.50, $3.50, $2.00 at I The Student Union Ticket 



li\'iiiiJSfttll
I Office and Dining Halls I 
presented by Student Union 
I I t;J\•Ittr
Social Commission and ACC
I • I
' 
' I 
._-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·------------------~
~ 
~ 
f 



THE OBSERVER 
Harriers 6th in IItvitational 
by Vic Dorr, '74 posted a final point total of 212. Dan Dunne Cl9th--24:37l was the
Alex Wilson, the coach of the 
top finisher for ND, and the Irish 
ND cross-country team, prefaced , 
harriers following him were Pat
Friday's 16th Annual Notre 
Holleran (37th--25:04), Gene
Dame Invitational meet by 
Murcer (43rd--25:08), Jeff
saying,"We look for a number of 
Eichner (52nd--25:10), and Dave
improved teams here, I don't 
Bell (6lst--25: 17).

think anyone's going to run away 
Western Michigan's Gary
with it." 
Harris, who captured individual
The first part of Wilson's 
honors in the ND Invitational last 
analysis may have been 
year, fell far short of his 1970
accurate, but his second 
performance and finished 16th
prediction was far off the mark. 
with a time of 24:42. •
For despite the mist and the rain 
The times and the individual
which made conditions on the 
. efforts Friday's race

Irish cross-country course less in were 
apparently not affected by the
than ideal, someone did run away 
cold, wet weather. Except for
with the meet. And that someone 
Harris, who fell some 43 seconds
was annual powerhouse Bowling 
short of his '70 mark, the
Green. 
repeating runners, if anything,
The Falcons, who were 
turned in improved per­
defending their 1970 title, placed formances.
three runners in the top ten finishers (first, fifth, and ninth ., Wottle showed a 17-second 
improvement over his '70 per­
place l, and posted a final score of 58 points, easily better than the "' ' formance, and second place 
Antognoli bettered his old mark
tallies of Western Michigan (who placed second overall with 99 ' ~ by 46 seconds. And the same held 
true for Coach Wilson's charges.
points l, and Illinois (third with 
127). Dunne, despite his 19th place Bowling Green's Dave Wottle finish, was 56 seconds faster than he was in the 1970 event, and
grabbed the individual honors with a £inishing time of 24:02, Holleran, who finished 37th, 
shaved 18 seconds from his last Bill Etter, who sat out last Monday on his injured left kneealthough he was hard pressed by 
the second-placed runner, year's time. And Bell, ND's only season because of a head injury and will be out for the remainder Edinboro State's Dave Antognoli, other repeater, posted a 17-but bounced back to win the of the year. 
who finished but one second second improvement over his starting quarterback job this fall, Etter sustained torn ligaments behind the leader. 1970 effort. underwent corrective surgery in the second quarter of Saturday night's game with the Miami
Mike Pavlin ~=·=~=~=·=•=!=!:!::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=====:=:=:::::::::::::::-~;:::::::::::: Hurricanes in the Orange Bowl. 
Sophomore Cliff Brown, who filled in for Etter against the 
leers have high
The Graduate View • • Hurricanes, is currently the 
leading candidate for the
::"~;::::::::::::::::::•:::•:•:::::::•:•;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Analysis No. 4 scorzng scrzrnrnage quarterback spot. Junior Pat Steenberge, who saw con­
The ND-Miami game was the sports world's answer to the Chinese The Irish hockey team made Bob Howe and promising fresh­dinner--three hours later you had the feeling you hadn't seen a game. their first "public" appearance man Ray DeLorenzi accounted siderable action against Nor­
for the Whites' markers. thwestern and Purdue, will pressIt's not that it was a disappointing contest. It's just that so little Sunday afternoon at the ACC rink Both of the Whites' tallies were Brown for the starting position.
happened you couldn't get over the feeling that somehow they had and there was action aplenty for scored while Mark Kronholm was Jim Bulger, another junior, hasforgotten to play the third quarter. the 300 spectators who watched the hour-and-a-half workout. in the Blues' net. Dick Tomasoni, moved from the prep squad to the Everything ran true to form--except that Bill Etter suffered a leg a held the Whites number three slot.
injury and is out for the year. . The "Blue" team, comprised of senior, scoreless in his stint in the goal.
At the risk of oversimplifying things, it was a typical North-South the first, third and fifth lines, the battle. It was the small, quick, enthusiastic southerners against the first and third defensive units and Coach "Lefty" Smith was O's top Bucs 
goalies Dick Tomasoni and Mark pleased with the play of his club
big northern linemen. Thus it was no surprise to me that Miami was The Baltimore Orioles gained a able to push the Irish line back during the first quarter. Kronholm, trounced the and remarked, "Everyone 2-0 advantage in the 68th World 
skated well and pushed them­
Chuck Foreman and Tom Sulliv;m ran through big holes and Miami "Whites", made up of the rest of Series by drubbing the Pitt­
selves all the way. I was suprised 
·, moved easily in their own territory. But each time the 'Canes reached the squad, 8-2. sburgh Pirates, 11-3, Monday
they had that much left at
mid-field, the ND front line dropped qb John Hornibrook on crucial Larry Israelson scored two the afternoon in Baltimore. 
third downs. goals to lead the Blues' potent end. The Birds pounded out 14 offense while teammates Jim "I was surprised there were
Just as predidably, the quick, enthusiastic little men soon got tired singles and collected seven walks 
that many goals, too." he con­
and the big <also quick l Irish did not get any smaller. Suddenly, there Cordes, John Noble, Ian from six Pirate pitchers to make 
tinued. "I didn't think we'd come
were no more holes and Hornibrook spent the second half ac­Williams, Ed Bumbacco, Bill a winner out of starter Jim cumulating most of his minus 41 yards rushing. On WNDU-TV, the Green and Ric Schafer chipped in out of the defensive zone that Palmer. Bob Johnson took the halftime stats were announced as: Miami,22carries for 57 yards. If one apiece. Center Mark Stein­well. Our play inside the of­loss for the Bucs. 
fensive zone was quite im­
this was correct, then in the second half, the 'Canes rushing attack born recorded four assists while Brooks Robinson was the top
pressive.

went 18 carries for 3 (count 'em) yards. skating on the Blues' third line Oriole hitter, driving in three 
and The Irish will scrimmage at the
Walt Patulski finally got a shut-out; an excellent performance by between Cordes Israelson. runs with three singles as the O's the entire team, especially the secondary which refused to allow the Noble centered for Williams and ACC every Sunday afternoon at chalked up their 16th consecutive 
4:30 in preparation for the season
Hurricane receivers to get open. Coming Into the game,, Hornibrook Bumbacco on the Blues' top line. triumph. 
opener with North Dakota,
was better than 60 per cent passer; he went 4-16. White goalies Chris Cathcart The third game of the Series At the time of his injury, Etter was slowly getting the Irish offense and Mike Thorpe each yielded November 12. The scrimmages will be played this afternoon in 
four goals. are open to the public. Pittsburgh.
together. He completed 4-5 passes (all short) and it was only a matter of time before the points started coming. Cliff Brown survived some anxious moments and handled the of­

Defense dominates Interhall play 
fense capably with directions coming from the sidelines. He gained 45 yards on the ground (lOcarries), including one jaunt of 33 yards 
Ry Stan Urankar '73 Morrisey 14 Badin 6 Stanford 0 Grace 0
which is the longest Irish play (run or pass) of the season. John 
A pair of scoreless ties and the Two poor Badin punts put Stanford had a pair of touch­Cieszkowski (8-40) and Andy Huff (7-54) were devastating at the end of one of the longest campus Morrisey in good scoring downs called back in this contest. 
fullback position, simply overpowering the Miami line. Bob Minnix QB Kirk Miller
added 65 yards on 14 carries as the Irish averaged a solid 4.3 yards records were the highlights of position early. George Packer twice connected 
Sunday's action in the second hit Tony Oppegard on a four yard on what appeared to be longper carry. The superb Irish offensive line had a field day. 
week of the Interhall football scoring aerial, and halfback Joe scoring plays, only to see victoryAlso impressive was Mike Crotty, who handled punts flawlessly and season. As the typical defensive Holzmer plunged over from the slip away. A 60 yard bomb toreturned five for 59 yards. Anytime punts are returned for a 10 yard 
battles became one for the winning touchdown.
average, the return people are doing a good job. more common Ricky Derr in the first perod was 
this week's six contests saw ~ Badin rebounded with strong negated by a holding penalty, and Brian Doherty continues to punt well and now carries a deceptive total of only 56 points scored second half play, though, as a 15 yard play to Tom Ryan came38.8 yard average. Unselfish kicker that he is, Brian always to coffin­between the twelve participating freshman Roger Varela got the back when the official ruled thatcorner the ball when inside mid-field. Ifhe would just boot the ball into teams. touchdown on a three yard run. Ryan came down with one footthe end-zone, Doherty would be averaging way ovef 40 yards this year. 
Varela's score ended a string of 31 out of the end zone.
But he understands that the 10 yard line is better than the 20 and Ke.-nan 16 Farley 0 consecutive scoreless quarters
continues to try to angle his punts out of bounds. I counted Brian's The 1970 campus runners-up Off-Campus 6 Alumni 0 
by Morrisey, with the record
punts as follows: 46, 40, 48, 13, 31, 41; the shortest two coming on look to once again be the class of The triumph was a big one fordating back to November of 1969.
cofrin-corner attempts. the North Quad. A strong 0-C as they picked up the narrow
Just how serious the loss of Etter becomes depends on how rapidly defense, unscored on as yet, Pangborn-Fisher 14 on
Sorin 0 1ictory with only 14 players
Brown improves. Luckily for Cliff, he starts off with a week's practice combines with a veteran offense P-F showed that their win over hand. The winning score came in and an easy opponent. North Carolina was riddled by Tulane this past led by junior quarterback Dillon last week was no fluke with the third period when Mike Kane Saturday and there is no way the Tarheels can stand against the Tommy Ewing to put Keenan on this victory. Pete Farbatko and connected with Jim Ramentol on
howling mob offans in ND Stadium (not to mention the Irish defense). top of the League Three race. Voelker once a 40 yard touchdown pass.
Chuck againCliff will need the extra time. He showed quick reactions and some Sunday's triumph saw Ewing hit combined for a long touchdown, Rreen-Phillips 0 Flanner 0
good running ability against Miami, but his passing needs work. On end Rich Barale with a 30 yard as Farbatko carried this one 85
the year, he is 4-10, but has thrown three interceptions. The in­scoring play for all the points A slippery playing surface and 
yards for his third TD of the year. 
terception Saturday came when he tried to drill a pass through five they needed. The big defense little offensive drive by either defenders to get it to Mike Creaney. accounted for the rest of the Voelker also connected with club resulted in this deadlock 
Brown needs a chance to get some game experience, to learn when scoring, with John Greving Hank Muetteries on a 15 yard between League Three con­to eat the ball and how to throw it away when necessary. The Irish will returning an interception 40 scoring toss, the third touchdown tenders. B-P got the closest to beat North Carolina 24-0, give or take a touchdown; but then the yards for a score, while senior pass this season for the junior scoring in the second quarter Trojans come in and Cliff can expect a real workout. Bubba Nowak added a safety by quarterback. Muetteries set up with a first down at the Flanner 
The burden continues to fall to the massive shoulders of Walt tackling th~ Farley punter in the the final touchdown himself with 10, but a penalty knocked them Patulski. Hopefully, Cliff can play Hercules to Patulski's Atlas. end zone. a 40 yard interception return. out of scoring range. 
Bnt Etter hobbles along the sidelines Saturday the Irish defeat Miami, 17-0. Etter suffered a knee injury against the 'Canes and will be out for the rest of the season. 
Etter out for season 
Coach Wilson's Notre Dame contingent finished sixth out of the 23 competing teams, and 

r 
Tuesday, October 12, 1971
~age 4 THE OBSERVER 





J::L'!,!J...l)budget approved by Senate 
The Senate beat back two ef-Ron Irvine admitted to the forts to give the Scholastic any Senate that the Afro-American money, finally voting 24-8 to Society had been a failure last leave the magazine fundless. year, but claimed they needed a 
larger budget since the numberMany organizations claimed pf blacks had increased 60 per­that there budget was tighter. 
cent and that the organization'The HPC Executive Coordinator was in the process of expandingclaimed that there was no room its activity.
for cuts. He said that if the Seante wished to eliminate the An Tostal 
Shuttle busses
pig chase, it should vote a rider in 
Irvine said that he wished the AAS to be more "autonomous". Part of the organization's proposed budget was to go into a black orientation for incoming black freshmen the May before they enter the university. ­
In other decisions, the Senate reduced the amount of money those clubs receiving funds from going back to the halls to $5,000; the Senate to fill out twice -yearly allocated $100 to the Finance financial reports and submit Forum; dropped the Free them to the Senate. University's allocation to $50, and 
raised Notre Dame Draft '1---------------, Counselling Service allotment to jim,don,t.c., james, anna, maria $100. The Senate also passed an jodi, etc. ' agreement which would direct 

amount involved with the event. Shuttle bus complaints are 
being handled by Timothy H.
The Senate granted An Tostal Poley, asssitant to the coor­$1800, three hundred more than dinator of analytical studies.
the Finance committee rec­"Students with a legitimatecomended and nine dollars more complaint about shuttle busesthan Hoeffer reccomended. 
should by all means contact our office" Poley stated yesterday. A bus not running on schedule is 

Seniors plan N'Orleans trip 
Senior Class Treasurer, Bill Schmidt and Secretary Joe Santucci yesterday announced detailed plans for this year's Senior Trip to New Orleans and the L.S.U. game. 
Schmidt emphasized that there would be a trip, and speculated that the reason for the previous doubts about the trip was that obtaining tickets had created a major problem. 
This crises, however, was resolved through the help of Notre Dame alumnus, Dick Small, whose travel agency was able to arrange the tripand obtain forty tickets. 
Santucci announced that busses would leave Notre Dame for Chicago O'Hare on Thursday morning, November 19. From there an Eastern Airlines Charter will transport the students to New Orleans. 
The two Senior Class Officers explained that although the game will be played in Baton Rouge, they felt that the students would find the Sheraton Delta in the French Quarter much more enjoyable. 
Schmidt assured interested students that transportation, via busses, would be provided before and after the game, for the sixty mile ride to and from Baton Rouge. 
Cost for . the trip will be $175 which includes all transportation, lodging, game ticket and possibly a rally on Friday night. Meals, however 'Will not be included. 
Schmidt noted that although the trip is a senior trip, and seniors will be given preference, it is open to all students. Sign-ups will be held this Thursday, Oc­tober 14, in the Coke Bar in La Fortune, from 7 pm to 9 pm. Students are asked to bring the full amount when signing up. 
stops. 
V2 PRICE COLOR PRINTS? 
SAVE ON SLIDES -MOVIES -B&WPRINTS, TOO 
This low price saves you up to 50% over usual "drug store" prices, 
rushes high quality color prints back to your door in just a few days. Try 
the film service used on many mid-west and southern campuses. 
SO EASY, SO CONVENIENT ... just use your own envelope and the coupon below. Fill in name and address, write name on roll or cartridge, enclose coupon and remittance. Or, use the coupon to get film mailers and dis­count coupons; order film and flashes at low prices ... a better deal than "free" film. Savings and processing quality guaranteed. 
: YOUR ORDER MUST INCLUDE THIS COUPON­
• 
Name_________________________ 

• 
Address___________.___


. 
• City____.____State______Zip__ 

•
•
•
•
•
• 
h&-Price You Pay e e coupon 0 12 exp. Black & White . . 1.29 .99 • 0 20 exp. Black & White . . . 1.99 1.55 
e 0 Send me free film mailer envelope and djscount 
e 0 I'm enclosing_ rOlls of film and payment (plus 
0 20 exp. Slides or 8 mm Movies 1.49 1.22 •
• 
tax in Ohio) 0 Send me fresh Kodacolor film and/ or flashes • • 0 I am enclosing an extra 25¢ per roll for express Circle your size: (limit two) . . . . .Bat each • 
handl~ng and first.class mail return lnstamatic 126·12 -127 _ 120 _ 620 • Rer.. Price You Pay Circle your flash: flimit two sleeves) .... 88¢ each • e 0 12 exp. Kodacolor $2.99 $2.33 Cubes-AG-1-M-2-M-3 e • 0 20 exp. Kodacolor 4.49 3.55 Magicube. . . .$1.19 each • 
• MAIL TO: SPE-0-PICS ·Box 299 ·Cincinnati, Ohio 45214 • Dept. N D • 

WANTED: 
** * * * * *·**.* * * * 
Student Union needs a secretary from 
October 27 through Dec.emher 18 Mondays and Wednesdays only. 1 to 5 PM·. $1.60 per hour 
Come to 4th floor LaFortune or call 7752. 
. 
l 


