

Brennan to receive appeals hearing 
Vol. V, No. 65 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi~l' Wednesday, January 27, 1971 
"in emergencies" the Dean of
not decided to start the appeals new code. The board's interpret­that with the current case being 
by Cliff "Buzz" Wintrode Students "judges there to be
proceeding. According to stu­ation will apparently be present­the first one using the new code, 
imminent danger of serious harm Suspended senior Tim Bren­dent government judicial coordi­ly followed and serve as a model the procedures and responsi­to persons or to property, ornan will receive an appeals hear­nator, Rich Urda, the appeals for the future. bilities are hazy and need to be 
(Continued on Page 8)
ing, tentatively scheduled for board starts the appeals mechan­Potts stressed that the appeals worked out consequently no Friday morning, and this cause ism. board, Brennan, and Riehle will blame can be assigned to anyone of the past few days' conflict Potts confirmed this yester­meet and try to arrive at a involved. between the administration and day and reported that he con­·mutually satisfactory set of pro-Student Body President Dave 
student government has been the tacted the two other board cedures. The failure not to ini­Krashna concurred with their result of a colossal misunder­members yesterday and they ar­tally notify Riehle and allow the contention that the newness of standing of the appeals proced­ranged the Friday morning hear­three groups to arrange a time the code ruled out blame bieng ure of the new judicial code. ing. Tim Brennan through stu­for the hearing satisfactory to all assigned. He mentioned that ap­
Brennan will appear bef re the dent grwernment agreed to this will not be repeated, said Potts. parently the administration and three man tri-partite appeals time and Father Riehle was Riehle was not notified this student government made the 
board in Dean Burke's office, expected to give his consent this time because Potts and Urda same mistaken interpretation who is a member of the appeals morning. thought that this task fell to the that Riehle started the appeals board, at 8:45 Friday morning This is the first appeals hear­other. In the future, Potts will procedure.
:-.~ctmn 3-D of the new code
subject to the convenience of ing under the new judicial code notify Riehle. 
is the section under which
Dean of Students, Father Riehle. and while obviously there are no "I considered our only con­Riehle suspended Brennan and it As of last night, Riehle was precedents for appeal proceed­cern to be that of the hearing," is composed of two parts.
unaware that an appeals hearing ings. the appeals board concurs said Potts. 
The first part states that whenwas conditionally arranged, and with Urda's interpretation of the Potts and Urda emphasized this morning the student mem­ber of the appeals board, Greg Potts, was to notify him of the 

ICrashna to no longer chair Senate 
hearing and ask him if the time was convenient. by Bob Higgins 
from calling or chairing Senate

Father Riehle "summarily susc the Constitution." 
meetings for the rest of his term. Commenting on Krashna's
pended" Brennan tor thls semes­Student Body President David Stone feels that future Senate 
Stating that there are "too many statement that he was too 
ter as a "danger" to the universi­Krashna confirmed a rumor yes­meetings are essential; however, 
more important things to do not pressed for time to worry about 
ty after he was arrested in a terday that he is going to refrain he is aware that the Senate "has 



downtown drug bust on Decem­ber 14th. 
Student government, in its role as protector of student rights, had severely criticized Riehle for his unwillingness to grant Brennan the appeals hear­ing guaranteed to him by the judicial code. Riehle had said that he had not decided whether to grant Brennan an appeals hearing. 
What both sides assumed and 
what both sides were apparently 
incorrect in assuming was that 
the Dean of Students decided or 


enough time," Krashna claimed Senate meetings, Thrasher said 
no real power to force him 

that the Senate's "whole pro­that "Dave may well be right.
(Krashna) to call such a meeting 

cess is bullshit, and I am not Perhaps the vice-president
or even to enforce what is done

going to participate any longer. should always chair Senate
within the meeting." Stone, in 

If they want to play their games meetings. The vice president of
conjunction with Stay Senator 

without me that is fine." the United States chairs the U.S.
Tom Thrasher of Grace, will

Calling Krashna's action a di­Senate."
attempt to call the Senate into 

rect violation of Article two, Stone feels that any future
session by invoking the consti­

section four of the Consitution, meetings will be somewhat in­
tutional clause which allows for

which requires monthly Senate effective if the Student Body
"Special Meetings" to be called 
meet i ng 1 Stay-Senator Russ 

by a petition of one third of the maintains its current apathy to­Stone of Howard Hall commen­
Senators. Thrasher explained wards the Senate. He feels there ted "Dave could rule by decree, that these meetings would be is little that can be done •·as long if the students allow him to. It 
chaired by Student Body Vice as they (the students) allow becomes a question of whether 
President Mark Winings in Kra­Krashna to get away from ignor­students will honor Krashna or 
shna's abscence. ing the Constitution." 
Both Stone and Thrasher fore­see important issues confronting

Sheedy, McCiuske y nearly •1n agreement 
the Senate overthecoming months. Included in these are a 

by Art Ferranti mitment," according to Rev. ing the enrollment proposal. He heavily male enrollment than the number of proposals drawn up Rev. Neil G. McCluskey, S.J., McCluskey was ever reached on said, "Enrollment rises depend state universities where the pro­by John Mateja concerning off­the finalization of the 3: I ratio on a huge numbefr of variables: portions are more equal though
and Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., campus students, Thrasher's pro­
proposal. faculty size and facilities are still more male."

were in closer agreement in their posal that the Senate draw up a 
Rev. Sheedy, the Chairman of only two of them. I am sure Finally, Rev. Sheedy com­

comments yesterday concerning "compromise Constitution rep­the rumored ratio-levelling ac­the Co-Education Coordinating Notre Dame would not want to mented on the Park-Mayhew Re­resentative of all factibns" in a 
suggest to St. Mary's how big the

tion between the Notre Dame Committee, said that ,"It is port (which will appear in its committee of the whole, Stone's and St. Mary's student bodies. quite possible that at Key Bis­St. Mary's enrollment should entirety in Friday's Observer). bill to make a formal statement
get."
cayne Monsignor McGrath and He said that "the Park-Mayhew

Their original views as expressed concerning the Park-Mayhew re­
Fat her Hesburgh might have "If you look at the matter as

in an article in Monday's Obser­Report is not 'a deplorable re­port and coeducation in general, mentioned 3: I as a desirable mainly liberal arts college to port.' It is a good report. Al­and most importantly the Sen­
ver had reflected two apparently enrollment proportion." Sup­liberal arts college, the 3: I ratio
directly contrasting opinions as though it may not satisfy the ate's Constitutional duty to ar­
porting the statements of Rev. proportion is already more than 

to the nature of the ratio agree­desires of some people for in­range for all campus-wide elec­
met; more like 2:1," Sheedy

McCluskey in this article, Rev. stant union, yet if carried out it tions. The last of these wouldment. 
Sheedy continued saying, "But I . continued. "It is my understand­

Rev. McCluskey, the Dean will advance us a step or more present obvious problems if the 
cannot imagine that they could ing that generally, private co-ed beyond what we have achieved Senate were not to meet for theand Director for the Institute of have intended that as a firm universities run a good bit more already." remainder of the Semester.

Education at Notre Dame, had 
figure or fixed commitment

said tha'.: "an agreement" had based on previous studies of thebeen reached among most of the enrollment potential of either or 
General Assembly planned for Feb.
members of the joint Board of both schools. They could notTrustees and Father Hesburgh to have intended more than a rule­abolishing student government." evidence as to the sway of stu­
raise the ratio to 3: I. What those by Steve Kane
of-thumb or general ideal." Meyer said that students should dent opinion over co-education,concerned had failed to do was Any statement or conclusion A General Assembly of Notre write up any proposals they school financing, or over what­to clarify the term "agreement." 
concerning the co-education is­Dame students is planned for the wish, whether as a group or ever issues are accepted or re-Rev. McCluskey said yester­sue will be made known after nights of February 16, 17, and individually. jected by the assembly. .
day that there had been what he the Boards of Trustees from 18. The purpose is to receive an Halls are encouraged to meet Meyers predicts that the pres­termed "a clear understanding" both institutions have discussed honest response to pertinent is­as a group and voice their ent controversy over co-educa­among those members of the thoroughly the pros and cons sues on the minds of students. recommendations or criticisms tion will almost demand thatboard and the university presi­among themselves, with Father Student Body President Dave by writing up constructive pro­one of the three sessions bedent. He said that he and Mon­Hesburgh, and with "key Krashna appointed Bob Meyers posals. Meyers stressed that in­entirely devoted to it. Neverthe­signor McGrath, late Preszident people" of the university such as chairman of a committee to co­dividual resolutions will be given less, all and any suggestions orof St. Mary's, had worked for the Admissions Board and the ordinate the structure of such an the same consideration as group proposals should be written upmonths towards achieving this Registrations Board at their next assembly. Meyers, assistant Aca­resolutions. Sometime before and presented to one of thegoal but at the annual meeting annual meeting February 13 in demic Affairs Commissioner, February 16 the committee will committee members or to the!<Jst March in Kev. Biscayne, 
Florida. All student and Faculty chose Ed McCartin, Barney Gal­review all of the proposals re­
Student Government Office. 

Florida, the only agreement 
opinions will also be deliberated, lagher, Bob Hall, and Bob McGill ceived and decide which ones With only the dates and place,reached was to hire Mrs. Rose­Father Sheedy added. as the other committee mem­will be presented to the ·assem­Stepan Center, having been de­mary Park and IX. Louis Mayhew Rev. Sheedy, who has grap­bers. bly. 
termined, the committee plansto conduct various surveys and pled with this problem for five A:,;; mii 'g to Meyers the to­The hoped for result, says to meet tonight to decide on theto report on their findings with years, also tried to clear up any pics ill be discussed and pro­Meyers, is that in April Krashna procedures and organization oftheir recommendtions about fu­
misconceptions -that may be har­posed can be anything from "the will be able to present to the
ture co-education at Notre the assembly.
bored by the students concern-co-ed uc,t tion question" to Board of Trustees convincing
Dame. "No grave, solemn com­
Page 2 711B OBS£RVER Wednesday, January 27, 1971 


Mayhew defends coeducation study 
On Monday night the Obser­ver contacted Dr. Lewis B. May­hew, co"author of the recent report on Notre Dame and St. Mary's, at his home in Palo Alto, California. The telephone con­versation was conducted by Ob­server Camp us Editor Steve Lazar and was recorded and transcribed with the aid of Deb­bie Carella. 
Observer, Dr. Mayhew, as the Administration defined it, what w~s the purpose of your report? And did you differ with them on its objective? 
:ti"'~·...~... ·~-~.,~~-~-~-...~+·*·~·11!!~-~~"~.,~-~~:o-~P.!f!~·~l!:, 
Juniors! Cl••• of '72 
Make your appomtment now f-0 r your Senior yearbook portrait. 
Monday through Friday ­
January 25·29 in the Dining 
Halls. 
~J:;:~~~~~~*~~~~~t 

Mayhew, Our commission was to examine the relationship be­tween the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, and, in the best of our professional judg­ment, to recommend what we thought was best for the two institutions. On that charge we had no instructions whatsoever. We were two free scholars who were supposed to look at things ·and say what we thought, and this is precisely what we did. There was no kind of implica­tion by anyone on either side what we should say. Is this 
responsive? , 

Observer, Was there any in­struction that you should inves­tigate the possibility of coeduca­tion over and above just the relationships between. the two colleges? 
Mayhew, No, our commission was to look at the relationships, and obviously the two issues coeducation, separation, all kinds of forms. Our charge was to look at these two old and 
MEMORIAL MASS 
(for recently dece•sed students) 
David Beck Daniel IJietzler 
James Krumm Francis Pulte 
SHred He•rt Church 


1:11 PM Wednesd., 
Fat'ler Hesburgh -Prine. Concelebrant 
distinguished institutions, in the best of ·our judgment, to say what was best for them, whether we wanted coeducation, monas­ticism or what was up to us. And so we tried to respond as profes­sional people. We spent long days, talked with hundreds of people. But this much for the re­cord -there was no instruction, no coercion, no persuasion, no nothing. Rosemary Park and I were simply told "take a look and tell us what you think." 
Observer, Did they ask you to go into any significant amount of detail or did they just leave it up to you -what you thought was significant? 
Mayhew, We designed the study ourselves, we asked for the people we wanted to see, any failures on the part of the study are our failures. The two institu­tions in our estimation were both cordial in capacity. A scholar can't ever pacify treat­
ment. Nobody was telling us what to do. Of course the schol­ar couldn't be told what to do anyway. 
Obsen,er, Some people in the published criticisms of the re­port have said that it is too general and too vague. Do you have a reply for these people? 
Mayhew, Well, at this level of requisition I thought that the quick result to the problem ­now you've got two institutions, each with differing backgrounds, people incidental with differing personal desires -but I don't really think that one can be much more precise than to say "we believe that St. Mary's Col­lege should become St. Mary's College in the University of Notre Daame" ·-I don't think we can be much more precise 


leave Notre lltme  4:55 PM Friday  
Arrive Chicago  5:55 PM Friday  
leave Chicago  4:00 PM Sunday  
leave Chicago  7:30 PM Sunday  

Convenience! Convenience! Convenience! 
Purch•se Tickets in Adv•nce to be Assured of • Se•t 
Call Charlie Clark 326 Keenan 283-3329 Tom Boyer 504 Flanner 283-6984 
For Information & Tickets 
should be a sharing of Board of 
Trustees members, I don't think 
we can be much more precise 
than as is said in the report, we 
believe as a general rule most 
departments should be merged, 
however, some departments be­
cause of democratic differences 
have to remain separate. I don't 
know how more precise you can 
be. Let me phrase this correct­
ly, because l suspect I know 
what the issue is you are talking 
about. 
Observer: Okay, we· might as 
well bring up the most impor­
tant issue to students -it was 
single-sex education -ant they 
were critical that your report did 
not eliminate the single-sex stig­
ma that Notre Dame has, be­
cause it made no mention of 
increasing feminine enrollment 
here. 
Mayhew: Here I think proba­bly youreditorialwritersor your reporters were not reading the report much more carefully. I don't have the report at hand but if my memory's not too bad, what we said was that on the issue of having women live on the Notre Dame campus and men on the St. Mary's campus­we've recognized the importance of the forces for bringing about change, we can anticipate, with approval, that having reciprocal living arrangements may be in order. At this point we're not going to get into that issue--the business of getting more men and women of relevent numbers on both campuses. However, we did say, and l don't know how much more precise one can be, we did say, that if in the future men and women were to be living on each campus, at least a start, it should be reciprocal. It shouldn't be all girls going to Notre Dame, all boys to St. Mary's. Now if this is an equivo­cation, well l guess I would equivacte to communicate. One does need to consider the full range of constituency, ·not only the students. and one does need to think of the affiliations of these two institutions. If these 
two institutions were affiliated with, say, the Unitarians, one might move more precipitously 
towards an intermingling of the sexes. Hut you would have to grant I don't know your moral persuation, but one would have to grant that the affiliation does make a difference if we are a prudent people. 
Observer: Dr. Mayhew, if fe­male enrollment were to be in­creased here do you think it 
would have to be raised to the 
"A TRIUMPH!" 
-Judith Crist, New York M•g,ulne 


level where it would match the 
enrollment of men? 
Mayhew: No, its impossible. 

My guess is that St. Mary's 
should properly go to probably 
twenty-four maybe twenty-seven 
hundred students, which is still 
going to give the St. Mary's­
Notre Dame's ratio a decidedly 
male cast. 
Observer: You don't think 

then that that ratio actually 
hurts a student's general well­
being or his academic progress, 
in other words, if there's not a 
coed for every male student. 
Mayhew: This is heaven. No­

body's going to achieve it. 
Observer: Not in the next few 

years, it seems. 
Mayhew: Now, Stanford, I 

think is a pretty good school. 
We've got 1900 females to 3100 
males, which, applied to your 
own situation, excluding gradu­
ate students and professionals, 
and I am excluding them -figure 
2400 at St. Mary's and figure 
5000 in the combination the 
Arts College and the Sciences ­
and you have about the same 
ratio, which is a higher ratio, 
incidently, than at Harvard and 
Radcliffe. 
Observer: Yes, but there are 

many other women's colleges 
there. 
Mayhew: It's a much higher ratio than Columbia college and Barr, and as compared with large numbers of state colleges and state institutions -my son, for example, goes to a state institu­tion where the ratio is about four and a half to one-so, your not hurting. 
Observer, If you don't mind 

my chuckling, the term "state 
institution" doesn't sound too 
good -sort of like a prison. If 
the report is rejected by the 
Board of Trustees, and I don't 
know your feeling on that, what 
would you say is the most pru­
dent step for the University to 
take with regard to coeducation 
and their relations with St. 
Mary's? 
Mayhew, With regard to the 

relations, we have stated our 
position clearly. We have stated 
we believe, and we have stated 
that as professionals, and to 
what the Boards of Trustees do 
our decision is just like that of a 
putient or doctor-the doctor 
says I think you need an opera­
tion, and the patient says I don't 
want one., he's under no obliga­
tion to have one. I wouldn't 
change one single line of that 
report. I've read it several times 
and it is a report of two very 
sincere professional people look­
ing at what we think is best for 
the two institiutions af'd the 
country. And I guess, excuse the 
sermon here, but I am persuaded 
(Continued on Page 6) 

r-------, 
t Lost contact Jenses f t in plastic case 
283-8798 t ~------­ I  
1000 Gold stripe gummed re­turn address labels $1.00. G. Fiala, No. 2128,8800 S. Har­lem, Oaklawn, Ill.  
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchasea for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  


Page 3

Wednesday, Janu..,ry 27. 1971 711E OBSERVER. 
Wilkes believe abortion 1mproper• 

by Rick Gering  will continue with forums ducted by various faculty  con­per- aborted pregnancy are sincere in their judgements, but often  
An address by Dr. and Mrs. J.  sonnet, beginining  on  February  make  their  decision  "without  
C. Willke,  entitled  "Abortion:  15.  adequate  information,  because  
Social and  Medical Aspects," be- The lecturers said, in effect,  too  much  seems  to  be coming  
gan a series of presentations  that  because  human  life begins  from  one  side  (i.e.,  pro-abor­ 
treating  the  various  aspects of  at  the  moment  of fertilization,  tion)." It was suggested that one  
the  question  of legalized  abor­ abortion is ethically improper in  must  consider all facets of this  
tion. The Willke lecture, spon­sored by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Academic Commission was presented last night in the  all cases excepting those which pose a direct and imminent threat to the life of the mother. According to Mrs. Willke,  decision, especially the "basic question" of when life begins. If life is present in the developing fetus, then one must make a  
Library  Auditorium.  The series  those  who  choose  to  have  an  

Nader attacks Union Carbide 
that the Jnvertment Committee would be forced to keep its
by Kevin McGill 

of the Board of Trustees is not stocks and secure the steady 
Claining "an act of economic income they give.
equipped to investigate more and environmental balckmail" 

than the financial character of About Nader's charges them­against "the workers and the the corporations it invests in, selves, Fr. Wilson said, "Basically restorationofcleanairand 
but that it might consider the it is a matter of Mr. Nader's water. .." Ralph Nader detailed 
Union Carbide matter if it be­word against that of Union Car­charges against Union Carbide, came a public case. bide." He also stated that des­in a letter to Sen. Edmund Mus­
While speculating that the pite the number of shares of kie. Board might sell stocks in one stock, the University in no way
The University of Notre Dame isolated indil:ent like this, Fr. exercizes power at meetings of presently owns 10,100 shares of Wilson stated that is Nader esca­stockholders, and could there­stock in the corporation, and fore not exert pressure fromlated his war to include otherNader sent copies of the letter to within.

corporations, the University
the Observer and other campus newspapers in an attempt to reach the university communi­

ND-SMC frosh form council
ties which own such stock. According to Nader, Union those of SMC, and he said that

by Matt CavanaughCarbide's ferro-alloy plant in 

this would be one of the main 
Marietta, Ohio, has been pollu­Fresh man class president, concerns of the joint council. He 

ting the Ohio Valley with 

Rick Hilton, today announced also expressed the hope that the 246,350 pounds of sulfur oxice the formation of the joint Notre council would make it possibleand 44,586 pounds of particu­Dame-Saint Mary's <bllege fresh­for more freshmen to become 
late matter every day. He claims man representative's council, to involved in their class govern­that Union Carbide has thought 
be made up of 32 Saint Mary's ment. itself "immune from the law" freshme11, and two freshman re­Any freshman interested in and has "through lies, evasions, 
presentatives from each of the serving on the council is asked to and simple refusals to provide 
Notre Dame residence halls. contactRickHilton(1857),information, managed to thwart "The purpose of the council," John Fitzsimmns (1857), Bob efforts to impose pollution con­said Hilton, "is to involve the Swanson (1085), or Terry Tulis­trols for more than four years." 
freshmen in their own govern­iak (8213), before 3 p.m. Sun­
When finally forL:ed to comply ment through active partici­day January 30. with federal standards which will pation." Hilton cited the need Elections for these positionscall for great reductions in pol­for more com munica lion be­will be held on February 3. luting emissions by April, 1972, 
tween the students of ND and 
Union Carbide claims they must lay off 625 workers from the Marietta plant by that time to Eric•son to meet the regulations. 
Nader, however, feels that 
spea" tonight 
the reduction schedule is "nei­ther especially stringent nor "Liberals as Racists" will be 
especially difficult to meet," and the topic when Dr. Edsel Erick­accuses the corporation of "pur­son presents the second in a suing a course of duplicity and series of lectures on "Trends in 
intimidation designed to dis­
Cont<!mporary Education" at 
credit the Environmental Pro­Saint ".1ary's College. Joining-the tection Agency and to frighten noted sociologist and educator the people of the Marietta region ;n his preser.tation will be Dr. 
into quiet submission." 
Joseph McMillan, Director of 
Fr. Jerome Wilson, Vice Pre­Eq u a I 0 pport unities Programssident for Business Affairs ex­for Michigan State University,plained yesterday that the Board 
and a graduate student from of Trustees of the ll niversity 
Western Michigan University.bought the stock before pollu­
Tl:Je program will begin at 7:30 tion was such a public issue. 
p.m. in Carroll Hall of the Made­Besides government bonds, the 
leva classroom building :.~nd is University keeps the fund 
open to the public. 
money used for scholarships in Dr. Erickson, who is currentlythe stocks of some 65 companies professor of sociology and ed u­chosen, Fr. Wilson said, to guar­cation and is a' research associate 
antee ste:1dy dividend5. He noted at the Center for Sociological Research at Western Michigan
Frosh meeting University, will examine discr­iminatory features of several educational programs in which
The Freshman clas$ of St. Mary's will meet tomorrow night he participates and will reveal some
at ?·oo p.m. in the basement of of the unintended effects of ad missions standards and
Regina Hall according to Nan hiring policies. With his col­
Lauer, 'class ~resident. Results of leagues he will discuss perceived
yesterday's Freshman Senate racism on the part of "liberal"
election will be announced and Sister Immaculata, Dean of 
faculty. In his position as Director of
Students, will address the class. Eq ua I 0 pport unities. Dr. Mc­
The newly elected senate will Millan is responsible for stopping 
begin planning a Big Sister Week­end to be held after spring discrimination on racial, sexual, ethnic or religious grounds wher­
break, when St. Mary's Fresh­it occurs within the univer­n~::n may invite younger sisters ever sity. He was formerly director ofand friends to stay at the college federal programs and inner cityand become acquainted with it. 
schools for Grand Rapids, Mich­There are also "whisperings" of igan, and a
a Freshman Prom, also to be was key figure in 
controlling racial disturbances in 
plann~o:d by the senate, repurts that city.
Miss Lauer. 

judgement. According to Dr. Willka noted that many states do Willke, "if you are going to not recognize the child as viable, destroy it (the getus) then you truly alive, until the mother can must have a value opposing it feel its movement in her womb. that is sufficiently profound in However, by this time, the heart­its impact, that it would justify beat is functional and brainwave you in killing this human life." tracings have been recorded. 
In answer to their "basic ques­Further, many states which per­tion" regarding the onset of mit abortions at 20 weeks, ac­human life, the lecturers cited cording to Willke, disregard the 
the findings of the International observations that by the time Symposium on Abortion, held in the infant has reached this stage Washington,D.C.,in 1967, of his development. the osvcho­
which stated that 19 of the 20 somatic systems organization is medical people present agreed well underway, and the organ that there was "no point in time systems are virtually complete. between the union of sperm and Moving from the scientific ab­egg, or at least the blastocyst solutes of pregnancy to the pos­stage, and the birth of theinfant sible results of legalized abor­at which point we could say that tion, the Willkes proposed that, 
this was not ahuman life." This if the law sets a limit (e.g., birth)­group termed all other stages in on a human's viability, the law will soon set other limits regard­
placental development simply 
ing the stages at which a personstages of development nin the is worthwhile to his society, and individual's maturation proces.s. 
consequently, a Nazi state mavIn delineating these stages, Dr.' 
(Continued on Page 6) 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t live Entert~in ment t t Wed. to Sat. Dancing t t t 
~hf 
t

t vUillatlo 
"THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST"
t t 
525 North Hill Street
t t
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619 
t t
Attended Parking 
t

t In the Rear t t 
THURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY NIGHT
t t t t 
Everyone's Welcome
t t 
t 
Happy Hour S-9 Daily All beverages $.60 t during Happy Hours
t t 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday. January 27. 1971 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student N......,., 
GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Odef JOHN E. KNORR. Executive Editor BRUCE RIECK. Business Manager F.OUNDEO NOVEMBER~. 1-NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The Judicial Mess 
The recent flap over the Tim Brennan case points out the need for an arrangement to be worked out between student government and the Dean of Students. 
The code does not designate a chairman for the appeals board. Nor does it state who has the responsibility for calling the board into session. This situation, as pointed out with the Brennan fiasco, cannot be allowed to 
continue. One of two things can be done, with a minimum amount of fuss and bother. Father Riehle, when he informs the defendant of the guilty verdict, can give him the name and number of the student government judicial coordinator. The student could then contact this man and arrange to be briefed on the details for asking for an appeal. In lieu of such an arrangement the appeals itself could designate a chairman, in which case Fr. Riehle could give the student the chairman's name and number. Either of these two alternatives should prove far superior to the present state of confusion and both should be considered with dispatch. 
Knowing Agreements 
A Distinction 
Father McCluskey last night revealed the difference between a "clear u n de rstand 1ng" and a "grave, so 1em n com mit men t . " The for mer is apparently what the Board of Trustees had in mind when they decided at the deliberation in Key Biscayne to change the male female r;ltio to 3: I. The latter is a concept that calls to mind visions of the celestial hosts pecking over people's shoulders, and obviously is not to be biked about except with the lights turned low and all the windows closed. 
Having finally clarified what really happened at Key Biscayne, Father McCluskey might now pay closer attention to his own rhetoric, and resolve to announce decisions only if the ceremony has been presided over by the Rt. Honorable St. Michael the Archangel. Stutknts really don't like to be promised goodies and then have them snatched away. Rathcr, they would like some honest and direct dealings on the probk:ns and progress df coeducation, and a voice in the solution of said probkms. We~ hope Father McCluskey and the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Administrations take that to heart. 
LETTER  
Editor: Th~ other evening I was read­ing in the library (not very fast!) ami carne upon this noble pas­sage. It turned me on; I'd like to share it with all who walk within these gates. We will never bring dis­grace to this our city by any act of dishonesty or cowardice, nor even desert our suffering comrades in  the ranks. We will fight for the ideals and sacred things of the city, both alone and with many; we will revere and obey the city's laws and do our best to incite a like respect and reverence in those above us who are prone to annul or set them at naught; we will strive unceasingly to quicken the public sense  of civic duty. Thus in all these ways we will trans­mit this city not only not less but greater, better and more beautiful than it was transmitted to us. Oath of the Young Men of Ath­ens. Not a had opener for us ('hristians! Viva Ia citta, Rev. John T. Hiltz  

Dove Lammers -----.,---u_.. ---­
The Price of the learning 
... . ,:<!!i. "" ....... .. 
The present ye;,r may well mark a seven year period of famine for the Notre Dame faculty. The economic crisis among all American private universities has resulted at Notre Dame in a series of economic squeeze plays, and the faculty are being hit hard by austerity wave. 
The College of Liberal Arts, predictably, is the first to suffer. The Philosophy Department will have two fewer teachers next fall. English, the strongest. undergraduate department, will lose two men from its staff quota. The History Department, which decided not to rehire Mesdames Williams, Estabrook, and Mattheisen, will be either two or three men shorter next year. Government, the largest and most overcrowded Liberal Arts department, will add one man to. its staff next year, and one more professor, John Kennedv, will return to Notre Dame the year after next. The theology department, alreatly a well-staffetl tlepartment, will add a liturgist, an Old Testament expert, antl a historian to its ranks, a curious exception. 
Tenure, the coveted security bed which comes after six years of service in the junior ranks, is becoming as elusive as the Abominable Snowman. As D()an Frederick Crosson said yesterday, "Tenure is going tc become more difficult to acquire. In the past, the great majority of men atlvanced to tenure, but given the national picture and the new administration at Notre Dame, we are going to look very closely at a man before giving him tenure." Crosson noted that the American Association of University Professors has recommended that professors ·have a nine credit teaching load, and estimated that at least SO'Yr of Notre Dame's liberal arts faculty do not teach a nine credit load. The veritable Dean also remarked that his office was keeping a very close eye on the student evaluation forms of the professors. 
Junior facully that fail to please their students, fail to complete their doctoral work, or fail to publish in the myriad of scholarly journals are in danger of being banished to the lists of the unemployed. Mr. Richard Bizot of the English Department of Sister Suzanne Kelly of the Ceneral Program are two recent examples of the academic system's guillotine, though the popular Mr. Bizot will be kept on next year as a visiting professor (a consolation prize'!) 
There has never been a worse time for a teacher to be out of work. The American Council on Education reports that there are 140 Chemistry job seekers for every opening on the academic marketplace. The American Historical Association's recent conven­tion in Boston resembled a Stepan Center mixer, with 2000 history aspirants for :!SO openings. A recent national philosophy commis­sion reported that the graduate Phd's far outnumbered the available positions, and recommended that graduate programs be cut back by a third. 
At Notre Dame, the philosophy department is a good example of the problem that liberal arts faces at Notre Dame. Last semester the Philosophy Department with its :!6 faculty, taught 265 I students. This number will probably decline in future years because the philosophy requirement for present sophomores is six ..:redits, wheras for present juniors it is twice that. Unless students elect to take Philosophy courses Hbove the required two. the number of non-majors taking Philosophy courses promises to decline. Similarly, the I·:nglish requirement has hl~t.:n reduced to one yeHr. and the theology requirement has been L'itl to six credits. In addition, the College of Science now allows its stlllknts to earn a concentration in a science by taking 25 to 30 credit hn·tr:' instead of the previous forty, which frees many sciem:e stude ;ts to dec! liberal arts course~. if they choose. Thus, English. Philosophy, Theology and the other dep<:rtments in liberal arts many very well find tiJemselves with as many nr rrore students taking electives as took th,' required courses in !lte past. Until a pattern of electives develops. some departments may be grmsly overworked while others are overstaffed. Dean Crosson i·eports thai while a do1.en or so popular l'lectiws were immediately filled, RO'Yr• of the offerl·d electives rem·.: in unfilled. 
But tl1e conclusion remains that if vacated positions are nol 
refilled, departments cut hack on the number of professors, then the 
vital st udcnt-teacher ratio will worsen. Presently. I·.ngineering claims 
the best student to teacher ratio. whik Business possesses the worst 
ri.ltion. In llJ(,), ll:e College of Liberal Arts hud 113il students and 
for the present school year there arc 3067 liberal arts students. The 
increase in liberal arts faculty has not risen proportionately, and the 
situation promises to worsen unless present trends arc n.:veresed. The 
CollL'gL' of Scknn:, largdy due to its new concentration program, has 
attracted a hundred new students in the past year. with a College 
enrollment of 71 X. There are approximately three hundred liberal 
arts faculty, while the College of Science employs 1:n scientists. 
While two retirees will not be replaced next year in Chemistry, the 
science faculty has. the yeHr. renwincd substantially the same. 
Simple arithmetic reveals the disproportinn of science over liberal 
arts. Dean Crosson argues that "the money shnuld follow I he 
student flow." Deam Waldman of Science reports that his faculty 
remained largely intact because the department "cut out the fat." 
The future does not look bright for aspiring liberal arts professors 
or their st udcnts. llopcfully, the administrators will recognize ihe 
fatty wastes among their own ranks and within the University they 
administer to. c;od knows that enough money is wasted around hne. 
In tl.e final analysis. it is preL·isely the facully that constitut.~s I he 
heart of du Lac. I would Iwte to see the school di(~ nf <1 h~arl attack. 

Wednesday, January 27, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 5 
The British lsles:Heatless Hostels and a Holy War in Belfast 

There are signs on the walls near Trinity College, Dublin, that say, "Nixon is an imperialist." Children sometimes stop you on the street and ask for American silver to sell. We found a car with a N D sticker in the window and left 
the owner a note written on a basketball schedule. 
In England, water is rarely served with meals. When we declined a hot meal for lunch and asked for ham sandwiches, the waitress laughed at 011r strange eating habits. 
The popular hamburger chain is the Wimpy Bar --lunches are small greasy affairs and, if you don't specify "black tea," they serve tea with cream in it. Everywhere, there is tea. 
There is also an English face--a certain 

It was a rehet not to see an American 
flag for three weeks. It was surpri~ing to 
discover that l was thinkmg w1th an 
accent and that l knew exactly what 
coins to hand over when shopkeepers asked for "four-and-six, please." It was a relief to see a shamrock without the squat NO leprechaun close by. Driving on the left over narrow winding roads became a matter of habit. For a while, I'll be expecting to see the crumbling remains of 
castle towers along every highway I 
travel. 

And all with a holy war in Belfast. 
Someone sang a patriotic Irish song at 
the medieval banquet we attended at 
Bunratty Castle, Limerick. It meant as 
little to the American group :1s the fight 
song meant to the Irish diners when we 
voiced our own college partiotism. 
The Irish have little history not bound by the English tradition and so nationa­lists struggle to find the identity of their people. We watched a television program about Irish folk songs --the songs all described anti-English sentiments and Irish poverty. 
In Edinburgh Castle, Edinburgh, the 
Scots have established an elaborate 
memorial to the fine Scottish fighters on 
the Great War, 1914-1918. The twentkth 
century wars were fought on their farm­
lands while American girls sent love let­
ters to GI's 5000 miles away. Their brief 
shining moment is a memory while the 
U.S. is barely born. 

Our accomodations were generally comfortable but there were few places 
~ok,a~rtain~~ructnem~ilieey~-.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
simpler than the Irish but not in the least unattractive. A "British-looking" young man came up to us in Trafalgar Square and asked for the time. When my girl­friend answered with flat lncliana "a's", he asked, "Are you Americans? Where are you from?" 
"South Bend, Indiana." 
"Lansing, Michigan." 
"Oh," he smiled. 'Tm from Illinois." 
!"he English glory in their history ancl their monuments. The first llike of Marlborough built Blenheim Palace (Churchill's birthplace) as a monument to the "glory of the British Isles " 
letter 
Editor: 
Jim Brogan's job as a movie critic is obviously to seek the parts of a movie that do not appeal to him and point them 
out to the public, no matter how insigni­ficant these parts may 11e. All Mct.iraw·s wardrobe in Love Storv may have been somewhat extravagant, 'but in looking for things such as this one misses the point of the movie. It is a simple, beautiful love story. Brogan says, "/,ove Story bypasses any true emotional response and simply lays seigc to the tear producing mechanisms of the eyes." At the risk of being Ia be led overly emotional, I must say that is absurd. To those who haven't yet seen the film, see it with some me you love. It will make all the difference in the world. Sincerely, Bob Stewart 
Jim Leary 

And I was a Duck 
The sun starting to rush out, with the blue sky eating up the clouds. A clear day comes and I run out into the glad Berkeley morning, hoping to stumble into mythic, mid-winter adventures. 
Telegraph Avenue corner and the mad fiddler. Ass braced against a garbage can, some strange-eyed Menuhin-Ponty­Sugarcane gypsy music man plays like lightning. Real good ancl for free and you can hear it half a block away and you can clance with it even farther. A windy smile, magic in your ears. I keep going, north to the country of the fascists. One 'o them silver-t hro ate d, jumpup' ndown Elmer Gantry dooclahs is up on the wall shout­ing his own particular type of TROOTH. Meantime some ageing actor, dressed like an old Trotskyite and wearing a Richard Boone face, is ·Jeacling the hassle. "F*** you, Billy Grahan motherf***** Why don't you get laid? We should put you on a cross, schmuck." Yessir, here I am in "revolutionary" Berkeley 'midst bearded laughs and derision and some hip porko­morph reckons to the Evangelist: "I pay my taxes so tha fascist fundamentalists like you don't have to." Doubtless when he spoke he forgot the llin't Pay War Taxes button so goddam prominent on his hip, radical, old Army coated chest. Even in Berkeley it ain't cool to move against the crowd. 
llosannah and I walk aw~y sad. Down Sproul Plaza. A puppet man. A wizened old man with a face like a dry deacl river bottom. A small man with a huge smile and puppets ancl a poem, mimeographed, called Ban the Bomb. The B's clo not come out on the mimeo. Tom Roberts, the puppet man, has penned them in. I walk clown the Plaza feeling much better. ilow quickly l change. 
A left-handed quitar player. Cocaine blues, some raggy old stuff and a Missouri sounding voice. A little girl puts a quarter in the guitar case. The sun is shining. 
with central heating -before anything was unpacked, we were stuffing shillings in the small coin-operated room heaters. We stayed in guest houses in the country. Bathrooms were usually down the hall, requiring coat and shoes for any midnight visits. 
Many times during the trip, I would have given anything to be in a good old American "this-toilet-is-sterilized­for-your-protection" moteL But, gradual­ly, my familiarity with good old America only heightened my unfamiliarity with anything outside it. It surprised me that people would ask what part of America I was from --Canada or U.S. 
Traveling in "your own backyard" is a fine idea. But perhaps a London youth hostel with no heat and a bathroom down the hall is the place to discover the people of the world --including your American room-mate. 
Letter 
Editor: 

I am one of those who are appalled by the article on "Korean Whores" which appeared in Ictus 5. I was shocked not only by the distorted facts about the economic ancl quantitative significance of whores in Korea but also by the moral insensitivity of those who are associated with the article. 
It is. apparent that those who are connected with the article are not aware that the number of whores as a percent­age of population in Korea is one of the lowest in the world. It is unfortunate that there are those who lightheartedly distort facts to emphasize their points of view. 
It is very sad that a magazine like this, 
1 heat! toward the house thinking of which is funded by the Institute of my stomach and hearing the joyons Hare Non-Violence. prints an insulting article Krishna of the drumming, dancmg, jingl-alleging that most Koreans live off prosti­ing ancl gentle neo-Hindus. And one tution. Moral insensitivity of this kind is comes up to me, robed and holding a the very cause of international incidents magic Back to Godhead magazine and i~cluding the My L_ai 1\ilssacre a_nd w~rs. wearing one of the greatest smiles I've far too many of th1s type of raCist article ever seen, spread sweet across her blue-push men off balance. . . 
eyed face like flowers. I take the magaine, give her my only eight cents, talk abou, Merton the Gita Zen Christianity and general ' stoned-out, Yea-saying. And, yes, I feel goocl, running to the house singing 
"If the river was whiskey and I was a duck, I'd dive to the bottom and never come up." 
:hose who are associated With the art1cle owe. an apology t? ~oreans :-vho strongly believe that chastity rs one ot the 
t t . t 

grca.-cs Vir ues. 
Smcerely, Jae H. Cho Associate Professor Department of Finance and Business Economics 


711E OBSERrJZR. Wednesday, January 27, 1971 
Page 6 

,---------------~
tSocial Commission Needst Medical report unfavorable 

t 
frcontinuedfromPageJJ

t· be established in which all those 'useless to society (aged, mental­' ly retarded et. a!.) will be ad­~ judged unworthy to live, because these, like the infant, are inca­~ pable of independent existence. A In an attack upon the position f that legalized abortion would A cut down the rate of unsafe 't illegal abortions, Dr. Willke said that "in no nation, and in no A state, has liberalizing abortion, _; from some liberalization to an 
ke, one in every 300 legal abor­tions result in the death of the mother within five months of the operation, due to hepatitis resulting from the massive blood transfusions necessary. 
Willke added that studies have shown a higher rate of prema­ture births and miscarriages in pregnancies following abortions, as well as great psychological damage to the mother. 
The \\Hikes proposed that the 

issue of legalizing abortion be 
taken out of the hands of theo­


Wednesday, January 27, 1971 THB OBSERVM Page 7 
Irish end jinx with near perfection 

by Jim Donaldson task at hand -beating Michigan ended a 5 game jinx against and two free throws and Sinnott point production of the season against Irid.iana. ' 
Observer Sportswriter State, need not have been con­MSU. and Jones each had buckets in 
Annone who was worrying cerned. The Irish, getting out­The Irish connected on 53% the surge. · Don Silinski's charity toss last night that the Notre Dame standing performances from of their field goal attempts in Notre Dame opened up a 12 with IS seconds left gave the basketball team might be look­Austin Carr and Collis Jones, registering their highest point point advantage with two min­Irish their best scoring effort of 
ing back on the UCLA game or thumped the Spartans 104-80 total of the season and Notre utes left in the half but the the campaign. looking ahead to their game with and boosted their season record Dame dominated the rebounding Spartans cut the margin to 8 Spartan coach Gus Ganakas, powerful lllinois this Saturday, to 104. action, hauling down 58 caroms 46-38 at intermission. who saw his club lose their 
to State's 35. The clubs kept that 8 point 
JIM MURRAY 
instead of concentrating on the This victory by the Irish eighth game in 17 outings had Carr played his usual tremen­spread for the first 9 minutes of nothing but praise for the Irish dous game, sinking 15 of 21 the second half but the Irish after the game. shots from the field and 6 of 7 mov~d ahead by 14 with 11:06 "Johnny's club is projecting charity tosses for 36 points to to go on a basket by Gemmell into a great team," Ganakas said. cop game scoring honors. Jones, and a pair of hoops by Jones. "I think the psychological effect 
the unsung hero of the Irish The issue was never in doubt of their UCLA win has givenclub, also did an excellent job. in the second half but the Irish 
The Colt's Mos-...,. 
them a tremendous boost." He hooped 14 of 22 shots and confirmed their win by rattling 
"Notre Dame played good de­added a free throw to score 29 off 14 straight points in the last fense tonight and they were awe­points and was the game's top four minutes of the contest, 
was some on the boards,' ' Ganakas
Valuable Person 

rebounder with 18. Jones upping an 88-76 lead to an continued. "We just couldn't getdeadly with his short jumper overwhelming I 02-7 6 advantage. 
offensive rebounds."
from the left side. Coach Johnny Dee cleared the Ganakas was also very im­
© 1971. Los Angeles Times Sid Catlett and John Pleick bench with 2:04 left to play and pressed by the play of Carr and are looking better with each the Irish on top 98-76. Jim
MIAMI -It may come as a considerable surprise to the football JOnes. 
game, and ,combiningwith Regelean hit a jumper for Notre
community that a linebacker was chosen Most Valuable Player in the "Jones is very difficult to
Jones, give the Irish a powerful Dame's 99th and IOOth points
Super Bowl and awarded a new car, but to four Los Angeles ghetto handle," the Spartan mentor
front line. Catlett tossed in 12 and John Egart sunk a freekids, the only surprise was that it was the wrong linebacker. 
said. "Carr is just superb. l'mpoints and grabbed 12 rebounds throw for the 103rd marker.
Chuck Howley of the. Cowboys might have intercepted an not quite sure he's human."

agains the Spartans and Pleick tying the club's previous highend-zone pass and jammed Colt tight end Tom Mitchell on the line tallied 13 points.
of scrimmage to break up a touchdown pass, but Ray May has been 
Rudy Benjamin, State's star

blitzing more slippery quarterbacks, diagnosing more diabolical pass patterns, and reading keys and making tackles on fullbacks who backcourtman, led the Spartan don't go down at the first brush for along time. Ray ajams up the attack, scoring 31 points. Pat middle and turns the play in on crime and truancy and hatred and Miller and Bill Kilgore also violence when he isn't doing the same to Bob Griese, Larry Czonka, scored indoublefiguresfor 
State, picking up I 0 and 12
0 .J. Simpson or Lenny Dawson. 

If you think John Unitas has cuffed a red-dog, you should see points, respectively. some of the specimens Ray May has to get a neck tackle on in South The lead see-sawed in the ear­Los Angeles. The Four Horsemen would be a pleasure. The Super ly minutes of the game as both Bowl was just an afternoon off. clubs were making too many 
Ray was born in an American blight known as East St. Louis turnovers and neigher team was where you could recruit a team that could either win or steal the shooting with much consistency. Super Bowl in an afternoon. He grew up with 10-inch armor plate on 
The lead changed hands eight the outside. Football coaches drooled at the punishing tackles he 
times before Carr put the Irish out front 17-15 at 13:27. Notrecould put on a running back. So did numbers racketeers. labor goons 
Dame was never headed thereaf­
and assorted other scouts. But it was an age when black kids began to dream dreams, and the ter. 
The Spartans closed to within
bleak gray wall of Joliet or Jefferson City looked easier to get 

one point, 21-20, on Benjamin's
around or even dropped from the schedule. 

bucket at I 0:56 but Carr sunk a
When Ray's family moved to L.A., his choice of institutions lay 

free throw, Jones scored a field
between SC, UCLA, or Stanford rather than San Quentin, Folsom or 

goal and Pleick tossed in a pair
Chin. Ray had his share of juvenile mischief, but he always knew 

of charity tosses to give the Irish
which recruiters to listen to. He wanted a diploma, not a parole. 

a little breathing room.
He was a standout tackler on one of John McKay's Rose Bowl 
The Spartans stayed close
teams (the one which lost to Purdue by a tackle), but when Ray 

though and chopped the Irish
moved into the big money (the Steelers picked him up on the fourth 

lead to three, 32-29, with 6:02
round) he didn't take a cab direct to Hollywood and leave no 

left in the first half. Notre Dame 
forwarding address. 

ran off eight straight points iri
He conducted his own draft. His first-round choices included a 

the following minute and a half
few hard cases who look as if they might roll up a score in society of play, however, and pulled
and who answered to the name of "Z-Black", "Peewee," "Humbug" away again. Catless had a basket
and "The Rogbin." They have other names-Willie Copes, John Smith, Anthony Smith, and Robert Snow -but Ray wanted to get a MICHIGAN STATE
NOTRE DAME hold of them before they had other numbers. Ray's a bachelor FG FT REB PTS FG FT REB PTS father to these four sons. Two he has legally adopted and two he Carr 15-21 6-7 10 36 Benjamin 11-23 9-12 2 31 sends money to and counsels when he is at home. Ray once more Meehan 2-5 
0-1 2 4 Miller 5-9 0-2 1 10 made a great stop at the line of scrimmage for his side -our side. Pleick 4-11 5-5 4 13 Kilgore 6-10 0-2 11 12 The $25,000 that other victorious linebackers-or line buckers-got Jones 14-22 1-3 18 29 Breslin 0-2 0-1 2 0 in the Super Bowl may go for yachts, minks, country clubs or city Catlett 5-14 2-2 12 12 VanPelt 2-2 2-3 3 6 lights, but Ray May's will go for a 400-acre quarterhorse ranch Sinnott 1-3 0-0 0 2 Gutkowski 1-3 1-2 2 3 spread in Clay Center, Kansas. Gemmell 1-2 0-2 1 2 Dean 2-4 1-2 2 5 "A street kid only gets to see a horse on 'Gunsmoke.' To him, the Regelean 1-2 0-0 2 2 VanderLende 1-3 3-3 2 5 'wide open spaces' is a freeway," says, Ray. "I think American is still Egart 1-3 1-1 0 3 Shereda 1-5 0-1 3 2 out there in Clay Center, Kansas, and I want to show it to these kids Silinski 0-0 1-1 0 1 Ganakas 24 0-0 0 4 and other kids." BBNinga Co his 0-0 0-0 0 0 The May family had three children of their own, but Ray's B. Hinga 0-0 0-0 0 0 Przybylo 0-1 0-0 0 0 parents were compassionate people, too, and adopted three others. Lucas 0-0 0-0 0 0 Ike 1-1 0-0 0 2 One of Ray's adopted brothers was Ronald Robinson. Ronald's "learn 9 Team 7 introductions to life was the witnessing of the murder of his mother ------------------------·------------·------..·-·---------------------..--­by his father, followed by the suicide of his father, Ray notes TOTAL 44-83 16-22 58 104 TOTAL 32-67 16-28 35 80 "At least there is reason to think he was in the room," Ray says ND had 19 turnovers MSU had 18 turnovers quietly. ND shot 53% MSU shot 47.7% This past football season as Ray and the Baltimore Colts were on their way to a Code 12, or whatever the police squad signal is for family disturbance. Ron, by now, was officer Robinson, LAPD. 
ND matmen top Wheaton 
The "family disturbance" was hardly the usual hair-pulling, seconds remaining in the secondwhiskey-soaked screaming match so prevalent in the despair pockets by Bruce Kennedy win. The Irish fell behind, how­

period. Gustafson attacked
of the East Side. Ron Robinson's cheekbone was shattered by a ever, when Steve Moylan lost a

Observer Sportswriter 
quickly in the first period, andbullet. His eye rolled down his cheek and had to be sown back in at decision and Rich Esposto was
Notre Dame's wrestling team the mat was slapped with 26
an emergency room. pinned. 
seconds left. Gustafson's win
To Ray May's mind, this is where the real Super Bowl of came from behind to defeat American is being played these days. He played 40 minutes of Wheaton College 22-14 last night The lead then changed hands• leaves him undefeated in his impeccable defense in that other one at the Orange Bowl last at the Convo. Trailing 14-12 with every match until Notre Notre Dame career and marks 
with two matches to go, the Dame's final pins. Ken Ryan, a his sixth straight victory this
Sunday. The stats show six unassisted tackles (only Jerry Logan tied him) and two ;ISSists. That gave him a total of eight stops -tops on team assured itself its fourth ISO pounder, stopped his op­season. 
victory with Rick Aselage and ponent 11-10, but Bob Habig The victory sets the. Irish re­
the Colts. The great Ballas running offense crashed on the rocks of 

(I 58) lost at 5-3-1 nine
the left linebacker position so oftern that even Rookie-of-the-year Phil Gustafson pinned their op­a close one, 3-2. Bob cord with duels Duane Thomas made only 37 yards in 18 carries. ponents. Bennett ( 167) managed a 9-8 remaining. Friday, the squad 
Ray May didn't get a new car for what he did in the Super Bowl. ND took an early lead when decision, but John Dueker (177) travels to the University of Ak­But for what he's doing out of it, he should get a new bus. One 118 pounder Chris Paige won a lost 12-6 to set the stage for ron for a meet, and Saturday the linebacker doesn't make a team. But 1,000 Ray Mays might remake 13-0 decision, and Captain Tom Aselage's and Gustafson's pins. Irish will be hosted by John a country. Ciaccio followed with a 10-1 Aselage's pin came with 58 Carroll. 

.. 
Page 8 
Wednesday, January 27, 1971 
Mardi Gras Raffle Prizes 
Student Gr?nd Prize 
1970 Fl•t 124 5 pider 
C?mpus Prizes 
Top NO seller _$500 
2nd  $250  
3rd  $100  
4th  $100  
5th  $100  

Top SMC seller $250 2nd $100 3rd $100 4th $50 5th $50 
No carryina ch•rae 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Nixon: Clean up left overs 
WASHINGTON UPI President issues but thatamongthem Nixon told the 92nd Congress would be requests for increases yesterday its first priority should in airline and highway user taxes be to clean up the leftovers of which also died in the last Con-
the 91 st-cincluding enactment of grcss. welfar reforms and a $1.5 billion Before sending the message to appropriation to ease problems Congressat noon, Nixon 
caused by school desegregation. sought support for fresh legisla­
In a message to Capitol Hill tion-his "new A •nerican revolu-Nixon said he would soon resub­tion" and "six great goals"-at a mit to the new Congress 40 breakfast meeting with 50 Re­
publican congressmen and at aproposals that were left unfinish­later meeting with ranking GOPed by the last one. He said many members of the House Ways andwould deal with relatively minor 

Proof on university 

Means Committee and Senate 
Finance Committee. 
White House Press Secretary Ron;:tld Ziegler said that Nixon would seek bipartisan support for his proposal to reorganize executive departments and to enact a federal state revenue sharing plan and noted that the Democratic chairmen of the two committees were involved in a Capitol Hill caucus and were unable to attend the White House meeting. 
In his congressional message Nixon promised he would send the lawmakers other messages dealing with major unfinished business such as draft reform steps toward an all voluteer Army, ways to deal with strikes that cause national emergencies, increases in Soda! Security bene­fits and federal aid tu educati0n. 
Congress said the President should consider his pro po~ed welfare reform-the family assis­tance program-"an urgent item of unfinished business." 
He also said he would again propose $1 .5 billion in emergen­cy aid to school systems faced with desegregation problems be­cause "changes needed to deseg­regate our schools-either through court order or volutary action­place a heavy strain on local school systems and the federal government should assist the schools in this effort." 
Some of the measures to be resubmitted, Nixon said, will be in their original form but others have been changed to "meet legitimate concerns expressed by members of Congress." 

(Continued from Page I) • 
serious obstruction of University 
Life, he may summarily suspend 
and even expel students." 
The university will have to 
prove Friday that Riehle's reas­
ons for suspending Brennan were 
congruent with this article. 
The section's second part says 
that "these measures shall be 
provisional, until the Appeals 
Board has considered the case 
without presumption of guilt 
and rendered a decision." This is 
the passage that was misinter­
preted by the administration and 
by student government. 
Krashna was informed by Ur­
da last night of the apparently 
correct interpretation of the sec­
tion only after a dispute earlier 
in the day concerning a misin­
formed university acceptance of 
an appeals hearing date. 
Krashna admitteu that it was 
Urda's job to advise him on 
judicial code matters and that it 
was "my mistake" that Urda was 
not asked for an opinion on the 
operation of the code before last night. 
He added that it was usual 
procedure in a very important 
matter for the student body 
president or vice-president to ini­
tially handle the matter and then 
later bring in the appropriate 
cabinet officer. 
However, he said that the code was "vague" on the qucs­tion of appeal proceu ure and he along with Father Riehle had assumed that Riehle was respon­sible for initiating an appeal. 
Urda said last night that it was his opinion that the code was "not sufficiently vague" to allow Riehle's and Krashna's interpre­tation, but he blamed the new­ness of the code responsible and not either of the two. 
He said that he had no iuea that Krashna hall interpreted the section to give Riehle the con­trolling voice anu he added that he "just read over" yesteruay's Observer article in which Krash­na stateu his belief that Riehle was the determining factor in any appeal. 

Census officials attend conference here 
Top U.S. census officials will attend a conference at Notre Dame on February 3 to demon-

SUITS. SPORT & SUBURBAN COATS 
SAVE 
BUY NOW... 
P•y 1/3 in June P•y 1/3 in July P•y 1/3 in Aua. 

I/41!2il 1/3 NOW 
The great sale is on...a genuine sale of quality, university-styled apparel at savings of as much as one-half. ..all from our regular stocks. You'11 find: *All-weather Coats with zip-out liners, reg. $55 ...34.5 *A large group of super sharp shirts at exactly one-half *CPO shirts and jackets marked down one-half 
new fashion vests to reduced exactly one-half Plus these added attractions: New shipments of riverboat shirts in 5 colors and tlare pants in great selection. 
ND MUCH MORE ...STOP IN. 
THE NEW DOUBLE KNIT SUITS 
These are the high styled suits with belts, flare styling, new double knit fabrics. We have them in several styles and colors, stop in for a preview. 
strate profitable use of census statistics by the public. Spon­sored by the. U.S. Census Bureau and the Notre Dame Institute for Urban Studies, the confer­ence is scheduled for the Center for Continuing Education and is open to the public. 
Dr. Thomas Broden, institute director, said census information will be available on a block by block, district by district, town, county, state and national basis. The conference is d'esigned to show businessmen, clergy, ed u­cators, industrialists, public and voluntary agency officials, and volunteers involved in planning, as well as students, faculty and researchers, how to make use of the 1970 census materials. 
Gerald L. O'Donnell, chief of the User Conferences Staff of the U.S. Census Bureau, Wash­ington, D.C., will discuss the publication of census question­naire results, including the con­tents and possible uses of sum­mary tapes, public use sample 
tapes, and  other special tabula­ 
tions.  
Richard  Schweitzer  of  the  

Data Access and Use Labora­tory, Washington, will discuss the possible uses of census maps, master enumeration district list, address coding guide and the geographic file. 
An evaluation of the results and current trends indicated by the census questionnaire will be discussed by Curtis T. Hill, reg­ional director of the Census Bur­
eau office in Chicago. Edward J. Drost, president of DA YET, Inc., a Chicago data use and access laboratory, will resent local uses of census data in business and community plan­ning and research. 

Small group workshops will follow the formal presentations. Dr. John Malone, associate dean for graduate study in the Notre Dame College of Business Ad­ministration, will direct discus­sions of the community and business planning session. 
Vincent Benanati, executive director of United Community Services, St. Joseph County; Richard Johnson, assistant exec­utive director of the St. Joseph County Area Plan Commission, and Hill will serve as panelists. 
Dr. David L. Dodge, assistant professor of sociology at Notre Dame and director of the Social Stress and Illness Study, will conduct a workshop on research. Serving as panelists will be Dr. David L. Appel, assistant pro­fessor of marketing manage­ment; Dr. Jose F. B. DaSilva, associate professor of sociology, and Schweitzer. 
Dr. William I. Davisson, asso­ciate professor of economics, will direct a discussion on tech­nical questions will Drost and O'Donnell serving as panelists. 
Junior P?.rents 
The Junior Parents-Son Week­end Committee announced yes­terday that final ticket sales and table reservations for the Presi­dent's dinner will be held at LaFortune Student Center on Feb. 1, 2, and 3, from 7 to 9 P.M. 



