
only one word for it: wet 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. 6, No. 51 Friday, November 19, 1971 
Bangkok quiet after military coup d'etat 
((') 1971 New York Times 
Bangkok, Thailand, Nov. 18.-Thailand's capital was calm and apparently un­concerned this evening after the first day of marital law imposed by Field Marshal Thanom Kittikachorn. 
Thanom last night abolished the govern­mt>nt he headed and alf of Thailan's other democratic institutions, replacing it with a military-dominated revolutionary party. 
The only development today was the announcement from Thanom's office that the five-member group he had formed to share absolute power has been expanded to nine members, all of them were mem­bers of the Marshal's own "United Thai P(•ople's Party" which Thanom headed as prPmier until he abolished the party last night. All but two are highranking military men. 
Thailand's Parliament. Cabinet and Constitution were suddenly dissolved on orders of Thanom last night in a move a~.linst what the Marshal called "dangers I h reat<'ning national security" which . , inH•d at changing the government from a 
·'('onstitutional  monarchy  to  an  un­ 
dt'mocratic form."  
I~ut  the sudden move was  followed by  

only slight security precautions by royal 
Thai troops aound strategic points in the There have been no arrests connected city. The people and the Civil Service have with the coup. 
heeded the new ruling bocjv's orders to A group of intellectuals from Bangkok's carry on as usual, and this evening L1terary and Journalistic World expressed Bangkok's brightly lit streets were dismay today over the coup which ended crowded with shoppers and strollers in the three years of constitutional democracy unusually cool weather that Southeast Aia ·under Thailand's young monarch but they has enjoyed for the past two days. recognized that few others shared their dismay. 

"The people are greeting the whole thing with a big yawn," a student said. "They are bored with the whole thing." 
Thanom, who had been Premier since 1963, has not publicly specified the dangers which prompted him to stage his power grab. But it is known here that he and his close military associates have been dismayed at demands from Parliamen­tary members of their own party for more public works money appropriations in the Parliament, at the expense of military allocations. 
But privately some members of the mission staff conceded that the coup would further embarrass Washington's efforts to oppose Communism in Asia with viable democracies. 
They noted that the coup comes within a month of an almost identical dissolution of the Cambodian Parliament and Con­stitution by Prime Minister Lon Nol In Phnom penh, as well as not long after South Vietnam President Nguyen Van Thieu's unopposed Presidential referendum . 
Since United States aid to Thailand was begun in 1946, the U.S. has spent over $700 million here ·in military assistance and $472.8 million in economi<' ,del. 
Faculty views varied on pullout 
by Mike llaum Faculty reaction to the president's announced troop withdrawal ranged from cautious approval to fears that the move would overshadow continuing deaths arid suffering in the war. 
The President's office announced on the the 15th that Gen. 
-. Abrams would be "tentatively" in­structed to reduce his force by 130,000 to 
155,000 men by next­

June 30th. This would reduce the American forces in SouthNorling 
Vietnam to ap­proximately 30,000 to 55,000 men. 
Professor Gerhart Niemeyer remarked that the move simply followed long an­nounc<'d plans and needed no particular comment. He observed that the troop pullout was necessary since the country cannot continue in a war "without any possible prospect of winning and without <'Ven the permission to win on the part of th<' Congress." He added. "They (the President and Secretary of Defense) have to take us out with as much honour as we can garner from the occasion. "Asked if he felt the move was justified, Professor Niemeyer replied, "My own fc,·ling is that ultimately if you go way back u> '64-65 this kind of outcome isn't justified, and if this was to be the outcome, then the war wasn't 
justified." 

1.' The reactions of Professor Bernard Norling of the History Department were similar. He observed that the troop withdrawal was ,"Going well according to plan",Niemeyer and observed that it 

was an attempt "to gracefully disguise national unwillingness to contmue." 
He feels that Nixon is "stuck with this policy", and remarked that if the nation will not pay the price to win then "getting out is the best way to disguise defeat." 
other ideas were volunteered by Fr. Bill Toohey of the Office of Campus Ministry and Fr. Maurice Amen. Fr. Amen 
remarked that he was "bothered" by the 
fact that the announcement coincided with 
lastweek's step up in bombing missions 
and the release of the Cornell Report citing 
bombing as doing the most r:lamage. He 
felt that the troop pullout was good but 
that it was not enough because of the 
continuing bombing. 
Fr. Toohey said he was "not terribly 
impressed" with the move, remarking 
"The thing that really bothers me about 
this is that it seems again to be a bit of a 
cover of what has been simply 
a ... mechanization, or 
. mechanizing the war 
so it won't be fought 
by American 
soldiers, so that 
maybe not so many
' of our guys will be 
getting killed ... but 
there still are ap-
Toohey proximately 300 or so people dying every day." 
He feels that "the fact that there is a hell of a lot of killing going on is not terribly remedied by the fact that there is not so many American boys being killed." He observed that the government had "turned this into a beautiful push button thing". 
Asked if he saw any alternative to the President's program, Fr. Toohey replied, "I would see an alternative in the im­mediate cessation of all bombing, and the 
immediate or as rapid as possible removal of American troops and the discon­tinuation of the incredibly hypocritical and 

really tragic support of a totally corrupt South Vietnam government." 
Concerning Prof. Niemeyer's view that the reductions are handled with an eye to saving 
Amen national honour, Fr. 
Toohey remarked that he would rather see an honest admission of our mistakes, and an attempt to do something about "healing the wounds instead of going into a high pressure campaign to change all the jargon." 
"I shrink from the possibility of it being a damn whitewash of the whole ting." 


Nixon: Pullout to be completed by June 30th, reduces forces ­
The Notre Dame basketball team and Student Government need your help this coming Tuesday afternoon. 50 students wiith their cars are needed to distribute Thanksgiving baskets to families in South Bend. It will only take about an hour of your time. Students' without cars are also needed to drive trucks and assist drivers, without the .cars, though , we can't deliver the baskets. If you have a car, please consider helping. Call 7668 today to register, and then come to Gate 10 of the ACC between 1:30 and 2:30 on Tuesday afternoon. 
r' 
---~~­

P..,e 2 THE OBSERVER. Friday, November 19, 1971 
ND-SMC involvement sought 

CNV plans drive for '72 elections 
Plans are underway to involve the Notre Dame-St. Mary's student body in what local coordinators of Emergency Conference for New Voters term "The most significant political challenge for college students since the strike." Pat 'Coyle and Joe Myers, who organized this year's local voter registration drive, and Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic announced plans to organize a delegation from South Bend to attend the December 3, 4 

and 5 con­fference · in Chicago that is intended to "educate politically minded students in the ways of party politics 
and arm them 
Dziedzic w i t h t h e 
techniques that 
can make it 
work their way." 
Planners for the nationwide 
conference have arranged for 
housing at Loyola and Mundelein 
Univversities. The conference 
intends to charge no registration 
fee, Dziedzic said. According to 
the Ombudsman, the local 
organization is planning to use 
car caravans for transportation. 

Stage set for Senate battle 
Washington, Nov. 18--The Senate appropriations committee cut $3.3 billion from the defense budget today but refused to impose a Vietnam troop with­drawal policy upon the ad­ministration. 
By a 14-10 vote, the committee rejected an amendment to the defense appropriations bill specifying that the President could use defense funds only to withdraw troops from Indochina. 
At the same time, the com­mittee, by a 14-13 vote, adopted an amendment requiring the withdrawal of 60,000 American troops from western europe by next June. 
The two committee votes set · the stage for renewed battles on the Vietnam and Atlantic alliance troop issues when the defense bill reaches the Senate floor in the next few days. 
The administration appeared to have the votes to defeat both the Vietnam and Atlantic alliance troop withdrawal amendments. But it was also apparent that the administration would have dif­ficulty restoring any funds to the defense budget, which has been pared down by the Senate committee below administration wishes. 


The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre  Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
second class postage paid.  Notre  
Dame, Ind. 46556.  


Delegates from South Bend will selection by primaries. in the conference with tran­said. be able to participate in a variety The conference, Dziedzic said, sportation and accomodations. of sessions aimed at introducing will also give attention to the The three will attempt to The campus coordinators in a them to the Democratic can-­organization of "a nation-wide establish a car shuttle service so press release said they "welcome didates and techniques involved youth caucus" that would work that students would be able to anyone who wishes to help in in the selection of delegates to the 
with Black and attend a part of the conference if 
organizing the South Bend Democratic nominating con-women caucuses not the entire thipg, Dziedzic delegation.'·'
vention. \ f> and "in-said. 
But, the
According to the Myers, "the formation on "This is not only an exciting

\ organizersconvention will concentrate on lobbying efforts, possibility on the national scene 
· contended, "it isthe democratic party because it court action and but it·is an more importantoffers the best chance for the challenging "This is not only an exciting that anyone whosentiments of the young to be state possibility on the national scene has realized tineincorporated in partisan Myers delegations to but it is an invaluable opportunity significance ofpolitics." national conventions." for Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
the 26th
The convention is scheduled to "Party leaders are going to students to investigate a facet of Coyle amendment
open with a forum of major have to realize they can't ignore politics we won't get in the candidates for the democratic our ideas any longer because we classroom, "according to Coyle. decide if he has the time to presidential nomination, in­have been authenicated by the "The Strike is now two years make it work this December. cluding Muskie and McGovern. vote, but they must also come to removed but the problems of The alternative is frustration at The conference has set up understand that we don't intend insensitive government are not. the conventions in August and at workshops and seminars for the to wait until November 2. Major If we concede that the battle can the polls in November." 
weekend to deal with details on battles must be fought before not be won we have lost without delegate selection procedures in then," Dziedzic said. trying. If we refuse to stop trying For information call 7638 each state, voter registration Coyle, Myers and Dziedzic we have at least won the battle during the day or 3692, 3676 or techniques, and delegate hope to provide anyone interested for political integrity," Coyle 1658 after dinner. 
r-------------------------~~----------------·
ul put a lot of bread into a down payment on my new ca[ And I'm not going to blow it:' 

You worked hard for that new car of yours. Now all you have to do is take care of it. Part of it's using the right gasoline. Amoco®. The type most new car owner manuals recommend. 
Amoco is specially formulated for your new car's anti­pollution engine. Made to help it run better. longer. And Amoco can double the life of your tail pipe and muffler compared to fully leaded gasolines; spark plugs last longer. too. 
That's why more new car buyers use Standard gasolines than any other brand. When it comes to high-quality gasolines. you can depend on Amoco and the other gasolines at Standard. All the time. 
So now that you've got that new car. use the gasoline you can count on. 
You've got a new car. We've got a new car gasoline. 
~~ ~T~ 
STANDARD 
~·~ 
You expect more from Standard and you get it.T.. 
@Standard Oil Division of American Oil Company 
Friday, November 19, 1971 



China runs first nuclear test in over a year 
tt' l 1971 Nl'W York Times A.I<; .C. officials deferred tentionally deferring testing until comnwnt on lhl' purpose of the tlw question of its admission to 
Washington, Nov. 18--China set IPst pending an examination of tlw lJ .N. was settled. on its first nuclear bomb test in thP rPports of their world-wide Federal armaments specialists ovl'r a Yl'ar today, the 12th dating monitoring network. Today's havC' stated privately for several hack to the initial atomic blast on dPtonation which occured in the ~·ears that China has been tlw mainland seven years ago, atmospher£' at 1 a.m. EST was rigorously pushing a program to 
thP Atomic J<~n('rgy Commission substantially smaller than the develop nuclear weapons that a nnotmePd here. last Chinese test on October 14, eould be carried by planes, and 
Tlw A.KC. estimated the yiPid 19711, which was the equivalent of more importantly missiles. of !()(lay's test at about 20,000 tons :1 million tons of TNT. Tlw apparent aim, according to of TN'i', the same as the first Tlw blast occured only three lhPsc officals, is that Peking( 'hirwst• tC'st blast in 1964. As with days aftPr China was seated at hl'lit•ves the weapons are the original and eight subsequent lhP llnitPd Nations. Observers of rwcessary as a deterrent to hlasts. the test was held at the mainland China had been 
possible military moves bynucll•ar proving ground at Lop sppculating for much of this year Moseow along the Sino-SovietNor in Northwestern China. that the Chinese were in-



E OBSERVER 

Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Vol. 6, No. 5\ Page 3 Friday, November 19, 1971 

world briefs 
Washington--By a vote of 14 to 10, the Senate Appropriations Committee rejected an amendment to the defense ap­propriations bill limiting its funds to withdrawing troops from Indochina. But the committee did cut $3.3 billion from the Pentagon appropiation and voted 14 to 13 to require the withdrawal of 60,000 American troops from Europe by next June. 
Meanwhile, the administration, even before the vote to reduce the American troop level in Europe, asserted that such a unilateral move would take away a bargaining point in possible talks with the Soviet Union on mutual force reductions in Europe. The administration statement followed a surprise subcommittee vote Wednesday for the cutback. 
Washington--Funding for the Nation's foreign aid program was extended to December eighth as a House-Senate con­ference committee agreed to continue the program at slightly less than the current spending rate in order to give Congress time to work settle differences over a regular 

border whl'l"l' there has been 
tension since the late 1960's. 
Dr ..JohnS. Fostl'r Jr., Director of ltl'search and Engineering at the defense department, said in an address here last month that the Chinese would soon be developing an intercontinental ballistic missile. 
The Chinese are known to have perf('Cted and deployed medium range ballistic missiles, one of which was believed to have been fired five years ago as a test of its nuciC'ar warhead. The yield of that tC'st was about £'qual to that of today's, and also was similar to that of the first atomic bomb that the l.lnited States dropped on Hiroshima. 
China also is believed to be developing an intermediate range ballistic missile having a range of abut 1,000 miles. It is possible that today 's detonation was a test of a warhead for either 
I hl' short of ml'dium rang<' 
\l'('<lpons, or pl•rhaps l'Ven that of 
an aircraft weapons system. 
Ont' of lh<' 12 Chinese tests has 
!wen conducted at the missile 
rang<' at Shuang-Ch'Eng-Hzu in North central China, and all but 
om· havl' been held in the at­
mosph<'r<'. Neither China nor 
l<'rance has signed the limited 
atomic test ban agreement which 
prohibits tests other than those undl•r·ground. 
i\t least three of the Chinese tests, which had yield of about 3 nwgatons, are believed to have hl•en hydrogen bombs. The 11pparent long-range aim of Chin<'se defense planners is the dl'V<'lopment and deployment of lntC'rcontinental ballistic missiles with hydrogen warheads in the megaton range which would give China parity in arms development with the Soviet Union and the U.S. 
Kent State petition sent to justice dept 
((') l!lil New York Times 

Washington, Nov. 17--A petition to the President from 10,380 Kent State University students, calling Mitchell's decision in August. for a federal grand jury in­"In view of the exhaustive vestigation of the shooting of four investigation and analysis done 
students by national guardsmen previously," lie said, "it would in M<ly, 1970, has been referred appear doubtful that the decision for consideration to the depart­would be ehangPd, absent some nwnt of justice, the White House rww information." said today. The petition urged the 
Tlw pC'lition, delivered to the l'rpsidl'nt to consider the White House three weeks ago, in possibility of federal law Pffecl asked for a reversal of a violations in the shooting of the decision not to call a federal four Kent State students by grand jury. This decision was national guardsmen. The in­announced last August by at­cident occurred on the Ohio torney general John N. Mitchell. eampus in the wake of the A White House spokesman said Anwrican incursion into Cam­
today the petition had been bodia. brought to the President's at­On£' possible violation raised tention and that there would be a was of a federal statute for­
rPsponse to it. He left unclear bidding police and law en­whether it would come from the forcement brutality. The second White House or the Justice was a conspiracy to obstruct 
department. justice. 
At the department, a The latter referred to spokesman said that the petition al\('gations that some guardsmen has been taken under ad­jointly agreed to tell ac­visement. Another eounts of the shooting to in­
knowledgeable official said, vestigators. 
The petition was carried to the White House three weeks ago byrare occasion Dr. (ilenn A. Olds, the new Kent State president and a former adviser to Nixon, and two student 
If is indeed a rare occasion to see Fr. Hesburgh actually emerge originators of the petition. from his golden tower. 
3:00 pm--all school con­vocation, caroll hall dc;.;igned to rally support on the smc parietal question 
3:30 pm --colloquim -dr. garabet j gabriel . "on the marginal probability of non-stationary ran­
en 

dom processes -room::s 303 engineering bldg 3:30, 7 & 9 pm -film -"shop
a.. 

a 
on main street'' in the little theatre 
4:30 pm -colloquim -j tits 
u 
ts of the university of bonn -"free subgroups and 
linear groups" -room 226 of the computing
s:l 
center

0 7:45 pm -hockey -notre 


dame vs. colorado program, the Senate for two programs totalling $2.67 billion. 
authorization bill. The House has asked for a $3.4 billion college at the ace (C) 1971 New York Times 

8:00 pm -concert -fiori musicale "in­Balllarbour, Fla--A.F.L.-C.I.O. members on the pay board strumental music of thewill refuse to vote except in cases where their votes are seventeenth centuryneeded to ensure an outcome favorable to labor's interests, 
stapleton lounge
the Labor Federation decided at a meeting here. 
lemans smc 

Friday, November 19, 1971 
Page~ THE OBSERVER 


Southern industries ordered to cut pollution 
<c> 1971 New York Times Birmingham, Ala., Nov. 18--A federal judge ordered 23 area industries in the area to halt production today after the air pollution climbed to about twice the level at which a danger alert would be given. The order was the first injunction against polluters made under the emergency provisions of the clean air act of 1970. It was sought by the environmental protection agency after the in­dustries allegedly ignored ap­peals from local health agencies to shutdown voluntarily. A stagnant air mass over most of the eastern seaboard brought advisories to half a dozen areas, including New York. An E.P.A. official singled out the United States Steel Corp., in Bir­mingham for its alleged refusal to cooperate during the emergency. "U.S. Steel did nothing, although they have the major plants involved and contribute 35 per cent of the particulate emissions," the spokesman said. · The company, which employes n,ooo· workers at three plants, said that several steps h:1d been taken to reduce the probelm. But a local health official contended that the efforts were token "housekeeping" measurc-c; and the concern had adamantly refused to curtail production, the major source of the smoke in­troduced in to the atmosphere. After the order was issued today by Federal District Judge Sam. C. Pointer, U.S. Steel ail· nounced that its open hearth furnaces were cut back to 35 per cent of full production. A level a spokesman said was the minimum that could be obtained without damaging the equipment or causing a completely, prolonged shutdown. The emergency was eased today as a cold front pushed into the Southeast, unsettling the stagnant high pressure mass that had settled over the area for the past week. The local air pollution count dropped to 410 this morning and rain was forecast for tomorrow, which would further cleanse the atmosphere. A hearing was scheduled in Judge Pointer's court tomorrow to determine if conditions would permit an easing of the order. 
Health officials said that the pollution particulate count of soot 
Foreign show 
The International Program, a regular feature of WSND-FM, will feature this Sunday af­ternoon· from 4:30 to 5:30 a discussion between returned American students from the Foreign Studies Program and natives from the countries. 
Countries to be discu55ed are Mexico, France, Austria, and Italy. The students will point out the advantages and disad­vantages of the Foreign Studies Program. Producer James O'Sullivan, from London, England, hopes to explore the practical and academic im­plications of the program. 
and dust reached micrograms would say certainly not." per cubic meter of air on Tuesday A U.S. Steel spokesman and was recorded at 758 challenged the allegation and yesterday when the appeal was claimed that the operation of the made to the E.P.A. to seek the company's open hearth furances temporary restraining order. No and coke ovens was rescheduled marked increase of respiratory to spread emissions throughout ailments were reported in the the day instead of in concentrated Birmingham area, however. releases. In addition, he said, 
An air pollution alert is issued incinerators were turned off, when the particle count reaches open fires banned, and the use of 
375. gas was substituted for coal as 
Dr. George Hardy, health of­fuel for boilers. ficer for Jefferson County, said "We are certainly concerned that by Wednesday the 23 in­with public health and we are dustries had been requested by doing our part to eliminate this telegram to curtail 60 per cent of problem," he declared. their production. He said that the It appeared during the day that response from five major firms, little state or federal legal ap­including U.S. Steel, was paratus existed to supervise "inadequate"; that the · firms strict compliance with the court were only willing to make minor order. "housekeeping" cutbacks The state of Alabama this year without interfering significantly had passed an air pollution law with production. that got high marks from 
Asked at a news conference if national experts. But Gov. he believed that U.S. Steel had George C. Wallace took no action acted in the public interest during to appoint a State Commission the cirsis, Hardy responded: "I that would enforce its provisions 
ND representatives at Death Toll project 
bv D. Patrick Rock 

Administrative assistant, Sr. Patricia McNiel, Notre Dame seniors Kevin Hennelly, Tony Oppegard and a member of the Memorial Library staff, Charlott" Denty, today represent the Notre Dame Saint Mary's community at the continuing Daily Death Toll project. 
Begun November 8, in our nation's capital, the Daily Death Toll, is employing non-violent civil disobedience in order to emphasize the continuint American policy of death in Indochina. 
For ten days now, ap­proximately 300 persons from different sections of the country have been fasting in front of the White House. At a predetermined time, the vigilants lie down at the entrance, symbolizing the number of persons being killed daily in the war. The protestors are calling for President Nixon to set a definite date for the with­drawal of all American troops. 
"In Washington," said Op­pegard, "visits to Congressman and Senators are taking place in order to explain that people are still needlessly dying in the war. We're asking the legislators to intensify their own efforts to seek an end to the killing." 
The project supplemented various local activities--vigils and memorial services--which "hope to be catalysed by the national involvement," said Oppegard. 
"Although public opposition to the war is larger than it has ever been before, this opposition has not been vociferous or intense as of late," continued Oppegard. "I think ;nany Americans are assuming a 'wait and see' at­titude concerning the war, hoping that either the United States People's Republic of China summit meeting or the 1972: Presidential election will bring the end to the war." 
The protestors, according to Oppegard, feel there are no speculations about the future which "can justify allowing the war to go on one day longer." the Protestors plan to lay the deaths "at the President's doorstep" to dramatize their beliefs. 

until last Monday as public alarm morning shift. By that time, grew over the smog-filled air westerly breezes were already suspended over this industrial breaking up the stagnant air city. mass and the sun was cutting 
The commission has yet to through the reddish-brown band meet and appoint a director, so of haze that has hung over the the law, for all practical pur-city for the past week. poses, has had no impact. Among the other firms cited as 
The judge issued the defendants in the order were: restraining order after midnight, U.S. Pipe and Foundry Co., and U.S. marshals notified the Republic Steel Corp., Clow Corp, industries of its specifications as and American Cast Iron and Pipe workers reported at plants for the 
Co. 
e server Local Insert Price List 
per 1000 (10,000 must be printed) 
2 page ........... : . · ....... $10.00 4 page .................... $12.00 6 page ....................$14.00 8 page ....................$16.00 
12 & over pages .•.........$20.00 
Pamphlet 
8 page ....................$12.00 16 page .................... $15.00 24 page ....................$18.00 30 & over pages ...........$24.00 
Pre-payment Required. 
Call 7471 for further information. 


i-MAlN. CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr.RobertGriffin,C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr.AndrewCiferni,O.Praem 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanaugh, O.S.B. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. John Dunne, C.S.C. 
Vespers: Sunday thru Thursday at 7 p.m. 
EnjoyTheM usic Of The SingingIris 
OTRE DAME GLEE CLUB FALL CONCERT 
Sunday, Nov. 21 Washington 
8:15 P.M. Hall Admission Free 

Don's Drugs Just 5 minutes North -Prescriptions -Complete Line of Name Brand Cosmetics -Everything for Baby Giftware 

n.Cameras and Film 
vpen 9 am to 9 pm 50970 U.S. 31 N. South Bend 
ph 272-4884 
OAK PARK: 6606 W. Roosevelt Rd., 848-9600. Exit Eisenhower Expressway at Harlem. HIGHLAND PARK: 1672 Old Skokie Ad., 831-4300. North on Edens? Deerfield "West" exit. Front­age Rd., follow to Old Skokie. South on Edens? Deerfield "West" exit, follow to Old Skokie. 

Open 9:30 to 5:30. Mondays & Thursdays 'til9. 
!"' ~. 


·.·.·.·: ·•••·•• ·, .~•.•• ~.~-:.·J·r"• 

Friday, November 19, 1971 
THE· OBSERVER 


Herbert 

November 14, 1971 
Editor: 
The most decorated soldier in the Korean war, Lt. Col. Anthony B£'rnard Herbert, is a sort of latter-day Sgt. York and Audie Murphy, manifesting the highest type of valor and heroism. In the Viet Nam war Herbert again distinguished himself, winning virtually every type of award. "The guy is absolutely in­credible," one of the young of­ficers in his battalion wrote to his wife back home. "He is the p£'rfect soldier." 
Appointed acting inspector general, Herbert had the task of making official inquiries into alleged violations of military regulations. On February 14 near thl' village of Cu Loi he en­countered a group of 15 prisoners in the custody of a South Viet­namese unit under an American lieutenant. 
"Four were already killed," said ll£'rbert, "and they had a knife at the throat of a woman. H~r baby was screaming and her other little child was being suf­focated by a South Vietnamese who was pushing its face into the sand with his foot." 
llerbert ordered them to stop, but they proceeded to cut the mother's throat. They then murdered the rest of the detainees, men , women and childr£'n. Herbert reported the sickening massacre to Lt. Co. J. Hoss Franklin, deputy ·com­mander of the 173d, assuming the matter would be properly in­vestigated. But Franklin ignored it. claiming it was mere imagination. 
Herbert reported seven other atrocities, but Franklin took no action. Pentagon brass supported l''ranklin, and Herbert was ignominiously relieved of his command and appointed assistant in charge of industrial op£'rations at Fort McPherson in Atlanta. He was told that he would there be "in charge of incinerators, trash cans and 
' telephones." Here is a flagrant and shocking 
!" 
injustice when the Pentagon must speedily rectify if it is to have the respect instead of the loathing and hatred of the American people. 
H<'v. John A. O'Brien, Ph.D. 
Notr<' Dame, Indiana 
Info: 2211 

November 15, 1971 
Editor: 
An unsigned letter of Monday, November 15, lamented the fact that sufficient advance in­formation was not available to the students on concerts and other programs on the campus. T 
The Office of Public In­formation daily produces a taped account of all major functions at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's . By dialing 2211 (283-2211 for off­campus> information may be obtained on lectures, films, concerts, athletic events, etc. Information on ticket availability is recorded and an additional telephone number is listed if p<'rtinent facts are needed. 1 l The admissions office 
Be our guest and use this should refuse admittance to any service day and night. Your applicant whose father or comments will be appreciated. favorite uncle attended Notre 
Dame. and after the merger, to Jay J. Kane, any candidate whose mother Public Information Office attended Saint Marv's. 
2) All ivy should be stripped from building walls and shouldbe 
McNulty Primer 
replaced with underground art. 

November 16, 1971 3l Buildings or trees which 
cast shade on sidewalks should be I<:ditor: torn down and sun lamps should S£'e Jean McNulty be installed for night use. She visits Notre Dame 4) All courses such as She Jean write philosophy , history, sociology, Write. Jean. write science, art, etc. which refer to 




Letters to the Editor 
Jean writes about what she sees Jean sees no demonstrations J<'an has been watching the boob­tube Jean thinks demonstrations happen every day Jean is a boob J£'an sees "Boys" wearing suit 
coat and tie  
Jean  sees  "girls"  wearing  
dresses  
Dumb, Jean, dumb  
What  Jean  sees  are  men  and  
\vomen  

What Jean sees is called "class" But Jean is in high school We forgive you Jean Jean sees panty raids .l£'an fears for her panties See Jean run Hun Jean run We like panties with Mickey Mouse on them Jean looks for bell bottoms Jean looks for Jefferson Airplane Jean looks for anything by Abbie Hoffman Why, Jean, why , Are these the things that make a university great J£'an says there is no healthy difference of outlook Jean says there is no opinion Jean did not hear last year's valedictorian Jean is in high school Jean is a teeny-bopper Teeny, bop per, teeny But now Jean knows all about college This makes Jean a BIG girl Jean -buzz off. 
Michael Hoots Class of '74, 
A New Plan 

November 16, 1971 
Editor: 
The following is a proposal to upgrade the educational and social experience at Notre Dame in accordance with the guidelines estab!ished by ~he Student publicatiOn of Manon High School, Birmingham, Michigan, 
The following policies should be immediately effected: 
---/
I 
---+

,:TWA 
For Futher Information on TWA's Getaway Vacation Plans Contact: 
P~ter Boyd, Campus Rep 150 Farley 
"another time and taste" should 
be reorganized so as to omit the~e 
flaws, or, in the case of this material being generic to the course, the course should be dropped. 
5) A papal fiat, with the ap­proval of T.M.H, C.S.C., should be issued on official Dean of Students directive paper, for­bidding Sacred Heart Church from casting a shadow under penalty of excommunication. 
6) Football, bridge, and StudPnt Govt. should be repressed. 
'I) Mandatory demon­strations at 10, 2, and 4 for all students <with organizational flyers under the doors at 7 am.) 
8) Every student is required to join the "panthers" except there will be separate but equal panther organizations for each color. <A color chart can be ob­tained from maintenance or by writing the O'Brien company). 
9lStudents must not wear 
P .F. Fliers, straight leg jeans that don't fade, blue, gold, or blue and gold 1'-shirts, or white sox. 
10) All dates must be on Tuesday night. 
11) All students must look like Abbie Hoffman dolls rather than Ken dolls at all times. 
12) No N.D. student may own a suit or tie. No SMC student may own a dress or handbag. 
13) Gilbert's must be replaced by Leather Ltd. 
14) No N.D. student may bathe, shave, or get a haircut<the 5 S's being instant expulsion) 
15) No Beethoven, Beach Boys, Rachmaninoff, Elvis, Stravinsky, Simon and Garfunkel or any music belonging to 
another taste and time will be allowed. Only albums by groups such as "The Grape Giblet" or with titles such as "Days of Pewter Knights" will be ac­ceptable. 
16) Abbie Hoffman should be given tenur-e in the Political Science and Govt. departments, while Timothy Leary should be granted the position of chairman of the Theology Department. 

17l The quads should be paved to provide more adequate demonstration facilities-this of course, calls for more electrical outlets for the bands, helium cannisters for the balloons, and gravity boots for Maury so-be-it. 
18) The University should immediately deport Michael "tunes" Murphy and Kevin O'Neil since they don't wear coats and ties, but nexertheless 
. ·-----------, 

one show only Richard Harris in 


CAMELOT 
TONIGHT At 8 P.M. O'Laughlin Hall $1.00 
SMC soph class 

Urban Studies E,vening Sunday, November 21 
7:00 PM Room 103 O'Shaughnessy 
1.Work study for academic credit 
2. 
Urban studies seminar 

3. 
Urban studies double major 

4. 
Urban studies certificate 


DIAMOND IMPORTERS 

get a bigger diamond for less money 
wear straight-legged jeans that don't fade and do not own Jef­ferson Airplane albums. They are also Irish Catholic, and not, therefore, a socially revelant minority. For these reasons they are misfits and can be allowed to remain only if they agree to 
begin  mainlining  heroin  in  an  
<'ffort  to  expand  their  social  
consciousness.  

19) The immediate expulsion of the author of this proposal since he is both a technocrat<being a grad student in <horors) engineering) and an administration lackey(i.e. a resident assistant). 
Ray Hebert, Jr. 309 Dillon Hall 


FIRST LOVE Ii •'~ 
2f..!J

DIAMOND  - - 
RING  • SOUTH BEND  
$19.  • MISHAWAKA  

Notre Dame Accounts Welcome 
10 percent Discount to N.D. Students 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor Assistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaseless! y querulous and 

bellicose. They never defend Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help ,\dvertising Manager Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken, 

Business: 283-7 4 71 News: 283-1715 
The Fight Isn't Over Yet 
There is an all school convocation at St. Mary's today---an all school 


convocation in which the students will be able to say what future action should be taken on the hall parietals proposal in particular and how much say they should have in determing / their own lives in general. 
Sister Alma's arbitrary veto of the Hall Parietals proposal in this week's Student Affairs Council meeting has sparked the action. 
Sister Alma really didn't have any good reasons for striking the measure down---she mumbled something about parental opposition and about the bill not having a chance of passing the board of Trustees---but the real reason "in 
loco parentis" and will only a bandon it gradually under pressure. 

That's one and possibly the only thing that the convvocation can produce---pressure. Itcan give the SMC Student Government the backing it needs to go to the administration and push for a change in policy. 
The convocation won't produce much of anything though if only a fraction of the students show up. A couple of hundred people protesting Sr. Alma's veto isn't going to move her or anyone else in the ad­ministration to take the students seriously. 
When the ad hoc committee of the SLC brought forth its grotesque report on sanctions over 600 hundred students mobbed the SLC meeting. Those same six hundred saw the SLC responded to the pressure and put the report back into another committee---that committee brought out a report favorable to the students view. 
Ifsix hundred St. Mary's students show up at the convocation tomorrow and move for Kathy Barlow to resubmit the proposal to -the Student Af­fairs Council and then those same six hundred students attend the Council meeting that considers the proposal the result will be different. 
We think that Sr. Alma---no matter how strongly she is against the bill-­-will find it very hard to veto it if she has six hundred students glaring at her. 
The Trustees might veto the bill anyway. They meet behind closed doors though. Go to the Convocation, vote for the proposal to be resubmitted and then go to the SAC meeting---you really can't afford not to. 
Bloody Hands 
The crowd was hooting and jeering. A couple of rocks and lots of ob­scenities were tossed at the troopers. They were nervous and fatigued. The students seemed to be closing in and there was no help in sight. Virtually as a group they turned---some knelt and the others remained on their feet. They brought their rifles to the shoulders and squeezed the triggers. When the smoke cleared and the noise subsided four people lay dead at Kent State. 
Complaints were phoned into the Jackson police station that students were tossing rocks at passing automobiles. The Mississippi State High­way Patrol, those paragons of decency, virtue and the American way, came on to the Jackson State-campus. In response to what was termed "sniper fire" the police fired a fusillade of shots at a women's dormitory. The slugs killed a 30 year old man and a high school student. 
No one has ever been indicted, much less brought to trial, for these six murders. Local grand juries couldn't find enough evidence to return charges against any of the officers involved. 
Kent State students have presented a petition to President Nixon calling for a federal grand jury investigation of the four murders. Thus far Nixon has ignored similar requests. The President can easily order the impaneling of grand juries in both cases. 
Unless it is done, the blood of the six victims that is now staining the 
hands of their murderers will spread to the President's. 
The Second Editorial--------­
Weeping Clowns 
---------.,..--Deborah Kerr 
Clowns are always melancholy, for if they weren't, they would! merely be foolish and not fools. 
Last Friday night was masochism. No one could breathe or move, 
yet more people kept coming. And sadism. Fathers with sons in ND 
sweatshirts and mothers with tiny pink bundles, up past their bedtime 
so that they could witness the end. 
Suddenly it was September 1968 and wool bermudas, first footbaU 
weekends, Friend and Lover b~· .he lake. The perpiration trickling 
down backs was grossly nostalgic. Wasn't everyone slightly drunk? 
Men on the high wires (no one fell this time), structures of bodies, 
people blanketed into the air for a better view, maybe. 
Hats had been disgarded from Stetson and Dobbs boxes. Boiled in 
water and stretched over a baseball bat, they take on a bizarre shape 
only to be pierced with buckshot for ventilation. 
Polka dotted and pompom hats always came to town with the dirty circuset: _The bozos were old, wrinkled under white pancake and red spots of rouge on cheek and chin and nose. They didn't bounce as much as they should have and close up they all looked to be on the verge of tears. 
There was only a single ring, surprising for the size of the circus. The 
jesters were young though, and the pompons weren't on their hats. 
Their cheeks were red, some noses were red too. They danced 
together, and the audience danced with them. The weave to and fro 
arms around one another; the watchers become the showmen. 
One hundred buffoons with plumed hats dance to "The Irish 
Washerwoman," led by eight kilted descendents of McNiell and Barra 
and a white-suited ring master who cried into his gloves. 
These all cheer the mock war of golden gladiators. 
A wineskin left in the grandstand of the ring. It was stolen from 
under the wooden bench. Were anyone to return to look for it, he would 
find the weeping clowns. The colliseum was emptied, but for four. 
Three were wearily leaning on one another: one sat in his father's 
racoon coat, one had a penant on a stick, the last had wet cheeks and a 
torn jersey. The fourth, the eye of Artuad, of the future, stood with a 
Brownie camera to his eye, caging the three in emptiness, surroun­
ding them with the void gray seats of wood. They would sigh over the 
scene. 
"A jester must remain an outsider; he must observe 'good society' from the sidelines, for only then can he detect the non-{)bvious behind the obvious, and the nonfinal behind what appears to be final." 
Leszek Kolakowski 
The Staff 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell 

Ass't Nite Editor: Marlene Zloza Extra Help: T.C., Glen 
Visitor: Jack, Ann, Ed, A.T. Headlines: Don Biacomono Pcitures: Bob Hughes . Nite Controller (and a hell of a good kid): Helen Smudski 
I. thanx, "staff" 

2. we missed you, maria -your mailbox filled up while you were gone 
J. tied the record! 

4. what can i say. thanx, marlene 

Friday, November 19, 1971 

THE OBSERVER Page 1 
fr. robert griffin 
the last supper of the church 
They were gathered in a basement rbom that had about the table; and kneeling at the place of each of survived the fire-bombing of the city. Outside, the Twelve, he kissed their feet as a lesson in Jerusalem, home of the prophets, had been reduced humility that the Church had long forgotten. Af­to the suffering and rubble of a death camp. It was terwards, he delivered to them the words of the impossible, amidst the destruction, to say where the gentle Teacher: "If you keep my commandents, holy place were; but in a spot where he imagined you will remain in my love ... This is my com­the Wailing Wall to have been, an ancient Jew, mandment that you love one another." 
perhaps the last of the rabbis, mourned as a The hour of the final Eucharist was now at hand. .Jeremiah of the latter times: "Oh, how lonely she The Leader said to the Twelve: "I have longed to sits, the city nee thronged with people, as if sud­eat this passover with you before I suffer; because I denly widowed ... She passes her night weeping, the tell you, I shall not eat it again until it is fulfilled in tears run down her cheeks. Not one of her lovers the Kingdom." Then he took some bread, and when remains to comfort her ... " he had given thanks, broke it and gave it to them, 
In the basement room, thirteen men sat gathered saying, "This is my body which will be given for around a table, assembled for the Eucharist. you; do this as a memorial of me.'' He did the same Twelve of them had come from distant cities as with the cup after supper, and said, "This cup is the ruined as the Jerusalem of the rabbi's lament-­new covenant in my blood which will be poured out places like Johannesburg, New Delhi, Canberra, for you." Kiev, New York-in search of the one man who now When the supper was ended, the thirteen men sat served as their leader. He was a member of the sect in silence. It was time fbr them to separate in the known as Christian; he had been a Christian bishop night where death would overtake them. They knew in the times before the war began. The bishopric this was the final time that the Church --assembled had been a prestigious office in the years before the now asa faithful emnant ~would ever gather as the first great bomb fell on New York City. .. Gothic cathedrals and the choruses of Palestrina people of God for the breaking of the bread. They 
A bishop ruled over his people with authority and to this basement room, where twelve men gathered could feel Jesus there with them for this final pomp; and on the solemn feast days, he led them in about the priest they had tracked down ... the last Eucharist, and not only as a presence with the the celebration of the Liturgy in cathedrals more priest known to be alive on the face of the earth. b~ead and wine. His love flowed around them, and magnificent than the palaces of the Byzantine The Last Supper of the Church began with H1s closeness touched them in an experience like kings. Unfortunately, under the pageants of wor­Scriptures recited from memory, in the absence of a smelling the sweetness of a rose before one has ship, the passion of faith had growncold. The Bible, by one of the Twelve: "In the beginning, God spotted its beauty in a vase on the table. For a Church had compromised too much with the spirit created the heavens and the earth ... God crested moment, they waited expectantly, as though the of Anti-Christ: governments unrebuked in their man in the image of himself, in the image of God he Pentecostal fire were about to break over their neglect of the poor, arms races between nations created them." heads, and they would begin the dances of grace to ineffectively opposed. The Church itself was too Then, a young Russian from Kiev --a Jew celebrate the Church, born again, in the night much involved with its temporal prerogatives to descended from the Jews of the Diaspora, whose shadows of a burn-out, basement room. take upon its conscience the vocation of witnessing family had been converted to Christ at the time of But outside, on the clouds, a figure appeared to a Gospel of love after the manner of anicent St. Cyril --recited the Passover story of how 'God bearing the likeness of the Son of Man ... the hour of prophets, vested in sackcloth and ashes, intent upon had delivered His people from death in the land of judgment was like the time of Eucharist when the martyrdom out of concern for God's honour and Egypt, and the sign of their redemption was the symbols of Christ-life in bread and wine have Christ's people. Blood of the Lamb. dissolved into the reality of Jesus Christ, hidden no 
In a world where the shepherds of love fail Then the Leader, recalling the example of Christ longer, but alive in the glory of the only-beggen Son faith sickens and dies ... wars come ... and no~ at His last Supper, and having no water, walked of heaven. 
russell baker 
count sees red 
sense & 
(cl 1!171 New York Times Both the P£'ntagon and the State 

., ~. insense 
Washington, --General Count Department know that if Terror del Luna Dracula, controversial military dictator of abandons the free world team, Washington 
~.

the Democratic Republic of Terror del newspaper columnists will need something Luna, arrived in Washington Saturday n<>w to write about the B.l.M.B.O. defense ;: J ..r~ on exhibition night via his personal monogrammed jet pact, and this will require everybody to eoffin. think. 
ii\ ' ~] of fakes
As may be imagined, American officials Not surprisingly then, people at are extremely scared. The General, as Washington's highest thinking levels now <'Ven the Pentagon concedes, is not the believe it essential to maintain the most savory dictator on the free world situation on B.I.M.B.O.'s South-by­tl ,,~ t<•am. People with long memories still Southeast flank exactly as it has always rPcall his scandalous behavior at a state h£'en since 1903 when Major Count Dracula ~·t ,, ..·, dinner at the White House during his of­overthrew the democratic government . ­ficial visit here in the 1940's there in order to avert a communist take­
f<'ortunately, General Count Dracula has over. not come fishing for a dinner invitation Shortly after assuming power, the Major this time. He is here to find out how the promised that he would return Terror del llnit<>d States proposes to finance him now Luna to democratic rule just as soon as he that the S<>nate has killed the foreign-aid was promoted to Lieutenant-Colonel. hill. By that time, however, the population 
Above, a photographic serigraph, neither
"If the usual payments are not for­had declined so precipitously that thcoming," he told a midnight press democracy was no longer possible. As an adequate reproduction nor a fine hackgrounder at the Anacostia Abattoir, Lieutenant Colonel Count Dracula told the graphic work. Below, on the left, a 
"There will be no alternative for Terror American ambassador in 1919, democracy 
photographic copy of a lithographic by
del Luna except to go communist." meant majority of rule, and since the Kathe Koliwitz. Below, on the right, is a"Is that a threat, General?" one majority of the population was dead, he 
had no alternative but to continue the I"PCPnt "tourist" work sold by Frotelli
newsman asked. 
"Call me Count, he replied, "so that we dictatorship until he could earn his silver Glinori in Florence. None of these are may understand each other better. eagles. gpnuine. Generals perhaps may make threats, but In the late 1940's certain soft-nosed in­what a count says can be counted on." tellectuals in Washington objected to a 
"Counted on what, Count?" the foreign policy which, they said, allied the newsman persisted. "Can it be counted on United States with aging dictators who the fingers of both hands?" sucked the blood out of their own people. The General, who is not. accustomed to a Luckily for anti-<:ommunism, clearer free press, did not realize that this noses prevailed, and the population question was just the reporter's way of decline in Terror del Luna continued getting a story tor the public. unabated. As the Secretary of State said in In fact, the question made him so angry greeting General Count Dracula at that he turned himself into a bat and flew Georgetown Cemetery many years ago, into the streets of downtown Washington "The United States will never stinti in its 
looking for somebody to bite. There he was aid to those countries willing to pay tooth mugged--or "webbed," to use the correct service to the principle, 'Better dead than police term for a bat mugging~-and almost HPd'." 
raped before he could turn himself into a Now, however, with the Senate's vote G<>neral and claim his diplomatic im­threatening an end to the entire foreign-aid munity. program, the free world's safe am•hor on 
General Count Dracula's irritation with the South-by-Southeast flank of IU.M.B.O. Washington has sent a tremor through the is threatened. Without U.S. dollars P<>ntagon and the State Department, as Gt>neral Count Dracula will be unable to well as the newspaper columnists of huy the fantastically expensive new 
Washington, for Terror del Luna is the strateg1c peopleware he needs to maintain country that anchors the South-by-the­TPrror dPl Luna's population at a Southeast flank of the B.I.M.B.O. mutual nourishing level over the coming year. 
defense line against Communism's design Contributions are desperately needed. to break into the strategic Lunatic Ar­Mail your people, parcel post, to the State chipelago. DPpartmPnt now, while there is still time. 



Friday, November 19, 197'1

Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
Social changes predicted 
Byrnes: Trend towards anti-Americanism 
Historian Robert F. Byrnes last night told a Notre Dame audience that "Anti-Americanism throughout the world will replace anti-Communism as a powerful political force during the 1970's." 
Predicting that the United States will withdraw "to a more relaxed and less directly involved profile in world affairs," Byrnes director of the Russia and East European Institute at Indiana 
-Campus Notes 
Pre-Law Newsletter 

The Pre-Law Society has 
resumed publication of its 
monthly newsletter. Intended to 
provide general information for 
the law orientated student, the 
newsletter was published twice 
this year. 

In the first semester, the letter 
concentrates its information to 
the seniors planning to attend law 
school. Employment outlooks, 
law board dates, and information 
about law schools is emphasized. 
More general news about law 
as a career is given in the second 
semester. This information is 
aimed primarily at un­
derclassmen. 

Funding for the newsletter is 
provided by the two dollar 
membership fee. The 
organization sponsors visits by 
speakers and schedules 
representatives from various law 
schools to meet with interested 
students. 

Officers for the society are: 
president Jim Petelle, vice­
presidents Bob Webb and Joe 
Cassini, and secretary-treasurer 
Gary O'Connor. 
Pre-registration 

Pre-registration for the spring semester will start December 2, but the course schedule books are not expected to be available until December 1. 
In an attempt to alleviate this problem, Student Government Academic Commissioner Fred Giuffreda and Asociate Dean Devere Plunkett of the College of Arts and Letters have arranged to have the individual depart­ments post their own class lists. The lists will be posted outside the department offices, mostly on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Despite the expected late arrival of the books, there is no definite plans in the Colleges of Science or Engineering. to post their schedules. 
The College of Business Ad­ministration will be leaving the choice of posting schedules to the separate departments. 
Charity Basketball 

Monday night November 22, the varsity basketball team of the University of Notre Dame will take on their frosh counterparts in a charity game that will benefit the needy of South Bend. Admission to the game can be garnered by the contribution of non-perishable food, articles of clothing, or toys. All of the goods collected "·i!l he ileli·,;ered to the needy families of South Bend on Tuesday and Wednesqay before 
Attention K of C Members 
All First Degree members b~ at the council this Sunday at 1:00 pm for Second and Third Degree. 
coat apd tie Required. No Fee 
llniv£'rsitv said the latest phase of th£' industrial revolution, that of automation and electronics, of transportation and com­munication. "will open up £'Ven the most closed societies and cause the spread of ex­traordinary social changes now transforming and even disin­tf'grating \\'£'stern society." He suggested this would create "ever greater confusion and 
Thanksgiving. Student Govern­basketball tickets may pick them 
ment organizers are hoping for a 
up at the Box Office, second floor 
massive turn-out which will 
of the Athletic and Convocation
make this game a complete 
C£'nter anytime Monday and 
success. According to Com­
Tuesday during the next two
muntiy Relations Commissioner 
weeks.
Dave Lah, student government 
· -November 22
needs people at the game to take 
-November 23
tickets, man concession stands, 
-November 29
and usher. Call 7668. 
-November 30
--people at the game to take tickets, man concession stands, 
Notre Dame upperclassmen,
and usher. Call 7668. 
Grad Students, Lawyers and
---10 people to pack food 
Married Students must present
baskets between 12 and 1:30 on 
the receipt issued when the ticket 
Tuesday afternoon at Gate 10 of 
was paid for at our Ticket Office. 
ACC. call 7668. 
Notre Dame freshmen and St.
---100 people and their cars to 
Mary's students, who ordered by
distribute food baskets. Call 7668 
mail, must present their IDcards. 
to register and then report to 
Student ticket orders already
Gate 10 of ACC between 1:30 and 
lwen assil!ned and filled. Hence,
2: 30 on Tuesday afternoon. 
day or time of day the ticket is
Recommend you bring helper. 
called for will have no bearing on 
Hockey Tickets seat location. Notre Dame and St. Mary's Box Office is open from nine to students who purchased season five, including the noon hour. 
Collection to help· developn1ent fund 
by Artie Quinn 
A collection will be taken up this Sunday to aid the Campaign for Human Development, a national crusade established by the Bishops of the United States in 1970. 
Fr. William Toohey, Director of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame, encouraged contributions be taken up at the Masses within 

the halls. There will be collec­
tions at all 
Masses at SMC 
and at Sacred 
Heart Church. 
The program, 
which is being 
Cormier backed by both 
campus ministries, has a two-fold pur­pose. ()) educating all Catholics in the urgent and complex dimensions of poverty and in­justice in America; (2) raising funds by means of an annual collection taken up in all parishes to be used for the financing of 
self-help community develop­ment projects throughout the country. 
Fr. Roger Cormier, Director of Campus Ministry at St. Mary's , said, "We thought it would be good to give students a sense of identification with people in ttc: parishes." 
He went on to add that one of anarchy." 
Sp£'aking under the SlJOn­sorship of the Notre Dame In­stitut£' for International Studies and the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Academic Commission, the hisorian saw the "menace of Communism during the 1970's 
changing as the Soviet Union 
hecomPs more stagnant and as the real weakness and instability of China becomes more ap­
the reasons the campaign is being encouraged at Notre Dame so strongly is "to raise con­sciousness about social concern. There seems to be a widespread feeling of futility among people about alleviating poverty in this country. The program is to let people know we have not given up." 
Some of the projects in the South Bend area which were allocated funds in the past were 
Toohey 

Cultural Arts Commission presents 
A Paul-Newman Festival 
Saturday, Nov. 20 

Sweet Bird of Youth Sunday, Nov. 21 Long Hot Summer feature times 8 & 10 p.m. both evenings 
. . { 

Engineering Auditorium Admission $1 .00 
parent." He added that "technological and cultural forces of a supranational character will have a tran­sforming influence even greater than did the industrial revolution, 
llarwin,  and  Marx  a  century  
ago."  
A  former  president  of  the  

Anwrican Catholic Historical Association and the author of s£'veral books on East Central Europe and Russia, Byrnes sees Japan assuming greater im­portance in world politics during the next decade, especially in Asia. He says the role of the nation may well be the central issue of the 1970's. 
Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Theatre present Noel Cowards 
BLITHE SPIRIT 
W as hington Hall 8:30pm 
November 19, 20 

Tickets $2. Faculty, students Notre Dame . St. Mary's staff $1.50. Ticket information at 284-4141 or Box Office 284-7054. · 
People & Song 
this Friday Alumni Lounge 
presents Mike Trainor & Jim Leroy Paul Guernsey Chris & Jim Rick Walters 
Refreshments p I u s m ore 9 -2 am 25c Admission Everyone Welcome 
FRANKIE'S 
Dinner Special Chicken, Steak or Perch Dinner with Turren Soup, Salad & Coffee 
RoGERS 
Optical 
ROGER ATWELL • OWNE:R 
Byrnes prefaced his remarks with the comment that "prediction is hazardous and <·ven foolish," but added there is "considerable evidence from 

developments  in  recent  years  
that  changes  even  more  
significant  that  those  which  

occurred in the 1860's and in the 1890's are likely to occur in the 1970's. · 
ND SOCCER CLUB Meeting l<'riday, Nov. 19 4 pm 127 Nieuwland 
$1.50 
HOURS: 
MON -TUES • TKUI. -FRI 9 AM 5:30PM WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPBCTACLE 
SERVICE ALL E'YE D'R.'S PRESCRIPTIONS HONOREe 
Caf/ 
289-7809 

,, 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------· Friday, November 19,, 1971 
THE OBSERVER 

ND players have mixed emotions about bowl 
by Vic Horr When the members of the l''ighling Irish football team voted Wednesday night to forego any post-season bowl activity, they knew that their decision would have far-reaching effects. And the "no bowl" stand has done just that. If not shocking, the players' decision was sur­prising, and it left Irish football fans everywhere in something of a turmoiL On campus, this tur­moil seems to be hinging around two main questions: "why?", and "what effect will this have on the LSU game?" Neither question is an easy one to answer. and the players who Iried often had to qualify themselves one way or another. The decision to stay home on New Year's Day was apparently a decisive one, but it was by no m(•ans unanimous. In fact, as lim•backer Eric Patton pointed out. many of the players had mixed emotions about the entire issue. "As far as the game itself is concPrnPd," said Patton, "well, I votPd to go. But there were good reasons to go, and there were good reasons not to, and I think most everyone had mixed fel'lings about it. I think some of the main objections were that we hadn't been invited to a major howl. and that anything less than a major howl just wasn't worth lhl' academic sacrifice. "PNsonally, I feel that anytim<• WP play an undefeated, highly-rankPd team, it's a major howl game. But what I wanted most of all was a chance to play one more football game for Notre Dame." Defensive co-captain Walt l'atulski, while echoing many of the same sentiments, wasn't quite as dl'finite as his swing linl'backer. "As co-captain," said Patulski, "I'm responsible for the interests of the tl'am, and I didn't want to influence thP vote in any way. I'm going to go along with the vote, and if t.he team voted not to go to any howls, then it's best that we don't go. ThPre were a lot of rl'asons, hut I think the big one was final exams, and how much study time we'd lose because of practice. And of course we 
wl'ren 'I sure just who we would play, or what we would get out of the game." 
But defensive back Clarence I<:llis probably echoed most of the ballplayers' feelings on the subject when he said: "It's over with. A lot of us voted 'yes' and a lot of us voted 'no.' It's all out in the open now, and as far as I'm concerned it's over with. We turned down the bowls, and a lot of people will try to blow this up and make a big thing out of it. But it's not a big thing at alL" 
While the NO players may have taken sides briefly during the actual voting, they were all 
. agreed on another issue--that of 
the very poor timing by the bowl 
selection committees. 
"This is really a bad time to start selecting bowl teams," said senior running back Ed Gulyas. "There are still a couple of weeks l<'ft in the season, and the com­mittees should wait 'till then to make their choices. That way, llwy would be sure of getting IPams with the best possible n•cords. The way it's going now, at !Past two of the lop five un­bPaten teams are going to lose before the end of the year, and it's possible that one of them might lose twice. So there's no sense in making the selections until the teams are through with their sch<'dules." 
Eric Patton agreed with him. "This is a poor time to be making bowl picks," he said. "All of this bowl talk interrupts preparation for regular games, especially when a spur-of-the-moment decision has to be made. The NCAA ought to do something about it." 
Only Ara Parseghian, the Irish 
head  coach,  could  defend  the  
selectors, and even  he  was  not  
t>mphatic.  "This  has  been  an  

unusual year," Ara said. "When it comes time to make the bowl dPcision. the sponsors are faced with five undefeated teams contending for five invitations for Jan. 1 bowls. And no one can blame them for taking the un­defeated teams." 
The other question surrounding ND's "no go" decision is how it will affect Saturday's showdown with L:,-v. 
1:30~' 
HELD OVER 

James Garner 
Skin 

G&Jne 
Lou Gossett 
Susan Clark 

J>anavosoor.. li>rhn.rrW' lGPI •(@))
Plus Audrey Hepburn in 

Wait Until Dark 
L.llra.,,
r:~, 

::.:::.. r . ... 

I.' I \. 
~-Qg.r~ 
..:. ....._..... ,..,.--,: __ 
"--' 
"It's already affected us," said Patulski, "because we've been talking bowl for two days now. But this is our last game, and I know all the seniors want to go out in a blaze...we want to win." 
"I don't know," said Ellis. "I really don't think it'll affect us that much. It may help us more than anything. The LSU game will be the last one for all of the seniors now, and we'll be trying to put on a real show down there." 
This bowl refusal is Notre Dame's first in three years, and there will always be some questions about it. But there can be no question about motives, at least as far as the senior players are concerned. 
"There were no selfish motives involved here," said Eric Patton. "A lot of people have been saying that the seniors didn't want to go because they could go to senior bowl games, and come out with 
financial benefits from them. But 
this just isn't so. We had no selfish motives," he repeated. 

Open [T'W;~¥J!~~~~·fii, 1 ffy .---C-u-lt_u_r_a_I_A_r_ts_C_o_m_m_is_s_i_o_n___. 
Cinema '72 

European Festival 
Nov. 19­Cranes are Flying 
Engineering Auditorium times: 7 & 9 PM every night Adm. $1 I Cinema '72 patrons fre~_j 

. ~~~ "'".' 
.,:::;:;

j , 
PROOF 

OPEN 
OF AGE 

DAILY 12:45 ~~-~~ 
REQUIRED 

NOW THRU NOV. 23rd 

plus 

O_p_e_r_a_t_io_n_:_S_e_x_A_p_p_e_a_I_--1 
c,.zfte'hf'k ..;:.,...;.. .. 

Friday, November 19, '1971

Page 10 THE OBSERVER 
I cers take on some Tigers, too 

by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's 1970-71 hockey team will have their second "coming out" this weekend. 
The Irish icers made their season and WCHA debut a week ago at North Dakota, splitting a pair of games with the Sioux. Notre Dame's first home ap­pearance is tonight, against another WCHA foe, the Tigers of Colorado College, in the opener of a two-game series. 
Faceoff time tonight is set for 7:45pm. The two clubs will meet again tomorrow afternoon at 2 pm. 
Colorado is a young club which is trying to overcome the loss of seven regulars from last year's 11-16-1 club, including two-time All-American center and leading scorer, Bob Collyard. 
"When you lose seven regulars, 
including a player like Collyard, 
you face a very difficult problem 
of making replacements," Tiger 
head coach Jeff Sauer says. "Our 
replacements, in most cases, are 
very young and inexperienced in 
WCHA competition." 

Sizing up his youthful club, Sauer remarks, "Our lines are possibly better balanced this year. We won't rely so much on individual players; this will be a 'player' team. With freshman strength in the goal and on defense, we should improve our defensive game, and experienced forwards will improve the scoring attack." 
Players like Jerry O'Connor, Bill Baldrica, Mike Bertsch, Guy 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Pages 9, 10, II 
SMC girls may buy Sfta!.,?,'!."'~pc key tix 
terested in purchasing Today Is. the last d~y that season tickets for the 1971-sea~on tickets will be 72 season may do so this availa?le. They cost $12 afternoon at the ACC ticket and Will e~able the bearer 
to see 12 Insh home games. 
~«· ~··. 

Captain and center Jerry O'Connor is one of the standouts of the Colorado College Tigers. The Tigers commence their WCHA schedule against the Irish tonight in the ACC. 
• 
WCHA foe, Colorado College. Hildebrand and Doug Palazarri provide the experience in the front line that coach Sauer talked about. 
O'Connor, a senior center and co-captain of the Tigers, was runner-up to Collyard in scoring last year, picking up 34 points on 13 goals and 21 assists. 
Baldrica, Bertsch, Hildebrand and Palazarri, all wings, each scored more than 20 points last season!. Baldrica was the top goal-getter, banging in 16. 

"We don't have a lot of size but we do have skating and scoring ability in our balanced lines," Sauer says. 
On defense, Colorado has only one player with much league 
WCHA standings
Team 
Minnesota-Duluth NOTRE DAME North Dakota Colorado Denver Michigan Michigan State Michigan Tech 
Wisconsin Minnesota 

Each WCHA team will play every other club in the league this year but they will meet some teams four times and others, only twice. There will be eight points available in each series, a total of 
Weekend Specials FRI: VODKA NIGHT 
-Buy one vodka Drink & get second 1/2 price. 
SAT: 1 0" Beer during game TV at Bar o~ Beer -1o~ Beer -1o~ Beer-1o~ Beer 
i 
-~ 1_-----~L-.-.=------------------__..J 

Defensively, the Irish will go with the combinations of Green and Ric Schaeffer and Bill Nyrop and Steve Curry. Les Larson will be a fifth, or "swing" defen­seman this weekend, and D'Arcy Keating, now skating at forward, will be on the ice for the Irish in power play situations. Keating, a freshman, possesses a devastating slap shot from the point. 
Senior Dick Tomasoni, who made 58 saves but yielded 10 goals in the North Dakota series, will start in goal for the Irish tonight. Smith has decided to try either sophomore Mark Kronholm or junior Chris Cath­cart in the nets in Saturday's game. 
Notre Dame and Colorado will play four times this season so each of the games this weekend is worth two points in the WCHA standings. 
The Irish hold a 4-2-0 bulge over the Tigers in the overall series. The clubs split a two game set in Colorado last season. 


game shapes up as the biggestby Jim Donaldson battle in Louisiana since theSports Editor British invaded New Orleans. It was during the second week And the home forces expect to in September that the head coach win again, just as they did in 1814, at Louisiana State University, against a stronger, more highly Charles McClendon, remarked, rated opponent."I know we're playing 11 games Notre Dame played the Tigersthis season, our players know for the first time last November we're playing 11 games, but our and edged LSU, 3-Q, in what had fans think we're playing only to be one of the greatest games one: Notre Dame." This is the ever played in Notre Dame week McClendon's Tigers play Stadium. It was a brutal, hard­THE game of their 1971 season. hitting, well played defe~sive Saturday night's nationally battle. The only points etther televised LSU -Notre Dame team could muster came from Jim Donaldson :::;::::::=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  the toe of Notre Dame's Scott Hempel, who booted a fourth quarter field goal from 24 yards out, just 2:24 before the game ended. The Tiger fans in the crowd claimed afterwards that Notre Dame's victory was not due to the kicking proficiency of Hempel, but rather to the inefficiency and ineptitude of the officiating. LSU rooters screamed loud and long about a pass interference call against the Tigers that enabled Notre Dame to sustain the drive to that led to Hempel'.s place kick. The defeat was a bitter one for  ,'1!  
The Irish Eye  the Bayou Bengals and their avid supporters to accept. Last year's game was considered to be "the  
:::::::::·::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=-:::::::::::::::::::::::::=: F o o tba II ptc ks  biggest game is LSU" history. The Tigers wanted to prove that they were at least as good a  
This Saturday in college football is akin to the lull before the storm.  football  team  as  the  legendary  
c;ridiron fans are anxiously awaiting the Oklahoma-Nebraska tussle  Irish, particulary in view of the  
for the national title on Thanksgiving Day and the Auburn-Alabama  fact  that  the  Cotton  Bowl  had  
gaml', matching  another  pair  of  unbeaten  teams,  a  week  from  chosen Notre Dame  to  play in  
tomorrow.  But football buffs shouldn't overlook  some of the key  their  '70  classic  ,  indespite  
gaml's slatl'd for this weekend which promise to provide plenty of  N.D.'s 8-1-1-record, in lieu of the  
PXCitmPnt.  LSU eleven, which had posted a 9­ 
The allention of Notre Dame supporters centers on Baton Rouge,  1 record. The Tigers felt that to  
I ,a., tomorrow night as the Fighting Irish wind up their season against  be an unforgivable slight. Throw  
the Tigl'rs of Louisana State in what shapes up as an emotional, hard­hitting affair. UCLA and USC hook up on the West Coast while, in New I<:ngland, Harvard meets Yale in what's traditionaly known as The Game. Duke plays North Carolina in a key Atlantic Coast Conference battle intrastate rivals Washington and Washington State tangle in Seattle, Northwf'stern :~nrl Michigan State wrao uo their 1971 campaigns in l<~vanston and Ohio State seeks to upset Michigan in Ann Arbor This is the way the Irish Eye sees this weeks top 15 games: Michigan State over Northwestern--The Spartans are too powerful for the Wildcats. Eric "the Flea" Allen will have Alex Agase scrat­<'hing his hl'ad before the end of the game, trying to figure out just how onl' stops the fleet MSU scatback. Illinois over Iowa -Bob Blackman's Illini, who opened the season with six consecutive losses, will wind up the year with five straight wins. Toledo over Kent State-A victory over the Golden Flashes will give the Rockets another perfect season and their 34th consecutive triumph. Stanford over California --The Indians should bounce back from last wPekend's shocker and stun the Golden Bears. Pl'nn State over Pittsburgh -The Nittany Lions are in a class by lhl'mselves in the East. Southern Cal over UCLA --The Trojans have played the second half of their schedule the way they should have played the first. Colorado over the Air Force Academy--The Buffaloes have lost only to Nebraska and Oklahoma. Houston over Miami of Florida--HoustoP 's scoreboard operator will he busy, as usual,kl'eping track of the Cougars point total. Duke over North Carolina -­The Blue Devils will spoil North Carolina's bid for an unblemished ACC record. Michigan over Ohio State --The Wolverines were almost tripped up last Saturday. They II be wide awake for the Buckeyes. West Virginia over Sracuse -­This year has been a complete disappointmPnt for the Orangemen. Washington over Washington Stte --Sonny Sixkiller's arm will lead 'the Huskies to victory. Purdue over Indiana -­This is one game the Boilermakers won't have to worry about losing in the final few minutes. Ilarvard over Yale--The only way to pick this one was to flip a coin. lll'ads is for Harvard. llpset of the Week: ' Louisiana State over Notre Dame -­The Tigers are super-psyched for this one. Every football fan in Bayou Country meaningeveryone in Louisana has been waiting for tomorrow night's game since last November. I sure hope that I'm wrong but I 'II go with LSU to knock off thl' seventh-ranked Irish. Last Week: 12 of 15 .800 Season Pet. 113 of 150 .753 Stan Urankar's lnterhall Playoff Pick: Morrissey over Dillon -The Marauders h~ve the best in QB K!rk Miller. Dillon's bigger, slightly better defensively and the defendmg champ but they're not good enough to stop Morrissey's triple option.  in some North-South rivalry, an anti-Catholic feeling and a distaste for private schools and you have the main reasons why the Tigers were so "psyched" for the game. Now LSU has had a year to brood about last season's defeat and they're determined to gain revenge tomorrow night in Tiger Stadium, also known as "the Pit". Despite their 6-3 record, the Tigers figure to give the Irish , 8-1 on the year, a fight for their lives. LSU has lost to Colorado, Mississippi and Alabama this season but boasts a potent of­fense, a quick, tough defense and one of the nation's finest football players in Tommy Casanova. "Like a year ago, they have an exceptionally quick defense and their offense is more explosive than last year," Irish coach Ara Parseghian says of the Bengals. "They are capable of presenting problems to anyone both of­fensively and defensively, they control the line of scrimmage and there is always a host of defen­sive men at the ball carrier." Irish scout John Murphy adds, "LSU has two very capable quarterbacks, good receivers and hard running backs." Bert Jones and Paul Lyons have shared the signal calling duties for the Tigers this fall but Lyons has more impressive statistics than Jones. A junior, Lyons has gained 373 yards rushing, completed 50 passes good for nine touchdowns, and is second on the club in scoring with :m points (6 TD's, l conversion run>. Hunning back Art Cantrelle and wide receiver Andy Hamilton are also top notch offensive pl'rformers for LSU. Cantrelle, a spel'dy, 197 pound tailback, leads  T~mmy Casanova has fully recovered from an early season hamstring pull and is ready to go full steam against the Irish..casanova has played solely on defensethis season but is also an offens1ve threat. the Tigers in rushing with 502 but he isn't 100 percent. Fullback yards while Hamilton's 32 John Cieszkowski, who did such a receptions make him LSU's · fine job last week against Tulane, number one pass catcher. is sidelined with a pinched nerve. The Tigers are ranked among Andy Huff, who shared the the top 20 nationally in total of­fullback duties with Cieszkowski fense with an average of 393.2 this season, is slated to see only yards per game. limited duty because of a badly LSU's defensive unit is an­bruised bac·k. With both chored by All-American tackle Cieszkowski and Huff bothered Ron Estay and cornerback, by injuries, Parseghian plans to Casanova, Sports Illustrated's use halfbacks Bill Gallagher and pre-season pick for Player of the Darryl Dewan at the fullback Year honors, Casanova has been spot. bothered much of the year with a "We've had Huff at about 205 pulled hamstring but is reported and Cieszkowski at about 218 to be in perfect shape for running at fullback. As lead tomorrow night's game. blockers, they've been thrusting Notre Dame is not so w~ll off in there pretty good, and you physically. A number of their can't expect Gallagher or Dewan, first string ballplayers will either 15 or 20 pounds lighter, to do the be sitting. out the game or same job," Parseghian com­operating at less than maximum mented. efficiency. Center Dan Novakov and guard All-American end Walt Frank Pomarico have been Patulski will return to the limping all week in practice and, starting lineup against the Tigers although it appears Pomarico should be ready to go, NovakovGatewood will probably have to be spelled by Dave Drew a good deal tomorrow night.honored Between injuries and the fired­Notre Dame All-American Tom up attitude of the Tigers and their Gatewood is among 12 college home fans, the Irish face a dif­players to be honored by the ficult task. Emerging from Baton National Football Foundation for Rouge with a victory will be distinguished achievements on Notre Dame's toughest challenge the gridiron and in the classroom. this season. Gatewood, the senior captain If the Irish can win, their 9-1 from Baltimore, joins former record, will be the third best Irish All-Americans Jim Lynch mark compiled by a Notre Dame (1966), George Kunz 0968), team in the past 20 years. If the Mike Oriard (1969) and Larry Bcngals win, it will be one of the DiNardo ( 1970) as recent winners greatest triumphs in LSU history. of a post-graduate fellowship. Neither club is looking ahead to a Gatewood, the holder bowl bid and the success of their of Pvery ND passing record, has seasons depends on the outcome eaught 152 passes for 2,251 yards of this one game. It's a question and 20 touchdowns. of pride.  ..  


Page 12 THE OBSERVER Friday, November 19, 1971 
CL~1SSIFIED ADS
Mock convention 
NOTICES <...-~ludcnts: Check out our pre

~~M.!~!. next April winter brake overtwul. F-or $49.50 W<' instilll new shoes, turn all 4
week. 
<lru!lls. rebuild ,,II four cylinder~.

De Iega t e s , campaign Those involved do not have to 
•·cpilck hearings, IJieed and M] 1ust 

managers, committees and organizers will swarm the ND campus this April as part of the mock Democratic National Convention, sponsored by the Student Union. 
Chairmaned by Eric Andrus with assistance from Bob Ohlemiller and Joe Brehler the convention convenes in Stephan Center on April 24th and ends on the 27th (Monday throughThursday). 
The reason for choosing the Democrats, commented Andrus is "the obviously more in: teresting and wide-open race." 
The Republican convention held at ND in 1968 nominated Senator Mark Hatfield and generated nationwide interest in the event. Created by govern­ment professor and faculty ad­visor Paul Bartholomew, the convention is planned as an "exact replica of the regular summer convention " stated Andrus. ' 
A member of the official Democratic National Committee will be on the campus to advise students on all phases and rules of the assemblage. All delegates and other officials will be 
~tudents. If enough people get
m~erested, alternate delegates might be arranged, providing the opportunity to participate one evening instead of the entire 
Funds okayed for Soviet factory 
<C> 1971 New York Times Washington, Nov. 18--The Commerce Department today approved the licensing of a further half billion dollars worth of heavy equipment for possible sale by United States companies to the Soviet Union for con­struction of a mammoth truck factory. This makes a total of a billion dollars in _licenses granted in recent months for machinery and other goods for the truck factory to be located at the Kama River, some 600 miles east of Moscow. Granting of a license, however, is not tantamount to a sale, and commerce department officials said there was no way of knowing how many-of the licenses will actually be translated into transactions. Soviet authorities, anxious to begin production of the truck factory, which will turn out 150,000 heavy trucks and 250,000 diesel engines yearly, have ap­proached many western firms here, in western europe and japan. "The immediate effect of today's licensing action will enable United States business to compete with foreign suppliers" 
for the Soviet Market, the commerce department said. 

'** * * * **'** * * * *** * 
ARE YOU ON THE BUS NO SKI CLUB 
"THINK SNOW" 


Party Friday, Nov. 19 at~ 
ur off campus "ski lodge" -2015 High St. Continuous ski flicks, beer, music, food, gluh­wein!! $.50 member $1.50 non-member. Info on X-mas Colorado trip. 

Bus leaves from circle~ ... on half hour. 7:30 . 
******~;. 
llruk.es. Gunranteed. f.!oseland Brake clinic. 104 Dixie 
represent their own home state, 
but may serve as campaigners 
W,1y North. 772 0081.
from any area. In the weeks prior to the actual convention, the 
fhristm,1s Loans up to $150. Pay 
hack Jnnuary 20. Morrissey Loan I unci Closes Dec. 10. 
various committees will be working on procedures and the platform. Andrus stated that "the 
51. Louis Club Thanksgiving Bus 
Sules.
usual backroom caucusing and 
F or reservations and information rnll Jim at 1061. Sign-ups this 
behind-the-scenes maneuvering 
will be part of our convention." 
W<'ek, 7 9 in Room 164 Alumni.
Since the ND convention will be 
. ! 20.00 round trip. 
held the week preceding the Indiana primary elections, 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS. Australia, Europe,
presidential hopefuls will be in 
S. America, Africa, etc. All 

·the area, and several of them 
professions and occupations, $700 to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtimP, sightseeing. Free in­
might possibly be available for 
appearances at ND. The con­
lormiltion Write Jobs Oversea,
vention organizers have invited 
Dt·pt. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, 
r A. 92115. _
some prominent politicians to 
speak here during the campaign. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's
Andrus said he "doesn't believe 
,1nd Info concerning Viviane
that the present system is per­
Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP 
feet, but we hope to get students 
to work within the system, 
lESSONS. 
overcome the deficiencies and nominate a worthy and 
NEED MONEY? 
Morrissey Loan Fund
representative candidate, 
Bilsement of La Fortune 11:15 12:15. 
whether he be liberal or con­
servative in beliefs." Hoping for at leasL 1,000 par­
Young woman expecting child will rare for your children for 75 cents <H1 hour, $1.00 every hour alter
ticipants, the planners will begin 
announcing sign-ups and more 
111idnighl. Call Lisa But'ler at 234­
information shortly before or 
~~67. 
immediately after the semester _b_r_ea_k_·-----------==============:--1
' 
W C. Fields 
in 
Never Give A Sucker An Even Bre,ak 
Fri Sat Sun 
BADIN VI NT AGE CINEMA 
ClASSICAl 

Notre Dame Bookstore 
LOST 

lost Notebook History of Amc·ricnn HC'misphere. Call 8876. 
Lost NO Class Ring, in Nieuwlund Hall. Reward, Call 
3313~ 
Seen a while female 6 mo. Shepard _Husky? Lost near the apartments. Reward. 233-4070. Ollie come home. 
I lost a man's gold I D braclet that has a very special meaning to me. It says Dave on the outside and Rr•nee on the inside. Please call 7835. 
Lo>t. Eyeglasses in brown ,1lligator case. Call 1153. 
Two keys with 425 on them near Moreau at SMC. If found, please rail Jim 1817. 
WANTED 

Need ride to or towards Greely Colorado for Thanksgiving. Call Cl1ip 8256. 
Need ride to Florida (Ft. Lauderdale) for· Thanksgiving. Cull Mike 1650. 
NC'ed ride to Columbus, Ohio .Friday Nov. 19. Call Joe 1650. 
Need ride to St. Louis, Nov. 20. 
Call Steve 1691. 
NC'ed ride to northwest suburb of Detroit on 24th and back on 28th. Downtown okay too. Will share. Ed 8141. 
NC'ed rider for K.C. this Friday at 3:00. Rich 1254. 
Wanted: Girl volunteer tutors for Upward Bound students. Call 3195. Mr. Archie Bradford, Up­ward Bound, Box 458, Notre Dame. 
NPed ride to Cincy Thanksgiving or Missouri. Friday, Call 6880. 
I need n SMC girl to spend Thanksgiving with me. 3250. 
Need riders to Des Moines. Leave Monday 11-22 afternoon. Call 6729. 
NC'ed riders to Tulsa Oklahoma LC'ave Tues. 23: Call Lew 1254.· 
Wanted: Primary source material of entire research paper on Temple of Apollo at Bassae. 
Call  Kirk  12:00-1:00  Wk  days.  
7471.  
Wanted·.  more  time  to  finish  

l\rcl1ie report and drawings. If any available see soph. Archie class. 
Inexperienced rapist needs practice. Call Tony 8261. 
Nf'cd ride to Louisiana alter Nov. 22. Cnll 1327. 
Riders wnnted one way only. NYC ilrea to NO. Sunday November 28th. 259 9490. 
Needed: ride from Birghamton, 
N.Y. alter Thanksgiving. Call Peg 5471. 
FOR SALE 

For Sille: Champaign Gold GTO. '67, Air cond., Power steering and brakes. 'His Hers' transmission, tinted glass, black interior. Call ilnd make bid. 289 7433. 
Unique personalized stationery, ll1e perfect Christmas gilt fof that special someone. Inquire by call 1167 or come see our vast selection ,11 611 Grace or 315 South Regina. 
Blues Albums $3. Artists: Magic Som, Buddy Guy, Junior Wells and others. One week only. Come to Biology Library. 
NEW AD RATES 
Words 1da. 2da 3da 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.-95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31·35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.35 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41·45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
FOR S~.LE 
~.lVe Mo,ICy on latest LP'sStudent Rf'cord sa IPs endures! List $5.98 3.65, $4.98 . 3.15. ~ 11 Morrisst'y or ph 3575. 
For Sale: Sony Tape Recorder. portable reel-to-reel stereo, built in amplifier, 2 speakers, ac­cesories. Garrard SLX-2 Turn­table with base, dust cover and mngnctic cartridge. Both in <'XCellent condition. Mike 8712. 
Sale: N.J. Club flight to Newark (not return). Warren 1396. 
For Sale: '67 Honda 305. 13,000 miles. Newly rebuilt. Runs perfectly. Looks great. $450. George 8427. 
Philco, portable B-W TV. 18", 1969. 255-8849. 
"LAW SCHOOL .. WILL I L1 KE IT? CAN I MAKE IT?" A new book by a recent law graduate for prospective law students. Send $2.95. Kroos Press, Box 3709A Milwaukee, Wis. 53217. 
Oulr ag eousl y or ig inaI posters, Nurd comix. Up for grabs. 8149 or 8126. 
FOR RENT 
Two room apt. kitchen, share hnt 11. December, Second S<'mester. 288-0247. 
PERSONALS 
Marilyn, Thank you for your blue eyes. JAV 
Dozed off. Nonsense. No Doze now 
Znpd 
lonely senior needs girlfriend to share good times with. this is not a game, it's for real. 
call phil 6872 
Dear boys of Breen Phillips, WC' know the score. Love, Kathie, Margaret, Mary, and Mary Lou. 
one show only Richard Harris in "CAMELOT" Fri. Nov. 19 at 8 pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Adm $1.00 SMC soph class. 
PRUITT! 
Library Love (or should it be Library Like) i'm >!One for the weekend Do you care? Do you love-li-ke me? (i like you) ran i have my poems back? shalom 
the author 
MC'mories often fade away, Dnnny, but the one of you never will. Sunday.. 
G<'ez, you know You're beautiful! Thanks. 
END ALL OPRESSION fREE THE AUGUSTA FIVE. 

Bunny Wunny, lln1 "1110no" too. In the forest by the lake. love, forever, Moose 
1 Wo~hhh, ---------­
Already two and a half months, YC't. still. always beginning. Happy Birthday! "M<' like you" 
The anal yler 

Soviet Code Breakers, Skip code, us€ letters! First ad: ecn'thkwrun (2) SPcond ad· idnreststehe (3) Third ad: eeasentlahsdhlbttk (4) 
M'gee 

D<'ar Flower Company., Sny hi to Mickey Mouse! Augusta 
Know Joe Culliname? Call Rita (5179) Say Happy Birthday. 
DC'ar Mnrgaret, Mary Lou, Kathy 
ilnd Milry. Glad you finally figured out how to c;core. 
Will oblige. Paul and Tom 



