~ 
·­
Council changes proposed at SMC 
By Alison Kittrell 
A budget report, a CILA re­quest, and restructuring community government were the main topics of discussion at the St. Mary's Student Assembly which met last night in Holy Cross Hall. 
The first item of business dis­
cussed at the meeting was a 
questionaire drown up hy Cecel­
ia Foy which will attempt to 
explore the reaction oC the stu­
dents to the shortened fall sem­
ester. 
d M

Carol Lacey, SBT, an ary Jane Elias, SSO Comptroller, next gave· the quarterly budget report of the student govern­ment. The balance on hand on May 26, 1970, was $1,567 .83, and receipts totalled $14,000, making the total assets $15,567.83. Disbursements for the year were $5,046.11, leaving the balance on hand on Febru­ary 16, 1971 to be $10,521.72. 
Carol Lacey reported that this amount is more than has usually been left by previous administra­tions. There was some discussion about what to do with~ the money, but nothing was de­
cided. 

A request was made by CILA for money to help with their summer work projects in this hemisphere. After a motion to donate $500 to CILA was de­feated, another motion to do­nate $1,000 to CILA was passed. 
Miss Tracey then presented to the Assembly a letter from Sister Alma. The letter listed proposed changes in community govern­ment, but no copy of the lettei: was ever sent to anyone in stu­dent government. 
It was proposed to add two administrators, the vice-presi­dent of Student Affairs and the Vice-President of Fiscal Affairs, to the Academic Affairs Council. This raised the make-up of the Council from 3 administrators, 4 faculty members, and 2 students to 5 administrators, 4 factdty members and 2 students. 
Miss Tracy termed this new make-up "top-heavy.", referring to the overload of administrators on the council. Also in the letter it was noted that the council will accept recommendations from the faculty assembly and stand­ing committees but no mention 
was made of accepting recom­mendations from sutdent gov­ernment. Three administrators were also added to the Student Affairs Council, making the new proportions 5 administrators, 2 faculty, and 4 students. 
The Director of Campus Min­istry was added to the Student Affairs Committee, and a medi­cal advisor was added to the Health Services Committee. The Development Committee was dropped 
The discussion centered main­ly around the reason why the students were not consulted in the decision. Miss Tracey said that the situation "could have been avoided so easily·. I don't see why the administration chose to do it this way." 

-V-o-1-.-v-.~N~o-.~8~2-------------S:n'e-rv-:-in~g~th~e':""'lM:To~m=:-e'D"a=n=:z::e-a::n~d:t<s;:a:::in::t:-;M-;:a::r..:::v;:'s-:rc::-:oiiJl::::eg;::e:;-;(.-;;'o::m::m=u::n-:;it;:y;-------------FFridav. Februarv 19.19 71 


Senate OK's 2 referendu·m motions 
L.Franklin Devine in support of be held today (Friday). The Sen­on coeducation, not merely the
By Bob Higgins 
Thrasher's claim that the peti­ate however, on recommenda­ones in attendance at the Gen­After an unsuccessful first Novak. Off-Campus Senator and 
tion was not an ammendment, tion of Badin Hall's T .C. Treanor eral Assembly.
attempt, the Student Senate last Student Body Presidential candi­called for a vote to overrule the set the date as Tuesday, Feb. 23. The original Senate meeting,night held a second meeting and date Don Mooney, speaking in 
chair. The vote carried with only It was the opinion of Badin Hall scheduled for 7 pm was notaccepted the Student Govern­favor of the proposal, felt that it 
Novak dissenting. President Buz Imhoff, who called to order by Chairmanment Abolition petition and the was a good idea to present the The second proposal, which spoke in defense of the referen­Mark Winnings because the body co-education referendum, to be choice of the existence of a stemmed from a resolution dum in front of both the Senate was one short of a quorum.
placed on separate ballots next Student government to the stu­
passed by the General Assembly and the General Assembly, that Off-Campus Senators Donweek. dents themselves. 
Wednesday night, called for a all students should be given a Mooney and Steve Novak lin-The first of these proposals, Thrasher's motion was orig­referendum on coeducation to chance to voice their opinions ( continued on page 2)
presented by Stay Senator, Tom inally overruled by Chairman Thrasher called for a separate Mark Winnings, on the reccom­Diana Deiss is running mate 
question on the Student Body endation of Off-Campus Se-na­Presidential ballot concerning 
tor Steve Novak who contended 
abolition of Student Govern­that I 0 days were required be­ment. This resolution was ac­fore an ammendment to the 


Cervas announces
cepted with one dissenting vote, constitution could be placed in that of off-campus Senator Steve referendum. Dillon Hall Senator 
By Jerry Lutkus Mike Cervas yesterday added 
his name to the growing list of candidates for the office of Stu­jent Body President. His partner 

Eileen Fitzpatrick, Secada 
ln the ticket will be SMC Junior .)iana Deiss who will run for 

Claiming that there is a ''cer­
SBVP of Notre Dame. tain educational lethargy" at No­The pair cited "no gimmick­tre Dame, Eileen Fitzpatrick, of­cry about the ticket". They con­ficially registered as a St. Mary's sider Notre Dame and St. Mary's Sophomore .and Walter Secada, "as one". Cervas commented, a Notre Dame juni6r announced "We both have a vision of what their candidacies for the execu­this Christian academic com­tive positions in ND student munity should be. If we win, government. then Diana and I will serve the 

also enter election contest 
He continued, "We know this munity core group where everyMiss Fitzpatrick, who is run­position of SBP equally because is a radical difference from nor­member is no more nor no lessning for SBP, charged that "... Eileen Fitzpatrick we are aesthertically and intel­mal Student Government propo­important than any other mem­the realm of academics to a large discuss the issues of this cam­lectually equal." 
sals, but as it stands today, ber. This group could then _en­extent has been put out of the paign," Miss Fitzpatrick said. The basic motivation behind Student Governmey~.t is pretty courage and co-ordinate the ini­control of the student body by "with any candidate since we their campaign is "to dissolve much of a power politics student tiative of the community."
the relinguishing on the part of feel this is a very valuable means Student Government as it exists game that is created to help In introduction to his basicstudent government as the of s"peak ing dir~ctly to the point today." Cervas said, "If we are people with their ego trips. It is platform, Cervas spoke of thespokesman for the student body of the matter and giving the elected, we would ask the stu­just not concerned with Chris­philosophy behind his campaign. 
of all real interest and pressure in student the opportunity of see­dents to engage in a year long tian academic life." He feels that the cabinets andthis area." ing how the candidates respond experiment of Christian com­Cervas stated further, 'I.We the basic facets of Student Go-Her running mate, Walt Seca­to the diverse opinions." munal academic living." would establish a
then com­

da, said that the pair, if elected, ( continued on page 6) intend to streamline the student government so that "students can once more regain control of it." 

Abolishment proposal lacks support
When asked why she was run­
ning, in the light of the fact that By Steve Kane outstanding academic, social, olution as a natural reaction to Jim Riebandt, candidate for· she is a registered St. Mary's 
The recently drawn up pro­cultural, and service program." the student's notion of student student body president, sympa­
student, Miss Fitzpatrick replied, posal to abolish student gov­Student Body President Dave government as a "panacea" of all thized with some of the pro­
"I copsider myself an ND stu­ernment has failed to receive Krashna said that the resolution campus gripes and needs. He posal's reasonings, but regardeddent, having my major over here 
support from campus office was not created out of concern denied that local leadership and the resolution as "foolish." He and all classes here. I think that I holders and prospective can­for the students, but rather as a organization within the halls agreed that student government can bring to the office an in­didates for office. "slap at Mark and me." He could achieve what a central has been ineffective in that it is sight, having seen Notre Dame The proposal, requiring 500 added that while people con­body can. He questioned how "not generating any life amongfrom within and without." signatures in order to appear on tinue to criticize, student gov­independent hall governments students." The answer, said Rie­
"Any ~udent ernment continues to work for

next week's ballot, calls for the could sponsor speakers, con­bandt, lies in stripping much of who would heckle us is showing 
suspension of the present con­the students. He conceded that certs, the campus press, the dir­the bureaucracy from the an obvious immaturity and in­stitution for one year. The resol­some aspects of student govern­ectory, major films, and the like. present structure. 
ability to handle the issues. This ment have been ineffective, but
ution sights the ineffectiveness Pohl said that although student John Barkett, President ofis a matter of necessity if co-edu­of the present student govern­refused to recognize this as government has fallen short in Morrissey Hall, Hall Presidents
cation is the future of Notre grounds for total abolishment.
ment and recommends that hall some things, it has achieved Council Chairman, and also aDame," Secada said. 
governments assume greater re­Bob Pohl, Student Union numerous successes and has candidate for SBP, stated that
"We are more than willing to Commissioner, spoke of the res­
sponsibility in providing "an much inherent potential. (Continued on page 8) 

Friday, February 19,1971
TIIB O&rERUE&
Page 2 



Final Assembly session fails to a.ttain quorum 
the possibility of Flanner Hall talked and worked with Fr. pus.
By Tom Bornholdt 

expelling students. Thomas Chambers, Director of Other members 9f the group party hall, improvements in Dave Krashna refused to con­
Mike George, speaking on student residence, said that discussed the security problems security were n·ecessary anyway, vene the Student Assembly last behalf of the proposal said he Notre Dame had about l 00 of a coed Flanner. One student and that possible arrangementsnight, due to a turnout of only thought it unlikely that any stu­extra beds this year, and that if compared the possible resulting in this area would not preventabout 300 students. Yesterday dents would be forced out of the necessary the university could state as a "prison." the hall from socially mixing was the last day of the planned hall since a good many students a void a "bed squeeze" by regula­George replied that because with rest of the campus, which student assembly. 
in Flanner they had talked to ting the number of transfer stu­the repeated vandalism in would defeat the whole idea of Krashna turned the group into said they would move to Regina. dents they could allow on cam-Flanner and its reputation as a coed dorm. 
a discussion group when it was The Flanner"Regina Proposalbecoming obvious that a quorum would move 264 St. Mary's stu­
Sixth SBP ticket
would not be reached. 
dents to Flanner, while moving
The major item of discussion 164 Notre Dame students to 
was the Flanner-Regina coed hall Regina. Some students expressed 


Sherman, Murphy announce joint candidacy 
proposal. There was a inpropor­anxiety over the fact that the 
tionate amount of students from resulting loss of I00 beds would 

is that "they have been too On coeducation, ShermanFlanner present at the Assembly, cause a "room squeeze." By Pat Tyrrell idealistic: and have tried to do stated: "Everyone at Notreand several voiced concern about George, who claimed to have Junior Richard Sherman more than they had power to. Dame has talked about coeduca­announced his candidacy for the 
The important decisions are tion since the day George Gipp position of Nqtre Dame Student made by the administration and died of 'pneumonia.' But let's 
Body President last night. His


MAIN CHURCH 

Trustees, no matter how the face it fellows, the decision on running mate for Vice-President students try to delude them­how and when to go co-ed will will be Mike Murphy, also a 
selves." be made by the big brass and not

SUNDAY MASSES 
junior. 

Sherman and Murphy contend the students." 
In making his announcement, 

that the basic issues on campus Sherman said that "restruc­
5: 15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 

Sherman declared that "it is are coeducation and rt"con­turing (of Student Government) time for a more realistic student struction of student government. is nearly impossible, with the
8:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Don Abbott, C.S.C. · 

government." He stated that the They are against a strong stand support of the students as it is."
9:45 a.nt. Sun. Fr. Bernard Clark, C.S.C. 
Tracing the poor turnout at the 
General· Assembly as an example 
of student apathy, Sherman felt 
it was useless to undertake such 
an action. 
The two candidates feel that 
their big problem will be to 
impress people that they are 
serious in their campaign. 
Because of their leadership roles 
in the Vikings, they feel many 
may misinterpret their intention 
in running. "We want to make it 
very clear," Sherman said, "that we are serious and don't intend this to be a joke." 
The two Dillon Hall residents noted that their campaign will be informal. They do not plan to campaign in the halls or "flood the campus with platforms and posters." Murphy said that their information would be "released to the Media"-the Observer and WSND. 
Sherman said that the Sherman-Murphy platform "has not been completely worked out," but explained that it should be ready by Monday. 
The next meeting for the Michiana Committee to end the War will be held ·tonight ' at 
7:30 p.m. in the Unitarian church at the corner of N. Michigan and N. Shore. All are invited. 

Senate meeting 
on referendum 

(Continued [rom Page 1) 
gered outside the meeting re­
fusing to answer the role in hopes that petitions they had been circulating, calling for an alternative to Thrasher's pro­posal, would be returned to them. When the 7PM meeting was dismissed, petitions were immed­iately drawn up to call another meeting at 8 PM. Both Mooney and Novak, along with other senators that had been con­tacted, were in attendance at the second meeting. The two Off-Cam·pus senators were unable to gain the required number of signatures, thus their proposal was never brought to the floor. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage p;~id~l'!otre Dame, Ind. 4!)556. 
11 :OOa.m. Sun. Fr. Donald Martin, S.J. !2:15p.m. 
t 


It t
f
t I
f I 
1 
·f 
& 
' 
& 
' 
reason why past Notre Dame 
on either issue, however. 
student governments have failed 

Do you desire to live off-campus? Now taking reservations for Sept. 1, 
1971. Nine month lease, accomodations for four or five to an apartment. 



TIME IS RUNNING OUT. • • 
.for application to the 

Air Force ROTC 2-year program. 
ifyou are -interested in flying -in good academic standing -physically qualified 
then contact the 
Department of Aerospace Studies ROTC Bldg. 283-6635 8uf hurryf Time Is -runnln' out. 

L__________________________________________ -------~~ --­
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.1~ 
~ 
< ~ 
.,
.. 
cr
... 
~ 
< c: .... 
tO 
.... 
tO 
..... 
.... 
r---------------------------------------,
I MISS TANYA(TM) Poster 
TANYA Hawaii Corp. 
P. 0. Box 46445, Los Angeles, California 90046 Please send me beautiful full color poster(s) of 
No. of posters 
MISS TANYA. Enclosed is my D check D money order in the amount 
of $.50 per poster 
Name Address City . State Zip
Signed, MISS TANYA 

L------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------L------N--~--~--o-~--~-ta_~_e__ ___ __ __ t~-r_e--e ~_e_e--k_s_~_o_~_d_~_l_iv_~_r_y-_._O--ff_e_~_e_:__p_i_~_s M_:__r_c_~_~_,_·-_,9_7_~_·____J_•:IJI1r
~_s_~_d_e--nt_s in_~_~_"_~_e_~_a_l--es ~_a_x ·_A--II_o_=-__ __ ___ 

I'll be your roommate Put this eye-popping poster of me on Y<?Ur wall for just 50¢ ... and you've got a great roommate. I measure 17Vz" x 38" and ~ come in full color on beautiful slick poster paper. A great hang-up for anyone to have. Just send 50¢ to TANYA® ... the
iOr • 1• folks who bring you the whole line of suntan products for a natural looking tan. And in a short time, I'll be your roommate. 
Page 4 
7HB OllSZRWit 
Friday, February 19,1971 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief John E. Knorr. E~ecutive Editor Bruce Reick; Business Manager 
Ambitions first sprung from your blest abodes, The glorious faults of angels and of gods. • 
-Alexander Pope 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
The Co-Ed ProposalMust Pass 
Since the General Assembly of Students has breathed its last GASp without resolving anything other than that departmentals, departmentals, and Austin Carr respectively, draw better than Assembly, Assembly, and Assembly, respectively, it becomes doubly important to pass the pr,oposed Coeducation Bill in the Referendum schttduled for next Wednesday. 
SBP Krashna scheduled the Assembly in order to give the Board of Trustees a full and clear picture of the depth -of student support for full coeducation. If the General Assembly is any indication, students may not only prefer not to coeducate, but not to have anything .to do with women at all. The whole thing will leave a very bad taste in the Trustee's collective mouths, and only a strong affirmation of the bill in the Wednesday referendum will lend any credence at all to the contention that the bill is the will of the students, a contention Krashna must make if he is to win rapid coeducation from the Trustees. 
A weak showing, in turn, will probably mean that Park-Mayhew will win acceptance in its grotesque entirety. That the Assembly was a failure was partially Student Government's fault; it was horribly timed and the publicity was pervasively poor (the Student Union calendar said that the Assembly would be held Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday at eight; in reality, it was scheduled for seven), but the major fault lies with us. We have been passive and non-vocal at the outbreak of the Park-Mayhew; and conspicuous in our absence at the Assembly which proposed alternatives to Park-Mayhew; if we fail to exercise our franchise on the final amendment we will be saddled with Park-Mayhew. And that will be our own t lgh luck. 
Letters 
Editor: far as student opmton is con­you didn't get your way and 
On the subject of the aborted cerned, Mr. Krashna's assembly stormed off. Thank you, General Assembly of tonight has shown that it is not behind George La wier (February 16th) I feel that much him because of the way he has 207 Breen-Phillips of the blame for lack of flliled the students. A large 
Editor: 

attendance can be traced to our showing at the assembly would Last night at the Student As­
present SBP. Why is it that have been a general endorsement sembly the true nature of the 
during his campaign he had hall of Mr. Krashna since it has been Notre Dame student was well 
captains, floor captains, section dubbed "his" assembly, and this expressed in the debate and workers-an army of endorsement just does not exist. 
eventual deletion of plank No. 7 
supporters-yet could not garner It's possible that early mid­in the Co-education Proposal.
but 530 students (including terms kept .some students away Dave Krashna should be praisedSMC) for "his" assembly? (I tonight and it's .even possible for his remarkable restraint in quote Bob Meyers when he says that the first three items on the light of the racist implications in 
"It's really Dave's assembly in a Agenda did not stir anyone's the sentiments expressed. He lot of ways. He's trying to get a blood (one of the items was handled himself well performing 
sense of where Student "Money for minority re­first as a representative of the Government is going and what cruitment and Scholarships") 
students, and second; as a black student opinion is.") while coeducation is the talk of man. 
That it is too late for Dave to the hour. I would hope that The ideas expressed concern­make a comeback is obviously more students will show up to­ing the "Christian" assimilationthe consensus. While the senate morrow night when coeducation of blacks into hall life is tanta­still meets and the halls have not will be discussed, but I can't maount to blatant tokenism. Ad­seen him all the while that he blame them if the ones that her~nts to this philosophy of was supposed to carry on a attended tonight don't even re­assimilation display seeming ig­continuing rapport with them, turn. 
norance of the black's right tothe students are aware that his 
By the way Dave, the General 
govern their own destinies with­campaign promises were just 
Assembly Rules called for a quo­
in the university community. Itthat. It seems that he has 
rum of five hundred students (a 
is strangely ironic that studentsreneged on all of them except on 
quorum is "the number of mem­
professing these Christian ideals,t h e s u b j e c t of minority 
bers of a body that when duly 
could be so insensitive to the
enrollment and minority 
assembled is legally competent 
black man's plight at a whitescholarships. But in limiting his 
to transact business") and after man's university.energies on these activities the 
530 students were counted you As students at Notre Dame,majority of the students were 
were more than a little out of 
we would like to express ourforgotten. 
order in cheating those who did 
pride in Dave Krashna and hisIt's fine to get a sense of 
attend out of an assembly. I 
efforts to create a more realisticwhere Student Government is know that you stated that you environment in which educationgoing, but not very admirable to wouldn't convene ift if only can truely flourish. 
do it at the end of a term of 
I ,000 students attended, but office, when any progress on the 
we've gotten along without you Dennis Hanoverproposals will have to be left to 
thus far and could have managed 
John Balkwillhis successor to accomplish. As had a substitute taken over when Almerindo Portfolio 
rc. heonor------------------
Whot 1s Happening 
to our Faith 

With the late' Assembly now thoroughly GASsed, the Notre Dame student body appears ready for more serious things. ~ertainly '.the Alumni is. Why, just the other day the daily Rag received an epistle from a committee of concerned Notre Dame Alumni which called itself, appropriately enough, the Concerned Notre Da_m_e Alumni. They were particularly concerned about the state of rehgwn ?ere at the playing fields of du lac; and specifically_ co~cern~~ with the students veneration of a character temporarily Identified as the "Lovely Lady dressed in Blue." 
The letter written "for the Committee' by John T. Balfe, '20, 
K.C.H. som<~thing, has been endorsed by at least one of the nation's more gnostic theolgians, i.e. John T. Balffe, '20, K.T.C. something. Under the letter's masthead, which says -surprise -"Concerned Notre Dame Alumni Committee," is a patch of what has been momentarily identified as metaphysical poetry. 
"Lovely Lady dressed in Blue  
"Why don't students pray to  you?  
"Is it taboo?"  .  
Without  attempting  to  answer  such  a  profound questiOn (St.  

Augustine tried to answer the same question for years; eventually gave up in :something very near despair) John T. Balfe, '20, K C.H. something (his real name) gets to the meat of the matter. "On November 30, 1970," he writes, "an Open Letter asking 'What. is Happening to Religion at Notre Dame' was sent to:"-and then he mentions aU the people who got the letter. It turns out that he sent it tq 42 Trustees, none of whom replied, 45 Officers of the University" (whether he included J. Arthur is left to the imagination; I asked the guy who patrols my hall and all he did was eye his pistol nervously), and 22 Officers and Directors of the Alumni Association. Among the Officers of the University, only Father Sheedy deigned to reply; among the Officers and Directors of the Alumni Association, one called the Concerned Committee to say "I too am disturbed." Mr. Balfe unfortunately never elaborates on the Direcor's disturbance; it would have made for some interesting reading. 
He writes: on; it turns out that he talked with a CSC who in turn talked to "a recent graduate, Phi Beta Kappa, Wilson Scholarship, etc." Although no such name is listed under a list of recent gradutes (In fact, the:y're the names of two awards!) we will have to make a leap of faith to believe the CSC. The priest then goes on to relate that his frie:nd learned -from other priests, yet! -that "God "did not create me. Man created God." and "Jesus didn't know Himself whether He was God or not." 
This, of course, is serious stuff indeed. Young and tactile minds, such as those of youngsters here at Notre Dame, ought not to be exposed to such perverse thoughts. That would lead to loss of faith, and in one short step to public lewdness, obscenity, marijuana sniffing, and finally heroin addiction and demon w~rship. And here we can only echo Mr. Balfe's question, posed boldly mthe middle of his page, "Have you had enough?" 
But there: is more. If you want to learn about a "Pornographic Exhibit at Notre Dame" Mr. Balfe suggests you get hold of Fr. McCarragher. If you want to know about the "pre..Christmas campus 'Drug Raid"'' Mr. Balfe suggests that you get hold of the South Bend Chief of Police, whose name has moentarily slipped Mr. Balfe's alleged mind. If you want to learn about A-rtion, Mr. Balfe suggests that you "Read the Notre Dame offician campus daily 'The Observer' or 'The Scholastic."' Of course, we here at the daily Rag don't even print such naughty words like "a-rtion." We've been noticably clean since that reformed Lady Armwrestler came here and said all those nasty things about the Church. 
But these evil things do exist on campus, my spies inform me, and so we become indignant with Mr. Balfe in the next sentence when "Accordingly we accuse the Trustees, the Officers of the University and The Directors of the Alumni Association with (sic): 
"1. Neglecti!_!g their corporate and administrative responsibilities. 
"2. Making Notre Dame a non-demoninational University; of selling the Soul of Notre Dame for the proverbial 30 pieces of silver." (Though I here think we might have been a bit arrogant had 
we asked for more. ) "3. Deceiving Catholic. parents by not advising them that Notre Dame is no longer a Catholic University.. 
But never fear, Mr. Balfe and his Concerned Committee is going to pray a de,~ade of the rosary daily for us and for our spiritual needs of Notre Dame. He closes with the pithy thought: "Better to 
develop one Saint than I00 Scholars, and "May the Lovely Lady dressed in Blue help us pray and do and do ." 
Can we do more? Dare we do less? 
Staff 
Issue Staff

Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial PageEditor: T.C. Treanor 
Night Editor: Dave Bach Features Eclitor: Dave Lammers Layout: Tom Hesson Sports Editor: Terry Shields Headlines: Jim McDermott Campus Ed:itor: Steve Lazar 
Varityper: Bill Clemency SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney 
Controller of the Night: rick smith News Editor: Ed Ellis Advertising M'ger: Bill Bauerle 
------~---------------­
Friday, February 19,1971 711B OBSERriER. 

There is a quality in some of. us, who were touched in our birth with traces of the Celtic imagination, by which we romanticize the past, fantasize the pres­ent and dream of futures that can never be.' Of my own childhood among the fisher-folk of the Maine coast, for exam­ple: I am fond of mistakenly remember­ing myself as a lad with spray-lashed cheeks, swarming over wharves bearded with sea-moss in the rockbound villages, or playing like a merboy among the whitecaps, the progeny of rugged skippers who have sailed for two and a half centuries ·before the mast. Actually, my personal and best known village was the largest city in the state. The last of my clan to follow the sea was a grandfather who retired from his poopdeck twenty years before I first sniffed the tuna­infested waters fringing the outer islands of Casco Bay. Except for summers spent on those islands in ancient, ancestral cottages that served as the places for our vacation retreats, my grandfather was my closest link to the sea. I remember how he would take me as a child to Fort Allen Park, in Portland, with its vistas that overlooked the whole bayside. There he would recite the Ballad of the Flying Cloud, or tell me of heavy seas encoun­tered off the Grand Banks, where his ship went down and every hand aboard except himself (including his father and his father's five brothers) perished in the storm. Sometimes, with a gleam in his eye 
Dennis Wall 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
•



Dreams and memor1es 
as though he were remembering a night­watch in the waters out from Tunis or spars silver-tipped with starlight in the shimmer of a Sargasso Sea, he would speak of the shelter that a waited him in the Sailors' Snug Harbour, by which he meant, I supposed, the salvation he hoped for among the Galilean fishermen in heaven. 
But not all of my day-dre:>>:.;,,g i~ so reflective of memories that seem litted from the pages of Captains Courageous. Lately, for example, I have been imagin­ing myself as an actor treading the boards of. our local, campus theater. Specifically, I toy with the idea of trying out for the role of Mr. Bumble, the beadle of the workhouse, in the ND-SMC production of Oliver! Intimates who visit my digs in Keenan assure me that I am capable of a 
creditable performance as that bloated bag of meanness who is so heavily afoot in the lost childhood of young Twist, depriving orphans everywhere of their daily bowls of gruel and servings of lentil soup. Being a rector, I suppose, would bring out the Bumble in any of us, but it is doubtful that the anti-<:harms of a hall administrator, together with a privately­cultivated brand of uncouthness, could ever substitute for the lack of a play­actor's talent, which would be needed, I hope·, to make it appear verisimilitudi­nous that my own gracelessness ap­proaches that of a moral monster from the dark shadows of a Dickensian world. 
But it takes lit.tle talent to dream of a night behind the footlights, just as it took only a little imagination, two weeks ago, to announce the hope .of conducting a Lenten Retreat into Books during the Sundays of Lent. The mailman knows there was enough respon.~e to the an­nouncement; five times as many students wrote expressing a wish to be involved in the project as one could decently hope to accommodate. But a dozen practical rea­sons, including the arrangement of time and place, and an over-subscription by interested parties, conspire to defeat the plan. Sad to relate, I am haunted by an inner uncertainty of my own ability to elevate a literary confrontation into an experience of insights into the truths of the living God. I covet the respect of students too much to expose them to Sundays as dull, one can imagine, as those breakfasts where Billy Graham meets for prayer with the Nixons. To those who write, I say, you were charming to in­quire, and thank you. What you really need for such a Retreat into Books as I mentioned is a saint and a scholar. At the moment, my-credentials to either preten­sions are considerably tarnished. 
But my most ambitious and transcen­dent dreams involve my own sense of place in the discipleship of Jesus Christ. f\s a priest, one longs to play a role in the Parable of the Good Samaritan, Who binds up the wounds of the world. Every 111an is my neighbor; he bears in his flesh, just, as I do, the wounds of brigandry; love's anointing is necessary for his heal­ing. The difficulty with many men is that they do not even know they have fallen into the hands of robbers. If they find themselves struck down into the ditches of the Jericho road, they just lie there as 
though dead. The Samaritan, Who is Christ, awaits their cries in vain. Some­'times they perish in their aloneness; and all the while the Samaritan is searching for them, and they don't even know He is near. 
I think of the structures through which the work of the priest is done: hearing confessions, for example, in Manhattan churches, during the months of July and August~ The experience is like being stoned fo death by clods torn out of the dull, dead earth of Nerdsville. Nothing is less exciting than a stale transgression, especially as it is pre-packaged with ab­stractions for verbal delivery to a con­fessor: Masses missed, "bad thoughts" indulged in, night-prayers skipped. And the priest, sitting in the stifling darkness, wonders: does this soul breathe? Is he alive to the grace pf God's wonder? Is he gentle with love, lifting fledgling birds back into their nest, loving the lost lamb more than all the rest'? In despair of knowing, the priest offers the Our Father as a penance, and the dialogue of mercy is ended. 
I remember a night in New York when a young Puerto Rican approached me with his anguish on a street corner. He was twenty-four years old, he said, mar­ried for seven years, with four children credited to his fatherhood. He did not love his wife, he said; and he had never loved her. But as seventeen year old youngsters, they had been found in bed together by her parents. Shotguns had been trotted out, and a marriage per­formed before. a priest, out of deference to her family's sense of outraged honor. After seven years of loveless marriage, he said, he was so filled with hate for his wife's mother that he feared he was on the point of damnation. Could the father help him not to be afraid of the anger of God? • 
I told him that such a marriage was no marriage in the eyes of God or the Church; that if the priest had known the circumstances, he could never have wit­nessed the exchange of vows; that the marriage courts of the Archdiocese could declare the marriage null and void, and that there is never anger in God, especi­ally with children who have been en­tangled by foolishness. In the end that young man went off without believing a word I had said, condemned to a tem­poral hell by his own fears. 
And I, with my touch of a Celtic imagination, wept a bitter tear; not out of a sense of a past romanticism or a future fantasy; but out of a sense of immediacy ugly with the failures of now. 



Sr. Alma discusses coeducation 
Last week, Sister Alma Peter, acting President ot' St. Mary's, was kind enough to consent to a discussion of coeducation with four Innsbruck students: myself, Dan Martuscello, Sue Rice and Maureen Gerety. It is with their aid and their q ues­tions that I am able to write this article. 
The discussion began by considering coeducation in general, its history, its faults, its ramifications, and so on. While discussing the history of coe!fucation, Sis­ter Alma brought the following fact to light: "Ten years ago I sent' three girls over to Notre Dame to take Prof. O'Malley's class, which they wanted to do. Well, the 'South Bend Tribune' found out about it, sent a photographer to the class and printed a story' about it. The local church newspaper then also printed the story, and the bishop found out about it and complained. It ended up with the three girls being withdrawn from the class. That was ten years ago. So I think that we have come a long way in the last ten years." The discussion then moved to contemporary developments; specifically, to the Park-Mayhew report. In response to the question of whether the report was a first step of a final con­clusion, Sr. Alma answered: "I think it's a first step. I don't think that the Boards of Trustees, in their meeting in Florida this March, will consider the Park-Mayhew re­port alone. I think that they are more interested in the reports from the admini­strations, the students, and the faculties. I really see no difficulties with the Boards of Trustees coming to an agreement." Sr. Alma then gave her opinion of the report in general: "I'd like to see some good come out of this report. Some people say I'm emplaced on the river, but I don't think I am. I want to see that what is done is good for the students at St. Mary's and Notre Dame, academically, socially, the whole thing. There are some 
improvements that can be made. And I don't see why they can't be." 
Sr. Alma was then-asked a question which, it seems, is causing a great many people difficulties: the subject of coed dorms. Her response: "I wouldn't oppose it. . .I can see it happening in the future." Sr. Alma was given the specifics of a plan for the institution of coed dorms, which I shall here summarize: one floor of each hall at Notre Dame, ideally, would be re­served for women; the same system could be used at St. Mary's to introduce men on campus. Sr. Alma responded to this plan in the following manner: "I could pro­bably go along with it. ..We have to move with the times." She went on to say that McCandless Hall at S.M.C. might be used as a coeducational dorm. In addition, "Regina Hall looks almost as if it was built for that purpose-as a coed dormi­tory-it has two separate wings, joined by lounge areas. It has been proposed that one of the lounges, which last year was not used, be used as a dining area for a coeducational dormitory in Regina." 
Sr. Alma was then asked about in­creased enrollment at St. Mary's, perhaps to a 3: I ratio. She explained that the present senior class at St. Mary's is relatively small because when the present seniors were freshmen, the classes before them were very large in size and there was very little room for the incoming fresh­men. But, Sr. Alma said; next year's freshman class should be·-"about 500." Asked about a plan for Notre Dame to allocate a portion of its incoming fresh­man class to young women--realistically, about a third-yet still have the girls be registered in S.M.C., although N.D. would provide the physical facilities of housing, Sr. Alma replied: "I have not heard that proposal as yet, so I would have to think about that. But I think that there would be opposition from Notre Dame alumni 
who want their boys to get an education left up to the individual departments. at Notre Dame." Sister was then asked if Now, after the Park-Mayhew revort, we she accepted the Park-Mayhew character-will have to wait and see what the Trus­izations of Notre Dame and St. Mary's as tees decide., being, respectively, ., graduate school-"Wait and see what the Trustees de­oriented and "humanizing." In response cide." We students can influence that de­to that question, she said: "Yes, I think cision. Sr. Alma thinks so, Park-Mayhew that's basically true. For example, in the has said so, and, at the risk of sounding Psychology Departments, Notre Dame is trite, we know so.· 
geared to clinical psychology, which leads --:-:-:--~-~,......,=,.,-~----~---,­
to a Ph:d.., while St. Mary's students go t6, at most, their Masters and then go to work, for e"xample, in social welfare." Sr. Alma was also asked aoout the Park­Mayhew characterization of St. Mary's College in the University of Notre Dame as a college "designed primarily for 
The discussion moved from that 
women:"  "This  has  teen  a  puzzle  to  
many  people.  It is a puzzle  to  me  as  
w~ll  ~·  

point to the problem of financial difficul­ties of merger and coeducation. In re­sponse to a question of the support that the Holy Cross Sisters render St. Mary's, if, as outlined in Par:k-Mayhew, they might withdraw their support if St. Mary's merges with Notre Dame, Sr. Alma replied: "I think it could happen. I don't think it would affect the College at all. If St. Mary's was to be 'St. Mary's College in the University of Notre Dame,' then St. Mary's would be a part of Notre Dame, and we would have to find a new board of lay trustees who would be will­ing to back it all. As it stands now, the Holy Cross Sisters own all the buildings and land of the campus. . .St. Mary's finished in the black last year, while Notre Dame has a large deficit. So Notre Dame is not in a position now to buy the buildings at St. Mary's." Our final ques­tion in this out-of-the-ordinary rap­session was whether or not a student might fulfill the requirements of his major at the other campus. Sr. Alma's comment was this: "Previously this was Miss Terri Buck, a Notre Dame cheer­leader, is being fitted by Ice Capades wardrobe mistress, Beverly Banville, with one of Ice Capades lavish costumes. Miss Buck will make an appearance in the finale number of Ice capades Friday night, February 19. Ice Capades is playing at the Notre Dame Athletic and Convoca­tion Center through Sunday, February 21. 



~~~--------------------------~~--­
Cervas-Deiss back SG dissolution ideas 
(Continued from Page 1} 
vernment are irrelevant to the campus and that they are not substantial to the growth and development of the individual. "They are, in fact," he said, 


PWMOONT l'tlURES I'Rtlilll$ 
All Nac&raw ·lyanO'lell 

9th 
Week 

.Jolla lluleyl · MiiiiM 
~ II:IJl~ ~ IWIIIUMT ~. 
Phil rJovak Rob Barteletti linda Cril<elair Suzy Kellow 



I C A 
FLANNER BASEM'T. 8:30 -12:30 * ]RH 
Weekdays  - 1:40, 7:35,  9:35  
Sat.  &  Sun.  -Begins  1:45  
Show  every  2  hrs.  last  show  9:45  
I'm the champ  
and I've got a  
gold belt and a  
white woman  
to prove it.  
That sticks in  

20th Century Fox Presents A Lawrence Turman· Martin Ritt Production 
The GreatWhite Hope
Starring James Earl Jones, Jane Alexander 
Produced by Lawrence Turman. Directed by Martin Ritt IGPI Screenplay by Howard Sackler based on his play .n. 
Produced on the New York Stage by Herman Levm PANAVtSION• Color by DE LUXe-

FORBIDDEN BY LAW FORBIDDEN BY SOCIETY FORBIDDEN BY COMMIINIICENCYBUT EXPOSED BY THE CAMERAS OF OLYMPIC INTERNATIONAL FILMS 

[IFDIIIDDEn 
p 
l 
u 
s 


·~ust elements of bureaucratic Poobahism." 
"If you have a vision," he stated, "and it's rea tionally and morally thought out, it'll only be realized if you go out and do 
Now -Open 12:45 -Feature Times ­
I: 50-3:50-5:50-7:50-9:50 Saturday only at 1-3-5-7-9-1 

n 
Presents 
Butch Cassidyand the Sundance Kid 


Feb. 19, 20 and 21 7 :00 and 9:30 
Note: General Admissi01~ $1.00 
Correction in Time 
Engineering Auditorium 
HELD 
. -SHOWTIMES­1:45-3:45-5:45
OVER 7:45-9:45 "YOU MUST SEE THIS FILM!" 
-Richard Schickel, Life 
COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents a BBS Product•on 
JACK NICHOLSON 
"7VI! 
1!111/J, 
1~11!1:1!11 
COLOR[!!] 
See Butch and the Kid tonight, BUT. .. Tomorrmv alUJ Sunday see a "real" Westem 
THE GOOD, THE B~AD AND THE UGLy 
Clint  ,Lee  Eli  
Eastwood  Va~t  Cleef  Wallach  
SATURDAY  -2:00, 6:30, 9:30, 12:30  

SUNDAY-2:00, 7:00, 10:00 
COLOR CINEMASCOP£ 
All Problems H'ave Been Corrected 
K ()F c 
MEMBERS FREE NONMEMBERS SI.OO 
communal, and worldly development." 
"The Social life of Notre Dame leaves much to be desired Cervas feels. "We believe co-education to be a reality; and a necessary one. Our ticket is an expression of that belief," he said. "We see no reason for not having by the beginning of next year co-ed dormitories, co-ed dining facilities, and fully co-ed classes." 
Cervas felt that the two towers should be woman's dorms, but he noted that that was completely up to the students. 
"We. have a different way of looking at things," Cervas said. "We look at them from a moral base. The Notre Dame community should base their lifes on moral concerns with a deep responsibility to all men." 
Ticlets 1.50 Information 284-4176 it. And you must do it with a regard for Christianith for Chris­tianitY is moral action." 

He added, "We must make a total committment to the moral development of the community. All problems in that community are then directly related to the question, what is a Christian 
P'-fl-~ 
~'·'·0,
DOLLYI 
NO RESERVED SEATS 
20th CENIURY-FOX PRESENTS 
BARBRA WALTER 
STREISAND · MAnHAU 
Phone 288-8488 For Show Times 
university?" 
The candidates "idea" was centered around three facets, Academic Life, Cultural Life, and Social (or Intellectual) Life. 
On Academic Life, Cervas noted, "Freedom is the big thing. Freedom is necessary for the individual to grow. Therefore, the structure must be as compromising the flexible as possible. The curriculum must be less stringent and the absurd 
and  useless  requirements  must  
be abolished."  
Cervas  contended  that  "the  

arts have been slighted at Notre Dame". This was central to his ideas on cultural life. "CAF and CAC have striven, but not enough is done. There are not enough funds for the arts." Cervas continued, "Cultural freedom has been hurt by a too strict and too structured university. A ·viable cultural life would contribute to individual, 

Feb. 19,20,25,26,27 at·8:30 PM & Feb .. 21 at 2:30PM 
~-­

Fordham hurts Irish tourney bid 

by Terry Shields 
scored 23 points in the second boards with the Irish evenly for lost Yelverton. fouled in the process. PleickObserver Sports Editor half and most of these came mos.. of the half but by the end This seemed to inspire rather converted the throw and the The Fordham Rams took a afterYelverton fouled out. of this period it appeared as than hurt the Rams~ however. lead was suddenly down to two. 
big step toward an NCAA on
Besides being devestating though the Irish were winning Mainor, playmaker Jack Burik The Rams tried holding the tournament bid last night with a 
offense, Mainor played an out­the battle underneath. and center George Zambetti all ball and the Irish stole it but the 
victory over Notre Dame 94-88. standing defensive game by hold­The awesome Carr got hot as hit key buckets that enabled the clutch Mainor grabbed it rightBy doing so the Rams also put ing superstar Austin Carr of the the second half began and wmt Fordham five to gain a seven back and he converted two free the Irish in grave danger of not Irish to only 29 points. Carr was the trio of Collis Jones, Sid point advantage at the four throws shortly after. The clock getting a coveted invitation to held to only one field goal in the Catlett and Pleick clearing the fifty-five mark. It was here that read l :06. The score was 89-84. the nation's most prestigous second half after the first ten 
boards the Irish threatened to Notre Dame received a crushing With a desperation presstournament. 
minutes in that period. Mainor break the game open. The Irish blow to their attack. Collis Jones installed by Notre Dame Charlie Yelverton and . Bill simply played solid defense to 
built a five point lead with about committed his fifth persopal Fordham got two easy layupsMainor combined for 55 points keep the ball away from the NO 13 points remaining. foul and NO never got to within and a free throw to make the and each man played a key role immortal. It was during this period that three after this. final count for the Rams 94. in the Fordham victory. Yelver­Neither team was able to Yelverton kept the Rams in the Bill Mainor hit what appeared Sinnott hit on a drive and Doug ton played a consistent game, build much of a lead in the first game with his board play as well to be the clincher with 3:00 on Gemmell fired a jumper at the and he also contributed to the half. The Rams had the widest as his scoring. the clock. His jump shot made it buzzer to give the Irish their 88. 
tiny Ram frontline by grabbing a margin of five points at 39-34 
At about the mid-point of the 85-77. The Irish had one last This loss may have been the 
good share of the rebounds. Al­but the Irish worked hard e-second half the lead began to push at a miracle though. John most crushing of the season to though he fouled out with 6:55 nough to earn a tie at intermis­see~aw. Mainor went on a tear Pleick hit two fouls and after Notre Dame. tournament hopes.remaining in the game the 6'2" 
sion. JQlmm Pleick got five for the Rams by hitting eight Mainor duplicated this Tom The loss leaves the Irish with a 
senior was able to can 27 points. points at the end of this stanza Sinnott, who had replaced
points in a row and then it record of 14-7 and even·with a When Yelverton made his to knot the game at 45-45. appeared that Fordham might Jones, hit a jumper. tough schedule going for themdeparture Mainor took over. Bill 
The smaller Rams went to the Sinnott then came up with a
drop out o(. the game wh~n they the NCAA people might note steal and got the ball to Big John that NO has beaten no one of who scored underneath and got any importance since the· UCLA upset.
Flanner jumps out front 
NOTRE DAME FORDHAM FG FT PTS FG FT PTS
Tom Kemps sank a pair of jump­each hit 16 for Fisher, while Carr 12 5 29
by Stan Urankar Yelverton 12 4 28 
ers to give Flanner an insur­Stepaniak tossed in 16 and Berry Jones 5 5 15 
Mainor 10 7 27
Flanner took a l-0 game lead mountable seven-point bulge. added 11 for Pangborn. Catlett 6 1 13 Burik 6 0 12in the best of three series for the Carr finished with 23 points For B-P, it was the third Pleick 6 7 19 Woytawitz 1 3 5
lnterhall Basketball champion­for high scoring honors, while straight year they've lost in the Meehan 3 0 6 Charles 7 0 14ship as they defeated Pangborn teammates Kemps and DiPiero Gemmell
Northern final. Boftth teams 1 0 2 Zarmbetti 3 1 7last night, 65-60, in the ACC's added 13 and 11 each. Bernie Sinnott 2 4
blew numerous chances for vic­0 Sullivan 0 1 l
Auxiliary Gymn. Berry led Pangobrn with 13, 
tory in the waning minutes; as -------------------
Pangborn dominated the early while Ralph Stepaniak and TOTAL
B-P twice needed only to stall 35 18 88 TOTAL 39 16 94play, as they held the. game's Horan each added 12. 
out the clock with less than a
biggest lead at 20-11 early in The two teams advanced to Terry ShieIds ~:!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;~::::::::::::.:=:=:==========~=======:?=·=·=·=·=~·=·::::::::;m:.:;:::=:~
minute to go, but both times
the second period. But with Tim the finals with rugged victories threw the ball away. 
DiPiero hitting on some clutch Sunday night. Pangborn outbat­
DiPiero converted a three­
outside shots, Flanner battled tled Fisher, 49-40, for the 
point play and O'Brien tossed in 
back to within a point at the South Quad title while Flanner 
a pair of foul shots· to ice the 
The Irish Eye
half, 29-28. went into double overtime be­
Flanner win the second extra
Pangborn's playmaker, Pete fore edging B-P, 52-50, for the period.
Barbatko, didn't appear until the North Quad championship. 
Kemps led Flanner with 15,
final period, but failed to give Outch rebounding and a rug­
while DiPiero added 13. Tom
his team the much~needed lift ged efense helped Panborn out­they were hoping for. With the score Fisher, 13-4, in the final Davis paced B-P with 14, and ' Think of all the great games Austin Carr has played here at Notre Fritz Hoefer tossed in 13 and 
Dame in front of-his own fans in the Convocation Center. There was
score tied 46-46 after three period to clinch the victory. periods, DiPiero, Bobby O'Brien, Pangborn's strategy was to allow Bob May 11. that fantastic performance against Tulane that netted 53 points for and Bob Miller converted some Willie Townsend and Mike the evening last year. Just a few weeks after that he came back to
The second game of the 
key steals into important buck­Brown their points, while trying championship series now shifts break this Convo record against West Virginia with an astronomical to the main court of the ACC,
ets as the high-risers moved out to stifle the rest of the club. It 55 points. to a five point lead. worked as Mike Townsend got Monday night at 8:00p.m. If a Just the. other night Austin was at it again as the Irish captain was Farbatko and Chuck Horan only two free throws and Clar­hot and had 46 points with some time remaining in the second half. 
third game is necessary, Sunday, closed the lead to one, but Jim ence Ellis only two buckets. February 28 will see the final There is an amazing thing about these performances that has never Carr hit a three point play and Brown and Willie Townsend contest. ceased to grate on this reporter. Each time Austin has one of these super nights he leaves the court to a mixed crowd reaction of cheers, applause and boos. Boos? Yes, in each instance mentioned there were some knowledgeable Tans who didn't even know enough to give
Sports slate looks busy 
a man the kind of ovation he deserves for such tremendous efforts. ll ot thetr llrst 14 matches, will "I have been highly pleased This is not to say that the crowd is actually booing Mr. Carr, no, entertain Case-Western Reserve with the progress of the team," far from it. They simply feel that Austin should be permitted to .. 
Notre Dame's fencing team, Friday and Big Ten opponents said veteran Irish coach Mike remain in the game to collect some more points and possibly set ranked among the best in the Michigan State, Ohio State and DeCicco, adding, "and our losses some more records. These boo-birds are the same people that can be nation, will make its home debut Indiana Saturday. have been to the finest teams in heard booing NO head coach John Dee at the introduction before this Friday and Saturday in the Anchored by All-American the country." each game. They certainly know their basketball! Athletic and Convocation Cen­Rich Deladrier (epee, 20-6) and Notre Dame's swimming These people are booing coach Dee for making one of the ter. The Irish swimmers will also Doug Daher (sabre, 26-5), the team, now 5-S after splitting a smartest moves a coach can make in a situation such as this. There be active at home while the Irish dropped two matches to meet with St. Bonaventure and are a number of sound basic reasons for removing Austin. wrestling and track teams are on highly ranked NYU and Navy Niagara last weekend, host Pur~ First of all, in a game like this, the contest is usually a runaway the road. while defeating Princeton and due Saturday at 2 P.M. in affair and Austin's services are no longer needed. Also, not to say 
The Irish fencers, winners in Cornell on a recent Eastern trip. Rockne Memorial Pool. The anything against setting records (they're the greatest), but some of Boilermakers are 6-5 after drop­these marks are meaningless, especially when they are set as some ping meets to Indiana and Wis­fans want to see them set. That is by just keeping Austin in the
• leers meet Michigan 
consin last week. lineup against the opposition's subs. The Irish thinclads will parti­Notre Dame fans know how good Austin Carr is. Fans around theflight," reasoned Smith, who 
Notre Dame's hockey team cipate in the Central Collegiate country also are becoming aware of the tremendous wealth of talent
watched his youthful team gain
concludes its competition Indoor Championships at East­possessed b_r this phenomenal athlete. To hear that he is breaking
a tie (5-S) and then lose (6-3)
against Western Collegiate ern Michigan Saturday. Notre another obscure tecord against a reknowned foe such as Valparaiso
at Minnesota-Duluth last week­
Hockey Association teams this Dame's shuttle hurdle relay four­doesn't really add to his image. It may even cheapen it.
end. 
weekend in Ann Arbor against some of Mike Dimick, Tom· The most important reason for removing Carr from the lineup
"We played real well against
Michigan. McMannon, Dave Stickler and when the game is out of reach is rather obvious. The longer he plays 
Duluth on Friday night," meas­
The Irish skaters will enter the Joe Utz established a new world and the more tired he becomes the greater the chance of injury.
ured Smith, adding, "we had the 
series against the Wolverines record in the Michigan State Think what the fans would be saying if the D.C. ace was injured
opportunities to win the game,
with a 9-12-2 record that in­Relays last Saturday with a 28.4 scoring a layup against Valpo when some second string forward
but on Saturday it was a dif­
cludes a 5-11-2 ledger against clocking. The old record of 28.5 bridged him and broke his ankle. Austin wouldn't have a chance to
ferent story -we just couldn't 
WCHA teams. Faceoff both Fri­was set by the host Spartans at come back and set a~y more records if a tragedy such as this should 
score." 
day and Saturday at Michigan is the same meet a year ago. occur.
Irish goalie Dick '"{omasoni
8P.M. Mike McMannon also cap­Agreed that injuries can happen at any time during a game but
experienced problems with a
''Two things have become tured the triple jump but the what is being said here is that the longer he or any starter remains in 
heavy chest cold in Duluth and 
very clear to me this season -Irish middle distance ace Rick the lineup and the more tired he grows during the game, the greater
his status for the Michigan series 
we have a tough time adjusting Wohlhuter finished second in the the likelihood of an injury.
is still uncertain. Freshman Mark 
to anything less than ideal condi­600. Why don't the boo-birds think about this? Why don't they think
Kronholm, who had a:~U.SY game
tions and we're just not very The Irish matmen, now 6-7 about a few other things, too, concerning the reception they give
Saturday while stopping 4 7 of
clever around the net," said Irish overall, enter the Wheaton (Ill.) coach Dee? 
53 shots, may start. · 
coach Lefty Smith. College Tournament Saturday Next time Austin breaks a record (or just turns in one of his
Michigan, who will play its
Smith, however, is not com­with excellent title possibilities average performances) let's hope that he receives the ovation he
1OOOth game Friday, is now
pletely dejected over the play of in Tom Ciaccio ( 118) and heavy­deserves. And let's hope that the fans get off of the coach's back. He"
8-16 overall and 4-14 in the
his team. "We're just a short way weight Phil Gustafson certainly shows more intelligence and coaching sense than those who
WCHA after two losses at Wis­
from being considered top ( 13-0-0). boo him.
consin last weekend. 
Page 8 
~==-'**~rmov.we.u.:os.~:~JJt~ 
"'~ ROG2-JtS OP..JCA1
~ &1 ., 
Q>mf'lefe Spectacle Service
I
..: Gu.esDuplicated ~: Ymu Doctor's RX Filled 
I ~ 
~~ L•raest selection of ..wires" 
214 S. Mlcfii11n (aext to StJtt Tlllltl'l) 211 1101 
~ • 
J

~'''o'o'o'o"o'o'o'o''o'o'o'o' :O."o'•~""'•.....'il""o!o'«"""""""•'""""""":o:.:«o;««•~:•-· .,. · 
··:·:·.···············-.;......fl~··fl"tiN'...........,.'fi!...................~~-~~-~-~~·~·~·")QQ'.tt>':~~~-v......~ 
As a Student Service••• 

• AUTOMOTIVE 
Scooters & Cycles Auto Parts & Service Aviation 
• 
EMPLOYMENT 

• 
FOR RENT 


Apartments Houses Roqms 
• 
FOR SALE 

• 
PERSONAL 

• 
PEANUTS PERSONAL 

• 
REAL ESTATE. 

• 
RECREATrON 

• 
SERVICE 


'Typing Service 
• TRANSPORTATION 

The Observer will section. Rates for this 
~ 
~ ~­
. 
. 

Abolition of SG lacks support; SBP views it as 1personal attack 
(Continued from Page 1) 
the halls have enough to do without assuming the entire load of student government. He opposed the bill, stressing that "although the emphasis should be on hall government, a central 
run a classified advertising service are reduced in an 
attempt to make this service open to every one. 
Words  1 day  2 days  3 days  4days  1 week  
0-10  .50  .75  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11-15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  2.15  
16-20  .70  1.15  1.70  2.40  2.80  
21-25  .85  1.35  2.00  2.90  3.45  
26-30  1.00  1.60  2.35  3.40  4.10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
36-40  1.35  2.10  3.10  4.25  5.10  
41-45  1.55  2.30  3.30  4.50  5.50  
46-50  1.75  2.50  3.50  4.75  6.00  

This Section will appear Daily. Copy and payments can be sent through the mail or brought by the Observer Office. Payments must be made in advance. All copy must be received by 3:00 prior to date of publication. 
Will Begin Publishing Mon. 22 
rmatlon Call 283-7471 between 2:00&5:00 
organization is necessary to regu­late campus-wide problems and needs." Barkett criticized the present student government for not reaching the halls, but ar­gued that this situation could be remedied by more interested ad­ministration and leadership. 
Hall Life Commissioner Eric Andrus reje1;ted the bill's accusa­tion that tht~ present government is ineffectiv•e. He sighted Krash­na's effort:~ and successes in obtaining minority group schol­arships as just one example of what has be,~n accomplished that probably could not have been done outside a student govern­ment frame:work. The solution, Andrus said, to all campus issues relies substantially upon individ­
ual student participation and in-the Senate meeting 
'JVASHINGTON D.C. 
~.1ARYLAND 
VIRGINIA CLUB 
Midsemester Break 

BUS SIGN-UPS 
35 seats left for info and sign-ups call Bob Mastro 1681 
Beth 5243 

MilD W EST'S LARGEST 0 IS PLAY 0 F 
NEV" AND USED SPORTS CARS 
a ==(Om rJ 
CONTINENTAL MOTORS INC. 
5800 S. LA GRANGE RD. LA GRANGE, ILL. 352-9200 
ROIMA'S NEW HOURS 
By Popular Demand 
on' Fridays and S•turdays OPEN TILL 4 A.M. 
•

Pizza, Italian-American Food 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT TEL 234-3258 219 N. Michigan 
I0% DISCOUNT WIT}! TlUS COUPON 
IWake ROMA Your Choice 
"DELIVERY ANJ) Come & dance to the music CARRY OUT 
of the OUJpped Lips 

terest, not solely upon student 
government. 

Student Senator, Don Mooney, another candidate for SBP, agreed with th~ proposal's charge that student government is presently ineffective, but sug­gested a re-structuring rather than a suspension. He ack­nowledged the services rendered by the Student Union and saw·· no benefits in abolishing it for a whole year. He has since released a proposal asking for the sus­pension of the present consti­
tuition, and the setting up of a constitution committee, repre­sented by every hall of both campuses, to write a new consti­tution. The petitions for this were not completed in time for last night. 

00 ROCK NIGHT 
-N 0 w I with 
8 EASY ­
** 
Saturday 0 nly · Girls Free! 
AMERICA 
E-o 
z 
IJ;.l 
~ 
IJ;.l tl) 
~ 
Q:l 
** e::: z 
IJ;.l 
z 
~ 
....J 
~ 
]RH 






