
Vol. VI, No. 29 
Wednesday, October 20, 1971 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
ND-SMC merger may be delayed 
Financial and legal aspects of co-education will be the prime topics of discussion at the upcoming meetings of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Boards of Trustees. 
The Trustees will meet on Thursday and Friday of this week. The Friday afternoon session will be a joint session. 
There is speculation that the proposed unification of ND and SMC will be hindered because of financial problems. 
Some of the speculation was initiated by Fr. James T. Burtchaell's comments on WNDU on Ot'tober 7. 
"So much of St. Mary's declaration of intent (to unify l dcpended upon a financial study that really had not even gotten under way then" Burtchaell noted, "Their declaration really is in suspense until they can be assurred that it is going to be a possible thing to do." 
"Meanwhile so much of our planning requires long lead time of six to eight to ten months that we are right now not sure that we can meet our an­nounced timetables of total unification by next summer," Burtchaell said in the broadcast. 

Sr. Alma Peter, acting president of St. Mary's and vice-president of the university, comm£>nted on the " ... we are right now not sure that we can financial difficulties. meet our announced timetables of foal 
"The merger can't be completed until all the unification by next summer."--Fr. Burt­implications on the financial and legal matters are chaell, ND provost. settled. When th£> joint statement was signed by the chairman of the board it said that 'it is hoped' that all of this will be settled by 1974-75," she noted. 
Sr. Alma thought the study of the financial aspects of the merger that was not initiated before the merger agreement was signed 'might have been done differently." 
"The fact remains," she said, "that students were 
anxious for this to go through. Academically we felt 
that the students would benefit by having it go 
forward. I am afraid that no one would have been 
happy if we had said 'probably by 1974-75 we can 
start having classes together.' " 
Sr. Alma emphasized the willingness of St. Mary's to negotiate acceptable financial arrangements. 
"The only non-negotiable item if that the Sisters of the Holy Cross are not going to offer St. Mary's College for sale," she continued, 'We've been here one hundred and twenty-five years and this in­stitution has been built on the blood, sweat and tears of the sisters for that time." 
Sr. Alma noted that the refusal of the sisters to 
sell St. Mary's "is not in the agreeement as such." 
"It is definitely was put on the table in so many 
words in Florida when we discussed the 
agreement." 
Richard Con klin believes that this "first crisis" 
in the merger process will be overcome because of 
the University's commitment to move toward 
unification. 
"Many of the problems being encountered at St. 
Mary's are identical to the ones we experienced in 
1967 and 1968 when Notre Dame changed from 
religious to lay ownership," Conklin noted. 

Dr. Sperleder talks about the future 
Dr. Donald Sperleder of the Spcrl£>der sadi that the alleged derstanding../~ Notre Dame Architecture divergence was due in part to a According t the Architecutre Dcpartment last night contended gap betw£>en what residents want professor, city design is a par­
that future city planners will don£> and what can be done. ticularly sticky point between the 
haveto be city residents to avoid According to Sperleder, that gap planners and the resident. The divergence 
~ what he called "planner -plus a difference in the goals of Residents, Sperleder said, have between city plan­resident divergence." Speaking the planners and the goals of the objectives that can be served be ners and residents in a lecture entitled "The r£>sidents promotes an attitude of specific designs that differ from must be overcome Divcrg£>nc£> between Planners suspicion in th£> residents. designs favored by most plan­for ordered society to and H£>sidents in Urban ners. Sperleder also contended survive. ' Situation." Sperleder argued that Contending that "planning is a that spenders often facor entirely 
it would he "necessary" to t•ommunity project," Sperleder different designs. ov£>rcome that "divergence" in sugg£>sted that workshops and Sp£>rleder showed slides of ord£>r to survie as an ordered workbooks be used to promote South Bend and environment socit'ly. grl'atl'r resident-planner un-aft£>r the lecture. 
t.tl 
---------------------------------------------------~~----------­
-

Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday, October 20, 9171 

. Aid for desperate Pakistan 

New fund drive launched 
The Students World Concern Organization will launch a ~' renewed drive to raise funds for l'" the afflicted East Pakistani In­
j 
1 ' 
India this weekend, according to Notre Dame co-chairmen Tom Hamilton and Dan Sherry. 
Hamilton, a junior who headed Dan Sherry "students for Biafran Relief" two 
students claim lack of security 
Joint letter to Provost 
The following letter was sent to a number of people in the ad­ministration and to the SLC, Faculty Senate and the Observer. It was signed by 185 residents to Grace Hall, including members of the Hall Staff and Hall Council­-ed. 
Dear Father Burtchaell: 
As you well know, a robbery occurred in our dor­mitory. Needless to say, such an occurrence constitutes a threat 
not only to our property but above trying to hire qualified police off~ t9 -protect us. 

What we have undergone in the past few years--an alarming increase of theft--has been cer­tainly a cause for concern, but now we face the real possibility of not only physical danger but the 1 loss of life itself. 
While our concern in the past has been serious, we are still faced with an inadequate (at least in size) Security force. We feel and judge that the University has been unable to provide the necessary security for at least is the responsibility of the University Budget Committee to immediately provide, or if necessary find, sufficient funds to increase the number of qualified patrolmen to execute this task. 
We the undersigned residents of Grace Tower respectfully submit these observations and recommendations for immediate action in the hope that they will be effected before another in­cident of armed robbery occurs with perhaps the more serious consequences of physical injury or even death. 
years ago, said that "the 
situation is getting worse day by day. Because of the fighting the crops are failing. This in turn is causing starvation to escalate." 
According to the two chairmen, money raised from the annual UNICEF Trick -or -Treat will be used to aid people in Bangia Desh. The Notre Dame chapter of SWCO will coordinate the drive in this area of the county. 
The Coca -cola company will 
donate five thousand cans to be 
used by the campaign, slated to 
run from October thirty -first to 
November second. 
"Volunteers are desperately needed for both this func-tion and to help in the work of Students World Concern Organization," Hamilton commented. "Those who are interested should call Dan Sherry or me at 7844. For those who wish to write our ad­riress is Post Office Box 99, Notre Dame, Indiana." 
The ND Student World Concern Office is located in the basement of La Fortune Student Center. 
The Committee will also operate a hot dog concession during the three remaining home games if South Bend merchants donate the necessary equipment, Hamilton said. 

ANY ST'. MARY'S GIRLS INTERESTED IN OFFICIATING AT THE IRISH SWIMMING MEETS ARE URGED TO ATTEND A MEETING ON WED. OCT. 20th AT 6:30 P·M· IN ROOM 216 ROCKNE MEMORIAL BLDG· For Questions Call-6222 & 6797 
all to our lives. In the past, the rise in incidents of theft and damage, where only property was involved, has resulted in seriour concern on the part of the members of the University <which manifested itself in the SLC reports on campus security sent to the administration in the winter of 1970). 
At that time the essence of the SLC recommendation was that "security be given a higher priority in the competition for available funds" of the University. On the night of the armed robbery--the first instance in our experience where mem­bers of the University were confronted with a gun--the Notre Dame Security Department was immediately informed. No response to the call for help was forthcoming for nearly one half hour_ We have been given to understand that there was only one officer on duty due to the sudden death of one of the of­ficers three weeks ago. We believe we understand the dif­ficulties the University faces in 
two re;1sons: first, an un­willingness on the part of the Budget Committee of the University to provide adequate salaries to attract qualified patrolmen in a quantity sufficient to meet the needs of a "1,250 acre wooded campus ... more than 80 University buildings" housing over 6,000 residents and a total University membership of over 10,000. <And Security told us there was only one patrolman on duty.) Secondly, qualified per­sonnel are deterred from ac­cepting employment by the at­titude of the student body which sees them as restrictors of our freedom and targets of abuse rather than as protectors of our rights and, thus, allows some to ridicule and belittle, con­sequently robbing the officers of the opportunity to want to do a 
good job. 
It is our responsibility to realize that the men who may sometimes kick us off the quad for playing football, in view of the recent event in Grace, may now have to protect our very lives. It 


A biglove affair. 

Fall series of faculty­student evenings starts 
Windmoor House will tonight commitment to the traditional 
host the first in a fall series of liberal ideals as they should be . faculty-student evenings at 7:30 found in Catholic University," 
p.m. Dr. Charles E. Rice of the said Dr. Glick. "We hope that Notre Dame Law School will they can communicate some of concluct a discussion centering their own intellectual integrity around the topic "The Right to and search for truth to the I· · L d M 1 ·· Th students."
"1ve--m aw an ora s. e .............................. ····························· 
program is open to all un-::f:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·.·····················~;:; dergraduate and graduate;:;: THE OBSERVER :;:;
students. ;:;: ;:;: "It is important that serious :;:; Nite Editor: Gene Slason :;:; students be given an opportunity;:;: ~ t N"te Edt'tor· A th :;:;
,.,. ~~ss . t . n ony .. 
to meet some of ~he better ;:;; Abowd ;:;: pro~es.~ors. on an outs_Ide-of-class :;:; Layout: George Lund ;:;; basis, Wmdmoor director Dr. ;:;: dlines· ::::
11
~aryl Glick com~ented. "And it :;:; c:~vread~r: Jim Rowe ;:;;
IS perhaps more Important that :::: I. ::;: they be given the opportunity to ;:;;Typists: Pat Kenney, Dianne :;:; meet each other. We hope that ;~;; Chermside, Helen Smudski :;:; our program is contributing to :;:;Ann Therese Darin, Barbara :;:; both these objectives." :;:; Norcross :;:; 
The Windmoor House is an off-:::: ;:;: campus student center at 1121 ;:;:Extra Hel~·= Maria Gallager ;:;: Notre Dame Ave It has con-::::John Abowd, Jerry Lutkus, :;:; ducted such fa~ulty-student :;:;Jim Me dermott :;:: evenings for several years. :::: ~=~= 
On fu~ure ~ednesday nights, l:l:oay Editors: Art Quin . Larry.:~;~the senes will feature Dean ;:;:Dailey ;:;:; H?fman, J:?ean Crosson, Dr. ;~;jcompugraphic Manager: ;~;~; N1emeyer, and Dr. Murphy. :·:· k . . d k :·:·: 
· · f ,.,. mar 1-n1e er orn .....
Each professor IS giVen ree ::::: ::::: reign to conduct the evening as he :;:;: ;:;~ 
would like. "We ask professors to :;:;: ;:;: Stroh's...Frolllonebeer lover to another. 
1:U!ls1"l!!* (lli:it';i':ERr (i.>¥!<<\N\',I)Ii'll~iilT, liliC!'ilGAN ftl,1ti
participate who have a solid ::::: :;:; 
::::::::;;;;;;;;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::: L-------------------------------1 

Wednesday, October 20, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
House rejects troop withdrawals 
forts to block a Senate Amend­Washington, Oct. 19. -Ad­mmt. sponsored by Senateministration forces, by a 23-vote majority leader Mike Mansfield,
margin, succeeded today in 

that calls for the U.S. to withdraw blocking a direct vote in the all its troops from Indochina inHouse on the Vietnam War Issue, six months if Americansidetracking a Troop Withdrawal Prisoners of War have beenAmendment passed by the released. To achieve the victory, 
S£>nate. 

however, Administration forcesThe House action was a victory in the House had to engage infor the administration in its ef-
Nixon sends Phase Two legislation to Congress 
Washington. Oct. l!l --The Nixon administration delivered to congress today legislation that would provide it with the power and machinery to continue 
£>conomic  controls  during  
Phase Two  its anti-inflation  
program.  

The White House proposal would, as expected, extend President Nixon's authority to r£>gulate prices, rents and wages until April 30, 1973, and it would give him new backing to hold down interest rates and dividends. 
The measure also would im­pose, in addition to the criminal sanctions contained in the present law, civil penalties of up to $2,500. And it would establish a temporary emergency court of app£>als to handle wage-price cases. 

There were no major surprises in the bill. Aside from the features that nixon and others had outlined already, the legislation mostly contained substantial amounts of !-dotting and T-crossing. 
The administration package went to the house committee on Banking and Currency. The chairman, Rep. Wright Patman, D.-Tex., promised "expeditious" handling, but it was clear that a number of amendments would be offered. 
-world briefs 

procedural maneuvers to avoid a 
dir£>ct  vote  on  the  Mansfield  
Amendment.  
On  the  key  vote,  the  House  

voted 215-192 to end debate on sending the Military Procurement Authorization Bill to a Senate-House Conference. The effect was to prevent a House vote o.n whether to accept the 
Mansfwld Amendment, which the Senate attached to the Procurement Bill by a 57-38 vote. The 23-vo~e margin repre~~nted a h1ghw~ter. mark
for cnhcs of the warm V1etman in their repeated efforts over the last two years to get a direct vote on the War Issue in the House and reflected some shift of sentiment in the House against the war. On a similar procedural vote last June on a Mansfield Amendment attached to the Draft Bill, the war critics failed by a 44-vote margin. 
The war critics immediately claimed today that the procedural tactics of Ad­ministration forces were an admission they did not have the votes to block the Mansfield Amendment in the House. The claim was disputed by Rep. Gerald R. Ford, the House Republican Leader, who at­tempted to cast the issue as one of protecting the perogatives of the 

on campus­

lcl l!lil NEW YORK TIMES 
llnited Nations, N.Y. -Japan, speaking in the China debate in the United Nations, urged the passage of the United States resolutions to give United Nations seats to both Peking and Taiwan, as "a tran­sitional step for solving the Chinese representation issue." He called the resolution to seat only the Peking government "punitive." 
Paris-Protectionism seemed to be spreading in Europe. Denmark announced a 10 per cent tariff surcharge to combat a severe balance of payments deficit, and France was said by a French aerospace official to have asked her common market partners to agree on a United Barrier against imports from the United States. 
Dublin--Six large large suitcases taken from the Queen Elizabeth II at Cobh, Ireland, were found to contain arms and ammunition. A customs officer found the arms when the suitcases were unclaimed after customs clearance of other baggage. The suitcases were in the name of a passenger who did not occupy his cabin during the voyage from New York. 
Garaglianoi, Greece--Vice President Agnew returned to the Greek viooage from which his father emigrated to the United States. Flags were flying, school bands were playing and villagers were dancing in the streets as the vice president, accompanied by Premier George Paradopoulos, walked through. 
Washington --The Supreme Court agreed to decide if baseball's "reserve clause," which binds every player to the team that first signed him unless he is sold or traded, violates federal antitrust Jaws. The court will review the 1922 decision that held baseball to be a sport and not the type of interstate commerce covered by the Jaws. 
.. Washington--A bill providing ground rules for the first time for any constitutional convention called by the states --any action never yet taken --was unanimously approved by the senate after liberal senators won a battle to make it somewhat more difficult for such a convention to approve any changes in the constitution. 


THE REIVERS 

Steve Me Queen is the head Reiver. Place: Engr. Aud. Date: Oct. 20, 1971 Time: 6:00,8:15, 10:30, 12:45 Admission: 1.00 
The_ Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacat1ons by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
4: 30--meeting, reverend theodore hesburgh, nd­smc faculty meeting, washington hall 
7: 00--concert, atlantis, heavy load, albatross, rap center benefit, stepan center, $.75. 
7: 30--lecture, harvey a. bender, "genetics and the future of man", carrol hall 
8:00--lecture, prot. ihab hassan, "fiction and future: an extravaganza for voice and tape", library auditorium 
Page 3 
HARRIER 
.~ .. ·."

r··· 
,, ,·::· 
..~· 

·. ·. ~,;''"' ~ ,..,. _ _,J.!.__ . . . 

Tms Manne Jet takes off vertically, flies 
, 
~~ 


SKI YAMAHA 

Sign up now for our Grand Opening Drawing 
on Oct. 30 

Valuahle Ski Equipment Will Be Given Away as Prizes 
Register in person 
·-_.._.. horizontally 

faster than 600 knots, and the Marines are looking for a few good men to fly them. --The Marine Corps Office election team will be in the Dining Hall d · d 
. s urmg noon an 
venmg meals today through 22 Oct. 71. 

Grand Opening Until October 31 10% off all merchandise purchased till end of the month 



Feel lost, 
Out of it? Find it at The 

Hideaway Lounge 

this week, we give you ••• 

Fifth Street 
Monday thru Saturday 
8 pm till 3 am Wed. Ladies night, Ladies Free, Guys $1.00 122 W. Firs t Street Downtown, M ishwaka 

-----~-------~------------------------­
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, October 20,1971 

Letters••• 
of Reporters, Perversion, ISO and Consideration 
.,~~ Frosh ,7s ELECT 
CHRIS HARTRICH 
ONE GIRL TELLS 
SECRETAR-Y MAKE THE DREAMS OF 

ANOTHER, TOO 
TO MORRO 

A REALITY TODAY CALL 8421-SEE WHAT 

THE FUTURE HOLDS 
Tne word is out about Gilbert's Campus Snop's new gal's i boutique ... tney have reserved a
:

The Importance of 
very special corner of the store for sportswear, blouses, sweaters,


LIVING BENEFITS 
pantyhose and some lovely etc. Tne styles are now, the prices are
to the College Man -­
in line ... everything is here with you in mind. Stop in soon, browse
lf you plan to die during the next 20 years, as 
tnrough your little corner of our
only about 5 out of I 00 your age will, do not 
world. buy any College Plan -buy the cheapest term 
insurance you can find-B-U-T-
If you plan to live h~yond 20 years, as 95 out 
of I00 your age will, then you should consider 
Open your account
the LIVING BENEFITS of the C. I. P. (Col­
lege Insurance Program) -hccausc 71 of you 
PAY NEXT JUNE JULY AND 
will still he li1·ing at age 65. 
~AmPrican Genera) 



AUGUST!

~_LIFE ~~~~·~~~~E .~<~~~ANY -1 
American General Life Insurance Co. 
True... pay next summer
815 La Salle Street 
with no carrying or 
South Bend, Indiana, 46601 
service charges added. True!

219-234-3480 

proach to the aspects of sex to be 
presented (in the seminar)". If 
Once again THE OBSERVER EVER a line was quoted more out 
has hit the heights in great ace of context and subsequently 
reporting. Not only was I creating illusions of in­
misquoted out of context, but corporating a religious ,moral or 
even after I was interviewed the Catholic point of view then THIS 
information was very misleading was THE LINE! 
in respect to "a separate sex The morality of sex is an in­
education project at SMC" which dividual concern, not a subject 
happens to be in conjunction with for the Pnthused student on the 
a "Jack Deschauer". Why can't soap box, or the University. 
reporters get simple facts To give such an inane report on 
straight and so some decent the work Steve, other people, and 
informational interviews ? ! myself are doing is quite 
I indicated I was preparing a misleading and far from the . questionnaire with the Notre perspectives we have towards 
Dame Social Science Training .. Sex Education on campus. 
and Research Lab, located in the Simply, we believe the at­
Library, with Jack GESSNER. mosphere on campus both in­
Furthermore, when we first tellectually and socially could be 
started to work on the "enlightened" towards the 
questionnaire the emphasis understanding of our own Human 
LAST YEAR had been upon Sexuality and that it is about time 
collecting data to support the it hit the ND-SMC campus in 
idea for a series of lectures on lectures and follow up group 
Human Sexuality for the Notre discussions. 
Dame-St. Mary's campus. Lastly, the whole article was 
The study Jack and I are doing such an insideous attempt at the 
has now evolved into an in depth "who, when , where, how, and 
self study of the Notre Dame why" of journalism that I wonder 
environment and culture, (as I how the OBSERVER can get 
stated to THE OBSERVER away with it ? ! ! 
reporter) that will tap I do admit I should have taken 
background, past sex education the responsibility to read the 
and schooling of students among article before printing, however, 
other variables to reveal what I unfortunately made the fatal 
areas maintain this culture and mistake of believing I had con­
"tradition" of social veyed the perspectives I had in 
stratification between the people mind, certain facts, and ideas to 
of ND and SMC. THE OBSERVER reporter. 
Obviously, I was grossly Editor: 
Secondly, Steve Fortunato is mistaken.

compiling an educational book on Kathy Murphy Sex and Birth Control in­

formation but it is hardly, and I Editor:repeat hardly near completion let What we have at Notre Dame isalone publication and a problem; nobody, I take it, will distribution. 

dispute that. Like any sick .. and last, but not least, the society the underlying problemsclassic line "Miss Murphy are manifest; widespreadstressed the importance of a escapism. perverted sexualspiritual and humanistic ap­attitudes and directed violence arc rampant. But what is most pitiful about our problem is our attempts to solve it. 
All attempts at making Notre Dame livable or even healthy are a half-hearted attempt to supply substitutes for our real needs as humans. Football and their pep rallys are cool, but you see that doesn't do it for us at all. Edmund Stephan, is truly concerned, but Eddie, protecting us legally from harsh Indiana laws does nothing. Ti be a Keenan Ragger, a B-P Gonad, to strip at football games or just to study at the brary is not the answer. "Passing up" is inconvenient for the girls, but after all Greg Stidham, we all know who has the real problem. 
Now I know this letter can't solve the problem but neither can the SLC. What we have to do as people, is to live like people, we have to fill each others needs as only people can. We have to love, fear, feel and most of all un­derstand. A christian community is not just a quote for Ted to use in his letters, it should be a reality. Larry Owees B-P Hall 
Dear Editor, Is it not merely a game? 
C. Olsen St. Mary's 
Editor: 
For four years the In­ternational Student Organization has not been as active as the students would like. Many things have been said about conflicts within the ISO. In fact. there is no conflict but rather a misunderstanding because the present executive committee which has been serving since March, was not elected by a majority. 
I recall that the meeting last M;wch was very poorly attended 
<12 students). There were 

objections to electing a new 
committeP because of the small 
number of students present. 
When the former president, 
Misheal MaduaKolam, objected, 
Fr. O'Neil said that he too had 
been chosen by a small group. 
The committee was supposed 
to serve until St>ptember. 
llowt>ver, the meeting of Sep­
t em her 26 was called only to elect 
a social committee, a trip 
committee, an international 
lounge committee, and a 
newsletter and publications 
committee; no new executive 
committee was scheduled, as the 
president of ISA said in his article 
on October 7. Thirty -eight (38) 
students attended that meeting, 
including the executive com­
mittee. 
Som<' of the students present 
asked Fr. O'Neil to schedule a 
new election. He said there was 
no lime for a new election, and 
that if a new meeting were 

scheduled, the attendance would 
again be poor. Thus, it was 
decided, by a 17-14 vote, to place 
confidence in the present com­
mit tee. 
I don't understand why for four ~·ears there has been no interest in the ISO. Whom does the pn•sent committee represent? The majority? I joked with the treasurer of the committee, who is a close friend of mine, that the committee is like a government without people. 
Can we improve the ISO? Is there any reason why a new dection to represent the majority cannot be held? If the committee is honest, why don't they resign as they said they would last March? Mishael MadauKolam remembers that they said they would resign. 
Editor: 
By now, everybody has read at 

least one angry letter in the 
Observer regarding the Michigan 
State game. All these letters 
have one point in common -that 
of consideration. 
First of all, the band puts in 

alot of hours practicing. To have 
their program disrupted in a mob 
manner illustrates a lack of 
n•gard for that fact. Also, it is 
possible for one of them to be 
seriously hurt if someone ac­
cidentally rams an instrument 
down their throat. Notre Dame 
may well find itself without its 
"Famous Marching Band" if 
these antics are continued. 
Enthusiasm is one thing, un­
thinking rowdyism is another. 
I,l'('s stay off the field during 
half-time. 
S<•eondly, contrary to popular belief, the girls of St. Mary's do not appreciate being manhan­dled. In the past, the practice of passing girls, or guys for that rnattt>r, up the stands had an unwritten code of standard. 
Last time it was evident that the only standard that prevailed was grab as much as you can. N<•ed I say that that is no way to treat a lady. A number of girls involved last game, besides being humiliated, ended up being 
physically hurt or bruised. 
Crowd action at a football game is either a credit or a condemnation of the people in the stands. And even if the crowd is not concerned with its image, there should be consideration for individual people present. Disrupting the band and hand­raping the SMC girls is no credit to the student body. Nor is it very considerate. Ed Motto 
Wednesday, October 20.9171 THE· OBSERVER ~age 5 
fr. robert griffin 
•

travel memo1rs of a fat friar 
You say,"There's Orion." 

Europ<' is for llll' a tour with the Glee The most beautiful object statue was made, and with a mightly rush 
Club to th<' principal cities of the Continent Eithe.-of us wi 11 ever of water the royal house of Belgium tine-
in th<' Springtime of '71. It is many places, Know in the world or in life turates forever into the basis of a street­
PSp<'l'ially lnnsbruck, Amsterdam, and Stands in the moonlit empty corner fountain. The first time I saw the 
ViPnna. It is a duster of churches, but Heavens. over the swarming Mannequin Pis was in the company of an 
prPfPrably St. Mark's, St. Peter's, and Men, women, and children, black Amt'rican lady. whose daughter instructed 
NotrPDam£'.11 isaeollageofremembered And white, joyous and greedy, nw in the legend. The second time, I was 
landmarks. the most unforgettable of Evil and good, buyer and ; stumbling around by myself in the hours 
thPm in Brussels, at Dachau, and at Sacre Seller, master and victim, .. · aft£'r midnight. Alone as I was and moody, 
('()('ur in Paris. Within the framework of Like some immense theorem . I was greatly cheered by this landmark of 
this triad of trinities, the weeks of Which, if once solved would forever happy innocence whereby one can, 
trawl. ..onP, two, thrce...arc annealed in Solve the myster\' and pain through a single stream of water, identify 
nH•mory. The trip may seem like an outing Under the bells and spangles. with the childhood of the world. 
of ehoir boys; to mP it was high adventure There he is, the man of the In the former concentration camp at 
in intTPdibl£' places with kids who are Night before Christmas, spread out Dachau, ncar Munich, on a site close to the 
matchl£'ss in charm, generosity, and On the sky like a true god ' crematoria, there stands a statue by Fritz 
honor ... in all affairs but card games. 1 n whom it would only be Kroelle: it is the sculpture of a Jew with 
lnnsbruck. Vienna. Amsterdam ...at Necessary to believe baggy pants, clumsy shoes, a face of 
lnnshruck. WP mPt the Notre Dame A little. 1am fifty inutterablc dignity, and eyes with a history 
community against a background of Alps And you are five. It would do of pain. When I saw the statue, I im­
and hPPr. In an uppPr room with windows No good to say this and it mPdiatcly wanted a copy, but none was 
opening onto the streets of the Old city, to May do no good to write it. available. I guess one should not expect 
an audimc£' pPrched on golden chairs, the Believe in Orion. Believe souvenirs from the damned. Dachau was a 
Club sang of McNamara and Clancy and 1 n the night, the moon, the crowded grim place, not at all the spot for chaps on 
tlw girls th£'y leftlwhind. Finally, they hit Earth. Believe in Christmas and a holiday. We tried to mourn the dead, but 
tlw noh•s of 1\\otn· l>anu•. Our Mother, and Birthdays and Easter Rabbits. W£' W£'re more numb than grieving. Only 
tlw !'xpatriat£'s of Austria became the Believe in all those fugitive the statue gave a human dimension to that 
mstant rah-rahs of the glories of their Compounds of nature, all doomed prison camp where so many people suf-' 
Indiana homP. To waste away and go out. fered. In the Protestant chapel, a minister 
In Vwnna. our lodgings were in a Always be true to those things. hung about signing autographs. He had 
hoarding house wh£'r£' I shared a room They are all there is. Never been an inmate of the camp, he told us. I 
with tlw ghost of a lapsed Nazi. In the room Give up this savage religion wanted to scream at him to leave the dead 
rwxt to min£', a crone as ancient as the age For the blood-drenched civilized to bury the dead. I was probably wrong, 
of (;od sat knitting day and night, while the Abstractions of the rascals but I am depressed at people who live 
madam who ran this speakeasy of horrors Who live by killing you and me. Memm·ial to the dead of Dachau among tombs when there are living souls 
passpd hack and forth before by windowed from A Sword in a Cloud of Light, Kenneth Rexroth needing to be cared for. 
~~w.trying.I~ar.~glimp~meinmy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Onlliela~daybefure~av~gfurNew 
grundi£'s; a sight that would have been too St. Mark's in Vcnice ... Pope John's of France. At St. Peter':,, uu. ~ .o the tomb York, I found a little wood carving at Sacre 
much Pv£'n for her mind to survive. It was ehurch where. on June 5th, I celebrated an of the Apostle, I wept...and if an ex-kid Coeur in Paris: it is a statue of Jesus, 
in a nam£'lcss Viennese village that I anniv£'rsary of seventeen years in the from a little fishing village in Maine has to g£'ntle of heart, standing with arms out­
hPcaml' lost among the wincshops one pri£'sthood among the shadows of the Pxplain why I wept at my first time in St. stretched. His robe is ovular, like a priest's 
PvPning; it was almost dawn before I chap£'1 of St. Isadore the Farmer. I used P£'ter's, then I think my teardrops will chasuble at Mass. 1 am not particularly 
found my way back to the shabby rooms, the traditional forms of liturgy in that forever remain a mystery. crazy over religious statuary, but 1 like 
wlwr£' th£' rdic fingers with the knitting ancient place, and the Club responded to There are three statues which I will this little chap. He reminds me of private 
nPPdl£'s dickl'd disapprovingly at my night I .at in with Latin chants that must have always think of as part of my European commitments to the Sacred Heart on my 
larks: I am c£'rtain that my behaviour was rattll'd the bones of titular saint. Af-experience, one of them in Brussels: the way to ordination. He reminds me of our 
rPpor!Pd to th£' police. terwards. we feasted in a restaurant on the famed Mannequin Pis. According to Founder placing the Priests of Holy Cross 
Amsterdam ... th£' city of Anna Frank, Plaza, and I tasted my first Manhattan on legend, a Belgian king learned that his under the patronage of the Heart of Christ. 
tlw homP of Hl'mbrandt, where I had my for£'ign soil: it was sweet but kicky, and little boy was missing from the palace. ll£' reminds me of Paris, and of Masses 
first glimps£' of Europe. In the final Pv£'n in Italy. more than an island. In Paris Courtiers were sent in every direction to said with the Glee Club in the hotel rooms 
monwnts of thl' trip, before boarding the was the Cathedral of Notre Dame; and for search for the lad; and his father decreed of two continents. Most of all, he reminds 
planP rl'lurning us to Nl'w York, the Glee a brief while, we were worshippers that in whatever posture the child was m£' to be a priest, and that is why I bought 
Club sang a last tim£'. and the graduating kneeling on the stone of seven centuries found, he would be memorialized in stone the statue, my only souvenir of European 
sPniors said goodbye to McNamara, under the Rose Window where Charles in that exact position. The child, when travel. 
practically forl'vcr. DPGaulle confronted God with the destiny located, was urinating; subsequently a 

bill weber 

aisec-nd (&smc) combining work and play 
F<•w idPas arP ever so ambitious. Few trainl'£'Ships for 12 foreign students in the rugged country. 
Hita Jansen, of the College of Arts and plans arc ever so successful Michiana ar£'a and sent 16 of its members Not all of the traineeships were of the L£'tters taught English to children in 
But th£' hopes created by students abroad. lofty ideals that the AIESEC literature Korea--hardly practical business ex­rl'pr£'s<•nting sev£'n European countries in As a first-year MBA student, Bill Witt states, such as the " ... development of pPrience but Rita is not complaining. In 194!1 have today b£'en fulfilled-and then n•ci£'ved a traineeship in Karlsruche, managerial skills ... ", but there are few fact, she hopes to get a traineeship in somP. (;£'rmany. The situation was exactly what complaints. 
Japan next vear. 
Thl' students spoken of wanted to h£' n•quested: a German industry and Tom Boyer, for instance, worked for a AIESEC-Notre Dame has about 40 Pstablish a program for the reciprocal living accomodations with a German Volkswagen rental agency in Helsinki, m£'mbers this year hopes to raise 25 exchangl' of work-traineeships for family. Finland and drove cars between traineeships in the area and increase its stud£'nts in business and economics. Bill worked for Bardusce, the third customers both in and out of Helsinki. 
number of members given traineeships,Tlw ideals of this would be to offer ad-largest industrial laundry in Germany, F£'w managerial skills were developed, thus maintaining its position as one of the \'ancPd busincs~ and Pr:onomics students a and applied his engineering background to hut he had a great time. 
most prolific local committees in the chance to apply their th('oretical training a project of industrial design. The trend toward traineeships which nation. 
to a practical situation in a foreign Speaking both German and English on require little or no training in business or country. Increased commerce acumen the job, Bill worked with other members of economics is being aided by the influx of and bPtter international understanding th£' company in planning the design for a non-commerce students. would be the hoped-for results. n£'w pipe system for the laundry. 
Th£' resulting organization was named He emphasized that the most valuable 
concert tonight features Th£' International As~ociation of Students aspect of the traineeship was the good in Business and Economics. relationships he developed among the 

good vibes
A.I.E.S.E.C. is its French initials. company employees, the family he lived J<'rom its meager start in 1948 with only 7 with and a group of Danish medical 
function is a phone and walk-in operation
participating countries, AISEC now students living nearby. On Wednesday, October 20 <tonight>, the at 209 Western Avenue open from 10 AM to
operates between 49 countries. Over 50,000 Ted Cornell was awarded a traineeship Student Union Social Commission is traineeships have been made and 5,000 are in Sarhevao, Yugoslavia. Working in a sponsoring a benefit concert for the Rap 2 AM every day. It provides referral 
service for free pregnancy, legal, draft,
PXpt>eted in 1972--600 of these in the U.S. heavy industry. his traineeship consisted C£'nter at Stepan Center. There will be A traineeship usually begins with an primarily in the forcasting of production three rock groups: Albatross and Heavy nwdical help. The staff has long ex­
pt'rience in drug problems and in­
oril'ntation and lasts from six weeks to n£'eded in the next six months through an Load from the South Bend area and formation. The center is a place where!'ighteen months, with the average analysis of sales and inventoru. Atlantis from Fort Wayne. Atlantis is people can come to talk about theirtrainel'ship being ten weeks. The local Like most trainees, Ted took the op­perhaps the best-known heavy rock band hassles. The phone number is 289-7986.
committee oversees the reception and aids portunity to visit other parts of the con­in the area. Free organic (ood will be The Rap Center is badly in need of
in thl' social life of the trainees. tinent while he was there. After his 2 and distributed during the concert, which Thl' Notr£' Dame local committee has on<•-half month traineeship, Ted traveled should last from 7 PM to 12 PM. Admission 
money. Since June funding has come from h£'en very successful at finding to AthPns, Paris, Copenhagen and London. is $.75. 
collections done at the concerts and from small contributions by the community.
trainl'£'ships in this area and is considered Another trainee to Yugoslavia, Frank The Pvent is the ninth in a series of After paying the bills for this month, thereon<• of thl' strongest in the nation. McDonald, worked with a staff of finance eoncerts produced by the Rap Center since was less than $50 in the treasury. MonthlyMuch of this success came fromthe analysts for his company, analyzing and May. During the summer similar events t'xpcnditures are $150. The show toniteimpdus given by Joe Loughrey, a '71 advising company reinvestment. Part of w£'re hl'ld on Sundays in South Bend city should yield enough bread to get the center
gradual£', who is now National President th£' work was done through a computer and parks. The bands played for free, food was and Paul Hoberts( '71) whom Joe chose as Frank said he learned quite a bit both in given away. The concerts provide an at­through this year. 
This production is the best music put
Asian Coordinator. financl' and computer use. mosphere in which members of the together by the center in the history of its J(l(•'s plans wt•rc ambitious and sue-It wasn't all work for Frank either. He community can get together to dig culture concerts. Everyone is invited to join thec!'ssful, just as those of AIESEC-added that there was a very good reception and to share with each other. 
show. Come in costumes. Bring something Intl'rnational. program throughout the summer and. he Concert production is only one of the free to share with your brothers and sisters.
Last y£'ar, AIESEC-Notre Dame found Pven did some mountain climbing in that operations of the Rap Center. Its main 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER 
Large deficit forecast 
AMTRAK needs money 
prove a department of tran­washington, October 19-The sportation proposal calling for an
National Railroad Passenger 

additional $170 million. TheCorporation, known as AM­Department of TransportationTRAK, has warned congressmen sent the proposed legislation to
that it is digging heavily into its Congress yesterday. 
capital andurgently needs ad­The Corporation, ·created byditional federal money to help Congess last year--and whichoffset an estimated $276.1 million took o'Ver operation of nearly alldeficit. 

the nation's intercity passengerIn a letter to members of the services last may--said it willHouse and Senate, AMTRAK have a deficit of $152.3 million for urged the congressmne to ap-
Ombudsman plan session for students to air gripes 
program could uncover someThe Ombudsman Service will "real problems;"place special focus in the up­"These problems have gonecoming weeks on the problems unnoticed because Blacks,facing minority students at Notre Chicanos, foreign students andDame and St. Marys, according other minority students haven't to Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic. 
found a viable voice " DziedzicProgram Supervisor, Bob 
said.
Minnix, plans to establish the The program will handle callsOmbudsman Service as a through the Ombudsman phoneclearing house for complaints of 

at 7638.
minority students, Dziedzic said. 
The program will be directed 


Senate to meet
primarily at freshmen who have found it difficult to adjust to the Notre Dame situation, according Contrary to yesterday's Ob­to Minnix. Any student server, the Senate will meet however, will be invited to air his tonight in the LaFortune Am­gripes, under the Ombudsman pitheatre. The meeting will plan. commence at 7:30p.m. At the 
Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic meeting the assignments for called the effort "an attempt to Senate Committees will be made. fully serve the various segments Also, the Student Life Fund will 
of the student body." be discussed. As usual, all Dziedzic contends that this 
students are welcome to attend. 
Communist China blasts Taiwan freedom drive 
Hong Kong, October 19 -Pao here claimed that last week Communist China today Taiwanese regularly listen to denounced the recent upsurge in broadcasts from the mainland agitation for the independence of and secretly keep pictures of Taiwan and charged Japanese Chairman Mao Tse-Tung hidden 
and American reactionaries with in their homes. responsibility for the increased The Ta Kung Pao has recently activities. also reported appeals to 
A Peking dispatch from mainlanders on Taiwan byHsinhua, the Chinese Communist printing messages from former press agency, claimed that "U.S. Kuomintang officials and 
imperialists" with the military men saying that they
collaboration of "Japanese have a good life in the People'sreactionaries" were plotting to Republic and urging the Taiwan create the fait-accompli of an mainlanders to return to the independent Taiwan so the "U.S. "socialist motherland." 
imperialists could achieve their "criminal purpose of occupying permanently Taiwan province, 




NEW JERSEY CLUB
China's sacred and inviolable territory,. "This can never be tolerated by 

MEETING the Chinese people," Hsinhua said. The agency maintained that 
Thanksgiving Plan and Fall Activities 
the Taiwanese loved Communist China and are "longing for an 

Wed. Oct. 20 7:00pm
liberation of Taiwan and return to the embrace of their 
127 W. S. H.
motherland. The Hsinhua denunciation was 
All should be there!!!
of a stepped
part up preoc­cupation in Peking recently with the Taiwanese and the in­dependence movement. A number of articles in Hsinhua and the Chinese Communist press about the Taiwanese, and several of these have depicted the people of Taiwan as bitterly unhappy under nationalist rule there and anxious for a takeover 
Claude Chabrol's 
by the Communists. A recent Hsinhua dispatch 

''ONE OF THE 
claimed that throughout Taiwan slogans have begun to appear on YEAR'S 10 BEST!" 
-N.Y. T1mes­

walls and buildings declaring that "Taiwan is Chinese Plus territory" and "down with U.S. 
imperialism." The dispatch said there had been strikes and demonstrations against the Nationalist government and 







u•~u~~~~!o;;;=:;;,n
"U.S. imperialists." The Communist Daily Ta Kung 

COLOR 

COLOR BY DELUXE 
CoFeature 
the fiscal year ending next June 30. 
It expects a 28.5 million im­provement in financial results the following year, with a deficit of $123.8 million in the 12 months to end June 30, 1973. The deficits would total 276.1 million. 
AMTRAK was financed initially with a $40 million federal grant, and has authority to issue up to $100 million in debt, with the federal government guaran­teeing repayment. 
Some Say Why ? We Say Why Not? 

JOE DOAKS 
Class Pres.-·75 
-

Art Auction 


Dali Calder Friedlaendcr Rouault and others. 
SUNDAY 
AFTERNOON, OCT. 24 RAMADA INN BALLROOM 
Auction Time · 3:00pm Exhibition of Art· 1:00 · 3:00pm Prices begin at $15.00 Free Admission 

--~------------~---------..­
Wednesday, October 20, 1971 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
uality 8~track tapes. Big selection. II only $3.50. all 6715. 

Prices slashed on all posters to educe stocks. Posters that were 
1.50 now $1.00 ~ $1.25. For in~ ormation come to 815 Flanner, 611 

race or 315 South Regina or call 1694, 1167, or 4258. 
For Sale: 66 JAG X TYPE E COUPE 4 gear, 48,000 mi., AM~FM Radio. Pirrellis British Racing Green. Call 259~0662 John or Gred or see at 739 E. 9th, Mish. 
Be sate. Prevent criminaI assault with SHERIFF 50. New invention stips an attacker, even a gang, IN~ STANTLY. Only $2.98. Rick Dunlap 717 W. Marion, Mich. Call 259~4873. 
Free Delivery. 
1969 Kawasaki 500 ~ clean, must sell. helmet also ~ carrel 402 Memorial B Lib. or 232~8831, 5~8:00. 
2 Student Tickets for season ~ can be yours ~call 233~9661 ~ After six. 
FOR SALE: V.W. SUNROOF 1969 CALL 233-3865 RICK CORONADO 
For Sale: ) 1) one ticket USC. Call Tome 287-2731. 
BSR 6101X Turntabel $45 or best otter, Call 272-2118 after 6 pm. 
'56 Cadillac. White convertible. 60,000 miles. ALL POWER. Call 234­0945 after 5:00pm. 
PRICES SLASHED Sale on now at Student Record Sale. $5.981ist. $3.65. $4.981ist. $3.15. 313 Morrissey. ph. 3575. Open con­tinually. 
SPARE TIME TYPING. PHONE 234-1320 AFTER 6 P.M. 
Enjoy off-campus splendid sybartic living. House has room lett tor 1-2. Call 289-1915 after 6:30. 
Navy and Tulane student ticket . $20, or best otter. Call 3413. 
PERSONALS 
Hey, Twin, Since you stole my lines, what can I 

say but Happy Birthday, Loser!? Love, Loser 
what is all this nonsense? only Zapd knows. do tell. 
All that is gold does not glitter---6719 
Ellen, why do you keep me in suspense. Where~ever you are please call. Cliff Drysdale. 
Happy Birthday Linda. 
Bozo, Is your rat on the bus? 
Maureen in section 32, ready to take it all off tor USC? Naked J 
Peggy, rlappiness is having you here! 
(lhe same) Love, Phil 
Dearest Cuddles, 
l,m "just like a yo-yo". Luv, Markiepoo 

Classified Ads paid for in cash when 
2. Office hours 12:15-5:00. 

by  2:00  on  day  before  
1 day  Z days  
.50  .75  
...  1...  
16-ZO  .70  1.15  
21·25  .85  1.35  
%6-30  1.00  1.60  
31·35  1.20  1.90  
31-40  1.35  2.10  
41-45  1.55  2.30  
46-51  •• 75  2.50  

LOST 

Lost: Pair of Wire~rimmed glasse between Madeleva and Regina Halls. 
If found please call Ilene 5222. BadI needed. 
FOUND 

Calico Kitten in B.P. Basement. 
Call 1333. 
Found: Brown glasses by Regina parking lot. Steve 1789. 
WANTED 

.Wanted: Five general admission N.avy·· tickets. Call Annabelle 5114. 
ROYAL VALLEY SKI RESORT Main St. Buchanan, Mich. Wanted: certified and non-certified Ski tl~structors and a ski director. Part time help in lodge and on lifts. Phone (616) 695-5862. 
Need ride to Dayton (0.) Thurs. Oct 21. Share expenses Call Pat 7920. 
Wanled: Someone with Experience in refigeration repair. Call 1409 911 Flanner. 
Volunteers needed for March of Dimes ·Saturday before game . come to 121 O,Shag anytime after 10:45 . help "hustle" alumni for con lributions. 
Volunteers needed for United Fund drive ~ Saturday before game . come to 121 O,Shag anytime after 10:45 . sell shamrocks for charity. 
Exuberant N.D. fan needs ride from New York for So. Cal game. Call Dave 233-2207 after 6. 
Need Ride to University of Illinois Oct. 22. Teresa 4374. 
Urgent: Need one Southern Cal ticket. Call Beth 5497 or 638-9181. 
NOTICES 

Fix your own car. Tonight. We have lhe space-tools-parts and help. You do the work and SAVE Autotech. Rt. 31 South in Niles. 684-1960. Open evenings and weekends. 
Morrissey LoanFund 
Basement of La Fortune 11:15 12:15. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Infor. concerning Viviane Woodard · Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only .through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE 
MAKE UP LESSONS. 
FRESHMEN (&WOMEN) MEET LARSON AND LAZO CANDIDATES FOR V.P. & TREASURER WED. NITE, 9:00P.M. 347 BREEN-PHILLIPS ELECTION EVE RALLY AND PARTY. 
ATTENTION N.D. AND S.M.C. BEATLE FREAKS! Beatie Festival Saturday 6:30P.M. Rooms 202 + 218 Holy Cross. ALL albums will be played. Free! Byo 
Willing to exchange 2 pairs of Southern California tickets for 4 ndjacent seats. Willing to pay ad­ditional considerations. Call 4611. 
Dial a Line. Call TENA J·. 683-1212. 
3 d.•y;;  4 days  1 weel  
1.00  1.15  1.25  
1.35  1.15  2.15  
1.70  2.40  %.80  
2.00  2...  3.45  
2.35  3.40  4.11  
Z-80  3.85  4.711  
3.10  4.25  5.11  
3.30  4.50  5.541  
3.58  4.75  UID  

Wednesday, October 20, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 7 
Irish give awards 
Theism ann visits ND 
Defensive stars Clarence Ellis "That was the best defensive Joe Theismann was present on cessor, sophomore Cliff Brown, and Mike Crotty were honored play I've seen since I've been at the Notre Dame practice field all their support. this week by the Irish coaching Notre Dame," coach Ara Par­this week but, unfortunately for "It won't hurt a bit if you all get staff for their play in Saturday's seghian commented in the locker Irish rooters, he won't be in behind Cliff and pull for him the victory over North Carolina. room afterwards. action against Southern Cal., a way you did for me," he said. 
Crotty, who returned a Ralph Stepaniak, who made team he starred against, but "You'll never know how im­Carolina punt 48 yards to the Tar two key tackles in Notre Dame's failed to defeat, in his three portant it is to have everyone in Heel seven and harried Carolina third quarter goal line stand, was varsity seasons here. hack of you, pulling for you to get quarterback Paul Miller with a given the defensive award of the The Iribh All-American played the job done." strong blitz, was awarded the week and tight end Mike Creaney some of the best games in his Theismann has been as big a game ball while Ellis was won the offensive award. outstanding collegiate career success playing Canadian presented "The Irish Award", In another ceremony ,Larry against the Trojans and he lent football as he was shile quar­
given occassionally for an out­Parker joyously relinquished the his knowledge of S.C., and some terbacking the Irish. He has standing performance. "Net" <or Hands) trophy, given moral support, to his former guided his Toronto club to the Ellis won the award for his to players who fumble the ball teammates. division title and will lead them touchdown-saving effort on North away during games, to Cliff Theismann, now starring for into their first Grey Cup (symbol Carolina's special kickoff return Brown. A fourth quarter fumble the Toronto Argonauts of the of Canadian football supremacy) play. Ellis fought off several by the the soph quarterback at Canadian Football League, also game in 11 years in a few weeks. blockers to prevent Lewis Jolley the Carolina two cost the Irish a attended the weekly luncheon the Theism ann won't be able to see • Clarence Ellis' play against the the Notre Dame Quarterback
from going all the way to score. probable touchdown. the Irish -Southern Cal game
Tar Heels earned him plaudits Club in the ACC, where he asked because the Canadian regularfrom the Irish coaching staff. those present to give his sue-season winds up this weekend.
Cornhuskers still No. 1 
The Nebraska Cornhuskers, 55-Notre Dame moved up a spot 
Hall heads Trojan defense
0 victors over Kansas Saturday, for the first time this season, remained atop the wire service taking over the number six USC Coach John McKay said it <defensive end) at the Arizona Hall has progressed from highpolls this week, but the Oklahoma position, which Colorado held last best: junior college. After two years junior to
Sooners have got their eye on the week, in the AP poll. The Irish school to college 
"Without Willie Hall, our there he transferred to USC in the university level in football but isnumber one ranking. were again ranked sixth in the 
defense would not be one-tenth as spring of 1970.
Bob Devaney's Red Machine UPI ratings. definitely not thinking of the nf!xt 
good as it is."

reclived 35 first-place votes and step.
Both polls agreed on the top six 
I,046 points in the AP poll this selections, naming, behind Hall, a senior, starred for the "Don't say anything about the wPek while the Sooners who and Oklahoma, Trojans at defensive end last pros in your article," says.
Nebraska he 
clubbed previously unbeaten Big year after transferring from
Michigan, Alabama, Auburn, and "One writer kept mentioning profo:ight rival, Colorado, 45-17 last the Irish. Arizona Western College. He football in his article, although Iweekend, garnered 18 number The polls reversed their climaxed the season by sacking never said anything about it. All one votes and 1,008 points. 
seventh and eighth choices. The Notre Dame quarterback Joe I'm thinking about is this season.
Last wPek, the 'Huskers had 40 AP rated Penn State ahead of Theismann seven times and There big

top votes and 1,046 points to the is a incentive for 
S>oners eight first place ballots Georgia, but the UPI had them causing two fumbles in USC's 38-Willie in 1971. Unlike most Trojan and 1!88 points. the other way around. 28 upset for the Irishes' only seniors, he has never been to the 
Rounding out the top finishers, 
In the UPI poll, Nebraska defeat. Rose Bowl--transferring to USC pickPd up 29 of the 35 first place Arkansas was tabbed for the Talking about the big win, Hall after the 1969 season. 
votes and IPd Oklahoma, 344 ninth spot and Stanford was tenth says, "We had lost to UCLA and "I saw the 0970) Rose Bowl points to 311. in both polls. wanted to show everyone we had game," he says, "and went down a good team." Of his own to the USC locker room.
Jim Donaldson~:::::~=~::::::;!:~::::::::::::::::::========================================================: 
remarkable play, he says Everybody was so happy. I want modestly, "A lot of times I to play in the Rose Bowl." 
missed Theismann. I probably If the other Trojans play nearly 

The Irish Eye 
tackled him half and missed the as good as Hall is, Willie will get other half." But that is a good his wish. :=:=========ND defense -best in history ? percentage for a defensive lineman.
There have been some famous walls in the history of man and all of them dealt with defense. There was the great wall of China, Hadrian's 
Before fall workouts started Wall in Great Britain and, more recently, the Berlin Wall. Any un­this year, McKay gave Hall a big desirables seeking to pass those blockades had problems doing so. challenge. He moved his standout Here at Notre Dame, coach Ara Parseghian and his assistants, Joe to strongside linebacker where he Yon to, George Kelly, and Paul Shoults, have built a similarly in­thought the Trojans needed the penetrable structure. Opposing coaches might call it the Wailing 
most help.

Wall, upon which they have wrent their hair and gnashed their teeth, 
Explaining his switch, McKay

but Parseghian prefers a simpler term :the Notre Dame defense. 
says, "I was especially worried

The Philadelphia Eagles would be willing to send Ara five men and a 
about pass coverage by our

couple of future draft picks for the Notre Dame front four. It's easier to 
linebackers. With Willie at

gain ground against the German Army than it is to run for yardage against the Irish. linebacker, our coverage has The secondary controls the airways better than the FAA. The improved greatly." Persians had an easier time passing at Thermopylae, despite Hall never played linebacker numerous injuries, than opposing quarterbacks have had against before this season, but likes it. Notre Dame. 
"There's something about the In recent year, the Irish defense has been upstaged by performers 
word linebacker," he says. "You named Hanratty and Theismann who were more offensive than Don 

hear it more than defensive end.

Rickles. They threw more passes than Casanova. Led by Hanratty 
The attention on defense is

and Thesimann, the Irish were always a threat to outscore the 
centered around the linebacker.

Cleveland Cavaliers. This year it's different. 
He is involved both in stopping

The points haven't been coming in bushel baskets this fall. It has been the defense that's had to do the job. And what a job they've done. the run and covering the pass." 
They are second nationally in rushing defense, allowing just 65.8 A 6-3, 215 pounder who can run yards per game, and are among the top five scoring defense, the 40 in 4.5, Hall is noted for his limiting opponents the average of just 3.2 points. hard tackling.
·It has been 14 quarters since an opponent has crossed the Irish goal 
"A runner will start looking for 

line. The defense has hung out a big "No Trespassing" sign in the end 
you after you hit them hard," he 

zone. Even the officials check with Walt Patulski before they step into 
says. "It slows them down a step

that sacred ground. Notre Dame's goal line is better guarded than the 
or two if they are looking for
'Gaza Strip. 
you."

The Irish have shut out their last two opponents. They're amassing more goose eggs than Tom Seaver. They could have posted three Hall used to be the one hit, straight whitewash jobs if the offense hadn't allowed Michigan State to instead of the tackler. He played pick up a safety. fullback for Polaski High School 
Only two touchdowns have been scored against Notre Dame in the in New Britian, Conn., but did not first five games. If Jimmy Hoffa had had defense equal to ND's, 
win many high school honors 

he'd still be calling signals for the Teamsters. 
because of injuries, both in his

Football coaches have always said that "the best defense is a good junior and senior years.
offense." The Irish defense supplies its own offense. They've scored 
For a Connecticut high school

more touchdowns than they've given up. Ralph Stepaniak, Ken 
senior, Hall made an unusual

Schlezes and Fred Swendson have six points apiece, 18 points between them. That's two more than the opposition has totaled in five games. 
college choice. He turned down Coach Parseghian calls the defense "super" and said last weekend football and basketball thatthe defense "hasn't had a bad game yet." That's pretty con­scholarship offers in the East, servative, even for Ara. The defense hasn't even come close to including one for basketball from anything resembling an average game this season. the NCAA runner-up Villanova,With Southern Cal the next opponent for the Irish, the defense can 
to attend Arizona Western in

be expected to once again rise to the occasion. Their thirst for Yuma. 
vengeance against the Trojans, who spoiled Notre Dame's bid for a 
"I wanted to play football and

perfect season last year, is yet unquenched. And we all know how 
never had been out West," he

ornery a thirsty Irishman can be. The Trojans would do well to build a wooden horse and hide in it this 
says. Saturday. They ought to be safe inside. As long as they don't try and Hall played both of-roll it into the Notre Dame end zone. fense<fullbackl and defense 



Page 8 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, October 20,1971 
Japan, like U.S., favors two China policy 
TEN DOLLARS OFF • • •
NO GIMMICKS! 

$10.0°CERTIFICATE 
This certificate will be good for $10.00 reduction on any suit or sportscoat'slack outfit from our 
regular stocks. You can choose from a fine selection of university styled apparel including the great 
new double knits. We make this offer to win new friends and keep old ones. Stop in soon. Use your 
Campus Shop account. 

Offer expires Saturday, December 18 
BUY NOW ... PAY NEXT SUMMER 
No payments till June, July and August of next year .. 
and then you pay not one cent of carrying or service charge! This is the exclusive Campus Shop way to buy. Stop in, open your account. ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
United Nations, N.Y.. October 19 -Japan urged the General Assembly today to admit Com­munist China to the United Nations while keeping Nationalist China a member and said that doing so would be "a transitional step for solving the Chinese representation issue." 
The head of the Japanese delegation, Kiichi Aichi, declared that it was an "undeniable fact" that there were "two govern­ments confronting each other across the Taiwan Straits" and said that Japan had always felt they could resolve their con­flicting claims by peaceful means. 
The two American-sponsored resolutions are designed to achieve this end, Aichi said. The resolutions of which Japan is a co-sponsor, would seat mainland China while preventing the ouster· of Nationalist China. The Chinese Communists, however, have repeatedly said publicly that they would refuse to accept United Nations membership unless the Nationalists were expenecr 
Aichi said that the Albanian 
resolution, which calls for the 
admission of Communist China 
and the expulsion of the 
Nationalists, was punitive in 
character and "would be likely to 
entail an abrupt change in the 
delicate international situation 
prevailing in the far East." 

Aichi's guarded words were thought to reflect the fact that the China question has become a critical domestic issue for the government of Premier Eisaku Sato' with public opinion and the maj01:_ity within the ruling 
Liberal-Democratic Party in­creasingly in favor of the establishment of relations with Peking. 
Japan became a co-sponsor of the two American-inspired resolutions after Washington was reported to have exerted great diplomatic pressure in Tokyo. 
Since then the Japanese mission to the U.N. and Japanese £>mbassies around the world have been working hard for the adoption of the two resolutions. Th£> Japanese are generally thought to be second in their £>£forts only to the United States. 
Today, on the second day of the China debate, the Assembly heard delegated from 14 coun­tries--for a total of 26 since the beginning of the debate on Monday. Eventually almost all the 131 member countries will speak. 
Today, as on Monday, the calm, almost turgid character of the debate and the somnolent atmosphere in the half-empty hall believed the significance of the issue and the suspense over the still uncertain outcome. 
The delegates from Iceland and 
Ecuador commanded special att£>ntion today because both gave clear indications that unlike last year they have announced that they will vote against the American-sponsored important qu£>stion resolution which they supported last year and in previous years. 
Japanese premier seeks rapport with Communist China 
Tokyo Premier Eisaku Sato said today that he would un­dertake an urgent effort to open up diplomatic and commercial contacts with Communist China. 
Sato's remarks, in a major policy speech to the Diet (Parliament), represented the first attempt to bring order to Japan's policy toward China, in disarray since President Nixon1 relaxed Sino-American relations last July. 
The Premier said that it was "imperative" for Japan to £>stablish a new set of principles to govern its relations with Mainland China and to obtain a "comprehensive consensus" of support from the Japanese peopl£>. 
"I am firmly determined to take every possible opportunity to reach agreements with them 

(the Chinese) on various item such as communications, meteorology, civil aviation, fisheries, and so forth," Sato said. 
"At the same time." the Premier contimu=!d. "I shall do' my best to call to their attention 
the importance of formal government -to-government contacts on every possible oc­casion." 
Foreign Minister Takeo Fukuda and Finance Minister Mikio Mizuta also made policy speeches that reinforce Sato's position. 
Until three months ago, Japan's China policy consisted primarily of promoting trade and making pragmatic political 
decisions as they came up. But shortly after President Nixon's and opposing the expulsion of announcf'mf'nt July 15 that he Taiwan. 
Notre Dame -Saint :Mary's Theatre presents John Webster's 
--·-------l 
THE DUCHESS OF MALFI 
O'Laughlin Auditorium October 15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 
8:30 pm sharp. Ticket Reservations $2.00. Students, faculty, ND-SMC staff $1.50. Ticket office open 4-6 p.m. or call 284-4176. 
planned to visit Peking, Japan 
quietly sent Peking a diplomat who had "resigned" from the foreign service. He went as a nwmber of Japan's trade mission to China, and the Chinese Foreign Office did the same; thus Tokyo and Peking had direct if in­formal, communications.' 
Sato said today that his government "firmly and fun­damentally believes that there is just one China," and he ex­pressed the hope that the fate of Taiwan would be settled "through negotiatiations between the parties concerned." 
He defended his government's policy of favoring the admission of Peking to the United Nations 
Support your 
• 

local advertisers. 






