
Friday, October 15, 1971 
HLC resolution vvins vvill go to Hesburgh 
by Fred Schaefer The Student Life Council last night voted 16-8 to adopt two parts of its Hall Life Committee report, setting up sanctions for assault, larceny, and the sale or distribution of drugs, and suggesting that the halls be allowed to determine their own parietal hours. The proposal will now go to University President Father Theodore Hesburgh for action. Ifhe takes no action, it will go before the Board of Trustees October 22. The existing rules on parietals will be in effect unt.il the SLC's proposal is approved. The minimum sanctions for assault and larceny will be disciplinary probation for at least one full semester, if the proposal passed. The proposed section on drugs reads: "The selling and or distribution of drugs-the penalty must be no less than suspension from the university for at least one full semester. We recommend that the Dean of Student or the University Board in meting out more than the minimal penalties, should consider a difference in the intrinsic ha.zard 

Last nights meeting of the SLC 
potential between marijuana and other narcotics." The committee had considered disciplinary guidelines for the use 
Resolutions. of theSLC 
Recommended Disciplinary Guidelines Under Existing Rules and Judicial Procedures 
The Notre Dame Community feels that the following offenses seriously harm it and its members: 
1) Assault 2)Larceny 3)Selling or· distributing drugs. 
Assault and larceny merit no less than disciplinary probation for at least one full semester. The selling and-or distribution of drugs merit no less than suspension from the University for at least one full semester. 
We recommend that the Dean of Students or the University Board in meting out more than the minimal penalties, should consider a difference in the intrinsic hazard potential between marijuana and other narcotics. 
The Committee considered disciplinary guidelines for the use and possession of drugs, but agreed that disciplinary actions would not be the proper procedure in this area. Rather, every attempt should be made to rehabilitate the individual before any punitive steps are considered. Where drinking and parietal hours are concerned, we believe that no minimum guidelines can be recommended because of the very broad spectrum of possible violations of the present rules. Moreover, we believe that these are properly matters to be handled by the hall. However, we recognize that certain actions that take place within a particular hall may effect the university community as a whole, and we wish to remind the halls of their duty to construct rules that are in accord with Indiana state law. 
Recommended Changes in the Rules 
No specific recommendation is made at this time to change any Rule other than Rule Number Five. However, the Committee suggests that the Student Life Council, as a body at large, consider as soon as possible the implications of Rule Number Seven, page 24. 
It is the view of this CommitteP that University Rule Number Five, stated in pages 23-24 of the Student Manual, as presently constituted, deals with matters which concern the good order of the individual hall and therefore University-wide rules are not appropriate. We recommend that this rule be deleted. 
Instead, in regards to visitation, each hall should be allowed to set the policies it feels are most appropriate to develop and maintain the good order of that hall. These would be subject to approval by a supervisory board (e.g. the Student Life Council, the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees) which would give approval contingent on that in­dividual hall showing maturity, responsibility, and the ability to use this freedom wisely. 
Upon reasonable evidence of general noncompliance with the hall's stated policies, the supervisory boards shall have the authority to impose restrictions or restrict hall privileges. 
This is a general principle which would apply to all matters of good 
order in the hall and the  same  procedures outlined above should be  
followed.  ·t  .  ql  I '  
fl  ., ,,, '  
'·­ I  


and possession of drugs, but agreed that rather than disciplinary 
action, attempts should be made to rehabilitate the individual before 
any other steps are considered. 
The committee also reported, "Where drinking and parietal hours 
are concerned, we believe that no minimum guidelines can be 
recommended because of the very broad spectrum of possible 
violations of the present rules. Moreover, we believe that there are 
properly matters to be handled by the hall." 
They then reminded the halls to"construct rules that are in ac­
cordance with Indiana State Laws."The SLC adopted the committee­
sponsored move to drop that rule number five, concerning parietals, in 
the Student Manual, despite the objections of Dean of Students Rev. 
James Riehle. C.S.C. Riehle contended "The recommended changes 
are beyond the scope of the committee. They exceeded their respon­
sibility, and are completely out of order. The changes suggested are 
too broad for us to consider in one and a half hours." Instead of Rule 
Number Five, the SLC adopted a resolution contending that, each hall 
should be allowed to set the policies it feels are most appropriate to 
develop and maintain the good order of that hall. These would be 
subject to approval by a supervisory board (e.g. the Student Life 
Council, the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees) 
which would give approval contingent on that individual hall showing 
maturity, responsibility, and the ability to use this freedom wisely." 
<continued on Page 2) 

Rubin decries schools, Nixon,Attica,hard drugs 
by W. Dennis Duggan 
A stoned Jerry Rubin last night denounced the American school 
system, calling it a "fraud" before well over a thousand people in 
Stephan Center. 

Rubin described the high schools and colleges of America as 
babysitting agencies where our parents send us to keep us out of 
trouble. He said they operate on the Pavovian response principle 
where everyone is conditioned to salivate on command. He also 
described the testing methods of our educational system as something 
similar to the excretion processes of the body. To steel ourselves 
against the corrupting influences of the system, Rubin suggested that, 
"People should smoke dope all the time they are in school." 
Rubin related his recent ex­periences in Attica, New York where he posed as a criminology student from N.Y.U. He termed the Attica deaths as "pure murder" and said he had evidence that three prisoners were removed from their cells after the uprising and executed. 
Rubin described the village of Attica as the closest thing to Nazi Germany that he has seen but it is still a pretty normal town except that Blacks aren't human beings there. He suggested that Governor Rockefeller be indicted for the murders that took place at Attica. 
Rubin was especially critical of President Nixon, accusing him of packing the Supreme Court, and suggesting that all mental hospitals be opened up, setting the patients free, and putting Nixon in. He said that our political goal should be to simply defeat Nixon. His plans for 72 call for, "Doing to the Republicans what we did to the Democrats 


.... Just li~e Chicago." 
Jerry Rubin

']u<-continued on page 6) 
----~-------------~ 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Friday, October 15, 1971 

SLC passes hall autononty bill 
(continued from page 1) It continued, "Upon reasonable evidence of general non com­pliance with the hall's stated policies, the supervisory boards shall have the authority to im­pose restriction or restrict hall privileges.'' The one part of the Hall Life Committee's report that was not immediately accepted was sent 
back to the rules committee. It 
concerned changes in the existing 
judicial procedure. 
That section suggested that a case would go to the hall judicial board, in consultation with the Assistant Dean of Students and the rector, instead of going to the Dean of Students, as it presently would according to the section, the board would then determine if the case warranted a trial, and who the trial should be handled by, either the hall board or the dean of Student of the University Board. 
Professor Edward Cronin objected to the report, contending "The students of several years ago weren't responsible enough in regards to the Honor System. They really blew the Honor Code. I don't feel that the students are any more mature now." He also expr€ssed the fear that with the individual hall determining parietals, "There will be 20 rules for 20 separate halls, and Notre Dame will no longer be a com­munity." 
Floyd Kezele defended the report, saying "We want to bring it back in to the halls, and make it more of a hall matter." 
SMC representative Missy Underman also spoke in defense 


Cultural Arts Connnission Popular Fihn Series 
Presents 

The Fox 
Oct. 14 & 15 7:30 and 9:30PM Price $1 Engineering Auditorium Patron Cards will be sold in the Dining •.Halls Thursday and Friday 
WSND FM presents hour of international culture 
Lyn Leone 
James 0. Sullivan from Lon­don, England, has announced that, beginning this Sunday, WSND will devote one hour each Sunday to International Culture. This program will be broad­cast -from 4:30 to 5:30 in the afternoon. 
The purpose of this show, ac­cording to producer Sullivan, is twofold: first, to provide an entertainment voice on the Notre Dame campus for the students, international as well as American, and, second, to give the international students an opportunity to share what they have to offer to the Americans in the of culture. 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
8:30a.m. Fr. Ned Reidy 9:30a.m. Fr. AndrewCiferni, 0. Praem. 
10:45 a.m. Fr. ACari Dehne, S.J. 
15:15 p.m. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 



ROGERS Optical 
ROG~I .UWnL • QWNER 

There are 351 foreign students who represent 51 countries from all 6 continents wh(,) have come to Notre Dame, not only to benefit from American education, but also to give something of their customs and traditions to the Americans. 
Sullivan feels that the foreign students are rarely given a chance to express themselves socially, politically, or culturally, and hopes that this weekly radio program will provide a means for them to do so. 
"After all", contends Sullivan, "we must preserve the in­ternational flavor which \las so long been the hallmark of the university system." 
HOURS: MON • lUES -TliUR -FRI 
9 AM.5:30 PM 
WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPBCTACLE 
SERVICE 
ALL EYE 011.'S 

PRfSCRIPTIONS HONORa: J 
Call 

289-7809 
214 so_ MICHIGAN 

People & Song 
CAMPUS FOLK ARTISTS 
Alumni .Hall Lounge This Friday 9:00-2:00 3rd BIG WEEK 
Refreshments 25c Admission Everyone Welcome 
The Observer is published daily during the. college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 46556. 
of the 3-page document saying, ''The administration feels that parietals are a gift to be given to good students, I feel they are the right of a student." 
University Vice-President and Board of Trustee Phillip J. Faccenda said, "I question if the committee has thought through the position. Our present (judicial l system is ridiculous, but this is beyond ridiculous. It leaves me speechless." He questioned if hall boards would turn violators over to the St. Joseph County Sheriff. 
SBP John Barkett commented, "I'm satisfied with the way it went. I hope the proposal will be accepted. The logistical details it implies can be worked out. Some people's fears will be disproven if the halls are given a chance." 
Ja... fonda 
· donald 



1uth•rland 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAT! 
(from the rah-rahs in the tower) 
THE ROMA SMC
ND 

Pizza -Restaurant-Lounge 
219 N. Michigan -South Bend 
Reasonable Prices 
orry outs or Deliveries to your room 
Call 234-3258 (Keep it -use it) 
·-:"'".~ 

:\lusic by John ="ichols Open till 4 am Fridays 
Notre Dame -Saint 1\fa.ry's Theatre presents John Webster's 
THE DUQIESS OF MALFI 
O'Laughlin Auditorium October 15 16 21 22 23 
, ' ' ' ' 
8:30 pm sharp. Ticket Reservations $2.00. Students, faculty, ND-SMC staff $1.50. Ticket office open 4-6 p.m. or call 284-4176. 
SMC/Last Gasp Cinema 

Presents: 
A highly praised film by India's finest director, Satayajit Ray. 
Oct. 22 Dutchman 
Le Roi Jones shows America going to hell on a racist subway. 
Oct. 29 Yanco 
A Mexican film. A perfectly beautiful myth of the human spirit. 
Nov. 5 The Trial 
Orson Welles has brilliantly filmed Franz Kafka horrific Labrynth. 
Showings: 3:30, 7, 9 p.m. Fridays Admission 75c 
Friday, October 15, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
----~--------~--------------------------------------­
Army to drop 65,000 officers and men 

((') IHil Nl'W York Times N('WS s..rvic(' 
Washington, Oct. 14--The army antwunced Thursday that it would release approximately 65,000 officers and enlisted men from active duty by June 30 to comply with a congressional ordl•r to cut its manpower to 92,000 for fiscal year 1972. 
A Pentagon announcement oy Spcr<'lary of the Army Robert R. 
Barkett contends: 
Froehlke said that most of those proximately 400 senior grade to be r£>1eased would be persons officers, mostly majors and op£>rat ing in categories in which lieutenants. tlw army is or will be over­Thf' army announced the str£>ngth or who would have been following release procedures: l£>aving the military shortly 
--Continuation of the early

bf.'caus£> of expiration of their r£>1£'as£' program initiated last lf.'rms of service. 
n•o11th in which servicemen in the P£>ntagon officials said the 
U.S., Puerto Rico and the Virginr£>duction plans call fur the Islands (including Vietnam r£'leas£> of approximately 36,000 
r£>turn£>es) with five months or draftef.'s, 24,000 volunteers, 4,000 less s£>rvice remaining are r£>s£'rve officers and ap-
Pligibl£> for discharge from the 



Hesburgh letter untimely 
Bill Sohn 

Student leaders seemed to be g('ll£'rally in doubt as to the nwaning and pupose of Fr. Tlwodore Hesburgh's letter to the stud£'nt body. 
Student Body President Hohn 
Barkett said that he was not sure what fo'ather Hesburgh was attempting in his letter. He addPd, ."J kept reading, expecting something new, but it didn't come. 11 Also he felt that while 
the letter might be necessay in 
two WPeks, it wasn't yesterday. 
Orlando Rodriguez, Student Bodv Vice-President, said he considered the letter a good one bul: it contained nothing new. He also felt, "I don't quite un­d«:>rstand what the letter was 
CLASSIFIED AIJS 
FOR SALE 

WANT TO SLIDE IT UP YOUR HTH'S LEG SATURDAY? BUY A GARTER BEFORE GAME FRONT OF BOOKSTORE OR CALL 7891. 
GIANT PILLOWS 
Great to sit or lie on 
~ ully Washable. Call Jim 8857. 
8 track Player, 35 tapes. All for $125. Cilll Pat 1789. 
For Sale: 1 I ic ket to North Carol ina. Cilll Tom, 287 2731. 
STUDENT RECORD SALES is open now. s,we on new albums, large stock of latst cuts. 313 Morrissey Hall Open Continually 
Pt1. 3575. 
f lectric typewriter Brand New! $125 1331. 
Avililable: Tickets for remaining home qames. Call 8951 after 5:30. 
f-or Sille: Ski boots, Koflach Racing 
101 : M. Call 3313. 
Quillity 8 track tilpes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715. 
Prices slashed on all posters to r·rduce stocks. Posters that were $1.50now $1.00 1.25. For information rome to 815 Flanner, 611 Grace or 315 Sout11 Reqina or call 1694, 1167, or 4258. 
For Sale: 66JAG X TYPE E COUPE 4 Gear, 48,000 mi., AM FM Radio. Pirrellis British Racing Green. Call 259 0662 John or Fred or see at 739 E. 9th, Mish. 
VW 65. Exc. Cond. New Tires. $575 off. 234 5889. Farouk. 
Tonneau Top for 1962·65 Triumph TR · 
4. New (still in box) Originally $35. Now $25. 283·1762. 
1966 Valient. 6 cyld., stick, con· vertible, $560 or best offer. 233-9787. 
For Sale: 6·band, 17 transitor, new 
SHARP radio.  $60.  Call  Brian 234­ 
3798.  
LOST  

Lost between Bookstore and Washington. Pair of raunchy leather 11loves. Zero. 1927. 
Lost: 72 class ring. White Gold and blue stone. Name inscribed in back. Rewilrd. Call John 232·2725. 
Lost: Blue, fleece lined Notre Dame windbreaker between library and towers Sat. morning. Reward. Please call Ralph 1557-455 Cav. 
WANTED 

P!'rson wanted to run a very 
profitabel business. Earning abilities ilrC unlimited and WE'll above .wcragc. Mclil qualifications to Mr. Warren, P.O. Box 503, Malden Mall., 
WANTED 

Need 2 ad iacent general admission tickets to USC. Call TOM 287-2731. 
Any student willing to sell 2 tix to So. Cal Game. Call 609.931·0394. Collect and person.to.person to Frank Hoban. 
Member of SUBWAY Alumni needs 2 Owol side by side tickets for NO-USC and NO NAVY. Call Mr. Kranz collect and person-to-person in Sunnyside, Washington, 509-837-6646. 
WANTED: 4 So. Cal. Tickets 6 Navy Tickets 4 LSU Tickets rail Tom, 1178. 
PERSONALS 

All that is 90ld does not glitter ··6791. 
Love you almost as much as MY MOTHER'S turtle meat. Thanks for makin9 me smile. 
Villarie, Why did God make you so beautiful? Blue Ribbon 
Smile Phanton . Thanks to you, before the world. -l1ate Monger 
To Derszio. 
It's been one year. 
Happy Anniversary and Birthday! 
Love Jimmi 
NOTICES 

Are you as beautiful as you can be? Let Viviane Woodard teach you how...with two free make up lessons (Call Johanna at 287·2731 for appt.) 
Fix your own car. Tonight. We have the SPACE t TOOLS~ PARTS AND HELP. You do the work and SAVE. Autotech Rt. 31 South in Niles. 684· 1960. Open evenings and weekends. 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 11: 15·12: 15. 
Marshmallow-covered­marshmallow, Marshmallow.covered.armor Armor covered armor Armor covered.marshmallow Armor covered-armor Isis Fieldhouse 7-10 P.M. . ----------------­
Will work on Volkswagens 11 years experience reasonable. Call 272-3980 or 272.2765 after 4:00P.M. 
Share a two bedroom apartment one mile from campus. Apply in person 5:30pm at 638 N. St. Louis. 
Free Viviane Woodard make.up lessons, samples, catalogs, gift wrapping. For appointment call: Mary 234·3839. 
intended to accomplish.,. llowever, he suggested that it woulrl h;lVe been better if the letter had been sent to the Alumni and Trustees. 
Ed Motto, H.P.C. Chairman, said that he didn't see any necessity for the letter. He felt that the letter was open and did have a good point in that patietals shouldn't be the only topic. However, he also felt that, "it only summed up where we are, not where we are going.11 He added that the letter should have been written a month later, after the Trustees had met. 
· ~ --~---.---~ ·~' 
.!i J'·. ~. 1: 
Classified Ads pa.id for in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 12:15-5:00. 
rtf 

Ads in bY 2:00 on day before 
Any club, hall or campus 
organization interested in entering the design contest for rights to a booth at the M.G. 
'72 Carnival should contact 
Dorn Kile -1689 immediately 
if you did not attend the 
meeting held Sun. Oct. 10. 





Notice 
Hot Dog Lotteries 
Need student tickets for USC and ___________________ Navy. Call John . 1588. 

o-2-14_8_o_r_c_a_II_6_1_7_2-61-19_6_4._____L_p_u-bl-ic_:__t--io_~_·---~~------~--------~---..!. 
Sf'rvice. Thf' beginning of fiscal 1972. This 
--A similar release program was 150,000 more than the covering first-term enlistees with average strength in fiscal 1971 GO days or less service remaining. and 56,000 fewer than requested 
--Involuntary dismissal of by President Nixon for 1972, Pnlisted personnel eligible for 
according to Pentagon officials. rPtire1nent who have passed the But cutting 65,000 personnel n'andatory attrition point for the will not automatically bring the nPxt higher grade. 
army in line with congressional --Release of officers who score 
mandat«:>. in th£> lower 10 pPrcentile on ef­
In approving the army's fiscal fici£>ncy lf'sts. 
1972 manpowerbudget, Congress --More difficult reinlistment 
stipulated that the department's l'Xaminations for non-
average 12-month strength not commissioned officers. exceed 92,000. --Separation of first-term 
The department's strength Pnlistees and retirement-age July 1 was 1.12 million and its officers who have been personnel in August totaled 
r£>assigned to jobs at military 1,074,431. posts close to their homes 
This means that manpower because of pressing family needs. 
levels in subsequent months ThP army's manpower would have to dip well below sfrpngth was 1.12 million July 1, 92,000. 

Ombudsman investigates Indian Lake coupons 
The Ombudsman staff has initiated an investigation into ~he Indian Lake Company of Madison, Wisconsin, which sold discount coupon booklets to Notre Dame students last fall. 
The investigation, being conducted by Tony Catino, has turned up the possibility that enterprising students fabricated the Indian Lake Company, selling the coupons and promising a refund if unused, without ever intending to make themselves available to unsatisfied customers. 
Contacts with stores who placed the coupons in the discount booklet and with Madison's Consumer Relations Board have failed to identify either the company or the coupon salesmen. 
Students who didn't use any of the coupons are eligible for a refund but will not be able to collect unless the sponsors are pinned down. 
Anyone with constructive in­formation can contact the Om­budsman's office in the Student Government Offices at 7638. 
WE'ekend Parties Tailgate Parties Pre!]ame Food Sales 
KEEP THINGS COOL 
PARTY TIME 
ICE NUGGETS 
now on sale at the Senior Bar 


starting with the So. Cal. grune will he held on the Monday before the game. To be eligible you must register your chili : , \ on the previous Thursday. 
! I 

fu<pl!'ies-~~_K~~~-__7_7_5_7____________ 
~Pa~ge:..._:4:__. _________ ______THE OBSERVER Friday, October 15, 1971 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
Editor-in-Chief  Bushws" :\lanagt•a·  
.GlenS. Corso  All  succe!lsful  newspapers  are  .laml's .Je11dryk  
ceaselessly  qu~rulous  and belli(.o~e.  They  
l·:xt>eulivt> F.ditor T.C. Treanor  never defend anyone r-r anythmg if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, they tackle it by denourocing s.1oneone or  .·\d 'hlll<ll{t'l" Bill Bauerle  
Founded Novi>mber 3, 1966  som ethtng else. -H. L. Mel\l'ken.  
Business 283-'1471  

The Triumph 
l i ': 

Hallelujia. Or as the ad hoc committee might say, halleluhia. The SLC in a session remarkable for its courage, its judgement, and its decisiveness, spoke up for the right of students to deter­mine their own private lives, and for the right of the SLCr to determine the rules of the University. Because the SLC acted with courage last night, everybody won---the students who want to live unmolested by remote potentates, the responsible members of this administration, who want the school to be free from useless Trustee interference, and levelheaded sober discussion. 
In short, it was a triumph for the University as a whole. For this University will never function if a board of alien businessmen find it necessary to ride herd on the SLC. We hope the Trustees will keep this in mind October 22. 
It wasn't easy for the SLC to be as strong as it was. It would have been a far more simple thing for the Committee to abdicate to the Board of Trustees. All they would have had to do was to produce some abysmal stupidity like the ad hoc report, bow, and sit down. But the Board showed that it valued honesty and good faith more than it valued ease and security. 
Special credit goes to two men who used their experience on the Hall Life Committee to reorganize their thought on this whole issue--Rev. Thomas Chambers and Professor Peter Thornton. Although both men signed their names to the ad hoc committee absurdity, both men voted for the resolution the SLC finally ac­cepted. Professor Thornton was particularly eloquent in arguing for its passage. 
It wasn't easy, either, for student opinion to render itself as organized, as dignified, and as disciplined as it did this time around. There are student politicos, past and present, who would have used this incident as a launching-place for empty rhetoric and meaningless gestures. Let it be noted that this year's student government used it as a launching-place for constructive action. 
So, what have we learned from this session? That the SLC is never going to be blustered out of its usefullness. That rational discussion and openness is invariably more ef­fective than lung calisthentics and verbal napalm. That the University is serious about making this place a good place in which to live. We can only hope that the Trustees have learned something from this, too. We can only hope-and wait-and play it as it lays. 
game anymore, but us. The look RODY. We are not objects, but in their eyes isn't that of friPn­people like you, too.!?! I am not a Editor: dliness either, more like that of a women.'s libber either, just a dog that hasn't eaten for a month. normal Saint Mary's chic-(yes ,
This letter is a desperate at­A shout from above comes, "Send one of those). So please , just tempt to convince you of the 'em up! So I yelled back, "Send leave me ALONE-and watch the 
danger involved in passing girls game and keep your hands to
who up?" BeforP I knew it I was 

up the stadium stands. I am yourself.
on my way up.

speaking from experience. I've 
Everyone started yelling 

never had a fear before of going "Over the wall, over the wall!" in Gratefully yours,to a football game until just this sheer madness. I have no fear of Prudence Purebody 
year. 
going over the wall-rather in

My plight is shared by at least 
getting there. I do NOT consider

15 other Saint Mary's girls who 
mysplf a human football to be 

have "been around". We sit in a 
passed around. As I found out, 

row near the field, or should I 
many "men" didn't think of me 

say, "the passing zone". We are 
as a football either. So listen, ND 

sandwiched in by two rows of ND 
"men", if you want it, that is NO

"men". 
WAY to get it. I realize that the

Towards the end of the fourth 
ratio is not exactly perfect. But 

quarter, we find that these 
please don't take your"men" are not watching the frnt:•r~t;nn~ nnt nn moP nr hv 
Headlines: T C Treanor, Jack FrischkornManaging Editor: Don Ruane Layout: Glen Corso, Jack Frischkorn . .
News Editor: John Abowd Controllors-of-the-Knight: Helen Smudski, fran fmnegan
SMC Editor: Ann Conway Features Editor: rick smith Sports-of-Sorts Editor: Jim Donaldson Night Editor: Marty Miller 
you can't kill Beerslayer's spirit 
Beerslayer's Last Hurrah 
With much\ sorrow I report the following: 
BORN: North.we.stern Weekend 1970 season 
DIED: Time or'death unknown --approximate time: in between 
Michigan State and Oct. 14 

CAUSE OF DEATH: Martyrdom resulting from the misun­
derstandings and misconceptions of his purpose by fellow s!ude~ts 
NAME: To some--"flaming fairy," "a----," or "flaming gaper" 
But to the people who knew and loved him: "THE GENTLE 
AND LOVING BEERSLA YER" 
To whom it may concern: 

Upon reappraisal of my position in life, I have come to some of the 
following conclusions. The present standard that many members of 
the student body have assigned to my person is, in my opinion, far 
from the actual purpose that I assign to myself. Beerslayer was 
created at a time when spirit at Notre Dame was at a low ebb. He was 
born to encourage more than cheering at a football game or pep rally­
he was to represent the meaning behind those cheers. My feeling at the 
time was that many students sang the Fight Song and cheered only 
because the person next to tht:m was domg the same. Beerslayer 
sought to out meaning to those cheers. He was not created for an ego 
trip; he was created with a goal and a purpose. No matter what your 
feelings about that purpose are, it !s more than can be said for some 
people or some activities around here. 
Whiie some may have considered me an a------motivated strictly by 
exhibitionist egotistical tendencies, I have always believed myself to 
.'lea clown. Surprisingly as that may be, clowns are human and do 
have, contrary to popular belief, emotions. . 
Though some of the descriptions of my character may possibly be 
true-it's essential to recognize the differences between an "a---" 
and a clown. An a------is one who is a self-centered exhibitionist whose 
purpose is to raise himself to a level of noticeability at the expense of 
the people around him. A clown is a people-centered person whose only 
purpose is to make people laugh, smile; in short, feel joy towards 
themselves and especially the people around them at the expense of 
himself. 

In an attempt to hold true to this definition, I often find my own 
emotional makeup overcome by the ultimate desire to express humor. 
Unforturately, this seems to be not only m~ streng~h but e~l.so my 
weakness. Humor did, indeed, control my actions durmg halftime of 
the Michigan State game. I realize now that instead of bringing humor 
to many, in fact, I defeated my own purpose by disr~pting the band. At 
this time I'd like to apologize for this unfortunate InCident. But more 
importantly, I wish to apologize for the detriment to the one thing that 
brought me here to ND, and that I have existed for, namely: the Notre 
Dame Spirit. I now realize that when one begins to destroy the one 
thing he loves --it's time to quit. 
On my deathbed I make only two small appeals: 
First: that those who knew and loved me will at times look back 
on the happiermomentsand think about the laughter and smiles I 
brought to them. 

Second: to those who I may have insulted by my questionable 
activities, I ask only one thing: forgiveness 
At this time, I'd like to will my relics to those people that have 
created and destroyed me: I will my 
1. 
Red, white and blue rally sneakers to my roommate to whom they always belonged. 

2. 
Red leotards toG-Man--may he put them on and break his own "God .... damn legs." 

3. 
Mask to those people who hide behind themselves and can't respect those who are willing to be themselves. 

4. 
Finally my cape--I will this most cherished remains to all those who can always love a clown. Special thanks to Beerslayeress who stayed by my side in my hour of 


need. Good-bye Notre Dame! I'm off to join the circus, 
BEERSLAYER 
--l 
Friday, October 15, 1971 THE OBSERVER. .,ages i 1 




ccrhe

oteHliitdesses 
STEREOVISION 

THE UNPUBLISHABLE NOVEL.~ IS NOWAMERICA'S MOS~', 1 
II 
I. II I: 
. '( 


CONTROVERSIAL FILM! RATED I· 
EASTMANCOLOR I X 
WITH 
. I .
CHRISTINA HART • MICHAEL GARRETT ~ ._.:...;. l: 
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER WRITTEN AND DIRECTED BY 

KICKOFF PARTY 


Friday Oct 15 9pm-1 am South Bend Armory 
$5°0 petw couple tickets at door music by FRIENDS,BROTHERS,AND STRANGERS REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED 
special busses will leave the ND circle at 8:30, 9:00 and 9:30. Five minutes later from St. 
law to Get to tba 
Ill 
Ill 
A 

I poco & 'Iiv'-versatile innovation & confusion 
During the past decade, pop music has ex­perienced temporary aches, then outgrown numerous fads and passing fantasies. America's ears have been bombarded by a multitude of fusions of various idioms with rock: folk-rock, psychedelic­rock, blues-rock, soul-rock, jazz-rock, classical­rock, and country-rock. 
Poco was one of the innovators of the country­rock movement. But their versatility and creativity prohibit them from being branded country-rock and fading with the trend. They are a highly competent quintet, too diversified to adhere to the limitations adopted by the multitude of artists who jump on the bandwagon and ride with it outside the boundaries of what's fashionable. 
Poco music has expanded to incorporate intricate Latin rhythms, plaintive blues renditions, ex­perimental techniques, prismatic and contrapuntal harmonies, and sophisticated phrasings and lyrics. 
New York music critic, AI Rudis, on Poco: "Poco's music, no matter what they may think, isn't country. Poco is too original to fit into the country bag. It has the country flavor, of course, but seasonings don't make a meal." 
Another critic confirms this opinion: "Poco seemed to have been a trend setter in adopting country rock, but they and it were only passing through a phase. "What Poco is doing now, just as what C.S.N.Y. etc. is doing, what John Sebastian and Laura Nyro and a dozen others are doing now, isn't really rock. It isn't folk or showtunes ·t•ither. 
"Poco and lots of others are headed off in a new direction that we can call good music, for lack of a better workd." 
Poco music is created by Richie Furay on twelve­string guitar, Paul Cotten on electric guitar, Rusty Young on pedal steel guitar, George Grantham on drums and Tim Schmit on bass. They all double as vocalists and composers. 
Pete .Johnson, L.A. Times reviewer, says:
"All are capable musicians, and the singing combinations are terrific. The high, flexible voices melt together in delightful harmonies and separate for stron~-s~lfl~\-_ 

"Poco is also one of the tightest ·k·h ..• •
i 
te 
1 
i!l 
fl 






I ye\ 
. 
r s 
I ~~ ·*g
1
Mary's. ni -g ~"' ~ 
I "'.jl ru::i:"' 
--------------------------"' 0 .,~
~C~;t::
o.-:x:: ..a 
>1/)-..a 
;;:~10~~R
E::i:r---~ .. '0 .. ,....ti ~ 
<Llti)L..tt) 0 
-g.s~CE-5. ~~t8g~
:::JO ~1-­

which obviously stems from <•ndless practice and good feelings within the combo. 
"The band seems to be the natural heir to the originality, diversity, and togetherness which marked the beginnings of the Byrds and the Buffalo Springfield, Southern California's two best folk­rooted rock groups so far." 

Livingston Taylor is like sunshine trying to in· trude into a permanently rainy day. He doesn't really belong, but he persuades his environment to accept him with his persistent warmth and ef­fervescence. He possesses a naive child-like quality with which he builds mythical castles in the air and 
then devours them with logic. 

'Liv' Taylor is balatantly honest and honestly confused. He is super tension, Scorpio, extremely talented and, at 19, the second youngest in a family of three brothers and one sister. All the family are into music and brother James Taylor has already established the family name within the popular music field. Father Taylor is Dean of the Medical School of the University of North Carolina. . .A simple observation, typical of Liv, reflects his family in the lyrics of an early composition entitled 'Carolina Day' following here: 
Alex and Brent are loving their child James is becoming a star Kate's laughing all the time And my brother Hugh's out wrecking the car My mother smiles thinking isn't it fine That her children love again Louis my best friend Falls on by We're all together again 
As an artist 'Liv' will succeed because he has all the finer qualities that build understanding. He's hungry for knowledge, he works to communicate he has a'!lbition, humor, energy and exceptionai t?lent. His songs reflect all these qualities with a Simple awareness. 

we're on time if you are 
The concert-goer at t'Ootre Dame is infamously late. To those of you who do not fit under this stereotype, a big "Thank You" is extended from those who run the concerts. But to those of you who do comprise this stereotype, please read on. 
When a starting time of 8:30 is announced for a concert, all preparations are geared towards being ready at that moment. Rarely is a group not ready to go on at the proper time and rarely is there an equipment failure that necessitates delaying the show. The holdups are almost always caused by the rows of empty seats which designate the latecomers. No act wants to perform while a large segment of the audience is still enroute to the concert, or while people are trying to locate their seats in the dark. Some performers (Livingston Taylor, for example) put a special clause in their contract the "protects" them from playing until the audience is seated. Most acts ask the Concert Chairman on the night of the show to postpone the starting time until the majority are seatted. Often this results in long delays. 
It is easy to see where the solulution lies. Don't come twenty minutes late to a concert because "They never start on time." If you come on time, the show will start on time. 
The Mardi Gras Ex. Committee is in Need of an Architect to handle layout & design 
for M.G. '72 Carnival. 
Interested?? 
' 
call Greg Stepic 6967 
--~-------~-----­
THE OBSERVER Friday, October 15, 1971 

Nixon sends out warning 
by B£>rnard Gwertzman (('I I!lil New York Times News St••·vice 
Washington, Oct. It --The Nixon administration, seeking to head off a congressional limit on American assistance to Cam­bodia warned Thursday that the ceiling approved by the S~nate !<'oreign Relations Committee Wednesday could weaken Cambodian resolve and lead to an 
on campus 
friday 3:30,7:00,9:00 film -two daughters, carroll hall, madeleva 
friday 7:00, meeting ­international students, clubhouse. 
friday 7:30, 9:30, film-the fox, engineering auditiorium. 
friday 8:30 drama -the duchess of malfi, o'laughlin auditorium. 
friday 9:00, party ­homecoming kickoff party, south bend ar­mory. 
saturday 1:30, football ­notre dame vs. north carolina. 
saturday 7:30, 9:30, film­the fox, engineering auditorium. 
saturday 8:30, drama -the duchess of malfi, o'laughlin auditorium. 
saturday 8:30, clJncert ­poco and livingston taylor, ace. 


today 

A HAYEN 

ADULTS ONLY 



1~~~~ 

increase in North Vietnamese 
"aggressive action." 

The State Department, reac­ting to the committee's actions, released to newsmen the full text of a letter by Undersecretary of State John N. Irwin 2nd to committee chairman J. William Fulbright. The letter said that those limits could "seriously threaten the capacity of the government of the Khmer Republic to defend itself." 
The letter was sent to the committee Wednesday before it voted to put an absolute limit of $250 million on all United States 
Rubin: hard dope no good 
(continued from page 1) 

Rubin then turned to drugs saying, "The most serious threat to the "revolution" is heroin. The Pigs are pumping as much heroin as possible into our communities. The people who peddle heroin are policemen. Richard Nixon is the biggest dope pusher in the World." 
He also intimated that the production of heroin was inexorably involved in our Asian foreigh policy. "Communism or heroin, that is the issue. We're over there to protect heroin. I'd choose Communism any day." 
In some concluding remarks 1rilitary and economic assistance in the current fiscal year and to allow no more than 200 A1Pericans to serve in Cambodia. In addition, the committee voted to limit to 50 the number of Third­Country Nationals who could be paid from American funds. 
The Cambodian limitations were attached as amendments to the Foreign Aid Bill, which still ll'USt go before the full Senate. 
The administration had originally asked some $341 n'illion in aid appropriations for Cambodia--about $200 million of it in military assistance. 
Rubin said that America is one big downer and that one must remember that the country is based on Genocide. He reminded us that Cardinal Spellman designed the war in Vietnam. 
He finished saying that if we want to defeat Nixon we have to get back into the streets. "The important thing is political ac­tion." 


...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 

Indiana Bell 


----~ -----~ ­
Friday, October 15, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Briles blanks O's; Bucs lead 3-2 
by Joe Durso 
((') l!lil New York Times 
News !'lervice 

Pittsburgh, Oct. 14; Nelson Briles pitched the Pittsburgh Pirates to their third straight victory over the Baltimore Orioles Thursday with a stun­ning two-hitter that put the Pirates one game away from winning the 68th World Series. 
The score was 4-0, and in any language it was a personal triumph for Briles. A 28-year old linguist from Santa Clara University. He faced only 29 hatters--two more than the minimum--and allowed only two singles and two walks, and no Oriole got past first base. 
The action now switches to Baltimore, where the sixth game will be played Saturday with Pittsburgh one step from 
SKI YAMAHA 
Sign up now for our Grand Opt'ning Drawing 
on Oct. 30 
Valuable Ski Equipment Will Bt' Gh·t'n Away as Prizt's 

I You net'd not bt• JlreRent 
L to win 

1: 
GRAND OPENING 
~· 

baseball history. If the Pirates take it then, they will become the first team ever to lose the first two games of a series and then score a sweep in the next four. 
They moved into this com­manding position with the one ingredient they supposedly lacked as they won two con­secutive National League East pennants: pitching. And they did it Thursday at the expense of Dave MeNally, one of the four 20­game winners on a Baltimore staff that supposedly had pit­ching to spare. 
But in the three games in Three Rivers Stadium, it was Pitt­sburgh pitching that tumbled the Orioles, the three-time American League champions who were 2-to­1 favorites to repeat in the series. 
On Tuesday, the Orioles made only three hits off Steve Blass; 




,~.. 

,,-.. 
--~ 
1 Ever ~ 1'wonder' 
what ' 


I k•• \
1 s ung 1 

1 1
is all 

: about? : 
I 
Yamaha will pay ycur liut day'' rental 
I 
of skis and palet to ~I.' I you start~td I 

I 
I llt>rr·s ;<lllr cl~t··•' to f,·d • 1 "·W {l't!OI I so "!l rnl' J ,. 't'n· ul., pn,s l.r ore da\ 's rn·•olol!.> ~nntll' ~.~ft.,,.,. ~lP'' ,ou 
I 
Bring in this ad and gel all the details. 

I  ~~  I  
I  I  
I  '  I  
:  :  






LEATHER LTD. 
has changed... custom leather· jeans ·sandals 
~ocs·boots·potfery 
118 south main featuring M•lejeans 
Wednesday, they made only four, 
with Bruce Kison and Dave 
Giusti overpowering them in 
l'ight innings of relief; and 
Thursday afternoon, they netted 
two singles. For three games, the 
O's totaled eight singles and one 
home run. 
In fact, for three games in Pittsburgh, the Orioles were powerless and they were the only three games they have lost in almost a month. They were checked by Mickey Lolich of the Detroit Tigers on Sept. 8, then won 16 straight before en­countering the Pirates' pitching staff, whose demise apparently had been exaggerated. 
"I'm sitting here," said Earl 
Weaver, the manager of the 
Orioles," and I'm watching 
Pittsburgh play the kind of ball 
we played all year." 
"I'm not surprised," said Danny Murtaugh, the manager of the Pirates, trying to keep a straight face. "After all, it's the same pitching that we had while winning the National League pennant." 
"It's been a long two years for me," said Briles, who was traded to Pittsburgh by St. Loiuis after he had won only six games for the Cardinals in 1970. "This one meant the most to me, and the key to it was my ability to throw most of my pitches over the plate consistently.'' 
Briles, who won only eight games for Pittsburgh this season 
and who pitched only four completed games, had plenty of help today before 51,377 cheering fans. 
Bob Robertson hit a home run over the center-field fence in the second inning, his sixth in post­season play and his second of the Series. 
Roberto Clemente drove in a run in the fifth with his ninth hit of the series, and Briles singled home a run for himself in the second, when the Pirates took a two-run lead that was never shaken. It was the first time in two weeks that Briles had pitched in a game, and he lasted only three innings then because of a knee injury. 
' 
He also was supposed to start the third playoff game against San Francisco Giants last Tuesday, but strained a leg muscle while warming up and was scratched, so when he went to work Thur­sday afternoon, he was ranked the fifth or sixth starter on a team with five or startters, none eminent. 
But two hours and 16 minutes later, the right-hander was pre­eminent in a town that has been thirsting for a world Series title since the Pirates defeated the New York Yankees in 1960. 
He retired five batters at the start, then gave up a single to Brooks Robinson. He retired seven more, then walked Elrod Hendricks, who immediately was wiped out in a double play. He got the next five, then Boog Powell singled and was knocked off in a double play. He retired five more, walked Don Buford in the ninth and then got Paul Blair on a grounder to end the game. 
The Pirates, meanwhile, went to work early on McNally, who had four full days of rest since beating then in the opener Saturday. 
Robertson,who hit 26 home runs before Aug. 25 and then none until the playoff, bombed the first pitch of the second inning 400 feet to center field and it was 1-0, Pittsburgh. 
Manny Sanguillen followed with a single to center, then stole second base while Jose Pagan was striking out. He waited there while Jack Hernandez was striking out, and scored on a single to center by Briles, who hit .256 this season with one home run. 
In the third inning,Gene Clines opened with a walk, took second while Mark Belanger was throwing out Clemente, took third on an error by Brooks Robinson and scored on a wild pitch by 
McNally.  The error  was  the  
ninth  in  five  games  by  the  
Orioles.  


Harriers top Valpo 
Led by Jeff Eichner's first­place finish, the Note Dame cross country team defeated 

-1 

Valparaiso, 22-39, in a dual meet 
yeasterday afternoon on the 
Burke Memorial course. 

The Irish placed five runners in 
•
the top seven finishers to defeat 
the Crusaders with ease. 

Eichner covered the 2.5 mile course in 25:09.9, just over three seconds faster than runner-up, Gary Schroeder, of Valparaiso. Notre Dame's Pat Holleran captured third place with a time of 25: 15 while the Crusader's Robert Pronczak place fourth. 
The the Crusader's Robert Fronczak place fourth. 
~ ,..... '~.

The Irish harriers decided the meet by annexing the fifth, sixth and seventh spots. Gene Mercer, Marty Hill and Mike Gahagan finished in that order behind Fronczak to give Notre Dame the victory. 
Irish runners also took the eighth and ninth spots, as Dave Bell al)d Rick Caron beat Valpo's third scorer to the finish. The Crusaders had to settle for the 10th, 11th, and 12th positions, raising their score to 39. 
The victory left the Irish cross Jerr Eichner country team, coached by Alex 
diana and Western Michigan at 4 
Wilson, with a 4-2 record this fall. on the Memorial
p.m. Burke They will be in action again next 

course. 

Friday, taking on powerful In-Joe Kuharich, who was head 
John L. Marks has the best coach at Notre Dame from 1959 winning percentage of any Notre through 1962, is the only coach to Dame football coach. The have a losing record while Fighting Irish rolled to a 13-0-2 directing the Irish football for• record under Marks' tutelase in tunes. His teams won 17 and lost .. 
23. 

In the fifth, Clines led with a triple over Blair's head in center field and, on the next pitch, Clemente ripped a single through the mound for a 4-0 lead. 
It was the ninth hit for the 37­year-old Puerto Rican, who batted .341 in his 17th season with the Pirates this summer, and it was the 12th consecutive World Series game in which he had hit, going back to 1960. The Series record for hits is 13 by Bobby Richardson of the and Lou Brock othe Cardinals, and for hits in consecutive. games it's 17 by • Hank Bauer of the Yankees. 
Clemente's single also knocked McNally out of the game in favor of Dave Leonard. 
Things were going so poorly for the Orioles that they even lost the only argument of the game. 
Hernandez  took a pitch  to  the  
hand  from  Tom  Dukes  in  the  
sixth and Weaver  argued  

that the ball had struck the bat. But even that contest went against the Birds on an af­ternooon when everything also went against them, too. By the end of the ninth, the Orioles had • gone 17 innings without scoring. They rushed to a 3-0 lead in the first inning Wednesday night but after that fell silent. Worse, their pitchers stopped pitching and their fielders often stopped fielding. 
They were left with the strange consolation that the series was returning to Baltimore, and so far the home team has won every game. But even their own manager, Weaver, discounted that factor, saying: 
"There's nothing about either home field that I know would give an advantage to anybody." 
"I don't know of any advan­tages," Murtaugh remarked, "but it sure turned the Series around for us here. Still, it shouldn't make any difference for professionals." 
----------------------------------__.,... the 1911 and 1912 seasons. 


---------~--­
r~------~ 
l 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Friday, October 15, 1971 
Unbeaten Irish face Tar Heels 
His running mates, fullback The Irish certainly aren't
by Jim Donaldson Gatewood is the top Notre Dame
Geoff Hamlin and wingback taking the Tar Heels for granted. 
Sports Editor rPceiver to date with 12 recep­
Lewis Jolley, can also lug the Head coach Ara Parseghian
Sophomore Cliff Brown will get tions while Bobby Minnix and
pigskin. Hamlin has gained 300 remarked ealier this week that,
his first chance at the starting Andy Huff battle for the club
yards in five games and sports a "North Carolina is a fine team.
quarterback job and the Notre rushing lead with 169 and 160
4.6 average per rush will Jolley They move the ball well and play 
Dame defense will be trying to yards, respectively.
has an 8.3 rushing mark, picking good sound football."
extend their string of ten con­The Irish forte this season has 
up 187 yards in 22 carries. Commenting on the strengths
secutive scoreless quarers when been a tremendous defense.
Left -handed quarterback Paul of the Tar Heels, Parseghian
the undefeated Fighting Irish Notre Dame is strong in all
Miller runs the Tar Heel attack. said, "They're a good running
take on the once-beaten North phases of defensive play,
He has thrown for five touch­team and, defensively, they're
Carolina Tar Heels Saturday possessing a big, mobile front
downs in the '71 campaign, tough against what we do well­
afternoon in Notre Dame four, a reliable set of linebackers
although his completion per­run. Tulane was able to
Stadium. who can stop both the run and 
centage is .471. His favorite penetrate their pass defense with pass, and a veteran secondaryBoth the Irish and the Tarheel targets are Jolley, who has 15 four touchdown passes but our that has been tough on opposingpossess similar strengths. Each receptions and three touchdowns, passing game hasn't been as passers..
"'" boasts a tough defense and a and tight end, John Cowell, who's good as we'd like". 
Notre Dame is ranked secondstrong running game. 
caught 12 passes. Etter had connected on 16 of 26 nationally in rushing defense,Coach Bill Dooley brings his The Tar Heel backfield is as passes for 131 yards but is now 
North Carolina to allowing just 59.2 yards per game
squad South good as any the Irish have faced lost to the Irish for the remainder or 1.6 yards per rush. The IrishBend with a 4-1 record. The Tar this season, but the front line is of the season after undergoing are also among the top five in
Heels won their first four games, not so solid. Coach Dooley lost knee surgery Monday. His scoring defense, allowing justIllinois, showed
beating Richmond, all seven starters from his '70 replacement, Brown, I 4 points per game.
Maryland, and North Carolina squad, and had to perform a potential as a passer during his It appears that the defense will State, before .being upset by massive rebuilding job. freshman year, completing 42 of have to provide the impetus forTulane, 37-29 last weekend. By contrast, the Tar Heels have 98 attempts for 471 yards, but he 
Notre Dame is 4-o at present, Notre Dame's fifth victory.
a veteran defensive unit. Eight of has thrown just 10 times this they can stop the running of If 
owning victories over Nor­the starters on last season's season, completing four, for 38 Oglesby and company, as theythwestern, Purdue, Michigan Atlantic Coast Conference yards, although he has had three have stopped the other standoutState, and Miami (Fla.). passes intercepted.
leading defensive team are in backs they've faced this season,
Brown who came off the bench action again this fall. John Parseghian said that he was the Tar Heel attack should be
to repla~e the injured Bill Etter Bunting, a senior linebacker, "rather pleased" with Brown's quarterback tomorrow afternoon pffectively contained and some of .. in the second quarter of a leads the Carolina defensive crew performance against Miami. week prior to the game," Par­the pressures will be taken off
scoreless game with Miami last which, until the Tulane game last "Overall, as a sophomore in a seghian explained. "He per­Brown. The Carolina secondaryweekend, directed Notre Dame Saturday, had yielded just 21 crucial game for the first time, formed admirably, as far as I'm has shown itself to be vulnerable, 
on second half touchdown drives points in its first four games. The I thought he did a great job," the concerned." so if Brown is on target, the Irish 
of 66 and 68 yards as the Irish Irish coach related.
Tar Heels secondary fell apart Brown's backup, junior Pat may hit the 20-point mark for the
beat the Hurricanes, 17-0. His "I went with him against
against the Green Wave, Steenberge, has completed just second time this season.
performance in the Orange Bowl Miami because he had a good
however, giving up four touch­13 of 43 attempts but has thrown As Parseghian remarked,established him as the number down passes in the first half of the only Irish TD toss of the "We'll have another great game
one quarterback for tomorrow's play. 
campaign. this weekend." Kickoff time is
Happy B'day!
game. Dooley and his Tar Heels have All-American split end Tom 1:30 Saturday.And, while Brown and the a healthy respect for the Irish, offense were putting points on and well they should, because, 
Jim Donaldson=::::::::::::::z:::::::::::======================================:=============:===========:
Yl 
~ 
the scoreboard, last Saturday, in the previous 14 meetings c:r 
the Irish defense was making between the two schools, Notre 3 
..... 
sure that the Hurricanes didn't do Dame has won 13 times, the last rD \ The Irish Eye
likewise. Notre Dame recorded Irish victory coming in their most 0.. 
c:r
recent meeting with the Tars, by "'\.
its first shutout of the season at 
'< 
the expense of the 'Canes, who a 32-0 score in 1966. ;. ,._ :=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::£o o t ball Picks 
had come into the game "Notre Dame is the most (1) Every weekend provides its share of excitement on the college
'-"
averaging over 400 yards in total physical college team I have ever football scene and the upcoming one is no exception. This Saturday's offense and 26 points per game. seen," Dooley commented. 3 collegiate slate lists a goodly number of important games, bearing onThe last opponent to cross the "They have awesome strength, ~ Yl :-:" both conference standings and national rankings.
both offensively and defen­(1)
Irish goal line was Purdue's Otis ..... 
sively." (1) Big Eight powers Colorado and Oklahoma meet in Norman,
Armstrong, who went in for a ...,
(1) Southern Cal and Stanford clash in a key Pacific Eight encounter,touchdown in the second quarter "This is a great challenge for <Jl Syracuse challenges Penn State for Eastern supremacy, the Air Force of the the Boilermaker's 8-7 loss our men, " Dooley continued. 
Academy and the Army fight an inter-service battle, traditional rivals to Notre Dame three weeks ago. "We are looking forward to the Auburn and Georgia Tech play in Atlanta, arch-rivals Texas andopportunity of playing a team Who'd of dreamed this little guy 
North Carolina will try and Arkansas collide in a game that will probably decide the Southwest
with as much personel and as would play tight end for Notre 
crack the Irish defense with a well coached as Conference championship and, one on the home front, the undefeated 
Notre Dame." Dame?
powerful running attack, led by Fighting Irish host once-beaten North Carolina. 
junior halfback Ike Oglesby. Here's the way the Irish Eye sees this weekend's games: 
ND cagers begin practice 
Although Don McCauley, who Notre Dame over North Carolina---None of the Tar Heels have ever gained 1720 yards to set an NCAA Notre Dame's new basketball through s1x weeKs 01 extensive played in Notre Dame Stadium. If the Notre Dame mystique doesn't rushing record last season, is coach, Dick (Digger) Phelps, will drills prior to the opening game awe them, the Irish defense surely will. gone, the Tar Heels can still grind greet one of the youngest Irish against Michigan on December I Air Force Academy over Army ---The Falcons ought to claw the 
• it out on the ground. Cadets.
teams in history when pre-season in the ACC. 
Oglesby did a fine job last year practice opens today. And the Michigan opener is Michigan over Illinois --It looks like another romp for the Wolverines.
while acting as McCauley's The Irish, 20-9 a year ago while just a start for the Irish, who face understudy, gaining 562 yards participating in their third what is considered the most Alabama over Tennessee ---Bear Bryant has the Tide primed for this one.
and scoring six touchdowns, and straight NCAA tournament, will rugged schedule in the country. 
this year he's looking even better. have no seniors and just one "It's hard for me to say Penn State over Syracuse ---The Nittany Lions are the class of the Although he sat out the Tulane letterman returning. anything at this point since I've East but they'll have to prove it to the Orangemen. game last Saturday with leg Phelps, who guided Fordham never spent any time with the L.S.U. over Kentucky ---The Tigers should record their fifth straight win.
cramps, Oglesby has carried 1124 to a brilliant 26-3 record a year players," said Pelps, adding, times this fall for 491 yards, a 4.3 ago in his first campaign as a "but I'll find out real quick once Oklahoma over Colorado--This is going to be a real battle but, since the clubs meet in Norman, the edge will have to go to the Sooners. 
average, and six touchdowns. head coach, will send his team practice starts." 
Missing from the 1971-72 cast Northwestern over Purdue ---The Boilermakers won't be able to will be All-american Austin compensate for the loss of injured quarterback Gary Danielson. Carr ,last year's College Player of Auburn over Georgia Tech --Pat Sullivan, Terry Beasley and the Year (37.9 ppg. ), Collis Jones company can handle the Yellowjackets. <23.1), Sid Catlett(9.8), John Nebraska over Kansas---Despite what the folks in Oklahoma say, Pleick (7.8), Tom Sinnott(3.2) as of now the Cornhuskers are number one. and Jackie Meehan <:J.5l. Tulane over Pittsburgh ---The Green Wave has been both a breaker 
Senior forward Doug Gemmell, and a ripple this fall and it'd be swell if they could beat the Panthers. the 1971-72 captain, suffered a Ohio State over Indiana ---The Buckeyes are hampered by injuries fractured leg during a motor­but they can limp past the hapless Hoosiers. cycle accident this past summer Miami over Navy ---The Hurricanes ought to make the Middies 
seasick.

and will probably miss the entire 
season. Southern Cal over Stanford---It's hard to bet against John McKay This leaves 5-11 junior guard and the Trojans, despite their 2-3 record. John Egart as the lone letterman 
Upset of the Week:

returning this year. 
Phelps will be working with a Arkansas over Texas ---I may be pushing my luck after three promising group of sophomores straight Upset of the Week picks but it looks like the Razorbacks are ripe for revenge. Sooey Hogs! 
that includes 6-8 John Shumate, 
who averaged 22.4 ppg. with the 
frosh last year. Two other 
Last Week: 12of15 .800 Season'sPct.: 55of75 .733 sophomores, 6-7 Gary Novak and 6-6 Tom O'Mara, averaged 
17.4 and 16.1 while guard Hob Valibus averaged 11.7 
Juniors Jim Regelan (6-8) and Don Silinski (6-4) also saw limited action with the varsity a 
year ago. 
Cliff Brown is slated to start at 







