
Vol. V, No. 78 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt Mary's College Community 
Mooney, Miss Barlow announce candidacies 
Mooney said that he and Miss student affairs. He hopes that
By Kevin McGill 
Barlow, both previously active in the apathy on the campuses Kathy Barlow and Don Moon­student government, have been would end. 
ey announced last night in Far­working together on their plans "We run in affiliation now," ley Hall, their joint candidacies tor about a week. While their Mooney said, "we merge student for the presidencies of the Stu­campaign will deal seperately government immediately and get dent Bodies of Saint Mary's and with the specific problems u­people to start working as a 
Notre Dame. Missy Underman nique to each campus, they both unified Student Body. Hopeful­and Dan Sherry will run with will seek a unified Student Body ly, the result will be one, active, _ them for the Vice-Presidential
Don Mooney and increased student involve­(Continued on Page 3) Kathy Barlow 
offices. 
ment in campus affairs. "We feel," said Miss Barlow, "that our experience, when com­
bined with an involved and unified student body will pro­duce a campus wl.ich is more natural, more liveable while 


Sen. Church Motions made 
asks waiver for assembly
we're here. That's important. Long range programs are good in 

By John Powers discretion of the Student Body
their own way -but we want to 

President.
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Sena­is planning to offer a resolution improve things now,. this year." The General Assembly of Stu­ID cards are necessary to betor Frank Church, (D.-Idaho), that would set total withdrawal "Our running in affiliation is dents will begin tomorrow night eligible in the voting, which willyesterday urged fellow Senate from Vietnam as the national the first part of a program to at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center with be conducted by hall presidentsdoves to abandon efforts to legi­purpose of the United States, combine the structures of stu­a number of proposals submitted or another person appointed byslate a deadline for President without suggesting a fixed date. dent government -a step toward to Student Government. 
the hall. A vote will be taken atNixon to withdraw all U.S. The McGovern-Hatfield a­unifying the Notre Dame-St. As of Sunday night, proposals the discretion of 10% of the
troops from Southeast Asia. In­mendment -now known as the Mary's community," Mooney ranging from a request for the stead, he called for a resolution "Vietnam Disengagement Act" said. resignation of head basketball eligible voters or the Student setting total withdrawal as a -was rejected by the Senate In particular, they plan to coach Johnny Dee to a proposal Body President. 
Seven proposals were received
national goal. 55 -39 last year and also was unite Saint Mary's Student Ser­for the reintroduction of the Church said he still supportea overhwelmingly defeated in the vices and Notre Dame's Student Honor Code have been received. by Sunday night and more are 
the McGovern-Hatfield Union well the All at now being written and submit­
amend­House. But Senators George as as student undergraduates Notre 
ment to impose a December 31, McGovern,(D . .S.D.), and Mark government cabinets, which Dame and St. Mary's will be ted. A Flanner-Regina Hall coed­1971, deadline as a "gesture" of 0. Hatfield (R.-Ore.),have vowed means that all student commis­eligible to participate and vote at ucation proposal has been re­how the Senate feels about the they will try again at the first sions will be under joint leader­the meeting. ceived as well as two proposals war. But he said it stood no opportunity this year in the ship. The Assembly will be con­regarding faculty tenure, a pro­chance of becoming law, since wake of the new allied offensive But, Mooney added, "we will vened by SBP Dave Krashf\a. posal requesting the resignation the House overwhelmingly op­inside Laos. work to insure that the people Students will sit in hall-assigned of basketball coach Johnny Dee, poses it and the President would Church said he felt critics of are more important than any sections with proposals read and a proposal for the reintro­veto it even if both houses pass the war were achieving their structure of student govern­from a main microphone at the duction of the Honor Code. Oth­it. er proposals concerned student
ment." chair.
main goal -the withdrawal of 

"Now, in recognition of the He mentioned that After the proposal is read, the privacy, rights in regard to entry
the onlyAmerican forces. He said a com­

realities, I think that we ought functions of past governments speaker will have time to defend and confiscation of property,
mitment should be made now,

not focus any more on trying to have been administrative and it. Four microphones on the and minority ' recruitment and
that the withdrawal of American 

impose an end date, a final date, troops takes precedence. have not been closely involved floor will be placed at intervals funding. Proposals are still being on the President, trying to legi­eith the students. Nor have stu­and assigned to halls so that accepted by Bob Meyers at 6805
"How much more can one or Pat Molinaro at 7668.

slate an end date," he told UPI dents been closely involved with students may speak for or a­
country do for another?" he

in a "Washington Windvw" in­their government, according to gainst a proposal, with speaking A set of twelve rules has been 
asked. "We've been there five drawn up for the Assembly toterview. Mooney. After elections the time limited to five minutes. No

years substituting our army for allow for the most order with a"I think we should rather students inactively await the one is permitted to debate a

theirs to fight their war. We've relaxed format. Every imagin­recognize that that isn't going to promises made during the elec­point from the chair, not even

given them every possible susten­able reaction to the events haswork. And I would prefer to call tions to be fulfilled by those in the chairman.

ance. We've financed the whole been covered by the rules, inclu­upon the President to negotiate office. If the Student Body President 

government. We've given them ding point~ of personal privilege, a final date for the completion He said that in their proposed wishes to speak, he must go to

all the food, the medicine, the which state that "permission toof the withdrawal of troops." government, structure would not the microphone assigned to his

supplies, the guns, and ammuni­use need

Church, the cosponsor of the be important, and many more hall. There will be time for sanitary facilities not
tion, the material ... We've lnst be requested by the chair, not be1970 Cooper Church amend­people would be involved not amendment to the proposals,

50,000 Americans and it's debated on the floor."

ment banning American ground only in government affairs but in and closure debate is at the
er~oug;J. "' on combat troops from Cambodia, 
New Yorlr 'Not satisfied' 11ft by • ..,.,. says Train 
(UPI) -A massive wi.P ·~r 

WASHINGTON {UPI) -The
storm hit the northeast Sunday, chairman of the President'sbringing rain and snow that im­Council on Environmental Quali­mobilized portions of New York ty said Sunday his agency isState. 

"not satisfied completely" withThe storm dumped up to a the itlea of building an oil pipe­foot of snow from the Virginia line across Alaska.
highlands to western New York Russel Train said the councilState. Six inches of new snow will try to get answers to several

fell at Dubois, Pa: Several counties in western 

questions about the trans-Alaska pipeline proposal at hearingsand central New York State here this week and the followingwere immobilized for the second week in Alaska.
consecutive day. Winds up to 25 "There are obviously somemiles per hour churned the light areas in which we need bettersnow into blinding clouds and answers than have been present­

drifted roads full as fast as they ed so far," Train said. 
could be plowed out. A 134 mile stretch of New 

"Before we go ahead with the York State thurway was closed pipeline l think we must be overnight between Buffalo and satisfied that pipeline represents Syracuse. Many other highways the best alternative available to in western New York counties us. I think at this point we are remained close. not satisfied completely .• 



THE OBSERJJER. Monday, February 15, 1971
Page 2 


Students, alumni brought together through Relations Board projects 
By Tim Burke 

The creation of the Stu­dent-Alumni Relations Board has opened the way for new channels of communication be­tween the two groups. This or­ganization, which is currnetly in its third year of operation, spon­sors student trips to the various Notre Dame Alumni clubs throughout the nation. 
The program was begun in I 968 under the leadership of James D . Cooney, AI umni As­sociation Secretary, and Mike Jordan, Assistant Director of the Alumni Association. According to Jordan, the Board was organi­zed because "we felt that there was a great need of increasing understanding between alumni and students." 
"1 heir goal is to reach as many of the 46,000 NO alumni as possible in order "to fill what we ;onsider to be a void of sorts." "I personally don't feel that nost students have ever consid­ered the status of being an alumni while still a student", Jordan explained. 
The Alumni office at Notre Dame organized the grou;>s' schedule, but the local dubs invite the students to come and speak and make all the necessary arrangements. Usually the stu­dents on the Board get a chance to meet most of the alumni on a personal basis at these meetings. 
Each student is invited to give a brief talk "on an area that most interests him." "These usu­ally cover most of the different aspects of student life at Notre Dame" said Jordan. 
Coeducation, hall life, religi­ous atmosphere of the Universi­ty, racism, and drugs on campus are some of the more common topics that have been brought up for discussion. Student responsi­bility and self-government are also of great interest to most alumni. "Discussions such as,, these are quite effective in creat­ing a great amount of mutual understanding and mutual re­spect" Jordan addtd. 
instrume,1ta! in allowing students to develop a better and more accurate view of the alumni. Students quickly find as "many divergent points of View in the alumni as in the student body," Jordan said. 
"They have found that diver­sity is there. Every alumnus is not a beer-drinking, raccoon coat-wearing, football fan" Jor­dan commented At the alumni meetings "stereo-types go right ':,at the window." 
The educational spirit of these encounters is a mutual one em-we are working with a limited number of students." 

He also sensed a "certain re­luctance on the part of the alumni to acct:pt these students as being rcpersentative of the average NO student." 
0bserv1!r Insight 

Currently there are I 0 seniors, 6 juniors and 2 sophomores ser­ving on the Relations Board. The number of students was increaed two weeks ago, when the Alum­ni office 1nvited a group of students to come up for inter­views. These interviews were bers for the Board were selected. Previously, the Relations Board consisted entirely of seniors. 

Once selected, the members devote a great deal of their own time to Board meetings and ex­cursions. "The students sacrifice both their time and their studies in this effort" Jordan explained. 
In choosing students to fill these positions "the greatest consideration is diversity in viewpoints and life-styles" Jor­dan commented. "We seek a cross-section of opinion,political, social, or what­ever." The students selected are 
"compatible,  but  not  carbon  
copies of one another."  
On  Tuesday  through  Thurs­ 

day of this week, four members of the Student-Alumni Relations Board will be visiting three local clubs in the area -Indianapolis, 
Indiana; Cincinatti, Ohio; and Dayton, Ohio. The meeting will include the presentation of the film Shake up the Echoes which was taken from the NBC First Tuesday program last December, which featrued "non-violent change at Notre Dame,'' The Alumni Association has five copies of the film, which are ava ita ble to interested student groups. 
Following the film, each stu­
dent will make "a brief present­ation on a couple of particular aspects of tucent life" Jordan stated. The students who will be attending this week's trip are seniors Mike Hawes, a pre-med student, and Ed Davey, who is a RA in Farley hall; junior Tim Feeley, who is Breen-Phillips Hall President. Also in attend­ance will be Tim Hughes, who is editor of Alummrs magazine, and a 1961 graduate of Notre Dame. 
Two other ewnts that the Relations Board nnually parti­cipates in are the Area Alumni Senate Meetings, which are held nation-wide in the Fall, and the National Alumni Senate Meeting which is held in the Spring here at Notre Dame. 
This ye:tr's meeting will be held on April 28 and 29 and May I, and will inc! ude represen­tatives from most of the 120 Notre Dame alumni dubs. Jor­dan said that the Student-Alum­ni R·lations Board will "put together their agenda in the month preceding the meeting." 
Aside from visiting with Alumni, the Board also assem­bles its ,>wn members about once a month to discuss and appraise the program. The mem­bers attempt to look at the alumni from all possible view­points. Jordan warned against making hasty and g~neralized conclusions. "Students shouldn't let distressing comments be the sole determining factor." 
The general consessus is that the ·program has been successful in its goal of promoting better relations between students and alumni. Mike Jorda'1 feels that the alumni have accepted the 
program "very favorably", but he added "I am looking forward to the day when we won't need to have a Student-Alumni Rela­tions Board." 

Do you desire to live off-campus? Now taking reservations for Sept. I, 
1971. Nine month lease, accomodations for four 0r five to an apartment. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Monday, February 15. 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 3 
GSU: helping to fill a void at ND 
By John Gallogly 

The Graduate Student Union was created approximatley one and one half years ago. At the time there were a number of graduate students in the areas of English, Government and His­tory who were not at all sure of their place in this University. 
To fill this void they created a union. Their first president was Jim King. His job was to try to set up the GSU into some kind of workable organization. His successor is Bill Lorimer. He has been President for almost a year. 
The Graduate Student Coun­cil is the governing body of GSU, with members selected from <.!11 departments of graduate study at the University. At a recent Council meeting, Bill Lor­imer explained his theory of what a university should be. 
"It must be like a coffee perculator," Lorimer said. "The 
grounds must rise from the bot­
tom, and while passing through 
the water infect it with their t1avor, until the whole mixture has the same taste." 

In a like manner, he said, ideas in a university must be passed along from the under­graduates, graduates, and faculty to the administration, cycling back and forth until the correct blend is reached. 
He found, however, that at ND there was no interchange of ideas. There was no communica­tion among levels: "The young T A's and non-tenured professors never speak to tenured profes­sors." (Interestingly, another person who expressed this opin­ion was Carl Estabrook. He termed the problem one of "stratification.") 
Lorimer also found that there was a larger problem in that no one knows who is in charge of what, creating confusion in all minds. 
Lorimer spent the past year as 
president struggling with both 
problems, and has attained an 
impressive record of achieve­
ment in both areas. 

CalifOrnia begins recovery 
L.OS ANCELES (UP!) -­The dead were all 

•.ounted yesterday but the dam­age was still being tolled in the aftermath of Southern Californi­a's devastating earthquake. 
l\1o.;t residents heeded the ad­vice of the California Highway Patrol not to clog crippled free­ways and spe1.t the long holiday weekend at home, making re­pairs and assessing the damage. 
Light, nondamaging after shocks were felt at infrequent intervals in the fifth day after the original jolt. The strongest Sunday morning registered 3.7 on the Caltech Pasadena seismo­graph at 5:44a.m. PST. 
The Red Cross reported to the federal office of Emergency Pre­paredness that preliminary sur­veys indicated about 80,000 families suffered some type of loss in Tuesday's temblor. 
Eighty four homes were de­stroyed, and 750 others severely damaged, with 2,360 sustaining minor damage, the report said. 
Eighty four businesses were destroyed, 177 suffered major damage and 175 minor damage. 
Eighteen multiple family dwellings w·:re badly damaged and 20 others had minor dam­age, affecting 5 16 families. 
There was minor damage re­ported to I ,740 mobile homes, major damage to SO others, and two trailer homes were destroyed. 
Jq the 20squarcmilesevacua­tion area below the Van Norman d:.tm, residents were back home ,,fter being forced to sleep in cars, tents, and gymnasium floors for three nights when it appear­ed the reservoir might burst due to fissures caused by the quke. 
The Small Business Admin­stration is offering 5 .12'fc, inter­est loans over a 30 yer period to hard hit property owners -but it's only a loan. The financial burden of the quake is one the homeowner eventually will have to bear alone. 
Rescuers at the San Fernando 
Veterans Hospital Saturday un­
earthed the body of the last 
Oil boycott threat ends 
TEHRAN( UP!) -The wes­tern world's oil crisis ended yes­terday with oil companies agree­ing to pay Persian Gulf nations billion.~ of dollars more to end the threat of a boycott that could have crippled industries of western Eu~ope and Japan. 
The five year settlement, end­ing 27 days of tough and tena­cious negotiating, will cost the 23 companies, 17 of them Amer­ican, a total of $1.2 billion this year al01\e. By l 97 5, when the agreements expires, the total 
C.ndldllfes malteplans 
(Co.c1finued from Page 1) 
progressive community of people." 
The specifics of their platform will be brought out next Sunday when they can start campaigning at Notre Dame, but Mooney pointed out that they weren't going to promise to do things for the students but that they would stress student involvement. 

He said that he was discourag­ed at the short length of the Notre Dame campaign period, but that he and Miss Barlow will try to talk to as many people as possible in that time. The two groups plan to help in each other's campaign. Kathy Eglet and Jack Candon are the cam­paign managers. 
Observer Insight 

The GS U is the first non-Uni­versity engendered organization to be officially recognized by the University. This ex-officio recognition was demonstrated when the University granted the 

Bill .Lorimer 

GSU a seat on the Academic Council and two seats on· the newly formed Graduate Council. Furthermore, it was recognized 
cost to the companies will have risen to $3 billion. 
"We received in full what we agreed we wanted," said Iranian Finance Minister Jamshid Amu­zegar, who negotiated on behalf of Iran, Kuwait, Iraq, Saudi Ara­bia, Qatar and Abu Dhabi. 
The agreement, by revision of the tariff and royalties sche­dules, increased the cost of crude oil to the companies by 28 cents a barrel, to $1 .25. 
The six countries clustered in and around the Persian Gulf produce 14 million barrels of oil a day, more than half of the total exports available to the non-Communist worl. 
To consumers in western Eur­ope, Japan, and to a Jesser de­gree, the United States, the a­greement means they will pay slightly more for gasoline, kero­sene, Diesel oil and heating oils.The oil companies have said new price increases were inevita­ble. 
Companies received guaran::_ tees the six Gulf states will not demand more money from the companies for five years, regard­less of any claims from other producer countries. 
Amuzegar said the companies also received assurance that the Gulf States will not reduce or by the Board of Trustees when they appointed a member of the Graduate School Council to its Search Committee for a new Vice-President of Graduate Stud­ies, in an advisory capacity. 
cut  off the  flow  of oil in  the  
event  of  a  boycott  by  other  
producers.  

To promote mixing among graduate students, sports leagues and social gatherings have been held. The latter has consisted of parties and lectures. (Brother Gabriel has given a lecture on the medieval student, and the GSU is planning a symposium on the worth of a graduate school at ND.) 
The GSC has also been trying to help its members with practic­al solutions to the monetary problems which burden many 
gradute students. A pay raise was instituted last year for T A's, andthisyear they have concentra­ted on two group insurance pro­grams. 
These programs, health and life insurance, are being offered to graduate students and their families at inexpensive rate. (The health plan boasts lower rates 
persons l;nown to be missing the facility where 44 died. A 23­year-old dietetic worker, Lucille Nicassi~ was found huddled in 
the kitchen. Her death brought the known death total to 62. 
California's population was re­duced by at least four others because of the quake. 
Marge Preuss, 28, and her three children flew to Detroit less than 12 hours after the temblor, telling the airline clerk, "I don't care if I never see southern -California again. It doesn't make sense to Jive in an area where in 60 seconds every­thing you've ever worked for could be wiped out." 

ror full price shows some .'1;4.50 and $2.50 tix remah 
Uh:count tickets must be purchased at ACC box office. 
than the campus Blue Cross 
·plan, while the lfe insurance plan was specifically created for ND. At present, such Universities as Michigan State are interested in it for their graduate students.} 
A book Co-op was started for 
(Continued on page 8) 

designed by Donald Claflin. Rings start at 5:;29q. 

DFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 ·ZIP: 60611 
Design Copyrighted 1971, T.&Co. 

TIME IS RUNNING OUT. • • 
jar application to the 
Air Force ROTC 2-year program. 
ifyou (Ire -interested in flying -in good academic standing -physically qualified 
then contact the 
Department of Aerospace Studies ROTC Bldg. 283-6635 But hurry! Time Is runnln8 out. 
THE OBSERVER.

Page 4 .Monday, February 15. 1971 
~~----------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
John E. Knorr, Executive Editor Bruce Reick, Business Manager 
, A man who is good enou!/1 to shed his blood for his country is 
good enough to be given a square deal afterwards. More than that no 
man is entitled to, and less than that no man shall have ­
Theodore Roosevelt, 1903 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
From the Editors Desi 
Distortion 
The Notre Dame SBP race has started early this year with Don Mooney's announcement last night. The election looks to be an interesting one, with co-education and hall living the major issues. 
Last year's race was marred by accusations from several quarters that the Observer's coverage of the affair was biased in favor of one candidate. People complained that by putting one story over another or by making one p0rson's picture larger than another's we were showing favoritism. 
The polls were another bone of contention. Our reputation as a newspaper was 
never lower than the day the election results carne out exactly opposite what our 
poll predicted. 

Most of the criticsms were unfair. The size of pictures and the positions of stJries are decided by several factors; the amount of space available on the page, and the size of the story and other stories being the most important. 
The layout of the paper is determined by the night editor. There is one for each 
night and last year they were split in preferences for SBP. 
We did err, however, in the matter of the polls. The system devised was an imperfect one, which was further hampered by cheating on the part of several staff members. The cheating was not widespread, at worst only three of the fifteen people assigned to the polls doctred their results, but the net effect was enough to destroy an already rickety system. 
There were unfair and malicious tumors circulated about our handling of the polls 
however. One story had it that a member of our staff was personally re-polling every 
hall that did not come out in favor of his candidate. Needless to say this and other 
stories about the editors systematically doctoring the results were total nonsense. 
The cheating was confined to a few staff members. 
This year things will be different. Our very best reporters will be assigned to all the candidates. They will be provided with a list of questions to ask the hopefuls each and every day of the campaign. 
The poll will be done by an outside organization -who has not been determined yet. They will have no connection with the Observer. We will merely commission them to do the poJl adn report the results. 
Throughout the verbal barrages about our objectivity that were laid down last year one very important fact was ignored; our news coverage was fairer and more impartial than ever before. Persons who were on the staff under previous editors have recounted stories of articles that were either re-'vritten or cut so as to deliberately favor one candidate. Nothing like that went on last year, and after this year, hopefully, such incidents will be <:firn memories. 
There will probably be charges of Observer bias during the campaign: with a large segment of the student body at fever pitch during an election, people tend to read things into the most innocent of articles. 
The Observer can and will be impartial during the election. I, as editor, will personally confront and answer the charges of any person, accusing us of distorting election news. . 
The students at both campuses should keep one thing in mind before charging us with prejudice; we are students and few 9f us plan to go into journalism. We are doing the best job we can under the sometimes trying circumstances. 
Virtually none of us have any personal stake in getting one candidate or another elected. As interested students we do hold certain opinions and most of us will favor various candidates. None of us though have any intention of ramming our personal choice down the student body's throat by distorting the news. Even if we did it is clear that the student electorate will not allow itself to be dictated to by anyone. 
It is their right to do so and we will respect it. 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Night Editor: Don Ruane Treanor Headlines: Joe Abell Features Editor: Dave Lam­Layout: Steve Lazar, Glen Corso mers 
Controller of the Ni!tJt: rick smith Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
TedPrlee-----------------­Co-ed Living? 
--------------------------·
In the emotional reaction to the Park-Mayhew Report, certain elements around Our Lady's University have organized themselves into a vigilante posse in the form of the Student Government Coordinating Committee for CoEducation. They were spotted riding in Pangborn over the weekend, to thunder of hoof, flutter of cape and the cry of "Hi-Ho Coed, AWaayyy." 
It all start<:d early Saturday afternoon when several students came into the hall to poll the Pangborn people about their attitudes toward coeducation and the possibility of a women's residence on campus. One of them came by my room and asked if I would respond. When I told him that I was a senior graduating in May, he took his paper back and said that the questionaire didn't apply to me. Hall residents were a little confused by the whole thrust of the questionnaire and rumormongers had a field day. The most vicious of the rumors was confirmed early yesterday, 
with  the  appearance  of  a  flyer  which  read  something  like  
"Pangborn, a Women's  Do rm?  Hear  the  Proposal Tonigh t  at  
7: 15."  

The appo!inted hour having arrived, a Keenan resident, a Breen-Philips "pacesetter" (Do they still call themselves that?) and an individual of unknown domicile came to our chapel to tell us that our hall would make an ideal site for a coexchange women's hall to be filled with St. Mary's students. 
Great. If you don't live in Pangborn. But if you do, one tiny question lurks: With room registration already a itas . .,Je, where do !live'! In a tent on the quad? 
(Now this tiny question doesn't concern me personally, sim~e I won't be within a thousand miles of Pangborn next year. But I live in the hall now, and the vigilantses don't. And I saw what they didn't see, or didn't choose to see; a number of guys with the very bask question of shelter buzzing round their heads.) 
But if tlu:re 's one common characteristic of any vigilante group, it's thoroughness. And our vigilantes are thorough. 
"Well obviously if we bring SMC girls over here, there will be empty rooms over at SMC. These will probably be in Regina North, since most of the residents there want to move out anyway." 
That's encouraging. But if I'm to live at St. Mary's, I'll want to schedule most of my classes over there. What if I'm an Aero major? 
"Well, we don't propose to m"ve all the Pangborn people over there, for that very reason. We do propose to try and get those Pangborn residents who want them, rooms in Lyons, Fisher, and Morrissey." (Note that there has still been no mention of the vigilantes' own halls.) "We can't guarantee that you'll get equal room picks with them, or that you'll get a room at all with them, but don't worry, we'll work it our for you." 
Sure. Like the Klan worked it out for Goodman, Schwerner, and Chaney. But the fact still remains that if you move a hundred-sixty-odd SMC girls into Pangborn, a hundred-sixty-odd more Notre Dame students will have to find rooms off the NO campus. 
"Yeah. Well our figures show that 32% of all the on--campus NO students want to live in Regina North. We plan to have a lottery, weighted in favor of the Pangborn-Fisher, Lyons-VIomissey complex, to get the guys for Regina North." 
So if you want a room at all, you've got to go through the Emerit Moore Magic Hassle, And if you want a room in Regina North, you get to go through the aforementioned Magic Hassle, and the Coex Living Magic Hassle, and presumably through the Magic hassle across the road. Now for you ladies who may care to 
live in Pangborn, get in touch with your Housing Director (when they hire her), Coex Living People, and Mr. Moore's office. ln New Jersey the number to call is ... 
Over the past few years we've seen the Notre Dame administration, under the official opinion that it wants to go coed, vacillate in its course of action. One discarded idea was to set up a cluster--college affair by moving several already established women's schols here. Closest we came to that was the abortive Barat transaction my sophomore year. 
Now, the big idea is some sort of merger with St. Mary's. But St. Mary's officially feels that there is an SMC "identity" which would be tragically lost in a merger with Notre Dame. This view is warmly endorsed by those on both campuses who stand to suffer the tragic loss of their jobs in a merger. 
But if the administration has been operating with its blinders on regarding how we will go coed, the student rhetoric about simply going coed has been equally ludicrous. 
We've read in this publication that coeducation will solve a whole array of problems around here. Drinking, drugs and the incidence of self-abuse for starters. We've been told 'that the saddening death of a student on Notre Dame A venue a few weeks ago would never have happened if Notre o·ame were coed. Ann Marie Tracey, in her column on this page some weeks ago, said that non--coeducation was "fatal." Not "academically fatal" or ''intellectually fatal" but quite simply "fatal". So We'll ali die soon in this environment, eh? 
We all might be better off if we made ourselves aware of the fact that there are some problems coeducation simply will nr>t solve, and that there are prooably some new ones to come with it that we don't have now. We might all be better off if we realized that Notre Dame will probably be coed, somehow, itt two years, anyway and that no amount of temper tantrum will significantly accelerate the process. 
We might, finally, be all better off if students around here quit trying to te:ll their colleagues what's best for them, without being willing to change themselves. 
Because that's what's going to happen tomortow night. Students are going to be spoon fed the pablum proposals of the student bureaucrats and made to believe that these proposals constitute their exact wishes. 
·------------~-------------------------­
Monday. February 15, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 5 
A Crack in the Prison Walls 
By Steve Lazar Paul is twenty years old. He is tall and blonde and well-muscled. In high school he was given all-state honors in varsity football, and was also named to the honorary all-america team. Paul has had one semester of college, but right now he is neither attending classes or playing football. Paul is a prisoner at the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City. Like many other inmates Paul wants to continue hrs education. He wants to learn so badly that currently he's taking half a dozen correspondence courses from Indiana University. When his term is up Paul would like to come to Notre Dame to finish his education. He'd also like to play football for Ara, Parseghian. But among the prisoners at Michigan City, Paul is an exception. Nut all of them have his youth or his intelligence, nor do many of them have short sentences that promise freedom again in a few years. Not many at all. A good number don't even have a tenth grade education. And being in a prison certainly c!oesn't offer much hope of ever getting one. The situation in prisons like Michigan City is a pretty grim one. There is little money to be spent on education, mostly because "the people" still have the archaic notion that prisonersare somehow less human than they. But, as is even ·obvious, without compdent education the word rehabilita­tion is just a euphemism for punishment and neglect. This was the situation surveyed a little more than one year ago by a few members of Professor Robert Vasoli's criminology class. One of the students, Joe Gagliardi, had taken a field trip up to Michigan City and had returned determined to do something about the deplorable conditions there. Over the Christmas vacation he met with officials from Sing Sing prison near his home in New York ('ity. With them he discussed a plan that would p~rmit Notre Dame and St. Mary's students to tutor and conduct classes for the inmates at Michigan City. The officials were enthused about thcplan and urged him to contact the prison when '1e got back to Indiana. Joe did, and it wasn't long tmt il he and eight other Notre Dame students were llriving the forty five miles to Michigan City each week and having themselves locked up inside with the eager and inquisitive prisoners. So far the program has been a huge success. During the first semester this year students have taught classes in math, English reading music and social problems, and in the opening weeks of this semester Gagliardi has added two St. Mary's girls, Heather Tripucka and Frances Spinks, to teach elernentray math classes. According to Joe, the girls have "stolen the show" up at the prison, but an experiement tried just last week in which a Black Studies class is taught by grad student Bill Turner of the Sociology department and his friend Sy West of South Bend has met with more response than even the girls received. In order to let us see for ourselves how the program is going, Joe invited two of us from the Observer to come along with theWednesday night group of students on their trip up to the prison. We drove up in a tiny SAAB with Sy West who had been to the prison before and with Bill Turner who,like us, was making his first trip. Driving at dusk across the bleak Indiana land­scape was reminiscent of a ride I once had with a criminologist from Chicago who picked me up while I was hitching back to Notre Dame after Thanksgiving. The man's name was Steele, and he claimed to have worked with such famous prison­ers as Eldridge Cleaver, Johnny Cash and the Bird Man of Alcatraz. Even though his political views were conservative, at times almost reactionary, he did not hesitate to admit that the prison system in America is more than one hundred years out­dated. And that's something a person doesn't easily forget. Walking into the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City .brings to mind. the various incongruitities of the situation. The area through which you enter is not much different from the lounge of any high school or hospital. There is a man behind a desk, chairs in a waiting room and paintings done by members of the institution on the walls. In this lounge there is even a ten and a half foot model of the battleshiip USS Indiana built over a four year period by one of the inmates. But along with all t'1is institutional familiartiy there comes the cold kil0wledge that beyond this room lie forty-foot stone walls, search lights and who knows what manner of automatic weapons, all designed to keep this institution running the way such. institutions have come to be run. There is also the irony of the series of pictures stepped diagonally down the wall-Richard M. Nixon, Governor Edgar D Whit­comb,-Warden Russell Lash. The equations be­come apparent, but only Sy gives them verbal existence. And finally, of course, there is the most 

Paul, Joe Gagliardi, Roy and Henry. 

Heather Tripucka conducting a math class. 

First Black Studies class lead by Bill Turner and Sy 
West. striking incongruity that free men feel when they reverse their places for a moment with those of the men behind the locked bars. 
But here too is where the congruities begin. It doesn't take a fashion designer to notice that prisoners and college students dress alike. Blue jeans and assorted t-shirts seem to be the mode at both places. Yet when the man at the desk tells Sy he might not get back out because of the way he's dressed the remark freezes in mid-air. But when you talk with the prisoners themselves more similarities come up-dissatisfaction with institu­tional food, crowded living conditions, and the unnatural and hideous social arrangements. And at both institutions it seems the observation that the administration doesn't act, only reacts, is painfully 
true. With regard to the educational program at the 
prison, though, it seems as if the administration there is caught in the middle of two powerful forces. On the one hand, the Director of Educa­
tion, Mel Wenzd, would probably like nothing better than to expand the educational program into a fully competent system of high school education for all inmates. On the other hand, the state, and thus "the people", will not put up the funds necessary for the educational program to improve. But in spite of the obsolescent attitude of the government, yes in "spite", the volunteers from Notre Dame and St. Mary's really are helping the situation. 
The educational program is still a meager one. Besides the volunteers from Notre Dame and St. Mary's, the staff consists only of seven profes­sional instructors and thirteen inmate teachers. That means there are no more than a dozen people with qualified educational backgrounds to teach a prison population of 1700. The inadequacy is no joke. But not only does the program suffer physically, it also has to cope with the problem of student motivation. The night classes cut into recreation time, and the day classes make it 
impossible for the inmates to follow a regular work schedule. The fact that the prisoners get only twenty cents a day for attending classes and more than twice as much for construction work is no small factor in their interest in education. The irony of the situation can be immense. If the walls of the prison were suddenly to crumble, the inmate attending classes would still be getting a pittance to have his mind liberated; yet at the same time another inmate would be getting two or three times as much to build the walls back up around himself. 
But things are changing. Despite one prisoner's intimation that going to class is just "one more way of doing your time" there is no one who visits the prison without feeling the "hunger for know­ledge" that possesses the men there. The intensity of this desire was never demonstrated more fully thf!n to Sy West and Bill Turner on their first visit to the prison last week. The promise of hearing two black men from the outside world speak on relevant issues drew an overflow crowd of in­tensely interested black inmates. When Bill and Sy 
askea tne men to respond with their own feelings, they overwhelmed them with poems and songs that they had only tou long wited to make someone from the outside understand. So hungry were they for knowledge of the world beyond the bars that Bill ended up giving away the armful of school­books that he had brought along. Later he realized that he had also given away a letter of recommen­dation for a job that he was seeking, but afterward the new job no longer seemed so important. 
The power 6f the emotion that had steamed out of the black prisoners was vented in other ways by different prisoners. Roy is one of the inmates who doubles as a teacher. He nearly has his college degree and is hoping to get credit from Ball State University for the student-teaching he's doing at the prison. Right now he's teaching government and he sums up the prevalent attitude behind the 
walls when he says "The men are down on the 
system." "The public isn't aware of how hard it 
is to do your time. Youjust can't conceive of how 
tough it is until it happens to you," Roy says. 
Among the other problems of prison life is the 
small but persistent occurence of homosexuality. 
Roy makes it strikingly clear when he tells me net 
to turn around because a rape-artist is admiring my 
long hair. The problem is a difficult one for any 
prisoner to deal with because if he gets into a fight 
with a rapist he is likely to be thrown into solitary 
and if he yields he gets a label that encourages 
other attacks. The number of rape artists in the 
prison is put at less than ten, but when they attack 
in groups they are most dangerous. 
Another inmate, Terry, tells about the difficulties 
the prisoners are having in trying to get their own 
newspaper. Terry explains that "The way it's 
turning out, it's not going to be the inmates' 
paper-it's going to be the warden's." He ways the 
warden wants to publish 250 copies of the paper 
to be sold on the street, not curculated among the 
prisoners. The idea may not be a bad orie in that it 
may help to change the public's false notion of the 
prisoners as animals, but nevertheless the inmates 
still see it as an act of repression. 
Henry, on the other hand, is a different sort of prisoner than the rest. Much older, and having lived most of his life to his own satisfaction, he has that element of philosophical wisdom that a younger man can only hope he acquires with age. "A man's only as free as his mind • " says Henry, "and my mind's as free as a bird." Henry once owned a 263 acre farm in Illinois but since coming to Michigan City he's given it to his daughter. Like many others inside the prison, Henry spends his time in artwork. A visitor to the prison can only be impressed by the quality and quantity of the paintings on the walls. Bill Turner paid a man fifteen dollars for one of his works the first time he saw it. If things work out well, Joe Gagliardi would like to get an exhibit and sale of the men's art this spring here at Notre Dame. As Henry says, "It's something a man can turn to to express himself while he's in this place." But Henry is lucky; he can afford to pay for his art supplies, but many of the men cannot. 
Like the rest of the educational program, the 
prison's library is in poor condition. The room is 
barely twenty by twenty and has only a few 
shelves of dusty books and worn paperbacks. On 
the wall is a calendar proclaiming "Prisoners can 
be won to Christ!" and on one shelf there are 
some old copies of the Christian Science Monitor. 
The inmate behind the desk is explaining to NO 
senior Bill Nagle how he tries to make his fellow 
prisoners ·understand that "the way to rehabilita­
tion is here." He tells a story of one inmate who at 
age sixty four entered the first grad level in the 
prison's education program. Three and a half years 
later, when he was sixty seve, he had reached the 
twelfth grade and had earned his diploma with 
honors. At the graduation ceremony the man wept 
out loud and said to his fellow inmates, "this is the 
happiest moment of my life." 
We believe him, and feel ashamed for the people 
of Indiana. 


Monday, February 15, 1971
Pa_ge 6 

Letters to the Editor 
Short on Time 
Editor: 

Ed Ellis shows in his recent column a concept of student action that will inevitably frus­trate him and any student leader he might support. His approach dooms the students to one unproductive round of buck passing after another. But let me explain. 
Ed wants to believe that all the promises people make at campaign time are going to dras­tically affect his life. Then when the SBP goes into office, Ed sits back and waits for results. Inevi­tably, Ed thinks he's been cheated-all the promises he heard didn't come true: Notre Dame isn't co-ed, more signifi­cantly, there aren't any girls across the hall. 
So Ed gets mad. He derides those that cause his disappoint­ment. By God, it's time for a change! Ed's gonna look for a new man with new promises. 
Someone who can really make things better around here. And after Ed gets him elected, he'll sit back, his conscience purged for another year. 
Ed will wake up in about ten months. Another one of those four precious years will be gone, and Ed will still be unhappy. 
Universities move very slowly. Students wanted an ACC in l 960, and we got it in 1968. Now we want Co-education in all its facets, also academic re­newal, a student center, etc. And it's important that students build their University into a bet­ter place for the future. It's also important that we put pressure on slow and stodgy administra­tors and Trustees-pressure that creatively involves as many stu­dents as possible. 
Co-education is inevitable. But we probably won't enjoy it. All we can do is decide to assert real control over our lives in the years we have Jeff: involving ourselves with each other in changing what must be changed 
PROOF ENDS 
OF AGE ALWAYS 



Here's a government position with a real future for both men and women. An officer's job in the Air Force. A management level job in anybody's book. Certainly, there's no better way to get the experience and train­ing needed for executive responsi­bility. 
If you have two years of college remaining, you could find yourself earning an Air Force commission while you learn, through the Air Force ROTC two-year program. Along with college credits and a commission, you'll receive$50 each month as a student. And upon grad­uation, that management position we promised will be waiting for you. It an advanced degree is in your plans, you'll be happy to learn that the Air Force has a number of out­standing programs to help you fur­ther your education. 
If you're in your final year of col-
WANTED: College men and women for man­agement positions in government. Must meet physical requirements. Financial aid available for in­college trainees, or applicants can enroll in special training course on graduation. Stateside and/or overseas travel guaranteed. 
lege, you can get your commission r-------------~N;;I through the Air Force Officer Train­I USAF Military Personnel Center ing Program. It is open to all college I Dept. A grads, both men and women, who 1 Randolph AFB, Texas 78148 qualify. 
I Please send me more information Check it out. You'll find that the I on: Air Force is one career that offers 
I 
1 0 Officer Training School

something for everyone. Nearly 430 different jobs, ranging from aero­
I 0 Air Force ROTC ProgramI

nautical engineering to zoology, with almost everything else, includ­
I NAME AGE {please print)

ing flying, in between. But whatever your duties, you'll soon discover ADDRESS that the Air Force will let you move just as far and as fast as your tal­ZIP
CITY STATE 

ents can take you. So look ahead and let your col­
PHONE DATE OF GRADUATION

lege years pay off for you with a managerial position in the U.S. Air 
SCHOOL

Force. Just send in this ceupon or write to USAF Military Personnel 
I understand there is no obligation.

Center, Dept. A, Randolph AFB, 
I

Texas 78148, and get your postgrad­
I
uate career off the ground. 

I find youtSelf in the /United States Air Force 1 
L---------------J 
at Notre Dame. If we do this together we can at least reap the benefits of our unity. while we are here. In this we can confront the overriding problem that faces us: the stagnant social en­vironment that has made this last year dull, static, and often inhuman. 
So the responsibility for mak­ing our remaining years at Notre Dame meaningful and enjoyable can't be del ega ted every spring to student government. WE can change this deadly social envi­ronment next week if we all decided to. After all, it's essen­tially a people problem, not an administrative one. The SBP can prod, can catalyze, can suggest, bl}t we have to live our own lives. • 
Why don't all of us, ND and SMC, even p.:lpular campus jour­nalists, decide to do something very quickly? Our time is run­ning out. 
Respectfully, 
Don Mooney 
Academic Rape 
Editor: 

The Reduction solution which you propose for the present crisis faced by the College of Arts and Letters is quite like suggesting that a rape victim ought to obtain a chastity belt to ward off future rapist. It would seem more sensible to direct our actions against the rapist. In this case the College of Arts and Letters is being raped on a daily basis by the other colleges in that she. provides a tremendous number of service courses for students in other schools. The problem is likely to grow worse as more students fall under the new curriculum which 
SCI'J ~11 
/ 

provides for more liberal arts 
electives. Rather than penalizing 
theA.L. student by cutting down 
•>n the enrollment of transfers twhich could ultimately lead to the cutting down of initial dJ­mission of freshmen with A.L. intents), the University should be more equitable in its distribu­tion of funds. 
As you noted in your editorial the other colleges of the Univer­sity receiv1~ a disproportionate share of our money. But rather than making this present situa­tion an untouchable sacred for­mula; we must question its va­lidity. If a vast majority of stu­dents at N.D .. come here for a liberal arts degree then some conclusions might be reached with regards to what Notre Dame should be doing "educa­tionally, i.e. providing the best possible libera.l arts education. Although the intended goal of such a program would not be the destruction of the other colleges in the university, that indeed might be its result. It might be unfortunate to think of Notre Dame without it Business or Engineering Colleges, hut it strikes me as more unfortunate that those colleges are unable to support themselves and are causing the: present drain on the resources of the College of Arts and Letters. 
In a word, you might say that it is time we looked around a bit at what we·are about. 
Barney Gallagher 
Slippery Tongue 
Editor: 

Your Fe:bruary 1st edition ran an article on the Graduate Stu­dent Union which, among other things, reported that the GSU had been contacted by Univer­sity Securirty about the em ploy­ment of Graduate Students to "patrol the Dorms". 
The artiicle went on to quote Mr. Bill Lorimer, G.S.U. Presi­dent as saying that he personally "knows of at least three gradu­ate students who are working in the Flanner and Grace dormi­tories on weekends". Mr. Lori­mer seems to have more personal knowledgt: about Grace Tower than we do. 
For, wt~ do not know of any person from the Security Office who is patroling Grace Tower on the weekends, and most cer-• tainly no graduate students. Grace Tower does have a retired gentleman who many times nightly walks through the Tower for the only purpose of watching out for smoke and/or fire in this building housing more than 500 people. We are grateful for his nightly trips. 
Howev1~r, we who live in the twenty sectional wmmunities which compose Grace Tower know of no need to have our 
sections patroled. The reality of 
life in Grace is far from an 
animal kingdom. Here, 546 peo­
ple are living in one of twenty 
communities wherein students 
can and do live in peace with 
each other. We are pleased with 
our sense of life as we live it in 
student communities, and while 
there are problems that we have 
yet to face, we certainly do not 
see our selves as being in need of 
patrols. 

We take it, Sir, that Mr. Lori­
mer had a slip of the tongue and 
thus unintentionally misused the 
name of Grace Tower. 
Thank you. 

The letter was signed by the rectur and 60 residents ofGrace Tower. -ed. 
No Competition 
Dear r:ditor: 

Last semester The Obserl'er 
carried many letters pertaining 
to the "social atmosphere" be­
tween Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's. Many complaints were 
aired about SMC "bitches" and 
the lack of friend relationships 
between the sexes. ND students 
always complained and com­
plained and everyone seemed to 
sympathize with them. This past 
weekend two friendly SMC girls 
took the initiative to try and 
help "bridge" the social gap be­
tween the two campuses. We 
went over to a notorious ND 
dorm after the basketball game 
to play cards with two guys we'd 
become acquainted with the day 
before thru a telephone conver­
sation. We'd made no other 
plans for the evening so that we 
wouldn't have to be "typical St. 
Mary's" and leave before we had 
a chance to get to know them. 
But, after a couple of hours of cards, two of the three guys we were with decided "to go to Egypt." It wasn't like they "didn't have anything else to do!" When they had started on their "trip" they acted as if they couldn't have cared less whether or not we were there so we thought it best to leave. 
Feeling guilty about our abrupt departure, we called them on Sunday to invite them to Open House and received the reply that they were too tired from their "trip" to come ALL the way over here. 
We realize that this is only one incident but we doubt it is :-n isolated case and think maybe ND students should take a closer look at their own efforts to create a decent atmosphere be­tween the two campuses. After all -how can a girl compete with a psychedelic "trip to Egypt"? 
Two Straight to go to "Egypt" 
(Continued on page 8) 
Juniors! Juniors! 
Juniors! 
There are still some appointments 
available for your Senior Portrait 
for the '72 Dome. 
To make an appointment please 
Phone 283-!832 
or droJJ by 

Room 2C, Student Center 
Hours 9 a11-6 ~'11 
Mmday, February 15, 1971 7118 OBSERUER. Page 7 
Irish bounce back to defeat De Paul 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
The "on again -off again" Fighting Irish basketball squad was a bit on the hot side this Saturday as the Irish over­powered out-manned DePaul 107-76 at the losers' Alumni Hall. The smallest crowd to see Notre Dame play this season, 3,45 3 fans, watched the Irish pound away on the boards to gain its 13th triumph against six defeats. 
Each Irish victory sounds like a recording when one relates how N D managed the win. The recording says Austin Carr and Collis Jones. These two senior· standouts combined for 66 points to lead the Irish in their highest scoring performance of the season. Carr had 36 markers on l 5 of 28 field goals and six of nine from the foul line. Jones was stunning with 14 of 19 and 2 of 2. Collis also contributed to the domination of the boards with 15 rebounds. _ 
Besides hitting a sharp 55% from the field the Irish more than doubled the tiny Bl ae De­mons in the rebounding depart­ment. Sid Catlett led the Irish here with 19 grabs. Catlett had little trouble hauling in the "hounds" since DePaul's tallest starter was only 6'5". The Irish had 65 rebounds to DePaul's 31. 
This loss marked the IS th this season for the hapless Demons. They have managed only five wins and their losing streak has now reached eight games. Coach Ray Meyer accepted the loss rather easily, knowing that his Demons were simply no match for the Irish. 
The Demons two guards, Joe Meyer (son of coach Ray) and Ed Goode, tried to keep their team in the ball game, and for al 
half they did. The Irish held only a nine point lead at the half and for most of the stanza their margin couldn't get above the six point level. Meyer finished the game with 23 points, most coming from outside, and Goode nailed down 30 on combinations of drives and jumpers. 
The Irish played a very sloppy first half committing 14 turn­overs by intermission. The se­cond half was a little different as the charges of Irish coach John Dee made only three errors. 
The game was obviously an overmatch that the television commentator, Cliff Hagan, said at halftime that he couldn't ima­gine DePaul staying with the taller Irish for much longer than they did. His words were just a bit prophetic. Carr came out with a hot hand after scoring 21 in the first half and when he started to cool off ND got the ball to Jones. Collis was a torrid 8 of 9 in the second half, Any­thing that was misfired by the Irish was 11sually grabbed by the omnipresent Catlett and Sid managed to dump in 14 from in close. 
The only real surprise that this game featured was in the starting lineup. Doug GemmeU played forward and Catlett moved to the center position in place of the injured John P!eick. Pleick has been bothered by an injured heel and he hadn't prac­ticed hard during most of last week. Dee said it is "doubtful" whether the big Californian will see action in tonight's contest with Valparaiso. 
John Egart, the little sopho­more guard, ·started in place of Jack Meehan and he did a rc­specatble job feeding Austin and Collis. 


Dec stated, "I said before the Pordham. The Rams have but It seems that coach Dee 
season started that, if we could one loss and they have been doesn't want anything to be 
win I7, 18, or 19 games, we pointing to their match with the made "easy" for his team this 
would be deserving of an NCAA Irish all season. In this double season. After the game talk of 
hid. We may never be 26-0 or header (Temple and Manhattan am NCAA bid came up and Dee even 23-3 against the type of in the opener) there is likely to expressed his views about sites schedule we play. I hope the he a sellout crowd of 19,666 at made for the hosting of the selection committee recognizes Madison Square Garden. This regional playoffs. "It's not fair this." would be the first sellout for a for anyone to have to play on an Chances appear good of the college doubleheader in the his­
opponent's home court in the 
Irish getting at least I 7 wins. tory of the new Garden. · NCAA tournament." This was in 
However, it will take a 20 win Next Saturday the Irish travel reference to the possibility of 
season, in all likelihood, for the to Morgantown, West Virginia to ND receiving a Mid-East bid and 
Irish to gain a Mid-East bid. This meet the hot and cold Mountain­then playing the first round 
may be difficult to handle. After· cers. If the season holds true to· game in its own Convocation 
tonight's game with Valpo form the Mounties will be siz­Center. 
tip-off at 8:00 p.m. in the zling for their game with the As far as a possible bid goes, 
Convo) the Irish must travel to Irish. NOTRE DAME DePAUL FG FT REB PTS
FG FT REB PTS Jo~1es Shields 2-6 0-0 2 4
14-19 2-2 

15 30 2-6 2-2 7
Gemmell Burks 412 1-3 9 9
6 Catlett 6-11 2-3 19 14 
Gilliam 4-15 4-9 9 12 Carr 15-28 6-9 Meyer 10-24 3-4 1 23
10 36 Egart 3-7 0-0 Goode 9-24 2-3 4 20
0 6 
Meehan 1-3 0-0 3 2 Schaefer 0-1 0-1 0 0 Sinnott 1-3 2-3 Bruno 2-3 0-0 1 4
3 4 Regelean 2-3 2-3 Hartzig 0-0 4-6 4 4
5 6 Silinski I -I 1-1 Reising 0-1 0-0 1 fl
2 3 Hinga 0-1 0-0 I 0 
----------------------------TOTAL 31-86 14-26 31 76 
TOTAL 45-82 17-23 65 107 DU shot36% 
ND shot 55% DU had IO turnovers. 
ND had 17 turnovers 
Winning IS • rough on road 
by Jim Donaldson 
out of a scramble just in front of 
outshooting Notre Dame, 15-3,Observer Sportswriter 
the cage. 
and grabbed a 2-1 lead.
The Notre Dame hockey 

Jim Cordes gave Notre Dame 
The Bulldogs scored two goalsteam is having its problems wir•­
the lead 4-3 when he fired home 
in every period while downingning on the road lately and 
a rebound shot at 13:03 but the 
the Irish on Saturday.

salvaged only a tie in a 
advantage lasted only 13 seconds 
Tallies by Walt Ledingham at two-game weekend series with 
as Pat Boutette lit the red light 
37 seconds and Roy at 8:03 gavethe Universityof Minnesota-Du­
on a 40-footer that bounced in 
UMD an early lead but Johnluth at the Duluth arena. 
front of Irish goalie Dick Toma­
Roselli scored twice late in theThe Irish and the Bulldogs soni and past him. 
period to tie count, 2-2. Thebattled to a 5-5 deadlock Friday Tomasoni, weak with a touch were the first and second
goalsnight and UMD handed the Irish 

of the flu, was replaced in the 
of the season for the Irish a 6-3 setback on Saturday. Notre nets by Mark Kronholm after co-captain.Dame is winless in its last six 
Boutette's score. 
Two unassisted goals, cominggames away from the ACC. 
Cam Fryer beat Kronholm on 
just 19 seconds apart in theNotre Dame tallied four goals 
a 45-foot blast to the glove side 
second stanza, gave the Bulldogsin the third period of Friday's 
at 15:50 to put the Bulldogs in 
a 4-2 lead after two periods and game and the Bulldogs coun­
front once againbut Eddie Bum­
pretty much decided the issue.
tered with three in the final 
bacco tied it up 55 seconds later 
-UMD opened up a 6-2 advan­stanza to blow open what has 
with a goal out of a scramble in 
tage in the final stanza beforebeen a tight defensive battle. 
front of the Bulldog net. 
Ric Shafer made the final countGary Little started the Irish 
Neither club could score in 
6-3, at 18·r.il4.

scoring flurry, beating Bulldog 
the remaining regulation time 
Kronholm made 47 saves ingoalie Jerome Mrazek on a 
and the contest went into a 
the nets for the Irish.

semi-breakaway from the blue 
ten-minute sudden death over­
Notre Dame now has a 9-12-2line at 6:45 that tied the score 
time. There were 15 shots on 
record on the season. They are
2-2. 
goal in the extra stanza, seven by 
5-11-2 against Western Collegiate Phil Hoene, Irish winger 
the Irish, but neither Kronholm 
Hockey Association teams. UMDKevin Hoene's brother, put nor Mrazek yielded a goal. 
isl4-ll-l.

UMD hack in front at 9:12 with 
The Irish had led, I -0, after 
The Irish will be on the road a 4·0 foot slap stwt from the 
the first period as Witliff tipped 
again next weekend, traveling toright side, but Little knotted the in a ~lap shot by Billy Nyrop but Ann Arbor for two games with score again just 28 seconds later, the Br1lldogs completely domina­the \1ichigan Wolverines. 
slipping the puck into the net ted play in the second period, 
Page 8 ~~ ()~~---------------------------------M--on_d_a_v_._F_eb_r_u_ar_v_1_5_._1_9_7_1 
Letters urge dorm exchange, question Novak 
Exd1ange 

Editor: We should lik~ to correct the Observer editorial which stated that "the number of St. Mary's women who could live at Notre Dam~ is approximately one hun­dred and seventy." The number should be 287. 
We would like to add that if Regina South were included in our proposal, there would be an 
exact change in the number of beds. If Regina South is not included, there is a I 23-bed dif­ference. SMC could, of course, increase admissions which would provide them with a quarter million dollars more in tuition without the financial burden of their room and board. ND could either force 123 students off-campus or decrease freshman and/or transfer students admis­sions by 123, or a combination of the twf1. 
We would like to point out that our proposal was drawn up on November 24. Shortly after­wards due to the kindness of the ND student government, copies were sent to Frs. Hesburgh, Burtchaell, and Blantz, to the two SBPs and to the hall presi­dents involved. Most import­antly of all, Mayhew-Park had the proposal in California three weeks prior to the. publication of their report. Most people had asked us to wait for the Mayhew-Park report because a proposal such as ours could not be acted upon until then. 
One administrator suggested that the problem might not con­cern a change in structure, primarily, but a change in the ratio. I~ seems that this is pre­cisely what the ND administra­tion thought when they were seeking a cluster of women's colleges. However, when we initiated the academic co-exchange program w~ stepped in an irreversible direction. Th~ problem (among others) which arose was that of students who were seriously inconvenienced by being requir~d to liv~ on a campus where a minimum of their courses were held. Surely this must have been considered. Ifthe problem is ratio, th~n even if SMC increases their student 12 opulation, this problem is 
agravated. 

Is co-exchanged residency a hasty step and a step in the wrong direction? 1t is only in the wrong direction if the academic co-exchange program was in the wrong direction. lt is only hastey if you want to wait til September, '72 or. ..Could the Boards settle just for co­exchange residency? Yes they could, but surely the ND Board will ask for a better ratio. Consequently, given a 3: I ratio, given academic and residential co-exchange-what else is needed for co-education? 
Our proposal is elementary and is the only possible step-up towards co-education for September, 197 I (despite the nearness of the March meeting to room-picks). It is the LEAST that the students want. It is the MOST that parents, alumni, trustees, and administrators would probably approve for next year. It was designed to gather maximum support and a minumum of static. Think for a minute. SMC would be permit­ting men to live in an ex-convent, and letting their stu­dents live off-campus (yet not off the ND-SMC campus). Think of the problems (which 
are far from insurmountable) which need to be worked out (especially if ND goes co-ed): maids, security, sign-outs, . parietals (and open house), smoking and drinking, increasPd 
Ellis, Minnix on FM 
Two of Notre Dame's Black role of the Black athlete to athletes will be guests of Frank the role of athletics in general at Douglas on tonight's presenta-Notre Dame. "Black Inquiry" is tion of "Black Inquiry," a pro-broadcast on WSND --FM every gram attempting to provide a Monday evening at 7:00. As voice from and to the Black with all FM programs, this may community. Football players be received on any FM radio 
Clarence Ellis and Bob Minnix both on and off campus at 88.9 
numbers eating at opposite dining halls, increased numbers using the shuttle bus, cars, etc. 
The proposal itself, is only an alternative and can only be accepted and worked on if a deeper guideline is agreed upon. The proposal is a concrete possible alternative for Septe.m ber, I971. Nt•thing more. We assumed that we were going in a certain direction, beginning with the academic co-exchange program. In contradistinction to this, Park-Mayhew were expected to discuss on a sophis­t h·ated intelligent level tl1e nature of the two schools, their relationship, their future, and a timetable of action. Surely they should have been able to disend in specific terms how an educa­tion designed primarily for women differs from an educa­tion designed primarily for men (in the 1970's)! Surely they should have desended their posi­tion that a humanizing educa­tion differes from a professional one! Surely, but using the term "humanizing" only with refer­ence to St. Mary's, Park-Mayhew performed an injustice to those girls who major in pre-med and to those boys who desire a LIBERAL education. Surely, Park-Mayhew have perpetuated the myth that "co" gives a NEGATIVE connotation to education (so that education given to women is "jock" educa­tion and is given to them so they can talk somewhat intelligently to their husbands). Mike Conway 
James Thunder 
Identity Crisis 
Editor; 

In one of your latest editorials, you assert that St. Mary's College is neither a Christian community nor, for that matter, "a community of any sort." You conclude, "Call St, Mary's what it is, what it has become. A sham." 
The very same day, your paper carried articles about 
Everyone interested in Asian Studies and/or Chinese language at ND-SMC come to the Rath­skellar at 4:00 Monday after­noon or ca!l Jim Thunder at 8 , 
~~;***'**~*~~~**************************\
! 
*
*
*
*
* 
*
*
*
* 
1
* 
: 
* ATTENTION~ 
The Observer needs people for its 1971-n staff. 
I l\'o expetience necessary * 
** Positions range lrom news writing to production.
*
*

* FOR THOSE INTERESTED
*
*
*

f Sllort Meetlnfl, 
* 

# Thursday, Feb 18 
I* 

* 6:30 -Fiesta lounge La Fortune Student Center 
*****************************************~*~ 
the coeducation report and about a co-ex dinner. The editorial page carried a report by Dave Krashna, ·again with much on coeducation between ND and SMC. 
If SMC is. such a sham, which I strongly dispute, then why are you so eager to make it a part of Notre Dame, even to the point of hinting at student strikes to achieve the merger? Why do you slander the people you want to bring in to improve conditions here? Unless, of course, Notre Dame is also a sham. In that case, why worry about what goes on in a sham world, unless you like fairy tales? Tolkein and 
C.S. Lewis write better fairy tales that those the ·Observer carries in its writings about our N(D)arnia, anyway. 
This kind of of inconsistancy is hard to explain. 
Pat Gooley 
Protests Telegram 
Editor; 

I would like to address a question to Steve Novak con­cerning a t,elegram from Madam Binh of the: "Provisionary Revo­lutionary Government", that he read at a recent student protest. What was your intention in read ing that statement? Naturally, Communist forces would like to see another student uprisisng to apply pressure on the home front. It makes their job on the war front that much easier. 
Madam Binh also claimed U.S. 
troops had invaded Laos. Who do you intend to believe, Madam Binh and the communist govern­ment of North Vietnam, or your own government? I hope your answer reflects trust and faith in this country's leaders! 
Denis DuBay 
146 Farley Hall 
GSU 
(Continued from page 3) 

all departmetns that were inter­ested in joining. 
Lorimer has attempted to re­create his model of the univers­ity on a graduate level. He has tried all year to search out those with the power to control the graduate students lives, whether through affecting their traffic status on campus or by deter­mining the number of teaching .assistants. It is Lorimi!r's inten­tion to give the graduates a voice in how their tives are run. 
By challenging old modes, ways and reasons he has brought about changes both direct and indirect. He has helped to define the purpose of the university functions as they relate to gradu­ate students. 
The job is by no means over; in fact, it may be said to be just beginning. According to Lorimer only when all undergraduate, graduate faculty and administra­tive positions are defined and related to one another can his task, the task of the student leader, be truly finished. 

Saint Mary's Performing Arts Series 
Presents 

j~f•nlst ANDRE WATTS 
February 18, 8:00p.m., O'Laughlin Auditqrium Resened seat tickets: Adults $3, ND Students $2 
Programming Office, Moreau Hall, 284-4176 
-N~otre Dame I St. Mary's 
NASSAU 
SPRIING VACATION 8 C~A YS 7 NIGHTS 
J{ound Trip Jet 

$I94
From Windsor Via Air Canada W1TH ACt.:OMODATIONS AT THE FLAGLER INN-QUAD 
MARCH 12-19 
llt11TED SPACE AVAILABLE 
OPTIONS 
breakfast & 

1 course dinner 
daily $45. 
AND 
scuba 
saili'lg 
fishing 
water skiing 

car & cycle rental 
Canted: StJonsored by: F1:{ST BANK TRAVEL BURE'ALSenior Class & on campus/tlext to Barbershop Stud~nt Union; 
9 a.m. -12 Admm. Serv. by:
110011 

2E'3 -70~0 Students laternational ,)pen only to students, faculty & staff 
---~m~~:~;e ~::~~~~:.·Mary's 
and their 

*r--------------~
#1~ t #f f
I1 t 
L_________________________________________________________ __ 

