

University answers tenure petition 
by Cliff Wintrode student government in conjunc­some professors have been pro­keel" and their fear that the 
The university yesterday t ion with the people that moted and some not promoted students if granted committee released a letter explaining why worked on the petition drive will because of the student evalua­representation would want to it feels that student representa­present a "complete program" tions. ups·et that keel. tion on senior faculty tenure on student involvement with the Heitzman, stressing that he Besides deciding what changes committees is undesirable. faculty to the General Assembly was representing everyone will take place in the faculty 
The letter was written by Uni­of Students, convening in two involved in circulating the peti­Heitzman said that the senior versity Provost Father James weeks. tions and everyone who signed faculty committees also decide Burtchaell to Jim Heitzman who Burtchaell said that student the petitions, said that "when it on the direction and emphasis of organized a petition drive last evaluation forms constitute comes to firm decision making, the educational offerings and it 
December asking that students "appropriate" student participa­the people on the committees is here he added that students be granted spots on faculty com­tion in faculty appointments. effectively act without any real also need a voice. mittees that determine tenure, These reports he said are "most student voice." "Not having this power has a promotions, and firings. carefully studied and heavily Heitzman sa d that the real drastic effect on the type of 
1,336 students signed the weighed when decisions arc factor in the university's action education we receive," said petitions. made." is their "desire to keep the aca-Heitzman. However, Heitzman said that Burtchaell said yesterday that demic structure along the same In his letter, Burtchaell said The final decision involving . any change in the status of any
that the student has "inadequate faculty member is made by uni­
acquaintance with the individual
Student Assembly date set 
versity president Father
faculty member, little compe­Theodore Hesburg.
tence to essay his worth, and no by Milt Jones Miami in March. "Student dent ID card. "Only delegates long-term view of a department's Heitzman said that he thinks can vote at the assembly," needs, growth, and priorities." that it is overated how much the 
The three day general Student Government can also use the Also in the letter Burtchaell senior faculty in a departmentproposals to find out which Meyers said. 
Assembly is being convened in knows about each member of"The last general assembly said that of the many factors"an attempt to draw out student areas students arc concerned the department.
with, and their opinions about held about four years ago was a that are considered regarding
opinion on pertinent issues, and giving tenure to a professor stu­Burtchaell said yesterday thatthese areas," Meyers said. "This mockery," Meyers remarked.
to formulate a guide for student student opinion is just one of
knowledge will then aid Student "However, some good proposals, dents "on most of these issues
government," coordinator Bob Government in representing stu­such as those concerned with would be unprepared to give the the factors involved when con­Meyers claims. 
sidering granting tenure, and in
dent opinions in these areas. "So parietals and cars, came out of trustworth judgement" required.
The assembly is scheduled to · · Heitzman ·said that in general the case of the popular dismissedfar, however, there have been no it. We are trying to organize this be held February 16, 17, and 18 students "more as Williams and
proposals." assembly better, and we hope we the here are professors such at Stepan Center. 
mature" than the administration Estabrook was not strongThe committee chairman also can get some good ideas. Then,Meyers, who was placed in "Many perhaps, we thinks they are and he added enough.
charge at the request of Student stated, proposals are will get as much or Heitzman said that student
being written now and I feel more respons;: from the adminis­that he is confident that stu­
Body President Dave Krashna, dents can make "more responsi­committee representation wouldwill be aided in the effort by a there should be some in by tration as the last assembly." 
February 12, the deadline. This ble" decisions than the Board of have been a "good first step."
steering committee composed by nine students. 
is one way to get involved and to According to Meyers, have a voice in determining stu­
Thrasher petitions for meeting 
"Student opinior. on coeduca­de. t life that the students than once -his gesture of ill-will tionalized anachronisms, I thinktion, it seems, will be the most should not ignore." 
In the Stepan Center Assem­by Jerry Lutkus will not go unappreciated by th~ we can produce some meaning-prominent topic coming up for Senate." ful reform."
the assembly. Other topics like bly each hall at ND and SMC In an attempt to sidestep SBP Dave Krashna's refusal to chair The Senate has to meet this Thrasher added, "I guess inracism, cars, R.O.T.C., anything will haw a seating section for its year to set the election proce-creating a new Constitution, it'll
or call the Senate Senii.1r Stay
related to the students' life at delegates, and there will also he Senator Tom Thrasher has begun dare, a duty listed in the Consti-appear that what the Senate isNotre Dame today, will also be sections for faculty and tvtio'l. Thrashl~r would also like doing is dull, but it is verydiscussed. We arc waiting for stu­observers. Meyers stated that. the constitutional proc-:ss to convene the Senate. Thrasher is to see the Senate formulate a important. We need a new Con-dents to submit written pro­"Any resident of a particular "leisurely circulating" the neces­new Constitution. "I would like stit u tion." Along with theposals for certain questions such hall is considered a delegate for to see a good Student Govern-Constitution and the electionas coeducation and others, so that hall. After an issue is sary petition confident of securing the approval of at least ment Constitution passed by this procedures, Thrasher expects thethat we can formulate an debated by bot])• sides, the floor 1/3 of the Senate. "I expect Senate and I think we can do it. Senate to hear individual billsagenda." will be opened for discussion." 
I've discovered that the Senate is such as Russ Stone's revenue-Meyers stated that SBP Dave Microphones will be placed we'll have a quorum and I suspect we'll go on doing our anxious to write a good, new sharing measure. He also sees noKrashna will bring up proposals around the floor for delegates to business," Thrasher said. He compromise Constitution. If we problem in future Senate meet-voted upon at the general state their points in an orderly emphasized that Senate not. can iron out the poorly written ings. "We will simply set the
a
a sscm hly to t;,.e Board of fashion. In order to cast his vote, chaired by the SBP has prece­clauses of the old constitution date for the next meeting andTrustees when they meet in a delegate must show his Stu­
dent citing examples under the and throw out the .institu-(continued on page 2) terms of Rossi and McKenna. "If
Krashna protests fund cut Campus poll to be conducted
the SBVP doesn't chair the meetings, the Senior Stay
versity has perpetrated an "We're looking not only for 
Senator, by orecedent, can chair. by Ann Therese Darin 
by Greg Rowinski "encroachment on academic reaction to the Park-Mayhew
There is no problem there, just
freedom." He seeks to expose Questions for a· campus wide proposal as published in Friday's 
as I foresee no problem in gain­
1\ meeting lc.st Thursday with "what the University will do for poll on coeducation were com­Obsl!rver, but also for any addi­
ing a quorum."
Fr. James Burtchaell only rein-money." Krashna sees the piled at a meeting l~st night tional questions that students 
Bad in Hall Senator T .C. 
forced his belief that the univer-reasons for this unfortunate between mem hers of the socio­may have on topics such as coed 
Treanor concurred on this point,
sity is "blatantly di~r::riminatory occurence cs either "a logy departments, Alpha Kappa Jiving, or how the status of SMC 
"As I understand il, the petition
and an accomplice to racism," conspiracy of the donor and the Delta, an honors sociology might change if Notre Dame 
is already close to completion.
rl!ported SBP Dave Krashna. university" or "bungling" by organization, and Tim Connor, were to go coed by itself,"
Very few senators are partict:Jar­
According to Krashna He and Notre Dame. He hopes it is the ND student government co-ed added Connor.
ly hot after supporting Doctor
Glen Corso, Observer Editor, latter. coordinator.
Krashna's dictatorial methods. 

Sale of raffle
received noticeof the meeting at Krashna fears that the goal of .Although Krashna 's refusal to The polL to be conducted in 
which Fr. Burtchaell said that regaining the funds is unattain­approximately a week will use
chair meetings is probably the 

flciets low
there would he "no further -able. "The money is irrevoc­
an elaborate phoning system, comment'' concerning the "basic able," he admits. Yet he sees as 
best thing to happen to the 
Senate this year--his ignorance and should be very successful, Thus far the sale of raffle tic­disagreements" concerning the one possible consequence the of parliamentary law held up according to Connor. He bases kets for the Notre Dame chari­discontinuance of Jim Werner's possibility of the university important deliberations more his optimism on the success that ties has been less than expected.
scholarship. He expressed the gaining more control of scholar­
this type of poll had in changing According to Mardi Gras chair­opinion, Krashna added, that he ship funds and limiting the 

Help needed 
policy on the parietal regulations man Greg Stepic, 20,000 books was satisfied and that there donor's "monitoring." 
are last year. of tickets were distributed, but
More volunteers
would be no need to see Brother Krashna's plan of· action is The system divides the cam­only $5,000 has been collected.
neP.ded for the co-educa­
Kieran Ryan, since Brother twofold. He intends to encour­pus into approximately 9 dis­"As of now, we're not in very
tion report that the two
Ryan would only refer the case age other scholarship students to tricts. Five or six people in each good shape," he said. "All I can
student governments are
back to him or the person in protest the cut, on the grounds distri will telephone 10 students
compiling. The group is say is that things are not going
charge of the affair. that, "if they canceled his, they each. Responses from the total 
now working out of room well at all." 
This left doubts in Krashna's can cancel yours." He also sampling of 600 students (500
28 of Holy Cross Hall at A lot of the money collected 
mind about contradictions of intends to work through faculty ND + I00 SMC) will then be
Saint Mary's. last year came in at the last 
admissions of error. Spurred on members, especially members of weighted in different ways to
All interested students minute, and Stepic hopes that
by this meeting, he plans to the AA UP, an agency established make the survey more accurate. 
can call 4538 Wednesday more will be coming in this 
continue his "challenge against to safeguard academic freedom, For instance, if a class makes
afternoon after 2:30 and week. 
discrimination," which began in to institute a resolution of the up 35% of the university, then
all afternoon Thursday, He said that students will also 
September. He emphasized that Faculty Senate to censure, Fr. that class's answer to each ques­
Calls can also be made be able to turn in their books at 
this effort was "no gimmick or Burtchaell for his part in the tion will be weighted as 35% of
both nights after 7. the carnival itself. 
experiment." To him, the uni-affair the total opinion. 
Page 2 THE OBSERfJER. Wednesday, February 3, 1971 



Newsmen claim Army censors Viet reports 
DETROIT (UPI) Five young men who said they were Army newsmen in Vietnam said yesterday that the Army fre­quently censored and distorted new items to give galse impres­sions of the war in Southeast Asia. 
"We received frequent threats, written and verbal, in response to attempts to tell the truth," said Lawrence Rottman, who said he was a public information officer for the 25th Infantry Division in Vietnam between late 1966 and mid 196 7. 


The five testified on the con­cluding day of the three day Winter Soldier Investigation here. Sponsored by a group called Vietnam Veterans Against the War, the investigation.seeks to show that American armed forces committed alleged atroci­ties in Vietnam "as an inexor­able result of national policies." 
Rottman said he had received written and verbal orders to delete from the copy of Army newsmen in the field all mention of U.S. forces infiltrating Laos, Cambodia's mistreatment of prisoners of war, alleged incom­petence of South Vietnamese forces, any act of heroism com­mitted by Viet Cong or North 
l~e 

)(i.Q(of~ ~rffi! 
~-rin<J:, 
1he~d ~a~\,et ~ 
Vietnamese soldiers, the burning of villages, and CIA activity in Southeast Asia. 
Once, when Rottman reported that a Viet Cong Girl had been killed in an ambush, he said he received a note from military information head­quarters telling him that "a girl in an ambush doesn't help our image." 
Another member of the panel, Mike McCusker, who said he was a com bat correspondent for the 1st Marine Division in 1966-67, said, "Quite often what we saw, covered and wrote about just didn't come out in the stories distributed in Army publications and to civilian media." 
McCusker said he and other correspondents were not allowed to write of American soldiers taking souvenirs such as ears and teeth from dead Viet Cong and North Vietnamese. 
Rottman said American casualties were almost invariably reduced in the Army pr·~ss 
releases and the enemy casualties 
were invariably exaggerated. 
Another ex-GI, Eugene Keys, 25, who said he was a Spec. 4 in the 25th Infantry Division, said he once saw a convoy of 50 trucks. Keys said his lieutenant asked the man in charge of the convoy what was in the trucks and was told they were filled with American bodies. That sub­sequently was reported in the 
Army newspaper Stars and Stripes as "light casualties", Keys said. 

Rottman said he had decided to speak out about Vietnam because "I'm here because I can't be here. I'm here because I have nightmares about what happened to me and my friends. I'm here because my conscience won't Jet me forget what I want · to forget." 
Right to protect sources 
MADISON, Wis. (UPI) -The Wisconsin Supreme Court ruled yesterday journalists have a con­stitutional right to refuse to disclose confidential sources but said the public's "right to know" can outweigh the newsman's right to remain silent. 

The decision came in a case involving Mark Knops, editor of the underground newspaper Kaleidoscope, who was jailed after refusing to answer ques­tions about a statement that appeared in the publication about the Aug. 25, 1970, bomb­ing at the University of Wisconsin. 
The supreme court affirmed a lower court's contempt finding against Knops. The underground newsman was sentenced to five months and seven days in jail and served part of the term before he was released on bail pending the appeal to the high court. 
A spokesman for the Wisconsin attorney general's office said the Eastern District Federal Court in Milwaukee, which granted Knops' reque~t for bail, would have to deter­mine whether he would remain free or have to finish his sentence. 
"He is free until further order 
of that court," the spokesman 
said. 

A researcher was killed in tile born bing, which destroyed the 
U.S. Army Mathematics Re­search Center at the university. The FBI has charged four young men with the bombing. 
"We conclude that the appel­lant Knops has a constitutional right to the privilege not to disclose his sources of informa­tion received in confidential rela­tionship," Justice Leo Hanley said in the decision. 
"However, when such confi­dence is in conflict with the public's overriding need to know, it must yield to the inter­est of justice. Under the facts and circumstances of this case, we think the public's right to know outweighs the appelant's right of privilege," he said. 
It was the first Wisconsin Supreme Court decision extend­ing newsmen the right to protect their sources. The state l:J.as no privileged information law and efforts to pass a bill in the legislature have failed. 
MoHo wins 

Ed Motto was elected Presi­dent of Sarin Hall yesterday. The tally was 65 votes for Motto, and 38 votes for Pete Sordi. There were four invalid 
votes. 

Thrasher sees Senate change 
(continued from page 1) 
convene then." 

About the first Senate meeting, Thrasher expressed high hopes. "I think we can begin action on the new Consti­tution. I would hope that we could appoint a committee to work on it at the first meeting. I don't see the meeting as a big showdown. I think we're all gonna join in the spirit of co-operation and stop playing games." 
Treanor once again agreed on the necessity for Constitutional action. "The present Constitu­tion cripples the Senate and fails to serve the students. lt then appears imperative that we form and pass a new Constitution-an action, incidently, that would be impossible under Doctor Krashna's plan.'·' · 
The Senate chairman's posi­tion could be legally taken by the SBVP and Thrasher expressed interest in this possi­bility. He noted that the Presi­dent is on too many committees and he "runs himself ragged." "He can't concentrate on any one problem because he's got too much to do. Dave's action didn't bother me then and it doesn't bother me now. There's work to be done and we'll do it." 

Wednesday, February 3, 1971 
Mediaeval fife 


School roles seen 
The mediaeval university was described Tuesday (Feb. 2) in a lecture by Prof. A. L. Gabriel, and those in the memorial library auditorium audience heard about some familiar topics--town-gown riots, academic "strikes," and the role of the students in the life of the university. 
In his Graduate Student Union-sponsored public lecture, 
Gabriel,  the  head  of  the  
Mediaeval  Institute  and  an  
international  authority  on  

mediaeval . education, pointed out that "of all the institutions of the Middle Ages the one that has most retained its original character is undoubtedly the university." 
While his reference was to the preservation of an academic vocabulary and many of the scholarly goals of t:1e earliest societies of masters and students, it was equally true of the extra-curricular aspects of campus life then and now. 
As for town-gown riots, they were not unusual in the 13th Century, although destruction of the university, itself by its students was unheard of. Gabriel noted that a tavern brawl in 1200 led to C1e famous charter of privileges for masters and studeats at the University of Paris. Twenty-nine years later, in what might have been the first university "strike," another tavern incident caused the University of Paris to suspend its classes and threaten to leave the city. Since the mediaeval university owned no real estate, it was '1ighly mobile. 
T1e privileges of professors in the Middle Ages went far beyond that enjoyed by members of the academy today. While such privileges varied with the place, the period, and the mood of the local king, they included immunity from arrest and imprisonment for debt, immunity from the jurisdiction 
of secular judges and tribunals, 
and safe conduct througtl battle 
lines while traveling to school. 
At Oxford, even if he were 
subject to local authorities, the 
scholar got a separate jail where 
he did not l1ave to associate with 
felons. Most such privileges were 
lost by f1e 15th Century. 
One must be careful about the 
use of the term "students" in 
discussing mediaeval university 
life, Gabriel warned. In most 
cases, "students" were those 
who had already proved 
themselves scholastically by 
earning a lower degree. And at 
t'1e University of Bologna, where 
students paid their professors 
directly and set classroom 
regulations (including fines for 
lecturing beyond the bell), the 
students were all older men, 
ecclesiastical dignitaries studying 
canon and civil law. 

Grad Scltool views cllan1e; dean sou1ht to fill post 
A proposal to combine the functions of Notre Dame's Grad­uate School and its vice presi­dent for research and sponsored programs will be brought before the Academic Council of the University soon for approval. 
The newly created position would be a vice presidency for advanced studies under which would come all post-ba~cculaure­ate instruction and research as well as sponsored programs. The new vice president would report to the provost in all m1tters ex­cept financial matters under the jurisdiction of the executive vice president. There would be two assistant vice presidents, one for instruction and the other for re­search and sponsored programs. 
The proposal, which has been authorized by the executive committee of Notre Dame's board of trustees, comes at a time when current positions are to be vacated. Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, vice president for re­search and sponsored progra~ns, is retiring at the end of the aca­demic year, and the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, will be re­turning to teaching in the Mediaeval Institute. 
If the proposed reorganization is approved by the Academic Council, the University's major academic policy-making body,' plans are to fill the new post by September 1. The new vice presi­dent would· be nominated by Notre Dame's president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., and the appointment approved by the University's trustees. 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
Meanwhile, Father Hesburgh will ask the committee already elec­ted to seek qualified candidates for 'deanship of the Graduate School to make recommenda­tions to the provost for the new vice presidency. The committee is headed by Dr. 0. Timothy O'Meara, chairman of the de­partment of mathematics. 

M•rdl Gr•• Concert 
friday, february 5 
8:30 in the ace 
tickets $5, $4, $2 at the student union ticket office (4·5 pm) 
c

and at the dining halls. 
presented by student union social commission & ace 
, 
:a 
111 
I 







111 Ul 
Page 3 

Escape to Acapulco for a full week of super sun and top notch night life. Visit the tequila factory and other famous Acapulco nightclubs. *Escape International will take you to Acapulco any Saturday from February 27 to April10. Your package inc;ludes: e Round trip air transportation to Acapulco, Mexico. e Transfers between Acapulco International Airport and the Del 
Monte Hotel. e Seven days and nights accom·modations at the Del Monte Hotel overlooking Acapulco. 

e A fiesta from arrival to departure -a welcome party, water skiing, 3-hour cruise of the bay with native music and an open authentic Mexican bar. 
e Tips and taxes on services are also provided. ­
Membership in Escape International Air Travel Club required ... six months dues just $12.50. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 
CAll TOll FREE COlLECT (3J4) 73J J933 
ESCAPE INTERNATIONAL I THE TRiP CLUB 




theUI 

Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
-

Page 4 THE OBSERVER 
THE OBSERVER 


The difficult Job of 
Judging Professors 
The recent attempt by sixteen hundred petition-signing students to gain a voice in determining tenure for faculty has been rebuffed, and perhaps rightly so, by the University Provost Rev. James Burtchaell. In his letter of rejection, Father Burtchaell intimated that students, who are, after all, transitory elements at the University, lack botlt the historical perspective and the active day-to-day connections with the department. He also promised that the present University instructor-evaluation forms have weight with the men who review tenure. 
The promise-and the denial-left many dissatisfied, and the dispute over tenure allocation, only months removed from the controversial decision to deny three popular Notre Dame Professors the tenure they requested, shows no signs of abating. Until some basic questions are answered, the dispute may not end at all. 
Perhaps the most important question as yet unanswered by the University is whether ability as a teacher or accomplishments as a researcher is the more important standard of judgement. If it is the latter, then obviously it is better to have faculty members--who have done research themselves, and who are knowledgeable with the candidate's fields of research-judge the aspirant's application. If this is what the University believes, however, it ought to make that belief lucid to faculty, students, and prospective students alike. 
If the University truly believes that the most important function of an educator is to educate, though, then it must be prepared to accept the influence of Student opinion in some definite, tangible way. There is an immediate temptation to suggest that some members of the Board of Review should be students. After all, no faculty member has ever taken a course from an aspmng tenured faculty member; students experience the candidate's practicing methods every day. But complications would arise when the University attempted to determine precisely who would sit on the Review Board. It is entirely possible-indeed, probable -that the students on the Review Board would be as remotely connected to the candidate as any of the faculty members. And that, of course, defeats entirely the purpose of putting students on the Board of Review. Therefore, it is incumbent upon the University to devise a system by which the mean score of the s:t!Jent evaluations have a definite weight-say 20% in the final decision. Someone important-say, the Provost-ought to reveal the results of the evaluation to some elected representative of the students -say the student body president. Then the Student Body President could make sure that the expressed sentiments of the student body are amply represented in the Committee vote. 
It is a system which would insur.e that student opinion on the faculty is indeed given careful consideration and, more importantly, equal consideration, in each and every tenure case. 
The opinions in the editorials,Night Editor: Jim Graif
Managing Editor: Bill Carter 

news analyses, and columns of THE
Layout Design: Jim Farrington
News Editor: Ed Ellis 

OBSERVER are solely those of theHeadlines: Jim Roe
Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor 

authors and editors of THE OBSE R-Features Editor: Dave Larrmers VE R and do not necessarily reflect Sports Editor: Terry Shields Layout: Jim Graif, Jim Farrington, the views of St. Mary's College, the CaJTllUS Editor: Steve Lazar Jim Roe, Cliff Wintrode University of Notre Dame, their ad·. Advertising Manager: B·ruce Barker Knight Controller: Jim McGrath ministrations, faculty or student 
bodies. 
Wednesday, February 3, 1971 


Lorry Bollontine ================================================================~-:========================: 
For reasons, at this point, known only to themselves and perhaps their analysts the Justice Department remains unnaturally silent regarding the case of the recently Berrigan brothers. Perhaps it is an attempt on the part of the Justice Department to undermine the resistance movement in the country by sandering the names of its two most popular leaders. At this point one shouldn't be surprised. 
Many points about the case are disturbing. The issue that is most distressing is the wording of the grand jury's indictment. It charges Philip Berrigan with visiting an underground heating tunnel in Washington D.C. "... on or about April I, 1970." To convict someone on the charges of conspiracy that have been leveled against Berrigan it is necessary to produce two over witnesses to the act. One would certainly hope that if the government has such witnesses to Berrigan's conspirital act their wording could be less ludicrous than "on or about." If not then the charges should never have been filed. 
Then too one has trouble visualizing the Berrigan's plotting kidnapping and sabotage. Ever since they were catapulted into national prominence after their actions in Catonsville nearly three years ago both Berrigans have been ardent advocates of non-violent resistance. For them to endorse or give support to an act of sabotage would be to destroy the faith and trust hundreds of people have placed in them as leaders of the non-violent anti-war movement. 
Dan Berrigan is aware of the role he takes in that movement and it is not a role he takes lightly. In his last undergound speech delivered this summer shortly before he was arrested, Berrigan spoke to a rally gathered in support of the people who on August 7th had destroyed draft files by immersing them in chemicals produced by the Du Pont Corporations. 
He addressed himself to this point; "I think," said Dan, "I have 
begun to measure my life against the enormous tide of anguish and 
violence and despair loosed on the world by our country. I have 
begun to see that to wage peace requires of us the moral equivalent 
of the losses and sufferings required to wage the war." 
Dan Berrigan refutes the charges saying "there was absolutely 
nothing to it.'' Philip Berrigan calls the charge "hullshit". John 
Mitchell and J. Edgar Hooover continue to label the charges 
"conspiracy." Ultimately the question will be decided by the court. 
I have no doubt as to what the out come of the trial will be. 
Do you Mr. Mitchell'? 
Shalom 


Participation in hypocracy is always difficult to face up to. It is 
hard to acknowledge, specifically, that we students can be virtually 
and consistently ignored with no avenue open but that of protest. 
As outlined, community government is ideal; in reality, it is almost 
non-existent. Student response to the throne's growing record of 
insuits was, in the beginning, disbelief; as the list expanded, we were 
angry, adamant; now, we wonder how long our heads will stand up 
against brick, deaf walls. 
The most recent "major" issue, of course, was the change in the 
administrative structure and its implications. The Search Committee 
has worked extensively to find a new president, yet the segments of 
the college were informed of the institution and appointment of a 
vice-president only after-the-fact. Furthermore, if the economic situ­
·ltion of St. Mary's is critical, why did the Trustees make such sub­
. tantial, long-term committments that these offices entail? Our tui­
'ion, by coincidence, increased the same day they made this deci­
-:ion. 
There are. of course, endless other situations and decisions being 
made that rest in some nebulous upper level. The enrollment st:U 
expands and we cannot forget the faculty firing and 55 dollar fee 
just because they occurred last semester. AI though it has not been 
finalized, community government structure was altered over Christ­
mas vacation and the phys ed department was dropped (in respome 
to our request for more athletic equipment?). An involved and con­
cerned department chairman was fired from that position due to the 
area of his degree (why was he then named department head in the 
first place'?). The office of intercultural development lacks support, 
and as of December 4, 1970, only three black studen"ts' applications 
were on file, with one of these accepted. The Director of Housing 
discovered her job was eliminated by being handed an organizational 
chart at a meeting. 
If this is a "Catholic" Christian community the theology require­
ment should go: we get enough lessons elsewhere. 

Wednesday, February 3, 1971 




Burtchaell replies to petitioners 
The following is a letter written by Rev. James T. Burtchaell, University Provost in response to a petition concern­ing student involvement in the process by 
which  the  University  decides  tenure,  
promotion  and  termination  of faculty  
contracts.  

In it the Provost outlines his feelings on the matter ofstudent involvement and why he feels it best and most proper expression is through the semi-annual teacher evaluations which at present are carried out only in the College of Arts and /,etters. 
The issue of tenure and promotioa has 
been in since the announcements that the contracts of several teachers, most of whom were considered "pcpular" among their students, would not be renewed. 
The letter was addressed to Jim Heitzman, who acted as spokesman for the students who organized the petition. 
Dear Jim: 
Fat:1er Hesburgh has asked me tc consider the petition w:1ich you circulated in early December and submitted to him shortly before the end of the fall semester. The issue you raise is that of .·tudent participation in decisions to appoint and terminate faculty, and to award t'.em tenure. I hope t'lat in reply­ing to y,Ju I can also speak to all stuuents 
who were concerned enough to join you in the petition. 
All faculty appointments in the Univer­sity of Notre Dame are made by the Presi­dent. Promotions and tenure are also at his sole discretion. Each decision is pre­ceded by an elaborate sequence of judg­ments. A committee of senior, tenured faculty is elected by their colleagues in every department and initiates every re­commendation for appointment, termina­tion, promotion, or tenure. The chairman considers their recommendation, adds ~1is own, and forwards both to the College Dean, who sends on :1is recommendation. The Provost consults with all Deans uf faculty before submitting the case to the President. 
As you observe, this system involves those who :1ave ongoing responsibility in the University: permanent faculty and administrators. Many factors are consi­dered regarding the teacher: teaching ability, research record, and other contri­butions to the University and the com­munity; regarding the Department: the needs it ;Jas in special fields, the necessity that it not become impacted by too large a proportion of tenured members, and its financial res mrces. On most of these issues students would be unprepared to give the trustworhy judgment that re­quires both high academic competence and the long-term vievv tl1at comes from continued ;1cquamtance wit'1 the Univer­sity and the Proressor. 


I.F. Stone 
I. F. Stone says that his I i fe as a newspaperman shows that a "wholly free raJical journalist" can survive in our society. He supposes that he is an "anachronism." This wa~ in 1963 and the last eight years may dispute both counts. However, he has survived, his I. F. Stone Weekly has increased its readership to 25,000 and he still manages to make do without accepting any advertising. 
This Senior Fellow Candidate has heen ~ new~panerm;i!1 all his life. He was a tlublisher at fourteen and was a c(,rresponJent for a nearby city daily from his sophomore year in high school through his junior year in college when he discovered that the atmosphere of a college f;,culty, which is where he was headed, "repelled" him. Stints on the Philadelphia Inquirer, Camden Courier-Post, the Philadelphia Record. various New York newspaiJers including the Star and the Post, and The Nation magazine preceded his launching the four page weekly newsletter in early 1953 during the heyday of a Wisconsin senator named 1oseph Me('arthy. 
He says that there "could not have been a less propitious time to launch a radic,Ll paper, fighting the witch hunt and the cold war." 
He notes that the fact that he was able 
to ohtain a second-class mail privilege 
without a single political question speaks 
well for the traditiOn of a free press in 
our country. This he said despite the fact 
that he had written for a succession of 
radical and liberal papers and that "there 
was nothing to the left of me hut the 
D1ily Worker." 
Stone says that no hureaucracy likes an 
independent newspaperman. Every 
regime "does its best to color anJ control 
the t1t•w of news in its favor," he says. lie 
does note a difference here in this 
country. He says he could 11ot operate in 
Moscow as he does in Washington. There 
i~: still treedom of fundamental dissent 
h~re, if only on the edges and in small 
publicalions," says Stone. 
He says that the fault with most 
American newspapers is not the ahsence 
of dissent hut the absence of news. He 
says that the main concern of newspapers is advertising and that the main interest of our society is merchandising. Most of the ownns of newspaper~ are businessmen, not newspapermen. The average publisher says Stone is not only hostile to dissenting opinion, he is suspicious of any opinion likely to antagonize any reader or consumer. There are only a handful of newspapers worth reading according to him. Even here he says opinion is often timid. This makes it easy he feels for a one-man four-page Washington paper to ~"find news the others ignore, and of course opinion they would rarely express." 
Being a newspaperman for Stone has always seemed a cross "between Galahad and William Randolph Hearst, a perpetual crusade." He says that "no society is good and can he }.ealthy without freedom for dissent and creative independence." He says that i1e is happy that in his small way he has been able to demonstrate that indepenuence is possible. 
Whe:1 Stone starteJ the Weekly, he tried to give information that coulJ be documented so the reader could check it himself. He tried to dig the truth out of hearings, official transcripts and government documents, and to he as accurate as possible. He felt that if "one were ahle enough and had sufficient "ision one could distill meaning, truth, and even heauty from the swiftly flowing debris of the week's news." He so ugh t in political reporting what Galesworthy in another context calleJ the "significant trifle" -(in Stone's words) ''the hit of dialogue, the overlooked fact, the buried observation which illuminated the realities of the situation." 
He feels that reporters of a wire service 
or a big daily newspaper tend to he 
absorbed hy the bureaucracies they cover, 
hut he believes that a reporter. like 
himself, who is covering the while capit;tl 
on his own, particularly if he is his o,·m 
l'mployer, is immune to lhese pressures. 
"The bureaucracies put out so much that 
they cannot help letting the truth slip 
from time to time. The town is open." 

It is occasionally suggesteJ that stu­dents be repres~nted in t'le Departmental Committees on Aj)pointments and Pro­motions. Often the only basis for their judgment would be that the student has had a given faculty member as Professor in one course. Sometimes he will have no more than hearsay to work with. He 1as inadequate acquaintance wit'1 the indivi­dual faculty member, little competence to assay his worth, and no long-term view of the Department's needs, growth, and 
Furthermore, he does not anticipate being his colleague for years to come. 
On the other hand, there is one forum of judgment wherein t:1e students are more competent than anyone else. Only the students are familiar witiJ. a Profes­sor's performance as a teacher. Professors are acquainted with one another's class­room abilities mostly by hearsay. It is our position that the best way of assessing this--and minimizing capricious or hap­hazard estimates--is through regular teacher-course evaluations. The College of 
Arts and Letters has for three years ad­ministered such a questionnaire ~n all undergraduate courses. Results are made available to the Professor himself and to all responsible for faculty appointments. Since teaching is our ~1ighest priority in assessing faculty performance, these re­ports are most carefully studied and heavily weighed wl1en decisions are made. Since they draw on all students, not just a few. they are more reliable t'1an hearsay. 

:Since being offered at Pigskin U, I have been given to fantasizing about what the place will he like when I'm gone. One fan­tasy concerns the latest harvest of manna from Texas. For some reason, the idea keeps coming to me that this money will he spent on a rug for the stadium. Absurd thought, isn't it, considering all the press­ing educational and social needs to which our administrators are dedicated. But per­haps we s lzould have a rug. Duffy has a rug in his stadium. So do Darrell and Woody and Bo. There can be little doubt therefore that Notre Dame need one. In fact, it would not be too soon if a rug were installed hy fall. 
The next problem to be solved is, what color should our rug he? Everyone else has a green rug, but Notre Dame is not just anyone. It is a special sort of place with a sense of mission that is no less urgent for being undefined. Besides a green rug would bring hack that old­fashioned Irish ethnocentrism that we have tried so hard to put off. My vote is for an oriental rug. As everyone knows, oriental rugs are subtly but durably hl'autiful. Such a rug would add color to televised games and also to Ford commer­cials. Besides which, they have a deep nap and a high resale value. The provost would probably plump for a tweed rug. But he could he mollified if his personal seal (a pussycat rampant under a crown) were portrayed in plush in the end zone. In tne other end zone, the university seal could be displayed in blue felt and gold lame. the whole design surrounded by interwown chastity belts and telephone cords, ·symbolizing the importance of vir­tue and good public relations. 
Since they are repeated semester after semester, they indicate particular strengths or problems, and plot trends in a teacher's development. AS a teacher myself I have found the evaluations most helpful and .try to use them to assess my attempts to improve. Some teachers are uneasy at being graded by their own stu­dents, but we should be able to abide by as frank an .evaluation of our work as we ask students to accept from us. 
Consequently, last fall I asked the Deans to arrange to have this question­naire used in all University courses beginning this spring. In this way students will make an important and appropriate contribution to decisions on faculty appointments. I might add in passing that last semester only about 64% of the stu­dents bothered to respond to the ques­tionnaire. If t:1e student interest repre­sented in the many signatures you have collected is to be made effective, it will have to come across as greater responsibi­lity in making the contribution we are asking for. 
Thus, it appears that while you were circulating your petition, we were simul­taneously working out a policy that effectively aims at what you rightly want: appropriate student participation in facul­ty appointments. 
Meanwhile, with warmest regards, I am Devotedly, (Rev.) James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. Provost 
John Wllll•m• 
Let It lie 
Got up in this fashion, the stadium would become more than .a backdrop for routine martial and muscular rituals. It would become an integral part of tlw ~du­cational apparatus and tnererore tax-
exempt in ~:~:;c some city tries to annex us. Since this is not Miami or Dallas (or even South Bend, yet), it would not do to have the new rug overrunning with semi­nude virgins from Purdue. The same is true of the Notre Dame Cotton Bowl Queen from Texas; she will have to b.:! returned to Rent All. But think of the other possibilities! A St. Mary's faculty wife, representing the spirit of inter-insti­tutional cooperation, is borne by Irish· Guards to a point near the flagpole, where she reads from a Thesaurus. Then a scholarship student sings the national anthem while the hand spells out Ameri­ca's oldest university postmark, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. At halftime, the university president is honored by the reading of a partial list of his degrees and committee appointments. Next the dean of students makes an emotional plea for the release of Notre Dame alumni held prisoner in South Bend jails. Finally the 
~haplain prays for those trustees and alumni who should be in prison but are not. 
The wonderful part of the dream is that exercises like these would be educa­tional as well as inspfring. And, if we count those on the field as the teacher~ and those in the stands as taught (subtrac­ting of course NFL scouts, policemen, and drunks), the student-faculty ratio would not greatly exceed the one that now obtains in the College of Arts and 
I ettt>r~ 



Wednesday, February 3. 1971 



US troops march towards laos; , 
By United Press International there was a blackout of news At a news conference, Laird "The Pentagon now plans 
with the help of the Saigon mili­Soviet and Japanese reports said about the operation. The U.S. declined to di~cuss specific de­
tary to strike blows at the pa­yerterday an allied force has military command "embargo" tails of the new operation for launched an offensive across the has been in effect since last Fri­security reasons. He and Secre­triotic forces in Laos and to cap­ture the southern provinces ofSouth Vietnamese frontier into day. tary of State William P. Rogers the country bordering on theLaos. Reliable U.S. sources said The Washington sources said have said before there is no limit Democratic Republic of North
the plan called for 25,000 South the 9,000 Americans assigned to to the use of American air power Vietnamese and 9,000 American the operation would be limited in Indo-China to protect U.S. Vietnam, Cambodia and South troops, but the U.S. ground strictly to operations within lives. Vietnam." troops would not cross the bor­South Vietnam but at the same Izvestia's allegation that U.S. The charge that American of­

der.
featuring original works of 

Soviet government news paper, Izvestia said that a major force of South Vietnamese
graphic art-etchings, 
lithographs,-by leading 

troops "under the direct com­
20th century artists: mand of American officers" has invaded Laos in an attempt to
Picasso Dali 

seize its southern provinces.
Miro, Calder 

Defense Secretary Melvin R. Chagall Friedlaender 
Laird declared in Was~ington Searle Rouault 
that no American ground troops are being used in Laos and none
Vasarely and others. 

would be committed to action there. While he declined to dis­cuss the details of the operation,
Sun, Feb. 7tiJ 

reliable U.S. sources said that
Ramada llln 

the job of the Americans was to
.3allroom 

clear the way in South Vietnam EXHIBITION 
for the South Vietnamese troops to cross the border.
J-3p.m. 

The Japanese news agency Kyodo said 4,00-5,000 South

Auction 

Vietnamese struck into Laos Monday aboard helicopters
3:00p.m. 

f19wn by American crews.
All works custom-framed While the reports cam fromPrices start as low as $1 S 

other capitals, in Saigon itselfAdmission Free 
THE tiTTlE FOXES BY Lillian Hellman 
WASHINGTON HALL 
Feb. 19,20,25, 26,27 
Tickets 1.50
at 8:30PM & 
Information 284-4176
Feb. 21 at 2:30PM 

time involved in efforts to clear out part of a region extending into Laos where intelligence re­ports indicated a Communist buildup. 
The U.S. role in the offensive was reported to involve the clearing of the South Vietna­mese part of Highway 9. The road cuts across South Vietnam's northern reaches through Khe Sanh, scene of a big battle three years ago, and runs all the way across Laos to its Mekong River border with Thai­land. Sources said South Vietna­mese troops in the task force were presumably assigned the job of striking into Laos itself for a broader Highway 9 clean­up. The target of the push was be­lieved to be the Bolovens Pla­teau, a vast tract of high ground where a force of about 9,000 well equipped North Vietnamese troops was reported setting up a new headquarters for operations into both South Vietnam and Cambodia. 
U.S. officials in Washington said only that a new allied mili­tary operation was under way in the northwest part of South Vietnam bordering Laos near the old American Marine base at Khe Sanh. 
officers were commanding the air force added gravity to earlier charges by Soviet Premier Alexei 
N. Kosygin that the operation was "an outrageous invasion." 
Asked about the Izvestia re­port Laird said, "The only fact is that Izvestia is not speaking the truth." 


S. U. settles 

by Tom Degnan 
An agreement between the Student Union and the Knights of Columbus concerning coor­dination of movie policies and activities has been reached ac­cording to Bob Pohl, Student Union Director. 
ln a meeting between Bob Walton, President of the Notre Dame Chapter of the Knights of Columbus and Pohl last Wednes­day, Walton agreed to submit a list of the activities of the Knights of Columbus this year. A dispute had recently arisen be­tween the two bodies over the issue of control of activities. Walton had charged that the Stu­dent Union was "stifling the so­cial atmosphere of the campus." Pohl, in his reply, refuted Wal­ficers were in command contra­dicted repeated assurances by ' 
U.S. officials in Washington, in­cluding Laird and Rogers, that American ground troops would obey congressional structures a­gainst entering either Laos or Cambodia. 

movie policy 
ton's allegations and sa1ct hL' hoped that the two bodies could work together. 
Both Pohl and Walton termed the meeting pleasant and brief. 
"One of his (Walton's) people had a bad experience with the Student Union earlier this year," said the Student Union Director, "and I guess this just impaired communications." 
Pohl said that trouble had originally started when the Knights of Columbus showed "Rosemary's Baby," a film that the Student Union had already contracted for later this year. Tb.e Student Union Social Com­mission tries to avert duplication of movie showings and other ac­tivities by requiring registration of the activities of all clubs on campus. 
WANT TO SEND YOUR LADY LOV-E OR BEAU A MESSAGE THAT WILL BE PRESERVED FOREVER IN THE N.D. ARCHIVES? 
TAKE OUT ANI OBSERVER 

VALENTINE AD 
S1.00 FOR TEN WORDS OR LESS 
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TOGETHER WITH PAYMENT TO: THE OBSERVER, P.O. BOX 11, NOTRE DAME, IND. 
Please be sure to !JUt a stamp on your envelope, all mail without !Jroper postage will be refused. 


Wednesday, February 3, 1971 
Page 7 
Leprechauns rematch Marquette 
by Joe Passiatore a 79-68 setback. of course Notre Dame in their ready for his best performance an end tonight as the Irish can Observer Sportswriter The game shapes up as a bat­eleven point conquering of the to date on Wednesday night." counter Marquettes unbeaten re­Basketball followers who are 
tle of the big men with Notre Leprechauns at Milwaukee. In Directing the Irish offense will cord with the boast that Notre 
disappointed that tonite's Notre Dame center, 6'8", John Shu­be tloor general Bob Valibus, a Dame is unbeaten at home(3-0).
that game Marquette fashioned a 
Dame-Marquette freshmen game 
mate ( 23.3 scoring average and fm~rteen point halftime lead, tlashy guard with a I 0.2 scoring Students will be admitted won't be a preliminary scrap to a 12 rebounds per game) matched watched it dwindle to six and average and a corpplete reper­upon presentation of an ID card. 
battle between the two vaunted against 6'8", Marquette pivot­then opened up again for the toire of deadly passes. Game time is 7:30 p.m.
varsity teams, can take consola­
mail Larry McNeill (22.3 scoring final eleven point margin. One streak is sure to come to 
tion in the fact that tonight's average and 14 rebounds per The Marquette supportingfreshmen clash should be game). In their earlier confronta­
cast in addition to McNeill in-T.,cket
contested with just about as tion Shumate won the verdict as eludes 6'1" guard Marcus Wash-

plan announced 
much ferocity as the big boys he led all scorers with 30 points. ington ( 15.6 scoring average)would generate. Tonight will McNeill, meanwhile, is a rarity in and 6'4" Randy Wade, a forward Notre Dame has ever hostelpartmark the first time the Notre that he is the lone New York scoring at a 14.9 clip. Notre Dame, lnd.-The Uni­of the NCAA championshipDame frosh have had the lime­ballplayer on a Marquette team Notre Dame, whose 5-3 re­versity of Notre Dame will host play-offs. A year ago at Daytonlight to themselves at the Convo­that is usually stocked with New -:ord appears shoddy by compar­the first round of the NCAA University, in the first round,cation Center, as it has been York residents. ison, have had all three losses Mid-East Basketball Tourna-the Irish trimmed MAC ·winner their custom to precede a game 
Marquette has apparently felt occur by eleven points to such ment, it was announced today Ohio University 112-82 as Ali-A­involving their varsity counter­no ill effects from this change in teams as Purdue, Ball State, and by Charles Neinas, Assistant merican Austin Carr scored are­parts. Hopefully, the Lepre­recruiting, however, as they have Marquette. The Irish into Executive Director of the NCAA cord 61 points and then Jack­
come
chauns will respond to this rolled to an impressive 11-0 re­and Ed ward W. Krause, the Irish sonville defeated OVC titleist
the game handicapped by the
added exposure with a reversal Athletic Director.
cord. Victims in the "little War­loss of forward Tom O'Mara. Western Kentucky I 09-96. of their last encounter with the riors"streak include the Minne­O'Mara, who will be out of The pairings will match the Krause also announced the undefeated Marquette freshmen, champions of the Ohio Valley
sota and Wisconsin freshmen and_ action for at least three weeks following ticket arrangements Conference against an at-large for the doubleheader:
with a chip fracture of the right 
ankle, has been one of the selection and the winner of the l. Tickets will go on sale (by team's more consistent players Mid-American Conference mail order only) beginning Wed­with an average of 18.8 points against another at-large team. nesday, February 3, with a limit per game. His void will probably The first round games will be of four tickets per order. 2. 
played in Notre Dame's 11,345.
be filled by either Chris Stevens There will be no phone orders or or Greg Schmelzer. The other seat Athletic and Convocation over the counter sales. 3. Orders forwards in the Notre Dame Center. Starting times for the will be filled in order of date re­1-3-1 will be Gary Novak, the Saturday, March 13, double­ceived. 4. Ticket prices are $6 teams leading rebounder, 13.7 header will be announced later. for lower arena seats, and $4 for per game, and improving Ken Selection of the two at-large upper bleacher seats. 5. Each 

Sports Shorts 
Phil Gustafon is a big boy. He stands 6'2" and weights 255 teams will be made on Tuesday money order must include $.50
Wolbeck, 6.5 scoring average.
pounds. Tom Ciaccio is not so big. He's about 5'6" and his weight Freshmen coach Tom O'Conner morning, March 2, with the pair­for postage and handling. 6. Allfluctuate between 118 and 126 pounds. Mutt and Jeff look like predicted, "Wolbeck has bee!l ings announced Wednesday aft­checks and money orders should 
identical twins compared to Gustafson and Ciaccio. looking very good in practice ernoon, March 3. be made payable to Notre
Gustafson looks like one of those guys in the western movies who, against the varsity and should be This marks the first time that Dame-NCAA Basketball. 
after working from sunup to sundown on the range, comes into town and beats up five or six ranchers who got fresh with one of the gals in the saloon. If Dan Blocker ever decides to leave the 
Season Bas"etball Statistics 
Ponderosa, Gustafson can play "Hoss". He's also big enough to play 
FTM AVG.
tackle for Notre Dame, which he does when he's not wrestling for PLAYER G FGA FGM PCT. FTA PCT. REB AVG. TP the Irish. 
Austin Carr 15 436 223 .511 129 106 .822 110 7.3 552 36.8
Some smart guy who saw Ciaccio on the beach, and didn't notice 
Collis Jones 15 284 143 .504 89 61 .685 171 11.4 347 23.1
Tom's powerful arms and shoulders, might be tempted to try the old 
Sid Catlett 15 138 49 .355 31 24 .774 116 7.7 122 8.1 
"sand-kicking; steal-the-chick" routine. The foolhardy sand-kicker 
John Pleick 15 87 34 .391 34 21 .618 80 5.3 89 5.9 would soon find himself buried in the nearest dune. Ciaccio is the Doug Gemmell 14 76 27 .355 17 8 .471 67 4.8 62 4.4 captain of the Irish grapplers .. Jack Meehan 15 50 19 .380 22 13 .591 33 2.2 51 3.4 G,tstafson and Ciaccio, along with Bob Habig and Ken Ryan, have Tom Sinnott 15 55 19 .345 15 5 .333 27 1.8 43 2.8 been the mainstays of the Notre Dame westling team, which has a Jim Regelean 6 9 6 .667 3 3 1.000 7 1.1 15 2.5 5-3 record this season. John Egart 6 7 2 .286 6 3 .500 0 0.0 7 1.1 Don Silinski 4 2 2 1.000 1 1 1.000 6 1.5 5 1.2
Gustafson is unbeaten in eight outings with year, winning seven 
Bill Hinga 3 0 0 .000 0 0 .000 1 0.3 0 0.0
matches by pins and the eighth on a forteit. As a matter of fact, 
Bill Lucas 2 0 0 .000 0 0 .000 0 0.0 0 0.0
Gustafs,m is unbeaten in 28 matches while wearing the blue and 
Team 94 6.2 
gold. Only two of his opponents this year have lasted beyond the first period. · 
NOTRE DAME 15 1144 524 .458 348 246 .707 711 47.4 1293 86.2 One grappler who managed to take Gustafson into the third pe­OPPONENTS 15 1069 481 .449 366 246 .672 720 48.0 1208 80.5 riod was 275-pound Ed Floyd of John Carroll University. Floyd had tied Gustafson last season and Phil wanted a win against him in their second meeting. That meant trouble for Floyd. Neither wrestler could score in the first period but Gunafson 


UCL.A-USC meet Sat. 
grabbed the lead in the second period, putting Floyd in a predica­were voted 1-2 among the na­Southern California received ment, worth 2 points. Floyd managed to escape, however, and that NEW YORK ( UPI) -The tion's major colleges today by 20 first place votes and 318 cut Gustafson's advantage to 2-1 after two periods. stage has been set for Southern the 35 member United Press In­points after running to 16-0 last 
It took Gustafson just 20 seconds to pin Floyd in the final period California and UCLA. ternational Board of Coaches. week. UCLA, now 15-1, has nine and score five team points as the Irish handed John Carrol a 26-13 The two Los Angeles rivals Now they'll tangle Saturday first place votes and 301 points, defeat. while Marquette had tl-J.e remain­
night at the Los Angeles Sports 
Ciaccio, two-time New York Catholic champion while at Cardinal Arena with the winner probably ing five for 283 points. Mooney High School in Rochester, is 8-3 wrestling both 118 and laying a solid claim to the top ·Kansas was fifth in the bal­126 this season. Quiet, Ciaccio leads by example. He gives 11 0% at ranking. loting, which includes games

UPI Poll 
all times. NEW YORK (UPI) -The Waiting in the wings, however, played through Sunday, Jan. 31, 
Habig, a sophomore, has a 9-1-1 slate grappling in the 150-pound United Press International top are a pair of unbeatens. Mar­with Jacksonville, South Caro­class while Ryan, nicknamed "the Scrambler" has an 8-l-1 mark in 20 major college basketball quette 16-0 has ranked third and lina, Western Kentucky, Ten­the 142-pound division. teams with first place votes in Pennsylvania, also 16-0, took nessee and Kentucky completing 
This quartet gives Irish coach Terry Mather a sound nucleus to parentheses. Ninth week, in­down the No.4 ranking. the top I 0. work with. Mather, who makes Lee Marvin look effeminate, coached cludes games played through the Irish to an 8-8-1 record in his first year as mentor and hopes to Sunday, Jan. 31. 
Just for the Record
better that mark this year. The Irish will face ten more teams this Team Points season, including such powers as Drake, r..lil!ersville, Western 
compiled by Mike Pavlin 
Michigan and the Air Force Academy, so they have their work cut out for them. l. Sou. CaL (20) 16-0 318 As the season goes on the list of possible records that may be 
Last weekend's win over John Carroll was a big one for the Irish. 2. UCLA (9) 15-1 30 I broken by the Irish is dwindling. These are a list of records that have The Ohio school usually turns out one of the nation's top teams and 3. Marquette (5) 16-0 283 fallen or may fall before the season has run its course. beating them is a real accomplishment. Coach Mather termed the 4. Pennsylvania 16-0 260 For Collis Jones to break the record for games appeared in Notre victory "the biggest since I've been here". 5. Kansas 14-1 Dame. must get into a post-season to~rnament.
189 The way Coach Mather and his boys are working every day in the 6. Jacksonville 12-3 . 164 INDIVIDUAL--SEASON ACC, there'll be more big wins in the near future. 7. South Carolina 11-3 . 79 1.) Points Scored-948, Austin Carr 552. 
DISA and DATA: Centers Paul Regan and Phil Witliff are 8. Western Kentucky 14-3. .54 2.) Scoring Average--37.2, Carr 36.8. doubtful starters for this weekend's hockey tilt with Denver 9. Tennessee 13-3 . 29 3.) Field Goal A ttempts--681, Carr 436. University. The p-air, among the leading scorers on the club, were I 0. Kentucky 13-3 . 29 4.) FG's Made-376,Carr 223. both banged up in the State series last weekend ...The erratic Jrish II . Illinois 9-3 . 24 5.) Most Points by a Senior--556, Carr 552. cagers slipped to the no. 12 spot in this week•s AP poll .. .I can't 12. LaSalle 14-1 .20 INDIVIDUAL--CAREER decide whether Notre Dame has a great basketball team th:::t plays 13. Notre Dame 10-5 .19 !.) (New Record) Points Scored, Carr 2011~ poorly too often or merely a good club that plays over its head 14. Fordham 13-1 .18 2.) (New Record) Field Goals ~.lade, Carr 810. occassionally...Chris Cathcart will start in goal for Notre Dame in 15. North Carolina 12-3 . 15 3.) (New Record) Scoring Average, Carr 33.5. one of the games with Denber this weekend...Austin Carr gets 16. Utah St. 16-3 .14 4.) Field Goal Attempts--1636, Carr 1527. Brother chance to show his amazing skills to millions of TV viewers 1 7. Michigan I 0-3 . 13 5.) FG%--.485, Carr .530. as the Irish make their third appearance of the season on the boob 18.Duquesnell-2 .12 6.) Free Throw Attempts--( three years) 543, Carr 478. tube Saturday afternoon...only 227 days until the Northwestern 19. Tie Villanova 15-4 . II 7.) FT%--.804, Carr .818. foot)Jall game. Tie Nebraska 12-3 . 11 
8.) Games Appeared in--85, Collis Jones 71. 


Wednesday, February 3, 1971 

live Entertainment t 
Connally gains endorsement
Wed. to Sat. Dancing t 

Mikatlu 
"THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST" 525 North Hill Street SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619 
Attended Parking In the Rear 
THURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY NIGHT 
Everyone's Welcome 
Happy Hour 5-9 Daily 
All beverages $.60 
during Happy Hours 
Open 

..ofAgeProof D:~i:_v
' / 1 
12:45:;:::;;:!_Required 

THEY SHARED EVERYTHING ... THE MONEY . o 
o THE DANGER 0. o AND THE WOMEN o •• IN A o. o 
from our regular stocl~s: 




SUITS, SPORTCOATS, &OUTERCOATS 
AT SAVINGS OF 

·--­
1131 112 I14 
This annual sale is genuine! This is your chance to 
enjoy top quality, university-styled apparel .::t great 
savings. Stop in, you'll see what we say is so. 
t WASHINGTON (UP!) -John
t B. Connally. contending he had & "no apologies to make" for ac­f cepting $225,000 from an & oilman's estate while governor of f Texas, won the Senate Financef Committee's endorsement yes­& terduy to be the next secretary f of the Treasury. & Convinced the payment vio­f !alec\ no law, the committee & voted II to 0, with two absten­f tions, to recommend that thet Senate confirm President Nix­& on's nomination of the Texas f Democrat. ' c,mnally, testifying with rap­' id; confident replies to I.JO min· 
& ut~s of generally friendly ques­
f tions. said he actually suffered a loss of about $400,000 to $500,000 in the fees due him as one of three executors of the will of Texas oil millionaire Sid 
W. Richardson, who died in 195 I.J and left a $1 OS million es­tate. 
"I did not ever say this be­fore, because I do not deserve plaudits for it," he said, leaning into the microphone. "I do not regret it, but I do not think l should be pilloried for it." 
The Texas constitution pro­hibits a governor from receiving compensation for services "ren­dered or performed during the time he is governor."But Connal­ly said the money he received while governor was for services performed before taking that of­fice. 
He said in .all he received $750,000 ovet a 10 or II year period, $225,000 of it between 1966 and 1969 wh:tle serving as governor. 
He said he was entitled to "something a little over" $1.2 million but sacrificed the rest so that he could become secretary of the Navy in 1961 at l'resident 

THERE'S MORE
SEE THE RIVERBOATS 
IN STORE 
You'll save big 011 shirts, all-weather coats. vests.
The Riverboat shirts are in, balloon sleeves 
and more. We sale...you save..
unique button treatmt.;nt, 6 new solid colors 
.that's what it's about. 

John F. Kennedy's request with­out still having responsibilites as executor. 
He said he arranged to stretch out the $750,000 payments "ob­viously for tax purposes." By re­ceiving the payments over a numbcr of years, Connally re­duced the income taxes he had to pay. This is a common prac­tice. 
But Senator Fred R. Harris, 
(D. Okla.), who, along with Sen­ator Gaylor Nelson, (D. Wis.), abstained from voting on the nomination, questioned the le­gality of the deferred payment 
arrangement. Harris contended that, for such a stretch out to be legal, 


Engineers 
by Dave McCarthy Reports that the College of Engineering plans to annex the Psychology building when it becomes vacant later this year were denied by the Dean of Engineering yesterday. Dean Thomas C. Hogan said that the Engineering Dept. had not requested the Psychology building, which will fall vacant when the Psychology Dept. moves into the present Biology building. Hogan admitted that his col­I ege 's facilities were over­crowded and that he was inter­ested in finding room to expand. He noted that he had "a couple months ago." requested Drs. Julius Banchere and Don Linger to make a "purely exploratory" inve.stiga tion of the · l3iology building. There were looking for "useable space" and Linger re­ported that the building did not have wet labs (large walk in eli­
arrangements for it have to be 
completed before not after --­
the work has been performed. 

"Do you have any comment on that?" Harris asked. "No, I would not, except to say at that particular time w..,­·had what we thought was very 
excellent tax advice," Connally 
replied. He said the arrangement 
had "not been questioned in I 0 years' of its existence." 
Later in a statement, Harris said he wanted to see in writing the docun\ent Connally had sign­ed with his co-cecutors "before making a final decision on the question of confirmation" of the appointment. 


note need 

mutic  rooms)  that  interested  
them, he said.  
Whether  this  is  "available  

s;Jace" will remain undetermined until the Psychology department decides how much space it will need in the biology building. 
In L"iting the need for expan­sion. Hogan explained that to­day the College of Engineering offers a "quality graduate pro­gram," engages in about $1 mil­lion of research annually, and carries on its undergraduate pro­gram. 
Jr. tfdlefs 
All Juniors whose parents plan to attend the Presidential dinner and other events during Junior-Parent Weekend must pick up their tickets tonight be· tween 7 and 9 in the Tom Dooley room of LaFortune Stu· dent Center. This applies to those whose parents paid by mail also. 



All Juniors 
JUNIOR PARENTS-SON WEEKEND WILL HOLD ITS' FINAL TICKET SALES AND TABLE RESERVATIONS FOR THE PRESIDENT'S DINNER AT: 
LaFortune Studen-t Center 
February I. 2, 3. 1971 
7-9 PM 


GO TO CHICA Diredly from tile Circle 
leave Notre Dame 4:55 Friday For Information and Tickets 
Arrive C~1icago 6:00 Friday 
leave Chicago 4:00 Sunday Call: 
leave Chicago 7:30 Sunday Tom Boyer 283-6984 Charles Clark 283·3329 
No carrvinf! charee~ nrided. 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE .DAME 






