
Vol. V., No. 82 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi~F Page 1 
Sheehy-Welte announce candidacy 
By Ann-Therese Darin Questioned on whether they
that "students usually abdicatt! 
were running in cnnjunction
their responsibility after castingYesterday Junior Jane Sheehy, McCandless Hall president, and their votes in the election -they with Notre Dame ticket, Miss
a Welte replied, "No -we thinkSue Welte, Sophomore Class president, announ~.:ed their ~.:andidades 
are disillusioned by the power that you have to be able to work·for st udcnt body president and vice-president of St. Mary's. structure of the college. Hope­with anyone. No one can predict
"Both of us feel that next year is going to be ~.:rucial with the 
fully next year students will be decision of wedu~.:ation at stake," stated Miss Sheehy. "We feel that who is going to win."
given their rightful place in the we have something substantial to offer." 
community government -the Besides experience with hall They plan to campaign floor
one-third of the power that they government, she and Miss Welte to floor in order to "not only
are entitled to." 
also believe that their ticket is discuss our platform with the
Besides working as Sopho­to
strengthened by Sue's work in more Class president, Miss Welte students, but also to listen 
class government and by their what they have to say. Student
also sits on the Judicial Review 
participation this year in the government can only be a cata­
Board. Last year, she was in the 
Executive Cabinet of the student lyst for student opinion," they
freshman class senate and the 
body president. agreed.
Regina Hall Council. 
Miss Sheehy is also on the Student Affairs Committee and ~.:a-chairman of the residency report on coeducation being 
Assembly approves
sponsored by the joint student governments. "Student government has been very good this year," she 

co-education proposal

~.:ommented. "They've made a real attempt to include people." 
By Matt Cavanaugh the opening of the assembly. He ing, renewing or revoking aca­Both she and Miss Welte feel said that the reason only 921 demic scholarships and all other 

The Student Government pro­people voted on the Experi­forms of academic finances." posal for co-education passed at mental College Proposal, and Werner claimed he was "trying last night's session of the Gen­only 728 voted on the Co-ed to-perserve the freedom of finan­

He~ndrick tosses 
eral Assembly by 65 2 to 71 Proposal, "because the cial aid recipients in their activi­
a was vote after section seven of the crowd was deleted after the ties at the University." An am­proposal, dealing with black con­opening dis~.:ussions." mendment was made to the ef­


name into SBP ring 
centrations, was deleted by an The argument over section fect that "only the initial re­overwhelming hand vote. seven of the Student Govern­quirements of the scholarship 
In other action by the assem­ment Proposal arose when the would be considered when re­

By Kevin McGiJI 
bly, the controversial Experi­point was made from the floor vocation is threatened." TheSophomore Chip Hendrick an­mental College proposal passed that this section dealt with Werner ProposaL tabled because

nounced his candidacy for the a 
after about 45 minutes of heated "race issue" and not an issue of of the length of the debate ot"fic~ of Student Body President debate, 467 to 443. Also, the co-education. At this point, the involved will be reconsidered to­yesterday, promising to "bring a Jim Werner proposal that the chairman of the assembly, Stu­night.

new outlook on an old tradi­
University Scholarship Com­
dent Body President Dave The Experimental College de­tion," and taking the stand that mittee wnsider "only initial Krashna, relinquished the ~.:hair signed to be "a more total livingNotre Dame is not ready for conditions" in revo~.:ation of to Winings to speak in favor of and educational experience forco-education. 

scholarships, and that "the Of­the section from the floor. 
the students involvedn was oppos­

Hendrick is a transfer student from Saint Joseph's College in tke of Financial Aid be investi­Krashna claimed that the Univer­ed by Holy Cross ttall President, 
gated" was tabled until tonight's sity was inneasing tension by Joe Stank us. He opposed theRens~elacr, Indiana, but said he session. The Co-ed Proposal will not allowing bla~.:k students to dispacement of the Holy Crossspent much time every week on also he suhmitt~.:d to a campus­dcterm ine their own affairs. He Hall residents and claimed thatthe Notre Dame campus last wide refcrend urn this Friday. said they have found that "re­

"the Experimental College will According to Student Body questing things does no good," not further the question of

year. He hopes that he can look 
at campus problems a little dif­ferently from the other ~.:andi­Vke-President Mark Winings, and that ''the only way to get co-education, and it will add to 
there were owr I000 students at anything is to demand it."

dates who he -.:laims see Notre the housing problem now facing Dame only frum the inside. He Krashna said that this sedion Notre Dame." In defense of the was include_d in the proposal as 
proposal Bill Wilka emphasizeddocs not pl•• n to name a running Mooney decl•·nes debate an emphasis of the problems

mate until he begins campaign-the need for experimentation in fa~.:ing minority groups at Notre
ing. the University and said that re­
Dame. After much debate the

Sighting (;O-education as the Student Body Presidential terest in the campaign and to jection of the proosal would 
assembly voted to delete the

major issue at the pr·~sent time, candidate Don Mooney said yes­allow the students to evaluate "turn the tide" of the enthusi­
sedion from the Student

Hendrick thinks that "next year terday that he and his run­the candidates at close hand." asm that has been built up for 
Government Proposal.

will be a year of frustration" if ning-mate Dan Sherry would not Mooney's original statement co-education. The vote showed James Werner, a student who
Notre Oame goes co-ed pre­~ampaign hall-to-hall together as said that he did not want to that 467 of those in attendance maturely. He says that the prob­was suggested by their major "debate", because he wanted to recently lost his scholarship due favored the proposal while 443 lem is only two years old, and opponents, John Barkett and avoid " the overly political as­to what he contended was "Uni­opposed it. that it hasn't yet been given a Orlando Rodriguez. Barkett and peds of student government versity discrimination" proposed At the end of the assembly
that "Any information not as­

chance to work itself out. ~odriguez had suggested this that we feel must be de­Mike Conway, author of a pro­Hendrkk favors the ~.:ontinua­method of campaign in their -emphasized." However, after sociated directly with a Notre posal for co-education in Pang­tion of policies as they are, with declaration of candidacy on Barkett's campaign__91anager, St. Dame-Students Academic born and Regina halls, asked 
achievements is to be considered 

(Continued on Page 6) Tuesday night,"to promote in-Ed's Hall President Bob Weaver, that his proposal be tabled in 
absolutely impertinent to the
pointed out that Barkett desired favor of a. similar one concerning
subsequent procedures in award-
a "discussion of the issues" and Flanner Hall and Regina HalL 




not a "debate", Mooney retract­ed his earlier statement and said, Senate meeting scheduled for "We don't want to do this es­
Suspension plan viewed 
The Student Senate Constitu­sentially because we don't have
tional Sub~.:ommittee last night tonight. The bill was sponsored by the time and because we have
agreed to pass an amendment Sorin Hall Senator Chuck Ryan different halls to emphasize than
out of ~.:ommittee recommending who contended that "I may not John would."
that Student Government be sus­vote for the amendment myself. Mooney continued, "Dan,pended for a year. 
But I think that students have a myself, and also Cathy and Mis­A petition to put the bill right to vote on this question; sy would like to campaign to­before the student body is pres­from what I've seen the proposal gether as much as possible. We
ently in cir~.:ulation and is ex­
pected lc> have the necessary five has really raised some excite­would like to bring out a differ­hundred signa_tures by the ment. ent approach from John, an ap­~~~~~~~~ proach which probably"\vouldn't 
See complete text, page 3 
be suited to common discus­

Notice 

Committee Chairman Tom sion." Thrasher said that if the amend­Mooney's revised statementThere will be a meeting of all ment fails to win approval in the also said that "we feel thatStudent Body Presidential and election-day referendum, the because of the political atmo­Vice-Presidential candidates at committee will attempt to come sphere around here during cam­4:30 on Friday afternoon in SBP up with a new constitution he­paigns it would probably be aDave Krahna 's office. 
fort! the March 2 deadline. debate anyway." 
NYU basketball tickets needed 
The proposed plan to do­students might donate a few nate student basketball hours of their time to drive tickets to South Bend chil­these children to and from 
dren for the New York Uni­the February 23rd game. The versity game has received children will be picked up little response. So far only around seven o'clock from nine student tickets have either Lincoln or Harrison been donated and the goal of Schools. Twenty drivers are 100 tickets was hoped for. needed and anyone interested 
Tickets may still be do­is asked to call 283-J 145 or nated for this game by turn­283-1488. ing student passes into the 
This program is only aathletic ticket office at the pilot stage but it is hopedConvocation Center. The of­that the procedure can befice is open from nine to five repeated on a much largerand tickets will still be ac­scale next year if this plancepted today and tomorrow. 
works.
It is also hoped that some 

Page 2 Thursday, February 18, 1971
THE OBSERfJDt 

University Forum awaits fate 
By Greg Rowinski forum." This group incorporated Forum did not open its proceed­students, added Sniegowski, at­1970-71 academic year, partlythe six segments of the Univer­tended the session. After the
ings until February, 1970. At because the members agreed that

The University Forum has sity. These segments are adminis­open portion, the Forum met
this three-hour meeting, officers in the "rushed" conditions ofbeen inactive this year, so far, tration, faculty, undergraduates, were elected. An open meeting, privately. thut period, any meeting wouldwith its plans still "unsettled" alumni, trustees, and graduate The Forum then convened in
concerned with "student dis­he of "dubious'' value, suid

for the second semester, accord­students. This body was not May and dealt with the topic
sent" followed, said Sniegowski. Sniegowski.
ing to Chairman Donald 

legislative. Rather, its objectives "Notre Dame as a Christian Uni­Sniegowski. The dedsion regard­were twofold: to listen to the versity." A panel presented a Sniegowski added that the
The Forum was convened

ing its continuation next year total university community and program; Fr. Toohey also idea of the Ceneral Assembly
twice in spring I 970. l~ach 

will be decided in this term. I to advise and recommend the meeting proceeded with a dif­chaired a panel of the Campus may have removed some of the The Forum has, since its in­
proper authorities. ferent format as the group Ministry. motivation behind the Forum. 
ception in May, 1969, found it 
Trustee approval was reported sought to get settled, explained After these three get­The students were the most in­difficult, in the words of Profes­
to the entire University in May, Sniegowski. At the first of these fogethers, a consensus of Forum terested in the idea of an open sor Sniegowski, to "find its 1969, by Fr. Hesburgh. Three spring meetings, the Forum Iis­members agreed thut in spite of forum in Sniegowski's view, as place" amidst the multitude of 

members, and one ex-officio tened to those from the univer­the amount of time and effort shown by their attendance at campus organizations already member, were elected from each sity community interested in spent, the group had still not dis­past Forum meetings. Still, few, 
considering the topics that 
of the six interest groups. using the opportunity of the covered its role. if uny, representulives of the would be of concern to the Although it was intended to open forum. A "fair number" of The Forum remained dormant other five segments have Forum. Sniegowski still main­meet in the fall of 1969, the interested non-mem hers, mostly during the first semester of the attended the Asscm bly. 
tains that the Forum is "a good idea," but it will remain "on standby" until there is a specific 





Student Union fares well financially
reason to convene it. 
The Forum itself was the brainchild of Fr. Hesburgh, to establish an "all-University 


COLLEGE NIGHT SPECIAL Thursdays Spm-11pm 
All the Fish 
You Can Eat 

$1.15 

J 
By Milt Jones ovemll, and is now operaliug with a $4,500 deficit. 
According to SU Director Bob "We plan to make the budget Pohl and Comptroller Brian halunce with the $1000 we prof­Nagle, "the Student Union did ited from the Supremes Concert, 
quite well financially in the first Contemporary Jai.Z Festival, and. semester. Every commtsston two other scheduled concerts." profited except the social corn­The Cultural Arts Festival has mission." upporximately $4,500 left to 

Pohl pointed out, however, operate with. In addition to "some groups that were bud­their original budget of close to geted to break even turned in $6,500, CAF profited $4,800 on profits." patron cards this year. However, 
The Social Commission profit­
the patron curd profits have ed $6,500 on concerts in the been depleted, as well as u por­ACC during the first semester. tion of the festival's originul ul­
But SUSC lost $8,000 on the lotment. shows held in Stepan Center. During the first semester, Stu­These were Luther Allison, dent Services Commission also 
Pacific Gas and Electric, and showed an over-all profit. The Rare Earth. The commission lost service organization of the Com­$5,000 on the Rare Earth con­mission, which handles refriger­according to Pohl, "they should 'The (;raduate' was the most 
cert alone. ator rentals, buses to O'Hare, continue to stay ahead in the profitable film to date," Pohl Pohl commented that "having club activities, student trips und second se rnester." corn mente d. Cinema '71 has 
such expensive groups in Stepan other such matters pkked up The publications division of pulled in $2,800 to date. How­was our main mistake. This led $300. Student Services Commission ever, 50% of these profits were to the big losses incurred there." The Commission was original­was predicted to break even. allocuted to Black Maria Cinema 
However, this facet of the organ­
SUSC lost $1500 on concerts ly expected to profit $150, and Studios, an experimental film ization brought in $250 over ex­group. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
penses. 
The Academic Commission
t The Cultural Arts Commission f 
was budgeted $1 9.000 at the be­f Presents f ginning of the year. They have The Observer took over con­
trol of the publication machines as of the second semester, and spent $12,000 to date, hut they 
this will no longer be a part of have contracted all their. speak­
ers for the second semester. "No The student press, third sub­more speakers will be contracted division of sse, ran a deficit as far as we know, and with sal­t and the t first seme1;ter. However, Nagle aries and other necessary expen­commented, "this was due to ditures they should breuk even," 
the fact that they bought all according to Nagle. 


I Butch Cassidy 1 
Student Se:rvices Commission. 


I Sundance Kid I
their inventory for the entire Finully, the Student Union year at the beginning of the first Administration, which was bud­t Feb. 19, 20 and 21 t semester. During the second geted $4,200 has spent $2,600. semester they should balance However, this has gone to major
t 7:30 and 9:30 t their budget, because they have ex pen dit ures of remodeling, the bulk of their expenditures equipment, and supplies to last behind them." the entire year. 

I I
General Admission $1.00 
Feature films such as "The Nagle commented that he was Craduate," and "Bonnie and "quite pleased with the resultst Engineering Auditorium t Clyde" profited the Cultural of the first semester. I'm also op­Arts Commission $6,000. timistic about the second sem­
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ester. We plan to tighten things up and keep the individual com­missions within their alloted budgets."




BUSINESS GRADS: 
if you think business 


:~~~~JI~a~;:f~;rl

i.:·:~.!::~ rep~:\he St. .•..
419 Mary's students who were ques­:~: tioned, 81% not 31% said 
l:!.l:~ they would be willing to 

is bad on Wall Street, check Harle11n. 
. live in a co-ed Flanner
.... 
:;:; next year. 
:::: Also if Regina were to 
:;:; become co-ed the only

See Business VISTA representative 
.... 
:::: areas where both men· and
.... 
:::: women would be allowed
..•.

in the Business School 
:·:· is the lounges and study
:!i~[ rooms in the hall. ;:;:; Finally if Flanner were


Today, 9:00 -5:00 
:..~.:1:.. to become co·ed only ·~-: maid service in each stu-~:~



I:~r::~~~:::~.:::; 1 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::: 


Thursday, February 18, 1971 Page 3
THE O&fEBUER. 


ND Marketing Symposium -------------------------­
Greyhound Goes to Chicago 
•


improves salesman's 1m age 
By Tim Burke 
The fourth Annual Marketing Symposium, which was held all day yesterday at the Library Auditorium, featured discus­sions, movies, and a role-playing session. This year Miles Labora­tory, Inc., manufacturers of Atka-Seltzer, participated in the Symposium along with approxi­mately 300 Notre Dame stu­dents. 
The Marketing Symposium, which is part of the Paul D. Gilbert Lecture Series, was divi­ded into three parts. A morning session centered around sales and marketing, an afternoon ses­sion analyzed various aspects of advertising, and a noon luncheon 

Stu dent gov't suspension text 
Realizing the possibility of in­effectiveness in our present stu­dent government and being some­what sensitive to the growing cri­ticism bv the student body to this 
effect, we the undersigned pro­pose a rad1ca1 but temporary change in the structure of the campus-wide student government and move the following: 
1) That· all provisions of the present, constitution outside of this revision whall be suspended as of 1 April 1971. 
2) That on 1 April 1972 this re­vision and the suspended constitu­tion shall be invalid and that the undergraduate members of the Notre Dame community may ef­fect any of the following actions: 
a) 
re-institute the suspended constitution without this revision. 

b) 
allow the constitution and this revision tQ remain invalid. 


c1 i~stitute ·whatever new form of community government they may deem fit at that time. 
3) rna\:' during the year set forth above the official student government of the University of Notre Dame du Lac (necessary for reasons of practicality and accre­ditation) be the students and rest in their residences. As such the various residences should organize as the members see fit. 
4) That any student activities fee or any other sum which would ordinarily be channeled to the constitutional student govern­ment be distributed per capita to the various residence organiza­tions. The members of each resi­
dence organization should recog­nize their obligation to share their funds to as to benefit the entire 
Notre Dame community. 
5) That a residence organiza­tion be understood as nay group of undergraduate students rep­resented by a member in the stu­dent senate as outlined in the cur­rent constitution or, farseeing the oossibilitv of an exchanqe of resi­dence halls between the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College, any hall govern­ment set up in such an exchange. 
6) That the residence organiza­tions should recognize their obli­gations to provide an outstanding academic, social, cultural, and ser­vice program either as individual groups or by pooling their funds and working collectively. 
Let it be understood that this proposal is not a product of any animosity general or specific nor meant as a condemnation or a cri­ticism but rather is drafted with thj!,inteM,of,;facilitating a change to a simple and residence-centered community government. 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
was provided for guests in be­tween. 
Dr. Hugh F~ruhashi, Head of the Notre Dame Marketing Dept., Dr. David Appel, faculty moderator of the Marketing Club, and Bob McCarthy, Presi­dent of the Marketing Club coor­dinated the events of the day, with the aid of fellow Marketing Club officers. 
According to McCarthy, the goal of the program was to provide a format that was "en­tertaining, as well as educational and informational." 
The Symposium opened with a presentation by two executives of Miles Laboratory: Mr. Roy S. Morris, National Field Sales Manager, and Mr. Frederick G. DiOrio: who is Vice President of Sales, spoke on salef> as a prof~s­sion, and on the image of the salesman. 
McCarthy stated that they are trying to improve the image of the "high -pressured door-to-door salesm::m." 
Next on the agenda was a half hour movie entitled "How to Make a Sales Call on a Retail Buyer." The movie portrayed a real sales call from opening in­structions to final contracts. 
Following the movie the com­pany executives persented a role playing session: Di Orio and Morris played the parts of salesmen and Kevin Moore, treasurer of the ND Marketing Club, was the buyer in a simulat­ed headquarters sales calL A question and answer period fol­lowed the performance, and end­ed the morning session. 
Concerning the purpose of the morning session, McCarthy stat­ed "We are trying to explain that sales is a very sophisticated acti­vity, which involves more than just walking away and smiling 
(Continued on Page 8) 
Directly From the Circle! 

leave Notre Dame  4:55 Friday  
Arrive Chicago  6:00 Friday  
lea\le Chicago  4:00 Sunday  
leave Chicago  7:30 Sunday  

NOW AVAILABLE! ONE WAY TICKETS FROM CHICAGO TO NOTRE DAME 
Call: Tom Boyer 504 Flanner 283-6984 Charlie Clark 326 Keenan 283-3329 fur Tickets and Information 

·-------------------------­

VISTA NEEDS LAWYERS and others, too! 
See representative in the Law School, TODAY, 9:00-5:00 

SAVE UP TO $3.00 
Top Artists! Major Labels! 
Many, Many More! Classics Included! Come Early lor Best Selection. 
AT NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


TODAY 
Get Your Favorites at Big mscouats! 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER. Thursday, February 18, 1971 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief John E. Knorr, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
Founded November 3, 1966 Notre Oame, Indiana • 
DAJUDGE 
We don't know what Father Riehle was thinking about when he decided to suspend Messers. Hannahan, Badger, Brr~nnan and Holbert prior to their trials, but we suggest that the Administration's Enforcer redirect his thought patterns before he can be accused of prejudicing legal hearings and acting in lieu of the court. 
Fr. Riehle has, of course, both prejudiced the four students' legal hearings and acted in lieu of the court. Painfully, he has acted incorrectly; Hannahan and Badger were acquitted, and charges against Holbert were dropped. Yet these three people are still under indefinite suspensions, subject apparently exclusively, to Fr. Riehle's considered whim. 
It is the job of the courts to determine guilt or innocence. When Father Riehle prejudged the four and by prejudging them "clear and present dangers to the University" effectively found them guilty of violations of the Indiana drug code, he seriously endangered their chance of receiving a fair trial. Furthermore, he acted in extraconstitutional arrogance; assuming that he personally was as competent or more competent to judge guilt or innocence than was the Indiana Judicial system. 
Now that Mr. Justice Riehle's decision has been reversed· by the Real Courts, we would suggest that he lift the suspensions of Messers. Hannahan, Badger and Holbert. In order not to further jeopardize Mr. Brennan's academic career and his chances of receiving a fair trial, we suggest Fr. Riehle remove Mr. Brennan's sentence. 
Dave Lammers 
The Drug Suspensions 
December. The defense attorney, had the need 


·---------------------------------------· 
Father Riehle's suspension of Mark Hannahan, arisen, would have pleaded that the agent hadDonald Badger, Tim Brennan and Don Holbert for engaged in "mental entrapment"; as it turned outtheir arrest in last December's drug busts is as Mr. Hannahan was acquitted for other reasons.
blatant a case of injustice as I have ever seen at Notre Dame. The decision to suspend the four students raises serious objections to the judicial And so Mr. Hannahan, who has forsworn dope, procedure at Notre Dame. It was not until now was charged with a most dubious misdemeanor. that the situation could be publicly discussed Conviction would have prevented him from because the trial of Hannahan and Badger last attending Ohio State Medical School. Suspension Tuesday pn::vented certain things from being from the University before the civil charges were revealed before the trial. That trial resulted in the judged in a civil court is blatant double jeopardy. acquittal of Hannahan and Badger, and yet Father And most unbelievably, after the charges against Riehle remains undecided whether to remove the Mr. Hannahan and Mr. Badger proved false Father suspensions and absolve himself of his act of Riehle remains undecided whether to end the double jeopardy. suspensions and remove himself from his present 
What right does Father Riehle hold that allows position of double jeopardy. him to suspend students before they are brought Or consider the case of Tim Brennan, whose to trial in the civil court? He claims that keeping case will not come before the courts until late these students at the University presents a danger spring. Is Mr. Brennan to be prevented from to the student hody. And yet all four students graduation because the Dean of Students judges continued to attend classes. Charges against Mr. him to be guilty before he is tried by the courts? Holbert were dropped, and Father Riehle knows And what about the appeals procedure, which it; Mr. Hannahan and Mr. Badger have been South Bend attorney Thomas Singer describes as declared not guilty of the misdemeanors they were "a farce, a bowl of mush." Students are granted charged with by the civil court, and yet on the right of counsel, but what kind of counsel? Wednesday .afternoon the Dean of Students was Students who know nothing of the rules of "undecided" as to whether he would drop the evidence or of the art of confronting witnesses? In suspensions. short, a student accused of a misdemeanor is in the 
By what right does Father Riehle prolong the hands of Father Riehle, who can be either merciful mental suspense of these two men until Friday; by or severe, depending upon his opinion. Given that what right does he continue the University situation of personal judgment, what fate befalls punishment of suspension while the civil court has those students who contract gonorrhea, or fight declared them innocent? The answer to these with non-students, or are accused of drunkenness questions is simple: the Dean of Students, in loco or wrecklessness, or break the law by destroying parentis, is the accuser, judge, and executioner of their draft cards? Obviously, punishment, if any, any person who is perceived by the Dean of depends on Father Riehle's judgment, and if you Students to be guilty of wrongdoing. happen to he an athlete or a friend of the Dean 
Mark Han nahan's case is illustrative of this you can count on preferential treatment. power. .On November 6, Hannahan was working at Father Riehle's aversion to drugs is a gas station on Eddy Street, when he was understandable. But men that are awaiting charges, introduced by his boss to a young man who men that have been acquitted, and men whose happened to be a policeman in disguise. The agent charges have been dropped deserve fairness and asked Mr. llannahan if he could find him some retribution. Apologies should be extended by acid, for he had falkn on hard limes and wanted Father Riehle to those he has wronged. Justice some dope. Mr. Hannahan, in the presence of must be removed from the personal judgment and witm:sses, replied that he neither used dope or had execution of Father Riehle. any to sell. After some pleading by the narcotics And if I .may be extremely self-righteous, agent, Mr. llannahan agreL'd to put him in touch Father, when Peter and Jesus were rapping about with son,eone else w.ho possibly might have dope how many times to forgive, what did they figure for sale, which resulted in Hannahan's arrest in out? 
Dani,el V. -----------------­
On Student Government 
. I I 
..I Hope Nobody Reads This Column 
There seems to he a general conscensus among student governnv.~ • 
functionaries that student apathy is destroying the effectiveness of 
student government. I don't wish to dispute the fact that student 
government is losing its effectiveness, but rather to discuss its 
meaning. 

Perhaps apathy is a virtue in this situation. Perhaps the students 
are trying to tell the student politicos something. Perhaps they 
should listen to the sound of silence and reflect on it. 
The politicians should start asking themselves whether they have 
created their own problems by not adjusting to the new mood of the 
students. 

The problems of improving hall life have largely been solved. Co­
education is coming and forceful student lt:adership is not needed to 
bring it to fruiti•m. 
Things aren'r perfect but the students have been judiciously 
placated. You will never find a student who will admit he is satisfied, 
only lovers and drunks will admit that, but his silence is mute evi­
dence of hs lack of concern. 
But while the students (as a collectivity) sees little in his immedi­
ate surrounding to spend his constructione energy on, student 
government does. If there are no issues they will create them. The 
senate, tenure, & the Jim Werner case failed to capture the students 
imagination. Now, the politicos will turn to an ungeneral assembly in 
search of i:;sues. 

They may find them If you search: hard enou~ you always will. But they will not be a renection ot the wtll_ of th~ student. An? when student government fails to reflect the views ot the student, 1t will lose its effectiveness. To the extent it has occurred student government has lost its effectiveness. 
There are times in the history of any organization in which force­ful leadership is needed and there are times (too terribly short) when virtue lies in moderation. Those of us who have spent several years at Du Lac know the former times all to well. They were a time of con­flict in which we rejoiced in the successes of Rossie and McKenna even if we were a bit unhappy over the fact that rhetorical enmity sometimes carried more weight with the administration than did rational persuasion. 
But now tha times are different for the real issues have been deci­ded. But student government has failed to see the chance_ that this· necessitates in their position. They have ignored the thought that this is a time for "benign neglect" because it is a distasteful policy for those who want to demonstrate their power. 
However, it is not a strategy in which progress will not be made. It is but one in which mutual accommodation will be the order of the day. 
Someday the administration will again be reactionary enough to earn the students active disdain. But this is not that time. Students are not interested in student government in the way student govern­ment envisions itself. They ignore the discussion of it, they ignore articles that address themselves to the subject. Arricles like this. 
But thafs fine with me. I weJcune the new era of student 
"apathy", I would be happy if no one read this column. 

Larry Ballantine-----­

Bus Stations S--k! 
A long time ago some perverted fiend originated the myth that bus stations are fascinating, unique areas where all levels 'of society gather for a massive interaction creating a paradise for sociological studv. 
"It's really neat to just sit in a bus station and watch people" claim the ps<~udn-psychologists. 'fhc !llyth is still a popular one but please realize it is nothing more than a myth. 
Bus stations s-k' 
Pornography runs rampant. Homely girls read obscene books. They sit salivating over finger-worn copies of Naked Come the Dildo and the recently acclarmed classic Hco-Sex. The more advanced hus stations, (presumably because the establishment was losing too much revenue from the open rack display), have installed safe, clean, sanitary coin-operated. book machines. 
Pinball machines echo noisely. 
Old men gather to remember when. 
Pals wait patiently. They're never in any hurry hut they never sit 
still. They'll find l 001 different ways to cross their legs and they can always spot the next trick before he gets hath feet inside the door. The guys get the hard up look on his face and he'll pay for anything at this point. She leads him out the side door. Neither one is smiling. ller face, \\o·orn and tired, mirrors pathetic existence. 
Bus station snack bars possess the matchless ability to prepare hamburgers in such a fashion that when one picks it up one's fingers become coated with a slimy. warm, rancid grease. The hot coffee isn't and the fresh pastry is stale. 
Headlines glare from nameless newspapers: "The Many Men in 
Jackie's Love Life", "I Sold My Body Because I Wanted A Baby". 
The hust:s are never on time and inevitably if you wait more than fifteen minutes, you always wait alone. Sitting in the Tol~do depot waiting for a hus from Cleveland which is 2Yz hours late can cause one's mind to do strange things. At such times even thoughts of the (;olden Dome elicit favorable responses. 
People sit. Alone. Depressed 
Middle America waits silently. 
The absurd reality of it all. 
Indeed. Bus stations s -k! 
Thursday, February 18, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 5 
Lucia Zaucha 



On love and liberation 
Human beings, an old myth goes, were originally created in tiJe shape of balls. When the gods became ar.gry over the sins of the world, lightning bolts were sent down from ti-Je heavens to strike each person into two parts. Love, then, is the result of a person's desire for union with 
Jim .Leary 
Blue Hills foundry 
The bushes flattened in the wheezing 
wind as it swept, crazy, off the water and 
I drove out in the quiet morning on 
County Trunk C, bound for the Blue Hills 
Foundry. 
The Blue Hills Foundry is in this old 
barn (weathered, gapped, leaning boards 
that the wind sails through). It sits in the 
boondocks, in the hills east of Rice Lake, 
Wisconsin, looking like a refugee from a 
Dust Bowl Ballad. 
Last summer, beardless with my hair 
chopped to High School length, I went 
there to work: to make sewer steps, water 
bug bootjacks, boat anchors and bells 
and, maybe, some subtle Revolution. You 
know, throw in a few quiet interjections 
here and there, a few insights, a few nifty 
analogies illustrating the similarities be­
tween NFO milk dumpings and student 
striking. Meanwhile my hair and beard 
were getting longer, my hands were 
getting more calloused, the summer was 
growing hotter. 
Then one day this rough old dude 
George Michalski (who is damn near 60; 
has spent half his life logging; rode 
freights from the boondocks to Chicago 
in depression days; has been busted about 
20 times for getting drunk and disturbing 
the peace) reckons to me: "What do you 
think of all these college students and 
niggers who riot?" Oh Jesus, I thought. 
Oh jesus! George was a huge guy standing 
over me, booted and lumberjackish, look­
ing like he was about to disturb the 
peace. Bravely, though in a soft voice, f 
said back: "Well George, usually any 
trouble is played up by the media, usually 
there's good reason for student's and 
black people's rebellion, usually the 
police and the administrators are the first 
ones to really screw up the situation! I 
was just about to throw in something 
about the NFO or how the little man in 
the woods gets screwed or some other 
something George could relate to when 
he surged fiercely forward and bellowed: 
"Goddam right, that's what I thought. 
Them college students and niggers are the 
only ones with any hrains. I don't care 
who riots, as long as they riot. They keep 
those bastards at the top from gettin' 
smart. Them unions are all gettin' smart 
and fat-asscd, 'cept for that Chavez guy. 
Some of these dumb guys around here 
say to me 'why don't you use your vote? 
Votes, sheeyit! Votes don't mean a 
goddam thing no more. What we need in 
this country is a .Revolution." I damn 
near fell over in amazement. And then 
my boss, Herb, reckoned "We gotta tear 
this country down. We gotta tear it down 
'til we can catch up with it again." Then I 
did fall over. Far Out! Redneck Revolu­
tionaries. 
Shamefaced recalled my earlier 
doubts and down lookings on these hack 
country men. My wrong thoughts that 
the only things George and Herh could 
rap on were cars and cows and fishing and 
logging and farming; my crooked convic­
tions that their minds were stuck fast in 
the ultimate nihilism of American "Pro­
gress." 
And they are everywhere, quiet in the 
hack country, grumhling and grudging as 
the state slowly stomps and sits on them, 
as the state creeps closer and eats up their 
rights crumb by crumb by crumb: they 
wait (slow-burning) not saying much 
(slow-burning) until that awful and, per­
haps, inevitable moment when they must 
(we must) burn faster or vanish before 
that cold, bitter, loveless wind that is 
sweeping and whipping, swifter and 
stronger, 'cross the country. 
his or her "other half". 

M,•ny people would laugh at this story, 
yet act as though they do believe. Such is 
the case of any girl who feels she can't be 
whole without the love of a man. Actual­
ly, she is cheating hoth herself and her 
lover if she thinks that she he only part a. 
person to enter a love relationshop; for 
love is one inst:nce where t.wo l1a!ves do 
not make a whole. 

But if you must he a woman to rove, 
then what is a woman and how does a girl 
become one'? Some would have you think 
that womanhood is a matter of age or 
sexual ·experience. It isn't so. Being a 
woman means knowing yourself, and 
accepting yourself for what you are. 

Certain preconceptions about women 
sometimes stand in the way of girls' 
getting to know themselves. Traditional­
ly, in order to be called "feminine" (and 
God help the girl who was not!), you had 
to speak, dress, and act in a certain way. 
So instead of each girl confronting herself 
and determining what suited her as an 
individual, a girl simply accepted the 
feminine role. In Homer's time all females 
were typecast in that manner. It is 
written how the women of Troy would 
go out each day to the city walls and 
watch as the men battled on the plains 
heyond. As the fighting would draw to a 
close, the women would retire to their 
rooms and recieve the returning warriors. 
The men would find pleasure in their 
arms, and no doubt entertain the women 
with stories of what had happened in the 
"outside world" that day. The men were 
the thinkers, the doers. Women, the 
watchers-at -the-walls. 

All that was so many years ago that we automatically assume that it has no rele­vance to our own modern lives. But how many of us still play the Helen Game? We spend our time trying to recreate the face that could launch a thousand ships (or at least the proverbial seven Notre Dame guys), while men are out building ships and sailing them to new lands. A girl who is truly to know herself must refuse to be 
Mike McQuestion 

restricted hy those stereotyped roles that 
were old even when Homer wrote of 
tl1em You, as a girl, must honestly come 
to terms with who you really are, and 
what you, yourself, here, now, want out 
of life. 
Understanding yourself, you must then go on and positively affirm and accept ·yourself. For truly you can love no other until you first have learned to love yourself. It is as Kierkergaard has written: "No girl who is not so proud really knows how to love ... " 
Probably the thing a girl finds ft most difficult to have pride in is her mind. She's always been concerned aboNt her figure, and worked to develop her person­ality, but her mind has been considered relatively unimportant. Everyone knows boys don't want girls with brains. So by the time she arrives at college, a girl is oftentimes afraid to become intellectually involved. She will perform adequately academically, but shy away from func1­tioning intellectually. In other words, she'll make decent grades--that makes her a suitable match for an up-an-coming college grad--hut she won't get excited by ideas. Thought will be a 9:00-10:00, Monday, Wednesday, Friday thing rather than an integral part of her daily life, And the college coeds speech is littered with defensive phrases designed to explain this phenomenon; "My grades aren't im­portant--he needs a good average to get into law school/med sc'lool/grad school...", "You don't need an 'A' in chemistry to be able to cook!", and "It's not the grades that matter, it's the 'col­lege experience'," Translation: I don't really care about my education, I'm here husband-hunting. 
Unfortunately, the universal fear that showing her brains will leassen a girl's chances for dates is nbt unfounded. Any male who is unsure of his masculinity will feel threatened by a woman who is secure in her femininity and sure of her person­hood. But should vou give up your self in 
the hopes of maybe winning someone else? No, you must place a higher value than that on yourselt and dare to be you. Remember when things seem difficult, what Shelley has said to you, who dares to be an individual: 
"My Song, I fear that thou wilt find but few Who fitly shall conceive thy reasoning ... Whence, if by misadventure, chance should bring Thee to base company (as chance may do), Quite unaware of what thou dost contain, I prithee, comfort thy sweet self again, My last delight! tell them that they are dull, And bid them own that thou are beautiful." 
And remember too, even if boys do dislike girls who show their intelligence, men do not. By being herself, a woman may lessen her chances of finding a male, but she will have improved her chances of finding a real man. For only a real man can cope with a whole woman and not feel threatened. And the relationship be­tween two people who are both adults and hoth individuals is a thing of beauty and by far surpasses the kind of relation­ship had by two people, each of whom feels inadequate alone. The person who really loves is the one who " ... has com­
prehended the deep secret that also in loving another person one must be suffi­cient unto one's self." (Kiek<:gaard) 
So what about you? Don't vou deserve to be yourself? Doesn't the man you would love deserve a real woman rather than a girl? You don't have to play the Helen Game, women don't have to be watchers-at-the-walls. It's much more ex­citing out on the plains where the people and the ideas are interacting and real life is going on. Be not, then, as Homer's Helen, but rather as Tennyson's Ulysees, who would say to you: 
"Come, my friends, 'tis not to late to seek a newer world." 


A hollow victory at Madison 
Only a few of the people were into the stock rhetoric; to my companions, it seemed to be just another anti-war rally. Yet, I couldn't help wondering why the 8,000-<Jdd students had filled the fieldhouse--most seemed bored. And hadn't a new wave of student apathy swept the universities, leaving the move­ment high and dry? 
The Laos invasion had come and gone at Notre Dame. It was the furthest thing from my mind as I passed through Mil­waukee that afternoon. It would be good to see old friends again, and there was always plenty to do in Madison. A re­freshing weekend away before the nt!w semester became too serious. 
Now the rally-leaders were calling for a march to the state capitol. I could sense a growing excitement--the prospect of a confrontation. Outside, Jeff seemed suddenly animated; "We gotta stick to­gether or they might get one of us alone." Other people were hastily forming affinity groups as the march began. 
My arrival Friday had been greeted with a variety of horror stories ahout the University of Madison police forces. Feel­ings were apparently bad on both sides, so I was only mildly surprised to see a regiment of Madison's finest approaching the head of the rally in full riot gear. Ten­sion was high now-apparently they wanted to split us into smaller groups at the first corner. "Hell no, we won't go" gave way to "Off the pigs", and the first cannister of tear gas landed to our right. We immediately split to the left. 
By now, the violence had begun. I saw a couple of students knocked down and dragged to an awaiting panel truck. Ice chunks were flying over our heads. Some brave souls were shouting to split ~p and meet at the capitol any way we could get there, fully aware that police observers were probably calmly snapping pictures of suspected leaders. I felt the mob psychology now-some sort of an amal­gamated hatred; out of control. 
Jeff proved to be a brilliant strategist; leading our group as well as about twenty-five other followers on a zig-zag course to capitol square, successfully out-flanking cops on every corner. We were the first there; I could feel a sense of triumph, looking back to the streets of people, all struggling to the goal we had already gained. ' 
It took a while to sense the hollowness of our victory. What had started under the pretense of an anti-war march had de­generated to a raging street hattie. It seemed strange that only now was I thinking ethics. 
After a while, most of the demonstra­tors had reached the square. They filled the streets, blocking traffic and forcing more police aggression. A sarcastic "America the Beautiful" perhaps best typified our feelings, having "won" the street battle. Much to the relief of the amassed police, no one attempted to enter the capitol building. We climaxed and died within ten minutes. 
I found it difficult to draw any pro­found meaning from the ordeal. Later that night, Jeff and I discussed the after­noon's events, and what he thought to be the University of Wisconsin climate in general: "You see Leo, we're frustrated with the whole scene. . .I mean, the Madison pigs are out to get u~ ...they don't give a shit about the war, they just enjoy putting us down..." I wanted to ask how many students he thought gave a shit. .. 
I returned to Notre Dame's relaxing apathy the next day, wondering how much longer it could last, and whether I was glad to be back, or not. 

Page 6 
THR OBSERIIBR. Thursday, February 18, 1971 

Nixon discusses renewal of peace talks 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Pres­the President, said,-American position he advanced in a major going to make any more conces-Responding to srong Com­
ident Nixon warned North Viet­forces will remain in South Viet­speech last October. At that sions." munist Chinese protests over the 
nam Wedsnesday that "we are nam until Hanoi released all U.S. lime, he proposed a mutudl He asserlted that the Cambo-Laotian operation, Nixon indi­
not going to make any more orisoners of war. cease fire at existing military dian campaign early last summer cated he had no fear that Peking 
concessions" at the Paris peace During his 40 minute session positions and an expanded Gene­had severed Hanoi's only other would commit troops to the 
talks and that time was running with newsmen, the President va style conference on the ent1re major supply line into South con11ict. 
out for meaningful negotiations said that as the United States Indochina problem. Vietnam. If the present assault "As far as the actions in 
with the United States. proceeds with its troop pullout, "I do not waP.t to suggest against the Ho Chi Minh Trail southern Laos are concerned, 
He refused, at an impromptu it will have increasingly less in­there will be any more conces­net work in Laos is a success, he they present no threat to Com­
White House news conference fluence over the course of events sio'n," Nixon said. "We are not said, accelerated U.S. troop munist China," Nixon said. 
to speculate whether South Viet~ in Indochina. withdrawals can be expected. "They have no reason to react to 
it.,

nam might extend its Laotian of­His message for the leadership fensive into North Vietnam. But, in Hanoi presumably was that if he added: "I'm not going to serious negotiations do not begin place any limitation on use of air soon in Paris, the North Viet­
(C<mtinu~n~!f/} He.n~~ick. eyes SBP 
power." namese will find themselves he will desu1he Ill h1s platform. tion, money that could be used He specifically ruled out use dealing with a government in However, he wants to g1ve in other areas such as minoritySaigon that is less willing to ne­Saint Mary's gradually increasingof tactical nuclear weapons in government a new ~ook. He_ ad-recruitment. He said that sopho­gotiate reasonably. its enrollment, helped financiallySoutheast Asia. 
vocates reguh.•r sectJ<~.n meet1:1gs more cars "is an excellenthy Notre Dame.
While U.S. troops will con­For his part, he said, the w1thm the halls to "eep every-h t t th ·b·l·l 
. . · • c ance o 1es e respons1 11 y
"St. Joseph went coed two or
tinue to withdraw as swiftly as United States is not prepared to one mformcd of what the stu-of today's freshman but the real
three years ago,'' he said, "and
their safety can be guaranteed, go further than the negotiating dent govemment is <I · · · ·' 
. ' · ome problem Involved Is space. and
based on what happened, I'm 
He~dnck wants to set _up a there just isn't enough_;, 
sure that every bociy wiit he tel 
council to try to work to fmd a He would also like to sec the
down if Notre Dame does. I 
~~lulion to the war in .Indochina. language requirement changed
Mooney campaign 
think l.hat we should have the 
I he. c_ounc~l would mdude an for students of the University.
discussion of a probll'm on an 
admmistrat.Jvc mc~mher "hie 1n II d · k l t h 
idea, with the members of this donate much lime as moderator. ·en nc a presen as noThis, he said would stimulate cam pa1gn manager and stales(Continued from Page 1) discussion. community, which will lead to a Hendrick also favors minorityrecnn! ment to make the Umver-that he wasnt "to show everyoneBarkett also S<:!id that even if commitment based on intelligent
In commenting on Mooney's investigation rather than emo­sity "well-roundcd" and helieves how hard I can work for Notre
his opponents' schedule were al­
revised statement, Barkett said, that that progr~m needs more Dame, and that my running is
tion or spur-of-the-moment in­
ready made up it could easily be
"I really don't understand where terest." funds. He would like to investi­not just a political thing." He 
changed "if they were interesed
they got the idea of a debate. gate the program to be assured hopes to reach as many students
The base of Hendrick's social
in giving the students a good,
The headline in the Observer was that everything is going as it as he can in his campaign and to
ideas centers on university life
close look at the candidates anda mistake. I thought we made it rather than hall life. He wants atheir issues."
clear to them that we wanted a real Student Center at Notre
"This would give the best
discussion of the issues." 
Dame and at Saint Mary's which
possible exposure," he said.
Barkett said that he thought will he used, rather lh~n the
Barkett said "If Mooney's ap­
that the best way to interest library, for social gatherings, and
proach is not suited to;'common
people in the campaign and thus says he has "several ideas to
discussion, "then what is it
to talk to more people was to suited to'!" nase boredom on campus, es­have coordinated campaigns. 
pecially in the second semester."
As to Barkett's fear of the 
With a healthy university life,
talks turning into a debate, Bar­Hendrick feels thai hall life will
kett said, "This will only happen
MORRIS AUDITORIUM 

fall into place.
if one of the candidates wants ti that way. I have already said Hendrick would leave Student (;overnmenl basically un­
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 

that I don't, and Don certainly doesn't, so I can see no prob­changed, instituting an executive lem." and a representative board which 
MAIL ORDER 
NOW! 

A ploy by lillian Hellman 
WASH1NGTON HALL Feb. 19,20,25,26,27 
Tickets 1.50
at 8:30PM & 
Information 284-4176
Feb. 21 at 2:30PM 
should. see Father Heshurgh, President 
On a num her of smaller issues, of the University, if possible llendriek thinks that money is during the campaign. to discuss 
being wasted by the Administra-!Ill' issues involved with him. 

SM (: coffeehouse closure due to lack of interest 
The coffeehouse, which was
By Maria Gallagher 
closed on and off last year, was taken over in June by the threeSt. Mary's coffeehouse, which girls who aimed at making it afor 3 years served as a place place for students, for the ex­where students could go for cof­pression of art, for social ex­
fee and folk entertainment. has change, for studying, and for a
been dissolved, according to dialog between the individual
managers Cece Fortune, Kathy Hilgart, and Diane Miller. 
and the community. · A secondary purpose was to
In an interview yesterday, the raise money for a scholarship to
three girls cited a l<Jck of interest be made available to anyone
on lhl' part of students as the who needed it. Last J unc the
main contributing f~ctor to the managers gave a $500 scholar­
closing. ship, and this past December
"The coffeehouse as such is $1300 was given to two seniorsno longer as needed as it was be­to ena hie them to finish theirfore i.JS it Wi.JS on college cam­sl udics at SMC. The managerspust·s. They arc dying out all stressed the need for the coffee­
over the country," Miss Fortune 
house's patrons to know that theclaimed. 
money taken in was used to stu­

-~~~~~IC;jC~~~~~iC;JC;jCiiC"**~*jC:*~*~*~****~*~*~****************· de?~ financial aid.. 
* I he em ply col feehouse, now
*under the jurisdiction of the
ATTENTION I *SSO, failed to open after Christ­
*mas bec~use of lack of student• *hacking during the first semcs­
*ter. However, the managers feelThe Observer needs people~ *that their aims are vital, but can­
*not be realized within the struc­
*ture of a coffeehouse. They havefor its 1971-n staff. *proposed that a student union
March 8,1971 *be created to manage a place for No experience necessary
WORLD'S *~students embodying their four ideals. The need was stressed for
HEAVYWEIGHT 
* a large group representing theCHAMPIONSHIP * entire student body (namely the
There will be one champion and only one champion # Positions range lrom news writing to pr~oduction. ~~~~~ean~~~;c~~ernmcnt) to manage 
JOE * The student union commis­
* sion would assume full responsi-FRAZIER FOR THOSE INTERESTED bility to the sso, as weu as the
* benefits extended to other SSOvs * commissions. A student union 


~ SL-_. Meeffftd, 
Jmanagcr should head this com-
MUHAMMAD *. IIVW& a *mission, and be chosen as other
ALl * SSO commissioners. Funds


TON IGHT 
#would go towards its improve-Closed circuit television * men! or to the SSO, as opposedlive from 
Madison Square Garden * ~ to a scholarship, the girls S<~id. NO LIVE OR * 6 30 F l * No decision has yet been 
DELAYEO HOME TELEVISION -iesta ou nge *made concerning the future
: 

of 
* the defunct coffeehouse. Any-
Students $6.00 admission Send payment and self *one having any other suggestions addressed stamped envelope I t '* for the use of the empty space 
to: Morris Aud. 

* l a FortUne StUdent ( ,. "' en er olE should contact Diane Shahade,
211 N. Michigan 

******************************************~*~ 
S S 0 c h a i r man. 


Thursday, February 18, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 7 
•

Rick Wohlhuter-he expects to wtn 
by Vic Dorr One of these instances came "Except for the dual meets," Observer Sportswriter last weekend, at the hands of he pointed out, "the NCAA Rick Wolhuter is a winner. Michingan State's Jim Cassel­meet is really the only thing that man. m~tters in indoor track. !·:wry­
Tra~.:k coach Alex Wilson real­thing else is on an individualized this when he recruited him "It really surprised me," said basis. There are no team winnersfrom high school. Follower's of Wohlhuter. "I hadn't expected announced in meets like the oneNotre Dame's fortunes in trad" to have mu~.:h trouble in that last weekend, so individual
and field realized this as soon as race." The race of which he Wohlhuter began perforning as spoke was the (,00 yards, the places are the only things to event in whkh he holds the compete for. Of course there are
an Irish freshman. And now, team winners in dual meets, and some three years after his N D NCAA title. This was the first 
dehut. Wohlhuter is forcibly pro­competition (,QQ whi~.:h Wohl­there will also be a team winner ving this point to nearly every­huter has run this season, and he selected in the NCAA meet." As one who competes against him. plainly upset to have lost it. He captain of this year's squad, In fad, over the course of the realized though, th<Jt meets such Rick is well qualified to com­past two years, Wohlhuter has as the one last weekend do not ment on the progress of the 
only been beaten twice. 
carry a great de<JI of weight. I97 I indoor track unit. He has, after all, led them to wins over Miami of Ohio and Ohio State in
JIM MURRAY 
their only two dual meet match ups. 
The team has completed its dual schedule. but the toughest com petition is still to come.




Baseball's 

During the next four weekends, the Irish runners will be partici­pating in the Central Collegiate ('onference meet, the Ohio Stale
Injustice 

Invitational, the JCAAAA meet, and, of course, the NCAA meet. © 1970, Los Angeles Times Wohlhuter feels that the team can do reasonably well in meets 
Really, sometimes I think Baseball as an industry is run by the >Lich as these. 
Krupp Family. On second thought, cannon-makers have more heart. 
"WP don't have a whole lot of 
Rick Wohlhuter, Captain of the ND track teamYou know what they've done now? They've segregated the llall of 
depth," he said, "hut wt: do have 
"The guys who'll probably instead). I'm trying to get in
Fame! several fairly good individuals. 
give me the most trouble are shape for the outdoor season. I
I ask you! And because of this, we should Tommy Turner (Murray State) want to get some distance workThey have taken Baseball's shrine, Cooperstown, and turned it in­
he <Jble to make out allright in 
to a "Sorry, I can't .serve you here--but if you'll step around to the and Audrey Hardy (Tennessee). in, so 111 be ready for the 880."
meets where the points are pret­
Both of them ran in the 600 last The 880 is the event that Rick
back" place. ty well split up."They have told Satchel Paige they're going to let him in but he's year." will run once the team moves
But because track is first of all 
to bring his House of David uniform with him. He's back to the Despite all of its fanfare, in­outside,_ and strangely enough,
an individual sport, Rick is giv­Chattanooga Black Lookouts, the bus league. He's barnstorming ing mu~.:h consideration to the door track is just a tuneup for he considers this event to be his again. He's in the comedy wing. He's on the Baltimore Elite Giants. the more demanding outdoor best. Besides running in the
opposition that he will he facing The Indianapolis Clowns. He's an end man. Mr. Bones. He gets in the in the weeks to come. season. The months spent inside half-mile, Wohlhuter also runs a Stepin Fetchit Room, I guess. "The competition that we had are used to develop speed, leg of the mile relay for the out-
Great gobbles of sheep shears! Who's in charge here, Senator last weekend was the roughest strength, and endurance. They door squad. Claghorn? Who in the world got the bright idea to dust off and put 
arc more or less of a competition
that we've had all year. But for But neither he nor any of his hack the "Colored Only" sign in this day and age? Where have these 
tuneup. Even the indoor meets 
me, anyway, things shouldn't be teammates are looking ahead to 
are planned -with several extra
guys BEEN?! too bad until the NCAA meet. I the outdoor season. They may 
Tell me it's a practical joke. Allen Funt is going to jump out any running events, for instance -so
really don't expect to lose until be looking ahead, but only to 
minute and break up and say "Smile, you're on 'Candid Camera!"' then." Wohlhuter's caution that the athletes will be well the indoor title meets which There's no other rational explanation. prepared when the outdoor now face them. And as for Rick·
when referring to the upcoming
The situation is this: "Baseball's" Hall of Fame is actually run by, season gets underway. 
showdown in Detroit (site of the Wohlhuter's defense of his 600 
and its rules laid down by, a board of directors. While it includes "I've been trying to develop
NCAA meet) is justified. Al­title in the NCAA meet, his 
baseball men such as the chairman of the board, former baseball though he is the defending my strength this winter," com­opponnets are at a definite commissioner Ford Frick, as well as Bob Carpenter of the Phils. mented Wohlhuter. "That's why disadvantage. Because Rick
champion, Rick will be hard 
league presidents Joe Cronin and Chub Feeney, the present I didn't run the 600 in our meet
pressed to defend his title in the Wohlhuter does not expect to 
commissioner, Bowie Kuhn, Torn Yawkey of the Red Sox and with Miami (he ran the mile, lose.
600. 

former league presidents Warren Giles and William Harridge, it also includes sewing machine heirs, foundation presidents--monied resi­
•

dents of upper New York State.. It is a private organization·which has Baseball's sanction but is not governed by Baseball. One Paul 

ND meets Rams 1n Garden 
Kt..rr is president. Stephen C. Clark, Dr. James Bordley III, Edward Stack and Howard C. Talbot are officers of the company. It is a Notre Dame, Ind. -Notre last five games. an NCAA bid," said Dee, who tourist attraction -3,000 people a day go through it in summer, Dame's basketball team heads in­Carr, who scored just 29 
hopes that regular center John 
200,000 a year. to another demanding road trip points in Notre Dame's 91-76 
Pleick will be able to play after lt argues that its m1es are inflexible. Let us sec. hopeful of producing victories victory at home over Fordham 
missing the last two games with For admission, an ACTIVE player must have been out of the that will help reach the plateau last year, has a total of 2,158 
a bruised heel. game five years and get 75% of the vote of the baseball writers. that coach Johnny Dee has career points in 64 games, an 
Fordham, its only setback this But, there is a "Veteran's Committee" which consists of a dozen established for entry into a post­average of 33.7 and third only year a one point decision to men (players like Bill Terry, Frankie Frisch, executives like Giles, J. season tournament. behind l':.:te Maravich (44.2) and 
Temple, is anchored by forward Roy Stockton and so on) and they can elect WHOM THEY WISH The nationally ranked Irish Oscar Robertson (33.R). Charlie Yelverton. The Ram ace from a roster of players, managers, executives, umpires and, pre­quintet, with a 14-6 overall led­"I said before the season that scored 20 points in last Sat ur­sumably, ushers and traveling secretaries, provided it has been 20 ger, faces Fordham in New if we could finish with 17-19 vic­day's 76-72 win over rival St. years since they left the game for players and five years since retire­York's Madison Square Garden tories against the schedule we John's and is averaging 22.9 ppg. ment for execs. This year, the Veterans Committee whisked SEVEN Thursday night ( 9 P.M )' and play we would he deserving of me~ into the Hall of Fame, one executive and six players. They are then West Virginia in Morgan­town Saturday afternoon (I: 30
as full-fledged members as Babe Ruth or Ty Cobb. They get to eat 
Gustafson wins, Irish lose
with the family. I'.M )~in a regionally televised Five years ago, this committee amended its own rules to admit 
contest. Thursday's game with sur­by Bruce Kennedy Chris Paige ( 134) lost an 11-6Casey Stengel by lowering the five-year retirement to six months, prising Fordham, now 18-1 and Observer Sportswriter decision, giving WMU an 11-0provided the honoree was 65 years of age or older. 
ranked among the nation's top Heavyweight Phil Gustafson lead. ,
Impaneling a lO-man committee, 80% of which is comprised of black players, writers and broadcasters to select (at the rate of one­20 teams, is the second game of scored another first period pin, Esposto's win and Habig's pin a-year) great players from the old Negro leagues for a special section a Garden doubleheader that but Notre Dame's wrestler's fell closed the gap to 11-8, but 
features Temple and Manhattan to Western Michigan 27-13 in Western Michigan ·won four
of the Hal! is _a cl_umsy, self-defeating atte:-npt to right a wrong by compoundmg It. lwery school boy knows Satchel Paige belongs in in the opener. And from all in­the ACC last night. Their season straight matches and clinched dications the appearance of All­slate now stands at 6-8-1. the meet.
the Hall of Fame. So does every Hall of Famer. 
American Austin Carr and com­Gustafson's win was his 33rd Bob Bennett (158) and KurtA man who twice struck out 22 major leaguers in a game, who pany will attract the first sellout in a row at Notre Dame and he Bottjer ( 167) were defeated in
won 12 games in relief (and saved 10 others) for the old St. Louis ,
crowd ( 19,500) ever in the new stands 15-0 this season. third period pins, so ND thenBrowns, who may have been the worst team ~::ver to play the game, Carden for a regular season col­Bob Habig also registered a needed three pins to salvage thewhen he was at least 46 years old should not be in the back of this 
lege game. pin, and Rich Esposto managed match. But John Imhoff ( 177) bus. No one who ever pitched or batted against Satch was comsulted Carr, who has received ex­decision, WM U was
in this move, you may be sure--not Joe DiMaggio, Dizzy Dean or an 11-10 but topped 5-Q, and Rick Asci­
cellent support in recent games won the other seven matches age ( 190) suffered a I 0-2 defeat. 
Bob Feller, none of whom is ashamed to say he was the greatest. But from senior Sid Catlett (9.6 and stayed ahead ·of the Irish the Gustafson's 47 second pin fol­this notion of Jim Crow in Baseball's Heaven is appalling in its own 
ppg., 9.5 rebs) in addition to entire meet. lowed, was
right. I can't think of a more terrible idea. To have kept Satchel but the meet lost, 
steady forward Collis Jones Tom Ciaccio, 118 pounds.
Paige from playing in thl~ white leaAues for 24· years and then bar him 27-13. 
( 22.9 ppg, 12.0 rehs), is second took an early 5-0 lead but could
from the \)early gates on the grounds he didn't play the required 10 The wrestlers will participate
nationally in scoring with a nifty not advance further and lost 8-5.
years is a shocking bit of insolent cynicism, a disservice to America. in the Wheaton Tournament Sat­
37.2 average. He has s~.:ored 38, Then Steve Moylan ( 126) was
What is this--1840? Either let him in tl·e front of the Hall-or urday and will meet Illinois Tech 
36. 37, %, and 46 points in his pinned in the first period, and
move the damn thing to Mississippi. Wednesday 
Page 8 Thursday, February 18, 1971
THE OBSERVER. 


Liu named to head Sociology dept. 
Dr. William T. Liu, professor D'Antonio who will become isyt sin.:e I ':!62. He presently teaching post it ion al Nazareth International Scientific Com­of sociology and a specialist in chairman of the sociology de­serves as diredor of the Social Colle_gc, l.ouisvellc, Ky.; FloridH mission on the Family, Popula­the study of population d:tnam­partment at the University of Science Training and Research St(lte University; University of tion Association of America ks, will become chairman of the Connecticut. Laboratory and director of the Portland; University of San Car-National Council on Family Re~ department of sociology at A native of Nanking, China, , Insitite for the Study of Popula-los, Celm City, Philippines; and lations, American Academy for Notre Dame June I, according Liu received a master's degree in tion and Social Change at Notre is presently serving as visiting the Advancement of Science to an announcement by the Rev. sociology at Notre Dame in Dame. professor, department of popula-and American Sociological Asso~ James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., pro­1952 and has heen a memher of ln addition to his Notre Dame tion dynamics, Johns Hopkins ciation. vost. He succeeds Dr. William V. the teaching staff at the Univer-degree, Liu attended Fu Jen llni-Uniwrsity. 
ND-SMC dinner
veristy, Peking, China; the Col-Liu serves as a director of lege of St. Thomas; Florida State Planned Parenthool/World Popu­
This weekend THE GOOD, THE BAD, 
Univeristy. where he recieved his Ialion, the Institute for the tickets available 
Bob Ohlemiller, director of
doctorate in sociology, and the Study of Ethical Issues, and the 
the co-ex dinner, announced yes­
Univeristy of Chicago, where he National Association of Matri­
terday that any of the girls who
served as post-doctoral fellow in monial Lawyers. He is series edi­
AND THE UGLY will be back! 
signed up last night to eat at
social psychology. He has held tor of the Notre Dame Popula-
Notre Dame and did not receive
riiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiii~---;_---------~ tion Monograph Series. 
As a Student Service••• 


116n1Ads 
A*#Ar4MIU#4t 
·~7 
*AUTOMOTIVE 
Scooters & Cycles Auto Parts & Service Aviation 
* EMPLOYMENT *FOR RENT 
Apartments Houses Rooms 

*FOR SALE *PERSONAL 
* 
PEANUTS PERSONAL 

* 
REAL ESTATE 

* 
RECREATI'ON *SERVICE 


Typing Service 

*TRANSPORTATION *_WANTED 
The Observer will run a classified advertising section. Rates for this service are redw.:ed in an attempt to make this service open to every one. 
Words  1 day  2 days  3 days  4 days  1 week  
0-10  .50  .75  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11-15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  2.15  
16-20  .70  1.15  1.70  2.40  2.80  
21-25  .85  1.35  2.00  2.90  3.45  
26-30  1.00  1.60  2.35  3.40  4.10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
36-40  1.35  2.10  3.10  4.25  5.10  
41-45  1.55  2.30  3.30  4.50  5.50  
46-50  1.75  2.50  3.50  4.75  6.00  

This Section will appear Daily. Copy and payments can be sent through the mail or brought by the Observer Office. Payments must be made in advance. All copy must be received by 3:00 prior to date of publication. 
For Information Call 283-7471 between 2:00&5:00 
What's so ~ecial about Beechwood Ageing? 
We must be bragging too much about let Budweiser ferment a second time. Beechwood Ageing. (Most brewers quit after one fermen­Because we're starting to get some tation. We don't.) flak about it. Like; "Beechwood, These beechwood strips offer extra Beechwood ... big deal." And "If surface area for tiny yeast particles Beechwood Ageing is so hot, to cling to, helping clarify why don't you tell every­
the beer. And since these body what it is?" 
strips are l;J.]so porous, they So we will. 
help absorb beer's natural First, it isn't big wooden 
"edge," giving Budweiser _casks that we age Budweiser 
its finished taste. Or in other in. 
words, "a taste, a smooth­But it is a layer of thin 
ness and a drinkability you wood strips from the beech 
will find in no other beer at tree (what else?) laid down 
any price." in a dense lattice on the 
Ah yes, drinkability. That's bottom of our glass-lined 
what's so special about and stainless steel lagering 
Beechwood Ageing. tanks. This is where we But you know that. 
Budweise&is the King ofBeers. 
(But you know that.) 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC.• ST.LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONVILLE • MERRIMACK 
their tickets should contactHooks authored or co-author­Diane Shahade at 468 2. The lasted by Li u inc! ude Social Psych­I 27 tickets for the dinner will be
ology for Hducation, Chinese So­
available tonight at St. Mary's
ciety Under Communism, Fam­
Dining Hall.

ily and Fertility, Catholics: 
Tickets for the Not;e Dame
U.S.A.: Perspectives for Change, 
students who wish to eat at St.
and The h'merging Women: The 
Mary's on February 22 as part of
Impact of ramify Planning. Dr. 
the exchange will also be a vaihl­Liu also collaborated with his 
ble tonight in the Dining Hall at

wife, May, an artist, in a new dinner. The tickets will be dis­
pubiication, Essence of Chinese Cuisine. tributed on a first come, first 
He holds membership in the served basis. 

Sym1~osium studies ads 
agency (who also handle Avis
(Continued from Page 3) 
rent-a-car advertising) to the after getting the door slammed Mary Wells, Rich, and Green in your face." 
Agency (who also handle Bran­A luncheon was provided for 
nit" Airlines). Many peopleabout 185 students, faculty, and 
criticized this switch, which in­company representatives at the 
volves ahout $23 million worth 
Morris Inn, courtesy of Mr. Paul of advertising annually.
D. Gil bert, president of Gilbert 
Miles Laboratory answered Clothing Stores in South Bend. 
the criticsm by announcing that Job opportunities in Marketing 
they were faced with decreasing were discussed in a question and 
sales, and that merely because a answer period, which was con­
commercial is entertaining, it ducted after the noon meal. 
doesn't necessarily follow that it The afternoon session opened 
will sell products. with an audio-visual presentation 
Two discussions followed the in the Library Auditorium. A 30 
film segment. Once centered on minute film segment traced the sales results and advertising cam­histroy of actual Alka-Selzer 
paigns. The second analyzed the commercials during the past five 
effect of resear.:h methodology years. 
in the Alka-Selzer advertisements. The two discussions were led
McCarthy felt that this film by Mr. John Ridenour. Managerwas one of the "highlights of the of Marketing Intelligence forday. Most people don't realize Miles Laboratory, and Mr. Calvin how entertaining commercials Hodock who is Manager of Mar­are when you watch them close­keting R~search. Both gentlely" he explained. 
111 en part i c i pat e d i n the
McCarthy noted that 
question and answer period whichAlka-Selzer has recently changed followed.
their aclvertis1ing agency and fell 
that "they would be an excellent company to explain agency prin­
Night Editress: Mary Chris IVbrrison 
Layout Design: Jerry Lutkus Layout: Daniel V., Joe Abell 
ci pies rela lions." 

Last December, Miles Labora­tory, Inc., switched from the 
Headlines: Jim Roe Night Controller: John E. Knorr

Doyle, Dane, and Bernback 
~~~...._...._.~~~ ~~~~~~~~ 
t Live Entert2inment t Wed. to Sat. Dancing 
t 
t 


t "THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST'' 
t 
525 North Hill Street 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619
t 

Attended Parking
t 
In the R car 
t 

THURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY NIGHT
t 

'Jownstairs starting at 9 pm
t 

t 
Everyone's Welcome 
' Happy Hour 5-!: Dail·• ' All beverages $.60 ' ' during Happ~' Hour ' Upstairs Only ' 
~------~-------~ 





