Kennedy calls America to action 
by Don Ruane 
Black author and black woman's liberation spokes­woman Florynce Kennedy said it is time for all "good people" to move for change and worry about police armament before a half-full Library auditorium last night. 
Miss Kennedy described the "good people" as those who wear "1942 haircuts and wear skirts when they work in the library." She based her lecture on the assumption of "good people" that "sinfull people" are the sources of danger. 
She described the "sinful people" as those who run the "killing machines" and pollute the environment. Miss Kennedy, who is also a lawyer and actress, attacked the "good people" who do not find any difficulty supporting pollutters such as General Motors or backing mili­tary leaders but do find pro­blems when welfare recipients begin "wrecking the business world." 
Miss Kennedy also criticized the usc of federal appropria­tions, particularly the space program and oil rebates. She said mothers on welfare have to send 
their children to school on alter­
nate days because they only 
have one warm coat while 
airlines continue to foot the expenses of less than half-filled flights. Scoring the space pro­gram, Miss Kennedy said, "We don't seem to be particularly concerned about how this country spends its money." Stating that she has nothing against rocks, she criticized the Apollo 14 mission adding that the $400 million cost would pro­vide eriough money for a child care center in "every state of the Union." 

"The good people say a drunk should spend his money on food and clothing for his family and then spend all that money on space waste," said Miss Kennedy. 
Miss Kennedy said that blacks are continuing to arm themselves throughout the country and criticized police assistance pro­grams and the current trend of reinforcing and updating police arsenals throughout the country. "Good people" should worry about how the police are arming and not the blacks, Miss Kennedy told her audience. "ln New York the 
police take care of the need for a Ku Klux Klan." She also said police funds in the South do not go directl!' to the KKK but the materials they buy eventually are used by that organization or others similar in nature. 
In addition to police arma­ments, Miss Kennedy criticized police techniques calling the police actions of the 1968 Chicago riots "super enthus­iasm." She said the police should have been investigating the late Illinois State Treasurer Paul Po well instead of "hanging around" Grant Park. 
(Continued on page 8) 


the Notre Dame and Saint 's College ('ommunity Tuesday, February 2, 1971 
Hinkemeyer: SMC must merge, or face complete collapse 
Mary's Education Department, faculty will have to be cut and
by Cliff "Buzz" Wintrode 

and Kenneth Sayre and Father almost surely they will, 'then Ernest Bartell of the Notre they said the cuts will be of St.
Closer cooperation between 

Dame departments of ptiloso­Mary's faculty, and not Notre
Notre Dame and St. Mary's will 

phy and economics respectively. Dame faculty. 
be on Notre Dame's terms agree 

All four faculty members Father Runde said that he
professors on both sides of the 

thought that the merging of the could not really blame the Notre
road, and they say St. Mary's 

academic departments of the Dame faculty if this happened.
will either have to cooperate or 

two institutions would be the "Jobs are at a premi,-'1. It iswither away. 
most difficult step of any future something like Darwin . survival
These opinions were gleaned 

closer interaction between the of the fittest," said Runde.
from separate discussions yester­

schools. This point was men­Hinkemeyer said that he
day with Dr. Michael Hinke­

tioned in the Park-Mayhew re­would like to see some sort of a
meyer and Father Raymond 

port as a long range goal. merit system organized to decideDr. Michael Hinkemeyer Runde, professors in the St. 
The Park-Mayhew report, what faculty would be kept but however, did not mention any he admitted that this would mechanism by which depart­never happen. The faculty is too

Apollo 14 flight continues 
mental merging could be ac­disorganized, the administration SPACE CENTER, Houston to the moon, complained "my walk to transfer from the land­complished and this has been does not care about the faculty, considered one of the flaws of and if it did it is too inept to do
(UPI) --Apollo 14's astronauts mattress was hard." ing craft back to the command the report.
got clearance Monday to try for Lee said that if ice somehow ship. anything about it, said Hinke­
However, the four professors meyer.
a landing on the moon Friday collected in the docking probe Lee said although it never got said that they expected thismorning when a problem with and caused Apollo 14's prob­to the point where a spacewalk Runde also endorsed this idea. 
knotty question to be simplytheir spacecraft disappeared as lems, it could have melted when was seriously considered, Apollo Bartell said that some form of asolved by power and the powermysteriously as it popped up. the spacecraft was in the sun and 14 might have been committed merit system will be set up, butthey said is on Notre Dame's"I feel excellent," 4 7 year old erased all evidence of the cause. to a lunar landing even if it had he said "everyone will be fight­side. They said that basically theAlan B. Shepard told ground Even if the probe problems been determined ahead of time ing for his concept of merit." Hedepartmental merging will notcontrollers when he awoke late had continued, threatening that one might be necessary. 
did add that he felt that non­be a merging, but instead willin the day, a few hours after the further difficulties during a Apollo 14 passed the halfway tenured faculty at Notre Damegenerally mean the eliminationdecision had been made to let second linkup of the spaceships mile on its trip to the moon at will be as liable to firing as theof the St. Mary's faculty. 

him and Edgar D. Mitchell go after a moon landing, the astro­5:11 p.m. EST. At that point non-tenured faculty at St.
Not one of the four saw anyahead with plans to explore an nauts could have made a space­

(Continued on page 3) Mary's.
other end except this end. Ifancient moon crater. 
Runde also concurred with 

Space officials an­Hinkemeyer's assessment that nounced their decision after the St. Mary's administration is

HPC rules on money allocation;
hours of trying--with success--to not concerned with the future of 
determine why the astronauts its faculty. "I do not think the had so much trouble docking 
administration cares," said


announces new security program
their command ship with the Runde. 
lunar lander. 
Hinkemeyer and Runde bothMem hers of the steering C0m­Chester M. Lee, mission ble. Each hall president will be

by Bob Higgins said that St. Mary's is consider­
director, said the clamps that required to appear before the mittee for the upcoming General ing the possibility of a "re­Assembly, Bob Meyer and Barnywere supposed to hold the two committee and describe his pro­
In last night's meeting the trenchment" to a women's
. Gallagher, appeared before themoonships together might have ject in detail. Hoefer hopes to
Hall President't Council adopted school dominated by the reli­
been jammed with a sliver of ice. reach a decision by next Mon­HPC and explained the basic 
Chairman John Barkett's guide­gious but although both said tl1is
Apollo program manager day, February 8. procedures which will be imple­
lines for the distribution of its possibility was high, neither pre­
James McDivitt agreed that it In other business, HPC Chair­mented when the General 
allotted $1300. dicted its eventuality. 
probably was "some foreign man John Barkett announced Assembly meets, February
Halls requesting money were Both said this "retrenchment"
object" that kept the devices that the office of the Dean of 16-18. The main topic will be 
given until Monday to submit a would be the result of a coali­
from locking Sunday night. Men will finance a security pro­coeducation, Gallagher empha­
typed proposal including the tion of older tenured faculty
Shepard, America's oldest gram within the halls. Barkett sized, but other topics such as 
purpose, description, estimated who probably would lose their 
astronaut in active service and its emphasized, as a part of the pro­Academic Reform and the re­
costs and a timetable for the jobs if a merger· occurred and a 
first man in space a decade ago, posal, that each Hall should at­cent firings of University profes­
completion of their respective very sizeable segment of the con­
left no doubt he was enjoying tempt to acquire Father James sors will be discussed if brought
projects. Fritz Hoefer, Executive vent. "This definitely would not 
his first flight since then when Riehle Dean of Men as a speaker up. The HPC chose Joe Stankus,
Coordinator of The Hall Presi­be adverse to their proclivities,"
he reported in. in an attempt to improve the re­President of Holy Cross Hall, as
dent's Council, and Chairman of said Hinkemeyer.
"I feel excellent. slept lationship between students and its representative on the Steering
the committee which will allo­However, both expected that 
soundly for four or five hours Security. Committee, whose function it
cate the funds, also requested the "sensible" people at St. 
and intermittently for another Barkett also announced that will be to review all proposals
that the halls present a detailed Mary's and on their Board of 
two." the policy of the Student Press made to the assembly and rule
financial report, including the Trustees "realize., that if St. 
out those that are in duplicate.
Mitchdl said he slept about Food Sales operation, the Hall's regarding distribution of adver­Mary's wants a future, it is in 
four good hours, but Stuart A. tising flyers was simply that dis­Proposals by students or student closer cooperation with NotreTreasury Report, and a report
Roosa, who will remain alone in tribution would be discontinued groups must be submitted to the Dame. 
the command ship while on the collection and enforce­in any hall upon receipt of a Student Government Office by 
(Continued on page 8)

Shepard and Mitchell drop down ment of a hall tax where applica~ written request. February 12. 
Page 2 

SLC stalls soph cars, Judicial Code 
After forty-five minutes of discussion the Student Life Council voted yesterday to table consideration of Fr. Hesburgh 's letter asking the SLC to review its decision granting Sophomores parking privileges. 
Prof. William McGlinn of the Physics Department proposed that the SLC "confirm its ori­ginal motion" which extended car privileges to Sophomores as of September, 1971. He noted that everything said at the meet­ing yesterday had been said at the earlier meetings in which the Sophomore car motion was dis­cussed. 
Prof. Eugene Henry of the Electrical Engineering Depart­ment then suggested that the members of the SLC provide Fr. Hesburgh with more information about their personal opinion by voting: "Yes, No, or Indif­ferent" on the proposal. 
At this point Fr. Riehle, Dean of Students, moved to table the motion. After this motion was carried, the letter was sent back to its original committee with the instructions that the com­mittee should formulate a re­sponse to Fr. Hesburgh. 
Mr. Philip Faccenda, Vice President and general counsel s~d "The committee should an­swer the questions of the letter." He said he thought the com­mittee should also consider whether sophomores can be le­gally prevented from using their own cars and the question of scholarship students who own automobiles. 
The SLC next considered the Board of Trustees' directive re­garding the new Judicial Code. The Board agreed to accept the code pending review in March of 1972. 
SBVP Mark Winings asked the SLC to reject the letter from the trustees because of the "tone and sense of the letter." Winings objected to the passage which guaranteed the president the right to intervene when he thought it was in the interest of justice. 
Student representative Tom Schaaf thought the "explicit" delineation of the president's rights which were only "impli­cit" in the actual code was not balanced by an "explicit" state­ment of student's rights. 
Winings charged that the trus­tees "tamper with everything." He felt that the notation of the administration's right to appeal was well defined in the code it­self. 
Graduate student Rick Hum-

JUNIORS 

Cl••• of '72 

If you have not made your appoint­ment for your Senior yearbook por­trait, call 283-7085 or stop by the DOME office (4th floor, Student Cen­ter) before 2 p.m. any day this week. Do it now. 
M•rdl Gr•• Concert 
friday, february 5 
8:30 in the ace 
tickets $5, $4, $2 at the student union ticket office (4-5 pm) and at the dining halls. 
presented by student union social commission & ace 


US military miSSIOn ousted 
month after repeated seizures of the United States and Ecuador. ador asked the United States American tuna boats by the State Department spokesman yesterday to withdraw its mili­Ecuadorian Navy. John King told UPI that the tary mission because of the dis­The announcement by Ponce note asking that the mission be pute between the two countries Yepez came less than 24 hours withdrawn was received early over fishing rights off the Ecua­after a special OAS meeting of Monday evening and "obviously dorian coast. foreign ministers had recom­their (Ecuador's) wishes will be Ecuador's Fortign Minister, mended that the tuna dispute be met." But he said no time had 
Jose Maria Ponce Yepez, attend­settled in bilateral talks between been set for withdrawal. ing an Organization of American States (OAS) meeting here, said W ASHlNGTON (UPI) -Ecu­


Dugan to choir Econ Dept.,
his government had officially in­formed the State Department 

Bartell named to Center post
that it wanted the U.S. Military brecht indicated that it was "a future president's discretion in question, not Fr. Hesburgh's." 
The SLC decided to include the letter in its minutes but did not take any action to "accept" or "reject" it. Most of the mem­bers thought that any communi­cation should be included as a matter of course in the minutes. 
The only other major action of the council was consideration of the nature of its report to the 
trustees  regarding the  "parietal  
experiment."  
Fr.  James  Schilts,  Assistant  

Vice President for Student Af­fairs, outlined a survey of rectors and hall presidents which will constitute the bulk of the SLC report. 
Winings suggested that the council dispense with the report 
The Student Life Council in action 
and address itself to "more im­Schaaf then asked for a des­portant considerations like co­cription of the procedure by education." which he could submit a minori­
"We are well into the twen­ty report to the SLC's investiga­tieth century now," Winings tion. He noted that it would in­said. "We should let parietals . clude specific recommendations stand on its own merits." on co-education. 
mission pulled out of that coun­try. 
The appointment of Dr. a Dennis J. Dugan as chairman of
The United States placed the University of Notre Dame
one year embargo on all military department of economics has
aid to the Quito government last 



BlOWYOURSElF U 
TO POSTER SIZE 
Send any black and white or

color photo, polaroid print, 2FJ X 3FT $3•SO 
cartoon or magazine photo. 

A great Gift idea ... a splen· did Gag. Ideal room decora· 1V2 FT. x 2 FT. $2.50 tion , .. Perfect for parties. Poster mailed in sturdy tube. 3 FT. x4FT. $7.50 
Your original returned undamaged. Add SOc for postage handling EACH •tern ordered.· Send check, cash or M.O. (No C.O.D.) To: 
PO BOX 589 NY 10010 NY 



theUI 
c 
, 

rn ~ 
I 

rn 
en 
been announced by the Rev. 

James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., pro­
vost. He succeeds the Rev. Ernest J. Bartell, C.S.C., who . 

last year was named director of 
the Center for Study of Man in 
Contemporary Society. 

Two administrativt> appoint­
ments have been annuunced by 
the new chairman. Dr. Roger B. 
Skurski, assistant professor of 
economics, will serve as director 
of graduate studies, and Dr. 
William H. Leahy, associate pro­
fessor, will be director of under­
graduate studies. 

A member of the Notre Dame 
faculty since 1966, Dugan com­
pleted undergraduate work at 
Creighton University and re­
cieved his doctorate from Brown 
University. He has served as a 
consultant to the U.S. Office of 
Education in program planning 
and evaluation in his capacity as 
public policy fellow of the 
Brookings Institution. 

Dugan has also served as chair­
man of the Notre Dame Econ­
omics Seminar Program, as a 
member of the Committee on 
Social Sciences, and as a senior 
staff member of Latin America 
Population Research Institute. 

He has r~rtici.,~ted in the Notre 
Dame education surveys in St. 
LoUis, tlonsm. ana Denver, and 

in labor-income research com­
pleted by the University in Val­
paraiso, Chile, and Cali, Colum­
bia. 
Dugan has collaborated in the 

publication of two books on ed­
ucation and is the author of sev­
eral articles and papers dealing 
with education costs. He h"~ 
been the recipient of the Phi 
Beta Kappa Award, two Wood­
row Wilson Fellowship awards, 
and two National Science Foun­
dation grants for graduate teach­
ing and research. 
The Observer is p·ubllshed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. SubScriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre. Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 




Co-ed halls proposed for ND-SMC 
women at Notre Dame, and a quired to have their laundry all but I79 of the 481 expectedMary's are currently working on hall of Notre Dame men at,St. done by the University laundry. Stanford-Keenan returnees. Thein response to the recently­
A proposal to turn Standard Mary's. This play may prove to (To accommodate the Stanford result of the exchange as origi­
issued Park-Mayhew Report. 
Hall into an all women's resi­Many students have expressed be the form of social change women, washers and dryers nally proposed by Thunder dence hall and Regina North in­dissatisfaction with the Park­most likely to be implemented could be transferred from Re-would produce a loss of I23 
to an all male dorm has been forwarded in a detailed report offered by two Notre Dame stu­dents, Jim Thunder of Zahm and Patrick Conway of Breen­Phillips. In their three-page plan, 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 

printed completely in today's Observer, Conway and Thunder present evidence that their pro­ject could be accomplished by the fall semester of I 97 I. 
Thunder considers the report preliminary work for the study that the joint student govern­ments of Notre Dame and St. 
Mayhew Report for what they consider inadequacies in answer­ing the major question about the aspects of a possible merger agreement. The Thunder­Conway report offers a clear-cut system of changes for the social climate on the two campuses. 
Thunder admits that the pro­posal considers only one possible means of altering the social structure of Notre Dame and St. Mary's: namely, co-exchange of residents from a Notre Dame and St. Mary's dorm. The ex­change would result in the crea­tion of a hall of St. Mary's in any future merger action. Thunder claims that the effect upon St. Mary's identity would be minimal, and that resistance by alumni and alumnae would probably be less drastic than if co-ed, in other words, mixed male and female halls, were es­tablished. 
Still there are sizeable prob­lems involved in the plan that are outlined in the report. In the area of laundry and cleaning fa­cilities, the proposal suggests that that laundry "be itemized in order that women living at Notre Dame would not be re-

Apollo 14 cleared for Friday landing 
(Continued from page 1) 
the spacecraft was I I 9,3 72 miles 
from earth, traveling about 
3,403 miles per hour. 
Lee said tests and evaluation 
on the balky capture latches 
would continue until the 
scheduled lunar landing by 
Shepard and Mitchell at 4: 17 
a.m. EST Friday. 
Roosa will keep the command 

ship in lunar orbit while the 
other two explore the surface of 
the moon. 
McDivitt told reporters both 

ground controllers and the astro­
nauts had "done these tests and 
everything appears to be perfect~ 
Iy normal, there's nothing I 
would think would cause us to 
suspect we would do anything 
except a nominal mission from 
now on." 
The tests on the balky latch­
ing devices included work by the 
astronauts with a flashlight and 
wrenches and a full computer 
analysis of the problem by 
experts on the ground. 
Even if the astronauts are 

unable to dock after their moon 
landing, the two moon explorers 
could walk through space 
between the lunar module and 
the command ship to reach 
safety. Hand rails were long ago 
installed on both vehicles just in 
case a lunar crew was unable to 
perform the critical docking in 
moon orbit. 
The third spaceman aboard 

Apollo 14, Stuart A. Roosa, will remain aboard the Kitty Hawk command ship in orbit around the moon while Shepard, America's first man in space, and his rookie companion explorethe Fra Mauro hills that also were the target of the ill-fated 
Apollo 13. 
It took six tries and an extra 

hard, unusual shove to finally 
get Kitty Hawk and the lunar lander, Antares, locked together late Sunday. 
The trouble popped up after a weather delayed but flawless launch from Cape Kennedy, but when it struck, it was serious enough to raise serious questions for almost 24 hours whether the spacemen would be allowed to try a landing 
Officials said the sixth and successful docking try was "nor­mal." They said perhaps a foreign body had been jamming the mechanism at first and was shaken loose during the unsuc­cessful tries. 
"If it were something like a foreign particle and the foreign particle is gone and left no trace, we'd never find out the cause of that thing if we spend the rest of the century looking for it," said McDivitt, a former astronaut. 
He added there was a practical limit to how far a cause of trouble could be chased. 
"But in no case do we really want to short cut this thing just because we're in a hurry to get something done. This mission is still as dangerous as any lunar mission we've ever flown, and we're going to take every pre­caution we can to find out what the problem is and fix it. We're going to do our very best to have the best match between what we're going to gain and what we're going to risk." 
By space age standards, the 

troublesome piece of equipmentaboard Apollo 14 _a probe-like mechanism that resembles an umbrella -is not an especially complicated one. But the probe is a vital piece in linking up the command ship Kitty Hawk with the lunar 
lander Antares, an operation the astronauts must go through be­fore -and after -a moon landing. · For some reason the capture 
DIARY OF AN UNBORN CHILD 
Oct. 5: Today my life began. My parents do not know it yet. I am as small as an apple seed, but it is already I. The whole big world cannot Say I, but I can. 
Oct. 19: I have grown a little, but I am still too small to do anything by myself. My mother does just about everything for me. Some say that I am not a real person yet, that only my mother exists. But I am a real person, just as a small crumb of bread is truly bread. My mother is. And 1 am. 
Nov. 2: I am growing a bit every day, My arms and legs are begin­ning to take shape. Even if I were to be deformed without arms and legs, I could have artificial ones, as gro~n people sometimes have -and even at the worst I would be I ­ready to have water poured on my head so that I can ~ee 
God. 

Nov. 20: It wasn't until today that the doctor told Mom that I am 'living under her heart. She is helping me already; she is even feeding me with her own blood. She is so good. 
Dec. 10: My hair is growing. It is smooth and bright and shiny. I wonder what kind of hair Mom has? 
Dec. 13: I am just about able to see. It is dark around me. When Mom brings me into the world, it will be full of sunshine and flowers. I have never seen a flower. But what I want 
more than anything is to see my Mom. How do you look, Mom? Dec. 24: I wonder if Mom hears the whispering beat of my heart? Some children come into the world a little sick. And then 
the delicate hands of the doctor perform miracles to bring them to health. But my heart is strong and healthy. You'll have a healthy little daughter, Mom! 
Dec. 28: Today my mother killed me. 

(THIS ADVERTISEMENT PAID FOR BY JOHN T. BALFE) 
--------------------------I 
I


All Juniors 
I I I I

JUNIOR PARENTS-SON WEEKEND WILL HOLD ITS' 
I 

FINAL TICKET SALES AND TABLE RESERVATIONS I FOR THE PRESIDENT'S DINNER AT: I
I­
I I

Lafortune Student Center 
I I 

February I, 2, 3, 1971 I I I I7-9 PM I 
_________________________J 
gina North to Stanford.) The beds for Notre Dame and a gain itemization of laundry would of the same number for St. make it possible for men in Re-Mary's. Thunder feels that the gina North to purchase laundry latter fact will aid in the expan­services from Notre Dame." sion of St. Mary's and thereby 
More serious is the problem of improve the male-female ration the I79 students who will be dis-at the two schools. If, however, placed from Stanford-Keenan. the Notre Dame administration While many will be able to move became concerned over the loss to Regina North, some will be (Continued on page 8) 
forced to move off-campus or to ;=---:--:-::=-~-,-----~='-=-r 
another hall. According to Thun­der, Regina and Stanford were chosen due to the fact that a suf­ficient number of girls would be willing to move out of Regina, and that Keenan would absorb 
latches on the probe did not work properly when the astro­nauts first tried to join the spaceships Sunday night. The fliers finally got the vehicles linked by slamming the com­mand ship against the lunar lander extra hard and activating a different set of latches. 
Officials thus faced the prob­lem of deciding whether they should permit the astronauts to land on the moon and risk another linkup problem after Shepard and Mitchell complete their scheduled lunar surface ex­
ploration. 
Further complicating problem is the fact that when the astronauts imspected the probe-like device they could find nothing wrong with it. 
Space officials said yesterday they had "every intention" of allowing the Apollo 14 astronauts to try a landing on the moon Friday morn­ing. UPI TELEPHOTO 





Art Auction 
featuring original works of graphic art-etchings, lithographs,-by leading 
20th  century  artists:  
Picasso  Dali  
Miro,  Calder  

Chagall Friedlaender Searle Rouault Vasarely and others. 
Sun. Feb. 7th Ramada Inn 
Ballroom 
Auction: 3:00 Pl\.1 Exhibition: 1·3 PM 
Prices start as low as $15 Admission Free 



Tuesday, February 2, 1971



THE OBSERVER 
Rigor Mortis 
Forty-five minutes of discussion before a motion is tabled, forty-five 
minutes more before a letter is put into the minutes, more pontificating 
before deciding to continue with a report already being compiled. 
Ridiculous, yes. Even more so because this is a summary of what the 
Student Life Council did in its meeting yesterday. With coeducation as a 
result of the Park-Mayhew report, a topic of utmost importance on this 
campus, the SLC saw fit to discuss such explosive topics such as; Sophomore 
cars, which should've been immediately referred to committee, a letter from 
the Trustees which ennunicated the obvious and a report on parietal hours 
which was decided some time ago. 
The SLC for this year seems to have been doomed to inaction ever since 
the second meeting when forty minutes was wasted in a debate over the 
minutes. 

In some respects the failure of the SLC to come to grips with real and 
immediate issues such as coeducation, minority recruitment, and University 
priorities can be attributed to certain individuals. 
Leadership from all sectors has been lacking. Two of the three issues 
talked about yesterday were old, while the third carne about largely at the 
initiative of the Sophomore class. 
The ultimate obstruction is the system itself. Legislative bodies simply 
can; not move quickly enough. There are too many diverse viewpoints and 
very little cooperation between individuals to allow it to do so. 
The SLC could be prodded, though. If a series of strong and imaginative 
proposals were to emerge from the student sector the council might find 
itself forced into moving a bit more quickly. 
Even if this situation didn't come about at least the members would find 
themselves wading through verbiage on present matters rather than subjects 
long since frozen in rigor mortis. 
Co-ed l.lvlng 
The recently-proposed Thunder-Conway Report presents a curious contrast to the more-publicized (and more expensive) Park-Mayhew effort. It was candid where Park-Mayhew was disingenious. It was specific where Park-Mayhew was vague. And most importantly, it addressed itself to the most pressing problem that our present situation has presented l1ere: that of the stilted and contrived social life which is always a consequence of single-sex education. 
The report, which is being run in tutu on page five, is by no means complete. Thunder and Conway did not propose a reasonable solution to the problems of laundry exchange; they did not propose any solution to the problem of cafeteria service to a hundred and sixty-four added men at St. Mary's. But the report, unlike Park-Mayhew, has made some valuable and specific insights into the question of how true co-education might be irnplirnented. When they address themselves to specifics, Thunder and Conway are usually right. The number of Notre Dame men who could conveniently live at St. Mary's is approximately one hundred and sixty-four; the number of St. Mary's women who could live at Notre Dame is approximately one hundred and seventy. 
The Ob~erver, t_hen, recommends that Father Hesburg and the Board of Trustees give considerable tl:ought to the Thunder-Conway report, and that the stude_nt body, too, consider it as a viable alternative to the Park-Mayhew 
monstrosity. 
Night Staff Night Editor: John AbowdManaging Editor: Bill Carter Ass't. News Editor: Bill Engli.sh

News Editor: Ed Ellis Ass't. Night Editors: L. EmmetFeatures Editor: Dave Lammers Ballantine, Debbie Carella Editorial Pg. Editor: T.C. Treanor Headlines: Bruce Koehler, JimSports Editor: Terry Shields McDermott

SMC News Editor: Jeanne 
Layout: Chris Johnson, LindaSweeney Blackburn, Dan RyanCampus Editor: Steve Lazar Night Controller: Harold Taegel 

H€L L ~ YW CAN'T CHAN6¢: li-COCk:RMCHEr ARt A fRADi110N t TOC

B•rn•e Ryan==================:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::===~~.::=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::: 
Cork town 
Corktown is a part of Detroit near the riverfront. It was so named, 
circa 1900, because, having a heavy Irish concentration, it seemed a 
sort of distant suburb of Dublin to the rest of Detroit's populace. All 
that remains of Corktown today is it's name, the third generation 
moving from this "suburb" to Detroit's own cleaner, more 
respectable suburbs. Corktown is now just another dirty decaying 
part of downtown Detroit, inhabited only by the old, the poor, and 
the black...or any combination thereof, as well as a smattering of 
high school and college aged kids who have abandoned those clean, 
well-lighted places of D•!troit's outer limits in order to "become 
free" or "to rough it." 

Second avenue runs through Cork town, and used to be the area's 
main drag. Even today "Second" is less desolate then the rest of 
Corktown, mainly because of the plethora of bars and hotels 
situated there. The bars are of two kinds; the "college" bars, helping 
to serve the metropolitan youth culture, and the sleezy bars, serving 
the local residents. The hotels are of one kind; flea bag. The sleezy 
bars compliment the hotels, and vise-versa. Both are essential to 
those who inhabit them. On Second, everything is predicated on the 
pragmatic. The alturistic is non-existent because those who are so 
inclined could not survive and maintain that quality in Second 
avenue society. 

Second and Canfield is an intersection that is representive of 
Corktown life a Ia 1971. On the southeast corner stands the Snug, a 
dumpy looking ediface from the outside, that one immediately 
recognizes as a facade as soon as he steps inside and watches the 
youth culture rocking fifty-cent pieces into the juke box, and 
shelling out two fifty a pitcher for beer. Atmosphere. Catty-corner 
from the Snug is the Blackstone Hotel which looks, and is just like 
the Ratso's and Joe's abode in "Midnight Cowboy," and since 
everyone saw the movie, the Blackstone needn't be described in any 
detail. Directly across from the Blackstone is the Bronx Bar. From 
the outside, the Bronx and the Sung look alike. But in the former 
cans the appearance isn't a facade to lure affluent curiousity seekers 
into a den of psuedo depravity. The Bronx is as sleezy from within 
(both in patronage and decorum) as it appears from without. It is 
inside the Bronx that one encounters Monahan. 
Monahan sits near the bar. Attired in rubber boots, pants worn to 
a shine, flannel shirt, and a long brown coat, he eyes you as the 
Micky Finn-type bartender fills your pitcher with draft. The 
bartender glares at Monahan, and growls something degredating at 
him, giving the distinct idea not only that Monahan is a Bronx 
"regular," but also that he is a regular nuisance to the bartender. 
Paying for your beer, you move to a mustard and beer splattered 
table at the rear of the room, between the lopsided pool table and 
the pin-ball machine. You have come to the Bronx for some cheap 
brew and some local color, and Monahan's stare doesn't even make 
an impression on you. It doesn't, that is, until he comes over and sit~· 
down, at your table, fills his glass with your beer and proceeds to tell 
you the story of his life. 

He stares at you and the two girls and the guy you are sitting with 
(who also are Christmas vacation transplants from another distant 
suburb of Dublin, ND-SMC) ''I'm fifty-nine...don't have my 
sex-drive anymore," he says, "You guys have those girls to keep you 
warm. I don't need that; ·I have this," and he pulls a pint out of a 
brown paper hag that he is carrying. You don't know what to say; 
the line between conversing, mocking, and offending is thin in this 
situation. He tells you about being disabled in WWII, and about 
working on the assern bly line at Pontiac. 
He also tells you about the various. Detroit law enforcement 
officials that he has encountered while being "hauled in when I was 
on a binge." Finally he tells you about his life at the Blackstone and 
at the Bronx. Pulling a disability check from the Army out of his 
bag, he tells you that he cannot cash it because the local parish 
priest, who is his Guardian, refuses to cosign for him. Implicitly you 
know that the priest is right, because Monahan will drink the check 
away. Monahan knows that too, but the look in his eyes reveals that 
such dependence hurts his pride. 
You listen to Monahan all evening. Tales of woe. You get up to 
leave, but before you do Monahan shows you a picture of his 
daughter, standing with her husband and three children, in front of 
their horne in Franklin, one of Detroit's more auspicious suburbs. 
She has lived there for seven years, he tells you, but he has never 
been invited over to the house. Monahan reaches into his bag once 
more and shows you the cigarette rolling machine that his daughter 
had sent him for Christmas. 

Monahan puts the picture and the cigarette roller back in his bag 
and sits down again to finish the pitcher of beer that you left. You 
and your friends flee Corktown. If you multiply Monahan by seven 
thousand, you have Corktown, that distant suburb of Dublin. For 
the most part, suburbs differ only in degrees. 
Page 5 


P. llfdtael Conway ---------------------------------------------Jamesii.Thunder 





Co-exchange residency proposed 
We make a simple proposal which we call co-exchange residency and should be cons-idered as off-campus hous­ing with certain qualifications. The pro­posal is this: that Stanford Hall on the Notre Dame campus be turned into a women's residency hall for St. Mary's stu­dents and, likewise, that the north wing of Regina Hall on the St. Mary's campus be made into a Men's residence hall for Notre Dame students. We believe this could be achieved by September of 1971. 
We assume that it is desirable that men and women undergraduate students live on both campuses. Co-exchange residency is not necessarily a prelude to a long range goal sucl> as coeducation on both campuses; it is a good end in and of itself. (Admittedly, however, if such a long range goal was desired, this proposal might be considered as a worthwhile step.) 
We believe this proposal to be one pos­sible method for achieving that respect which is required by life in a true Chris­tian community, and for achieving a re­jection of the Playboy philosophy. A direct result of this .proposal will be the multiplication of informal contacts be­tween the sexes. This would be primarily evident in the soci"able atmosphere of the dining halls. 
A new dimension created by this pro­posal will be the experience of living on the-other c·ampus,thereby acquiring new perspectives and diminishing the ten­dency to form false generalizations about life on the other campus. The oppor­tunity would present itself under these new conditions to permit members of both sexe.< to hold speaking privileges on the student government bodies that here­tofore have been reserved for members of the same sex. 
We use the term co-exchange residency because we view it as a program which 
goes hand-in-hand with the present co-ex­change program. Academically, it is sim­ply advantageous for students who take a 
majority of their courses at the opposite campus to live on that campus. (Exam­ples include theose in engineering, arch­itecture, science, art theatre, music, and education.) 
We consider co-exchange residency as off-campus living with some necessary re­strictions. This stance would facilitate the solving of many practical problems. The basic premise is that those living on the opposite campus will pay their tuition to the campus at which they are enrolled and p 1y their room and board to the cam­pus un which they are living. In both caies, the students would receive such privileges and bear such obligations as ac­company the above payments. 
One problem arises with the payment of room and board to Notre Dame be­cause laundry is presently included. We ask that laundry be itemized in order that women living at Notre Dame would not be required to have their laundry done by the University laundry. (To accommodate the Stanford women, washers and dryers could be transferred from Regina North to Stanford.) The itemization of laundry would make it possible for men to Regina 
Hall to purchase laundry service from 
Notre Dame. 
The general norm to be followed con­
cerning the rules and regulations of hall 
life, and of general campus residency, will 
necessarily be determined by St. Mary's 
because: 1) Notre Dame men are using St. 
Mary's facilities, and 2) St. Mary's admin­
istration restricts off-campus living. 
(Special arrangements could be worked 
out with the administrations and students 
involved due to the peculiarities of the 
situations.) Matters involving parietal 
hours, sign-outs, and cars can be discussed employing the above guidelines. 
One very real problem which would concern the majority of students is the method by which the students would be chosen to participate in the co-exchange residency program. The proposal can be implemented as described below. 
Keenan-Stanford Wlll be constdered as one entity, with residents from both halls 
having an equal opportunity to acquire beds in Keenan Hall and in Regina North. 
(The allocation of beds will be deter­mined on the basis of classes according to 
percentage.) There will be no incoming freshmen registered in Keenan, Stanford, or Regina North. (Approximately 170 in­coming Notre Dame freshmen will have to be distributed to the other Notre Dame halls.) 
Total expected returnees to Keenan-Stanford: 48l,(all numbers are approximate) Less: the number of beds in Keenan, 302; Students to be displaced: 179. 
The displacement of these 179 stu­dents will be achieved by some moving to Regina North (a maximum of 164), some, moving off-campus, and the remainder will be-distributed over the halls on cam­pus. Those students distributed through­out the campus could be allowed room picks in the halls of their choice on an equal basis with those already residing in that hall. 
It should be noted that there are 287 beds in Stanford and only 164 beds in Regina North. This means that overall Notre Dame loses 123 beds and St. Mary's gains 123 beds. To accommodate this change, St. Mary's will have to in­crease enrollment by this amount, and Notre Dame will haye to either allow more students to move off-campus or to decrease their enrollment. (Another item to be mentioned is that the St. Mary's women chosen to live in Stanford will be chosen on a class-percentage basis.) 

We trust that the people on both cam­puses will seriously consider the proposal and the concepts described in the ration­
Keenan-Stanford will be considered as one entity, with residents from both halls having an equal opportunity to acquire beds in Keenan Hall and in Regina North. (The allocation of beds will be deter­mined on the basis of classes according to percentage.) There will be no incoming freshmen registered in Keenan, Stanford, or Regina North. (Approximately 170 in­coming Notre Dame freshmen will have to be distributed to the other Notre Dame halls.) 
The total expected returnees to Keenan 
Stanford: 481 
Less: the number of beds in Keenan ­
302 

Students to be displaced: 179 (all 
numbers are approximate) 
The displacement of these 179 stu­
dents will be achieved by some moving to 
Regina North (a miximum of 164), some 
moving off-campus, and the remainder 
will be distributed over the halls on cam­
pus. Those students distributed through­
out the campus could be allowed room 
picks in the halls of their choice on an 
equal basis with those already residing in 
that hall. 
It should be noted that there are 287 
beds in Stanford and only 164 beds in 
Regina North. This means that overall 
Notre Dame loses 123 beds and St. 
Mary's gains 123 beds. To accommodate 
this change, St. Mary's will have to in­
crease enrollment by this amount, and 
Notre Dame will have to either allow 
more students to move off-campus or to 
decrease their enrollment. 

Senior Fellow Candidates 

William Moses Kunstler, civil rights COKE Freedom Riders and the ·sm1thern lawyer and author, is known to the Notre Christian Leadership Conference, the Mis­Dame students who attended his speech sissippi Freedom Democratic Party, and on the Chicago Seven in Stepan Center scores of local southern movements. Mr. last spring. Kunstler argued the noted case that de-
Mr. Kunstler received his bachelor's dared de facto segration unconsitutiional degree at Yale in 1941 and his L.l.b. at in Washington, D.C. public schools. Mr. Columbia in 1949. He has been a member Kunstler is a member of the Phi Beta of the Manhattan firm of Kunstler Kappa Alumni Association and is on the K unstler, and Kenoy since 19 5O, and ha~ board of the American Civil Liberties taught law and English at Columbia. Mr. Union. Kunstler is the author of ten books and 
countless articles. Among the many con-It can easily be said that few men in troversial clients that William Kunstler these United States are more intensely has defended have been Dr. Martin despised or admired than this energetic Luther King Jr., Representative Adam and outspoken lawyer. Unfortunately, be­Clayton Powell, the Chicago Seven, Sto-cause of his heavy schedule (he is cur­kely Carmicael, H. Rap Brown, and Black rently defending Father Dan Berrigan and Panthers, and the groups of Roman Cath-the East Coast Conspiracy to Save Lives) olic draft-file burners in Milwaukee and Mr. Kunstler cannot guarantee his pres­Baltimore. cence on the campus if elected the Senior 
The Senior Fellow Candidate entered Fellow for more than one or two civil rights workin 1961, representing the days. 
Dr. Charles Hurst Jr. 
Dr. Charles G. Hurst Jr. is the President of Malcolm X Community College in the Chicago ghetto. That the name of the col~ lege is Malcolm X and the fact that the college is a community college is a testa­ment to Dr. Hurst's belief in education and belief that the black ghetto youth must be educated and educated in a way that is relevant for him and for the black community. 
When Dr. Hurst left a deanship at Howard University in 1969 to come to the then Crane Jr. College, he found a college that had a very poor physical plant, excessive teacher salaries, preju­diced teachers, very few books, and frus­trated students. The change in name was only the first step in an educational revo­lution. He improved the physical plant and far more importantly he changed the thinking behind Malcolm X Community College. 
Curriculum innovations were under­taken on the belief that a black commun­ity college in a ghetto should meet the political, social, and economic needs as well as the educational needs of the people. New courses in job-training, learn­ing skills center in which intensive tutor­ing replaces remedial courses, learning unit courses on "urban survival", short term courses for prisoners in the Cook County Jail, and black music workshops, are evidence of this shift in thinking. 
The teachers ·have also been, of course, very much affected by the changes at the college. Before the teachers were 80% white, many of whom were convinced of black inferiority. Now the ratio is 50-50. Before there were semi-retired teachers who were receiving full pay. Now full time salaries for part-time teachers have been eliminated. Many of the new black teachers are lacking the usual academic credentials but they speak the language of the student and this is in keeping with the intent of the college. Also, Hurst has charged them with the responsibility for insuring student success instead of pre­siding over their failure. 

The students themselves have changed. Before they were frustrated and con­· 
fused. Many had taken five years to get out of a two year college -and educa­tional opportunity is only slightly avail­able to many blacks. Now the teachers care about them, the classes are relevant and dedicated to helping the black com­munity, and an entire new spirit has per­meated the institution. No one is failed but no one has a free ride. The school wants the student to come to class and if not, he is retired and help is given to make the student want to finish. 
There has been much opposition to the college from white people who fear that Hurst's new programs are creating a black power training ground. This has primarily resulted from the school's· close contact with the Black Panthers. The school answers that this comes from its dedica­tion to build an educational system need­ed to solve the problems of black people. So far, the black community, both mili­tant and conservative, have backed Dr. Hurst. 
Dr. Hurst's own background -he sees himself as an "accident" that he was one of a few lucky blacks that the whites let screen through the wire mesh -created his determination to ef;lucate those who the whites have felt were uneducatable. Malcolm S is the realization of this deter­mination to increase the chances of others to escape through the wire mesh. 
He might also get his determination from his family. His cousin is Sugar Ray Robinson. 


711B o.­

Current Campus Agenda 

WITH MAX SHULMAN 
(By lhe author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys ... DobitGilhs ... etc.) 
Down Memory Lane Without a Paddle 
Memory can best be described as that function of the brain which deserts you during an exam. Today, therefore, let us take up mnemon­ics, or little tricks to aid the memory. 
As you know of course, mnemonics is named after Mnemon, the hero of possibly the loveliest of all the Greek myths. It tells how the Athenian youth Mnemon fell in love with the wood nymph Ariadne, and she with him. Indeed, so oblivious were these two to everything except each other, that one year they forgot to attend the festival of Demeter, the goddess of bran. Well sir, naturally Demeter got pretty wroth, and to make sure the lovers would never forget again, she changed Ariadne into a finger and Mnemon into a piece of string. 
A lovely myth, as you can see, and as you know of course, it's been the inspiration for dozens of richly romantic books, plays and operas, including La Traviata, Deerslayer and The Joys of Yiddish. 
But I digress. Mnemonics, I say, are little tricks to aid the mem­ory. For example, here's how I learned my Zip Code-72846. I broke it into two smaller groups of digits, each with a special meaning. Like this: 72-846. 
See how easy it is now? The first group of digits, 72, is, as you know of course, the number of days in the gestation cycle of the larger marsupials, like the oryx, the bushy lemur and the Toyota. And the second group, 846, you will instantly recognize of course as Dick Tracy's badge number. 

But some people say that mnemonics, useful though they may 
be, will soon be replaced by a far better memory aid. In fact, say they, 
we are on the verge of a fantastic new breakthrough. Recent experi­
ments have definitely proved that memory is carried in the brain cells 
by the sub-molecule called RNA. Therefore, say they, as soon as sci­
ence learns how to synthesize RNA, all we'll have to do is swallow a 
teaspoon of it and-presto!-instant memory. 
(Incidentally, if you're wondering what the initials RNA stand for, I forgot. I do recall, however, what DNA stands for. When the eminent biochemist Alfred J. Sigafoos was isolating DNA back in 1960, he carried on experiments of such incredible delicacy you can scarcely believe it. Why, do you know that he was actually dissecting tissues only a trillionth of an inch thick? That's why his fellow lab workers named the stuff DNA-for "Don't Nudge Alfred.") 
But I digress. Some people, I say, believe that science will soon 
decode RNA. But others are doubtful. How can anybody decode RNA, 
they ask, when they can't even figure out the brewing formula of 
Miller High Life Beer? 

It's true, you know. Miller High Life is absolutely unique. No competitor has ever been able to duplicate it. Oh sure, they've tried. In fact, they've been trying for 115 years. And that's how long they've been failing because from the very beginning Miller's brewing formula has been a secret known to only one man on earth-Miller's chief brewmaster-and he never tells it to another soul until, on his death­bed, he whispers it into the ear of his eldest son. 
Take, for example, the current chief brewmaster at Miller High Life-Heinrich Lockjaw the Xllth. A veritable tomb is Heinrich the Xllth. Believe me, he's been offered plenty to divulge the formula. And I don't mean just money; I mean treasures far more precious­the Mona Lisa, the Elgin Marbles, Belgium, the only existing skeleton of Charlemagne as a boy, the original manuscript of The Joys of Yiddish. But Heinrich the Xllth just keeps shaking his head, determined that the secret of Miller High Life shall be his alone until, with his final breath, he whispers it into the ear of his eldest son Heinrich the Xlllth (or Gabby, as all his friends call him). 
But I digress. You want to know whether science will ever decode RNA. Well sir, I don't have the answer. But this much I can tell you: America did not become the world's foremost producer of laminated prosthetics and edible furniture by running away from a fight! 
And don't you forget it! 

* * * 
We, the brewers of Miller High Life and the sponsors of this column, wish to extend to you our unique and unduplicated thanks for your con­tinuing patronage. Also, Heinrich says hello. 
Alinski to talk 
Saul Alinsky, noted com­munity organizer, will speak on the role of community organiza­tion in urban areas at 8 p.m. Wednesday (Feb. 3) in the Mem­orial Library Auditorium. 
The author of "Reveille for Radicals" has helped a variety of groups organize to obtain power, from poor Irish in Back-of-the-Yards, Chicago to Indians and blacks in rural and urban settings. His talk is spon­sored by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Academic Commission. 
Corbaci to chair CUMRC 
Leo M. Corbaci, assistant provost and registrar at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, has been elected chairman of the steering committee of the College and University Machine Records Conference (CUMRC). The 16th annual conference will be held in Dallas, Texas on May 3-5, 1971. 
The committee's primary re­~ponsibility is to review and ap­

prove the general preparations 
and program, as well as decide 
policy for the annual confer­
ence. The committee will also 
make recommendations to its re­
lated national organization, The 
College and University Systems 
Exchange (CAUSE). 

Serving on the steering com­mittee with Corbaci are the dir­ectors of the computing centers and/or the directors of adminis­trative data processing from Michigan State, Northern Michi­gan, West Virginia, Drake, Wayne State, Ohio State, Miami, Stanford, Northern Illinois, Southern Methodist, lowas State, University of Alberta, Baylor and Wisconsin. 
Wives to meet 

The monthly meeting of the· Notre Dame Student Wives Club will be held \Yeclnesday Febru­ary 3,1971 at 7:30pm in the Faculty Loung~ of the Memorial Library. 
This month's speaker will be Miss Collette H. Moser, of Indi­ana University, who will speak 

STUDENT UNION BOOK CO-O 
Book & money pick-up throuah Frld•y 4 -5 pm 

Fiest• Lounae 3rd Floor L•Fortune 




on "Women's Lib." All student wives and St. Mary's students are invited to attend. Refreshments will be served following the meeting. 
ND design wins award 

A University of Notre Dame 
architecture student has won 
$300 as complimentary prize in 
an international competition on 
prefabricated housing design. 
Edward Suzuki, fifth-year archi­
tecture student from Tokoyo, 
Japan, was among 206 entrants 
from 16 nations to take part in 
the contest, judged by six pro­
minent Japanese architects and 
an American designer. 

Suzuki designed basic housing components which any family could arrange to suit its own n ee9s and preferences. The system is basically pneumatic geodesic, where air-inflated plas­tic-membraned, triangular "cushions" support the dome or sphere in place of the rigid rods used in normal construction. 
The competition centered on the theme "Capsule Space as Personal Space." The contes­tants attempted to create pre-fabricated units that are pleasant to inhabit and capable of individuality, as most mass-produced houses are not. His design, as well as the designs of the other prizewinners, will appear in the next issue of "The Japan Architect." 




was"'n.in<&n_ ~m 4\t 
-l~e 




)(i(Koff ~}to/ 
-fea\."'--rin'b 
'TheRed ~at\,et )lan 

00~1 PatLk 



.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, February 2, 1971 
Page 7 




Notre Dame runs overMiami,Ohio 
by Vic Dorr Observer Sportswriter 
Saturday was just one of those days for the Miami of Ohio indoor track team. First of all, the Miami bus got lost while enroute to the Athletic and Con­vocation Center, forcing a forty minute delay in the competition. Then, as the Miami squad began running through its warm-up drills,, it was greeted by the voice of a very young, but obviously very opinionated spectator: 
"Hey Miami, Notre Dame's gonna win!" 
But, from a Miami viewpoint, perhaps the most unfortunate happening of the day was the track meet itself. For the visitors came up against a Notre Dame team which had been well pre­pared and which, as a result, won with very little difficulty. The 83-48 score is the best indi­cation of just how "ready" 
V • 

0 ICes 

Editor: 
As one of the students who made the trek to Chicago Sta­dium to see the Irish do basket­ball battle with Illinois, I once again realized how bad a (and I use the term loosely) coach Johnny Dee is. Even though the officiating was rather poor, the Irish could have won the game with some timely coaching strategy, which Mr. Dee it seems has never heard of, or at least he never shows it. A man to man defense and a pass and shoot of­fense appear to be the only set -ups Johnny Dee has in his limited warehouse of strategies. Some key changes by Dee could have meant victory for the Irish in all of strategies. Some key changes by Dee could have meant victory for the Irish in all their games, with the possible exception of Marquette. With one of the most if not the most talented teams in the country, Dee should be 14-1, instead he is 10-5. I shudder when I think of what Johnny Wooden or AI or Frank McGuire could do with the Notre Dame personnel, yet Johnny Dee has somehow man­aged to lose five games and the season isn't over yet. And the odd thing about it is that Notre Dame actually hired Dee. With all the other coaches who Notre Dame could have selected, they picked Dee. It's a shame that 
some other university can't steal Dee from us with a nice lucrative offer. For it one did it would not be met with disapproval as was the case at Illinois when Jim Valek was fired before the Ohio State game but rather it would be _ met with rejolctng and merrymaking that would make An Tostallook like a funeral. 
Charles River 

Editor: 
Aristotle once said that there 

are two parts to each speech: 
First, you say something; then, 
you prove it. Now this is a pret­
ty reasonable concept, but ap­
parently that veritable expert of 
Aristotelian logic, Coach John­
ny Dee, feels that he is beyond 
such trifles as logic. He states 
that .Notre Dame "should be 
numbe'r one regardless of 
won-loss records." Let those 
logicians on campus examine the 
validity of this statement; then, 
perhaps, we will understand the 
idiocy of ratings in college bas­
ketball. 
First, let us examine the fac­

tors which determine a differ-
Coach Alex Wilson's team was. and third in the mile, first, man Don Creehan's 49.4 led an and he and Jack Samar finished 
The Irish won with a combi­second, and third in the 440, Irish sweep in the 440. Mike second and third in a rather slow nation of talent and depth that and first and second in the long McMannon and Kevin McAuliffe 60 with identical times of 6.6. was just overpowering. The NO jump. After only four events, it again both placed in the long· Wohlhuter was not entered in his runners finished first in II out was clear that the Irish were not and triple jumps. McMannon specialty, the 600, but Biii Phil­of the 15 events, and failed to to be caught. won both events with leaps of lips' time of I: 16.1 was still place at all in only one -the pole Despite the impressive margin 23'2" and 47'5~", and good enough to win the event. vault. But between these ex­of victory, though, the N D McAuliffe registered a second in The NO mile relay team -Tim 
trem~ lies the key to the Notre trackmen performed as they the long jump, and a third in the DeMauris, Vic Pantea, McMan­Dame triumph. Good backup ef­were expected to. There were triple jump. non, and Creehan closed out the 
forts in nearly every event se­really no surprises. Elio Poselli Tom McMannon and Joe Utz, Irish scoring, and the meet, by cured so many second and third kicked off the Irish scoring by with times of 7.4 and 7.5, finish­winning easily in 3:31.4. place finishes that Miami was ne­winning the shot with a toss of ed one-two in the 60 yard high Coach Wilson's team handled ver in contention. During the ear 55'5Y2", and Joe Roe placed hurdles while Dave Bell, another these Ohioans easily enough; but 
ly part of the meet, for in-second with a throw of 48'0". freshman, won the 1000 in next weekend, they must con­stance, Notre Dame placed first Rick Wohlhuter won the mile 2: 18.4. Sprinter Rich Vallicelli tend with another team from and second in the shot put, first with a time of 4:09.5 and fresh-won the 300 yard dash in 32.4 Ohio, Ohio State. 

Irish gain Eastern respect 
by Joe Passiatore week when they ventured East and the satisfaction of having team was termed disappointing Observer Sportswriter for matches with Navy, Cornell, held their own against the rough-in that the Irish felt NYU was 
The Notre Dame fencing team Princeton, and powerful NYU. est fencing conference in the na-vulnerable in the sabre depart­sought out the top fencing com-The Irish returned with a 2-2 re-tion. Notre Dame's victories ment yet Notre Dame lost in this petition in the country this past cord against the four schools, came at the expense of Cornell, weapon also. 
20-7, and Princeton, 14-13,
c d 

h. The 14-13 upset of number
w ile the Irish were outdueled in 

. three randed Princeton, and out-
theu encounters with NYU,

from the roW 19-8, and Navy, 18_9. standing individual efforts by Fencing coach Mike DeCicco Mike Cornwall, foil, and Chuck 
ence between winning and the Observer. In if you expressed expressed overall satisfaction Harkness, epee, were other con-losing. As Johnny Dee well dissatisfaction with the behavior with the trip, however, he ad-tributing factors to the successknows, the home court is worth of some NO students at the mitted to some displeasure with of the trip. Then there was theabout ten to fifteen points in a Tuesday night Michigan State regard to the lopsided scores M compliment of Hugo Costello,close game. (Notre Dame won game. 
the NYU and Navy matches. coach of top ranked NYU,by 7). As Johnny Dee also While all of your three sug­NYU and Navy are rated the "Notre Dame surprised us, they
knows, fatigue is also a key fac­gested reasons for their conduct were much better than we ex­
number l and 2 fencing teams in tor. When playing an afternoon were good, I think the most sig­the country, respectively. "In pected."

game, it is usually desirable to nificant was the third. I wiii dis­the NYU meet we lost all six of This past weekend, the get to bed before 2 a.m. in the cuss that first. 
the 54 individual matches, while swordsmen made a short junket
morning of the game, especially Your third reason was, "They to Angola, Ind. to fence in a after a game on the previous view such a contest...as a perfor­against Navy we dropped seven quadrangular meet. The Irish out of eight 54 mathces," De-
night. mance, a show put on for their Cicco lamented. "We would have had no trouble in disposing of Second, I am sure that John­entertainment." This is your had to have been at our best to three inferior opponents. 
ny Dee will admit the impor­most valid reason. Now, I would NO blasted Milwaukee Tech­tance of good officials. He might like to probe deeper into this beat either NYU or Navy," con-nical College l8-9, then took even admit that two officials are concept of a "show," which is ceded DeCicco, "but if we had care of Cleveland State 19-8. insufficient for the tempo of to­ostensibly put on by the Univer­just been able to win our share Host Tri-State College suffered day's basketball games. (Look at sity. I'm sure that in justifying of the 5-4 matches we would the worst defeat to DeCicco's all the broken noses in "pro bas­the entire sports program, the have only lost to NYU and Navy charges. The Irish cut apart their ketball"... no harm, no foul?) administration of this University by 15-12, or so, and that would Indiana neighbors 21-6. 
So before I have even begun would mutter something about have made our trip a lot more In the weekend outing the my arguments, you can see the "a part of the total educational successful. Of course that's why Epee team appeared to have the validity of Johnny Dee's state­process." If this is true and your they are the top two fencing easiest time of it. They led the ments are in question. But one observations are correct, I be­teams in the· country, their fen-Irish by winning their nine bouts 
lieve it is possible to say that the cers win the close ones." 

might ask, what would happen in each match by scores of 7-2, 
to Notre Dame on UCLA's home purpose of this University is to 
8-1 and 9-0.
In evaluating the differentcourt. Apparently, Johnny Dee socialize us into believing the This weekend the team is inweapons, coach DeCicco ex­forgot to answer that question. "competition ethic" of this so­Chicago where it will fence thepressed the opinion that none ofMaybe he should review the ciety. 

University of Illinois, Wisconsin, the teams fenced their best,films of the UCLA-Houston Therefore, I feel your first however, the epee team perform­and Park Side at Circle Campus.
games of 1968. Was there any point should be merely a sub­ed adequately in holding NYU The overall record for the seasondoubt who was number one? script to the third; that is, that and Navy to 54 leads. The sabre now stands at 8-2.
Not if you saw the films. as part of this ethic, we should My third point pertains to be "somehow above the whole UCLA of 1971. Is it reaJ]y num­
interpersonal bit." And as long 

Grapplers divide pair
ber one? And if not, how could as you brought up Freud, I Johnny Dee overlook the fact would like to call to your atten­
that both UCLA and Notre Irish. Bob Bennett (158)
tion that underneath your letter by Bruce Kennedy 
a and

Dame are perhaps rated fifth? • is the advertisement "Watch the Observer Sportswriter dropped 14-6 decision, Where does that hypothetical Mike Kemp (167) and John
Irish Beat the Ilini." The Notre Dame wrestling
"number one" come from? Isn't I'm sure that you can see the Dueker ( 177) fell by third per­
team split two weekend deci­it merely an opinion? Does the applications of this ethic in busi­sions on the road, losing to the iod pins. When Rick Aselage rating system account for all the ness: cutthrout tactics, stab 'em ( 190) lost a 12-l decision, it was
University of Akron Friday

factors which I have alluded to? in the back, impersonality. I all over for NO, and Phil Gustaf­
21-18, and defeating John Car­The answer, of course, is ob­might also point out how the roll Saturday 26-13. Both of the son's win by pin could only vious. "sports establishment" is inex­opponents were considered bring the Irish within three points at the close.
It appears clear that as long as tricably woven into all this. I'm tough.logicians such as Johnny Dee sure you've heard many times Heavyweight Phil Gustafson Against John Carroll, Ciaccio control the ratings of college how a team is "psyched" into got the squad off on the right
scored two pins over the week­basketball, the whole system is hating its opponents, even to a foot with a I 0-2 win. The team
end to lift his season total to 

in jeopardy. (A record of 9-4 person-to-person basis. "If you score evened out, however, after 
seven pins and one decision. He 

Notre foul Moylan's 14-6 loss and Expos­
hardly justifies p. Dame him, get him good" bears is undefeated in 28 Notre Dame. 
number to's 7-7 tie. Then Ryan eked out
club of being ranked more than a faint resemblance to career matches. one, when USC, for example, is "kick him while he's down." Ken Ryan, 142 pounds, won a 5-4 win, followed by Habig's 8-1 victory and a pin engineered 
undefeated). And I'm sure you can see that two decisions and raised his sea­
Socrates once said, "Wind application to business. I have son record to 10-3-1. Bob Habig, by Bennett. puffs up empty bladders; opin­other examples, if you're inter­I50 pounds, won one and tied NO's I 6-5 lead closed to ion, fools." Let us hope that 16-13 when Kemp dropped an
ested. one over the weekend and holds 

Johnny Dee can contain his So I obviously do not Il-l decision, and Dueker was
while a 9-2-I season slate. 

wind in the future. condone the really weird' be­Friday's Akron meet started pinned. But the Irish came back with consecutive pins by Aselage 
havior of the NO students, I also out well for the Irish as 118 No Name Given feel that it is more significant as pounder Tom Ciaccio recorded a and Gustafson's win came with Huntington Beach, Calif. an indication rather than an third period pin and Steve Moy­one minute left in the match. 
Ed. Note: This letter was re­action in itself. What it indicates lah (126) won an 11-1 decision. The team now holds a 5-3-1 ceived prior to Saturdays Notre is how 7000 young minds are Rich Exposto ( 134) dropped an record having won four of its Dame-Illinois game. It was writ­being shaped, both in the arena 11-2 match, but Ken Ryan last six decisions. The next meet ten with regard to Coach Dee s and in the classroom, a shaping managed a 4-2 win. The team will be a triple dual at home statements oflast week. of which I'm sure neither of us score was Notre Dame 13 attended by Drake, Cincinnati, Dear Mr. Fowler: approve. Akron 5 after Bob Habig's 6-6 and Millersville. The meet will 
This letter is in response to 

Sincerely, tie. take place at 10 a.m. Saturday in your Jetter printed this week in Tom O'Mara Then things fell apart for the the Auxiliary Gym of the ACC. 
--
-~-------~ 
, ... y_j•; _t·


eur 

Founder 
COllEGE IGHT SPECIA 

Tuesct•r• 
I pm ·II pm 
All the Chicken You Can Eat 

$1.45 


Corner of Edison and Ironwood 

-.-----------­

If you care enough, maybe 
you can meet the Paulist 




challenge ... 
It isn't easy, being a Paulist. Bridging gaps between young and old, black and white, past and future. But it is a challenge. 
The Paulist mission is to people ... individually and in all the societies in which they live ... to discover Christ wherever he is acting ... to be attuned to the needs of the present, yet to form a vision of tomorrow's world. 
If you are interested in finding out more about the Paulist priestly challenge, write to: 
Rev. Dooald C. Campbell, C.S.P. Vocatloo Director 

l 
'Paulisth
Pat erG 
Room 111

i 
415 West 59th Street ~ New York, N.Y. 10019 
.!_,____________.,J
; 



Connally finances face inquiry 
the same department at each 

school and not a feeling of su­
(Con: inued jimn pagP I)
periority on his part. 
Miss Kennedy said the police
"The St. Mary's departments 
in New York City have a $500there now are pretty good," he million budget and cannot find asaid. 

stolen car, but will tow a carHinkemeyer said the "myth" from a temporary no parkingabout the superiority of the zone 15 minutes before parkingteaching ability and the achieve­becomes legal so they can collect ment record of the Notre Dame a $55 fee.

faculty to the St. Mary's faculty "All good people should ask
"ought to be laid to rest." 
why it is necessary to increase"There is a great deal of po­police budgets. In New York thetential accomplishment here at 

police are using our techniques St. Mary's." said Hinkemeyer. 
and are practically singing We"The Notre Dame faculty is Shall Overcome," said Missvastly overrated. I think that the Kennedy. 

many of the older faculty mem­Miss Kennedy announced abers really could not make it on "very tentative" slate of candi­
their own in any other school." 
dates to run for local office andHe said that the superior air legislatures. The list included the Notre Dame faculty projects several black welfare recipients,is a facade to some degree for he two chicanos, a state universitysaid "anyone who has to pretend professor, several students andhis superiority is always some­local residents. She described thehow revealing a certain kind of 

slate as "under-representedinferiority." 

people" who will discuss theFather Bartell said that he and issues if elected and work to putevery member of the College of an end to the present "pigocraticArts and Letters faculty found process." Miss Kennedy pre­

"offensive" the comment by dicted that something wouldPark-Mayhew that the potential 
We want to talk to you about a career in law... without law school. 
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant, you'll be doing work traditionally 9one by lawyers -work we think you',ll find challenging and responsible. And Lawyer's Assistants are now so critically needed that The Institute for Paralegal Training can offer you a position in the city of your choice and a higher salary than you'd expect as a recent college graduate. You'll work with lawyers on interesting legal problems -and the rewards will grow as you do. 
A representative of The Institute for Paralegal Training will conduct inter­views on: 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9 
Inquire at Placement Office for exact location of interview 




The Institute for Paralegal Training 
13th floor, 401 Walnut St., Phila., Pa. 19106 (215) WA 5-0905 

"This was aired publicly and discussed quite thoroughly when he Connally was confirmed for Secretary of the Navy back in 1961," Ziegler said. "We were and are aware of it and assume that because it is a matter of public knowledge and was dis­cussed at that time it is entirely appropriate." 
The White House and top Re­publicans in the Senate immedi­ately said they did not feel there was anything improper. Senate GOP Leader Hulili Scott said. "I 

Sayre: reservation i~ merging depts 
academic contnbutwn of the ment to liberal arts as does ~t. He did stress, however, that (Continued from page 1) two schools was balanced. He Mary's, contrary to a statement he did not consider Notre Dame 
Sayre said that he had "reser-said that the more money and made by Park-Mayhew. the possessor of finer academic vations" about the merging of faculty _of N~tre Dame made "Park-Mayhew bent over talent than St. Mary's but some departments and predicted balance Impossible. . bac~ wards to .mollify the aca-merely the possessor of more that there would be a "great deal He added that to his mind, demic area of St. Mary's," said money and more faculty. of friction between departments Notre Dame contributed just as Bartell. "That kind of rhetoric merging on a personal level." His much of a "humanizing ele-does not contribute anything." He noted that even if all the 
St. Mary's faculty were hired in
reservatio~s he said .were ~aused Kennedy on prl·orl.tl·es

by the different onentatwn of place of Notre Dame faculty in 
the case of a merger, the over­

come or Uus announcement, whelming preponderance would 
which was released earlier in a still be in favor of Notre Dame. 
press conference with WSBT, 
and that by I972 South Bend 
Bartell said that the coordina­might be "right on." 
tor that will be na:ned t0 super­Miss Kennedy, dressed in a vise the entire merger oj::erationwild west style outfit began her will be the one that will have to 

lecture after a twenty-five make the vital decisions affect­minute delay. "I hear you had to ing academic departments. consecrate the gound after Ti "He will have to be something 
Grace left," and went on to of a salesman, diplomat, and ar­promise that she would "go easy biter of any disputes," said Bar­so you won't have to burn the tell. "The buck will stop with 
school down." !tim." 
SMC hardest obstacle 
(Continued from page 3) 

of beds, Regina South could be included in the exchange, thus leaving roughly the same number of beds at both schools as before the switch. 
Thunder considers the St. Mary's administration the hardest obstacle to hurdle in finding acceptance for the plan. Due to this Thunder feels it may be necessary to negotiate the sta­tus of students involved in the exchange. At least initially, Notre Dame men living in Re­gina Hall may be subject to St. 
Mary's regulations such as sign­outs, visiting privileges, etc. It may also be necessary to treat Stanford as a St. Mary's dorm as far as rules are concerned. Thun­der feels with some certainty that the presence of men at St. Mary's would tend in the long run to pressure the administra­tion to change some of its less popular rules. Until then, some Notre Dame students may be discouraged from going to Re­gina due to the rules currently governing St. Mary's dormitory life. 
Other problems include a pos­sible postponement in room picks, and the adjustment of stu­dent government jurisdiction. For the first time there would be a woman HPC member, and an analagous member on the St. Mary's Council. According to Thunder, finances are a problem that can be overcome by Sep­tember, !971. 
Thunder envisions that anum­ber of extensions to the pro­don't think they are going to find any circumstances that would bar him from serving." 
But Senate Democratic Lea­der Mike Mansfield said the com­mittee should investigate. "The story will make it necessary to reopen the hearings," he said. 
A spokesman said the com­mittee planned even before the Times story to talk with Connal­ly about his finances. something that is done customarily with most presidential appointees. 

WASHINGTON(UPI) -The Senate Finance Committee will question Treasury Secretary nominee John B. Connally Jr. publicly about $225,000 he re­ceived from an oil millionaire's foundation while he was Gover­nor of Texas, a committee spokesman said Monday. 
The New York Times first re­ported Monday that Connally, a Democrat and protege of former President Lyndon B. Johnson, collected the money even though the Texas Constitution 
prohil,its a governor from receiv­ing any outside "salary, reward orcompensation." 
The Times reported that a foundation spokesman said the money was delayed payment for legal work Connally had done as executor of the $105 million es­tate of Sid W. Richardson, of Fort Worth, who died in 1959. 
Presidential Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler said in answer to reporters' questions that the White House was "aware of that particular matter." 


posals will be offered by the stu­dent government report. The exchange may be extended to include 600 women. Flanner, Fisher, and Pangborn have been mentioned as possibilities for the Notre Dame's women dormi­tory. The experimental coeduca­tional dormitory plan in~olving Holy Cross is also being consi­dered separate from the 

Thunder-Conway plan. 
Amato elected in Stanford 
Freshman Chris Amato, was elected last Friday president of Stanford Hall for the remainder of this year. He replaces Carlos Cruz, who left at the end of the first semester due to personal reasons. 
Asked if he felt that being a freshman would present any pro­blems, Amato replied, "I can foresee a possible problem with the upperclassmen. The Seniors may not like the idea of being Jed by a freshman. However, I don't think they will really mind as long as necessary things are done quickly and efficiently." He added that this should be no problem, since he has a good 
cabinet  of  officers  who  will  
assist him.  
Amato  attributed  vigorous  

campaigning and a large fresh­man backing for the success over his opponent, who was a senior. 








