
~---~--­

Serving the Notre Dame aniSaint Mary's College ('ommuni~P Thursday, March 11, 1971 
Burtchaell promises Black professors 
exact amount given for counsellor has been retained for
years there would be an increase
hv Art Ferranti 

in the designated number of scholarships to all black students next year and Dr. Peter P. 
Grande has offered to a black
Father James T. Burtchaell, black professors. from the same funds. C.S.C., University provost, The College of Science is to Burtchaell stated, "It may well Notre Dame alumnus a full-time replied Tuesday in response to a have three black professors; the be that you have not been sup­p position as an admissions proposal for a department of College of Engineering, two; the plied with the proper amount of councellor. 
black studies, more black College of Business Ad­money, but I am inclined to think Seven courses were specified in that thz error has been made in which special tutorial classes for 
professors, and more funds for ministration, two; the Institute the direction of extravagance." blacks are available. Burtchaellblack studies. His letter was for Graduate Studies in No provisions were made in the also said, "Of all financial aidaddressed to Dr. Joseph Scott, Education, one; and the letter for more money to the administered to freshman thisdirector of Notre Dame's Black Memorial Library, two. At 
Black Studies. year bt the University, 20 percentStudies, who had originally present there are seven blacks on Fr. Burtchaell than noted the went to blacks: six times thepresented thz proposal last Notre Dame's faculty of seven efforts to employ qualified blacks proportion available to others."
Wednesday. hundred. 
in the area of student affairs, The provost also rejected theFather Burtchaell said that in Burtchaell said that the Arts including residence hall coun­separate black college proposal. 
the College of Arts and Letters, and Letters College Council and sellors and resident assistants. He said he saw a no future in itthere would be two more black the Academic Council have He said a black freshman
professors next year and an judged it "unwise" to change the (Continued on Page 3)additional two in the academic Black Studies from a program to years of 1972-73. He made it clear a department and thus qualifying though, that no appointments it as an academic major subject. 
New Asian program
would be made in the depart­The provost added that Dr. Scott ments until the Black Studies is "free to propose it again." faculty had been "secured." Pertaining to the aspect con­
Attributing other appointments cerning a lack of funds, Burt­

seen by students
of black professors for next year chaell called it "untrue." Burt­in other colleges to an already chaell pointed out that Dr. Scott's 
by Kevin McGill already at the University andpre-set faculty and financial office alone by June 30 will have could be implemented im­
difficulties, Burtchaell an­expended $40,000 of the Cotton Two students, Michael Spencer 
mediately. He said that it is in­
nounced that within the next two Bowl funds. The figure is the and Thomas Caliahan, are 
tended only for three years, as aworking with faculty members to temporary measure hopefullytry to establish a temporary preparing for a more formalAsian Studies program as a
Corso heralds editorial changes; 
Asian Studies program.
"stopgap measure" for next According to Spencer and year. 
Callahan, the GovernmentThe faculty initiated concern in Department will have a full time

new staff to begin after break 
this area and has brought about specialist in Asian affairs next 
men ted, "there is no one on the "Ruane Is one ot the few people in the past ten to fifteen years 
year, and a course in the Chinese on the Observer who has worked some studies of the East, and the 
Editor-in-Chief Glen S. Corso Observer who has a better grasp language might be taught if just a 
on a professional newspaper. He Student Academic Commission'syesterday announced of the technical end than John.
editorial few more students show interest. 
appointments for the remainder He won't be limited to production knows exactly how news stories Asian Lecture Series has had They mentioned that anyone who
should be written and he is also many Asian scholars speak at theeither since he has a working
of this year and next. The ap­is interested in Chinese could
well acquainted with production, University.
knowledge of news and features, 

pointments will become effective contact Jim Thunder.
so he should be able to set up Callahan said, however, thathaving worked in both depart­
March 25th. Callahan hopes that many
ments." closer cooperation between the the students of Japanese who
Corso announced that John M. students will show an interest in
news and production ends of the spend a year in Japan cannot
Abowd, a sophomore night editor Don Ruane, a sophomore night the Asian Studies program which 
Observer. I expect our news follow their interest in Asia when 
from Farmington, Michigan will editor from Pleasantville, New he said will "fill a gap that is
writing to become a lot more they come back and often
assume the post of Executive Jersey, will become Managing lacking in general education
professional under Don," Corso transfer to another school.
Editor. He defined Aboud's Editor. Corso said that Ruane courses as far as Asia is con­
commented. Matthew Fitzsimons, a
duties as "overseeing production will oversee the quality of the cerned." He did mention thwt
The title of St. Mary's News Professor of History and the
and acting as number two man on newswriting and set up a staff of some courses in areas such as 
the paper." copy readers to screen all the Editor has been eliminated and Editor of the Review of Politics World History emphasize ChinaAnn Conway, a junior from Falls feeling that Chinese "art'
"Abowd is perfect for the news stories that go into the and the East.
Church, Virginia, will assume the religion, thought, and institution~
position," Corso com-paper. Some of the faculty members
newly-created post of St. Mary's are properly a part of general that have worked or are workingEditor. Corso claimed the action education concerned with to further thz study of Asia atwas part of the move to upgrade enlarging and refining human Notre Dame are Professorsthe St. Mary's staff and make it possibilities," proposed the
SMC reviews Cannon 
Niemeyer, Szczesniak, andequal to Notre Dame's. temporary program. 
Brinkley.
''I am expecting Ann to fulfill Tentatively, a Committee on
by Mary Davy 
made for the members of the 

two major functions as St. Mary's World History, made of mem­Assembly. Consideration of editor," Corso explained, "I want bers of a number of departments Petitions filedSMC Student Assembly endorsement will take place at a (continued on page 3) whose work includes the Asianunanimously agreed last night to future date. 
area, Fr. George Minamiki, and for GSU pres.
the sending of a letter to the Questionnaires regardign the two students, will supervize theBoard of Trustees suggesting a 
No Observer tomorrow --­
short fall semester resulting venture. Three courses in The Graduate Student Union"more thorough investigation be 

we're going home! But made" of the background of Dr. 
from the calendar changes were Chinese Civilization might has received four petitions en­

we'll be back on Thursday,Mary Alice Cannon, the newly distributed. This survey is being possibly be taught consisting of dorsing candidates for the office
March 25. Y'all come back
conducted to ascertain the directed readings and a seminar. of President. These candicatesappointed Vice-President of now, heah?!

opinion of students and faculty. 

Callahan pointed out that this are: Lyn Leone--Education, The letter further states "the program will utilize people James Brogan--Education, Student Affairs 
18 year olds to gain vote 
lack of consideration for com­Matthen Minnicks-M.B.A., Sr. munity government and the Eileen Muench--Psychology. The 
procedure taken in this matter." Senate approves lowered voting age G.S;U. has also received two 
"The elements of community petitions endorsing William government were disregarded in and 21 could vote in federal Lynch--Education and William
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The which would have granted full 
the decision to establish the elections but not state and local Witt--M.B.A. for the office of
congressional representation to
Senate unanimously approved

position of vice-president, as well the District of Columbia in both contests. Vice-President.
Wednesday a constitutional 

as the acceptance of Dr. Cannon To avoid this, congressional The name of Clyde Walker
the House and Senate.
amendment which would lower
for that office." leaders decided to expedite a (government) has been verbally
Senate Democratic leader
the voting age to 18 in all elec­

Miss Anne Marie Tracey constitutional amendment to entered into nomination for the
tions -from City Hall to the Mike Mansfield reluctantly
presented this letter, chairing moved to table the Kennedy permit some 11.5 million youths office of Secretary-Treasurer,
White House.

the last Student Assembly between 18 and 21 to vote in all but no formal petition has yet
proposal, warning it would touch 
If it is approved by the House contests before the 1972 elections. been received from this can­meeting of her term as Student 

off a filibuster that could delay
next week, as is expected, 38
Body President. Sen. Thomas F. Eagleton, D­didate.
passage of the 18 year old vote
states then must ratify the
Discussion followed as to amendment. Mo., and Kennedy joined in The Graduate Student Council
amendment before it can become
whether further student action Congress last year passed pleading for the addition of a passed a resolution at the March 
part of the constitution. All 50 constitutional amendment giving 5 meeting extending the
should be taken if the letter is legislatures are meeting this legialation giving 18 year olds the ignored by the Board of Trustees. year, although some have right to vote in all elections but District of Columbia residents a nominations period for another 
full voice in Congress. Eagleton week, until March 12, when all
No conclusion was reached. already completed their sessions. the Supreme Court partially 
said more youths from thz petitions and one hundred copies 
Presentation of the Peace nullified the action by ruling that 
The Senate approved the

Treaty proposed by the NSA and Congress could not legislate district have been killed in of a dittoed resume will be due
amendment 94 to 0 after brief Vietnam than those from nine of from each candidate.
the people of VietNam followed debate and sidetracked any voting qualifications for states the discussion. This proposal was and local elections. the states and that district Elections will be held at the
riders which could have
presented for of residents paid $345 million in March 26 meeting of the Council
consideration jeopardized passage. That left the states facing the federal taxes last year. and all departmental
endorsement at the request of Dr. costly and confusing prospect of
By a 68-23 vote, the Senate

Peter Smith of the SMC faculty. setting up dual election "Fit to pay taxes, fit to die, but representatives and candidates
killed a rider, offered by Sen. 
not fit to vote." Eagleton said. are strongly urged to attend.
Copies of the proposal are being machinery so voters between 18
Edward M. Kennedv. D-Mass~~ 


Page 2 

THE OBSERVER Thursday, M.arch 11, 1971 
My Lai trial con_ti~ues 
Medina refutes entire Calley defense 
FORT BENNING Ga. (UPI) -In a briefing the night before -The two central ftgures in the the March 16, 1968 sweep of the massacre at My Lai met face to villag~ he never told the men _of face Wednesday in a hushed Charlie. ~ompa~y to kill 
military courtroom and Capt. everythmg m the village. In fact, Ernest L. Medina denied he said, he was asked whether repeatedly that he ever ordered they should kill women and Lt. William L. Calley to kill children and he told them ''you do Vietnamese women and children. not kill women and children." 
Striking directly at the heart of -During the sweep, he never Calley's defense -that he only urged Calley by radio to hurry his followed Medina's orders when men up and to "waste" any he and his men slaughtered the villagers slowing them down. villagers of My Lai -Medina Medina testified that he grew firmly testified that: "scared" and "upset" with 

MOCK STOCK MARKET ON NOW 
Prizes: $20, $10, $5 Grand Prize: $100 of stock of your choice 
Come to the Globe (in Hurley Bld.) or call3184 
Presented by: Finance Club 
Sponsored by -Thomson-McKinnon 
NEW JERSEY CLUB 
Nominations for 1972-73 officers will be accepted. If you would like to be an officer contact John 1754 by Friday 3-12. 
Mon.-Fri. 7:30 -9:30 
are not 


heroes. 

IOitRT ltDFOID miCHAtl. J. POLLARD 
urn• FAUSS AnD ••• HAI.SY I·RI 
AM AllOT S.IIWOY ..aDUCT10N ~. •I \~ J f,locd •• PANA\IISJON• Colo<b, M0111ELNI A PARAMOUNT PICTLft ·-·-·-• 

himself for killing a woman bEl first thought was armed, and then "I became verv emotional" w~en one of his men shot a child 
child. 

We encountered a cluster olf bodies in the wake of Calley's platoon and althoUtgh "I wanted to believe with all my heart that it had happened by artillery and gunship fire," he began to realize what was happening. 
He said he then radioed platoon leaders and told them to make sure "none of their personnel were shooting innocent civilians, noncombatants." 
Calley is on trial for his life, accused of the murder of 102 villagers at My Lai. Medina is charged with overall respon­sibility for the killings and could be put to death himself if found guilty at his own court martial ­as yet unscheduled. 
Under cross examination by Calley's lawyer, Medina ad­
14 


mitted that he knew he should have reported what happened but didn't. Asked by Attorney George Lattimer why, he said: "There were four reasons, sir" 
"Let's have them." 

" ... No. 1 I realized that instead of going in and doing combat with an armed enemy, the intelligence information was faultv and we 
found nothing but women and children in the village of My Lai and, seeing what happened, I realized exactly the disgrace that 
Recruitment program questjoned 
SMC accused of Black bias 
few black students, she said. Sr. Raphaelita commented that this

Applications are now being accepted 
fact also works against them. She revf;laled that all of the 
black students at the college are on scholarship: an O.E.O. government lean; campus em­ployment; and a tuition 

for the position of 

remission. 
"If we could get a sponsor for ~ach student to remove the 'inancial burden from the ~ollege's shoulders, then we ~ould afford to recruit. A limited )Udget curtails our work 
severely," she stated. According to the director of 
Editor of the OBSERVER 

Applicants should send resume to: 
admissions, the first black student was admitted to St. 
by Anne Therese Darin In addition to this effort, Sister Raphaelita who has headed the Recently both the St. Mary's admissions office for seven chapter of the Association of 
years, said that Sr., Alma, acting Black Collegiate Women and Dr. 
president, personally sent a letterRaymond Fleming, formerly to the principals of all of the high with the campus Upward Bound school nationwide operated by
program, have accused the SMC admissions office of inadequate the Sisters of the Holy Cross commitment to black students. In requesting information on uiack an interview late last week, Sr. students from recruitment. Of 
Raphaelita Whalen, director of these 30 schools, she claimed she 
admissions, answered these has not received one reply.
allegations. 

She attributed this to the Sister Raphaelita reported that scarcity of black Catholic high 
all of the black students presently school students. "Why would the attending St. Mary's are on average black non-Catholic scholarship and are non-Catholic. 
student want to come t-o St. 
Questioned on whether the Mary's?" she questioned. "The office maintains a black student average black student goes to a recruitment program, she public high school. When she goes replied, "No, not an established program. We made efforts this Observer Insight year through the National Merit 
into her guidance counselor, sheQualifying Test for Black is usually guided to publicStudents office to contact all of universities or colleges. Thisthose students who mentioned St. 
limits us considerably."

Mary's. I also participated in a Most of thz college applicants meeting at the Palmer House in (95 percent) hear about St.
the fall to interview black Mary's from their friends whostudents." 
are, usually, from all-girl Catholic high schools, which have 
was being brought upon the Army uniform that I am very proud to wear. 
"No. 2, I also realized the repercussions it would have against thz United States of America. 
"No. 3, my family, and No. 4, lastly, myself, sir." 
In his five hours and 33 minutes on the witness stand -ending at 
8:03 p.m. EST, Medina denied virtually every point in Calley'sdefense. 
Mary's fifteen or twenty years ago. The student body raised money for a St. Martin de Porres scholarship to cover the expenses incurred by an incoming fresh­man. The school, then, assumed the balance of the tuition for the student's other three years. 
From this start, she revealed that last year the school had 28 black students. "Of these 28, four graduated, three were screened out, three cancelled, and 13 were enrolled from 1970. For 1970-71, we had 31 new applicants, 29 freshman and 2 transfer students. Of the 31, 19 were ac­cepted, 8 enrolled, 5 cancelled, and 6 did not reply to the ac­ceptance." (At the end of sophomore year, a committee meets to screen the class, to decide which applicants from their academic rec:ord have little chance of successfully finishing the four-year course of study. These students are subsequently invited to leave.) 
In other words, as Sister ex­plained, the admissions office committed itself to seventeen students that never showed. 
Questioned on why in tracing where the college's black students come from, a majority are from St. Pius X High School in Savannah, Georgia, Sister explained that it is accidental. She added that the school enjoyed a popularity with students from that high school. 
Next year, however, the in­coming freshmen black students will represent more regions than Alabama, Mississippi and Georgia which dominate the present black student body. New students are from areas such as California, Louisiana, and In­diana. 

P.O . Box 11 

Advance notice 



MARRIAGE SEMINAR
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 


(PRE-CANA)
By March 25 

March 28, April 4, April 18, April 25 
Resumes should include experience and reasons for app 
Library Auditorium 
Please mark application on outside of envelope. 
Thursday, March 11, 1971 THE OIJSERrJER. Page 3 
·------------------------------------~ 




Weather report for road bound 
With spring break ap­proaching, weather reports become increasingly important for homeward bound students. 
Illinois: Thursday partly sunny and warmer. Thursday night mostly cloudy and warmer. Friday variable cloudiness and warmer. High Thursday lower 40s in the extreme northwest to near 60 in the extreme south. 
Indiana: Thursday morning clear or clearing; generally fair and warmer in afternoon. 
Burtchaell 
(Continued from Page 1) 
and that the administration 
already has "a good staff of 
blacks working in that area." 
Burtchaell said, "What we have 
to offer at Notre Dame is for all." 
Dr. Scott, in b a brief interview 
last i night, said that the 
University had not done anything 
different while they had "ap­
peared" to do so. He said that the 
appointments of black professors 
had been made before his 
proposal had even been for­
mulated. He said that no ad­
ditional money had been alloted, 
that no authority had been given 
to the various departments to 
hire the professors, and no means 
had been provided for the 
departments to maintain a 
"share" of authority over those 
employed in the departments. 
Scott said that he is attempting 
to speak with key people in the 
University in the hope of ef­
fecting more change. 
(continued from page 1) 
her to be the Observer's official representative at Mary's and· I want her to expand and coor­dinate the activities at the College." 
in order to provide more "behind the scenes coverage," Corso appointed Ann Therese Darin, a sophomore from Lathrup Village, Michigan, Associate Editor. Miss Darin will do investigative stories at Notre Dame, and St. Mary's, according to Corso. 
"Ann Therese has done an excellent job at St. Mary's this year and has also worked as an assistant news editor at Notre Dame. She's proved to us that she can adequately cover stories at both campuses. As Associate Editor I want her to involve herself in long range in­depth coverage," Corso stated. 
Rich Smith, a junior from El Paso, Texas will become the new Features Editor. Smith, who is presently Circulation Manager, was a former news reporter and features contributor last year. 
"!wanted someone who was on 
the verge of being admitted to an 
insane asylum to be Features 
Editor," Corso said, "and I think 
we found the perfect candidate in 
Rich Smith. He has an excellent 
sense of humor and will be able to 
attract people like himself to 
write for the page." 
The new editorial board will consist of Corso, T.C. Treanor, Ed Ellis, John Abowd, Don Ruane, Steve Lazar, Rich Smith and representatives from both the night editors and the staff. 
Marty Miller, a sophomore 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students .of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Thursday night generally fair. Friday increasing cloudiness; warmer in the afternoon. High Thursday about 40 in the north to lower 50s south. 
Ohio: Thursday mostly cloudy with chance of snow flurries in the north and east, partly cloudy in the southwest. Thursday night partly cloudy. Friday mostly cloudy and warmer. High Thursdaq mid to upper 30s in the north, 40s in the south. 
Iowa: Thursday partly cloudy and warmer. Thursday night and Friday partly cloudy to cloudy. Thursday night warmer; Friday turning colder. High Thursday 40­45 in the northeast to lower 50s in the extreme southwest. 
Michigan: Thursday becoming partly cloudy, Thursday night increasing cloudiness, becoming mostly cloudy Friday. High Thursday 30s to lower 40s. 




Russian Jews stage protest demonstration 
MOSCOW (UPI)-More than 100 angry Jews staged a sit-in hunger strike to back their demands for permission to go to Israel. Soviet police drove them out more than five hours later as they prayed in a darkened hall. 
Their demonstration began at 2 
p.m. after a group of Latvian Jews from Riga visited headquarters of the Soviet Communist Party Central Committee and had their appeal for permission to emigrate to Israel r~jected. 
Members of the group said 

Corso notes staff changes 
from Aliquippa Pennsylvania, will be Sunday night editor.An Edison, New Jersey sophomore, Jim Me Dermott will be Monday Night editor. Joe Cassini, a West Orange, New Jersey junior will take the post of Tuesday night editor. Wednesday night editor will be Jerry Lutkus, a Mayfield, Ohio freshman. Joe Abell, a freshman from Dallas Texas will be Thursday night editor. 
Tim Treanor, a Buffalo, New York sophomore will retain his post as editorial page editor. Ed Ellis, a Philadelphia, Penn­sylvania sophomore will stay on as news editor. 
Kentucky: Thursday clear to partly cloudy and cool. Thursday night cloudiness increasing and rain likely in the west by Friday morning. 
Tornadoes slashed across the deep South late Tuesday night and early Wednesday. They caused one death, injured at least 37 persons, and destroyed homes, shops and house trailers. 
A snow storm spun nor­theastward across thz Ohio Valley and Midwest toward the snow weary northeastern states. Rains doused much of the South. 
Another storm in the North dumped three to six inches of snow on parts of the middle Mississippi Valley. Most of the Ohio Valley was getting snow at mid-afternoon. Ohio and western Pennsylvania were warned to expect up to four inches of snow. 
police burst into the parliamentary hall at about 7:30 
p.m. (11:30 a.m. EST). Authorities had turned off the lignts and blocked off the building after the building's 5 p.m. closing time. 
A woman who was in the reception hall said a man in a militia police general's uniform threatened the Jews with arrest if they did not leave "in two minutes." 
"The lights were off, and we sat there in the dark,' she said. "One 
young man said prayers in Hebrew, and another translated into Russian." 
Then, she said, scores of uniformed 'and plainclothes policemen crowded into the room. 
"They surrounded us, and began pulling out thz benches we were sitting on," she said. "They started pushing us, and what cokld we do, we had to leave." 
The woman said she knew of no arrests being made. 

Arts and Letters College Council to have student representation 
Membership on the Council will include five voting student representatives from the Arts and Letters student body with the stipulation that no freshman or graduate sutdent be eligible for membership. 
Student representation on the Council will be reviewed in two years. 
This was the content of a letter dated March 8 from Arts and Letters Associate Dean Devere 
T. Plunkett to Ed McCartin, president of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council. 
The five student represen­tatives will include one sophomore, one junior, one senior, the President of the AL Student Advisory Council, and 
FOX'S 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 

At Fox's you get a bigger better quality diamond for less money! 
141c White 
or Yellow 



$100.

Sold. 

FIRST LOVE DIAMOND RING 





$19. 
Notre Dame Accounts I;JeL-ome 
one other selected at large, for a term of one year. 
The students will be designated by a Selection Board, made up of the President of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council, one junior and one senior member of this Council, and one College Council faculty representative appointed by Dean Crosson. 
The Selection Board through the campus media will invite Arts and Letters students to present 

All You Can Eat Both Nights 
Tuesdays and Thursdays 5 -11 pm 

Fish $1.15 Chicken $1.45 
Cot"..tlr of Edison and lranwood 
themselves before the Board as candidates. 
Beginning with the 71-72 academic year, student representatives will be selected in September. 
YACHTING 

SUMMER • 
POSITIONS 
The American Yachting Associa tion with listings on the Eas Coast, West Coast, Gulf Area and the Great Lakes is solicitin for summer crew applicants. 
Positions are available fo experienced as well as inexpen enced male and female college students and graduates. Experi­ence in cooking and child care may be particularly helpful. 
Crewing affords one the opportunity to earn reasonable sums while engaged in pleasant outdoor activity. 
To apply type a 1 page resume following as closely as possible the form shown below. In April your resume will be edited, printed and sent to approximately 1500-2500 (depending on area) large craft owners. 
RESUME FORM-(1) name, address (home and school). phone number, age; (2) relevant work or recreational experience; 
(3) 
dates available and area(s); 

(
4) 2 or more students wishing to work together, state name of other parties; (5) other informa­tion. 


Send your resume with $6 

processing fee to: 
American Yachting Associatic 
Suite 503, 8730 Sunset Blvd. 
Los Angeles, California 90069 

our resume must be received 
o later than March 26, 1971. 





Thursday, March 11, 1971 
Page 5 
Bill Davidow 




On the Board of Trustees 
In all the current discussion and con­fused enthusiasm concerning the long awaited merger there is one body of this university whose thoughts have yet to be bared. A question which must be con­sidered is what action might be taken if this body falls short of its expectations. The feeling of the students is fairly well known by now. Most of the faculty ap­proves and the administration realizes its inevitability, but poll, research and plan in detail all you wish -any action lies with the outcome of the meeting of the Board of Trustees at Key Biscayne in March. Maybe I am being pessimistic (I hope so), but the idea of this university's direction residing in the hands of this group leaves me weary, not only in terms of practicality but also on mere principle. 
My purpose here is not to discuss the why of the university's existence, but, if I may use a gen~>ral term to include most views on a university's essence, I will say it is education. Based on this simple assumption, I find it hard to accept the thought that over half the members of the head body have little or no qualification <beyond a certain nebulous concern) in the field of education. In addition thirty of the forty-four trustees are geographically distanced from the university in places such as New York, L.A., and Florida. This 
Lance Corey 
is not to mention that the number of meetings per year are negligible in light of the many issues with which a university must be concerned. Last spring one trustee, after being cornered in the Center for Continuing Education, was asked his thoughts on the Nutting plan which had been discussed and publicized on campus for a number of weeks. His reply was "Who's Professor Nutting--I haven't been informed of this but I would like to be." 
In the last year and a half I have con­stantly heard the words "community" and "university" justaposed to express one of the basic principles of Notre Dame. Yet when the St. Mary's Student Body President is allowed merely to sit in on part of a trustee meeting it rates headlines. How can the existence of this governing body, which is geographically and occupationally (not to mention class­wise) in contrast with the needs of a university be rationalized? Many people feel it is a necessary check on the policies of the university from the "outside world." But this must be based on the shaky foundation that the checking force is qualified to judge the different policies and practices of the institution. Others consider the trustees as a source of money and therefore beyond any reasonable questioning. Earlier this year Jesse Unruh, who ran against Ronald Reagan for governor of California after having served on the state board of Regents, proposed that since business reaps the harvest of college students they should be obliged to support the colleges and universities throughout the country. This sounds nice but unfortunately it would only strengthen the detrimental grip of outside interests on the university. Business and corporate people are aware thwt all their future prospects will come from universities and therefore, regar­dless of the trustee system, it would only be reasonable to continue support of the higher educational process. 
On speaking with the dean of students from another catholic college the point was brought up that the trustees in most cases would agree with whatever he and the other administrators recommended. At the same time any plans or proposed programs are affected by the need to satisfy the trustees. And if the trustees are so agreeable and easily swayed, then why bother with unnecessary bureaucracy? 
There are a number of solutions or alternatives to the present Board. The one I feel is best is not surprisingly the hardest to enact. From the existing structure two different boards could be established. The first would consist of the present ad­ministrators on the board with representatives from each school on campus. Its functions would be similar to those of the existing board. The lay members, skilled as most of them are in money matters, would assume the role of financial advisory board. Allowing for the impracticality of a logical idea here there are other "adjustments" which would aid the head board in becoming part of its supposed body. One is the participation of students on the board. This could be tried at first in a non-voting manner, then in time voting privileges would be in order. Younger trustees, recent graduates for instance, would help mitigate the distance between the students and trustees. A final idea which would be most beneficial is the inclusion of members of other universities on the ruling board. This has already been experimented with in a fairly extensive manner and has proved successful. It provides not only an outside check or view, but a check by people who have dedicated themselves to the process and progress of education. 
It must be understood that I am not questioning the integrity 9f the individual members as has been done previously, but rather the practicality of only the roles they play in the life of this university. 

DDT, lead, mercury, 
Michael is 11 years old. Freckles dot his warm face; his sensitive smile. He dreams of life; we dream of Love. Dreams of warm sunshine, rushing oceans ... dreams. He is my brother. He will never be 21. 
Please forgive the dramatics. I am called by my friends an alarmist, a pessimist and sometimes a masochist. Though the later descriptions may be correct, they do not distort what is the reality of the future. I am truly alarmed. 
The United States at present has 6 per cent of the world's population and uses 57 per cent of the world's resources to maintain an affluent society of waste. We have surplus food for one years need, but an economic system incapable of distributing it equally. 30 million Americans are undernourished. In 30 years 100 million more Americans will demand more from a finite supply of resources while we are also trying to clean up our present mess. Our demands are growing faster than our means to provide. 
To achieve our present affluent society, we took many shortcuts that have resulted in the pollution of our planet. Though most of us live well, we also have a surplus of DDT. We are human guinea pigs awaiting the results of our poisoning by lead, mercury, arsenic, sulphur dioxide, DDT, 2, 4T, and a thousand other related pesticides, insecticides, fungicides, herbicides, etc. All in the effort to produce for the people we have now. 
To achieve this level of pollution, we have: exhausted many of our vital resources ; exploited the resources of other nations through our complex economic and political spheres of influence. The price will be paid as the rest of the world continues in its growth. Iri all the history of the U.S., we have lost 600,000 men killed in combat; the world population has in­creased by this number in the past 3% days. Needless to say, our "miracle" crops have not produced enough food for these new members of the spaceship Earth. Nor have we built new hospitals, schools, houses, cars, etc., for these people. 
Many argue that our needs will be an­swered by the infinite resources and foods of the seas. What they neglect to say is that Lake Erie was polluted from the cities on its shores. This holds true for the oceans. All our pollutants do eventually end in the ocean. The shellfish industry of Long Island, N.Y. no longer exists. Fourteen square miles of dead ocean sea-bottom lay off the shores of Jones Beach as New York City's garbage disposal. The life ex­pectancy of Jones Beach is now four years. As other nations begin to realize the need to conserve, the U.S. will find itself vying for control. As examples, look to Chile and Ecuador. As every nation's need to provide increases faster than their ability, the pressure for internalional conflict thus increases. 
As an individual, I have a few channels 
frustrated, I live in an over-crowded,
to act through but with little hope of af­
people-polluted apartment complex or
fecting change. Working through the 
because I'm suffering from the symptoms 
system, everyone I worked and voted for 
of DDT, lead and mercury poisoning:
lost in recent past elections. If I resort to 
apathy, irratability and anxiety?
violence to survive, is it because I'm 
Father Robert Griffin 
Griff-iti on the walls of my mind 
· h h' k' 
10
Somehmes, w en my t Ulg becomes imagistically piquant, I worry that somewhere, perhaps if\ Purgatory, there must be a 
great scrap heap of Lost Callings; and that any day now my own vocation, stamped as irrelevant 
by the Underground Church,
will be tossed onto that pile. I feel this way mostly after I've had two Manhattans, and then meet a nun wearing levis and a bumper sticker reading, "Joy is God's Other Name," who is hustling her way over to the 
M 0 t h e r h 0 use f 0 r h e r 
Community's production of Hair. 
Perhaps it's self pity, but I know I'm not contemporary in any of the essential ways. For example, I don't really believe in the ecumenism that says Billy Graham is as infallible in his faith and his morals as the Pope. I can't accept it that Pot does more than Milton can to justify God's ways to man. I'm sceptical that a mod Jesus would tell Paul to cool it with the Colossians, and to update II Thessalonians to the tastes of the publishers of Playboy. 
Being out of it is why Summer School '70 is so humiliating to us derelicts of Time. Yesterday, a newly hatched cleric came burbling into my office, a puling, priestly infant of a man in his twenty-fifth year of life; so recently ordained that his bouffant was still creased by the Bishop's laying-on of hands. He had spent the morning burning his draft card and mailing the ashes to the Eisenhower widow as a reproach to the militarv-industriJl complex. 
He soon discovered I would speak to him only of crop failures in Ethiopia and the 
domestic strife in the palace of the Dalai Lama, to distract him from learning that age can make 
eunuchs of our fiercest convictions. Draft card burning 
at my time of life would attract about as much excitement from 
the Government as Phyllis Diller in the Rockne in a topless swim suit, unless they mistook her for Albert Schweitzer. At the age of that boy priest, I too might have burned my draft card, but I can't remember, As a clue,
however, I do know that the bol'dest act of resistance of my life was to disobey a sign that said: Do Not Flush While Train Is Standing In The Station, in Lima, Ohio. I was protesting the neglect of my porter. There is really no way for me to ... keep up with the Liberal Persuasion. Take Mass, for example. Last week it was the "Pizza and beer I Jesus is here" formula among the crowd that swings in Sheboygan. This week, it's back to the traditional bread and wine, but the celebrant stands on his head for the Canon. Next week they'll be using camel fritters and buttermilk, which will be so nauseating that even the Real Presence may get sick and die. After that, it's back to the drawing board for a brand new Blessed Sacrament. As an old-fashioned Christian, I don't need the New Theology to tell me all the ways in which the Lord was human. He may or may not have had trouble keeping His nose tidy as a boy. 
but whoremembersnowbutHis mother?Is it really necessary to the faith-experience for Malcolm 
Boyd to insist that Jesus had 

something as human as warts? Does the man suppose the rest of us are of the opinion that God was so nervous at the Incarnation that He left off His own backside'If I were Malcolm Boyd, I would trust people to respect the thoroughness of Omnipotence in arranging the ways for the Word to become Flesh. Then I'd stop spreading rumors about the moral permissiveness of my Redeemer. It must be obvious that I11 never be invited by the Berrigans to show up with a matchbox at the Catonsville Draft Board. I11 never be invited to join the Roman Curia, either. I'm just in the middle of the road of a polarized Chruch, hoofing the pathway to obsolescence. Every morning, I wake up and kiss my dreams of self as charismatic leader goodbye. Then I wait for the dump truck of the Now 
Generation to cart me and the Baltimore catechism off to the scrap heap of lost callings. 
~=======7=3=35====================----.;Y:....e::.:a::.:r.:..:..,facing Texas Christian next 

Page 6 

Clothes and things Men's Boutique 

"On the Mall"-McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center -Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­

CLASSIFIED 
ADVERTISEMENTS Jt-bil in or come by Observer office. far injorrmtion call 7471. 
SERVICES 
Breen-Phillips Food Sales. Call in pizza orders before 11:00 pm. 1294 or 1705. Pick up at 11:30. Stop on your way.. home from the library. $1.25 Cheese $1.40 Mushroom $1.50 Pepperoni $1.65 Everything 
Crypt-New Hours 12:30-4:00 Now on Stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 Cat Stevens-Ten for Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection $3.1 (~ 
Mountain-Nantucket_Sleighride 
Free taxi service available: limited to female aged 11-99. Phone Norwood or Evil, 1993 or 233-9508. Day or night (preferably night!) 
Student needs indoor painting jobs over break, and has had 
experience.  Free  estimates  
given.  Steve  6964  or  during  
break, 288-8403  

HOUSING 
To Be Married Student needs suitable Off-Campus housing for 71-72 school year; Preferably furnished, Close to campus, and Reasonable 
Call Tom 282-2250 
Leave Message 
Responsible female grad student desparately in need of summer housing. Ideal person to maintain home during summer months. Call 7159 
Wanted to Rent House for !<,all-Spring 1971-72. Single Woman SMC Faculty. Call Anl)Clark_4503. 
WANTED 
ooking"for s. 1all, cheap (fully tocked?l refrigerator unit. Call cgoo 4614 
·Wanted one roommate-Condi­ions: must have full stereo ystem and television-have no irlfriend in Elmira, N.Y.-be 
Mean Joe Green fan-not have Zappa poster-be extremely gul­lible. Advantages: learn keen card tricks, enjoy jags (on you), learn about neato Pittsburgh -Call 2106, Ask for "the Durie" 
Wanted 1951, 1952, 1953 DOME to fill collection. Call Tom Kirschner at Gen. Accounting 6262 or 234-3790 

Men of all trades to North Slope, Alaska and the Yukon -around $2800 a month. For complete in­formation write to Job Research, P.O. Box 161, Stn. A, Toronto, Ont. ­Enclose $3.00 to cover cost 
Musicians needed for Established Group. Call Bob at 1760 
LOST 

Lost : One Sony Cassette Tape Recorder in the front of LeMans Lobby, Wed. March 3 between 5: 15 and 
6:00 pm. If found it is imperative that it be returned. Reward offered. Rose 5254 
Lost -Gold Wire Rim Glasses -Reward $10 -Call 2150 
FOUND A sweater was found at the Ah~Frazier showing at Morris Civic Auditorium 
FREE 

Adorable kittens -ab­solutely free -288-7590 -Evenin s 
FOR SALE 

Remington Electric Razor for sale ­Christmas present worth $35 -will sell for $20 ­Call Joe 8638 
Time, Inc. 282-2250 
IAvailable at Stud ant 
Rates: Time, Lif~. Sports 
Illustrated, & Fortune 
r,~ a g a z in e. Cull Tom , 
!82-2250. 
STEREO DISCOUNTS PIONEER SX-990 $239.95 PIONEER SX-770 $199.00 KOSS PR0-4A HEAD­PHONES LIST $50 DIS. $34.95 ALSO DISCOUNTS ON OTHER EQUIPMENT 
TURNTABLES, TAPE RECORDERS, SPEAKERS, ETC. ALLOW 10-15 DAYS DELIVERY 
CALL MARK 1501 
RIDES 

Riders wanted: Leaving March 15 for Miami; Call Jim -6777 
Thursday, March 11, 1971 

N D goes back to Texas 
Notre Dame is returning to Texas to face the Southwest Conference once again. And instead of Joe Theismann at the controls it will be All-American Austin Carr. 
The last visit the Fighting Irish made it to the state of Texas was January 1, when Ara Par­seghian's football team registered a 24-11 victory over Texas in the Cotton lBowl. 
Now Johnny Dee's basketball team will enter the NCAA Tournament for the third straight 
Notice to ALL ND-SMC students: With Spring Break appraoching we would advise placing a classified ad if you plan to get a ride home. Try it-our readers outnumber the rider board patrons. 
The Advertising Staff 
Riders wanted south­preferably to Miami. One way or round trip. Call Dave 3286 

Ride wanted to Conn. or 
N.Y.C. after 3:00 pm Thurs. -Pete 1842 
Need ride to Dallas anytime after March 12 Will share expenses call 6720 
Rides needed to Pittsburgh 
for Spring Break Maureen 4285 Kath 4459 
Riders wanted to Washington. Leave noon Friday. Call 6787 or 4105 
Ride to St. Louis­anytime -Don 3252 
Ride needed to Boston March 12 -Will pay Mark -1863 
Need ride to Dallas -Dave 319 Dillon -1794 
NEED RIDE to Newark, N.J. Area. Lou 1947. 
~,--___...:;PERSONALS 
All classes will be can­celled from March 13-23 in honor of the 20th Natal Anniversary of the GRAND DRAGON OF THE POLISH UN­DERGROUND. Festivities begin on March 12. P.U. members and auxiliary -
Pallll Dziedzic (Grand Dragon), Mama and Papa Dziedzic, Polacks of 
Gurvick's  Seminar,  B-P  
Polish  Daughters,  Bibo  
Baggins,  John  G.  

Powerski, John "Sound 71", Mike Bartkowski, Robert J. Jensenski 
·To Ann, 330 Me. No offense. 
You're very pretty. Have a good vacation. Love. 
Chuck -On way to Mole Country! See you in Roaring Gap on the first tee. -Mary Mole 
Words  1d1V  :Zd•v•  \ ldll/t  4d•v•  1w""i  
0-10 11-115  .50.•.  .75 1.00  1.00 136  1.15 1.75  1.25 2.15  
16-20  .70  1.15  1.70  2.40  2.60  
21-25  ...  U6  2.00  2.90  3A5  
26-30  1.00  1.60  235  3,40  4.10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  2.110  3.815  4.70  
36~0  135  2.10  3.16  4.25  5.10  
41-45  1.65  2.30  330  '·'"'  5.50  
..~o  1.75  2.50  uo  4.7&  uo  

Saturday <March 13) in Houston. The Irish will meet the SWC champions in a first round game of the Midwest Regionals at the University of Houston in Hofheinz Pavalion. 
Tipoff is scheduled for 7:05 

p.m. <CST) with Houston (20-6) and New New Mexico State (20­6)' also at-large entries like the Irish, meeting in the second game at 9:05 (CSTJ. The Notre Dame-TCU contest is scheduled to be televised by TVS. 
Both winners will advance to the Midwest Regional finals at the UNiversity of Wichita the following Thursday, March 18. The Notre Dame-TCU winner will meet the Missouri Valley Con­ference champion while Kansas of the Big Eight awaits the 
Houston-New  Mexico  State  
victor.  
The  Irish, seeking  a  record  

fourth straight 20-victory season, will take a 19-7 record into the TCU game. Dee's club, actually playing in its fourth straight post­season tournament, has played what is considered the toughest schedule nationally. The Irish have played seven of the top 12 ranked teams and also seven NCAA Tournament teams that could increase after conference tournaments or playoffs. 
Notre Dame holds victories over 'Southeastern Conference champion Kentucky, Pac-8 leader and top ranked UCLA (89­
82) and Big TEn title possibility Michigan while losing to Atlantic Coast tourney favorite South Carolina, Marquette, Dusquesne and Fordham by a total of 17 points. 
The Irish decisioned NIT bound Dayton last Monday, 83-82 as Carr scorecll 47 points. Notre Dame also holds an early season road win over St. Louis, one of the Missouri Valley Conference title contenders. 
Last year Notre Dame started its NCAA Tournament campaign with an impressive 112-82 Mideast Regional win over Mid-
American champion Ohio 
University as Carr scored an 

NCAA record of 61 points. 
Kentucky eliminated the Irish 
109-99 but Carr scored a total of 97 
points against the Wildcats and 
Iowa (consolation) and a total of 
158 points in three games. 
Carr, the Irish captain, is 

ranked second nationally in 
scoring for the second straight 
year with a 37.5 average. He 
needs just 24 points to reach the 
1,000 plateau and his career 
average ofe of 34.3 (2,435 points) 
is second in the history of college 
basketball. He passed Oscar 
Robertson three weeks ago and 
will probably finish second to 
Pete Maravich (44.2 avg.) 
Carr, who plays under the 

basket in Dee's offensive setup, is 
also the third leading rebounder 
on the team with a 7.2 average. 
"TCU has a lot of quickness and in the last two months they've put it all together," said Irish assistant coach and scout Gene Sullivan. "Thev can run with the basketball· and (6-6 Eugene) Kennedy is a fine rebounder," added Sullivan. 
Kennedy, who leads the TCU scoring attack with a 20.7 average, was named the South­wt>st Conference Player of the Year (AP). The junior college transfer, one of three on the starting unit, is also ranked among the top 10 nationally in rebounding (16.9) and field goal percentage (.596). 
Coach John Swaim, the SWC Coach of the Year, has watched his club compile a 16-10 record (12-2 in the conference l. The Fort Worth based cagers won just four of 12 games during the pre­conference schedule. 
The two TCU forwards are 6-4 JC transfer Simpson Degrate 
08.2 ppg.) and 6-3 Ricky Hall 
(13.5) the only starter from last year's team. JC transfer Jim Ferguson (9. 7 ppg.) and sophomore James (Snake ) Williams (7.3 ppg.) are the guarrls. 
Just for the Record 
by Mike Pavlin 
Austin Carr now has 2435 career points which puts him in tenth place on the NCAA all-time list. He is just 27 points behind Tom Gola and if the Irish defeat TCU, he will get two more games and a shot at fifth place. 
INDIVIDUAL--SEASON 
1.) (New Record) Most Points by a Senior--Austin Carr 976 2.) <New Record) Most Points (regular season)-Carr 976 3.) <New Record) Scoring Average (rs)--Carr 37.5 4.) (New Record) Field Goal Attempts (rs)--Carr 731 5.) <New Record) Field Goals Made (rs)--Carr 382 6.) Points Scored (all games)--1106, Carr 976 7.) Scoring Average (ag)--38.1, Carr 37.5 8.) Field Goal Attempts (ag)--799, Carr 731 9.) Field Goals Made (ag)--444,Carr 382 10.) Free Throw Attempts--264, Carr 260 
INDIVIDUAL--CAREER 
1.) (New Record) Points Scored--Carr 2435 2.) (New Record) Scoring Average--Carr 34.2 34.3 3.) (New Record) Field Goal Attempts--Carr 1822 4.) (New Record) Field Goals Made--Carr 969 5.) <New Record) Field Goal per cent-Carr .532 6.) (New Record) Free Throw Attempts (3yrs.)-Carr609 7.) Free Throw per cent-.804, Carr .816 8.) Games Appeared In--85, Collis Jones 82 

Complete Spectacle Service Glasses Duplicated Your Doctor's RX filled 
Largest selection of wires 
214 S. Michigan (next to State Theatre) 21!!1-780!1 
------------·------------------------------­

Thursday, March 1J, 1971 

JIM MURRAY 
Feet of Clay 

© 1970, Los Angeles Times 
NEW YORK-You were expecting maybe Armageddon? The Apolcalypse? . . It was a schoolyard fight. It was the most unprofessiOnal fight I have ever seen for 150 bucks top. 
But, Lord, it was exciting! 

As this is written, at midnight in the catacombs under Madison Square Garden, the word is, Muhammad Ali's jaw was broken. It's for sure his heart was. 
I never thought I would live to hear Ali described as a "fighter who can take it." His whole life style is based on dealing out punishment and then disappearing like some poltergeist with B-ounce gloves. The state, the government, the press, the establishment could never lay a glove on him. 
Joe Frazier laid about 50 on him. The one that counted was a left hook that Joe Frazier started just south of Weehawken. Ali had started a right. He was still holding it, cocked, when he thudded to the canvas. The butterfly had turned into a cocoon. The old magic was taking an 8­count. 
I suppose it will be taken in some quarters as a victory for hot dogs and apple pie, the Fourth of July and moonlight along the Wabash. And it's safe to belong to the American Legion again and "Pack up your troubles in your old kit bag"-but actually it was just a fist fight. 
Ali the wunderkind, the beautiful icon of the ghettos, had such impli,cit faith in his destiny that he released a handwritten, boastful ode of this own success practically on his way down the aisle. Defeat was as incomprehensible to him as Einstein't Theory. 
He was like a guy going to the electric chair buying a new car. 
He thought he was going right to the kingdom of all boxing. Instead, he was going to the hospital. He thought Joe Frazier was just another doll to stick pins in, make faces at, and then, in the dark of the ~oon, turn it into a zombie. He made up poems, pulled all the old shticks, humiliated his opponent publicly, privately, in rhyme and in simple declarative sentences. 
He sneered at his opponent's punches, jeered and shook his head "No, No!" at the most violent shots. 
Even when his jaw looked like the world's biggest hunk of bub­blegum, he pretended it wasn't happening. Reality has never been Ali's bag. He lives in a kind of Arabian Nights fantasy world. 
But Joe Frazier was not a confused, fearful, spooked pug. Joe Frazier comes to work, like a guy who brings his lunch in a pail, turns on the machine and doesn't stop till the whistle blows. Ali tried to punch him out of his one-track mind, then to talk him out of it. 
It was like trying to con an on-coming train. Frazier felt the mighty Ali crumpling under his punches as early as the sixth round. Then, for awhile, it was Frazier's turn to underestimate his opponent. 
Make no mistake about it, Muhammad Ali is no pug. But he is a fighter. Leaden-legged, taking punches he never knew existed in his previous 150 fights, absorbing blows to the stomach that will come out as blood clots for a week, he had turned into the immovable object. 
His only offensive weapon was the clinch, the last, desperate resort in the agonia of the prizefighter. Frazier stagered him in the 11th round and he was so out on his feet that he started to fight with his manager in the corner as Angelo Dundee, sick with worry, began to spray him with water. 
The doctor came into the ring. Ali was not accepting house calls. He waved him out. His prediction of a sixth-round knockout was now a faded old dance card, a memory of a time when he was young and beautiful. 
He came out and fought-like every broken-nosed but great-hearted 
clubfighter who ever lived, he was going to go out throwing his best 
shots. Boasters usually give way to rout quicker than strong, silent 
types. . _ 

Ali hoisted all flags and gave battle. It's a way only champions have. And he was a champion. The beautiful face was now a gargoyle, a ting by Rodin hanging off a French cathedral. He had to sag against the ropes and taunt his foe through swollen lips and puffed cheeks and contemplate the machine besetting him and wish he coi.tld bluff it out of its victory. 
When he could not, he attacked. It may have been his finest moment in a ring. Or anywhere else. 
Frazier frequently fought as if he had all week. There was still a chance Ali could snatch a decision as the 15th round opened. It was clear Ali considered himself behind. He fought like a man playing catch-up. Had he clutched and clinched his way and groped to the final bell, a disputed decision and the roars of controversy would have drowned out the memory of the Long CCount, the sun shade in Havana--all of boxing's hallowed eccentricities. 
Ali wanted to win going away but not his his feet. 
The most important right hand he ever threw never got out of the garage. He was wide open-as all righthand punchers are drawing back to swing. Frazier leaped with a crunching left. 
Ali got up. But the punch sealed any chance for the expected 
miracle, the intervention of his private genies. 
You can't give a fight to a man who gropes to his corner like a guy 
leaving a train wreck. The unthinkable, the unfaceable, the hollow 
end to the high-decibel hysteria of "I The Greatest!" had gone down on 
the seat of his pants. The tassels of his his shoes with which he chor­
tled childishly he would bedazzle Joe Frazier out of his championship 
were pointed in the air. The myth dead-ended on a left hook. 
The fight should have been held on a pier; The beauty, the poetry 
that was Ali was gone in the gutter of primeval, atavistic, caveman 
battle. 

He will be back. But it will never be the same. An era had ended. 
He is, for the nonce, at one with Dempsey in the rain at Philadelphia in 
1926, Johnson in the sun at Havana in 1914, Louis on the ring apron, his 
balding head glaring in the television mirror in 1951. 
He is mortal. That may be harder to take than the jaw. 
Page 7

THE OIJSERYER. 

Sid, Sid, Sid, Sid! 
by Jim Donaldson Observer Sportswriter go to school together," Catlett 
said, expalining why he chose toSid Catlett began his basketball play ball at Notre Dame. "We career when he was 12 years old knew that a lot of ballplayers left on a playground in Washington, D.C. to go to college by them­D.C., and, the personable Irish selves. We felt that it would be star recalled, "I took my first easier for us to adjust to collegeshot at the other team's basket-
life if we all stayed together." and missed." "I talked to Bob Whitmore, who After that inauspicious start was happy at Notre Dame, and of 
Sid Catlett improved quickly. In course I knew that Notre Dame his junior and senior years at had a great athletic tradition. I DeMatha High School, in the also knew that Notre Dame was 
nation's capital, Catlett was building up their basketball named a prep All-American. program and I wanted to be a 
During his four years of high part of it." 
school, DeMatha compiled a 100-9 Sid has been a big part of the record and won three Irish basketbsll program since he metropolitan championships. first wore the Blue and Gold. One 
Needless to say, there were a lot of the quickest, most agile bigof colleges hoping to enroll men in college basketball, Catlett Sidney. is a strong rebounder and can put"Austin, Collis and I wanted to the ball in the hoop from either 


..a­

Sid Catlett 
----------------------------------------~----------~~----­
the top of the key with his soft jump shot or, using good moves, he can work free underneath for layups. 
"I've really enjoyed playing basketball at Notre Dame," Catlett says. "Playing against the toughest teams in the nation like we do has made me a better basketball player." He went on. "I think that the experience that we've gotten by playing so many big games this season will really help us in the NCAA tour­nament." Sid said, "We've been under pressure many times before and we get "up" for the big games. Everyone's been waiting for the tournament. I'm positive that we'll play well." 
CaUett was pleased that the Irish had been placed in the Midwest bracket of the NCAA tourney. "I think we've got a good chance to win the Midwest tournament. It's not the easiest division, but it's not the toughest." 
Sid has had a number of thrills at Notre Dame, including playing in the first game at the Convo, playing in the NCAA tournament three consecutive years, and upsetting UCLA this season, but he says the biggest thrill of his college years will come this June when he receives his diploma. 
The long basketball season made it tough for Sid to stay on top of his studies but the big fellow worked hard and will graduate, majoring in sociology, at the end of this semester. 
"I chose sOciology because I'm interested in people and how they interact with other people," he said. 
Sid pocnted out that getting along with others was an im­portant factor in the success of a basketball team. "You're dealing with players' egos, with their personalities, on a college team. All the players were stars in high school and they have to accept being just another one of the players on the team. A team that isn't happy isn't going to win." 
"We have a very closely knit team here, everybody gets along. That isn't the case at a lot of schools." 
"It's been great to play with the guys here," Sid said. "The fans have been great too. They're always behind us." 
It's a sure thing that lots of people will be behind the Irish on Saturday in Houston. And it's just as sure that Sid Catlett will be doing more than his share as the Irish make another bid for the national championship. 


Voices from the Crowd 
Dear Mr. Shields: 
god as you did is completely
Up to this point, I had much 
irrational. He is a boxer, whether 
respect for your column. or not you speak of his personal However, your article about the experiences, and when he fight disintegrated any such climbed into the ring Monday respect I had for the column or night, he climbed in as one single yourself. To put it simply, which man trying to achieve what he does the whole affair an injustice, had set his own personal goal for. you wrote like "a man with a The same thing held true for Joe paper head." To begin, you are Frazier. He wasn't the establish­indeed right, this was more than ment's "boy" and he wasn't in simply another heavyweight the least concerned with a championship. There was a "moral and physical victory for symbol in the ring Monday. the great silent majority," which Muhammed Ali is quite a man, in you irrationally spoke of. nmore ways than simply athletic What have we then, a battle of endeavors. He is a courageous, good vs. evil, imnjustice vs. unswerving example of a man justice, or rather a fight between who holds very deep unalterable two men who are very much convictions. He is the symbol of respected and loved. Not living one who has taken on the legends though, not even mar­"establishment" you speak of, tyrs, and certainly not gods in and one who has taken much any sense of the word. abuse and recieved many gross To you I would say that if you injustices to his person. Truly, he cannot accept defeat in your life, is an exemplary human being, or other's lives, then you had but to make him into a seeming better become a recluse in the 
desert for the rest of your time. This letter is not simply and interest by another Notre Dame sports' follower in an important sports event. I'm afraid this has other implications, none of which appeared in your article. Is there true, complete justice in this world-I'm afraid not and one can only hope for such a time. But to raise a man to the status of martyr, or further, because of a contest he participated in is c. ridiculous. Perhaps very old, and perhaps very much of a cliche, I think it holds true that out of defeat comes one's greatest victories. If so, Muhammad Ali has only begun to fight. 
Sincerely yours, Doug Smego 100 Howard 

Ed. Note: I believe the word used was hero, not god. Also, see Jim Murray's column today. 
Page 8 THE OIJSERV£R. Thursday, March 11,1971 
--~~------------------------------------------------·------­


IBIJ lht 011thor of Rally Rou.ml tltt' Fla9, RoyR . .. /Jobit' Git/1!1. . f'fr.J 
ESP Revisited 
A few weeks ago I did a column on extra-sensory perception (or ESP, as it is called by its many friends and relatives). The amount of mail I received from you about this column, dear readers, was so heavy 
. that I find myself with a heart full of gratitude. (I also find myself with a ruptured postman.) I would of course like to write each one of you personally, but that is obviously not possible, so I will try to answer some of your questions in today's column. 
QUESTION: Last night I tried an ESP experiment with my boy­friend, Precog Nissen. He sat in one room and wrote a list of numbers. I sat in another room and tried to guess what numbers he was writing. Out of 25 tries I guessed wrong 25 times. I feel icky and worthless and have decided to kill myself. What future can a person have without ESP? 
ANSWER: You must not despair. Lots of people without ESP manage to live useful ~nd productive lives. For example, there was a coed at Duke a few years ago, Maud Gonder by name, who tried guess­ing numbers, just as you did. In fact, she tried it every single day for the entire four years she spent at Duke, and all she ever got was wrong numbers. But it didn't hurt her one bit. Miss Gonder today is gain­fully employed as a telephone operator in Durham, North Carolina. 

=~!I'
~---­
··, 

QUESTION: This has nothing to do with ESP, but maybe you can tell me anyhow. What can you do for dry hair? 
ANSWER: Wear a wet hat. 

QUESTION: My ESP tells me I was put on earth to do some kind of important JOb, but I don't know what it is. So far I've had hundreds of JObs and I still haven't found the right one. How will I know when I do? 
ANSWER: You'll know, don't worry. Take, for example, the fa­mous case of Hans Helmut Steppenwolf. He too knew he was born for some exalted task, but what? First he worked in Kansas gleaning beans but that wasn't it, so he got a job with a logging firm in Montana. Here the erstwhile bean-gleaner worked as a stump-thumper. But that wasn't it either, so he moved to North Dakota where he tended the furnace in a granary (wheat-heater). Then he moved to Omaha and got a job admitting cattle to the stockyards (meat-greeter). Then he went to New Orleans and worked for a chiropodist (feet-treater). Then to Minnesota where he cut up frozen lakes (ice-slicer). Then to Las Vegas where he determined odds at a crap table (dice-pricer). Then to Germany where he pasted camera lenses together (Zeiss-splicer). 
Still Hans Helmut hadn't found it. Back to America he moved and got a job in Milwaukee at the Miller High Life brewery, inspecting the ingredients that go into Miller High Life Beer and rejecting those which were not perfect (malt-faulter). 
And so finally, at long last, fulfillment came to Hans Helmut. For this was his mission, his lofty purpose on earth-to make sure that you and I and every other life-loving, health-oriented, flavor-directed American should rest secure in the knowledge that the next can or bottle of Miller High Life which passes our discriminating lips will be just as free of fleck and flaw as the last can or bottle of Miller High Life which passed our discriminating lips; that can after can, bottle after bottle, keg after keg, Miller High Life will remain ever amber, ever ambrosial, ever honest, sincere, true, good, beautiful, decent, kindly and relevant. 
And so, dear friends, to that small but shining list of human bene­factors-men like E. Pluribus Ewbank, for instance, who invented the opposable thumb without which millions of castanet players would be unemployed; women like Rosa L. Sigafoos, for instance, who invented the bio-degradable roommate-let us humbly and gratefully add the name of Hans Helmut Steppenwolf. Right on, watchful malt-faulter! 
* * * 
Surely the story of Hans Helmut has left a lump in your throat. We, the brewers of Miller High Life and sponsors of this column, know a pleasant way to remove said lump. It comes in cans, bottles and kegs. 
Kline's nine goes South 
A week-ong trip into Arkansas, Tennessee and Kentucky, regular season games against some of the outstanding teams in the Midwest and nine doubleheaders highlight Notre Dame's 1971 baseball sschedule announced ttoday by Athletic Director Edward 
.<Moose) Krause. Jake Kline, a member of the college baseball Hall of Fame, will enter his 38th campaign when he takes his Fighting Irish baseball team to ,Jonesboro, Arkansas, for a three game series starting March 15. Notre Dame's baseball team 
finished with an overall 17-14 :record last year and gained a berth in the NCAA District four Playoffs. The Irish decisioned Big Ten champion Minnesota 6-2 before dropping a 1-o contest to Southern Illinois. 
Following the Arkansas State series, Notre Dame faces Christian Brothers College and Memphis State in Memphis, Tenn., before heading to Murray, Ky. State for a three game set. A total of 12 games are scheduled on the spring trip. 
The Irish will open their home season on Thursday, April 8, against Mid-American Con­ference power Western Michigan. The highlight of the home schedule is a two-game series with Ohio University <April 23-24), the defending MAC and District Four Champions and a fourth place finisher in the NCAA College World Series at Omaha. 
Michigan State will conclude Notre Dame's season her May 11 with a doubleheader. The Irish also face Michigan and Nor­thwestern of the Big Ten and Toledo and Miami (0.) of the MAC, the latter the lone new opponent on the schedule. 

Matme.n tie Marquette 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
Notre Dame wrestling captain Tom Ciaccio closed out his career last night with a convincing 9-3 decision over his Marquette Warrior opponent to help the Irish salvage a tie against the Milwaukee school, 19-19. 
With this win Ciaccio set a school record for career victories at 46. He also holds the record for a career takedowns. 
Another senior, Pat Mudron, closed out his career in the heavyweight division with a 4-1 decision. Mudron wrestled in place of the super-heavyweight, Phil Gustafson. Pat had been just a point behind the unbeaten Gustafson all season in the challenge matches and coach Terry Mather gave him a starting nod in the season finale. 
Besides Ciaccio's 118 lb. win and Mudron's heavyweight decision, Rich Esposto also won 16-7 in the 134 lb. class. 

Sat. -Sun. 1:45 -5:00 · 8:00 
no one who WOf ther.e 
1' 

rr,...,,...,"....,
I~ever be the 


Summer 
.
1n Cleveland? 
Undergraduate and graduate students con earn up to 9 semester hours of credit during the seven-week term at Case Western Reserve University (June 21 -Aug. 6). 
Fot· further information, write to the Office of the Summer session, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio 44106; or stop in during your spring break. 
Case Western Reserve University 
Bob Habig and Rick Aselege 

were the big point getters for thz Irish with pins over their foes from Marquette. Habig won his 15oth match in 3:16 and Aselege put his opponents shoulders on the canvas in 6:22. Aselege wrestled 190 lb. class. 
Other Irish grapplers who didn't fare quite so well in their final matches of the season were Ken "Scrambler" Ryan who lost a 7-2 decision. Mike Kemp was also the victim of a decision. His tally read 10-2. Bob Bennett and Kurt Bottjer 058 and 167 respectively) were pinned. Steve Moylan was shutout in 126 by a s-o count. 
This tie leaves the Irish mat­men with an 8-9-2 slate. Although the season cannot be looked upon as a total success there were some individual efforts that made the Irish worth following. Ciaccio and Gustafson are both record setters and ND fans can look forward to another season of Big Phil's numerous pins and he still has that undefeated season and career record. That's not bad. 

'Nova wins IC4A 
by Vic Dorr Observer Sportswriter 

The 50th annual indoor track and field championships were held last weekend in Princeton, New Jersey, and Villanova's Wildcats captured the ICAAAAteam title for the fifth 
~~~£ir£i::i~;:~ij~-l straight year.
I But while the meet provided 

the Wildcats with an opportunity to display their numerous talents, ·it held only disappointment for the Notre Dame delegation. The 
2nd and final week 
Irish team finished far back in 
evenings 7:45 

the overall scoring, as they were 
able to garner only eight points throughout the two-day affair. Villanova's 42 points easily took the team crown, and Pittsburghand Penn tied for second with 21 
apiece. The Terrapins of Maryland finished fourth with a 20-point effort. 
Mike McMannon was the big performer for Notre Dame. He placed second in the long (or board) jump with a distance of 24-5, and finished third in the triple jump with a leap of 47-Wh. Irish weightman Elio Polselli finished fifth in a close round of shot-putting competition. Polselli's best throw travelled 55­2, while the winner of thz event, Maryland's John Hanley, won with a toss of 58-10. Notre Dame's ace middle­distance runner, Rick Wohlhuter, pulled a muscle in the 600 yard run, and thus did not place. This injury to the Irish captain will keep him from defending his NCAA title in the 600 in next weekend's meet in Detroit, but it shouldn't hamper his ef­fectiveness during the outdoor season. 
Wohlhuter's injury erased the possibility of an interesting matchup in the 600. Tom Ulan of Rutgers won the event in 1:08.5, and such competition would certainly have produced a good effort from Wohlhuter. Ulan's time in the 600, good though it was, was overshadowed by the work of Villanova's outstanding mile duo, Marty Liquori and Chris Mason. These two finished 1-2 in their event, and assured the Wildcats of individual, as well as team honors. 

----------------------------------------------, 







