
Lent defends nresident's nolicv 
program, attacked the super­He also chastized the Senior When Nixon took office, Lent reasonable chance for freeby Ann Therese Darin 
sonic transport system, and Class for awarding William stated, there were 450,000 elections." If anyone other than chided the Senior Class for their Kunstler, Chicago Seven defense American soldiers in Vietnam Nixon had proposed the plan, heNorman Lent, the man who 
selection of Attorney William lawyer with this year's senior with 300 deaths per week. His believes, the person would havebeat Allard Lowenstein in last Kunstler as Senior Class fellow. class fellow award. Vietnamization plan to equip and merited the Nobel Peace Prize.
Novemher's congressional 
In a lively, informal question and "Kunstler defends the use of train South Vietnamese troops Since the Cambodian offensive election, claimed this generation 
answer period, Lent also violence and other illegal means has already reduced U.S. in-last summer, which Lent claims had endured a long-term defended the campaign tactics he to change the government," he volvement greatly, revealed the reduced the enemy's military"educational-incubation", before used to defeat Lowenstein. commented. "By implication, the Cornell Law School graduate. advantage by 80 percent, hean audience composed primarily "AI Lowenstein and I gave the university is giving its en­"By December 1, more than believes "You are actually safer of Lowenstein supporters last 
night. fifth congressional district two dorsement to a disruptive two-thirds of the boys that John in Saigon than in New York opposing philosophies from philosophy." Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson City."
Lent also defended President which to choose," he contended. _. Besides talking on domestic sent over there will be home," he During the speech, Lent alsoNixon's Viet Nam withdrawal "There were 22 debates --I went issues, Lent also addressed some promised. "In addition, the · alluded to the conviction of Lt. to 24, but he didn't show up for remarks to the continuing war in number of boys killed has been Calley for the My Lai massacre. two of them." Lent attributed his Southeastern Asia. reduced from 300 to 30. "I think that Lt. Calley got victory to these debates. Having visited Vietnam and the He considered Nixon's plan what was coming to him," 
"I ran a good-hard-hitting l\'lekong Delta last summer, the quite an accomplishment for a commented Lent. "Due process campaign and I won," he con­five-term New York state senator war "we didn't get into for glory was had. It was a trial the army tinued, admitting that both he admitted that he wholeheartedly or to decisively beat the enemy, could be-proud of ... you don't see and his opponent had brought supports President Nixon's but just to insure that South anyone with rallies calling Callay charges up, during the campaign, position on the Vietnam conflict. Vietnam would have a 
continued on page 8
to the Fair Campaign Practices Commission. 
"The only area Lowenstein won was Long Beach where he lives," claimed the congressional victor 
LdvRren hope_ful.for march 
of "one of the dirtiest campaigns of the congressional election," 
plane, and car. A similar
by Joe McKerns
Norman Lent according to The New York 
demonstration will take place in 
Times. 
San Francisco. 
Over a half-million demon­
The rallying point in
strators are expected to converge 
Washington will be the Ellipse
on Washingtoon D.C. this 
near the White House. The march

Soviets launch 
Saturday for a massive anti-war 
. is expected to begin at noon on
rally. This was the figure given 
Saturday. After marching around 
by Fred Lovgren of the Chicago 
the White House the demon­
Peace-Action Coalition who

''salute'' satellite 
strators will proceed down
spoke last night in the 

MOSCOW (UPI) -The Soviet necessary for large scale ex­Engineering Auditorium. Pennsylvania Avenue to the Union launched an unmanned ploration of the solar system. In his talk before a small Capitol Building where a rally "salute" satellite into earth orbit Fully developed, a space station audience of students and faculty, will be held on the East steps. Monday in what scientific could be used to launch manned Lovgren outlined the reasons for According to Lovgren this is a sources said was the initial step satellites further into space. It the rally and its plans of precedent in American history. It toward construction of the first also would have considerable operation. is the first time an anti-war 
permanent manned space military potential. protest has been allowed to
Lovgren said that the massive National Peace-Action Coalition,

station. The United States plans to march for peace will show congregate on the Capitol steps.
who spoke on campus last ni~ht
launch its first Sky lab· space Lovgren said that all necessary

The sources said the Salute President Nixon and the rest of 
sattellite will be followed withing station in April, 1973. The station various major trade unions. permits have been obtained All
the nation "the overwhelming 

a few days, probably Tuesday or itself will be placed in orbit, mood of the people who want the People from all over the government officials have been country are expected to arrive in lenidnt up to now rel!ardinl! the
Wednesday, by manned followed the next day by the war ended and the troops brought 
spaceships that will rendezvous launching of a three man crew thP. nation's caoital by bus, train, continued on page 8
home." Lovgren quoted a recent with it and begin construction of which will rendezvous and dock Gallup poll showing that 73 perthe station. with it. The Skylab is designed to cent of the nation's population 
Viet Nam veterans

The official Soviet news support three man crews in orbit are in favor of a pull-out. He also agency, Tass, announced the for as long as eight weeks at a said that the "poll is now two 

march against war

launching of the Salute, which is time. months old and the percentage is a new name in Soviet space Tass •said the Salute was probably much higher." 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Led by the Whit~_House.

language. The announcement functioning normally after going The speaker further stated that ' two crippled veterans in They carried a huge red andreferred to it as a "station," into a relatively low, circular the National Peace-Action wheelchairs, hundreds of former white banner proclaiming "Vetssuggesting it had a purpose orbit at s 51.6 degree angle to the Coalition, which is sponsoring the G Is marched from the locked Afainst the War;" on the fourdifferent from previous un­equator. The orbit was along the rally, has recieved active support gates of Arlington National mile march through the sunnymanned shots called "Sputnicks" path normally flown by Soviet from almost every political Cemetery to the steps of the 
or "scientific satellites." manned space craft and carried faction in the country. This streets that already were 
Capitol yesterday to begin more crowded by spring tourists.

A permanent manned space the Salute craft directly over the support comes from groups like than two weeks of protests As they marched, the
station, on which the United Baikonur spaceport every 88.5 Women's Liberation, Black against U.S. involvement in the protestors shouted such slogansStates also is working, is con­nubytes, Tass said. Liberation, Socialists, as well as Indochina War. as "Power to the People," "Hi di, 
sidered by space planners as Democrats, Republicans, and Shouting antiwar slogans, the Hi di, Hi di ho, Mr. Nixon's got to 
demonstrators, many of them go," "Peace Now" and wearing the olive fatigues they sometimes,"One, two, three,;_:\,_~_IP,._,,.o-!#_/~ca0'ifl_,, __--•~.-_.:_.~_-_:_:::_•._:._-_-_.:::-.u___ :\\\\: Timetable needed for wore in Vietnam, raised clenched we don't want your war."
.•_,:_f'.:·v,"_;. ~---·······:~--•

__-four,fists and shook them at President Th~>v complained about not
~ "' ... ,I 
Nixon's 
helic'lpter when it flew 


llllln:30 BA schools' merger 
lecture-theodore m.l ::t r~ hesburgh: commentary :;:;: 
business curriculum, while Notre 

:~:~:: on violence and social :::;:: by ll-exel Ace 
Ill me disti~uisres between the Tre College ci Business and the two studes. Before a merger
I ~~~2~~,,;; :~~,.~;~~ 
1,1_,_.,•.=_:_:_: 
Th)Ertment ci Economics and could take pace, this disparity in 

~~f 1:30 conference-graduate ~~~~~~ business school and !law t~~ school: the role of the ~ti university in the ':~:~: minority businesstl community, continuingjf education center. :::::: 2:00 lecture-eqbal amad: ~f political development ~~~~ and revolutionary war: ~:~:~ a theoritica I per­fi spective, continuing ::;;: education center. 
fusinessofSt. Mary's will merge viewpoints would have to be acccrdi ng to whatever timetable recmciled, according to Dean the Board of 'frustees adopts, St. Murphy. He felt that this Mary's Department head Dr. reconciliation is altogether Farouk Muwakki said yesterday. mthin reach. 
"I am eager to consult with the At present 90 per cent of the 75 
~an of Business and the to 80 business majors at St. Chairman of the Department of Mary's take the bulk of their F£ onomics at N <tre uame' ', courses on their own campus. Muwakki said, "as to the best They come to Notre Dame only 
means of mification. We must for advance courses in certain keep in mind the welfare of areas, such as accounting or sturents from both campuses management. \\hen we make our decisions." When asked whether the 
One prd:Jlem to be worked out, merger might jeopardize the 
according to ND Business Dean positions of St. Mary's Business Thomas T. Murphy, is the fact professors, Dr. Muwakki said, "I About I ,000 Vietnam veterans began a week-long demonstration 
:::_1:,'_,1·. ,




,:;~:::;· I 

that St. Ma-y's places a great am optimistic as to the future of against U.S. involvement in Indo-China. Here they march towards thf' 
llllli emiflasis on economics in their the present SMC faculty." Capitol Building. UPI TELEPHOTO 


Page 2 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, April 20, 1971 
Elect 
J. Marshall and 
J. Higgins 

McGovern continues FBI attacks
President and 
v. President 


WASHINGTON UPI -Sen. Robert J. Dole, a Kansas
of 

George S. McGovern, D-S.D., Senator, defended the FBI and
Lyons Hall 

said yesterday he believes the Hoover before GOP governors in FBI has under surveillance Williamsburg, Va., saying Sen. "virtually every political figure, EdmundS. Muskie, D-Maine, and every student activist, every other critics of the agency were leader for peace and social making "a concerted and justice" in the nation. deliberate effort" to downgrade
Forum on Coeducation 

The Democratic presidential it into "an American version of
E nligh tment 

hopeful, in a strong new attack on the Gestapo."
and 

the FBI and Director J. Edgar On the House floor, a former 
Entertainment 

Hoover, charged that President FBI agent, Rep. Samuel L.
April 25th 2 pm 

Nixon was afraid to remove the Devine, R-Ohio, also criticized
in front of library 

76 year old Hoover even though Muskie indirectly for making
East Campus 

"he has become irresponsible." -public names of persons Muskie 
J. Edgar Hoover, director of the "The obvious truth is that Mr. said were under FBI surveillance eorge overn, FBI, who is under the heavy Mr. Hoover is retained in office at the 1970 Earth Day Dakota, claims that the FBI has attack of Senator George "virtually every political figure"
not out of asense of confidence, ceremonies. 
American magazires, including 
Atlantic, Harper's and Playboy.

Come Spring...... 
He also has a syndimted column, 


''0 n the Right." 
Buckley last spoke at Notre Dame in the spring of 1968. Tickets to his current lecture will be on sale in the dining halls and in pharmacies. Student prices are$ .50 (pre-sale), one dollar at the door; public prices are $1.50 and two dollars. 
*~··············~
* * 
* GINGISS * 
* *
* *
Formal Wear Inc. 
* *
* :
~ 10 per cent off for ND & SMC* * students * 
·* : 


:*liiiilll~~~~il:

all the good things at 
IN A fJliVf.i"lilil 1 UA.­
* 
DONT BOTHER TO SHOWUP * 
AT ALL!" *
* 
1622 Mishawaka Ave. So. Bend Indiana : 



EDDIE'S RESTAURANT * 
* Phone 287-5938 lt
1345 No. Ironwood Drive 
••***************• 
McGovern. 


Student diSEDUnt 
I We give students a break, with special reduced I
·-----------------· 
1 rates in Hilton Hotels from Boston to Honolulu. I I (Faculty dnd graduate school students get a dis-1 
count too.)I Let us send you a pamphlet listing the Hilton I 1 Hotels and Inns that offer special student rates. Also I I a Hilton Student Identification Card to use when-1 
ever you register.I Mail this coupon to Hilton Hotels Corporation, I I Travel Department, National Sales Division, 9880 I 1 Witshire Blvd., Beverly Hills, California 90210. 1 
W~ want to make it easy for you to come visit II the Hiltons. X I I 
I Name 1 
1 Address I 
I City State Zip I 
~tii'tTOD HiiiELS~ 
·-----------------· 
10% reduction on all menu items for college and university students Complimentary split (small bottle per couple} of any wine on our magnificent wine list for those of age. 
under surveillance.

but out of fear," McGovern said. Devine said "ambitious 
"Out of political fear that the politicians and newspapers which informers are the rule rather 
administration cannot afford to act as fences for stolen than the exception on college 
remove this 'sacred cow' from documents" were violating the campuses, within civil rightsthe public scene." privacy of individuals by using groups, and throughout the peaceMcGovern's fresh criticism of names. 
movement. I have no doubt that 

Hoover came in a speech at McGovern referred to some of elaborate files are maintained on 
Lewis St. Francis College in the stolen documents--copies of thousands of political figures
Lockport, Ill. He said documents which were sent anonymously to across the land." 
stolen from an FBI office at certain newspapers and portions 
In his speech, McGovern said Media, Pa., showed that FBI of which were published Hoover attempted to get Trans­
surveillance was widespread. presenting "clear evidence" of world Airlines to fire Capt.House Democratic Whip Hale FBI spying on citizens "whose Donald J. Cook Jr., after the pilotBoggs, of Louisiana, who only crime seems to be a social criticized FBI agents who tried to 
triggered the round of heated conscience that moves them to capture a hijacker aboard his controversy over Hoover and the social action." plane at JFK Airport in New FBI, reserved an hour of time on McGovern then added: "There York Nov. 1, 1969. He said after the House floor Thursday for a is no doubt in my mind that TWA freused to fire Cook, Hoover 
speech amplifying on his claim virtually every political figure, tried to discourage FBI em­that the FBI tapped every student activist, every ployees from flying with the congressmen's telephones. Boggs leader for peace and social airline and did now want to declined to tell reporters Monday justice is under the surveillance provide FBI personnel to serve as what he intended to say. of the FBI. air marshals aboard TWA flights.
Republican National Chairman "I am convinced that paid 
Buckle_v to lecture on Saturda_y 
William F. Buckley, Jr., the God and Man a Yale, in which he organization fer youth. In 1966, conservative au tror and editor of criticized certain aspects of he began his weekly television Na tionaI Review Magazine, will biglEr education. The book show, "Firing Line." 
speak at Stepan Center on became a best-seller and was Buckfey ran for mayor·of NewSahrday, Atril 24 under the widely reviewed. 
York City in 1965, getting 13 perau spires ri. the Orestes Brownson In 1955, Buckley founded cent of the vote on a ConservativeSociety and the ND-SMC National Review, a conservative Party ticket. In 1970, his brotherAcademic Commission. ma!Jlzine which mw has the James Buckley was elected to 1the

"RdlE£tions On The Current secmd highest circulation (about Scere" will be his topic. 120,000) of my jrurnal of opinion U.S. Senate on the Conservative 
ticket.
IKJI:nshed in America. 

Buckley first became In 1960, Buddey helped frund Buckley ms written or edited a nationally known in 1~ 1 after he Yomg Amerimns for Freedom, dozm books, the most recent graduated from Yale and wrote America's largest cmservative being Did You Ever See A Dream Walkingo. Besides editing National Review , he has con­triruted articles to most 
The Cbserver js publisn~d d, ,, 
during the college semester except 
vacations by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame and st. M1'lry's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11 Notre Dame Ind. 46556. Seco:.'d class postag~ pairl, Notre, Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Tuesday, April 20, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Cross roads 
CominR up: speakers and events 

Law lecture 
Melvin Belli, noted civil lawyer and author of the syndicated col unn "So That's the Law," will speak on "The Law Revolution" at 8 p.m. Friday in the Library Auditorium. 
He has represen too clients who have received the highest jury verdict ever awardw in civil cases ranging from medical malpractice to airplane crashes. He has been widely profiled in lifeMagazine, Saturday Review Holiday, Newsweek and Time' and is the author of "Moder~ Damages," ''The Adequate Award," and "Medical Malpractice." 
Tre public is invited to attend his talk, sponrored by the Notre Datre.Saint Mary's Academic Commission. 

War seminar 
Keith Parker, black panther president of the student body at Indiana University, and Cynthia Fredrick, member of the Con­cerned Asian Scholars, will hold an open seminar on "What students can do about the war" at 
8:00 tonight on the second floor of Lafortune Student Center. 
Parker traveled to North Vietnam in December as a member of the National Student Association delegation, which negotiated the "Joint Treaty of Peace between the U.S. and Vietnamese Peoples,"also called 
"The Peoples Peace Treaty." 
Miss Fredrick has lived in Saigon for three of the last four · years. She was expelled by the Thieu-Ky government last November. 
The Committee of Concerned Asian Scholars was founded in Philadelphia in 1968 as a protest organization against American policy in Indochina. 

CAC festival 
A two-part folk festival fro turing past and present Notre f}.qmf' nPrformPrs will be held this Saturday afternoon and ev enmg in Washington Ha II according to Cultural Arts ilirmnissioner Bob Brinkman. 
Tre festival will regin at 2 p.m. Sa ttrday and break for dinner at 5:30p.m. Itwill resume at 7 p.m. and continue until it is over, Brirkmann said Pvt. Michael "Mruntain" Kelly (ND '70) will ancee the ev m t. 
Some of the performers will be coming from as far as Nashville. 
Te m. Many of them achieved campus recognition while per­forming at AMERICA, the Baa-e's Crawe (in the basement of !Teen Philips Hall), The Shire of Stanford Keenan Halls and at the SMC Coffeehruse. All but AMERICA are now inactive. 
Among those requested to app:-ar are: Rory Holscher. The Morning Glory Brigade, Jom1 Moran ~nd Paul Guernsey, the Authentically Maerriewhether and Pat "Hootchie-Kootchie Man" Clinton. 


MECHA 
MECHA (Movimiento 
Estudiantil de Chicanos de Az­
tlan) will sponsor a Chicano Arts 
Festival beginning tomorrow and 
lasting until Saturday. The 
festival will include a four day art 
exhibit, a lecture and a dance on 
Saturday. 
Highlighting the festival will be 
a display. of works by chicano 
artists of ND-SMC, Gary, Ind., 
and Chicago. The exhibit will be 
in the old fieldhouse and also in 
the display area lining the hall 
through the art department of­
fices in O'Shaughnessey. 
At 7:30 Thursday evening, 
Mark Rogavin will lecture on 
Mexican revolutionary murals in 
the Law Auditorium. Rogavin 
recently spent six months with 
Mexican artist David A. 
Siqueiros helping him paintt 
"The March of Humanity", a 
mural. 
On Saturday from 1p.m. to 4 
p.m. the Nova Sixtet, a lical group, will play in the old fieldhouse. 
Contributing ND-SMC artists to the festival include Father Max Cala, Gilbert Cardenas, Anthony Herrera, Roland Molina and Carmen Zamorra. Exhibiting photographs will be Andrew Carillo, Benito Flores, Rene Garza, Romero De Leon Augustine Medina, Margaret Rosas and Fidencio Salcido. Additional works will be shown by Frank ~faro, Rich Alonzo, AI Corpus, Mickey Lopez, Jesse 
Three Lawy.,rs from the South Bend Area will speak at and participate in a Law Symposium presented by the Pre-Law Society. The lawyers will represent: The Legal Aid Office, The Police (Legal l Advisers, Corporation Law and Private Practice. If you Plan to enter Law School or have an interest in the profession of law it would be highly advantageous to 
attend. 
PLACE: 127 Nieuwland Science 
Hall 
T I ME : 8 : 00 PM DATE: Tuesday April_ 20, 1971 

Nominations open .for 
Saint Mary's Judicial Board Chairman 
Submit name to Box 623 by Wed. April 21 
Apply now for positions as 
Hall President & Student Assembly Representativ Submit name to Box 623 by Wed. April 21 
Munoz, uume Nunez, Ray Patland, Rafael Santos and David Torrez. 
All festival events will be free. 

BA lecture 
The Graduate School of Business Administration and the Law School will sponsor a con­ference, "The Role of the University in the Minority Business Community," at 1:30 
p.m. today in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Principal speakers will include Walter Sorg, assistant director of the Office of Minority Business Enterprise, Washington, D.C.; Rodney Spear, Mishawaka, graduate business student at Notre Dame, and Jack Silha, assistant professor of management at Indiana University at South Bend. Spear and Silha have participated in separate research projects in the rni!!Q.Jjj;y___ !:msiness communi tv. 
Sorg will speak at a session beginning at 2:15 p.m. and will discuss the Minority Enterprise Small Business Investment Company, a program that provides private captial and government loans for the financial assistance of minority en terorises. 
The great majority of the Notre Dame co-exchange dinner tickets were given out last night in a period of twenty minutes after the tables opened at 7 p.m. A few remained until eight, but none remained even close to the 10 
p.m. closing time established by coordinator Bob Ohlemiller. 
Of the 100 tickets available for the remaining nights of the semester, 75 were given out for every night except 3, which had 

Some research "experts" 

25 reserved for the Notre Dame 
program. 

The remaining 25 tickets will be 
available on a day-to-day basis in 
the secretary's office of the 
Student Union on the fourth floor 
of LaFortune Student Center 
from 1 to 5 p.m.They may be used 
at St. Mary's on the day they are 
picked up. Weelends may be 
picked up during the week. 
Tickets will still be available 
for SMC grils in the LeMans Hall 
Lounge from 1 to 2 p.m. daily and 
in the pay cafeteria of the Notre 
Dame South Dining Hall all day. 
Ohlemiller expressed 
satisfaction with the results last 
night and while he deplored the 
actions of some students in taking 
more than the allotted one day 
apiece, he said he thought the 
program worked well oil the 
whole. 

The Co-Ex dinner prpgram will 
work for the rest of this year on 
the basis set up last night. Its 
future next year will depend on 
an evaluation by both students 
and Dining Hall operators, to be :completed by the end of the year. Next year the program will be run b_v the new .B.f'$!'.B.rc..b a.wJ Development staff ofCom­missioner Ed Ellis, who said he plans to continue and expand the program if at all possible. 

say you can't taste the difference between beers ... blindfolded. ,. 
WHEN YOU SAY 


Budweiser 
YOU'VE SAID IT All! 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. ~ ST. LOUIS 
INTERESTED IN LEARNING CHINESE? 
Sign up for Chinese 111-112 (5--0-5) Offering this fall 
No prerequisitesFor information 
Contact: THE MODERN LANGUAGE DEPT. 
304 O'ShaR (7195) 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, April 20, 1971 


THE OBSERVER 

An Independent Student Newspaper Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
Human life is every where a state in which much is to be endured, and little to be enjoyed. 
---Samuel Johnson 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Callev: The New American Hero 
Vice-President Agnew recently remarked that a precipitate with­drawal of American troops from Vietnam would bring from the right repercussions unlike the country has ever seen from the left. Public reactions ~o two recent events seem to make this a sage remark, and the reactions themselves say something much deeper about the current mood of much of America. 
BiQQer Than All of Us \ 
Under ridiculous things that keep coming up: 
Class elections are on the way! In just a couple of weeks, this campus will become a battleground of ideologies and wills. In less than a month, the Universities.h ost cbarism a tic leaders will conjur up ways to organize class picnics, merge class governments, and establish clubs '72, '73, and '74, all in the basement of Holy Cross Hall. 
Of course, these are the most important elections of the year. Virtually all the important functions of student government are in reality run by the classes -things like the dynamic class newsletter we all get in our mailboxes every two weeks. 
In fact, the office has become so formidable that sqme people have developed seious doubts about this Universities' ability to produce men who can handle the job. The increasing number of write-in votes for people outside the university-people like Yogi Bear and one or all of the Three Stooges-indicates the real crisis the voter faces when he considers the formidable nature of the job and quality of the people who have oc­cupied class office the past. 
The 0 bserver is forced to agree with those who have sadly come to the realization that Class Government is just too cosmic in scope to be handled by the merely mortal characters who inhabit this patch of God's Green Earth. The morbid fact is, the University of Notre Dame must eliminate class government before class government becomes so powerful it consumes us all. Was it not Voltaire who once said that the hand that writes the Freshman Newsletter rules the world? 
Some of the lesser functions of class government -like the Sophomore parent's weekend, and the Junior prom and parent's weekend -can be assurn ed by Student Government's already frightened Social com­mission. The Senior Class, too, customarily relegates itself to mundane things like the Senior bar and the Senior fellow -programs that do not threaten to take over the power structure of the University. 
But the other class governments threaten to become so important and so powerful that they become not only larger than any single student but larger than the University itself. We must destroy them before they destroy us. End class government. 

When jobs are scarce ... 

The public furor that raged in favor of Lt. Calley and against CBS's 
The Selling of the Pentagon in light of a recent Gallup poll which 
showed 70 per cent of Americans favoring a U.S. pullout from Vietnam 
by the_ ~ndof the year, would seem to indicate a paradoxical outlook of 
the mihtary on one hand and the war in Vietnam on the other as seen 
by Americans. ' ' 
One view of the Calley case sees the outcry of support rooted in a Ion~ standing and pervasive "My country right or wrong," mentality which has always looked onAmerica as the goodguy with God on its si_de. The_ conviction of Calley tarnishes the mliitary and hence tar­mshes this myth. The Selling of The Pentagon haa· much the same affect. 
By himself, Calley is not uni~ue He is just one of 22 men who have been convicted of premeditated murder involving Vietnamese civilians. What is unique in this case is the scale of the inhumanity and its sensationalizing by the U.S. media. America has had many heroes, not just a few from the military. A convicted murderer is one of its strangest. There is a large American audience that identifies with Lt. Calley and his particular problem. Mothers with draft eligible sons and sons already in the service do not want them placed in a situation 
where a moment of fear or overreaction could result in a murder 
charge. Thousands of World War II and Korean War veterans are 
senstiive to Calley's contextual argument. -.Many of these people hold 
1that he was "just doing his job". It seems clear from court testimony 
that Lt. Calley was not doing his job. The purpose of an army is to 
protect the innocent, weak and unarmed. The slaughter of at least 21 
unarmed and unresisting old men, women, and children is inexcusable 
no matter what the extenuating circumstances may be. 
Probably, as the polls have shown, most of those outraged over the Calley verdict see him as a scapegoat. But as numerous analysts have pointed out a scapebgoat is one who is punished for the crime of others. There can be no doubt thwt Lt. Calley's finger was on the trigger that day in My Lai. Also answering this charge is the fact that Calley's two immediate superiors are also scheduled for trial. 
In view of the support for Lt. Calley one would be justified in being suspect about the real reason for the popularity of American with­drawal among some of those 70 percent. The vast majority of this group can be placed into the following categories of reasons for wilh­drawal: 1) those who oppose all wars as immoral, 2) those who oppose the Vietnam as immoral, 3) those who think that too many Americans have died, 4) those who think the war has cost too much and 5) those who think that Vietnam was just a bad political mistake. People who fit into 3,4, or 5 might be frustrated because Vietnam is a war that we have not been able to win or lose. It is this frustration which will be 
exacerbated by an American withdrawal, and Mr. Agnew and his Superior know this well. Mr. Nixon has climbed out on a limb and handed the saw to the voters. For the immediate resolution of the 'Vietnam conflict he will be held accountable for sure. The future resolution will be quite different. It is often said that when everyone is guilty, no one is guilty. But ten years from now it will be only academically comforting to point a finger at Kennedy, Johnson or Nixon. The blame for Vietnammay be placed on a select few but thz expiation of our sins committed in this war mut be shared by all Americans. We have united in war and won many times before we can unite in peace and, too. ' 
~***************************~* # I out a new ribbon on it. ~ ~ so i fiQured I'd use it! ~ 
** Guest Night Editor: Jerry ** 
Guest Headliner: Jolm
* Resident Layoo,t: Tom + Debpie *
* Asst. News Editor: B.F. ~ *
* Night OJntrollers: Jolm Brady and * 
venerable rick smith * 
I 
News Editor: Jolm Abowd* SMC Editor: Ann Conway :*
Managing Editor: Don Ruane 
Features Editor: rick smith
* Sports Editor: Jim "Bullets" * 
I 
Thnal!N>n Advertising Manager: Bill Baurle * 
***************************j( 
Tuesday, April 20, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 5 
tom bornholdt 
an interview with norman 
ticipation and I think that most people in that district agreed that he should not have participated because he was par­ticipating not as an individual but as a representative and when you are an elected representative your conduct must reflect the desires of the majority of the people in your disstrict. 
Q. What was your vote on the SST? 
5.• A. I voted against the SST.
.. Q. Was it on the environmental issue that you did this~ 
A. I voted against the SST for a host of reasons. Among them were the en­vironmen tal considerations; I did not feel that the proponents of the SST had carried the burden of poving that the SST would not be harmful to the environment, but there were many other reasons besides. The primary reason was that I think that it was a bad investment to ask the taxpayers of the United States to make. I don't think that the taxpayers should have invested the research and development capital on 
-this highly speculative business venture; all with only a six percent rate of return with ;, no security being given. So it was not a 
Q. What do you see as the essential solid ec~no.~ic investment, there we~e difference between you and Allard other pnonties other ventures that this Lowenstein? money should hav~ been ~pent on: such as 
A. Well, I don't think there were any mass. transportation which would have essential differences in our overall benefited far more people and answered a philosophies of government or life. I think greater need in th~ c?m~unity. the recent campaign was based upon a Q. One of the dtstmgmshed marks of difference in his voting recore from the you~ career has been y~ur concern for the voting record I would've had, had I been environm.ent. How . seriOus do ~ou feel !he the congressman. And the campaign was problem m the Umted States IS today_. . basl·cally fought over Mr. Lowenstein's A. I am not one. of those wh.o feel that It IS Votl·ng record as a congressman dur1·ng the too la.te to reclaim our environment, but I Prior two years. And I made it my business do thmk that a very broad-based effort on to brl.ng home to the people of thd district the part not only of government but on th. e 
blem in this duress. Thank you for your understanding. 
exactly how Mr. Lowenstein had been p~r.t of bu.siness,. indu~try, labor a~d m-,. We have a very severe pro 
voting on some of the important bills that d!Vlduals IS reqUired If We are g?mg to had come before the 91st Congress. rev~rse the trend towar?s d~st~oymg our 
Q. Whad did you feel were the reasons env.Ironment. And I thmk It ~s a veryfor your defeating him? seriOus pr~blem that really reqmres an all-
A. It's hard to figure out why one man out commitment to combat. wins and another man looses an election. I . ~· W~at ~ 0 y~u fee~ should be done ~h~t think that more people in the 5th District 1sn t? Tied m With this, do you feel this IS 
I g I t te o a Federal problem or 
were identified with my philosophY of ar e Y a s a . ~. ? ' government than with his, and many should responsibility be shared· people who had voged for him in '68 voted A. I don't think we can say t~is i~ a. state for me in 1970 because they felt that he had or a Federal problem. We thmk It IS tl:>e · not really represented the 5th District. problem of all subdivisions of gov~rnment 
Q. Do you feel, as critics have claimed, including the ~ederal governmen~ IllS? f~r that the district was gerrymandered? as pollution IS interstate pollution, It ~s 
A. No, it was not and that was clear on obviously a Federal problem because It the day after election where I would have concerns interstate ~ommerce. N~w Yo~k won in the old 5th Dist~ict by a very City ~as very stnct laws agamst air comfortable margin. As It turned out the pollution but we cannot control the areas that were taken out of the old 5th pollut!on in Ne~ J.ersey. l\;1ost of the District namely the five towns and the pollutw~ cont~~matm~ the air over Ne~ village of Valley Streams voted York City ongmates m New Jersey m Republican by a narrow margin. Had I Pasaicic and those ~areas, .and therefore a 
been running in the old 5th District, I strong Federal law IS reqmred..I suppport would have won. Moreover th4 margin of the President and his Environmental my victory, almost ten thousand votes, Protection Agency which has recently was quite large and more than com-been set up to monitor all of the other pensated for any changes in the district departments of government to look out for lines that previously had been made. the protection of the environment. 
Q. Some people have charged, especially I think economic incentives should be Patrick Owens a columnist of Newday, offered to people and businesses t~at that you fought a somewhat dirty cam-participate in reclaiming and pro~ectmg paign. In particular there was one in-the environment. For Exampl~, I .thm~ tax cident. I believe, where some of your incentives such as fast depreciatiOn nght­campagin literature was claimed to be offs to those businesses which will get into making a link between Allard Lowenstein the daring up of our environment. For and a group of communist sympathizers. example, the President has reco.mmended 
Could you explain this? Also on the whole do you feel that it was a clean campaign? 
A. Most of the political columnists sided with Allard Lowenstein because in the Northeast most political columnists are liberals and Lowenstein was a liberal and they resented apparently the fact that I had the audacity to challenge Mr. Lowenstein's right to represent the 5th Congressional District. I never said that Allard Lowenstein was a communist or a communist sympathizer. I did criticize him very harshly for his actions as a congressman as our representative in participating in the November 1969 moratorium in Washington D.C. That Moratorium march was led by Com­munists and Communist sympathizers: the W.E. B. DuBois Society, the New Socialist Alliance and a ho t of other left wing organizations headed by David Dellinger. I said in my campaign that that automobile scrpa COf!lpame~ should be afforded a fast tax. wnte-off If. theyw will purchase and mstall eqUipment designed to do a better job of breaking down junk automobiles, and recycling material, so that it can be reused again on some other fashion. I also support the President's program to add a motor vehicle tax to gasolines which have lead additives. This is the kind of program that will go a long way towards curbing pollution. 
Q. One of the major differences between you and Lowenstein was defense. Do you feel that defense spending should be maintained at the present level, increased or decreased. 
A. The most important thing that we should understand is that under President Nixon's administration for the first time in twenty years, defense spending was reduced and we are now spending lesson 
Allard Lowenstein was not representing• defense than we are on human and social me nor the majority of people in the 5th needs. I do support a defense budget if it is District when he marched in that parade, reasonable. And this was one of the issues which as you know featured the flying of of my campaign with Lowenst~in. On the Vietcong flag and the desecration fo nineteen out of twenty-one occasiOns he the American flag. I criticized his par-had voted against defense budgets for this country, and I brought this out in the campagn, and I said that it was irresponsible. This country must maintain a strong defense if we are goingto be secure from foreign aggression, if our friendly allies like Israel and Free China are to be protected against aggression. 
Q. In what specific areas would you give priorities to in regards to defnse, which programs? 
A. As it is most of our defense allocations go toward manpower. I think it is about eighty percent of our entire defense budget that goes to pay the salary of those people who are involved in the defense effort, and this is why the president and the ad­ministration have made great efforts to reduce the draft calls to bring home troops from Korea and Europe -and from other outposts throughout the world. This does, of course, add to the unemployment problem because when these boys come home, they become part of the unem­ployment labor force, and the statistics continue to go up, but I voted for and believed that higher salaries for our military men will go a long way towards achieving the goal of an all volunteer armu and a zero draft call. This is the kind fo financial incentive that will make military life attractive, even though it would cost 
more money. 
Q. What do you think is the greatest 

lent 
country because local government does not have the means of raising the tremendous amounts of money necessary to carry on the most unglamorous, albeit the most important functions of local government: things like garbage collection, sewage idsposal, police protection, courts and so forth. The real estate tax which is the primary source of revenue for local government, has just about outlived its usefulness and the small homeowner cannot bear paying greater taxes, therefore I am one of the sponsors of President Nixon's revenue sharing proposal, which is designed to do two important things. Number one: turn over a certain percentage of the Federal income tgax collected to the states and municipalities in the form of grants and aids with no strings no strings attached. And secondly, to transfer the power and the authority of the Federal government in many of these areas to the local govdrn­ment, to the government closest to the people, and best equipped to deal with the rpoblem. This is a very revolutionary proposal that the President has made, and I don't think that the average person ap­preicates the significance of the proposal or the necessity for revenue sharing. Otherwise we are going to see in the cities particulary, in the cities first, in New York City, a complete breakdown in municipal 
problem facing the United States today? services, becauselocal governments How would you rate the Congress' per­cannot afford to provide these services formance on it? under the present tax system. 
. .A. I think the greatest problem facing the United States today is the inability of .--=----;-::----:-;--::---;:::-::-::.::-:-:~::::7:1=::-i:i::l 
t. 1 1 1 1 The editor apologizes for the intolerable
government, par ICU ar y oca govern­
"d h 1 "th th number of typographical errors on this
ment. to provi e t e peop e WI e ser­
· th t d nded of government page. ThisJ"ob is characterized by extreme
vices a are ema · 
matt st aeorae 
a rep/y to
• mark mahonev 
He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were · ht d d · d th · 'Two men 
ng eous an esptse o ers : 
went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself 'God I thank thee that I am not like other men extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or e;en like this tax collector. I fast twice a week I give tithes ofall that I get.' But the tax 'collector, standing off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, 'God be merciful to me a sinner!' I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other; for every one who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. (Luke, 18, 
)9_

15 
SCENE: Lounge of a Notre Dame Hall; May 23, 1971, about noon. Mom and dad are awaiting the arrival of their son. Son en­ters wearing a suit. 
SON: Hi Mom (kisses her), hi dad (shakes hands) 
MOM: Hello dear, where's your cap and gown? The ceremony starts in a few minutes. You didn't forget to order it, did you? We sent you $25 last month. 
SON: Mom (significant pause) ... Dad (significant pause) I didn't order my cap and gown ... 
BOTH PARENTS: Why!? 
SON: Let me finish, will you? You never let me complete a sentence when you don't like what you're hearing! Like I was saying !didn't order my cap and gown because I gave my four dollars to charity. Smiles down at them and awaits congratulation) 
MOM: But dear, it just won't be like 
your graduation if you walk around in your 
suit. Don't you remember how nice you 
looked at your high school one, and how 
Aunt Maryanne remarked that she'd never 
seen anyone as handsome and ... 
SON: Mother! You're missing the point! 
I'm not wearing my cap and gown now 
because I'm older and I see things aren't 
as they should be, and I want to let the 
world know that I'm a new man, that I've 
cast aside old traditions, that I gave up my 
cap and gown for charity. 
DAD:Now look here Son! You know 
damn well your mother and I have been 
looking forward to this event for months. 
We've put $12,000 into this place and I should think that you could have worn your cap and gown for a few hours just to keep your mother happy ... 
SON: I was afraid it would be like this' Your generation has always been worried about security and stuck with worthless traditions that don't mean a thing! My generation has moved beyond to sacrifice and giving a little to our fellow man. 
MOM: Well, if you're so concerned about sacrifice, why didn't you sacrifice twenty­one of your twenty-five dollars to charity and get your cap and gown anyway? 
SON: (bit embarrassed) Well, you see, I'd been borrowing money from my friends all year to bet on football and basketball games, and it was time to pay them and I had that to pay off, and a couple of nights we went out drinking, and I had that to pay off, so I only had those four dollars left to give. 
DAD: Well, this is really a fine way to show your appreciation to the sacrifices we've made to get you through this place. When I was your age, I would have given my right arm to get to college, but I ha~ to go to work to help out my family. Now I've put my son through college and he hands me this! 
SON: Dad, I didn't realize that you'd take it like this. Can't you see that I have to make a gesture against the falseness and hypocrisy in this world? By doing this, I'm letting people see that at least one person in this world is concerned enough to give to charity. I'm 21 now and it's time for me to make my stand. 
MOM: Well, since you haven't ordered, and it's late, thre's nothing we can do, let's get over to the Convocation Center. (Mom and dad start away grimly, son tries to cheer them up) 
SON: Come on, you two. You should be 
proud that you have a son like me. <No 
response) Thinking: Oh well,what can you 
expect? Anyway they'll forget about it 
after we get home and they have a few 
drinks in the and . . . 
an answer to 
the reolv 
Mr. St. George shows an uncanny per­
ception of the obvious. Sincerely, Mark Mahoney. 

THE OBSERVER 



Supreme Court 

WASHINGTON UPI++The Supreme Court heard Muham­mad Ali described yesterday both as a Black Muslim believer en­titled to draft exemption on religious grounds and as a "selective" objector opposed only to fighting a "white man's war." 
.,;x-n 
Muhammad Ali whose case on The loquaciom, former title 
conscientious objection came holder let the lawyers do all the 
before the Supreme Court today. talking and failed to show up as 
----------------------~~------~------~ 
CLASSIFIED 
ADVERTISEMENTS 
Mail in or come by Observer office For information call 7471 
PERSONAL 
AUTOMOTIVE 

Gibbs · There was a UFO reported 
hovering over the dome last night. Is 1969 Mach 1 Power & Tape . Call John missing? -------------------------­259_9675 Sell immediately Wilson Monterey Tennis Racket!. 2
For sale 1969 Mach L. Power and tape. Super-Dooper Happy Birthday to the Retail price ·new $ 4. Make an offer. 
Call 259-9675. Sell immediately. 

For Sale -1967 Sunbeam Alpine -very good condition -Call 7938 -312 Lyons Hall 
HOUSING 

House full of furniture, utensils, etc. Prefer lump sale 233-2654. 
Need 2 or 3 people to rent home during summer. 8 rooms: 5 bdrm., 2 bath, 3 car 
arranged to hear final arguments before the nation's highest court on his appeal from a federal draft defiance conviction. 
Ali's lawyer, Chauncey Eskridge of Chicago, told the justices his client was the object of adverse Justice Department prejudice because he was a member of the Black Muslims when he fefused induction into the Army in 1967. 
For the government, Solicitor 
1647
fifth month from the Turkey Jm---..:._·_______________________ Hot News Flash: New company person ator. 
born-VANGUARD LEATHER 
Hey 3rd floor Stanford Deviates: Where GOODS, INC-823 Flanner Hall. 283­1176-Specializing in: watchbands, were you when we came by Sunday wristbands, belts, wallets, night? headbands, hair barrettes, Crazy Tom and the Cavemen. custom-made dandals, jeans, and _anything else made of leather-­Owned and operated by Milt Jones, Wayne Hall. 
_______L_o_s_T_A__N_D__F_o_u_N_o_____ 

Help  me!  I  can  never  go  home  PARTY  
garage. 10 minutes from campus. Mrs. again... Lost  _  watch.  Initials  HAP.  
Dietrich, 282-2337 or  255-5095.  Between Nickie's and ND. Reward. 5411  nassau  happy  hour  at  Warren  Dune 

_ 
Saturday, April 24, 1971(llam -?I By Need Roomate(sl to share apartment Refreshment & Food. Call-with grad student in Madison Wisconsin MISSING: 14 K solid gold blue sapphire 3652 Dave 
Beginning Fall '71. Call Jim 233-5475. 
Apartment for rent during summer months. Frunished, carpeted, freshly-painted, air-conditioned; has bedroom, living room, bathroom with shower, small hall, and two closets. 
Call Tom  282-2250  ·  
For  rental,  Summer- June,  July,  
August.  Near  UN D­ 4  bedrooms­ 

Utilities, Furnished: $150 per month­Call 284-1774 after 5:30pm. 
For rent -June 1-Sept I 3 bedroomhome-excellent condition & location, air conditioned, dish washer, furnished, carport $125 a month-call 8100or 8229 after 8 p.m. 
House· for rent-available now & next fall. 5 Bedrooms, 2 Full baths, completely carpeted & furnished. Grad students only-kitchen 2 living rooms. Call-289-2463 _'AI Brasseur 
For Summer Students 1225 E Campeau St. 4 Bedroom house All bedrooms & Jiving room carpeted. All utilities Furnished-Plus washer & dryer lawn care & trash removal. Close to Notre Dame Phone 232-7180 Charles Moore 1428 
E. Campeau St. 
For summer students 509 N. Eddy St. So. Bend 5 bedroom house-1112 baths All bedrooms & living room carpeted All utilities furnished­plus washer & dryer. Lawn care & trash removal Close to Notre Dame Phone 232-7180 Charles More-1428 E. Campeau St. 

If you plan to attend,birthstone ring, unusual setting(Art 
4725 Kathy Carved, Co.) initials L.A.E. engraved 4561 Vicki 
please call. 
inside, personal value. REWARD. call..::::~~~----------------­'HELP WANTED
Lucy, -5158. LOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard,· Newly formed waterbed company 
lost after break: tasty reward. Call Tom 8014 
Found: Set of keys behind Admin. Building. Call Bob 3721 
Lost -Wallet at Frankie's. Reward. Call 1156 
LOST: Gold charm brcocelet with 7 charms on it; of great sentimental value. Reward $5. Call 232-6736. 
Missing: 14K solid gold blue sapphire birthstone ring. unusual setting (Art Carbed Co.) initials 

wants campus representatfves for hottest selling item in states. 
Good commissions for a few hours work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. Write: 
Lightrays Designs, Inc. Love sleep water beds division 3727 Walnut St. Philadelphis, Pa. 19104 
Pr Call: (215) 349-9330 
E:arn an easy $10 in minutes. Call 259-9565 after 6 p.m. 
LAE engraved inside, personal College Students with car needed iovalue. Reward. Call Lucy 5158 

demonstrate technicolor photo and SERVICES movie equipment--guaranteed $100 a week --top men make $200 working 
:rypt-New Hours .~venings 5-9. Call technicolor sales 12:30-4:00 'lice 289-3662 tor appointment Now on stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 

Jobs available. full or part time. Transfers possible. Mr. Frank 287­
Cat Stevens-Tee for Tillerman-$3.H Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection 

8774 ;3.10 Mountain -Nantucket Sleighride Earn an easy $10 in minutes. Call 259­
9565 after 6:00pm.
FOR SALE Nater mattresses for sale: to obtain ORGANIZATION into or place orders call Tom at 282-All SMC Freshmen interested in being 2250 from 5·10 pm Monday-Friday. Julians(1971-1972)come to a meeting 
For rend· June 1st-Sept. 1st. 3 bedroom ;torage space available during 7:00 Tuesday, April 20 in Regina North home; excellent condition, location & air summer· Call Tom: 282-225°-basement lounge. 
conditioned, dish washer; furnished, car House full of furniture, utensils, port $125a month Call8100or 8229 after etc.; prefer Jump sale 233-2654 TRAVEL · · ---~------~-------------Spend the summer in EUROPE. 
8 pm.  
RATES  
·Nards  1 day  2 d:~vs  ~i :lays  4 c:h  s  'j '.V<lO~  
0-10  .50  .75  1.or  1.15  1'.25  
'l1-1S  "!.on  ·u5  1.75  2.75  
16-20  .70  1.15  1.70  2.4J  :>..JO  
1'!1-25  .85  1.?::>  2.JO  
26-30  1.00  2.3f:  3.40  
31-%  1.20  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.7(  
36-40  1.35  2.10  J.10  4.25  [.10  
'.F.5  2.3!)  ::t.30  4.50  5.5'.i  
4f-.J0  1.7£:  } ..)0  3.50  4 .. 5  ii.O('  
I  
I  
I  
~  
l  

Ch
arter jets to London, Amsterdam md Paris. More than 40 dates ,vailable. INTERNATIONAL iTUDENTS ACADEMIQUE ;oc1 ETY. Also eligibLe tor many 
•!her benefits (railroad passes, hotel Jiscounts, etc.) For information call "'rank 233-8142. 
Want to take a trip to EUROPE t•.. summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the NATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS and SAVE! Approx. 60 dates available for round trips betw. London and N.Y. this summer for $245. From London connect to any of 50 Europec;., cities at discount fares. For example: London Paris: $12.60, London , Amsterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich: $15.00, Zurich -Rome: $20.00. Many other benefits (travel passes .. hotel discounts, etc.( Also available. For info or application call Tom 282­2250 5-10 Mon.-Fri. 
Tuesday, April 20, 1971 

hears Ali case 
General Erwin Griswold asserted that Muslim beliefs were not pacifist and Ali's claim of religious objection to war was selective and not entitled to draft exemption. 
"He is opposed to fighting what he regards as the white man's war, but has no objection to fighting in defense of the black man," Griswold told the court. 
Only eight of the nine justices 
heard oral  on  Ali's  
..····· ..1  
7:30  lecture­ richard  
bohan,  smc:  u.s.  in­ 

tervention in latin america, carroll hall, smc. 
7:30 lecture-redolph dreikurs: the bankruptcy of educational institutions, carroll hall, smc. 
lecture 

8:00 
lecture-robert t. francoeur: human sexuality and test tube babies: a utopian motherhood, 122 hayes­healy. 

8:00 
concert pamela griffel, smc music faculty, the Iittle theatre. 

8:00 
open seminar-keith parker and cynthia fredrick: what students can do about the war, second floor Iafortune. 


SKICLUB 
elections and 
reorRanization 
TOPICS 
Europe 

Colorado 

Racinq Team 
Anyone interested in being an officer call Bob 
Lane at 283-7965 before Wed. 6:00pm.Room 1 -C LaFortune 
8: 00 Wednesday the 21st. 
case. Justice Thurgood Marshall 
disqualified himself without 
explanation. Marshall was 
solicitor general for the Justice 
Department at the time the 
government proceedings first 
began against Ali, then known as 
Cassius Clay. 

A written decision will be forth­
coming from the court before the 
present session adjourns in mid­
June. Ali was given a five year 
prison sentence and a $10,000 fine 
for refusing to take a symbolic 
"one step forward" at a Texas 
induction center on April28, 1967. 
The court in agreeing to hear 
Ali's appeal limited the legal 
issue to whether enough weight 
was given to his claim of religious 
conscientious objector status. 

Eskridge argued that a Justice 
Department advisory letter to 
draft authorities held that Ali was 
defying the draft only on racial 
and political grounds, ignoring 
his religious beliefs. He said the 
letter misled not only draft of­
ficials but the appeals courts 
which twice ruled atainst Ali. 

Griswold said that if the court 
overturned Ali's conviction, it 
would find itself serving as a 
"super draft board." 
Student Govt 


applications due 
Applicatirns for hall presidents 
and student assembly 
representatives will be accepted 
up until midniglt tomorrow, 
acC<l'di.ng to Missy Underman, 
St. Mary's student body vice­
president. 

Hall presidents will work closely with Notre Dame hall lm rers next year. They will be non-voting members of Notre filme's Hall President's Council. "We hope that this will increase commumcatirn between the hall presidents," Miss Underman said The hall president also coordinates all activities in her dorm. 
Student Assembly members represent student opinion and act as a a communicatirn channel between the studmts and the sturent government. They are eleded from their hall at the ratio of one representative for evecy hundred students. 
"Most students don't realize 
how important the Assembly is," 
Miss Underman said. "This 
board was the first to initiate 
proredures on the off-cam!Xls, 
no -hours, and open house 
proJX>sals," She added. 

Other JX>Si tions that are open 
include a sh.rlent seat on the 
Stm::Ent Policy Committee of the 
Board of Trustees and student 
body secretary. 


STUDY SlJ.IJNDS 
"' 
IMPROVE GRADES ' 
Improve Grades While Devoting 
The Same Amount Of Time To St~~"f't' 
USE STUDY SOUNDS 
, Increase Your Concentration And ·.r-'lrove 
Your Comprehension. Study At A Fastt.r Rate. ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED 50UNDS CAUSE THI3 TO HAPPElt 
Please Specify
8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record Send Check or ~·.oney Order -$9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage 
Sound Concepts, Inc., -Box 3852 Charlottesville, Va. 22902 

Position Open 



Observer News Photoqrapher 
approximately 11/2 hrs a day $10 a week 
Contact the Observer 8661 
Tuesday, April 20, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Track. tennis teams successful 


tie Mimi~n Slate for fl~t place to rally in tre doubles to win the Ill ming Green a n:1 Toledo on tracksters to Des Moines on by E .J. Kinkopf honors in that event. match. Th~ responded to the Saturday, and Iowa and Friday and Saturday for another Observer Sports Writer Mike McMannon com-challenge and came awav 5-4 Marquette Sunday afternoon. weekend of individual com­victors. • petition at the Drake Relays.
The Notre Dame Track and plemented his brother's fine Coach Wilson will lead the 
Tennis teams were kept busy this showi~ by earning a second in Saturday was a completely 
past \\eekend as Coad! Wilson's the long jump, and finishing different story as the Irish 
tracksta~ went after individual fourth in the triple jump. breezed to wins over Bradley 
honors in Cd urnbus, and "Tiger" Joe Utz, part of that shuttle lh iversity and tre University of 
Thm Fallon's charges gunned hurdle qw.rtet, finished fourth in Oncinnati by identical8-1 scores. 
do\\fl three d!allengers at the the 120 yard high hurdles, .5 of a Againsttre CincyBearcats, the 
lh iversity of Cincinnati. second behind the younger netmen swept all six singles 

The Irish Eye
The thine lads made their usual McMannon. matches, as Brown, Reilly, 
solid showing at the Ohio State Elio Pols6li rounded out Notre Allare LeSage, Walsh and 
Relays, while the racqueteers Th me's individual honors with a Schefter padded their individual 
squeaked past In:liana State and secmd place fmish in the discus reccrds. The only blemish on the 
then dis~sed Bradley scorecard came as the result of
of thrcm. lhiversity and tre University of the Brown-Allare doubles loss. 
Coach Fallon's racqueteers The Irish continued the
Oncinnati without brooking into a sweat. who seem to be gaining blistering pace as they routed In track action, Tom momentum with every match, IT adley later that same af­boosted their season's record to 6­
McMannon, who p£rforms in the terroon. shadow of his d der brother Mike, 1, 10-5 counting the California The "raqueteers" won five of 
exhibition at Cincy this past six singles matcres, Schefterbrokeintohisownby capturing a weekend.
first place ribbon in the 120 yard absorli ng the mly loss, and 
high hurdles with a time of 13.9 The only match that was ever swept the <i>ubles. secmds. in doubt was the one against The nethrs, who traveled to He also shared the spotlight in Indiana State Friday afternoon. Muncie yesterday to play Ball the sluttle hurdle relay, as he 'li"ailing 4-2 after the singles State, face a busy schedule this teamed with Joe Utz, Pat matches (only Brown and Walsh comi~ weekend. They host Mulaley am Dave Strickler to reccrood victories) the Irish had Northern Illinois on Friday, interest than whether or not Gus Johnson would be able to start for the Bullets. There was an atmosphere of conviviality in the room roughlyRuggers edge Cleveland 
akin to that pervading the Gaza Strip or the city of Berlin. On one side of the room there was a small, but highly vocal contingent of Knick Fred Bell and some fine play by Irish their only setback last fall
by Greg Einboden fans, led by Kennedy and my roomie. On the other side was an equally
George "Ace" Loss in their first and the team would like nothing
Observer Sports Writer vociferous group of Bullet backers, none louder than myself 
game of the season. better than to avenge that loss. 
Perhaps I should explain my affiliation with the Bullets. I'm fromThe Irish Rugby team traveled This Saturday it's the UCLA This game also marks the only the greater Boston area and really don't give two hoots about to the shores of Lake Erie basketball game and the Purdue home appearance of the Irish Baltimore's athletic teams (except the Orioles, who I hate with aSaturday and whipped the football game all rolled into one ruggers this season. 
passion). But, since the Bruins were upended by Les Habitants lastCleveland Blues, 9-8 in a rain for the Irish ruggers as they meet The B game begins Sunday, I had been the recipient of mucho shito (Spanish for muchsoaked contest. The ruggers, the Plamer Rugby Club of at 1:30 on the field behind Stepan grief) from that vast cordon of Bruin haters, especially Kennedy and playing their first game after a Davenport, Iowa in the BIG one. Center, ami the A game follows my roommate. I had to have revenge. If only the Bullets could knock two week layoff squared their The Palmer ruggers handed the immediately thereafter. 
off the Knicks in the Garden I could, in turn, rag Kennedy and Mike season record at 1-1. 
Cavanagh (my roomie) unmercifully. The boys were "up" for theThe visiting Irish utilized a game.
Rowers win two of three 
balanced scoring attack that Willis Reed commenced the action on the screen by slapping the ball included trys by Herb Giorgio, The Notre Dame Rowing Club out in the final sprint to the finish. to a teammate. One of the Knick fans commenced the action in myMark Rubinelli, and Bill Berry. 
lost its second regatta of the Culver's J.V. boat finished a room by slapping (a bit too enthusiastically) a Bullet aficionado. This Notre Dame scored early in the 
season Saturday on the St. Joe distant third after getting off to a brought reproving glances and an assortment of oaths, and the distinct game but missed the conversion River in Mishawaka and, very slow start. impression that hands were going to be brought into play at any
and settled for a 3-o lead. The although the varsity crew lost to The rowing club will travel to moment.
lead was short-lived, however, as Wayne State, the junior varsity Grand Rapids this weekend for The laying on of hands occurred in earnest midway through the first the Blues roared back with a try and freshman crews bested their its last match race. quarter. With the Knicks controlling the early action on the court, the and added the conversion to take 
Wayne State counterparts to Knick fans attempted to make their own power grab in the room. a 5-3 lead. The Irish came right salvage the day for the Irish. Sailors take 1st Kennedy became a bit too lavish in his praise of the New York five and 
back with a try of their own and 
Notre Dame had led in the attempts were made to quell his ardor· by beating at his body with a
Representatives of the Notre
left the pitch at halftime with a 6­varsity race for the first 100 Dame sailing team were busy on combat boot. Kennedy responded by dragging this writer across the5 lead. 
meters but the Irish rowers tired two fronts this past weekend. room rather ungently. Fortunately, the Bullet fans came to my rescueThe ruggers padded their lead 
over the second half of the course sending Kennedy sprawling and saving me from death by
with a While Tim Flood skippered his
try early in the second asphyxiation.

and finished two lengths behind way to tenth place in the highlystanza and took a 9-5 lead. 
the visitors. competitive F. The first round was declared a draw by all judges save one Knick
John Kennedy
Cleveland then managed a try 
Notre Dame's fast improving fan who decided it was no contest and chose to leave the room. 
late in the game which left them Memorial Cup races at An­While Jack Twyman described the realignments made by Bulletfreshman eight won an im­napolis, Md., the rest of the Irish one point short as the game ended 
pressive victory over the Wayne coach Gene Shue, the Bullet fans in the room also realigned them­
sailing team won the Purdue 
State frosh, leading from start to selves. The strongest Baltimore rooter was given the assignment of
Club president and team Invitational held on Lake Martin 
captain Mike Morrison was finish. The Irish held off a Wayne in Lafayette. guarding Kennedy one on one while the rest of the Bullets' gang pleased with the overall team State surge in the third 500 prepared to doubleteam the Knicks' most offensive threat.
John Dane of Tulane, con­
effort, citing in particular the meters before sprinting to a sidered to be the nation's top A basket by the Knicks closed out the first quarter of play and play of Charlie Blum and Bob comfortable margin of victory. collegiate skipper, won commenced the second free-for-all of the night. The ever-aggresive
the 

Fries. The injury situation Gary Hartman stepped out of Kennedy pushed one of his compatriots against a Bullet fan.
Kennedy Cup for the second 
remained the same, with both the varsity shell and into the straight year. Retribution was not long in coming. While the surprised Knick rooter John Zukaitas and Bill Choquette junoir varsity boat to stroke the was buried under a mass of bodies, Kennedy was overcome by a pair
Led by Will Donelan, the first 
Irish J.V.'s to a first place finish. of smaller adversaries. While I attempted to point one of Dyno's legs 
still sidelined. place Division A skipper, and his 
Both the Irish B and C teams The junoir Irish led Wayne State crew, Jeege Mortimer, Notre in the general direction of the door (due East) and the other limb battled to 3-3 ties. The B team all the way and even a last towards the window (due West) a chap who had been suspended on two
Dame finished ahead of 
could manage only a try by Chris minute crab failed to slow the M!chig~n, Ohio Wesleyan occassions in his high school career for hitting an official handled Swalling. The Irish had several Irish boat in its closing sprint. Wtsconsm, Purdue and eight Kennedy as if he were wearing a striped shirt instead of a sweat­scoring opportunities late in the The N.D. Rowing Club's fourth other schools in the Purdue In­stained blue one. 
The horn for the second quarter sounded the end of the bout. The
game but couldn't convert. John boat had seen action earlier in the vitational. 
Greving played well for the B The first place division B round was given to the Bullets' rooters on points. "Go Bullets,"
day with a morning race at 
squad, whose record now reads 1-Culver Military Academy. The skipper, George Gas, and his blurted out an ex-Knick backer who clearly sensed a shift in momentum to the Baltimore side. 
0-1. Irish led· for the first half of the crew, Jerry Mehm, helped decide 
The C team got a try out of the outcome of the meet. The Knicks managed to retain their lead during the second quarter 
mile long race but were beaten and left the court at half-time with a slight advantage. Unfortunately for Kennedy, a series of kidney punches absorbed by his sole sup­

Canadian ice stars to enroll at N.D. 
porter, causing him to beat a hasty retreat to the men's room, left Dyno at a distinct disadvantage in my rMm. With the opportunity for a 4 on 1 break (of Kennedy's skull) the Bullet's fans reacted quickly. A
SAULT STE. MARIE, Ont.­every collegiate hockey team as said. "Campbell is a real blue 
flick of the lock made relief help out of the question. Kennedy, ob­Three members of the Sault well as the New York Rangers of chip prospect-he is one of the top viously in a stupor from the previous scuffles, foolishly antagonized Ste. Marie Greyhounds have been the NHL. He scored 35 goals and players we have seen all year. 
awarded grants-in-aid and will 52 assists for 87 points in 48 Delorenzi has good speed and a the quartet surrounding him and payed the appropriate penalties for enroll at Notre Dame in Sep­games. tremendous shot. Keating is a big his brashness. It was the most brutal scene I've witnessed since the defenseman with a good shot Wayne Maki-Teddy Green stick swinging incident of two years ago.
tember, Irish hockey coach Lefty 
Presuming that Kennedy's mother might read this column I shall say 
Smith announced here Thursday. from the point." 
Delorenzi, a 5-11, 175-pound only that it would not greatly surprise me if young Dyno is no longer right wing, led the Greyhounds in The Irish already have one able to pass his draft board's physical. The three players, John scoring with 54 goals and 38 former Greyhound, freshman Beaten with fists about the head and body, his limbs stretched as if assists for 92 points. Keating, a 6-on a rack, Kennedy fought bravely (he did do somedamageto a pole
Campbell, Ray Delorenzi and Eddie Bumbacco. Members of 
D'Arcy Keating led the 1, 195-pound defenseman, scored the Western Collegiate Hockey lamp and my left eye) but was overcome and (how wonderful) soundly thrashed. · 
Greyhounds to a second place 65 points on 22 goals and 43 Assn., are allowed six full grants­
assists. The second half of the game-how about that, we're back to the game 
finish in the Northern Ontario in-aid and may divide them -was anti-climactic. The Bullets, inspired as their fans had been atHockey Assn., a Tier II Junior A among as many as nine student­half-time, came on to upset the "mighty" Knicks and bring happimess league. athletes. Earlier, center Brian to the majority of viewers in 2!10 Cavanaugh.
"It is very unusual to have Coughlin of Boston announced his Say Dyno, Mike -·-I found some great hiding places Sunday. If youCampbell, a 6-o, 170-pound left three boys from the same team intention to enroll at Notre Dame apologize for your violent behavior I'll tell you where they are. 
wing, was recruited by nearly enroll at the same school," Smith in the fall. 
Page a T..'Jl'E OBS.'E'nrtr;on
------------~~~~~~~"~v~.L=·~~---------------------------.~~~T~ue=s~d~ayy~,~A£p~ri~I~20~,~1~9L71~ 
.







Securttv reoorts a hectic weekend 
by Herman Jackson 

!h_eft, vandalism, and a 
mrssmg person dominated the 
security reports of the past 
weekend, according to Arthus 
Pears, director of security. 
Pears said that on Saturday 
April 17 at four a.m. a non~ 
student was apprehended for 
numerous charges in the D-1 
parking lot. The suspect was 
cha~ged_ with trespassing, in­
ves~tgah?n of larceny, improper 
regtstratwn of an automobile and 
driving without a license ac­
cording to Pears. ' 
The youth had not stolen 
anything but two hoods had been forced open and the youth's auto was running in the lot, which "points at an attempted theft," Pears added. 
In the D-2 parking lot found vand~lized Saturday morning by secunty guards on patrol. Pears said the owner claimed that a factory installed tape deck had been stolen and the radio wires had been cut. 
In addition to the thefts on campus, two students were picked up at 3:15a.m. Sunday for climbing to the top of the Golden Dome. The students, one fresh­man and one sophomore, will go before the dean of students for disciplinary action, Pears said. 
According to Pears, a report of a missing boy was turned in over the weekend. The boy was the younger brother of a student. He had been visiting with his older brother for two weeks and had ~lanned to stay here until May first. The case is being handled 
Norman Lent speaks: answers auestions 
continued from page 1 a hero, do you?" One member of the audience also questioned Lent on the tacti~s of Spiro Agnew, vice­prestdent, and the media. In responding, Lent stated, "What's wrong with public officials taking a shot on the media? Are public officials second-class citizens?? The New York Times isn't holy ... what's happened to the coun­try?" He continued by asking the audience if at Notre Dame they are taught to treat the media as sacrosanct. Besides answering questions, Lent also espoused a doctrine 
correlating economics with the generation gap. "Economic order establishes social order." the conservative member of the House banking committee stated. 
"High school students, college students, and some people under 30 are not integrated in the economic system by working for a lining, paying taxes. This economic isolation contributes to the generation gap," he con­tinued. 
"Humanitarianism takes time and affluence," he added. "YQ•J can thank the establishment for the affluence. The United States is less preoccupied with amassing wealth than in the humanitarian effects of it." 


Viet veterans march on Capitol 
continued from page 1
-
being allowed inside the sprawling cemetery, but held a memorial service outside the heavy iron gates and left two wreaths of roses, asking that they be placed at the Tomb of the Unknowns in honor of Americans who died in In­dochina. 
"Does a veteran have to be dead to get into Arlington?" asked one marcher, angry at being locked out. 
Although they were denied permission to demonstrate inside the cemetery, officials otherwise generally allowed them a free hand in their march. 
Officials did deny their request to camp out on the mall, the grassy parklands around the national monuments here. But a federal appeals judge overruled a lower court Monday and said the veterans could camp out there if they pitched no tents, maintained sanitary facilities, appointed marshals for cleanup and built no fires. The protesters had agreed in advance not to put up tents or build fires. 
Police estimated the number of marchers at about 1,000. Most of them were white and the ranks included some former ser-
MET CLUB 

BaJ!.f~aJ<e 
Truck Sales 

(to New York City)Wednesday Night 7:00 PM $5.00 Deposit Coke Bar LaFortune 
vicewomen and a few mothers whose sons had been killed in Vietnam. 
At the head of the march were 
James Dehlin, 20, Flushing, 
Mich., and William Wyman, also 
20, of New York City. Both lost 
legs in Vietnam and they were 
pushed along in wheelchairs. 
"It cost me my legs and it's too 
late for me, "Dehlin told a 
reporter during the march. "But 
there are still lots of people dying 
and I want to see it stopped." 
Rep. Paul N. McCloskey, R­
Calif., a leading critic of the war 
who has threatned to run against 
the President in 1972 unless he 
ends the war, marched with the 
group. 
The veterans' march was the 

by the St. Joseph County Sheriff's 7.asoline and caused an explosion. office. ~ worker was cutting a piece of bmler plate at the time," Pears
Also on Friday, April 16, there added. There were no injuries
was a fire at the maintenance garage. Pears said that the blaze and the damage amounted t~ 
about $500.

broke out when a spark from a ~utting torch ignited some 



W ashinQton march olans comoleted 
continued from page 1 
march. Vice-President Spiro Agnew was among thosaor who decided to grant the permit for the rally on the Capitol steps. 
Lovgren stated that the march "is legal and is expected to be peaceful. The NP AC has trained 
lZ,OOO marshals for the purpose ot mai~taining order and giving medtcal and legal assistance." 
The rally at the Capitol will feature numerous speakers in­cluding Mrs. Martin Luther King Jr., Senator Vance Hartke of Indiana, and Rev. Ralph Aber­nathy of the SCLC. 
After Lovgren's speech campus co-ordinators for the march tried to organize tran­sportation for students and faculty who are interested in attending the march. A bus has been chartered, but no definite plans have been set. 
Those who wish to take a bus to Washington can bring their $28 to Kevin McMullan at 127 Breen Phillips, telephone 283-1250 or to 
start of a series of protests and demonstrations against the war that will continue for more than two weeks. The largest crowd is expected for a mass rally this Sat~rday sponsored by the National Peace Action Com­
mittee. 
The Ombudsman's 
Service recommends that no money be sent 
to job recruitment agencies before their credibility is established. Call 7638 
*Radial Ply Tires *Full Instruments *Undercoating *Heater *35 mpg. & more 
For Free Demon­stration Ride and Info 
Bill Elsey Olds Cadillac -Elkhart, Ind. 
the desk in the library on Tuesday or Wednesday night. All money must be in by Wednesday night. 

Sex lecture 
A formar Catholic priest trained in embryology and theology will speak on "Himan Sexuality and Test Tube Babies: utopian Motherhood" at 8 p.m. tomorrow in room 122 of the Hayes Healy Center. 
Dr. Robert T. Francoeur, associate professor of em­bryology at Fairleigh Dickinson University, is the author of "Perspectives in Evolution," and the controversial "Utopian Motherhood: New Trends in Human Reproduction." He has been frequently quoted in Time and Newsweek and publishes in such journalls as Commonweal, Critic, and the National Catholic 
RPnnrtf•r. 

The public is invited to attend his talk, sponsored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Academic Commission. 
JOIN AN 

ExPEDITioN 
The Amencan Explorers Asso ciation is currently recruitinc applicants for salary-paid sum~ mer and fall positions with private and institutional-affil­iated expeditions to North and South America, Africa and the Far East 
Positions are available tor both experienced and in ex peri· enced male and female students in all fields. Students with inter· est and/or orientation in ian· guages, engineering, archeology, art, photography, teaching and all natural sciences are of special interest. 
To apply complete a one page typed resume that includes the following information: name, address, age, phone, relevan1 work or recreational experience, education and/or areas of special interest, dates available, name(s) of other students with whorr you wish to work, and any othet pertinent information. 
In May your edited resume ~ill be included in our Directory which will be sent to over 100 affiliated groups, organizations and institutions actively ·plan­ning overseas expeditions. 
Send your resume with $6.00 processing fee to: American Explorers Association 
P. 0. Box 13190 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 Kindly complete and mail ~our resume no later than Ma'i 
5, 1971. 

If you want to help people, If you want to help improve the, Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community, then the 

Human Affairs Commission 
Needs YOU to work on: 
'o·education Counselling Programs Freshman Year Minority Programs Programs International Students Crisis phones Orientation 
For further information call Steve Fottunato at 8515 or contact him through the Student Government Offices. 
Academic Commission 
presents a 



POETRY READING 
by 
EDWARD DORN 
author of Geopraphy,Idaho Out and North Atlantic Review 
Tuesday, April 20 8 PM Library Auditorium 













