Wednesday, September 8, 1971 
Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Vol. VI, No. 2 

inside: 

news briefs .....•.... p.2. smc housing........... p.3. hesburgh interview.....p. 3. smc security......... p.4. selective service info .... p.4. 
-~ 

--------------------------~---------------------------------------------~· 
THE OBSERVER Wednesday, SeptemberS, 1971 
Fr. Hesburgh holds orientation for hall rectors and assistants 

by A.T. Darin 
Freshmen may take heart in the fact that they weren't the only ones to suffer the ordeal of orientation last week. 
Hall rectors and their assistants went through three days of orientation from last Monday to Wednesday. 
The main session was a briefing on the administrative promise to rigidly enforce university regulations on drinking and parietal hours. This theme was stressed Tuesday for th.e resident assistants and reiterated Wednesday for the 21 rectors during dinner with President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh. 
Fr. Thomas Blantz, vice president of student affairs, said the meeting was not held solely for the trustees' message. John Barkett, student body president, and Bob Weaver, student government executive coor­dinator, encouraged the con­ference, according to Fr. Blantz. 

UNITED WHOLESALE 
HOUSE OF VALUES 
254 DIXIE WAY NORTH ROSELAND INDIANA 
(ONE MILE NORTH OF NOTRE DAME ON US 31) 
JEWELRY 

DIAMONDS 
WATCHES 


~~~-, A 
0~ 4~ 
~~C COFFEE MUG SETS <fo1\ ~~~ ~~ '~ ~ 4~, 
~o ~ ~~s ~~ GIFTS FOR ALL 0-Q.I,: 
~~-, OCCASIONS ~~ o"~~ <~
~0~ '1~)>)­~ LAY-A-WAY SERVICE ~& 
The program included. a series of workshops by members of the administration, student govern­ment and the Hall Presidents' Council such as "A Rector's Philosophy of the Roles of Resident Assistants and Hall Clerks," minority students, and "Legalities at Notre Dame." 
Rectors, Fr. Blantz said, will meet bi-monthly with him to continue the headway made during the orientation. 
He also will have two personal interviews with each rector this year. 
The reason for the revamping of the rectors' program, ac­cording to Fr. Blantz, is to reduce confusion between the in­formation given to rectors and their assistants. 

He also felt that, with the extra problems of unification between Notre Dame and St. Mary's, more work would be delegated to the halls from his office. The conference one way to inform the hall staff on different facets of university life to which they might be exposed. 
Despite the unification, the meeting was only for Notre Dame personnel. 
rt=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:;:~:;:;:;:;:;:~:;:;:;:;:;:~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~:;:;:~:~:~:!:~=~~::"!!-::::--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1 
~ «
I I
World Briefs 
LONDON --Talks between Irish Prime Minister John Lynch and Great Britain's Prime Minister Heath ended Tuesday with the two nations sharply divided over policies in Ulster. Lynch and spokesmen for Heath said that the two disagreed over the internment policy, tactics to 
root out the Irish Republican Army and Lynch's involvement in negotiations involving Ulster. 
MOSCOW -The Soviet Union annnounced Tuesday that Premier Alexei N. Kosygin will visit Canada within the next few months. The visit, the seventh overseas trip to be made by a top Soviet leader in the next three months, was considered to be part of a diplomatic campaign to call attention to Soviet foreign policy objectives. 
OTTAWA -A plan to help companies that suffer significant export losses because of the United States' 10 percent import surcharge was outlined by the Canadian Government. The Government's spokesman em­phasized that the $80 million assistance fund was not a reprisal aimed at the United States, but was a defensive measure. 
MOSCOW --A group of prominent Israelis ended a visit to the Soviet Union and a spokesman for the group said that hunger for contact with foreign groups was a greater concern of Soviet Jews than emigration to Israel. The problem of emigration, the spokesman said, has been overemphasized. 

LONDON Showing . of "Sesame Street" have been barred by the British Broad­casting Corporation because the show has "Authoritarian aims." The decision brought angry responses from educators who have urged that the popular American teaching program be shown. It will be seen, however, on a limited basis on commercial television. 
WASHINGTON --The White House announced that President Nixon will address a joint session of Congress Thursday apparently determined to keep the initiative in the forthcoming struggle over his new economic plans. Nixon's move reflects not only the importance of his proposals, but his feeling that congressional approval will not be automatic. 
WASHINGTON --Members of the Cost of Living Council met with executives of six cor­porations who have been sum­moned to Washington to explain why they had reportedly raised dividends in defiance of a Presidential request not to do so. Although the executives all reportedly said that they fully supported the President, none promised to roll back the in­creases. 
Typists needed 
WE NEED YOUR HANDS 
If interested call 7605 or 8661 


Wednesday, September 8, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page J 
'No new rules, just more enforcement' -Hesburgh 
b John Abowd presiaents :Septemoer 5, l''r. Echoing_ the s-entiments of Y llesburgh noted that the ad-University Trustee Edmund 
Recent statements calling for ministration has no obligation to Stephan, Fr. Hesburgh said, stricter enforcement of have "prior knowledge" of "students have not accepted the University regulations on drinking in private rooms but has responsibility of enforcing rules drinking and parietal violations this information for public rooms which they encouraged the SLC "do not represent a crackdown," by their very nature. to adopt. according to President Fr. A change in the public laws "I have no choice in Theodore M. Hesbur~h. . making 18 the "age of majority" establishing policy, I am charged 
"Mr. Stephan's letter IS a ~!le conceded wo~ld ~hange t~e with carrying it out. I think this reiteration of the rules set down status of the Umvers1ty and Its makes the idea of a 'test case' t~o years ago whe~ the :rrust~es students. " . . , silly." first ?e~an experimentmg WI~h Such an age of maJonty In spite of this, Fr. Hesburgh the hmited use of alcoholic grants 18 year olds the legal reiterated his confidence in the beverages and female visitations rights and liabilities of an adult. rules being enforced: ''The in the residence halls," he added. If such a law included a reduc-students got what they asked for 
In an exclusive interview with tion o! the legal drinking age to then ignored it." ' the Observer, Fr. Hesburgh 18, It would make some "Why does Teri need so many towels anyway?"stressed the University's status University regulations "un­within Indiana state law. necessary," Fr. Hesbur~h added. 
"We have received a letter," he "I think you know," he con-

SMC housing problems minor 
continued, "from the Indiana . tinued, "that I personally favor Attorney General stating plainly the reduction of the legal age in that his office will not allow Notre Indiana.'' by Maria Gallagher furniture due to late delivery, n.eeds of the growing student Dame to become an 'island of Fr. Hesburgh said, "some having t9live in offices converted population, but no decisions can lawlessness' . serious sanctions have to be The expanded enrollment into dormitory rooms to ac­be made as yet due to the merger 
"The University can be in-legislated by t:ftlll· Student Life situation at St. Mary's has comodate the overflow, and, in process.vaded just like any other place; it Council to control violations." created some housing problems some cases,· the necessity to "All future plans must take into is not exempt from state law," Suggesting expulsion from the due to the high acceptance and move off campus altogether. consideration the projected Notre Fr. Hesburgh added. hall or University as possibilities, low attrition rate. Dame •enrollment and all
"Approximately 10 freshmen

Calling ths Trustees "fairly he noted, "Some serious However, according to Dr. decisions must be the joint
are currently living with
generous," the president added violations like grand larceny Mary Alice Cannon, SMC vice product of both campuses," they 

custom laatber I jeans I sandals mocsI boatsI potf1y 
that "they could have cut back went unpunished last year." 
(existing programs) and don't think there weren't some trustees of a mind to." 
To support his argument concerning state law, Fr. Hesburgh noted that ~tttddnt~ at Purdue and Indiana University cannot drink in their rooms "not even in the president's office." 
University officials are not going to police private rooms for violations of state drinking laws because, legally, the University has no "prior knowledge" of violations in those rooms. 
In his meeting with hall 
Off-campus students living within South Bend city limits may register to vote at the County-City building and be eligible for the Indiana spring primaries and the 1972 fall election. 
Registration will be held until Sept. 30, when it will be suspended until afte after the first of the year. 

relatives and friends in the South 
preilldent of student affairs, the stated.
Bend area until space can be
difficulties are minor and On the question of off-campus
found for them on campus," Mrs. 
complaints are few. housing, Dr. Cannon believed
Kathleen Mullaney, dean of
Dr. Cannon noted Tuesday that that the lack of space would not
students said.
it is common for colleges to ac­create an increased interest in
"We expect to be able to place

cept a number of incoming off-campus living. "As a matter
them soon as some students who
students above their quota, as of fact, a number of students who
pre-registered have not retur­
the attrition rate is usually high did so last year have decided to
ned."
enough to even out the return," she said. enrollment. Mrs. Mullaney added that the "So far, there have been no 
But this year's freshman class students understood the situation requests to extend off-campusof 518, the largest to date, was and so far she has not received housing permission to unforeseen by the admissions any complaints. sophomores. It appears that office and hence the crowded As for housing provisions in the despite the difficulties, the conditions. future, Dr. Cannon and Mrs. students seem quite satisfied 
Among the problems facing Mullaney cited the need for ex­with everything," Dr. Cannon returnin~ students were mis~ing panded facilit~es to meet the said. 
118 sautb main featuring M•le jeans 
Wednesday, September 8, 1971

Page 4 THE OBSERVER 


New night security measures for SMC dorms 


Residents of McCandless and Augusta Halls returning to campus after their dormitory closes will have to sign-in at LeMans and await a security guard escort to their hall door, Security Capt. William Parker said Tuesday. 
Students living in Regina and Holy Cross halls will take the tunnel from LeMans, unescourted. 
Saint Mary dormitories close at midnight on weekdays and 2 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. 
The new system is the result of a study during the summer which recommended increased security on campus grounds and to let dormitory directors handle inside problems. 
"We're an open campus. 
Anyone can enter the campus. Two men in a car were not enough to patrol and protect the campus," Parker said. 
The new patrol will allow for a foot patrol and a mobile unit between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. 
This patrol is composed of men transfered from duty in the residence halls. 
As a result students open doors for friends who do not follow the sign in procedure after the dormitories close. Often the doors are not relocked and anyone can enter. 
"If we checked the dorms every 15 minutes, we'd find a 
minimum of three or four doors open, maybe more," Parker complained. 
"I don't know the answer, you policy applicable to up-cumstances than we do," Parker can't protect people who don't perclassmen. stated. want to be protected. The girls In spite of these problems are not aware of what they're "It's an impossibility (to Parker thinks the system is doing," he added. protect students). I challenge the workable and security will im-
Another problem, according to parents to give them any more prove with personnel on the the security chief, is the no hours protection under the cir-outside. 
Selective Service certain to drop college student deferments 
The following story was released to the Observer by the Selective Service in Washington, 
D.C. -ed. 
The Selective Service System has clarified expected policy changes on undergraduate student deferments. 
College students who were 
PORTABLE TYPEWRITER SERVICE CLINIC 
We service all brands 
Clean & Adjust 

10.95 
Install new ribbon with this coupon 
ROYAL TYPEWRITER OF SOUTH BEND 
1501 N. Ironwood 
enrolled full-time in the 1970-1971 academic year will be eligible for student deferments in the 1971_ 1972 school year if they continue to make satisfactory progress in their programs of study, Selective Service officials said. 
However, young men who entered school for the first time this summer and those who enroll as freshmen this fall will not qualify for student deferments if the pending changes to the Selective Service Act are passed by Congress. The House has completed action on the bill and final Senate action is expected in September. 
Dr. Curtis W. Tarr Selective Service Director satd: "Few incoming freshm~n students are likely to be inducted in the near future because of the student deferment phaseout. Of the 1,034,000 incoming freshmen males estimated by the Office of Education, approximately 80 per cent are 18 years old and only 20 percent are 19 years of age or older. " 
"The 18 year olds will receive theirlotterynumbersin t972.and they will not be subject to in­
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d~u~c~ti~o~n~u~nt~il~1~9~73~~w~h~e~n~d~ra~ft~ 
,-' 
THIS MAN READS THE OBSERVER. Why not your 



Parents? 
MAIL YOUR CHECK · $14 I year $8 I semester to PO BOX 11, NOTRE DAME, IND. 

•
• 
46556. 

calls should be low. The 19 year old freshmen received their lottery numbers August 5 of this year. and will be subject to in­
ducbon next _year; at least 112 should have high enough l?tte_ry numbers to preclude their In­duction." . . 
Of those remammg, ap­proximately 50 percent will be disqualified on mental, moral or physical gr_ounds. This means th_at a f!laXImum of 50_,000 men will be directly affected m 1972 by the student deferment phaseout and one-half of these, or 25,000, will probably not be inducted because of enlistments in Regular, Reserve or National Guard units, participating in commissioning programs or because of procedural delays. 
Dr. Tarr said that college students will not be drafted in the middle of a semester or term. "If called while enrolled, they will be allowed to postpone their in­duction until the end of the semester, or term. If in their last academic year, they will be able to postpone their induction until after graduation." 
Dr. Tarr advised incoming freshmen and students who
started their program of study in the summer of 1971 or later not to file applications for students deferments even though the current law authorizes granting deferments to students in full-time programs of study. 

"If the pending Selective Service legislation does not pass," Tarr said, "it would not be in a registrant's best interest to obtain a student deferment which would extend his liability until age 35. Should Congress change the legislation to provide for deferments for new incoming freshmen, which is most unlikely, applications for deferments will not be jeopardized by delaying their submission until after passage of the new law." 
The President's authority for the induction of all men under 35, except for those who have or who have had deferments, expired on June 30, 1971. If Congress does not reinstate the general in­duction authority, the President could authorize the induction of those registrants who hold or have held deferments. 
In this unlikely event, Selective Service officials believe that manpower requirements of the Department of Defense probably could be met by inducting those young men who have recently dropped deferments because they graduated, dropped out of school, or changed their oc­cupations. 
Recent college graduates or dropouts would make up the bulk of inductions, the officials said. The officials added that can­cellations of deferments probably would not be necessary nor would it be necessary to call those who have passed into the second priority selection group. 
Currently, there are ap­proximately six million young men under age 35 with defer­ments. Approximately 500,000 of these normally lose their deferments during a 12-month period. The largest groups of deferred men are those who have received fatherhood, oc­cupational or student defer­ments. 

Wednesday, September 8, 1971 
Bartell named Stonehill pres. 

The appointment of Rev. Er­nest J. Bartell, C.S.C., director of the Center for Study of Man in Contemporary Society at the University of Notre Dame, as president of Stonehill College, North Easton, Mass., has been announced by Very Rev. William 
F. Hogan, C.S.C., chairman of Stonehill trustees. The ap­pointment will be effective September 1. 
The selection of Father Bartell as president resulted from recommendations of a search committee composed of representatives of the Stonehill trustees, lay board of advisers, alumni, college administration, faculty and student body. The committee was formed in April after the resignation of Very Rev. John T. Corr, C.S.C., who will remain at Stonehill to devote full time to the college's "Develop­ment for the Seventies" enrich­ment and expansion program. 
Father Bartell, former chairman of the Notre Dame department of economics, is presently serving as director of an economic analysis of non­public education in the U.S. for the President's Commision on School Finance. He has served as consultant in several economic studies relating to education. 

A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1966, he received a bachelor's degree in finance from the University in 1953, and masters degrees in theology and economics from Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C., and the University of Chicago. He received his doctoral degree at Princeton University where he taught at both the undergraduate and graduate Woodrow Wilson School levels. 
THE· OBSERVER ~age 5 

WANTED: 
H.L.Mencken W.R.Hearst Horace Greely Lois Lane or persons of similar repute and stature to work 
on The Observer, Notre Dame's Student Daily. 

OPPORTUNITIES! 
Rapid advancement possible. 
(Become an editor in 60 days or your money back). 
Have a chance to sneer at : 
J.T .Burtchaell (Provost), 
Edmund Stephan (Trustees Chairman) and Fr. T. Hesburgh (Celebrity). 
WHEN & WHERE: 
In front of LaFortune Student Center, 
6:45 p.m. Mon. Sept. 13th 
Rent a Refrigerator for your Room 
Just $5 I month * 
-t..:om\)act Dimensions-only 20" x 17" x 18" 
-SpaciOus -2 cu. ft. capacity holds up to 36 cans of cold drinks 
-University approved for dorm use 
-Free pick up and delivery
-Guaranteed-If one of our refrigerators malfunc­tions, will be rerlaced within 24 hrs. 
-We pay interes on deposit
·MINIKOOL PROTECTION POLICY · for $1 a 
term, relieves you of all liability from fire and theft 
and its free to all who pay a full academic year's rent in advance 
-Purchase option. You can buy if you like and 75 
percent of your rental payment will be appliedtoward $89.50 purchase price. 
CALL 288-2519 ALPHA PHI OMEGA 
Profits go to Sr. Marita's Day School Monthly price stated is average based on rental for 
full academic rear. A refrigerator may be rented 
for shorter penods as well, with some adjustment
iD monthly coat. 

THE OBS~flf!ER 






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
!Editor -in -Chief Glen S. Corso  All successful newspapers are ceaselessly queruoous and bellicose. They  Business Manager James Jendryk  
Executive Editor T. C. Treanor  never defend anyone or anything if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, they tackle it by denouncing someone or  Ad Manager Bill Bauerle  
something else.  
Founded Nov. 3, 1966  -H. L. Mencken,  Notre Dame, Indiana  
Business 283-7471  News 283-1715  

The Letter 
Give me a ticket for an airplane Ain't got time for no fast train ... It would be doubtlessly amusing, and perhaps even instructive, to speculate 
upon the mental machinations of the Board of Trustees as they thrashed out their letter to Student Life Council ChairmanWilliamEagan. We know the letter came in response to what was, for the SLC, an exhaustive survey of student attitudes. 
Some of the responses shocked the Trustees, others apparently agitated them. As Father Hesburgh said in an interview with Observer News Editor John Abowd, "The Trustees could have cut back (on the parietal hours and drinking rights) -and don't think there weren't some with a mind to." (See page 3 of today's Observer) 
Two things apparently bothered the Trustees. The first was that women were in the hall past parietal hours, and no one very much seemed upset about it. Trustee President Edmund Stephan complained that "none of the students questioned would initiate disciplinary action against a hall resident who kept a young woman overnight in his room." (Page 2). 
Not like the good old days ( .. Spanish Inquisition, Joe Stalin's reign, etcetera) but apparently a disquieting reality to the Trustees. 
Had the Trustees been born and raised to be open-minded, they might have learned an important general principal: students (and people in general) will simply not be a party to the enforcement of rules imposed upon them by outside forces. And, like it or not, the Board of Trustees is an outside force. Few Trustees have graduated from Notre Dame during the past decade; many have never gradualed from Notre Dame at all. Many are rich, most are married. None are students. And when the Board of Trustees overruled the only effective legislative body with student representation-the .. SLC-to establish an infantile and retrogressive parietal policy-it invited the widespread violations currently prevailing. 
The Trustees complaint against booze in the halls makes a little more sense. There, at least, responsibility for the law rests not with thz'University but with the Cro-Magnon politicians of the Indiana Free State. The University, by rigidly hunting down violators in the hall, sacrifices hall parties and hence an effective means to bring hall residents closer together, but it stays closely within the letter of the law. The fact that most heavy drinkers will escape to Michigan for booze once the drink -at-18 law goes into effect (January) apparently bothers the University not one whit; it's legally safe. 
·Once again, the University attempts to enforce a law that the people involved had no voice in making. Once again, the Trustees are upset that students choose not to enforce these laws themselves ("Forty percent of all residents indicate that they feel little responsibility for excessive drinking by another, unless vandalism or hall damage results." P. 2) Since the Trustees insist that these laws be enforced, we recommend that that 
august body do the job themselves. Hire Pinkerton guards to shoot up parietal 
violators. Breed and train dogs to sniff out women in the halls. Hire brownshirt 
gouhls to take on-the-spot blood tests to detect boozehounds. Distribute chastity 
belsts. When the plot succeeds-when the Trustees finally make Notre Dame men 
forget about alcohol and sex -the Trustees can turn to similar projects, like 
convincing George Wallace to join the Black Panthers or turning the Pope into a 
Holy Roller. 


Cut-Rate Security 
Good security isn's cheap. If the St. Mary's administration hasn't found that out already, it will. Several guards riding around in jeeps simply can't do the job that a man stationed in each hall can. The doors in each hall have been found open the past couple of nights. Open for the girls, so they don't have to bother sneaking in their boyfirends, open to the creeps and perver~ of the of the local community too, the same persons that caused the girls walking home on St. Mary's road so much trouble. 
Protecting the girls waling home at night is a good idea. Leaving their homes open to the rifraff is not a good idea. Neither the old nor the new system is an answer to the problem. Good, solid protection of both the dorms andnthe roads is the only solution. 
It will cost St. Mary's money, probably a much greater amojnt than is now spent on security. The rage and hysteria that would follow an ugly incident would cost St. Mary's much more. 
Somewhere the money has to be found to maintain both the mobile unit and put a man in each hall. St. Mary's students have a right to protection, and Sl Mary's has a responsibility to provide it. To do less could be disasterous. 

The Soft Parade 

The Enforcer 
Glen Corso 
The revolving red light bounced off the surrounding buildings, \''hile the radio crackled ripping the heavy silence the black night imposed on the area. The uniformed guard nervously tightened his grip on his automatic weapon, peering uncertainly into the darkness around him. Straining his ears, he detected the light "crack, crack" of twigs being broke off to his left. 
He swung around and pointed his spotlight towards the suspected area at the same time bringing the bullhorn up to his mouth. 
"Don't move or I'll shoot," the guard said sternly. The light revealed a boy and a girl, holding hands and crouched low to the ground. "What the hell are you doing?" the guard asked. 
The boy stood up and started to reach into his inside jacket pocket. The guard brought the rifle up to his shoulder and squeezed the trigger twice. The boy toppled over with blood sputing from his chest. The girl screamed and bent over the boy, her tears dripping down into the pool of blood forming on his shirt and jacket. 
The guard reached into his squad car and picked up his two way radio microphone. He spoke a few terse words, ·asking for an ambulance and assistance. 
The girl was still crying a few minutes later when the low whine of the ambulance's siren became audible. The headlights of the ambulance came on bright and clear, lighting a path for the vehicle a hundred yards ahead of it. A squad car with two uniformed men inside came up behind it, swinging around and coming to a halt behind the other squad car. 
The boy's body was wrapped up in a canvas sack, while the girl was forced to stand, legs apart and hands on top of the squad car while one of the uniformed men frisked her roughly. 
"What happened, Harry?" one of the uniformed men, with gold braid on his shoulders, asked. 
"I caught them trying to sneak past me," the guard said, "I told them to halt and the fellow started to reach into his pocket. Thought he was trying to get a gun or something, so I shothim." 
The captain nodded approvingly and turned to the other 
uniformed man. , 
''Take her out of here,'' he said, pointing to the girl. 
Both cars backed up and took off with a crunch of gravel, their 
red dome lights flashing. The guard turned back to his post, leaned 
his gun up against the fender of his car and reached in his pocket 
for a cigarette. 
The feeble glare of the lighter cast a playful, dancing shadow on 
the wall of the building a few feet away. As he snapped the lighter 
shut, the guard heard a movement off" to his left. As he began ~o 
pick up his weapon, a tall figure with horns on his head loomed ~n 
front of him. Iron hands encircled his neck and cut off the flow of a1r 
into his lungs. 
The pale rays of the rising sun were just beginning to reach up 
and over the surrounding buildings, as the ambulance with the 
flashing red light pulled away. 
"This is the third man we've lost this week, Captain. Who the hell 
do you think is doing it?", the uniformed man asked. 
"It's those goddamn kids, but Christ what a way to do it. Strangle 
the man first and then gore him in the chest." the captain said. 
"Well you'll have to take his place on theshift." 
The man's eyes opened wide and he started to say something, but 
stopped before making a sound. 
Night was falling, still, dark and cold. The sq:uad car sped 
smoothly and silently between the buildings. It came to a halt 
several hundred yards away from an imposing domed building, 
with a figure on top. 
The guard lifted himself out of the car and took up his rifle, 
peering nervously about. He heard a rustle behind him, and 
whirled, his finger on the trigger, heart booming away. 
The front page of a newspaper skidded by, driven by the wind. 
He stepped on it and looked down at the headlines. 
GUARD STRANGLED AND GORGED 
enforcing parietals at U of ND 
Third such death m a month, blamed on students 
In much smaller type down the bottom of the page, his eyes 
caught a headline announcing that the deceased guard had earlier 
shot a student for breaking parietals and attempting to escape. 
The guard shuddered and felt large droplets of sweat oozing down 
his back. He turned, tightened his grip on the rifle and lifted his foot 
from the paper. The wind caught it and it contined it's journey 
down the main quad, the moonlight glinting off it as it turned and 
swirled about. 


THE OBSERVER Page 7 

Only Castles Burning 


In Search of a Reply 
John Abowd 
An intense sense of deja vu develops when reading the recent letters of Fr. Hesburgh and Mr. Stephan concerning University regulations and their enforcement. Once again, it seems, a fun­damental difference in attitudes Oife styles) has been disguised, especially by Mr. Stephan, as a refusal by the students to enforce rules with which we basically disagree. It is not a question, as Stephan suggests, ofstudents demonstrating "that they are willing and able to undertake these responsibilities." Rather it is a matter of accepting the fact that the University canno~· hope to enforce rules which 95 percent of the students oppose without doing damage to the community far out of proportion to the alleged harm of the violations. 
Since the report of the Trustees was based on the Student Life Council study, much of the blame for Stephan's reasoning probably lies with that board. The study in question was hastily prepared and according to one of its authors probably dods not reflect a complete enough survey to be of much value. Still the SLC was charged with preparing a thorough report and clearly reneged on that respon­sibility. 
This is noo at all unusual for that rarely brilliant boby. SLC business during the past year was conducted iwth such a deliberate effort to postpone major action on any proposal that it is not suprising to find the report and the Trustees reaction lacking ic scientific precision. The SLC can be legitimately blamed for many of the inadequacies of the Trustees' deductions which based on this body's work. 
The goals which the Trustees have set out for the liberalization of student rules: increased responsibility for the development of community spirit and the development of a more pleasant and comfortable living environment are honest enough provided Stephan meant them and was not merely trying to disguise his medicine with a candy coating. We can only assume that the University would be willing to taketh necessary steps to maximize these goals. To what extent do we risk upsetting these ggals in order to enforce University developed regulations? 
Mr. Stephan has suggested a re-centralization of disciplinary authroity by insisting that the Dean of Students have the first jurisdiction in violat! ons of University rules and by demanding a 
set of uniform sanctions covering violations. Taking parietal violations as an example it seems very unlikely that: 1) students are going to enforce parietal regulations or 2) that violations are going to stop without an extesive snooping effort on the part of rectors and resident .assistants. The same is probably true of en­forcing rules prohibiting drinking in ublic rooms. We are forced to compare the harms of this program with the dangers of "disorder and disillusion," cited by Mr. Stephan. 
Students are unwilling to report parietal violations because a person's private lifs, including his ssx life, if any, is his (or her) own business. Many students are now full legal adults in their home states. As such, we are unwilling to admit any harm which might be attributed to overnight visits by students of the opposite sex. The trustees probably understand this but are forced to continue "in loco parentis" in spite of the emerging legal status of the 18 year­old. 
The vices of Mr. Stephan's centralized enforcement system, I 
think , are clearly more destructive of the goals we both accepted. 
Any enforcement system, in order to succeed, must meet one of two 
criteria: 1) a very large percentage of the group being regulated 
must accept the rule as "in the best interest" of the community or 
2) only a very small percentage of the violations can go unpunished <these are not my criteria but Dr. Karl Deutchs', a very respected political scientist from Harvard). Very clearly, these conditions cannot be met concerning either of the regulations in question. 
Because of the variety between the halls, it would be virtually impossible to insure any type of uniform enforcemeut. Students in halls with stricter rectors or resident assistants would naturally resent the inequitable enforcement. This resentment and the ac­companying subversion of the rules (resulting from the lack of acceptance of the rules in the first place) would be clearly divisive among students. 
Concerning the regulation prohibiting hall parties, the failure to meet the minimum standards of enforceable rules in even clearer. Granted that the social problems of drunkeness are not in­significant, but no one even pretends that students are not going to drink or get inebriated as a result of a crackdown on parties. If Mr. Stephan or the SLC state a problem, they have an obligation to to solve it. During the football season, especially, those who attempt to enforce this rule are going to meet with mass violation and, inevitably, very inequitable enforcement. The vices of the drunk student which the Trustees have noted are not reduced at all by their action. Ib, · appears that the goals of Christian community have been used to disguise a program which extracts ths Univer­sity from legal liability without providing even the most meager of programs to attack the conditions which make the campus drunk such a distinct Notre Dame creature. 
None of these arguments are new, but neither were any of those posed by Stephan or Fr. Hesburgh. Unfortunately, we have leaped bsack into an area that many student hoped had been settled. Still, no reasonable Trustee or Administrator can expect any program of re-entrenchment to work until the more basic problem of at­titudinal differences is resolved. If the Trustees want to promote divisiveness between the various factions of the university com­munity, they can try but it is useless to contend thatthoroughthis effort we have moved closer to the true Christian community. It is a form of self-delusion in which unfortunately only those who are not full-time members of the community can engage. For those of us who live here, students, faculty and administrators such deception is useless 


Play Ball 
There is no possible way to break Notre Dame up into small and edible chunks.. Its dimensions are too complex; its potentialities are too shrouded with mist. Thus, any introduction, whether it comes from a high University poten­
tate; a resident student Haille Selassie, or the pages of this newspaper, is of­necessity incomplete. Attempts to portray Notre Dame as a line drawing in­variably fail; at best the show is one-dimensional. Usually, it's simply false. 
So there'll be no attempt here to say that Notre Dame is a Good Place or a Bad Place or a Mediocre Place or a Groovy Place or No High School, as Observers of the past have done; we don't know how it will be and neither does anyone else. Nor will this polemic turn into an instructional guide to Freshmen, telling all wh­zre the Rock hid the Holy Grail and how to find the sweet life. Each Freshman will probably have learned what Every Freshman Must Learn To Be. Part of the Notre Dame Community by the time he reads today's paper -how to chanve classes, where to get booze, where to pick up girls.· Likewise, maiden SMCers will have leaned on their Big Siblings to find out the answer to their most pressing problems -how to ward pff drunks, how to lead drunks on. and, most importantly, how to walk out of St. Mary's with a big ring on the fourth digit. 
Nor will we attempt to argue that F4eshmen should devote their ume to campus activities on the grounds that those activities are educational and broadening. They· aren't. They are challenging, difficult tasks that are seldom rewarded and even more seldom appreciated. The year will cry out for in­terested and vigorous Freshmen ready to work for student interests as the merger between Notre Dame and St. Mary's begins, but last year cried out for the same and was answered by a croak for more beer, a belch, and a snore. 
There are important problems to be solved-how to normalize living conditions, how to normalize relations between the two schools, how to normalize the relationship between Blacks and Whites on both Campuses, how to enrich the Academic Environment -but those problems will probably be left to the in­terested in Student Government, as they were last year when student govern­ment so often looked like a ball bearing rattling desperately in a vacuum. So we can't call for a vigorous commitment from Freshmen; the time augers against it. 
Instead, in this, the first Observer, editorial of the year, we'll draw out the wisdom of the student body as it was demonstrated last year: be cautious, don't speak loudly, don't campaign, don't work for the things in which you believe, don't join organizations, you'll be called a gaper and a flamer and you'll be laughed at. Instead, get drunk on football weekends-tie one on for the Gipper­ignore student politics and student government; if things get worse then they are now -like if Stephan's law is rigidly enforced -close your eyes; if they get still worse, close your eyes tighter. Play Frisbee on the lawn. What the hell. You'll be out of here in four years. 
But Don't Bang Up the Halls 
One of the few possible good things that might result from Stephan's law as set down to Eagan is that we all might finally get a stranglehold on vandalism. Each hall looks clean and pleasant now, but it is only s matter of time until a Notre Dame Drunk gets his hands on them. Since the Notre Dame Drunk is usually sexually frustrated, that means fixtures will be broken, walls soiled with urine, people of both sexes molested. Not good. If we end aberrent behavior, we will have done something positive and good. 
The best and most obvious solution is to operate on the roots of the problem-to improve the situation between the sexes such that there would be less sexually frus~rated Notre Dame drunks. Failing that, we should remove those people who consistently demonstrated their inability to hold the liquor they guzzle-faculty as well as students. In his letter to Eagan, Stephan noted that "Forty per cent of all residents indicate that they feel little responsibility for excessive drinking by another, unless vandalism or hall damage results." (italics our own) It is evident, then, that the students are willing to enforce antivandalism laws, and enforce them to the hilt. Hall and campus judiciary boards should follow suit. 
The weakest, silliest, and least effective solution -to keep liquor out of the hands of social drinker and drunkard alike -has been implimented with loud hosannahs of moral rectitude. So be it. 
If, in the meantime, we notice a reduction of vandalism and antisocial behavior, we'll be the better for it. We can only hope that the Trustees don't take· it as a mandate for their ludicrous new policy, and instead realize that it comes from an emergent maturity in the Notre Dame student body. 

~--~-------­

Page 8 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, September 8, 1971 

Need a 
CHEST OF DRAWERS 
? 
ROOKCASE OR RECORD CABINET 
Buy it unpainted ~Save Y2 or more Save $on Room Size Rugs 
Now· on Campus at old Fieldhouse 
WILLIAM'S 
Unpainted Furniture And N.D. Student Union 

basically similiar to last year's, Also at 2609 S. Michigan 288-2181 
Chambers noted a difference in for Free Delivery 
the fact that RA's are making a special effort this year to beFREE DELIVERY Serving ND Students since 1948 available to the student who 
BROADWAY THEATER LEAGUE'S 
13th great season 
Special Student Subscription Rate 
All four shows... $10 second balcony 


"BEST BROADWAY PLAY OF THE SEASON" 
-WALTfllfUI. fU. TIMfS 

"'BUTIERFLIES ARE FREE' IS AN ABSOLUTE JOY." 
-Jack Gaver. Umted Press lnt 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY-NOVEMBER 26, 27 
"NEll SIMON'S NEW lAUGH HIT!" 
--Esrl Wil.an, N.Y. Pm.t. 
"LIST OF THE RED BOT LOVERS" 
"EXTRAORDINARILY FUNNY! GO AND SEE IT." 
-l:lln Bomes, II. Y. Tiaots 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY ­FEBRUARY 18, 19 



Chambers meets with R.A.'s 
Fr. Thomas Chambers, Director of Student Residence, announced Tuesday that he did not givP-any new directives to the campus Resident Assistants during their three day orientation program. 
Chambers asserted that it has always been the duty of the RA to "keep the good order of the hall," and that neither Fr. Hesburgh nor Mr. Stephan's letter changes these duties in any way. 
The Morrissey hall rector feels that the RA "is a part of the team of the hall and should do his ut­most to maintain a friendly spirit within the hall." 
Although the duties are 
"A HAP", SillY, LAU•H­I'IOYOIIII6, TUMIFUL liT OP RIYOLITY." -llfMI--CH~ TIIIUNI 
IAYID WIUICI­

:::...W 
PROMISES,'rT-::! 

~••,s 

by NEIL SIMON-BURT BACHARACH-HAL DAVID with "I'LL NEVER FALL IN LOVE AGAIN" and other hits 
SATURDAY and SUNDA)ANUARY 22, 23 

__,_.,STEPHEN SONDHEIM _.,BEDROE FURTH 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY MARCH 10, 11 
Enjoy a thrilling season of stage hits! As a member of The Broa~way Theater League your favorite seats at the Morns Civic Auditorium will be reserved for these four g_reat pro~uctions. Shop once, choose your seat ... your tickets wtll arrive by mail in advance of each per­
formance. 
SUBSCRIPTION RATES FOR FOUR SHOWS 

SIGN UP FOR YOUR MEMBERSHIP TODAY
Mezzanine-----$25.00 

Please make check payable and mail to: THE BROADWAY THEATER LEAGU Main Floor, Boxes--21.00 P.O. Box 866 South Bend, Indiana 
1st Balcony---21.00 2nd Balcony---13.00 2nd Balcony . 
(Students) 10.00 Jrd Balcony---8. 00 

Membership Campaign Headquarters: 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 

Box Office Open Sept. 13-18 ...9a.m. to Sp.m. You are invited to visit the Morris Civic Auditorium 
and actually "try out" your seat before final 
selection 
211 N. Michigan Phone: 232-6954 If no answer call 291-4343 


needs help. All the Resident Assistants were encouraged, Chambers said, to post a schedule of their hours. This Chambers said, is in keeping with the RA's contract which reads: "He (the Resident Assistant) should be available to the students a major portion of the evening hours, -at least four hours." · 
In answer to an inquiry about the RA's whose contracts were not renewed this year, Fr. Chambers pointed out that he bases his evaluations on rec­commendations from the rectors under whom the Resident Assistants worked du~ing the 

Tracey rejected for SLC 
Elected to the SLC last spring, Ann Marie Tracey has been refused her seat by the Board of Trustees. 
At ·their regular meeting this summer the Board refused to seat Miss Tracey because of the constitutional requirement that 


Name one 
thlngtliathasn'tgoneup sincel950. 

1.________ _ 
Try. Try hard. 
The only thing we can think of is what we make. The Swingline "Tot 50" Stapler. 98¢ in 1950. 98¢ in 1971. 
And it still comes with 1000 free staples and a handy carrying pouch. It staples, tacks and mends. It's unconditionally guaranteed. 'It's one of the world's smallest staplers. 
And it's the world's biggest seller. Could be that's why it hasn't gone up in price in 21 years. 
If you're interested in somet,hing a little bigger, our Cub Desk Stapler and Cub Hand Stapler are only $1.98. Both Tot and Cub Staplers are available at Stationery, Variety and College Bookstores. 
The Swingline "Tot 50" 98¢ in 1950. 98¢ in 1971. 
If you can name something else 
that hasn't gone up in price 
since 1950, let us know. We'll 
send you a free Tot Stapler with 
1000 staples and a vinyl pouch. 
Enclose 25¢ to cover postage 
and handling. 

s~ 
Dept.F 3~-00 Skillman Ave., Long hlond City, N.Y. 11101 

SLC members be Notre Dame 
students. 

Acting on a recommendation 
by SBP John Barkett calling for 
Miss Tracey to be seated and the 
appointment of three SMC 
representatives, the Trustees 
approved the latter portion of the 
proposal. 

Miss Tracey could not be 
reached for comment on the 
Trustees' action. 

The three SMC members are 
Missy Underman, student 
representative; Professor 
Conway, faculty representative 
and Mr. Jack Detzler, an ad­
ministration representative. 
In other student government 
news, the Notre Dame-St Mary's 
student governments are moving 
toward their goal of complete 
merger by the next SBP elec­
tions. 

According to Ed Ellis, head of 
Research and Development, 
"Student government must 
provide leadership by merging 
itself if coeducation is to 
progress." 

Ellis is planning to set up a 
committee to study the creation 
of a new constitution, 
necessitated by the merger of 
student governments. He hope~ 
the new constition will combine 
the best aspects of the former 
ND-SMC constitutions. 

A new constitution would 
require approval of the Student 
Senate and the St. Mary's 
Assembly. If this method en­
countered difficulties, it could be 
placed before the student body 
for approval. 

Three ND students die during summer 
Three Notre Dame students 
died during the summer, two as a 
result of accidents and one from 
cancer. 
They are: 

William E. Spellman, of Jef­fersonville, Ind., died of cancer June 5. He was a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and lived at 226 Fisher Hall until he 
·withdrew for reasons of health in February. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. E Spellman. 
Kevin J. Conway, of Girard­ville, Pa., was killed in the crash of an Allegheny Airlines plane in New Haven, Conn. in early June. Conway would have entered his senior year this fall. He lived at 429 Walsh and is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Conway. 
Gregory B. Bujan, of Arlington Heights, Ill., died July 28, nine days after suffering a fractued ' skell in a fall from a city street depatment truck on July 19. 
Bujan would have been a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and was scheduled to live in 917 Flanner. He is survived by his mother and stepfather, Mr. and Mrs. John J. Mullee. 
~
..•..•. •' ·....... : ... . .,•, ... ·. ..· ..· ..• ... ·. . . ... . . 


Wednesday, September 8, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 9' 
fr. robert griffin 

of m uffin··burger moppets 







and iesus freaks 
/ the villages of Vietnam. . For dope don't last, and perverts pass away, but Jesus­
I Only two blocks away from the Magdalene stnp on freaks live forever! Give God the glory!" 
I 

49th street, at the foot of Fr. Duffy's statue in Times Bassically, the Preacher was a flower child of Square, was the Jesus-corner. Here the Jesus-peoplE' Fundamentalism, a circuit preacher of revivalism who gathered each evening to sou nd the drum-beat of once seemingly slummed in a place like the East salvation. Basically, the group was composed .of a~ut Village, where he was modly tailored at the Velvet twenty youngsters, very attractive and t~rnbly. Si!l­Underground. For a while he seemed very sincere, this cere who wanted to witness to their faith m Christ m preacher who allowed himself to be jostled by drunks the ~ilest public spot they could think of on earth, and fingered by creeps. For a time I was deeply moved namely, Duffy Square; their zeal was not ex~ct~y a by the courage of the Sunset Boulevardier who compliment to the neighborhood. The adult Chnshans demanded purity from pimps and promised heaven to who made up the group were often not so beautiful as the hustlers. For whole weeks of the summer I the young people. I think especially of the lady, red­arranged my life so that I could attend the closing faced and masked with hatred, who screamed of her moments of the Jesus rally each night, when the Times Christ-joy when a Black polemicist denied ~er. the Square Christians would lift up their hands to the dark 
····"'· 

promise of the Resurrectio":. "~~dy," he sa~d m a skies above Manhattan in the singing of the Our Louie Armstrong kind of voice, when you die they Father. gonna bury you. They gonna put you in .a hole in the In the end the Preacher was a great disappt:intment. ground and throw in the dirt, and you am't gonna go Constantly he sp~e of the miracles of grace at Duffy nowhere because THAT-IS-IT!" Listening to her Square where, he said, the Holy Spirit was workingAt night in the Muffin-burger grill next to Jack overtime to sanctify the lost sheep of Gotham. ForDem pscy 's bar on Broadway, you could see ~~em: the weeks I watched for signs that Jesus had come to thepavement princesses of W. 49th Street, practitioners of 

crossroads. H He had come, I think I would haveharlotry in New York City. As a priest of the neigh­recognized Him, for He and I are not completeborhood, I was their curate this summer, and my W. 
strangers. But Jesus did not come, at least not in the 49th Street parish of St. Malachy's bordered almost way that the Preacher said He would. Nobody gotdirectly on a house of the Magdalenes. So, in the higher on Jesus than on acid; people still got theirevening I would watch the joy maidens --mostly kicks from champagne, and the dirty book stores and young, sometimes lovely, always foolish like the dirty shows and immoral women were as busy as evervirgins of the Lorrd's parable. Sometimes I would with the crowds who had been to the Jeus-corner. 
pause mid-muffin to greet them with a nod as they Oen night the Preacher mentioned he thrught heswung onto neighboring stools, hotly panted and botted should have an immersion service. "Get me S(Jllelike gladiators; or I would listen to them speaking souls to baptize," he said. "Got me about four hundred among themselves in the salty idion of the sensuous of them. Gonna have to use the pool over at the Time­woman. 

ufe building to fit them all in." It was then that I knewBut it was as their pastor, not their voyeur, that I the Preacher was dishonest-sincere perhaps in hiswatched them· and the Muffin-burger, during their rreachi ng, but as dishonest as hell in his statistics. Godcoffee breaks ~hen they took time off from hustling, know I wanted the Preacher to have four hundred was the only neutral territory I knew of where I could converts, but I was sure that they did not exist. I wasmeet them socially. Only once during the summer did too much in need of Jesus-freaking myself this summerthey approach the holy turf of Mother Chruch: that was to be [lltient with the Preacher's fantasy, so after that a night when the police, as part of their crackdown on Idecided tolod!. for the God-experience in other partsprostitution, swept onto the street from both directions of the City.
in an attempt to arrest the girls who had no place to Tre last night I was in New York, I rode by Duffyrun. Seeing three of the girls trapped in front of St. 

Square for a final time. The Jesus-freaks were there,Malachy's, I wordlessly opened the rectory door and rebuttal set back my own immortal longings to the all twenty ci them, together with the usual crowd ofmotioned them in. Wordlessly they trooped onto the level of the village atheist's. [llssers-by and hecklers. But the Preadler in wlnsesacred premises of sanctuary, where they remained The principia Preacher of the Jesus-people was a name the work was carried on had disappeared from huddled together in silence until the police action was hippie-headed swinger in bells from Sunset Boulevard, the scene; possibly he was detained by baptisms onended; and their sad eyes and false lashes gave them a who grooved on Gospel verses and got more euphoric &mset Brulev a rd. Up on 49th Street, the muffinburger look like Bambi's. 
than a speed freak at the eschatology of II mowas were in full view, casual and sauntering likeWithout sentimentalizing, I think I rather loved those Thessalonians. "They call me a freak," he would say, an army on bivouac, despite the threat of policeMuffin-burger moppets. As someone has outrageously 
"and it's true: I am a freak ... but I'm a Jesus;freak. harassment. 
remarked, all of us at times these days are playing at It's Jesus Who turns me on better than acid .. Who gets As a farewell gesture to Manhattan, I decided to stopthe harlots' game, and what the girls are doing on 49th me higher than booze; it's Jesus Who gives me ~ore for tea in the grill that is next to Dempsey's. Itisa verystreet at twenty dollars a trick is not half as bad as thrills than all the dirty book stores and all the dirty rea~uring fe6ing to rub shoolders with the workingwhat the Government is doing at an even highr price in 

shows and all the immoral women in Times Square. cla~es. 
rick smith 

tentative schedule ofmushy wheaties and some of the many things
happening here aur1ng
warm booze 
the next two months 

Septemberthis page should represent something of an apex of
The summer's still with us, more or less, I guess, 10 -Student Union Concert <See tomorrow's Ob­
scholastic endeavor, a peak in academic excellence server)
though you might not think so. And anyway it's too and cultural achievement. .Tbis ideal represents 18 -Ike and Tina Turner Concertearly to do any clear and lucid analysis of the sort of an abstract basis of operation, a moduspreceding three months. Don't really know why I'd 

operandi for the more effete intellectuals, for this October
want to do such a stupid thing, anyway, you ~now. 

page. But since we all seem fated to surviving for 
"How was your summer?" a thousand bmes, 2 -Beach Boys Concert 
the most part on the real bread of this real world, 9 and 10 -Cinema '72 featureprobably more. "OK" Apparent. entr~pment in most of the above rarely applies. And so, on a day to 12,13,14 -Blues Festivalmediocrity leading to overwhelmmg tnteness, or day basis, this is a life of not too quiet desperation. 14 and 15 -Cinema '72 featuresomething like that. 
The pressures involved in putting out five pages 
-

And people always come down on me so often for 16 Poco and Livingston Taylor Concert 
of even half-ass quality each week are pretty bad. 21-24 -Cinema '72 featuresdwelling too much on the past anyway. So I guess To put it mildly. And so I suppose what this is all 23 or 30 -Cat Stevens Concert('II deal with what's happening now and how that aimed at. thegreat goal, is an eloquent, inspiring
might be related, at least. in s?me abstra~t or much more to be announced
and deeply moving plea for any assistance whichtheoretical way to the commg wmter campaign. 
you, the great, good, wide, loving and lovable i:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::~:::::~:::~:::~:=:=:~:::::::;:::::::;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.~--:_;.-;;;-;:_;;~:::~~8~;
Words are such a waste most of the time anyhow. 

student body may wish to lend to my little en­And when you're doing something in ar. off the cuff terprise. Running the risk here you realize of ~the program on non-violenc,way, there's no sense trying to fake it. Even t~ou~h alienating you all. And as you can tell by the quality so much around here lends itself to an expertise m of what you are reading, help is needed. tneeds copies of i fakery. 
Basically I'd really like to have a few
So if you are new here this is call.e~ the. features .:;·.I f h • .:c:
photographers who are interested in doing photo
page. And if you're not new here, this iS still call~d ~~ ast o t e 1ust ~ 
essays about anything essayable. And people can dothe features page. Avoiding cynicism and bit­book reviews and movie reviews if they want to too.
terness at all costs, hard though that may be. :rhus, :·.·b h b t ..;.. 
If you get hold of me ahead of time, I can probably 1~ Y sc wartz~· ar l~
this page more or less represents a concess10~ of .... ·~· 
even get you free tickets or a free copy of the book. 
sorts to the artsy craftsy arts and letters chque Experience is a rather sparse commodity here, so 1111they will be returned at the end ~ 

here. So we often do concert and film reviews, book ~
.
that's no hassle.

reviews famous and near famous person 1111of the semester or you may ~ 
Like I'm really sorry if this has been monotonousintervie~s. And we also sometimes devote space to or boring or overly cry-on-your-shoulder type. No j;j;exchange for;-another interesting ~~ citing some interesting o.r worthwhile project or big message intended, nothing between the lines. N ~going on about here. Trymg above all ~o. ~t l~ast Just thought I'd take some of your precious time, l§ book. come to g·129 in the ~~ halfway maintain -the appearance of CiVihzat10n, maybe try to entertain you a little. Thank you,you know. 
anyway. ~l library or the rector's office, ~ 
Ideally and I often wonder why one bothers 
wasting time on ideals in these "interesting" times, 

~l!:!:H:R::f:M~:~::::U:~:~::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~::::::--::::::.:~:§.: 
THE OBSERVER Wednesday, September 8, 1971
Page 10 



Bill Etter is back and battling 
by E. J. Kinkopf '72 
By now all of you frosh and returning vets should have become acquainted and ur reacquainted with the college grind via that semi-annual travesty called registration. And while you stood in endless lines, shuffling those freaky IBM cards, and being treated like a person (?) instead of a number, Coach Ara Parsegian sat in his office in the Convocation center shuffling four names, four talents that have been battling since spring practice for the top signal calling job on the '71 Irish squad. 
Ara and his aides have been 
· playing musical quarterbacks for almost six months now. And one has to believe that the choice will not be made until the Wildcats from Northwestern place their cleats on the Notre Dame sod. 
Until that time the four can­didates will be doing sprintouts, rollouts and wishbone-T-<>ptions in the dreams of Coach Par­segian. Those four candidates are Jim Bulger, Pat Steenberge, Cliff Brown and ...ah ...wait. ..it's coming back ... yea, Bill Etter. 
Yea, that's the fourth, Bill Etter. Let's see, 1969 season, lettered behind Joe Theismann, five for 12 passing and 53 yards, 310 yards in 29 rushing attempts for a 10.7 average, fifth on the team in total offense with 363 yards in 41 plays and the longest run from scrimmage that year with a 79 yard sprint against Navy. 
Well where was he last year? No, he didn't pull a Pumpsie Green and split to Israel. Nor did he call it quits and join Hawk Ha'rrelson on the links. 
No, the heir apparent to Joe Theismann's job was struck down with a mysterious head ailment that seemed to mark the end of his signal calling. days. 
And instead of logging time against Army, Navy and Pitt­sburgh last year, Bill Etter was earning a letter in patience and courage at the Mayo Clinic. In­stef of being bounced around by huge linemen and blindsided by hard-hitting. linebackers, Bill Etter was bed-ridden for a !UOnth while teams of doctors and nurses stuck needles in him trying to discover what it was that had ended the career of the gifted athlete. "Sure I was disappointed when I was told my football career was over. In fact some guy came up to me and said he had read in some magazine that I ahd just shrugged my shoulders and said 'Oh well.' That isn't true though. I was disappointed, but not crushed. I figured I had enough other things 

Bill feels that the race this year 
going for me that I could redirect 
is wide open, mainly because no
the course of my life." 

o'le has any real advantage as 
But now the head ailment and far as experience goes. "A lot of those 1969 stats are part of the the sportswriters say Notre past. The now is all that counts in Dame has a helluva problem at Etter's attempt to become the quarterback. But it's not because next ND field general. And this of a lack of talent. Any one of the time the job will not be dropped in four can get the job done. The his lap as it might have been had experience is the question, he not become ill. Bill is now in reading defenses and poise under head to head combat with three fire." other hopefuls whose potentials 
And not only does Etter have to
and credentials are every bit as 

go against Bulger, Steenberge
good as his. 

and Brown, but he has another 
"It's more exciting this way. handicap. Bill has been away 
Sure it was great to play under from the game for a year. The 
Joe he had more talent than two mechanics of his game are still a 
or three college quarterbacks put• little rusty. 

together. But it was ~oring in a "I worked to keep in shape, but 
way that it was a futile attempt at first I mentally divorced 
trying to unseat him."· myself from thoughts about 


WE HAVE A PROBLEM 
Persons to do advertising layout are needed urgently by the Observer. 
The position requires from 3 to 6 hrs. work 
during the afternoon and early evening 
Sun. through Thurs. (usually about 41/2hrs). All days are open. You can choose to work one or two days per week. Starting salary 
is $6.00 per night. Raises are commensurate with experience and ability. If you are interested , please call 283-7471 
between 1:00 and 5:00p.m. Mon. -Fri. 
• 

I 
Playboy...well, let's just enjoy their pictorials and hope they never decide to put pictures of football players in their jocks and pads in the centerfold. 
Etter is back alright, and maybe he'll be able to come all the way back and step into Jersey Joe's retired cleats. If he does, we can get busy scraping those Theismann for Heismann stickers off the bumpers of our cars, and replace them with 'Better with Etter,' or 'Etter is Better' or maybe 'This Year We're B'Etter,' or how about.. .... 
GordieHowe calls it quits 
After 25 record-breaking, pace­setting years with the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League, Gordie Howe is 

Howe's retirement, announced football. Now I~ ready mentally yesterday by sports columnist again, but little things, little Gerald Eskenazi of the New York techniques that used to be Times News Service, was caused automatic, are still a little slow." by the arthritis which plagued 
The blond moustachiod West him through much of the 1970 Coaster also faces the possibility season. But despite arthritic of being granted another year of problems with his left wrist and eligibility. right elbow, and torn cartilige in 
"Well I'm not sure about that his right rib cage, Howe wound yet. I've heard a lot of talk about up 1970 with 23 goals, 29 assists1 it though. But if I was offered and 52 points--better figures than another year I'd have to weigh he totaled in his rookie year of everything before making a 1946. decision. But that's all in the Howe was 18 when he joined the future. All I'm concerned about Red Wings, and now-a quarter­now is this fall." century later--has posted scoring 

Yep, Bill Etter is back. But records that no one will ever don't look for his name in the approach. He totaled 1,809 points Smith and Street college year-and was an all-star 21 times. He book, supposedly the ultimate for was the National Hockey information and predictions on League's MVP six times, and he the college scene. They've led the league in scoring six omitted it. True magazine's times. His 786 career goals are college yearbook lists only the 232 more than the runner~up name of Jim Bulger. The Kick--Bobby Hull, has achieved. Off yearbook looks for Cliff Howe will officially announce Brown and Pat Steenberge to his decision to leave hockey battle for top honors. And today. 
Mike Pav lin ===================~*-=-;:::::::=============">-3=========:::~~:.======:<>..-->-::::=====>=======::==· 
The Graduate View 


Last year, when "Theismann For Heisman" was big on buttons, the ND Sports Information Office did some statistical juggling. 
Getting the Heisman is a tough act to pull off and Sports Infor­mation Directors across the country try their best to get the big bauble for their man.· 
That Joe would break the total offense marks of the Gipper and Terry Hanratty by the end of the season was a foregone conclusion. But the end of the season was too late for pre-vote publicity. 
Everything helps. So, the Sports Information Office neatly added Joe's considerable 1970 Cotton Bowl figures (279 yards) to his career totals. 
As chief numbers freak I asked Roger Valdiserri if this was to be his policy with regard to bowl stats. He affirmed that they would be counted as career stats but not as season stats. 
I then had loads of fun trying to get other people's stats up to date (people like Tom Gatewood, Scott Hempel and Jim Yoder) in order to ._, my weekly column up to Well, Joe didn't get the trophy his name doesn't,really rhyme with. And this year's version of the record book has been rearranged again. 
Someone in Roger's office has put in a heavy summer's work and ' the new Football Guide boasts a completely revised record section. It really is a fine job, indicating much research. 
The lay-<>ut is different and per-game records have been added in accordance with the recent NCAA changes. The principal change, however, is the insertion of bowl stats into a special catagory. They no 
•longer count in individual career marks. 
This, obviously makes a lot more sense. It's just that the Irish have finally played in enough post-season affairs to make the stats meaningful. 
The net result has been several meteoric rises and falls among current and recently graduated Irish players. 
Scott Hempel is ND's most prolific kick scorer. For awhile he was the 5th leading all-time point scorer. Now he is 6th, having lost 11 points in the flick of an eraser. 
Denny Allan has dropped from 7th to lOth in kickoff returns. Theismann, the original beneficiary of all this, lost two marks (career attempts and completions) to Hanratty. Gatewood no longer had the mos~ career touchdown pass receptions. Clarence Ellis is now tied for 6th in interceptions instead of being tied for 4th. 
Easy come, easy go. And it's not particularly important in the Great Scheme of things, I guess, whether Scott Hempel is 5th or 6th, except perhaps to Scott Hempel. 
i 
L 
Wednesday, September a: 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
Irish still looking for new 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor When a coach loses a player of Joe Theismann 's caliber you might expect him to be singing the blues but the only tune Ara Parseghian is humming this fall is the Notre Dame Victory March. Theismann, the most prolific offensive performer in Notre Dame history has graduateed, along with 12 ot}ler monogram winners, but 26 members of last season's 10-1 club return. ''Theism ann's achievements are written in the record book,"  "We had much improved blocking in last Saturday's scrimmage," Parseghian remarked. "We moved the ball effectively although our passing is not yet what it was last season. Right now our passing game is adequate and improving." Minor injuies to Etter and Steenberge have slowed the progress of the Irish aerial of­fense. Etter missed Saturday's scrimmage because of a hip pointer and Steenberge is nursing pulled hamstring and groin muscles. Whoever gets the starting nod  and soph Frank Pomarico at guard and Jim Humbert and John Dampeer at the tackle spots. Just how effective the Irish offense will be in '71 remains to be seen but there seems to be little doubt that the Notre Dame defense, which boasts a pair of All-Americans and eight returnees from the nation's number 2 club in total defense, will be one of the best in the land. Walt Patulski, 6'5", 235 pound defensive end and co-captain of the Irish has been tabbed a pre­season All-American choice by most of the nation's football  
coach Parseghian said in an interview Tuesday. "Of course we'll miss him but graduation is a fact of college ball. I believe that responsibility makes new stars."  at quarterback in the Irish opener with Northwestern Sept. 18 will have a number of ex­perienced receivers and an. abundance of talented runners to  writers. Clarence Ellis, Notre Dame's outstanding defensive back has also been named to just about everyone's pre-season All­America eleven.  
Four candidates have been battling for the post left vacant by Theismann. Bill Etter, a senior who missed last season because of a head injury, juniors Pat Steenberge and Jim Bulger and Cliff Brown, a sophomore. "I've been very pleased with Etter's performance this fall," Parseghian commented. "I thought he'd be way behind but he has looked good." "Pat Steenberge has ex­perience, he knows our offense and he is a heady kid," Par­seghian continued. "He has been injury prone though and that has hurt his progress." Cliff Brown, a promising sophomore, has been ex­periencing the problems faced by all young quarterbacks. "Learning our offense and techniques is a very demanding task for a sophomore. Cliff has been improving consistently," Ara said.· The Irish will be looking for a balanced offensive attack in'71, running and passing equally well, but, to date, the ground attack seems to be the more potent.  call on. All-American Tom Gatewood, who set a Notre Dame record for receptions in a season last year by grabbong 77 passes, will return at split end. Talented junior Mke Creaney will be back at his tight end spot and this pair will be backed up by a couple of experienced pass catchers, senior wide receiver Bill Trapp and John Tereschuck, a junior. Senior Ed Gulyas, the top ground gainer on last year's team with 558 yards, heads the ball carrying crew. Larry Parker and John Cieszkowski are likely to join Gulyas in the starting back­field while Bob Minnix, Darryll Dewan, Bill Gallagher, speedy soph Greg Hill and Andy Huff, recovered from his shoulder injury that sidelined him last season, are waiting in the wings. Up front, where starters Gary Kos, All-American Larry DiNardo, and Mike Martin have graduated, Parseghian is currently going with Dan Novakov at center, John Kondrk  "We've got more experience on the defensive team this season than we've had in a number of years," Parseghian said. "Patulski is a tremendous player and a great individual. Eric Patton is one of the premier linebackers we've had at Notre Dame. And we'll have our three deep backs returning for another season." Ralph Stepaniak and Mike Crotty will again team with Ellis in the Irish secondary. Patton leads a linebacking crew headed by Rich Thomann, Jim Musuraca, John Raterman, and soph, Gary Potempa. Joining Patulski in the front line are monogram winners Greg Marx, Mike Kadish and Fred Swendson. The Irish face a demanding schedule in '71 and they start the year with a number 1 ranking in the AP poll and the number 2 slot in the UPI poll. "As I've said before, we're not as concerned with our ranking in September, although we like to be number one, as we are with  Coach Ara Parseghlan (foregrounface a difficult challenge in betteriwhere we stand in November, or in January," Parseghian com­mented. "You have to recognize that the polls are based on last season." he continued. "They can't predict what effect sophomores will have  d) andbackfteld coach Tom Pagna nJ last year's 10-1 record. or how badly a team will be hurt by graduation losses. Pre-season losses. Pre-season polls are based on opinion, when we start to play, they'll be based on facts." It looks like it's going to be an interesting season.  
''We want the national  
title'' -Gatewood  
\ All-American Tom Gatethis season as co-capt wood Is returning ain of the Irish  by Vic Dorr '74 Tom Gatewood has been the starting split end on Notre Dame's varsity football team for the past two years, and the senior receiver from Baltimore, Md., has accomplished a lot since his debut for the Fighting bsh in September of 1969. During his sophomore season, Gatewood became quarterback Joe Theismann's favorite target, and finished the year with 47 receptions for 743 yards and eight touchdowns. Last season, Gatewood and Theismann hooked up again, and Gatewood com­pleted the '70 campaign as the nation's second leading receiver. His 79 catches for 1166 yards and eight scores also placed him on several All-American teams. And already this year, Gatewood-who holds three Notre Dame receiving records and is co-holder of a fourth-has become a unanimous choice for pre­season All-America honors, and has received "feelers" from nearly every team in the National Football League. But personal laurels are not what Tom Gatewood is after. His goal for the 1971 season is a much higher one. "We don't believe in pre-season polls anymore," he said, referring to the high finish which every pollster expects of this year's Irish varsity. "We've been rated like this before, and we just don't pay 11ny more attention to it.  "We've got a lot of seniors on this year's team, and we've been playing for three years without a National Championship. We're hungry this year, and we want the National Title. Pre-season polls don't mean a thing." Gatewood's own attitude towards being tabbed a pre­season All-American is much the same. "Sure, it's nice," he said, "but it's not that important. And besides, we're after a team championship, not individual honors." But the Irish have a quar­terback problem to solve before they can shoot for the National Title, and the race for the signal­calling position is one that will have a good deal of bearing on Gatewood's effectiveness this season. "Joe <Theismann) and I worked together well because we had two years to practice together," he said. But this year things will be a little different. I don't have any idea who the quarterback will be, and it may take us a while to get timing worked out the way we want it. But the off~nse will come around with practice--I've got no doubts about that. "Right now, the defense is probably ahead of the offense, but that's not unusual. It always happens that way. We'll be depending on the defense during our first two or three games, but after that things should begin to even themselves out."  Other than the quarterback situation, fall practice has been fairly routine for the ND varsity. Injuries--except for Bill Etter's hip pointer-have been scarce, and the team is slowly working towards its September 18th opener with the Northwestern Wildcats. "There haven't been any serious injuries," said Gatewood, "so we're in good shape there. And we're in good shape as far as depth goes, too--especially at halfback and at my position. "As for Northwestern, we haven't put in any offense against them yet--and we won't until about a week before the game. They (the Wildcats) play Michigan this weekend, and what we do against them will depend a lot on what they do against Michigan. Their defense may have changed a lot since they played us last year." The 6-2, 208 pound Gatewood will be serving as the offensive captain for this year's team <Walt Patulski will captain the defense> and is almost certain to be a first-round pick in the 1972 pro football draft. But Gatewood is not yet sold on a career in professional football. "I've given pro ball some thought," he said, "but so far I haven't decided anything. I'm interested in a law career, too, and I'll need to go to graduate school if I stay with law. Pretty soon I'm going to have to make a choice. But I haven't made it yet."  


Page 12 


8:30 Friday Stepan Center 
1.50 at the door 
Presented by Social Commission & the North Quad 


THE OBSERVER. 
Times Wire· 
Observer Editor Glen Corso announced late last night that the campus daily would henceforth carry the New York Times wire service for national and in­ternational news. In an unrelated development, Corso also an­nounced that The Observer would be carrying a twice-monthly news suppliment, beginning October 29. 
The supplimental magazine, which is slated to be called Monitor, will be headed by Ob­server Executive Editor T. C. Treanor. According to Treanor, the magazine will be "an in-depth news journal, with commentary on books, movies, contemporary music, and ideas." 
Tom Bornhold( a Junior from Westchester County in New York, wHl be one of the Magazine's two Ex:E-.'Utiwe Editors. The other Exer11tJ\'t 'Editor will be an­I)Ouri ~ed next Friday. 
$429 
NOW BUYS 


YOU ALL 
THE MUSIC 
power rating systems). Its FM tuner is sensitive and selec­tive, bringing in the weak stations as well as the strong ones with astonishing fullness and clarity. 
The Garrard SL55B automatic turntable com­pletes the system. It has inaudible wow and rumble and such conveniences as a manual cueing control. And it's equipped with a Shure M93E elliptical diamond cartridge, a base, and a dust cover. 
The guarantee covfrs parts and labor on the turn'table for one year, the speakers for 2 years, and the receiver for 3 years. The transistors have a 5 year guarantee. 
The price is 429 dollars which is a very good price. It will buy you more quality sound and reliability than it could have only a year ago, and certainly more than you can buy anywhere else in town. 
Still unbelieving? <Previously bitten on claims, perhaps?) Allow us -to lure you into our store, so that we may realistically substantiate our claims. (With music, not words). 

Open Sunday 

I -4:30 
Wednesday, September 8, 1971 

~:.~::::::::::::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::;:::::::::::;:;;;;~;:::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::;:;;;;;;;;;;;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::·1·:·: 
·:-:
:-:· 
1~Fr. Burtchaell announces~-= 
« ~ 


lllladministration changes ~ 
« » 
The Reverend James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., Provost of the University of Notre Dame, announced the following administrative changes: 
Dr. Robert L. Ackerman -Assistant Dean of Students 

Professor Willis Bartlett -Acting Dean-Director for Education Studies and Chairman of the Department of Graduate Studies in Education 
Reverend William Botzum, CSC -Assistant Vice President for Graduate Instruction 
Dr. William M. Burke -Assistant Provost 

Reverend David Burrell, CSC -Chairman of the Department of Theology Professor Leo M. Corbaci-Dean of Administration Professor Dennis Dugan -Chairman of the Department of 
Economics 
Mr. John T. Goldrick-Director of the Office of Admissions 
Dr. Robert E. Gordon-Vice President fmr Advanced Studies 

Dr. Peter P. Grande -Assistant Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies Dr. Emil T. Hofman-Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies Dr. Francis M Kobayashi -Assistant Vice President for Research 
and Sponsored Programs 
Professor William T. Liu-Chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology 
Professor John Magee-Director of the Radiation Laboratory 
Mrs. John McCauslin-Director of Financial Aid 
Mr. Daniel J. Osberger-Assistant Dean of Administration 
Mr. Donald Rosenthal -Associate Registrar 
Professor Thomas Shaffer-Dean of the Law School Mr. David 

Sparks -Director of Libraries 
Mr. Richard Sullivan-Registrar of thz University 

Reverend Joseph L. Walter, CSC -Chairman of the Department of 
Preprofessional Studies 
PERSONS to do advertising layout 
CLASSIFIED
are urgently needed by the Ob­server. The J)ffiition requires from 3 to 6 hrs. work during the af­ADS t~ and early evening Slm. through 1luu<;. (usually about 41f2 hrs.). All days are open. You can choo;e to \mrk one or t\m days per 
week. Starting salary is 6.00 NeedridefromN.Y. area to Notre 
dollars per ~per. Raises are Dame on Anny home Football commensurate with experience weekend. Call Jack 21!9-7433. and ability. No previous ex­
perience is necessary. If you are interested please call : 2Jl3.-7471 F'or Sale: 1965 Ford Falcon :m between 1:00 and 5:00p.m. Mon.­dollars. Call:234-5889 after 11:00 Fri. p.m. 
The Observer advertising departmentwould like to welcome the students back to Notre Dame and St. Mary's. We would like to remind you that the Observer carries a Classified Advertisement section each day 
as a service to students who would like to buy or sell an item; are looking for a job,travel opportunities or car; have lost or found valuables; or who wish to publish a "peanuts" personal message. 
The rates are listed belnw and payment must be received before publication. SO if you need us, simply mail the message with payment to Box II or drop by our office on the third floor of La Fortune any weekday between I and 5. 
We wish you the best of luck at ND and St. Mary's and hope we can be of service. For ~uestions call7471. 
ords  1 day  2 days  3 days  4 days  1 week  
1-10  .50  .75  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11-15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  2.15  
16-20  .70  1.15  1.70  2.40  2.80  
21-25  .85  1.35  2.00  2.90  3.45  
26-30  1.00  1.60  2.35  3.40  4.10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
36-40  1.35  2.10  3.10  4.25  5.10  
41-45  1.55  2.30  3.30  4.50  !l.SO  
46-50  1.75  2.50  3.50  4.75  6.00  









