
Student body elects new Senate 

by Bill Davidow 
Amidst a flurry of last minute confusion in many halls, in­cluding the postponement of one election, a new Student Senate was elected yesterday. 
This new group of represen­tatives will have the duty of legislating a new "merger" constitution between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
"A Jack of communication" was blamed by Stay Senator Don Patrick for the half-hearted ef­fort put forth by the various halls. Patrick explained that an ad was placed in the Observer and an announcement made at the weekly Hall Presidents Council meeting regarding the entry of candidates names to the Election Committee. 
Despite some snafus election successful 
by Art Quinn 
In an election marred by irregularities, three incumbents won re-election to the Student Senate last night. The three, Matt Cavanaugh, of Badin Hall, !'hill Cernanec of Cavanaugh, and G(•orge Anderson (Off ­Campus) will join ten write -in winners and twenty -seven others in next year's Senate. 
The election turnout was 
described by Stay Senator Jim 
Clark as "about average tur-
Clark: 
An average 
turnout 
nout," but Stay Senator Don Patrick called the turnout ''suprisingly high, considering the lack of publicity." 
It would be hard to charac­terize the elections by an em­phasis on high turnout. In most halls less than one-third of the students voted. 
The turnout in the Towers was particularly disappointing, with 
Patrick: 
Turnout 
surprisingly high 
less than 100 ballots cast in three towers, and just over this figure 
in a fourth. 
The decline in interest which the Senate elections have ex·· perienced in the last few years was also shown by careless vote­gathering. In Morrissey Hall, the ballot box was never put out and in some halls the boxes were not picked up until late afternoon .. 
A list of the winners in each hall is given on the chart on page 2. 
Despite rumors that St. Mary's Home program will go the route of the Andrea Doria, Sr. Alma Peter, director of the college's foreign studies programs, denied 
1''w'"'~,,.,,,,,,W~;idBrlef;w~1 
\jj[ (C) 1971 New York Times News Service :\~~ 
SAJ(;ON --American planes bombed military oil storage areas in North Vietnam on Tuesday in addition to anti-aircraft sites, the American Command in Saigon said Thursday. Military sources said that raids of such magnitude as Tuesday's are ordered from Washington and at least cleared by the White House. 
SAIGON --South Vietnam's generals have been told by United States Officials that any coup against President Thieu would result in the complete end of American aid. Informed sources said that the. generals were advised that involvement in politics would only weaken South Vietnam and were urged to stick to the business of security. 
IIELSINKI --The Soviet Union and the United States were repor­!Pdly near an agreement on limiting antiballistic missles as they ended the fifth round of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks. Sources in Helsinki also said that there had been smoe movement toward an agreement on the limitation of ballistic missles at their present number. 
Bob Weaver, Executive Coordinator of Student Govern­ment, attributed the Jack of in­terest in the Senate elections to the declining significance of the assembly. 
As far as any change in the role of the Student Senate is con­cerned, Student Body President John Barkett cited the for­thcoming constitution as essential in deciding the future role of the Senate. The con­stitution, soon to be submitted by the Constitutional Revision Committee, must be passed by the Senate. 
Presently the major function of the Senate is the budgeting of the Student Government finances. When asked if he had any specific plans for this body, assuming its existence after the constitution is processed, Barkett expressed the desire for the Senate to "look into" the room pick situation on campus, hopefully to prevent the forcing of students off-campus. 
Other matters requiring the attention of the senate are the security force and the Hammes bookstore. 
Stay Senator Patrick hopes to assimilate SMC girls into the 
assembly as soon as possible, but he, too, feels that setting the budget straight and passing a 

Harlan leaves bench 
By James M. Naughton (') 1!171 NEW YORK TIMES 
Washington September 23 associate justice .lohn Marshall Harlan retired today from the supreme court after 16 years as its most craftsmanlike con­servative. His physician said Harlan was suffering from bone cancer. 
The decision was conveyed to President Nixon in a typewritten note from the 72-year-old justice, now a patient in George Washington University Hospital here. 
harlan stepped down from the b.;nch six days after the retirement, also for reasons of health, of associate justice Hugo 
L. Black. Together, the two vacancies assured Nixon the opportunity to solidify the transformation of the court into an instrument of his philosophy of judicial restraint 
Ronald L. Ziegler, the the White House press secretary, said that Nixon would act "as swiftly as possible" to fill the two vacancies on the nine-member court with individuals whose views would be "compatible" with the President's philosophy of strict construction of the constitution. 
Immediate speculation focused on the posssibility that Nixon would nominate the first woman justice to fill one vacancy. He already was said to be searching for a southerner as a successor to Black, with most attention centered on Rep. Richard H. Poff, R-VA. 
No member of the court in recent years was more attuned to the President's legal attitude than was Harlan, whose hallmark was a determined adherence to judicial precedent. Together with Nixon's two previous appointees--Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, and Associate Justice Harry A. Blackmun--and with Associate Justices Potter Stewart and Byron R. White, Harlan adhered to the philosophy of judicial 
Continued on page 3 


SMC Rome program continues 
yesterday that the study program would be cancelled. 
In a telephone interview, the director emphatically dismissed the allegation with the fact that over 100 freshmen are currently enrolled in Beginning Italian, a pre-requisite for the Italian program. She added that the program was prospering in its second year with a new director, Sr. Madonna, former president of Cardinal Cushing College, Brookline, Massachusetts, and over 80 St. Mary's students and approximately 20 Notre Darners. That Notre Dame students would be accepted for this year's Rome Program surprised many. Last spring management of the Hotel Tit­ziano, the center of the college's Home campus, evicted all of the male students for reasons as yet unclear to the men. 
Some students believe that the problem centered on violations of the room visitation rules. Wnlike university parietal regulations, it is forbidden for a new constitution are the main concerns of the Senate at this point. 
Patrick said one important thing to keep in mind is the ob­jective of merging Student Governments. 
Like Barkett, Patrick plans on the Senate assuming in­vestigatory procedures into various area of campus life. 
The new group of Senators, along with the St. Mary's Student Assembly, have, as their main responsibility' u,e passing, with or without amendments, of a new constitution which could not only alter the role of the Student Senate, but also the complete structure of Student Government itself. 


John Barkett: Constitution is essential in deciding role of new Senate 
Father Shilts barks at hot dog stands 
by Bill Weber Father James Shilts, Assistant Director of Student Affairs, has announced that the hot dog stands operated by clubs and organizations across the campus on football Saturdays will now be limited to "four or five." Any hall may operate a stand if it is within twenty feet of the hall, 
student to be in the bedroom of a student of the opposite sex at any time.) 
Flagrant violations of the law, 
Continued on page 8 
however. 
Any organization wishing to operate such a stand must register its intent with Mike Kearse of the Student Union. f'rom these, "four or five" will be randomly selected. 
Father Shilts stated that the decision to limit the number of stands came from his office, along with the Student Union. Kearse, however, denies that the Union had any part in making the decision. 
Fr. Shilts: 
Only four 
or five stands 


"It was not our idea, " said Kearse. "We are only following Father Shilts' orders. In fact, no one here wants to have any part in carrying out such a proposal." 
"It is entirely possible that the same organization could be given the opportunity to have a stand , three, or more times, and this could really cause some hard feelings," Kearse said. 
Kearse: 
Not a Student 
Union idea 


''Recognizing this possibility, it might turn out that we would have to arbitrarily assign dates to the clubs and this could be worse yet." 
Continued on page 8 

Hall money on the way 
by Ann-Therese Darin $13,000 should be available to the halls this year pending Senate approval announced student body president, John Barkett, late yesterday. Reportedly the purse consists of $8,000 from student government and $5,000 from the Universiy Administration. Outlining the plan, Barkett stated that conceivably the Finance Committee (7 members l which makes recommendations to the Senate on the budgets for Student Union, Student Govern­
ment, and its subsidiaries, may meet next Friday. It is through this Committee that the proposal to allocate the $10,000 must first proceed. 
After positive action, in the Finance Committee, the proposal could be presented to the Senate for approval, Sunday, Oct. 3. 
To disperse the funds, Barkett added that he hopes to attach a rider to the Senate proposal which would designate a three­man committee (one member each from Hall Presidents' Council, Senate, and Student Government). 
Barkett clarified that the money would not be equally distributed among the twenty halls, but the amounts would be contingent on the individual proposals that the halls draft for the money. 
Pa e 2 
N.D. Movies Presents: 
THE. 
STRAWBERRY STATEMENT 
Fri. and Sat. Sept. 24 & 25 Engin. Audit. 8: 30 and 10: 30 Admission $1.00 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 Sat. eve. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. William Jetidnson 
10:45  a.m.  Sun.  Fr.  Aidan Kavanagh,  
O.S.B.  
12:15 p.m.  Sun.  Fr. William Toohey,  
C. S.C.  

++++++++++++ MAIN CHURCH CONFESSIONS 
Daily: Before Weekday Masses Daily: Mon. thru Fri: 7-7:30 p.m. 
Friday, September 24, 1971

THE OBSERVER 



Albania wants roll-call vote 
<C> 1971 New York Times Service Sept. 23-Albania today told the co-sponsors of her resolution to oust Nationalist China from the United Nations that she would ask the General Assembly tomorrow to block from its agenda the item on China sponsored by the United States. 
-The Albanian move would force the 130 members of the assembly to go on record in a roll-call vote. This would give some indication of the amount of support that the United States has gained for its two resolutions on China. 
~-----~~~,:•.
''EM·EYE-EL·T~E·E~ 
• L :
I pronounced MILT'S I · 1.also pronounced by many i t as the No. 1 restaurant in t 
the downtown area 'MILT'S GRILL 214 W. JeJ IIBreaklast -Lunch -Dione~ t·en 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by: Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, · get your card now! 
@ 
Indiana Bell 
The American resolutions seek to keep the Nationalist givern­ment in the United Nations while at the same time, admitting the Peking government and giving it the Chinese seat in the security council. 
Informed sources said that the 

Albanian ambassador, Reis 
Malile had received instructions 
from his government today to 
carry the fight to the assembly 
floor tomorrow. 
The vote will have far more ological than l significance. Each side has been tryikng to create a bandwagon 

movement. 
The assembly is expected to defeat the Albanian motion, but a narrow vote would be regarded as a perhaps fatal sign of American weakness. 
Yesterday the assembly's General Committee voted 11 to 9 in favor of inscription of the American item on the agenda. The item is listed under a neutral heading, "The representation of China in the United Nations." 



Election Victors 
Alumni Badin Breen-Phillips Cavanaugh Dillon Farley Fisher Flanner (tower A> Flanner (tower B) Grace (tower C) Grace (tower D) Holy Cross Howard Keenan Lyons Pangborn St. Edward Sorin Stanford Walsh Zahm Off-Campus 
RoGERS 




Optical 
ROGER ATWELL • OWNEit 
Bradley Sarge Cavanaugh Jones Rielly Cernanec McCarthy Lis Rooney Ferris Dixon Waddick Brown Long Najduch Pilotte Henderson Large Wilcox Lewis McHugh Mardoian Diette Boyle Graham Guerra Backus Luken McLaughlin Rushman Mulligan Jordini Bushelman Eichler Kane Dues Degue Anderson Andrus 
Schaffer 
on campus 
friday 8;30 and 10;30 movie -the strawberry statement, engineering auditorium 
saturday 7:00 and 9:30 ­movie -cool hand luke, carrol hall auditorium in madeleva hall 
saturday 8;30 and 10;301 ­movie -the strawberry <;tatement, engineering auditorium 
saturday 10;00 to 6:00-free concert' outside stephan center 
sunday 7:00 -meeting ­international student association: elections, second floor, Ia fortune 
monday 4: 15 -meeting ­student Iife counci I: discussion of report of ad hoc committee on 
disciplinary matters, room 112-4 continuing education c;enter 
HOURS: 
MON • TU6S • THU. -FRI 9 ANt. ·5:30 PM WED -SAT 9 ANt. 12 NOON 
COMPLEI'E SPecrACLE 
SERVICE ALL E'YE 01t.'S Pll6CRIPTIONS HONORR 
Call 
289-7809 
Friday, September 2<1, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 



Dining program explained 
Gary Caruso, Director of Co-i!x Dining, explained the details of the dining program which will begin on Monday. 
He stated that each ND hall will be assigned a night to introduce freshmen and others to the program After October 18th, the tickets will be available on a first­come, first-serve basis at the Student Government offices in La Fortune. 
Ann Sullivan, the SMC Director, will make available 160 tickets for SMC students at the SMC Student Government offices located in the south end of the 
By Hill Sohn 
The possibilities and types of . 
merger between the Student 
Governments, both un­
dergraduate and graduate, were 
discussed last night at the Law 
School. 
According to Denis Hauptly, 
Third Year Class President at the 
Law School, "There is much to be 
said for at least some form of co­
operation." 
Pat McDonough, a law student, 
added that, "This is the only 
major university in the nation 
without an association of all 
students." 
other reasons given for the merger by Hauptly and McDonough were: more size and therefore more influence more respect for the Student Govern­ment from the Administration, and a better chance to deal with common problems. 
llauptly gave three possible levels of co-operation: first, an informal co-operation between the groups with common problems discussed; second, a 
Harlan quits 
Continued from page 1 
restraint pledged by Nixon in the 1!!68 presidential campaign. 
Ziegler said that the President, in accepting Harlan's decision to retire, had described him as "one of the great legal scholars in the history of the court" and a jurist who would be remembered by future generations as a "towering figure." 
White House officials said privately that they would not rule out the prospect that Nixon would nominate a woman to the high court, nor did they feel his choices both must be Republican. 
One official said that what most 
important was that the nominees 
reflect Nixon's philosophy and oJe 
young enough, preferably under 
the age of 50, to assure its 
dominance for some years. 
Holy Cross basement. Office 
hours will be from 1 to 5 each day. SMC meals will be served Monday through Friday from 
4:30 to 6:30, a way football Saturdays from 4:45 to 6:15, home football Saturdays from 
5:00 to 6:30 and Sundays from 11:30 to 1:00PM. 
ND meals will be served Monday through Saturday from 
5:00 to 6:30 and Sundays from 
11 :45 to 1 : 15 PM. 
Caruso hopes that each ND hall will contact SMC girls and invite them to dine with sections of the hall on specified nights. "One hall 

Student govt merger 
system of regular meetings of all groups; third, an actual "con­federation" of all the groups. Hauptly said that he personally prefers the third or "con­
federation" method. 
All attending the meeting, Kathy Barlow, S.B.P. of St. Mary's, Bill McGrath, President of the Student Union, and Hauptly and McDonough, voiced approval of the idea and said that they would bring the idea before their respective organizations. Those not in attendance, the Graduate Student Union and The Notre Dame Student Government, will 
be  informed  of  the  ideas  and  
opinions  brought  out  at  the  
meeting.  


SATURDAY, OCT.2 8:30P.M. in the ACC 
Tickets $4, $3, $2 t 
The Student Union Ticket Office and Dining Halls Starting Monday 
f 
Presen ted by Student Union Social Commission and ACC 
I 
' 
10 a.~.
exhibition and sale to 
4 p.~.origina. I Mon., sept. 27 
graphI CS purchases may be charged 
N.D. UNIVERSITY GREAT HALL 
CHAGALL, BASKIN, ROUAULT, DAUMIER AND MANY OTHERS 
ARRANGED BY FERDINAND ROTEN GALLERIES BALTIMORE, MARYLAND
F=l 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class DOStaae paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
already made similar arrangements. Arrangements of this type can be easily made for any group or organization which wishes to invite girls to ND." 
Caruso added, "Since the ND supply is limited, the only way all ND students can have a frequent opportunity to dine with SMC girls is to invite them over here." 

Working with people in 

AFRICA 
is what it's all about 
Join a team of dedicated priests and brothers in the largest missionary society on the continent of Africa. The White Fathers of Africa derive their name from their tradi­tional white habit which has come to represent to Africans not only the word but the helping hand of Christ. 
SEND FOR COMPLETE ~ 
INFORMATION 
Fr. Joseph E. Hebert W.F. White Fathers of Africa 2020 West Morse Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60645 B 
NAME~-----------­
ADDRE~·~·----------­
CITY-------­STAT.,.•____zJp_____ 
AG~-------------­
-·---------­


•• 00 p.nt. 




TODAY 
All Reporters 
OBSERVER OFFICE 
PLEASE ATTEND 
Applications for the 
Academic Councit are due Sept 27. 
Include a short resume of your qualifications, and leave appplication in Student Government office 


FIGHTING IRISH 
CONTINENTAL HAIR STYLING 
1321 E. McKinley H wy. Mishawaka, Ind. 
259-7679 SERVING ND MEN FOR PAST 4 YEARS IN ALL HAIR NEEDS. 
Specializing in Long Hair Look 

SHAGS, EUROPEAN LAGER CUTS 
Student Rates -Mondays & Tuesdays 
Complete Style $250 Includes Shampoo 



BEAT PURDUE 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER. Friday, September 24, 19'71 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
Editor-in-Chief Business ManagerGlenS. Corso James Jendryk
All successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend anyone or anything if they
Executive Editor Ad Manager 
can help it: if the job is forced upon them,
T.C. Treanor Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else.'-H. L. Mencken,
Founded November 3, 1966 Notre Dame, Indiana Business 283-7471 
News 283-1715 
The Most Important Test 
Monday could be a bitter day. The Student Life Council will be in session for the first time this year, $passing judgement on Stephan's first It will be a difficult job for the SLC. Administration members-perhaps all of them -will be pressing for capitulation to the Board of Trustees. Notre Dame's own Privy Council, the Board of Trustees, will be wearing apparent power, absent but visable. The temptation to weaken, to compromise, will be there, solid and tempting. 
The Student Life Council must not compromise. Superficially, the issue on Monday will be drinking and parietal hours. In reality, there isonly one issue, and that is the Student Life Council. 
Briefly, it can do one of two things. It can capitulate to tll!Board of Trustees and recognize their power, or it can defy the Board of Trustees and establish its own power. 
We thim the second course of action would be the better one. Students, faculty, and administrators working every day with this Uni ~rsity are infinitely more qualified to run Notre Dame than a group ri. lawyers, bankers, and financiers, otherwise unconnected to each othEr or to rere. 
Whent re Student Life Councilreceives the sanctions set down by the ad hoc committee, it must reject those ~idelines, and it must reject the authority that set down those guidelll!s. 
When tre Student Life Council officially receives the Trt!itee's rejec­tionoftheirHallLife Report of last year, it must ignore that rejection, and gnore the authority which authored that rejection. 
To do otherwise would be to affirm, once and for all, that tre Trustees run tre school all by themselves; that student voice will be heard \\hen the Trustees want to listen 
To do otherwise would mean the sunset of student rights at Du Lac. 
Here are tre addresses and telephone numbers of the nire sudent members of the Student Life Council. We urge you to speak brid)y to your representative, and let your feelings be known. Notre Dame, at-large: John Barkett, Student Body President, 458 Morrissey Hall, 3681' Note Dame, at -large: Orlando Rodriguez, Student Body V£e ­President, 409 Morrissey Hall, 3647 St Mary's, at-large: Missy Under rna n, Student Body Vi re-P resire nt, 418 McCandless, 41.55 
Notre Dame, South Quad: Buz Imhoff:416BadinHall,8027 Notre Dame,south Quad: Rich Urda, 439M orrissey, 6147 Notre Dame, North Quad: John Cullen, 403 Zahm, 1989 NotreDame, North Quad: Jerry O'Connor, 1135 Notre Dame Avenue, 
2326 034 
Notre Dame, Towers, Floyd Kezele,612Grace Hall1694 
NotreDame,, Off-Campus, Dave Tuschar, Moreau Hall 
Monday we will publish instructions on how to get to the SLC meeting, whc hwillbe q>m. We urge you toletyour presence speak foryou at tre he SLC meeting. It will speak eloquently. 
,--· 

St. Ed's '76 Don't let the Bedpeople bite you 

A Count of Fate 
:======================================;=g;=;~~;i=r~=~=!===;:=:r=~=~:~~===~=!:~===~~=~e~~~============================= 
Washington --The retirement of Supreme Court Justice John M. Harlan gives President Nixon a rare opportunity to nominate two justices at once, and presents a real possibility that the time may have come for a woman justice to sit on the Supreme Court. 
Uppermost in his mind will be to mold a "Nixon Court" that will impress his strict-constructionist philosophy upon the law for decades to come. These will be his third and fourth vacancies to fill, and if he wins a second term, he will probably appoint at least a five-member majority of the court. 
Warren G. Harding appointed four justices in an 18-month period, and left a conservative court that bedeviled the "New Deal" for years. 
Then attrition gave Franklin D. Roosevelt eight seats to fill, and he and his democratic successors created a liberal tribunal that is just now giving way to the political thinking of the Nixon era Nixon era. 
Now the opportunity to nominate a ticket of two jurists has presented Nixon with a chance to milk political gain and or psychic satisfaction from a wide range of options--the most obvious of which would be to name the first woman justice at a time when the Nation's most restless majority group is pressing for recognition. 
This opportunity has also confronted Nixon with a basic conflict: How to pick a woman who could be depended upon to go along with his plans for a tame Supreme Court. 
The departure of Justice Hugo L. Bisek leaves only three liberal holdovers from the Warren era--William 0. Douglass, now 72 years old; Thurgood Marshall, who has suffered from a variety of ailments recently; and William .J. Brennan .Jr. 
Nixon is expected to replace Black with another southerner, but one of a decidedly more conservative hue. He would join four other justices who tend to line up on the conservative side--Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, and Justice Harry A. Blackmun, Byron R. White and Potter Stewart. 
However, White and Stewart occasionally side with the liberals so that Nixon's conservative majority could be a shaky one unless Harlan's replacement proves to be a consistent member of the "Burger" Bloc. 
This is where the selection of a woman justice becomes delicate. For while Nixon likes to appoint republicans who are strict­constructionists, the leading women lawyers and judges tend to be democrats who are flexible in their judicial views. 
Mrs. Nixon put her finger on the problem when she told reporters wednesday that she has been Talking it up" with her husband to appoint a woman to the high bench. She said that "If we don't get one this time, they're certainly grooming for them next time." 
She mentioned the three women that Nixon has appointed to lower courts--Cornelia G. Kennedy of the Federal District Court in Michigan, and Sylvia Bacon and Normalie H. Johnson of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. Only Mrs. Kennedy is considered a plausible choice, and, for a male nominee, her credentials would be considered thin. 
The obvious choice would have to be Shirley M. Jufstedler, the nation's highest ranking woman jurist, who sits on the United States Court of Apppeals in San Francisco. She is so highly regarded that during the past year she delivered both the Holmes lecture at Harvard and the Cardozo Lecture in New York--roughly the equivalent of playing in the world series and the super bowl in the same year. 
Other distinguished possible candidates are Dorothy Nelson, Dean 
of the School at the University of Southern California, Herma Hill Kay, 
Professor of Law at Berkeley, and Soia Mentschikoff, a law professor 
at the University of Chicago. None have demonstrated sufficient 
judicial inflexibility to be expected to stand hitched in the con­
servative camp after confirmation. 
There are, of ~ourse, other considerations in replacing Harlan. His 
retirement leaves no representative from New York, which 
traditionally has a seat. Nixon also ruffled feelings when he appointed 
Blackmun, a protestant to fill the "Jewish seat" vacated by Abe 
Fortas. Finally, Nixon believes in filling high judicial offices with 
republicans. 
This has prompted speculation that the nomination could go to Rita 
Hauser, a prominent New York republican woman lawyer of Jewish­
Protestant parentage. Nixon appointed her to be a United Nations 
representative, but her age--37--seems to make her an unlikely 
replacement for the 72-year-old Harlan. Also, Mrs. Hauser once 
proposed that people fo the same sex should be allowed to marry--a 
proposal that appears to set her apart from the staid tradition of prior 
Nixon appointees. 
A final possibility is Mary Gardner Jones, a New York republican 
who severs on the Federal Trade Commission. Again, she has gained a 
reputation as a moderate that might make Nixon shy away. 
There are, of course, many other women lawyers, and Nixon who 
has not let anonymity prevent him from making Supreme Court 
nominations in the past, could come up with one that fits his con­
servative mold. 
But he may conclude that the concept of a woman Supreme Court 
.Justice is an idea whose time has not yet come--until another of the 
Court's liberals steps down and it would be safe to take a chance on 
appointing a woman. 
Out in Left Field Don Ruane  And on the Sidelines Patty Patty's friend  
Edito ria I Editor E T.C. Treanor  Features editor T Rick Smith  Nothing Jerry Lutkus  Layout C Glen Corso  Lauout G Jim McDermott  Copyreader T Greg Rowinski  Sports Editor E Jim Donaldson  Leslie Peggy  
Nite Editor QB Joe Abell  
Extra Help HB Ann Conway  ASS't Nite Editor FB Jack Frischkorn  Extra Help HB A.T. Darin  controllers of the dawn: bob long mark j niederkorn  


Friday, September 24, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 
pm heitzman 
the rap center -help for your hassles 
stephen stills 2 asking questions 

The Hap Center is a switchboard and community service operation run by the people of the South Bend area. Its purpose is to provide crisis-intervention and rPfl'rrals for any problem. The center is locat(•d in a purple-and-orange storefront at 209 W(•Stl'rn Avenue, one half block east of SPars. 
ThP idPa for a place like the Rap Center was floating around several years ago wh<•n th<' nced became apparent for a plac(• which could provide short term help lor hassles in p('Ople's lives Also discussed wpn• plans for a referral center and a drug lwlp l'<'nter. Thcse ideas started to come to~Plh(•r in the summer of 1970 when the South lknd .Jaycees funded the phone and walk-in storefront on Western Avenue which hPcame known as the Rap Center. 
Through last fall a number of people hPgan to work there and the physical plant was or~anizcd: In December, after a shakPup in thc group, a new directorate hP~:m to ~et things together. Since that limP. a I'Oh(•rent, trained staff has grown up. fum·tioning administrative machinery has dcveloped, and the center has taken an 
indPpendent. responsible place in the , know a ~ood deal of miscellaneous in­
<·omnHmity. Thc C(~nter is now funded 
Ihrough contributions from the people and 
has its own legal and psychological 
r<•soun·p pprsonnl'l. 
Tlw major special fu~ction o~ the Rap <'enter is its cxpenence With drug uroi>IPms. Most of the staff members are freaks with personal backgrounds in ~he drug culture. These people can help with 

chris vanderbossche 
before the last man 
While the <;reat Crackdown has been 1-!atlwring all the headlines, a more basic quPstion has slowly bcen gaining attention. 
Will Notre Dame survive the coming wnrld 1kprcssion ~ It was last Tuesday t'Vl'ning that we decided there should be mw. It SP('ml'd like a great idea. Since tIH·n I've been looking into the possibilities. Paul Goodman was at the 1st otw and says you can have a good time. All 
\'Oil  nPed  is  a  nwal,  a  bed,  and  some  
iriPnds.  
A lcading theorist,  Patrick  McManus,  

Pxplau."d It like this. Before the last dPpn•ssioil everyone put their faith in husiiwss. Things were going capitally until '29. Whcn the stockmarket fell it was d<•pn•ssing for almost everyone. The prPsident pcrsuaded the people that . -~­PV<'rything would be all right if they would now see. But, McManus claims. it can't just start putting stock in the government. last. Thc people will lose faith in them, (;ovl'rnment and business merged. It has too. Wage-price controls are like a band­grown into the horrifving monolith that we aid on a slashed jugular vein. The whole 

iohn hurley 
formation, so if you want to know soml'lhing or just want to talk, it may be able to lwlp. 
During the last year there have been many hassles about who is entitled to work at the center, and a training program has lwcn Pstablished. Each trainee must take a tl'n hour course taught by center per­sonnel on drug, legal, and psychiatric hummf'r and overdose situations, talk about drug use problems, and provide factual information about drugs in use loday. The Rap Center opposes the use of lwroin and the abuse of death drugs nm~ing from alcohol to barbiturates to spl'l'd. ThP use of non-toxic drugs is not discouragPd in every instance. Drugs can lw spcn as a lcgitimate part of growth, and :my drug problem is treated as a life prolMm. Only when drugs inhibit human funetioning is their use discoura~terl. 
The l{ap Ccnter's main concern is assistance and communication with l'VPryday problems of living. Staff nH•mbers are chosen for their ability to rl'latc to the problems of others, and are trainPd to listen to other people creatively. 
· Anyone can go in or call to talk about what is hassling him or her. The center has a l'ompletc list of referrals for a number of situations. Free draft and legal coun­sPiing, pregnancy and abortion in­i"ormation, nwdical or psychiatric help can he reached through the center. If the pt>ople there cannot help you, they can find soml'one who can. The Rap Center tends to 
structure is about to topple. The result will 
lw the second great depression. 
In the midst of our discussion, someone interjected, "Notre Dame survived the last depression, why not this one ~" The n•ason it will probably fall is closely rPiated to our desire for the depression. All the artificial structures will fall. Yet no one will starve. The field5 will still be there. The pressures for success and wPalth will dissipate. Stud) and art will rcturn to their natural habitat. It's easy to understand that Notre Dame, Harvard, lkrkeley, Holy Cross .Juoior College will all fall with the structure that supports 
them. It's possible they'll change.But at a university where weeks are spent on the question "Is it moral to have a girl in your room at 12:01 on Tuesday?" it seems highly unlikely <and our questions seems much lcss absurd l. As Ricardo one said, "The only thing that doesn't depress me is a depression." 
-
" 
. £'-_· 
v 
aspects of the place. The trainee must then do three weeks of on-the-job work at the center, eight hours a week. If these prerequisites are fulfilled, the active staff 
inay decide it would enjoy working with the trainee, and he or she will be voted on the staff. Work at the center dem::mds revolutionary responsibility, dedication, and creativity. 
l<'uture plans are already taking shape. The center ran a series of rock festivals this summer and hopes to continue them this fall. Research has been done on an l'Xtensive counterculture library. A free d_inic and food cooperative are being discussed. These plans will become rcalities if funds become available. 
If anyone has a hassle or is interested in what the Rap Center is doing, you can walk in or callanytime from 10 am to 2 am every day. The address is 209 Western Avenue. The phone is 289-7986. 

jim palenchar 
all literati take note 
Towards the far side of November .Juggler, Notre Dame's journal of literature, will once again be presenting the finest in campus-produced poetry and prose. With this date in mind, the editors arc now accepting manuscripts from any nll'mber of the University community. 
Although the magazine has become most noted for its poetry, especially in the last lcw years, the editors wish to emphasize that .Juggler also wishes to include short drama and fiction. The non-fiction section of the journal is also to be expanded to ml'iude essays on the fine and performing art~; as well as t~ose dealing with literary topics. These mnovations will result hopefully, in a new realization of the magi~ of the written word. 
Subscriptions to Juggler are now available at the outrageoulsy low price of $2.00 for this year's three big issues -this deal is no mean and paltry thing! 
All manuscripts and subscription orders should be sent to : .Juggler 
Box 583 Notre Dame, Ind. "This journal is one step above reality." --Daniel O'er Dose 
If one accepts the premise that the state of rock right now is as confused as it has ever been, then perhaps we can approach "Stephen Stills 2" as a true representation of that confusion. Back in 1967, the last lime of pure confusion, with everyone seaching, Buffalo Springfield emerged out of the west coast gliding in on waves of vocal harmony, solid tunes, and hope. They succumbed to inner dissension and hard rock soon aftf'r, but the individuals flourished in a number of later efforts. Steve Stills <then) was the force of Springfield, the writing, voice and guitar all claiming an individuality which apparently has not bcen able to be submerged within a group. 
Lf'aving Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young to patch into themselves again fairly soon, a look at Stills <now Stephen l reveals the same qualities, even more developed inwriting, and remarkably consistent in the more technical skills. But then is thesameas now--the overall artistic approach which the reatest rock-people have managed to achieve, even those in his own circle, has not come together for him Neil Young, another Springfield-born talent,lacks the amazing virtuosity of Stills instrumentally and in the music writing phase, yet ever since "Broken Arrow" Young has found an individual form suited perfectly to his intense imagination, and has driven relentlessly on to work within it until his latest two solo albums. "Neil Young" and "After the Gold Bush" , can be termed real masterpieces. This same kind of positive, defined direction is evident to listeners of Graham Nash and David Crosby, both of whom are talented musicians but who do not have all of Stills' capacities. 
Sweet Stephen is continuing to ask questions of himself, possibly to find that direction he needs, and unevenness results. He appears at his best alone, with spare, clean accompaniment, like "Fishes and Scorpions", or the gem of "2", "Singin' Call". (What remains for me his best moment, "Black Queen", on the previous solo work, was done completely by himself on one take--I have a beautiful mental picture of that scene, leaning back form his old Martin, filling every riff with a sort of tortured glory. l 
Contrasting those cuts, the Memphis Horns blare out on "Ecology" and his voice and guitar are lost in the frenzied production , the height of futility. Somewhere in between, he finds the right combinations in"Change Partners'' and"Sugar Babe", which are important in their instant success--he still can reach most of the people with out sacrificing too much, and these cuts carry the rest of the album to all the stereos of America. "Marianne" and "Nothin' to Do but Today" are fun rockers, and nothing more need be said to enjoy them. The unevenness of "2" is to me either a sign of hope or dismay--it is probable that theexperimentscan help Stills move toward a integration of his own talents, but it is a possibility that the man is unable to find the direction needed to make himself into an artist. On the inside cover, his arm points to something cut out of the picture. I hope it's the next mountain, not empty space. 

------------------------~-------~---------­
-~--~~---­
I P96 THE OBSERVER Friday, September 24, 1971 
I 
Campaign trail for HHH again? 
(c) 1971 New York Times News 
Washington, Sept. 23 -Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey has moved to the brink of another bid for the Democratic Presidential nomination. 
In a luncheon interview with reporters of the New York Times today, the Minnesota democrat said he had decided to "take a stronger look, a little more perceptive look" at the situation. As a result, he went on, he plans to step up his travel schedule, commission polls and prepare for an active candidacy next year. 
"I will really put a few of my chips on the line between now and 
the end of the year," the former 
Vice-President said. 
Although he left open the 
possibility thai he would decide in January to give up his attempt, Humphrey left little doubt in his listeners' minds that he thought he would run--and thaJ he thought he 
had a good chance to win. 
Humphrey, the unsuccessful 
democratic Presidential nominee 
in 1968, had been saying for 
months that he would lie back 
until the spring of 1972, waiting 
for the field of hopefuls to sort 
itself out. 
But today he said that rather than waiting for the California and New York primaries in June, he might well enter several scheduled for May--such as the District of Columbia on May 2, West Virginia on May 9 and Oregon on May 23. 
The Senator's comments further muddled the already confusing Democratic Presidential picture. Because he and Sen. Edmund S. Muskie of Maine tend to draw support from the same centrist constituency, Humphrey's candidacy would threaten Muskie most. 
The Maine Democrat has already been hampered in fun­draising efforts by the reluctance of former Humphrey con­tributors to do anything until Humphrey's plans for 1972 have been clarified. 
However Muskie could attain a commanding position before Humphrey faces his first test, if the Minnesotan sticks to his strategy. 
He said that he would enter the first six primaries, which take place in New Hampshire, Florida, Wisconsin, Rhode Island, Massachusetts and 






THERE'S A WAY OUT 
Take the Reading Dynamics course this fall .. • you11 be saving at least 200 hours of reading time next semester... we guarantee it. 
Thousands of college students across the U.S. are graduates of the Reading Dynamics Course. Reading Dynamics teaches you how to read with a purpose; how to remember more of what you read; how to be more effective in reading textbooks and other technical material; how to develop better study techniques, thus securing better grades on tests. 

Come to one of our FREE MINI-LESSONS. See how we specifically help college students read faster and retain more. Learn why we can positively guarantee to triple your reading ability or refund your tuition. INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED 50 TO IOO'X ON THE SPOT. Decide NOW to save 200 hours on your reading assignments next semester! 
ATTEND A FREE MINI-LESSON 
AT THE CENTER for CONTINUING EDUCATION Notre Dame Ave. 
Across from 1he Morris ln11 
Today 4, 6 and SP.M Saturday 4, 6 and SP.M. Sunday 4, 6 and 8 P.M. 

~~VELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
Pennsylvania in March and April, where his name would · almost automatically go on the ballot. Humphrey said he would not file an affidavit of non­candidacy but simply announce that he was unable to mount a costly campaign. 
Both Florida and Wisconsin would list Humphrey on their ballots if he seemed a bona fide candiciate, and a refusal Ito campaign there could cripple his chances later in the year, a fact that Humphrey acknowledged. 
The former Vice President, 
effervescent and obviously 
delighted to be talking 
presidential politics again, 
asserted that "There will not be a 
consensus (on a presidential 
candidate) among democrats 
before the National Convention 
opens." 
Although he refused to 
discuss Muskie in specific terms, 
his comment indicated that he 
felt that Muskie would be unable 
to lock up the nomination during 
the primaries. Two of his close 
associates argued that Muskie, 
even now, was not the fron­
trunner, noting that recent gallup 
polls showed Humphrey, Muskie 
and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy 
making about the same showing 
when matched with Nixon. 
"He doesn't think Muskie iis 
likely to make it, " said one aide. 
One indication of Humphrey"s 
decision has been his sudden 
interest in Minnesota politics, 
where he has moved strongly to 
assure himself control of that 
state's delegation to the national 
convention. 


-----~-----------------------------­
Friday, September 24, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 

Boilermakers,ND renew rivalry 
by Jim Donaldson -Armstrong's '70 performance [ . Townsend, who saw considerable 
Sports Editor ~ broke Leroy Keye s' school action against the Wildcats at 
Last year, Notre Dame par-"' "! rushing record and this year he's split end, will play against 
tisans were looking forward to "'!~ sup~osed to ~e even bette~. Purdue. . . . 
the Purdue game with a frenzy ·· Agamst Washmgton he carried The defensive umt IS at full 
that bordered on blood lust. l.-"' I''" the ball19 times, gained 121 yards strength and that bodes ill for the 
Several hundred people turned / and scored a touchdown. He can Boilermakers. The front line of 
out on the North Quad on the ··,,. catch the ball too, 03 receptions Walt Patulski, Fred Swendson, 
Thursday night before the game 11'\, Iin '70) and he is a break-away Greg Marx and Mike Kadish 
to shout themselves hoarse at a threat from anywhere on the limited Northwestern to just 37 
"pre-rally rally'. And on field. yards rushing and continually 
l<,riday night, the Irish faithful Stingley . is another. offensive ha~assed Wildcat quarterback 
almost took Stepan Center apart. stan~out m the, Bolle~maker Daigneau last Saturday and wi.ll 
They wanted a victory over the bac~fteld. Purdue s leadm~ pass be out to do the same this 
Boilermakers the team that receiVer last season, makmg 23 weekend to Purdue. 
beat Not~e Dame three grabs, he has been switched from The linebacking crew of Eric 
straight seasons. Ara Par-split end to halfback this year by Patton, Jim Musuraca, Jim 
seghian did something he'd never second-year coach Bob DeMoss. O'Malley and Rick Thomann is 
done before at Notre Dame-he 
He gained 34 yards in four carries set to go, as is the veteran 
against Wahington and caught secondary of Clarence Ellis, 
And he delivered. The Irish three passes, good for 98 yards. Ralph Stepaniak and Mike Crotty. 
avenged three consecutive bitter Bill Etter Fullback Ron North, a strong Offensively, Parseghian is once 
losses to Purdue by belting the points in a losing effort against runner, rounds out the Purdue again planning to shuttle quar-
Boilermakers 48-0 in Notre Dame the Washington Huskies in their· backfield. Pat Steenberge terbacks Bill Etter and Pat 
Stadium. It was a day for season opener last weekend. Junior Rick Sayers hafi J;ieaten halfback, and senior Charlie Steenberge. 
rejoicing. Directing the Purdue offensive out veteran Ashley Bell for the Potts will be the "ripper". "I thought they turned in an 
This year, the attitude on machine is junior Gary starting spot at split end for the The Boilermaker defense will overall fine performance," 
eampus is different. Many Danielson. With Danielson at the Boilermakers. Bell is relegated provide the key to Purdue's upset Parseghian commented. "I'm 
JX-'Ople feel the Boilermakers are helm, the Boilermakers picked to backup duty behind Mike Cota hopes. If the Boilermakers can going to continue platooning 
no longer Notre Dame's special up 383 yards in total offense, of at tight end. stop Notre Dame's strong run-them until one demonstrates he 
nemesis and are looking past which Danielson accounted for Purdue's interior line ning attack and force the Irish to should be the top guy. I feel that 
Purdue to other, "bigger" 209. possesses good size, although pass, then a good rush by Pur-each compliments the other." 
games. Danielson, who started the most of the players have swit-due's big front line might be Neither Steenberge nor Etter .. 

Parseghian and the Irish aren't Boilermakers• last four 1970 ched positions this fall. Bob enough to rattle the Irish signal turned in a statistically im­
underating the Boilermakers, games, connected on 11 of 23 Hoidahl (219) returns at center callers. pressive outing against Nor­
however. They're aware that this passes against the Huskies, in­but guards Mike Williams (218) Coach DeMoss is aware that thwestern, although Etter ran 
year, in the 43rd renewal of the eluding an 80-yard touchdown and Ken Watkins (230) and his club will have a tough time well, but the pair did get the Irish 
rivalry, Purdue wants revenge. born b to halfback Darryl tackles Tom Luken (237), a pre-doing this however and is into the end zone four times and 
And the Boilermakers are out to Stingley, good for 183 yards. season All American pick and prepared for a difficult en-points, not statistics, win 
get it in front of a sellout crowd of Danielson also ran 43 yards for a Tim Huxhold (230) all played counter. ball games. 
69,200 in Ross-Ade Stadium -a touchdown on a keeper play, so other positions in '70. Williams "Notre Dame has the same Bobby Minnix and Larry 
place where Notre Dame hasn't he's a man to be reckoned with. and Watkins were centers and people that trampled us last year Parker will be vying for Gulyas' 
won since 1961. Danielson gives Purdue an Huxhold and Luken were guards. returning to its defense and we vacated halfback spot. Bill 
"Our scouts were very im-aerial threat, something they The Boilermaker defense will need a supreme effort from Gallagher again will start at 
pressed with Purdue last were sorely lacking last season yielded 38 points to Sonny our offensive line to give our right half and Andy Huff will get 
Saturday," Parseghian com-when workhorse sophmore Sixkiller's Huskies but did record backs breathing room," he said. the nod at fullback. 
mentcd earlier this week. "They halfback Otis Armstrong rushed some positive statistics last "On offense they defy you to All-American split end Tom 
are very much improved on of-for 1009 yards, 30 more than the Saturday. They managed to stop their power running game. Gatewood has recovered from a 
fcnse." Boilermakers gained as a team intercept four of Sixkiller's Their backs are big and quick bruise sustained Saturday and 
passes and dropped Huskie and they showed they had plenty will start against Purdue. MikeThe Boilermakers scored 35 through the air. 
runners behind the line of of them last week." Oreaney will be at tight end for Jim Donaldsoni:i:i;;:~~"i=i:i:i:i:i:i::::=i:i8~=~=:=~:!=~=~=~=~=~=:=::::::::::::::-;:::::::::::::::::::: scrimmage 11 times. The "Notre Dame is a great football the Irish, Jim Humbert and John 
Boilermakers' "D" is big, too. team," he concluded. Dampeer will start at tackle, Reading across the front five The Irish impressed a number Frank Pomarico and John (Purdue's middle linebacker of people. with their showing Kondrk will be the guards and
The Irish Eye 

plays in the front line) the against Northwestern, even Dan veteran Dan Novakov will man Boilermakers have massive Jenkins of Sports Illustrated. But the pivot position. ::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::•:::: F0 0 tball Picks Stfeve dBa~mgartner <6'7,243) at despite their romp past one of the The winner of tomorrow's 
1e t en , giant Dave Butz(6'7 268) tougher teams in the Big Ten, game will take possession of the The third weekend of the college football season is upon us and this at left tackle, Greg Bingham eoach Parseghian wasn't entirely Shillelagh Trophy. Although the Saturday's action includes some key games between high-ranking 
(221) at middle guard, Bronco pleased with his club's per-Irish hold a 24-16-2 edge in the clubs, such as Ohio State vs. Colorado and Tennessee vs. Auburn, and Keser (248} at right tackle and formance. series, the Boilermakers have 
traditional encounters like Texas vs. Texas Tech, Princeton vs. 

Gary Hrivnak (6'5, 229) at right "Our offense needs im-won the Shillelagh in nine of the Rutgers, and Notre Dame vs. Purdue. The Irish Eye calls the outcome end. All five are juniors. provement," he said. "They 14 years the teams have battled of these and other games this weekend the way we see them: Two standouts, senior Jim Teal made a lot of mistakes Saturday. for the trophy.
Notre Dame over Purdue -The Boilermakers may have to swallow 

and junior Rick Schavietello, I was very pleased with our Parseghian is wary of the a few drinks of the same name to ease their pain Saturday night. This man the other two linebacking defense, though. They got the Boilermakers and expects that,
Irish victory won't be as easy, or as sweet, as last year's but it'll be spots. The pair combined for 32 ball for the offense in outstanding "We'll have our hands full." But .­

win number two all the same. 

stops against Washington. field position a number of times." Purdue has beaten the Irish four Alabama over Florida --The Crimson Tide is on the rise. 
The Riveters' secondary is With the exception of halfback of the seven years Parseghian'sGeorgia Tech over Army-The Tech eleven should have no problem comprised of soph Carl Car•ria at Ed Gulyas, out of action with a been at Notre Dame and it taking apart Army's broken down football machine. 
eornerback, junior Chuck Piebes broken leg, the Irish will go wi!h doesn't seem likely that Par­Tennessee over Auburn -Both clubs won patsy openers last (who started at quarterback the same starting lineup they did seghian and the Irish will miss weekend butjthey get down to the nitty-gritty tomorrow. Auburn has against the Irish last season) at against Northwestern, although the opportunity to square the Pat Sullivan and Terry Beasley but Tennessee has a great defense and safety, Arnold Cater, a senior, at it's questionable whether Willie count. 
the advantage of playing in front of all those Vol supporters in Knoxville. So. Cal. over Illinois -No problem for the Trojans. Illinois has Bob Blackman now but still no ballplayers. 


Irish individual statistics 
LSU over Wisconsin -The Badgers are playing good ball this season Receiving

Individual Rushing Interception Returns
but they can't cope with the Tigers. No. Carolina over Maryland --The Tarheels should step on the 

TC YDS TD PO YDSTD NO. YDS TD
Terrapins. 

Etter ·········~~··-· 14 59 0 Gatewood -..... 3 33 1 Schlezes -..-3 63 0
Oklahoma over Pittsburgh -If the Panthers can win this one than Pi.tt is well on its way to reaching their former heights of glory, but I Gulyas···~········· 4 20 1 Gallagher _.... 1 32 0 Crotty ..--·-·-2 66 1 thmk the Sooners are better. 35 0 Minnix ..-..·-----1 5 0 Ellis ..·--·---... 1 16 0
Huff·-··············· 8 
Wake Forest over Miami --Wake Forest is the defending ACC Gallagher ···-··· 3 7 0 Townsend __ .,. 2 20 0 Stepaniak .-1 40 1champion and has a strong team returning. They also have the home Minnix ····--·-··· 9 41 1 Trapp ------.-1 8 0 ND Totals -· 7 185 2

~-­
field advantage so things look bleak for Fran Curci's Hurricanes. 

-·· 26 Parker ...._. ___.. 1
Michigan over UCLA -The Bruins don't have the same bite on the Cieszkowski 4 1 16 0 Opponents -· 2 9 0 gridiron they do on the hardcourt. Loss number three coming up for 4 10 ND Totals ___ ,. 114
Parker ·······--.... 0 9 1 
UCLA, win number three for the Wolverines. 

_..
-Diminick ......... 2 3 0 Opponents 19 215 1
Northwestern over Syracuse -Alex Agase will get his Wildcats on the win trail this weekend. Brown ·~·--···-···~ 5 8 0 Scoring

Texas over Texas Tech -The Longhorns still reign supreme in the Hill --······-........ 4 16 1 Southwest Conference. TD FG X-PT TP
Dewan ....... -..... 2 10 0 
Princeton over Rutgers --The Tigers are the favorite in this Thomas 0 1-1 2-2 5

Steenberge ..._. 2 10 0
tradition-packed contest. Princeton and Rutgers first met 102 years Gulyas --·-..·--· 1 0 0 6

ago, playing the first intercollegiate football game in 1869. Rutgers ND Totals __ .,.. 63 242 4 won that game but they won't be so lucky tomorrow. Minnix ....-.-... 1 0 0 6 Nebraska over Texas A&M --This won't be the week the Irish usurp Passing Gatewood --·-1 0 0 6 the Huskers at the top of the polls. Devaney's Red Machine should 
Cieszkowski 1 0 0 6
A'IT COMP INT YDS Tn
chalk up another victory. 
Stepaniak ...... 1 0 0 6
Upset of the Week: Etter 6 2 0 39 0 Colorado over Ohio State--The Buffaloes have already beaten LSU Steenberge 16 5 0 54 1 Crotty .............. 1 0 0 6 in Baton Rouge. There's no reason why they can't stop the Buckeyes in 
Brown ----·--· 5 2 2 21 0 Hill ..-..·-------·· 1 0 0 6
Columbus. 

ND Totals 27 114 Brown .................. 0 0 3-51 3
Last week: 12 for 15 .800 Season Pet. 20 for 30 .667 __ 9 2 1 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Friday, September 24, 1971 
Chinese problems continue 
(C) 1!171 New York Times 
New York, Sept. 23 --Western 
diplomatic reports said today 
that there appeared to be a 
continuing political crisis in 
China. 
According to information reaching Washington and Western Governments that maintain embassies in Peking, the reported curtailment on military and civilian air activity over China remained in effect as of today. 

Rome progmm 
RentaJs 

Look for 
~quipment 
Pro Shop 
Tennis & Ski 
All major Brands 

---CLASSIFIED ADS 
Lost & Found 
FOUND LAST WEEKEND ALONG N.D. AVE.-Coat belt­describe and pay for ad to 
cl<~im-8241. 
Lost last Wednesday: slide case. 
1.00 1.18 1.20 1.90 1.35 2.10 1.55 2.30 1.75 2.50 
,DREAM JOB No house to house. Part or Full Time. Weekly Income $40-$100 showing make-up techniques. Vivianne 
Woodard Cosmetics. Call 272­1174 
W<mtf:'d 
Need ride from N.Y. area to Notre Dame on any home football weekend. Call Jack 289-7433. Reader wanted for partially­sighted student for one hour daily. $2.00 per hour. Marty, I09 Fisher tll!lfl 
Need 2 tickets to MSU. Call Sue 284·5124. Need 2 tickets, Call Dick 283·· 1?0'1 
volUnTeers needed. St. Mary's girls interested in tutoring Mexican·American lam ily one-hour per week. Please call Paul 1643 (knowledge of Spanish not 

1--n'-'e'-'c.c.c_-s...:a...:.r.:.Y.c.:·)'------,--_____ 
NEEDED: Ride to Purdue 
Wi II share expenses 
Call 8051 
Personals 
l,ve had enough of your procreation lies. N\ay the teeth of you and your premature beast rot for eternity. 

• 75 ... 1.00 .71 1.15 .85 1.35 

3days 1.00  4 days 1.15  I weelk. 1.25  
1.35 1.71  1.75 uo  %.11. i uo,  
z.oo  uo  us  
Z.35  uo  4.11  
Z.80  3.85  4.7(1  
3.10  4.%5  5.10  
3.30  4.50  uo  
3.541  4.75  I 011  

-








