


Vol. VI, No. 7 Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Monday, September 20, 1971 

Report Finds 
Gunfire Responsible for Attica Dead 
(c) 1!171 New York Times slashed their throats. 
were requested by Deputy At­The bullets were of at least two doctor observed.
News St'rvice Baden also said today the he torney General Robert Fischer, types, Baden said. One was The other type of bullet found
had re-examined the 30 inmates who is investigating the Attica buckshot, each cartridge con­
was .270-caliber, according toATTICA. N.Y.-Two physicians found dead after the prison had uprising, and the Department of taining 10 to 12 pellets. "Each Baden. Asked if so-called "dum­who re-examined the bodies of been retaken by state troopers Corrections. Baden said that he pellet is the size of a .32-caliber dum," or "expanding" bulletsthe nine hostages killed during 
and had found that some had had also seen the bullets that bullet, so each bullet's effect is 
were discovered, Baden replied:
thP assault on Attica Correctional been shot in the back, some in the Edland had removed from the like shooting 10 hand guns at the "These aren't expandingFacility affirmed today that all front and some in the side. dead men. 
same time, and they scatter," the bullets, except that any leadhad died of gunshot wounds, not But he said it would be difficult bullet expands when it hits bone.
of slashed throats as correction to determine the precise angle of These were not meant to be 'dum­officials has announced initially. fire without knowing whether the 

'Stephan Decree' meets no 
dum' bullets." He added,
Dr. MichaPl Baden, acting inmates were standing or lying at however, that he had notmedical exarninPr for New York the time. And he added that it examined bullets removed fromCity, and Dr. Henry Siegel, would be nearly impossible in resistance first weekend the wounded, only from the dead. 
Westchester County's mPdical cases where buckshot was used, Newsmen found several empty 
examiner, said in separate in­since "buchshot comes from all by Bill Davidow ammunition boxes in the trashterviews that their findings a-angles--a bullet may go up and a Hall life during the first foot­outside the prison late last week,greE'd with one made last week by bullet may go down." 
ball weekend of the year was among then a box labeled, ".270
I>r. John F. Edland, the Monroe Meanwhile, in New York, State calm and uneventful compared Winchester 130 gr. expandingCounty medical examiner. Sen. John R. Dunne, head of the with the last few seasons, ac­bullet." A description on the boxi'~dland had found no knife Observers' Committee that cording to a general consensus of reads:wounds on dead hostages except sought to end the rebellion and 
Hall Presidents. "These Winchester cartridges
a superficial cut on the back of Chairman of the Senate Com­The majority of the 10 feature the exclusive Silvertipone guard's neck. mittee on Crime and Correction, presidents who were questioned bullet with controlled expansion.
The finding of gunshot wounds said that, given the inmates referred t11 the parties as small The soft-jacketed bullet tipas the cause of death came after "intransigence" over unac­scale and subdued. In ac­combined with the tough outerState Correction Department ceptable demands, he saw no cordance with the rules, all Lubaloy jacket gives deepofficials, including the deputy alternative to storming the parties were held in private penetration with uniform upsetcommissioner, Walter Dunbar, prison. 
rooms. performance at all practicalhad said that the hostages had The re-examinations of the There were no reports of hunting ranges."
hE'en killed by convicts who had bodies by the two physicians 
either parietal violations or One state trooper interviewed blatant drunkenness. However, said that such ammunition was the presidents noted that many regularly issued, but he did not students were leaving the know whether it was used by the campus on weekend nights for forces that assaulted and retook the refurnishing of all rooms, Architect for the project is off-campus activities. the prison last Monday, four days 

Morris Inn to be Renovated 
by John Kuczynski corridors, private dining Ellerbe of St. Paul, Minnesota. Most of the leaders responded after inmates had seized control. 
A major renovation of Morris facilities and the main lobby. Carl T. Reinke & Sons, Inc. of to the new situation favorably. Baden said that close 
Inn, including expanded kitchen ThE' major factor prompting South Bend is the general con­They felt that the change was not examination of the gunshot 
aud dining facilities, has started the University's decision to tractor and South Side Electric a drastic one and that the wounds had Jed him to conclude, 
after a year's delay because of renovate in 1970 was the Inn's Co., Inc. and Ideal Consolidated, students were adapting well. as Edland had, that "all seem to 
modifications in construction relationship to the Center for Inc. are the electrical and In the area of parietals,. all be distant shots." Baden said, 
pians. Continuing Education (CCEL mechanical contractors resident assistants were on duty "We don't have any so far where 
The improvements, the most Located directly across from respectively. ' in each hall, but in no case was obviously someone held a gun up 
extl'nsive in the 19-yea.r history of thP CCE, the Morris Inn provides The hotel will remain open there any overt or flagrant against somebody's head." 
the University's campus hotel, housing and food service for throughout the construction violations of parietals reported. Baden said his examinations 
will occur on the rear, west side delegates to CCE meetings and period and dining services will David Fromm, president of had confirmed that 36 men died 
of the hotel in an area formerly seminars. continue at the regular hours. Walsh, said the students have at the time of the assault, nine 
occupied by a putting green. taken it upon themselves to keep hostages and 27 inmates. Four 
Under present plans, the kit­order. other men died before, and none 
chen capacity will double; the The condition of hall life does died afterward, the doctor said. 
rlining seating will increase from not appear affected to any great One hostage, William Quinn, 
!15 to 150; the present cocktail extent by Edmund Stephan's. died two days before the assault 
lounge will move adjacent to the Chairman of the Board of from head injuries allegedly 
restaurant; and the Inn's 90 Trustees, recent decree. suffered during the inmates' 
rooms will undergo refurbishing. I One dissenting voice in the takeover Sept. 9. Three inmates 
ThE'se changes are tentatively group of presidents was Carmen died of slashed throats a day or 
slatt>d for completion by March Maciariello who termed the two before the assault, Baden 
15. atmosphere of his hall "quite said. "They were cut up and Previous renovation plans, as dead." stabbed," the doctor reported. 
statE'd by Manager John Rash in For those students who didn't Two of those inmate deaths had a press release on August 30, exodus the campus in search of been reported previously by1970, included a doubling of both parties, the rules prohibiting Edland. The third had been the kitchen and dining capacity, public drinking make matters examined by another physicianthe addition of a cocktail lounge very hard, Maciariello said. who had not made public the adjacent to the restaurant and (Continued on page 2) findings. 

Architect's sketch or Morris Inn expansion 

Computer helps ease tight jobs for ND Grads 
Though the job market may be The drop in scheduled in­Business students, while Science, colleges and universities par­said that he is available to talk to tight this year, Notre Dame's terviews is directly related to the Engineering and Architecture ticipating in the program, which students at any time and will be 
departing seniors and graduate economic situation, the students can register Thursday, is still in the pilot stage. happy to do so. studE'nts should be able to land a placement director said. Sept. 23. Another feature at the "Students must be aware that job, provided they make the "In light of this situation now, Both registration periods will registeration nights will be mock competition is going to be keen. proper t>ffort. the feehng among economists be at night, with the time to be interviews, showing students They must get to their meetings Placement Director Richard and corporate managers about announced. what to expect when they go to with interviewers on time, be In addition to scheduling in­see company or govE'rnment prepared, participate in GRAD
Willemin said that according to a the state of the economy, the best 
pool administered just prior to we can hope for is to maintain the terviews. the Placement Bureau representatives for job in­II, read company literature and graduation last May, 92 per cent present economic activity," he will also offer students a com­terviews. seek advice from faculty," of the departing students had said. puter match-up system called The Notre Dame and St. Willimt:n urged. 
either landed a job, in industry or Graduate Record Accumulation Mary's Placement Bureaus have The first interview will be Oct. business, been admitted to a Willemin claimed that there is Data Form II <GRAD>. been merged. Miss Janice 11th with representatives of the graduate or professional school, hope for additional companies to The system, which is offered Wheaton, formerly head of St. Loyola University Graduate or Wl'nl to work for the govern­schE'dule interviews if there is an free to students provides a list of Mary's bureau, will be a career schOol of Business. Sign-ups for ment. upswing in the economy in late companies which will be coming coundelor, based at SMC. She the interviews will be held one 
CompE'tition will be stiff this fall or early next year. Com­to Notre Dame and are looking will work with the girls beginning week before in front of the year, according to Willemin. The panies still can schedule in­for June graduates with special with freshman. Placement Bureau. " Placement Bureau, which terviews through the Placement qualificatiOns. Though the Notre Dame Willim in cautioned that only schE'dulcs interviews with Bureau for this year. GHAD II, Willemin said, should Placement Bureau has no full those students who are registered companies a year in advance, has eliminate many interviews that time counselor, Willem in urged with the Bureau and whose 275 <'ompanies slatE'd for this Registeration at the Placement students scheduled in the past on students to talk to faculty qualifications match those the yE'ar, down from 400 just over a Bureau will be held Wednesday a hit and miss basis. nwmbers, or to their department employers are seeking will be year ago. Sept. 22 for Arts and Letters and Notre Dame is among 132 heads for career guidance. He allowed to go to interviews. 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Monday, September 20, 1971 

the ugliest 

words 
•

1n college! 

QUIZ FRIDAY 

on the next six chapters 
Your average reading speed probably ranges between 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at least 3 to 6 times faster than that. And the average graduate of our course actually improves comprehension over 10 per cent. 
Thousands of college students are Reading Dynamics graduates, including over 1,000 at Notre Dame, Indiana University, and Purdue. This is the same basic course that first received national recognition when President J0hn F. Kennddy invited Evelyn Wood to the White House to teach her system to top level staff personnel. Recently, President Nixon's staff took the Reading Dynamics course. 
The best way to find out about the remarkable Reading Dynamics course is to come to a free MINI-LESSON. At this you'll learn what it's like to be able to read and study 3 to 6 times faster. You will see a short, enjoyable movie and have all your questions answered. 
Center for Continuing Education Notre Dame Ave. 

Attend 

a free mini-lesson. Increase your reading 50 to 100% on the spot. TODAY & TOMORROW 
4,6 and 8 P·M · 


EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 

.•.-------------------­
STAPLETON MASS: PEACE AT THE END OF YOUR DAY 
Mon. -Fr. R~er Cormier 
'fues. -Fr. Bill Toohey
Wed. -Fr. Ned Reedy 
10:30 Pp. Stap1eton Lrunge, 


YOU ARE INVITED 



MONEY 
isn't everything but lack of it is! 
PART-TIME WORK 
.287-8774 v 
CAR NECESSARY 

FRESHMAN YEAR OF 
STUDIES PEOPLE OF NOTRE DAME 
lnaugaral Lecture 
by 

Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,C.S.C. 
Monday, September 20,1971 
7:30 p.m. Washington Hall 


Black Politicians will discuss '72 
(c) New York Times News Service 

WASHINGTON--Black political and civil rights leaders from across the country will meet in Chicago next weekend to map final plans and strategy to enter black candidates in several democratic presidential primaries next year. 
In what was planned as a secret session, about 60 prominent leaders have been invited to what is considered to be a major meeting. 
Their over-all strategy is to solidify the black vote, which would pose a serious threat to traditional democratic party strength in black communities. 
Four basic considerations will be before the gathering: for­mation of a black political party, which several have already dismissed as unfeasible; running blacks in democratic primaries in such states as Florida, Illinois, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Tennessee and California, as well as other states with sizable black populations; the relationship of blacks to any fourth party movement; and the possibility of a black vice presidential can­didate. 

HPC: campus calm parties move OC 
(Continued from pag" l) 
Consisting mainly of singles, Fischer Hall provides little op­portunity for any kind of "private" gathering. The quad set-up or fairly large rooms in other halls somewhat relieves the pressure, but this is not so in Fischer. 
Maciariello pointed out that any work or effort that has been put forth in the last two years to achieve hall unity has been severely hampered by the inability of the residents to organize a party. 
Also with the drinking age in 
Michigan being lowered to 18 as 
of Jan. 1, he feels the present 
enforcement of rules is ex­
tremely unfortunate. 
Along with most of the other 
presidents, he expressed great 
confidence, with or without the 
present restrictions, in the 
students ability to maintain the 
good order desired by the com­
munity as a whole. 


CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION 
Meeting Monday, Sept. 20 at 7:30, 
2nd floor LaFortune, for all new 
members and anyone else interested in: Films 
Drama 

Dance Soph Lit. Festival~ 

Jazz 


Blues Folk 


Monday, September 20, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
Irish tame'Cats 50 -7 in opener 

Defense shines-7 interceptions ties ND mark 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 

Perhaps two quarterbacks are better than one. 
The big question during the week preceding Saturday's game was whether Bill Etter or Pat Steenberge would run the Irish offense this season. As things turned out, both Etter and Steenberge, with plenty of help from the Irish deft>nse, led Notre Dame to a season opening 50-7 romp past Northwestern. 
The Irish defense scored two of Notre Dame's seven touchdowns and consistently gave the offense possession of the ball in good field position. Etter and Steenberge took over from there, engineering scoring drives of 32, 66, 41, and 40 yards. Sophomore Cliff Brown directed the final N.D. touchdown, march, taking the Irish 22 yards for the final score of the game. 
The big Irish front four of Walt Patulski, Greg Marx, Mike Kadish and Fred Swendson stopped Northwestern's ground game cold and forced the Wildcats to take to the air. And when 'Cat quarterback Maurie Daigneau tried to throw he was constantly pressured by a strong pass rush that was as responsible for the Irish secondary picking off seven passes as the alert play of Notre Dame's defensive backs. 
The seven interceptions by the Irish tied a single game record set in 1943 against Wisconsin. Junior Ken Schlezes had three pass thefts, becoming the tenth player in N.D. history to swipe that many in a game, Mike Crotty grabbed two, returning one for a touchdown, and Clarence Ellis and Halph Stepaniak snared one each, Stepaniak running 40 yards for a score after his interception. 
Notre Dame's 83rd football opener was a nip and tuck affair for the first quarter. Neither club was able to generate an attack the first couple of times they had the ball. 
Steenberge started the game at quarterback for N.D. but didn't get the Irish a first down in his first two series. 
Notre Dame gained possession for the third time in the game when Patulski blocked a Marty McGann punt and the Irish. 
recovered the loose ball  at  the  
'Cat 32.  
I<:tter  came  in  to  direct  the  

attack J!fld wasted little time in 
moving his club in for the score. After running for two yards, the neet-footed senior broke loose around right end for 17 yards, picking up the first first down of the game. Andy Huff carried for three yards to the ten and then I<:tter scrambled for seven more yards around the right side, giving the Irish another first down. Eddie Gulyas, behind a strong block by Huff, carried into the end zone on the next play to score the first Notre Dame touch­down of the season. Brown's conversion kick gave the Irish a 
7-0  lead  with  7:55  left  in  the  
quarter.  
That advantage  didn't  last  

long, however The Wildcats took the ensuing kickoff and marched 77 yards in nine plays for the 
tying touchdown. 

AI Robinson took a 16 yard pass from Daigneau to start the drive rolling. McGann kept things going when, on a fourth and eight situation at the Northwestern 45, he faked a punt and passed to nanker Barry Pearson at the Irish 39. A questionable pass interference call on Clarence Ellis gave the 'Cats a first down on the N.D. 23. Daigneau hit split end Jim Lash for another first down at the Irish seven and then completed a short toss to John Cooks for the score. Bill Planisek's placement tied the score, 7-7. 
Late in the quarter, the Irish began the drive that was to put them on top for good. Starting on their own 32, Notre Dame moved to the 'Cat 42 by the end of the quarter. The Irish turned around and continued their march to paydirt. On a second and 14 situation at the N.U. 42 I<:tter lobbed a perfect pass to halfback Bill Gallagher good for 32 yards. Two plays later, with 
13:18 to go in the half, Bobby Minnix broke off right tackle and battled into the end zone from four yards out. Brown converted to make it 14-7. 
Steenberge led the Irish to their third score of the game, making a couple of big third down plays while taking the club 41 yards in eight plays. The Erie, Pa., junior tossed a screen pass to Tom Gatewood good for 18 yards and picked up 11 yards himself on a keeper on successive third down situations. Steenberge flipped an eight yard pass to Gatewood for the touchdown. The TO grab was 
Gatewood's 16th in his career, 
tying him with Jim Seymour for 
the all-time N.D. mark. Brown 
converted again for a 21-7 N.D. 
lead. 
f<'rom that point on the game was totally controlled by the Irish. The 'Cats were forced to play catch-up football, putting the ball in the air at every op­portunity, and had to pay the price: numerous interceptions. 
Schlezes' first swipe gave the Irish good field position and the offense converted that op­portunity into three points when sophomore walk-on Bob Thomas booted a 36 yard field goal, with 5:37 to play. 
Notre Dame added another 

score before halftime and this, 
too, was set up by an intercepted 
pass. Ellis picked off a Daigneau 
aerial at the N.D. 44 and returned 
it to the 'Cat 40. 
With John Cieszkowski doing the brunt of the ball carrying, it took the Irish eight plays to reach paydirt, Cieszkowski going over from the four after a block by Jim Humbert cleared the way. Brown's extra point attempt was wide and the half ended with the Irish on top, 30-7. 
The Irish had limited the Wildcats to just eight yards rushing and 85 yards passing in the first half while grinding out 161 yards rushing and picking up 93 yards passing themselves. In the second quarter, the Irish controlled the ball for 11:09 and ran 32 plays to Northwestern's 14. 
The final two quarters were anti-climactic. The Wildcats threatened to score only once, reaching the N.D. 15 early in the fourth quarter, but that drive was thwarted when Eric Patton and Tom Freistroffer dumped Daigneau, causing him to fum­ble, and Tim Sullivan recovered for the Irish. 
Notre Dame scored three 

touchdowns in the second half, 
two of them coming on long runs 
with intercepted passes. 
Stepaniak made his scoring jaunt 
late in the third quarter, making 
a beautiful theft of a Daigneau 
pass at the 'Cat 40 and romping 
down the sidelines for six points. 
Crotty registered another 

score for the Irish defense with 
12:21 remaining, picking off an errant Cat pass and racing 65 yardsfor the touchdown.Thomas kicked the extra point to make it 43-7. 
The Irish reached paydirt once more. After Schlezes had returned his third interception of the day 46 yards to the 'Cat 22, llrown took the second stringers in for a score. Sophomore Greg Hill went over left tackle for the tally and Thomas booted the conversion for Notre Dame's 5oth point. 



None of the Irish quarterbacks fared too well statistically. Steenberge complete just five of 16 passes for 54 yards and a touchdown, Etter hit on two of six for 39 yards and Brown connected on 2 of 5 for 21 yards but had two passes, including his first as a collegian, intercepted. 
Etter was Notre Dame's leading rusher, picking up 59 of the club's 242 yard total. Minnix, with 41 yards, was second in the rushing parade. 
Gatewood led the Irish receivers, making three grabs, good for 33 yards and a touch­down. 
The Irish picked up 175 yards in 
liM UD•rver IS publllhect dollllf durlnt the colle.. •mester except v.c:atlons bll the students of the University of Not111 Oolme • td St. Mary's Col..... SuiiKrlptlons may be purcba•d for •• from T,.. Ob­..,.,..., Box 11, Notre o.me, Ind. 46556. s.c~ c... ..-u.. paid, 
N~tre o.m., Ind. 465M. 
-

[DEBATE 
organizational meeting Tuesday 7 p.m. 
Rm. 1-E LaFortune 
N.D. Debate council 
interception returns, only four yards short of the all-time record. Only once before in a game had the Irish returned two in­terceptions for scores, in 1966 against So. Cal. 
Another statistical bright spot was the punting of Brian Doherty. The soph booted the ball five times for a 42.5 average and made a nice "coffin corner" kick. 
Northwestern, now 0-2, will play host to Syracuse next Saturday while the Irish travel to Lafayette, Ind., to take on the Purdue Boilermakers, 38-35 losers to Washington Saturday. 
PANELING 
as low as 



$2Jx3 
1 sheet 
NO SECONDS 
NO REJECTS 

YOUR HOME IMPROVEMENT MARKET 125 us 31 North 
Group Health Insurance 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Graduate Student Union For 

Graduate Students 
For Information Mail tcr-ASSOCIATION PLANS 1101 EastBelmont South Bend, Indiana 46615 ·~arne ___________ 
~treet ---~-----­
pity ICheck Information Desired GROUP HEALTHO ASSOCIATION_lJEE ....,CJ~­
Page .4 THE OBSERVER Monday, September 20, 1971 


Nameooe thing that hasn't gone up
<c> New York Times New Service 
United Nations, N.Y.-United Nations Secretary General U Thant l sincel950. issued his last annual report in which he spoke bluntly and made judgments that are likely to displease some members. Thant asked ' that the U.N. be given more power under his successor and said that 
1 

the institution must be made to work. Thant also spoke out on the Middle East, Vietnam, Germany and China. 
Bonn -After 16 hours of talks with Soviet leaders, West German Chancellor Willy Brandt said that his most vivid impression was a new and positive realism on the part of Leonid Brezhnev toward the problems of Europe and relations with the West. Brandt said that the Soviet leadership realized that he was talking to them with the approval and the cooperation of the United States. 
London -The extensive Soviet presence in Egypt has raised two fundamental questions. If fighting resumes along the Suez Canal, can the Soviet Union stay out of an active role and, if it cannot can the· 
United States? Talks with the leaders of several nations have brought fQrth the appraisal that the Soviet Union does not want to get in-j volved, but few were willing to say that it would not. 
Washington-Both the Israeli and the Egyptians have reassured the United States that they both intend to honor the cease-fire along the Suez Canal, despite the recent outbreak of fighting. Based ·on these assurances, American officials said that they doubted that the cease-fire was in any danger of collapse. 


SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening 
. PITCHER 
zs••• 


$1.00 
NIGHT 


•--------­
Try. Try hard. 
The only thing we can think of is what we make. The Swingline "Tot 50" Stapler. 98¢ in 1950. 98¢ in 1971. 
And it still comes with 1000 free staples and a handy carrying pouch. It staples, tacks and mends. It's unconditionally guaranteed. It's one of the world's smallest staplers. 
And it's the world's biggest 
seller. Could be that's why it 
hasn't gone up in pric" in 
21 years. 
If you're interested in something a little bigger, our Cub Desk Stapler and Cub Hand Stapler are only $1.98. Both Tot and Cub Staplers are available at Stationery, Variety and College Bookstores. 
The Swingline "Tot 50" 
98¢in1950. 98¢in1971. 
If you can name something else that hasn't gone up in price since 1950, let us know. We'll send you a free Tot Stapler with 1000 staples and a vinyl pouch. Enclose 25¢ to cover postage and handling. 

Send THE OBSERVER home ( or to a friend) 
MAIL YOUR CHECK 
•

$14 I year $8 I semester to • PO Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 



WANTED-WANTED 
Wrecked,  rundown,  inoperative  
foreign  autos.  any  year,  any  
condition.  

state price and condition. 1st 
letter also -parts for all foreign 
cars thru '71. calls credited. 
N & W FOREIGN AUTO WRECKING 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Need ride from N.Y. area to Notre Dame on any home football weekend. Call Jack 289-7433. 

.J--F~'o!!!.r::.JSal=e~:-___F1_ord_Fal_con--:m-­
1965 

doll 
ars. Call:234-5889 after 11:00 p.m. 
New Posters of all varieties in stock at great prices. Come to 815 Flanner or 611 Grace or call 1694 or 1167. 
THE NATIONAL LAMPOON: Share in the wisdom and insanity of America's College Humor Magazine. Subscribe now and save $1.00 over regular sub­
scription rate, $4.00 over newsstand. Call for information. Paul 6868 or Geor~e 6843. 
Will work on Volkwagen's -11 years experience -reasonable. Call 272-3980 or 272-2765 after 4: oo p.m. 
Child Care Service Ages 3 and upJ ND-SMC FROSH DIREC­Full or part time. 2419 Riversid~ TORY-Student Union Offices Drive South Bend 287-1777 · -4th Floor La Fortune -1:00­
!'i:OO 
Furnished efficiency apart­

; ments, private baths, private parking lot. Direct Notre Dame Bus Line. Couples or two students. $86.60 monthly. 233-3257. 
PART TIME WORK Selling an investment program. Must work 10 hr. minimum at your con­venience. Earn $1 50 a week. Commission. Call Jim Earl 233-1571 

1-------------'-1 '65 Impala Convert. 396-ss, Automatic, Power Steering, Power Brakes, Blue, Real Sharp, $625. Edison Park Sunoco. Corner of Edison and Ironwood. 
F'or Sale: Stereo Cassette player ­Speakers $150 -1401 -153 Cavanaugh 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN JOINING A STUDENT FLYING CLUB CONTACT WALT AT 234-5566 OR BILL AT 1840. 
DREAM JOB No house to house. Part or Full Time. Weekly Income $40-$100 showing make-up techniques. Vivianne Woodard Cosmetics. Call272­
2174. 
Ulcerless students interested ir. joining a growing group o . student market investors, call 233-3893. 
Men's and ladies' watches, Reader wanted for partially­diamond rings, jewelry of all sighted student for one hour types. Brand name, complete d,~ily. $2.00 per hour. Marty, 109 line, not hot. Call Tom 3575. f 1sher, 1896. 
LOST -I.D. and football ticket. >esperate -Need Navy and Vicinity of N.D. Bookstore lichigan State Tickets -Call Heward offered. Call Dave, 1930 evin 1285 
Wanted: Cheap used Bike. Good 

Condition. Louise 4006 NEW S-TRACK TAPES. 
___..::.:::.:.....::.:..::=-=.~~-----t ONLY $3.50. Call 6715. 
Typing Wanted: Theses, 
manuscripts. Experienced, 
I. Classified ads paid for inaccurate typist. Jane Smith 233­cash when ordered.
4029. 

-------t 2. Officehrs.12:15-5:00. ads in DEBATE: by 3:00 on day before Organizational meeting for publication. 
new members, 7 P.M. Notify us of any mistakes in Tuesday, Room 1-E La For­your ad. tune. Thanks, Kirk. OBSEHVEH CLASSIFIED 
AD PAGE  
.\lords  1 day  Z days  3 days  4 days  1 week  
1-10  .50  .15  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11-15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.15  2.15  
16-20  .10  1.15  1.10  2.40  2.80  
21-25  .85  1.35  2.00  2.90  3.45  
26-30  1.00  ,.  1.60  2.35  3.40  4.10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
36-40  1.35  2.10  3.10  4.25  5.10  
41-45  1.55  2.30  3.30  4.50  5.50  
46-50  1.15  2.50  3.50  4.15  6.00  








