winter is icummen In, 
lhude sing goddamm, ralneth drop and 
stalneth slop and how the wind doth ramm! 
sing: goddamm 



Vol. VI, No. 41 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, November 8, 1971 
AECtoabandonAmchitka 
(c) 1971 New York Times It was not immediately clear whether the x-rayAmchitka Island, Alaska, Nov. 7--In their elation production was in the range that was desired. This will over the apparent sul~cess of the controversial Can­not be known until preliminary reports are made innikan hydrogen bomb test, high officials of the Atomic several days. The reports will be made after study ofEnergy Commission have almost committed them­films that recorded instrument panels monitoring theselves to abandoning their nuclear weapons testing test.

ground on this island Amchitka was selected in late 1966 as a place to test months before precise judgement
by underground explosives bombs that are too large to "It will be months before we can make a precisebe detonated safely in thedesert between Reno, Las judgment of what was produced," said Dr. JamesVegas and Salt Lake City, where testing will continue. 
Carothers, the scientific adviser to the A.E.C. for the"It seems to me we will have no reason to require a test.
second test," said Maj. Gen. Edward Giller, the Carothers workd in ~he Lawrence Laboratory atCommission's assistant general manager for military Livermore, Calif., where the bomb was designed by aapplication. He said the Commission would now begin group led by Dr. Charles McDonald, associate director to remove the camps it built here to provide support for of the Laboratory for military application. 
the men who mounted the Cannikan test. 

The University of California manages the Laboratory for the A.E.C.
bomb met specifications 

An aerial survey of the Ground Zero area, 5,875 feet 
James Schlesinger, the Commission's chairman, above the cavern where the bomb was detonated, said that he also believed that the Cannikan bomb set showed extensive shifting of the dirt that lies a foot or off on Saturday met the designed specifications so that so thick over the volcanic rock at that point. another such test would not be required. Schleshtger said on Oct. '1:1 that the test site here would be closed blast shatters road to site unless a repeat test was needed on the Cannikan 
Also, the main roadway on the island was broken indesing. 
three places along shift lines that appeared to radiateThe bomb, prototype of the warhead for the Spartan out from Ground Zero. The roadway leading into themissile of the Safeguard Antiballistic Missile System, place where the burial hole was drilled was totallywas supposed to create a force equivalent to about 5 destroyed as the shock wave of the blast scattered the million tons of TNT and was to produce a heavy flux of ballast on which the pavement was based.
x-rays but a minimum amount of fission materials. 
Along the sea within a mile of the detonation, rock 
weapon ready for stockpile pinnacles were broken off, some cliffs of rock were toppled, and mud slides occurred intermittently for Commission spokesmen said it appeared from some two miles along the bluff above the beach. 
seismograph readings that the weapon delivered the There was no radiation leakage discovered by the required explosive force. Schlesinger said that he extensive monitoring system. expected that "We will be able to certify" the bomb Several thousand men have worked here in 
design for stockpiling. preparing the island for the Cannikan test 

The Fieldhouse: 
I' 
~·-·· 
. ·-. 
: ....

What comes novv? r 
"'0-.
'·...:· ~ .'\. ~-_..... 
by M.A. Baum At one end of the North Quad is the Fieldhouse, and within it the strongholds of the University's arts community, and therein lies a continuing story. Sone two and a half years ago, the fieldhouse rendered obsolete by the Convocation Center--was sceduled to be razed. But the now-historic "Save the Fieldhouse" campaign moved the University to give it over to the University Arts Council, newly created for the prpose, and the Art Department. Sence then, developement has been slow but determined. What is the use of the fieldhouse'? Consider the Art Department. According to Department Chairman Dr. Thomas Fern, "We have several classes (in the fieldhouse) and also many studios where various knids of independent effort, creative work, is going 

on." The curriculum of the Art Department is mostly independent work. Old fencing and boxing rooms are now studios for students. The old classroom space, it doesn't have enough cubic obsolete?
baketball court currently hosts a carving class footage. When you-re talking about studios you have three times a week. to think in three dimensions. All they have available 
The other half of the Fieldhouse group is the as far as I've been able to see is ordinary classroom University Arts Council, under Director Rick space, low ceilings, rooms off a long narrow hall, Council and Art Department have been left to find Fitzgerald. In the Fieldhouse the Council operates, and relatively small rooms. The thing about the their own resources. among other things, the Isis Gallery, an art gallery Fieldhouse is it has enormous, beautiful big The results of their attempts are not promising, for student or student sponsored exhibits, a reading studios." according to Fern. "We've raised some, but its been room, where they hope to continue a series of poetry The building is equally important to the rather piddling amounts. I know of, I think it's a readings and Sunday afternoon music sessions. University Arts Council. Said Rick Fitzgerald, "The $2,500 gift that is specially earmarked for this 
Is the space necessary'? Dr. Fern thinks so: "I Fieldhouse is sort of the necessary center to purpose, I know of another $1,000 gift, and there would like to persuade people not to tear it down. I naintain an Arts Council on the campus." have been other smaller ones ... Since Ne've started think its educationally valuable space and a viable Funding is the present problem, both men agree. the campaign we've been notably unsuccessful in space. I think the cost of remodeling it in a more The Arts Council hopes to organize a film club and raising the kind of money we need." useful form is a very economical package which install a darkroom. Dr. Fern speaks of the That's the present state. What will be the future of can't be matched by new building construction possibility of an Arts Center, with shops and the Fieldhouse'? Well, no one knows. Administration costs. facilities for students to come and build, paint and of the building is relative. On rare occasions it falls 
"If we're not there where will we be'? We're create anything from a statue to a new bookshelf. under Fr. Blantz's Office of Student Affairs, as an literally overflowing O'Shaughnessy Hall and we One sine qua non for such things as a workspace for Art Department building it falls under Academic have enormous numbers of students using the building sets for experimental theatre is a concrete Affairs and Fr. Burtchaell, financially, it's Business Fieldhouse. It has a particular kind of space which slab floor for the present dirt space. This and good Affairs and Fr. Wilson. At present the Art Depart­is unmatched by anything that exists on this tools and. people to help students learn to use them, ment has been promised its use at least until the end campus or on St. Mary's campus." aU reqmre money. The building itself requires of the Spring Semester. It exists in a state of ap­
The Art Department has an enrollment (head money. Dr. Fern estimates costs as somewhere parently endless limbo, not razed, but not funded. count for all courses) of some 800 this semester between 1.3 and 1.5 million dollars. Said Fr. Blantz, "You just kind of handle it on a alone, and it has a staff of twelve. Dr. Fern does not Such money is apparently not to be had. When the year to year basis. As you can see parts of the see merger with the SMC Art Department as a original proposals went through two years ago, building are not in good repair. You don't want to complete solution to the space problem. "The kind some eight thousand dollars were budgeted for a make any long term commitments with a building of space that is available at St. Mary's.. .lt's just ,custodian and maintanence. Beyonrl that. the like that." 
--~---~--------------------­
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Monday, November 8, 1971 
Due to Congressional opposition 
US halts arms shipments to Pakistan 

(c) 1!171 New York Times 
Washington, Nov. 7--The United States plans to announce tomorrow the cancellation of licenses for the export of more than $3 million of military material to Pakistan. 
This will, in effect, end the controversial arms pipeline that has supplied Pakistan with spare parts and other military goods even though the administration imposed an arms freeze in early April. 
State Department officials, in disclosing the move, emphasized that the revocation of the licenses was done with the consent of the Pakistani government, which had been aware of the strong congressional opposition to the continued shipment of goods to Pakistan for possible use in crushing the rebellion in East Pakistan. 
Exempt from the ban will be $16,000 worth of spare parts already cleared by U.S. Customs and waiting shipment in New York pending the end of the dock­workers strike, the officials said. 

The officials said that Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India was informed of the license revocation shortly before she arrived in Washington last Wednesday for talks with President Nixon. It was stated in 
diplomatic  circles  that  the  
revocation  of  the  licenses  
removed  a  major  irritant  in  

Indian-American relations. 

Even though the amount of military equipment being sold to Pakistan in recent months was regularly described by the ad­ministration as "insignificant" and of little military importance, it was viewed by many Indians as indicative of a "pro-Pakistani" prejudice by the Nixon ad­ministration. 
Many U.S. Senators also complained that the flow of spare parts and other equipment was helping the government of Pakistani President Agha Mohammad Yahya Khan in crushing the East Pakistani independence movement and contributing to the flow of nearly \0 million Pakistanis who have fled to India. 
Following the Paksitani Ar­my's move against the East Pakistani insurgents last March 25, the United States stopped granting new licenses for miltary purchases in this country. Ac­tually, the March 25 decision did not go into effect until April6, and some licenses were approved in the interim, officials said. 
Moreover, licenses valid as of March 25 that expired were not renewed, and a "hold" was put on eertain heavy arms, previously approved for shipment, but still in American military depots. 
Officials said that at the time the decision to close down the "pipeline" was taken, Pakistan held about $2.3 million worth of valid licenses issued before April be settled primarily by the 
li. The revocation affects those Pakistanis themselves. licenses as well as some million Interviews on the National dollars worth of equipment in the Broadcasting Company American military depots that program, "Meet the Press," Mrs. had previously been held up. Gandhi said that crisis was not 
The administration hopes that one between India and Pakistan by removing this irritant in but "between the military regime Indian-American relations, it of West Pakistan and the people will have more leverage in and elected representatives of persuading Indian officials to East Bengal (East Pakistan). lake steps toward removing the "India comes in because of the war threat along the Indian­influx of the refugees, the acts of Pakistan border. sabotage which are taking place 
Mrs. Gandhi, in her talks with on our side by people who have Nixon, Secretary of State William come in either disguised as 
P. Rogers and .other U.S. of­refugees or in some other way," ficials, affirmed India's desire to she said. avoid a war, but refused to agree She said that this influx was 
to American suggestions for a causing problems for India and is troop pullback from the borders a "real danger to us." and talks with Pakistan. 
Hl'r position, as made clear in 
the situation in East Pakistan--See Our Ad in the which she calls East Bengal--was Journal of Accountancy due to the Pakistani govern-Becker CPA Review Course 
rnent's intransigence and should 
(317)547-9971 
Cultural Commission's 
Literary Program presents 



YEATS COUNTY 
November 8 7:00 pm 205 O'Shaughnessy 
An 18-m inute color film commemorating the centenary of William Butler Yeats, 1865-1965 
Adm. free 


A MECHA recruitment meeting was held this past Saturday with SO to 60 Mexican American High School students from the Chicago area. Heading the meeting were Armando Alanzo (inset) and Gilberto Cardonas 

CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Please add sales tax where applicable 


We're only halfa world away. Con1e join us for less than halftheusual price. 
Ne"v low round.. trip air fare from New York-only $450 direct to Bombay or Delhi. 
50o/o reduction for students on all domestic air and rail fares and re" duced group fares for bus travel. 
Your dollar is still worth a dollar in India. And India has always been a bargain. 
Our Youth Hostels and Holiday Camps also save you money! 

Naturally, you're not thinking about visiting India simply to save money. It is another \\'l)r\d half a world away, and thJt intrigues you. Here's a \\·orld L)f contrasts. A fascinating variety of races J.nd cultures. Where the old and the new abide in surprising harmLmy. The rising cities thn)hhing with life. Old towns reflecting the pL)mp and majesty of Empires long past. The whispering peacefulness of the thtlands. The lush, green jungles. The remote, snow~capped peaks. All this is India. More than ·1-000 years of it. 
What else? 

Our "Meet the People" program lets you visit with an Indian family. And we'w J.nother program that introduces groups of visiting students to Indian students on their campuses. For complete details and more information, see your T r;.lVe\ Agent. Or contact the Government of India Tourist Office. Mean~ while, send in the coupon for your free copy of our 52~page brochure. It brings India somewhat closer. Government of India Tourist Office, New York: 19 East 49th Street. Chicago: 201 North Michigan Avenue. San Francisco: 685 Market Street. Gentlemen: Please send me your free 52~page brochure about India. 
Name ________________________________________________________________________________ 
.~ddress _________________________________________________________________________ 
City State Zip_______ 
See lndila. Its another world. 

Monday, November 8, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 




White House to fight pollution bill 
<cl 1!171 Nt>w York Times agreed that such a campaign was Rep. John Blatnik, D-Minn., set a deadline of Oct. 1 for con­ministration's campaign a 
Washington, Nov. 7-The White under way. Chairman of the House Com­sideration of legislation for floor redraft of the Senate bill, which, !louse has launched an intensive The object of the campaign, mittee, has refused an ad­action this session. Therefore, the they said, was being circulated to campaign among state govern­they said, was to get state ministration request to reopen House bill will not be taken up state governments. A copy of this ments against the extremely governments to reinforce the hearings on the House bill. He has until early next year. The Ad­redraft had alrady been made tough water pollution control bill pressure which the Ad­indicated that he would like a bill ministration, informants said, available to the New York Times passed by the Senate last week by ministration and industry are as far-reaching as the Senate bill. intends to use the time to drum up and was the basis for the in­a vote of 86 to 0. already putting on members of But he recognizes that he faces opposition to the Senate bill, the terviews. 
In interviews today, staff the House Public Works Com­an uphill battle against chief author of which is Sen. Asked for comment today, nwmbers of the Senate and mittee tu report a bill that would Republicans and Southern Edmund S. Muskie, Chairman Muskie said: !louse Public Works Committees, leave to the states the principle Democrats on his committee. It of the Senate Subcommittee on "I am dismayed by the officials in the environmental authority for water pollution is agreed Blatnik does not now Air and Water Pollution and reported White House effort to protection Agency and control, rather than to shift it to have the votes for a near­front-runner for the Democratic undercut Senate-passed water representatives of national en­the federal government as the duplicate of the Senate bill. Presidential nomination. pollution legislalion. The Senate's 
vironmental organizations all senate bill would. The House Rules Committee Spencer M. Smith, Jr., head of unanimous vote to chart a new 


E OBSERVER 

Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Vol. VI, No. 41 SECOND FRONT PAGE Monday, November 8, 1971 

the Citizens Committee on course of action in our fight to Natural Resources, an amalgam clean the nation's waters should of many conservation groups, have encouraged the White said today: ' House environmentalists. Un­
"They're making this a real fortunately, it appears that the cause celebre. Shultz is the Administration has undergone an ringleader. His lieutenants environment metamorphosis, are Train and Whitaker." emerging from the cocoon not as 
George P. Schultz is the a butterfly but as a moth." Director of the Office of Those interviewed also agreed Management and Budget; that William D. Ruckelshaus, Russel E. Train is Chairman of Administrator of the En­the White House Council on vironmental Protection Agency, Environmental Quality and John had put himself in the White 
C. Whittaker is a deputy assistant House "black book" by generally to the President, handling en­supporting the Senate bill. In a vironmental matters. closed-door session of the Senate Some of those interviewed cited Public Works Committee in M 
as evidence of the Ad-mid-October, Ruckelshaus insisted his agency should have final enforcement authority-the very thing that the Ad­ministration wishes to take away from E.P.A., according to en­vironmentalists. 
A few days later, Train and Robert W. Fri, an E.P.A. deputy administrator, talked to some members of the Senate Com­mottee a few days later and took a position different from Ruckelshaus's. Since then, Train, Roger Strelow, his assistant and Whitkaer have been speaking for the Ad­ministration on the bill and in mt-etings with industrialists according to informants. 
memories 
Today's weather report (see front page) brings back fond memories of past seasons to upperclassmen and anxious anticipation to freshmen. While this scene won't be seen for awhile, the cold and the white stuff wiII keep everyone's hopes up (or down, as the case may be). 
China charges India with interference 
Chi-Peng Fei 's statement at the demned the Indian government Soviet Union, which signed aby .ft>an l.t>clerc Du Sahlon today, said Pakistan and China lunch, which was attended by for allegedly having "carried out treaty with New Delhi last·Peking, Nov. 7.--(agence had agreed on "deterrent" Premier Chou, was the first of­subversive activites and military August, the minister said:l''rance-Presse )--China appealed m<'asures to meet external ficial comment on the situation threats against Pakistan by "Certain persons are truculentlylo India and Pakistan today to "aggression" against Pakistan. 
on the subcontinent since Chinese continuing to exploit the East entering pressure on Pakistan by hold consultations to reduce the H<' said that if war broke out references to "Indian Ex­Pakistan question." exploiting tension in the sub­tension on their frontiers. At the between India and Pakistan, pansionists" last summer. In what some observers in­continent in a wild attempt tosame time, China accused the "The colour of the Ganges and "Should Pakistan be subjected terpreted as a reference to the achieve their ulterior motives."
Indian Government of having the Indus will change, it will be a 
to foreign aggression the Chinese 

·'crudely interfered" in house to house battle." 
government and people will, as

Pakistan's internal affairs. The former foreign minister 
always, resolutely support the

A statement by acting Foreign stressed that his country sought 

Faculty discusses
Pakistan government and people

Minister Chi-Peng Fei said, "The "de-escalation" but said that 
in their just struggle to defend

Chinese Government and people India "believes in a foreign 
their state sovereignty and

arc greatly concerned over the policy of terrorism, chauvinism 

India and Pakistan
national independence," Chi­

pn•sent tension in the sub­and interference". 
P<'ng Fei said.

continent." "We do not want an armed 
For several years China has

A visiting Pakistani politico­conflict," Bhutto declared. See page 4 
been supplying large scale

military delegation, led by for­Asked about the results of his 
cconomic aid and arms to

nwr Foreign Minister Zulfikar visit and China's aid to Pakistan, 
Pakistan but observers believed

Ali Rhutto were luncheon guests Rhutto said: "We have taken all 
that it was highly unlikely that, in

today of the Chinese Govern­measures, we feel extremely 
the event of hostilities breaking

m<•nt. reassured that we have covered a 

Cornell analyses
out, China would send "volun­

The d<'legation, which includes canvas completely taking all the 
three Pakistani generals arrived contingencies into account." t<'<'rs." After expressing his support
on l''riday, Since then, Ali Bhutto However, he appeared to rule 

Cambodia, Laos
for the "reasonable proposal" by

has had long talks with Chinese out the eventuality of a direct 
President Yahya Khan for Indian 

Premier Chou En Lai, which, Chinese commitment in the event 
and Pakistani troops to withdraw

according to an informed source, of conflict by stressing that any Details on page 9
to a "respcctable distance" from 

<•nded last night. decisions would be "our own 
thc frontier, Chi-Peng Fei con-

Bhutto. at a news conference effort." 
Page " THE OBSERVER. Monday, November 8, 1971 
3 ND profs interviewed 


Indian-Pakistani flareup a possibility 

by John Wick Three members of the Notre Dame Government and History departments agreed last night 
that India and Pakistan were on the verge of a major war with each other and that the United 
States would maintain a no­interference policy in any case; two members of the Government Department · Dr. Steven Kertesz and Dr. Michael Francis ­disagreed about Pakistan's future relations with the com­munist world. 
According to Kertesz, the crisis is bound to draw India closer to the People's Republic of China When questioned, he contended that in the past the Soviets have mediated between India and Pakistan, but he argued that dm. to treaties that have just been signed between India and the Soviet Union, Russia will-'un­doubtedly" have to devote much moe attention to India. Ac­cording to Kertesz, since Pakistan can "no longer count" on Russia, it has recently shifted its reliance to China. Dr. Kertesz added that though these treaties are supposedly non-military in nature, "It is certain that India 

can count on very close cooperation from Russia." 
Dr. Francis is more confident 
that Pakistan would steer clear of 
more communism in any form. 
He said Indian Premier Gandhi's 
Dr. Joseph Duffy to receive 
$6.00 all three days
Harbison Award for teaching 
Dr. Joseph M. Duffy, a professor of English at the University of Notre Dame since 1954, has been named one of the 1971 winners of the Danforth Foundation's E. Harris Harbison Award for Gifted Teaching. Duffy, who will receive a $10,000 grant with the award, is the second Notre Dame faculty member in three years to be so honored. Rev. John S. Dunne, C.S.C., a theologian won the award in 1969. 
Announcement of the ten 1971 recipients was made at a dinner Saturday night in St. Louis. others are from Harvard, Boston and Temple Universities, thr Universities of California and Texas, the Massachusetts and California Institutes of Technology, and Lake Forest College. 
Duffy attended Columbia 
Harvard and 

the University of Chicago, where he received his doctorate in 1954. He also did post­
.J doctoral stuies at the 
Duffy University of 
Leeds 
The kind of teacher he is can perhaps be best illustrated by quoting from recent course evaluations published by the student-edited Scholastic magazine: "Duffy is a brilliant lecturer who demands only the interest of his students ... This is the study of literature at its finest, critical hardnosed best. .. Most students who have had this course <Literature and the Imagination) consider it one of the two or three best courses they had at Notre Dame ... The paper and test topics are profound and demand serious and original work ... Mr. Duffy's lectures are so excellent that the student feels a moral demand to reciprocate with excellence." 
Winners of the Harbison awar:ds are chosen annually by panels of educators who make their selections from nominations submitted by colleagues, students, past award winners, and college and· university presidents. To be eligible for an award the can­didate must be teaching in an accredited college, junior college or university in the United States and have served as full-time faculty for at least five years. 
An educator noinated for the award is judged on the basis of his capability as . . . "an ar­ticulate, passionate teacher who 

affair ... a universal teacher who cares about values, society as a whole and human beings... with an incredible ability to impart enthusiasm and to teach the very essence of his subject. . . not merely a gifted teacher, but the most hard-working teacher imaginable who believes in the value and goodness of what he is doing and sees it as a necessary task of the spirit," according to Danforth Foundation president Merrimon Cuninggim. 
The program was named in honor of he late E. Harris Har­bison, professor of history at Princeton University and a former trustee of the Dan­fourth Foundation. To date, 75 individuals have received the 

... only$1 
Cliff's Notes are designed to help you be calm, cool and capable in the toughest literature courses. They're written by experts to give you the outside-of-class help you need to understand (and enjoy) your reading assignments. Look them over. Your dealer has nearly 200 titles available covering the most frequently assigned plays and novels. 
~ 
_LC.liffs~lnt~ 
Look lor the Cliff's Notes "First Aid" Station wherever books are sold 
views education as a spiritual L---------------' ;-...., 
,_ 

definite influence on our relationsrecent visit to Washington was with Pakistan. He said that the designed to get Nixon's aid in 
putting pressure on Pakistan. U.S. regarded India as "the key However. Francis contended, to democracy in Asia" but 
contended that it was difficult for that "there is a limit to the the United States to take sides as
amount of pressure which could be brought to bear on Pakistan as a result of her commitments to that country is more anti­Pakistan. 
Acting Chairman of the History Communist in sentiment than Department, Dr. BernardIndia and so perhaps Nixon would Norling, said that the entirebe unwilling to disturb them too much." 
situation may be influenced by 
Russia's actions, though at the 
moment "the Soviets certainly 
have enough problems of their 
own to keep their hands full 
without having to take on In­
dia's. "Dr. Norling also said that 
the United States would most 
likely not interfere in India, but 
"would be content with preachin~ sermons to both sides." 
Dr. Kertesz also noted that the United States has its own treaties 


The Midwest Blues 
with Pakistan. These treaties, he said, go back to when the United 


Festival is coming
States was flying U-2 spy planes into Russia using Pakistani airfields. These agreements, Nov. 12, 13, 14 accordin~ to Kertesz, have a 
at Stepan Center 
$2.50 single performance
award which is conferred an­nually, not only to recognize outstanding gifted teachers, but 

Sponsored hY
also to £'ncourage greater public .. understancling of the art and Cultural Art~ Commi~~ion 
Importance of teaching.___-..:=========== 


A biglove affair. 

Strohs...From one beer lover to another. 
nm ~l'i<OH llltiC\'I'ER\' (~}ll'i'ANY, l>l"l'lttJlT, M.ttf#GAN ·l$b(; 
I 
I 

Monday, November 8, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
SU to sponsor one more concert in first semester 

by Joseph Abell management which might 
Social Commissioner Don persuade them to donate some of Mooney announced yesterday these future profits to charitable that Student Union will sponsor concerns, such as the Bengali only one more concert this Relief Project. semester. According to Mooney, Commenting on the problems however, there will be "several of producing a concert at Notre small concerts at LaFortune Dame, Mooney cited money as Student Center." the chief problem " .. A lot of 
He added that this final concert groups and acts seem to be on a will feature Randy Newman and money trip," he said, contending 

~onny Raitt !n that the "big" groups were hard St. Mary s to get because of the limited ()'Laughlin funds available. Auditorium on Some groups are a "hassle" he Dcc£>mber 10. continued, scoring their 
Mooney demands for a furnished sound l'Xpressed system or special payment for optimism over the transportation of their own the first system. 
Mooney semester's concert Problems, Mooney said, also 
s£>ries. According to Mooney, the include the group's availability 
Social Commission had already and sometimes the group's 
reached the $9,600 ceiling for the feelings towards a particular 
year as set by the University. concert site. "There are a lot of 
According to Mooney, the sum groups that just don't like to play 
"greatly surpassed" the amount college campuses or in the 
taken at this time last year. Midwest for some reason," 
Now that this ceiling has been ,Mooney suggested, adding that 
reached, he said, profits from they would rather play bigger 
any more concerts in the ACC or campuses or large city 
Stepan Center will go entirely to auditoriums. 
the building management. These Mooney also reported dif­
profits had been previously split ficulties in using on-campus 
between the Student Union and buildings as concert sites. "The 
the building managements. ACC will only let us have three 
Mooney also said he "hoped" concerts next semester," Mooney 
for discussions with the said. The ACC's reason is that 
University and the ACC "they don't want too much en-
wage-price freeze: Unqualified success 
The wholesale price index <cl 1!171 N.-w York Times show<•d a decline in October for 
Washington, Nov. 7--The the second month in a row 
country entered today the final dropping by 0.1 per cent. On a 
wPek of the first phase of seasonally adjusted basis, the 
Presid£>nt Nixon's economic index rose by 0.1 per cent, but 
stabilization program. The there is no mistaking the fact that 
n•sults of the 90-day freeze were a the sharp climb in prices of pre­
subject of disagreement in the freeze months was suddenly 
nation's capital. flattened out. 
There was general agreement Similarly, average hourly that statistics indicated that the carnings of non-farm workers frPczc, which ends next weekend, dropped by a penny in October, had brought the wage-price from $3.49 in September to $3.48 spiral nearly to a halt. But in October. bt>yond that, opinions varied On their face, the price figures among administration officials, would seem to bear out the ad­labor lcaders, economists and ministration's claim that public consumer groups. compliance with the freeze has 
Administration officials are been generally excellent. dPscribing phase one as virtually The Office of Emergency an unqualified success, with the Preparedness has reported that fn•czc not only slowing the rise of as of Oct. 31, a total of 770,216 wag(•s and prices but ac­complaints and inquiries have complishing its other goals as bl'en received from the public. wPII. The Office, which administered 
Labor and consumer groups, the freeze, further reported that nwanwhile, arc insisting that, of a total of 36,220 complaints of while phase one may have slowed alleged violations--most of them inflation. it was a failure in that it about prices--18,296 were was inequitable and did not make dctl'rm ined not to be violations; much progress toward solving 7,134 informally complied and the basic problems of unem-4,a98 complied after in­ploymcnt and generally vestigation Meanwhile, 6,192 rc juvenating the sluggish cases are unresolved. Pconomy. The government so far has 
Othcr observers, including reported only six law suits some economists, said that the against alleged violations of the rcsults of the freeze were in­freeze. Other statistics conclusive and its impact on describing the economy are not t•onsumPr adivity and in­as favorable. flationary psychology had not yet While unemployment declined hcl'n dl'tPrm ined. in October, for example, it did not 
Th(•rt• probably would be little dcclim~ much and still stood at a quarrel from any side. However, high 5.8 per cent of the work with a ('ommPnt made by Herbert force. The freeze itslef did not, of Stcin of the President's council of course, directly confront the I<:conomic Advisers, in a recent unemployment problem, but speech: providing jobs for America is at 
"The decision the President the core of Nixon's whole made ..... will have a lasting mark Pconomic package. on Pconomic history." The Gross National Product­
Figun•s issued last week by the the nation's total output of goods Bun•au of Labor Statistics in­and services--rose by only a dicate that the phase one coun­sluggish 2.9 per cent in the July­terattack on inflation itself September quarter. New orders produced dramatic if possibly for durable goods, a key indicator temporary results. of businE>ss activity, actually fell 
in Sl'ptember. 
tertainment" in a given amount of time." 
"The ACC is afraid that people will run out of money if too many concerts are held all at once," he said, pointing out that students also see concerts and shows in 'South Bend and Chicago. 
For the future, Mooney sees more small concerts in LaFor­tune like the Over the Hill con­certs of last year and the folk concerts of this year. "We plan those things only about a week ahead of time," he said. 
He indicated that few plans having been made for next semester besides the annual Mardi .. Gras, a proposed Sock Hop,and more LaFortune con­certs. He was confident, that he would be able to utilize the three concert dates set by the ACC for concerts next semester. 
On the other hund, thz Cultural Arts Commission is making some plans for 'Stepac Center. Bob Brinkmann, Cultural Arts Commissioner, described many proposed activities . 
Major events scheduled include a folk festival and a rock conert. 
The folk festival is planned for the end of April, he said and negotiations are currently being made to feature Neil Young and Tom Rush. He was quick to add, however, that these negotiations have no been finalized as of yet. 


AKAI C-5-SOD 
Autontatic reverse cassette deck Reg. $189.95 $ave $40.00 SALE PRICE $149.95 

Look at these features: Frequency Response 30 to 16.000 H Wow -Flutter less than 0.2%. Auto Stop -Auto s Shut-Off. Continuous Reverse. Pause Control. Two VU Meters 
Index Counter with Reset Button. 

L----------------------------------~ 
\ 
' 

Paae 6 THE OBSERVER 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor 
,\ssistant Editor 

T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers are John Abowd
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend
Business Manager 

anyone or anything if they can help Adve•·tising Manager 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 
B us in e s s: 2 8 3 -7 4 7 1 
News: 283-1715 

The Senate bill must pass 
As a prelude to the sort of dance macabre the President and the Senate are currently going thtough on the question of pollution control, it might be wise to consider what William Ruckleshaus had to say when he visited Notre Dame last February. 
He argued that the states, hot after enough industry to keep themselves solvent and satisfied, would never be able to make and enforce anti-pollution legislation. He said that such legislation would have to come from the Federal Government. 
Last week the Senate passed, 86-0, the first truly Federal Antipollution measure ever. It would have placed responsibility for the enforcement of Federal antipollution laws in the hands of a federal agency ­the Environmental Protection Agency. It would have given the EPA the right to withdraw licensing permits from states which refused to enforce federal antipollution legislation. And it would have a}lowed the EPA to bring offending industries to court. 
Every voting member of the Senate was in favor of the bill. 
William Ruckelshaus was in favor of the bill -he still is. And William Ruckelshaus is not a lunatic radical or a self-seeking democrat. He is a Nixon Republican-the man who ran against Birch Bayh in 1968. He is simply a man who cares about clean air and water. 
But Richard Nixon is not in favor of the Bill. He's in favor of a bill that would allow the states to enforce lantipollution measures -the same states who are competing for heavy industry. The Nixon bill would have a state legislature attempt to enforce legislation that they know might drive industry out of their state. 
The Nixon Administration is now applying pressure on state governments, urging them to apply 
pressure  on  their  members  of  the  House  of  
Representatives. 'The object of all t his pressure~  to  
defeat the Senate bill.  

When he was here last February, William Ruckelshaus said that in the final analysis, society was the pollutor of this planet. And in society lay the solution to the problem. 
Consonant with this philosophy, we urge every student at this University to write his Congressman and discourage him from voting for anything but a bill that will affirm this nation's directive: to clean the air and the water. Society can put a certain brand of pressure on the Congress too. It's about time they began. 
..-----~~~~---------
Nite Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editor: Don Biancomono Layout and Extra Help: Patty Abell, Leslie Cella Anti-Help: WNDU, WSND, WGNU (Cleveland) Sun Greeters: John Barkett, T. C. Treanor, Glen Corso, Ed Ellis (C.S.C.), Don White (sorry Don), Jerry Lutkus, and Debbie Gras Controller of the Night land Dawn, for that matter): rick smith 
Ass't Controller: John Brady 
1. 
sorry aboutthis morning patty (it was 7: 10) 

2. 
thanx for bringing my staff, tom 


Monday, November 8, 1971 
A Column of Priestly Advice 
I'm Not the Kind You Wind Up on Sundays 
One Saturday afternoon about a month ago, as I strolled across the beautiful St. Mary's campus, I was suddenly hailed from all directions with shouts of "Father, Father," and "Father, do you have a minute?" 
I certainly wasn't a father at that time <and I have reason to suspect that I still am not a father), but the sight of so many '.' · pretty chicks running toward, as opposed to away from, me gave cause for reflection, and as I paused I was trapped and beseiged with requests for priestly advice from at least ten girls, all of whom mistook me for the distinguished Director of Sanctity at SMC. Not being a priest, I objected strenuously, of course, but finally consented to a private discussion of the problems of each student, assuming that after I counselled no one would ever again suspect me of beinv a cleric. 
But to my surprise, no one would telieve my protestations of laity even after I had advised, and in the past month I hava been How about it? Can you tell the deluged with requests for aid difference between the
"bearing the same tone of 
distinguished C.S.C. and the 
spiritual integrity" that had 
Observer and Student served the ten or so girls I had (;overnment part-time func­aided. tionary and full-time derelict? As I learned from my friends If not. write on and be saved. later at the Observer, I look like the distinguished C.S.C. who has charge of the collegiate soul of Saint Mary's College, a situation that has caused both of us considerable ill-fortune. <My own case you are now reading; my spies inform me that my colleague across the road has survived six attempts on his life: three poisonings by Sr. Alma, two attempted ax-murders by her secretary, and one attempted suicide.) No doubt my visual double at SMC has received as many letters as have I requesting aid in spiritual matters, so in the spirit of true Christian clarity, I volunteer to take some of the cross from his shoulders by sharing my own advice in the form of a column of priestly advice to young Catholics. Write on and be saved. 
Dearest Reverend Ellis, 
I am a pagan student at Saint Mary's College. I love my gods and pray to them every night. They are not in my room with me, as your Christ is in church, but the idols and barbarous images I use are a quaint reminder of our cultural heritage. Do you think that the good sisters should be able to maka me move my idols? 
Waiting for your advice, Anonymous Sixth Floor, the Convent 
Dear Ano, 
Now we all know that an idol's mind is the devil's workshop, so why don't we be real Christina about this whole thing and just throw those naty old statues into the fire the next time we have a witch hunt at Saint Mary's. Or else throw them out the window at 
the next panty raid. In the shuffling madness, Fr. Eddie 
Dear Fawtha, 
Is it proper to have sexual inhercourse before Holy Communion? I must know, as our assistant rector has refused me communion twice because I was holding ahnds with Esmeraldo. 
Sincerely, Badin Hall Frosh 
Dear BHF, 
It is truly rigpt and just, proper and helpful to salvation, that we may always have sexual intercourse before communion so long as you pgoress through the aisles is not impeded. (Personal to BHF: Tell your assistant rector noo to be such an old fuddy duddy.) 
With a little help from my friends, Rev. Edward T. Ellis, C.S.C. 
Dear .. Fr. Ellis, How far should I go in financial merger? Everything has gone all 
the way but that. Please help, Sister Alma Peter, C.S.C. 
Dear SAP, C.S.C. 
I said "Young Catholics," so beat it. Best, E.T.E., C.S.C. 

Monday, November 8, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
iim e. brogan 
t .h.e. cat and judee sill-superb 
What can you say about a concert that  
was good''  That it was like Beethoven?  
Like Bach?  Like the Beatles?  
Last  I<'riday  night's  ACC  concert  
f~aturing Cat Stevens was for once every  
lut the success that it was billed to be. But  
as everyone who goes to concerts knows, it  
takes more than one act to fill the bill. We  
should only be so lucky that every filler should be this good.  
As the figurative curtain rose  a slender  
doe-eyPd girl  strode  on  stag~  and  per:  
formed the best low-or-no since Sha Na Na .  billing  show  
• Judee Sill. who has recently pressed her  
first lo~g play waffle on Asylum Records,  
sang  Ptght  of  her  own  songs  and  in­ 
tl'rspl'rsed  them with explanations and  
patter  than  cndearcd  her  to  the  pur­ 
posefully small crowd.  
Even though her upbringing has been  
anything but easy  -no  living relatives,  
sentenced to  a  reformatory, sleeping in  
shifts in a Cadillac ( 4 on the floor?)  -her  
songs Wl're as delicate as her life wasn't.  
Take  none  of  the  slickness  of  Judy  
Collins,  a  dash  of  the  fluttering  Joni  
Mitchell.  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  th(•  
honPst clarity of Joan Baez, add them all  
to floating lyrical poetry and the result is .ludee Sill.  
Aftl'r th<> intermission, T.H.E. Cat and  
his thn•e back-up musicians rolled out on  
stagP and steamrolled through fifteen of  
lhP hcadliner's songs.  
All of his offerings were culled from his  
most rl'cent albums (especially Tea for the  
Tilll'rman l  and  he  did  a  splendid job  
tossing his way through each.  The pop­ 
star's hPad and body shook and swayed  
through Pach song as  if he  were  feeling  
<'ach for the first time.  And although he  
wasn't nearly as mellow as on his albums,  
what  hP  lacked  in  smoothness  he  well  
mad(•  up  for  in  rhythmic  power  and  
rampant emotion.  
Stevens has progressed a long way from  
his early albums  of four years ago.  No  
longer do we find simple Stevens'  songs  
likP "I Love My Dog," or "Here Comes My  
Baby" <popularized by the Tremeloes).  
Instead, we find in Stevens not only a r<•porter of the current scene, but also a participator and a commentator on that scene. As last Friday night showed, he is not your common rock skeptic who claims to  In dealing with "Sad Lisa" although he feels her pain, he offers her his shoulder knowing that things will get better. And again in "Wild World" even though his girl is leaving him, he wishes her well and warns her about the future. She has hurt  quite apparent in "Freedom Train" as he told us that he had been "crying a lot about the world as it is," but he still holds out hope that things will get better. As to a world solution, the Cat purrs, "the answer lies within."  
love everything but hollow hate,  while  him, but he still cares about her.  Friday night,  Cat  Stevens  showed  
actually hatiP.g everything but hollow love. Hather Stevens sees the world singularity through his own eyes.  In his own unique way, Stevens can see things through others' eyes too, as in "Father and Son" in which he understands  himself to be more than a competent writer and performer, he presented himself as a modern Candide in the youth­ 
~n hi~ "Mo~m Shadow" he certainly sees thmgs m a dtfferent light. He claims that eyen if he should loose his eyes, his legs, or hts mouth he still can find ways to be happy.  and speaks for both sides of the generation gap -contrasting the calm experienced words of the father with the pent-up emotions of the son. And even his universal outlook became  ful world of rock cynicsm. But whereas Candide was rather mindless abokt his optimism, Stevens reveals a clear un­derstanding of and an intense concern for his situation.  photos by michael murphy  


!ohn barkett 


beings bp 

our work. At the Board of Trustees meeting over USC weekend, I want to end the answer to this question of what's it like 
In his previous article John was explaining how being SBP 
was a frustrating job. He concludes herein -ed. 
we addressed ourselves to this same parietal hours to be Student Body President on a cheery note. Being SBP 
Take other examples. When the Course Evaluation booklet comes out, what a great number of students proposal. We placed our confidence in the students here is the reason I met John Wackowski, an 8-year old boy choose a course by what is the number of tests and papers. and expressed the belief that students lead a civilized and from Springville, New York. John wrote this letter to 
The fewer of both, the more appealing is the course. Yet reasonable life and that they are mature enough to Notre Dame this summer: we are a community of scholars. Or are we A local history determine how they want to live within the bounds of "I love your school and someday I hope to come there. 
professor wrote recently that, "great lear­community life. A night later, at 2:30am, I was returning "I'm going to be a doctor. I'm going to find the cure to ning .... presupposes .... great students" and "we learn by to my hall only to hear a guy yelling obscenities at the cancer because that's what killed my Daddy. But first I suffering and through discipline .... " But who likes to halls next to his. By the time I reached him to find out want to play football for Notre Dame. 
suffer? what he was trying to prove, a crowd of seven or eight had "My Mom said she would take me to a game if I would gathered---to cheer him on, I suppose, because they sure write and find out when they play at home and how to get a
Or take the recent case of four students in a room originally meant to accomodate three. Three of them weren't stopping him. Were our words at the Board ticket. Please write and let me know. Thank You." 
meeting wasted? I happened to have an appo-intment with Jim Frick, Vice decided the fourth had to leave and in no uncertain terms, 
they told him so. Is that the community so many of us Need I give further examples? I could talk about the President for Public Relations and Development, the hour cherish and too many of us hide behind? pumpkin throwing episode Halloween night in the South John arrived with his 11-year old brother Steve and 6-year Or perhaps the worst paradox: The loneliness that Dining Hall, if you'd like. Or about the student caused old sister Mary Beth. John and Steve were dressed in exists at a Christian university. Day after day, too many destruction which goes unpaid for. Or even the deaths of coats and ties and Mary Beth was an angel in disguise. I students--your friends and mine---get drunk or doped up two students in the last two years in drinking-driving can't even describe the fun I had giving them a tour, 
accidents. taking them to football practice, or teaching John how to
or God knows what else because they are lonely. Yet many of us are too insensitive and selfish to help---at a These haunt us as we try to defend students. And if it pronounce "Parseghian" after I introduced them. And I'll 
Christian university! isn't frustrating to give your heart and soul to a cause and let you imagine how a shy young boy reacts to an Lastly, it's frustrating because I question the then be burnt by the very constituency you're fighting for, autographed ND football or meeting John Kondrk and "responsibility" of the students we do so much fighting then I don't know what is. hearing him tell little John to "work hard in school." Such 
Is is worth it? I've presented a bleak picture of a a beautiful family they were; one I'll never forget. 
for. After the Student Life Council meeting of early Oc­
to~er when the parietal hours proposal was passed, a thankless job. It is impossible to please everybody. And Something like that experience makes it all worth it. when you are right no one remembers. Unfortunately, Little John Wackowski has no father at 8 years old and
fnend of mine present at the meeting, was passing by 
Father Sorin's statue only to find three Notre Dame men when you are wrong no one forgets. wants to find a cure for cancer and play football for Notre drinking quart bottles of beer and welcoming each passer­But to answer the question, being SBP is worth it. You Dame. We tamed each other, and one is always respon­
by in their most obscene manners. He asked them if they may find that hard to believe after all I've said, but you sible for what one tames, to use the vernacular of The didn't realize how they were making fools of themselves must realize too, that I chose to run for office for better or Little Prince. Maybe I've done something or will do and asked them to settle down and find a private place to for worse and I accept the job for what it is. I emphasized something to make his dreams come true and to make 
drink. They responded in as vulgar a way as possible and the "hurts" of the position only because there have been Notre Dame more of the place of peace and joy and care 
so many recently that I wonder at times why I and many he and his family felt it is. With that in mind, it has to be
laughed heartily. Were our words at the SLC meeting waster!? others are giving up tens of hours of time each week to do worth it. 

THE OBSERVER Monday, November 8, 1971
Page 8 

warren blumenfeld 
•
school IS not a gay place to be 
Homosexuality at Notre Dame has long b~en a rather taboo subject. The following is presented 1n the hope offostering further discussion on the subject. It is for further understanding among the members of the community. The author grew up in Los Angeles where he attended school. He is presently working on the staff of the Center for Educational Ref?r~ and is working with the National Student Assoc1atwn. The following is reprinhed from the July issue of 'Ed­centric'. -ed. 
"you must be warren" 
As the clock drew nearer to ten o'clock, my fear 
became almost unbearable. I had long since stopped 
listening to my professor's lecture even though the 
material he was covering would undoubtedly be in­
cluded on the final. The anxiety I was feeling made 
attention impossible. I remember sitting in the 
clasroom shaking and dripping wet. I stared almost 
hypnotically at the second hand of the wall clock ­
suddenly the bell rang and class was over. 
Now I had to make the most important decision of 
my life. Was I going to keep my appointment with the 
unknown woman in the college union or was I going to 
stand her up and retreat to the security of my apart­
ment? As I made up my mind to carry through with 
the appointment, I found myself walking out of the 
room ignoring my classmates, trying to be as in­
conscipuous as possible. I was worried that someone 
would ask where I was going. 

I approached the union, trying to regain my com­
posure. I knew that I couldn't face anyone ~n the 
condition I was in, and if I continued to look so agttated, 
everyone would stare at me once I entered the building. 
I took a deep breath and went inside. Then I looked all 
over the cafeteria for the woman with the green blouse 
and blue pants. This was the outfit she had told me she 
would wear when I talked to her over the phone four 
hours earliar. 

Suddenly I saw her -she saw me at the same time 
and got out of her seat to greet me. She took my hand 
and brought me over to her table. 

"You must be Warren," she said. "My name is 
Lee." 

She was not at all as I had envisioned her. She had a 
kind, friendly face and long sensitive fingers. She 
spoke with an air of understanding which allowed me 
to relax in her presence. I wished, however, that we 
were alone somewhere instead of there in the cafeteria 
where at any time an acquaintance might come in and 
find out the nature of our meeting. 
"Lee," I said, "I called you because ... " At this 
point I became extremely tense and could no longer 
continue. • 

"I know of your reasons for wanting to talk to me," 
she replied after almost an entire minute of silence. 
"I've found that many people are in your situation, and 
are in such desperation that they don't know where to 
turn. Please try to continue where you left off a minute 
ago. It would really be helpful to you if you could get 
out the words that are so disturbing to you." 
"Lee, I called you because ... because I think I ... I . 
.. I am a ho ... a homosexual." At that moment I 
placed my head in my hands and wanted to flee as fast 
as I could. After a minute or so she took my hand, and 
as she did, I could see her own eyes swelling with tears. 
It seemed that she knew the torment and self hatred 
which I was feeling because of the simple fact that she 
had gone through the same feelings herself. 
channelling 

I suppose that I have had "homosexual" feelings 
since I was seven or eight years old, but since that time 
until just a very few months ago, I was afraid to admit 
it to anyone, including myself. This meeting with the 
GLF coordinator on my college campus was such a 
threatening thing to me because like most of society, 
school is not a very "gay" place to be. For the 
homosexual in today's educational institutions, life is 
extremely oppressive, lonely and alienating. 
The chain of sexual oppression imposed by my 
schooling started the very first day I entered kin­
dergarten. As my mother dropped me off and kissed 
me good-bye, I felt very alone and began to cry. The 
teacher walked up and said in a rough voice: "Don't 
cry. Only sissies and little girls cry." In retro~pect. I 
realize that she was telling me to deny my feelmgs m 
order to fit a preconceived notion of masculinity, a 
norm I didn't fit and couldn't have fit if I had wanted to. 
Even back in kindergarten, boys were channelled in 
certain activties such as athletics while girls were 
channelled along the lines of housekeeping "skills." 
such as cooking and cleaning up the classroom. This 
channelling seemed to grow more intense in each 
consecutive level of grade school. 

the most oppressive years 
The atutuoes which my classmates developed were formulated within the family unit, but they were reinforced in the school settting. It was usually the girls who were encouraged by their teachers to take advantage of the field trips to the opera each semester, while the boys were pushed to attend a local big league baseball game. It was the girls who we~e allo~ed to help the teacher mix the paints for art perwd, while the boys were permitted to sometimes leave for recess early to get the balls out of the eq~ipme!lt rooms. These instances may appear to be qu1te mmor means of tracking a student accor~ing to sex, but they set. the stage for the most oppressive three years of my hfe ­
the years of junior high school. . 

During this period I began to develop physically and became more aware of my own body. I began to have definite sexual feelings for other members of my own sex. These were feelings which I didn't exactly un­derstand, although although they seemed ver~ real. Once I had a strong sexual attraction for a boy fnen~ of mine. When I told him that I wanted to embrace h1m, he looked at me in the strangest way and called me a "faggot." By that time in my life I knew what the term meant. I was told that "faggots" are homosexuals who are sick and who must go to a psychiatrist in order to be "normal." 
.~fc.b -,_ ,· 

In junior high, "normal" was defined ~Y the teach~rs of our sex education class -the phys1cal education staff. During the course, homosexuality was discussed when we were on the topic of "sexual deviates." If nothing else, this course taught me to keep my homosexual feelings well hidden. Whenever any of my friends told homosexual jokes, I was always the one who laughed the loudest, so no one would discover where I was really at. 
During these years, I hated to go to any school dances. Itwas not that I didn't like to dance, but rather than I wanted to dance with the other boys. Once I had a fantasy of dancing with a boy friend of mine in the privacy of my own room -how beautiful and free it was to finally carry out my desires. 
to never question 

Unfortunately, this was only a fantasy, a brief vision instead of an actual occurence. Subsequently, I rarely attended any of the dances because they were ex­tremely threatening to me. If I were discovered, I not only wouldn't have been able to face my friends and relatives, but I thought that I would have to be tran­sferred to another school so I wouldn't "disturb the educational environment" of my school Recently this was what happened when a 13-year-old told one of his junior high school teachers he was a homosexual. The principal immediately went to talk with his parents and stated that their son would not be allowed back to school unless he was admitted to a qualified psychologist for the purpose of altering his sexual preference. In this instance the parents accepted their son's feelings and were not intimidated by the school They threatened that if their son was not admitted back to the school immediately they would file suit through the American Civil Liberties Union. 
Junior high school sufficiently prepared me for my eventual high school experiences, teaching me ne~er to question the oppressive conditioning I was subjected to. I did not question the military drills in tenth grade physical education class; in eleventh grade I did not question the transfer of a fellow classmate to a con­tinuation school for alleged homosexual tendencies; and I did not question the statement of my twlefth grade English teacher tht "even though Andre Gide was a homosexual he was a good author in spite of it." I felt too threatened to speak out. I tried, instead, to play the games social pressure dictated to me. I went steady with a girl in my history class when I was a senior mainly because all of my friends were going steady and I felt isolated for not having a girlfriend myself. 
My own self-hatred was especially great in high school because I knew I was a homosexual but did not know how to handle it. There was no one to whom I could turn to for help. 
I graduated from high school with the hope that college life would somehow be different. I hoped that people would be more open-minded and readily open to change. To a great extent, this was true. In college, for the first time.. I joined with other people to demonstrate our open opposition to the war in Viet­nam ; now I felt the joy of joining with my Black ~nd Chicano sisters in our common struggle agamst housing discrimination around our campus by the campus slumlords. 
time drawing near 
All of these activities gave me a greater sense of worth, in that now I felt freer to act out many of my previously held ideals, but still something was missing. 
There remained within me a great void from which I could not escape. I knew the time was drawing near for me to make a decision of either coming out with my homosexuality to myself and to others, or else remaining in my suppressed state as I had done ever since I could remember. I continually asked myself why there were no openly Gay individiuals or gay organizations on my campus. 
Then one day in my campus newspaper I saw the headline, in big bold letters, "Gay Liberation Front Denied Campus Recognition." The article went on to say that the chancellor of the California State College system had denied recognition of the Campus Chapter of Gay Liberation Front on the premises that: 
1. 
" ... the effect of recognition by the college of Gay Liberation Front could conceivably be to endorse, or to promote homosexual behavior, to attract homosexuals to the campus, and to expose minors to homosexual advocacy and practices, and 

2. 
" ... belief that the proposed Front created too great a risk for students -a risk which might lead students to engage in illegal homosexual behavior." 


courage and involvement 
After my initial disgust and outrage for such absurd reasoning, I finally chose to "come out of my closet." I soon ch joined an encounter group in the college counseling center which allowed me to gain the support I needed to start to handle my homosexuality in a constructive way. Soon I gained the courage I needed to get in touch with the coordinator of the local Gay Liberation Front chapter as described in the beginning of this article. Since that time I have been involved heavily in gay politics and gay sensitivity groups. 
The void is finally being filled becausenow I have found people who are proud of their homosexuality ­people who are no longer going to put up with the op­pressive conditions which our society imposes on us every day of our lives. People are now fighting in the courts to get chapters of Gay Liberalion Front rein­stated on campuses. A precedent was recently decided in our favor by the Superior Court of Sacramento County, California. In this case, the GLF, represented by the Associated Students of Sacramento State College won a suit against the President of Sacramento State Colllege and the trustees of the California State College System which forced the state college to recognize GLF as a student organization. A court upheld the Associated Students contention that: 
"To justify suppression of free speech there must br reasonable grounds to fear that serious evil will result if free speech is practiced. There must be reasonable ground to believe that the danger apprehenrlPd is imminent." 
Using this precedent, other homosexual groups which have been denied recognition are now waging court battles throughout the nation. Also many groups have not had as much trouble as we have had for there are now over 150 campus homosexual groups throughout the United Staes. The purpose, as stated in one group's constitution, is: 
". . . to further self-understanding among the members, to promote in the community better un­derstanding of homosexuality, and to facilitate a strengthening of social ties between homosexuals and heterosexuals ... to provide ... members with legal, medical and psychological counseling and services as is necessary and proper." 
To be a homosexual in the educational institutions of this country is still extremely difficult even though conditions may appear to be changing for the better. I was able to begin the long process of personal liberation in spite of my teachers and the educational institutions. 
I realize that I can talk only of oppression from the viewpoint of a homosexual male,but the system which oppresses me also oppresses women,. both gay_ and straight, Black people, Chicanos, Nabve Amertcan:' and others. The fact which must be made known 1s 
that we are tired of waiting for change; we are bred of hiding our feelings and we are rising up with pride, love and solidarity. 
Monday, November 8, 1971 

THEOBSE_R~V.-~~R~----------------------------~P~av~e~
• 
Air war escalated in Cambodia 
By Neil Shl"l"han But the study says the average rPduced far less than strikes by newspaper articles, interviews l'scalated steadily is now running 
(cl 1971 New York Times Service tonnage of bombs and other smaller fighter-bombers and are with approximately 80 defense at about 400,000 tons of explosives 
l'xplosives being dropped is still still running at an estimated and foreign policy specialists and a year. 
Washington, Nov. 7--A com­running at approximately the :10,000 tons a month, as compared former military and civilian Th!' report asserted, on the prehensive study of the air war in same level as in 1967, about 70,000 to 40,000 tons monthly during the officials, as well at the once top has is of congressional testimony, Indochina by a Cornell Univer­tons a month. 1968-69 peak, the study says. secret history of the air war that bombing attacks in Cam­sity group concludes that while By the end of 1971, the In addition, the B-52's are being contained in the Pentagon bodia, with attendant serious drastically curtailing combat by llnited States will have unloaded used freely in Laos and Cam­Papers. l'ivilian casualties, have climbed Aml'ricans on the ground the on an area about the size of Texas bodia. Each B-52 can carry one In a telephone interview, steadily since the American Nixon administration is ~ain­six million tons of bombs and hundred and five 750-pound Littauer said the study team had incursion in the spring of 1970 and 
taining a. high level of bombing 
other aerial munitions, three bombs. access to the Pentagon Papers now are at a rate of 90,000 tons a and has, m fact, escalated the air times the total tonnage unleashed The study asserts that the Volumes on the air war between year. This figure that approaches war in Cambodia and Laos. rturing all of world war II. The administration plans to continue the time articles and excerpts tne 124,000 tons dropped on North 
The study acknowledges that study finds that the Nixon ad­the air war through 1972 and wpre published in the New York Vit'lnam in 1966 when an in­the administration has cut by ministration, in its three years in beyond at a cost that could range Times last summer and the tensive air war was under way roughly half the over-all intensitv office, will equal if not surpass from $1.2 billion to $4 billion a publication of the declassified tlwre. 
the l'xplosive power unleashed by year. Citing "sources close to the version by the government In South Vietnam, the Cornellof the air war in Indo China the Johnson administration, PPntagon," the study says plans printing office at the end of group found, nearly 300,000 tons
rfurmg the peak years of 1968 and 1969, when the United States was about three million tons. appl'ar to call for the continued S(•ptPmber. of !'xplosives are being detonated 
Arl'a-obliteration raids by B-52 hasing of about 50 B-52's in liP said the study was initiated in the air war, mainly by thewaging the most intensive stratofortresses have also been Thailand and about 300 fighter­from anti-war sentiments, but grPally expanded South Viet­bombing campaign in history. 
bombers there and off-shore on that the team had subsequently namPse Air Force. This is the 
aircraft carriers. att£'mpted to be as fair and l!'vel of 1966. 
Thl' five-month study, begun in scholarly as possible. The report argued that the

Directory corrections 
May. was sponsored by the The approximately 200-page continued heavy use of air power Corn£'11 Univer~ity Center for prdiminary version of the report was not slopping Communist lnt£'rnational Studies. contains extl'nsive foot-notes and advanc!'s in Indochina and that Til(' tl'am of 19 professors and is illustrated with grafs. The its inher!'ntly wide destruc­stud!'nts·, headed by Prof. group hopes to publish a fuller tiveness was, in fact, making the 

anticipated here soon 
Waltl'r Szwarc, l'ditor of the rfirl'ctories at the Graduate Baphael Littauer, a 45-year-old rPport by the !'nd of the year. achievem!'nt of peace morestudent directory, expressed StudPnt Union office. Though Nuclear Physicist, drew its The report states that bombing difficult by rending the societiesdisappointment with the tmsurp ot" an l'xact date for findings from a mass of source of the Ho Chi Minh Trail supply the United States says it is at­publication of the directory and picking them up. he said that it mat£'rial that included official roads through southern Laos, a ll'mpting to stabilize.
promist'd students that sup­will he about the middle of the Pl'ntagon statistics and reports, rdativelv unpopulated area, has
plementary editions with WPE'k. 
corrections will be printed. 
Szwarc placed the blame for the errors on the publishing l'ompany. The errors included 
reg.omission of the St. Mary's Ad­ministration, 30 missing pages, and many balnk or incorrect phone numbers. 
A supplementary edition with thl' :m missing pages and 4 or 5 pages of corrections will be printed. Szwarc maintained that this Pdition will appear in the nPxt couple of weeks. He advised students not to discard defective directories. 
Szwarc also noted that graduate students will be able to pick up their copies of the student 
0 MAGIC~ 
'\~ J a \ o~~ 
stuperfying 
Natural: 
PHENOMENON 
The\. 

Swirlin~ 



WAVE 
will amaze you 

(yellow, red, green 
choose your color 
Supply the bottle 
and it will be 

molded to your 
specifications 
SPIN THE BOTTLE 


CALL THE DAIRY QUEEN OF SKOKIE 


AT 





reg.
SALE $298 




JeffBeck 
isback. 
1\£ 30973
JEFF 
BECK 



GROUP ROUGH 
AND 

READY 

~ 
Jeff Beck was the IncludinG lead guitarist for GotThe Feeling SituAtion Short Business Jody the Ya rdbirds. And rveBeenUsedNewWays.TrainTra1n on his first two 
solo albums, Rod Stewart was his lead singer. 
"Rough and Ready" is the new album from one of the leaders of the English blues BN 26413 movement. And some of the best rock'n roll ever recorded. 

~k 
.I,. 

truth 

.., t,.,~,., f.!~RC:A R£C T M PRINT£0 IN U S.A 
The Hammes 



Notre Dame Bookstore
5106 

Page 10 THE OBSERVER Monday, November 8, 1971 • 

zgan
Irish Frosh bow to Mich • 
by Vic Dorr, '7-t Notre Dame's freshman football team suffered its first loss of the season Saturday morning, and in many ways the frosh defeat was "a typical Irish loss." When the final gun had soun­ded, Michigan's Baby Wolverines had placed the Irish yearlings on the short end of a 20-6 tally, but the score was a poor indication of the kind of game it was. Statistically, Notre Dame was the dominant team. The Irish frosh notched 20 first downs to 11 for Michigan, they passed for 197 yards to 104 for Michigan, and they gained 342 yards in total offense to 224 for Michigan. But the Irish also led in the turnover category--they lost four fumbles and three interceptions---and this, in the end, made the dif­ference. The Wolverines gained the scoreboard on the game's first play, when versatile David Brown grabbed the opening kickoff on his 21, hesitated a moment, and then raced through the ND coverage team for 79 yards and a score. Michigan's Mike Lantrey converted, and with but 12 seconds gone in the first period, the Wolverines were out in front to stay. The Wolverines were unable to move the ball on their next series of downs, so they punted to the ND 36, where QB Tom Clements directed the Irish offense on its first serious threat of the day. Back-to-back passes from Clements to wide receiver Pete Demerle moved the ball to the Michigan 38, and from there halfback Eric Penick squirmed for a first down at the 32. But Clements was dumped for a 16-yard loss on the next play, and when his fourth down toss to halfback Chuck Kelly fell in­complete in the end zone, Michigan took over on downs. The Wolverines were again unable to make any headway against the impressive Irish defense. and once more they were forced to punt. The kick rolled dead on the Notre Dame seven. and Clements tried again to get his team back into the game. The frosh offense picked up three first downs while moving the ball to their own 35, but Wolverine linebacker Carl Russ -stopped the drive with the first of his two interceptions, and he returned to the ND 34. From there, Wolverine QB Dennis Franklin sent halfback Dave Brown on a quick-out pattern to the right sideline. Irish defender AI Samuel had the ball played perfectly, but the pass glanced off his hands and was picked off by Brown, who carried it 35 yards for Michigan's second score of the game. The PAT failed, but Michigan still held a 13-0 lead with 4:41left in the first period. The Irish defense rose to its stiffest challenge of the day on Michigan's next possession. Facing a fourth-and-three from the ND 33, Wolverine QB Franklin decided to scramble, and made the first down yardage by the length of the football. Tailback Gil Chapman then slipped through left end for a first 
down at the Irish 11. Three plays 
CALIFORNIANS 
X-mas RT Flight LIGHT lA or SF $118 check Rm. 1-D La Fortune 7·8 Mon. 8th • Wed. lOth Tony 7865 (Rick) 1753 

later, Chapman again carried, and he picked up a first down at the ND one by inches. 
An offsides penalty moved the ball back to the six, and from there Franklin's second-down pass was deflected by NO's charging defensive line. Tackle Kl'vin Nobusch broke through to sack Franklin for a four-yard loss on third down, and Michigan's fourth down attempt was stifled when the defense blocked a field goal, and recovered the ball at the ND 18. 
The Irish defense, which was forced to play with its back against the wall for most of the game, was given little time to rest after its sparkling goal-line effort. A snap over the head of ND punter Dave Schwarber gave Michigan a first down at the Irish 21, and then a personal foul in­
fraction  moved  the  ball  to  the  
eight.  
But  the  frosh  defense,  not  

resting on its earlier achievements, once again halted the Wolverine threat. The Irish offense took over on downs when Franklin's fourth down pass to runningback Rich Kaminski fell incomplete at the six. 
The Wolverines threatened once again before the half, when defensive end Richard VanTongeron scooped up an Eric Penick fumble at the Notre Dame 
24. But the defense stopped this attempt. too, when end Bob Sweeney dumped the MU quarterback for a seven-yard loss. 
The second half brought more of the same for the weary Irish defenders. A mix-up in the Irish 



Frosh wide receiver Pete Demerle caught six passes against 
Michigan. backfield resulted in a fumble which Michigan recovered on the Notre Dame 11. The Wolverines advanced to fourth-and-goal from the six, but again the ND pass rush deflected one of Franklin's aerials, and the ball turned over. 
But just as the Irish "D" was good enough to stop Michigan again from within the 10, the Irish offense was again plagued by bad hands. A second backfield mixup Lrought on another ND fumble, and the Wolverines recovered this one at the ND 18. 
And this time there were no defensive heroics. On first down, the Michigan QB rolled to his right and lobbed a pass to Glenn Franklin in the right flat. Franklin, who had come out of the backfield, was all alone, and 
he  carried  18  yards  for  
Michigan's  final  score  of  the  
game.  

130 Dixieway South Roseland 

tJ••ALWrJi DINNERS 
LP"'T'~,_ from s2.65 
Luncheons from 51.45 

Visit The New HARP PUB and enjoy your favorite beverage 
Reservations

Bnaquet Rooms 
272-7373

Available 
or 

Up to 200 People 
272-7900 


SMORGASBOR.D 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat Every Wednesday evening . PITCHER 
zs••• 
$1.00 
NIGHT 

Every Friday night 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 

POLKA BAND·DANCING 

Open Weekdays 11 a.m. -1 2 p.m. 


LAUREL &HARDY , 
PIZZA PALACE ($!. 
4610 Western Ave. Belleville Shoppina: &"enter Phone 289-7t183 
Despite its attack of "fumble­itis, the Irish offense did move the ball fairly consistently throughout the game. But it was not until the fourth period that Clements was able to generate a scoring drvie. Starting from the ND 26, Clements hit Penick for a gain of nine, and then the Irish got a break when Michigan was caught interfering at midfield. A draw to Penick netted 12 yards to thl' 38. Then, with third-and-six from the 34, Clements rolled left, picked up several sharp blocks, and scrambled his way to the Wolverine 13. 
Thl'n, on fourth-and-six form the nine, Clements hit halfback Chuck Kelly on a crossing pattern at the one to give the Irish a first down. Ronny Goodman swept left end for the score at 9:22 of the fourth period, but the point after was blocked, and the 20-6 score stood up for the rest of the game. 
Kelly and Penick were the game's leading rushers, picking up 55 yards <on eight tries) and 49 yards (on 13 carries). Gil Chapman was the leading ground gainer for Michigan, picking up 42 yards in 15 carries. Clements was the game's top passer, hit­ting on 17 of 40 for 197 yards, but with three interceptions. Demerle, though he was shaken up late in the first half and did not see further action, was the leading receiver with six catches for 90 yards. 
For Michigan, Franklin was 4 of 13 through the air, and his backup, John Spahn, was 2 of 4. Glenn Franklin was the leading Wolverine pass-catcher, as his four catches for 64 yards and one TD netted him top honors. 
The loss brings the Irish record to 2-1, with but one game left to be played. That contest will take place next Saturday in Knoxville, Tl'nn., when the Irish yearlings meet Tennessee's Baby Volun­teers. 

man-around-campus­or-anywear boots 
ORIGINAL Continental 


$21.95
Tyroleans pr. 
Specific styles for your kind of action ••• all Italian­crafted in Bronzo or sueded leathers with Vibram or St. Moritz traction soles. And, if your "action" is in keeping up with the trends in style, the rugged looks of Conti­nental Tyroleans® are today's look in boots. For action -or for fashion, you just can't buy better footgear! 
can be purchased at 


Sonneborn'5 
115 W. Colfax Ave. ph. 232-1451 
,----------­
-------~­

' 
Monday, November 8, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 11
-------------------------~----------~ ---------. 

ND smashes Pittsburgh, 56-7 
Eight TD outburst is season's best performance 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 

Pittsburgh -Throughout the s('ason, while the Notre Dame offense has sputtered along, averaging Pbout two touchdowns a game, the coaches and players frequently remarked, "One of these days, we're going to put it all together and when we do ­watch out." The Irish "Put it all together" Saturday afternoon in Pitt Stadium_ 
Sl·oring two touchdowns in every quarter, Notre Dame n•corded its seventh win in eight ganw.s this fall by demolishing l'ittshurgh, 56-7. 
The Irish offPnse, which has 

hcl'n largely overshadowed by 
Ihe prowess of the Irish defensive 
unit during the year, had its day 
in lhl' sun, what little of it there 
was shining in the Steel City, 
Saturday and turned in its finest lll'rformunce of the season. The Irish compiled 5:J4 yards in total offense. 4fl4 yards coming on the ground, and completely dominated an outclassed Pitt ch·fcnse. 
Five players scored touch­downs for the Irish as Notre J>amt' posted its highest point lotul since last year's Navy gaml'. Eddie Gulyas led the Sl'oring parade by running for three scores, Larry Parker added a pair of six-pointers and Tom l:atl•wood. Willie Townsend and Darryl Dewan had one touch­down apiece. 
Irish quarterback Cliff Brown, making his collegiate debut in his home state, did a fine job of h•ading thl' Notre Dame attack . liP topp('d the Irish in rushing, gaining 92 yards in nine carries, including a 47 yard run, the longest ND rush from scrimmage this fall. Brown also completed three of Reven passes for 51 yards and a touchdown and directed six of Notre Dame's scoring drives. Brown wus voted "Player of the <:arne" by the writers in the prt>ss box for his fine per­formance. 
Commmting on Brown's play, l'oach Ara Parseghian said, "Everyone has been expecting too much from Cliff. He has four games under his belt and still rweds plenty of work. But he runs Wl'll and gives us a little more consistency each week. This was his best day and I hope he keeps improving." 
It didn't take Brown and the Irish long to "get it together" against Pitt. Notre Dame showed the Panthers just how things Wl're going to be by taking the opl'ning kickoff and marching 77 yards in I:J plays for a touch­down. 
ThP Irish covered lhl' mtire distance on the ground, Parker skirting ll'ft end from nine uyards out for the score only 4:21 into the first quarter. Gulyas and Bob Minnix contributed big plays in the drive, Gulyas running for 20 ~·ards on a third down play and Minnix picking up 16 on an end SWl't>p. Bob Thomas, kicking into a 22-rnilc an hour wind, missed the t•xtra point attempt, his first had boot of the year after 12 straight, and the Irish settled for an early fl-O lead. 
The Panthers managed to stop the Irish on their next two sortil's down the field, but Notre Dame was able to break through 
for their  second touchdown  in  
the  final  minute  of  the  first  
quartl'r.  
Parker  scored  his  second  

touchdown of the day on a six yard run over left tackle with 35 seconds remaining in the opening period to cap a 49 yard. ten play Irish drive. 
Notre Daml' went for a two­point conversion and was suc­cessful, Minnix going around the right side, behind the blocking of f''rank Pomarico, to make it 14-0. 
A Pittsburgh miscue on the <'nsuing kickoff gave the Irish a break and set up Notre Dame's third touchdown. The Panthers' John Chatman returned Brown's kickoff to the Pitt 25 but fumbled it away there to Tom Devine. 
Seven plays Iater, the Irish made it a 21-0 ballgame. Brown was the big gainer in the short march, picking up 19 yards in three carries, and Gulyas carried the ball in from the one for the score. Thomas booted the extra point just 2:22 into the second quarter. 
Pitt was unable to move the ball following the kickoff and, after three plays netted the the Pitt 26, and, eight plays later, 

the Irish had another touchdown. 
Brown threw his second touch­down pass of the season, on a fourth and goal situation at the eight, for the tally. All-American split end Tom Gatewood was on the receiving end of Brown's aerial and Thomas added the extra point. The scoring grab wus Gatewood's third of the year. , 
After that score, Parseghian substituted liberally but the Irish continued to pile up the points, adding a pair of fourth quarter touchdowns. 
l<:arly in the final stanza, Willie Townsend scored from 12 yards out on a double reverse, hurdling over the last defender and into the Pnd zone for his first Notre Dame touchdown. Darryl Dewan 
uccounted for the final Irish 
score, going in from the five yard 
line with 6:47 remaining. 
Thomas converted after both 
touchdowns. 
Notre Dame almost scored 
ugain in the waning minutes of 
the contest, driving to the Pitt one 
before yielding the ball on downs 
on thP next-to-last play of the 
game. 

Statistically, as well as on the 
scoreboard, the Irish completely 
overpowered the Panthers. Pitt 
was limited to only 113 total 
yards and picked up just seven 
first downs, compared with Notre 
Dame's 28. Notre name was the 
first team Pitt had faced in­
cluding Oklahoma, to r~ord 
more first downs than the 
Panthers. 

The Irish also had possession 
of the ball most of the game, 
running 99 plays to Pitt's 46. 
"I certainly didn't expect to 
lose that badly," Panther coach 
Carl DePasqua said afterwards. 
"They simply five and six yarded 
us to death." 
ThP victory almost proved a costly one for the Irish as their dPfensive leader, Walt Patulski, was carried from the field on a stretcher. The preliminary diagnosis was merely "a bruised kneecap," according to Dr. George Green, the team physician. ~­
"We'll have to wait for X-rays to determine if 'Walter will be with us for Tulane next week," Parseghian corrmented. 
The Irish will host the Green Wuve in the season's home finale in Notre name Stadium next Saturday while the Panthers will travel to Wt•st Point, N.Y. to take on Army. 

Cliff Brown was named the Player of the Game for his performance against Pittsburgh. Brown was Notre Dame's leading rusher, gaining !12 yards, and connected on three of seven pass attempts for 51 yard'> and a touchdown. In this photo. John Cieszowski takes out Joe llern· don to pave the way for a gain by Brown. 




OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Pages IU and II 
Panthers seven yards, they punted back to Notre Dame, Mike Crotty making a fair catch at his own 39. 
Once again, the relentless Irish drove for a touchdown. Ed Gulyas carried for five yards to the 44 and then Brown ripped off a 47 yard run to the Pitt nine on a quarterback sneak. Four plays later, Gulyas hulled his way into paydirt from the one and again Thomas converted,giving the Irish a 28-0 lead with 8:26 left until halftime. 
The Panthers mounted their only scoring drive of the af­ternoon after Gulyas' second score. Pitt was able to move from its own 17 tO the ND 12 in just five plays, thanks largely to a 16 yard run by Paul Felinczak and a 35 yard pass from John Hogan to Stan Ostrowski. 
FPiinczak carried to the Irish II on a first down play but Walt Patulski dropped Hogan for a loss, back to the ND 25, on second down. A third down pass went incomplete but on a fourth down aerial to Ostrowski, Notre Dame's Mike Crotty was called for inteference and the Pan­thers had a first down at the Irish one. 
It took Pitt three plays to score from there, Hogan finally sneaking over right tackle for the touchdown. I<:ric Knisley kicked the extra point to make it 28-7 with only I :40 remaining but that was as close as the Panthers were to come. 
The Trish almost added to their lead in the waning seconds of the first half. driving to the Pitt one before Parker fumbled the ball awuy after being hit by the panthers outstanding linebacker, Ralph Cindrich. 
The Irish wasted little time in putting more points on. the scoreboard once the second half began, however. After Panthers went nowhere in the opening series of the second half, Notre Dame drove 54 yards in 11 plays for their fifth touchdown. Gulyas culminated the march the march by driving over left guard from a yard out for his third score of the afternoon. Thomas' conversion was good, to make it 35-7, 6:06 into the quarter. 

Notre Dame quickly took ad­vantage of another Pitt fumble on a kickoff to build up a 42-7 lead. Chatman hit hard by Pat McGraw, again fumbled the ball this time to Jimmy Musaraca at 
Open B-ball practice slated 
The Irish basketball team will hold an open practice Tuesday, Nov. 8th, from 4::!0 p.m. All intt>rested persons are invited to the practice, which will be held in the ACC. 

Page 12 THE OBSERVER Monday, November 8, 1971 

vvorld briefs 
<c> 1971 New York Times 

Washington--State Deparment officials disclosed that the United States would ~nnounce Monday the cancellation of export licenses for more than $3 million worth of military matertal for Pakistan. The move, which will end the pipeline that has supplied Pakistan with arms despite an announced arms freeze in April, was '>aid to have the consent of the Pakistani government. 
New Delhi--Unimpeachable Indian sources said that Indian troops had twice entered East Pakistan to silence artillery that was shelling Indian territory. India has officially denied such· intrusion into Pakistani territoy. It was the first con­firmation of a border crossing by the Indians during the current crisis. 
Moscow--The Soviet Union commemorated the Bolshevik seizure of power in 1917 with its annual "October Revolution" parade in Moscow, and Western diplomatic and military spE;_cialists said the Russian military might that passed in review before the assembled Soviet leaders in Red Square contained nothing new in the way of weaponry. 
4:30 ..meeting, st. mary'sI fa cuI t ;· ass em b I y, 
carroll hall, madaleva 
:sen 

7:00 -· 2 movies, "nagar­junakonda" and "songs of the south", 349
fl. madeleva 

e 8:00 .. travelogue, three 
worlds of peru,
tJ o'laughlin auditorium 
u 

8:00 .. lecture, dr. charles poinsatte, interpretation
s:: 

of urban history, flanner lounge
0 

I 
8: 30 .. discussion, women 
and athletics, augusta hall, first floor lounge 



I... 
0 

0. 
Q 

--<: 

I 

STUDENT DIRECTORIES 
If vour directory is missing pages Please notify your-Hall President. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

One Electric Typewriter, good or qreat shape. Call Tom 287-2731. 
HELP: Need ride to Nashville, T<'nn. tor Thanksgiving. Will Help witll expenses. Please call Sue ­-1554. 
1yping Wanted ExperiPnced, accurate. 
Call: Jane Smith, 233-4029. 
..... _________ 

affairs for the West German embassy in Washinton, 
Will trade cash and good beer
present Prof. Astrik L. Gabriel, director of the 
rases of Coors for four Tulane
diploma 

University of Notre Dame's Mediaeval Institute, with a 
tickets. Bob 3729. 
formal diploma signifying his induction into the E'L ECTRON ~CS ENGINEER
Bavarian Academy of Sciences. 
NEEDED to work with musician, 
Nov. 15 

'.--t 
Nov. 15-16 Nov. 16 
Nov. 17-18 Nov. 18 
Nov. 18-19 
Nov. 19 University of Cincinnati · School of Law. Interested students should sign at Pre-Law Scoiety in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

Marquette University · Graduate School of Business Administration. Bs, BBA, BA including Law School. 
Washington University {St. Louis. l Graduate School of Business Administration. All BA and BS. 
ON SALE: llr.1nd new, guaranteed S-track ilnd cassette. Iapes. Fantastic SC'Iections. All Iapes onIy $2.99. C.1ll 1781 (Paul) quickly. 
Ampex Auto Reverse Tape Recorder. New heads. $185. Bob 3729. 
For Sale: '66 Ford Fairlane Cheap. Must sell now any reasonable offer . Mike 6729. 
--------·-­
For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. '67, Air cond., Power steering and brakes. 'His-Hers' transmission, linted glass, black interior. Call and make bid. 289-7433. {Bill). 
N D Jacket Brand new. No patch. $20. Size 36. Call 6905. 
... ------------­
2separate student tickets for sale. Call Tom 287-2731. 
Garrard SL 65B Turntable with base, cover, and shure M93E. $70. 
S!'nnheiser Stereo Headphones. 2 n•ontlls old. Excellent condition. Call 6827. 
Boston's  PHOENIX  now  
available.  Cheapest,  most  in·  
leresting  alternative  press  

,,round. (25 cents) Call 232-9186. 
PERSONALS 
Does anyone remember a Pep Rally in the Old Fieldhouse? Senior Class '72 does! 
Life is what you are alive to. Nonsense. Zapd 
Mommy and Daddy, My shoes are all scuffed up. Love, Edith Ann 
You could have been back sooner if you had eaten lhose carrots. W0lcome back, Giggles. 
.. ______ 
Classified Ads paid for in cash wllen ordered. 2. Office hours 
12:15 5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day hE'fore publication. 
W..lda. 2da. 3da. 4da. Sda. 
l-It ... .71 ••• 1.15 1.21 11-11 ...... l.)S 1.71 1.11 1'"• •71 us uez... za 
Zl-11 • us z.tt z.lt 1.6 
.... ..• ..,..... ""' 
Jl-35 1.• L. IM ... f~7t 31-41 us z.aJ t.Jt us 1.11 u..aus ut u.·ue s.• 41-Stus z.se Ue •.75 •·• 



PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up this week for iob interivews for the week of November 15. 19. 
Interviews are open to ND and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding interviews and prodcedure. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF NOVEMBER 15-19 
Chemical Abstracts Service. BS, MS in Math. and Phys. {Computer Oriented) All degree levels in Chern. 
College Life Insurance Co. of America. Bus. Ad. and Lib Arts. 
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. -Home Office. BBA in any major with at least 9 credits in Accounting for Accounting work. BA and BS in Math. for Actuarial. BA, BBA for Insurance Admin. MBA for Real Estate and Business. 
Syracuse University. ·School of Management. All majors and degrees. 
Price Waterhouse & Co. BBA in Acct. 
Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co. of Chicago. BS, BBA and MBA for Auditing, Bond, Commercial Banking, Comptroller, Comp. Sciences, International Bunking, Investment, Marketing, Operating, Personal Banking. 
Xerox Corporation. BS in M.E. and E.E. for Mfg. Engr. BA and BBA for Sales. MBA.
. 

Corps of Engineers· Chicago District. BS in M.E. BS, MS in C. E. BBA in Acct. 
Howard, Needles, Tammen & Bergendoff. BS in C. E. 
U.S. Naval Ordnance Laboratory. BS in Ch.E. and M.E. All degree levels in E.E. Arthur Andersen & Co. BBA in Acct. MBA. Duke University· Graduate School of Bus. Admin. Bachelor's Degree. Long Island Lighting Co. BS in M.E., M.E.I.O. and E.E. Universal Oil Products Co. BS, MS in Ch.E. Lybrand,RossBros.&Montogomery. BBAinAcct. MBA. American Cast Iron Pipe Co. BS in C. E. and M.E. BA and BBA for Sales. Burroughs Wellcome & Co. All degrees interested in Pharmaceutical sales. Insurance Services Office. BA or BS, MS in Math for Actuarial trainee. Home Office 
in New York City. 
WC'iter, and photographer. Tri­medial production control via computer. Call 283-8580 after midnight or before 8 am. 
Urgent: Need 5 General Ad­mission Tix to Tulane Game; Need not be adjacent. Call John al 1607. 
NC'ed ride to Cincinnatti or Dayton area, Friday November 12. Call Joe 3676. 
N0eded: Ride to Knoxville, Tenn. tor Thanksgiving. Call Jim 6952. 
Nc'ed 2 qeneral admission tix to Tulane Call Doug at 1723. 
Wanled: 1 general admission Tulane licket. Call Janet at 4037. 
Will pay top money for 4 general odmission Tulane tickets, need nol be adjacent. Call Bill 8227. 
--_,._______ 

Sr. wants to move to nearby farm or willl1elp to organize one for 2nd semester. Call 232-9186. 
NOTICES 

NEED MONEY? 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 
11:1512:15. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only through indiv. cosmC'ticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
SMC GIRLS: Part time job ilvailable. Call Denny . 8680. 
Fix your OWN CAR tonight. We llave tile space -lools · parts and llelp. You do the work and $AVE. Autotech Rl. 31 South in Niles. 684 1960. Open evenings and WC'ekends. 
FOR SALE 

Quality 8 track tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715. 
• 








