
Vol. VI. No. 30 
Thursday, October 21. 1971 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Finances cloud merger 
Trustees to meet this weekend 
by Ann Tht>rese Darin 
Although the Boards of Trustees for Notre Dame and St. Mary's are coming together this weekend, it may be some time before the two schools do the same thing. 
Yesterday, Rev. Jerome Wilson, vice­president for business affairs, confirmed a news story in Wednesday's OBSERVER 
that  unification  may  be  impeded  by  
financial problems.  .  .  
"The  sisters  insist  on  the  fmanc1al  

arrangements being settled on before merger," he said. "Sister Basil Ant~wny and Sister Gerald don't want any busmess affairs, such as personnel or purchasing unified until this happens." 
In Father's opinion, one of the main obstacles to unification is negotiation of a lease for the buildings on St. Mary's campus by the university. The lease would cover all of the buildings on the campus now being used by the college. 
"the order won't sell" 
The present owners, the Sisters of the Holy Cross, "won't sell the buildings or give them or lend them to Notre Dame, but they will lease them," the business affairs head alleged. "If the lease they want is too high, the unification would have to b~ called off. We can't unite and go broke. 
Fr. Wilson could not predict what the lease would be. "It could be anywhere from $1 to $500,000 or more depending on Leasing the buildings, however, is only 
what  the  Sisters estimate  the  cost  of  
maintaining  the  buildings  and  property  
will be."  

many "hidden costs" 
one of the hidden costs of unification which the Boards will review this weekend. The shuttle bus service, coex classes, use of the computers by St. Mary's and coex dining could all be figured as other hidden costs. "These hidden costs might total a lot of money," Fr. Wilson said. 
Meshing the different sets of fringe benefits for university and college em­ployees also faced the Inter-Institutional Team for Business Affairs. "If ND would adapt some of their benefits," warned Fr. Wilson, "it may cost us much more money." 
For these reasons, Fr. Wilson's com­mittee is "taking unification line by line." To date, there has been an agreement to exchange no money for coex classes bet­ween the two schools. 
"The number of students taking coex­. change classes has been pretty even over the four-five year period," he said. Even though Notre Dame classes do cost more per credit hour than St. Mary's classes, the university has not asked the college fur any renumeration. 
Questioned on why St. Mary's has not been prodded to reimburse the university 
(continued on page 6) 

Rev. Jerome Wilson: "The sisters insist on the financial arrangements being settled on before merger." 
"Sister Basil Anthony and Sister Gerald don't want any business affairs, such as personnel or purchasing unified until this happens." 
au.,.~ 
. '¥-'' 
A group of South Bend children with their St. Mary's companion prepare to go to last year's Georgia Tech game. 700 students donated their tickets to the program. Eric Andrus and Jack Candon are sponsoring an exchange for this year's Navy game. 
Ticket exchange for Navy ga1ne 
Story on page 3 
Hesbmgh touches finances, education in faculty talk 
by Jerry Lutkus 
Obst>rver Nt>WS Editor 
Claiming that "we are going to do Pverything possible in the next few vears to live within our income," ikv. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Notre Dame President, opened his twentieth address to the faculty ~·(•stcrday. Hesburgh expressed puzzlement over areas to find "new money" for the university. 
We coulrl "always raise the tuition. hut there's a point where that has to stop," the administrator said, adding that the university has not n•ached that point yet. The president spoke to the faculty in Washington Hall. 
The question of economic priorities is being put before the provost according to Hesburgh after lw has had a year to view them. "Tiwse priorities are essential to the survival of the institution," the president said. 
Touching lightly on the topic of the unification of Notre Dame-St. Mar~··s. Hesburgh evoked the laughter of the faculty by noting that student affairs are unified "by in­!-.tinct". He said that the academic aspPcts of the m(•rger are progressing \'ery well. but that the financial end has suffered some d(')ay. 
"WP are looking for a financial formula through which we can unite both schools.'' Hesburgh said, "but unfortunately that formula hasn't b(•en found yet." The University President stated that "we <the universityl don't want to pressure, but W(' can't do anything that's not financially viable for us." 
(continu<'d on page 6) 

---~----------­
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, October 21, 1971 
Hassan: Can the novel survive? 

contended that "there are more 
by Joe Tanzosh novels being printed now than 
ever before, and more good 
Employing .a lecture form he ones." But he wondered aloud termed "para-criticism", whether the novel could survive Professor Ihab Hassan last night much past the present. 
SMC counseling depts. set open house date 
St. Mary's Counseling Department and Career Coun­seling and Placement Office has scheduled an open house for next Thursday, October 28, to give students the opportunity to visit the facilities and become aware of the services available to them. 
The Counseling Department, directed by Miss Mary Martucci, offers not only psychological and guidance services, but also works in cooperation with the student advisor program and has recently extended its in­volvement into the area of psychological testing. 
"We are interested in 
preventative mental health and 
individual and group develop­
ment through counseling," ac­
cording to Miss Martucci. 
"In previous years, the implicit 
focus of the department was on 
the freshman class. However, 
this year we would like to see an 
even distribution of students 
from all classes on both cam­
puses taking advantage of these 
services. With the addition of a 
new staff member, Mr. Timothy 
Casey, more extensive services 
and a variety of programs can be 
offered to all students." 
Pres. Nixon expected to name Friday 
<c) 1!171 New York Times 
Washington<Oct. 20)--The White House informed Arkan­sas's Senators today that President Nixon will nominate Herschel H. Friday of Little Rock to the Supreme Court, probably tomorrow, qualified sources reported today. 
There have been persistent reports that Friday, a municipal bond lawyer and frequent defender of Arkansas school districts against desegregation suits, would be named to one of the court vacancies--and that Judge Mildred L. Lillie of Los Angeles would be chosen for the other. 
However, there was no con­firmation that a nomination of Mrs. Lillie was also imminent, and the White House appeared to be backing away from its earlier pronouncements that both nominations would be made this week. 
The A.B.A. Committee met at the Wall Street law office of Lawrence E. Walsh today, amid reports that the Nixon ad­ministration was being pressed from several quarters to sub­stitute the names of one or two candidates that the committee could enthusiastically endorse. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
The Career Counseling and Placement office, directed by Miss Janice Wheaton, focuses on the occupational and vocational needs of all students. It provides information concerning em­ployment opportunities. 
And also specializes in a per­sonally suited and "up to the minute" evaluation of the job situation today. 
The open house will be held from 1:00 to 5:00 p.m. and all interested students are cordially invited to come by. 
Hassan, from the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, divided his talk, which he titled "Fiction and future: an extravaganza for voice and tape" into thirteen sections. He continually em­ployed a tape recorder, many times with a voice superimposed on music, to give digressions, anecdotes and explanations on the thirteen topics. 
Citing works of many young, relatively unknown authors, Hassan argued that novels are divided into categories of "silence" and "fantasy", although many novels have strains of each. He defined a silent novel as one of "self­parody" having "its base in anti­literature". A fantasy novel Hassan speaks of "pure vision" and has its base in science fic­tion." 
The strains of silence and fantasy meet today through irony in the works of Barth and Von­negut and may meet in the future in some other fashion, Hassan contended. While this meeting is happening, Hassan said the novel portant for prophecy, and can will undergo "mutations". lead us to the limits of the 
Hassan concluded his lecture universe," he said. "Then the by arguing for the effect that face to greet man at the end may dreams have on the future. be the transfiguration of his own "Dreams become fact, are im-face." 



Help people breathe a little easier. 

You could find it the challenge of a lifetime. 
We make the equipment that makes air better-for man and his machines. We need sales engineers and application engineers to put our equipment to work around the world. 
AAF, listed on the New York Stock Exchange, is an international leader in air filtration, air pollution control and heating, air conditioning and ventilating. Each area of our business is a growing one both in personal challenges and personal rewards. 
If you're looking for a future in an 
AAF representative will be on campus NOVEMBER 1, 1971 
tW I~~·:1n 1s nun ousiNEss 
industry as vital as life itself, the business of better air, write to 
H. C. Gans, our personnel supervisor. American Air Filter Company, Inc., 215 Central Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky 40208. An equal opportunity employer. 

~-------~----­
Thursday, October 21, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 


World Briefs 
(c) Nt'w York Times 

United Nations, N.Y.--The attempt to provide separate seats for the Taipei and Peking governments, the Soviet Union said Wednesday in the United Nations debate on China, was an unsavory policy intended to sever Taiwan from the Peoples Republic of China. Voting on the issue was expected to begin next Monday. 
Oslo, Norway--Willy Brandt, the West German Chancellor, was named the recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize for is efforts to less£>n East-West tensions. 
Peking--Henry A. Kissinger arrived in Peking and, within hours, as conferring with Premier Chou En-Lai about arrangements for the forthcoming visit to China of President Nixon. 
Washington--It was disclosed in Washington that C. Jackson Grayson Jr., Dean of the Southern Methodist University Business School, would be named by President Nixon today as chairman of the Seven-Member Price Commission, the body that will oversee phase two price controls. Grayson is a consultant for several oil companies. 
San Francisco--The prime rate, the interest rate that banks charge their favored business customers on loans, was lowered by several major banks from~ percent to 5% per cent under heavy pressure from the administration. 
I 4: 15 lecture frederick j. crosson, "recourse to vilence", 127 niewland
U2 7:30 lecture, dr. wesley daley, "black west
::s 

indians and black afro-
fl.. americans: the relationship", librarye auditorium 
7:30 & 9:30 flick' "last summer", engineering
tJ 
auditorium
u 

8:00 lecture, eric heller, "literature and social
s:: responsibility"' little theater
0 8:30 drama, "the duchess of malfi", o'laughlin auditorium
I 


Student ticket donations set for Navy 
by Mick Kant' 

Students at Notre Dame will be able next week to donate their student football ticket for the Navy game to underprivileged South Bend children. 
Due to what program directors Eric Andrus and Jack Candon termed the "overwhelming success of last year's project," th£' Merry Pranksters will 
We once again would like to convey our strong support for the second annual Student Ticket Project, sponsored by the Merry Pranksters, Robert 
F. Kennedy Institute, and the St. Mary's Community Relations Commission. This year's program is set for the Notre Dame Navy contest of October 30. The generosity of the student body last year for the Georgia Tech game was extremely gratifying, and we urge the student body to show their enthusiasm for this project by donating their tickets on Monday and Tuesday of next week. 
The South Bend Com­munity has been a loyal supporter of Notre Dame athletics for many years and we are happy to see that loyalty rewarded. The students are providing an opportunity for ap­proximately 1000 area youngsters to witness a Notre Dame football game­
-an opportunity which otherwise might not be available to them. We appreciate your support of this worthwhile event. 
Thank you. Ara Parseghian Tom Gatewood Walt Patulski 

sponsor this Ticket Project. 
I<'inancial  assistance  will  be  
provided  by  the  Robert  F.  
Kl'nn£>dy  Institute  for Social  

Aetion and Saint Mary's Com­munity Relations Commission, according to Candon. 
This year's project will be Pxpand£'d to include 1,000 youngst£'rs, Candon said. The ehildrPn will receive hot dogs and pop donated by the Knights of Columbus, transportation to and from the gam£' and a tour of the campus before the game. 
Andrus, a Smior and an off­campus Senator, said that there will b£' a n£'cd for approximately 100 student monitors and an additional fiO to 70 students with cars to provide transportation. There will be a general meeting of all interested students at 10:00 
p.m. Thursday, October 21st, in the Fiesta lounge of La Fortune Student Center, Andrus said. 
Th£' program has r£>ceived the support of coach Ara Parseghian and team captains Tom Gatewood and Walt Patulski. In a letter to the Observer, the trio called the program a "wor­thwhile event." Last year's endeavor received national publicity from AP and UPI wire services and was also mentioned by Father Hesburgh when he appeared on the Dick Cavett Show last November. 
Andrus said that the tickets should be presented at the Convocation ticket office on Monday and Tuesday October 25­26th. The ticket will be punched and returned at that time. Ac­cording to Andrus, one student can bring as many student tickets as he can carry. No I.D.'S will be requir£'d. As an alternative to going to the game, Andrus suggested that students organize smokers, as the game will be tel£'vized on Channel 16. 
"Everybody's been great about this project," said Andrus, "especially (ticket manager) Don Bouffard and his staff for th£'ir excellent cooperation. I feel very optimistic about its suc­cess." 

Clothes and things 
Men's Boutique 

t~e Ptt Staft 
"On the Mall"-McKinley Town & Country Shopping Ct>nter-Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259· 
7:1:15 

MARDI GRAS '72 NEEDS YOUR HELP •I 
Wanted: Hall Representatives from each hall on campus and each hall at SMC. 
Job: Distribution of raffle packets to various floor representatives; collection of money from floor representatives. 
When: Distribution begins in early Nov.; collection begins after Christmas. 
Incentives :free admission to M.G. Kick-off Par free admmision to M.G. Carnival 2 free tickets to M.G. Concert 
Please-The N.D. Charities Need Your Help: CALL Greg Stepic 6967 
1: 

.Jack Can don (left> and Eric Andrus who are organizing the ticket exchange for the Navy game. 
ACCOUNTANTS 
... the fun and excitement of living and working in a foreign country ... seeing places you've always heard about ... this may be yours as an ac­countant for Amoc:o International Oil Company, the wholly owned sub­sidiary responsible for foreign opera­tions of Standard Oil Company (In­diana). Our representative will be on cam­pus to interview accountants for an on-the­job training program in our Chicago General Office. These are challeng­ing, interesting positions offering you real professional growth that can lead to unlimited advancement op­portunities in the United States and abroad. We offer an exceptional starting salary and a superior bene­fit program. Contact your placement office to ar­range for an interview. 
•-----------------------­
Page 4 THE OBSERVER. 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Assistant Editor Editm·-in-C'hief Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor 
All successful news.papers are 
John Abowd

T. C. Treanor ceaselessly querulous and bellico'ie. They never defend anyone ~r anythonq if they 
Adn•t·tising Manager

Business Manager can help it; if the job is forced upon them, Jim Jendryk they tackle it by denouncing soon cone or Bill Bauerle 
something else. -H. L. Mencken,Founded Nov~>mber 3, 1966 Nuln• l>anw. Indiana Business 283-'1471 N('WS tiU·Ii'l5 
We 'II All Lose This Way 
As it started out, it would have been a relatively simple proposition. 
The University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Colleges were going to 
merge. The two would live as one; Notre Dame paying some low and 
nominal lease fee to the Sisters of the Holy Cross, who own most of the 
grounds on which St. Mary's is situated. Right? 
Wrong. Apparently we have a bunch of liberated nuns over at St. 
Mary's, and they are looking for a little more than nominal fees. What 
they may be looking for, in fact, as a guaranteed income for their whole 
order for the rest of its existance. 
The fact that most of the hard expenses -the difference in classroom 
expenses, the difference in food expenses, and similar expenses -are 
being paid for by Notre Dame seems to make very little impressions on 
these venerable nuns. Well, it makes an impression on us. We want 
coeducation, but there's no percentage in a merged Notre Dame-St. 
Mary's for anybody. Including the nuns. 
We hope that the problem can be soon solved-the situation has all the 
earmarks of something ugly to it. And merger isn't the only way to 
coeducation. We know it. The Notre Dame Administration knows it. The 
St. Mary's Administration knows it. We hope the nuns learn it before a 
costly revision in plans has to be made. 
But We May Have Winners This Way 
A year's practice has made the South Bend Ticket project a doubly well-run operation. South Bend kids---many of whom haven't had a day with three decent meals, let alone seen a big time football game---will be able to go to a real live Notre Dame game, if the students here are generous. Last time there were bureaucratic foulups; but the people went anyway. This year we'll find out how successful the operation is if it's left totally to students. 
Navy means nothing to us; they play football about as well as Notre Dame pilots submarines. There's not a student here who'll miss the game if he doesn't see it. But to the kids in South Bend; seeing a real Notre Dame football game---even if it's against the Holy Cross Nuns---is great entertainment, and about the only entertainment they'll be getting this month. 
The need is there; the operation is smooth and has been successful; the 
risk is minimal. Why not give up your ticket, then? Somebody in South 
Bend will be mighty grateful. 

Thursday, October 21, 1971 
Steve Lazar 

When The Saints Come Marching In 
"God sleeps! God sleeps!" cried Antonio Perez during the stormy years of the 1590's. "That's heresy", replied King Phillip of Spain as he sentenced the outspoken miscreant to burn at the stake. "If it is God the Father who has allowed the King to act so disloyally towards me," retorted Perez hot-headedly, "then I'll pull God the Father's nose!" 
Such lively scenes from the often baroque history of the Catholic Church have hardly any counterpart in the Christian Church today. The decline of monarchs and popes with temporal powers and the rise of the middle and industrial classes has brought as a consequence the almost complete and quite paranoid separation of Church and State. With all temporal powers falling to the State the Church has been ushered to an arid and inconspicuous corner of society. She no longer has the power to dispense so warmly with those flaming heretics who in the past kept popping up from the rabble to strut fretfully for an hour or so upon her stage. Now that both clerics and laity alike have recognized that the Church's main power is a symbolic one they no longer fear an Inquisition or even lesser threats such as ex­communication. What it comes down to today is that no one has 
the authority or even the nerve to distinguish the goats from the lambs or the heretics from the holy rollers. In short, apathy prevails. 
This is not to be facetious. Damnation is hell. Just which life style leads to it, though, and which to paradise, is hard to say. It is, however, still worth considering for anyone who feels an obligation to act on behalf of his immortal soul. Among the unsureness and in­difference with which many regard Christianity today there seem to be two poles toward which people gravitate who actually want to live the religion. These categories are the broadest possible and have therefore at least some validity as well as a lot of nonsense. They have been called the Culture and the Counter Cultuure. 
Ah yes, you have heard that term "counter culture" before. The author whose ideas I am presenting here has borrowed it gratuitously from Theodore Rozak, who in turn borrowed it just as gratuitously from someone else, with the exception that he had to translate it out of German. This is merely a way of saying that the ideas here are far from entirely my own. 
The Chnstian of the Culture and the Christian of the Counter Culture then, both claim to embrace the same truths about Divinity and Jesus Christ, but they differ radically in their approaches to living their beliefs. Basically the Culture corresponds to the establishment-type society and the Counter Culture to the disaffiliated young. In an earlier age of Church history one side would have had papal and governmental preference and the other the ignominy of heretics. Today it just isn't the case; thus we pick and choose. Here then is how our author--obviously biased towards the Counter Culture­contrasts the one side with the other: (1) Culture: action based on activism. Counter Culture: action based on meditation. {2) Culture: militarism and nationalism. Counter Culture: pacifism and in­ternationalism.. (3) Culture: middle class conformism <St. Paul type: "If a man will not work, let him not eat"). Counter Culture: other-worldly spirit of poverty <Beatitudes type: "Blessed are the poor in spirit"). (4) Culture: isolated nuclear family type individual. Counter Culture: community type individual. (5) Culture: absolute economic sense of private property. Counter Culture: Theological sense of private property (socialist-marxist). (6) Culture: division of churches on basis of socio-economic status accepted because the State and secular life are seen as separate and cut off from the living roots of religion. Counter Culture: division of churches on basis of socio­economic classes (e.g. Catholics, Presbyterians, Baptists) seen as absurd. (7) Culture: accepts Church teaching straight down the line from forbidding birth control to St. Paul's opinion that long hair on men is a disgrace as if it were divine revelation. Counter Culture: accepts as the word of God with regard to sex and marriage that a Christian marriage (marriage in Christ, in the love of God) does exist, but sees other Church teachings (monogamy, sinful-homosexuality) as mere human tradition subject to change. 
In sum, from the Culture's point of view, men are here to serve the institution; from the Counter Culture's point of view the institution is here to serve men. The conclusions I wish to draw here are few, if any. I would merely like to point out that there exists an entrenched 
bourgeous Christian life style and an increasingly popular alternative. With which group the future lies one cannot say with certainty; but I feel strongly that our saints will not have a suburban mentality. 


r~~=::~;:::;-1 
I I 
:::: Nite Editor: Dan Barrett ;:;:; :~:~Headlines: John Kloos, Kathy News Editor: Jerry Lutkus :~:l: :;:; Schwille; Jerry Lutkus SMC Editor: Ann Conway :;:;: ;:;:Layout: Beth Hall, Kathy, Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson:::~ ;:;:Jack Frischkorn, Dandy Don, Features Editor (in ab-;:;~:l:j Ken Kampman, T.C. Jerry sentia): rick smith :l:l: ;:;: Nite Controller: John Brady House Mother: Ceil Popovich::;:: :;:;Breakfast and Tran-:;:;: :;:: sportation: Orlando and TC ~:;: 
l~J 
I 
{ 
I I 
\ 
\ 
! 

Thursday, October 21, 1971 THE OBSERVER f:'age 5 
art ferranti 
•

'the shadow'-USing ones ' imagination 


"Who knows what evil lurks m the hearts of men? In addition, The Shadow maintains other alter-egoes The Shadow knows ... " And so begins another thrilling all over the world such as Kent Allard, a big-game adventure of radio's most perfect hero, The Shadow. hunter in Africa. He also oversees a network of un­The program, the longest running of the old radio dercover agents who know his aliases but not his true dramas <over thirty years beginning in the "20's), has identity. His lop agents are Margo Lam', Cranston's recently been revived on WSND AM and FM 11:30 secretary; Harry Vincent, his leg man: Stanley, his 
P.M. to 12:00 midnight <'V<'ry Thursday spohsored by chaffeur: and Burbank, his communications mid­Gilbert's.. dleman. 
However, many people, especially anyone born after 1950, know little of the Shadow. So, in order to get the maximum enjoyment out of the program, here are the basic facts concerning The Shadow. 
The Shadow is the most perfect radio hero due to the fact that he is "only heard, never seen" as the early programs put it. Since radio is a completely oral medium, one had to let his imagination provide the various scenes and characters. What then could be more perfect for a radio series than to have its hero heard and not seen? And it is because of imagination that The Shadow and other radio series survived for so long. 
But who is The Shadow? Many among the readers of this article would answer Lamont Cranston. And those who did would be wrong. No one knows who The Shadow really is. The facts concerning his origin, though, have been made known through the pulps by Walter Gibson, alias Maxwell Grant, the originator of The Shadow. 
The man known as The Shadow today was trained in the f<'ar East, an American chosen as the successor to a wise and venerable sage who knew the secrets of the black slouch hat, the &11-engulfing heavy black cape with the blood-red lining, and the mysterious fire-opal girasol ring which often flashed the same macabre hue as the innerlining of the cape. The chosen one of the sage spent months sharpening his intellect. He learned to control every muscle in his body, so much so that he could become anyone he wished without make-up. The sage died and willed his possessions and their secrets to the man. F'rom that moment, the man gave up his identity, and became forevermore, The Shadow. 
In order to combat crime, The Shadow needed alter­egoes. lie approached Lamont Cranston, a stocky, Of his physical characteristics, little is known. The wealthy industrialist in New York City who had Shadow is tall and sinister in appearance, garbed in his become lax in his business dealings, and look over his black slouch hat and cape. Under the hat's brim, two identity. Hy sheer muscular contractions and a fiery eyes and a hawk-like nose can, at times, be seen. thorough knowledge of the millionaire financier, The lie has super-human strength, quick reflexes, agility, Shadow became Lamont Cranston. He forced the real and a razor-sharp mind. He is blond like Cranston. Cranston to move to Europe with a more than generous The Shadow has the power "to cloud the minds of supply of money since the real Cranston could never men" --which he can only use when he wears the hat, prove his identity against The Shadow's phony cape, and ring. It is a type of hypnosis but such a 
Cranston. 

russell baker 
(c) NI.'W York Times 
Washington--Here is a partial list of rPasons Congress cannot do anything: 
1. 
II is too early in the session to ask members to take on more work. 

2. 
It is too late in the session to ask nwmhers to take on more work. 


:J. It is th<' middle of the session and members cannot do anything until they have gone back home and checked the mood of their constituents. 
4. 
It is an Plection year and members do not want to undertake anything con­I rovPrsial. 

5. 
BPcause it is not an election year nwmbers feel no political compulsion to act. 

6. 
DPspite strong feelings that the President is wrong, members do not want to do anything that would embarrass him at this critical moment in history. 

7. 
MembPrs are tired of presidents presenting them with demands for sweeping emergency actions on ground­that the country is facing a critical moment in history; they intend to show the President that Congress cannot be pushed around. 


B. Nothing can be done before the new y<'ar because members are determined to take off for a long Christmas recess. 
9. 
Nothing can be done in January h<'cause m<'mbers want to wait to hear the l'r<'sid<'nt's State of the Union message. 

10. 
M<'mbers suspect that the l'resid<>nt's policy is disastrous but cannot do <lllything because they do not have acct'SS to all the facts that the President has. 

11. 
Memhcrs arc angry about the l'r<'sident's refusal to give Congress all the facts, but cannot do anything because it is unconstitutional to subpoena a presidential fal't man and ask him what's going on in the government. 

12. 
Nothing can be done in February 


blatant explanation ruins the mystery of the power. He 

bicameral alibiville 
ll<'cause too many members have out-of­town sp<'aking engagements at Lincoln Day or J<'fferson-Jackson Day Dinners. 
13. 
Nothing can be done about foreign policy because it is unconstitutional for nwmbers to interfere with the President's conduct of foreign policy. 

14. 
Nothing can be done about the President's usurpation of Congress's eonstitut-ional right to declare war because it is silly, in this modern day and age, for a rinky-dink outfit like Congress to accuse the President of unconstitutional behavior. 

15. 
The seniority system prevents nwmbers from doing anything. 

16. 
Nothing can be done because of the in<'ptitude of the leadership. 

17. 
It is summer and members' wives and children are browbeating them to go away on vacations; in this strained at­mosphere members, already tired of long months of furious idleness, are in no mood to do anything. 


lB. The polls suggest that nobody has thought about Congress for months, but may, if members do anything. 
19. 
After laboring months at not cutting the Pentagon's weapons budget, Congress is too spent to do anything. 

20. 
Although members suspect that the Air Force's new nuclear-powered, supersonic, short-takeoff-and-landing surrey with a fringe on top will be a multibillion dollar bust, nothing can be done because the Pentagon is only asking for token funds for a feasibility study. 

21. 
Although members realize that the Army's antimissle underwater tank leaks water through the TV-aerial holes and sinks with heavy loss of life every time it is tested, nothing can be done about spending $4 billion more to perfect it because, otherwise, the $4 billion already spent would have to be written off as wasted. 


22. Nothing can be done because of the 
filibuster. 

also glides in and among shadows and assumes their shape. I<:ven the keenest observer would only see an indistinguishable moving shape and dismiss the sight as a shifting of shadows. It is not his mind-clouding power that permits him to achieve this feat though, but it is, nonetheless, used when the light is too bright. It is his agility and controlled breathing techniques, though, that make him, literally, a living shadow. 
The Shadow is above justice. If he feels a killer should die, the killer will die. If, on the other hand, a person has made just one mistake and is basically good, The Shadow will let him go, unscathed. When necessary The Shadow uses his two .45 caliber automatics to deal death to the evildoers. 
The radio series on WSND has been presenting the later episodes of The Shadow, when a complete story was contained in one thirty minute episode. In the earlier years, cliff-hangers earmarked the continued serials until the case was closed. The character of Cranston made up a small portion of the show then. Orson Welles was the voice of the Shadow until his 
"War of the Worlds" broadcast on October 31, 193B launched him into stardom. But the networks had maintained a hoax that The Shadow was real and that it was actually he who spoke to the audiences. So, when Welles' voice could be easily recognized, he was fired and many others have succeeded him. 
The program folded due to two reasons, the first being the making of Cranston as the central figure and "X-ing" out The Shadow character completely. The second reason was the advent of a new medium -­television. Soon after his pulp magazine ( 120-200 page novels printed on cheap wood pulp paper) also folded after a successful run of over four hundred novels. With that ended the era of radio programs, of imagination, and of The Shadow. 
Perhaps the best description of The Shadow comes 
from one of his pulps: 
"His ways are strange. Some think he is only a 
my! h. Yet he is real. He is known only as The Shadow, 
and his methods are unfathomable. The entire un­
derworld trembles at the mere mention of his name. 
He comes from nowhere, a sinister wraith, defending 
justice wherever it is threatened. Then he vanishes 
into the night with a low mocking peal of laughter 
signaling unrelenting doom to the evil doer ... " 
So sit back this Thursday night and tune in Tht> 
Shadow. Turn off your lights and do something rarely 
done nowadays: exercise your imagination. Just for 
the sheer experience, it is worth it. The Shadow 
knows ... 

25. There is no modern precedent for 
23. Since the President will do anything doing anything. In spite of these and that n<'eds to be done, there is no point in several thousand other reasons for its Congr<'ss's doing anything, particularly flaccidity, Congress is not entirely im­since the Supreme Court will have to do it potent. Sometime late next year the vast 
if the President refuses. majority of its members will persuade us 
24. Not doing anything is safe. all that they deserve to be reelected. 
bluegrass music 1n• the 

land of the 
(C) 1971 New York Times 
Tokyo --it sounded like West Virginia on a Saturday night, but it was Tokyo's Hibiya Park on a Sunday afternoon. 
When the five-string banjo picker for the Old Smokey Mountaineers cut loose, the audience yelped approval. And although he'd never been to America, the guitar player sail!! with feeling: 
"I remember when I was just a boy m the hills of Tennessee." 
It was American Bluegrass music-­Japanese style. For seven hours, 23 groups of fiddlers, guitar., banjo and mandolin pickers--most of them Japanese rollege students--<'ntertained some 1,500 fans--also mostly Japanese --in the Ap­palachian Hybiya Central Park Bluegrass Festival. The sponsor was Kentucky Fried Chicken of Japan and the slogan for the day, printed on the programs was, "Clean up air pollution, play more bluegrass." . 
"I'll tell you one darn thing, there's some fine mandolin pickers around here,"said Harold J. Jayjohn, a United States Air Force Master Sergeant from Spring Field, Ohio, who showed for the occasion in bib overalls and carrying a 
r1s• 1ng• sun 
pair of spoons to keep rhythm. 
"You see that boy in the blue sweater­why he can tear a mandolin up," Jayjohn continued. "And if you care about yodelling, buddy, that cat can yodel." 
He was talking about Akira Otsuka, a 23 year old college student who has studied the mandolin for eight years. 
"Most of the bands won't speak English well enough to understand the words," Otsuka said, "But they like the sound. Rock'N'Roll and Classical music aren't Japanese, but we like both. It's the same with Bluegrass." Then he added with all apparent sincerity, "and bluegrass music has a heart." 
Akiyoshi Hirahara, member of a bluegrass club in suburban Tokyo said there are more than 300 bluegrass bands in Japan. 
There are dozens of clubs, bars, and 
coffee  shops  to  play  in.  The  bands  at  
Hibiya  Park  bore  such  names  as  the  
"Appaloosa  Colts,"  and  "Kentucky  

Travelers" and "The Lonesome Wood­cutters" and the "Pike County Ram­blers." 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER Thursday, October 21, 1971 
Financial woes abound as merger lags 
Cultural Arts Commission Fund Raising Film Series Presents 


LAST SUMMER 
Oct. 21 & 22 (Thurs. & Friday.) 7:30 & 9:30 at the Engineering Auditorium 


Admission $1 Fund Raising Film Patron Cards will be sold at the door at $5 
fund raising film patron card holders freef 
costs more money to feed a boy
(continued from page I) than a girl," he substantiated. 
for the Fr. Thomas Blantz, vice­classes and other benefits president for student affairs, resulting from the coex, Fr. agreed with Fr. Wilson. "One of Wilson said, "We wanted to the reasons for unifying the two remain on a friendly basis with schools was to reduce the them and further the possibility duplication of efforts In services ot merger." like libraries and dining halls and 
Father Wilson did confirm that save money. Unification might be Notre Dame did pay SMC bet­delayed if we don't have things ween $5,000-6,000 a year for the arranged to make plans finan­coex meal service. "We realize is cially feasible," he said. 
Hesburgh speaks 
(continued from page I) 
Hesburgh followed his opening remarks with an address he used on October 7, 1971 before the American Council on Education. The address was entitled "Resurrection for higher education". 
He traced the events of the internal revolution going on in the educational circles and linked it with the sudden violence that has erupted in the past few years. Hesburgh claimed that many of the university presidents who bore the brunt of the attack over violent campus explosions were used solely as scapegoats. 
"The worldwide revolution in higher education" was added to by the further problems of the Vietnam war. racial conflict, realization of the plight of the poor, waste of our natural resources, and the "increasingly dismal quality of national life" to cause the campus troubles, Hesburgh said. The students turned their frustrations on the nearest thing possible which happened to be the institutions. 
Hesburgh placed the blame on the revolution to another source. He said the university system was a victim of the multiplication of the numbers of students on campuses. As the numbers grew and education didn't, Hesburgh said, the students finally stopped and evaluated the education they were getting. When they came up short, they were disappointed. The administrator spoke on the role of the president within his address. "The day of the Olympian detachment for presidents is over," he com­mented, "if justice needs a voice 
never find anyone guilty or never impose adequate sanctions for obvious wrong-doings" com­menting further on the question of student leadership. 
"Tenure too often became a safe opportunity for somnolence rather than a call to be different, to dare, and :.o excel," Hesburgh said in reminding the faculty of their responsibility under the tenure system to continue their excellent teaching. 
Closing his address with comments on Notre Dame's strengths Hesburgh said that many of the faults that he covered in the speech did not exist here. 
Hesburgh said that Notre Dame has a tradition of teaching and noted that teaching assistants are kept to only 9 percent of the classes. 
"We value discussion on the meaning of life and death," Hesburgh said, "which is one of the great liberal concerns", calling this the greatest strength in the concerns of the university. 
Hesburgh noted that the university is trying "belatedly" to help minority students. He said that the university is ac­cumulating a fund of 3 million dollars "which we hope to dedicate to them in the next few years." The president also ex­pressed the administration's dismay on relying upon the Cotton Bowl for funds in the future. 
The university has struck lksburgh as a real community. "It's a place where people care. It's a humane and personal place," he said. Hesburgh ex­pressed his pride in Notre Dame and its accomplishments. 
Although Fr. Blantz could not give out the agenda which the Student Affairs Committee'would discuss, reportedly not only coeducation, but also hall life will be reviewed. Student Government Presen­tation 
John Barkett, student body president, Orlando Rodriguez, vice-president, and Robert Weaver, student government executive coordinator, will report to the Committee on academics and the merger Friday morning. 
"Our information will be of a general nature," commented Weaver. "We plan to make several suggestions and analyses of problem situations. Con­sidering the size and nature of the Board it is not practical or even wise to make specific recom­mendations." 
Weaver said that the student government representatives will consider physical facilities---the need for a new student center and hall renovations. They will also discuss the significance of the Student Life Council and its recent response to Chairman of 

HPC to sponsor free dance on Saturday 
Ed Motto. chairman of the Hall student interest in The Johnny Presidents Council, announced Cash concert. so far most stu­
last night that his organization dents say there is nothing to do will sponser a free dance and Saturday night. He hoped that cor.cert on Saturday night Oc­the dance will fill the void on 
tober 23. The affair will begin at Saturday night. He emphasized 
7:30 and continue until 11:30. that it will be a dance and 
Two local bands will play. there will be no chairs set up. Chapped Lips is one of the bands Motto fell that there are not under contract, but Motte admits enough dances on campus. that a second is yet to be signed. Admittance to the event will 
Motto stated that the HPC require a Notre Dame or St. didn't feel there was enough Mary's identification card. 
Notre Dame -Saint 1\fary's Theatre presents John Wehster~s 
THE DUaiESS OF "MALFI 
O'Laughlin Auditorium October 15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 
8:30 pm sharp. Ticket Reservations $2.00. Students, faculty, ND-SMC staff $1.50. Ticket office open 4-6 p.m. or call 284-4176. 
the Board of Trustees Stepan's letter and hall staffs. New Trustees No Development Committee Among the Trustees to par-Report ticipate in the Thursday-Friday 
The Joint Development meetings will be four newly-Committee will not make a appointed members; Dr. presentation according to Miss Rosemary Park, Donald J. Marie Gehemeler, secretary to JYiatthcws, Ar~hur J. Desio, and Mr. Murphy, current head of John B. Caron. development and planning. This Dr. Park, the first woman to be committee will have to select a appointed to the Notre Dame new chairman during the Board, serves as vice-president weekend. Dr. Oliver C. Car-of institutional planning at the michael, present chairman, University of California---Los resigned from the Board of Angeles. She co-authored the Trustees to head an Indiana State Notre Dame-St. Mary's Commission which will in-coeducation feasibility study vestigate higher education in the published last spring. state. Caron ('45) from the Arts and 
Academic Affairs Committee Letters Council and Matthews 
Report ('55) from the Engineering 
Rev. Ferdinand Brown, Council are both Notre Dame assistant provost, verified that graduates. the Academic Affairs Inner-,­
Institutional Committee would report to the joint boards on Friday. He declined to specifically pinpoint the com­mittee's suggestions, but said that it would consider several alternative proposals for unification. 
featuring original works of graphic art-etchings, lithographs,-by leading 20th century artists: 
Pic<ts~' 1 Dali 
M iro, ('a ldn Chagall Fricdlacudcr Searl..: Rouault 
\'as<~rd) and t l!hns. 
"iunda~·. Od. 21th. at :1:00 p.m. Hamada Inn Ballroom Exhibition of Art: I :00-·3 :011 ,\dmission fn•t•: all works framt'll 





on campus, he must have the wisdom and courage to say what must be said, and the president must not be the last one to say it." 
GO~~No· 

He added that "If the faculty or students need defense, he should 
...and leave the drivin·g to us 

be the first to defend them." Stating that if a democratic 
This Friday and 

system based on participation is to work it "means that every 
every Friday 

member of the community, 
the Bus goes

especially within his or her own segment of the community, must 
to Chicago

exercise moral responsibility, especially when it hurts and 
Call Tom Boyer

when it demands the courage to say and do what may be un­
504 Flanner 

popular," Hesburgh led into the 
283-6984

question of leadership on the student level. 
for ticket 

Student judicial courts, the 
information

Civil Rights Commission head said, will never survive if "they 
Meeting for all those interested in monitoring area youngsters forthe 
TICKET PROJECT Notre Dame-Navy game Thursday· October 21 10 PM Fiesta Lounge LaFortune Center 

-------~-------~ --~-~ 
Thursday, October 21. 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Rugby's been around awhile 

hy K J. Kinkopf '72 
l<'oolball is lhe backbone of Notre Dame athletics. The J..(ridiron spectacle rules the Irish sports tradition. Basketball has had its fling of glory with the likes of Whitmore, Arnzen and Augie. Ami with the arrival of "lhe l>if..(ger", il may begin a real <'lll'rnachment upon lhe football dynasty. But that will lake years. 
!Iockey is on I he way up, but that sport has geographic limitations that hinder overall popularity. 
No. NoI rl' Danw is built on the aura and Pxcitl'mPnt of football Saturdays. 
But way hack when,before the Fight Song, hl'fore Salmon, Dorais and H.ockne, football Saturdays Wl're cloudy fall af­ternoons spent on dirt fields playing rugby. 
l•'oolball owl'S its existence to rugby. ln fact many football lerms had their origin in the rugby handbook. 
T<•rms like touchdown, con­VPrsion, field-goal and try all t•volvPd from the grandaddy of football. 
Now rugby is a pretty well forgotten gaml'. Considered by most to lw a game of total brutality played by those dPdicatPd to vioiPnce and blood, it is now only a fringe sport, if thai. 
Hughy might bl' completely forgoltPn hy those on the NO t'ampus had it not been for the rnfamy accordl'd the Notre Dame l'llf..(J..(l'rS. 
Bul lhe ruggPrs are Iring to t'hangp thai image. Victims of PxaggPraled tales rather than aelual fact in most of their Ps<·apades. lhl' ruggPrs have set tlwir minds to provt' lhemsl'lvcs onllw fit'ld this year. rather than 
off. 
TIH' N(l ruggPrs arc a 45-man squad playing rugby because of lh<• dwllt>ng<' it involves, and the 
Mike Pavlin·;=;=;=;=;=;=;=======:==================================;=;=;=;=;=========:=:=:=:===:=========:==========: 

The Graduate View 
·=======================:======:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Just for the record 
Some random thoughts--The NO point total of 105 is the lowest for the first five games of any season since Ara Parseghian has been here. The 196:J squad opened with only 73 points. 
Conversely, the defense has allowed only 16 points, the lowest opening five-game total since 1947 03 points). 
Who would have believed it? The Texas Longhorns received no votes from the UPI board of coaches this week despite a 4-2 record and good credentials. 
And in case you missed it, the Delaware Blue Hens destroyed Hutgers 48-7 last Saturday to remain unbeaten. Ranked number 2 in one poll and number 4 in another, Coach Tubby Raymond's crew could move up to the top small college spot this week as there were losses and lies among lhe teams ahead of them. 
TI<:AM--GENERAL 1.) !new record> Most Consecutive Games Scoring: 57 
TI<:AM--SINGLE GAME I.> <new record> Yards Interceptions Returned: 185 2.> !record tied> Interceptions: 7 
3. 
> ! record lied> Interceptions for Touchdowns: 2 

4. 
> ! record tied l Field Goals Made: 3 'rf<:AM--SEASON (5 games> 


l.l Yards per Interceptions Returned: 20.3 2.> l<'ieldgoals made 8: 5 3.) Punt Average 40.1: 40.02 
INDIVIDUAL-SINGLE GAME 
I. l (record tied l Interceptions: Ken Schlezes 3 2.) <record tied) Interceptions for Touchdowns: Ralph Stepaniak, Mike Crotty 1 
3. l (record tied l Fieldgoals Made: Bob Thomas 3 
INDIVIDUAL--SEASON (5 games) I.> Punts 67: Brian Doherty 31 
2. 
l Punting Average 40.02: Doherty 40.02 

3. 
> Fieldgoals Attempted 14: Thomas 8 4.) Ficldgoals Made 8: Thomas 5 5.) Tackles for Minus Yards 13: Walt Patulski 9, Greg Marx 7 


INDIVIDUAL--CAREER 
1.l (new record> Passes Broken Up Clarence Ellis 24 
2. 
> <new record> Tackles for Minus yards: Patulski 32 

3. 
> (new record l Pass Receptions: Tom Gatewood 139 

4. 
> !new record) TO Pass Rec's: Gatewood 17 

5. 
l Reception Yds 2113: Gatewood 2042 

6. 
> Rcc's per Game 5.3: Gatewood 5.56 

7. 
l Rec Yds per Game 81.3: Gatewood 81.7 

8. 
l Interceptions 15: Ellis 13, Stepaniak 11 

9. 
l Yds Int's Rct'd 226: Stepaniak 179, Ellis 157 


compl'lilion it fosters. Many of the ruggers are former high­school stars that gave up chances ilH•xcel on the gridiron and the hardcourl at smaller colleges to study at Notre Dame. 
Hughy calls for rugged, hard­nosed participants who don't hll'l'd easily. But aside from the brutality, it ranks with football in sl ressing finesse as well as force and strength. 
Injuries do play a big part !hough, as the ruggers will ll'slify. They were hampered last Sunday by injuries to two of their lop pl'rformers, grad students Don Mclkrmott and Peter llarlning, in the match with Michigan. 
But like most sports, ruggers learn to play with injuries. One rugger says his nose has been broken so much that it doesn't t'ven bleed any more. 
Without the protection of pads and lwlml'ts, broken noses, concussions and bone breaks are the rule rather than the ex­ception. 
The Hughy learn belongs to the Midwl'sl Rugby Union which supt•rvises their schedule and assigns rl'ferees to officiate their ganws. 

The tackling in rugby is vicious. The action is generally hard and fierce in the middle of a serum. 


The other spotlight game is
Two games spotlight the 

against LSU in Baton Rouge onschedule this year. One is November 20th. The game is to
against Palmer College in 
be held in Tiger Stadium~ beforeDavenport. Iowa, perhaps the the football Irish meet therulers of midwestern rugby. 
Chinese Bandits in the nationally 
AI Palmer. mgby is a major televised contest. sport ... I he only sport. The Irish LSU athletic officials are run up against that powerhouse pulling pressure on ABC to tape on october 31st. lhe game and show highlights of 

Stickmen play Alumni Saturday 
The lacrosse team will meet thl' Alumni Saturday at 5:30 on Cartier Field. 
Among the returning Alumni will be last year's co-captains, JPrry Kammer and Ken Lund, both ml'mbers of the All-Midwest team last year, along with Jim I .affey. Ken Hildebrand and Tom NPleson. Many of the alumni play for independent lacrosse dubs acmss the country and will lw eoming from as far away as California. 
The Notre Dame team will be hoping to l'vcn its record following a 7-6 loss to Michigan two WPl'ks ago. This year's team may lw the strongest ever for the Irish. eoming off their first winning season in the school's Lacrosse history, weakened only by the loss of Kammer and Lund. .Jim Roller and Paul Simmons havl' been battling for the goalie slot ll'ft open by Kammer's graduation. 
Unprecedented depth at the attack position has been provided hy the addition of Vic Lupo, Bill Dacey and Jim Courtney, while Joe Anderson and B.J. Bingle have moved into starting positions along with all-midwest co-captain Ed Hoban. Loban suffl'red a shoulder sepcration in thl' Michigan game and will be lost for the remainder of the fall Sl'ason. 
The starting defensive unit consists of Morrison, Bill Foley, and Tim Baker, with Ernie B<'rgkcsset ably backing up. 
Co-captain Gary Riopko, Jim Bingle and Paul Reagan plus a 
Rowers meet Mercyhurst 
Nolrl' Dame's first and second year crew team members will wind up their fall training program with a pair of races Sunday afternoon against the Mercyhurst College rowers from Erie, Pa. 
The first race will pit the Irish novices against the Mercyhurst freshmen and the second will match Mercyhurst's top boat and Notre Dame's second year men. 
Preceding lhe races will be the dedication ceremony for the crew learn's new boathouse, located at the Mishawaka Marina on Jef­ferson A venue. 
Dedication ceremonies start at I o'clock an~ lhe races will begin immediately a.tterward. 
it during the half-time of the 
Parseghian McClendon battle. 
Bul other than that potential national exposure, the ruggers practice and play only for the love of the game. 
Practicing four days a week, running for distance, doing cals, puffing through windsprints, ironing out problems in fun­daml'ntals and scrimmaging prPpare the mggers for Saturday 
111 o r n i n g c o n t e s t s . 
Saturday morning eontests that go on practically unnoticed in the ' shadows of Stepan Center. 
Yl'ah, football is and always will be the backbone of the NO sports tradition. 
But the forefather that made it 
possible for the tradition to be 
horn still deserves a little at­
lenlion. too. 
Why nol get up a little earlier some Saturday and see the granddaddy resurrected? 
I'm sure you'II enjoy it and besides. you might even learn to appreciate football that much more. 

Last year's All-Midwest co-captain and All-Midwest selection, Kenny Lund. returns to Notre Dame Sunday to lead an alumni tean against the Irish stickmen. strong group of juniors make up thl' first three midfields. The 
thl' first three midfields. The first line consists of Bingle, Jim first line consists of Bingle, Jim Lepll'y and Jim Brown. Hiopko, Ll'pley and Jim Brown. Riopko, all-midwl'st team ml'mber Dave all-midwest team member Dave Jurusik, and Hick Mullin make Jurusik, and Rick Mullin. up the second line. The third line 
Co-captain Gary Riopko, Jim is comprised of Paul Reagan, Bingle and Paul Hl'agan plus a Mike Loughery and John strong group of juniors make up Dowling.





------· 
Friday, Nov. 5 
8: 00 pm in the ACC Tickets $4.50 & $3.50 on sale Today at the Dining Halls and the Student Union Ticket Offke (if available) 
presented by social commission and the ace 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Thursday, October 21, 1971 
Five man board will distribute $10,000 fund 
The Student Senate last night adopted a plan to create a five­man board to distribute the newly-created $10,000.00 "Student Life Fund." The plan, introduced by Stay Senator Bob Sauer, will put two senators, two hall presidents, and the off­campus commissioner on the autonomous board. The Senate also elected Stay Senators T.C. 
Treanor and Jim Clarke  to the  
newly-created board.  
The  plan's  success  came  

minutes after the Sena e rejected, 28-4, a plan by off­campus Senator Don Ferris to put two hall presidents, a stay senator, and a faculty member on a four-man board. That plan had been endorsed by Hall President's Council Chairman Ed Motto. A third plan, originally proposed by Student Body President John Barkett, called for a three-man board that in­eluded the Hall Life Com­mission£>r, the Student Union Stay Senator. and the HPC Executive coordinator, but it never came to a vote. 
Sauer and Treanor were particularly vehement in ob­jecting to Ferris' plan. Sauer contended that there was "no function" for the faculty member on the committee while Treanor alleged that there was "no dif­ference in the judgement of a hall president and a senator outside that president's hall." 
In  other  action,  the  Senate  
appointed  Sauer  and  Breen­ 
Phillips  Senator  Jerry  
Bushelman  to  terms  on  the  

Faculty Senate and held Com­mittee signups. 


Part of the mammoth crowd that mobbed the Fiesta Lounge at­tempting to buy tickets for the November 5th Cat Stevens concert. 
CLASSIFIED 
FOR SALE 
Quality 8 trilck tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715. 
Prices slashed on all posters to reduce stocks. Posters that were $1.50 now $1.00 $1.25. For in· formation come to 815 Flanner, 611 Grace or 315 South Regina or call 1694, 1167 or 4258. 
For Sale: 66 JAG X TYPE E COUPE ~Gear, 48,000 mi., AM·FM Radio. Pirrellis British Racing Green. Call 259 0662 John or Fred or see at 739 E. 9th, Mish. 
1969 Kawasaki sao clean, must sell. 11elmet also carrel 402 Memorial B Lib. or 232·8831, 5·8:00. 
Be sate. Prevent criminal assault with SHERIFF 50. New invention stops an attacker, even a gang, IN· STANTLY. Only $2.98. Rick Dunlap 717 W. Marion, Mich. Call 259·4873. Free Delivery. 
Frosh elect 
officers today 
Fr£>shman class elections will lw lwld today with balloting at the lunch and dinner hours. Sophomore class vice-president Lee Monaghan revealed ~·£>sterday. Voting will occur in the individual halls where the ballot boxes will be located. 1\lonaghan said that the balloting will take place on both campuses this being a joint election. It 
is necessary to present vour LU. cards. 
On. the West Campus voting will be in LPMans and Regina 
from 11-2 and 4-7. 

TO BE THE FIRST IN SERVICE­WE PUT SERVICE FIRST! 
LOST 
lost. P,1ir of Wire·rimn1ed glasse::, 
hetwl'en M<~dcl.!va and Reqina Halls 
If found please Cilll Ilene 5222. Badly 
needed. 
2 student Tickets tor-season._canu" yours cilll 233 9661 After six. 
For Sale (1) one ticket USC. 
Call Tome 287 2731. 
BSR 610X Turntable . $45 or best offer, Call 272 2118 after 6 pm. 
'S6 Cildillac. Wt1ite convertible. 60,000 miles. ALL POWER Call 234 0945 after 5:00 pm. 
SPARE TIME TYPING. PHONE 734 1320 AFTER 6 P.M. 
En joy off campus splendid sybartic Iivinq. House has room left tor 1.2. Call .289 1915 after 6:30. 
For Sale: '66 Ford Fairlane. Must sell. $4.50 Runs fine. Mike 6729. 
Petite Brunette will be selling campfire candy for $1 a box on the tront steps of the Arch. Bldg 7:30 8:00 on Tl1ursday. ("w,lnl a piece of candy, little girl?") 
PERSONALS 
what is all this nonsense? only Zapd knows. do tell. 
All that is qold does not glitter. ·6719 
Ellen, w11y do you keep me in 'uspense. Where ever you are please call. Cliff Drysdale. 
BolO, 
Is your rat on the bus? 
1\\,lurccn in >ection 32, t·cildy to take it all off for USC? Naked J 
Pt'CJ<JY, Happiness is having you IIPre~ 
( tllC same) 
Love, 
Phil 
Wt'lconw Chris, I've missed you. Love, Btll 
Ed Help Zip 
Jnrwt, Hnve we got a line for you. 
Worried about midterms? Come to our suicide party! 4772, 4777, 5181 
p,,t Happy Birthday and thanks. Dale and Maggi 
Mariepoo, 
Is it really my eyes? 
Blink Blink 
Dt'ilrcst Cuddles 
H,lppy Birthday Teddy Bear Bolger Hope your day is happiest. 1oday you ilre No. 1. 
LUV, /VIIK 
Ecl Gray is the color of a birthday without Rt'qina's fifth! 
FOUND 
c,,fico Kitten in B.P. Basement. 
C.lll 1333. 
I ound: Brown glasses by Regina pilrkinq lot. Steve 1789. 
< lilssificd Ads paid for in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 12: 15·5:00. Ads in IJY 2:00 on day before 





Visit our Triumph Service Center 
1-1t .50 
11-15 ...


For All Your Needs 
16-20 .70

(MG, Fiat, Austin, VW, Toyota, Datsun, 
21-25 .85

Volvo owners.... we can handle you , too!) 
26-30 
1.00

Call Craig Hileman, Service Manager at.••. 
31-35 
1.20 
36-40 
1.35 
41-45 
1.55 
46-50 
1.75



WANTED 
V\',lntcd: five general admission N,wy tickets. Call Annabelle 5114. 
I<OYAL VALLEY SKI RESORT Main !>1. Buchilnan, Mich. w,1nteu. certified and non certified Ski Instructors and a ski director. Pnrt time help in lodge and on Iifts. Pl10ne (616) 695.5862. 
Need ride to Dilyton (0.) Thurs. Oct 
71. Share expenses. Cnil Pill 7920.  
w.mtcd · Someone with in refrigeration repair. C ,,II 1409 911 Flanner.  Experience  
Volunteers  needed  tor  March  of  

Dimes Saturday before game . come to 121 O,Shag anytime after 10:45 help "llUStle" alumni for con· tributions. 
Volunt(;ers needed for United Fund drive Saturday before game · come to 121 O'Shag anytime after 10:45 sell shamrocks tor charity. 
Exuberant N.D. fan needs ride from N<'w York for So. Cal game. Call Dave 233 2207 after 6. 
Urqent: Need one Southern Cal ticket. Call Beth 5497 or 638·9181. 
W.1tch tlw USC qame on TV and ,,.,,kc 111oney. Sell me your student tickPt for that qame for $12. Call Pat 3692. 
NOTICES 
fix your own car. Tnnight. Wf' have tl1l' spilcc tools parrs and help. You dothcworkanciSAVE Autotech Rt 31 South in Niles. 684 1960. Open t•vcninqs nnd weekends. 
111orrisscy Loan Fund 
l\,1scnwnt of Lil Fortune 
11: 15 17 15. 
Call Joanna at 287 2731 for Appt's and lntor concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
ATTENTION N.D. AND S.M.C. BEATLE FREAKS! Beatie Festival s.1turday 6:30P.M. Rooms 202 -+ 218 Holy Cross. ALL albums will bbe played. Free! Byo 
Willing to exchange 2 pairs of Sout11crn California tickets tor 4 .1djaccnt scats. Willing to pay aci 
ciitionill considerations .. Call 4611. 
Dial a Line. Cnll TENA. 683 1212. 
Tw" hilndsome, clean, w11olcsomP lookinq cilndidates for Frosh Prcsidnl't ,,nci Vice.President on the Ganqstcr Ticket, Mark Stilncyzk and llol.' Uhar, nre calling a campaign rnlly at noon today at the Grotto. Rl'frcshmcnts will beserved. Show up or £'1se! Pnid for by the students for Corrupt Governn1l'nt. Vote Today! 
N£'w nnd Used Books l'ouqhtand sold. Pnndora's; South Bend Ave. ill Notre 011111f' Ave 
Sport PM<tchute Club Meeting Toniqt1t 7·oo t PM Room 123.
publication.

,_..!::..::.::::..:=.:..:.:::.:.:...__________, Nieuwland N!'w Members invitee Words I day 2 days 3 d;-.y;.; 
4 days 1 week 

.75  1.00  1.15  1.25  
l.to  1.35  1.75  2.15  
1.15  1.70  2.40  2.80  
1.35  2.00  2.96  3.45  
1.60  2.35  3.40  u  
1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
2.10  3.10  4.25  5.10  
2.30  3.30  4.50  !i.58  
2.50  3.50  4.75  6.  

916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka Phone 255-4751 


