

Vol. VI, No. 28 Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary:fi Community Tuesday, October 19, 1971 
LeMans parietals approved 
Trial program to begin Oct. 22 
by .Jodi {'ampbell The Student Affairs Council will con­sider the hall autonomy proposal at its 
The Student Affairs Committee ap­November 1 meeting. proved a proposal that will establish an Till' hall autonomy proposal would experimental Parietal system in LeMans amend the Student Prodecure Manual, hall. giving the individual halls the power to 
The experiment, passed at last nights formulate and exercise jurisdiction of hall t nweting, will allow for parietals in parietal policies. LeMans from 7 pm -1:30 am on con­The proposal passed last night is an secutive Fridays, October 22 thru Pxperiment only and has no connections November 12, 1971. with the proposed establishment of 
Margie Rurak, LeMans hall president, parietal hours for the whole campus, presented the proposal to the SAC. The according to the SAC. experiment pertains only to her hall. "The experiment will be evaluated on 
The proposal will be presented to the the basis of a questionnaire distributed to Student Affairs Council as soon as the hall residents after the last Friday of possible, hopefully today. SBVP Missy the experiment," Miss Rurak statt'd. Underman, chairman of the committee, The following rules are to be in effect stated that she did not know for sure if the during the experimental period: proposal would have to be presented to the --All college, university and dorm rules Board of Trustees. (with the exception of those concerning 
r
"As this proposal is an establishment of mPn in the dorms) will be in effect during a new policy, rather than an exteusion of the parietal period. 
Missy trnderman: Lemans experiment
one alrt•ady in effect chances are that the --All doors, with the exception of the lobby 
probably headed for SMC Executive Board
J<:xecutive Board of the Trustees will have door, will be locked during the period. 
of Trustees.
to approve it," Missy stated. --Open House sign in will be in effect with 
The committee emphasized that the the desk manned for the entire period by at LI'Mans experiment should not be con­least one hall resident and one member of fus(•d with the proposal passed last week the Hall Staff. allowing hall autonomy in establishing (Continued on page 2) pMiPials 

cans for collection 
MaU "Troll" Delaney is "buried" in his project to l'ollect money for Pakistan n•lier. The Coca-Cola ('omllany and Tom llamilton provided the 5,uuu cans. Matt hopt>s that South Bend school-age dtildren will provide the timt• and help on Halloween Night. 

Kosygin attacked 
•

lD Canada, is OK 
For details, see page 3 
Sexism discussions cover discrimination 
Story on page 6 
Alumni associations plan joint session 
The Notre Dame and St. Mary's Alumni associations will take the first tentative steps towards merger this weekend with a joint meeting . Whether the marriage will be permanent remains to be seen. 
Despite the well-publicized plans of the University and St. Mary's to unify their campuses, the Boards may decide to remain separate, according to assistant Alumni secretary Michael Jordan. They also may remain separate but increase cooperation of work together for unification, Jordan said. 
"It is by no means an already-decided issue," ex­plained Jordan. "Some of the older grads are sur­prisingly open-minded on unification, but another element is strongly against the action." 
"It is our hope to invite the St. Mary's club presidents to participate in the November Alumni Senate meetings across the country," Jordan said. 
He anticipates that the Board, scheduled to meet from Thursday to Saturday, will decide its future sometime Friday after an intensive unification presentation. According to the preliminary agenda, this will include luncheon with the St. Mary's Board and their husbands and different discussions: "Student Affairs," by the student government coeducation coordination committee; "The Effect of unification on Alumni Associations, Boards, National Offices, Staff, Structure and Programs," and "Alumni­Alumnae Clubs." 
Jordan speculated that the Alumni Directors would have little effect on the administration of Trustees. 
"The Alumni Board can't pass a resolution (to advise the Trustees) because the Board of Trustees will be meeting at the same time," he said 
The Alumni Board is also scheduled to approve ten nominations for five positions on the 15-man Alumni 
(Continued on page 2) 

Michael .Jordan: Many differing opinions on th~· 11Ianawd mt>rgl.'r of the Notn· Danw and St. Mary's ,\lumni Clubs. · 
-~ 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 19, 1971 

Alumni merge 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up this week for job interviews for the week of October 25 through 29. 
Interviews ar~ open to ND an_d SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are m Room 207, Mam Bldg. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until5:00 p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional informNio~ :n:garding interviews and procedure. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF OCTOBER 25-29 
Oct. 25 Crowe, Chizek and Co.-BBA and MBA in Accountancy. 
SPars, Roebuck and Co. -Data Processing. -Will interview all students regardless of major who are interested in Data Processing. 
Thunderbird Graduate School of International Management. 
All B.S. or B.A. majors invited. 
Oct. 25-26 
Bethlehem Steel Corp. B.S., M.S. in Ch.E., C.E., E.E., Engr.Sci., and 
M.E. f~r Lo?p Course-~anagement training program. BBA in Acct. BS ­all maJors mterested m technical· sales. 
Oct. 26 Allied Chemical Corp. BS in Chern., M.E. and E.E. BS, MS in Ch.E. 
Allied Chemical Corp. BS in Chern., M.E. and E.E. BS, MS in Ch.E. 
Amoco International Oil Co. BBA in Acct. 
Oct. 27 D~pt. of the N_avy. <Representing Systems Commands: Ships, Facilities, ~~-~.Electromcs and Ordnance.) BS in A.E. and Met. BS, MS in M.E. and 
General Tire & Rubber Co. Ph.D. in CHemistry <Phusical-Analyticai­Polymer) and M.E. 
Oct. 27-28 E. I. duPont de Nemours and Co. All degree levels inCh. E. 
Arthur Young & Co. BBA in Acct. MBA. LLB with undergraduate em­phasis in accounting. 
Oct. 28 Boston College -School of Law. <Sign-up at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Board in O'Shaughnessy Hall.) 
Oct. 28-29 General Electric Co. BS, MS in A.E., Ch.E., E.E., Engr.Sci., M.E., M.E.I.O., M.E.~.N.O. and_Met. BA in Econ. for Financial Management ~rogram. ~BAm Acct., Fm. and Mgt. for Acct.-financial work only. BS m math. L1b. Arts. 
Monsanto. BS, MSin Ch.E. and M.E. BBA in Acct. 
Oct. 29 Detroit Bank and Trust Co. BBA and MBA. 
E. I. duPont de Nemours and Co. BBA and MBA in Acct. 
New York University Graduate School of Business. Bachelor's degree in any Department. 
Sun Oil Company. BS in Ch.E. and M.E. 

737 UNITED JET for Thanksgiving 
Ticket Prices: $30°0 
1) Departure: Nov. -one way $52°0 ­
24, 1971 South round trip 
Bend -Wed. at 
2:00 pm. Arrive I: 
Transportation from 
National Airport Campus to Airport at 3:45pm. included 
--2) Departure: Nov. ·28, 1971 National Airport -Sun. at From the Golden 
10:00 pm. Arrival: Dome to the 
South Bend Airpor Capitol Dome at 11 :45 pm. 
For reservations call Wayne Hall at 6939 after 5:00 on Tuesday. 0 n W ~dnesday call Brian Mastro at 6818 between 5:30 and 8:30. 
(Continued .from page 1) 
Board of Directors. 
Jordan estimated that his office received eighty ap­plications for the five three-year regional posts. Besides selecting the five directors, alumni will also elect an at-large representative for the newly­created "Young Alumnus" position. This director, who will serve for only a one-year term instead of the customary three, must have graduated within the last five years. 
Besides finalizing the slate of candidates for the Alumni Board of Directors ballots, the Board will also hear several depart­mental presentations. 
AI the Public Relations and Devlopment presentation Friday afternoon, James E. Murphy and Frank Kelly will ·explain the new "Pilot City" program. "This year the Development Office is engaged in an effort to increase the percentage of contributions of Notre Dame alumni to the university," explained Jordan. 
"For the calendar year of 1970, 
the annual fund received 2.5 
million dollars, but this money 
was donated by less than 50 percent of the alumni " he continued. ' 
The Development Office plans to make a concerted in con­junction with Alumni Clubs effort by telephone or personal visit to those who haven't contributed on a regular basis. Jordan con­tended that the percentage was not unusually low. 
"Since the beginning of modern fund-raising drives at N.D. in the early 1950's, Notre Dame has always maintained ap­proximately the same per­centage below 50 percent he revealed. 
Saturday's final session of the Board will feature presentation of the Father Edward Sorin Award. It is the only recognition of distinction awarded to a Notre Dame alumnus on an annual basis. Recipients of the award, now in its fourth year include, University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, James 
C. Armstrong, who held the position of executive secretary of the Alumni Associatoin for 45 years, and the trustees Student Affairs Committee Chairman Dr. Thomas Carney. 

Nixon changes center from germs to research 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
FORT DETRICK, MD., OCT. 
18---President Nixon expressed 
the hope today that as the nation 
moved from a wartime to a 
peacetime era it could convert 
many of its military facilities "to 
meet pressing domestic 
challenges." 
The President said that 
"cutbacks in certain defense 
needs have provided a con­
siderable supply of expertise and 
equipment which can now be 
used for non-defense purposes." 
the President did not specify how 
defense-related facilities could 
easily be converted to civilian 
projects, but he expressed the 
hope that "we can help advance 
important public goals even as 
we alleviate the economic bur­
dens which threaten idled 
workers and their families." 
Nixon's comments came 
during ceremonies here today at 
which he formally announced 
that the germ warfare center at 
Fort Detrick--one of the nation's 
largest r~s~~rch and develop­
ment facilities for biological 
weapons---would itself be con­
verted into a major center for 
cancer research. 
In informal remarks to a crowd 

Parietals 
(Continued from page 1) 
--Upon signing in, each visitor will have to relinquish either his Notre Dame ID or drivers license. If he does not have one his host will have to relinquish hers. When the guest leaves his ID will be returned. At 1:30 am all remaining ID's will be turned over to security. -All guests must ahve a hostess to be permitted past the sign in desk. Hostesses must indicate their room numbers to complete sign int. --The gate to the tunnel (LeMans side l will be locked during this period. --Responsibility will be stressed before and rluring the experi ment by all hall government representatives. 
of servicemen, their wives and various scientists and govern­ment officials gathered at this western Maryland army base this morning, Nixon said that scientists who work at Fort Detrick could henceforth devote themselves ·"toward saving life, rather than destroying life." 
The conversion of the base to peacetime medical research had been urged on the President by Sen. Charles Mathias, R-Md., beginning in late 1969, when Nixon announced that offensive chemical and biological warfare research would be ended by the United States and its stockpiles of germ warfare weaponry destroyed. 
Mathias, joined by Maryland's other Republican Senator, J. Glenn Beall, intensified his ef­forts in January when Nixon announced a concerted effort to find a cure for cancer and asked Congress for an additional $100 million to finance the search. 
Under the transfer, some seven buildings on the 1,230 acre base, billed with millions of dollars worth of sophisticated equipment for biological research, will be converted to anti-cancer research. The White House estimated today that the facilities would employ more than 600 persons when the program is operating at full capacity, and would cost $15 million to $20 million annually to operate. 
Management of the actual research at the base will be subcontracted to a private firm, but officials made it clear that the facilities would be designed to serve as a focal point for cancer research now being conducted across the country by private scientists, government personnel and university researchers. 
Nixon also took the occasion to lobby for legislation designed to establish a cancer-cure program reporting directly to the President himself. The legislation was sent to Congress in May, shortly after Congress approved Nixon's request for an extra $100 million for cancer research, and received Senate approval on July 7. 

Tuesday, October 19, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Page 3 



World Briefs 
<cl l!lil NEW YORK TIMES 
liNJTED NATIONS. N.Y.--The China debate began Monday in the United Nations with a difference of opinion between the United States and Nationalist China. George Bush, the American Ambassador, urged the adoption of a "dual-representation" resolution that would provide seats for both Nationalist China and Communist China. Chow Shu-Kai, the Nationalist Chinese Foreign Minister, urged one seat for China and said his government should occupy it. 
WASIIINGTON--United States and Latin American diplomats said that this ~ountry has offered to cede to Panama substantial territory, commercial concessions and some legal jurisdiction in the Panama Canal Zone. As a result, steady progress is reported in the negotiations on a new canal treaty to replace the one signed in 1903. 
WASIIINGTON--The State Department expressed concern over the military buildup along the India-Pakistan border and said that the United States was urging both states to show restraint. 
NEW DELIII--Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India in an in­tervil'w, called the situation "quite grave" but promised' that India would "do nothing to provoke an attack or to start any hostilities." 

I 
4: 15---lecture, fredrick j cressen, "natural and violent processes", 127 
nieuwland

en 
7: 30---meeting, meet the

::s 
0. 
candidates for freshman 
class election, grace pit. E 8:00---lecture, dr. donald 
u 
sperleder, "divergencets between planners and residents of urban 
communities", free 

I 
7:00 and 9:00---film, 
university,  library  
~  lounge.  
0  

masculine et feminine, cac, engineering auditorium, $1.00. 


Hungarian nationalist charged 
Soviet Premier assaulted in Canada 
<l·l 1!171 Nt>w York Timt's OTTAWA--Premier Aleksei N. 
Kosygin  was  attacked,  but  
physically  unhurt,  by  a  man  
shouting  "long  live  free  

Hungary," when the Hussian kadl'r and Prime Minister Pierre TrudPau lwgan a short walk alTOss Parliament grounds this noon. 
Tlw tow heads of government had just emerged from their first meeting and "because it was sunny and pleasant," decided on a stroll instl'ad of gelling into a waiting limousine. 
They had taken only a few steps toward thl' nearby building that houses Trudeau's office when a hlal·k-haired man "about 30" Jpapl'd over a barricade and jumpl'd on Kosygin's back before poliCl' could grab him. 
The 67-year-old Premier while puslwd forward, did not fall, but his suit jacl'l was pulled back ovl'r his shoulders. Constables of I Ill' Hoy al Candian Mounted Policl' pulll'd off the attacker and hustll'd him away. His naml' was not irnnwdiatdy released, but witnl•sses said they heard the man idl'ntify himsl'lf as a mernlwr of the Canadian­Hungarian Freedom Fighters Jo'PdPration. 
Tonight .J.H. Carriere, Deputy SuJwrintPndent of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, said that two nwn, one from Toronto and one from Ottawa, had been arrl•stPd in connection with the ineid{'Jll and would probably be l'hargPd with assault. 
Trudl•au halped Kosygin regain his balance and after a few minutp's stop in the Prime Minister's office building, the pair walkPd on across the Rideau Canal Bridge io the Chateau Lauril•r when• the Soviet leader's party is staying. 
In tlw llous(• of Com mons this aftl•rnoon. Trudeau described the assault on Kosygin as a "very hum ilia! ing event for Canadians." He said he has askl'd the police to explain how tlw incident could have occurred undrr the Iight security JH"l'caut ions in effect fro the Soviet IPadl'r's eight -day visit that lwgan last night. 
Later, Trudeau told reporters Ihat Kosygin "didn't appear ruHIPd" by the incident. "He kept on talking and we carried on with tlw walk after the whole thing happened," Trudeau recalled. 
"I don't think he is as distn•ssed as I am ashamed for t hl' government and the <Canadian) people." 
Tlw Prime Minister noted that Kosygin had agrcE'd to appE'ar on WPdnesday before a parliamentary committee "where the E'lected represen­tatives of the people will be free to ask him any and every quPstion about their grievances against the Soviet Union." 

About 1,000 Ottawa police and H.C.M.P.officersarereportedon sE'curity duty during Kosygin's stay lwre. 
A cordon a police held back a crowd of some 1,500 protesters who tried to dE'monstrate before the SoviE't Embassy in Eastern Ottawa Sunday evening. 
Committee, set up for the Kosygin visit, the demonstrators includE'd several ethnic groups representing Ukranians, Lat­vians, Estonians, Hungarians and others protesting Soviet policies in Eastern Europe. 
When Kosygin arrived at his hotel last night he was greeted by a chorus of young Jews singing thl' Israeli national anthem. 

Organized by th~ ~e0_hemFrec~out 40 Jewish youths _ 
gathered on Parliament Hill today at noon for a "freedom ml'al"--cabbage soup, salty lwrring, stale black bread and acorn coffee, which they said madE' up the diet of "Jewish political prisoners in Soviet labor camps." 
Bdore dawn today Ottawa police arrested three men after finding two dynamite bombs near gasolinE'-filled explosive sevices. 
ME'anwhile, Kosygin continued his scheduled rounds. His talk withTrudeauthismorninglasted nearly three hours. In their opening exchanges-there will be two more mE.'etings during Kosygin's three-day stay in Ottawa--the two leaders ap­peared to share the view that nations of the world were ap­
_!_!_!~_ Soviet Embassy_ -~d_l_l........:I:...lr_o_a_cl_li_n.:::g_a-=g_en_e_r_a_l_d_e_te_n_te ._ 
THE UNCOLirMUSIC MONEYOFFER 
fl 
Get any of these top Record albums for only $3.80 and ?UP"' proof of 
fl 

'u purchase (save up to $2.18). 8-Track and Cassette Tape albums, only 'u 
$3.98 (save up to $4.00).

.;1\ /"'.. ' 


~i!i:r,~,.. Jt-I 1 
.:~fa: 
Rod Stewart Every Picture Tells A Story 

13296 113611 104379 113612 

ARETHA FRADHLID 
Live at 
Fillmore West 
04370 04375 113474 10073 

04341 113322 11997 13365 

The Guess Who 
So long, Bannatyne 
...j~~~-~~~~i~Rl 
11758 11876 12848 113629 

JEFFERSON 


ELTOn
AIRPLANE
Original Cast 


JOHn
Godspell 
G 
11-17-70
.. ·.'mD..<,···.,. 
BARK -~@.ifr! 
113603 113505 13358 04383 

To indicate the category you want for each selection, circle the letters: R for Records, S for 8-Track Tapes, C for Cas· sette Tapes. Then enter the code num­bers of the selection(s) you want and the prices in the appropriate columns. Please enclose full payment along with three ?UP bottle cap liners or other ?UP proof of purchase* for each selection. (00 NOT MAIL METAL CAPS.) Make check or money order payable to: Uncola Music Offer. 
MAIL ORDER FORM TO: Uncola Music Offer, P.O. Box 777B, Indianapolis, Indiana 46206. IMPORTANT: Circle either ''R," "S," or "C." 
Cassette
8·Track 
Selection 
Moneyoffcr 
Tapes
Ace. 
Tapes 
Numbers 
Sale Price 
R 
s 
c 
-·-·-­
R 
s 
c 
R 
s 
c 
-R 
c
s 
R 
s 
c 
R 
s 
c 
c
R 
s 
TOTAL: 

All prices include applicable state and local tax and mailing costs. 
(PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY) 
NAME-. _ 
ADDRESS 
CITY STATE ZIP_ 

Along with your albums, you will receive the 24 page Music Moneyoffer Catalog listing over 300 music and stereo equip­ment bargains. If you would like the Cata­log and do not want to purchase an album at this time, check the box below and send your name and address along with 25c to: Uncola Music Offer, Dept. C, P.O. Box 77B, Indianapolis, Indiana 46206. 
D 
'The following constitute 7UP proof of purchase: Three 7UP bottle cap liners, (DO NOT MAIL METAL CAPS); One 7UP purchase seal from the bottom of non-returnable bottles or can cartons; One 7UP imprint from the plastic collar can holders; Or any Identifiable portion of the label from large size 7UP bottles. 
--For information on \he famous Uncota posters­write Uncola Posters, Box 11477, St. Louis, Mls· sourl 63105. 
"SfV(N·lll'," •'JUP," "lit( UNCOLA," ANO .,UN" ARI TRAO[MARK5 IO[NTifYING lHf PROOUCT or Tttl. r.LYtN. 11r COMPANY 
-------------~-~------------------------------·-----­
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 19, 1971 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
,\ssistant Editor Editor-in-Chief Glen S. Corso ,\ssistant Editor Nt•ws Production
All successful newspapers are
T. C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellico~e. They John Abowd never defend anyone ~r anythong if they 
Advt>1·tising Manager
Business Manager can help it; if I he job is forced upon them, Jim Jendryk they tackle it by denourocing someone or Bill Bauerle something else. -H. L. Mencken,
1-'ounded Nov~>mber 3, 1966 Nolrt• Danw. Indiana 
Business 283-7471 
News !H:i-l'i'l5 
No Relief 
By the end of the week, a number of people roughly equivalent to the Notre Dame student body will have starved to death in Pakistan. By the time that sorry country r~covers from war, earthquake, flood and famine, well over twenty­five million people will be dead. They will have died with bloated stomachs and bugeyes, and most of them will probably not be buried for a month. There is not enough relief 
money available in Pakistan to bury the dead. 
So all right. Here at Notre Dame, land of the golden dome and golden sun, we're busy with other stuff. Cat Stevens will be here Nov. 5th, and it'll be rough to obtain a ticket. The Trojans are coming in; and they'll surely be the toughest test our defense has seen this season. And besides, the price of pizza and beer hasn't gone down at Frankie's. 
:.f '~'"' 
Thus we can only view the recent efforts of Notre Dame students Dan Sherry and Tom Hamilton to solicit funds for Pakistani relief. Hamilton headed Students for Biafran Relief two years ago, and the project--a success everywhere else---was a dismal failure here. He above all should be able to put the lie about "Notre Dame generosity" to rest. 
But he hasn't, and so once again we'll be watching a small and generous minority of Notre Dame students futiley pursue the Notre Dame charity dollar. We'd like to urge students to contribute to this tremendously important cause, but there'd be no percentage in it. We might as well try to speak up for racial equality in a Ku Kluxer's convention; or for integrity at a New York City Police Station. So instead, we'll express our sympathy ahead of time to Messers. Sherry and Hamilton, and to the people who will be working with them--­and to the people of Pakistan. 
Tom Bornholdt 
Of Wine, Queers and Heresies 
It was a balmy, if slightly sticky, summer night. In the basement of a peasant's house, four men and three bottles of wine formed a circle. The three bottles were half empty and getting emptier. Conversely, three of the men were half filled with wine and gettmg fuller. A conversation of sorts was going on and the men were friends, but by no means was the gathering of a social nature. Instead a common sense of gloom and ap­prehension, only partially attenuated by their inebriation, held the group together. 
The conversation meandered back to the serious. "Gentlemen, let us not be carried away by this present Misunderstanding. For despite all signs of the con­trary, I am certain that the Second Revolution is at hand," declared the Optimistic Revolutionary. 
The others nodded assent, but doubt showed in their eyes. The speaker saw this, so he continued, "We live in the greatest era of change that the world has ever seen. The decadent System is crumbling; the present Misunderstanding is but the last gasp before it is swept away by the Second Revolution." 
More drunken nods. "You still doubt, don't you? But can you possibly doubt what we believe in? It is ob­vious to any unbiased observer that evil is present of the world, in fact, dominating the world as of now. Yet it is equally obvious that the People are good. Then, how do we reconcile the evil of society. Obviously there is a number of beings in the midst of the people, a small minority of genuinely evil ones, who have by various means gained control of the society and in­stituted the System by which they maintain their power while corrupting the People." 
He paused to burp a few times, then continued, "The problem, of course, is how to change this unfortunate situation. The answer is revolution but the problem is how to effect this revolution. The common pattern is quite simple. A group of revolutionaries get formed into a group. They conspire, they plot, and if they are lucky they come into power. This is the First Revolution. There have been many first Revolutions throughout history-American, French, Russian, etc. However, whenever, the revolutionaries come into power, they destroy the System and transfer its power into their hands. But being a small group, the Revolutionaries have in the past allowed the Evil Ones to infiltrate and gain control of the Revolutionary Party and thus establish a new System." 
The Sober Revolutionary interjected, "We all have discussed this many times before. The First Revolution is the transferance of the power from the Old System to the Revolutionary Party. The Second Revolution is the transfer of power to the People and the creation of relatively good culture." 
The Optimistic Revolutionary took over again, "The problem therefore lies in getting a Revolutionary Party that can be counted on to effect not only the First Revolution, but the Second as well. That is where we are different. First, we identified positively who the Evil Ones are, so we can't allow them to infiltrate the Party. Second, we have chosen a Leader who is beyond the reach of the temptation of power that the Evil Ones can offer. By placing all the power of the Party in his hands, we guarantee that the weakness of the Revolutionaries won't betray the People. Thus, we have two advantages that I am certain will ensure the success of the Second Revolution." 
Having concluded his speech, the Optimistic Revolutionary looked at the Sober Revolutionary. He expected his teetotaling partner any minute to utter the doubt that had been on all their minds that night. "What if the Leader had betrayed the Revolution. What if the Leader they had trusted, was not as good as they had thought?" 
"In that case" thought the Optimistic Revolutionary, "we are doomed. This Revolution will be a failure, but then we would have shown the way. One day a First Revolution will occur with a Leader that will cause the Second Revolution.'' 
Instead it was the Third Revolutionary who spoke, quietly as if was shocked by what he was to say, "I had two nightmares recently. The first was that there never was going to ':Je a second Revolution, whether American, British, Russian, or whoever, no revolution that is going to do e:tnything more t.1an change the name of the System. My Second nightmare is even worse. What if the People aren't good?" 
The basement was as silent as a tomb. The thought of the Third Revolutionary was too horrible for the others to believe. "Take away a humanist's faith in the People is like telling a theist there is no God", thought the Soher Revolutionary. Still he was unable to for­mulate a counter to that Most Terrible Heresy. 
At last, he Optimistic Revolutionary sprung to his 
Third Tuesday 
feet and pointed at the fourth member of the group -­the peasant who had been silent during the entire conversation. "Look --there is the proof of the People's goodness. Right in front of us. Our wonderful host who has sheltered us during this Misun­derstanding. There he is --the perfect specimen of the Simple Man." 
The Optimistic Revolutionary raised his bottle, and drinking a toast, he addressed the peassant, "to the Simple Man we love so well." 
Among the "here, here's," the peasant got up andl left the basement. "Queer, he 
Among the "here, here's", the peasant got up and left the basement. "Queer," he thought, misun­derstanding the Revolutionaries' love, "they're all queer. Just like their dead leader. Talking all sort of philosophical nonsense." 
The Revolution's Defense Corps arrived soon af­terwards. The Captain in charge paid the peasant., only thirty of the hundred marks he had been promised. The peasant felt betrayed. Before he could complain the men stormed into his basement. The Revolutionaries were still discussing the possible Final Solutions of the problem of the Evil Ones. 
The door was opened and the Captain greeted his prey, "Heil Hitler". 
Shocked, the Optimistic Revolutionary was only able to reply, "Macht dem Volken". 
"Sie sind gleich," answered the Captain, and then the submachine gun fired. 
Outside, the Simple Man was disturbed. He had gotten the Brown Shirts drunk, so there would be no violence, and the Captain had promised just to capture them. Now tis. The blood would stain his nice clean floor. 
The Staff 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell Friends and Loafers: T.C. Treanor, Jim McDermott, Dan Thornton, Jerry Lutkus, Mick Kane, Redman, Maria Gallegher, Corso, Marlene Zloza, Jane Sheehy, Stan the Man, rick smith, Ed Ellis,Bob Hughes, and in spirit, AT and Peggy. Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski 
')-. 
Tuesday. October 19, 1971 THE OBSERVER _!;'ages 
The big debate begins: Taiwan vs Peking 
<l'l 1!171 Nt•w York Times 
United Nations, N.Y. Oct. 18--­The United States and Nationalist China differed sharply in the (;pncral Assembly today on the question of admitting Communist China to the United Nations. 
Speaking on the first day of the crucial China debate, George Bush, the U.S. representative, and Chow Shu-Kai, the Nationalist foreign minister, both urged the Assembly to come out strongly against the expulsion of the Chinese Nationalist govern­ment on Taiwan. 
But Chow, charging that the Chinese Communist government continued to live by "torture and terror" and to negate the prin­ciples of the United Nations charter, did not me11tion in his address the American-sponsored resolution for dual represen­tation. 
This resolution, for whose adoption Bush appealed, would admit PPking to the United Nations and seat it in the Security Council while preserving nwmbership in the Assembly for the Nationalists. 
Chow, in a muted but, in the view of many delegates, striking criticism of President Nixon's new China policy, said that Anwrica's mood had become pacifist-isolationist and that PPking's recent gestures toward Washington were spurious. 
Bush, speaking forcefully and partly ad lib, stressed that the American proposal was not an atl<'mpt to create a situation wh<'re there would be "two Chinas" or "one China and one Taiwan." 
The proposal, he said, is "simply founded on the reality of th<' present situation as we all know it to be. But it does not seek to freeze this situation for the future." 
Rush formally served notice thatlhe United States would seek a priority vote on its other rPsolution, a procedural one that would designate the expulsion of Nationalist China an "important question" requiring a two-thirds majority. 
The vote on priority is due to be Ihe first test of the strength of the opposing camps. It is expected to comP at the end of the debate, probably toward the middle of lhe week. 
Except for a sharp exchange hetween the Albanian Foreign Minister, Nesti Nase, and Bush, lhe debate was calm, belying the suspense and tension underlying it. 
One delegate said that he lhought that there was a deceptive serenity to the debate because "the speeches here may change feelings but not votes." 
It is widely agreed that the two sides are so evenly divided that the issue rests on the efforts at pPrsuasion made by U.S. diplomals in the capitals of a handful of wavering countries. 
The hall was far from crowded. DPlegatPs came and went during the debate and in the late af­ternoon more than half of the seats wPre empty. The public gallery was filled with spectators during the morning session when Albania and the United States squared off but many rows of the blue seats that are reserved for distinguished visitors were Pmpty. 
Albania was the first to speak, as in most China debates in the past. 
Foreign Minister Nase cited "the process of recognition and establishment of diplomatic relations" between Peking and a growing number of countries as evidence that after 20 years the moment had come to restore the government of the People's HPpublic of China to its "lawful place" in the United Nations as lhe "only legitimate" representative of China. 
Nase combined his advocacy of membership for mainland China with sharp attacks against the "American imperialists" who, he said, had tried for two decades to destroy the mainland govern­nwnt and were now continuing their "anti-Chinese" activities under the new label of "two Chinas." 
The United States, he charged, is using the issue of membership in the United Nations as a lever to try to "detach Taiwan from China." 
Bush, the third speaker in the debate, rejected the "outrageous slanders of the delegate from Albania," adding that "for a moment it was hard to believe that we were in October, 1971, 
(Continued on page 8) 
r-------------------------------------------------­
HARRIER 
Are you bored, tired 
or listless? Join the OBSERVER 
******••••··········· 
and put s orne thrills in your life! 
SUNDAY NIGHT AT 7:00pm 
IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE·. 
( Second tloor LaFortune Student Center) 


Page 6 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 19, 1971 
Sexism talks describe prejudices 
tended that households headed by women who are employed are the about $500 more per year than The sexism discussions are 
SMC's second Monday evenin~ women are on the average sole support of their families." white men who graduate only held Monday evenings at 8:30 session on sexism heard Notn supported by one-third the According to Mrs. Brander, from elementary school. P.M. in the lounge of Augusta.Dame graduate student Su€ amount which generally supports "The only reason to get a college Brander and former South Bene a household in which a man is the degree is because you want it. It Librarian Darlene Gibson con· breadwinner. won't help you 'find a more tend that women are victims ol Mrs. Gibson .concurred, desirable or better-paying job. job discrimination practice~ alledging that "the usually The job situation won't ever get which render their colleg€ voiced justification· for why better for women unless they educa lion "useless." womeil are paid less is because demand it." 
Quoting liberally from Gloria men need higher salaries to Mrs. Brander also contended Amundsen's The Silencea support families. However, that white women with college Majority, Mrs. Brander con· statistics show that one-half of degrees generally receive only 


~. Directories corning next week 
the listings for Notre Dame and In addition, full home addresses 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's St. Mary's students will be will be given for St. Mary's student directory for 1971-1972 combined. In previous years the students. Last year, only the will be ready next week, listings were separate. However, home town and state were listed. 
Assistant Student Services the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Finally, home address zip codes The Fighting Irish practice hard for the big one against Southern Commissioner Walter Szwarc faculties will have separate for all stu bents were included this California this weekend. announced yesterday. listings. year. 
Availability of the directories was originally intended for the first week of October, Szwarc said, but the publishing firm, Plains Publication Company of Lubbock, Texas, has been delayed in printing them. Szwarc 




does
C'mphasized the point that it was 
~ the publishing company and not Student Union that was the cause for the delay. 
Szwarc also noted that the students living on campus will 
''Thoushaltnotkill''
have their directories delivered to their halls, while off-campus students can pick them up at the Off-Campus office in LaFortune Student Center. 

mean?
Three basic changes have been made in the directories, Szwarc noted. The most is that 
"TilE HEIVEHS" 
-STEVE McQllEEN Eng. Auditorium Oct. 20, 1971 li:OO, 8:15, 10:30, 12:45 $1.00 

"The real issue is: How can we serve A brilliant and honest piece ofn1odern both love and war?" theater specially staged for live record­
"Yes, we violated the law. But the ing in stereo. A forceful performance law is no absolute to us. I must say our directed byGordonDavidson,superbly intention was to destroy the files. But captured in a two-record album. our motive was to illustrate genocide Plus-The History in Vietnam and corruption at home:' Recording Society 
With these words, Father Berrigan offers the new album 
gives a hint of the explosive nature of ''Berrigan Raps~' free 
"The Trial of the Catonsville Nine~' with the purchase of 

FREE:
''The Trial of the Ca­
"Berrigan Raps." Containing: a sermon from the underground;

tonsville Nine" for 
atalk about America and Catons. ville; the poetry and the events
$13.00. 
which shaped it. Daniel. Berri­gan talks about himself, his

Act now: This is a 
beliefs, and his actions. An ex­
featuring original works of 

citing album that presents anlin1ited-time offer so intimate portrait of Berrigan as
graphic art-etchings, 

. 1 t he C O U p O a !llan and as a radical. Retail
lithographs,-by leading 

m a 1 n pnce. $6.50. Yours free. 20th century artists: 
promptly. Offer restricted to members 
Picas~l' ))ali 

of the academic community. 
M iro, Calder Chagall Fricdlacndcr Scark Rouault 

Ir---------------::"1The History Recording Society CNP I
Va!'-ard) and Pthcrs. 

I 505 Eighth Avenue New York, New York 10018 I 
I Please send me "Berrigan Raps" free with my purchase 1
A Classic of Documentary Drama 

Sunday. Ott. 21th. at :1:110 p.m. 
I of "The Trial of the Catonsville Nine." I enclose a I 
Hamada Inn Ballroom 
Powerful, shocking, the very defini­check or money order for $13.00. 
Exhibition of Art: I:UU-3 :Uti .\dmission frl't': 
tion of relevance by the man who I Name I 
all works frampo 

I I
lived the event-Daniel Berrigan, S.J. 

1College I Made into great drama
the Observer is published daily 

I Address I 
during the college semester except 
Clive Barnes ofthe New York Times 
vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. 

I City I
said of "The Trial of the Catonsville
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
be purchased for $8 per semester 

IState Zip 
I

Nine.': .'.'Positively riveting ... a new ______________....
from The Observer. Box Q, Notre 

Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class Add appropriate sales tax to albums shipped to New York State. 
I 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 

kind of play ... wonderfully moving.'' L 




Tuesday, October 19, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
•

Morrissey notches third win 

I 'hillips moved into a slim lead in split t•nrl Bob Ko<•hler broke loose l.t•ague Thn•e. to haul in a li5 yard bomb from his 
By Stan Urankar '7:1 
Th<' I ,pague One race tightened 
hrotlwr. S{'nior QB Dan, to boost 
up nH'asurably due to last Sun-\\aIsh 1: l'anghorn-Fishc••· u 
Walsh to victory and hand P-F day's al'livities in lnterhall Walsh lwcam1• the first team to 
tlwir first loss of the year.Foot hall. In turn, Morrissey once stop p.(<' from making the big 
l:rPc·n-l'hillips 11 Stanford u
.tgain showt•d their superiority in play. With I{'SS than four minutes l.t>ague Two, while Breen-In go in the eontest. Sophomore B-P's triumph gives them a slim Pill' point margin in the
Mike Pav lin ::::::-..:-:.:;:=:"«~~~===~~===~:-s<-»~====::::=:=:=:=:=-:.-:.-s.:::=-:.:=:=:=-s.:=:=:=:=:: I .t•agul' Thn•t• race over idle 
Kt•t•nan. Dan• Klunk's one yard nm .md t•xtra point plunge got B­1' atltlw points they were to need in tlw first quarter. Bruce Jirole 

The Graduate View 
1ht'n eonnected with Jim Wl'atlwrbee for 15 yards and a 
;:!::::::::::::::::===========================================================·=;·;=;:::=:=:=: A nalysis No. 5 
Ara Parseghian has got the college footbatl scene just where he 
tnuehdown to cap the scoring in
wants it. 
llw final period.
No coach likes the role of favorite and Ara is no exception. So while Nebraska, Michigan, Oklahoma, Alabama and Auburn continue to roll llillon 1; .\lnmni 11up points and victories, and while letters pour into Sports Illustrated condemning the Irish, Ara is quietly putting together a powerful Tilt• defending champs scored football machine. llw first time they had the ball. 
The Irish continue to ease by every weekend on the strength of their With halfback Dick Hibo grinding rlpfcnse while the pollsters try hard to drop them as far as possible. nut tlw yards, Dillon marched 65 Unfortunately for the scribes, the Irish will have to rise one notch this ~·arrls to a score, as QB Randy W{'ek since Colorado received a drubbing from the Sooners. Stasik hit Rill Hoy on an II yard 

Far more important, Cliff Brown got a crucial, almost game-long pass play for the touchdown. Thr test. While he didn't exactly set the stadium on fire, he got the job hig Dillon defense, playin~ rlone and picked up valuable experience. without star end Mike Dacey club to a :!U-1; win over Cavanaugh Sunday in Interhall football action. For the first time in several years, Notre Dame has a team that can hPirl Alumni to only one first (;ran• on•r Farll'y satilc quarterback Kirk Miller perform excellently in many areas of the game. Consider: 1.) If Scott down. The High-Risers notched their went 62 yards on an option play IIPmpcl got his kickoffs down to the five, he was having a good day. ~orin 1: Off-{'amtms II first win in the easiest way with less than three minutes left Scott Smith boomed his kickoffs down to the goal line all afternoon. 2.) The rugged defenses of both possible, by forfeit, as the Farley in the game to ice the win. Punters Jim de Arrieta and Jim Yoder were adequate at best. Brian dubs provided a real struggle squad managed to field only Cavanaugh had a second and goal Doherty boasts a 40.0 average which is that low only because he keeps that wasn't decided till the last three players. at the one in the third period, but trying to angle his punts out of bounds from inside mid-field. two minutes of the game. Sorin Zahm :!U Badin u Morrissey's defense dug in to 
3. 
> Since the glory days of Nick Rassas and Tom Schoen, the Irish drove 70 yards to the 0-C five, but The winners totally dominated hold off the attack. Miller, who have been content with any punt returner who could hang on to the lost the ball on an interception. this eontest. leaving Badin little finished with 108 yards rushing on ball. Now, the Irish are not only effectively harrassing enemy pun-Trying to get a possible scoring room to move the ball. Kip only 6 carries, also added another ters, but they are also returning punts for a 9.7 yard average (com-drive going quickly, 0-C passer Brown scored twice, once on a seorc on a two yard keeper, while pared to 6.5last year>. Mike Crotty leads the way with a 10.0 average. Mike Kane dropped back into his five yard pass from Paul Tufts Pat Casey got the final TO on a 

4. 
l Even the usually sub-par kickoff return people are showing signs t•nd zone. He threw over the and again on a 45 yard end sweep. two yard dive. Cavanaugh's of improvement. Over the last two seasons (22 games), the average middle, where Sorin tackle Mike Phil Weckworth got the other combination of Greg Corgan to ND kickoff return has been 16.4 yards. So far this season, the figure is Jack t ippcd it. Tom Gillespie Zahm tally on a ten yard jaunt KPvin Ford hit on a 15 yard 


18.8 yards, still too low but getting there. Gary Diminick is over the 20-I hen hauled it in at the three and around right end. touchdown pass for their only yard mark with three returns for 69 yards. 5.) Bob Thomas looks at ran in for the winning points. l\lnnisst•y :!U ('avanaugh li tally. least as good as Hempel on field goals. 
Everyone realizes that the defense is doing a The score is not indicative of

spectacular job, Rug g e r s I0 s e 
<'specially after that brilliant goal line stand on Saturday. Here's one I the game, as Morrissey's ver-
Standings

figure that shows just how terrific Walt and his crew have been. Both the "A" and "B" squads B t b Lookingatlastyear'sstats(llgames),weseethat31.4percentofall of the Notre Dame rugby team 00 ers OW tackles were made by "Front Four people." suffered losses this weekend, the l.t'ill-(111' I 
w L T l'ts

This season, the figure is 42.1 per cent--a 10 per cent increase. This "A" tcam being blitzed by An overtime goal just 90 Pangborn-l<'isher 2 I (l 4seconds before the conclusion ofcan only mean that enemy runners are not getting the necessary Michigan, and the "B" con­Off-Campus 2 1 0 4
play carried the Louisville
blocking to get into the Irish secondary. This year, the "Tackles For tingcnt losing to Marquette. 
Dilion I I 0 2soccer team a

Loss" figure has increased and opposition scoring has been cut by two-Art O'Connell and Rick Cusack Cardinals to 3-2 Sorin I 1 0 2
victory over Notre Dame Sunday
thirds. were the only Irish to score in the Walsh I I 0 2
in Louisville.
Now, if we could only get the offense in gear. "B" team's 22-7loss to Marquette Alumni 0 2 0 0
The loss left the Irish with an 0­1. l With a superb offensive line and a plethora of capable backs, the here on Satrday. O'Connell 4-1 record this fall. l.t'ilJ.:IIt' IIIrish arc averaging 3.3 yards per rush as opposed to 3.9last year. 2.) scored on a field goal, while 

It appeared that Notre Dame l\1 orrissey :I 0 0 (;
The Irish seem unable to penetrate the end zone after sustained Cusack accounted for four marches. 3. l The pass completion percentage is simply horrendous points with a try. might be on the way to their fir5st Cavanaugh I 1 () 2 Cl8.5 per cent>. 4. l The Yards per Attempt figure is only one-half of win when they took a 1-0 lead in Zahm 1 1 II 2 last year's. 5.) The Yards per Completion mark is only 73 per cent of The "A" team traveled to Ann the second quarter on Kevin Badin () 2 II () 
()

last year's. 6. l Last year, Irish runners were tackled for losses 3.5 Arbor on Sunday' only to find Kinealy's goal and maintained l,yons 0 () times per game. This year, the figure is up to 5.6 times (and the loss themselves outplayed and on the that advantage until halftime. 
Ll'agut' IIIpPr tackles is higher.) short t•nd of a 27-9 score. All the Rut the Cardinals moved in front, Bn'<'n·Phillips 2 () 5 f-Offensively, however, things are not as bad as all this seems to in-Irish tallies were recorded by 2-1, with a pair of third quarter Kl'('IJan () () 4dieatc. First of all, Joe Theismann is gone and the Irish don't have Phil Calandra, who converted on goals. 

Flanner 0 1 :Ianyone who remotely resembles him except Bill Etter, who is finished. three field goal attempts. Notre Dame forced the game <;rae<' 1 1 :IS(•condly, the Irish haven't even had a regular quarterback, a The loss dropped the "A" into overtime when Jafar Stan ford 0 2 I 1situation which is not conducive to good timing between passer-team's record to an even .500, Maghadan scored, with an assist FariPy 0 :l 0 ()n•cciver and qb-linc-runners. Now that Brown has picked up some with a 2-2 slate, and the "B" from Chris Hanlon, at 10:17 of the St·uriul-( l.t'adt•rs Pts.

game experience he will hopefully improve things. squad, absorbing their first loss final quarter. 
I was impressed by the way Cliff ran the option, the way he kept the of the season, now sports a 2-1-1 The Irish soccer team will be in Nanw, Team hall in his fullback's stomach for as long as possible and the way he record. action again next weejend, Miller, Morrissey 18 waited before pitching to the trailing back. But his passing needs Both squads will be in action meeting Toledo Saturday mor­Farbatko, Pangborn-Fisher 18 work. lwrc Saturday as they tackle the ning at 10 o'clock behing Stepan Brown, Zahm 12 
Cliff completed 5 or 14 passes for 82 yards, a goodyards per com-Wisconsin teams in morning ('enter. The Notre Dame "B" DeCoursey, Cavanaugh 12 plction figure if nothing else. But his completions came when his :·tmtests. The "B" team will play team sporting a 1-0 record also Ford, Cavanaugh 12 receivers were absolutely wide open and even then they had to slow up at 9:45, followed by the "A" will play this week, taking on Jarzynka, Off-Campus 12 or ehangc direction to get the ball. He overthrew one short screen pass match at 11:00 Bethel College tomorrow. WPalhcrbee, llrcen-Phillips 12 and overthrew a wide open Willie Townend on one hook pattern. 
This may be simply a case of timing. At least Cliff didn't throw any 

Goals aplenty in ND zce scrzmmage
interceptions. He's got another week of practice coming before the Trojans come in with a 2-4 record that's absolutely meaningless. 
some problems getting the puck

The Notre Dame football team defense, defeated the Whites, 3-2,
I think this year's Irish are balanced enough to surivive the kind of out of their own end.

has had difficulty scoring this on a pair of goals by Eddieoffensive production they are getting. With the kicking of Smith, Ht•gan. Campbell and Johnseason but, they seldom give up Bumbacco and a tally by JimDoherty and Thomas, the return work of Crotty and Diminick, and Noble scored for the Blues while 
any points either. After the first Cordes.
above all, the defense of the Defense, the Irish can beat anyone with 16 l{icky Cunha notched the lonelwo wt•eks of practice, it appears Bumbacco rammed a pair ofpoints (maybe even Nebraska). 

White tally.

that the Irish hockey team might rebounds past White goalie DickBut 16-0 over Navy would be a trifle embarrassing. 
have just the opposite problem. Tomasoni and Cordes beltt the Larry Israelson hit Regan on a On the World Series--­Coach Lefty Smith put his senior netminder with a wrist 2-on-1 break to set up the juniorHats off to Roberto Clemente who truly is "The Great One" and to e<•ntcr's score, Noble tallied from
charges through their intrasquad shot from th,e slot.
the much maligned Pittsburgh mound staff. 
in dose after taking a pass fromscrimmage of the year Sunday A pair of freshmen, RayI sec a key factor to be the Baltimore hitters' utter failure to attempt Rumbacco .and Campbell alsoafternoon on the ACC rink and a DeLorenzi and John Campbell,to beat the constant Buc defensive shifts. Boog Powell in particular total of {'ight goals were scored in accounted for the Whites' goals. scored from out front, Regan was just one big stiff at the plate. Even in the seventh game, with the I he workout. DeLorenzi scored after taking a getting the assist. Cunha put :}·wind blowing out to left and the overshift on, Powell kept trying power slap shot into the twine.

The scrimmage was divided breakaway pass from Paul
the ball through the right side. This seemed to be the attitude of the into two halves Sunday but Smith Regan and Campbell banged in a "We have to react better entire Bird team. It's no wonder that they were so roughly treated. 

rlidn't split his club as he had a r{'bound. defensively to what the offense is And I see the key play in the last game belonging. to Gene Clines. 
week ago. This time, Smith had In the second half, the three top doing," coach Smith remarked When Clemente missed Ellie Hendricks' liner in right-center in the all five lines skate against each of lines skated for the Blues while after the workout. "Right nowfifth inning, Clines cut behind Clemente and made a bare-hand cut-off. 
the four sets of defensemen. the first and second defense we're not not doing that. AllHad he fumbled it or let it go through to the wall, Jlendricks would things eonsidercd, we're doing a­In the first half, the Blues, combinations played for thehave had a triple and would have scored easily on Mark Belanger's good job for only two weeks ofcomprised af the first and third Whites. The Blues again out­deep fly to center which followed. ! 
lines and the first and second scored the Whites, 3-1, but had work." 
Clines saved a run, all that was needed. 

-------------~----------------~---------------------­
________________________T_ue_s_da_y_,_o_ct_o_be_r_l_9,_1_97_l' 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
~Pa~g~e~B________________________________________ __ __--,
T,~~1f.E=-O-~_S._~_R V._~_~ 



China arguments begin 
(Continued from page 5) 
because this old-fashioned tirade, complete with the cliches of the cold war, rolled the clock back." 
Delegates opposed to the American position noted that Bush referred several times to the Nationalist government as a "member state" and, in one instance, as a nation. 
"One nation coming in and one 

out  does  not  make  this  
organization  more universal,"  
Bush said.  

Yvon Beaulne, speaking for Canada, took issue with this aspect of the American position. "The issue is not a question of membership or of expulsion or a member, it is the question of who represents China," he said. 
Ab-delaziz Bouteflika, took the 
floor. The Algerians were ap­plauded by the Russians and ignored by theAmericans and the Chinese Nationalists. 
Later, both the Afbanians and the Algerians walked out quietly halfway through Chow's speech. It was not meant as a political gesture; they seemed to have no interest. 
Chow, in his criticism of the United States position, said: 
"No one should be misled by the gestures of goodwill which Peking has sometimes seen fit to display. The deceptive change of attitude toward the United States and the rest of the world cannot be taken as anything more than tactical maneuvers. 
"There can be no question that the new posture is designed to exploit the prevailing pacifist­isolationist mood of the American people to force the complete withdrawal of American in­fluence from Asia." 
Senate meets 
A small reminder that the Senate will meet tonight in the La Fortune Amphitheatre at 7:30 pm. It will be a short meeting during which Senate Committee assignments will be made and the Student Life Fund will be discussed. All students are in· vited to attend and any questions will be answered. 
He went on: "For Canada the ,-----------------------------­

issue is simple and straight­forward. We recognize the state of China has always had its place here as an original member of the United Nations. We recognize too that there can be only one China, and that its sole and legal government is that of the People's Republic of China." 
Small-scale boycotts started when the Soviet delegation sent only a minor official to listen to the Albanian Foreign Minister, who made a point of attacking 
ND-SMC FROSH 
ELECT CHRIS HARTRICH SECRETARY 
QUALIFIED, PERSONAL, AND HE WANTS TO SERVE CALL 8421-AND SEE WHERE HE STANDS 

"Soviet revisionists," and the 1----------------------------­
Ukrainians left their seats emp­ty. 
The Soviet deputy represen­tative, Viktor L. Issraelyan, appeared in the hall as soon as the Albanian sat down and the Algerian Foreing Minister, 
Changes in co-ex dinners 
Co-Ex Student Director Gary 

Caruso yesterday announced 1----------------------------­
procedural changes for co--ex 
di-nners at St. Mary's. 
Effective Wednesday, thirty co-ex meal tickets will be available from 1 to 5 each day'
Monday through Friday, at the Student Union offices. 
Caruso stated that these tickets will be distributed on a first come, first serve basis. However, 
the ticket is good for use only on the day of distribution. 
~ The thirty tickets are in ad­dition to the sixty given to a particular hall each night. Caruso noted that he was pleased with the co--ex program so far. He commented on the problem of getting St. Mary's students to eat at Notre Dame, saying that more girls have been dining here each week. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
A revised listing ·of interviewers is listed today ­
please note changes. 
-
Cultural Arts CommisSion's Performing Arts Series presents: 

M a s c u Ii n e e t Femi n i n e 
f•l b G d d 
a I m Y 0 a r Oct. 19 7:00 & 9:00 pm at the Engineering Auditorium 
Performing Arts Series 
Admission $1 .00 
Patrons Cards Free Performing Arts Series Patron Cards will be sold at the door. 
MARDI GRAS '72 NEEDS YOUR HELP Wanted: Hall Representatives from each hall on campus and each hall at SMC. Job: Distribution of raffle packets to various floor representatives; collection of money from floor representatives. When: Distribution begins in early Nov.; collection begins after Christmas. lncentives:free admission to M.G. Kick-off F free admmision to M.G. Carnival 2 free tickets to M.G. Concert 
Please-The N.D. Charities Need 
Your Help: CALL Greg Stepic 6967 
FOR SALE 
Giant pillows Great to sit or Iie on Fully Washable. Call Jim 8857. 
8 track Player; 35 tapes. All for $125. Call Pat 1789. 
Quality 8 track tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50 Cull 6715. 
-·-------------­
Prices slashed on all posters to reduce stocks. Posters that were $1.50 now $1.00-$1.25. For in­formation come to 815 Flanner, 611 Grace or 315 South Regina or call 1694, 1167, or4258. 
------·------­
For Sale: 66 JAG X TYPE E COUPE 4 Gear, 48,000 mi., AM-FM Radio. Pirrellis British Racing Green. Call 259 0662 John or Fred or see at 739 E. 9\h, Mish. 
1966 Valiant. 6 cyld., stick, con­vertible, $560 or best offer 233-9787. 
Be safe. Prevent criminal assault with SHERIFF 50. New invention stops an attacker, even a gang, 1N­STANTL Y. Only $2.98. Rick Dunlap, 717 W. Marion, Mich. Call 259-4873. Free Delivery. 
1969 Kawasaki 500 clean, must sell, helmet also carrel 402 Memorial B Lib. or 232-8831, 5-8:00. 
FOR SALE: Two Vivitar Telephoto Lens. Accept Best Offer. Ph. 234-9908. Ask for Joe Raymond. 
Free kittens, 2 '> mo. old 
Call 288-7590 after 6. 
For Sale: 66 Ford Fairlane Runs fine, Reasonable offer (Under $500.) 6729. 
Photo graphs for Applications, passports. Portraits. Fast. inex­pensive, high quality -6729. 
2 Student Tickets tor season -can be yours call 233-9661 -After six. 
2 Separate USC tickets for sale; $35 for both. Call Tom 287-2731. 
-·--------­FOR SALE: V.W. SUNROOF 1969 

/Cl\_LL 233 :_3_~5_r:_'~~~':_R__:>NA~o-
PERSONALS 

·Hey, Twin, Since vou stole nw Iines, what can I say but Happy Birthday, Loser!? Love, 
Loser 
Eighteen years ago, God said: Let there be Mike. And there was Mike. HAPPY BIRTHDAY PREPPIE! (your operator l 
MARGE of Regina North: 
Stroba spelled backwards is Aborts. Pericles is sore but happy. KKAZ 
what is all this nonsense? 00NLY Znpd knows. do tell. 
WANTED 
All that is gold does not glitter --6719 
Ellen, why do you keep me in suspense Where ever you are please call: Clift Drysdale. 

1---------------; Ads in by 
•I publication.
BLORP! Words 1 day 2 days 3 d.-.y;; 
1-10  .50  
11-15  .60  
16-20  .70  
21-25  .85  
%6-30  1.00  
31-35  1.20  
36-40  1.35  
rt~  41-45  1.55  
46-50  1.75  

.75  1.00  
1.00  1.35  
1.15  1.70  
1.35  2.00  
1.60  2.35  
1.90  2.80  
2.10  3.10  
2.30  3.30  
2.50  3.50  

WANTED 
PPrsons wanted to run a very ~rot itable business. Earning abilities Me unlimited and well above uvcrayc. Mail qualifications to Mr. Warren, P.O. Box 503, Malden Mall., 02148 or call 617-261-1964. 
----·----­
Wanted: Five general admission Nuvy tickets. Call Annabelle 5114. 
ROYAL VALLEY SKI RESORT Main St. Buchanan, Mich. Wanted: certified and non-certfied Ski Instructors and a ski director. Part time help in lodge and on lifts. Phone (616) 695-5862. 
Need ride to Daylon (0.) Thurs. Oc 21 Share expenses Call Pat 7920. 
-·----------------­
Student needed for 12 hr a week job. Needs photographic experience. Apply at personnel office. 
Wanted: Someone with Experience in refrigeration repair. Call 1409 911 Flanner. 
Watch the USC game on TV and 111ake money. Sell me your student ticket tor that game for $12. Call Pat 3692. 
Volunteers needed for March of Dimes Saturday before game -come to 121 O'Shag anytime after 10:45 help "hustle" alumni lor conlributions. 
Volunteers needed for United Fund drive Saturday before game -come to 121 O'SI1ag anytime after 10:45 sell shamrocks tor charity. 
.. -----------­
NOTICES 
Fix your own car. Tonight. We have the SPACE l TOOLS+ PARTS AND HELP. You do the work and SAVE. Autotech Rt. 31 South in Niles. 684­1960. Open evenings and weekends. 
----· ---------
Morrissey Loan Fund Basement of La Fortune 11:15-12:15. 
-------·-----­
Free Viviane Woodard make-up lessons, samples, catalogs, gift wrapping. For appointment call: Mary 234 3839. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt.'s and lnfor. concerning Viviane 
woodard Excl. cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. A -, 1 •
co~~~f'~i~,i~nson ~ F~~~ug~A~~d~vp 
LESSONS. 
FRESHMEN (&WOMEN) MEET LARSON AND LAZO CANDIDATES FOR V.P.& TREASURER WED. NITE, 9:00 P.M. 347 BREEN PHILLIPS ELECTION EVE RALLY AND ?ARTY. 
ATTENTION N.D. AND S.M.C. BEATLE FREAKS! Beatie Festival Saturday 6:30P.M. Rooms 202 + 218 Holy Cross. ALL albujs will be played. Free! BYOA 
Willing to <'Xchange 2 pairs of Soulhern California dckets for 4 udjacent seats. Willing to pay ad­ditional considerations. Call 4611. 
Classified Ads paid for in cash when 

ordered. 2. 
Ottice hours 1:15 5:00. 
2:00 on day before 
4 days 1 week j 
1.15  1.25  
1.75  2.15  
2.40  2.80  

2.96 3.40  3.45' I uo  
3.85  4.70  
4.25  5.10  
4.50  !;.50  

4.75 6.001 

,I 




