---------~ 

Vol. VI, No.3 Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Monday, September 13, 1971 

Tracey accepts TrusteeS SLC decision 
Ann Marie Tracey, removed from the Student Life Council in May by the Board of Trustees, said Sunday that she accepts and understands the decision. 
Elected by North Quad students, she was removed from the body because the SLC con­stitution r'-!quires student members to be a Notre Dame student. 
Hecognizing the technicality, Miss Tracey urged all concerned would fight the action of the to remember students elected Trustees although she is opposed 
her with 435 votes, 174 votes to it. more than the other North Jerry O'Connor, who received Quad representative. the third highest vote, said that 
The government major added he would accept the post if it was that most ol her classes meet at offered to him. Notre Dame and that she feels John Cullen, the other North she understands the problems Quad representative '• said the before the SLC as well as any Trustees are magnitying a Notre Dame student. technicality beyond reasons. 
Miss Tracey did not state she "Just bee<. use an SMC student 
Enforcement has little effect 
The first weekend under the Trustee demand for stricter enJorcement of parietal and alcohol rules was uneventful as students tooka cautious wait and see approach. 
St. Edward's President Martin Siemion said no trouble was encountered as a number of section parties were held. 
Siemion said he was "worried" 
Barkett replies 
to Stephan letter 
The statement according to the SBP, is meant as a personal response to the Trustee's action "It is not meant as a statement of student government policy," he added. 
While Barkett objected to the 
recent stiffening of enforcement 
of llniversity rules, he stopped 
short of condemning the Trustees 
action. 
Thl' t'CIIIIJilt>h• tt•xt of Harkt>tt's letter is on Jlagt• 3. 
SBP John Barkett suggested that each trustee live for a week at any dorm, in a letter to Board of Trustees Chairman Edmund Stephan. 
"I think the trme has come to realize that the social outlets of students here are virtually none. Come and live in any dorm here for a week. Talk to students and ask what there is to do socially," Barkett said, "Then you too will dream about the reality of co­t•ducation." 
about upperclassmen because it seems the University is taking away what they've been used to in the past. 
"They've been good about it though, observing the regulations even though they may not agree with them," Siemion added. 
In Keenan Hall, the official nolicy "is that of the University," according to President David Lormg. 
He reported no violations and said the hall is leaving en­forcement up to the oersonal integrity of the individual. 
Loring said parietals is the problem area recalling the "elbow nudge" and remarks that circulated his freshman year the day after someone had a woman in his rn'lm. 
"Then sophomore and junior year it changed. If you had a woman in your room nothing was made of it. But now they're going back. They're forcing us to revert with them and women will again be looked at as sexual obiects. as ·opposed to people," Loring said. 
·Claiminy; tt_Je university has 
reversed "all good that was 
done," Loring said he hopes for 24 
hour parietals next year, "after 
we show them we can act 
resoonsiblv." 
Cavanaugh hall was no dif­
ferent. from last vear accordin~ 
to President Kevin Hansen, and: 
expects things to remain the 
same. 
"We had by far the most strict 
rector on campus. All the 
regulations were strictly en­
forced, so we're already used to 
it. So far there hasn't been a 
change and I really don't an­
ticipate any." 
Rule enforcement at 
Cavanaugh will be left for the 
most part, to the individual, 
Hansen said. 
Steven Jeselnik, Breen-Phillips 
president, said it is too soon to 
"judge the differences." 
"If beer is being carried from room to room. he added, "they are being very discreet about it." 


SMC students will not receive N'D degrees 
.:~aun Mary's seniors will not ND would appear on SMC receive diplomas from the transcripts, but not as having University of Notre Dame this been taken at ND. year. "It doesn't make that much 
Academic Dean Sr. Jeanne difference whom is reading the Finske, explained that although transcript," added Sr. Jeanne. the academic departments of "You should have gone to Har­both schools have merged, vard, Princeton, or Yale, if you complete unification is not ex-wanted it marked." peeled to be finalized untill974 or 
STAFF MEETING1975. Plans for joint graduation All returning Observerexercises have not been decided reporters and news staffupon yet. 

are requested to attend anDuring a questions and answer important meeting in theperiod, at a senior convocation in Observer office at 6:30the Little Theatre, Sr. Jeanne tanight.

emphasized that courses taken ,t say UCLA. The Notre Dame students do not see the situation 

as such." 
SLC administrative representative Fr. Thomas Blantz said Miss Tracey on the SLC would be a "form of discrimination" against. the students of Notre Dame. 
"Itwould be just like admitting Yale president Kigcman Brewster as an administrative representative. He would surely bring many fine ideas but the council was not designed for the purpose of admitting such a member," the Vice President for Student Affairs said. 

The SLC is a "very serious is elected hardly indicates a organization," Fr. Blantz, and its trend toward electing students of constitution should be followed in 


~~~w~Id...~-, 
• re
(c) 1971 The New York Times News Service 
MOSCOW--Khrushchew-Soviet authorities remain silent about former Premier's death as plans for private funeral go ahead· on a mild, early-fall day in the Soviet capital thousands of Russians vlsit as usual Novodevichye Cemetary where Khrushchev will be buried, but virtually none of them know of his death; he will be the first top Soviet leader not to receive a Red Square ceremony and be rntt:t red in the Kremlin wall. (See page 6) 
TOKYO--Sino-Japan--For the first time a senior official of the ruling liberal democratic party has described Peking as the government of China and Taiwan as a part of that country; former Defense Minister Nakasone offers three principles for normalizing Tokyo-Pekingrelations; by Takashi Oka 
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND--Ulster-More than a month after the Northern Ireland government imposed internment measures that sparked a wave of terrorism, this bleak, exhausted capital is quietly shaping a risky political effort aimed at the Roman Catholic minority; by Bernard Weinraub 
BYURAKAN,U.S.S.R.--Worlds--Last week for the first time an international conference of scientists and scholars met to consider the possibility of communications with intelligent life on other worlds; within sight of Biblical Mt. Ararat, the conference was held in relative privacy because of the sensational nature of the subject-what the Russians revealed about their interstellar communications effort, and what the participants agreed and disagreed about. 
NEW YORK--Surcharge--Although in some countries, notably West Germany, there is a feeling that the U.S. import surcharge may not be as damaging as first feared, in many there is worry that its effects could severely check business and perhaps contribute to recession; a report on a 15-<:ountry survey by ii:Y'. Trmes correspondents. by Brendan Jones 
Higgins :ND ntay forntconsunter protection group 
. . Hob Higgins, an Ot,server work . rt>portt·r and Hall Life Com­Two years ago, the mere missiont>r, attendt>d a weekend brainchild of consumer­conft>rt>nce on consumer protector, Ralph Nader, PIRGs n•st•arch groups at the University are now forming throughout the of Mimwsota as a representative nation. of ND studl'nt government. ed. Nader's idea germinated from 
his evaluation of students as 

"If Ralph Nader and a staff of "possibly the most vocal, yet 10-15 lawyers can dent the federal least politically effective group in bureaucracy. a similar stand in the United States ... He felt that each state could change the student enthusiasm and idealism direction of the nation." should be channelled into 
Donald K. fl:oss positive action instead of Attorney and Nader Rarder diversified dissent. 

The "similar stand" of which Students PIRGs are the means Mr. Hoss speaks is a Public In-to this end. terPst ltPsearch Group <PIRG l. The group is financed com-
The PIHG consists of a group of pletely by students. In Oregon full time paid profess~ons and Minnesota, the majority of (lawyers, marketings analysrsts, students have signed petitions pnvironmental scientists, etc.) agreeing to tax themselves the and an outer core of faculty sum of three dollars each year to advisors and students. A few finance this gorup. students are also hired as full This presents a many-sided time employees. Some are part uniqueness. Because the timt:' and many do volunteer organization is solely student-funded, it is naturally controlled exclusively by students. In the Minnesota PIRG model, each college, regardless of size, elects one representative to the State Board of Directors,which is the ultimate decision making body in the organization. Larger schools will be allowed one represen­tative for every 5,000 full time students enrolled. 
The State Board of Directors, besides setting all policy for the PIRG, has hiring and firing power over the staff of professionals. While being responsible to no one, it is ob­served and counselled by an advisory staff which is cor1posed of faculty members and com­munity leaders selected by the State Board. The members of this staff are not salaried, have no veto power, nor do they formally vote, but they can make recommendatioms to the State Board, based on their knowledge and expertise. 
This idea is not a fantasy. At the Univeristy of Minnesota, alone, a school of better than 90 per cent commuters, 400 students gathered 26,000 signitures (better than 60 per cent of the student body) calling for the creation of a PIRG in that state. In all, 50,000 students signed petitions in the Gopher state, consequently the Minnesota Public Interest Reserarch Group <MPIRG) began operations this year with a budget in excess of $200,000. $15,000 of this money was turned over to fifteen students for summer research projects, for which they received academic credit. 
During the summer MPIRG hired a lawyer and two en­vironmental scientists. The group plans to hire seven more professionals for· full time em­ployment. Chuck Dayton, the MPRIG lawyer, agreed to a 50 percent cut in pay to work for the environment protection group. 
MPRIG is off to such an out­standing start that it was able to finance a convention this past weekend, which was attended by more than 40 delegates, who came from as far as Oregon, Berkeley, and Columbus, Ohio, to hear the amazing success story of MPIRG. 
Brad Baker, a senior in marketing at the University of Indiana, led thz Indiana delegation. Baker is now in trthe process of educating all of till. I~iana schools in the merits of forming the Indiana Public In­terest Research Group <IN PIRG) and is receiving a full semester's credit 07 hours) for his effort. 
INPIRG is presently in an infantile stage. It can and will grow to be as successful as 
~o.(Continued on page 2) 



Page 2 THE OBSERVER Monday, September 13, 1971 
Group Health Insurance 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Graduate Student Union For 

Graduate Students 
For Information Mail to--ASSOCIATION PLANS 1101 EastBelmont South Bend, Indiana 46615 
N LIFE 

Need a . CHEST OF DRAWERS ? 
BOOKCASE OR RECORD CABINET 
Buy it unpainted~ Save !12 or more Save $on Room Size Rugs 
Now on Campus at old Fieldhouse 



WILLIAM'S 
Unpainted Furniture And N.D. Student Union 
Also at 2609 S. Michigan 288-2181 for Free Delivery FREE DELIVERY Serving ND Students since 1948 
I 


WANTED: 

H.L.Mencken W.R.Hearst Horace Greely Lois Lane or .~ersons of similar repute and stature to work 
on The Observer, Notre Dame's Student Daily. 

OPPORTUNITIES! 

Rapid advancement possible. 
(Become an editor in 60 days or your money back). Have a chance to sneer at : J.T.Burtchaell (Provost), Edmund Stephan (Trustees Chairman) and Fr. T. Hesburgh (Celebrity). 
WHEN & WHERE: 

In front of LaFortune Student Center, 
6: 45 p.m. Mon~ Sept. 13th 

Caruso to 
by Dennis Duggan 
Gary Caruso, director of the co­ex dinner program, expects to begin the project Monday, September 20. 
Plans are being made to ex­pand the program started last semester under the direction of Bob Ohlemiller. 
They call for an increase in the 100 tickets available last year to a projected 200 for each meal this semester. 
Details have not been finalized, but, as it stands now, the co-ex meals will be the evening meals Monday thru Saturday and the Sunday lunch. 
During the first few weeks Caruso expects to assign each hall a specific night to eat at St. Mary's dining hall, as an in­troduction to the program, and then open it to general campus distribution. 
Although Caruso termed the 
Higgins Goes to Minnesota Meeting Explores consumer group organization 
(Continued from page 1) 
Minnesota's, Oregon's or any other state's group. Brad Baker is quite sure of this, as is Joe Highland, the student coordinator of MPIRG, and now a member of the renowned Nader's Raiders. 
Working out of the Nader Washington office, Highland has taken upon himself the task of touring midwestern states, speaking at numerous campuses in an attempt to educate and at the same time involve the 
head co-ex dining 
, program, "very successful last year." there are still some dif­ficult wrinkles to be ironed out. 
According to Ohlemiller, distribution was the main problem. It is hoped this year that the dinner tickets can be handled 
the Student Union Ser­
(iary Carusoe 
students in the PIRG idea. 
Highland and Baker will be making a whistle-stop tour of Indiana this week. They hope to be in South Bend on Thursday. 
The PIRG is a virgin forest. A few of the larger oaks have been felled by Minnesota and Oregon. Much lies ahead for states, like Indiana, which are in the for­mative stages. But the dedication and perserverance of all the delegates at the MPIRG convention, leads one to conclude that the task is not too great. 

vices Commission. 
Other problems are not of a logistical nature. "A one-to-one switch is needed if the co-ex dinner program is to be a suc­cess." Ohlemiller said. 
He said many SMC students were hesitant to eat dinner at Notre Dame last year because the food was not as good as at St Mary's, and because the conduct of the Notre Dame student was immature. 
Caruso said that Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs, Fr. James Shilts was acting as a coordinator between Edmund Price, director of food services, and Raymond P~rry, head of Saga Foods at St. Mary's. 
Caruso felt that the progress that had been made was en­couraging and hopes to have specific details sometime this week. 
Students have more power than they are able to realize, and more importantly, more power than they can mobilize. In the words of Ralph Nader, 
The impact which students have had on their society is remarRable givert the tiny ex­penditure ofenergy and time by a small fraction of the student body. Consider the multiple _growth of this impact when students develop t.heir own full time action arms which in turn will invigorate the education of the students with a new sense of quest, purpose and pertinence. The student public interest research groups, discussed here, can proliferate throughout the country to make the most dynamic and imporant student development in our history. These students PIRGs will be catalysts for the focused energies of students, faculty, and other citizen and professional support, now dissipated and direc­tionless." 
16 new SM C profs 
4 in Fine Arts 

Sixteen new full-time faculty will join the staff of Saint Mary's College this fall, according to Sr. Jeanne Finske, academic dean. 
They are Stanley E. Bochtler, assistant professor of education; Robert Brooks, assistant professor of art; Leonard Fleck, instructor of philosophy ; Miss Patricia Gruska, instructor in speech-drama; Michael Q. Hennessey, assistant professor of music; Mrs. Ruth Hoffman, assistant professor of French; Margo Hoff, assistant professor of art; David Luisi, instructor in English; Dr. John Me Donagh, assistant professor of psychology; Thomas R. Peter­son, assistant professor of education; Miss Monica Schuler, instructor in humanistic· studies; Robert Schumm, assistant professor of education; Larry Scrivner, assistant professor of psychology; John R. Thompsolll III, instructor in mathematics, and Miss Suan Vanek, instructor in Spanish. 
'I ne UDserver Is published di1Uy during the college semester except vacations by tiM students of the University of Notr~~ Dame 11nd St. M•rv's COl..... SubSCriptions m11y be purclul•d for 11 from TIM 01:1­
•rver, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second eta• poatage peld, Not,. Dame, Ind. 465M. 

Monday, September 13,1971 THE OBSERVER 
Barkett Invites T·rustees to Dome 
Dear Mr. Stephan: 
Last May, when I spoke to the full Board at its annual spring meeting, I mentioned that the tradition of hall lite at Notre Dame was a young one. I cited many examples of how tar we have progressed the last three (3) years and said that we still had much further to go. I cited specific needs in the physical plant. hall staff, and the counseling services. I asked the question "Does the attention Hall Lite received in terms of university priorities equal the functions of hall lite?" Relatively speaking, I said "no" to that and I asked that we keep pace with hall life and even surpass it with foresight. flexibility, ex. perimentation and imagination in our thoughts. 
You and all the Board members were most cordial to us at thal meeting. Your concern about student views and obvious dedication to Notre Dame are two traits that still stand out in mY mind. The letter you sent to Dr. Eagan has done nothing to shake my belief in your concern and dedication. Both are obvious. 
In that letter, student responsibility seemed to be your major concern. Living a responsible lite daily has never been easy -·nor will it ever be. And it is much easier tor you and all adults to look back and offer young men the challenge of responsibility than it is tor young men to look tor­ward to face that challenge. 1say this especially noting the pressures facing youth trying to grow into that society. For some, and perhaps L;r many, it is not a pleasant view. 
The sad thing about responsibility is that as much as anyone teaches it or preaches it. it achieves nothing unless the listener· is actually listening and responding. After all, that is responsibility: the ability to respond to a given situation in a sensible and reasonable way. And tor 
what my wisdom Is worth, it appears 
that experience is still the best 
teacher. And some learn taster than 
others. 
Your letter, Mr. Stephan, and the accompanying one by Father Hesburgh and our talks with Father Hesburgh have the same stream of thought: you are ultimately responsible for this University and the rules and regulations it lives by. That responsibility is not only a moral one·· as you all view morality· 

. but also a legal one, particularly as the Board something about the halls 
the state of Indiana views it. Many here. I think also that it means that 
times 1 have tried to put myself in the parietal hours rules are unen­
your position and many ad-forceable as they now stand. Only 
ministrators' positions and asked discretion and flexibility on the part 
myself how I would act in particular of the resident assistants and rectors 
situations. It is, of course, difficult to and good judgment on the part of 
do that. but it has enlightened me residents will avoid a crisis this 
greatly as to the difficult task you year. 
have. More people around here Each hall is unique and each 
should try it. requires a leadership that is 
If you would try the same approach demanding, attentive, available, 
to learn about student needs here, resourceful. tireless and worthy of 
you might discover why some con-respect. To treat all twenty (20) halls 
cerned people are upset about your the same tor much longer is folly tor 
letter. I'm not talking about those one can administer a hall only on the 
students who read your letter only local level. I realize that certain 
seeing that their· drunken bashes are standards of order must be 
no longer welcome on this campus. established. But so must certain 
Nor am I speaking those closed standards of people be found to not 
minded students who refuse to only administer that order but also be 
accept the position you, Mr. Stephan, able to command a listening and 
and the others on the Board hold. I respecting, it not loving, ear in such 
am speaking fonthe large number of administration. And I speak of 
students who can honestly accept students, faculty, and ad-
your words as a reaction to Indiana ministrators. 
Law, the Student Life Council report I think the time has come, also to 
of last spring and some deplorable realize that the social outlets of 
situations that have occurred here students here are virtually none. 
last year. To them, a human lite lost Come and live in any dorm here for a 
and individuals relying on alcohol to week. Talk to students and ask what 
exist are but examples of such there is to do socially, where one can 
situations. go to meet girls, where the social life 
One of the reasons they are upset·· really is. Then you, too. will dream 
and I join their concern -· is that the about the reality of co-education. 
Board has rejected again the Student You, too, will look at LaFortune and 
Life Council's recommendations on shake your head. It is easy to cut-off 
parietal hours. The same exact hall parties ·· which were major 
proposal has been brought up the last reasons for an improvement in 
two (2) years. To me, that means the community life and an improved 
Student Life Council is trying to tell campus social atmosphere despite 

Directory· slated for Oct. 1 
The student directory will be bodies will be posted in the 
prtntecl and in circulation Huddle and St. Mary's dining hall 
hopefully, by Oct. 1, according to until Wednesday. 
editor Walt ~zwarc. "These listings contain ap­
Four to five weeks have been proximately 300 errors," ac­
cut from the customary com­cording to University Registrar 
pletion time, because the staff is Richard Sullivan, "The most 
sending photo-ready copy to the common error is a missing local 
printer. address." 
Photo-ready copy eliminates After students have corrected 
the need for type-setting, which the posted listings, the directory 
has delayed the directory in the will be printed. Forms are 
past. available at both locations for 
Computer listings of the corrections. 
combined ND-SMC student 

John Barkett 

the legal drawbacks and occasional excesses ·· but it is not easy to offer alternate solutions to the good things aobut hall parties. 
When Bob Weaver spoke to the Board in May, he called for a new student center. I repeat that plea now for 1firmly believe such a Center is desperately needed at Notre Dame, particularly in light of the co-ed unification. Please understand that I am fully aware of the money I a",,, talking about. But I am also fully aware of the social conditions and the needs in hall life, and I am trying to put both in their proper framework of Univeristy priorities as I think they should be. 
The dynamism of youth today is certainly apparent at Notre Dame. Though we have made mistakes, I think that dynamism combined with increased self-autonomy has raised the level of responsibility among students here. The momentum is there and to harness it requires dynamic leadership in the student affairs area, not sanctions which in my opinion, cannot apply strictly to every situation and which may be interpreted as attempts to stifle the progress that has been made in community development the last two 
(2) years. I have not even referred to the drug problem; nor to the implications of the advent of Michigan's 18 year old drinking age; nor to the needs of off-campus students. But I am hoping you can see how all these plus what I've said above relates to the problem of excessive drinking, to enforcement of and respect tor rules and regulations, to making Notre Dame 'Tlore responsible in its student af­fairs duties. The Student Lite Council called tor an appropriation to study all facets of student life·· on and oft campus .. as its conclusion to its report of last · pring. No mention was made of it in your letter, but I am hoping that was simply an oversight. Many at Notre Dame could predict the conclusion of such a report. I have alluded to many, but it it takes a study to initiate action, then I say we must begin one. Soon. I trust that you sense the serious nature of my comments, Mr. Stephan. I believe both of our letters must be acted on and that neither alone will effectively "contribute to 
the growth and maturity of the students." 
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame, 
John Barkett Student Body President 1971-72 


Waterbeds 
King 78" X 90" $19.50 
Single 45" x 90" $18.50 Ten Year Factory Warranty 
Send Check or money order to: Water Beds P.O. Box 237 Coloma, Mich. 49038 
Rent a Refrigerator for your Room 
Just $5 I month * 
.t;om{»act Dimensions · only 20" x 17" x 18" 
-SpaciOus · 2 cu. ft. capacity holds up to 36 cans of cold drinks 
-University approved for dorm use 
-Free pick up and delivery
-Guaranteed · If one of our refrigerators malfunc· tions, will be rerlaced within 24 hrs. 
-We pay interes on deposit
·MINIKOOL PROTECTION POLICY · for $1 a 
term, relieves you of all liability from fire and theft 
and its free to all who pay a full academic year's rent in advance 
-Purchase option. You can buy if you like and 75 
percent of your rental payment will be appliedtoward $89.50 purchase price. 
CALL 288-2519 ALPHA PHI OMEGA 
Profits go to Sr. Marita's Day School Monthly price stated is average based on rental for 
full academic fear. A refrigerator may be rented 
for shorter per1ods as well, with some adjustmentIa moatlaly eoat. 



::...::Pa~ge:...:-4:.______~~------__,=----T._H._'E~-Q!JSER''f!R.__ ·­





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor -in -Chief Business Manager 
All successful newspapers are
ceaselessly querulous· and bellicose. They never defend anyone or anything if they Ad Manager
Executive Editor 

can help it; if the job is forced upon them,
T. C. Treanor Bill Bauerle
they tackle it by denouncing someone or 
something else. -H. L. Mencken, Notre Dame, Indiana
Founded Nov. 3, 1966 News 283-1715
Business 283-7471 

The Need to be Willing to Act 
The letter John Barkett sent to Board of Trustee Chairman Edmund Stephan was typical of the Barkett administration. It was courteous, reflective, calm. Without surrendering his dignity or the dignity of student government, Barkett's letter, while praising the intent of the Board of Trustees, made it abundantly clear that the rules that Board wants enforced cannot be enforced, save perhaps through a series of crises that can be nothing but detrimental to the University. In his letter, too Barkett invited the Trustees to this University to live in the dorms, among students. 
We hope they will accept the offer. We hope that the Trustees will use more of Barkett's insightful vision and less of their own current telescopic bomb­sights. We hope that the Trustees will come here with a mind open enough to see for themselves that Parietal enforcement isn't going to work. We hope they will come to realize that the Student Body President and the Student Life Council is better able to perceive how things are at this University then they are. We hope that this letter will initiate a profound change of thought among the Trustees. 
But we don't think it will happen. 
We think, instead, that the Board of Trustees will be as intransigent as ever. We believe that confronted with this letter alone, they will remain continually blind to the nature of studentlife at Notre Dame. 
That's why itis more imperative than ever that students at this University vividly indicate their sentiments towards Stephan's letter; yielding where there is right reason -as we hope the Board of Trustees yield to the right reason of Barkett's letter; but holding firm where there is a clear en­croachment upon· the powers that should rightfully be the Student Life Council's. 
We know, for example, that the drinking rules are forced upon the University by the state of Indiana, whose inept legislature the Trustees are beginning to resemble. Hence, attempts to defy the drinking restrictions are doomed to failure; they are more easily circumvented, anyway. We know, too, that vandalism is a pastime that amuses only temporarily and benefits none, and hall judicial councils that protect vandals are not being responsive to the halls. But the changes needed to deal with these realities are changes from within -student-enforced changes -changes that come about, not because the Board of Trustees wants them to come about-but because they are right. 
But Parietal Hours are purely an invention of the Board of Trustees, and an unwelcome one at that. The University has no responsibility to God, the State, or Notre Dame to keep girls out of the halls after 2 AM; virtuous men don't suddenly change into lechers at that hour, nor do ladies of the day turn into ladies of the night. When halls set parietal hours, the minority suffers, but not abjectly or unfairly, when the Trustees set pareital hours, everyone suffers no matter what his personal preferences are; for such an action underminds the rights of students and the dignity of the Student Life Council. 
So once again we urge student members of the SLC not to allow itself to become an ancillary of the Board of Trustees. The SLC must re-submit its parietal hours resolution to the Board. In the wake of a refusal to do so, the students must walk out and deny the SLC the needed quorum to conduct business. 
Night Editor: Marty Miller Layout: Marty Miller, T. C. Treanor Headlines: Marty Miller, T. C. Treanor Controllers of the Night: John Brady, rick smith F.eatures Editor: rick smith 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson News Editor: John Abowd Associate Editors: Ed Ellis, Ann Therese Darin 
SMC Editor: Ann Conway 
Managing Editor: Don Ruane 
Righteous On 
You Shall Not Crucify Mankind on this Dome of Gold.... 

You Shall Not Press Upnn His Brow this Crown of Horns 
Sam Wilson 
On-campus students have merited themselves a sneer and a tear, as the Rt. Rev. Stephan has single-handedly reduced their arguments for remaining on campus to an absurdity. Back in the old days, when a student caught complaining about tuition increases was sent down to the rector for a harangue, most students not looking for monastary training were looking for off-campus housing. The situation grew so serious, in fact, that Hesburgh (this was when he was on the side of lawnorder, remember, not when he was on the side of the students) resorted in his desperation to insulting off-campus students; and the administration bureaucrats legislated against non-seniors off­
campus. 

for the I'ast couple years, thanks partially to efforts on the part of student power advocates, on-campus living has become bearable, and last year's Dome could even pretend that the merits of living there were comparable to living off-campus or anywhere but a zoo. However, the illusion has been stripped off; Chairman Stephan, riding the steed of chastity and carrying the whip of bull, has probably initiated a widespread exodus off-campus, an exodus that will be slowed ·down only by more heavy-handed administration whip­
cracking. 

I'm conceding, right off, that the Board of Trustees won't rec~gnize 
their error and go hpme with their rules. They never have in the past, 
and when their past grandiose schemes to keep the spit-'n'-polish on 
the dome (like their original refusal to let halls determine their own 
parietal hours) fall flat on their collective faces, they figure the reason 
is the ingratitude of the students and the answer is more gestapo-like 
enforcement. 

That's all crap, of course, and it's not even original crap. The 
Trustees think they're instilling their own (admittedly deeply mor~l) 
value system (which seems to be a vague analgram of no screwmg 
after 2 AM and no boozing where you can get ca~ght) ?n t~e st!ld~nt 
body and hence betteri~g it, but in re~lity all they re dom~ IS bu_Ild_ing 
resentment and a.lienabon. Not too different from w~a~ I!Dpenahsts 
have done in Africa, South America, and Southeast Asia, IS It'? 
How will we respond'? The old student power advocates would have responded loudly, directly, firmly. The present student government has invited Trustees to live in the Dorms for a week or so. How a bunch of rich, married septegenarian men from Chicago and New York are going to sympathise with the plight of students without women, without booze, and locked in the middle of this tragic berg on the basis of a seven days' visit is a question that can legitimately be raised, but it won't be answered here. Instead, I'll propose an alternate solution. Let the Trustees live here for the rest of their lives. Then all the students can move off-campus, where they can drink where they want, sleep with whomever they wish, and in general run their own lives. 

THE OBSERVER.. 
rick smith 
''the obscurity of the night but serves to reveal the brilliance of the stars'' 
on 3rd and 17, don't punt, call the ombudsman 
This Thursday is the Fourth of July in Mexico. From an American point of view. It's Independence Day there and 
atriotism is kind of a different thing there ~wstly everybody joins in the celebration. I lived in El Paso for eighteeen years, still go home once or twice a year. So that uts me about fifteen minutes from ~ . A city which probably still ranks s~:~~~·to Tijuana for bad reputation, but, ·. th b b now old cliche. Juarez tries ~~ de y There are over half a million 
ar er· . . . f · pe~ple ~~e~, th; ~a~f:nio~~~d~~~n~~g 1 ~ 
m escn a Y a . . t 
reme~bder ~:~~ so~~:~c~~~;~~: ~~:eth~ 
own an sal w d world and had never seen slum~ as ba .as the sprav:ling cardboard and tm shan~tes <or colomas as they are called t~erel llavi.ng lived so near. to all this for so 
long, It has become ku~d .of a personal Ma~ans and Aztecs has not been ap­
thing, to the extent that It IS h~rd to tal~,.....,,. about. Hut it is also a matter of mterest, 1f' · ·: 
not concern. for me and so I'm goin~ to try . 
to relate a few impressions of th1s very different land. 
I am assuming that most of you have heard all about how there is such a great dichotomy between the rich and the poor -­how there are all the masses of ex­tremely poor people and the few ex­trememly wealthy folk and how this is still being used by local politicians for personal udvancement. This all is very true. But there is much more to the .land. much more beauty and life, .much more pain, more humanity, if that's the right word. 
That is the biggest thing about Mexico for me.IIere there is so mucu bleakness, so 
little comfort. There is so much that is 
outrageous and intrinsically evil, opposed 
to humanity and life. And it seems to me 
that it is here one encounters the truly 
incredible paradox of the Mexican people, 
if not of all people and all lifs in general. 
I'm not yet a real philosopher, you see. 
So in the face ·of absurdity, over­wlwlming pain and death, where life's meaning it has, is most far removed, those who are, through no fault of their own, it seems, most deeply involved in it can only laugh. Laugh loudly,laugh deeply and for a long time. Like these people really are involved in life, in contemporary youth culture terms, they really dig life. From our superior, improved rationalistic vista we might brand them as stupid. We just have to he superior, seeing as how we spend so much more lime, energy and money at it. Even when they weep, I get the feeling that it is a much deeper emotion lhan is most commonly en­countered in our sani-flush world. 
The usual cool, non-commital attitude so necessary for survival here fares rather badly down there. I read an article this summer by someone whose name I've since forgotten about how in the past men have always had to fight desperately for all the es&entials of life. Ours is the first civilization which has had clothing, housing and food more or less supplied upon de'mand. The old challen~es of ~ife have now faded before our ever-1mprovmg 

paul dziedzic 
It could be that the truly fortunate people are those who are able to worry about the big problems. Truth, beauty, and even co-education are the luxuries of minds removed from the nuisances of cockroaches in the latrine, buses running off schedule or underwear decimated by the laundry. President Nixon is preoc­cupied with putting his house in order before next November and Father Burt­elwell has his hands full with all the strings he's pulling so the task of caring for life's r·t•al, if small, problems falls to the Om­budsman. 
Q: I was using the lavatory facilities on 
the third floor of the student center when a cockroach mistook my leg for a waterpipe and proceeded to climb all the way to my knee. I was very distressed. What can be done about this? ANONYMOUS 
A: That is distressing. An exterminator 

has taken care of the roach but you'd Europe I lost m~ motorbike.. fhe Umted better do some jogging to get rid of those States Embassy·~ Rome has mforme.d me wateroipe legs. that the Rome Police have recovered It but quest for ever-greater security. And, it seems to me, the effects have not been too good..so far, at ~east. A_nd I am led to a tentative conclusion t.hat 1t would behoove one who would remam sort of sane to ~o out~nd see~ some.challen,ge, a rec;tllY basic feeling. Kmd of hke da.d s old thmg ab?ut never rea!ly appreciated someth1~g unlessyou ve really earned It. On a certam level: at le?st, I gu~ss that's rlght. 
A httle history might be .appro~nat~, I think. Men first appeared m Mexico f1~e 
thousand years ago m the form of nomadic tribes who cultivated corn in the central and southeastern parts of the country. I<'ifteen hundred ye~rs ~go the now extinct Mayans were flourishmg, to be followed for two hundred years by the Toltecs. !<'rom twelve hundred until Cortes, the Aztec Culture and Empire reigned. Until ver recently' the full range of both the 
Q: I'm a St. Mary's student and I forgot to reserve a football ticket for this season. What should I do? C.R. McCandless 
A: Co-education hasn't quite reached the ticket office yet and as a result Notre Dame and St. Mary's are still operating ' under different rules. Each Notre Dame student pays for his ticket when he pays ' his University bill. The ladies have to order their's special and only 1400 are available for the whole student body. 
You still have a chance to see the national champs in their six home games if you call the ticket office at 7354 and put yourself on a waiting list. Any tickets not daimcd by Friday will be available to the latecomers. If that doesn't work, cozy up to one of the guys on the team. You may not get to any football games, but you will see plenty of action. 
A: Last summer whi~e t~aveling. in 
preciated, probably, I guess, since they were not associated with Greece or Rome. The Spaniards conquered what is now Mexico in fifteen twenty one. and they were not very benevolent victors. Under Ihe encomienda system, landowners were allowed to extract slave labor from the Indians; for two hundred years the ex­ploitation of the Indians continued, unabated by several laws passed against such action. 
The Franciscans, bearers of the True and Holy Faith To Melt the Swords into Plowshares, or something like that, arrived three years after Cortes had finished his job. The faith spread rapidly, we are told. to all the poor heathens. 
Three hundred years after the establish­ment of Spanish rule, Father Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla led the first large-scale revolt, which ended in failure. Father Jose Maria Morelos y Pavon continued. the revolution and, like Father Hidalgo, was executed. In eighteen twenty one in­dependence was finally achieved, and a century of bloodshed and struggle began. 
The next big name is Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna, an erratic military genius of gloomy coutenance who described himself as the Napoleon of the West. He was to rule Mexico eleven separate times between eighteen thirty three and eighteen fifty five. Under his rule Mexico lost more than half of its original territory to the United States. 

In the period following Santa Anna, there was a constant see-saw battle bet­ween liberals and conservatives. The most prominent liberal figure to emerge was Benito Juarez, author of some of the reform measures in the constitution of 1850. Under his rule, the church lost most of its power. Under his rule. ths rhnrch lost 
most of its power, as did much of the rest of the upper class. Pope Pius IX got so excited about the whole thing that he wrote "it allows the free exercise of 
all  cults  and  admits  the  right  of  
pronouncing . •tl  in  public  every  kind  of  
~~0.i  

¥ "We are alone at last, like all men, and like them we live in a world of violence and deception, a world dominated by Don No One. It protects but also op­presses us, hides us but also disfigures us. If we tear off these masks, if we open ourselves up, we face our own selves, then we can truly begin to live and to think. Nakedness and defen­celessness are awaiting us. But there, in that 'open' solitude, transcendence is also awaiting us: the outstretched hands of other solitary beings. For the first time in history we are contemporaries of all mankind." 
Octavio Paz 

thought and opinion ... we declare null and void the said decrees." 
In spite of all the opposition, Juarez assumed the Presidency and the country soon found itself on the verge of ruin and bankruptcy. 
Conservatives got up a conspiracy which resulted in the ascendancy of Napoleon­backed Maximilian. To the surprise of his backers, Maximilian possessed some relatively liberal instincts. French forces withdrew eventually and Juarez was back in business. By eighteen seventy two, when .Juarez died, Mexico had become a nation, half a century after it had ceased being a colony. 
A new record was set when Porfirio Diaz ruled the country from eighteen seventy six to nineteen ten. And rule he did. Where Juarez built up from the soil and con­stitution, erecting schools and respecting the rights of others, Diaz wanted to impose 
improvements from the top down. He felt this was the only hope for the Mexican people, who, he insisted, had demon­strated no ability either to govern or to Ll!lprove themselves. In this period, a few 
my letters to them have gone unanswered. C!!n you help me? F.N. Class of '71 
A: Our staff in Rome has cleared this up. You can have your bike back as soon as you send enough money to pay for the cost of painting over that large green shamrock on the steps of the Coliseum. Oh, ... Sophia says hi and wants to know if you're going to start at quarterback again this year. 
Q: This new bus schedule and route has me confused. The buses just seem to follow each other around nobody knows when or where they're stopping. Can you straighten this out? R.B.--Fisher Hall 
A: We're working on it but you seem to have hit the nail on the head --nobody knows what's happening. The buses do seem to just follow each other and appear to have better things to do than bother with riders. My guess is that it's mating season Watch for little go-carts to start scooting around campus. We're going to post Sl ephan 's letter in the bus shed tonight and when they see we mean business things will settle down. We'll try to get a copy of the schedule into the Observer if that happens. 
Everybody needs a helping hand once in a while and we try to give it. Dial 7638 if you want to unload those problems on somebody who cares. 




some announcements 
Anyone who wants a booth in Stepan 
Center on Activities Night <Wednesday 
from 7 to JO) should contact Dave Pais, 
care of Student Government office or at 
232-0905. 
The Northern Indiana Friends of Free 
Speech <NIFFS) is attempting to 
rPsurrect the lHte but beloved magazine 
Vaseline. If mterested, please contact 
either Jim or Rick at 282-1726. 
people .acquired great wealth, while the rest of Mexico was poorer than ever. 
In nineteen ten, Don Por{irio invited dignitaries from all over the world to see the new and improved Mexico, the railroads that ran on time, harbors, broad boulevards, stately homes. Indians and paupers were ordered to say off the main streets of the capital. But just as there had been omens of death and destruction prior to the Spanish invasion, there was a violent eruption of a volcano, earth tremors, fiery comets. 
Men such as Francisco Madero, Pancho Villa and Emiliano Zapata became famous during this time. They knew the issues ­dictatorship, the flouting of the con­stitution, effective suffrage, economic repression and Mexico for Mexicans. Around them thronged a starving peasantry, landless Indians, men who had been in trouble with the law during the Porfirian Peace. One writer has said the Revolution was planned by thinkers and executed by bandits and after a time one could not be told from the other. 
Mexico saw ten presidents in the next seven years. One established a short term record of forty six minutes. The population actually dropped as both violence, star­vation and disease took heavy tolls. Everyone was in arms. It looked like a Hollywood scriptwriters dream. Or a nightmare. The wiliest and ablest general was Alvaro Obregon and he became president in nineteen twenty. 
This has gotten much too long and so I'm going to end it soon. It is a very different country. Both very beautiful and very ugly. Life's complexity comes into glaring and blinding focus here. The Machine is exercising power in the culture asit seeks after modernization. But the damage is still limited. Two cars almost collide and a crowd of chicanos standinv beside the street raises their arms and shouts in 
. unison "ole!" 
I realize that my perspective is not the best, wandering in what Octavio Paz has called "an abstract world of machines, fellow citizens and moral precepts." I guess I'm probably even paternal. I invite anyone who has any other insights perhaps gained through a closer experience with Mexico to write about them. 
Paz also writes very beautifully on the lesson which Mexico holds ft<u me, "To 
live is to be separated from what we were in order to approach what we are going to be in the mysterious future. Solitude is the profoundest fact of the human condition. Man is the only being who knows he is alone. and the only one who seeks out another ... All our forces strive to abolish our solitude. Hence the feeling that we are alone has a double significance: on the one hand it is self-awareness and on the other it is a longing to escape from ourselves. Solitude -the very condition of our lives ­appears to us as a test and a purgation, at the conclusion of which our anguish and instability will vanish. At the exit from the labyrinth of solitude we will find reunion ( which is repose and happiness) and plenitude and harmony with the world." Thank you very much. 
Monda.y, September 13, 1971

Page 6 THE OBSERVER 
Sr. Al~na: No Truth to Ministry Merger Runtor 
by. Ann Conway 

Sr. Alma Peters, vice president for special projects, yesterday denied rumors that the merger of the two campus Ministries was nixed by the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees. 
The rumors, given to the Ob­server by an informed source, stated that a merger of the two campus ministries had been agreed to in writing last spring by Sr. Alma and Provost Fr. James 
T. Burtchaell, who ~as unavailable for comment. 
This merger was then stopped unilaterally by the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees Committee, who informed Notre Dame that no merger would take place this September, and that a member of the Holy Cross Order would be hired to head the Saint Mary's ministry. 
Accorcling to Sr. Alma whose duties center about the merger, there was no written agreement concerning merger of the two campus ministries. She said, "If people would only think of the positive rather than the negative sides. This type of rumor will go aroundall year." 
Fr. William Twohey,head of the Notre Dame campus ministry said that he understood that there would be continuing discussions hopefully leading toward a September 1972 merger of the twCl Campus Ministries. 
Sr. M. Gerald, of the Saint 
K of C Members 

Important 
MEETING TONIGHT AT 7: 00 PM NEW KEY CARDS ISSUED 
NEED MONEY NOW Morrisey Student Loan Office OPt::N 
Monday thru Friday 11:15 • 12: 15 
Basement of La Fortune 
Borrow up to $50. For almost any need 
Mary's Board of Trustees denied the allegations stating that there was some misunderstanding. She stated that the Board of Trustees agreed only to merging the academic programs this year and that total unification of the two schools would not take place before 1975. 
The only joint statement, ac­cording to Sr. Gerald, was that the unification would take place as soon as possible with 1975 as the final date. 
Fr. Roger Cormier, acting head of the SMC Campus Ministry, stated, "I was not in­formed of any decisions during the summer. I learned of the present status of the Camous Ministries upon my return in late August, and l nave no comment other than that I am determined to implement the most effective Campus Ministry possible to meet the pastoral needs of all 
students." Fr. Cormier also hopes to in-
The new director of the Saint stitute small group liturgies and Mary's Campus Ministry, Sr. M. rap rooms as a means o~ reaching Katherine Reichert, is presently stude.nt~. The theme of Fr. at Dumbarton College and will C~rmier s program is a com­notarriveoncampusuntilsecond ~Ittm~nt to the "human 
semester. liberatiOn and development in the 
Until that time Fr. Cormier context of a Christian believing will undertake 'a series of community." He plans a programs to improve the SMC prograll_l of coed retreats and Campus Ministry. work w1th the student advisor 
Fr. Cormier has mcreased the program. staff to compensate for the Fr. Cormier is a graduate of vacancy created by Fr. Glenn Notre Dame with a M.Th in Boarman's resignation. He has Theology. He has had clinical hired two priests oart-time, Fr. pastoral education at the Yale John Cavanaugh, md Fr. Ned Medical Center and has worked Reidy, ana a seminarian Hugh in group dynamics at the Center Cleary to aid in the program. for the Study of the Person. This 
According to Fr. Cormier, "I is Father's fourth year at SMC. have tried to put together a diversified team to meet student Stapleton Mass resumes tonight at needs." Tne emphasis of this lO:JO m Stapleton Lounge, LeMans 
t Hall. It is open to all N D·.. SMC 
earn will be on happy life. students. The Mass is held everyMembers of the staff will be Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday 
1

available to work with each hall.Jcn:!!i::h:·=========~ 


Krushchev dead of heart attack Will not be given state funeral 
<New York Times) 
Soviet authorities this morning broke their silence and an­nounced "with sorrow" the death on Saturday of former Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev who will be buried without full state honors later today. 
A brief obituary in Pravda , the Communist Party paper, avoided any praise of the man who had dominated Soviet political life for 11 years before he was ousted by 1964 and relegated to obscurity and disgrace in his own cc untry. 
The announcement made public by Tass, the Soviet Press Agency, a few hours before Pravda was to be distributed said: ' 
"The Central Committee of the Soviet Communist Party and the Council of Ministers of the 
U.S.S.R. announce with sorrow that on September ll, 1971, after a severe and long illness, the former first secretary of the 
current Kremlin leaders in Central 


THIS MAN READS THE OBSERVER. "Why not your 
Parents?  
MAIL YOUR CHECK  
$14 I year  $8 I semester to  ••  
PO BOX 11, NOTRE DAME, IND.  46556.  
NAME___________________  
ADDRES~---------­ ZIP___  
SENT By_________________  
ADDRESS  

I RENEW::?:ailing to start I
' .. '' 
man of the Council of Ministers 
special pensioner Nikit~ 
S~rgeyevich Krushchev, died in 
his 78th year." 

It was signed by the Central 
Committee of the party and the 
Council of Ministers, and not by 
any of his former Kremlin 
colleagues, such as Leonid I. 
Brezhnev, Aleksei N. Kosygin or 
Nikol~i y. Podgorny, personahy, 
as official obituaries usually are 
listed. 

Nor was the time of his funeral 
or any information about it 
provided the Soviet people as are 
funerals accorded high leaders 
who are given full state honors. 
Krushchev will be buried in the 
Novodevichye Monastery 
Ce~etery in Moscow, a final 
restmg place for many Russian 
notables, but a notch below the 
Kremlin Wall where all other top 
party leaders have been interred. 
Moreover, reflecting the 
refusal of the Kremlin leaders to 
end Khrushchev's political 
disgrace, there will be no public 
funeral ceremonies. His family 
has told Western correspondents 
that farewell remarks will be 
made at the Kremlin Hospital in 
the Kuntsevo section of Moscow 
where he died from a massive 
heart attack around noon on 
Saturday. 
The Pravda announcement 

which will probably be read ove; 
the radio this morning, was the 
first official word to the Soviet 
people about the death of the 
colorful Krushchev, who 
achieved significant popularity 
for his anti-Stalin campaign and 
his promises of peace and 
prosperity, but who was scorned 
by many in his last years as 
leader for his inefficient 
economic policies and his crude 
public behavior. 


CARPET TOWN[ 
U·S·A· 223 N. Lafayette South Bend Ind. 

Phone 234-4086 
Carpet Remants 
Save 112 
Make your

···· with Sept. 22nd edition. ···· 
room look beautiful
l::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::•::s:z*:;:;:;;;:;;::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Jil 
-------~­

Monday, september 1_3,_1_97_1_________________:Til:.:::..:::'E;.......;O:::..=!IJ.r.:..::..::'ER=.:::.:~:..:'ER.=.::~--------=--------------....-!:P!:!PII!.....l!....
..::. 

Irish offense needs consistency 
by Jim Donaldson Coach Ara Parseghian had scm·ed until the final 12 minutes Sports Editor stated before the scrimmage that of play. 
While many of the college he would be looking for con­Pat Steenberge directed the football teams in the land played sistency and assignment com­first unit to three scores, two of their season openers last petency. them coming via the aerial route, weekend, the Fighting Irish grid "We didn't find either," he and Bill Etter led the number one forces held a game type scrim-remarked afterwards. "We're club to a pair of touchdowns, mage in Notre Dame Stadium. It making too many mistakes. Our leaving the question of who will was, perhaps, a break for the biggest problem continues to be start at quarterback against Irish that their schedule didn't gaining consistency on offense." Northwestern next weekend still begin Saturday. The number one offense did unanswered. 
The Notre Dame offense was manage to score five touchdowns "I don't know much more now erratic and the Irish were guilty but two of them came in the than I already knew," was of a number of errors in the opening minutes of the first Parseghian 's only comment on scrimmage. quarter and the last three weren't his quarterback situation. 
Cliff Brown had a rough outing
Mike Pavlin =================~xa.%->:::.:::-;:::~=======::=;;.===-""====»===~====.;&::========*-=======-;:. Saturday, throwing three in­terceptions while at the helm of the second and third units and Jim Bulger was able to lead the
The Graduate View number three offense to just one 
first down against the number one defense. 
.:<=-·:...~-~.... .... ··.• : .:.•\}~~
Steenberge tossed a wobbly 39­
::::====================================================N U ---Scouting Report 
yard pass to Greg Hill for the first ·-.. ~~·' -~r--~~-z ,f ~~ Trying to judge a team's performance on the basis of radio tran­
score of the afternoon barely
smission is somewhat difficult. You can't really tell if one team's ~~-.....->~·~ ~f~l '/.~. -~ .
three minutes after the scrim­
' "•'( ( J+~~-J~'l:.:.:.K~K ................;........~
ground game is not functioning because the offensive guards keep 
mage began. Bob Thomas, a
falling down when pulling or because the deffensive line averages 280 Pa& Steenberge, shown here handlag elf to John Cleszkowskl, &brew
sophomore walk-on who kicks
pounds. · two touchdown passes in Saturday's scrimmage.
soccer style, then booted the first
You can't, that is, unless the announcer tells you and he is too busy of six extra points. and carried the ball several times The second and third units filling in pregnant pauses with commercials for Tony's beef sausages. Steenberge flipped another TD in the drive. were able to score only one touch-Sti~l, I managed to glean enough from WMAQ last Satnrday to 
pass the next time he had the Etter, who had been unable to down and that came as a result of convmce me that Notre Dame had better do certain things right next ball, lofting a slightly un­move the club in two first quarter a big break. Afumbled punt at his
Saturday against Northwestern or face a tough afternoon. aerial Bobby pair own
derthro\Vn to appearances, engineered a four by Greg Hill set up aBy now, all of you doubtless know how Northwestern's Jack Dustin, Minnix in the end zone. The play of scores in the final stanza. In two-yard touchdown plunge byall 5' 11" of him, deflected a Michigan 3rd quarter field goal attempt 
covered 32 yards. one drive, he passed to Mike John Clements.
then allowed Wolverine Bo Rather to fall on the ball for the TD that Linebacker Rich Thomann Creaney for 17 yards and Tom A bright spot in the scrimmageturned the game around and led to Michigan's 21-6 victory. 
recorded the game's third Gatewood for 10. Andy Huff wa~ the play of the Irish defense Actually, the Wildcats were in trouble anyway, even if the score was score nine minutes into the first hulled his way through the which allowed only six firstonly 7-0 at the time. They had failed to score three times in the first quarter when he picked off a middle for 15 yards and Minnix downs, none of them by rushing.
half when they should have and the Michigan ground game had Bulger pass and ran 30 yards for scampered seven yards for the The front four of Walt Patulski,already taken the life out of NU's spirited front line. 
a touchdown. touchdown. Greg Marx, Mike Zikas and Tom I don't believe NU could have won even if Dustin had stayed on the 
The first unit did not reach Some nifty scrambling by Etter Freistroffer pressured Brownground. But theWildcatsreally worked Michigan over in the first half. 
paydirt again until the fourth resulted in the final touchdown of and Bulger continually.
What worries me about all this is that ND and Michigan are similar on his Irish begin
quarter. With senior halfback Bill the scrimmage. Starting The will their teams. Each has a powerful running game, an excellent defense and a Gallagher doing much of the own 47, Etter completed a 20-normal game preparation today
question mark at quarterback. ' work, Steenberge directed the yard pass to Gallagher. He then fo! Saturday's upcoming contestThe first half was all 'Cat and should have ended 9-7 NU at the very number one offense to the one ripped off scrambling runs of 16 With the Northwestern Wildcatsleast. Northwestern returns this year strong on defense (8 regulars yard line, where Larry Parker and 15 yards, putting the ball on ?t Notre Dame Sta_dium. Theoack), but their front tour are on the small side with the exception of 6' ran in for the score. Gallagher the two, and Gallagher carried Cats opened their season6", 250 pound Jim Anderson. 
caught passes of 14 and 29 yards for the score. Saturday, losing 21-6 to Michigan.
But the Wildcats knew Michigan would try to run all day and MU reacted by stacking the middle and out-quicking the bigger Wolverines. 


Patulski punishes passers
Having the wind advantage in the first quarter, NU stopped Michigan cold, twice throwing soph qb Kevin Casey for losses. After a execution on defense this yearshaky start himself, 'Cat qb Maurie Daigneau got his club rolling. by Vic Dorr •74 than you did last year," he said'Getting adequate protection from a young and inexperienced of­"We've had some surprises infensive line, he mixed the power running of AI Robinson and Johnny The question most o(ten asked practice lately, and we've foundCooks with some superbly timed draws and screen passes. about Walt Patulski, Notre 
co­
that we're deeper than we
I can recall an ND-Purdue game in the Hanratty era when the Irish Dame's 1971 defensive out thought we were.
marched up and down the field with ease but couldn't negotiate those captain, does not have to do with "(Mike) Zikas has looked very
last 20 yards. Last Saturday, NU came up with several novel ways of his talents on the football field. doing the same. Nor does it have to do with his good at tackle--he's filling in for 
Mike Kadish, and the sameA Daigneau interception spoiled one drive. Then with 4th-and-2 at leadership abilities. It has to do 

thing's true about Tom

the Michigan 11-yard line, the 'Cats spurned the field goal. A suicidal with his size. 
Freistroffer. Fred Swendson wasplunge into Michigan's tough front line failed. According to Alex Patulski, a regular at left injured a while back, andAgase, he would have gone for the field goal, but Daigneau held up his defensive end since 1969, was 

Freistroffer has looked real

hands signaling only about a yard to go. Maybe the NU coach needs a listed by one pre-season football sharp while taking his place <at
qb with a longer reach. magazine as "one of the smallest right defensive end.)
Anyway, the persistant Wildcats later failed on a 36-yard field goal defensive ends in the coulntry." 
"We've got good depth at

attempt and on another 4th and short yardage play. But another publication called Walt Patulski linebacker, too, and our deepl''inally, Michigan got the wind advantage and figured out how to him an "amiable giant" and what the polls are going to do to secondary is intact from lastmove. The Wolverines used soph speedster Bo Rather on a "flanker-placed his size at 6-6, 260. 
you. And I feel along the same year. We'll have morearound" play that cought NU going the collective wrong way. The first And the Notre Dame Football lines as far as being a pre-season refinements on defense thistime Rather tried it, he gained 20 yards; the second time, he went 18 Go..~ide, the "official" source for All-American goes." season, and you'll probably seeyards for a TD; the third time, he was stopped for no gain but by then such figures, lists the Irish co-
it was too late. captain as 6-5, 235. But for Patulski, and for the more free-lancing because of it." The rest of the game, All-American candidate Billy Taylor tore up "Actually," said Patulski, "the rest of the Fighting Irish, the Eric Patton, as the team's the Wildcats (109 yards). University has me as being 6-5, "pre-season" period will soon be swing linebacker, will be NU OFFENSE -....The Irish have little to fear from the 'Cat · but I'm really something like 6-5 ending. The Irish collide with the responsible • for actually 
arranging the defensive sets and

runners. Robinson and Cooks are adequate but unspectacular. The. or 6. And I am close to 260, so I Northwestern Wildcats Saturday, 
in a game that should indicate calling the plays, but Patulski'spassing, however, is clearly dangerous. Operating against a zone guess the 6-6, 260 is just about just how accurate the early duties as defensive co-captaindefense, Daigneau went 19-31 for 199 yards and 3 interceptions. You right." 
predictions have been. are a good deal more vague.
can chalk up some of those misses and interceptions to rustiness: his But while there may be some receivers were open all day. The favorite 'Cat ploy is a flood pattern question about Patulski's actual "It figures to be a weird year," "Eric will be running the show 
on

whereby Barry Pearson (4 catches for 46 yards) and Jim Lash (7 for size, there is none about his said Patulski, "because a lot of defense," he said, "and my 
the really good teams on our job--well, my job is just seeing
94) clear for each other in the flat and hook zones. ability. The senior from Liver-It has always been my contention that the Irish are vulnerable in pool, N.Y.' has started every schedule got beat over the that we win. No, it's more than 
weekend. But it'll be a different that. I guess my job is seeing that
these zones since our cornerbacks play off so deep and since the slower game for the Irish over the past linebackers have flat zone responsibility. If the Irish line fails to two seasons, and was named to story when these teams play us. we shut people out." pressure Daigneau, he could work these short zones with devastating the Football News' sophomore It always is. Everyone's always Patulski's goal of "shutting effect. All-America team after his first up for Notre Dame. people out" is a tough one, but the 
NU DEFENSE-The 'Cats are quick and aggressive, but they are season with the Irish varsity. "I know Northwestern's going ND co-captain is eager for his small Michigan's Casey was 4 of 11 passing for only 34 yards against Last year . he received to be tough. They like to run the first chance to achieve it. the excellent NU deep defenders. It took the Wolverines a full half to honorable mentiOn on the UPI tackle trap and the draw, and this "We've been watching films of wear down their smaller opponents. All-America unit, and this year--year they've got a quarterback last year's game with Nor­
The Irish offensive linemen and backs are as big and tough as as the co-captain on a team that <Maurie Daigneau) so they'll be thwestern," he said, "and we've 
able to throw. They've got Barry been horrified to see just how
Michigan's. If ND persists in calling Run-Run-Pass on every series of many are tabbing to win the .. 
Pearson <flanker) and AI lousy we were--even if we did
downs, however, the Irish will have their hands full. national title--he has been a Robinson (running back) back win. But theis year things should
On the basis of my radio scouting, I make these predictions: The favorite choice for pre-season AA too, so they could give us some be different. We've got a veterancrucial areas will be the Irish pass defense and offensive line. ND honors. 
trouble." defense, and we shouldn't bemust hold NU in check for the first half and manage some sort of of-"Most of us have been through But Patulski has no doubts bothered too much by butterflies.
fensive punch. But in the second half, Irish beef should take over and this business of pre-season picks about the Irish defense that will To me, the defense looks relaxedthe ND Wishbone-T should become devastatingly effective. before," said Patulski, "and be meeting the Northwestern and matured. I'm sure we'll be
And let us hope that Ara finds someone who can get the ball to Tom we've found that it's futile--and Gatewood. unpredictable--to worry about attack. "I think you'll see better ready." 


.Page I TH£ OBSERVER. 
Monday, September 13, 1971 






readers. Hourly wages. Call 8539 
CUSTOMDARTBOARDS A picture target of your "favorite" member of the N.D.-S.M.C. Community. Anyone administration, faculty, ~x-girl or guy friend. Just supply the name and we'll supply the name and 
4820. 

'69 VW -excellent condition 287-7106. 
ND-SMC FROSH DIREC­TORY -Student Union Offices -4th Floor La Fortune -1:00­5:00 
Basement Sale -Gas stove, 3 in one-stove (stove, sink and refrigerator), Hoover washer, lots of household and miscellaneous. Mon. to Wed., noon till dark. 518 S. Dundee, between Western and Ford Street 
3 Volunteer services open 
A number of volunteer service opportunities have been ex­plained in a newly released pamphlet from the Student Government Community Relations Commission entitled "You've Got a Friend." 
Dave Lah, Commissioner of Community Relations statted that "We want to get people inc volved in a one to one ratio with problem children around South Bend." He said that one student working with one child is where the most good can be ac­complished. "Growing up is hard," Dave said, "often all a kid needs is a little guidance from somebody to set him straight." 
The Big Brother Program is one of the volunteer services offered. A student is asked to guide a fatherless boy from thz ages of 7 to 15. Interested students should contact Dr. James Daschbough at 319 Engineering or phone 6124 for more information. 
Both ND and SMC students can 
work with juvenile delinquents in 
the volunteer probation officer program. This is a chance to coknsel a youth and also to relieve the current probayion officer shortage. Bob Stockhoff, 347 Cavanaugh (phone 1522) is in charge of this program. 
The Family and Childrens' Center in Mishawaka has opened up an opportunity for students to work with orphaned children. Bill Reitz, 301 Cavanaugh (phone 1479) has more information on this activity. There is also a volunteer program for assistant high school counsellors which is handled by Tim Galvin, 7735. 
The pamphlet a,so explains a number of other service op­portunities. Most of the halls already have this information. The Community Relations Commission has worked jointly with the Kennedy Institute -also an ND organization -to set up the programs and make the in­formation available. Lab said activities only requice a few hours a week. He contended "Everybody who volunteers can be used. If you have abilities, you also have responsibilities to help the less fortunate in the com­munity." 
Medical costs soar 
A decade ago, one medical group in Manhattan charged $35 for a basic physical checkup; today it charges $65. In those same years thz going rate for an appendectomy in New York rose from $485 to $1,175 and the cost of an average hospital stay, for the nation as a whole, rose from $265 
to $785. 
Indeed, Americans are spending money on health care as if there were no tomorrow. 
And while almost everyone is complaining about spiraling health care costs, most of the same people --rich and middle class as well as poor, insurers 



II~E & 'riiA 
and providers as well as con­sumers --are also demanding more and better health care no matter what it costs. 
The statistics for medical costs, at a time when ac­cumulated inflation has swollen most economic indications, are staggering. This year Americans -through their own pocketbooks, their federal, state and local governments, and their health insurance companies--will spend almost $80 billion for such things as 15 million operations, two billion prescriptions and the salaries of the five million people who provide health care. 

Saturday, Sept. 18 
Tickets $5.50, $4.50, $2.50 at The Student Union Ticket Office & the Bookstore 



