Mags insult the intelligence 
Goode knocks cn"ticism in magazine media 

by: Dan P. Rock killing. He defined killers as mean, Army recruitment commercials. All this 
James A. uooue said that "magazines narrow, ambitious, and psychotic people killing." should not act as criticism, but a transfer who should be removed to prison. "But Goode, then, put forth his recom­of images, allowing the reader to draw his who," asked Goode, "is to restrain or mendations, on an individual basis, own conclusions," last night as the Student punish an entire state? All kinds of killing Goode, then put forth his recom-Union Academic Commission concluded takes place in the country, but how can we mendations on an individual basis, to stop its series of guest speakers. be anything but killers in Southeast Asia? the killing. "Find out who you are and 
In his topic "Trying to Tame the We do not kill out of hate, order, die-determine how you are going to stop war. Republic" or "How to get through the year tatorship, self-preservation, but of a Once you decide what to do, do it," Goode without hating Yourself," Goode criticized national collective will. Even after the said. the major magazine publications for in-war is over we can be at best used-to-be Call your representative and inform him suiting the intelligence of the reader. They killers." what you think about killing. . . Either he should act as a transfer agent, not a judge, "Money is committed every hour of will have to agree with you and commit critic or evangelist for a cause. every day for death weapons to be the himself or you work against him during 
Goode then delivered what he con-war," continued Goode, "Today the the elections," said, the former Time-Life sidered the important part of his talk--federal government is spending money for correspondent. James Goode 



Vol. V, No. 124 Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Friday, May 7, 1971 

Geoffrey opposes amalgamation 
proposed many actions which and hiring based on merit In a letter to the City of South Company are repulsed by the by Art Ferranti oppose some of the policies of "alone" (emphasis hiss own). Bend Human Relations Com­very proposition of a black man both SMC and Notre Dame. This last facet apparently refers mission on May 4 two days ago, being proposed for possibleProfessor Syed J. Iqbal His first major point is "no to his a negation of being denied a Geoffrey brought his accusations presidency." Marian Patrick is Geoffrey, former professor at amalgamation with Notre teaching position due to his race one step further. He wrote "the chairman of the Presidential 
Saint Mary's College, who has Dame." Since the merging and creed. In another plank, fact is that Marian Patrick and Search Committee for SMC. 
expressed his intentions to sue procedures between the two Geoffrey lashed out at the SMC 
SMC, yesterday announced his institutions have already begun, nuns. He said that he would "end 
platform if he is appointed to the this point alone contradicts the intra-nun's bickening and trivia 

Kezele describes
presidency of SMC. dicision of the joint Board of oriented (but dangerous)Stating that he is "staking my Trustees in February. politics."future and lifesurvival" on these Prof Geoffrey also calls for the Another proposal dealt with the 

future of SLC
matters, Professor Geoffrey abolition of the tenure system grading system. Prof. Geoffrey re-evaluatiOn of the student wishes to abolish it. by Gary Hunt manual. 
As was reported yesterday, The Hall Life Committee would Prof. Geoffrey was a member of In an interview yesterday deal with all aspects of on and off the AMX Art Department faculty Floyd Kezele outlined some of the campus living. Issues such as from September of 1967 to June of proposed structural SLC parietal hours and liquor in the 1968. Sister M. Rose Ellen, changes. The new system for the halls will be dealt with by this chairman of the department of SLC will be a committee type committee. Kezele hopes to see art at SMC in 1968, had written of organization. In this proposed SMC opinions worked into this Geoffrey then that "his most system there will be four basic committee. notable characteristic is committees. The Planning Committes's generosity, although he is ex­The Steering Committee will be main concerns would be that of ceptionally intelligent, and might composed of three members and coeducation and minority groups. prefer to be thought of as a the SLC vice-chairman. Kezele This committee would work on person of insight." Prof. Geof­would like to see this committee these problems from a long­frey at the age of 32 has three made more powerful. He feels range planning and im­Ph.D's an honorary doctorate of that part of the ineffectiveness of plementation aspect. law from Harvard, served as past Student Life Councils is that Another of the proposed im­human rights attorney at the some bills were presented to the provements in the SLC would be United Nations for a year, and is Council before the St<'ering to put the agenda of each meeting the only professor in SMC's Committee had seen them, and in the Observer several days history to be nominated for the information concerning the before the meeting to increase Distinguished Professorship. bill would not reach council student awareness. 
members until just before the Kezele hopes that these 
~---------------~
A~~ meetings, sometimes not at all. changes will be voted on before Dame Student Senate will Kezele feels that if all the bills, the end of the year to speed up be held on Sunday night at with the signature of each organization an increase ef­
7:00 in the Amphitheatre. member of the committee fectiveness next year. Proposed amendments to presenting it on the bill, were When asked to comment on the the constitution will be presented to the Steering Com­proposed changes, SBP John
St. Mary's Student Assembly with elections to fill the voted Wednesday to increase its remaining seats for hall and off­di!wussed. mittee at least two weeks before Barkett said that he was pleased size by adding five at-large campus representatives. ~each Council meeting. Members to see these proposals being members with the stipulation Students nominated by the Class Day speakers of the SLC would then be able to made. He also also said that he that two of the new members be executive cabinet for positions on do individual research or talk to feels that the real effectiveness of 
freshman. the sub-committees of the SMC the sponsors of the bill. The the SLC is entirely dependent

include 3 Seniors 
Board of Trustees were also Steering Committee would also upon the members doing their 
The move was made approved at the meeting. They Three seniors, all with a per­limit the time of debate on each of homework before each meeting specifically to allow for the are: Vansetta Childs and Bill fect 4.0 academic average, will the issues brought up at SLC to increase the body's efficiency. candidacy of students from Notre Wilka, Development; Jane share valedictorian honors at meetings. If however, two-thirds Barkett feels that this proposal Dame. LeMans Representative Sheehy and Maureen Elliot, Senior Class Day exercises in the of the council members wished to must work if the SLC is to con­Amy Alsopiedy noted that the Educational Policy; and SBVP Athletic and Convocation Center prolong debate, this could be tinue as a functioning student plan would acquaint male Missy Underman and Miss at 10:30 a.m. Saturday. done. Another of the duties the organization. students with the workings of the Barlow, Student Policy. They will join James J. Steering Committee would St. Mary's community govern­The following appointments to D'Aurora, class president, in perform would be to handle any Agenda ment structure. She expressed a the academic committees were brief addresses to members of problems concerning the by-laws 
1) Seating of new members
hope that his would lead to a also approved: Susan Dorn, the class and guests. of the council. 
2) Election of new officersdesire to implement similar Angie Ricks, admissions and John G. Hessler, Greenburg, In the proposal changes, the 3) Revisions of Student Life
concepts and structures when the scholarships; Susan Jackson, Ind., an English major in the Rules Committee would consist Manualtwo schools merge completely. curriculum; Ann Meuleman, Collgee of Arts and Letters, has of six members. This committee 4) Appeals Board appointments
Sandy Ludwig, teacher been selected to give the would deal with all University
Student Body President Kathy 5) Drug Committee report 
education; Mary Orrino, Margie valdictorian address. rules and regulations. It would
Barlow added that the best way 6) Steering Committee report
Rurak, library; Yvette Morris, The salutatorian address will have the power to suggest
to prepare for the merger of 
Kevin Burke, cultural affairs. be given by James E. Dahl, changes in these laws. Some ofstudent governments, which is Two positions on the Academic Arlington Heights, Ill., an the areas this committee would Lowenstein to talk 
expected in January, 197, would 
Standards Committee and one on economics major in the College of be dealing with are such things as AI Lowenstein, a former 
be to "start working together 
the Curriculum Committee are Arts and Letters. traffic· laws, the student Congressman from New York immediately, not only on com­still vacant. Applications for these Charles E. Glatz, Rochester, disciplinary code, and the will be speaking at Notre Dam~ mon problems, but on problems positions will be accepted in the N.Y. will give the senior address. University drug policy. Also this on Saturday, May 15 at 4:00P.M. 
particular to each campus." 
fall from students on both the He is a chemical engineering committee would handle rules His topics of discussion will be Election for the new seats will Notre Dame and St. Mary's major in the College of such as the 15 minute rule, the student involvement in voter be held in the early fall, along campuses. Engineering. imminent danger clause, and a registration and the primaries. 


Page 2 THE OBSERVER Friday, May 7, 1971 
Drug bust runner-up 

Merger chosen as top story of the year 

by the Observer News Staff 
The 1970-71 Academic Yea1 was not an impressive one in comparison with the year before. There no strike, moratoria, or placement Bureau sit-ins. In an effort to ut the soon-to-be­
~------------------------­
1 flying home 
I at the end of the year? Student Union's Bus Service to 
O'HARE 
Depart: ND Circle (Busses leave SMC Holy Cross Hall 15 min. later). 
Monday. May 17 1:30PM 4:30PM Tues. May 18 4: 30 PM 
Contact 1st Bank campus travel bureau 
(Located in the scenic basement of Badin 
Hall, next to Barbershop. 9 · 12, 1 · 4. 
$5.00 All Sales Final 
deceased year in proper per­spective, the Observer News Department has put together the following "Top Ten News stories of 1971" with a short explanation of each to refresh everyone's 
Board of Trustees--After five years of planning, argumentation, and equivocation, the Boards of Trustees of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College this year decided to work for a merger of the two schools to be im­plemented over the next three or four years. The Park-Mayhew Report, presented in December of 1970 will provide the basis for the merger, which will begin to be felt in the fall of 1972. There are many problems to be wroked out and many egos to be soothed before the merger is complete. 
2. 
Fr. Burtchaell made Provost-­Administrative reorganizations last summer at Notre Dame elevated the Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. to the post of Provost, the number 2 man in the administrative hierarchy. Other changes included Fr. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C.to Vice Presfdenf fo. Student Mfairs, Phillip Faccenda to Vice-President and General Counsel and Fr. Charles McCarragher to the Financial Aid office. 

3. 
Narcotics raid nets four Notre Dame Students--John T. Bren­nan, Donald Badger, Mark Hennahan, and Donald Holbert, were arrested in a series of coordinated drug raids by local police on December 17th. Hen­nahan and Badger have been since acquitted in the local courts, Holbert was never brought to trial, and Brennan awaits trial in felony court. The case brought the first big test for the new Judicial Code and its "imminent danger" clause. Few will argue that the system worked perfectly. 

4. 
Barkett and Barlow-The SBP races at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's brought a new twist due to the imminent merger of the two schools. Don Mooney and Kathv Barlow ran a .'oint cam-


Exams Threatening. Keep your sanity with FREE ICE CREAM CONES!! 
to selected students · watch your mailbox for coupon. Courtesy your friends in MANASA, the ND-SMC · unit of the Mental Health Association. 
Manasa is volunteers serving the mentally handicapped or disturbed in four projects 
• 
Northern Indiana Children's Hospital (150 retarded children) . Psychiatric Ward, St. Joseph's Hospital (adults with mental problems) 

• 
Halfway House (rehabilitation for former mental patients) -Hotline (telephone line for mental or emotional crises) 


PLEASE 
paign, and were opposed in­dependently at Notre Dame by Hall -President's Council·· Chairman John Barkett, and at St. Mary's by Jane Sheehy and Kate Cassidy. One half of the combine won, as Miss Barlow took the SMC race in an election first invalidated by irregularities in balloting. 
In a hard fought race at Notre Dame, Barkett and his run­ningmate Orlando Rodriguez beat Mooney and Dan Sherry on the second ballot with about 53 percent of the vote. The election was complicated by the entrance of several strong minor can­didates, most notably Eileen Fitzpatrick, who took 12 percent of the vote on the first ballot. Girls were held to be valid candidates for the office by the Student Government Judicial Council, 
5. 
Princeton Plan Fails---In a massive ·show of student non­support and apathy, only 48 percent of the student body turned out to vote in the Prin­ceton Plan referendum October 3rd, which would have ~iven students a week off to campaign for the candidate of their choice in the November election. The proposal required the positive vote of 50 percent of the students. Less than that voted, and the proposal was beaten 3 to 1. 

6. 
Ti Grace Atkinson Speaks At Notre Dame--Women's Lib ad­vocate Ti Grace Atkinson gave a colorful diatribe at Notre Dame last October that led to an attack on the Student Union Academic Commission, the administration and the Observer, by Bishop LeO Pursley of the Forty Wayne­South Bend Roman Catholic Diocese. Mter fuming alumni and disgruntled nuns settled down, the campus returned to normal and the incident was 


forgotten, until word of the speech got to Catholic University in Washington, D.C. 
7. 
Krashna Lonstitution Defeated--Dave Krashna ran for SBP on a platform that included elimination of the Student Senate by means of a new Constitution. The Senate, however, proved more durable than Krashna, and the Constitution was defeated in a referendum on December 9th. Only 35 percent of the students voted. In order to pass 60 percent had to vote. Of those voting, it was 3 to 1 in favor of abolishing the Senate 

8. 
Ann Marie Tracey Elected to the SLC--Former Saint Mary's Student Body President Ann Marie Tracey was elected to the North Quad student seat on the Student Life Council. Because she was not a Notre Dame Student, Miss Tracey had originally been denied permission to run by the Student Government election Committee, chaired by SBVP Orlando Rodriguez. The move caused heavy criticism of the committee, whose ruling was reversed by the Student Senate. Miss Tracey won over­whelmingly. 

9. 
The Black Studies Con­troversy--One hundred black students lead by Dr. Joseph Scott petitioned University Provost James Burtchaell in March to change the status of black studies from a program to a department. Scott complained that the reliance on other department heads to hire faculty for the black studies program made it im­possible to hire the needed faculty. The conflict was resolved by giving black studies faculty appointments the top priority in any department hiring new faculty in the Arts and Letters College. 

10. 
Annexation Loses-An attempt by the city of South Bend to annex the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and Holy Cross Junior College was defeated in the South Bend Common Council by a 6 to 3 vote. University of­ficals had vigrously opposed the annexation proposal for tax reasons. 


Sen. war fi1libuster seen by Hartke in near future 
The Senate may start a fillibuster against the war "sooner than you think" ac­cording to Senator Vance Hartke (Dem.-Innd.). Mter his May 5 speech on Boston Common where he spoke about his resolution to withdraw American troops "at the earliest possible date," he was asked when the Senate would stop talking about anti-war 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 8:30 p.m. Sun. Fr. Robert Nogosek, c.s.c. 9:45 p.m. Sun. Fr. Thomas McNally c.s.c. 11:00 a.m. Sun. Fr. Donald Martin, s.j. 12: 15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, c.s.c.  
Continental Hair Styling, ·Inc. 1321 E McKinley Hwy. Mishawaka, Ind. 259-7679 Wishes to extend their thanks to the ND Men for con­tinuing patronage. As part of our Grand Opening of New Shop to ND students on Mondays and Tues 9-5 all Hair Styles only $2.50. Serving ND Students in all Hair Needs for over 3 years! specializing in all lengths of hair  

Friday, May 7, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
U.S. has no power over the dollar 
turn defined by the gold stan­
Despite the central role that thz dard. dollar plays in the economic With the other currencies crisis, there is very little that the "pegged" to the value of the 
United States will be able to do dollar, it is essentially impossible 
about it. for the American authorities to 
After the depression, the dollar devalue the dollar. 
became the basis of most of tbe There are several reasons why 
free world's currencies. Other the dollar is currently in such 
currencies, such as th" German "trouble." One of the major 
mark, the British pound, or the problems is the consistent 
French franc, are defined in balance of payments deficit that 
terms of the dollar, which is in the U.S. has been running over 
' SENIORS
' 
' 
' 
RED BARN PARTY
' 
' 
HAS BEEN MOVED 
' 
' 
TO SENIOR BAR 
' 
' 
·----------------­
' 
the last few years. When the years, the German r Jnomy has country imports more than it become one of the most efficient exports, it must make up the in the world. In addition, they monetary difference in some have had a consistent balance of way. In the case of the U.S., this payments surplus. They are difference has been compensated holding U.S. dollars, and these for by a flow of gold out of the German holdings are being country. cashed in. 
The first major "gold drain" There has been speculation occurred while Charles DeGaulle that large multi-national cor­was President of France. In an porations kicked off the current attempt to establish the French crisis by shifting demand from franc as the most stable dollars for their international rise monetary unit, he "cashed in" tothe German mark, driving the thz French dollar holdings for price of the mark up and forcicg their gold equivalent. This at­the price of the dollar down. tempt failed in the disturbances The major question that now following the student uprisings ic remains is: does thz international 1968, as France was herself beset monetary system, as it is now by financial difficulties. established, have the ability to 
In the latest trading on the withstand this latest crisis? dollar, it was the Germans who There is speculation, primarilly held dollars. Over the last few among academic economists, P.I:IOOOOCI..;tCIIOGIOC!'IjiCXMXMlp4:K)I=t that currency exchange rates will 
not be pegged to the dollar as
...an so 1 en s 
they now are, but will be allowed 
(the third time) the freedom to adjust to the 

ot with a laugh 
o market mechanisms. 
This "free-floating" exchange
smile, but with a 
system is the basis of what thzigh and perhaps a Germans are now doing. In barely felt regret.. regusing to hold to the established exchange rates, they 'IIQIXIII;tOIIODe..........PCI-have essentially allowed th~ 
price of the dollar to vary with these market forces. 
All economists emphasize, however, that the current crisis is purely international and will not have an appreciable effect on domestic prices. Whatever changes are made in the in­ternational monetary system with respect to the dollar, the supply of goods and services for domestic consumption will remain the same. 
SMC nun wins award 
Sr. Alma Peter, acting president of St. Mary's College, presented the Spes Unica Award for recognition of outstanding service to the college to Sr. Maria Concepta McDermott, associate professor of education, at the annual faculty dinner Wednesday night. 
Sr. Maria, a member of the faculty since 1965, was recognizinedfor her efforts in obtaining government funds for the closed circuit TV in the classrooms and lecture hall and her work in the Trends in Con­temporary Education Series. 


Help Send the Singing Irish to Europe (and enjoy an evening o£ music) 
NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB EUROPEAN TOUR 
Benefit Concert Sunday May 9, 8:00 p.m. Washington Hall Students $1.00 
r----------------,
t THE TRIP t t • 
t Starring: Friday, May 7 t f Peter Fonda Eng. Audit. t f Susan Strasberg 7: 30 9: 30 11: 30f 
• $1.00 t
t__________________•, 
ET'S GET THINGS ROLLIN 
The class· of '74 has shown their concern about their academic life by the fact that no other Freshman in the history of St. Mary's College has achiev~:d such high academic standing ( 27 percent of the first semester freshmen attained a grade point average of 3.0 or better or above). Because of this concern, we as future Sophomore class President and Vice-President, would like to aim our yearly activities from a social outlook to one stressed towards academic goals. During Freshman year even though we attained such high academic standing we were mostly involved in social affairs; as sophomores, with most of the students concentrating on their majors, we would like to work for the develop-. ment of a better and more concrete academic life. 
The next plan that we would like to contribute does not concern all, but it concerns many. We know from the experience of living with our fellow classmates that many girls who come to college are very naive of many of life's situations. We have found that sex is an integral topic which many girls are mis-informed. Also, the girls really have little opportunity to have their questions answered. We feel that better counseling should be available in this area as well as others for those in need of it. It is one of our aims to make this possible. 
Our last point is concerned with the building of a closer association not only between St. Mary's class and hall governments, but with that of Notre Dame's governments also. This including extended lobby hours, more hall activities, and organized open-discussions on pertinent topics. 
Since the complete 
Since the complete academic merger of Notre Dame and St. Mary's for the '71-'72 school year will be finalized on May 14thand May 15th, and our class and possibly the present Sophomore class will be getting our degree from the University of Notre Dame, we seethesethings as quite feasible. 
We realize that all of this is more said than done. However, for any of this t11 ever be accomplished it must be initiated by your hard-working, reliable officers. We strongly feel that we can meet these demands. Please give us your support for your Sophomore class President and Vice-President. · 
We will be IVIIIable for any questions you may have at an open house on Sunday, May t, at6:30p.m. in room 414, Regina North. 
Sincerely, 
Kathy Hessert for President 
Cyndy Deresz for Vice President. 
e bserver 1s published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and st. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

gooa 
to 


I
stanit 
• 
Why be left at the gate when for just a little more you can get a reserved seat on Delta? Delta's reserved seat Youth Fare Plan saves you 25% compared with regular Day Tourist. Costs just a trifle more than standby. No waiting (and waiting!) Y"ou know exactly when you're scheduled to leave and arrive. We honor Youth Fare cards from all other airlines. Or purchase one from us for only $3.00. It's accepted by all carriers. Anyone from 12 to 22 years of age is eligible. For reservations call Delta or see your Travel Agent. Compare these typical standby fares with Delta's reserved seat Youth Fares. 
DELTA'S Standby fares on RESERVED SEAT Between other airlines YOUTH FARES 
Miami/Ft. Lauderdale to Chicago $58 $67 Atlanta to New York City $40 $47 Chicago to Tampa $51 $57 Detroit to Houston $55 $63 Los Angeles to Dallas $60 $68 San Francisco to Dallas $70 $79 Kansas City to Atlanta $39 $45 Dallas to Phoenix $46 $52 Houston to New York City $68 $77 Atlanta to Miami $34 $38 Chicago to Houston $49 $55 
All fares include the 8% U.S. Transportation Tax. 
Delta is ready when you are! 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER Friday, May 7, 1971 
Residents flee muddy dRath
SMC Freshmen 
leaving land of broken lives 
Vote for Sophomore Class Officers 
ST. JEAN VIANNEY, Quebec New Town Evacuated 600 feet of the town may sink (UPI) -The French called it the Royal Canadian Air Force below the surface. 
Riviere Des Terres Rompues -officials Wednesday ordered the Queen Elizabeth, visiting
Monday, May 10, 1971 
evalcuation from the so-called
the River of Broken Lands. 
Canada, sent her condolences.­
"new town," a section consitingToday it is the land of broken 
lives. mostly of relatively new four­Among the structures wrecked 
room bungalows stretched in by the tons of sand and clay were
Between 6-9:00PM 
Residents by the hundreds 
two concrete bridges, one 48 feetrows across a street which
with mattresses, televisions and 
abruptly ended in a 10()-foot and the other 36 feet long, whose
even baby tricycles strapped on 
abvyss. abutments were found one mile
top of the~ cars, left the area,
In LeMans Lobby 
downriver.
Officials said that in all
some sobbmg when told that 26 of 
probability the evacuees would Rescue operations were
their neighbors were feared 
not be allowed back into the hampered by continuous
dead. Many said they never 
movements of earth, crowds ofLaurentian town, about 200 mileswould come back. 
onlookers and by water pouringgnorth of Quebec city, for at least
"I'll be damned if I will raise 
into the crater -some of it fromfour months-if at all. The trouble 
my children in this rotten town " 
underlying streams and somewas not over. Small tremors still
said a worker for the Aluminu~ 
were being felt and natural from water mains crushed by the 
Co. of Canada, one of the major 
tons of dirt.
resources engineers fear another 
employers in the area. St. Jean Vianney, a quiet
Pepsi's 
village of 2,000 persons on a clay bed along the river, has a history of landslides. But the cave-in Tuesday night was the worst. It
a lotto 
created a pit one-quarter mile long, 100 feet deep and 700 feet wide and swallowed 40 homes in tons of muck described as "cold lava." 
Five persons have been con­firmed dead, 26 are still missing and more than 1,000 residents of the northern Quebec town were evacuated. The slides continued through Wednesday night and there was the possibility of more. 
Area coroner Dr. Richard Authier and the five persons whose bodies were recovered by late Wednesday night had died from mud in their lungs. An of­ficial of the vivil defense rescue team said that perhaps many of the victims were children. 




Sports Car Club of America Drivers 
Call Them Champions 
We Call Them the 1971 Triumphs. Period I 
only at•.• 
eSALES P.S. e SERVICE Good Luck On 
• PARTS Your Finals, Irish
Ill 
916 E.. McKinley, Mishawaka Friday, May 7, 1971 THE· OBSERVER. Page 5 



First girl secretary 
Market Club elects officers 
The Notre Dame marketing 
club has recently elected new 
officers for the coming year, 
including St. Mary's student Beth 
Culligan, the newly-elected 
secretary of the chili, is the first 
SMC student to become an of­
ficer, according to outgoing 
president Robert F. McCarthy. 
The other new officers are: Bill 
Lind, president; Mike Lamb, vic~ 
president; and Pat Monroe, 
treasurer. Miss Culligan is an 
economics and business student 
at St. Mary's, while the other 
three officers are marketing 
majors at Notre Dame. 
McCarthy felt that the election 
of a female student as an officer 
for next year's club was 
"somewhat of a breakthrough." 
"Beth Culligan was extremely 
active and participated in all of 
the events sponsored by the 
marketing club this year, and 
we're certain that she is going to 
be a real asset", McCarthy 
commented. 
McCarthy cited her role next 
year as instrumental "because 
Peace pledge well accepted 
Saying he was "extremely 
gratified with the turnout", Paul 
Dziedzicexpects the number of 
peace pledge signatures to top 
the 1100 mark. 
Dziedzic emphasized that the 
peace pledge campaign was a 
strictly non-partisan student 
effort. It was designed to provide 
students with a means of con­
vincing national leaders and 
candidates that they will carry 
their desire for peace to the polls. 
The peace pledge campaign 
was a "constructive, action­
oriented process," Dziedzic said 
adding that it is the "best thing to 
come out of thP. national 
moratorium." The peace pledges 
will be presented to President 
Nixon and all the members of 
Congress on June 1. 
Due to the lack of time in which 
to organize, Dziedzic expected 
only about 500 signatures. He 
noted the "fine" efforts of the 35 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
students in surpassing their goal. 
According to Dziedzic, the 
campaign was financed entirely 
by private donations and not by 
student government funds. As 
Ombudsman, Dziedzic is willing 
to help organize any non-partisan 
campaign, regardless of it int­
tent. 
Citing some of the problems the 
campaign encountered, Dziedzic 
said, "Some people thought we 
were an FBI front or a vanguard 
for a peace candidate." In an­
ticipation of the political ac­
tivities next year, he said that the 
Ombudsman's office would 
divorce itself from politics, 
engaging only in non-partisan 
student efforts. 
,------------.....
Observer Staff I 
I I I I
Please pick up your 
I
party tickets from your 
I
department heads before Friday. The tickets shoud I be available later this I afternoon. You need a I ticket to get into the party. I The departments heads · 
I
will be able to tell you the 
I
time and location of the 
I
party. 
I I I I 
~--------~--J 
she will be able to continue the efforts that we started this year to combine the business areas of both St. Mary's and Notre Dame." 
He also reflected upon the accomplishments of the 65­member organization during the past year. Primarily, the projects undertaken were "designed to integrate classroom activities with the business world." 
The former president said "From all indications we have received, this year has been a most successful year, principally because it has been the most active, and it has included the most people." . _ _ __ 
One of the club's first ob­jectives was to increase its base for membership. The success of this was witnessed in the turnout for the ali-day marketing sym­posium last February. The at­tendence was well over 400 people, making it the largest crowd ever for an event spon­sored by the business club. 
The symposium was a part of the Gilbert Lecture Series, which sponsored three other events during the year. The first of these was a speech given by a vice president of Manhattan Shirts on the subject of sales activities and advertising. He presented the movie Second Effort in order to relate "sales to football per­severance." 
Abell gets phone call; Ruane awaits Provost 
Last night at 10:30, Observer Thursday night editor Joe Abell received a mysterious call. The caller claimed to be University Provost Rev. James Tungstead Burtchaell. The reason for the call was to inform the staff that the Provost was accepting the Observer's challenge to an arm wrestling contest. 
The challenge appeared on the editorial page of yesterday's Observer. The Observer challenged the Provost to an arm wrestling contest in front of the Fieldhouse. The loser would have to enter the building while it was razed about him. The challenge resulted from the Provost's comments while on the WNDU radio program Contact Notre Dame, where he said he would raze the Fieldhouss if the Ob­server staff was inside. 
Upon receiving the call, the newspaper office became ex­tremely joyous and Don Ruane, Observer managing editor, was chosen to represent our vested interests. Editor-in-Chief Glen Corso was heard calling Ruane "an imminent danger to Rev. Burtcbae!Vs arm". Ruane was chosen because the Observer's six and under arm wrestling champion from Roosevelt, Arizona, could not be raised from a deep sleep. 
McDermott in a preliminary dual. He then drew against Ob­server Executive Editor T.C. Treanor, who lost a coin flip to determine the right of opposing Burtchaell. Prior to the match with the Provost, Ruane com­mented, "Yeah, I'm from South Jersey and us South Jersey kids is tought." 
The magic hour of 11:00 rolled around, the hour at which the caller said he would show, and the office cleared. The entire staff proceeded to the parking lot for the emminent battle with the Provost. Ruane posed for photographers and expressed his confidence for victory. He said, "I will be victorious because I ain't gonna be in that building when it comes down." 
As the staff waited for the appearance of Fr. Burtchaell, SBP John Barkett showed up. He agreed to referee the match-up. Other campus luminaries ap­peared as they waited for Fr. Burtchaell to show. Mark Win­nings, ex-8BVP and members of the Badin Hall community also came as the crowd swelled to witness the impending show down. 
But the Provost never showed. Or, the person who placed the call never showed. Nonetheless, the staff retired back to the office, disappointed that the Provost 
Ruane, however, had to beat never came. A good time was had Observer Night Editor Jim by all.
r.....,,,..Mi~t:::;:;·,,•..,<.,.,•••,,o;,.,.,,,,",.,.,.,,.,.,.,""··''i 
""~::~{~·;:~::~~:~ ~:~
t:t··.r=i...· ... ...1...1:1: 
}._.W ·.RU WINNING· STYLI~ T~· 
~[h·:i'A 'VDARn HAIRCUTS-HAIR STY . :m: jjl~4ZCI: CUTS-HAIR .STRAIGHTZVING :j~jj ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:!·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~: 
Applications for the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council are now being solicited 
Any freshman, sophomore or junior presently enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters may apply 
Please contact Ed McCartin at 3186 before 6:00P.M. Monday, May 10. 
Poetry Reading 
John Hessler  John Stupp  
Steve Brion  Rick Fitzgerald  
Rob Barteletti  Rory Holscher  
Kenneth Mannings  

Sunday May 9 2: 00 P.M. 
Library Auditorium 
-Awards presented to Poetry, Fiction, Drama, and Essay Winners -Reception Afterwards in rare book room. 
-

HAGGAR 
Slacks i 
• Haggar Doubleknits /:"'~'. comfort in fashion · 
Now you can have your fashion and be 
comfortable too. 100% Fortrel® 
polyester gives with your every move, 
impossible to wrinkle, and they can be 
machine washed and dryed. You'll 
like the comfortable price. 
16.00 to 22.50 

Dfl'.'VNTOWN TOV'IN & COUNTRY SOUTH BEND SHOPPir~G CENTER
• 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Friday, May 7, 1971 
rROGiiiOP'TiCii1 POW petition circulated 

l:l~ Complete Spectacle Service ll~:l:l Glasses Duplicated ;~ 
;:;: , , :::: :;:; Your DoctorS RX Filled =::: :;:; ~:
:::: Laraest selection of ...,,••, !2 
;;:; ~ ;:~ 214 S..Michigan (next to State Theatre) 289 7809 ~ ~~ ~ 
:;:; .............. _ _f.: 
~:::;:::::·:::·:::·:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::~~;;:::::::::;::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i&t 
The National Union 
of Students 
offers over 60 discount flights (N.Y. + London) between May & October!!! Round trips are available for as little as $220 (return on ANY date) and one way flights for as little as $120. Discount flights also available to Rome, Paris, Bombay, Delhi, Hong Kong, Tokyo, etc. VIA London. Students, teachers, and immediate family eligible. For application, call Tom Drexler, 282·2250. If not in, LEAVE MESSAGE. Hurry, May and June flights fill quikly! 
A t"f f th t r t f le 1 ~on re;!~~ m; a1a ~ 
o menc.an s ~ re eas. by the ~/iet Co~g. Will be Cir­culated m t~e d~mng halls and som~ dormitones today, ac-
co~dmg. to Ombuds!ll.an Paul Dz!edzic. The petition .was wntten by Mrs. Rowe, t~e wife of former Green B~ret Major Ro~e,
who was h~ld prisoner by the VIet Con~ for. fiV~ars. .. 
Dziedzic, whohas offered t~e support of thz f!mbudsm.an s 
Office for non-partisan projects such as this, said last night that 700 signatures are sought for the petition. 
The petition is addressed to Phan Hung, first secretary of COSVN, the Central Office for South Viet Nam. As the first secretary, Hung is in control of all "insurgent military and political activities in South Vietnam" and "direct control over the National Liberation Front (Viet Cong) who, in turn, exercise direct physical control over our men," according to the petition. 
The petitions (seven were sent to Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, who in turn, gave them to Dziedzic list six demands according to "the basic human rights guaranteed under the articles of the Geneva Conventioo." The six rights are: 
-Publication of a list of names of all men held prisoner in South 

Tuesday, may 11 t 
_8:30pm _in acce ii~~~~~~~--_i6:~o~o__ tickets $5.50, 4·50, 2·50 t ''TheBESTflmerican FtlrnoftheYear!'~ 
on sale at student t union ticket office & t dining halls t t 
t 
t 
·~ • I. 7• ·::"' ~­
·------------­
Vietnam or other areas main-Calling the inhumane treat­tained b~ the yiet Cong or their ment of Pow:s as a "c~i~e 
Commumst allies. against humamty," the petitiOn -Immediate repatriation of all cites a pamphlet printed by the sick and wounded prisoners. NLF entitled "Policy toward -Impartial inspection of Officers and Men in the u.s. and 
prisoner of war facilities. Alien Army." The pamphlet says -Proper medical care and that prisoners be given proper adequate food for prisoners. mental, physical and spiritual -Free flow of mail between care and that they may
prisoners and their families. correspond with their families -Immediate elimination of the and if conditions permit, to visit 
"thought correction" political with them. indoctrinafion " 
Canad~·;~:~d·~;·;~7l 
WASHINGTON 

a 
<UPI) -The Senate Armed Services Committee has decided 
that age 75 is too old for the draft. 
The committee announced it had voted to reduct the age limitation for conscription from .75 to 65. In actual practice men over 30 rarely are subjected to the draft, but an upper limit left on thz books in case of an all--out war would require most able-bodied men to serve. 
The committee passed a proposed two-year extension of the Selective Service Act, which is now due to expire June 30. The panel's proposal also would exempt men who have served 20 years in thz armed services. The present limitation is 25. 
Another provision would permit the prosecution of draft dodgers until they reach the age of 31. The statute of limitations now runs out after seven years for men who fail to register. 
A&L Advisory Council seeks new membership 
Ed McCartin, president of the Arts and Letters Advisory Council, announced today that he is accepting applications for membership in next year's Advisory Council. Anyone in­terested in applying should contact McCartin before 6:00 P.M., Monday, May 10, at 3186. ­
The council serves as a ready source of student opinion for the administrative staff of the liberal arts college. The president of the Advisory Council has an ex of­ficio seat on the Arts and Letters College Council, the highest policy-making body in the college. Students involved in the Advisory Council are responsible for organizing Meet-Your-Major Night activities and for selecting the recepient of the Charles Sheedy award for teaching. They also assist in the selection of four student representatives to the College Council and the AL representative to the Academic Council. 
Any freshman, sophomore, or junior presently enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters is eligible to apply. McCartin noted that while the scope of the Ad­visory Council may appear small, the work that it performs is important to students in the college. "With the establishment of a permanent curriculum committee next year to review complaints about the non-liberal character or poor academic quality of courses offered within the college, the student advisory council will be central in academic reform." 
iiiiiiiilr~T;::O~N::I:=G~H:;T~~ 
Open 
-REX REED. Ch•cago Tr~bune ~-JOHNO"CONNOR Jr. ~-BERNARD DREW NY Dally News Syndtcate Wall St. Journal Gannett News Serv1ce 
·. /~_r i_',;~ COLUMBIA PICTURES Presenls a BBS Produclion . : -~-,,; JACK NICHOLSON 
&~\~~~ F11f!~fi!!~ECES 
./'NEXT: Joe Cocker "Mad Dogs and Englishmen" 


Friday, May 7, 1971 THE OBSERVER. P!P7 
Glen Corso 
Uncle Stephano 
My uncle Stephano is in the Mafia. Before I go any further let me say that my uncle Stephano (or as he is called by the FBI and friends, "Steve the Slit") is on my mother's side of the family, not my father's. This is said mainly so my father won't have an excuse to call me up and tel me I am an idiot like he did after the "First Tuesday" show, back in December. 
I talked to my uncle Stephano that last time I was home, during spring break. Most people don't realize it he told me, but the Mafia suffers duringj economic recessions just like any other business. 
"Thatsa what ehey donna unnerstan," he said "we gotta make living justa like anyone else. When times are bad, people got less money to spend on whores, .and dope and stuff like that. Even da gambling falls off, guys don't wanna lose the little bt a money dey got. The loan sharkin' business is worse still. So many guys borrow money and than a can't pay it back. Ita gets messy sometimes, there'sa so many guys that we gotta persuade to pay us back." 
My uncle gets very mad when they put the words "rep.uted Maf~a chieftan." before his name in the newspaper. He gets mad because It hurts his TV reparr shop, located in a small rustic village that has an eight-lane highway running down the middle of it, is staffed by my uncle and two assistants and my uncle's brother­in-law. 
Only the two assistants know anything about TV repair, and my uncle is con­vinced they are both crooks. Every time they come back from a job he carefully checks the big tube and tool box they carry to see if anything is missing. 
Sometimes this gets to be embarassing, because if my uncle thinks something is missing he will get out a butcher's cleaver and try to cut the assistants ears off. 
"You lousa pigs, I cutta your ears off if Ia catcha you," as hechases them around the shop. The assistants usually run into the bathroom and lock the door and then try to explain the discrepancy to him. 
It is very difficult to explain to a potential customer why the owner of the store is hacking at a door with a meat cleaver, without sounding very stupid. 
This is why my uncle hired his brother-in-law to work. His job is to take care of all the irate customers that come into the shop. This is a very difficult job sometimes, mainly, because my uncle's brother in law doesn't know anything about televisions radios, or stereos. 
"You say that your record changer sticks, even though the fellow from here gave it a complete lubrication job for only 29.95? Gosh, well, sometimes that trouble comes from the vertical line control being out of whack. What? Of course I know that you're talking about a stereo not a TV. The vertica~ line control ~ontrols ~e changer I'm telling you. What did you call me buddy? Listen do you like you Wife and kids? Yeah, well, would you like to see them remain healthy?" 
My uncle usually doesn't have too many problems with customer relations. Every once in a while, though, a custom~r doesn't get .the messag~. He st.ar~s t~ insist that my uncle should send the reparrman out agam because his set sbllisn t working. Most times, if the guy asks nicely, my uncle will send the guy back. Rarely will he ever send him out a third time to the same house though .. 
"Whatsa that you a say Mista? My man didn't do a good enough job on your TV? Whatsa wrong with it? Is that all? Listen you got two TV.s? Ok, then take the other one and turn the volume all the way up so you can hear it in your den and then switch on the other one and you gotta picture. You no lika that idea huh? Whata you gonna do if I no send my man out? Oh yeah? OK, I senda him out. Larry," he said "turning to his assistant," go out to that baccalla's house on Forest Ave. and taka this with you." 
He turns to a large steel cabinet behind him and takes out a small hammer. 
"Smasha all the tubes in his TV and then accidentally put your foota thru his picutre tube. Ifhe isn't watching you too close, then piss all over the inside of set," I think that'll fix him." 
My uncle also extends very easy credit. He does this, he explained, because he is in the business already. The only problem he has is that sometimes has problems 
My uncle also extends very easy credit. He does this, he explained, because his is in the business already. already. The only problem he has is that sometimes has problems collecting. . 
In one case he sent a lender a pair of size four shoes for his birthday. The puzzled man called my uncle and asked him why he sent him shoes that didn't fit. 
"Oh don't worry," my uncle told him chuckling gently," they will fit you." 
"I tried like hell to get my feet in them but they just wouldn't go," the caller explained, "but I want to thank you for remembering my birthday." "Oh don't thanka me", my uncle said, "bya the way you gonna be home tonight?" 
"Yes," the caller said. 
"Thatsa good. A couple of a my men are gonna stop by to collect the money you owe me," my uncle said. "Well Stephano there's a little problem there, I don't have your money." "Oh, well thatsa all right, then, you gonna get a chance to enjoy your birthday 
gift." 
"What do you mean?" 
..Well whena my men come over tonight they gonna break botha your feet and whena they finish you gonna be able to get them in a size four shoe." 
In the past few months though my uncle's loan business bas grown enoumously 
and be no longer bas time to personally direct all of the operations. He hired a guy 
that came to him highly recommended, Harry Finkelstein. 
Harry is a very funny type of guy, be doesn't like to talk to people, so be writes 
them, letters. Once there was this guy that had borrowed a huge amount of money. 
The guy was a real big wheel, and bad a good credit rating. Rumors began to fly 
though that he was in big financial trouble, so my uncle told Finkelstein to caD in 
the loan. 
Harry wrote the guy several notes, asnd got obscene replies. This dist~ 
Harry greatly because be is a very moral person. Finally in a last ditch swap­
weation move be went over to see the guy. 
"Hi! Hou are you doing? I represent Stephano Calabria and Associates and I'm 
hear to talk about your fmancial arrangements with them." 
"Go to hell," the big shot said as be slammed the door in Finkelstein's face. 
This bothered Harry quite a bit. He went out to his car and composed a note 
saying that unless the big shot paid the next thing that came under his door would 
be two gallons of gasoline followed very closelyby a lighted match. . 
Finkelstein realized that this might not scare the guy, since the losses would 
probably be covered by insurance. He pondered for a while and then wrote "Dear 
Mr. Bigshot-your uncooperative attitude has forced me to take extreme 
measures. Ifyou do not pay your load tomorrow by twelve o'clock noon then I wiD 
have two very strong men kidnap you and take you to a warehouse. Once you are 
at that warehouse I will will have another man chain you around the neck and give 
you a meat cleaver and then set the warehouse on fire. "Yours truly, Harry 
Finkelstein." 
My uncle isn't aU bad though. Just like many other American men he has a 
mania, every time be sees something that strikes his fancy be buys it. ~~habit 
gets to be a pain every once in a while. A suburban house rarel~ has facilities for 
caring for Glla Monsters, Gorillas and Crocodiles. Invariably after keeping these 
pets around for a while, my uncle was forced to sell them. After my Aunt threatened to turn him in to the FBI, my uncle stopped buying pets and started collecting things. 
He called me one day, very excited and asked me to come over and see the new thing he had bought. He refused to tell me what it was and told me he wanted it to be a surprise. 
"How do youa lika it," he asked me. "Isn't it a real beauty? This thing handl~s 
justa lika my car, real smooth and easy, and it's guaranteed never to get stuck m 
the mud. I can even drive it to work, wbo'sa gonna get in fronta me with this 
baby?" 
The purchase of a Sherman Tank greatly facilitated my uncle's loan collecting. 
Ralph the Rat would drive it p in front of the deadbeat's house and Harry would 
pop out and begin a slow countdown. 
"0.K. commence firing upon my orders, 10-9-8-7-6-... " he rarely had to go beyond 
five before the deadbeat would come out of his house with a packet of bills clutched 
in his hands screaming hysterically. 
My uncle is starting to get kind of old though and more and more retirement 
thoughts are creeping into his thinking. 
"Wouldn't it be nice to buy a bouse down in Florida," be told me the other day," 
and have Ralph the Rat sitting up on the roof with a machine gun to greet visitors 
and Louie the Louse answer the door with a pistol, while your Aunt and I were in 
the back sitting in thsun?" 
Ed Ellis 
In Search of Hanoi 
Life is a frail commodity, and man has striven for as long as he has been in exestance to possess it in all its meager manifestations. It seems that in order to justify life, each man must, at least in his own mind, be thankful. Th~s is not at all easy, and many people have fallen by the wayside because they either deluded themselves into thinking their own contribution significant, or they gave up trying. 
We must remember, of course, that very few men are actually capable of making a noticeable contribution to the world. These are men of great ts;rmy. The masses of mankind are left to demean the leaders, either openly or sub­consciously, in order to justify themselves and their own lives, either openly or subconsciously, in order to justify themselves and their lives, or if they don't demean them, they strive for supremacy in some other way. 
And like a herd of famished wolves, clawing at each other for a chunk of meat, men strive. In sports, academics, finance, politics, literature, they strive, the competitive impulse as much a part of them as the color of their hair, or the size of their feet. Those who don't strive are outcasts, like the old wolf who has no teeth, or only threelegs. Perhaps Darwin's natural selection makes it necessary, but the competition is often sad, since many men are not equal to the task or to each oth~r. 
One of the most pitiful sights in all the Cosmos is that of a person who has trted and failed. He is worthless, at least in his own mind, and as a result, is able to make no real contribution to anything. Here is a victim of the existential dread; he has sustained a total loss of confidence in himself, and often an even more total loss of the desire to live. 
Another sad sight, usually provoking more people to anger than to pity, is that of the man who thinks he has succeeded, but whose success is inflated by his own distorted view of reality. Both this type and the victim of the dread are themselves victims of the ceaseless race for individual supremacy that goes on in society. They are deprived of their humanity, to their own shame and their conqueror's glory. 
So what is left? Those who don't compete are outcasts. Those who do compete will look forward to success -if they are lucky -but, if not, either hollow self­esteem or the existential dread is their lot. 
Is the system to blame? Hardly. The system was set up eons ago by men just as those who play the game today. It is man who is to blame; man in all his vanity, stupidity, inherent worthlessness. Should there be a strugle? Certainly, for man will always struggle. No one can change that man will even stride to eliminate his natural impulse. If the competitive impulse were to disappear tomorrow, many, many people would be very, very happy. But, then, there would be no leaders, no ne to inspire mankind to improve himself. And then, we must remember that the impulse to strive will not disappear tomorrow, or anytime we will ever see. 
So what is left? Not much. Man must strive, for that is his nature. Those who 
succeed are burdened with advancing those who have not, and those who have not 
can only despair, for that is their lot in life. 
Despair, of course, is unnecessary, since even the leader must eventually realize 
his limitations. If all the losers would do so, then the existential dread would be 
beaten and all could work to their own individual capacity. But, then, that would 
not satiate the competitive drive. 
Best of luck, world. I'm in the same boat as you. 
The Last Sunrise 
This. being the magnanimous end ol Volume V ol the pahUahblg 
history of the Notre Dame O'bse"er, we wish to ltring to Hght aU tltoee 
·associat~ with this, the final edition, an end produet of many man­
hours or blood, sweat, and tean: 
Night Editor: Joseph Dent Abell, Jr. UPI Editor, Layout , and General Hellraiser: James M. McDermott Layout and Partying: Glen Stuart Corso 
An~_~rese Da~ 
Arthur J. Ferranti 
Gerald F. Lutkus 
Editorial Editor: Timothy C. Treanor 
H~adUnes and Other Good Stuff: Donald P. Ruane 
Features Editor and Local Head: Richard 8. Smith, Jr. 
Nothing Much: John M. Abowd 
Nothing: thr. Rabbi~. 
Night Controllers and General Lushes: 
Michael Paul Helfren 
Hannson-P. Chung 
See Y'all Next Year/ 

THE OBSERVER Friday, May 7, 1971 
The Bitter End T.C. Treanor 
Uncle Bass gets the Dread! 




"I can't wait! I'm famished!" exclaimed Rodan, eagerly flicking hunks of his People's sandwich into his mouth. 
It was the seventeenth anniversary of H. L. Mencken's death, and all the old Observer Features Crowd was gathered in the anteroom of Cosmo's to mark the bitter event. Rodan the Observer Features Creature was sitting to the left of me massive and passive but capable of moving hi~ considerable bulk into rapid action at any time. To the right of me sat Paul Welte, the Observer Features Poet. He was softly playing a flute he had left over from Buckminster Fuller day. He had hoped that if he had played the flute well enough the master himself might have spoken to him but he didn't. 
Ed Ellis was sitting across from me. He didn't particularly like Mencken, but he savored the Bathtub Bootleg Gin smuggled in from the 1920's, as, indeed, did we all. 
The day was so bright that it cast a pallid pallor over the entire anteroom. The room was dark, but not dramatically dark; the dingy and smudged carbon-walls and carbon-tables bespoke if not squaler, then certainly indifference. 
-A fly buzzed sleepily; landed, got up, landed, got up, disappeared. 
There weren't too many people there; aside from ourselves, only a few ghosts from the American Mercury. They sat back listlessly, lacking the solemnity of somnabulance or the permanence of the sepulcher. I stirred my ice and Bootleg Gin and watched Rodan eat. It was certainly interesting. After he swallowed a piece of his People's Sand­wich, all his throat muscles contracted around it, forcing it further and further down until the ripples of those muscles were no longer visible. There would be a noise like a septic tank being plumbed, and he would go for his next bite. 
"I hope the rest of us get our food soon," I com­mented to my compatriots. Paul Welte continued to play his flute. Ed Ellis nodded a desultory nod. I doubt that Rodan heard me, since as a Tyran­nasourus Rex he is twenty feet high. 
Quasimodogertonocaion, said the rabble in the room, in their languid way. 
I turned my head toward the general direction of the noise, looked away, looked back again. I couldn't believe it! Not after all this time! 
"It's Bass Rumore!" I said excitedly and the whole table clamored up to get a l?ok at ~im. 
It was indeed old Uncle Bass, dressed as always in his ragged peagreen trenchcoat and battered felt hat. It was indeed Uncle Bass, but his step was slower, his demeanor more hesitant, than we had ever known it to be before. His ghostly eyes, set back in the indistinguishable black mass that served as his face, were even more vague than they were usually, and when he raised his hand in greeting, it trembled visibly. 
"How ya doin', Uncle Bass!" Ed said ap­preciatively and cheerily, "Have some Gin!" "No thanks." His voice was hushed yet querelous, and it trembled as perceptably as his hand did. 
"No Gin!" Ed was taken aback utterly. I have to admit we all were. It had been a cold day in Gehenna since last Bass Rumore refused a glass of Gin. 
"Wooo ... " he was quiet; then, suddenly, he sat down. Almost as suddenly, he jumped up and asked, "Is it all right if I sit down?" 
"Yes, of course," Paul Welte said with some 
abstract wonderment. Turning to me, he said, "I 
wanted to ask you how you did in your last outing at 
the polls." 
It had been almost a week, but people were still 
asking me about it. "I lost so badly that I made the smking of the Lusitania look close," I suggested. 
"Speaking of the polls," Rodan said from his regal place of business, "I think we ought to hammer out the platform for next year. It's im­portant that we address ourselves to Monster's Liberation. We've ignore<.i the monster situation on campus too long." 
"I think that we ought to get, for culture a little bit 
more."posited Paul Welte. 
"We must keep a base in political reality," I suggested. "Do we have men in each hall?" but Bass Rumore was shaking his head. 
"What's the matter, Bass?" asked Ed, and Paul 
Welte was forced to throw in, "the matter that you 
are reading." That confused Bass for a little while. 
2-:.>. __., 
"What are you trymg to win?" Bass asked finally. 
"The next election, and more power," I an­swered, but Paul Welte, recognizing the cosmic implications of the question, said, "We are fighting the good fight, and the prize is the soul of man!" 
''Wbat a lousy trade," muttered Uncle Bass. 
"I beg your pardon?" I asked. 
Bass looked around agonizedly. "If...if..." And then his words failed him. Ed brightened up. "Hay!" he said, "Bass has got the dread! The existential dread!" 
"A little poetry," I suggested to Paul, since I felt that poetry might be appropriate in such an existential moment. 
He thought for a minute and sang out: 
"Old Bass has got the dread, 
"He'll wish that he were dead, 
"It's been so long since he's been wrong, 
"And now he's got the dread. Toot, toot!" 
The last two notes came over the flute which he had laid down earlier but took up now. He looked up brightly, but when the rest of us didn't smile, he began to diminish his personality. 
"I had considered the same problem-the total worthlessness of the human soul-myself," said Rodan seriously. "In fact, I had composed my own Polemic Against Man (PAM) in honor of Mencken. I was going to read it during the ceremonies later, but since it doesn't appear that they shall start for a while, I shall treat you all to a premature ren­dition." 
"How long is this?" I asked. 
"Just a couple of paragraphs." 
"Proceed.'' 
Rodan's Polemic Against Man 
Rodan cleared his esophugus. "Polemic Against Man, by Rodan, the Observer Features Creature," he began. 
"The subspecies Homo Sapiens has had a short but arrogant history, and it is to the amusement of the rest of the natural cosmos that you continue to assert superiority in the face of your own depravity. You are, for example, the only subspecies to rise in the World's history only to be faced with an overabundance of your kind. More germane, you are the only subspecies to nse up unaware of how to deal with such an overabundance. 
"The subspecies, Homo Sapiens, is without a doubt the weakest the world ever produced. Its members killed only when they were sure of their own safety, and then did so without compunction. The suicidal valor that marks every other species in the Animal Kingdom is entirely absent in the race of man, and we every day see the result: war, famine, pestilance, overpopulation, misery, depravity. Since the first day of his life a man demonstrates selfishness beyond compare. He learns to modify that selfishness only when it is connected with punishment and pain." 
"What would you posit as a solution to man's 
depravity?" I asked. 
"I would suggest we eat them all," Rodan said. 
We all digested this for awhile; then we, as if by 
unanimous consent, all turned to Bass Rumore. "My Polemic Against Man," he began softly, "would be a less powerful thing." Bass Rumore's Polemic Against Man 
He stood up. I remembered: he always liked to make a speech. Those vague white eyes grew glowing and proud, and they stared out of the cavernous black head like beacons. He grew strong and good, and he took on a vigor and a dignity and a depth that he never had in real life. He was not in a dingy anteroom, but somewhere in Tennessee, doing battle against Scopes and Darrow and all the infidels. 
"When the Lord Jesus Christ," he said, "laid down His life, He laid down a law of love to go with it. He said to his followers: 'Brothers, you have lived a life of sin, but if you live like me and die like me, you shall be free. And to live like me and die like me, you must share you land and your people and your soul, and help your brothers on the side of the road.' 
"Brothers, our brothers are on the side of the road now! They are suffering and they are dying and they are crying; they are in-" 
"Pathos, bathos, fears, and tears," Paul Welte suggested. 
"torment; the torment of self. When a man hates what he is, we must love what he is. But we stand with our hands in our pockets, and hurt, and-hurt, and see the exterior ugliness without ever touching the indefinable unique inner beauty that must be there. 'Twas ever thus, and' his voice lowertd dramatically, and surprisingly, broke, 'Twill ever be thus.' " 
There was a moment of silence before Ed Ellis said, "That was a scoop of goop." 
I was forced to agree. All that pandering for the sympathy of the rabble seemed to me to be an utter waste of time. And the speech smacked of sickening self-pity. I was forced to speculate that it came about as a result of his earlier breakup with the Phantom of the Opera. 
"What are you going to do now?" Paul asked Bass. 
"I'm going to have a lobotomy," he said with a voice both proud and shy. He indeed brougbt his hand up to his head in a protective gesture. 
Well, too bad. If that's what he was into, that was his own concern. I figured that if all he could conjur up with his frontal lobe was that hunk of self-pity, he could probably do without them. 
Rodan apparently thought the same way, because he smiled and said, "congratulations. Be careful of yourself before the big day." 
"I will," Uncle Bass said in an almost childlike voice. "I will." We watched him go. "Son of a bitch," Ed Ellis said. He was suitably impressed. 
"What the hell," I said prophetically. "It's all determined anyway. What we do and where we go is a function of the endocrine system within us and the economic system outside of us." 
"That's right," Paul Welte said. "Man will survive," he said, "for he has an indeterminately loud voice," and for a moment it sounded as though he was going to say something really great, say something for the ages, but just then they wheeled in the body, and the Mencken day ceremonies began. 


Friday, May 7, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 


John Barkett 
Reflections of a Student Body President 


The Student Government Office on the third floor of the Student Center was not my idea of a spring vacation site but that cool March 12 night found me working in the Student Body President's office for the first time. It was a Friday-one of the many weekend nights I have spent in LaFortune­and I was looking forward to the weekend only because I was excited at the prospects of learning more about my new job. After reading through dozens of files, I began to appreciate the vastness of the operation: to appoint 10 or so Cabinet members each with specific projects to preform, to have ultimate responsibility for $82,000 in student money, to be the person looked to as the "voice" of the student opinion on every issue imaginable, to help 20 hall presidents help 5,000 people, to increase attention to the off campus student, to expedite what turned out to be the co-ed unification, and on and on. My mind just wandered and wandered from topic to topic and the stark reality of what lay ahead staggered me that weekend. 
The lonesome spring break at Notre' Dame did little to bolster my sprits, though I trad my confidence back after a couple of days. It was incredibly dull here-the squirrels never owned the campus more than they did those 11 days. It was for­tunate though since I had a number of make-up assignments to begin. I also organized my plans for the month of April and established the procedure for Cabinet appointments. As much as everyone hated it I rejoiced at the return of the sun tanned students who visited my home state (Florida) and the neighboring isalnds. 
That joy turned to sadness after a few days. Telling someone he has been rejected for such and such a position is a hard thing to do. Not only does it cause hurt feelings, but also some interpet it as a personal affront to their talents no matter how delicately and sincerely things are handled. In any event, the April . 1 inaguration date was fast approaching and I had a Cabinet to appoint, so I moved ahead. I am very pleased with the results :as the first "30 days" will demonstrate. · 

April 1st is 'April Fool's day, but I ignored the symbolism in the tradition. Beef Slovak did not really take over the Student Government office as the The Daily Rag led some to believe; on the contrary, my entry into office was a very low-key affair. After spending spring break here, the inaguration was anti­climactic. 
The 1st 30 days were not however. Our "kick-ass" executive coordinator, Bob Weaver, molded the Cabinet into a fine working unit and Orlando Rodriguez's experience and enthusiasim aided Bob's efforts. I kept slipping reminders into everyone's mail boxes about getting staffs, begining work on platform planks , keeping everyone informed as to what was going on, and other things as my mind clicked away. It must have worked just by the record they've compiled so far. The Academic Commission pushed for course description brochures in the Arts and Letters and Departments and met with great success. Just recently it announced the distribution of a questionaire on the academic aspect of Notre Dame. The Ombudsman has deal with imminent 'danger , cockroaches in LaFortune, summer job ads, ::~n .academic grievance! committee, and mary others in the over 100 calls that office has handled thus far. The Hall Life Commission has already sent out two Interhall Newsletters, initiated their Hall Fellow "recruitment" and 
organized a Freshman Orientation system surpassing any yet in my three years at Notre Dame. The Off Campus commission not only mailed the first off campus information !brochure in a fong time, but has progressed on a program to raise housing standards and has resear­ched a legal aid service which should be announced soon. 
Research and Devolpment was the speaking I>efore the Alumni Senate and reason the basketball courts behind the playing basketball for the Pranksters, bookstore were repaired; moreover they speaking at the Hall President's Training are involved in other projects: in-Conference, getting dunked in the An vestigation of maintenance ~osts Tostal dunking booth, and others have revamping the Student Manual, compiling occupied my April schedule. Orlando has voter registration information and others. been just as busy with election com­Human Affairs is examining the crisis mittees, the Charity Chest fund, the phone proposal and improved counseling Clarksdale teaching project, and others. services. Community Relations through One still unresolved dilemna I have the Hall Presidents is coordinating the St. faced these past few weeks has been that Vincent De Paul clothing drive after helping to prepare a program for the Region V Student Council meeting in Niles Michigan recently. ' 
_The Judicial Co?rdinator· ·has been busy with cases and mterpretations and hall boards and appeals ·boards and many other matters. The Treasurer continues to make improvements in our fiscal control. The Student Union Director has already J organized and re-organized one of the most 

functional bodies at Notre Dame. Our 
t 1 
public relations man writes press release 1fter press release. The newly formed Co­i<.:d Commission will also serve as the ;tudent representation when the difficult mification plans are drawn up. 
Orlando and I have been quite active thes~ 30 ~ays also. We jointly presented a motwn m the Student Life Council to re~uce the membership and though it failed, the Council has seen fit to order a :e-evaluation of its structure, our major mtent. I co-authored the Hall Life Report passed by the SLC last week and was in­strumental in presenting the proposal to appoint a Security Advisory Committee accepted by the officers of the University, a couple of weeks ago. Meeting with all the security force, sitting at the Main Gate for thre~ hour~ one Friday night, finding movie orowctors and a bar-bq grill, 

of war. Just how far do I as Student Body Presdent go in asserting my personal beliefs without representing the student body? Do national problems share equal attention with local issues? The "voice" I spoke of before is a burden of respon­sibility considering many interpet everything I say as the words of 6,000 students. That's why it's important I not lose touch with you and you not with me and I ask that you constantly remind me of this. 
There has been a couple of other disturbing features to my 1st month in office. The recent SLC elections elicited a 1number of untrue statements and ac­cusations which caused me more disap­pointment than anything else. People never seem to stop playing politics, I'm afraid, when there are so many important issues to be concerned with. This is not Washington, D.C. It is Notre Dame and all of us have a long ways to go if we truly desire to improve life here. I just ask we do it honestly and sincerely and reasonably. 
Another disturbng thing is com­munication. If the Observer ever prints an incorrect statement or if an editorial may not clearly state a position, students begin forming opinions one way or another, about one or what one does. The power of the press is indeed strong so I hope it continues its efforts to fairly portray the happenings at Notre Dame. 
After a taste of the office, I am still convinced our priorities are hall life, academic reform, the minority students, and co-education. They are four comple projects, but I feel confident that we can 
make great progress in all four areas.Co­education especially will require our energies if we are to avoid the problems other schools have encountered. Working with Kathy Barlow and Miss Underman, moreover, should make co-education a much more enjoyable and efficent effort. 
Parting thoughts? Well, I would do it 
over again if I had the chance. I also want 
to thank everyone again for the help I've 
recieved those last nine months in 
Morrissey Hall, in the Hall President's 
Council, in the campaign, and in the last 30 
days. And lastly, I hope all of us find in 
1971-72 the peace of mind and heart we so 
earnestly search for in our lfe journey. 
Happy summer. 

Pa e 10 THE OBSERVER. Friday, May 7, 1971 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Quiet Year 
The year rolls out in considerable quiet, a liquid progression of days and nie:hts. sie:nifyine: nothine:. meaning nothing. Nationally the last days were bitter ones for anti-war protestors. In Washington, they were badly outmaneuvered, as they had been badly outmaneuvered all year. As the academic year closed, Nixon had never looked better. Or stronger. 
It is a strange and intriguing contrast from last year. Last year closed with a massive and powerful strike. It closed with rhetoric -hard, inflammatory, bitter and more than once emotional. And it closed with four dead in Kent, Ohio, and five dead in Jackson, Mississippi. 
This year, the quiet and the passivity seemed to indicate that students were ready to cut their losses-and their aspirations. ­
At Notre Dame the contrast was no more evident than in the choice of student 
body presidents. Last year, Dave Krashna, the dramacist, Dave Krashna, the 
idealist, Dave Krashna, the man who pledged himself to "change the social 
condition here at Notre Dame" -last year Dave Krashna won the most crushing 
electoral victory ever recorded at Notre Dame. This year the student body 
president is a man named John Barkett-a man noted for his calmness, his 
cerebral deliberateness, his collectiveness under fire. 
Two assemblies serve well as a general guideline to the mind of students on 
this campus. The first was held last year in Stepan Center during theheartof the 
Cambodian crisis. A packed house narrowly voted to support the most militant of 
three proposals-to strike for a week against our Cambodian incursion. 
This year, SBP Krashna revived-or attempted to revive-the General Assembly 
of Students. But for two of its scheduled three meetings, the sessions were 
cancelled for lack of a quorum. In the only meeting executed, the sole radical 
proposal-a proposal to have separate black housing on the University campus­
lost overwhelmingly. 
Something has happened to the student body. 
It would be sophistic to say that it has been scared by what happened at Kent 
State and Jackson. Courageous men marched in last year's demonstration, and 
courageous men would not be discouraged by the inevitable accident of death. 
Nor would it be complete to blame the change on the recession. In a 
moratorium mass last year, seven men publicly and up to a hundred men 
privately, risked their well-being by destroying their draft cards. It is difficult to 
imagine those same people thwarted by the possibility of unemployment. 
But where the the brave words, now? Where are the bold promises, now? 
Something has happened to the student body, and as the most important moves 
in Notre Dame's history since its inception reveal themselves before us, that 
student body reacts-not with a bang-not with a whimper-but with a yawn. 
And the yawn is the most deadening of blunders. 
What will happen next year is hazy, and what we should do about it is even 
more hazy. Only one thing is certain. We will have to wake up. We will have to 
vote more than six per cent off-campus in the next Student Life Council election. 
More than twenty-five per cent will have to vote in the towers. We will have to 
speak, and speak loudly, and perhaps even demonstrate. For next year is the 
year in which we will begin to co-educate, and begin to determine what we will be 
after we co-educate. 
We have seldom had two more clearcut paths open to us-nationally and locally 
-than we have now. Now, we have before of us the choices of potence and im­
potence. And in this, its last editorial, the Observer endorses potency. 
THE OBSERVER. 





Like my costume? 
You like it? 
You don't like it! 
I know what I am by whati see in your faces. 
You are my mirrors. 
But unlike a metallic reflection, 
you will not hold my image for very long. 
Your capacity for attention is very short. 
·Therefore, 
I must try to provoke you. 
Provoke your attention. 
Change my part over and over again. 
I am rehearsing at the moment. 
For tomorrow, 
I will go out amongst you. 
"The Black Lady in Mourning." 
I will weep, 
I will wail, 
and I will mourn. 
But my cries will not be heard. 
No one will wipe away my bitter tears. 
My black a·rtgtiish will fall upon deaf ears. 
I will mourn a passing! 
Yes. 
The passing and the ending of a people dying. 
Of a people dying into that new life. 
A people whose identity could only be measured 
by the struggle, 
the degradation they suffered. 
Or allowed themselves to suffer perhaps. 
I will mourn the ending of those years. 
I will mourn the death of a people dying. 
Of a people dying into that new life. 
from epilogue to No Place to be Somebody by Charles Gordone. photos 
from The Family of Man by Edward Steichen and Violence by Carolyn 
Sugg and Will Faller. 




Page 12 THE OBSERVER Fridav. May 7. 19_!,1 
biII eiler 
the ghost of washington hall 
Mix the company of Jim E. Brogan, a late hour, several rewarded only with several squeaking sounds from the do a lot ot encourage us, but it did give us our first sense ghost tales, and the atmosphere of a dimly lit room and rafters. This was not enough, however, to compensate for of an eerie feeling. 
you come up with a lot of unusual ideas. It was the night of Jim Hunt's efforts in carrying his camera, flashes, and We didn't have -to wait long until that feeling changed
Wednesday, April 21 that we exchanged solemn vows to stand eve~ywhere. find (or be found by) the famous ghost of Washington Hall. Our last attempt was on Monday, May 3, after dinner. into. fear. One-half hour after her departure, I was talking 
to Jim Hunt about the Dome, which would be given out the My interest in the supernatural world was aroused this Mter promising Jim Hunt that this was THE final at­next day. I felt Jim Brogan's hand clawing on my left
summer when a convinced friend coaxed me into going tempt, Jim and I promised each other we would really with him to a session with a clairvoyant in Pittsburgh's give it a determined effort and stay all night if we had to. ~oulde~. N waving light -greenish figure was suspended northside. Mysketpicismlasteduntil themedium exactly We didn't tell JimHuntthat. m the arr m the left section of the balcony in front of the 
window curtain. Jim Hunt immediately went for his
identified several personal facts about me, including my We decided that to first name, birthdate, residence, and living relativES. I We decided to repeatthe activities of the previous visits. earner~ stationed at the foot of the stage, and got a flash followed this up by reading several articles by Hans As we were sitting in the second row seats from the stage, shot. Jim Brogan dashed madly down theaisle and out the 
back door, breaking his old Washington Hall record. IHoltzer and Edgar Casey, experts on the supernatural with the dim stage lights on, a girl came into the hall and f~llowed not toofarbehind. Jim Hunt, acting valiantly in a
realm. struck up a conversation. After she found out about our Jim Brogan's experiences included a four-hour stay in project she informed us that she was one of the nine pmch, took the shot and exited via the side door. We had 
madesHre these doors would be open each night for ourWashington Hall as a freshman in 1963 with two drama students involved in a seance in Washington Hall a few visits.
majors. They attempted to catch a glimpse of the ghost by weeks earlier. 
Breathless and shaking, we met outside the hall. Ourreading soliloquies from ShakESpeare to create an in-anxiety met immediate relief when we were assured thatviting atmosphere for him to appear. At five minutes to She was very reluctant to divulge any details, but we a snapshot had been taken. After our nerves calmed down three in the morning, on the verge of giving up, the trio learned that they had used a ouija board in their session it took all the courage we could muster to enter the bali heard footsteps in the balcony. As Jim put it, "Bob Hayes and it told them that Washington Hall was inhabited by again and retrieve the camera. We did it the coward'scouldn't have beaten us to the door!" ten ghosts. She said that because of what happened ~ay, h?wever,. b~ entering from behind the stage andWith these backgrounds, Jim and I embarked upon a tosome of the people in the seance they vowed never again IIDmediately hitting the main lights. Three hours andseries of four visits to Washington Hall, starting Friday, to try to contact any of the ghosts. She warned us that several Hail Mary's later, the picture turned out and weApril30. Tearing him away from his officiating duties at some very dangerous things could happen if we weren't had our proof.
the An Tostal Tire race I persuaded Jim to meet with sure of contacting 1he supernatural level. Her visit didn't myself and Don Morrison, the student who lives in Washington Hall. Don accepted our request and showed us· the various secluded portions of Washington Hall such as the balcony storage rooms and the upper trap door. Also included in the tour was the famous "green room", which has a history of having moving furniture and flashi~ lights. Don also explained that several creaks were in the building but were due to the settling of its old wood and the frequent flapping of the balcony curtains came from the ventilator drafts. 
The first visit, then, on Friday afternoon, April 30, was a short exploration of the intricacies of the old theatre. For the second and possibly third visits we hit upon the idea of enlisting a photographer to attempt taking a piCture of whatever we could "scare" up. Jim Hunt, the expert Observer and Dome photographer, volunteered his ser­vices. We anxiously made our strategy plans. 
On Saturday and Sunday nights, May 1 & 2, we entered the hall at around eleven and stayed until about one in the morning. The three of us walked up the stairs to the balcony in complete darkness and sat in various placES in the seats. We also used various combinations of the stag~lights to ~reate an eerie atmosphere. (Also_we were lli'._"IJI worned that if we got a chance to take a picture of something, there migh not be enough light-even with Jim 
Hunt'sflash.) Our patience lasted only a little more than two hours each night as the only thing we saw was the apprehensive looks in each others' eyes. Our efforts were 
··;ust one hundred yards away ... " 
May is Mental Health Month. This usually gets the help with their training, recreation, feeding, and care. provide students with the opportunity of meeting reaction (if any) of a sarcastic "wow!" But it does --Halfway House, a residence in South Bned where retardates on the personal level. Aside from their have some relevance since there are several hundred young men 08 and over) live with a psychologist and educational impact, they provide an opportunity to retarded children living or going to school within 100 gradually readjust to society after their stay in a large increase the understanding of mental retardation, both yards of campus. Not to mention very real mental state mental institution. Several students work with in society and among the retarded themselves. such prqblems here on this camous. individuals, playing cards, talking, attending events, programs are crucial. The price for their absence is 
Unless you happen to have a relative or neighbor whu etc. continued needless suffering. grl"_ff hOQOn 
is a victim, mental incapacity is an unseen abstraction, --Hotline, a crisis telephone service where trained a "social problem." People badly enough off to be students are available to listen to anyone who calls f Griff Hogan is president of the Notre Dame St. confined are isolated inthose massive brick buildings, with a problem such as a bad trip, pregnancy, parental Mary's Council for the retarded. usually fenced in and set back from the road, that one difficulties, depression, or anything else. only glances at with a slightly uneasy feeling. But for --and St. Joseph's Hospital Psychiatric Ward, where j. t. bayerthe persons afflicted and their families, their situation students entertain and make friends with patients of all is an individual, huge catastrophe. ages and problems. As a group, Manasa sponsors the the pow's 
In the U.S. now, some 3.5 million receive inpatient Mardi Gras concession stand to finance these, and To all those who have signed the People's Peace care for mental problems; another 1.5 million or more works with other college units on a few state-wide Treaty. To all those against the war. The POW petition are treated as psychiatric outpatients. On college projects. is pro-war. The organization which distributes these campuses, suicide holds a high place as a cause of Many people are afraid of the mentally ill or petitions throughout the nation is playing into Nixon's death among college students, much more than for retarded. They have completely unreal visions of 
efforts to continue the war. 
their nonstudent contemporaries. The mental break-violence, or of repulsive, half-human monsters. This Never in the history of modern warfare have down-causing strains and pressures of modern life stereotyping is as damaging and inaccurate as the prisoners of war been released prior to withdrawal. 
have been listed often enough to be truisms, and it is refusal to see individauls always is Yet Hanoi has on three occasions released nine 
almost as widely recognized that mental illness is steve price prisoners. Hanoi, contrary to what Nixon would have relative: statistics don't tell of the cases severe enough us think, is complying with the Geneva Convention. to destroy any hope for happiness but not requiring During the 1960's the world's attention was brought Hanoi has released the names of all339 POWS. The rest 
hospitalization. Petty neuroses and immaturity can to what one civil rights militant termed, "the Nixon claims may be held in the South by the make life daily misery as surely as a physical disease. psychological castration" of the American negro. By Provisional Revolutionary Government or most likelyPerhaps less well known is the case of mental this term was meant the systematic dehumanization of 
dead.
retardation. The mentally ill person has a normal the black man by influences on both the individual and The POWS do receive mail. The food received by the potential but functions abnormally, while the six the mass level. Through ignorance and hatred, the POWS may not be Western food but they receive more million retarded do not even have the potential, either negro has been defined as subhuman by his society. 
than a Vietnamese peasant. There are inspections of because adequate brain tissue was never formed, or This image was reinforced on all cultural levels. It the camps.
because it was damaged or destroyed. Retardation has was, in fact, so effective that it succeeded in con­The families of the POWS are being used by Nixon. 
many concrete causes in faulty genetics, infections vincing blacks as well as whites. 
Mme. Binh should not receive these petitions. Nixonbefore and after birth (such as syphilis), diseases, and The mentally retarded have been relegated a similar should. Why did he deny reports that by November 1971 injuries, and the victims often have physical ab­Josition in our society, and the effects have been all but 6000of our troops will be removed. The People's normalities as other symptoms. No cure is possible. equally disastrous. As was the fate of the blacks, their Peace Treaty clearly states that the North Vietnamese The only remedy is prevention, via progress in faces are never seen on commercials aimed at the will release the prisoners when Nixon sets the date. 
scientific research on diseases and genetics, and the "beautiful people." They are denied employment Several wives and mothers of POWS have told the improvement of the patients' lot-they can be happy -because their presence is found discomforting. Their· Committee for Liason, Another Mother for Peace and by training, therapy, opportunity, and friendship. civil rights are still ignored today. All such influences the press that the FBI ha's visited them, telling them to That is where student volunteers come in. Here at help to maintain in our society the image of the report anyone from the Committee for Liason whoND-SMC there are two organizations working with the retardate as being less than human. How long will the contacts them. Yet the Committee for Liason is theretarded: Manasa, which is the campus unit of the dehumanization continue? 
only group the North Vietnamese will discuss the POWMental Health Association; and the Council for the Understanding is the elusive goal of the retardate ­issue with.
Retarded. Manasa is actually the umbrella understanding of himself and by his society. I His Send the petition to Nixon. Tell him to set the date for organization for four projects: greatest resource is not rhetoric or demonstration; it is withdrawal. Don't help prolong the war with a phony-Northern Indiana Children's Hospital, right next to the dignity of his own state That dignity has been long issue. Your brothers are dying.
the campus at Notre Dame Ave. and Angela, where 150 present. Only its recognition has been absent. 
J. T. Bayer is a member of the Michiana Peace Committee.
severely retarded children live, and about 60 students Volunteer programs on the Notre Dame campus 






Page 13 THE OBSERVER 
Hunt to succeed Dome's Stavins 
Dome Editor-in-Chief Fred Hunt announced the ap-Stavins announced yesterday pointment of Mike Paulius as afternoon the appointment of production manager. Paulius, a Photography Editor Jim Hunt as sophomore, hails from Chicago, his successor. Dl. Hunt was the first to use one 
A native of Pierre, S.D., Hunt, and two color special effects. 20 will assume his duties im-Sophomore George ..Gaspar,m~dia tely upon the com-of Dallas Texas, will assume the mencement of the 1971-72 post of coordinating editor. He academic year. will be responsible for most of the 
r------------------------1
$75 000 A 'Fa·lr' Pr·lce? I 
1 -• I 1 
WASHINGTON, May 5 (UPI)-At a cost of $75,000, The 
I
White House's back lawn is being transformed into a 
I
fairground to help President Nixon salute American farmers 
I
this Friday. 
New tractors, combines and plows sat among the shrubs, flowers and fountains today. By the time 240 officials and guests tour the South Lawn this Friday, it will contain a 
steer, hogs, eewes and four tents containing displays ex­
Ombudsman closes f:~Sl~o~~~:! insist on that damn 
The Department of Agriculture is paying for the display. 
The Student. Government Ombudsman Service will cease operation today, according to an
L-----------------------­
anouncement by Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic. He said
Prof. Schubmehl retires 
Prof. Raymond J. Schubmehl, assistant dean of the College of Engineering, will retire in June after 50 years of teaching and administrative work at the University. 
A testimonial dinner in his honor in the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Convocation Center was held last night. He will be among those honored at the President's Dinner Saturday night in the North Dining Hall. 
Prof. Schubmehl joined the faculty in 1921 when the enrollment was approximately 1,200 students and the graduating class numbered 117. 
At that time the College of Engineering had a student body of 322 with 10 faculty members teaching arochitecture and engineering courses. 
He has served as professor of engineering mechanics, professor of engineering science, assistant dean and acting dean of 
-------------~­
STUDY S(WND~I 
IMPROVE GRADES 
The1 ~~~:· A~~~~~ 'tt~~m~·T~~iSf,.-1., 
USE STUDY SOU!· 'JS · .1crease Your Concentration ,..,,,:~ ',fl.,roVe Your Comprehension. Study .'\t 1-Fastt.r RC!te. ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED !iOL ~OS CAUSE THIS TO HAPPEii f'~~-i:lse Specify 
8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or lP Record Send Check or ,.o10ney Order -$9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and PostageSound Concepts, Inc., -Box 3852 Charlottesville, Va. 22902 
FUTURE CPA'S 
LEARN NOW ABOUT THE 
NEXT CPA EXAM 
NOVEMBER 3·5, 1971 
THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE 
The worlds great 
smatt car. See, drive and buy at 
Bertles Volkswagen tnt. 
US 31 N. 

emergency calls will be handled the College of Engineering. during the day-time hours at 7668. 
More than 5,000 engineering Dziedzic said the last few students have graduated since weeks had been "hectic," and Prof. Schubmehl acquired the that he was looking forward to a title of assistant dean. Dean "productive fall semester." He Joseph Hogan estimates this is added, "Itis time to take our ears close to 90 per cent of all away from the phone and put our 
engineering alumni who have noses to the academic grind­graduated from Notre Dame. stone." 

Spend the summer in Europe. Charter jets to London, Amsterdam and Paris. MOre than 40 dates available. IN­TERNATIONAL STUDENTS ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY. Also eligible for many other benefits (railroad passes, hotel discounts, etc) For intormation call Frank 233-8142 
Want to take a trip to EUROPE thi!. 
·summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the IIATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS 1\ND SAVE! Approx. 60 dates wailable for round trips betw. London md N.Y. this summer for $245. From London connect to any of 50 Europear :ities at discount fares. For example: 
.ondon. Paris: $12.60, London Am­sterdam: $12.00, Paris Zuricti $15.00 Zurich-Rome $20.00 Many othet benefits (travel passes, hotet discounts, etc.) Also available 't.ay tllghts, one-way flights \$125), Return on any date, ,eachers, students, and immediate family eligible, group rates. For info and application call Tom 282­2250, 5-10 P.M. Mon.-Fri. 
SERVICES 
Crypt-New Hours 12:30 -4:00 Now on stock Hendrix -Cry of Love · $3.60 Cat Stevens-Tea for Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection­$3.10 Mountain -Nantucket Sleighride 
-ALL COMPACT COOL units not turned in today will have to be carried up to 4th floor La Fortune. Please have someone around from 12-4 today to let us pick it up. Thanks, Dick 6723. 
Class of '72. Anyone interested in applying for management of Alumni Club (Senior Bar>. please contace Tom 8728 or Jim 6753, before Sat. 
Student Union on campus mail will 
stop today. 
Mail Contributions for the medical aid center of Quang Naito Box 626, Notre Dame Indiana. The Refugees need help. Please con­tribute to the Refugee Aid Program. 
ATTENTION PITT CLUB 
Meeting ·Mon. May 10, 7:00. 2nd floor LaFortune. Elections and luggage truck. Any member wishing to run for office, contact Charlie 3635 or Bill 
1730. 
deadline material, according to Hunt,. 
Mike McCurdy, of Midland, Texas, will serve as Business Manager for next year McCurdy, a sophomore, did not work with the Dome last year. 
Pat Gibbs, a junior from Flint, Michigan, will succeed Hunt as Photography Editor. Hunt praised Gibbs' ''outstandingcontribution~ over_ the ~ourse of 
the year." Gibbs will be m charge 
of the dark room. 
According to Hunt, there maybe no color photos in the book 
next year. "Four colors, , 
acutely defined color photos, normally found in the front of the book will probably be eliminated completely, he added. 
All organizations must be charted through the University for the coming academic year. Register in the Services Commission: 4th Floor La Fortune, Afternoons. Call 7757 
Tomorrow will be the last day Com­pact Cool units will be picked up. Please have someone around from 12­4 to let us in. Thanks. Dick 6723. 
Met Club Baggage Truck to New York City Area. Dropoffs in Westchester and Long Island on May 19. For info: 462 Zahm 6-7 pm or 8417 anytime. 
HELP WANTED 
~ewly formed waterbed company wants campus representatives for llottest selling item in states. Good commissions for a few hours llliork per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. Write: Lightrays Designs, Inc. Love sleep water beds division '3727 \1\/~llnut St. Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 
1Pr -::all: (215) 349-9330. 
Class of '72 -anyone interested fn applying for management of Alumni Club (Senior Bar). please contact Tom, 8728, or Jim 6753 before Sat. 
~UY AND SELL 
For Sale Maxi White Sheepskin Coat . Small. Call 272-4709 
Bar For Sale, circular bar, burnt orange & walnut. white top. Two matching stools included $60. Call Mike 1670. 
High quality Kanekelon wigs for sale. Clearing stock. 1 for $20, 2 for $30. Call 234-5605 after 6 p.m. Weekdays. 
For Sale -Loft-Second floor. Extras. Shown by appointment. 6963 
Most Books for: Smelser­American Revolution, Menard­American Constitutional, Norling-Europe since 1920, Sz­cczesniak-Russia, Colliegiate Seminar; Also many others. Call 
Jim Hunt 
The one-and-two color special effects, like those found in the 
t t" 
current Dome's spor s sec Ion, 
may be more prominent next 
year. Hunt blamed they_carbook's financial condition for the next year. "We could have a lot of color pictures," Hunt said, "if 
~~~~~~~~
...~~ 
MEETING 
Monday, May 10 7:OOpm LaFortune Center 
BAGGAGE TRUCK INFORMATION EL RS 
Stereo 8-track tapes only $3.95, all current top sellers . Blood Sweat & Tears, the Carpenters, Jesus Christ Superstar, Chicago, Creedence Clearwater Revival, Three Dog Night, Grand Funk Railroad, James Taylor, Led Zeppelin, the Who, and many more. Call Bill 233-3775, or stop by 806 E. LaSalle 3-6 P.M. any day. 
For Sale Nikon F with meter, flash, tripod, ($250). Call 1081. 
Wooden Bookcase for sale. Easily dissassembled. $6 Call Carl -8883 
Martin Classical Guitar, Model 00­
18C Excellent Condition, Call Tom, 234­1969. 
HOUSING 
For rent -June 1-Sept 1. 3 bedroom home -excellent condition & location, air conditioned, dish washer, fur. nished, carport $125 a month. call 8100 or 8229 after 8 p.m. 
For rental, Summer.June, July, August. Near N.D. 4 Bedrooms,· utilities. Furnished: $150 per month plus refundable deposit. Call 287-1777. After 5:30. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found Timex Watch 5-1-71 at Stepan Parking Lot. Call 6715 
Lost: Gold Timex watch with black band; also meal card. 
In or around Stepan last Sat. night. Please call 3460. 
Lost -Chaminade School Ring initials EJC. Call Ed 1735 
HELP!!!! Lost: 1 Notre Dame class ring, Class of '72. in either Stepan Center parking lot or Flanner Tower. (Name inscribed inside) Property of Bob Master­son. Call Bob 1158. Anytime. Generous Reward. Please Help. 
Lost · Silver wire rim glasses somewhere between Breen­Phillips and circle. If found please call Steve-1336. 
act· 
by Michael ~~ 
Walzer 
editor of Dissent magazine 
Paperbound $1.95 also available in cloth, $5.95 
AUTOMOTIVE 
1966 VW Bus. Factory rebuilt, best installed . Call 234-0225. 
For Sale '67 Honda 305 Scrambler, Excellent Condition. $350 Call 232-1860 
.1959 TR-3. Excellent condition, new 
battery, generator, regulator, tires, land more. Price to sell $650. Call 232· '4896 or 272-2568. 
For Sale Honda 160 Scrambler, Good condition. Reasonable Price. Call 7279 
RIDES 
Need Transportation? We need drivers for new cars being shipped to: Boston, New York. Philadelphia, Washington. Carolina's, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Cincinatti, Memphis, Dallas, Houston. San Antonio, Denver, Phoenix, Salt Lake City, Los Angeles, San Francisco. Seattle, and vicinities. Take your 
things home! You pay gas and tolls. Must be 21. Call Brian Furey, 283-3651. 
PEANUTS PERSONAL 
Watch out! Highly contagious Spreading: the myth of SMC's bitch Chicken Hawk 8533 
Mrs. Robinson, I'm graduating in 2 weeks; Where are you? Call 272-6287. 
Jerry 
Young Men, It's Spring! Let us know when your fancies turn to thoughts of love. 
Cyclops, Open your eyes next time. You're full of sh! t. Lance Corey 
RATES 
1dov 
-
0-10 ... ·-.... ··-1.00 ·-1.15 
11·115 ... 1.00 1.30 1.70 
..... •70 1.15 .... .... 
..... ... 1.310 2JIO 2.10 
,.... 
.... 1.. .... uo 
..... 1,00 ...
1.20 2.10 
1.30 .... 1.10 .... 
.-,... .... .... ..... uo 
..,. .... .... 
4.11
-· 

Page 14 THE OBSERVER Friday, May 7, 1971 

Netmen win two 
By E.J. Kinkopf year. 
The Irish Eye
Observer Sports Writer "We have no outstanding 
The Notre Dame racqueteers national stars, but we have good ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,The year in sports -fond memories 
added two abbreviated victories depth. This is evidenced by the 

to their extended win streak Wednesday afternoon. 
The Irish netmen defeated the Valparaiso Crusaders 5-1 in a rain shortened outdoor contest. 
Then they moved indoors and disposed of Northwestern 8-zip, while upping their record .to 21-5. 
The Irish "B" team got the nod against Valpo, and Bernie LeSage, the regular number four man, Greg Murray, Tony Early, Dickie Murray and Greg Reid responded with singles victories. 
Coach Fallon said the doubles matches may be rescheduled for next week, if they can be squeezed into the busy Irish schedule. 
The starters then breezed right past the Northwestern Wildcats. Buster Brown, Mike Reilly, John Allare, LeSage, Brandon Walsh and Rob Schefter all recorded wins. 
The doubles combinations of Reilly-LeSage and Allare-Early followed with victories. 
Number three doubles was cut short, with Walsh-Murray and the Northwestern combo each earning a game victory. 
The netters still have five dual matches left on the schedule, plus the central Collegiates June 7th to 12th. The NCAA Cham­pionships also loom in the near future. The racqueteers will host them from June 14th to the 19th. 
Since this is the last publication of the Observer I asked Coach Fallon to evaluate the team's performance up to this point. 
He said he was really delighted 
with the team's fact that we can play our "B" team and still come out on top. Like Wednesday with Valpo and with Marquette a couple weeks ago." 


"Tiger" Tom was most pleased with the overall team effort. He stressed the dedication they had, practicing indoors, even during the dinner hours. 
"John Allare had the best in­dividual record, but it was still more a team effort this year. And I guess the highlight of the season so far would have to be beating Indiana twice." 
At this point Indiana is the Big Ten leader with a !HI slate in the conference. 
With such a great spring behind them, I asked Coach Fallon to evaluate the racqueteers' chances in the NCAA's. 
"Well, we're no national power. We had an unpublished gaol this spring of twenty wins, and if none of our matches are rained out, we should achieve that goal. And to end up in the top twenty nationally would be great." 
He also felt the tourney would be the strongest in years and maybe the strongest ever. 
"The West Coast dominance will be challmged. UCLA must still be considered topps, but schools like Trinity of Texas, Miami and Georgia should prove 
to  be  more  than equal  to  the  
Bruins."  
And  then,  of  course  there's  

Brown, Reilly, Allare, LeSage, Walsh, Schefter and Murray. And those guys aren't too bad either. 
Although there are still a few athletic contests yet to be played this Spring, for all intents and' purposes the year in sports is well nigh a thing of the past. What a wonderful year it was! So many memorable games -so many great plays py some un­forgettable players ... The was the Purdue game in the rain. Ara had promised a victory and the Irish responded by demolishing the Boilermakers 48-0. The Spartans were thumped 29-0 at East Lansing-the first time Notre Dame had bPAten MSU in Spartan Stadium since 1949. 
The largest crowd in Missouri sports history saw the Irish roll past the Missouri Tigers, 24-7. Ed Gulyas scored the key TD on a flat pass that Mizzou just missed picking off. It could have been a different ball game. 
Denny Allan shoved across from the two for the winning touchdown against Georgia Tech and Scotty Hempel's clutch field goal kept the Irish unbeaten string alive against a fired-up bunch of Bayou Bengals. 
So. Cal played the role of spoiler in a monsoon in L.A. but the Irish would have a chance to act that part themselves in 33 days. 
The Cotton Bowl-for the second straight year. Against the Texas Longhorns, winners of 30 straight football games. Notre Dame took them apart, 24-11. The game that afternoon in the Cotton Bowl will become a part of the Notre Dame football legend. 
In December, Johnny Dee's cagers, knocked off the Kentucky Wildcats in Louisville, 99-92. 
January ~3,1971: Barely three week~ after the Cotton Bowl and a Fighting Irish team again played the role of g.Iant killer. The UCLA Brums, c_Qllege basketball's premier team, came to the Convo with an umblemished record. They left with the only defeat they were to suffer during a season in which they racked up the school's fifth straight NCAA hoop crown. 
But ~~at Saturday in South Bend, the Irish were number 1. Another truly great moment in Irish sports history. When the clock read 0:00 the Irish had won 89-82 and their delirious fans poured out onto the court to swarm their heroes. 
Twice within a month Notre Dame teams had reached heights of glory never bettered by any other Irish club. Twice in a month we were priviliged to see sports history in the making. 
And in the first week of February the Notre Dame hockey team, in only its third year of existencE upset Denver 4-2. The Pioneers went on to finish second in the NCAA hockey championships and the victory by Coach "Lefty" Smith's charges proved justhowfarthe Irish hockey program had come in three years. 
One can look back on these triumphs with pride. Yet one feels a tinge of regret, too, because so many of the young men who played important roles in the athletic dramas of the past year have played their final game for the Blue and Gold. 
Some of the finest athletes in Notre Dame history will graduate this June. 
Although injured much of the season, Larry DiNardo, perhaps as no other athlete this year, was a perfect Notre Dame man. Co-captain of the '70 eleven, DiNardo was a two-time All American guard and an honor student. An instructional film on on how to play guard could be compiled from the game films of Larry D. 
And skinny number 7. That gutsy kid who had come off the bencb as a sophomore to quarterback the Irish to a tie with the national champion So. Cal. Trojans. Joe Theismann started 25 games at quarterback for the Fighting Irish and led his team to a record of 20 wins, three losses and two ties. And their first Bowl victory since the days of the Four Horsemen. The South River Roadrunner also surpassed Hanratty and the immortal Gipper in the N.D. record book. 
For the past three years, Irish basketball fans have been privileged to watch the greatest player in Notre Dame history. Austin Carr rewrote the record book during his years at Notre Dame and put the Irish in the national basketball limelight. 
Austin's shot, his moves, were things of beauty. Not only a fabulous basketball player, Austin was a wonderful person. Softspoken and ever so modest, Austin was a leader to his teammates. As captain-elect Doug Gemmell remarked, "When Austin says "Let's go!", you feel like jumping through the roof". 
And there was Collis Jones. Collis never missed an Irish basketball game. Although he played in Carr's shadow, Jones became a star in his own right. Like my Dad, a knowledgable basketball man, says, "Carr is in a class by himself but a guy like Jones can play on any body's team too." 
El Sid. I only talked with Sidney Catlett once but I wish I had the chance to get to know him. He's a sensitive, warm, individual and a fine basketball player. The.fans loved Sidney. 
The first of what will undoubtedly become a long list of Irish hockey stars leaves the du Lac campus in a couple of weeks. Phil Witliff owns just about every scoring mark in the Notre Dame record book right now. Phil was with the icers when they were a club team and he captained them when they played, and beat, the bestoppositionthe country had to offer. Witliff has carved his place in Notre Dame hockey lore. 
Then there's Tommy Ciaccio. A name a lot of sports fans on campus may not even recognize. But little Tom (he never weighed wmore than 126 pounds during wrestling season) has won more wrestling matches than any grappler in Irish history. I won't forget Tommy. 
Nor will I forget my favorite cheerleader, Molly Tiernan. It's going to be a lot harder to fill that little lassie's uniform than Joe Theismann's. Be still my beating heart! 
There are so many other seniors who have contributed so much to Notre Dam's athletic prowess during their years here. There's Gary Kos, Tim Kelly, John Pleick Charlie Horan Tom Sinnott Rick Wohlhuter, Phil Krill, and Scotty Hempel. There are guys like Ja~kie Meehan and John Roselli, Tom Eaton, Chuck Zloch, Jim Hinga and a fellow named Pete Schivarelli. And there are many others that I havent mentioned. All of them are fine athletes and fine men. 
Then there are the seniors who chronicled the happenings of the Irish athletes in the Observer and the Scholastic. Terry O'Neil, a first rate sportswriter, second to none on this campus will receive his diploma in in June, along with Mike Pavlin, my first boss at the Observer. ' 
And a _wonderful guy named Terry Shields, who preceded me as sports editor, will be picking up his sheepskm, too. If he had spent the time studying that he did putting out a sports page he'd have graduated cum laude. A more dedicatedt sincere, hard-working guy you couldn't find. Everyone who comes to Notre Dame should be lucky enough to make a friend like Terry Shield. 
I've just about run out of memories now. And out of space, too. 
You know, it really ha.s been a great year. 
ATTENTION ALL 
SOPHOMORES 
Sophomores may start placing ring orders NOW 
Ring Orders will continue throughout May. 
Hours: 1:30-4:30 Monday Thru Friday 
m office on second f1oor of ND Bookstore 
Friday, May 7, 1971 
THE OBSERVER Page 15 



The class o£'71 

Joe Theismann -the So. River Roadrunner
\ 
The Gipper is passed by Jersey Joe 


.. 
CoUis Jones -Mr. Dependable 
The D.C. Three 

Tom Ciaeelo -big winner 





-~--------------­

Swiftly walk o'er the western wave, Spirit of Night! 
Out of the misty eastern cave, Where all the long and lone daylight, Thou wovest dreams of joy and fear . 

.. 
--Percy Shelley 








