


Vol. VI, No. 13 Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Tuesday, September 28, 1971 
Sanctions Return to Committee 
The engineering auditorium was filled yesterday, as moresro than 600 students came in objection to the proposed sanc­
.;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~-~=:1:!~:~;~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
SMC frosh meet 
Freshman hours under attack 
Open hearing slated ~~~~~:t 
by John Abowd 

Before a crowd of more than 600 students Monday the Student Life Council returned the proposed sanctions for violation of University rules to a new committee. 
The SLC charged the steering committee and Prof. William Eagan, chairman, with appointing the com­mittee and scheduling an open hearing on the proposed sanctions. 
The students, who filled the Engineering Auditorium and overflowed into the halls were calm. They erupted in applause only once, when, Fr. James Riehle, dean of students, introduced the motion to hold an open hearing in the near future. 
After the SLC revised its agenda moving discussion of the conterversial sanctions to the first position, SBP John Barkett asked the council to return the proposal to committee. 
"I disagree with the basic premise of the repor that sanctions are the answer. I can understand the Trustees reaction to last year's report on the Appeals Boards. I don't think sanctions are the best way to react to this report," Barkett said. 
"I would hope we could rfer the whole report back to committee to look at the situation before they start out on the basic premise that sanctions are the answer." he added. 
Barkett offered three actions to the committee: --to consider the report of the ad hoc committee on disciplinary matters as "only a model" not a specific proposal. --to consider the "whole question of parietal hours" in light of hall autonomy which the SLC tried to impress on the trustees last year. 
(continued on page 8) 


Students disappointed by SLC 
Students attending Monday's Student Life Council meeting had widely differing opinions of that body's decision to send the ad hoc disciplinary committee report back to the steering committee for eventual revision. 
The opinions ranged from disappointment in the lack of discussion, to a charge that SBP John Barkett is playing along with the Board of Trustees, to a classification of the whole meeting as bull excrement. 
LeMans resident Jackie Stone expected more discussion of the r!:'port and was disappointed when it was voted to send the reporllo the Steering Committee. 
She felt that Fr. James L. Hiehle, dean of students, made a "token" gesture to the students with his motion for a public hearing before the appropriate committee. 
"I don't think student opinion will make that much difference," Miss Stone said, although she expects to attend the session. 
SENATE TO MEET 
There will be a brief meeting of the Senate on Tuesday, Sept. 28, at 7:00 pm in the ampltheater of La Fortune Center. Because of the urgency of this meeting, the im­portance of attendence has been emphasized. It will be an organizational meeting during which SBP John Barkett will give a short address, copies of the senate constitution and house rules will be ui:;trihuted, and a schedule for discussiOn of the budget will be set up. 
Rick Nieslanik of Dillon Hall was a bit more optimistic calling the measure a "good thing." 
"According to what I've read in today's Observer, it doesn't sound like anything I'd want to put up with as a student," Nieslanik said. 
The most sensible thing to come out of the meeting is the 

Rev. James Riehle, Dean of Students, addressing the SLC 
public hearing according to Jim Barger, also of Dillon Hall. 
He advocated a wait and see approach until the public hearing, claiming, "There is a lot more to be done." 
Keenan Hall President Dave 
Loring and his vice president, 
Dave Kaminski, did not say if 
they were pleased or disap­
pointed but both felt the action 
"very realistic" considering the 
pressure of the situation. 
Two SMC residents called the meeting "The most patronizing thing I've ever seen." They criticized Barkett for "the way he goes along with everything they (Trustees) want." 
They questioned the SLC action claiming the report could be referred to committees all year. 
St. Mary's Student Govern­ment President Kathy Barlow called the meeting "extremely 
by Ann McCarry 

Saint Mary's freshman class met Monday night in Carroll Hall to discuss a proposed ex­perimental system of no hours for freshmen, effective January 1, 1972. 
The idea was first instigated by Janet Ryan and Valerie Jaskulski, the newly elected freshmen assembly represen­tatives, at the Student Assembly 
patronizing." She added that of the seven students on the council, "not one person dealt with the issue." 
The real issue according to Miss Barlow is can the Trustees run our lives. If they can, it's "out and out repression," she said. 
A Fisher Hall resident, Bill Anhut, commended Fr. Riehle for his motion but criticized Student Representative Dave Tushar. 
"He is not the dynamic type of student we need to have. He does not represent us," Anhut said. 
Tushar proposed that the ad hoc committee on disciplinary matters be increased to six members from its present three. This was an amendment, which was defeated, to Barkett's motion to send the report back to the steering committee. 
J 

John Barkett in reply to a question 
Dan Sherry said he was tired of all the rhetoric from the SLC. The Dillon Hall resident wants to know "Who gave the Trustees and the administration the right to determine our lives and life styles for us." 
meeting last Wednesday night. SMC Student Body President, Kathy Barlow, and Sue Welty, head of the Student Judiciary Board, offered their help. A committee of ten freshmen girls from all halls was formed and a proposal was formulated. 
The proposal is an experiment which would eliminate hours for freshmen as of January first. Under the experiment, the midnight weekday and 2 a.m. weekend curfews, now in effect, would be discontinued. 
This experiment would end in May, 1972, and would not hold for future freshman classes. 
However, success of the ex­periment could possibly lead to 


r*~,~~~~~~~-'''~'"'1 
United Nations, N.Y. --Indian Foreign Minister, Sardar Singh, charged that Pakistan had unleashed a "reign of terror" and was conducting "deadly activities" in East Pakis_tan: Singh spoke ~o th~ United Nations General Assembly over the obJections of the Pak1stam delegate. 
London --In an effort to discuss the Ulster cns1s, the prime ministers of Britain, Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic con­vened a two-day conference. The fear of increased violence prompted the meeting, the first such conference since the partition of Ireland 50 years ago. Fifty-four persons in Northern Ireland have been killed since Aug. 9 alone when the policy of internment began. 
Washington --The Managing director of the international monetary 
fund addressed the world's finance ministers and asked that they 
make "every effort to cooperate with the United States" in solving the 
long-standing problem of the deficit in the United States balance of 
International Payments. Pierre-Paul Schweitzer, who is the head of 
I.M.F. also said the "real dangers" for world trade, and even prosperity, would become apparent if the present impasse in the monetary crisis were prolonged. 
Detroit --Detroit's public school system has been deliberately 
segregated, a federal judge ruled. Two factors caused the 
segregation, according to Judge Stephen Roth, a segregated housing 
pattern and actions by the state agencies of the Detroit Board of 
Education. Any specific plans to integrate the schools were postponed 
by Roth until further hearings. 
Los Angeles--New York City Mayor John V. Lindsay said at a news conference in Los Angeles that he had "no hesitation" about running in the presidential primaries. Lindsay reiterated, however, that he was not a candidate for president, and avoided questions on what might persuade him to enter the race. He explained that he would run in the primaries if he thought that was "the most effective" way to get his message across. 
New York--The New York City Police Department will announce a requirement that in eight to ten years all policemen who want promotions, and all new patrolmen, will have to have a four-year college degree, it was learned. According to Commissioner Patrick Murphy and other high police officials, this constitutes the most ad­vanced and far-reaching attempt by any large law enforcement agency in the country to demand educational requirements to improve the performance and attitudes of its men. 
complete discontinuation of 
freshman hours in the future. 
The main basis of the argument is that as women, SMC freshmen are mature enough to disciplinE' themselves. It is also felt, by the freshmen, that both the men and women of the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame community should be granted the same rights and priviledges if the merger is to be truly complete. 
The proposal will be brought before the Student Assembly on Wednesday night. 
If it is passed through the assembly, the Student Affairs Committee. the Student Affairs 
(continued on page 2) 

Record crowd swarms SLC mee1ing 
by Don Ruane 
The Student Life Council drew a record crowd Monday to its opening performance of the 1971­72 Academic year. 
Scheduled to meet in the Center for Continuing Education, SLC members were forced to move the meeting to the Engineering Auditorium because of an overflow crowd. 
At the CCE meeting room, students were sitting on the floor around the table, standing in the three doorways, sitting and standing in the lobby and on stairs leading to the second floor. 
A loud cheer arose when student representative Buzz Imhoff announced the room switch and a small stampede ensued across the Post Office biology, economics and Emil T. students have fallen asleep, rapidly became hot and humid, Imhoff led a search for more tables and chairs. 
SLC members eventually took their places, opposite one another, and Chairman William 
F. Egan greeted the more than 500 students and explained the groundrules. 
Speaking for the SLC, Prof. Egan said they did not "expect to be so popular this afternoon." The audience replied, "You're not." 

Academic Council still tala·ngapplications 
1v1t. Waddick, 
Fr. Chambers, 
Fr. Austgen, 
and Mr. Weber 

before yesterday's SLC meeting. 

lawn to the Engineering Building 
The first inside stood on theix seats as they called to friends for whom they saved seats. Othen simply sat in the aisle or or tables, which soon were con· scripted for the use of the .SLC 
As the auditorium, where man, 
The deadline for applications to the Academic Council has been extended until Thursday, Fred Giuffrida, academic affairs commissioner announced yesterday. 
Giuffrida cited the small response, which he termed "disappointing", as the reason for the extension. Only one student from the Business College and one from the Engineering School have applied for the position to represent their college on the council. Five have applied from Arts and Letters. 
r-----------------------------------------1 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 


Indiana Bell 
and no one has applied in the Science college. 
"Part of the problem might be that the students don't realize the significance of the Academic Council," said Giuffrida. 
"The Council decides academic policy for the whole university on any university wide problem. They also advise the various college councils on matters within the specific college, when it is needed. It's really an im­portant body. It's roughly equivalent to the SLC on the academic level. What they say goes as far as academics is concerned," he continued. 
Student representation on the council was initiated last year as an experiment, to run for several years. Giuffrida is hopeful to getting more students on the council in the future, if their is sufficient student support. 
The applications should include 
a short resume of the individuals 
qualifications, and any ideas he 
might have about the council and 
what it could accomplish this 
year. 
The names of the applicants 
will then be passed on to the 
college councils, where the 
number of applicants will be 
narrowed to three from each 
college .. 
A final committee of the four College Advisory Council presidents and Student Body President John Barkett will make the final selection. A111 administration member and a faculty member will sit in on the final selection in an advisory capacity. 

"This could be a really im­portant year, the Academic Council will probably be con­sidering extending the pass-fail option to the sophomore· year, and possibly some freshman requirements, among other things," Giuffrida said. 

SMC frosh fight hours 

(continued from page 1) 
Council and the Student Policy Commission, the proposal will be presented to the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees for final ap­proval on October 22nd. 
Miss Ryan and Miss Jaskulski expressed a need for student interest and support behind the proposal, and asked all freshmen to contact them at 217 Augusta Hall to ask questions or voice complaints. 
ND to host largest blues festival in nation 
by John Abowd 

Notre Dame will host the largest blues festival in the ..... nation on November 12, 13, 14. 111!1 
The event, sponsored by the Student Union Cultural Com­mission, features Muddy Waters, Otis Rush, Howlin' Wolf and Buddy Guy & Junior Wells. 
2,000 advance 3 day tickets are being marketed on campus and in 
.

Chicago, Bloomington, Madison, Ann Arbor and Milwaukee. 1,000 ~ 
.~.. <~~'1 ~: -f,
tickets will be available at the door each night. Perry Aberli "We spent $15,000 bringing 
Saturday, Nov. 13these people to Notre Dame and Shirley Griffith we are only trying to break ..Otis Rusheven," Cultural Commissioner LittleBrother Montegomery with

Bob Brinkman said in an­
Sippie Wallacenouncing the ticket prices of $6.00 
Muddy Watersfor a three day ticket and $2.50 for on..e night. 
Sunday, Nov. 14"Since the collapse of the Ann Mance Lipscomb
Arbor Blues Festival, our 
Buddy Guy & Junior Wellsprogram is probably the largest (acoustic)of its kind in the nation," Brink­Johnny Little john with Jiinmym~n added. 
Rogers
Festival Chairman Perry 
Buddy Guy & Junior WeBsAberli announced the complete <electric)list of performers: The festival will be held inFriday, Nov. 12 conjunction with a Black ArtFred McDowell Week sponsored by the BlackHomesick James, Carey Bell and Studies Program and theEddie Taylor Cultural Commission.
Howlin' Wolf 

Tuesday, September 28, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 




Farcical Viet war continues 
New York (undated}--The It was not Mao but Confucius bombers on "protective reac­It is difficult to predict what southeast Asia today --for fuel uncontested nonelection for the who said that the best way to tion" missions; South Vietnam is American casualties will be in and bombs alone--is between 
South Vietnamese Presidency leave is simply by going through one big free-fire zone when the next 12 months of nonwar if no $35,000 and $45,000. Multiplied, Oct. 3 has its counterpart in the door. But the revived fury of required to bail out Saigon's settlement is achieved in the this comes to more than $35 
creative fantasy for over 200,000 recent U.S. serial strikes in­soldiers. Paris talks (and the ad­million a month. Americans there: from the Delta dicates that our exit is through In the semantic acrobatics of ministration shows no eagerness Many moribund National the bomb bays. to advance the prospect of a programs --for education,
to the Dmz and beyond they are the Vietnam War, "protective settlement there}. The present housing, employment, parklands shooting and being shot at in an reaction" strikes against an­rate of fewer than 100 killed a --could be revived by the hun­unofficially undeclan~rl nonwar. Nor has the theater of combat tiaircraft emplacements and month is an encouraging drop but dreds of millions of dollars now
The biggest public relations been narrowed in this twilight missile and fuel sites have been it could go up or down, depending falling out of the bomb bays on
triumph of the administration time of disengagement. Five stressed. But far more dangerous not on American-originated Southeast Asia. Perhaps a morethus far is planting the im­countries are still directly in­in the future are the actions actions but on the support given meaningful local measure, evenpression that, like Pan Am's volved. Thailand remains the behind two less-familiar phrases: to sustain the governments of though Federal funds are notcommercial, President Nixon is "Pre-emptive attack" against
base of operations for B-52 client states. The United States directly involved , it to compare

making the going great. He has missions; Laos and Cambodia troop infiltration on the trails and has become their hostage just the financial costs of the B-52told congress and the country "ancillary effect" bombing-­
are regularly interdicted to 

militarily. bombings with what it would take 
about "our success in winding hinder the enemy's supply meaning, in support of South The probability at this point is to reopen the maimain branch of down the war" but, skeptical system; North Vietnam above Vietnamese forces. When Arvn that the Air Force activity will be the New York Public Librarysenators and Vietnam-watchers the demilitarized zone is troops retreated from a Cam­kept at a steady level. Two years evenings ($350,000), Saturdayssay, he has only succeeded in photographed by reconnaissance bodian town a few months ago, ago there were1,00 sorties (one ($350,000) and Sundays andwinding down persistent op­planes and struck by fighter-under Heavy U.S. air cover, Gen. 
aircraft on one mission} a month; Holidays ($200,000} for a full
position to the war. Creighton Abrams remarked, currently the monthly rate is year.
"Dammit, they've got to learn
The air war is very costly in 1,000. It has gone up this month. A few nonfloying days, not to
News Analysis they can't do it all with air. If
human and financial terms. A The cost of one B-52 sortie in mention peace, would do it.
they don't, it's all been in vain." 
year ago about 5,000 American

This year the casualties and 
planes (1,000 fixed-wing and 4,000

body counts have dropped In this withdrawal phase of
helicopters} were operating over

sharply but the going is slow, Vietnamization, American
Indochina. There are still 3,500

costly, still perilous and pegged Troops are supposed to be in a
American planes (500 fixed-wing,

to politics. Senator Mansfield's defensive posture. On-the­
3,000 helicopters} in action

original amendment to the draft­ground combat responsibilities
today.,One and at times two

extension law calling for the nine­now belong to the ARVN; it is
aircraft carriers are in coastal

month troop withdrawal deadline their thru to search-anddestroy
water. Plane losses by hostile

was weakened into phrasing that and carry the fight. But an Air
fire and accidents have been

is open-ended. The only "date Force Colonel explains, "con­
heavy: more than 3,300 fixed­

cert1lin" for withdrawal there is sistent with this concept we considered to be the '72 eJection wing and more than 4,500 
support ARVN ground operations 
helicopters in the war up to now.

here. with air and aritllery. Both B-52's and tactical fighter-bombers have been involved." In these operations the American Air
Notes from all over 
Force's role is restricted to "air logistical support and close air support." 
0-C Center Translated into what has taken place recently, the clear im­Cultural events plication of these terms seems to be that American "advisers" and Security report fliers are very much part of of­fensive actions. They have been hy Andy Winiarczyk lnoked at carefully. engaged in a two-front war in 
"There is a need for such a 

September: carrying South 
In the upcoming October 4 facility and the students affected Vietnamese infantrymen into want one."Drost said, "A
mPeting of the Student Affairs battle deep in the Mekong Delta 
seconday benefit from it would be

Commission and the Board of 145 miles southwest of Saigon and 
that it would show that Notre

Trustees a bill favoring the backing them up with helicopter
Dame really does care about its

l'stablishment of an off-campus gunships; bombing in the 
off-campus students."

center will be introduced by John southern panhandle of Laos in Drost, CommissionPr for Off­direct support of Royal Lao Campus Affairs. forces and C.I.A. -Trained lie believes that by that date Guerrilla battalions. These ac­his office working in conjunction tivities hardly accord with the with the Hesearch and periodic announcements from Larceny from cars in the student Washington about "winding down
l>l'velopment Commission 
parking lots continues to be a

chairmaned by Ed Ellis, will the war" through Viet­
major problem, as evidenced by

have come up with several 
last weekend's security report,

possible sites. 
released by ND Security Director 

As envisioned by Drost it would Arthur Pears.
be similar to a large eight to ten 
The fence around the D-1 lot

room house including lounges, 
was cut and a tape deck stolen

TV and laundry rooms. In time a 
from a car in the lot, Mr. Pears

food service, a student grocery 
reported. Already eleven per­

store and a conference room 
sons have been apprehended this

would be added. This complex 
year for larceny of tape decks

would serve as the counterpart to 
from the parking lots, all of them

LaFortune Center. · 
local teenagers. These suspects

Since the university is in a tight 
were turned over to the St.

financial situation Drost feels 
Joseph County Probate Court.

that a project of this size will be No ND students were among those apprehended. 
"It is important that the student knows the exact brand name and serial number of his tape deck," Mr. Pears said. He commented that this greatly 

More than 40 cultural events facilitates the recovering of 
have been scheduled for the 1971-stolen decks and their return to 
72 academic year by the Per­the owners. A few of the decks 
forming Arts committee of Saint have been recovered so far this Mary's College. The majority of year. 
the programs will be staged in In attempts to strengthen ()'Laughlin Auditorium and Little campus security, Mr. Pears has Thl'ater ·on the Saint Mary's hired one man and wants to add 




Student diSEDUDt 
I We give students a break, with special reduced I
·-----------------· 
1 rates in Hilton Hotels from Boston to Honolulu. I I (Faculty and graduate school students get a dis-1 
count too.)I Let us send you a pamphlet listing the Hilton I 1 Hotels and Inns that offer special student rates. Also I I a Hilton Stu?ent Identification Card to use when-1 
ever you reg1ster.I Mail this coupon to Hilton Hotels Corporation, I I Travel Department, National Sales Division, 9880 I 1 Wilshire Blvd., Beverly Hills, California 90210. 1 
We want to make it easy for you to come visit II the Hiltons. X I I
I Name__ __ ______ 1 
1 Address______ ----------· ___________ I 
I City_. _State_ _ _Zip I 
I I 

:li'iLTOD HiiEts:

Tickets s4, s~, s2.
campus while others will be held two more. Night patrol will be in M!'morial Library auditorium, aided when lights in the new Washington Hall and Sacred section of the D-1 lot are in­
at the Student Union
BeaCh
II Part Church at the University of stalled, a job which Mr. Pears 
Notrl' Dame. expects to be accomplished by this weekend. · 
BOWS pres::::::~ice& Dining Halls 
Til£' >)l>server i~ JJUbliShl'd daily during the college semester excep-;-J vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester 
J 


Student Union Social Commission andACC 
from I lie Ob5erver, Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class osta I' aid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

;=========================~~======~~~~~~E~a~E~Z~h~s-----------­
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
Editor-in-Chief Business ManagerGlen S. Corso James Jendryk
All successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They Executive Editor never defend anyone or anything if they Ad Manager
T.C. Treanor can help it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else.'-H. L. Mencken,
Founded November 3, 1966 Notre Dame, Indiana Business 283-7471 News 283-1715 
A Possible Way Out 
Armageddon turned out to be more like the War of 1812 yesterday at the SLC meeting in the Engineering Auditorium. The students didn't lose as much as they gained, maybe. 
With a massive crowd of 600 students breathing down their necks, the Council followed Student Body President John Barkett's lead and refered the hideous report on Sanctions back to the Steering Committee for re­assignment. 
The outcome could have been worse. The SLC could have accepted the report without changes and done their bit in the move to make Notre Dame one of the nation's largest seminaries, but they didn't. 
The Council also could have voted the report down and instead voted to re-submit the original Hall Life report (which called for halls to deter­mine their own parietals) to the Trustees with a comment that if the Trustees really want sanctions they could set them up themselves and enforce said sanction themselves, but they didn't. 
If the new report on Sanctions accepts the premise that there is a need for minimum punishments for violations of university rules then we are right back where we started. The question is not what type of sanctions there should be, but whether they should exist. 
We don't think they should. 
We don't think that people should be called on to enforce rules they had no voice in making. We don't think that the establishment of a "university code of morality" serves anyone save those who delight in the promulgation of a myth--the myth that Notre Dame is pure, good, clean and holy in accordance with 1950 standards. We don't think the Trustees should be involved in what is essentially a campus matter--one which the three groups of people who live here seem able to agree on, but the one group that doesn't can't, and attempts to ram their dictates down everyone's throat. We don't think that what a person does in his room is anyone's business, save his own. 
The SLC seems reluctant to defy the Trustees and define themselves as the body with the greatest authority on Student Life for Notre Dame. They seem reluctant to tell the bankers, lawyers and corporation presidents who make up the board that their responsibility is in name only--that the administration of DuLac panders to their fears and gives them false assurances about enforcing rules, rules that have been a dead letter on campus for nearly two years. 
Yesterday's demonstration was a good thing. It showed the SLC that the students are concerned--concerned that their rights might be bar­tered away by a group of men who have been cowed by Stephan's Privy Council. 
That concern must be maintained, and maintained in such a way that the SLC will find impossible to ignore. Ifa petition is made to the Steering Committee of the SLC, containing 50 student signatures, it will be placed on the agenda for the next meeting. We urge the student body to draw up a strong petition, a petition that will force the Student Life Council to cast their lot for or against their independence and integrity as a policy making body of this University, and sign it en masse. 
Such a petition might read: 
"We, the undersigned, believe that the rules imposed upon the student body by the Board of Trustees, any sanctions in support of those rules, and the authority which created those rules is invalid and is an affront to every member of the University Community. 
"Accordingly, we urge this Student Life Council to return no sanctions to the Board of Trustees, and to advise the Board that if members insist on imposing rules upon Notre Dame from outside, those members may draw up their own sanctions, and may enforce their own rules." 
Something like that with the aforementioned signatures can keep members of the SLC thinking about yesterday's show of support for weeks to come. 
**********************************~******************** 
News Editor: John ';ll.bowd 
(435)
Managing Editor: Don Ruane Much Madness is divinest Sense .
SMC Editor: :Ann Conway To a discerning Eye ­Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Much Sense -the starkest Madness ­Features Editor: rick smith 'Tis the MajorityNite Editor: Jim McDermott 
In this, as AI, prevail ­Assent -and you are sane ­Layout,headlines, and visitors, etc: Maria Gallagher, Mark Demur -you're straightway dangerousHamilton, George T. Loss, Gene Slason, Neal Loughery, And handled with a Chain ­
Anthony Abowd and a few others wandering in and out. 
Emily Dickenson c. 1862 
The SLC Yesterday The Story of 600 Students 
Over six. hundred students jammed the Engineering Auditorium 
yesterday to watch the Notre Dame Student Life Council wrestle 
with the problem of sanctions to be applied to violators of 
University drinking and parietal regulations. However, there was 
no wrestling match (except of course for the usual three rounder 
with parliamentary procedure). There was no decision of any kind 
reached on the sanctions issue. And, we must suspect, most 
students came away from the meeting not realizing exactly what 
had happened. 

It was, however, a most historic meeting for the SLC, and one 
that will stay with its members for quite some time to come. Ifone 
were to all up all the spectators at all the SLC meetings since its 
inception, and then multiplied that number by ten, the total of 
student interest and student solidarity wouldn't even approach the 
number and the singleness of mind of the crowd yesterday. 
Now consider the results of that meeting. They were both good 
and bad. First, the good. The report of the Ad Hoc Committee 
printed in the Observer yesterday was actually only a guideline­
type proposal on the part of its authors. But the effect of anything 
like it would have been devastating as anyone who read it realized 
and that's why 600 people showed up to stop it. Student Body 
President John Barkett had planned to recommit the proposal to a 
committee (and anyone familiar with legislative bodies will 
recognize that sending a bill to committee is roughly equal to 
mortality without a funeral, the most hideous of deaths). However, 
before the meeting and the display of force on the part of the 
students, no one could be sure of having the votes to prevent a rough 
committee fight, one that would minimize the possibility of further 
discussion with the Board of Trustees. 
However, with all those hungry eyes looking on, no one was ready 
to suggest (at least no administrator was ready to suggest that they 
debate the question on the floor. The vote to go to committee was 
unanimous. The closest the the administration could get to a "hard 
line" was the proposal that the original committee be included in 
the new one. This was defeated by the judicious use of political 
maneuvering: the administration lined up 8-0 in favor, the students 
7-1 against, and the faculty 4-2 against, allowing the SMC delegation 
to vote 3-0 against and give the students a clear victory against the 
administration "hard line." The swaying power of 600 students 
was in evidence here, even if the confusion in the room deprived 
them of the knowledge of their effect. 
To the immediate roadblock placed in the way of the hard-line 
plan, we must include the psychological effect of the show of 
concern by the students. Mr. Faccenda says publicly there was 
•.one, but don't believe him. He's the best politician ever to sit on tne SLC. We prefer to listen to Fr. Riehle, who recognized the situation for what it was. He got the biggest hand of the day when he suggested open meetings for whatever committee acts on the issue. Fr. Riehle may have been patronizing, but he must be given credit for discerning the situation clearer than anyone who spoke yesterday, including Barkett. 
When this issue goes back to committee, it's clear that it will 
receive more lenient treatment than it got from Messer. Tushar, 
Thornton and Fr. Chambers. There will always be the specter of 
the "first meeting of the year" to dissuade the committee from 
anything like the recent deceased proposal. 
Now, however, we must consider the negative aspects of the whole affair, which consist mostly in what was not done. We must include here first the fact that there was not a definitive rejection of the Trustees dictum concerning parietals. This despite the fact that the Trustees have never laid bare for public scrutiny their rationale for parietals (as was observed by Greg Stidham in a recent Scholastic). The fault for this lies solely with the student members of the SLC, and especially with SBP Barkett, since the crowd gave him a tremendous opportunity to make student opinion felt in a coherent manner. 
Second, and somewhat a corollary to the first, is that not one of the 600 students heard any discussion at all on the issue they came to hear about. They saw what former Observer SLC reporter Don Ruane called "the best-run meeting in history," but there was no substantive discussion by Administrators and the like on the question at hand: on one argued the need for parietals at all! 
Third, no one even talked about directly rejecting the Trustees letter in Professor's Eagan acknowledgement of the letter. Barkett merely suggested that the SLC meet with Stephan again, to hear. the SLC. 
Also, it was distressing to hear the SLC hide again behind the Board of Trustees. That the administration would like some hard­line sanctions is obvious from their attempt to retain the original committee with only three new members. But rather than hide behind the coattails of "what would the Trustees think?" let them come out into the open. Students will at least respect them for taking a stand. 
In brief, then, the immediate benefits accruing from the massive student presence at the Engineering Auditorium (psychological effects, stoppage of the immediate acceptance of a hard line , etc.) were balanced by the fact that student leaders lost the best op­portunity in three years for long-range progress through the SLC. 
Couched in parliamentary nonsence (a chronic trouble for the body in question), the SLC activity was probably unintelligibll~ to many of the students present. T!Ji~ is unfortunate, because a valuable lesson was learned: there is swaying power in 600-plus students united behind something that interests them. Hopefully that lesson will not be forgotten. 

L-_....,."'
.....-.1 ·-;Y' IT/ I> 
• -~._ ...... {1'.~ ' .... 


the house of the risen son 
Tuesday, September 28, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
rev. robert griffin
,: -~'\ 

/~~~-;~_;:~f \~~~t) 
. a fh~.; -..~.-s:-:. ') ~,~.f ·;~
(~~, ·~~.r/;\(-f:;;[:,{\:· ----....,// /·'\~ 
.(i ~~ ¥ / ll~1 \_ '·". ----. ''-J.Y_ I.~ . 
'·\' ' \\ /''

\\ ~ ':cd(

~--· ~7 'i{.J.~
l:/1!~? ,_,.~~ . 
't'-c :!' ;,.-.~ ,..!; 

What really want for Christmas this year is a store-front church of my very own: a spiritual flophouse on Eigth Avenue full of Spirit-talk and Jesus-bums, with a corner reserved for winos; a skid row mothcrhouse· for nuns in search of relevance; a supply depot for virgins rwgotiating the price of oil. A storefront church: a Jesus-joint vibrating with the acid heat of salvation rock, with posters of day-glo and night-lights by strobe, and a dancing line of chorus girls tattooed with Bible verses whose kneecaps, read in spquence, will dimple in and out with nwssages from John 3:16. 
IL is Pasy to dream of store-front chur­ehes when you have just spent July and August struggling through novena devotions in the churches of the Religious I•:stablishment in New York City. For the past five summers, I have tried to apostolically confront the nitty-gritty of the inter-city street scene where Amazing <;race is just the name given to a sixty­Pight year old streetwalker from the Dixie llotel. Every time, I end up with the pale piety of those novenas whose impact on the 
steve schvvab 
review but in most ways it ends up as an opinion on the life of human beings in general and college students in particular. The book is entitled 
1\lavt•t·y and was written by Stanley M. l•:lkins. (The University of Chicago Press, only one dollar and fifty cents at your local Notre Dame bookstore). The book is n•quired reading for Doctor Sam Shapiro's Black American History course which is probably why I read it but is really no !'£'flection on the content of the book as a whole.Mr. Elkins attacks the problem of the "slave system" from a totally new din•ction. 
Mr. l<~lkins is interested in the ·>h£>nomenon of the stereotype "Sambo" image. Th1s stereotype was only evident in the United States although slaves 
Pxisted in Europe as well as Latin Anwrica. This is why he felt that there was something about the slave system in the United States which destroyed the human individual psychologically. Drawing from his knowledge of the con­eentration camps of Germany during the SPcond World War he draws numqhe parallels to the effect that the two had on th£> human mind. He believes that both finally r£>duced the individual into a state r£>sembling the human infant, that is, very impressionable and susceptible to new social and moral values. The prisoners h£>gan to resemble the ss guards in both their actions and their actual values. The slave took on the role which the general public expected of him, the condescending, humble, comic. 
By comparing the slave systems as they <•xisted all over the world and then by eomparing the system of prisons in Nazi· Germany, the author determined that the 
pffect wat~aused by a combination of things. Naturally the slaves went through quite a bit of psychological pressure before they finally arrived in the United States. They were first captured and force-march£>d across Africa to where they were put on the first selling-block. It has been <•stimated that nearly one third of those eaptur£>d never made it to the first block 
dying enroute due to the treatment they V('ry scary when !t IS reme~bere? that received on the march. The trip across the there are people alive ~o~ay, m statwns ?f ocean was very brutal also taking its toll in power, who sayt~at th1s IS what they will lives and sanity. The thing to remember, do. not to m£>nllon that there are un­morality of Fun City is as noticeable as the skidmarks of a luna moth colliding with a beam of moonlight. Establishment ehurches are places where Establishment priests perform the redemptive chores of a God whose credentials have been infallibly l•:stablished forever by the First and SPcond Vatican Councils. 
By choice and by ordination, I am a cleric who functions, sometimes restlessly, in the context of that Establish­m£>nt, but I think that there are other, disestablished sheep about whom Jesus also frets.Most of the sheep of creation, if you really want to know, are off somewhere, probably perishing, outside the sheepfold, while a few aging lambs are blitzing heaven at novenas with the Fathers of the Establishment, on the assumption that, if He's teased enough by St. Jude, He's just a God who can't say no. Black sheep were especially numerous around St. Malachy's this summer; even without the novenas, there wasn't an event on our liturgical calendar as exciting to the neighborhood as the news that a topless shoeshine parlor was to be opened within spitting distance of the church doors. l<'or a while, until the Syndicate (that is, the Secular Establishment for which the city prostitute worked) chased the mavericks out, sacrament was a less heady word than Shinola on 49th Street, and bootblacks seemed more permanent than prelates in the transitions of urbania. 
But life with the Establishment was really no patch of thorns at a place like St. Malachy's. I really groved on that Actors' Chapel with its memories of Valentino's funeral and Fred Allen's wedding, and its thousand tales of Broadway that Winchell never wrote. The table-talk in the rectory was like a gossip sheet out of Variety; and the standing order from the Boss, when 
the once and future sambo 
''freedoms" which we now possess, but I can not help but think that the life of any college student and especially any Notre Oame-St Mary's student is beset with a lot more restictions than we would like to admit and the effect that it has on us is the eomplacency and disinterestedness which Pxists here. · 
I wish I knew what the answer is or what to do about the whole situation but it is really too complicated for my mind alone, and most politicos on this campus refuse to see that the problem is a lot deeper than nwre surface freedoms. It has to do with the whole psychological make-up of the individual and the campus as a whole. Does anybody know what the problem r£>ally is'? Does anybody really care'? 

lie believes that after the trip over the 
ocean the slaves were very impressionable 
as was mentioned earlier. The difference 
between the United States' and other 
systems howeyer was that in the United· 
Stat£>s there existed what the author calls a. 
"dosed system". By this he means that 
slave had virtually no alternative but 
slavery for the rest of his life and the life of 
his children and grand-children and so-on. 
Also the slave of the United States had no 
rights whatsoever. He relied on his master 
for £>verything, including all food clothing 
and shelter as well as any connubial living 
which he might receive during his life 
time. This reliance cause the slave to 
identify with the master to a large degree 
and also to force him do please the master 
and actually desiring to please him in most 
cases even if he wa~ unduly harsh. 
While I was reading the book I could not 
help but be affected by it in many ways. 
The fi.rst an~ most ?bvious Of course was 
the prty, gmlt feelmg or whatever that 
eomcs over any indi.vidual wh~n he .hears 
about huma~ suffer~ng, especially m the 
two eases cited, bemg the most famous 
and the worst on record. 
S£'condly, I felt that if what Doctor l•:lkins presents is true than human beings ean mass .indoctrinate othe~ h';lman b.ein~s to the pornt .of tot~! ~ubmisswn which IS you atl£>nded a play, was "Go backstage." 
The priests of the rectory were on easy 
t£>rms with the cast members of the Follies,No No Nanette,Long Day's Journey, 
Waiting }or Godot . and some of the production staff ofHair. Dom DeLuise was our neighbor across the street in the Eugene O'Neill Theatre. He and his wife, pale with pregnancy, came over; once to apologize for Dom's mentioning the Monsignor's skirmishes with prostitutes on the Carson show, once to arrange for their year-old child to be baptized. 
The homily at the 

evening Mass on Saturdays was always 
timed so that Fifi D'Orsay could make her 
seven-thirty curtain at the Winter Garden. 
When Victor Griffin of thefolliesoffered to 
teach me ballroom steps so that I could 
dance with the bride's mother at a wed-. 
ding in Schnectady, I really began to feel 
that I was twinkle-toeing among the stars 
of the Broadway firmament. 
But St. Malachy's was a parish without 
children --and I rather missed the 
children. Practically the only child I 
remember seeing at Mass was a young boy 
from the cast of Waiting for Godot, and I 
n•call him principally because he and his 
mother asked me to be their guest at a 
performance of Godot. But no other 
children ever appeared, though the neigh­
borhoods west of Eighth Avenue were 
swarming with youngsters too Spanish to 
identify themselves with life in the neon 
jungle of the American theatre. 
And there were never any young people at St. Malachy's; in the parishes of the Establishment in New York City there are practically never young people present any more. Only on one Sunday do I have any recollection of young adults at Mass: a couple of sixteen-yea told hippies --one of them in overalls, without a shirt--with the 
kathy barlow 
seeking liberation must come to is the fact of their enslavement. Once the individuals ehoose to recognize their personal con­dition, then they can organize to gain their rights and freedoms. Here at Notre Dame on both campuses, we have such· an en­slaved group the students. 


enslavement 
Undoubtedly, many would seriously question my use of the word slavery -but what else does slavery mean than ­
-having your decisions -academic, social, moral, ethical -made for you. -having the threat of discipline replace the bounds of maturity and responsibility. -having regulations imposed upon you without your consent. 
-being forced into a competitive system that demands the subordination of oneself to other "superior" men and women (professors, administrators, trustees, Plc.l. 
-being treated as semi-intelligent, irresponsible sub-humans ... and taking it. 
.. 
And that is the worst part of it all. The trustees and administration make decisions for students. The students take it because the former speak of "our legal 
r J responsibility for the university." For 
Pxample, the Trustees state "Whenever ;ind wherever students demonstrate that they are willing and able to 'undertake their responsibilities, we are ready and willing to delegate to them the authority to act." The only question Iask is 'When will students realize that making decisions for oneself is an inherent right and respon­sibility and not a matter of "delegated 
authority". 
ust-off-the-raft appearance of 1'on ~awyer and Huck Finn, sitting in the very front pew. I was in an evangelical mood that day, and as a climax to my homily, I had undertaken to teach that sedate congregation the words and music of "Jesus Loves Me." Strangely enough those Christians of the Establishment s~emed to love that silly old hymn; and afterwards, the raft-urchins visited me in 
the rectory. 
-They had come to the City, they said, in search of sexual adventure; on their way to the girlie-palace, they had impulively decided to stop for Mass; now they wanted to go to confession. Afterwards, I was quite sure I hadn't made converts out of this penitential pair, for I suspected that the pit-stop at the girlie palace was not an adventure thLy had con celled; but I thought to myself, at least now perhaps it will be a thoughtful kind of frolic, which is as much lileage as I can hope for from one little Methodist hymn. As the lads stepped back into the life of 49th Street, the chap in the l.i'l Abner overalls gave me a set of dogtags: one with the peace symbol, the other with the Woodstock dove. I have worn them ever since as a reminder of how two kids whom Jesus loves can look as oddly displaced as river waifs in the House of the Risen Son. 
So next summer, it's a storefront church for me ... a place close to a playground, which chaps will have to pass by on their way back from the girley-palaces, where deacons will be wearing the dogtags of peace. Hopefully, there will be dancing lessons with the Follies cast, and Penny will send flowers. and .. 'Fifi will attend the Matinee Mass. Hopefully, too, the Establishment will send its blessings, and Monsignor will bring them, fresh from his skirmishes the the 49th Street prostitutes. 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER 
Sanctions Tradition Delay Thanks
Letters to the Editor 
Editor: was to further codify the laws of machine at the Family Diner to In discu~sing the illustrious the land, I purpose that the complete banishment from the Sanctions penned by Cham-parietal violations be further Notre dame heritage (includes bers,thorton and tushar, I codified to simplify the matter of breakage of class ring on steps of discovered that the phrase definition of the moral standards. .. Golden Dome, destruction of 
Senior Bar card and divorce·"moral standards of the All types of violations should be from St. Mary's sweetheart).
University have been broken", covered from the most innocous The codification could run asthe differentiating criteria to those reserved for the satanic follows:between a major and a minor Book of Doom and their punish­A Minor Violation-Being ·found parietal violation, was causing a ments minutely explained~ Since at the minimum of ten feet fromgreat deal of consternation and all kinds of violations will be female. Both parties beingconfusion among.. · the Law-treated the system of pUilishment completely clothed. 
Abiding multitude living in the will have to be innovated; Penalty-Removal of female so
residense halls. ingenuity will be demanded. 
that male can get some sleep.
Since the explained purpose of Punishments could range from A Minor Major violation-Being the formulation of thP. sanctions the refilling of the prophylactic 

apprehended sleeping in a chair while female is sleeping in bed with interdigital contact. Both parties being completely clothed. Penalty-Altar boy to Father Toohey during Eastertide. 
A Major Minor Violation-Male and female caught together in bed. Male clothed, female devoid of such nicieties. Penalty-Removal of male to psych services, female kept as evidence. 
Major Violation-The big one. 
Penalty-attendance of all Pre­Cana conferences, marriage in Sorin Hall chapel. 
Since such codification will minutely define each violation, a new system of apprehension will be necessary. Besides the nor­mal pass key, the Vice squad should also be armed with a stethoscope, to listen to the parties before apprehending them. A color Polaroid camera, to graphically record his findings and a pair of binoculars to keep track of goings-on in his area and areas of others. 
It is hoped that in case of 
STEREO REVIEW 
tests the 
ADVENT 201 
CASSETTE DECK 

Stereo Review Magazine has just tested the Advent Model 201 cassette tape deck. The report is in the Oc­tober issue, and we recommend that you obtain a copy and read the whole thing. But in case that's not con­venient,wequotehere, in full (and by permission) the "comment" section from that report: 
It is difficult to restrain our enthusiasm for the Advent 201. The unit came supplied with a demonstration tape that had been dubbed onto Crolyn tape by that specific machine from a Dolby "A" master tape. The sound quality, especially with the dinest playback amplifiers and speakers, was literally awesome, as was the total absence of audible hiss or other background noise. If anyone suspects a special gimmick approach was used to make the recording, let him make his own recotding and be convinced, 
Comparing the Advent 201 with the finest home openreel tape decks we have tested (a comparison that it ob­viously invites l we find that: 
I. Listening quaitiy is matched by only one other open-reel recorder operating at 3 6 ips. 
2. 
Its signal to noise ratio with the Dolby circuits switched in compares with that of the best open reel decks we have tested at any speed. (Admittedly, the others did not have the benefit of the Dolby system.( 

3. 
Its distortion is comparable to that of any good open reel machine, and better than many. Its flutter, while measurably higher than that of the good open reel units, probably could not be heard except under the most critical conditions. Its fast winding, indexing, and general accessibility to any portion of a recording is better than that of any reel machine and approaches that of a disc record. 


Summarizing, the Advent 201 is a tape deck of superlative quality. It is difficult to imagine how its sonic per­formance could be substantiall\y improved, but without a doubt a lot of Advent's competitors are concentrating on that problem and we'll soon see (and hear) the results. For the time being this is the one that sets all the standards tor cassette recorders. 
RMS Audio tias the Advent 201. We invite you to come in soon and hear it. 



Open Sunday 
I -4:30 

re..vision of the sanctions, tlie!ie 
suggestions will be taken into 
consideration. Without doubt, 
they could certainly simplify 
matters 
Yours appropriate}y, 
The New Voice 
Editor: 

I am writing in reference to the 
Editorial "Delaying the Day­
Care Center" in the Tuesday 
edition of the Observer. 

I agree with the Editorial's 
major point that a day care 
center is quite feasible and a 
commitment to it should result in 
•its quick establishment. However, the editorial seemed to imply the St. Mary's Ad­ministration has procrastinated in establishing the Center. As a point of clarification, I wish that we were not too clear on the procedural process involved in the approval for the Center and that haziness has resulted in the existing delay. 
Thanking you for your at­tention to this, I remain Sincerely Yours, .John Barkett Student Body President 
Editor, 

Tuesday morning's breakfast 
was made even more delightful 
by the appearance of the letter 
from the '67 alumnus who was 
annoyed because "all shapes and 
sizes of undergraduates" were 
ignoring tradition, and using the 
Administration Building's front 
stairs. 

Perhaps if this concerned 
alumnus would organize some 
kind of committee, further 
student defacement of the steps 
might be prevented. The in­
stallation of, let's say, an 8 x 10 
foot neon sign, would probably 
remedy the situation. And, if it 
could read "GRADUATES 
ONLY," that would be most 
helpful to students like myself 
who have found it necessary to 
ascend the steps in order to make 
class changes, get temporary IDs 
and look for lost billfolds. 

I just want to add that it is too 
bad he didn't send his letter in to 
Larry Lujak instead of the Ob­
server. We all could have been 
even more amused to hear it read 
as the "crank letter of the day." 
Sincerely, 
Nancy Keane 
Augusta Hall 

Dear Sir: • 
Last week I had the occasion to 
visit the North Dining Hall to 
borrow some equipment for a 
party. Although it was near 
dinner time, it struck me as 
peculiar that the size of the work 
force should be so small. 

Upon inquiring, I learned that, 
because of lack of qualified 
personnel in the area, the Hall 
has been understaffed since the 
beginning of the year. Both 
management and kitchen staff 
have worked with no vacation for 
seven weeks in order to serve the 
students. Two cooks are doing 
the work of eight. Seven-day 
weeks are the rule rather than 
the exception. 

Without being maudlin, I wish to thank the staff of the North Dining Hall for their dedication and hard work in keeping the students fed despite the long hours and shortage of manpower. 'Gratefully, Meal Card No. 0108 
Editor: 

lf Mr. Doyle served his half­
term in the student senate in 
anything more than ignorance of 
that body's function, his 
disingenuous letter of September 23 gave no sign. The student Senate last year did not "Spend long periods of time discussing issues which ranged from tivi.al to ridiculous," it spent almost all its time discussing the budget. Mr. Doyle may consider parcelling out 84,000 dollars "trivial" or"ridiculous" btit other Senators took their jobs more seriously. (Thus ex­plaining, perhaps, why they took such "long periods of time.") 
Members of the Student Senate are, by and large, sincere people working hard to serve students. So, by and large, are the Hall Presidents. When Fischer Hall President Rich Wall became a Student Senator, the e..<perience did not transform him from a Crusader for Student Happiness to a low-down snivelling petty politician. When Keenan Hall Senator Dave Loring became Hall President, his electiondid not drag him up form the depths of depravity to a level formerlly occupied only by the heavenlly hosts. They each remained the same person tht oughout. 
Changes are going to have to be made in all the important student governmental structures as the merger is consummated. But slandering members of the Senate, as Miss Gorman did in the Constitutional Merger Committee meeting and as Mr. Doyle would have done in his letter had he been articulate enough, facilitates neither discussion nor coope:;ation. 
T.C. Treanor 351 Badin Hall 
Gentlemen: 

I was indeed shocked and dismayed when I read an article in the Observer of Monday, Sep­tember 20, written by Bill Davidow. The article stated that no one on campus had been "blatantly drunk" or in violation of parietals and that "the students were adapting well." My own contact with violators convinced me that students had no desire at all to adapt. And when I checked with other members of the community who h:1d, in fact, seen additional violators on the nights in question, I was convinced that the true facts were being covered up. 
Itappears to me that the HPC's <and perhaps Mr. Davidow's) purpose was to convince th1e Trustees and Administration of a pseudo-sincerity on the part of the students to conform with the rules. This proposal, to me, seems not only dishonest but completely outrageous. If in­deed, at least half of this campus was nestled in a state of in­toxicated euphoria, why shoud we hide that fact? If you think consumption of alcohol or cohabitation are immoralities in themselves then it must be your duty to inform the Trustees that their rules need better en­forcement. 
If, on the other hand, you believe as I do, that these ac­tivities always have been and always will be acts of personal conscience which can never be publicly dictated, then it is your responsibility to proclaim your denial of the universal validity olf the Trustees' rule. You must say,, "I will not obey your law because' that's all it is, your law. And if you want to force me into obeying it, you had better know that I will not be silenced easily. Even if you silence me, you will have to silence others like me armed not only with my principles, but with an indignation for what you are doing to the right of the individual to choose his own morality." Sincerely, 
Ed Bower 
119 Morrissey 

Tuesday, September 28, 1971 
THE OBSERVER. Page 7 
ND'sEllis evokes opponents'envy 
by Vic Dorr 'H until well into the fourth period And with the reprieve came the against Purdue, and appeared game ball. !<'or a long while Saturday beaten when they lost a fumble 
There were a number of can­

afternoon, it looked as if Notre with five minutes left to play. 
didates deserving of the honor,
Dame wasn't even going to have But then, less than two minutes 
hut the team voted the ball to 
a game hall to award, much less later, the Irish defense conjured 
Clarence Ellis, who started the 
have to worry about who to up its miracle finish, and allowed 
game-winning play in motion by
award it to. The number two-Notre Dame to slip past the in­
knocking the football loose from 
ratl'd Irish gagged and sputtered spired Biolermakers. 
Purdue punter Scott Lougheed. 
Ml.ke Pa lt"n ··········.·.·.-.·····~···········.---............................
v .;.:.:·!·!·!·!·!·!·-o;;·=-=·=·=-=···=·=·=·=·=-=·=-=·=···=·=···=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=···=·=·=·=·=·=·=··· "We were lined up in a ten-man front, said Ellis, as he described Notre Dame's biggest play of the still-young season,
The Graduate View 
"and Mike Crotty was deep for the return. I was lined up on the right end of our line--close enough =====================================================================================================Analysis No. 2 to get a good angle--and I came in from the outside with the snap.
The Chicago Bears have nothing on the Fighting Irish. Just as the Monsters of the Midway pulled off an impossible opening "They'd picked me up on the season win over Pittsburgh, so the Irish won a gift game from Purdue punt before, but on this one Rich 
last Saturday. Thomann drew their outside Neither the Bears nor the Irish deserved it; each had bumbled and blocker, and nobody laid a hand stumbled around the entire game. Each needed miracles, provided by on me. As I was running in, I 
the defense, to win. knew that he <Lougheed) was 
,..
Watching the action from the plush and dry atmosphere of the Convo fumbling, and I could see that he Center, I got the impression that the ND coaching staff has not quite was moving away from me to his realized just how poor the offense is. They seem to be counting on the right. I thought he was trying to offense to supply 40 points a game and thus are failing to make crucial run, so I just made sure that I adjustments. esoeciallv on defense. tackled him. But we saw in the !<'or example, the ND pass defense was up to its old tricks in the films today that he was really first half. As I have pointed out many times, the Irish deep backs play trying to punt, and I guess that's too deep. The flat rone is always wide open. But if you plan on scoring why I was able to knock it loose." 40 points, then who cares? Let the enemy throw flat passes all day. But the Boilermakers were So, Gary Danielson found Rick Sayers wide open five times in the only one of the problems--though 
flat zone, totally negating a great job of rushing defense done by the the major one--which confronted front four and allowing Purdue to keep several drives alive. And the Irish at Lafayette. The other meanwhile the Irish weren't putting any of those 40 points up on the problem came in the form of the board. That's not Clarence Ellis's fault; he's under orders. The rain which fell continuously we lost the ball on the three, but "I'm strictly a defensive 
coaching staff adjusted in the second ha H, at least ooe quarter too late. during the contest. once we <the defense) got back player," he said, "and I don't 
Another thing, Purdue used that quick screen to Otis Armstroog "The rain slowed everyting onto the field, we had to forget have anything at all to do with the against Washington. Not only should the coaching staff have warned down," the Irish defensive back about that and just play our offense. As far as the quar­the defense to be on the lookout for it, but they should also have had a said. "It was impossible to dig in game. If we had kept worrying terback situation goes, I guess linebacker with instructions to "key" on Armstrong wherever he and then move out fast, because about that fumble, or about the you'll just have to wait 'til went. So what happens? Otis catches a quick screen and there's no the ground would just give out bad breaks, then we really would Saturday to find out. It's possibleone out there except Ralph Stepaniak who is outnumbered 5 to 1. from under you. It affected have been out of luck. that the quarterbacks will be 
But I hate to chastise the defense. They won the ball game and everybody. <Otis) Armstrong "I didn't feel that the defense shuttled like they were against they're just terrific. They held Armstrong (who is going to ruin a few wasn't running as well as he had to score," he said. "But I did Northwestern, but I just don't teams before tis career is over) to less than 3 yards per carry, and the usually does, and even their think that we'd have to come up know. A lot of people have been Purdue team to 2 yards per carry. The front four were their usual receivers were having trouble with some kind of big break for trying to answer that question,devastating selves and Mike Crotty played a superb first half. with their moves. I was on the offense to work with. Time but Ara is the only one who really 
Now, about that offense. marry)) Stingley when we were was running out on us-and can." 
1 thought that there were several good signs to be found in the of­in man-for-man coverage, and he Purdue was playing really good fensive play on Saturday. There were times when the line seemed to slipped quite a bit while trying to ball. We knew that we'd have to O's boast four move the huge Boilermaker: front line at will. Andy Huff and Bob cut." cause a big break." 
20-game winners

Minnix were especially impressive lugging the ball while Bill Etter got But the Irish triumphed in spite The Irish varsity has disposed
5 yards per carry even though everyone, including the weatherman, The Baltimore Orioles became
of the rain--and in spite of the of the Boilermakers for the '71 
knew he was running on every play. only the second team in major
Boilermakers--and the ND squad campaign, but now they must 
That the offense didn't score 40 points was due to several factors: confront traditional league history to have four 2o­
wasn't bothered by the fact that another 
the rain. field conditions, the Purdue defense, and Pat Steenberge. game winners in the same season
the margin of victory was so rival--the Spartans of Michigan Now I know what my boss Jim Donaldson said yesterday, but when a narrow. State. The MSU offense will when Jim Palmer reached that guy goes 7-25, throws a crucial fourth period interception and coughs plateau Sunday. 
present several problems to the
"Ara has told us plenty of

up an even more crucial fourth period fumble, you don't defend him. Palmer joined Mike Cuellar,
ND defensive platoon, and not the 
times, " said Ellis, "that it
At best you take pity on him. Dave McNally and Pat Dobson in 
least of these problems will be QB
doesn't matter if we win by 50
Still, I'm not going to jump on the "Sack Steenberge" Wagon. And the 20-victory circle by shutting 
Frank Kotch <who stands 6-4 and
points or by one point. It's still a
yes, they were after his blood in the Convo center. If he had been Dick out the Cleveland Indians, 5~.
weighs 225) and wide receiver
win. But you can't take anything
Cavett, he would have been taken off the air. Mike Hurd. The only other team to boast of 
away from Purdue. They came to
Let's talk about Steenberge. Some of his passes were dropped four 20-game winners on its
"Michigan State is always
Saturday; some were completed because of defensive errors. He play and they played a great pitching staff was the 1920
trouble," said Ellis, "and
game. The last break just went
found a weakness in the Purdue secondary (short up the middle) but Chicago White Sox, who had
because of the rivalry we knowour way.
was unable to exploit it. He ran the option poorly by paralleling the Urban Faber, Claude Williams,
we're going to get a good game
line of scrimmage too deep and pitching back to the trailing haHback "I never thought we were Dickie Kerr and Ed Cicotte.
from them. They've got a coupletoo soon. He scrambled 11 times for minus 20 yards. But his com­beaten," Ellis continued. "Sure, of new faces on offense--a
pletions averaged 15 yards and he completed the one he had to, the one it was an ugly feeling there when Big Ten has
quarterback who's about (Jim)to Creaney for the ball game. Nothing sums up Pat's performance as Bulger's size, and a sophomore
well as a two-play series in the fourth quarter. With a defensive man Ruggers bow big problems
split end who could give usholding one arm, Steenberge dumped a perfect pass to Huff for 10 trouble.
yards. The next play, Pat had Willie Townsend wide open and over­with Big Eight
to John Carroll "In fact, we even tried tothrew him badly for an interception. 
recruit him <Hurd). I was the one Colorado's victory over OhioPat Steenberge is an average, run-of-the-mill quarterback. He The Irish rugby club suffered a who showed him around while he State Saturday marked the 20th throws lots of bad passes and makes plentyof bad runs. Maybe not 10-6 setback Saturday in was here." straight time a Big Eight team everyone believes this, but putting an ND jersey on a mediocre Cleveland at the hands of John Ellis, despite his occasional use has defeated a Big Ten foe.
quarterback does not turn him into an instant Joe Theismann. With Carroll. The "B" team fared as a surprise offensive weapon, Big Ten clubs have posted a 6­Pat Steenberge at the helm, the Irish will beat MSU, Miami, North slightly better, salvaging a 6-6 tie leaves no doubt as to where his 13-1 record against non­Carolina, Navy, Pitt and Tulane. They will not beat USC or LSU (and with the John Carroll "B" squad. 
true loyalties lie. conference opponents this fall.
they shouldn't have bean Purdue( unless the defense or Bob Thomas A first half try gave John does it for them. Or unless they make adjustments. Carroll a 4~ advantage which What, then, do we do with Steenberge? Ara has three choices. He they never relinquished. The 
Harriers top Ind. State 
can Sack Steenberge and turn to Etter. This might work. In fact if Ara home team built their lead to to-o could convice Bill to run less, if Etter would pull up and throw some in the second half by adding roll out passes, if he would pitch out to a trailing back now and then, another try and a conversion ·Dave Bell, Dan Dunne and Pat Wartham. Bell's time was 24:55, and if he would run some inside counter reverses, I think he would be before the Irish were able to put Holleran finished second, third Dunne reached the finish two devastating. any points on the board. and fourth, respectively, to lead sonds later and Holleran was a 
Secondly, Ara could do what he did against NU and what he Herb Giorgio's try and Doug the Notre Dame cross country second behind Dunne. probably would have done Saturday with good weather-that is, Smego's conversion enabled team to a 25-31 victory over In­
Indiana State runners took the 

alternate qb's. If your qb's are named Tagge and Brownson as Notre Dame to avert a shutout. diana State Friday on the Burke fifth, sixth and seventh spots but Nebraska's are then you are in good shape. And even if yours are The Irish threatened to score on a Memorial course. 
Notre Dame's Marty Hill and named Steenberge and Etter you can be successful if you run in­couple of occasions late in the The Irish harriers, coached by Gene Mercer finished eighth and telligent plays. game but were held off by John Alex Wilson, have now defeated ninth to insure the Irish victory.
Thirdly, Ara could stick with Steenberge and do the same thing I Carroll. three opponents, while losing to Indiana State's fi(th scorersuggested he do with Etter, except I'm not sure there is anything Pat The Irish "B" team battled one, this fall. 
placed twelfth. Irish runners can do that well. back from a 6-0 deficit to gain a Charles Wartham of Indiana Mike Housley and Jeff EichnerI don't really care which course Ara pursues as long as he does this: tie. Ed O'Connell accounted for State took individual honors in both beat the I.S. man to thehe must accept his qb's at face value. He must devise plays that suit all the Notre Dame points, the race, leading all runners finish.
them. booting a pair of penalty kicks. across the finish line in a time of Notre Dame will be in actionI don't think Steenberge is very good; and I don't think Etter is that The club's next match will be 24:33.7. 
again this Friday, running at the
good either. But I sure as hell think that with either or both at the helm October 9 against Kent State in The three top Irish runners all the Irish can win the National Olampionship. Kent, Ohio. finished in a group, behind Chicago Track Club. 

Members React 
'Not yielding to pressure' 
The Student Life Council en­tered Monday's meeting with the intention of sending the ad hoc disciplinary committee report to the steering committee. 
The report was returned by roll call vote and will be turned over to the proper disciplinary committee for revision. 
Vice President and General Counsel Phillip Faccenda said, after the meeting, that the "Council came in with that in­tention...and it wasn't yielding to any pressure." 
Other members also com­mented on aspects of the meeting. 
Psychology professor John Borkowski expressed his distaste for the sanctions and the rules, as stated, and gave the following reasons for his feelings:
.. 
"Wording of the regulations and sanctions is extremely poor for example: 'The moral stan­dards of the university' and the attempted distinctions between profit and non-profit drug 'pushing'." 
He is not in agreement with the regulations and sanctions themselves. 
He "buys" SBP John Barkett's 
argument about the distinct 
individuality of each hall. 
Prof. Borkowski feels that no sanctions can be effective unless obtianed by a concensus of those involved. 
The psychology professor said he understands the University's "position" regarding the alcohol and narcotics issues. 
He added that while these two matters should be administered on a University-wide level because of their gravity and scope, the question of parietals can and should be administered by each individual hall. 
Commenting on the student attendance at the meeting Dean of Students Fr. James L. Riehle and SLC Chairman William F. Eagan said they were surprised by the crowd's size. 
tended the meeting which was :;witched from the Center for Continuing Education to the Engineering Auditorium. 
Fr. Riehle, "overwhelmed" by the crowd, said he hopes it in­dicates a positive change in student participation. 
He noted that such attendance in the past was prompted only at "highpoints" such as the por­nography conference in February of 1969. 
Prof. Eagan, who can remember only one other time the SLC drew a similar crowd, said the turnout could be in­terpreted in several ways. 

Crowds in the Center for Continuing Education before 
yesterday's SLC meeting was moved to the Engineering 
Auditorium. 

More than 600 students at­
SLC Students vote as block 
(continued .from page 1) 
--to meet as a group with Edmund 
Stephan, trustees.  the  chairman  of  the  
StAfter  udents vote block Barkett's speech,  the  

student members voted as a block on every question involving referal of the proposed sanctions back to committee. 
The only exception was Dave Tushar's support for his motion to return the report to the original committee and three new members. 
The report will probably be considered by the Hall Life Committee under the revised SLC organization which the council also approved. 
Prof. Peter Thornton, one of the proposal's authors listed the committee's underlying assumptions: "When writing this report we assumed the facts of life: --that you do have Trustees, --that the Trustees do make the policy for the University, --that you do have certain rules on parietals and drinking which are presently University rules." 
"They (the Trustees) have asked, because they think it has not happened in the past, that some enforcement be added," he continued. 
"They have told us in the legger that we should work something out which is satisfactory, but they have warned that if we do not take action they will do so them­selves," Prof. Thornton said. 
Faccenda denies pressure 
Administration sources deny that the original report might have been approved if students had not shown such massive concern. 
Phillip Faccenda, vice president and general counsel, noted that the SLC was not "yielding to pressure. Most of us 
It could indicate student in­terest in control of their affairs, student interest to eliminate control of their affairs or be somewhere in between. 
Prof. Eagan could not say which alternative is correct in his opinion. 
He said it would not be sur­prising if the attendance at the public hearing proposed by Fr. Riehle is smaller than that at Monday's meeting. 
Fr. Riehle said he moved for the public hearing because he wanted someone else to here "the flak I have been getting on the matter" as he visited various residence halls. 
(the members) were unaware that there was a report to con­sider until we received our mail this morning." 
"The council came with the intention of sending the report back to committee," Faccenda added. 
SBP John Barkett agreed that the SLC would probably have returned the report. He cited that unanimous vote as an indication that the SLC was not ready to act on specific sanctions. 
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
is soliciting applications for membership from ND Sophs, Juniors, and Seniors. If interested submit name and phone 
number to Dean Frederick Crosson,s office (O,Shag Hall) or call Dan Moore 234-3638 Friday Oct. 1 is final date. 
JUNIOR LEAGUE THRIFT SHOP 
over 30,000 items, new and used furniture, Clothing, housewares, etc. Stepan Center Thurs., Sept. 30, 9:00AM to 6:30PM, Friday, Oct. I, 9:00 AM to 12 noon 
CLASSIFiED ADS 
LOST & FOUND Morrissey Loan FundLost: J.D. and laundry card near Basement of La Fortune.South Dining Hall and Fisher Hall. 11:15 . 12:15.Reward. Call Bob 1879 -102 Fisher. Lost last Wednesday: slide -ule, black leather case. Are you as beautiful as you can be? Let Viviane WoodardRcward: 5230. teach you how...with two free Lost: gold wire-rimmed eye­make-up lessons. (Call glasses. If found please call 288-2933. Joanna at 287-2731 for appt.) FOR SALE ATTENTION: All students in Mr. Sporleader's MWF designFor Sale: 1965 Ford Falcun class owe 65 cents to pay for300dollars. Call :234-5889 after materials for the model andll:OOp.m. photographs of the alley project. Pay Bob Palmiter in For Sale: 5 gallon tropical fish class.. aquarium, filter, pump, reflector, 1---------------i heater, thermometer, gravel, rocks, water. George. 8427. FREE KITTENS Part Persian. Information Call ----rr.~;-::;--;-;;-;:;-;-;:----;~=-:=-:-:---c.:-­4340.Volunteers needed: St.. 1--------------t Mary's girls interested in tutoring Mexican -American PROFESSORS: Tired of tam ily one hour per week. reading bogus "quality Please call Paul 1643 college termpapers"? Professionals in Speech,(knowledge of Span ish not Rhetoric, Psychology,necc-sary.) History, Biology, etc., will torrect your essays and final exams. Completely con­·Must sell Vox Ultrasoncic fidential; students will neverelectric guitar -$200.00. Built in Wah-Wah, fuzz, and many know the difference. Carl T. Berkhout Box 64, Notre Dameother extras. New 65$.. 50.00. Same Electric used by Feliciano and others. Call 1651. 11elp wanted; Yard work $1.50 hr. 289-5446. NEW, GUARANTEED 8­Need ride from N.Y. area to TRACK TAPES ONLY $3.50. Notre Dame on any home 7CALL 6l5. football weekend. Call Jack HIYA FRIEND 289 7433. For a limited time only (like until ·~,----------! the next appearance of Haley's URGENT: Need two general comet) you can get brand-new 8­admission Michigan State tracks (Faces, Neil Young, Chicago, tickets. Call Beth: 5497 or Beatles, Stones, and tons more) for a f--=J.:.:a:.:_n.:._:_:68::3:_9:_:1_:8:_._______1mere $2.99\!ach. Not hot. Call Paul (1781) quickly. Guaranteed. Need 2tickets to MSU. Ca Cassettes, too. Sue 284-5124. NOTICES Need 2 tickets, Call Dick 283­1202.TERMPAPERS AND GEN. ADM.THEMES written by professsionals in Speech, Need 2 or 3 tickets to N. C. Rhetoric, Pssychology, gaame. Ken, Stanford 219,8648History, Biology, etc. Original paper $3.50 per page NEEDED: Ride to Purdue. Duplicate paper -$2.00 per Will share expenses page. ran 8051. Cash, Money Order, or Bank WANTED: 2 general ad­Draft. mission tickets toN. Carolina.QUALITY COLLEGE Call Mike 1074 -428 FlannerTERMPAPERS P.0. Box 193, Rockford, Illinois 61101. NEEDS HOME URGENTLY: 7 mo. Kitty (well trained) 284­DREAM JOB 4~1 No house to house. Part or Full Time. weekly Income Photographs for applications. $40 $100 showing make-up passports, portraits. Fast, inex­techniques. Vivianne ~ensive, high quality. 6729. Woodard Cosmetics. Call 272 . Dear Fr. Shilts: Bad show. Dogs 69, l---1_17_4___________-tShilts 0. Hot Dog Wanted: Michigan State tickets, -lOth Floor Flanner Residents ca II 1595. t---p-a_p_e_r:-bo_u_n--cdo--o-u--cO=K"S----1 Will buy your PAPER BACKSNel'ld desperately two Michigan call: 234.9908 Sti:lle tickets. Call Roger-1588. The Architecture Dept. announces l.Ciassified ads paid for in Prof. Tom Paulson on the En­cash when ordered. vironment and the Establishment of a 2.01fice hours 12:15 5:00. Recycling Center on campus. 8:00, ds in by 2:00 on day before Tuesday, Room 201, Arch iectur·e pubIication. Building, All invited. FREE. . fords I day Z..11 3da)'l 4 day• ...... 1-11 ... .75 uo 1.15 l.ZI 11·11 ... 1.10 1.35 1.75 Z.ll 11-ZO .70 l.l5 1.70 Z.4t .Z.8C 21-ZS .85 1.35 2.00 2.10 3.41 %1-30 1.00 1.641 2.35 3.40 4.11 31·35 1.28 1.90 2.80 3.85 4.79 36-40 1.35 2.10 3.10 4.25 5.10 41-45 1.55 2.30 3.30 4.50-­-­!i.SO  










