----------------------, 
Faschio code was a 'lawyer's' code 
The following is thz first of a three part interview with university Vice-President and General Counsel Phillip Faccenda. This part deals with the formation of the two immediale predecessors to the present judicial code. This interview is part of the Observer's con-
Q. At a recent SLC meeting you called the present University Judicial Code "the product of several years of negotiation." Could you elaborate on this viewpoint? 
A. The traditional administration of university rules was by the Dean of Students or by a panel advising the dean of students. That existed as far back as I can remember; it was here in the late forties and early fifties when I was a student. 
In 1968 Rich Rossie was the Student Body President and he expressed a desire to come up with a more formal structure which was in keeping with some of the federal court decisions concerning student discipline around the country, Dixon vs. Alabama and the Tinker case which was then in court. We agreed that this was a feasible idea, that we could talk about the possibility of creating hearing panels that be not just administrators but would ~epresent the whole community. We spent a 




Vol. V, No. 115. Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Monday, April 26, 1971 
Half-million in Washington ' Get out now ' key phrase 
by Bob Higgins House and marched down speeches and entertainment, Washington Correspondant Pennsylvania avenue, waited for began. More than gathered mo~e _than an hour for the The attitude of the crowd was
500 000 

Saturday afternoo~ on the lawn of begmnmg of the r~lly o~e of calm confusion. The the Ca itol Building in . The de~onstrab_on assembl~d climate of the rail~ was marked Washingttn for the largest anti-m the ellipse behmd the White b~ people searchm& for food, war demonstration in this House and_ marched down fn~nds, place~ to sit. and lost 
t. , h" t Th · th Pennsylvama avenue to the children Obviously It was the
na IOn s IS ory. e mam erne . . · . · ' 
1

of the rotest was a demand for Capito Bmldmg. . even~ Itself, and not the speakers immediate withdrawal from Throughout the demonstration that_ 1mpre~sed the crowd. 
V. t speakers referred to the con-Highhghtmg the speakers were
Ie nam t" . . fl f I .
The d~monstration assembled mumg m ux o p_eop e movmg vete~an anti-war leade~ David250,000. demonstrators gathered in Washington, D.C. on April 24 to 
in the ellipse behind the White down. Pennsylvama Avenue. Dellinger, leader of the VIetNam demand immediate withdrawal of all U.S. forces from Indochina. 
Eyewitness reports noted that Veterans for Peace, John Carey, demonstrators were still leaving and Mrs. Coretta Scott King, wife the ellipse at 3:00PM to make the of the renowned civil rights hour-long march to the Capitol, leader, Martin Luther King, Jr. three and one half hours after the Dellinger, who was given first marchers had left. perhaps the greatest reception of 
Buckley speaks on revolution 
by John Powers Grace Atkinson's obscene He mentioned Lincoln as an The crowd, which completely any of the speakers, echoed a newand Don Ruane comments at an October antecedent of the modern ideas 
covered the Capitol lawn and and popular sentiment in speech,Conservative William F. speaking engagement at Notre on repression. "No American extended far down Pennsylvania that of individual power. The 
Buckley Jr., said Saturday Dame, and an incident at statesman ever violated the 
avenue, waited for more than an former member of the Chicago 7 
evening that "self-proclaimed Catholic U. several months later, ordinary maxims of civil liberties 
hour for the beginning of the rally paraphrased the late Dwight
revolutionaries should consider where his sister took a swing at more than did Abraham Lincoln, which was delayed in order to Eisenhower in saying, "The time what personal consequences Miss Atkinson while she was "but Lincoln was trying to en­allow the mammoth crowd ac-has come when the people of the
force the law. A government
their acts could bring and that it speaking. Buckley suggested cess to the speakers' area. When world must stop the government
is time to "draw the line" on "that it might be appropriate ... to must have the power to make its it was decided that waiting was of the United States from waging
undirected, irrational dissent in install a stained-glass window laws obeyed, and to "assume that no longer practical, the four hour war." 
Continued on page 8

the United States. showing Mrs. Bozell greeting Ti Continued on page 6 rally, which included both 
William F. Buckley, a Grace Atkinson." distinguished writer and editor of Buckley began his address by the conservative magazine clarifying some historical 
Ann Marie Tracey is stricken 
National Review, spoke before a evidence on the toleration of capacity audience of 3,500 at dissent in America. When the Stepan Center, devoting his Founding Fathers wrote the 

from ballot by election board
lecture to a "reduction of Constitution, they believed that lawlessness" in this country. "the toleration of certain kinds of 
are stu! two separate entities. After welcoming addresses by dissent is a tribute to the good The SLC recently passed a Rev. Biretta, CSC, the moderator sense of the majority of the Former St. Mary's student proposal permitting three SMC 
of the Orestes Brownson Society, people who will always project body president Ann Marie Tracey representives to sit at the council and Prof. Edward Murphy of the the blandishments of the anti­has been refused permission to meetings. This delegation would Notre Dame Law School, Buckley republican minority." Jefferson have her name on Wednesday's include a student, a faculty 
opened with a few anecdotes. He wrote of "tolerating those who Student Life Council ballot it was member and an administrator. referred to the incident of Ti seek to repeal our republican announced yesterday by Orlando The three would have speaking 


form of government," but Rodriquez, student body vice powers on the council, but no president and election committee voting powers.
Buckley questioned the toleration 

of "a minority that practices member Jim Clarke. Miss Rodriguez said that the SLC is Tracey had declared her can­a "Notre Dame organization,
tyranny." 

"The opinion-making com­didacy for a seat from the North made up of Notre Dame students, 
munity misunderstands the uses Quad. faculty members, and ad­of repression," Buckley said. Rodriguez said that there is "a ministrators." They have become "ab-. proper time for doing things" and He further stated that the SLC solutizers" who, "in their that Miss Tracey's candidacy is was created to "look ·after the 
"premature". affairs of the university com­
struggle against what they call repression, are doing their best to munity." Ann Marie Tracey
In an official statement 
The election committee United States incoherent." In released by Rodriguez and decided to remove Miss Tracey's might arise regarding exactly make the Constitution of the 
doing so they have created Clarke in today's Observer, it is name from Wednesday's ballot in who she would be representing.pointed out that although the the best interests of the com­Rodriguez said she would be
conflicts between different ab­

solutes. How can you have Boards of Trustees of St. Mary's mittee according to Rodriguez. expected to represent only Notre and Notre Dame agreed on a He feels that if Miss Tracey were Dame students on the council,
absolute freedom of the press and merger of the two institutions, elected and permitted to take a and not SMC students.

alongside it the absolute right to a both schools at the present time seat on the council, confusion Continued on page 8fair trial?" Buckley asked. 

LANSING <UPil­Michigan's legislators were a little disturbed Saturday over a postcard they received from a disgruntled taxpayer complaining about how the state had been spending his money recently. 
It's not that it was the first such postcard they have received, but it was the first one ever to reach the Capitol addressed: 
"The 148 thieving rats, Lansing, Mich." 

great deal_ o~ time, almost conti~uous, m discussion and neg?tiation, ?ut t~e ,only thmg that was really a~compl_Ished durmg RICh s term was that we ca~e ~p Wit~ a list of _what were kn?wn as Student Rights, basically at his draftsmanship. 
Q. Could you describ~ this list and some of it~ sources? 
A. There were, I believe, taken almost entirely from the NSA manual: They weren't given as careful treatment as I b~lieve they should ha~e been because at the same perwd we were attemptmg to, by com­mittee, rewrite the student manual so that we can to the very end and all the sudden everything had to go in at one time. 
Q. Is this Student Rights section the same one that is now in the code? 
A. Still the same one that is presently in the Student Manual. 
Q. Who, specifically, was involved in the negotiation you mentioned. 
A. Rich's year was followed by an almost full year of discussion with the Student Life Council appointed committee of which the principle members were Fr. Riehle and myself, Assistant Dean Faschio from the Law School, Fred Dedrick and two others. These were the principle people. 

Q. What was the product of these discussions? 
A. We wrote kind of the "Revised Indiana Criminal Code" in some ways. As Fred has st_ated it was a lawyers' code. But we attempted to wnte a code that would answer the basic problems, that would create a procedure so that a person picking it up for the first time would understand what he was supposed to do and when he was supposed to do it, and a serious attempt to interpret the rules in terms of how they would be ad­ministered. But it was a very complex code. 
Q. What happened to that code? 
A. This code was before the Student Life Council in the beginning of 1969 for six or seven months. At the end of that period it may have been passed at one stage and referred back to the council, you have to check the minutes I'm not sure. I know Father Hesburgh asked them to re-do a couple of parts of the code I believe that it was at that stage, when it came back to the council for just a couple of paragraphs to be~ revised, that Phil McKenna made the point that he felt it was just a travesty to have such a formal code in a Christian community. I picked that up immediately and said as one of the draftsmen of the code that I felt if the students didn't it or were displeased with the code, 
r:ontinued on page 2 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Monday, April 26, 1971 
Burtchaell code: first with student boards 

Continued from page 1 
there was no point in changing the existing University code, which had continued to exist right up until that time. 
Q. What did you do then? 
A. I suggested that perhaps we take a completely different tact and attempt to table this code which was known as the Faschio code, and to re-write it and come up with something less formal, something that might be more pleasing in terms of informality. 
For example one of the points that was made was that very rarely are cases that come into dispute (disciplinary cases) very rarely is there a question of guilt. 
In the three trials that we had at the university level there was never a question of whether the student accuses had committed the offense, The .argument was always whether the rule was a good rule, whether he should be punished for breaking it because he wanted to break it, ...etc. etc. 

Q. How do these questions of the correctness of a rule affect the judicial process? 
A. That type of discussion, in a sense does not lend itself very well to legal administration. That whole theory doesn't lend itself very well to legal ad­ministration. 
Perhaps what was needed was a less formal code that would recognize the special c'r­cumstances with which this very 
Continental Hair Styling, 
Inc. 1321 E McKinley Hwy. Mishawaka, Ind. 
259-7679' 
Wishes to extend their thanks to the ND Men for con­tinuing patronage. As part of our Grand Opening of New Shop to ND students on Mondays and Tues 9-5 all Hair Styles only $2.50. 
Serving ND Students in all Hair Needs for over 3 years! 
specializing In all lengths of hair 
Consider the 




source 
The first malt liquor good enough to be called 
BlJDWEISER(i!) 

restricted community lives. environment and try to write a 
Then anoti1er committee was code that recognized what kind 
appointed and headed by Father of an environment we have here 
Burtchaell to re-write the code in at the University. That's where 
as simple a form as possible, the present code was brought up. 
taking out all of the legal terms . . 
that the Faschio code contained, fQ. Hotwh dtFd thths. newdco?de differ 
. rom e asc w co e takmg o~t all of the refere~ce~ to A.Most of what was co~tained in or relatiOns back to a cnmmal that code was contained in the 
other code. The only real im­portant changes were that the Faschio code had provided for tri-partite panels at every level and the Burtchaell code provided for an all student panel for the first time, at the lower level. am, at all times, talking about the university rules, not the hall rules. ' 
Joint senior elections set 
Election Board Chairman Orlando Rodriguez announced last night that approval has been given to conduct Joint senior class elections with St. Mary's. Rodriguez claimed that Junior Class President Suzie Way had told him there was no interest at St. Mary's in the senior class government and reportedly urged him to allow the joint elections. 
"Because of the reported lack of interest at St. Mary's it was claimed that there would not be a class government at St. Mary's. Rather than having this happen it was thought best to have some Se!lior class government," he sa1d. 
Rodriguez remarked that this will not affect the graduation ceremonies for the class of '72. He said that this matter would have to be decided by the ad­ministrations of both schools. 

"It was felt that since coeducation was coming," Rodriguez said, "the best place to start would be class government since they are a parallel struc~ ture to student government, but not as complex." 
Petitions for all the class of­fices will be accepted at the Notre Dame student government office until five o'clock today. 
Symposium to honor professor 
Noted educators and students of Eric Voegelin, visiting professor of government at the University of Notre Dame, will participate in a symposium Thursday and Friday (April 29­30 l, honoring the historian on the 20th anniversary of his widely­heralded lecture series, "The New Science of Politics." 
This series, delivered at the University of Chicago, and his larger project, "Order and History," form a contemporary chapter of international concern in the areas of order and disor­der, subjects which have engaged political thinkers throughout the history of Western civilization. 
The format of the conference, 7 p.m. Thursday in the library "New Departures in Western auditorium. Dr. Gerhart Political Thought," consists of a Niemeyer, professor of govern-series of lectures, followed by ment and international studies at panel discussions, and, finally, Notre Dame, will be chairman of special student discussion the panel which includes Dr. groups. Papers and comments Joseph Cropsey, University of provided by this symposium are Chicago, and Dr. John Hallowell, expected to be published in book Duke University.
form. Speaking at 9 a.m. Friday on 
Dr. Walton Berrs, professor of "Politics and the Transcendent: political economy at the Voegelin's Philosophical and University of Toronto, Canada, Theological Analysis of the Old will open the symposium at 1 Testament in the Context of the 
p.m. Thursday in the Memorial Ancient Near East" will be Dr. Library auditorium with a paper, Bernard Anderson of Princeton "Voegelin, Strauss and the University. Panel members will Behavioralists." Panelists in-include Dr. Edward A. Goerner, elude: Dr. Thomas Thorson, Notre Dame professor of Indiana University, and Dr. Ellis government and international Sandoz, East Texas State studies; Dean William Havard, University. Student discussion Virginia Polytechnic Institue, panel members will include and Dean Frederick Crosson of professors Jon Crutcher, the Notre Dame College of Arts Assumption College; Leo de and Letters. Alvarez, University of Dallas; Dr. Gregor Sebba of the James Rhodes, Marquette Graduate Institute of Liberal University; Peter Sampo, St. Arts, Emory University, will Francis College, and Sylvia speak on "The 'Leap in Being': Sanders, East Texas State Some Thoughts About Voegelin's University. Conception of History and the 
Dr. Dante Germino, professor Drama of Mankind" at 1 p.m. in the Woodrow Wilson depart-Friday in the library auditorium. ment of government and foreign Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons, affairs at the University of professor of history at Notre Virginia, will present a paper, Dame, will lead the panel which "Voegelin and Contemporary includes Dr. Stephen Tonsor, Radical Thought in America," at University of Michigan, and the 
Rev. John S. Dunne, C.S.C., *************'~~-professor of theology at Notre# Anyone interested # Dame. 11 
* in joining a new # _A grad~ate of the' university of# KARATE CLUB * Vienna m 1922, Voegelin will* * conclude the symposium with a *that will be formed on·* for~al talk at 8 p.m. Friday in
* 
* 
the library auditorium. Program*campus next semester* of West European Studies and the* * Notre . Dame-Saint Mary's

* 
CA l l : MLKE * Academ1c Commission are co­


1740 * sponsors of the program.
Students who wish to receive 
· academic credit for participation
t~r.f.:\1 rr'*~tf:t,:Ji.l:.in the conference should meet 
lt * with Prof. John Kromkowski 
* before the conference. 
-------------------~~

GINGISS : 

STVDY SlWNDS
*
Formal Wear Inc. 
IMPROVE GRADES '"
* The1 ~~~~· A~~~~~ 'tJth~im~e~~ti$~.1.,
* 1crease ~~~r ~!~~~,~~!~?~ ·.~~~v~
10 per cent off for ND & SMC* You• Comp•ehension. Study ·" f Fast-. R•te. students * ELECT'::~~~:LMI;~~D~~~~E~OL ~os·
* 
8 Track Tap!:·~c::s~~:.ci!Jr. LP Record

* 
Send 1 ~~~~~ j5c'"\H~~~~~~d':,;?f,~t:~e Each 


~~~~~=~~~~~~ lt Sound Concepts, Inc., -Box 3852
*~----~C~h~•"=•t=tes~v·=·lle~·~Y.:•~-=22=90=2------~
~ *..-~~~~~~~~.-. 
*
*
* 

1622 Mishawaka Ave. ** So. Bend Indiana * * Phone 287-5938 * 
t****************~· 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. J 

Monday, April 26, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Chicago State Attorney rumored indicted 

CHICAGO <UPI)-A special County State Attorney Edward 
grand jury investigating the 1969 Hanrahan on charges of ob­
raid in which two leaders of the structing justice. 
Black Panther party were killed The 14 policemen who went to 
scheduled a meeting today amid the West Side apartment before 
reports it would indict Cook dawn Dec. 4, 1969, with a warrant 



Tracey announcement 
I am running for a seat on the Student Life Council for two main reasons. 
The first is because of my stance on coeducation and the Notre Dame-St. Mary's relationship. Since coeducation through merger will be a reality, students should move ahead wherever possible instead of being an afterthought by which both schools and their students can benefit. If contributions from both sides are incorporated it stands to reason the probability of realizing this potential increases. SMC has unique aspects to offer ND. Two examples would be com· munity government, and a counseling, not disciplinarian role of the R.A.'s. Unless students are active now, instead of waiting three years as proposed by the present student government and administration, much will be lost. Finally, on the practical side, it only makes sense that a transition would be facilitated if SMC had a say in those policies she is expected to accept. 
I am running for the SLC, then, secondly, because I have something valuable to offer in the light of the above points. As the "has been" SBP of St. Mary's I have a working knowledge and experience with the structure and politics of the two schools. This involves both that of student and community-wide government. (My past ND-SMC par­ticipation includes activities like the joint academic council, the coeducation report, and thz coordinating committee.) 
I understand there is some question of the legality of my running for this posit ion. This may be true, but rules should change to fit changing situations. Although SMC had been given three non-voting SLC memberships, this is con­descending tokenism. If we are not going to accept merger in the most meaningful form possible, we can hardly term ourselves educationa I institutions. 


Rodriguez obiection 
There is one Saint Mary's student who petitioned to run for the Notre Dame Student Life Council. We feel you must consider the following facts. We ask that you leave aside any consideration of sex and look at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's just as two separate institutions. 
--The SLC was created by the Notre Dame Board of 
!I Trustees for the Notre Dame community. It has no power whatsoever where Saint Mary's College is concerned, that is, the legislation it passes well affect Notre Dame directly and Saint Mary's only indirectly. 
--Saint Mary's will have a voice in the SLC, for at the April, 5 meeting an invitation was extended to the Saint Mary's Student Affairs Committee to send one student, one faculty, and one administrator to voice the feelings of Saint Mary's College on the legislation considered. Of course, it will be up to Saint Mary's to accept this invitation; however, there is every reason to assume that they will do so. 
Moreover, the option was left open to extend voting privileges at any time in the future. 
--Any student running for the SLC must represent only Notre Dame students. As such, this student must voice the Notre Dame students' feelings and opinions, and vote on legislation which will affect Notre Dame students (i.e. Sophomore cars, judicial code, parietal hours, etc.). Thusly, we feel that a Saint Mary's student would not be represen­tative of the Notre Dame student body. Once again, a Saint Mary's student elected by the Notre Dame student body to sit on the SLC will not be representing Saint Mary's, for, as it has been mentioned, the SLC has no jurisdiction at Saint Mary's. 
--The need for a legislative body which will have jurisdiction over both campuses is obvious. However, at this point, this body is not the SLC, for although it has taken the preliminary steps, its present constitution will not allow it to be concerned with both schools. 
In light of all of the above, we the undersigned members of the Election Committee believe that a Saint Mary's student should not be elected as a member of the Student Life Council, for such a step is premature. Thusly, only Notre Dame students will be considered for positions in the SLC. 
We realize there will be a lot of controversy regarding this decision so we urge anybody with a question to please call 7417 or 7668 and leave your name and phone number so we can answer it. We will also be happy to attend any section meeting, hall council meeting, etc. and explain our decision. 
Jim Clarke Orlando Rodriguez Bob Sauer 
·~=~=~=======~===~===~=============~==~=~=~:?.~=~=~=~:!:!:~:~:~:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Anyone -especially Seniors 
;'"Student Book Exchange 
is accepting any books to be sold next year. Any weekday afternoon, Student Services Commission office-4th floor La Fortune. If you can't bring 'em, call 7757. Anyone in­terested in working for Student Services Book Exchange next year, call 7757. Any afternoon, ask for Walt or Jim. 

to search for weapons were Thursday when Sears said Power assigned to Hanrahan's office "tried to tell the grand jury what 
Chicago newspapers carried witnesses had to be called and reports in their Sunday editions what witnesses I had to call." that the grand iury had voted to Sears said the grand jury is indict Hanrahan "independent of any judge or any 
It was expected that the grand elected official" and the in­jury would issue its report structions by power "should have Monday. However, Barnabas been in open court" where the Sears, a highly respected lawyer public and the press could have who served as special prosecutor been present. for the grand jury, would say only Under Illinois law reports of that the jury was to meet. grand jury decisions and 
He would neither confirm or proceedings are secret. And dny published reports that a indictment does not become witness, possibly Hanrahan, official until it is read before a would testify before the grand judge by the foreman of the jury. jury Monday. The raid in which Fred 
The Chicago Sun Times and the Hampton, Illinois Black Panther 
Chicago Tribune as well as three party chairman, and Mark Clark, 
neighborhood papers belonging a Panther leader from Peoria, Ill., were killed has sparked controvesy and several official investigations. 
Police who took part in the raid said they were met by gunfire from the Pacther apartment as they tried to deliver a search warrant. 
A federal grand jury later reported 90 to 100 shots were fired in the apartment and only one was from a Panther weapon. 
Seven surviving Panthers in the apartment were charged with attempted murder but the charges were dropped by Hanrahan's office because, Hanrahan said, the evidence was found defective. 
to the Lerner group printed reports that the grand jury had decided on true bills to recom­mend indictments which would charge Hanrahan with ob­







:-auToo~~
structing justice. 
Reports that true bills had been returned have circulated among informed circles since Thursday. 

leurop.~i ·11Sears issued a statement Saturday which brought further 
I 
STU~ENT/F~CULTY ll
GRANT Program jspeculation that the jury had Spec1al rates 1n European overseas travel j
reached its decision. 

for purchase, lease, & rental of cars. For : Sears said Judge Joseph A. 
details and brochure write: University : Power had gone "beyond his ant Dept., Auto Europe, 1270 Second ~ power under the law" in issuing enue, New York, New York 10021. z
instructions to him and jury members in a closed session 
l 
: 
Ql 
l 
:~~
~ 
<1: 
Tuesday, May 11 

8: 30 in the ACC Tickets $5.50, 4.50, 2.50 
Sales start Tuesday at 4:00pm in the Fiesta Lounge 
Acollege graduate just doesn't getthe warm welcome he used to. 
There's a lot,of competition in the job market 
today. And a college degree alone just 
doesn't carry as much weight with some 
employers. 

That's why Honeywell developed their 
Postgraduate Studies Program. A program 
designed exclusively for college graduates. 
No matter what your college major is. If you can qualify you'll be ready to learn com· puters from one of the world's top computer manufacturers and leading educators, Honeywell. 
You'll be ready to start right off in the fastest growing industry around. An industry that doubles in size and opportunity every five years. 
There still won't be any brass bands around to greet you, but you will get a warm handshake. All you have to do is mail this coupon. Or call (312) 368-0688. 

r----------------,
Admissions Officer I Honeywell Institute of Information Sciences La Salle Wacker Building, 221 North La Salle St. 1 Chicago, Illinois 60601 
I

0 I would like additional information on your program. 
I am interested in 0 Day 0 Evening classes. Name::____________________~ 
College Address::___________ 
_______Phone:______ 
Home Address:._________ 
_______Phone:______ 
Approved for veterans. I
L----------------j 
TheOtherComputerCompany: 
Honeywell 

Approved by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction State of Illinois. 

~ ~-~-----­

Page 4 THE OBSERVER Monday, April 26, 1971 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 

T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
There are only two families in the world, my old grandmother used to say, The Haves and the Have­
~. 
Miguel de Cervantes 

d 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDI~NA 
L---------------------­
Let Her Run! 
Ann Marie Tracey's candidacy for the Student Life Council isnotpremature. The benefits of having a representative of St. Mary's student body, with voting privileges, on the SLC are obvious. They go beyond the simplistic arguments of "a female voice" or "an informally merged student body." An SMC student should be seated on the SLC because every facet of student life at Notre Dame increasingly affects St. May's students also. If ths SLC is genuinely concerned about the real problems of being in the transition stage from informal coeducation to recognized merger. then it must agree that every action it takes in the next two years besides affecting Notre Dame students will also affect every girl at St. Mary's, since inevitably there be be one student body. 
Orlando Rodriguez, Jim Clarke and Bob Sauer, election committee members, had no choice but to declare Miss Tracey's candidacy out of order. We can sympathize with the awkward position they were in. From a legal viewpoint they were forced to declare that since a girl from SMC was not officially a student at Notre Dame, she could not run. To the students of the noth quad, though the legal argument that she is not, technically, a Notre Dame student may be meaningless. As a student from St. Mary's she is not in the same class as "a student from Berkeley." Even though the notion of a single community may be only an idea as far as the Trustees are concerned, the notion of a unified student body is already a reality to many students. Student government has recognized this by moving towards a merger. Students have recognized this by taking courses on both campuses. Even the SLC recognized this by granting speaking rights to one SMC student, faculty member and administrator. 
In that action though they did not go far enough. The SLC should have sea ted the three representatives from St. Mary's with full privileges and then sent the rna tter to the trustees for final approval. The Trustees might not accept the decision to seat, with voting privileges, members of the SMC community, but ths force of SLC agreement has strengthened othzr proposals that were unpopular with the Trustees (notable example: parietals). 
The SLC is meeting today and still has an opportunity to correct its blunder. The members can either seat the three representaties from St. Mary's on the cokncil with voting rights, or insure Miss Tracey's eligibility for membership, by declaring both SMC and ND undergraduates eligible for elections. Unless they do this, the council will be exhibiting its characteristic fear, hesitiation, and procrastination in the face of a situation that calls for some bold decisive action. 
Letter to the Editor 

While there is a certain amount of gratification in learning that students think me willing (or able) to take on two law en­forcement officers (story, April 16th), this is not the kind of publicity I particularly desire or need right now. 
To have that (partially ac­curate: they can't even get my age right) story appear in t IN 
the Tribune is damaging enough; but for The Observer to simply pick it up, without bothering to learn my version of the events, and why I chose to enter a guilty plea to a charge of which I consider myself innocent (hint: the City Court was dissolved the next day, and a trial would have been in Superior condensing an already inac­Court, a whole different ball curate account of the happenings park), is irresponsible jour­of last March. Certainly you have nalism. gone out of your way when 
Even the Tribune pointed out students were short-changed bythat the offense occurred some the Trib; I think it no less yourtime ago, in March. For you to duty to do so when faculty are omit this important piece of in­involved. formation, and to forego asking Finally, I am sorry to see a me what the events were which naivete which leads to an ap­led to the unfortunate incident, is parent over-looking of the grossly unfair to me, my possibility that it is often colleagues, and the University. necessary to substitute ex­
As it happens, the events pediency for principle, so that a preceding were so bizarre that man might plead guilty to a they would have done Vonnegut charge of which he believes justice. I shall not bother you himself innocent. with the details here. But it would 
Sincerely, 
seem incumbent upon you to check out some facts, before Robert Hassenger 

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::... 
Wa-voo-oom! The dirt flies over Private Smith's helmet as the mortar shell explodes. The corporal barks out a command, and he advances. Enemy fire is heavy; his fellow men are dropping like flies. Private Smith runs foward. Sure he's scared but fear, doesn't stop enemy bullets --only he can do that. B-b-b-b-r-r-a-att. He pours a few rounds into a machine gun nest. Another enemy soldier pops up, Private Smith bayobets him. Private Smith continues his charge. He's hit..He falls. The next day he is awarded the Silver Star. Posthumously. 
Donald Neuman has just finished building a school. He brushes several months of sweat from his brow as he looks with pride at his accomplishment. The flies have congregated around his face in the stifling heat of the Amazon. The building is no wonder of the world. It isn't architecture to turn Christopher Wren green with envy. But it is a school, the first the village ever had. Sure the Peace Corps had given him funds, and undoubtably he would never have finished without the villagers help. But it is still his school; the villagers show it by the gratitude in their faces. Donald Neuman is their glimpse of America. 
Private Smith and Donald Neuman have something very interesting in common. The United States law says they aren't adults. Oh, due to recent developments, they can voice their choice for President of the United States. But the law doesn't recognize their right as adults, as true masters of their own lives. 
The United States law says that when a person is nineteen, he can be drafted, and taught to fight and if need be to kill. The defense of the United States is presently running on faith in the ability of people it does not consider as adults. We tell an eighteen year old, "You are responsible enough to be trusted with an M-16, but not with a family. We will send you to Latin America and give you the job of helping improve the lives of a hundred people. But you aren't mature enough to sign a legal contract!" 
What sort of madness is this? What sort of insane asylum gives a person responsibilities that involve the lives of people, gives a person the right to make decisions that effect others' lives, but does not grant him an adult's right to decide his own life? There is a student on campus enrolled in an ROTC. He was on scholarship, but doubts about the program caused him to ask to be released. He was granted a release, primarily on the grounds that he was not the magic age of twenty-one and therefore the contract he had signed with Uncle Sam was not valid. But if he had enlisted in one of the services as an enlisted man, he could very possibly ended up maintaining equipment with destructive power measured in millions of tons of TNT. 
The irony of the matter is the most recent change in the situation is perhaps the only one with an argument against worth a damn. A reasonable theory could be made by a person with a three digit IQ that voting is a responsibility that should come after the fulfillment of some duty to the country. Voting involves control of national policy, one could argue that one should be obedient to national authority a while before one is allowed to shape. Its a shaky line of reasoning but something a sane person could follow. _ 
Why does this lunacy exist? One reason is a strange malady in America today. The trend in America seems to be in the direction of democratic totalitarianism. More and more the individual is divested of his right to make decisions for himself. The right of a citizen seems to be that he is allowed to vote on laws that will decide what everyone will do. Nobody is allowed to decide for oneself, instead on makes laws that decide for everybody. No you may not drink cyclamates. No you may not see cigarette commercials. You are not responsible enough to decide for yourself so the democratic progress must decide for you. For your own good. 
This schizophrenia would justify a twenty-one year old majority, while an eighteen year old vote. Deciding what other people do, is by this perversion of reason, is a basic right, while deciding oneself is a very limited right reserved only for the Most Wise. 
There are other reasons for the twenty-one majority. One is that it allows eighteen year old to use the law to parasite off their parents. The stupidity here is two-fold. Mauy students enjoy leeching off dear mom and dad. But also many moms and dads like to be leeeched off to keep their children dependent. This preserves their precious little hallucination that their twenty year old is still a child who needs them and who they can ego trip off of by telling to get a haircut. 
The end to this lunacy is rather simple. The age of majority must be lowered with all due haste to the age of eighteen. 
J:'M s~R'R. y; Ml'S s ~A-'-£.Y ... YouR"-A G-REA-T ~f<D,..D) JS\4-r Tltt:.t-J ..Tt+R-~ ~ n-t~ f'{!)~i...£"1) I'S~·r I:T .... 

Tom Bornholdt=============================================================================~=== 
The Legal Age 

Monday, April 26, 1971 THE· OBSERVER 

pat lamb and frank capobianco 
··suffering, dying and death··-a seminar for pre-meds by morton kelsey 
Last spring, a few pre-medical students with the aid of Charles McCarthy, then a professor in the Program of Non-violence, Morton T. Kelsey, a professor in Graduate Education, and the late Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, then the chairman of Pre­?rofessional studies, instituted a course to explore the problems involved in caring for the terminally ill patient. We were concerned about the lack of attention given by medical education to the psychological suffering of the dying patient in a world where advanced technology and science, although prolonging his life, often tend to deper­sonalize the patient. 
We were worried not only about the care of the dying; the effect of daily contact with enormous suffering seemed to have taken its effect also on the medical profession itself. Some of the more obvious signs of the resuling emotional instability are revealed in the high rates of suicide, drug addiction, and alcoholism within the profession. Since the greatest portion of a medical student's education is concerned with the scientific aspect of medicine, most young physicians seem emotionally un­prepared to face the suffering, especially the in­tense emotional pain found in the terminally ill patient. Surely, American society with its numerous denials of and escapes from death offers little support to those people who must be faced daily with the care of the sick and dying. · 
Although it is not always the case, many doctors relate to a patient in only a scientific manner which often results in the objectification of the patient. Medicine becomes then only a business-the more intangible, emotional needs of the patient, especially the terminally ill patient, are often over­looked. When a doctor does try to open himself in a more humane manner to the dying individual, he must often wrestle with his own sanity because of his anxieties about death that can be stirred up by such an encounter. The common occurrence of impersonal health care and the existence of such frightening statistics as the above seem to say that many physicians have not been able to adequately 
resolve their relationship to the patient's emotional suffering. 
Entitled "Suffering, Dying, and Death", the seminar is under the direction of Prof. Morton T. Kelsey, a former pastor of St. Luke's Episcopal Church in Monrovia, California who is also a 
Jungian analyst. Professor Kelsey's past ex-


perience has brought him into daily contact with intense psychological suffering, often the emotional trauma of the terminally ill individual. As everyone in the seminar has agreed, Professor Kelsey's contribution to the course goes far beyond words; his life is an example of a man opening himself to the sufferings of others in order to relieve that pain. Very few men have combined so well an excellence 
in professional knowledge and a deep, personal 
concern  for  those  individuals  with  whom  he  is  
working.  
The  first  part  of  the  seminar  was  spent  in  

discussing readings directly concerned with the suffering of the dying patient. The need to explore our own anxieties and attitudes about death soon became apparent. We realized that if death is a big problem in our own life, viewed as a frightening, horrible, taboo topic, we would never to able to face it calmly and helpfully with a patient. Only after we had become capable of talking about our fears concerning death, could we talk with the dying person about his needs. 
To explore such problems took a great deal of openess, a willingness to share deep feelings about ourselves. Thus, the seminar later broke down into smaller groups of five people which provided a much more personal level for opening oneself. In opening ourselves to our own and others problems in the seminar, an honest sharing took place, resulting in the beginning of a self-acceptance of our fears. For some of us, this acceptance of our anxieties about dying and suffering was only the beginning of the exploration into many other fears, all of which hindered the possibility of our being open to another's similar problems. 
No concrete "techniques" and "methods" in the caring for the terminally ill patient came out of the class. Some of the things that did evolve were a greater understanding of our own problems with death, an openess to explore further such concerns, and a more sensitive ability to listen to another person relate his anxieties. The sort of listening and sharing that took place in the seminar may have been the most valuable insight of the whole course. 
The same seminar will be carried on next year by similar students who see the same need. It has been approved by Father Walters, the new chairman of Pre-Professional studies, and will again be under the direction of Morton T. Kelsey. Those people interested can sign up for the course with Father Amen of the Non-violence department. 


your help is needed 

the south bend-mishawaka walk for international development 
Sponsored by the American Freedom from Hunger Foundation, Walks in the United States raised more than $2% million, in 1970. The Walk for Development idea originated in Europe under the sponsorship of the United Nations Young World Development Program. On May 8 and 9, International Walk Weekend, we will be joined by people in 44 countries and 400 cities in the United States. 
The goals for the total community are: 
-to bring awareness, education, and sensitivity of the international problems of hunger and poverty to the community 
-to raise funds for projects to combat hunger and the conditions that lead to hunger 
-to involve youth and coordinate their efforts into a positive program -to unite and strengthen the entire community through speaking and acting. -to strengthen the image of youth in the community 
The Walk for Development will take place on May 8, 1971. It will cover ap­proximately 25 miles, each walker going as far as possible. Each walker is to obtain pledges from one or as many sponsors as he can. Primarily youth will be involved, but there is no age limit. The sponsor must agree to donate at least a set amount for each mile. Sponsors may be friends, relatives, business people, companies, anyone. The pre-arranged route will begin and end at Potawotami Park. Walkers will present their checkpoint cards for stamping at various points on the route to certify the distance they have completed. After the Walk, the walker will show his sponsor the checkpoint card and the sponsor will pay him the pledged amount per mile. The walker may either mail in the donation to the Walk Post Office Box, or take them to any branch of the First Bank and Trust Company, for deposit. All contributions are tax deductible. 
Local self-help organizations receive 
42.5 percent of the money, while another 
42.5 percent is given to foreign projects. The remaining 15 percent assists the American Freedom from Hunger Foun­dation with expansion of their educational program dealing with population, pollution, illiteracy, hunger, poverty, and the continuance of Walks in other cities. 
The Meadowbrook Corporation, 52792 Hastings Road will establish a Day-Care Center. Since 1968, concern and efforts of the people themselves have maintained a donated two-car garage as a social service center. A non-profit corporation, it is head by a 12 member Board of Directors. Backed by small donations, and com­munity support, the Walk money will pay the director of the Day Care Center, food for the children and supplies. 
The second local project is sponsored by the Broadway Christian Parish. Known for it's many programs, the Church and South East Neighborhood Association, are bringing a Community Organizer to South BenJ. Beginning in June, the black seminarian's duties will include working with the continuous education program for children. and being a street worker. 
The first project is the Peace Corps' School Partnership Program in Brazil. Begun in 1964, the program has involved more than 120 projects. 60 percent of the people in this region are illiterate. For $1,750, a three classroom school can be built for 120 students, and doubled as an adult literacy center at night. The com­munity in Brazil provides local volunteer labor, a title to the land, local building materials, and partial cash contribution 

whenever possible. The community works together for the 3 to 6 months necessary for ·construction, with the assistance of Peace 
Corp volunteers. An understanding and 
culture exchange are enhanced by a pen-
pal relationship between the donator of funds, and the students in Brazil. 
The second foreign project is Nutritional Aid to Remote Indian Tribes in Mexico. The corn culture and the centuries-old food patterns lead to malnutrition. to
40 60 percent of the children under four die of 
malnutrition. Since 1968, the Meals for 
Millions Foundation has worked with over 
100 tribal groups. For $500, 50 persons will receive 50 grams of Protea per day for a year. Also, the Meals for Millions Foun­dation has adult education classes discussion_ groups, and menu planning. 
::::.=:::;:;:;:::::;:·:~:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:•:·:·:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::f.:: 
;:;~ 
;:;: :;:;


:::: 
:;:; :;:;
:;:; 
:;:; ;:;: 
::::
;:;;

;:;: 
:~; 
:;:;
:;:;
:;:: 
:;:; 
:=:: 
;:;: ;:;: ;:;: ;:;: ;:;: :;:: :;:: .;:;: 
:.l.j..




:.~.~:.: 

~iil 
:l;j:;:;:;:;:; 

Q We, the undersigned, wish to declare publicly our:;:; support for Timothy Kendall in his decision to;:;: refuse induction into the armed forces. we:;:;s fa tern en t recognize his choice to be the result of serious and:::: mature reflection and totally consonant with the:;:; Christian Gospel. We concur with his judgment that:;:;0 f it is not ethically permissible to force a man to serve:;:; 
5 U porf
P 



for f•
Im 


ken d a11 
in an immoral war; and we view Vietnam as such a:;:; conflict. :;:: We offer Timothy the support of our physical:;:; presence as well as that of our stated moral con-l~: victions. We do not intend to offer physical;:;: resistance to those who would apprehend him. The:;:; sanctuary we offer is symbolic But by our physical:;:; presence we would wish to communicate to those:;:; who would come here to arrest him that, in having:;:: actually to take him from our midst, they are in-:;;; vading the sacred place of his personal conscience.==== 
In offering such support, we do not presume to :l:l judge those students who come to different con-;:;: elusions about compliance with Selective Service;:;: regulations Our concern is with them as well; and~;: we respect their decisions, as we do Timothy's as;:;: judgments made on grounds of principle, grounds:;:; which have been examined, tested and reaffirmed:;:; 
in conscience.  ;:;:  
Maurice E. Amen, C.S.C. J. Bernard Clark, C.S.C.  :l·j.=.~·.'_:.:  
Ernest J. Bartell, C.S.C.  John S. Dunne, C.S.C.  

David B. Burrell, C.S.C. William A. Toohey, C.S.c.:t 
;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;!ij 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Monday, April 26, 1971 

S. Quad SLC candidates discuss positions 
Two South Quad students yesterday announced their candidacies for positions on the Student Life Council, increasing the total number of candidates campaigning for that district's two positions on the council to four. 
Juniors Don Mooney (off­campus) and Tom Hefferman <Dillon) joined two previously announced candidates: Gary Caruso (Lyons); and the ticket of Buz Imhoff (Badin) and Rich Urda (Morrissey). 
Mooney, entered as a South Quad candidate, served for two years both in the Student Senate and the Alumni Hall Council. He has just completed a year of public relations work for the Student Government cabinet and started work as a Student Union Social Commissioner. 
"Despite the ineffectiveness of the SLC in the last years," he said, "I think there is still an opportunity to increase the quality of student life through that body. In this key year the SLC, as a body with student membership should assume leadership in developing coeducation. This means 


CLASSIFIED 
aggressive student initiative, rather than the 'don't make waves' position already taken by the present student govern­ment." 
Mooney, who considers the potential of the SLC to be great although it has been "bogged down by a lot of bull," outlined several points of his platform. 
---The SLC should im­mediately get to work on a residence exchange program. "The final form of the residence exchange should be decided by the SLC and not Father Burt­chaell," he said. 
--Female members of the academic coordinator. He was 
the campaign manager for Steve 
Pallucca, sophomore class president, and is now Pallucca's executive coordinator. Caruso wrote and worked for the passage of the Sophomore Car bill. 
"In writing the Sophomore Car bill and in finally getting it passed," he said, "I've been exposed to the way in which the SLC works." He added, "I've been to just about every meeting since October." 
Of the short range points in his platform Caruso said, "First of all, I'd like a study of student government to improve its ef­ficiency, reduce unnecessary duplication, and to eliminate unresponsiveness to student needs. 
"Secondly, I'd like to have a student government restructured with the Senate and Hall Presidents Council being joined to form a two chamber legislative body. Class government could also be revamped by making it a cabinet position under the student body president." 
He feels that students should have more say in laundry and food services and that more ef­fort should be made in presenting quickly organized activities such as T.G.I.F. 
In citing long range points in his platform, Caruso proposed that the University consider franchising a private corporation to build a high rise apartment building on campus. The com­pany would receive the revenue, buththe building would be run as any other dormitory. The University of Illinois did this, eliminating its bed squeeze and incurriging very little cost, Caruso added. 
"A student mall has already been proposed," he said, "but I would like to do some work on it. I feel that such a complex could change the social atmosphere here. Right now, dating is the only way you can be with a girl on a Saturday night. A student mall could give us a place to meet more informally." 
Caruso also proposed that the feasibility of a multi-level 

parking garage be studied. "This 
would increase the security, 
protect the cars from the 
weather, and put a bit more order 
into the parking procedures," he 
said. 

Caruso expressed hope that the 
SLC will look to the future and 
avoid lags on important issues 
such as coeducation. 

Buz Imhoff, Badin Hall 
president and former chairman 
of the HPC is a joint candidate 
with Rich Urda, former student 
government judicial coordinator. 
They claim that the lack of 
communication on the part of this 
year's representatives is one 
reason why they are seeking 
election . 

Imhoff said, "We feel that we possess the necessary interest and experience to adequately represent the students from the district. The SLC has the potential to become a very im­portant body, but thus far it has floundered inceaseless and pointless debate over issues that could be more effectively dealt with if the members showed the needed interest." 
Urda stressed a need for student leadership in the SLC. "Fr. Hesburgh has indicated his willingness to increase student membership as soon as students start to show an interest in what is going on. As soon as students prove to be a viable force on the council, then they will get more seats." 
Urda and Imhoff will campaign door-to-door trying to meet and discuss the election with as many people as possible. "Personal contact," said Imhoff, "is what is needed between the SLC representatives and the students.'' 
Urda added that in an effort to hear the needs of the students, all bills would be well researched before they reached the council. 
Both candidates expressed hope that the students would place a new emphasis on the council. Imhoff said, "It's about time that we get something moving on a body that is reputed to be the highest legislative body on campus." 

Buckley compares revolts 
Continued from page 1 Burke disagreed with this !{evolutiOn wa~ an act of assumption. secession, and ~ngland had the "The United States is entitled 
the government in a democratic by all conventional standards to society will not ever have to use hang its self-proclaimed force to assert its own laws, is revolutionists. I should not think naive," Buckley said. the time to do this has come. But "The self-proclaimed certainly the time has come to revolutionists do not appear to remind our revolutionsts what understand the rights of the are the possible consequences of counter-revolutionists." Buckley their activity ... The knowledge emphasized. "The revolutionists that you are going to be hanged in 
believe that revolution is two weeks concentrates the mind genetically part of the American honorably," said Buckley. way," yet the American Buckley believes that the right to oppose it. Not even the people who define the laws must American sympathizer Edmund be the people affected by them. 
ATTENTION ALL 
SOPHOMORES 
Sophomores may start placing ring orders NOW 
Hours: 1:30-4:30 Monday Thru Friday m off1ce on second floor of ND Bookstore 


r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, April 26, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
----~ 

Bobcats overpower Irish nine 
•

Ohio U. hits 9 homers in 14-3, 7-6 wzns 

by Vic Dorr offensive display, as the Ohioans attack to six singles while sixth, and the score remained Phil Krill then drilled a three-runObserver Sports Writer 
lashed 15 hits--seven of which claiming his fifth win in as many this way until the ninth. Ohio's home run to left field. The score Before the 1971 baseball season were home runs--against four ND decisions. Diamond didn't allow a Bob Kleiber opened the ninth by 
then stood at 7-6 and the Irish still began, the Bobcats of Ohio pitchers. Mike Hannah, a second runner beyond second base until lacing a triple off Irish starter had but one out. Bob Roemer
University were billed as perhaps team all-American at first base the eighth inning, when he walked Ron Schmitz, and Steve walked, but Joe LaRoccathe toughest opponent on the Irish last season, cracked consecutive the bases full. Phil Krill then Swisher's sacrifice fly brought in bounced into a fielder's choice for schedule. The two teams met in home runs in his last three trips bounced a single through short­single games on Friday and to the plate, and personally ac­stop and the Ohio left fielder letSaturday, and if the results were counted for six of Ohio's runs. But the ball roll past him to the wall. 
any indication, the Bobcats will Hannah wasn't the only Bobcat to All three runners scored on thebe one of the toughest opponents 
on anyone's '71 schedule. take a liking to the Cartier Field miscue, but Diamond im­fences. Sophomore catcher Steve mediately regained the up­
The visitors opened the Swisher hit a pair of solo shots, perhand, and squelchedweekend series by handing the and shortstop Mike Schmidt and whatever small comeback hopesND team a 14-3 shelling--the third baseman Bob Kleiber each the ND nine might have beenworst defeat suffered by the Irish added single blasts to the O.U. entertainingyet this season--and then hung on homer total.

the next day to claim a 7-6 Mike Riddell started for the decision and to sweep the two­Twelve of Ohio's 14 runs Irish and was charged with the game set. These two games resulted from the long-ball loss, his fifth against one win. raised Ohio's seasonal record to barrage, but the 'Cats were Riddell pitched two perfect in­16-3 and dropped Notre Dame to a easily as stingy on defense as nings before Kleiber and Swisher 7-12 mark. they were awesome on offense. opened the third with back-to­
Junior righthander Doug hack home runs, and from there The Bobcats' 14-3 Iaugher was Diamond started the game for it was all Ohio. 

nothing less than an unbelievable Ohio, and he limited the Irish After using the seven home runs to erase any doubt about Friday's game, the Bobcats
Netmen wzn • 5 more 
made effective use of the long ball again on Saturday. This time 
but neither will there be any rest 
by E .J. Kinkopf the culprit was center fielder
for the Irish "good guys". 
Observer Sports Writer 
Gary Shade. Shade, whose only 

The Irish netters extended The racqueteers will have only hit on Friday was a single, found their win streak to ten in a row, as Monday to recuperate before the range for two long homers-­they blitzed Northern Illinois, taking to the courts for six the second to straightaway Bowling Green, Toeldo and straight days of competition. center--which gave Ohio a lead Marquette and squeaked past Big that the Irish never quite over­
The netmen will entertain Phil Krill hit a 3-run homer in Saturday's loss to Ohio U.
Ten power Iowa this past came.
Northwestern on Tuesday, and 

weekend. The Irish had grabbed an early the tie-breaker. Schmitz retired the second out. Pinch-hitter Bob
will travel to East Lansing to

The highlight of the busy 2-Q advantage on singles by Pete the next two 'Cats, but then Tony Reschan then looked at a third
meet the Spartans of Michigan

weekend was the match with the Schmidt and Charlie Horan and a Gray reached on an infield hit strike to wrap it up.
State Wednesday afternoon.

Hawkeyes on Sunday morning. three base error by the 0.U. right and Shade advanced him to third Jim Bierman was credited with 
Thursday, the Akron Zips will

After losing the first two singles fielder. with a double. Mike Schmidt the win for Ohio, his third against 
visit Notre Dame, and Friday

matches (Buster Brown and The Bobcat right gardener had followed with another double, and no losses, and ND's Schmitz was
Coach Tom "Silver Rox" Fallon

Mike Reilly dropped three set tried to make a shoe string grab scored both runners. Schmidt tagged with the loss, his fourth
will take his charges to the

battles), the Irish rallied to cop a of Horan's hit but the ball rolled himself scored when Tony against a pair of 'Yins.
Huskie Invitational in Dekalb,

split in the singles action on by him to the fence, allowing Sch­Zappia, ND's second baseman,
Illinois. 

victories by John Allare, Bernie midt and Horan to score. funbled Mike Hannah's ground Coach Jake Kline's team will be LeSage and Rob Schefter. It the netmen keep playing like Shade's two round trippers, one ball. at home against Valparaiso for a 
Wins by the doubles teams of they are now, and if Mike Reilly with a man on, the other a solo Trailing 7-3 in their half of the single game Tuesday and then Brown-Allare and Brandon can put it all together and play shot, gave the Bobcats a 3-2 ninth, the Notre Dame squad meet Butler here for a twin-bill Walsh-Greg Murray gave the like he is capable of playing, the advantage in the fifth. mounted a rally which fell just on Wednesday. The Irish are on Irish the 5-4 decision. Irish win streak should run short of tying the score. With one the road this weekend, with a pair 
The Iowa match was the only uninterrupted for at least another Phil Krill's single drew ND into down, freshman Pete Schmidt of games against Miami of Ohio one ever in doubt. The rest of the week. a 3-3 deadlock in the last of the singled and Horan drew a walk. in Oxford. weekend was an extended workout for the regulars and their back-up men as everyone 






Bulger looks good in scrimmage
got a piece of the action. -· 
John Cieszkowski, and freshman the No. 1 secondary, dropped a 't--::_f"f" ·"· '"-'"" · Friday the racqueteers by Jim Donaldson Greg Hill all carried the ball into perfect pass from the frosh signal · ...... "X"· ' defeated Northern Illinois, 7-2, on Observer Sports Editor the end zone while Steenberge caller. ~; "'l f I ~ ~ · the wind swept outdoor courts as Another round in the fight
Brown, Allare, LeSage, Walsh, waBs calli~g sign~ls. The only points for the No. ,2 ,~fl' __ -"'---~...,.
being waged between Jim u1 ger s passmg was very unit came on Mike Eckman s -, -., ,. ~ and Schecter recorded singles 
Bulger, Pat Steenberge, and Cliff effective and the soph from field goal early in the game. Eck­
triumphs and the doubles teams 
Brown for the right to succeed Pittsburgh combined his aerial man's boot gave the No. 2s a brief
of Walsh-Greg Murray and 
Joe Theismann at the controls of attack and ground game well, 3-0 lead but, after that score, the
Brown-Allare won, too. 
the Fighting Irish took place earning praise from Parseghian. No. 1s dominated the action.
It was more of the same on 

Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium "Jim's improving each time Eckman, a junior, was also
Saturday, as the Irish 
and, after the full game scrim­out," the Irish mentor said. "His perfect on six of six extra point
whitewashed Toledo, 9-Q, and mage, it appeared that Bulger footwork, his ball-handling and attempts for the No. 1s.
sent Bowling Green home with a 
had the inside track on the his play sense are getting better The scrimmage was not
7-2 defeat. 
quarterback job. and with the kind of arm he has, without mishap, however, as
Sunday afternoon the Irish 

The No. 1s, led by Bulger and you know he is in range anywhere junior punter Jim Yoder was
concluded the weekend schedule 
Steenberge, crushed the No. 2s, on the field." seriously injured in the final
with a nine-zip conquest of the 
quarterbacked by Brown, 42-3 Just what kind of arm Bulger quarter. Yoder was taken to St.
Marquette Warriors. 
Saturday. has was evidenced Saturday Joseph's Hospital, where the
Coach Fallon rested Brown, 

Bulger got the starting nod when he fired the ball over 60 injury was diagnosed, after X­
LeSage and Allare against 
from coach Ara Parseghian and years, effortlessly, on a couple of rays, as a partial dislocation of
Marquette but their 
handled the No. 1 unit in the first unsuccessful "bomb" attempts. vertebrae in the upper back
replacements filled in capably. 
and third quarters, as well as Bulger was able to complete region. He remained under ob­Reilly moved up to the number 

during a two minute drill that he several tosses in the 25-35 yard servation and in traction. 
one spot and broke out of his 
ran almost to perfection during range to Tom Gatewood and The scrimmage was conducted
slump with a two set victory. 
the 120 seconds before halftime. Creaney, however. under game conditions with the
Walsh stepped into the number 
Steenberge ran the No. 1 offense Both of the TD strikes to coaches on the sidelines, instead
two position and repeated 
during the second and fourth Creaney were right on the money of on the field, for the first time
Reilly's performance. Greg Mike Cre~mey
quarters. but Bulger was intercepted twice this Spring.
Murray, Schefter, Tony Early Bulger led his unit to three by freshman linebacker Tom also.Parseghian used 17 players,
"It was more or less like the

and Dickie Murray all followed nine linemen and two sets of
scores as he whipped a pair of Devine, who played well for the intrasquad game that we'll havewith convincing wins. touchdown passes to tight end No. 2 defenders. next Saturday," Parseghian backs, with the No. 1 offense and The doubles teams of Early­Mike Creaney and combined with Brown was unable to lead the the No. 1 defense had five extra
commented. Greg Reid, Walsh-Greg Murray Eddie Gulyas on an option play No. 2s to paydirt although he was The squad breakdown Satur­players. Eighteen players saw action for the No. 2 offense while 
and Dick Murray-Chris Amato for another six-pointer. deprived of almost sure touch­day was somewhat similar to that 
kept the Irish slate unblemished. Steenberge also directed the down when Willie Town­twenty defenders played for the
pass which will probably be used next 
There is no rest for the wicked, No. 1s to three TD's. Andy Huff, No. 2s.
send, running five yards behind Saturday for the Blue-Gold game, 

Page 8 THE OBSERVER Monday, April 26, 1971 
ATTENTION-Buffalo Club Meeting. elections, baggage truck pi ans; followed by banquet; Tuesday, April 27, 20 LaFortune,
I~~00 PM. Questions-Call Doug 
Lppola. 
ND-SMC Theatre 
presents 
The Musical 
Comedy Smash 

Boo!<, Music and Lynes by LIONEL BART 




OLIVE 
May I, 6, 7, 8at8:30 pm. May 2 at 2:30 pm. O'Laughlin Auditorium. $2.00 Tickets. Information: 284-4176. 

HAGGAR 
Slacks 
Tracey 
Continued from page 1 
Clarke said that Miss Tracey's 
candidacy for an SLC seat has the 
same implications that a 
Berkley student's candidacy for 
the same seat would have. 
Finally, on the grounds of the 
SLC's statement, Rodriguez feels 
that Miss Tracey's candidacy 
may be "a wasted effort". Even 
if she were elected by write-in 
votes ;>he stands the risk of not 
having her position approved by 
the university's board of trustees. 
Both Clarke and Rodriguez 
said they will be available for 
questioning regarding the 
election and can be reached b) 
calling 6244 or 1745. 
Reflecting on the statement 
released by the SLC election 
committee, Miss Tracey had a 
few things to say in her defense. 
Now you can have your fashion and be comfortable too. 100% Fortrel~ polyester gives with your every move, 
impossible to wrinkle, and they can be machine washed and dryed. You'll like the comfortable price. 
16.00 to 22.50 


removed from 
Miss Tracey said she is running only indirectly, this· is not true. for the SLC seat in light of the She said SMC is becoming more a recent agreed upon plan for the part of the Notre Dame com­merger of St. Mary's and Notre Stating that she will not join the Dame. Shs feels that the SLC as "a representative of proposed merger "has creative SMC " Miss Tracey said she potential by which both schools would represent Notre Dame and their students can benefit." students "in the broadest sense She further added, "Since co-which must now also include SMC education will be a reality, students." students should move ahead Don Mooney, as SLC candidate wherever possible." from the South Quad feels that 
Miss Tracey felt the election Rodriguez is going against his commit~ee's statement says that SBVP campaign platform stating the actwn of the SLC effects he was in favor of working for a Notre Dame directly, and SMC merger of "student government, 

ballot 
munity every day. She considers herself "a part of the Notre Dame community," and pointed out that she takes the majority of her courses at Notre Dame. student services etc." of both schools. 
Mooney added that Rodriguez is "living in the past." Miss Tracey voiced a similar opinion. 
In reaction to Rogriguez's statement that her candidacy would be a waste of time, Miss Tracey said that if it were anyone's waste of time it "would be mine." She feels this should not enter into the issue. 

Washington: a week of protests 
Continued from page 1 
He explained the role of the average citizen in his plan by stating, "If the Congress doesn't have the guts to end the war; we will by not paying taxes." 
John Carey, who led the week of protest carried on by the Viet Nam Veterans for Peace, was also well received. He noted that his anti-war organization has more than 1200 members who are presently in active duty in In­dochina. 
"The only defect in the army machine," he said, "is that today's soldier can think." 
Referring to the 108 veterans arrested Thursday by the Capitol police for refusing to obey a court order to disperse from the Capitol steps, Carey stated that "This government worries more about the legality of where men sleep than it does about where it drops bombs." 

The best recognized woman speaker was Corretta Scott King. In her speech, she called the Universities of America "prisons, which monitor life, as in a police state." She drew a contrast between the subsidies alloted for the Lockheed aircraft and the grave fact that many of our countrymen are presently starving. 
Reed to receive band award 
Dr. Alfred Reed, professor in the school of music at the University of Miami, Coral Gables, Fla., will receive the 1970 St. Cecilia Award of the University of Notre Dame bands. The presentation will be made during the annual band banquet at 7 pm tonight in the Knights of Columbus Hall, South Bend. 
Honoring the patron saint of music, the award if given an­nually to the outstanding con­tributor to the cause of the 




t-------------------------­
t 
,. t 
JUNIORS!! 

t 
t 
There are 361 of you who do not

t 
wish to be in the '72 Dome.

t 
t 
This is the LAST WEEK

t 
for those who wont to change their minds.

t 
t 
t 
There are 33 make-up appointments available.

t 
t t 
t t 
t t
Phone Immediately 283-1832

t t t To Change Your Mind! t 
t t 
t t 
t t t Hours: 10 AM-5 PM. t 
t t 
t t 
t t

Thank You!

t t 
Catholic Band movement in 
In quoting her late husband, Mrs. King called for a "revolution in values, from a thing-oriented society to a people­oriented society." 
Other prominent speakers ncluded Democratic Senator Vance Hartke of Indiana, who is the author of the only bill in either house which calls for an im­mediate withdrawal of all troups from Indochina, and Congressman Abner Mikva from Illinois, was involved in the recent FBI investigations of certain political figurtes. 
Also giving addresses were I.F. Stone, who contended that the only means to peace is through the elimination fo Richard Nixon, and SCLC leader Rev. Ralph D. Abernathy who asserted that "war is the major expression of racism, exploitation and op­
pression in this country."
The Reverend lashed out at 

America· Previous recipients FBI head J. Edgar Hoover for not 
have  included  James  Neilsen, being  able  to  apprehend  the  
Vaclav  Nelhybel  and  Norman heads of organized crime in the  
Delio Joio.  United  'States.  He  also  

Reed, who has written more 

than 200 published works for reiterated Mrs. King's deadline 
for withdrawal of August 28, and 

band, wind ensemble, chorus, finally called for a nationwide orchestra, and various solo and boycott of what he called "the ensemble pieces, is the author of racist policies of the A & p food several compositions frequently store chain." 
featured by the Notre Dame band 
in concert. These include 
"Chorale Prelude in E Minor," "Ode for Trumpet," "Ballade for Alto Saxophone," "Symphony for Brasz and Percussion," "Russian Christmas Music," and "In Dulci Jubilo." 
He has served as conductor of the Bavrlor Symphony Orchestra, executive editor of Hansen Publications, conductor of the Music for Peace International Concert Band, assistant director of the School Band of America on its European tours, and as a guest composer-conductor­
clinician  in  35  states,  Canada,  
Mexico,  South  America  and  
Europe.  

During his two-day visit on the Notre Dame campus Reed will Entertainment included three 
well known anti-war performers. Peter, Paul and Mary reunited to sing an old favorite "Blowing in the Wind," which they dedicated to Dr. King for his afore­mentioned 1963 speech. 
The demonstration, which was very peaceful, broke up about 
5:15 PM and was followed by a 
number  of  incidents  at  the  
Washington  Monument,  1 mile  
from the the Capitol.  

A number of demonstrators began to remove flags stationed at the perimeter of the monument. One apprehended and at least twenty-five U.S. Park Police were summoned to control the crowd, 
Confrontations began when 

meet with area band directors students attempted to obstruct and Dr. Kenneth Geoffroy, the vehicle which was com­superintendent of instumental missioned to transport the music in South Bend. prisoner to the city jail. 
Applications for Sophomore Literary Festival Chairman are being accepted now. Send or bring your name & phone number to 
Bob Brinkmann Cultural Arts Commissioner 4th floor LaFortune. 







