Irish refuse all bowl bids! 
For story see page 7 

another beautiful day In the 70's. better enjoy them while they last. chance of rain tonight. 

Will it be the same? 
CIH duel barred from stadium 
by Noli Kane 
The Observer learned yesterday that the Morrissey-Dillon interhall game, originally scheduled for the Notre Dame Stadium, has been relegated to Cartier Field instead. 
The players learned of the decision Wt-dnesday from Interhall football director Tom Kelly. According to Director of non-varsity sports, Dominick Napolitano the move was made because workmen just fertilized, aerated and reseeded the field this week. 
"No one wants to keep the kids out of the stadium," Napolitano, said, "it's just a case of not contacting the proper officials in time." 
"good substitute" 
Reseeding and fertilizing is "quite a proposition," according to Napolitano. He would not make an estimate of the job's cost, but he did sa!' that he ex­pected the cost of fertilizing and s<>Pding the club sports fields behind Stepan Center alone to reach $800. 
When the bleachers are set up, Cartier Field will be what he considers a "good substitute". But he added, "I've been in it (football) for forty years and I know what it means for them to play in the stadium." 
Members of both teams expressed disappointment at not playing in the stadium. "Even though it is a myth, it's a little kid's dream to play in the Notre Dame stadium," one player said. Another said that "lots of parents and fri<>nds were coming to see the game" and that it was a "general letdown." 
However, competition between Dillon and Morrissey promises to be just as keen in Cartier field as the stadium. Rivalry between the two squads traces back to last year's championship game in which Dillon defeated Morrissey because Dillon had more first downs after a non-scoring game. Morrissey had been unscored upon for the entire season. 
Financial problem stalemates merger 
by Ann Thert>se Darin 
Some Notre Dame and St. Mary's Inter-Institutional Teams for Unification have suspended meetings until the financial problems are settled, the Obst>rvt>r learned yesterday. 
Finances roadblocked the Business Affairs team, while completion of most of its assigned tasks halted the Public Relations and Development team. 
According to Fr. Ferdinand Brown, associate provost, the Academic Af­fairs team, intends to continue meeting. 
Some members have speculated on future Student Affairs team meetings, claiming finances have stalemated their proposals. 
Fr. Thomas E. Blantz, student affairs vice-president, affirmed there would be another meeting of the committee. 


work is hampered 
"I think there must be some misunderstanding about our next meeting," he confirmed. 
"One of the questions we had begun to consider was the uses of precise residence halls after the unification was completed," he recalled, "and at our meeting on Nov. 9, I simply felt that we could postpone any further discussion of this until further progress had been made in other areas: finan­ces, legal considerations, academic allocation of space, and so on." 
Many committee members hoped this weekend's Board of Trustees Ad­Hoc Committee meeting could solvP. the financial puzzle and spur them on to rapid unification timetable again. 
Analyzing the work stoppage by the business affairs team, Rev. Jerome Wilson, financial affairs vice­president, explained, "We've gone about as far as we could go." 


gone as far ... 
"At the present time, since the budgets at both places willl be separate for next year, our work is hampered." 
"We wanted to combine the personel departments and student aid depart­ments at this time. But, some of the administrators at St. Mary's just don't want that until the budgets are unified," he divulged. 
As a solution to the monetary mess, Fr. Wilson termed a suggestion by the St. Mary's FacultyAssemblythat Notre Dame issue Notre Dame contracts to SMC faculty with SMC funding that part of the university budget possible." 
In meeting last spring the business affairs team " ... outlined how the departments would be joined together, which employees we would take with us," Fr. Wilson remembered. "We also explored some of the problems such as the difference in the fringe benefits of the two schools." 
According to Fr. Blantz, his whole team has assembled together five times <about every other week). Individual committees and subcommittees have met several times on their own. 




(continued on page 2) 

Pege2 THE OBSERVER. 
Thursday, November 18, 1971 

SMC parietal hours issue to be persued 
by Jodi Campbell 

St. Mary's student government officials last night expressed determination to press on with the SMC parietal proposal in spite of Sister Alma Peter's veto, although one Notre Dame student government representative called any further effort "beating a dead horse." 
St. Mary's SBP Kathy Barlow and SBVP Missy Underman are both in favor of continuing to press the issue. Referring to her first reaction as "angry upset and really discouraged" Miss Underman said "I was about ready to give the whole thing up, but we can't do that." 
Both Barlow and Underman said that 'the decision they are now facing is "where to go" with the issue. 
Miss Barlow claimed that the issue at hand is "not only parietal hours, that's only a small part of it. We're talking about the right of the women at SMC to make decisions for themselves and to determine their own life style." 
"The action that Sister Alma took in vetoing the proposal was in effect saying 'no you won't be able to determine your own life style on this campus'," Miss Barlow contended. 
Miss Barlow said that there were four possible alternatives to the problem but she rejected some of them as "compromise" solutions. "Ifwe were pushing for parietals, to create a social at­mosphere I could accept a compromise. Better social at­mosphere is not the basis of the issue. Either you live your own life style or you don't there is no in between and it can't be com­promised," she said. 
The alternatives she offered were: 
--Dropping the issue entirely, a possibility that both Miss Barlow and Miss Underman opposed. Notre Dame SBVP Orlando Rodriguez felt that his was the best alternative, saying that SMC government should "drop the issue and move on to bigger and better things." 
"I'm afraid that any further action would be beating a dead horse" Rodriguez commented. 
--The issue could be cut up and represented as experiments in the various dorms. Miss Un­derman suggested the possibility of resubmiting the LeMans ex­periment. Miss Barlow felt that any experiment based on the vetoed proposal would meet with much the same result. Notre Dame SBP John Barkett thought that the idea of experimental open houses could work at the present time. 
Barkett also contended that the present St. Mary's room­selection system litigated against the proposal's success. 
"At present, the turnover of people from year to year destroys the bond and spirit of a hall community which builds upon itself," Barkett said. "If a stay hall system or some version of one could be implemented, 

Teams collect merger details 
(continued from page I) 
"Since it is still quite early," Fr. Blantz related, "most of us are still collecting information, discussing our concerns with others, drafting what seems to be feasible, alternative proposals, and especially trying to deter­mine what the financial im­plications and costs of each alternative might be." 
The Student Affairs Team has established no definite time table. Its goal, the vice-president defined, is to be prepared to unify student affairs as soon as other areas seem ready to merge. 
Other than Fr. Blantz, the student affairs team roster lists: Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Rev. Thomas E. Chambers, Miss Mary Martucci, Miss Kathleen Mullaney, Mrs. Diann Petrovich, Rev. James Riehle, Miss Jane William Wilka, and Rev. William Toohey. 
Last fall the team divided into smaller committees to in­vestigate particular areas, collect ideas from other university and college staff members, and to draft proposals for team consideration. 
Fr. Blantz catalogued some of his team's interests as campus ministry, counseling services, student residence, medical services, offices of the deans of students and vice-presidents for student affairs. 
Speaking for the Public Relations and Development team, Richard Conklin, director of public information, reported, "Most of.our work has already been done" in the areas of public affairs, alumni organization and development. 
Substantiating his team's 
Sheehy, Rev. James Shilts, progress, he cited unification of 
Cultural Arts Commission 


Cinema '72 European Festival 
Nov. IS-Intimate Lighting Nov. 19­Cranes are Flying Engineering Auditorium 
times : 7 & 9 PM every night Adm. $1 Cineina '72·patrons free 
The Observer is published daily during the college semeste,~;_ except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage pa1d. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
the two offices of public in­formation effective last Sept. 1. 
Now his office handles all SMC press information. It produces 
many SMC publications, in­cluding the Christmas annual giving brochure for alumnae. 
With alumni-alumnae organization mergers, Conklin announced both groups agreed to proceed at the same pace as the Institutions. 
In early June, Fr. Hesburgh and Sr. Alma announced the appointment of these teams to work out the details of unification. 
One word 


best describes the taste of beer... 
it's on the tip of your tongue. 
WHEN YOU SAY 

Budweiser® 
YOU'VE SAID IT ALL! 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH. INC • ST LOUIS 

perhaps SMC hall governments and halls would reach the point of self-determination and self­government that we all strive for." Barkett contended that the hall and student response to a parietal hours proposal might be more vocal and the bill might obtain administrative approval. 
--The student government officials generally disapproved of 
. the suggestion to submit the proposal to the Trustees over Sister Alma's head. "I won't rule out the trustees but I think they have already made their decision." Miss Barlow said. Both Miss Un­derman and Barkett felt that action of this sort would not work. --Miss Barlow rejected the idea of dropping the self deter­
mination philosophy of the proposal and pushing the parietals. "Philosophy is more important to me." 
The officials wete leery of suspension if students ignored the veto. "I see open violation as a last resort" Miss Underman stated, adding that to be effective this would "require the support or a majority of the student body". 
Rodriguez stated that "disobedience is out of the question at St. Mary's." 
Miss Barlow advocated "challenging every woman on this campus to make the decision for herself." 
"For myself, this is the only part acceptable as a resident of this campus," Miss Barlow said. 
Urban Studies Evening Sunday, November 21 
7:00 PM Room 103 O'Shaughnessy 
1.Work study for academic credit 
2. 
Urban studies seminar 

3. 
Urban studies double major 

4. 
Urban studies certificate 


__ __j 
Thursday, November 18, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 
Washington--President Nixon announced that he would disregard as not binding on him a provision of a bill he was signing setting a 
policy that American troops should be withdrawn promptly from 
Indochina as the House rejected, 238 to 164, a move to cut off funds 
for all military operations in or over Indochina after June 1.
vvorld Bangkok--Citing "the dangers that have been threatening Thailand," Premier Thanom Kittikachorn and a group of Thai leaders organized themselves into a "revolutionary" council,
briefs 

abolished the constitution, dissolved parliament, disbanded the cabinet and instituted martial law. The seiL:ure of full power in Thailand came without violence. 
(c) 1971 New York Times 

United Nations, N.Y.--A spokesman for the United States mission to the United Nations refused at a news conference to cite specific examples of what the chief American delegate, George Bush, called Tuesday "intemperate" language by the Chinese in their first speech to the General Assembly. A member of the Chinese delegation, asked about Bush's statement, said it was "not worth commenting on." 
on campus today 
7:00--meeting, students wishing to become big brothers, 303 engineering bldg. 
7:30--lecture, dr. emil t. hoffman, keenan-stanford chapel 
8: 
00--lecture, robert byrnes, the diplomatic revolution of the 1970's, architecture auditorium 

8: 
15--lecture, walter brumm, the implication of sociology for history, library auditorium 

8: 
30--drama, blithe spirit, washington hall 


at nd-smc 

Freshmen to meet varsity in benefit game 
Notre Dame athletic and students leaders are hoping for a standing -room -crown Monday night when Coach Richard "Digger" Phelps presents his 1!171·1972 varsity basketball squad 
'!!_~h~-p~~l~~-in__<: ?.e.f!.efit gams f~: 
I 

Benefit game for needy of South Bend. 
needy families of the South Bend area. The varsity freshman Pncounter at 8:00 p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center will be open to all fans who bring a gift of non-perishable food, articles of clothing or toys to be distributed to needy area rC6idents. 
One of the youngest coaches in the nation. Phelps will field one of the youngest teams on recent Notre Dame history, Seven sophomores, five juniors and one senior make up the squad that will meet the toughest com­petition in the nation, The <'xhibition game at home is a departure from the practice of recent vears when the two teams met in aseries of games in neigh­boring cities.. 
The Student Government office in LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, is accepting ad­vance gifts from students and townspeople who wish to trade their contribution for a ticket to the sole exhibition game planned this season by the basketball 

\~-·.__ 
" ,\./ 

Coach Phelps has given support to the project. 
PEP 
UP 

YOUR WALLS 
. I 
·~ -.. 6

Hand-painted 13lh" X 61h" 
.....

plaque of ND player or other college or pro team. ,~ 

Britten Industries 21150 N. Mildred Ave. Chicago, Ill. 611657 

Please send ----­plaques at $3.50 each of 
ITeam) 

Specify color: ------; Helmet-----­Jersey ___; Pants___ ; Team Initials ___ Name __________________________________ 
Address ---------------------­City State Zip ____ Enclosed: rJ Check o Money Order 
squads. Coach Phelps had given to purchase thousands of pounds his unqualified support to the of dressed turkeys for students in this project and has distribution in the food baskets. <'xpressed the hope that it will Funds for their purchase are become an annual event. coming in advance gifts from 
Basketball fans will enter the industries and stores, and ad­1\CC Monday night at Gate 10. A ditional gifts will be accepted at large van truck will be parked the gate or at the student near the entrance where students government office. will accept gifts of food and More than 100 student volun­l'lothing for distribution to teer teams will deliver the families recommended by Ac­baskets on Tuesday and Wed­tion, Hansel Center, El Centro, nesday before beginning their Heal Services, Public Welfare four-day Thanksgiving vacation. department, Model Cities, Broadway Christian Church, CALIFORNIANS Catholic Social Services, X-Mas Round Trip Salvation Arrny, St Vincent LA or SF $118 
D<'Paul, United Community 7·8 Tues. 16-Thurs. 18th SPrvices and township welfare Rm l·D La Fortune 
offices. 

Student leaders have contracted Tony 7865-Rick 1753 
The Observer Local Insert Price List 
per 1000 (10,000 must be printed) 
2page ...................• $10.00 4page ..............•..... $12.00 6 page •...•..........•....$14.00 8page ....................$16.00 
12 & over pages .......•...$20.00 
Pamphlet 
8page ...•...........•..•.$12.00 
16 page .................... $15.00 
24 page ...•.•.•.•...•......$18.00 
30 & over pages ...........$24.00 
Pre-payment Required. 
Call 7471 for further information. 
DIAMOND IMPORT SAVINGS 
AT FOX'S YOU GET ABIGGER, 
BETTER QUALITY DIAMOND FOR LESS MONEY! 
*SOUTH REN(;. 
*MISHAWAKA 
BUDGET TERMS 
10 per cent Discount to all Notre Dame Students 
6 ,.ONG DIA• '495

MOND SIT...... NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTS 
Security police, parking lot at­tendants, ticket takers, ushers and scores of other personnel have volunteered their services so that 100 per cent of all gifts will go to the needy. 
lot r ~pirit ~oarf
• 
TAKE TIME TO VISIT THE 
NEW 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
GIFTS • BOOKS POSTERS LOVE NOTES GREETING CARDS RELIGIOUS 
EOUCA TION MATERIAL 

ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD 
BROWSERS WELCOME FREE PARKING 

OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TIL 7:00 PM 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAD SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PH. 272-1704 

THE OBSERVER. Thursday, November 18, 1971 
; 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
fo~ditor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso 
Assistant Editor 
T.C. Treanor 
Business Manager Jim Jendryk 
Business: 283-7 4 71 
All successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend anyone or anything if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, they tackle it by deno<~ncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 
Assistant Editor John Abowd 
Advertising Manager Bill Bauerle 
News: 283-1715 


lnterhall loss 
It wouldn't have been too difficult to play the game in the stadium. It would have called upon a little foresight, a little concern, a little in­telligence on the University's part, but the University has demonstrated those qualities in the past, during emergencies. It would have meant that the sod would have been deprived of seed for another week, but that's happened before in Notre Dame history. It wouldn't have been too dif­
ficult. 

Put a hundred people of diverse backgrounds, interests, and lifestyles together in one building and make them live there. Room a horserider from Oklahoma-an Engineering Major who plays the bongos--with a blueblooded son of Massachusetts who sits around reading Sarte all the time. Duplicate the rna tchup a dozen times. Then tell the building that it is to produce that intangable, "spirit", and that it is to use that "spirit" not only to help students make the hall a livable place but to extend it such a way that when they come back as alumni they sing hosannah to the bookstore every time they pass il 
There may be two or three things that could bind those hundred people together. One might be dismay at Notre Dame, but there's no way to institutionalize that. Another might be a predeliction towards the grape, but there's no way of institutionalizing that, either. A third is football. 
During the fall, the quads are invariably clogged with people playing football. They like the game-it's the Notre Dame Universal. And when their halls field teams for the interhallleague, they like their halls, too. They get to know the players better, and the players get to know each other better. 
The better the teams are, the more serious the players get. Some of the Morrissey and Dillon players had invited their parents to the game -to watch them play in the Stadium. That was going to be the important thing -the impressive thing-to play in the Stadium. But theywon'tplay in the Stadium. Theywon't play in the Stadium because the University thinks that it's necessary to sod the field this week instead of next week. 
It would have been too difficult to play the game in the stadium. It wouldn't have been too difficult to reward the two bestinterhall teams the game they had been promised since the beginning of the year. All the University would have had to do was to hold off four days on their resodding schedule. It's really too bad. 
Boss: Beth Hall News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Layout People: Pete Fries, Steve SMC Editor: Ann Conway Barrett, Kathy Schwille, Jack features editor: rick smith Frischkorn, Ginny Monk Campus News: Don Ruane 
Headlines: everybody Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
-· 

The pen is mightier than... 
Father Ed Ellis 
A Thrice -told Tale 
, Some stories, once told, should never be told again, either because 
they give offense, or more often because they are just bad stories. 
Others, however, once told, should be told again, and if they hold up 
under public scrutiny, should be told yet a third time, The following is 
such a thrice-told tale. 
Once, as the story goes, there was a thirty-nine year old man, a 
plumber by trade, who contemplated divorce from his bride of three 
months, a shapely blonde twenty years his junior. Th~ honeymoon 
had ended in flying frying pans and threats of eviction, in addition to 
the customary screaming and hollering. 
Finally, after two weeks of particularly difficult tension, the wife 
arose one morning at 4 a.m. , tiptoed past the plumber's ·makeshift 
bed on the living-room sofa, tiptoed out the front door, pushed the 
family Chevy halfway down the block, and left. When our hero awoke, 
he found his suitcases, $100.00 of his racetrack money, his wife, and 
most of her possessions gone. She left only a jewelry box (without 
jewelry, of course), two bars of facial soap, and her frying pan, a 
wedding present, with a note attached saying "Cook your own eggs 
Benedict from now on." 
A bit surprised, but all things considered, not too distressed, the man threw out the note, the soap, and the jewelry box, cooked his own eggs, and went to work as if his loss was nothing more than the eighth race 
at Aquaduct. 
After two weeks of holy unwedded bliss, the man returned from work one day to find police officers searching his house and digging in his wife's flower garden in the back yard. At adepth of six feet they found a Neanderthal skeleton and the man was arrested for first 
degree murder. 
At the trial, neighbors testified to the "violent quarrels" between the newly weds, and the strange disappearance of both the car and the bride. Someone later discovered the car in a clump of bushes near the local train station. The accused testified that the blood on the front seat was from a cut on his leg suffered while he was at work, but ap­parently the jury disagreed. 
The coroner said that the skeleton in the backyard was "that of a 
female, time of death uncertain." 
Anyway, our hero was sentenced to life imprisonment. 
After nineteen years in Sing Sing, he was paroled, but since the town 
still remembered his crime, he moved to the West Coast to resume his 
plumbing trade. 
One day shortly after he reached the Los Angeles area, he went to 
the home of a wealthy Hollywood producer to fix a leaky faucet. A 
maid met him at the door and took him to the kitchen. He soon saw the 
probem with the sink, and when he turned to pick up a wrench from the 
table, he saw the lady of the house , his bride of 19 years ago, standing 
on the other side of the table. 
Recognition was instantanious on both sides, and she immediately 
broke out in a shrill Hollywood giggle. 
"Boy did I sure screw you!" she laughed. 
Our hero grabbed the wrench from the table and began to beat her 
over the head, screaming , "Whore! You pig!" and other niceties. 
The maid, of course, called the police, but by the time they arrived, 
the wife was qu:te dead, and the producer quite astonished. 
The question I now pose to you is this: Can a man be tried and 
sentenced for the murder of his wife when he was convicted of that 
crime 19 years ago. 
Thursday, November 18, 1971 THE· OBSERVER 
I franklin devine 
blithe spirit-nutty old ladies, madcap mediums, &sultry ectoplasm 
After a disappointing season's opener, 
ND-SMC Theatre bounced back brilliantly 
with their second major production of the 
season, Noel Coward's Blithe Spirit. The 
delightful exercise in English wit opened 
last weekend in Washington Hall and will 
continue tonight, Friday, and Saturday. 
Charles Ballinger directs a production 
which evokes the time and place of the 
original Coward production. We are 
treated to the sounds and aura of the 
Picadilly Theatre in London's West End, 
where the play was first staged in 1941. 
Ballinger sets us up not just to enjoy Blithe 
S11irit. but to enjoy Noel Coward. 
No doubt one could sit down, read Coward and revel in his zany, irreverent wit. Yet, to say that it's Noel Coward who carries this play is to do the cast, director, and crew a grave disservice. The comic timing and sense demanded of the cast is phenomenal. It's this comic timing which makes the ND-SMC Theatre's 'production so successful. 
The timing is particularly evident, not coincidentally, in the performances of the two actresses who run away with the show. Paulette Petretti as the madcap medium, . Madame Arcati, and Beth Griffith as the spirit she conjures back from the Astral 
Plane are joys to watch and hear. 
Miss Griffith's Elvira is one of the most sharp-tongued, jealous, coquettish and sultry masses of ectoplasm the Gipper's ever been privileged to witness. She dances and spins about the stage with unearthly lightness. Yet for such a spirit, this ghost-woman shows a very active interest in sex ... particularly between her former husband and his new wife. Somehow Miss Griffith bridges earthy and unearthly sides of Elvira's personality superbly. 
Husky-voiced Paulette Petretti's Madame Arcati, is the very opposite of the spirit she conjures. She's not an eccentric lady who dabbles in the spirit world. In­stead. Arcati is an out and out nut! She has an aura a~ut her which can be summed up as flooziness. Arcati is a sight gag, to be sure, riding her bicycle in and out of drawing rooms, nylons rolled down below her knees, hat askew, and sporting a ___ wrap which appears to be getting over a had case of the mange ... but Miss Petretti adds a soul to the part. She has the moves and the twinkling eyes of the nutty old lady on the next block, most important, she has that sense of comic timing which allows her to play off the audience as well as the other actors. 
Misses Griffith and Petretti are backed up by a solid cast, particularly Tom Broderick as Charles Condomine, the late Elvira's husband, and Carol Riordan as Huth, Charles' domineering second wife. Broderick gives us a Charles which can best be described by Elvira's comment, "You always had a seedy grandeur, Charles." Broderick's Charles is the English gentleman who manages to muddle through the worst catastrophes ... even being caught between two wives, one a ghost and one a shrew .... with a shrug. 
Miss Riordan admirably carries off the scenes of fighting and bickering with an opponent she can neither see nor hear. Robert Souders and Helen Fricker, as the stiff upper-lipped friends of the Con­domines, as well as Mary Walsh as the Condomines' bumbling maid round out the cast. 
Richard Bergman's set was a light and proper toy for the light toy of a play. He set a mood of the 30's and 40's with some of the simply atrocious furnishings for the airy room he created... particularly the plaster statue of Venus de Milo with a clock set firmly where her navel ought to be. Partricia Gruska, a new Theatre faculty member, followed through with her costuming. Clunky shoes, ugly women's suits, and strange prints prevailed. These contrasted sharply with the otherworldly gown swished and spun by Elvira. 
There's something particularly sporting about staging a ghostly comedy in Washington Hall. The ND-SMC Theatre should be complimented on giving the Gipper one of the best times he's had in many a haunting. 

big brother-ing 
The Big Brother program on campus is a small and active group, in the midst of recruiting new members for the spring semester. The first of four training sessions will be held for those interested in becoming Big Brothers, with the remaining sessions to be held on the three successive Tuesday nights. 
The program was started on campus in January of 1967 by the Blue .. Circle with the help of Professor James Daschbach. At the time it was set up under the auspices of the Catholic Social Center, and was know as the Youth Advisor Program. At this time it was not officially a member of the national Big Brother program. 
In 1969, Ralph Hagemeier, a local in­surance man decided to set up a Big Brother Program in the South Bend area. With the help of Our Redeemer Lutheran Church, he set up the program and the Notre Dame group combined with it. At present, the Notre Dame Big Brothers work under the auspices of Big Brothers of St .• Joseph County, and the group, which is an associate chapter, is due to soon become a full fledged chapter with voting rights. 
The Big Brother is expected to meet with his little brother on the average of once a week for four hours. According to Professor Daschbach, "We want to build up a friendship communication relationship. The ideas is to do something active like going on hikes, or go to ball games, not to go to a movie where the two just sit and no real communication takes place. We're trying to provide the adult male model for those kids who have no fathers." 
Dave Lab, ..Community Relations Commissioner explained how the children get into the program. "They all come from fatherless homes, and participate with the full consent of the mothers. Sometimes kids are recommended by schools or probation officers. These are usually the older kids." 
With the ages of children participating in the program ranging from 8 to 17, the Big Brother can request the age of his little brother if he desires to. The children are from varied socio~conomic groups, in­cluding blacks, Mexican Americans, In­dians, whites, and children from poverty stricken homes to those of higher income groups, according to Prof. Daschbach. 
A student can also stay with the same child for as many years as he is in the program. 
With only about 30 Notre Dame students participating in the program, there is a waiting list of children to receive Big Brothers. Among those on campus who are active in the program is Clarence Ellis. Ellis says, "I've been a big brother evPr since the beginning of last year. There arc a countless number of young boys who are looking for a big hrother. It is a very rewarding experience, one that you and the young man will always cherish and benefit from, If you feel you would like to help some young man please attend the Big Brother sessions. I don't think you will ever regret it, I haven't". 
Those interested can also contact Prof. I>aschbach in 319 Engineering. 


Mardi Gras has been called one of the best collegiate weekends in the nation. Whether or not an actual survey was conducted or this acknowledgment leaded out from the ~nner walls of the Social Commission office is of little concern to those involved in its planning -because we believe it. We have to believe it or else it would never get off the ground. 
Upwards to $30,000 is handled in the production and what seems like 30,000 man -hours is spent in the five months of preparation. 
This year's 'Fat Tuesday' celebration will take us from wintry South Bend to the warmer climate of California. The ' Disney World of Fantasy' will take shape in the Stepan Center Carnival which opens Saturday night, February 5. 
The Carnival perhaps is more than the fun and games and cotton candy that seems so apparent to everyone. It Pxemplifies the great potential that is inherent in the entire Mardi Gras program. 
This potential is eventually realized by everyone who nites in an effort to achieve our goal -to monetarily aid the Notre Dame Charities.. 
Mardi Gras was initially begun to help fill the social void in the football off season and most important to aid the Notre Dame Charities. While such traditionnal social happenings on campus as Homecoming and the proms have lost interest, our program has persisted only because of the spirit of charity which is inherent in Mardi Gras. 
The common effort in the Carnival is made easy because it is fun. The major part of the Mardi Gras program is something which is not very much fun for anyone -yet it is this part that pays the bills and makes the profit -its the Annual Mardi Gras Raffle. It is the raffle which made it possible to profit better than $10,000 for some Notre Dame Charities last year. In yesterday's article I talked a little about the various charities that ·received donations from the Mardi Gras 
Fund last year. 

So come February everyone will be able to judge for themselves whether or not the Kick -Off Party, Concert and the Carnival 
Festivities add up to one of the best collegiate weekends in the nation, however the real measure of our weekend will be made by those who potentially can benefit from a small but important effort from our entire community. 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Thursday, November 18, 1971 
Letters to the Editor 
Thanks 

Editor: We would like to thank Merry 
Pranksters for letting us come to the Navy game. We had a good time. and we hope we can come 
again next year. 
Dan Smith Bobby Shaw Terry Huddleton Dewan Warbington 4th grade Harrison School 
Ben and Dan 

Editor: 
I found the following in my course readings. Perhaps you would like to print the excerpt as a possible precedent for Daniel Ellsberg's action. 
Jim Thunder 
Possible title for article: Benjamin Franklin and Daniel Ells berg? 
<Franklin went to London in 1757 as agent of the assembly in its dispute with the proprietor over taxation Franklin, if he was known for anything, was known for his personal wiles ... 
These experiences helped prepare him for his more im­portant and more trying agency in London which he began in 1765. The position of colonial agent was by definition partisan, but its success depended, he well knew, upon not seeming so...As the representative of, eventually, four colonies, he found himself in the especially vulnerable role of American advocate---a role he tried to camouflage by building a reputation for impartiality. With one hand he mobilized public opinion and a pro-American party, while with the other he tried to soothe the ill feeling to which he was contributing .. His strategy seemed for a time to be working ... But an impasse came with the affair of the Hutchinson Letters in 1773-74, an incident which both dramatized and terminated Franklin's dilemma. Somehow, he had obtained access to private correspondence which had passed in 1767-69 from Thomas Hutchinson and Andrew Oliver, royal governor and secretary of Massachusetts, to Thomas Whately, secretary to Lord Grenville, originator of the infamous Sugar and Stamp Acts. The letters revealed Hutchinson and Oliver to have secretly confided to America's enemies in Parliament their hopes that Britian would take a stronger hand in the colonies. Franklin sent the purloined missives to Thomas Cushing of the Massachusetts Committee of Correspondence, and from there they made the rounds of the outraged Boston radicals, were read by Sanuel Adams to the Massachusetts Assembly in secret session, and finally published. Perhaps Franklin's only desire was to convince American that misinformation 
ND-LSU 'Football 
Friday, Nov. 19 Pep Rally Cocktail Party 
6:30 pm · Royal Sonesta Hotel 
Saturday, Nov. 20 Bus Transportation to Baton Rouge for the game 

furnished by traitors in their own midst. not. conscious Parliamentary design, was responsible for British op­pression. But the effect of the letters was not at all placating. Sam Adams described the resulting public sentiment toward Hutchinson and Oliver: The People are highly in­censed against the two im­peached (sicl gentlemen. They have entirely lost the Esteem of the Publick. Even some of their few friends are ashamed to countenance 
them. 
America was inflamed against 
Parliament. and Parliament 
against Franklin. He was berated 
before the Privy Council by 
Alexander Wedderburn, solicitor 
general. for procuring the 
communications un­
derhandedly ... Franklin was 
persona non grata with the 
ministry. 
The incident was significant not only because it ended Franklin's double life as mediator-agitator, but because it was illustrative of the ambiguity of his intellectual and political positions ... he had tried all his persuasive arts and found them unavailing. If his social ideal were to become a reality, he would have to abandon his most familiar weapon and advocate the use of force. That he did so, despite a professed aversion to conflict. may have demonstrated the precedence which ends took over means in Franklin's thought. The quest for ultimate political order was to be pursued even at the cost of momentary disorder ... 
from Poor Richard's Politicks Paul W. Conner pp. 158-161 Oxford Univ Press 1965 
U.S. in Pakistan 
Editor: 
All of us have seen pictures and read recently about the suf­ferings of people in Eastern India and East Pakistan. Are we fully enough aware -as Mrs. Indira Gandhi's visit to the United 'States pointed up -that the conditions of war are aided by our own nation, the United States, and by us, perhaps mostly by neglect? In the issues of every sort of news magazine and commentary the story can be found. The United States has supported with arms and voicelessness the West Pakistan government in its bloody sup­pression of an attempt by the people of East Pakistan to be free of their Western oppressors. The two parts of Pakistan can hardly be one nation, yet the stupid atrocity goes on and fully disrupts the neighboring nation of India to the QQint of another 
outbreak of war. 

Ll't us unleash upon our Pr<>sident and officials and representatives in Washington a torrent of letters and messages to clarify our nation's part in this intolerable suffering in our world. It is hardly enough to feel sympathy over touching 
photographs and related to us in peacemakers.  sad order  accounts to be  
Yours sincerely, Sister M. Puthoff  

Barkett answers 
(The following is a copy of a letter SBP John Barkett sent in reply to Glenn Sorge's letter in the Observer--ed.) 
Dear Glenn Sorge: 

It's not very often that I have to receive letters addressed to me through the medium of the campus newspaper, but I hope ~·ou don't mind me answering you personally, though the Observer will receive a copy of this letter. 
First. let me say that I am sorry you felt you had to say the things you said through the newspaper instead of in person. Your attack was a very personal one, Glenn, and I would hope, in the future, if you feel that strongly about the actions of others, you would not hestitate to express your feelings or at least search for explanations -in case they may exist, of course -in person rather than relying on quotes in a newspaper as your only contact with the person. 
Secondly , Glenn, you generalized quite often in your letter and, since you are a Senator. I suggest you attend the next Senate meeting to air some of your views to see what the rest of the campus representatives in the Senate feel. Since you sound so vocal in this regard, I wish you would have attended the first two Senate meetings, or the SLC meetings, or the HPC meetings, or tried to see me -in person earlier in the year to let me hear your views. I and many others might have been enlightened and perhaps a course of action more favorable to you might have been followed. · 
Thirdly, Glenn, I would like very much to sit down and talk with you at your convenience about this question and any others that may be bothering you about my year in office. Though we may not come to any 

(317) 547-9971 


Clothes and things Men's Boutique 
"On the Mall"-McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center-Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­
7:135 

agreements, at least we should comt' to understand and know l'ach other better than we do now. I've been in Alumni to speak twice this year already and would be happy to make the trip over to vour room. Just let me know when you have time. 
.Just one more thing. Please feel free to call me "John" in­stead of "Barkett." when we get together. I get enough of that in the classroom, if you know what I nwan. 
!\lost sincerely' .John Barkett Student Body President 
An Alternative 
Editor: 
You forgot to mention another course of action you could take in regards to extending parietal hours -TRANSFER. 
· Did you ever hear the old adage, "Pee or get off the pot." 
N''lme wt"the}d. 
A moral policy 
Editor: 
Just a note concerning the warm, efficient service at the Notre Dame Infirmary. 
Wednesday evening, around 11 p.m., a friend of ours became ill at the folkfest in LaFortune Center. We carried her to the infirmary where we stood for ten minutes awaiting an answer at the door. The nurse's opening line was, "We don't allow females in here, only Notre Dame student­s." We politely explained that our friend was a St. Mary's senior, who had passed out twice and was even now delerious. The nurse reviewed the infirmary policy for another five minutes as our friend suffered. Before our patience ran out, we persuaded her to call a security guard who we hoped would show a little more human decency than the nurse. The guard arrived and immediately took us to the 
ND SOCCER CLUB Meeting Friday, Nov. 19 4 pm 127 Nieuwland 
hosp.ital. For what ever reason, the nurse refused to give her name. 
Doctors: Please take a good look at the personnel involved in .the infirmary and explain to them that there is a moral policy that transcends that of the In­firmary. Sex makes no difference when the person is suffering and anyone who places technicalities above a person's comfort is a poor excuse for a nurse. 
The hospital confirmed that our friend had a serious internal infection requiring immediate attention, 


UNEXPECTED BEAUTY AWAITS THE TRAVELER
IN THE FABLED CITY OF LOVE. 
{f;E.~~) TJ=~0 VISCONTI ;;;:~~v;~ 
, ·~,
HIT~~ 
PANAVISION<Il TECHNICOLOR<Il 

A Nice GIRL 
LIKe
Me
Plus An Avcu Emb; Starring 
Barbara Ferris 

Become a big brother to a fatherless South Bend boy 
4 one hour training sessions this semester. 
Meet your little brother next semester. 
1st session Tonight 
7PM 

303 Engineering Bldg. 

Thursday, November 18, 1971 THE OBSERVER Pep7 
II II

Irish say no to bovvls 
by Vic Dorr '74 oriented, ball control offense, and "So we've just decided against decided · . accept a bowl bid-­Colorado, Arkansas, and North 
this style of play doesn't do any bowl games. What'll happen would have been a Gator Bowl Carolina could become topThe Notre Dame football team, anything to attract bowl scouts, 
now is that the seniors on the berth opposite either Penn State contenders." in a closed meeting last night, who are interested in free­team will get a chance to play in or Georgia. But now, apparently The two other "major" bowl
apparently voted not to take part wheeling, run-up-the-point all of the post-season Senior even this is out of the picture. games are the Cotton Bowl inin any post-season bowl games. teams. 
Bowls. And the underclassmen'? Nebraska(10-0) and 
Dallas and the Rose Bowl in nounced, but it would appear that final ratings. Pasadena. In Dallas, as in 
No official decision was an-And then there's the matter of Well, they'll get their chance for Oklahoma <9-n) own the top spots 
a bowl next year." in both polls, and neither coach 
the Irish have elected not to "Look at it this way," said a This line of reasoning was wanted to go into the Jacksonville, the "choice" seems accept any bowl invitations for member of the team who reinforced by speculation that Thanksgiving Day showdown to center around Penn State and the current season. preferred to remain anonymous. both of the top bowl attractions on "without a bowl contract in his Georgia. One berth in the Dallas 
Heasons, of course, \\-<!re not "It would take a miracle--no, New Year's Day are already pocket." 
game has already been filled, and

revealed either, but there was more than a miracle--for us to locked up. The Sugar Bowl is Gator Bowl officials, while plenty of speculation. NO's bowl wind up as the top team even if reported to have already booked trying to land "two of the three it will go to the winner of the credentials werE> not the best to we did go to a bowl game. Do you number two Oklahoma and among Penn State, Notre Dame, Southwest Conference ...either begin with. Irish, following their remember who the number four number five Auburn for their and Georgia" for the December 
Texas, Arkansas, or Texas A&M.

mid-season loss to Southern Cal, team was last year'? Do you matchup. While in Miami, the 31 tilt in Jacksonville, have by no 
ar(' the only team in the top seven remember who the number three Orange Bowl committee is means settled on a choice. Penn The game that has already to have a blemished record, and team was in 1969'? No. People leaning strongly toward top-rated State would appear to be a shoo­been decided is the Rose Bowl. 
undefeated teams are certainly only remember the top teams, Nebraska and fourth-ranked in, but the other slot is a question Stanford, the Pacific-8 winner,
more attractive than once-beaten and even if we went, we probably Alabama for their New Year's mark. Said a Gator Bowl Of­teams. wouldn't finish much higher Day Classic. ficial: will meet Michigan, the Big-10 Besides this, the Irish have than third or fourth <the Irish are And if this is indeed the case, "If we don't come up with two champ, in Pasadena on New operated all year with a ground-currently seventh in both polls.) NO's best bet--if the Irish had of our three leading teams, then Year's Day.
Vic D or f=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=======================================::::::::::::========~-================= 
From Cavalier to Leprechaun Patton isn't just a linebacker 
In coming here, Eric had to
by Lefty Ruschmann '7:1 

leave his fiancee behind, and face Down at the University of Virginia, they still talk about Dick When that bruised kneecaJJ 
up to a university policy that was DiBiaso. sidelined defensive ace Walt less than philanthropic toward 
They talk about how the young basketball coach could make his Patulski for he Tulane game, married students. But those booming voice echo back and forth across the playing floor of spacious fans were not too surprised to see problems have since dissolved ­University Hall. They talk about his occasional run-ins with Atlantic Eric Patton spelling him at the Eric's girl is now Mrs. Peggi Coast Conference referees. But most of all, they talk about the job he opening coin toss. But Eric at Patton, married 2 'h years and, did as coach of the Cavalier freshman team, and how he helped defensive end? A linebacker at present, the mother of "l1h develop athletes like Tim Rash, Barry Parkhill, and Bill Gerry into playing there'? children, a daughter, and another top-rate A.C.C. players. Not just a linebacker, but the child on the way." 
Dick DiBiaso is no longer at Virginia. He now occupies office C7 in the biggest man on the Patton has figured prominently the Athletic and Convocation Cneter, and is a prime figure in NO's linebacking crew (6-2, 235), Eric in Notre Dame's defensive plans, revitaliz('d basketball program. possesses enough muscle and as co-captain of his freshman 
And it is no coincidence that DiBiaso happened to end up at Notre quickness to hold his own on the squad, sophomore understudy to Dame, or that he happened to end up as a member of Digger Phelps' front four. When he wasn't virtuosi Bobo Olsen and Larry"Sesame Street" coaching staff. cracking helmets with offensive Schumacher, and, for the last 
"Coach Phelps and I have been friends for a long time," said linemen, he diagnosed the two years, a starting linebacker. DiBiaso. "I taught and coached in Digger's home town, and our Greenies' formations -his usual Jokingly, Patton referred to the
I~ 
families grew pretty close together. Then, when I went to UVa, we still job on the Irish defense. And if Eric Patton 
linebacking position as the

kept in close contact, and he called me as soon as the opportunity to Notre Dame-s defense gave "garbage pot", too small for the move up here arose." anything away in the stinginess remember it ten years from front line, too slow for the back­The decision might have been a tough one for DiBiaso to make. department, Tulane has yet to get today rather than now. We knew 
field," then appra!sed the

Virginia's basketball fortunes have been on the upswing during the word about it. it was still part of the season." past several years, and for a while last season the Cavaliers made a With the big man out, Pa~­But, respe~ ting the power of qualifications as the JOb: speed, strong run at the A.C.C. title. Virginia's program is a strong one, and it seghian departed from his usual emotions on the football field, he size, agility, and lateral figures to be just as stong this year. Bue Dick DiBiaso didn't hesitate defensive alignment. "I played added, "We get psyched over movement. for a moment when Digger Phelps and Notre Dame asked him to come at defensive end with Musuarca more close -to -home things, like When Patton and his team­
the desire to win every game -mates call it a season, the per­
north. playing inside me. We usually 
"Any second thoughts'? No, not about leaving for Notre Dame. I use a 4-4-3 set, but against Pitt that's what keeps us going." formance of the Notre Dame know the A.C.C. is one of the best basketball conferences in the and Tulane, we went into a pro­Coming from the heart of defense will be a tough act to country, but there was no hesitation at all when Digger asked me to style 4-3-4," explained Patton. Pacific -8 country, such schools follow. "I consider this defense join him. I guess it might sound kind of corny, but I believe in him, and Eric's on -the -field promotion as Stanford and USC contended to be the best at Notre Dame in I believe in what he does. That---and the fact that this is Notre Dame-­to captain came when he and for Patton's talents. But even 
the past ten years," he declared. 

that's why I came." seven other seniors were making before his high school days in Santa Ana, Calif. Eric had Good enough for a major bowlBut most of the original "glow" has worn off by now, and DiBiaso­their last appearance before the bid'? "I hope so," he offered ­and the rest of the ND cage staff---are tangling with a king-sized Notre Dame crowd. In spite of thought of attending Notre Dame. 
precisely the feelin~ on campus.

challenge ... that of meeting a near-professional schedule with a very the final -game sentiment ''Other teams -Nebraska, USC, inexperienced team. floating about Notre Dame and the like-come and go," said After graduation,-Eric hopes to "I can only tell you what we've told everybody else," he said. "We Stadium, Eric downplayed the Patton, "but Notre Dame is the play pro ball. "I'd like a shot at only compare the kids with each other, and we're pleased with what <•motional factors. "Sure, it was class team of the nation. There is it. The pro game is a challenge as we've seen so far. They've shown us good effort, and they're working on everybody's mind. But we'll only one Notre Dame." well as a good career." hard. We're tyring to put in a new system, and the kids are naturally making mistakes tyring to learn it. They get disheartened at times, but they never let up." 
IH championship Sunday 
There may be question marks surrounding the team and its schedule, but there are none as far as DiBiaso's adjustment to Notre Dame is concerned. 
"There's no reason to change to pinch the middle and force"From a family standpoint, this is a great place to be. The now." says Meconi. "The triple them outside," the juniorUniversity has a lot of activities that my family can get involved in, The Interhall football season option 'Miller, with Joe Holzmer stalwart added. "When they get
and it's an excellent environment for raising children. eomes to a close this Sunday outside, that's where Eddie and I
at fullback and Pat Casey at"This place is great from a professional point of view, too. I mean, afternoon when Dillon and tailback) has been our bread­will be waiting for them." 
('Verything around here is first class. The facilities, the other coaches Morrissey square off for the and-butter all season. We'll pass Injuries could play quite a part we work with, the secretaries, everything. But I guess that's to be campus championship at Cartier if necessary, but the ground in the outcome of the contest. 
expected. This is Notre Dame, and as far as I'm concerned, it's one of Field. Game time is slated for 1 game is our strong point." Dillon has been consistentlythe tope, if not the top, university in the country. I know one thing. I've PM. and the battle shapes up as "It's basically going to come plagued all season, includinghad a lot' of other coaches come up to me and tell me that they'd like to 
be here." one of the top title clashes in down ·to a battle between our costly ones that eliminated recent years. finesse and their power," Meconi veteran starters Mike Dacey and 
And Digger did have plenty to choose from when it came time to pick Morrissey has a lot of bit-
added. "Despite what's been Don Vicars. The entire running
his top assistants, but he knew who he wanted. He wanted DeBiaso, IPrness stored away after the written about our defense, the hack corps has been makeshift. 
and he wanted Frank McLaughlin, and he got them both. Both men semifinal loss to the Big Red last offense has been our stronger Dick "The Bird" Biro has been arelisted as varsity assistants, although McLaughlin is also concerned season. Both clubs entered the asset. and we'lllook for it to come out since the season opener, andwith the Irish frosh. 
game unscored upon and un-through again this weekend." Mike Harrington was lost in the "We've each got our responsibilities," said DiBiaso, "and Coach beaten. Defenses dominated the The Big Red's fighting defense narrow win over Sorin. RuggedMcLaughlin is responsible for the freshman team. But there'll be contest that went five periods, is as tough as ever, and eager to Nick Peluse <both ways, at tight 
some overlapping. When Coach McLaughlin's out of town, I'll work and ended o-o. Dillon was then <'nd and middle linebacker) is a
try to stifle Miller's Marauders.
with the freshmen, and when I'm gone, he'll work with the varsity. 
uutside linebackers Tiger Ryan hig question mark, while QB
When it comes time to recruit our student-athletes for next year, then awarded the victory on the basis 
the entire staff will do it." of having out "first-downed" the and Eddie Carney will head the Randy Stasik is plagued with 
Marauders, 9-7. defense that consistently ranks back problems but will be ready
"At UVa, I had a specific job of coaching the freshmen, and then Junior Vince Meconi leads the as one of the tops in all of In­at game time.
recruiting,·rom a certain area. But that's not the way we're going to do M · d f th terhall. "With another good Morrissey, however, is in 100it here. Everything that comes out of this office will come out as a unit .dorl~lssey h~lqua thro~ . e
"ll t .. s1 e mes. w 1 e ano er Jumor, performance from the entire percent condition, physically. 
effort... every thmg . w1 come ou as one. . Hon S·•lyer ·d s ca bl r unit," said Ryan, "we should be The superb linebacking unit of
The first season will probably be a very long one for Digger Phelps .. h~ g Thov~ e . ja eh me 
10 able to handle Miller." Dan Ryan, Bill Godfrey, Timand Dick DiBiaso and Frank McLaughlin, but one thing is certain. <oa~ · e arau. ers ave "It will be up to the line (Joe McCauley, and Jerry RichardsonEventually this "Sesame Street" staff will bring the Irish to national ;no;•:dk t~~ kb~l.ll behmd .quar­
1 LaRocca, Animal Cunningham, is intact and will head the defense 
basketball prominence. And when it comes, that prominence will be ~r )dgc t . T t. er ~rnmng a Mike Bireley, and Billy Niezer) against the Big Red ·the result of a unit effort. s ron ripe 0 P IOn a season. 
Page a THE O'BSERFJRII Thursday, November 18, 1971 
New electives to be offered in education 
by Ann Therese Darin 

St. Mary's Undergraduate Dl'partment of Education plans to offl'r three new education l'lectives second semester in "Montessori concepts," "the American College," and "Rl'ligious Education," the Observer learned yesterday. 
Sr. Jean Parasino will teach a three-credit course in Montessori concepts and philosophy, limited to 25 students. The Montessori concept of _education, according to Sr. Parisino, stresses "tremendous creative powers within the child that are not recognized in the traditional nursery school education." 
She said she plans to consider the education of the child ac­cording to Dr. Montessori's methods from pre-school through adolescence. The format of the course will be both lectures and observations. Sr. Parasine will base her lectures on Dr. Mon­tessori's writings, related readings, and her own ex­periences, she said. Observation will include trips to area Mon­tessori schools <possibly Chicago.) 
She intends to require no papl'rs or readings for the class, which is scheduled Tuesday­Thursday from 2-4 pm. 
Bdore coming to St. Mary's, Sr. Parasine received her B.A. from Georgian Court College, Lakewood, New Jersey. She has a cl'rtificate in Montessori Pre­School from the Washington Montessori Institute. At the Centre Internazionale Studii Montessoriani, Bergame, Italy, she studied elementary Mon­tessori training. 
Assistant Notre Dame Dean of Students Robert Ackerman will offer a three-credit education elective in "The American College," scheduled as Education Directed Headings No. 476. 
"What I'm trying to do," Ackerman commented, "is to develop a course that deals with the university and college--­where they come from, why they wpre organized, what they are supposed to do, how they are financed. what is the role of the student. administrator. Trustee, how are' they legally organized?" 
Awarded a B.A. and M.A." from State University of Wisconsin at Oshkosh, he earned his doctorate in higher education from Indiana University. Limited to 20 students, it will meet Monday­Wednesday-Friday at 9:00 am. 
A team of professors and graduate students from Notre Dame's Graduate School of Education will also initiate a course next semester in "Religious Education." 
Summarizing the objectives of the course Miss Norine Dugan, one of the coordinators, com­mented. "Quite unlike the courses that have been and are being offered in other areas of religion and theology, this course will attempt to be a series of Pxperiences in which the par­ticipants will hopefully be ex­posed to a world view in which there is a place for the type of thinking and feeling that they are living today." 
WANTED 
Need ride to or towards Greely Colorado for Thanksgiving. Call Chip 8256. 
Needed: Ride to Pittsburgh Nov. 
20. Call Carol 5748. 
Riders needed to Eastern Penn­sylvania for Thanksgiving 
(Scranton, Allentown, and all points East on interstatP 80. l Leave this Friday or Saturday ­
Reasonable rates! Call Bob 1474.. 
Need ride to Baton Rouge for LSU qame !hi~ weekend . can leave anytirne after noon Friday . call 8756 or 8257. Will share expenses and provide a place to stay and meals. 
Needed: Ride to NYC tor T11anksgiving. Can leave Nov. 19. Call Mike 1628. 
Need ride to Florida (Ft. Lauderdale) tor Thanksgiving. Ci111 Mike 1650. 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio Friday Nov. 19. Call Joe 1650. 
Need ride to St. Louis, Nov. 20. CCIII Steve 1691. 
Need ride to Dayton, Ohio on Friday Nov. 18. Call Nancy, 232­6882. 
Need ride to Madison Fri. Nov. 19. Carol 232-6882. 
Seen a white female 6 mo. Sl1epard Husky? Lost near the apartments. Reward. 233 4070. Ollie come home. 
Lost. Notebook History of AmPrican Hemisphere. Call 8876. 
Lost: ND Class Ring, in Nieuwland Hall, Reward, Call 3313. 
Notre Dame -Saint Marys T eatre present Noel Cowards 
BLITHE SPIRIT 

Washington Hall 8:30pm November 12, 13, 18, 19. 20 
Tickets $2. Faculty, students Notre Dame -St. Mary's staff $1.50. Ticket information at 284-4141 
or Box Office 284-7054. 

ON THE CAMPUS 
... NOTRE DAME 

CL/1S.SIFIED ADS 
Ride wanted to Detroit Grosse Pointe area, Tuesday November 
73. Plei'lse call Pete at 1104. 
rwo room Apt., Kitchen. Share hath. December, Second semester. 288 0247. 
Need ride to northwest suburb ot DPtroit on 24th and back on 28th. Downtown okay too. Will share. Eel 8141. 
Need rider for K.C. this Friday at 3:00. Rich 1254. 
Wanted: Girl volunteer tutors for Upward Bound students. Call 
3195.  Mr.  Archie  Bradford,  
Upward  Bound,  Box  458,  Notre  
Dame.  

Wanted Ride to Muncie, ln. Anytime this Friday . Gil 6810. 
Need ride to Cincy Thanksgiving or Missouri, Friday, Call 6880. 
I need a SMC girl to spend Thanksgiving with me. 3250. 
Need riders to Des Moines. Leave Monday 11 22 afternoon. Call 6729. 
NPed riders to Tulsa Oklahoma. Leave Tues. 23. Call Lew 1254. 
Wantf;'d: 3 Boxes of Pabst Blue­Ribbon Inserts. Call Bill7414. 
Wanted: Primary source material of entire research paper on Temple of Apollo at Bassae. Call Kirk 12:00 1:00 Wk days. 
7471. 
Research Vehicle leaving du Lac for U. ot Chicago Friday af. lernoon. Need 2 riders. (Share Expenses) Special rates for femi'lles. Call Kirk 272-1885 or Bob 3110. Thanks. 
Wanted: More time to finish Archie report and drawings. If any available see soph. Archie class. 
PERSONALS 
Marilyn, Thank you tor your blue eyes. Jav 
Blue space: Don't let the sky sweat. crunch 
Dozed oft. Nonsense. No Doze now 
Zapd 
Sleazy.easy Wabbit Lay-off Andy Love that coat. 
Tom. 
M.G.S.: Love to you on your birthday! The masked saguaro 
Peter, I could never forget your kiss. Fiti 
Even if your mother doesn't love you, Willard Phelps does. 
East campus sweet 164 will be qiven no further abuse due to recent stellar performances. 
West Campus Cracker Eaters 
lonely senior needs girlfriend to share good times with. this is not a game, it's for real. 
call phil 6872 

Karen, Sorry to wake you. We cqn't go on communicatiri'!J like this. Do 
something! JAH 
Dear boys of Breen-Phillips, We know the score. Love, Kathie, Margaret, Mary, and Mary L:.:o:.::u~----­
one show only Richard Harris in "CAMELOT" Fri. Nov. 19 at 8 pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Adm. $1.00 SMC soph class. 
LOST 
. I lost a man's gold I D braclet that has a very special meaning to me. It says Dave on the outside ond Renee on the inside. Please call 7835. 
Stolen: Blue wallet, ID's, very important, $10 reward, contact Ed Hoban 259 9286. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. 

'67, Air cond., Power steering and IJrakes. 'His Hers' transmission, tinted glass, black interior. Call and make bid. 289-7433. 
Unique personalized stationery, Ihe perfect Christmas gift tor that special someone. Inquire by call 1167 or come see our vast selection i11 611 Grace or 315 South Regina. 
Blues Albums $3. Artists: Magic Snm, Buddy Guy, Junior Wells and others. One week only. Come to Biology Library. 
Save Money on latest LP's Student Record sales endures! List $5.98 . 3.65, $4.98 . 3.15. 313 Morrissey or ph. 3575. 
For Sale: Sony Tape Recorder­portnble reel-to reel stereo, buill in ampIifier, 2 speakers, ac. resories. Garrard SLX 2 Turn table with base, sust cover and rnal}netic cartridge. Both in excellent condition. Mike 8712. 
For Snle: Full sized refrigerator. FREE cute, playful kittens. 232­6509 No. 4527. 
Sale ; Round trip ticket to D.C. Thanksgiving•. Call John 6858. 
Sale: N.J. Club flight to Newark (not return). Warren 1396. 
For sale: Key to Katie Ryan's room. Contact 5727 for details talk lo the truck driver. 
NOTICES 
NEED MONEY? 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement ot La Fortune 
11.1512:15. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Into concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
Organic food coop. Save money for your old age. 272-3285. 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS. Australia, Europe, 
s. America, Africa, etc. All professions and occupations, $700 to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overt1me, sightseeing. Free in­formation Write Jobs Overseas, Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, 
CA. 92115. 
St. Louis Club Thanksgiving Bus 
Sales. 
For reservations and information call Jim at 1061. Sign·ups this week, 7-9 in Room 164 Alumni. $20.00 round trip. 
Married Couples: 
Great opportunity to start a business part time without in­lerfering with your present in­come. Set your own hours. Make as much money as you want. Eilrn a new car. Business goes with you anywhere in United States. Write for particulats. 
W.D. Batchelor 
50766 Mayfair Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
Cllristmas Loans up to $150. Pay back January 20. Morrissey Loan Fund Closes Dec. 10. 
Students. Check out our pre­winter brake overhaul. For $49.50 we install new shoes, turn all 4 drums, rebuild all tour cylinders, repack bearings, bleed and adjust brakes. Guaranteed. 
Roseland Brake clinic. 104 Dixie Way North. 272-0081. 
Interested in European Flight Dec. 31 · Jan 16 for $165? Phone 7857, 8460, or 6575. 
Lost: Eyeglasses in brown alligator case. Call 1153. 
NEW AD RATES 
Words 1da. 2da 3da 4da Sda 
1·10 .65 .95 LIS 1.35 1.55 
11-l 5 1.00 !.SO 1.85 2.10 2.40 
16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 
21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 
26-30 2.10 3. IS 3.95 4.75 5.45 
31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.35 6.15 
36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 
41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 
46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 





