M o n day , F e b r u·a r y 2 2, 1 9 7 1 
Mooney stresses more student involvement 
Mooney also called for "more during elections", Mooney said,
By Milt Jones 
emphasis on short range projects "who ever made the most prom­Speaking last night in Farley which can be realized within the ises was usually elected. Then coming year." students sat back and waited on
Hall, SBP candidate, Don Moon­Mooney stated that "most of those promises to be fulfilled."
ey, cited the need for a "student 
the problems on campus are "One main fault in this is that
association which will coordi­nate student activities which the social. There must be a change in students lean too much on gov­students themselves suggest, the daily activity stagnancy that ernment and don't get involved rather than a confining, bureau­students go through now. There themselves," he added. "Also 
cratic government." should be more social events for student government concentrat­students to participate in during ed on problems that can only be the week." solved over a course of many 
"Students should not study years."
Barkett presents 
simply because there is no other According to Mooney, some alternative," Mooney continued1 work should be done in these and that is virtually the present areas, but the emphasis should situation." be on projects which can be

diversified program 
ND and SMC should have effected sooner. "Projects to more events together which bring ND and SMC students to­
By Matt Cavanaugh 
-
would deemphasized the dating gether for example", he said. John Barkett emphasized aspect between the two campus­Mooney's elaborating on his the need for more communica­es he said. idea of a "student association", tion among the members of the Mooney explained that he and stated that "it would get some­student body last night. Don Sherry SBVP candidate, thing done when students want­Barkett, speaking in St. Ed's were running on the same ticket ed things done." Hall and Zahm, and his running with Kathy Barlow and Missy "But, " Mooney pointed out, mate Orlando Rodriguez speak­Underman "to work together to "the students must also partici­ing in Badin, noted the need for get something done for both pate. They can't throw all the campuses as a unit."
a better system of hall life and responsiblity off on student outlined points that would aid Speaking in Zahm hall, Moon­leaders. They can come up with students when co-education is ey noted that "student govern­ideas and we will help get them 
adopted. ments in the past had two main accomplished with their help." 
Barkett's plan for hall life John Barkett speaks in various dorms during his campaign for Student problems: overcompetitiveness, As an example, Mooney cited calls for a closer association of Body President. and over-concentration on long issues such as coed dorms which the Hall Presidents' Council with range programs." "In the past almost all students are in favor the student government and the of he claimed. "Students could 
students. He proposed that 
Flanner undecided come together in a big coed $10,000 be returned to the HPC on the main quad with to be distributed to the halls. bread and wine and grapes. This This money, taken from the would make the administration

Co-ed plan disputed sleep-in 
work faster because of its image consciousness. This is just an student government fees paid by 
every student, would be allotted 

By Greg Einboden of student residence, Harris was Harris and B:ud emphasize 
example of what students can do The Flanner Tower co-ed res­told that as things now stand, that their primary dispute with collectively." 
to the halls on the basis of need 
and financial stability. 

idency proposal, has run into present on-campus residents pro­the Flanner Commission and the According to Mooney, his as­Barkett stressed the point opposition from several Flanner bably be able to find on-campus proposal is in the manner in sociation would be a type ofthat "more communication, on a 
housing next fall if they desire 

person to person basis, is needed residents. "bargaining union" for student bet ween the residents of the Sophomores Tom Harris and it. (Continued on Page 8) proposals. Rick Bard are leading a drive to Harris points out, however, (Continued on Page 3)
halls and the rectors." With this 
show that the current proposal that that situation would changein mind he plans to set up does not have the majority hall drastically if the Flanner propo­workshops for the rectors and 

MECHA seeks aid,
backing which has been pre­sal was adopted. ~r-wouldthe hall presidents. 
viously assumed. l OQ ueilt in ilv exchange withBarkett, who said he was cer­According to Harris, "very Regina North. In addition, thetain that Notre Dame would 

Chicano counselor
few" Flanner residents had seen iuniversity has currently accept­have some form of co-education a copy of the proposal before it ed 2,450 prospective freshmen,in the near future, named several was presented to the General of which they estimate· approxi­national comm1tment to aid Chi­areas where improvements could 

Assembly Thursday night. Late mately 1600 will actually show By Jim McDermott canos.
be made. He stated the need for 

Thursday afternoon, Mike up next fall. If more than 1600 Dr. Grande replied that he
(Continued on Page 8) 

George, chairman of the Flanner were to actually show up the Members of MECHA, The agreed with their demands in Tower Academic Commission, housing situation would become Me xican-American association principle, but that he had no made copies of the proposal compiete "chaos" according to demanded that the University financial authority to realize 
available to the Flanner section Harris. employ an admissions recruiter them. He detailed the steps that leaders. However, no copies were Many upperclassmen would and a counselor for Chicanos, in the Admissions Office is taking distributed to the individual 
be forced to move off-campus addition to increasing financial in minority recruitment, but said


r~~fiji\l~f~l 
Flanner residents. because of the on-campus room aid given them at a meeting with that he himself found these to Since money was allocated to 
squeeze. Since the university has Dr. Peter D. Grande, Director of be inadequate bacause of finan­the Flanner Commission for the 25 0 transfers who Admissions, and I.
accepted are Fr. Charles cial restrictions. co-ed <>tudy, Harris argues that automatically forced to live off­McCarragher, Director of Finan­Grande also defeJlded the pol­
I~i.~~~~:.:~::::::~~~: I 


question reads: "Are you 
favor of the proposed co-education plan passed by the General Assembly of Students?" It asks that 
voters mark yes or no. 
The voting will take place in the halls at the lunch and dinner hours. Hall Presidents were asked by SBP Dave Krashna to 

copies of the proposal should campus, these upperclassmen cial Aid Friday night. icy of aiming inost of the 
have been distributed to each of would be forced to compete Gilbert Cardenas, a graduate recrutiment effort at those who with the transfers for the limited student, explained during the had done well on standardized
the 25 0 Flanner rooms. Harris and Bard cite numerous number of rooms available off-meeting why these steps are ne­tests such as the SATs. MECHA inconsistencies in ,the proposal -campus. cessary. The Chicano problem, had called such tests "culturally and point to the opposition that Additional opposition has he said, has been allowed to based," and irrelevant to Mexi­been voiced concerning the se­can-Americans.
has sprund up among Flanner exist too long. He claimed that 
curity measures which would be
residents once the details of the Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Uni­Fr. McCarragher said later necessitated in Flanner. The pro­
proposal become known. Bard versity Prsident, has permitted that he had no authority to 
has thus far collected 15 0 Flan­posal states that maid service in discrimination against Chicanos promise increased aid because of ner signatures on a petition op­Flanner would be discontinued to exist in "His own backyard," policies established bv the Uni-posed to the current proposal. in the private roo!J1S and the while he serves as Chairman of versity administration and the money saved would be used to
Bard said he has presented the the President's Civil Rights Com­Federal Government. In re­
costs of the

:i:i Wednesday no later than i:i: petition to "less than 50%" of cover experiment, mission. sponse to questions, he said he 
the Flanner residents. particularly security costs.
:;:; 11:00 that morning. ;:;: Cardenas saw the University could not promise to allocate a 
Oppositipn among Flanner However, according to Harris, 
being obligated socially aild mor­segment of existing money to
:;:; The run-off election, if ;:;: 
residents has been based primari­the most likely result is that the 
ally to aid the Chicanos, because Chicanos because the govern­
:;:; there is one needed will be ::;: 
ly upon the projected "room maid service would be discontin­
it is a Catholic university. He ment money which used because
~;~; held a week from today. ;~;~ 
squeeze," increased security ued but the money saved by the 
said it should be committed to the government money used
:;:; Candidates will not be at-;:;: 
measures, and the maid service university would still not be
:;:; lowed to spend more than ::;: serving the predominately Cath­could not be handled as "a lump
qdestion. enough to cover the added costs. olic Mexican-American sum."
:;:; fifty dollars or begin cam-;;;; 
In a discussion Friday with As a result, "Flanner rents community, an obligation that
:;:; paigning before noon Fri-;:;: 
Fr. Thomas Chambers, director would be raised." should go beyond the needed (Continued on Page fl)
~::~~!::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::! 
Page 2 Monday, February 22, 1971

TH/J O&r£RUBR 

F~E=n~o~u=g~h=ti=c=k=e~h~·=h=n=e=b=e=e=n=d=o=n=a=t=e=d=f=o=r=ili=e=N=Y=U=p=r=o=j=&=t=o=f=th=e=~~;T--~~~=-==~=~=~--~E~,~-a--lr-kett expla·ln
0 0 n e y,
HPC. All monitors are asked to be at the Library entrance nearest the computer center at 7:00pm Tuesday, Feb. 23. Though enough tickets were collected the project still needs eight drivers to get the kids out to the game. If you can help
please call Bruce Bower at 1488 or Channing Brackey at 1145. The organizers thank the students who donated tickets and ask for woperation concerning seating. 


WITH MAX SHULMAN 
(By tht: author ofRally Round 'the Flag, Boys ... Dobie Gillis ... clr.) 
Don't let success get you down 
Once there was an upwardly mobile man whom I will call Case­ment R. Glebe (not his real name). Even as an undergraduate Mr. Glebe didn't fumble and dither and grope for the meaning of life like some lazy long-haired slobs I could name. He knew exactly what life was about. Life was working hard so you could get good grades and graduate with honors and find a swell job and get married and move to Westport and have three children like every other decent American. And that's precisely what Mr. Glebe did. He graduated magna, a swell job in the advertising game, married a girl, whom I will Mavis Davis (her real name), who was not only service-oriented achievement-prone but also had a real nice build, and they bought lovely home in Westport with electric baseboard heating and within years they had three fine sturdy little boys-Flopsy, Mopsy and 
To his sons, Mr. Glebe was a loving but stern father. He raised to believe in his own guiding values-ambition, self-denial and work-and the boys responded brilliantly. Flopsy, the oldest, 
pw"'"''"u high school as valedictorian and was accepted by Harvard. be was, of course, v.ery proud and happy. The following year was also valedictorian and was also accepted by Harvard. 
Again Mr. Glebe was proud but, to be perfectly honest, not quite so happy, for now he had two sons in Harvard at the same time, which is something no rna~ in the world can afford, not even an advertising 


Then a horrible thought struck Mr. Glebe. "Good gl'ief!" he cried 
one night to his wife Mavis (her real name). "Next year Seymour gets 
out of high school. If he makes Harvard too, I am ruined!" 
He ran at once to Seymour's room and found the industrious "lad 
doing his homework in modern Sanskrit, urban entropy, ethnic alge­
bra and societal dysfunction. "Son, have you ever thought of becom­
ing a moral degenerate?" said Mr. Glebe to Seymour. "Wouldn't you 
like to drop out, maybe have an identity crisis, wear beads, get busted 
in Amsterdam, stuff like that?" 
"That's rich, Dad," said Seymour, chuckling, and went on to 
graduate as \·aledictorian and thence off to Han·ard. 
Poor Mr. Glebe! So distraught was he with financial worries that 
one day his mind ·finally buckled and he made a disastrous error. One 
of his accounts at the advertising agency was Dullbrau BePr which, 
frankly, was just an ordinary, run-of-the-mit! kind of beer. Still, Mr. 
Glebe had managed to think up this real catchy adnrtising slogan: 
Drink Dullbrau . .. it's better than nothinu 
Well sir, sales were not entirely what the Dullbrau people had been hoping for, so they insisted on a new slogan. And Mr. Glebe, the poor devil, his mind unhinged by fiscal problems, made the above­mentioned disastrous error. Here was his new slogan: 
Drink Dullbrau ... it's better than M1:Uer High Life 
Well sir, I guess I -don't have to tell you what happened! Every­
body in the country just stamped and hooted and laughed till they 
wept. "Dullbrau better than Miller High Life, the Champagne of 
Beers?" they cried, stamping and hooting and laughing till they wept. 
"How droll! Why, no beer is better than Miller! In fact, no beer is re­
motely as gond as Miller!" 
Then ' .rbody finished stamping and hooting and laughing till 
they wep' J went back to drinking Miller High Life and enjoying 
every dist. ctively delicious drop. Dullbrau, of course, went out of 
business. Mr. Glebe, of course, got fired. His sons, of course, had to 
quit school. 
Today, alas, the once prosperous Glebe family is destitute and 
living in a macrobiotic commune in the former Dullbrau brewery. Ex­
cept for Seymour. Though out of college, SPymour remained in Cam­
bridge and now works at a three-minute girl wash on Harvard Square. 
* * * 
We, the bre1ccrs of II!iller High L1je and the Npousor.~ of this column, offer our heartfelt sympathy to the luckless Glebe., . .4ud to the rest of you, we offer Millqr High Life, the Champagtte of Beers, in cans, bottles and kegs, delicious all wap" 



h II fi d•
a u n I n· g pr 0 p0 5 a I5 
The Observer is doing a series of interviews with the major Student Body Presidential candidates. The purpose of these interviews is to compare positions on a sin1de issue. Todav 's interview deals with the issue ofhall life. 
by Fred Shaefer & 
John Abowd Don Mooney and Dan Sherry favor a hall finance program that would direct the $12,000 gained from restoring the student government fee to $16 back to individual halls. Mooney and Sherry believe that the fee should be increased by $2 in order to return it to its 1969-70 level. They think that the Hall President's Council and a representative from off-campus should apportion the money ac­cording to the needs of the individual halls. "The smaller halls just can't get enough revenue, so the HPC would have to assign priorities," Sherry said. Mooney thought the money could be controlled if the HPC and the respective hall councils "are responsive to student opin­ion." "We can't have a watch dog agency on the funds without violating the concept of hall autonomy. The point of getting the money back to the halls is to Pa.Y for what the hall needs so the halls will probably use the money responsibly," Mooney said. In the area of improving hall life Mooney and Sherry think differentiation within the halls offers the most promising solu­tion. They recommend some single-sex halls, different types of coed halls, and some on-cam­pus apartments that include cooking facilites. 

Mooney said, "People are going to change this university, not student government. We're going to help the halls that need help but only the students who live in a hall can change it." 
He recommends an expanded hall fellows program using stu­dent government personnel to help peoplt~ in the interested halls. 
The candlidates think that the 

stay hall program and off-earn­
pus living problems are interelat­

ed concerns. Mooney hopes halls will "take the stand that they are not going to kick people out." 
He also thinks that the Uni­versity should make off-campus living more attractive. "The uni­versity should buy a house off­campus and convert it to an off-campus student center that would include class facilities, recreational facilities and per­haps a food or record co-op, he said. 
Mooney and Sherry believe that parietais are a dead issue. "People realized that all they had to do is bring girls into the halls and the rules would change. They discovered that students really do have the power to control their own lives." 
Mooney thinks students at Notre Dame should take the.. initiative in forming co-ed dorms if the trustees don't approve them. 
"If students start living like its a co-ed school then the rules will change," he said .. 

KENT STATE 
The campus CAMPUS callintheGuard? score: 4 students Hereiswhattruly dead, 11 wounded. UNDER happened-and NowPulitzerPrize FIRE why. Including winnerJamesMich-portraits of key ener reconstructs, hour people who have re­by hour, the events that mained obscure-until led to the bloody climax. now. Condensed from He answers such ques-Michener's forthcoming tions as: Were outside book. One of 41 articles agitators involved in the & features in the March riot?Wasitnecessaryto READEI~'S DIGEST 

John Barkett declared that if 

he is elected he intends to give 
the halls $1 0,000 "without an 
increase in Activity Fees." 
He said that he plans to 

take the money from Student 
Government fees. '"The debt was 
cut down this year from 
"$28,000 to $11,000. I feel that 
this will enable us to give the 
money to the halls without in­
creasing the Activities Fee." 
Before the money is given to 

the halls, Barkett envisions "pre­. ventive controls" on fund distri­bution, "the same as the Hall Presidents' Council presently 
uses." 
He explained that the halls' 

plans for the money would be 
examined, along with its fiscal 
stability. He feels that the use of 
these "preventive controls" be­
fore distribution of the money 
would eliminate the need for 
controls by the student govern­
ment after it is given out. 
Barkett and his running mate, 

Orlando Rodriguez, envision sev­
eral changes to improve hall life. 
They feel that "it would be good 
to change some rectors. The 
RA's should be kept informed 
and the Hall Presidents should 
be worked with." 
Barkett said, "A sense of 

otherness ne~drtR b~ developed. 
People should learn that the guy 
next door is a human being. We 
just need a change in attitude." 
Rodriguez said, "I very much 

like the stay hall system. The 
hall is a freshman's first impres­
(Continued on Page 8) 


ND Blacks host show 
The purpose and goals of the Afro-American Society at Notr~ Dame will be discussed on to­night's presentation of "Black Inquiry" over WSN D-FM. Frank Douglas, a Black Notre Dame student hosts this sometimes controversial program each week and . tonight will inerview Ernie Jackson, president of the Afro­American Society at Notre Dame. Jackson, sometimes a controversial figure himself. has promised to tell it like it really is for a Black student at a mostly­white, mostly-Catholic univer­sity. The program bi:!gins at 7: 00 this evening with music and comments by Frank Douglas fol­lowed by the interview·. 1' 
"Black Inquiry" -a voice from and to the Black communi­ty on WSND-FM, on and off the campus, at 88.9 Mffz on a)1y FM receiver. · ', 
Free shuttle bus passes are now available for Notre Dame students with night St. Mary's classes ac­cording to yesterday's Stu­dent Union announce­ment. 
Eligible students can pick up their passes Mon­day, February 2 2, 3:30 to 
5:30 and Wednesday Feb-. ruary 24, 3:30 to 5:00 in the Student Union officeSJ . fourth floor LaFortune Student Center. 
Students must have ID's. 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 



Monday, February 22, 1971 711£ QBSERfJER. Page 3 
Barlow-Underman advocate hall autonomy with realistic platform 
By Ann Darin stated Miss Barlow, "not lateral-ienced in working with merging community government. with Don Mooney and Dan 
Kathy Barlow and Missy Un-ly as in Susan Turnbull's ad mini-commissions," said Miss Under-Regarding coeducation, Miss Sherry, Miss Underman explain­derman, student body presiden-stration, but vertically as Ann man, presently the co chairman Barlow believes it should be an ed,"lt was more of an idea to tial and vice-presidential candi-Marie Tracey tried to do this of the ND SMC Academic Com-"annihilation." She said there show that there can be coopera­dates, released their platform year." mission. Miss BarlO\\' served this are several good programs on tion. We're willing to work with Friday advocating hall autono-"We want to create an aware-year as co-<:hairman of the joint both campuses which should be anybody though." my and a continuation of coedu-ness in the underclasses so that student government report on maintained. Neither slate of candidates, cation through the merging of "Although it has suffered a however, will campaign on the student governments. few setbacks in recent weeks, we other campus. 
In publicizing the joint state-believe community government A provision for weekly meet-m ent, the candidates said, is valuable. To destroy present ings with the president and the "Everything in our platform is working structures like it would dean of students is included in realistic. It is based on our ex-be a mistake," Miss Barlow said. heir platform to "afford better perience with student govern-She added that Notre Dame's communication between stu­ments on both campuses this student government should try dents and administration." year." and work with SMC's and on the They would also improve 
Miss Barlow advocates more other hand, that SMC should be communications by e~tablishing hall responsibility in determining represented in the Hall Presi-a public relations post in their parietals and weekly hall meet-dents' CounciL Executive Cabinet for a repre­ing s with student government A second point concerning sentative from the Observer. In leaders as catalysts for student coeducation, which the candi-this post, the commissioner activities because halls are "the dates stressed, is "the need to be would be responsible for publi­basic unit of college structure." SBVP candidate Missy Underman creative and flexible." They cizing all meetings and other 
She and Miss Underman they can participate effectively coeducation and as commission-favor the retention of St. Mary's student government activities" 
would also develop a hall fellows in community government every er for the combined ND-SMC within Notre Dame's structure as The candidates also list bett~r 
program similar to one at Farley year instead of just senior year," Off -Campus Commission. Both an experimental college. security and better social facili-
Hall and possibly split Regina said Miss Barlow. of the candidates sat on the Questioned why they announ-ties in conjunction with Notre 
and LeMans into two autono-On coeducation, the candi-Executive Cabinet of St. Mary's ced their candidacies jointly Dame in their platform. 
mous hall governments. dates favor joint cabinets and 
In addition to activating hall commissions, a joint Hall Presi­
government, the team said they dents Councile, and the creation 
would work more with under-of an Ombudsman's post at St. 
classmen. "We want to develop Mary's. 
strong under.class leadership," "Both Kathy and I are exper-


MOoney on dorms 

(Continued from Page 1) aJiocate more money to various 
organizations such as the 
Mooney also stressed the need Afro-American society, and 
to "put more controls on stu­others." 
dent life in the hands of the Dan Sherry, SBVP candidate 
halls." He advocates giving the on Mooney's ticket spoke in 
IIall President's Co unci! control Morrissey HalL He said "student 
of allocating funds from the government should bring stu­
student. activity fee instead of dents together on more natural 
letting the student senate con­terms. There slwuld be an open­
tinue doing so. ness and creativity on the part of 
He also cited the need to raise the student body to originate· 
the student activity fee by two ideas. Don and I have plans to 
dollars, which would make it the orgainze Friday social activities 
same amount that it was two which stress guys and girls 
years ago. Mooney stated that coming together openly rather 
"this would make it possible to than just on a date basis." 
•
Sophs VIe for SMC post 
By Ann Conway of Academic Affairs Commis­
Jean Seymour is a sophomore sioner, the other commissionPhilosophy major from Pittsburg seat to be elected hy the studentPa. 
body. A Humanistic Studies ma­jor, Miss Elliott stated, "I'm
Explaining the value of her 

Summer School.
interested in Academic affairs,
experience thi~ year in hall acti­and I think this will be a way to
vities, Miss Seymour said, "I've accomplish something."
become aware of a lot of things 

For those of you who don't want to
wrong around here~ I've com­Her platform consists primar­plained a lot and decided to do ily of curriculum reform. She 

give up one for the other.
something. It's really an obliga­stated, "Uncertain as the future tion." 
of St. Mary's is, it is difficult to set forth a plan of academic
Her platform consists of six 

goals." ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
points including: coordination •• Summer Sessions at the University of California offer college stu-•• 
between committees in the • dents and teachers a choice of courses for credit as wide as most colleges •
Connie

Two sophomores, : offer during the regular semester. 
:school as a basis for committee Byrne and Jane Seymour, will • Each campus has the facilities and environment to which the most •action; a program to make 

oppose one another for the po­• academic-minded student can relate. • Freshman more active and aware sition of Student Affairs Com­: There are 2 six-week sessions ~t Berkeley, U.C.L.A. and Davis. And : of student government more day • sessions of various lengths at Irvine, Riverside, San Diego, Santa Barbara, •
missioner in Friday's Student 

• and Santa Cruz. •
students active in student Body elections at SMC. 

: All of them start in mid-June,fees for each ranging from $125 to $160. :government; more communica­• For an application and a bulletin on one or more campuses, just fill •Miss Byrne, a sophomore Eng­
tion between the factions of • out this coupon and mail it to: • 
lish Lit major from Cleveland

community government; and im­•• 570 University Hall, University of California, Berkeley, Calif. 94720 •• 
porvement of Community gov­views the Student Affairs Com­•• D Berkeley D Davis D Irvine D Riverside D San Diego ••missioner as "a spokesman, noternment. 

: D Santa Barbara 0 Santa Cruz D D.C.L.A. : 
an iqitiator." She stated that if SMC and •• I am a 0 student, 0 teacher at: ••
Her platform, she stated, is not one of issues. "I'm aware of

ND merged, she hoped girls •• I am interested !n these courses: •• 
would take an active part in 

issues, hut I can see no point instudent government. She hoped coming on strong with plans •• ••
• Name •
also that there would be a place 

when we don't know where St. • ••
in the merged govewmem~. for all • Address
Mary's will be next year. I view

people who wanted to be active •• City/State/Zip ••
the job as a challenge to get

in Student Government. •
people talking. The Committee Junior Maureen Elliott is run­is not interested in my opinion, ning unopposed for the position hut student opinion." 

... ---------------~----------------------------' 

Page 4 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
GlenS. Corso, Editor-in-Chief John E. Knorr , Executive Editor Bruce Rieck , Business Manager 
The average schoolmaster is and always must be essentially an ass, for how can one imagine an intelligent man engaging in so puerile an avocation? 
-H. L. Mencken 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
Burtchaell and the drug suspensions 
The Observer has learned that responsibility for the dullwitted order to suspend four students, three of whom have been acquitted from drug charges, belongs not to Dean of Students Fr. James Riehle, but, ominously, to University Provost James T. Burtchaell. Burtchaell, self-admittedly the man wllo gave the order, vigorously defended Riehle for carrying it out. There is no defense for Burtchaell. 
The idea of suspending students on a charge that has been disproven in the cnurts is both morally repugnant and extraconstitutionally bold. We must believe that llle courts are more capable of judging guilt and innocence than the provost of Notre Dame; no matter how many gold stars the latter won in the seminary, the former is still the accepted system of jurisprudence in this nation. lf' the University has evidence that would indict the three acquitted students, as has bc~n intimated, it was criminally negligent of it not to present such evidence. If it has no such evidence, it is crimin~lly pretensions of it to ruin the academic career and perhaps the professional career of Notre Dame students on the whim of the Provost. 
Tim Brennan's trial is coming up soon; Burtchaell's action has dangeroltsly prejudiced the trial. Acting as a one-man Board of Inquisition, he has summarily pronounced Brennan guilty. We can only hope that the real courts consider the source of the prejudgement before they act. 
The performance of Father Burtchaell as Provost has been more than dissapointing; it has hover:ed near the disastrous. Burtchaell has been occasionally described as arrogant; the appelation is not entirely descriptive. Arrogance implies great pride; Father Burtchaell has done nothing of which to be proud. He has compiled an astounding record of ineptitude; and the gnawing doubt raised by his clumsy handling of the Werner situation has been sorely amplified by his mindless suspension of the four students. When he assumed the position of Provost, James Tungstead Burtchaell was considered by many to be a brilliant young theologian and most logical choice as successor to Hesburgh. Now he can only be rated on the basis of his performance as Provost and on a par with Zuzi, the Wild Man. W-e -s-iftt,"efflj.y 
We sincerely hope he reverses the trend, before something disastrous happens to all of us. 
STUDENT APATHY -rowARD THt 116f:Nt:f</::;.1 11 AS.SL\l5L'( vV~~ 
RE-AlLY TtRRJBl.t:-!1 HeARD THAT t+ARDLY ANYONE WE..NT! 

Monday. February 22, 1971 


Steve Lazar ----­
The Nascent Notre Dame 
Saturday morning was without a dawn at Notre Dame. That 
which had passed for a night, somewhat dark and somewhat cold 
and windy, .ith<l not gone; it was merely diluted into c;lay by a weak 
light. The sky, the roofs, the air even, hdd no blush of color; only 
the sameness of gray. It was February at its dullest, its sadest. But 
that is not exactly what I want you to understand: no that isn't it. I 
want you to understand how despite the dreary and raw quality of 
the day, despite how miserable it was --l want you to understand 
how it was different. How it began to take on meaning. 
The signs were simple enough; yes very simple. But-perhaps too 
subtle for Notre Dame. 
Friday night was rather chill, true; but for Notre Dame, which had 
known so much winter, which had known the dry hardness of the 
winter air, the hardness of its gales, for this Notre Dame, friday 
night was aim ost balmy. The air was moist, and warm, despite the 
numbli.ess that stayed in your checks after you came indoors. But 
still, the air was not hard; it was very soft for February, and it had 
the scent of moist earth. 
When l awoke Saturday morning there was a coldness in the 
room. The window had been left open all night, and the damp, cold 
air had settled inside. When I moved, my bare skin could feel the 
damp coldness in the linen. 
There are decisions to be made at times like that. and they are 
more important decisions than those that have to do with that part 
of us we call the "future". The early morning is one time when a 
man knows his nakedness and is forced to make choices in light of it, 
without pretensions So what does none do when it is too cold and 
too damp to stir from bed? Do you lean over and turn on the 
re=adio, submit your fresh mind to the propaga'lda of the 
commercialists? Do you dash from under the blankets andL1tosome 
warm clothing in a vain attempt to cover your nakedness'! Do you 
fall back into sleep and try to postpone the awful decision for a few 
more insignificant minutes? 
Perhaps a person should do none of these. Perhaps the most 
frightfully significant choice he could make would be to do what 
some would say is wothless: to just lie there, in the stillness, open 
the cars, and listen. To be really open, to hear a new sound, clear, 
distinct, rising in quietness from the wreckage of days, winters past; 
to hear it -and to understand. 
Saturday morning was a time for listening. For on Saturday morning tlH:re was something in the air worth listening to. The window that had stood gaping all night was open but the drapes were closed there was little to see within sthe purple grayness of the room, so the lids of the eyes were shut as well. But the ears, open, the ears were active. Through the droning silence of that morning, through the insipid sullness of a hundred winters stacked in Notre Dame's history, came the low clear whistle of a bird -not a sparrow or any other dullard winter hird --this was the music of a songbird. A songbird,.. The kind that falls stragely silent in the middle of summer and is gone altogether by the end of September. This was he, in February. Rejoice. 
Saturday morning was without dawn at Notre Dame. Nine o'clock was no lighter than seven. The air coming tthrough the window was colder than it had been on Friday night; it was the kind of coldness that settled in your chest and would make you try to cover up. But not eveen that would draw it from the bon·~,;. lt was the same ct>ldness that has always been at Notre Dame. 
Last week the rains and melting snows formed huge pools of water around the trees between Sorin and LaFortune. The huge trees and low pools made it seem like such strange marshland, and everglades during the Ice Age. lt was almost fun toimagine wild ducks landing there and indifferent fish swimming in the cool water. By Saturday morning though, the ponds had been greatly drainded. What water was left was freezing over from both the bottcm and the top, for the ground had never thawed. That's the way it has always been at Notre Dame. 
True, it may be contradictory to say this -and maybe many who should understand this ahead of time will pass it off becasue of this, but --Saturday morning was not without dawn at Notre Dame. The air was warm enough; and the pools were deep enough; and the bird had sung long enough -to create a dawn of sorts. To summon the blood from its wells. To mingle the blood with a com:eption. 
II 's hard to he anything but cryptic about this , and I'm sorry, bllt it has to be like this, for to be anything other than cryptic would be to falsify the mystery that dawned on Saturday morning. 
This much is sure; the ice, the terrible, terrible ice that has shackled Notre Dame for so long, for I 29 years, for so many lives; that terrible ice will be cracked, and a new life-force, bright will be emerging. It can't be stopped. Rejoice. 
Staff Issue Staff 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter 
Night Editor: Don Ruane
Editorial Page Editor: T.C. 
Headlines: Gene Slason,
Treanor 

Jim Roe, Bob Young
Features Editor: Dave Lam· 
Layout: Joe Abell, Mike 
mers 

Moore, Frank Mahon,
Sports Editor: Terry Shields 

Larry Greer
Assistant Sports Editor: 
Night Controllers: John
Jim Donaldson 

Knorr, Rich Smith
Campus Editor: Steve Lazar News Editor: Ed Ellis 


Page 

Dave Lammers 
The Blessed Virgin Mary Memorial Awards for '68, '69, '70 
It is that time of year again to award the annual Blessed Virgin Mary Memorial Award. If you haven't heard of this award before, don't be surprised, 'cause it was just now created, but the award is a coveted one nevertheless. The basis of the award is that every year the Features Staff of The Observer decide who has done the most to further truth and goodness, but in a cool way. So we travel hack through time to the winter of 1968, when Sidney Catlett was a tall and gangly freshman. 
Now it is well known that Sidney, campus comedian and sometimes basket­hall star, is the son of "Big Sid" Catlett, the late, great drummer for the Count Basic Band. Our Sid has inherited some of Bid Sid's show biz flare and lot of his height. But what is little known about Sidney is that he is scared to death of water. Sidney Catlett would rather play Sidney Wickes one-on-one with his hands tied behi-nd his back than put his big toe in a swimming pool. And it was in a swimming pool that Sidney pulled the move that won him the award for 1968. 
The other non-swimmers of that fresh­man class were being taught how to kick in physical education class. The idea was that you would grab on to one of those styrofoam "water wings", stretch out, and kick. Well, Sidney grabbed four or five water wings, said his last prayers, stretched out to kick, gave up, and retreated into the corner of the swimming pool, huddkd down so the instructor 
trying to hide in the corner of the .pool, and he bawled out, "Catlett, get out there and kick!" Well, Sidney thought that over for a few seconds and yelled back, "Sheeeeeit, man, I ain't no duck!" And as you might notice, the award does not just 
go to anyone. Our second award takes us back to a 
beautiful day in spring, 1969. Marty McNamara was one of the first, and one of the freakiest, Notre Dame freaks. After the ill-fated Pornography Conference, a bunch of sex-starved freaks, Marty Mc­Namara among them, decided to publish 
a pornographic magazine entitled Vaseline. The art work and photo­graphs and stories were all completed and ready to be printed when the Administra­tors, notably Father Joyce, decided that the magazine went beyond our tolerance level and informed the printer to lock the damn thing up, which he did. 
Naturally, Marty was not too pleased. Aflame with rage and hippie regalia, Marty, (followed by myself, the reporter) stomped and searched all over campus looking for, as he called them in his calmer moments, Mr. Joyce and Mr. McCarragher. For the third time in the afternoon we approa~hed Father Joyce's office, and for the third time we were told by the secretary that Father Joyce was not available. And as we were stand­ing in the secretary's office, Marty, our awardee for 1969, saw that Father Joyce's door was partially open and he proceeded to waltz in to Fr. Joyce's office. Alas, Joyce was not there, so Marty prot:eeded to sing a little Dylan-like ditty that went like "Oh, where is my magazine, }.1Y magazine, my magazine. r said where, oh where, has my magazine gone, cause I can't find 1t nowhere." The singing was accompanied by opening the drawers of Father Joyce's desk and looking through his private junk. I have never seen an administrator's secretary lose her calm collected coolness like Father Joyce's secretary did that day. She .was all over that hippie freak like a Bantam rooster. But like I said, to win the award, you have to be a little cool about it all, so Marty just backed out the 
door and drawled, "Maam, if you find my pornography magazine, just give me a call O.K..'!'' So Marty McNamara wins the award for 1969, though the secretary was a close second, and as you can see, you won't win the award by helping a little old lady across the street. 
The award for last year goes to former News Editor Jim Holsinger. But first, l have to tell you what Jim was like his freshman year. He came up to the Obser­ver office, eager as a beaver, beaming goodness, admitting naivete; in short, the kind of freshman that wants to work his way up to being a Big Man. Don't get me wrong, I like Jim, and now, only oae year later our winner for 1970 is engaged to be married, has quit the Ohserva. and is somewhat of an angry young man. So, last spring, I was the night editor for the paper and Jim was helping me until about 

couldn't see that he was trying to hide. L Franklin Devine But the instructor saw Sidney, pitifullY~--·------------­
walked through the gate in the fence while I went around to drive the car around to the parking lot. 
While I was driving the car around Jim i1ad asked the girls what the trouble was and had gotten in che car to try and start it. Strangely enough their car started the first time Jim turned the key, and by the time I got there the two girls were mum­
-bling their thanks and Jim was saying, "Golly, you must have had it flooded or something like that." Before I could put in my male chauvinistic pig two cents, the girls said, "So long, boys," ripped out of theparking lot, and Jim had _saved our innocence. 
So Jim Holsinger wins the Blessed Virgin Mary Memorial award for 1970, and I think you can see that you don't win the award by just giving a Saint Mary'~ freshman directions to the Grotto. 
Who will win this coveted award for 1971? Will it be Terry Buck for her fine work in signing autographs at the South Bend auto show? Or will it be Glen Corso, for admitting on national TV that 
he doesn't know much about the religious life here at Notre Dame'! Will it be Provost Burtchaell, for requiring the ROTC faculty to wear ceremonial aca­demic garb at official faculty gatherings? We doubt it. There's no big hurry, though. We've got a big spring coming up. 
ling. He has brought Washington Hall back to a normal proscenieum theatre. The choking formality was ideally reflec­tive of the plot. 
The flowing, eye-catching costumes were designed by Zack Brown. Brown, a student, exhibits an uncanny sense of line in his designs. 
Fredric Syburg's light directorial hand is exhibited here and there throughout the performance, but never seems to dominate. There is a kind of unstylized naturalness to the movements and group­ings of actors. Mr. Syburg pointed up fascinating character studies and allows them to carry the play. 
The Little Foxes is an exciting and demanding play for the audience as well as the performers. The ND-SMC Theatre has put together a creditable, entertain­ing, and thought provoking production. Despite its weaknesses, The Little Foxes shows the amazing versatility of the ND-SMC Theatre. 

The Little Foxes 
The NO~ SMC Theatre production of The Uttle Foxes sputtered and then roared to its opening this weekend at Washington Hall. The Lillian Hellman drama of family bitterness in the-turn-<>f-the-century South was at it's best, brilliant, and at its worst, not bad­but dissapuinting 
The first act was the disappointment. We were presented only the slightest glimpse of the stellar acting which was to come later. For some reason the cast seemed detached -as if their minds were somehow groping for the nearly-missed line. The tJwught, "(''1, my God I've · wandf'red into a dress-rehearsal", came to mind a number of times during the act. There was an ahsce11ce of that magic, that prescence which the theatre had offered in The Ho,vtage last December. 
Rita Gall's tender, vulnerable Birdie was the one bright point of the act. Miss Gall's performance was totally compel­ling. Her eyes, hands, and voice reached out and touched the audience. She exhib­ited that rare gift of moving an audience. 
Something happened during the first intermission, (Rockne in the Green Room?...TIIc (;ipper's ghost?), the second and third acts were consistent in their !:harpnc~s That presence appeared and suddenly the collection of actors he<:ame an ensemble. All the hate, the bitterness, the degcnera<:y became painfully tangible. Anne Patterson's Martha-Mitchcllesq ue Regina duelled and toyed brilliantly with her brnthc:rs. Miss Patterson laced Regina with a subtlety which made her even more effective as the last vestiges of dignity wen.: stripped from the family. In short, Miss Patterson was more than competent in her part, she was a moving experience to watch as she spun her web around her family and finally herself. 
Writer-! urncd-actor Jack Fiala, display­ed a partkular control in his brief scenes. He displayed a strength as Regina's long rejected husband which made him an excellent foil to the family of foxes into which he'd married. His control over a three in the morning to lay in the stories and headlines and all that stuff. 
After we were finished Jim•and I went down to the infamous Toddle House on Michigan litreet, where, at three in the morning all the winos and wierdos and late night creepers in South Bend hang out. We were there on a Sunday night, which is a big night cause everybody comes down from Shula's nightclub for some early morning gaping. Well, there were two girls there that were pretty 
attractive girls, though they had that certain look about them that told you they were not exactly truth seekers, but had other things of perhaps a lower nature on their mind. Well, as Jim and I drank our coffee and ate our hamburgers our eyes and minds did oftentimes stray over to those two young and tender misses. But they got up and slinked out the door before we were done eating, so we thought, well, that's the end of that. 
The next thing you should know about Jim is that he is a pretty good car mechanic, or so he told me as we got out the door. Because these two girls were in the parking lot behind the Toddle House (it is a motel parking lot and is separated from the Toddle House by a wire fence) and they had the hood of their car up and were yelling for some chivalric assistance 
in getting their car started. Well, Jim 
role which could easily have come across as either goody-goody, weak or just plain stupid, makes us regret that he waited until his senior year to become active in the theatre. 
At times, particularly when paired off against Miss Patterson's Regina, Marc Genera as the wily Ben was effective. Unfortunately his portrayal of the quiet manipulator of the family as well as Mark O'Connell's performance as his lackey of a younger brother was uneven. The selfish greed of both characters would emerge at 
times,  then  not  be  hidden  within, but  
discarded completley.  
Ann  Burlas,  in  her  first  major role,  

proved herself someone to watch in fu­ture productions. As Regina's daughter, Miss Burlas is called to mature from a young girl to a strong and determined woman during the course of the play. That change was there .. it was subtle . .it was consistent. 
Richard Bergman's plush, stifling, plant-strewn set was appropriatley repel­

page 6 'PU~ Q1Df'I1Drt.:D
_::...::_____,=----------------~-=-------'4p!~~G~~~ M on d flY. February 2 2. 1 9 7 1 
Burtchaell comments on merger;suspension choice given to Riehle 
The decision to suspend the four students involved m the December 19th raids was give,1 to Dean of Students by Univer­sity Provost Rev. James T. Bur­tchaell, the Provost said Thurs­day night. 
Fr. Burtchaell said the deci­sion was made after University administration met to col)sider the charges. He defende-d the move saying the University would have been "irresponsible" if it had not acted. 
The judicial code provides for suspension when someone is considered an "imminent danger to the University," Fr. Bur­tchaell said the four were consi­dered to be such a danger and that they would probably lose a full semester's credit because of the suspensions. He added that the recent acquittal of the two students and the dropping of the charges against the third need not be reflected in the Universi­ty's final decison. 

I 
L I 
Fr. Burtchaell said the re­cent criticism of Dean of Stu­dents Rev. 1ames L. Riehle has not been justified and that the Dean had "acted well." The comments were made during an 
informal question and answer 
session in the chapel of Pang­born Hall. 
The Provost also said the Uni­versity could "probably do it, (begin coeducation), by 1972" if St. Mary's College decided to remain a separate institution. He said the decision to admit girls to Notre Dame is up to St. Mary's and that the decision rests in the Sisters of Holy Cross, whom he termed the "trustees" of the college. 
If SMC decided to merge, as recommended by the PlJrk-May­hew report, the move could not be completed before I972 at the earliest, Fr. Burtchaell said. He added that the admission of women is hampered by several problems induding no female personcll on student affairs staff. 
Other problems cited by thee with high son:rceli. of female applica!Jts aDd no prepared resi­dence halls. 
Fr. Burtchaell criticized the report saying it was a "contra­diction." He said the report calls for the preservation of "a dis­tinct educational tradition at SMC, which is to educate wo­men." He said this is not a "distinct" tradition but is similar to the curriculums of many small liberal arts colleges. 
The only reason for a merger would be political and the best action would be complete inte­gration of the two institutions, the Provost said. 
Fr. Burtchaell also discuss­ed the lack of classroom space for Arts and Letters saying there is a "very bad" neect for a new classroom building with many small rooms and several large auditoriums. He said O'Shaug­nessy i !all is not large enough and supported the rumor that is actually "three grade schools on top of one another." 
The s..:ience and engineering facilities appear to be larger be­cause they need laboratory space, h. Burtchaell said, adding that the library could be consi­dered laboratory space for lib­eral arts students. He said the need for more engineering labo­ratory spac'e and better chemis­try facilities occupied high prior­ities, but not as high as liberal 
arts. 

"The main problem is mon­ey," said Fr. Burtchaell. Summa, the University's $52 million de­velopment program, is of no help becaus'e its funds arc deplet­ed. "The funds are designated for certain projects and have 
He1ndrick studies Co-ed proposal

WANTED Please-need ride toN .Y .C. C::LASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS 2/28 and/or 3/12. call Jack (Mail in or come by Observer office 282-2250 for information call 7471 ). Help Wanted PEANUTS PERSONALStudent artist capable of doing lettering & artistic To Bruce B. & the 322D'ed icated to c Iem. w h 0 toconception drawings. Call boys:wears out the SM C D ir­272-8448. Enjoyed your weddingectory every Thursday and last summer, hope you en­,Wanted: Masochistic Friday night. joy mine this summer.female who is willing John, Tony, Hummer, etc.: 0 re :< to debateD. Chris Keep the beer running inAnderson at his next your veins. John: Come back toabnormal class. Pelotas ourroom inZahm.AIICall the Marquis De Sade is forgiven.3658 R A: Love, Mom. Wanted Badly: 3000 down (sic) & 100 Nocturnal female com­until camps. Good Luck, Spock­panion with freckles in odd S.D. G u e ss! places. Call Dave Lohman. I'll never tell. AUTOMOTIVE7735. Your secret love. Wanted to Sell. 67 BMW FOR SALE 2000 Tl. Factory Price 3850. C.B. Meathe: "Perhaps Good Condition. 2000 or SERVICES you have forgotten ...." best offer. 288-4516 B reen-Ph ill ips Food Sales. Time, Inc. 282-2250 call in piJza orders before Words 1doy 4diYS 1­2"'" 0.10 .50 .75 ·­1.00 1.15 1.25 11:00 pm.1294 or 1705. Available at Student 11-15 .60 1.00 us 1.75 2.15 Pick up at 11:30. Stop on 16-20 .70 1.15 1.70 ~·o 2.80Rates: Time, Life, Sports 21·25 .86 125 ~00 2.90 3A6 your way home from the Illustrated, & Fortune 26-30 1.00 226 lAO 4.10 library. $1.25 Cheese; 1.20 1.90 2.80 3.85 4.70Magazine. Call Tom, 31-35 38-40 U6 2.10 3.10 4.25 5.10 $1.40 M ust1room; $1.50 282-2250. 41... 1.66 220 320 4.50 5.50 Pepperon i; $I.6 5 E very t h i r· g 46-60 1.75 2.50 J~O 4.75 6.00  
THE FIGHT World Heavyweight Championship --------~*=*~*-------­Joe Frazier vs. Muhammed Ali *** Morris Civic Auditorium March 8, 1971 Tickets -$6.00 Student Union Ticket Office Starting Mon., Feb. 22 11:15-12:15&4-5 Limited number of Student 'L'icke ts Available 2 per student JD  

Chip Ht!ndrick, Dillon Hall sophomore candidate for Stu­dent Body President, said last night that "such a drastic move as coeducation must be com­pletely planned out, and that the next acadc:mic year 'should be reserved for deep investigations of specifics.' " 
Hendrick also announced his running mate, Drew Carroll, a Stanford Hall freshman. 

The two candidates said that from their conversations with students at Notre Dame, they beleived that there were sincere doubts as to the desire for coed­ucation next year, sonce many questions remained tmanswered in the area of s pecific proposals. Hendrick said that there were also many students here who do not want coeducation and whose 
.J 
~ ;
/YI,,e . 
~!few 

liiffonJJ 
/hili~ 
d(~signed by Donald Claflin. Rings start at t~95. 




DF~ANY&Co. 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 ·ZIP: 60611 
Design Ct>pyrighled 1971, T.& Co. 


been under-donated," said the Provost. 
Fr. Burtchaell has authorized several professors of theology and philosophy to convert P or F marks to their appropriat let­ter grade for tho.se students tak­ing the courses to fulfill their requirements. He said many stu­dents were misinformed when they were told they could exer­cise the option. 
The pass-fail option may be exercised by Juniors and Seniors only and is restricted to one elective course per semester. Fr. Burtchaell said many students last semester and this semester used the option incorrecHy and would not have the necessary credits to gradute if the grades are not converted. 
wishes must be conssidered, a)­though not necessarily adhered to. 
Hendrick said that the choice of Carroll was based on the assumption that those students who must live the longest under whatever form of coedu<.:ation finally comes should be the ones in student government next year. 
Carroll is believed to the first freshman to run seriously for the 
SBVP  position.  Hendrick  is  a  
sophomore  and  a  transfer  stu­ 
dent.  

Hendrick spoke of the "uncer­tain indefinable quality of Notre Dame." He said that one of the most important things in taking a step such as coeducation is to sec that the quality is preserved. He said that many students were 
afraid that this would not hap­pen and thus wanted a period of time set aside to consider all aspects of the situation. 
Hendrick and Carroll said that they are in favor of weducation, but only after a plan had been 1 set up that will allow the transi­tion to be made without damage to any part of the school. They noted that the transition made in a school of such national 
stature would be watched all 
across the country. 
Hendrick said, "Other univer­sities will be watching our meth­ods and we, in turn, will be affecting future moves of other universities towards coeduca­tion." 
MECHA aid 
(Continued from Page 1) 
In addition to the demands for increased admissions and fin­ancial aid, MECHA called for sections in dorms to be "set aside for those Chicanos freely desiring to live together." Aman­do Alonzo, MECHA president, suggested that the University ·rent a house off-campus for Mexican-American students stat­ing that this would reduce their 
total living expenses. 
In a related move, MECHA charged that St. Mary's College is a "racist institution" since "it has made no effort at all to recruit and enroll Chicanos and other minorities." To alieviate this sit uation1 they called for Notre Dame to start enrolling minority women as undergradu­ates. 
Monday_. February 22, 1971 7HB OBSRRfJIR Page 
Carr, Jones outshoot Mountaineers 

by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
For the fifth time this season TVS presented the Austin Carr Show and it seems as though this latest performance by the Notre Dame legend will go down as one of his tops of the season. Austin made it look easy in scoring a West Virginia Coliseum record 4 7 points in leading the up and down Fighting Irish to their 1 5 win of the season, 107-98. The loss was the 11th in 20 decision for WVU. 
The Mountaineers put up a strong and determined effort a­gainst the Irish and the outcome was in doubt until there were only about three minutes re­maining ·in the contest. 
After WVU swept to a quick 4-0 lead the Irish reeled off 11 straight points and they were never headed for the rest of the afternoon. The Mounties did manage to tie NO at 34 but the Irish kept the lead other than this brief period in the first half. 
Collis Jones aided Carr in stealing the television show from the upstart Mountaineers who were trying to impress in the first TV game in their beautiful new Coliseum. Jones had 21 points at intermission to ~o a­long with Carr's 27. Austin drew many gasps from the crowd wiht a fabulous shooting exhibition. Be was 11 of 1 5 at the half. 
West Virginia's Wil Robinson delighted the crowd of 13,65 2 partisan with 14 first half points but his effort was great!)' overshadowed by the two N D All-America candidates. 
On the day, the Mounties actually scored. more field goals than the Irish, 44-42, but their inaccuracy at the foul line cost them the game. NO hit 23 of 34 shots and WVU only managed only 10 of 21. 
The Irish held a nine point lead at the half, 56-47 and they built this up to 13 before West Virginia started their comeback. Larry Harris, a soph forward, scored heavily underneath in the second stanza to make the con­test exciting. He scored I 5 sec­ond half points and fjni~hed with 26 points. Robinson was high man for the Mounties with 30. 
Throughout the second half West Virginia chipped away at the NO lead and once playmaker Jack Meehan got into foul trouble the Irish offense bogged down slightly. 
His replacement, Tom Sin­nott, hit a few clutch hoops from the outside in each half to compensate for the loss of Meeh­an's penetration. 
The Mounties final true threat came about five minutes before the final buzzer. They had got­ten to within three of the Irish at 93-90 and they were given an opportunity to get even closer capable of pulling the upset. remaining and each one is all­when Meehan fouled Curt Price WVU had come close against a important as far as a bid isfor his fifth foul. Price missed 


number of good opponents(Ken­concerned. Of the four, three are
both foul shots however and the tucky, N.C. State, Virginia) and home games. The lone awayIrish broke away by scoring six for a while it looked as though game is at St. John's next Satur­points in a row. 
they may finally take the big day. NYU comes to the ConvoThe real story of the game one. 
tomorrow night to take on the
could be seen in the perform­
The Irish realized that there 
Irish. Even though it won't be ance of Austin Carr. From the 
may be no tomorrow as far as an 
on TVS, Austin Carr certainlystart it was obvious that WVU 
NCAA bid is concerned and they 
looks as though he has regainedcouldn't stop the awesome guard 
kept their tourney hopes alive 
his outside touch and he shouldand even though the Mountain­with the win. 
continue the demonstration a­eer fans were screaming about 
The Irish have four games 
gainst the Violets.
the officiating the Mounties 
were given more than the benefit 
of the doubt on many calls. The 
WVU guards were literally grab­
bing at Carr by the mid-point of 
the second half. This was when 
Austin's shooting percentage fell 
from unbelievable to merely 
great. Austin finished with 18 of 
30 from the field. 
The board game of the Irish 
left something to be desired at 
the initial part of the game but 
Messrs. Jones (14 rebounds), 
John Pleick (9 rebounds), and 
Sid Catlett ( 12 rebounds) began 
to assert themselves underneath 
as the game wore on and they 
finished with the edge on the 
boards by the narrowest of mar· 
gins, 60-59. 
This was a big win for the 
Irish since it was on the road and 
they played a team that was very 
with a clutch seven points. NOTRE D.\ME WEST VIRGINIA 
FG FT REB PTS FG FT REB PTS Jones 12-29 10-14 14 34 Werthman 5-8 0-I 6 10 Catlett 3-12 1-2 12 7 Oglesby 6-I6 1-5 7 13 Pleick 4-10 0-2 9 8 Heitz 1-5 I-2 6 3 Meehan 0-0 0-0 2 0 Price 2-3 0-3 5 4 Carr 18-30 11-15 10 47 Robinson 12-31 6-7 8 30 Sinnott 5-8 1-1 3 II Harris 12-19 2-2 11 24 Regclean 0-1 0-0 0 0 Phillips 3-6 0-1 4 6 
Team 10 Symons 3-5 0-0 I 6 
Team II TOTAL 107 ---------------------------­
TOTAL 44-93 10-21 59 98 
NO shot 46.7%. WVU shot 47.3%. 
NO had 16 turnovers. WVU had 18 turnovers. 



Skaters sweep Michigan 
by Jim Donaldson Michigan power play. 7:55 Observer Sportswriter 
Freshman winger Eddie Bum­Regan knotted the score at The Notre Dame hockey team bacco tied the game up at 14:02, 9:00 however, firing home a took a giant step toward reach­
taking a pass from John Noble ten-footer aftei: taking a pass ing its goal of a .5 00 record this inside the blue line and blasting from Bumbacco. season and snapped a six-game home a 35-foot slap shot. Regan's second goal, at 8:20 winless string on the road by Ric Schafer gave the Irish the of the second period, gave the sweeping a pair of games from lead 46 seconds Ia ter, following irish a 2-1 lead. The sophomore the Michigan Wolverines at Ann a sharp passing rush by Regan center slapped in a rebound of a Arbor owr the weekend. and Jim Cordes. Wolverine goalie Williams' shot from the point for Four Irish players scored goals Bill Busch stopped a shot by the score. and sophomore goalie Chris Cordes, but Schafer got the puck Mike Jarry tied the count 
Cathcart came up with 30 saves in the slot and moved in to ~core again at 9:50 with a power play in Friday night's 4-2 triumph between Busch's pads. god but Williams put the Irish over the Wolverines. Paul Regan 
Phil Witliff scored what bac:;.: on top, this time for good,
provided the winning spark Sat­proved to be the winning goal at I 7: 16 after taking a perfecturday night, scoring a goal in when he put Notre Dame _ahead rass from Regan.each period to collect the hat 
3-1 at 1:44 of the final period, The Irish built up a 5-2 lead in trick and lead the Irish to a 54 :;lipping a wide slap shot by 
the last period, as .Bumbacco victory. Schafer into the left side of the tallied at 0:56 and ReganThe Wolverines were tl1e last :1et. 
collected his third goal, while WCHA club on the Notre Dame Paul closed the the were
Gamsby gap Irish shorthanded, at schedule and the sweep was the 
to 3-2 when he whipped a shot 3:17 but the Wolverines didn't first for the Irish against a past Cathcart from the right 
quit.WCI-IA team this season. Notre faceoff circle at II :38 while the Goals by Bob ·Falconer at Dame is now 11-12-2 and com­'Volverines had a man advantage 15:50 and Jarry at 17:20 made pleted the WCHA portion of its but Williams the the 54 sent
Ian got goal score and the schedule with a 7-11-2 mark. back just I 9 seconds later, de­Wolverine fans into a frenzy.Michigan fell to H-18 on the necting in a shot by Noble. 
Michigan pressured the Irish year. Regan taking Noble's spot at the rest of the way, and had Michigan was playing the 
center on a line with Bumbacco seceral good chances to score in I ,OOOth hockey game in the 
and Williams, added a pair of the final minute after Wolverine school's history Friday but the assists to his three goal perfor­Coach AI Renfrew had pulledIrish spoiled the occasion by mance Saturday night. Noble 
goalie Karl Bagnell, but Toma­besting the Wolverines despite took a Wolverine stick on his 
soni was tough in the Irish ·cage being outshot by the home club, side Friday night and suffered 
and preserved the victory. Toma­32-19. minor internal hemorrhaging, 
soni made 17 saves in the game.The first period was marked causing Irish coach Lefty Smith 
Notre Dame will be in action 
by a number of furious rushes to lwld him out of Saturday's again next weekend, playing a by both dubs but neither team game. 
home-and-home series with 
was able to score. The Wolver­Michigan's Julian Nixon put Bowling Green University. The ines' Bernie Gagno n was the the Wolverines in front in a first Irish will play at Bowling Green first player to put the puck into period marred by high sticking, Friday night and will host the the net, tipping in a shot at elbowing, and cheap shots, beat­Falcons Saturday night at the •12:36 of the second period on a ing Irish goalie Dick Tomasoni at ACC. 
Page 8 
Monday, February 22, 1971 
Fitzpatrick seeks academic change
By Greg Pudhorodsky 
Eileen Fitzpatrick and Walter Secada, SBP and SBVP candi­dates respectively, spoke on co-and Secada urged the expansion of the pass-fail option ot all subjects outside of requirements relevance of Student Senate as it now exits. The first of these would be the Senate's retention SBP candidate fell that the logis­tics of it would not be pragmatic and fhat such actions would lose be required to write a short ra­tionale of his ideas concerning the Senate. 

education and academics in in­dependent discussion and ques­tion sessions in Breen-Phillips, Fisher, Flanner, Stanford, and Zahm Halls, last night. 
Emphasizing the basic tenet of her platform, the concept of coeducation in every institution the students have, Miss Fitzpat­rick talked of coedut:ation as a manifestation of students on both sides of the road toward a total "enrichment of lifestyle." 
Feeling that the failure of students to relate to student government is in essence a reflec­tion of the failure of the govern­ment to relate to matters which actually concern students, Fitz­patrick outlined proposals urg­ing student government to get reinvolved in the sphere of aca­demics. 
Specific ideas which the coed­ucational team mentioned and discussed concerning the aca­demic structure reflected solu­tions to what tthye felt was a lack of flexibility in academics at Notre Dame. 
Citing the need for the stu­dent to have a greater control in determing the destination on scholastic matters, Fitzpatrick in the student's major and to begin the option in the second semester of freshman year. 
Along the same lines the can­didates ent:ouraged the imple­mentation of an "A-B-C-drop" marking sstem. Under such a plan, currently in effect at Holy Cross as well as other education-a! institutions, the student would obtain the option to drop a subject in which he procured a D or lower grade without it appearing on his rewrd. 
Secada discussed an enlarge­ment of the current student for­eign-exhcnage program, to in­elude the availability to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students of opportunities to matriculate at other English speaking universi­ties in the U.S. and Canada. 
Secada suggested the need for a SG cabinet position dealing with te affairs of ND students on the year abroad in order to correlate the obtaining and transmission of pertinent infor­rmtion. 
In the area of student govern­ment structure, Miss Fitzpatrick en visioned three alternatives dealing with the question of the 
l E F 

T T"' 
in its present form, which she felt in effect would be the ret en­tion in its present form, which she felt in effect would be the retention of an ineffective body. 
The next was the concept of a periodic general assembly tu replace the functions of the Sen­ate. Though she felt that this i.1 theory was an ideal solution, the the investigative and research as­pccts of a committee. 

Thd final alternative and the one whkh she advocates is the restructuring of the Senate selet:­tion system in a diret:tion that would put it in more dired contact with the individaul stu­dent. Under the plan a Senator in order to rdain his scat woulq 
In the field of hall govern­ment, Miss Fitzpatrick pointed · out the importance of halls re­taining a basic autonomy. The basis for such a position was that a too large an involvement in campus wide government would cut down on the hall representa­tives to function within respec­tive halls. 




VP debate offered 
Jim Riebandt, SBP candidate has extended an invitation to all his opponents to engage in an open forum discussion Wednes­day night. Riebandt intends this request to include all the vice-presidential candidates. 
Riebandt said he feels that either Flanner Pit or the Keenan­Stanford Chapel would be the 

Barkett speaks 
(Continued from Page 1) 
gynecological services in the in­firmary, and the need to merge the student governments of Notre Dame and St. Mary's as soon as possible. 
On the subject of minority students Barkett said that more recruitment was definitely need­ed and that more funds and scholarships should be available to these students. 
Both Barkett and Rodriguez agreed tht the Sttudent Life Co.uncil would have to be im­proved if it was to be effective. 
Concerning the housing sllOrt­age, Barkett stated that "no one should be forced to leave his hall to live in another residence hall or off-campus." 
At Badin Hall Rodriguez said "the University must decide whether it wants to retain the stay-hall system, or continue its policy of forcing freshmen into the halls." 



Pizza Hut Pete Presents 
ND & SMC 
Pitcher Night" 
$1.25 for a pitcher of Budweiser or Strohs Monday night only-Pizza Hut I on Lincolnway Tuesday night only-Pizza Hut 2 on Edison Road 
"Stw!ent Specie!{" 
V2 price on any pizza or soft drink 
With School J.D. 
2 LOCA TlONS-CALL AHEAD 288-6060 So. Bend no. 1 Across from I.U. 233-3827 So. Bend no. 2 Mile East of N.D. 

We Are the Nations Largest! 
• 
best place to hold the discussitlll because eithe'r place could Twld a large numbe'r of students. He said a good! crowd would be expected for such a forum. "I 
think  a  reasonable  turnout  
would  be  about  three  to  five  
hundred."  

Riebandt said that he wodd like discussion to begin at I0:00 Wednesday. He added he was open to the suggestion of a debate on WSND. 
Answering Riebandt's i-nvita­tion during a discussion held in St. Ed's Hall, John Barkett said, "I wouldn't if Don (Mooney)) wouldn't. If Mooney agrees to participate I'd be happy to engage in that discussion." 

Mooney's reaction was nega­tive. "A debate like that would be more a circus than anything." He said that debates would tend to be "too political" and "too competitive", and "wastes time that can be spent talking with students." 



SBP candidates outline hall plans 
(continued from .Page 2) 
sion of Notre Dame. With the stay hall concept, a system of continuity is developed. It gives the place a sense of stability." 
He continued, "lt gives a guy the chance to meet as many people as he wants to. If he wants to meet everybody in the hall, the stay hall gives him the opportunity to do it." 
Concerning the system of a fixed quota of freshmen for e3ch hall, Barkett said, ''I don't agree with this. There should be room for fl uct nations. There should also be betller knowledge in the housing office. They just don't have all the facts yet. The philo­sophy of housing just doesn't jell. They should let us know if 
they're going to stick with the stay hall or with putting a fixed quota of freshman in each hall. Barkett claimed that parietals 
is  not  a  dead issue.  "When the  
Trustees  g1!t  the  Student  Life  
Council  statement,  it  will  be  

alive again." he said. "We have 
to face up to the fact that open hours exist in practice. Guys are not going to turn each other in. We should educate everyone in the legality of the issue, and work from there. 
Co-ed plan disputed 
(Continued from Page 1) 
which it was presented. Accord­ing to Harris: "George has rail­roaded this proposal through and made it appear as if it had majority backing. The proposal is more of a personal effort on the part of Mike George rather than a hall proposal." 
Harris said he wants the Trus­

tees to Jearn about the opposi­
tion and is planning on sending 
letters to each Trustees. Harris 
and Bard also plan to have their 
petition in the hands of the 
Trustees at their March first 
committee meeting. 

PROOF OF AGE IS 
p 
l 
u 


s Pleasure 
RIRBIDDifN BY LAW FORBIDDEN BY SIJICIHY RIRBIDDEN BY 
•aallines 
THEY COULD
COM~I~ llaYBUT EXPOSED 
DO ANYTHING
BY THE CAMERAS OF 
OlYMPIE: INTERNATIONAl FilMS 
PEOPLE COULD, ONLY LONGER AND BEITER
·paJIIIDDEn 







