.-----------------------------------·---------------~-~-----------· 
Barlow-Under111an elected 
by Jeanne Sweeney: 
Sheehy and Sue Welte picked up out of voters for the election, junior Kathy Eglet. Miss Eglet SMC News Editor 299 votes and Kate Cassidy and Missy Underman said, "it shows said "we really appreciate all the 
Kathy Barlow and Missy Laura Bayer received 194. There that there is some kind of help the people that supported Underman, two juniors who ran were 44 abstentions. change on campus and that our team gave us, especially the their campaign in conjunction Miss Barlow said "the election people are ready for a more hall captains who coordinated all with SBP and SBVP hopeful was an endorsement by the action oriented administration." of the meetings for Kathy and 
Don Mooney and Dan Sherry, majority of the students of the The team added that their Missy in the halls and got people easily won election to student main points of our platform election demonstrated a to vote on Friday." · office at SMC in last Friday's merger of student government, definite concern for coeducation Miss Barlow added that she voting. increased cooperation with and hopes for the "hoped the enthusiasm shown 
Barlow and Underman Notre Dame, and greater implementation of coeducation during this campaign and the 
received the majority of the communication with the turn out in the election will
in the coming year." 
I ,078 votes cast with a total of students." 
Both girls felt their campaign
541. Their opponents Jane Commenting on the large turn had been excellently run by (Continued on Page 8) 
SBP campaign concluded, Final ·positions stated 
by Ed Ellis 
Student Body Presidential Cam­In Grace Barkett's
Observer News Editor 
paign officially closed at 2 a.m. running-mate, Student
In ''joint discussions" in 
this morning. Government Human Affairs
Grace Pit, Alumni Chapel, and 
In all three public "meetings" Commissioner Orlando
Keenan-Stanford Chapel last 
Mooney stressed the importance Rodriguez, said that the associ­
night, Hall Presidents Council 
of "spontaneity" and challenged ated students structure would
Chairman John Barkett and 
people to "get involved." He probably not work because "I
Off-Campus Senator Don 
used as an example of this the cannot see all the studentsMooney gave final articulation 
to their "T.G.I.F." party staged by the getting interested the
main campaign points in sameSBP candidates Don Mooney (left) and John Barkett wonder and answered questions on their Student Union in LaFortune things at the same time. Somewhat the other is thinking as they prepare for today's runoff Ballroom last Friday, and the people want to study all the
respective platforms as the 1971
election for the highest undergraduate office. 
student strike over the time, or are interested in St. Cambodian invasion last Spring. Mary's girls or in Frankie's." Barkett, in turn, stressed the 
The most apparent differences 


Junior parents evaluate film 
importance of the halls in the of opinion were in the area of life of the student at Notre the purposes and structure of 
not a true representation of ND. Meyers said that ND is not Dame. He said that he would not 
Student Government itself. 

He pointed out that it didn't co-ed now, and the party shown "waste his time" on changes in 
Mooney said that he felt "Weby Fred Meyers show the drinking and drug on the fiilm with "guys and the Notre Dame student must get away from the idea of

problem. girls" watching football on tele­government structure. He said 
students governing students." He

He also stated that the Stu­vision was only for the cameras that the essence of the social 
intends to function as a "cata­As part of the Junior Parents' dent Life Council had been and the girls left right after the problem here must be solved by lyst" for ideas coming from theWeekend activities, the segment 

overrated; "it started out great, newsmen did. improving social life "through 
students at large, occasionallyof NBC's "First Tuesday" con­but now is bogged down because Meyers wondered "what is the halls, where the students bringing up an idea of his own.

cerning changes at Notre Dame of mistrust and lack of commu­wrong with this place that. live." was shown Saturday afternoon nication among the student, $1 00,000 worth of damage was Mooney and his running-mate 
Barkett,

in the Engineering -auditorium. faculty, and administrative done to dorms last year due to Dan Sherry also spoke of the on the other hand, 
sees student government as hav­A discussion of the film's representatives," he said. Accor­weekend drunkenness." He need for the "associated ing three special functions: first,content followed, co-ordinated ding to Corso the film tenriP-rl stated that the main reason any students" structure, so that to represent the students inby Observer Editor Glen Corso, to ignore almost all of the students stay at all is the other more students could "get dealings wit h the Admini­General Assembly Steering Com­problems at ND, and the ones it people here, and that life as it is involved." 

stration; second, to provide amittee Head Bob Meyers, and did touch on were distorted by (continued on page 6) response to student ideas; andStudent Government Public football. 

third, to serve the student body.

Relations Director Don Mooney, Barkett also criticized the ideaall juniors. 
of an "incorporated studentThe meeting started off with a 


Sr. Alma refutes allegations 
association." He said that even if

short welcome from Mooney. Then the tape was shown in its 
it were legally possible, it would

by Ann T. Darin 
certain overhead expenses
entirety, complete with all the claimed quoted her out of cause tremendous problems in 
Borg-Warner commercials. Stating that "anything I was context and challenged the should be allocated against the communication with the Admin­
After the lights came back responsible for was done with manner in which increased academic budget. "I did not istration, since it would show on, Mooney, Meyers, and Corso sincerity and with good faith for revenue was to be used. mention these in my letter," she the students as belligerents rath­each made a few statements on the welfare of Sf. Mary's College "You are business men and stated. er· as partners in working for a the film, then asked for ques­community," Sr. M. Alma Peter, intelligent women sitting here She claimed they were better Notre Dame. tions and/or comments from the acting president of SMC replied before me," she said. The naive obvious to anyone who has to 
In discussing Minority recruit­

students rising up as protective work under a' budget. "I would
audience. One thing all three of Saturday night to allegations 
ment, Dan Sherry said that with them seemed to agree on was made by the sophomore class on agents for the faculty assert that ask you to talk to your daughter the new structure, there could

the recent tuition increase and all of the additional income if she is concerned on this point 
that the film had been great be "an informal, relaxed meeting
the American Association of should go to the teaching faculty and to find out if perhaps she
public relations for the univer­of those interested." Rodriguez
University Professors (AA UP) salaries." has not been used." 
sity, but that its presentation said that there was too much 
censure. "They realize," she added, The acting president, recently 
was rather one-sided. 
apathy for such a plan to work,

At the presidential banquet, "the g~t:at number of people, in returned from a visit to the
Mooney felt that even though and cited the death of Students
Sr. Alma speaking to the parents addition to the teaching faculty, Angiers, France, Rome, Italy,
the program had started with the who are vital part of Against Racism as an example of
and their daughters said, "At a the and Innsbruck, Austria foreign
statement that Notre Dame what happens when people are
Christmas time I mailed out to college. I could start probably study programs, also discussed
wasn't "all rosary and football," nc, t interested.
all parents a forthright and with the highest paid man on the AAUP censure, which the
that was about all that was on "We will take it upon oursel­
sincere letter concerning the campus, the professional sophomores enclosed with the
the film; and often when some­ves," he said. 
necessity of increasing tuition engineer in charge of the heat­letter mailed last week to their
thing else would be shown, the $75.00 a semester. J, have re· ingplant and steam plant and parents on the tuition hike and The Grace discussion, chairedfight song was gibeing softly 
continue on down to the low­
played in the background. ceived back many letters of administrative restructure. by Stay Senator Tom Thrasher, 
understanding liest janitor who sweeps the "The censure contains 100
If the film had been his, complete from two drew about people. The 
Mooney said that he would have the parents. There has not been classroom floors each night. absolute untruths," Sister Alma Alumni discussion, chairmed by done it differently. For one a single, I repeat, a single letter There are perhaps I 00 people remarked. "This can only lead former Hall President Tim Shaf­come back to me contesting the included in the group. You, as one to wonder just how much
thing, he would have interviewed fer, drew close to 200, and the 
businessmen, know that the thought went
the leaders of last year's strike; increase." or research into Keenan-Stanford meeting, chair­
Sr. Alma said that recently a salaries of such employees are the total statement. In addition, ed by former Hall President of
also, he would have had more faculty in the picture, and not small group of students had rightfully charged. against the the 'unanimous' approval refers Keenan and former HPC Execu­mailed out to many of the academic budget of the college." tive Coordinator Tim Mahoney,
Ara. 
(Continued on Page 8)
Corso felt that the film was parents a second letter which she Sr. Alma pointed out that drew about 250 students. 



------~--------...­
Page 2 OBSERVER. 
Fitzpatrick garnering 13% seen as viable alternative 


by Bill Weber 

Last Thursday, for the first time in Notre Dame's 127 year history, a woman's name appear­ed on the ballot for student body president. and 13% of the Notre Dame men who voted expressed their concrete desire to see this woman elected over the several men who also had their hats in the ring. 
In light of this phenomenon, The Observer spoke with Miss Eileen Fitzpatrick, her running mate Walter Secada, and three key members of the campaign team, Barney Gallagher, Bernie,Ryan, and Tom Thra.sher to discuss their views on the cam­paign, its results, and its possible 
ilnplica tions. 

Miss Fitzpatrick was not run­ning as a ·~oke" candidate at all. 
Donald Claflin: ·· 
Rings st;r;a.rt at $~5. · 



DFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Design Copyrighted 1971, T.& Co. 

the Army in May of I 968 and
of 
city life." He said it will be served as a special military intelligence agent in Frankfurt, Germany from November 1968 to January, 1971. Hunt said he will do as much listening as speaking during the campaign. Admitting "limited experience," Hunt said the voters would judge by "com­petence." Several issues were questioned in Hunt's campaign statement. They are­-Is letting the city's limits "drift outward while its heart 
Douglas A. Hunt 

decays" the best way of dimin­the "intent of the office" to give ishing the shortages of public public consideration to the fu-funds? 
ture of the city. Hunt said -Can we go beyond "mere instruction" and give the child­
public consideration is necessary if the city does not want to lose ren education? the 10,000 residents and con--Can we go beyond public 
tinue without a "sense of the order to public peace? "Without these common ef­
city among all its people." A native of South Bend, Hunt forts South Bend will not survive," Hunt concluded. 

demonstrated, as evidenced by some heavy barrages in Keenan; Hall, that she has a firm will and the ability to work with oppo­sing men in the government. 
"Eileen is a good person to work with", said Thrasher. 
"I talked with the students forthright and honestly. This made them accept me as a person very much equal to the men candidates", said Miss Fitz­patrick. 
"I do not think that that many votes came to me just because I am a girl. Once we got the people to take us seriously we really began to gain ground. This did not come until about Tuesday. If on Sunday we were at the point we were on Tuesday, I think we might just be in the run-off'', she conclud­ed. 
"They ran to win", Ryan said. "It was not just to prove a point nor was it a 'moral · crusade'. It was like fighting the Civil War all over again in a way." 
"Eileen won the votes her­
self', added Thrasher. 
When asked about next year, 
Ryan said, .. and she's only a 
soph-o-more. A girl just might 
run again next year. The prece­
dent has been set." 

Scanning technician Mary Coleman uses complex equipment designed by Ron Erichsen (left) staff professional specialist, to transfer information about subatomic particles captured on film into a computer. Dr. V. Paul Kenney, professor of physics and director of the bubble-chamber experiment, explains that the computer also guides the scanner, permitting extremely accurate tracing of the tiny
' particles path. . . Largest drug raids nab 43 US service111en 
CAM RANH BAY, South Vietnam (UPI) -Most of the 43 
U.S. airmen held in a narcotics raid are Air Force security policemen who had guarded the Cam Ranh Air Base against Communist attack, the base commdander said yesterday. 
Military sources said 65 air­men had been interrogated Saturday following the largest narcotics raid involving U.S. servicemen in South Vietnam. Twenty-two were released. 
Of the 43 still being held, some are already experiencing painful drug withdrawal symp­toms, indicating that they have been addicted to narcotics, the sources said. 
An Air Force spokesman said the men were rounded up for .. alleged illegal use, possession and sale of narcotics." None of the detained were officers or high ranking non-commissioned officers: 
"The majority of those appre­hended were security police­men," said Col. Abbot C. Greenleaf, commander of the 483rd Tactical Wing and base commander at Cam Ranh Bay. 
Unlike the Army, the Air Force has no drug amnesty program in South Vietnam and if addicts ask for medical treat­ment the request may be used as evidence against them in a court martial, military sources said. 
thus, those undergoing with­drawal symptoms may have to accept "cold turkey" denial rather than methadone treat­ment which is a non-addictive heroin substitute used by the Army and private drug pro­grams. 
Military sources said that because some of those detained were sentry dog handlers, the Air Force had to replace some of the guard dogs around the base perimeter because the animals will not accept a strange handler. 
Saturday's raid apparently stemmed from an informant's tip, sources said. 

--~-----------------­
~--------~ -·--------­
March 1, 1971 THB OBSERfiEit Page 3 
Choice: Mooney, Barkett? Final endorsements given 
John Barkett in his bid for the must respect their freedom of post in today's run-off. decision as they respected ours 
Eileen Fitzpatrick and the In their endorsement, Miss to run. It is as individuals, then, Student Government Coeduca­Fitzpatrick and her running­that we speak." tion Coordinating Committee, in mate, Walt Secada, said that Musica said in his letter to the 
they "'recognize in Don Mooney Tower residents "when I return,
separate announcements yester­
and Dan Sherry the embodi­I would like to see a differentday, declared their support for 
Off-Campus Senator Don ment of most of the ideas we Notre Dame, I feel that if John stood for." is elected, Notre Dame Student
Mooney in his race for the They also said,. however, Government will be more thanStudent Body Presidency. 
that "we have strong personal just a play ground. Now is your
Also, in a letter to Grace 
convictions, yet wonder what opportunity. Give Student
Tower residents, Hall President 
right we have to speak for the Government a chance.· I strongly 
Frank Musica endorsed HallEileen Fitzpatrick Presidents' Council Chairman people who supported us. We urge you to vote for John 
Barkett and Orlando Rodriguez 
tomorrow." Musica also spoke of a "disap­

Notre Dame team analyzes Ford's Pinto 
pointment" on his part this year. As one of the causes of this he promotional questionnaire. device," explained McCarthy. team, over 97% said that they mentioned "a failure on the part
by Tim Burke 
Four hundred Notre Dame The team compared the initial "read the Observer regularly." of Student Government. It According to the report issued 
students and one hundred St. opinions of the drivers with Based on these results, the team seems that every time things goby the Notre Dame research Mary's students were selected at those that they had ·after concluded that "the Observer is wrong . . . they blame the team the potential purchaser of random to receive the master finishing their drive. McCarthy far and away the most effective structure instead of themselves." 
Ford Motor Company's Pinto 
questionnaire. The research team said that most people were way of reaching students on (Continued on Page 8)"X" tends to be sports-oriented, 
received 400 replies, while it "much more impressed with the 
" liberal, optimistic and an 
needed only 385 replies to make car after driving it." 
COMMISSION.

inn ova tor." 
an accurate analysis. A Pinto advertisement,Ford's new subcompact has The questions were designed designed and donated by Ford 

CALENDAR 
been the subject of a complete· 
to ·identify the potential Pinto Motors, was placed in the 
MARQil _ 8:00, Fr. Ralph Beiting, Director ofmarketing report, recently com­
buyer, reveal his primary pur­Observer last fall. A month later,piled by the Notre Dame 
Ouistian Ap{xilachian Project. 104 research team. The 200-page the most -effective ways of tisement of their own design, 
chase motivations, and suggest the researchers placed an adver­
ashaunessy. 
report, which was finished in 
communicating with him. They uniquely tailored to the February, has been sent in to analyzed the socio-economic, ND-SMC community. 
MARQI 2 _ 8:00, James RidgeW<Iy, speaking on
Ford Motor Company and the demographic, and psychological The promotional question­
"The Politics of Ecology." library sponsors of the project. From those respondents who effects of both ads. A telephone 
College Marketing Corporation, aspects of potential buyers. naire was used to compare the 
Auditoriwn. Notre Dame was one of 160 indicated that they were inter­survey was conducted to test universities throughout the ested in buying a car in the next student recall and awareness of 
MARQI 3 _:~:00, Gordon Shenmn, speaking on
nation selected to participate in 12 months, the researchers the advertisements. One hundred 
The Role of the Radical Businessman
the contest. Ford is offering selected approximately 40 students were contacted follow­
In the Conununity." 104 O'Shaunessy.
sixteen regional grants of $1 ,000 people to test-drive the Pinto. ing each of the ads; however, the each, and a national prize of Each driver answered the test­difference in response between $5,000, to those schools that drive questionnaire while taking the two ads was "insignificant." 
MARCH 4 _ 8:00, fr. Rudolph Gerber, Abortion Forum most effectively analyze their Also included in this survey 
on "Abortion:A<>pects for nri;ion." target market, and the marketing around the campus. were questions pertaining to 
the Pinto on a IS-minute cruise 
library Auditorium. 
strategy of the Pinto. The "We wanted to see if it is student awareness to the various 
winning schools will be an-worthwhile for Ford to push. media. In a survey of 184 people 
ALL EVENTS SPONSORED BY 
ND-SMC ACADEMIC COMMISSION
nounced on April 1. test-driving as a promotional conducted by the reesearch 
The Notre Dame research ~:::::::::::~;::::::;:;:j:;::::::::::::::::::::;::::j:::;:;::::::::::::::;::::::l;;:,:-~;.;:::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:=:~:::::::;:::::::!:::::::::::~:J:w~;:::;:;W::J~illZ:Z::~:::::=:;:::;:z.;;;.;::;;;:::;:7:gwili:::::::q
team was comprised of a faculty '~ 
bl 
advisor, Dr. David L. Appel, and le~'a

UCingan un e new pro
six Notre Dame seniors majoring 'YI _ 

in marketing. Those students 
St d t R •1 
are: Bob Fries, John Hafel, Eric u en • a1 pass.
Korth, Bob McCarthy, Kevin 
Moore, and Ken Strottman. 
(Would you believe two whole months of can sleep in a Couchette·for only $4.50 a night, and eat
The project was begun last October as a special course 
in inexpensive cafeteria-type Dining Cars.
unlimited rail travel throughout thirteen 
If you haven't got two months, or you prefer the 
designed solely around the Pinto 
European countries* for a modest $125?)
contest. Notr-e Dame received, as 
luxury of First Class, there's our regular Eurailpass. The 
did each participating school, a 
Our brand-new Student-Railpass gives you all three week Eurailpass costs $110, one month $140, two 
fully-insured Pinto for six weeks 
that Second Class rail travel on the over 100,000 mile months $200, three months $230. But remember-you
and $250 to cover expenses. 
railroad systems o~ Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, can't get Student-Rail pass or Eurailpass in Europe. You
According to Bob McCarthy, 
Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, must buy one before you leave, so see your Travel Agent. 
their goal was "to identify the 
Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. You'll discover that Meanwhile, send in the coupon below for your free
potential· Pinto purchaser at the 
there's very little second class about Second Class. You Student-Railpass or Eurailpass folder. 
ND-SMC community, analyze 
his or her car demands, and 
~---------------------------------------------------------,
present Ford with a complete 
marketing report." 
I STUDENT•RAILPASS The way to see Europe without feeling like a tourist. ! 
However, McCarthy pointed 
I*Eurailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, 
out that the Notre Dame report 
I Sweden and Switzerland. 192 _~
was not designed to represent 
the average American College; 
1 Eurailpass, Box90, Lindenhurst, New York 11757. 
instead "it should give Ford a 
I Please send me your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 Or your free Stu_dent-Railpass folder order form. 0 
realistic picture of the medium­

! 

sized private university in the 
United States today." 
The ND team divided their research into three major pro­blem areas, and investigated each through the use of a question­naire-a master questionnaire, a test-drive questionnaire, and a 

JF IS COMIN MARtll'5&6 Stepan Center  
The Observer is published daily during the coll~ge semester except vacations by the students of the . University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box ·11, Notre Dame, 1nd. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  

March1,1971

Page 4 THE OBSERUER. 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen S. Corso. Editor-in-Chi!l!f 
John E. Knorr, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck , Business Manager 
For forms of government let fools contest, 
Whate'er is best administer'd is best. 

Alexander Pope 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
John Barkett 
Today's runoff election for the Student Body Presidency is probably the ~ingle most 
important day in student government's existence since J. Richard Rossi won the first 
rights of student self-government from the University. For the first time since Rossi, we 
have a candidate who is committed to a series of positive and realistic goals, articulated 
before and argued throughout the campaign. That candidate is John Barkett, and we 
strongly urge his election as student Body President. 
John Barkett is more than a fine administrator. He is a man with a record of getting things done. His 2-year record in Morrisey speaks for itself; it is one of the best-run and most socially active halls on campus. Likewise, the Hall President's Council under his administration as chairman set up a leadership conferance which helped other Presidents 
'in their halls. It has also established definite conclusions about the rector-hall 
relationship, and in general has behaved in a far more active manner than it ever has 
before. 
Barkett is informed, direct, and honest. He'll bother some administrators who are used 
to limiting student power by being better aware of the University's operation than 
student power's elected representatives, but he will represent the students, and represent 
them well. The way he'll represent them will not be with the empty rhetoric of 
confrontation, but with solid and inevitable reason. 
When we write of honesty, we do not mean the trivial tests of honesty that have cropped up in the campaign. 3oth candidates pass that test. 
The honesty we refer to is John Barkett's honest acceptance of the fact that student government can address itself to important problems effecting the students. This is where he differs from his opponent, and this is where he best shines. The programs John Barkett espouses are ones we can realistically expect to get next year. Barkett espouses them because he believes we can get them. 
We can get the thing Barkett has pledged to get. The long-overdue "money back to the halls" project Barkett has endorsed can be accomplished without a raise in the activities fee. The Barkett minority program, written by' Orlando Rodriguez, the Krashna Administration Human Affairs Commissioner and easily their most knowledgeable man on Minority Affairs, is a logically sound one and one that won't be hindered by the University. Barkett's plan to create a Student-Faculty Advisory Board for Security is eminently workable and would only help a deteriorating situation. 
Probably the most important aspect of Barkett's campaign is his approach to coeducation. He recognizes both its economic necessity and its inevitability, and the suggestions he has made to antitipate coeducations are both commendable and helpful. 
Particularly important are his suggestions to adjust the placement bureau for the admission of women, to appoint a co-ordinator, to recruit female professors and female administrators, and to provide gynecological services in the infirmiry. 
The merger of Notre Dame's student government with that of St. Mary's will be consumated regardless of who wins this election. Kathy Barlow has said this several times before her own election. We are confident that she will find it as easy to merge with a student government led by John Barkett as with one led by Don Mooney. 
Mr. Mooney's campaign continues to be a dissapointment. In an effort to "get specific" Mr. Mooney has written a list of programs; some of them of the promise-the-world variety ("open air concerts with good inexpensive groups") some already suggested by John Barkett (such as the Junior Year at Home Program) some of them vague ("revitalization of the Social Commission.") and some of them impossible to obtain, no matter how much confrontation is used (such as putting approval of the rector in the hands of the hall members.) Mr. Mooney has run an honest and fair inquiry into the affairs of the campus, but he has found no answers. Mr. Barkett has. • 
It is for all these reasons, then, and for the reasons expressed in last Wednesday's Observer that we endorse the Student Body Presidential Bid of John Barkett. 
Issue Staff 

Night Editor: Don Ruane 
Asst. News Editor: Tom Bornholdt 
Headlines: Mike Moore, Gene Slason 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter 
Layout: Bob Young, Gene Slason, 
News Editor: Ed Ellis 
Joe Abell 

Controller of the Night: Rich Smith 
Features Page: Joe Abell 
Bill Carter and John Knorr 
Unsolicited Appreciation 
All "good" things must come to an end sooner or later, and so, it is with another year at Notre Dame. We feel that the year is over for _all practical purposes since the Krashna administration is out and the 
general yearly turnover of personnel is a bout to begin. 
Since we don't want any of the efforts of campus personalities to 
go unappreciated we would like to say thanks to various people, and 
present some awards to illustuous campus dignitaries who in our 
humble opinion have helped make this last year one of the great 
years in recent campus history. 
So here first are our heart-felt thanks: 
TO TOM THRASHER -thanks for nothing: we wouid have been 
more original but since you have never been accused of being so, we 
won't be either. 
TO PARK MAYHEW -thanks for a job well done. Now. when is 
the real proposal going to appear? (I wonder where they went to 
school?) 
TO GARY CARUSO -a special thanks for the fine exhibit of 
bureaucracy in the sophomore car report. (I wonder if he ever 
thought of reviving the Leprechaun?) 
TO SISTER ALMA -a special thanks for the open mindedness so 
essential in formulating lasting results between communities. 
TO THE HUDDLE· a great thanks for personally attempting to 
finance lights for Wrigley Field. Too ball the project got gummed up. 
TO THE STUDENT SENATE AND ITS ILLUSTRIOUS 
MEMBERSHIP -a thanks and a congratulations for a job well done. 
We're glad to see students take their positions so seriously. You 
succeeded in making a mountain out of a veritable sand box. 
TO ARTHUR PEARS -thanks for another great year of security. 
The murder rate was again 0! 
TO JOHN BARKETT AND THE HPC -a thanks for showing the 
Senate that there is a need for only one good governmental body 
(Now, where did the SLC go?) 
TO DAVID KRASHNA -a sincere thanks for trying ( and we 
mean this one ) bJ.It people didn't deserve your efforts. 
TO THE ND BASKETBALL TEAM -a special thanks for the 
UCLA game. No matter what else, this is the one to remember. 
TO PROFS. ESTABROOK, WILLIAMS, HINKEMEYER, AND 
RUNDE -thanks for the efforts towards a better academic 
environment. (It's tough fighting city hall.) 
We seem to have run out of people to thank. So now for the 1971 
Dubious Distinction Awards. 
TO STEVE BRION AND THE SCHOLASTIC GANG -the Annual 
Overkill award, for managing to spend $50,000 publishing a 
magazine with a circulation of 14 students, 6 faculty and l stall in 
Dillon Hall. The prize consists of 497 cans of alphabet soup so that 
all the editors can continue to sit around and spit letters at each 
uther. 
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE SLC -a pair of gold-plated bellows, symbolizing supremacy in the windbag competition among all the committees and councils on campus. (To be eligible a committee must hold regular extraordinarily tedious meetings which do absolutely nothing but give members a chance to shoot their mouths off.) 
TO ARA -an honorary engineering degree and 200 blank blueprint sheets in appreciation for his prize-winning creation of the Wishbone defense. 
TO TERRY SHIELDS -a very special silver loving cup, for the outstanding dedication and devotion to all sweat="producing endeavor. (As an added attraction, we can also assure you, Terry, that the trophy was once worn by Ralph Gugliemi against Purdue) 
TO MR. CARL KOCH -a lifetime membership in Students against Racism and the Afro-American Society, plus a complete listing ofnational zipcodes. 
TO JIM HOLSINGER (editor of the New Voice) -a trunkload of 
sour grapes and a license plate size motto board reading: AMBITION 
(there's a rumor that the plate once belonged to a certain noted Theology teacher but we can't confirm that -sorry Jim.) 
TO CHRIS WOLFE-The White Knight award, for his courageous 
efforts to single-handedly save the campus from the threat of 
open-mindedness. 
TO BISHOP PURSLEY-The Ti Grace Atkinson Chair in Modern 
Church Thinking, which comes with a stipend in the form of a free 
subscription to the Observer for a year. • 
TO Tl GRACE -a copy of Pres. Harding's presidential theory, 
"return to normalcy." 
TO GLEN CORSO -the Sacred Jleart Award for Religious 
Excellence, which comes with a book of prayers carrying up to 15 
years indulgence. 
TO DAVE BACH -the Tim O'Melia A ward for Editorial Longevity. 
TO ED ELLIS, TC TREANOR, JOE CASSIN I AND THE CREW -the ND A lmissions Office Public Relations Award for Best Presenting an ( bjective View of Life at ND. It comew with a stipend in the form of transfer forms to schools where supposedly the life is better. Take them. 
TO FR. RIEHLE-The William Kunstler Memorial Liw Book for excellence in the legal field, as exhibited in the recent drug case. TO THE STUDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION -the Sealy-Posturpedic Award for excellence in promoting sleep on ~m~L " . 
TO THIS COLUMN-the Nobel Prize for outstanding journalism in a Michiana morning daily. And finally, lest we forget him, a special award to: 
FR. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL -the Avis "we try harder" Trophy for his great work in championing student causes such as scholarship rights. (Here's to a long life for number 1.) 
Page 5 

Saturday at midnight seems to me to be distrust the young man who spoke with intend to be, penmssrve; I hate the 
the most perilous hour of the week for me; hopefully, he will go home, and with practice with a passion more intense than 
the munchkins tripping in the Land of Oz a ho-hum of disdain, he will burn his even my love for God, or so it seems 
at this University. If horror hosts a plot notes. But in the event that he doesn't, I when I compare the intensity of my 
to tangle living flesh with speeding steel thought to myself, my attitudes as rector prayers with the revulsion I feel at the 
on Notre Dame A venue, then death is are too important at least to me, to rely thought of L.S.D. But drugs are a prob­
most apt to come as a midnight rider, and for their reporting on a very young man lem too serious to be treated only as an 
a weekend rider, at that. If violence flares starting out in student journalism. Thus, upset to disciplinary schemes. ln the 
up with a twist of knife among bones that this column. sub-culture of today's youth, attitudes 
live, it most often seems to be at the hour Of drugs themselves, let me say there is have developed that were undreamed of 
when only the twelfth stroke of the clock nothing I fear more unless it be the death in my own formation as an adult human 
separates a seventh-day evening from the of God, or my own damnation. Some­being. As a chaplain, I talk regularly with 
first instant of a Lord's day morning. If times I wonder if damnation itself is not a students who approach life with a dif­
somewhere in a turned-on crowd, a mind bad trip to infinite depths, to where the ferent frame of reference, a different set 
dances the arabesques of terror to the soul is locked-in on itself to experience of values, a different structure of 
off-beat tunes of a psychedelic ballet, it the eternal horror of its own being, premises, than my own; and if I have to 
will most probably be as a ritual in a emptied, by choice, of love and conse­deal with drug-users, I must do so in~such 
witches• sabbath when midnight hags ride quently creatured with loathsome and a way that they will not carry their 
their broomsticks of fear across the skies slimey things that craw I up from the practice underground, where I will hear 
arching the soul, until the Sunday holi­night swamps of the doomed imagination. about a kid's drug-induced dilemma only 
ness begins with daybreak. Last year, after endlessly rapping with after he has arrived at the state of being a 
hall residents on the tedious subject of mindless vegetable. 
On a recent Saturday evening, when my parietals,. I rather suddenly became aware There are two kinds of campus facilities imagination was wide awake with images of the escalation in drug use on the I will try to impose, when needed, on a as Gothic as those of any opening para­premises of my beloved Keenan, and I drug user: (1) the Student Drug Informa­graph I have ever written, a friend named felt towards the parietal discussions like a tion Center, founded by Tom TollaksenRich approached me with introductions dog to whom a meat bone has been after a germinal suggestion from me; and to a boy waiting outside my office door. 
tossed by a burglar making off with the (2) Psychological Services -and the sug­Rich said of the boy, "He's bumming," family silver. I remember also, last year, gestion is made not for the boy's punish­by which I understood him at first to zoning in on a kid, who seemed to ment, but for his healing. If discipline is mean that the lad was a hobo, down on exemplify, in his weight loss and in his imposed, it must be as personallyhis luck, wandering from a somewhere saffron complexion, the deterioration tailored, and as therapeutic, as apenancetown to the neighborhoods of no place to that is, tni.ditionally the "dope fiend's" given after sin. 
go. Then I understood the boy was a lot. U!timat,lms were leveled against the In my own experience, I have nevertraveller only in the mind; his trip was on kid: stop! or phone calls will be made to se'tm a drug-user with his inner mess-tipsdrugs, and all of the vibrations were bad. 
Papa, and you can settle the problem whom I have considered a source ofFor the next several hours, Rich and I together in the suburbs west of Chicago. contagion to his classmates. Even withand Jim McDermott, a worker in the But the kid would not promise to stop; the shabby chaps who sell drugs, I amDrug Information Center whom I sum­he could not lie to me, he said. He chose tempted to deal gently. (Note the differ­moned from the fourth floor of Keenan, instead to leave the hall, and his friends ence between a supplier, who claims tooffered the boy the therapy of conversa­came as intermediaries. They said: there provide a marketplace for customers whotion, in an attempt to talk him down is already an up-tightness between this wish his merchandise, and a pusher, whofrom a condition that approached a mes­boy and his dad; the father would be tries, I am told, to get his clients hookedmanic-depressive mood induced by powerless to touch his son's inner will. In into a drug dependency. I have nevercaline. (The boy's supplier, thinking the the end I had to work out other terms consciously met a pusher; I am on speak­mescaline to have gone stale, gave his with the boy; it seemed in no way ing terms with several who are suppliers.)
protege in drugs a double dose of the 
desirable to dismiss hiin to an off-campus 
Speculatively, I can imagine the suppliercrud. The reactions were so severe that 
room, where he could stone himself into 
as a creep with all the earmarks of athe boy supposed he was freakiJ,g out on madness. 
moral monster; in practice the suppliers I L.S.D.) Eventually, I learned .hat two 
My situation was like that of another 
have met seem like regular chaps, thoughother students were undergoing a similar 
dad I have heard about: he commanded a 
screwed in their personal
distress, as partners in the same sale of up some of 
child of his flesh named David, "Get a 
judgments and usually a little paranoid.
mescaline, in another hall on campus. 
haircut, or get lost." David, feeling that a 
None of them seemed sinister, and all ofThey finally appeared at Keenan, where 
father's love should be based on contin­
them seemed worth saving, whatever thefriends gave them comfort and shelter for 
gencies more basic than a hair-style, 
word salvation may imply.

the rest of the night. 
opted to leave home. In tears, the father
Ordinarily, I would not view the hap­apologized to his son, shocked at his own In writing of my feelings about students penings of a Saturday night as grist for. 
near-deed of throwing away a child for a who are using drugs, I speak of myself as the scribbler's mill_ ex_ce~t that, as a result . trifle. Drug use, I consider, is no trifle, a fallible creature who has tried to temper (I suspect) of thrs mcrdent, a reporter ' but 1 refuse to let it alienate me from a the wind to the shorn lamb in order to from one. of t~e campus publi~ati~ns kid who, at that point, may be most in keep that lamb from perishing. If I had came to mterverw me as a Umversrty need of my friendship. done otherwise, I think to myself, fright­
person with some expertise in the therapy· My attitude toward this boy is illustra­ened freshmen would not come banging for kicky drugs. I spoke to a well-tive of my feelings toward all the mem­on my door at midnight, and Saturday mannered, intelligent cub reporter of my bers of the Keenan enclave. Obviously, evenings would not be times when. once very limited kind of awareness of the one cannot condone the use of drugs, in a while, I feel much needed, because events on the local drug scene, anci I told since, among other things, there are the Demons of mischief are conspiring him of my views, formulated as rector, federal Jaws curtailing the operations of against the peace, happiness, and survival toward the drug users in Keenan Hall. even such free spirits as the Rector of of the children in the land of the Afterwards, I said to myself, I do not Keenan. Of drug use, I am not, nor do I munchkins. 
Bruce A. B Broillet 


Nobody Wins 
It was an extraordinarily miserable day electorate of this University was quick to At the first football game, Nobody on the campus of du Lac when Nobody elect him by a landslide margin over every presented the flag to Mr. and Mrs. decided to stroll over to the student other candidate who did!)'t run-you see, Edmund Stepan-but they unflinching!~' government offices and pick up a petition Nobody wa~ the only name on the ballot. played their parts, walked empty-handt J for SBP. The idea to run for office was No victory party was held and so, in over to the flagpole, and raised absolutely never conceived and didn't mean gracious manner, absolutely Nobody won nothing to the top of the pole whilst the 
anything anyway, as it was received with the election for student body band played on. No concerts were held absolutely no acclaim or censure. The president -par for the course at Notre since Nobody bried to arrange them-and Observer made no mention of Nobody's Dame. most students were relieved at this turn 
candidacy and the Scholastic followed The after effects were remarkable. No 
of events following the fiascoes of 70-71. suit. He had no machine to help him win congratulations were in order for the In fact, a whole year was spent with and nobody supported anybody, that is, 
victor so he quickly set to no work at all. nothing happening in student everybody supported Nobody. He ran a First, he abolished any semblance of government. Yet, somehow the year was campaign in which signs were placed in student government and replaced the no different from any other year at Notre every hall on campus proclaiming that whole "blasted mess" (in his own Dame. And when the new election time "Nobody will speak in the student lounge memorable words) with a Department of came around, Nobody supported
this evening at six thirty. No one is Everybody, in order that he might avoid anybody who didn't run, and peopleinvited to attend and nothing will be said. double negatives-he was an English began to realize the tntth of the childish, No questions will be answered afterward. major. Thus, when Nobody was doing high school game at Notre Dame Please don't come." On election eve there anything, at least it could be said that il\accurately referred to as student 
was no excitement at Nobody's Everybody was doing nothing. The trivial government. And the su~ession of non-existent campaign headquarters and, wordplay which ensued was too Nobodies pertetuated itself-Everybody as might b\! assumed, the well-informed marvelous for this author to relate. saw h> that. 
Notre graduate Rick Libowitz on the Hebrew University Campus. 

Graduate in Israel 
Jerusalem, February, 1971: "I want to become a rabbi because of the idea of doing things with and for people," says 22 year old Rick Lobowitz who this year is studying at the Hebrew University of Je.rusalem, and plans to return to the United States where he is enrolled in a Rabbinical School. 
Rick, son of Mr. and Mrs. Milton Libowitz of 3 Rocky Rapids Road, Stamford, Connecticut, has a long record of work in both politics and civil rights. He worked towards voters' rights in the South and helped in election campaigns for Robert Kennedy and Eugene McCarthy. 
After completing a B.A. degree in English at the University of Notre Dame Rick came to Israel in July and spent two months learning Hebrew at a course of the Teachers Training College at Sede Boker, a kibbutz (collective agricultrual settlement) in the Negev desert whose members include Israel's first Prime Minister, David Ben-Gurion. 
He then spent a week touring Israel before ooming to Jerusalem where, in addition to studying at the Hebrew University, he is also enrolled at the Hayim Greenberg Teachers Seminary. His programme includes Bible, Talmud, Jewish History, Jewish Thought and Sociology, but he is most concerned with learning Hebrew. ­
By studying at the Hebrew University, Rick says he is following a cousin, Dr. Lewis Kaplan, former head of the Baltimore Teachers' College, who, in 1925, was the first American to study at the University which was founded on Mt. Scopus in 1918. Access to this site, cut off in 1948, was regained in 1967 and last year the entire Law Faculty and all first year science students were transferred th~re. There were only a handful of overseas students at the University in Dr. Kaplan's student days. This year almost one quarter of the University's 16,000 students are from abroad, an increase of 400% since the Six-Day-War in 1967. 
As a result of the strikes on the United States campuses, when Rick started studying at the Hebrew University, it was the first time he had been to rtgular classes for seven months. He commented on how good it was to see full classes again. He dinds the classes enjoyable and likes to see so many people from different countries congregated. He adds, "where else can you lay outside in the grass in November?" 
Rick sees Israel as a "mixture of things." He feels it is difficult at first to get used to a different style of life yet his is already changing. "If my mother saw me eating tomatoes and egg-plants, would not get the same treatment at home again," he comment'!. He likes the way people in Israel have "good, concrete goals" which they try to accomplish. 
In the future, Rick would perhaps consider returning to live in Israel but for the present his plans are already made. Next year, he will begin studying to become a rabbi at a Reconstructionist R:1bbinical College. In any case he has to return for a while, "I've spent four years trying to change things in the 'Jnited States, and working with similarly oriented people, and that is too long to ~urn my back on it all, he concludes. 


March 1. 197-1 


Junior parents comment on student life 

(Continued from Page I) 
at ND was not depicted on the film. The parents in the audience were then asked for questions. One father wanted to know what student life should be like. Mooney answered that it should be as diverse as possible and that there still may be too many Irish catholics on campus. He also said the social aspect of the university must be much looser and that co-ed dining halls and dorms should be pushed. 
Corso answered a query on the cause of the damage of weekends by stating that there is not enough to do on campus. He put the blame on the students for the vandalism. 
Mooney said that it is not the fault of any one group, students or administration, but just the way things are presently set up. 
A parent commented that twenty years ago students at ND had the same weekends to put up with, "yet there was not all this drinking and vandalism." In 

Collegiate Jazz Festival
... 
23 big bands and combos from 20 schools 
March 5 & 6 , Stepan Center 
in the Dining Halls Tues. Wed, & Thurs
TICKETS: 
and at the door 

Sat afternoon session·· $1.50 
Fri & Sat evening sessions--$3.00 
All sessions .. $4.50 
FREE SYMPOSIUM "Jazz and Race" 4:00PM Friday Audio-Visual Theoter; center for Continuing Education. 



Have thevisionofthe oneness oflife. 

Beyond all the magnificence of her temples and tombs and monuments. Beyond all the brilliance of her festivals and feasts and holy days. 
Beyond all the beauty of her mountains.and valleys and cities. Beyond all this, and more, lies the true vision of India. You will find it within the spirit of the People. For they are the exemplification of the total oneness of life experience. From the seeker of truth and the prince of wisdom. To the scholar and the doctor. To the fisherman and the farmer. The People of India are the soul of India. 
Let us help you to understand the motivation and the meaning behind her culture and architectural masterpieces, her forgotten crafts and magnificent works of art. 
Let us help you get acquainted with her in a way so few have come to know. 
We have the means, like our "Meet the People Program," reduced student~ rate travel fares (at least half the regular fare on rail, bus, and certain domestic flights), youth hostels and holiday camps (less than $1 a day), introductions to our college and university students, and more. 
For more information, see your Travel Agent or contact us, The Government of India Tourist Office, by mailing the coupon to the address closest you. New York: 19 E. 49th St., Chicago: 201 North Michigan Ave., San Francisco: 685 Market St. Offices also in Canada and Mexico. 
The vision of the oneness of life. A gift from India. Please send me your free 52~page brochure telling me all about India. Name________________________________________________________________ _ 
Address,______________________________ City__________________State______Zip._____ 
SeeIndia.Itsanotherworld. 
... 7 
reply Meyers pointed to the fact that ·"ours is a more affluent society, the students today expect more." Mooney added that an all-male university is no longer conventional, and that with coeducation the vandalism would stop. 
Corso said that co-education wouldn't help all that much because some students would still drink too much but going co-ed would help, even if it would f!Ot solve the problem. 
A junior in the audience 




LaFortune manager dismissed 
by Jack Bennet 
The T.G.I.F. concert held in the Student Center on Friday afternoon developed into an all night show after a large crowd filled the Center for most of the night. The extension of the concert led directly to the dismissal of Student Manager
-l 

added that twenty years ago students lived in fear of the administration. He noted that students have been given more responsibility today. 
Another junior said that there arc few activities in northern Indiana for those under 2I. "All that is left is drink and drugs but with co-education there would be new alternatives," he· said. Mooney added that co-ed dining halls would stop much of the food-throwing there. 
Mark Stoltz who made the decision to keep the show running after the hour originally agreed upon with Center offic­ials. 
W When the concert finally broke up a 3:00 am all of the audience who had remained helped clean up the entire area. 
The dismissal of Stoltz came late Saturday afternoon when he reported for work. According to Stoltz, Brother Francis Gorch who is official manager of LaFortune Center demanded his resignation for Stoltz's decision to allow the concert to continue past the previously agreed upon 
Father Burrell appointed to head Theology position 
Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C., has been appointed chairman of the department of theology, effective September I, it has been announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president. 
termination time of I0:30 pm. 
Stoltz who ordinarily closes the Student Center at 12:30 am 
on Friday nights said he made the decision because he felt that it was in the best interest of everyone to keep the concert going. 
"For the first time since I've worked here this place was actually being enjoyed by the students,'Stoltz said.He pointed out that he had willingly donated his time and services to keep the Center open late and had personally supervised the clean-up operations . 
Other comments which had 
been in.terspersed in the discus­
sion included a note that the 
only thing parents were con­
cerned with once the student 
gets home is grades, that the vocal I0% of the students get the headlines while 90% only want a good education.Mr. Aldo Corso said the problems in going co-ed only confirmed what parents had known all along, that "women are the source of all trouble." 
Father Burrell, 38, a specialist in the philosophy of religion, has been a member of the philosophy faculty at Notre Dame since 1967 and holds the rank of associate professor. Ma 
Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. open to both philosophy and theology students at Notre Dame. 
(Continued on Page 8) 
JAZZ ROCKS CJF 
European Student Travel $245 Round Trip 
Large selection of dates . study tours and language courses . year round student service 
Join National Union of Students, Inc. now for full benefits -write or call for full information and brochure. Cafl'1)us Rep required: Applicants 
for this financially rewarding position should mark envelop "Programme Co-ordinator." All interested write to: 
National Union of Students Travel Service, Inc. Suite 911 159 W. 33rd st. New York, New York 10001 Phone: (212) 565-1732 
(212) 565-4199 Telex: 421437 
Offices in N.Y., London, Dublin, Paris 


~ -~---~------~­
I 

March 1, 1971 711£ OBJ'ERfiER Page 7 
Irish drop Redmen, Dayton next 
John Pleick has come on to give the lri'lh a consistent game 
by Mike Pavlin 
The preliminaries are out of the way and the main event is on tonight. 
Fresh from a 92-79 victory over St. John's, the Notre Dame basketball aggregation takes on the University of Dayton with an NCAA bid possibly in the balance. Offers to the post-season tourney are due out tomorrow morning and a loss to the Flyers could cause the selection committee to pass the Irish by. 
Thanks to some late heroics by captain Austin Carr and a sizzling shooting performance by big Sid Catlett, NO enters tonight's tilt 17-7. The Irish stuffed the Redmen in the can early, then had to hold down the lid as St. John's rallied to cut a 20-point deficit to six. 
The game was played before an SRO house in Jamaica, N.Y. last Saturday night and featured a battle between the vaunted scoring ability of NO's Carr and the leaping ability of the Redmen's super soph Mel Davis. Though Carr had a below average night with 32 points, his clutch play in the last ten minutes helped the Irish withstand the strong St. John's comeback. 
Davis stands just under 6-7 but is a prodigious leaper. He cleaned the defensive boards all night and wa; credited with 21 rebounds, 13 in the first half. Offensively, however, Davis met his match in NO's Collis Jones who battled him head to head. Jones out-scored Davis 21-19 and even blocked a few of the latter's shots. Though only a soph Davis has a chance to break the St. John's career rebounding mark this year. 
The Irish threw a stout man-to-man defense at St. John's, and the Redmen were unable to penetrate it throughout the first half. Numerous turnovers (18 on the night) and a cold shooting hand held the St. John's offense to a minimum. The only man able to score with any consistancy was 6-5 soph Bill Schaeffer who canned 13 points. 
The high-scoring Carr was the victim of a collapsing man-to-man defense which "held" him to I 6 first half 
points and forced him to do half 
of his game scoring from the 
foul line. This defense, however, 
had the effect of leaving wide 
gaps on the floor which the rest 
of the Irish penetrated with ease. 
ND fast-breaked effectively and 
caught St. John's napping several 
times. 
The Irish busted out to a 11-2 
lead and steadily widened the 
advantage. Balanced scoring 
from Jones ( 11 points), Catlett 
(1 0) and Tom Sinnott (8) sent ND to the locker room up 49-29. Sinnott played in the place of Jackie Meehan who was bothered by an ailing knee. 
But along with a 20-point lead, the Irish picked-up a bushe' of fouls and this tendency hurt them early in the second half. Catlett, who blitzed St. John's with a 7 for 8 shooting performance, got his 4th foul at 
13:50 and it put the Redmen in the bonus situation. St. John's began to get more balanced scoring and Davis continued to hound the boards. 
With Catlett and Sinnott on the bench with four fouls apiece, the Redmen made several runs at the Irish. 6-8 Greg Cluess and 6-0 Rich Lyons led charges which cut the ND lead to ten 
(11 :40) and six points ( 7 :40). Irish coach Johnny Dee sent Catlett and Sinnott back in and then Carr went to work. 

Held in check most of the ·half, Austin broke loose for II 
points in the next five minutes 
to put the game out of reach. 
Catlett and Sinnott fouled out, 
but Jones and John Pleick 

helped Carr hold off the 
Redmen. Johnny Egart, who 

replaced Sinnott several times 
during the contest, scored the 
last four Irish points to make the 
final score 92-79. 

There were several encouraging factors in the game for the Irish. First, they were out-rebounded 40-32, yet still managed a solid victory. Second, Carr was held to only 18 shots from the field, 1 0 below his average. The Irish responded with a balanced attack, shooting 52% from the field. This performance might tend to discourage teams from over-loading on Austin in the future. 
For St. John's, Schaeffer's 22 
where they were runners-up last Redmen may have had. With a year. George Dalton of John Carroll (a I 5-8 record, they will probably Carr now has 2357 career four-year player). get another shot at the NIT points and is tied for I Oth place end of any NCAA hopes the on the all-time NCAA list with 
ST. JOHN'S 
NOTRE DAME 

FG FT REB PTS FG FT REB PTS Carr 9-18 14-16 4 32 Davis 7-14 S-7 21 19 Jones 9-24 3-8 14 21 Schaeffer 9-16 4-6 6 22 
Catlett 7-8 1-1 2 IS Phillips I-I 0-I 1 2 Pleick 3-7 3-3 6 9 Lyons S-I4 2-3 0 l2 Keilty 1-4 I-I I 3
Sinnott 4-S 0-0 4 8 Egart 2-2 3-4 I 7 Cluess S-I4 5-S 10 IS ------------------.------------LaMantia 2-4 0-0 1 4 TOTAL 34-65 23-32 32 92 
Jenkins 1-4 0-0 0 2 
TOTAL 31-71 17-23 40 79 ND shot 52%. SJU shot 43%. ND had 13 turnovers. SJU had 18 turnovers. 
B.G. blasts icers twice 
by Jim Donaldson for the Irish at the 6:00 minute end, circled the net and Observer Sportswriter mark of the initial stanza,­attempted to jam the disc past The high-flying Falcons of fighting his way past two Falcon 'Gala ski but the Falcon ~oalie Bowling Green State University defenders and beating Galaski stopped the shot. Paul Regan extended their winning streak to with a hard 20-foot slap shot. tried to push it in but Galaski thirteen games and dealt a severe Each club had two power turned his shot aside too. The 
blow to the Notre Dame hockey plays later in the period but puck rolled across the goal team's hopes of finishing over Galaski and Irish netminder Dick mouth and Noble popped it in. , .500 this season by handing the Tomasoni stopped everything Glen Shirton netted the game Irish a pair of setbacks over the that came their way. winning goal at I 7:5 9, picking weekend. The Falcons beat The Falcons regained the lead up a loose puck in the Irish end, 
Notre Dame 5-l at Bowling early in the second period when faking by a defender and 
Green on Friday night and edged Bradbury and Williams got loose slipping a puck into the lower the Irish 3-2 at the ACC on on a 2-on-1 break. Bradbury hit left corner of the net. Saturday. Williams in the open with a The Irish pulled Tomasoni 
Bowling Green upped their perfect pass and the talented with 22 seconds left in an record to 18-11 while the Irish freshman faked Tomasoni to the attempt to net the equalizer but slipped to 11-14-2 on the year. ice and fired the puck past him were unable to score. 
Bowling Green was in control with I : 16 gone. Galeski finished with 37 saves, all the way Friday night, The Irish had some good Tomasoni with 21. building up a 4-0 lead before Jim chances in the period but "I was disappointed in our Cordes scored a third period goal Galaski made fine saves on shots play," Irish coach Lefty Smith to get the Irish on the boar<t by Karl Kalmar, Cordes, and said after Saturday's contest. 
Pete Badour put the Falcons Kevin Hoene, to preserve the "We did a poor job with basic on top in the first minute of Falcons' 2-1 advantage after 40 things. It's going to be har:d to play as he took a pass from minutes of play. reach that .500 mark now." Gerry Bradbury I 0 feet in front John Noble almost ti~d the The Irish have four games left, of the net and shot the puck score for the Irish in the first all at the ACC. Notre Dame will over a sprawling Chris Cathcart minute of the third period but take on the very talented U.S. for a 1-0 lead just 45 seconds Galaski came up with a great National sextet which boasts 7 into the game. stick save to prevent the score. former All-Americans and some 
Bowling Green outshot the Noble eventually did make it former NHL players next Irish 13-8 in the second period a 2-2 game however, poking in a weekend and the Irish will and increased their lead to 3-0 loose puck just in front of the conclude their '70-'71 campaign with a pair of tallies. cage at 11 :41. Bill Green had on March 12 and 13 with a pair 
Bradbury fired in a slap shot carried the puck into the Falcon of games against the Air Froce at 8:44, beating Cathcart high, just underneath the crossbar to put the Falcons ahead 2-0 and 


Bengals commence
Mike Bartley netted the third Falcon marker at 14:36 with a Athletic and Convocation Center 
perfect tip in front on a low shot Notre Dame, Ind. -Notre Ticket Office. 
from the left point by Mike Dame will stage its annual Minnix was an offensive Root. 
boxing spectacular -the 1971 halfback on last fall's Irish Bruce Blyth put the puck in Bengal Bouts --next week and football team and participated ·a the twine for the Falcons at the collegiate boxers will share year ago along with halfbacks 3:06 of the final period, stealing the spotlight with the founder of Denny Allan and Chuck a poor pass in the Irish defensive the bouts, Dominic Nepolitano. Nightingale and quarterback Bill zone and beating Cathcart with a 
Napolitano will be observing Etter. 
1 5 foot wrist shot to give his 40th year as the head of the With the exception of the war Bowling Green a 4-0 advantage. 
Bengal Bouts and a special years of 1943-44-45, Nappy has Cordes spoiled Falcon goalie 
testimonial dinner will be held in personally coached every BengalPaul Galaski's shutout with 3:46 hishonor on Friday, March 5. Bout boxer to appear in the gone in the period, firing i a Sixty-one fighters will competition. His position as short shot after taking a pass compete for the 10 weight class trainer and director of the from Regan who dug the puck championships with Bengals and his guiding hand has out from behind the net. 
quarterfinals starting on never failed to produceBartley wrapped up the Tuesday, March 2, in the well-trained boxers in topscoring at 8: 3 7, banging in a Athletic and Convocation physical condition. . 
rebound of a Chuch Gyles shot Center. The semi-finals will be "The group this year has been for his second goal of the game. 
held on Wednesday with the tremendous they've put in a lot Gala ski did an outstanding job finals Friday. of time and· effort," said Nappy, in the Falcon net, stopping 30 Four champions return to who indicated the young boxersshots. Cathcart made 27 saves defend titles won last winter. have been working out since last for the Irish. 
Tom Suddes (Springfield, Ill.) October. 
Saturday night, the Irish 145-pound division, Roland "These boys who participateoutshot the Falcons 39-24 but Chamblee (South Bend) in the Bengal Bouts aren't in theGalaski again turned in an I 6 0-pounds, Gary Canori business of boxi;:g," saysexcellent job of goaltending and (Watertown, N.Y.) I 55 pounds, Napolitano. "They're in it forthwarted a number of Irish and Box Minnix (Spokane, the pleasure, simply becausescoring opportunities. 

Wash.) 175 pounds, will defend they want to box or becauseThe Falcons wasted no time titles. they have some small talent for • in getting on the scoreboard as 
Ring-side and reserved seat it." 
Badour again tallied in the first tickets are $2 per night. General All proceeds from the Bengalminute of play, banging in a admission tickets for Tuesday Bouts provide support for therebound of a shot by Brian and Wednesday are $1 and $1.50 work of the Notre Dame HolyWilliams just 55 seconds after for the Friday finals. All fight Cross missionaries in Bengal,the opening faceoff. 
tickets and reservations for formerly in India now in East •Ric Shaffer knotted the score 
Nappy's dinner are on sale at the Pakistan. 
THE OBSERVER
f>age 8 
March 1 1971 


academic situation as well as

ENDS TUESDAY 
having a realistic perception and solution to the problems, especially at this time." 
"Kathy and Missy I know, are

*CLASSIFIED AD RAJES * 
,..,. 
4.S.YI
1 ... 
0-10 1.00 1.15 1.21 




-· ·­
·"' 
11·11 ... 1.00 1.35 1.... 2.11 
,... 21·211 ... 1.35 .... 2.00 3A5 
1..20 •70 1.15 1.70 :rAO 
..... 1.00 1.00 2.30 lAO 4.10 
1.211 1.10 uo .... ..,.
""" 
1.30 Z.IO 3.10 .... 1.10-· 1... 2.30 3.30 .... 0.00 

Pizza Hut Pete Presents 
ND & SMC 
Pitcher Nigbt 
$1 .25 for a pitcher of Budweiser or Strohs 
Monday night only-Pizza Hut I on Lincolnway 
Tuesday night only -Pizza Hut 2 on Edison Road 
"Student Specid" 
~ price on any pizza or soft drink 
With School J.D. 
2 LOCATIONS -CALL AHEAD 288-6060 So. Bend no. t Across fro111l.U. 233-3827 So. Bend no. 2 Mile East of N.D. 
We Are the Nations Largest! 
Graduate student elections Friday 
The election of the new presi­dent, vice-president, and treasur­er for the Graduate Student Union will be conducted on Friday, March 26 . 
Nominations for these three positions close on March 5. To be nominated a graduate student union member must submit a petition for office signed by twenty-five graduate union members to the Graduate Stu­dent Council. (A GSU member is any graduate student who has paid his yearly dues; virtually all grad students are members, since the dues fee is charged to their accounts at registration.) 
To be elibible for office, a nominee must be a full-time grad student. Candidates should pre­sent themselves to the Graduate Student Council meeting on March 5 at noon in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
which unfortunately have been released in irresponsible, nega­tive criticism instead of positive constructive ideas. I am a very firm believer in divine providence. St. Mary's College has existed for 126 years." 
"It has constantly tried to renew itself with the changing times of the academic world" she commented, "but still retain its Christian character and values. · 

(Continued from Page 6) 
A 1954 magna cum laude graduate of Notre Dame, he was awarded l'ulbright and Woodrow Wilson fellowships. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross following graduation and was ordained in 1959. He received his licentate in theology from the Gregorian University in Rome in 1960 and following further study at Laval University, he took his doctorate in philosophy at Yale University in I 965 as a Kent fellow. 

WRITE-IN CAMPAIGN _ FOR SBWSBVP
17Jeob Roche and Ali Gonlubol 
representing 

******t****J.c**********

Marathon tnterprises 
***************~****** 
"/promise to do nothing for the student body but get their heads together." 







