Hall Judicial Boards 
Important in theory, hut... 
b . 
Y Art Ferant1 

Yesterday, the OBSER v.t::N examined the Judicial Code at a University wide level. Today, to conclude the two part series, this article will con­cern the hall level and its judicial boards. 
. · 1 f 0 s n cam us occur within the . M!~~1 ~~the~~~ a ~ ~1 ~oards )t logically follows
.JU~Is1 c.wn ° 1~ .:dicial boa~ds are used a great
11
: ~. ;·. th~~et~a~~ mJethod for maintaining the "good~>~~(':~r the hall community." In most of the cases, 1 h h ·t dents involved either resolve it out of 
.houg0 · t ~~~ 1 ~ arbitrary help of the hall's judicial lour! ~ w . e hoard chairman. 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 

The student, as on the university level, has the 
choice of either going to the hall board or to the 
rector. If he chooses the rector and dislikes the 
decision, he may appeal to the Dean of Students. If 
the board is ·picked, the student may appeal to the 
rector. 



The members of the board are picked by the hall 
council with "one senior university person." The number of members varies from hall to hall. As on the university level, if records are maintained at all, they are kept confidential. 
Dave Tushar, the Judicial Commissioner, en­
visions himself and his commissionas a "cataly.st" towards making the hall boards more functional. m~ offers "aid and a~sist~nce" to the accused in a hall 
trial as on the umvers1ty level. But he also c?ncede that many of ~he hall boards are non-functional. 
Fr. James Riehle, C.S.C., Dean of Students, went onestep further. H~ said that rn~ny hall board~ are not only non-functional, but failures. He claimed that one of the faults on the hall level was a lack of responsibility on the part of the students. And if the hall boards exist, they exist "nominally". said Fr. Riehle. He cited vandalism, damage to halls, and the like as proof of the hall boards' inability to "apply sanctions when they have the right to apply sanctions." Fr. Riehle, as the Dean of Students, 
(according to Sec. 3, article a of the Judicial Code) is responsible for the observances of the judicial
code procedures. 
Fr. Maurice Amen, C.S.C., rector of Flanner Hall, tended to back up Fr. Fiehle's statements, but in a different manner. In most cases, Fr. Amen said that the judicial code was a "last effort." He and 
students are looking for more innovative ways of handling various sidturbances. The accused should alw~~s be responsib.Ie for any damages, butpun~tlve measures, said Fr. Amen, should be used agamst those who can only be taught by that method. 
As an alternative to the judicial boards, Fr. Amen proposed group pressure from the student's peers. "Students have a very acute idea of justice," said Fr. Amen, "and the gap between what the hall is now and what the hall is supposed to be will not be closed by excessive use of the judicial boards." Fr. Amen said that order is necessary, but it should be sought by a sense of "brotherly concern" and not legalistic iudicial procedures. 
continued on page 4 
Vol. V, No. 113 Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Thursday, April 22, 1971 
Dziedzic defines 'Imminent Danger' clause 

Burtchaell refuses to endorse statement 
is "a good device and a necessary provisionally suspended. by Ed Lacey provision." It is a protection of Protection for the innocent the community while avoiding student was built right into the
University Provost James T. 
arbitrary injustice. He also felt clause, according to the om­
Burtchaell refused to endorse a 
that the "prime object of this budsman. The student picks the
statement of understanding 
clause is the pusher." time of his trial and even if forced 
regarding the "imminent danger 
Fr. Burtchaell, said however to lose a semester, is reimbursed.
clause" of the Judicial Code 
that the drug pusher was not in He said that this would not
made yesterday by Student 
mind when the clause was become an arbitrary rule "if
Government Ombudsman Paul 
written. It was rather the par­handled properly and correctly." 
Dziedzic. 
ticular case of a series of Dziedzic concluded that his
Fr. Burtchaell said yesterday 
systematic muggings several statement is "not a Student
that he agreed with the statement 
years ago that influenced the Government policy statment but
but felt it would only serve to 
design of this clause. merely an attempt at clarifying I
further confuse the issue. He 
According to Dziedzic, if a the imminent danger clause."
added that Dziedzic "did a pretty 
student is charged for a serious
good job." Dziedzic formed his Rev. James Burtchaell, C.S.C. Paul Dziedzic
violation by a crdible source, he 
The full text of Paul Dziedic's
understanding of the clause after 
will recieve a trial before the
conferring with the provost and statement is on page B. his trial. This will probably in­the Student Life Council and Fr.
University Appeals Board as
University President Fr. volve the loss of a semester. Burthchaell said that in­
soon as he requests it. If for any This is not done as a punish­
Theodore M. Hesburgh. However, if the student is found terpretation of the clause was
reason, the student seeks to delay ment but rather as an attempt to 
innocent his money for the
Dziedzic expressed the opinion his trial for any period of time, he protect the community. The "an administrative task." He 
semester is returned. accordin_g added that, as a former member
that the imminent danger clause is declared an imminent danger suspended student must then to Dziedzic. 
on campus 

today... 

2:00 to 4:00 and 6:00 to 8:30 exhibition -smc spanish dept. and pan american club: latin american culture, little theater. 
3:30 lecture -dr. ruth b. marcus, northwestern u.: the place of women in the phi losophica I professions, 327 madeleva. 
7:00 and 10:00 films -non­violence program: hanoi, march 13th, stolen childhood and to end the war, 122 hayes-healy. 

8:00 
lecture-john froines: spring anti-war offensive and may actions in washington, second floor Iafortune. 

8:00 
lecture -dr. joseph schwab, university of chicago: liberal arts for now, library auditorium. 





nd-snic 



of the SLC, he was certain of thisto the University and leave the campus until the time of no mention of
Dziedzic made interpretation. 
"Within 15 years" 


Francoeur: ''Test-tube babies'' 
marital intercourse.
by Jim Riebandt life, such as flexible monogamy
He raised the controversy of a and group marriages, are Children with three mothers child having multiple parents. 
distinct possibilities.
Would the parent be the donator
and three fathers and senior He concluded that we must face 
of the sperm, the carrier of the
citizen polygamy were among the this new era with "the faith of 
possibilities for the future of zygote in the case of a substitute Abraham." As he left his secure embryology presented last night mother, or the social mother who and comfortable horne, we also 
by Dr. Robert Francoeur , a "ordered the child" and must forge ahead to a better land. 
ultimately raises it?
former priest and embryologist. "If God made man in His own
He noted that the process of
The author of Human Sexuality image and likeness, he thusly
cloning, the scientific
and Test Tube Babies and shares with him the burden of the
reproduction of a person iden­
Utopian Motherhood spoke on the reproduction of the human race,"
tically, is now only 10 to 15 years
nature and implications of test Francoeur declared. Robert Francoeur 
away. Calling it the "ultimatetube babies, artificial in­perversion," Francoeur said thesernmination,and the new moral process could be accomplishedworld it creates. 
beginning with a simple skin"Every technology creates its Latin-American events set
graft of one's arm.
own little culture," he noted and The next step would be tothe world is now faced with a new objects such as clothing, pain­isolate those cells with various
question. We must respond and Dr. Richard Bohan of the St. 
tings and photographs, andkey enzymes in a special cultural 
create a new language in order to Mary's political science musical instruments. The display medium. The cells would then be
cope with the social, department lectured Tuesday will be in Room 145, Regina Hallplaced into an artificial womb
psychological, and emotional night on "The U.S. Intervention
when, after a prescribed period, at Saint Mary's from 10 a.m. to 12
problems created by artificial in Latin-America," to a scattered a.m., 2p.rn. to 4 p.m. and 6:30 toa xerox copy of one would ap­
reproduction, he said. audience in Carroll Hall. The 
9:30p.m.
pear.
He reported that today in the lecture kicked off the activities of Friday is Hispanic-AmericanA major concern of Francoeur
U.S., 1 in 200 babies are born as a Spanish American Week which Night, with an evening ofwas the possible creation of new
result of artificial insemmination will run through April 23. 
classical music, dancing andethics in family life. Various
and that 1 to 2 million babies have Today, there will be a cultural acting beginning at 8 p.m. at the
changes in the nature of married
been born bypassing the normal display of Spanish American St. Mary's Little Theater. 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, April 22, 1971 
Plans set for 4th annual An Tostal 
by Jim Brogan 
Last night Chairman Fritz Hoefer unveiled the plans for the upcoming An Tostal Weekend, sponsored by the Hall Presidents' Concil. 
The weekend of April 29, 30, and May 1 will mark the fourth 
-·--------­

annual celebration of welcoming Spring to Notre Dame. An Tostal, menaing "the festival" in Gaelic, had its christening back in the spring of 1968 and has grown steadily ever since. This legiti­
matE son of the former Badin­Sorin Olympics was adopted and reared by the loving Hall 

---------------------, 
Clothes ·and things 

Men's Boutique 

t~e Ptt Stap 
"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center-Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­7335 

All clubs and organizations 
have to he chartered for the 1971-1972 academic year this spring. Please register all clubs in the 4th floor of Lafortune 
-the. Service Commission by April30. 4-5 PM Weekdays 
Presidents; Council and in its 
four year life has developed a 
distinct personality of its own. 
Hoefer explained the weekend's composition, putting special emphasis on the necessity of signing up this week in the Dining Halls for the free picnic. He announced that the picnic will take place on Saturday May 1, and will be located on the rolling lawns of Holy Cross Hall. 
He added, "There is no cost to 

anyone who signs up. A student 
simply has to present his meal 
card in the dining hall and he will 
be gi-ven a ticket for the picnic. 
The only catch is that if you sign 
up for the picnic, we ask you to 
please eat that day at the picnic 
and not at the dining hall. The 
staff at the dining hall has been 
kind enough to promise food at 
both places, and we ask 
everyone's cooperation to show 
up in their assigned places." 
An Tostal will begin on April 29 which has been dubbed "Gentle Thursday." Why it has been named "gentle" is anybody's guess, for it includes such un­bridled events as the new Moonball Contest, individuals being designated as jailbirds, a pie toss booth, the ever popular dunking booth, a flour blowing contest, as well as such placid happenings as a Irish Lunch in the dining halls, the annual ND­SMC Trivia Bowl, a Gealic Comedy, can stacking, and a local band performing on the North Quad. 
Campus notables have promised to be in evidence for the Jocks vs. SMC Basketball game, in which the jocks have to wear 
WANTED: 
boxing gloves while playing against the girls. The chairman said he hoped Sid Catlett and his teamates might repeat last year's thrilling performance, and remarked that varsity basketball captain "Doug Gemme! has definitely agreed to field a team for the competition." 
Friday of the Irish Weekend has been expanded greatly and been knighted with the title "Frivolous Friday." The frivolous events will include the second annual Kissing Marathon. "The same rules apply as last year" said Hoefer, "namely only the lips may touch and they have to touch continuously." J.T. Lyons, last year's winner with a kiss of 6 hours and 35 minutes will be back to defend his title' except this year with a different girl. 
Hoefer also explained that there will be 3 new events on Friday. The first is the Im­personation Contest in which anyone can compete for the trophy by imitating an animal or famous person. Hoefer refused comment on the rumors that many Domers are already regularly accused of acting like animals. 
The other two new Friday events will be a Jell Toss-2 people 
tossing jello  cubes  from  one's  
hand  to  the  other's  mouth  at  
proceedingly  father  distances-­ 

and the Old Tire Race, which is another two person event with one person in the truck tire, and the other rolling it. Hoefer's committee will supply the tires. Friday is capped off always 

STUDENT UNION SECRETARY 
~ 1 /S )

Tues. & ThUrs. 1-5 ' St em Apply 4th floor Lafortune Mon-Fri 1-5 or call 7757 

It's That time of year again 
with the Irish Wake. Chairman Hoefer explained, "It is the cheapest party of the year. This year we have the South Bend Armory, and one dollar buys your bus transportation, your ad­mission at the door, and 10 free beers per couple." 

For those who manage to recover from the Wake, there is the usual full compliment of Saturday events coupled with the addition of a car rally in the morning, a Ben Hur type Chariot Race with halls and clubs building chariots to be pulled by 
four human steeds, and  a  Kite  
Flying Contest.  
All of the old faithful  events  

such as the water brigade, pie eating,piano smashing, touch football, tug-o-war, cow milking, and the always popular pig 
chasing will definitely be in­
cluded as will the free picnic by Holy Cross Hall. To complete this staggeringly full Weekend, the An Tostal Committee and the Con­
temporary Arts Festival will present an outdoor concert behind Stepan Center. It will 
feature Segal-schwall, an ex­cellent Chicago blues band which already has four albums on the 

~~~~~::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~;;------~~;;;;--;;~--~~--~~--~~~~ mr-ar_k_e_t._____________ 
Come Spring ..... . 
~ . .}~,~~~;:'fH~~~~:~~~~t;~~;':~·:;~;:,:: ,... 
;. 
·. 

·'­
~-... -~::-­

~:-~..­::::-:.__~:~=-~~  -·  ~"',"....-::..~  
-~--­ 
-----·~·  ~....::~~  .  
...:.  ··­ -~-~­ 
a young man's fancy turns to thoughts  
all the good things at  
EDDIE'S RESTAURANT  
1345 No. Ironwood Drive  

1 0% reduction on all menu items for college and university students Complimentary split (small bottle per couple) of any wine on our magnificent wine list for those of age. 

DON'T BUY ANY 
,... • Q 
CAR Till 
YOU GET HAROlD ME DOW'S 

PRICES! 
DODGE *CHRYSLER *RENAULT 
HAROLD'S CORNER 

LaFayette & LaSalle 
Phone 233-31.54 
T Cbserver is publisn~o.d d< ,, _ during the college semester except Vdcatlons by the students of the University of Notre Dame and.St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, ·j3ox 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Seco;.d class postage p~ir!. Notre. Dame, Ind. 46556. 

_T_hu_rs_d_ay:.__,_A_:_p_ri_l_22_,_19_71_______________ __OIJ.t_'E]l_fl£lt Page 3
.,.._'B_'E __________ 




Student Union Commission's roles defined 
which halls and clubs are allowed 
. _This is the second and final part of an OBSERVER INSIGHT dealing with the functions of the Student Union. Today's Insight 
will deal with the Social mission and the Services 111 ission.  Com­Com- 
by Tom Degnan  

Oldest among the Union's organizations is the Service Commission, whose purpose has expanded from a mere watchdog organization to an informational and coordinating commission which not only controls the concessions on campus but also publishes the Student Union Calendar, runs the On-Campus mail service, and arranges student trips. 
The responsibility of registering all on campus clubs has been delegated to the organizations directors. The fourty-six on campus clubs must register their weekly activities with the commission to prevent overlapping in scheduling. Normally a plan of events is drawn up early in the year by the clubs and submitted, whereupon the Commission compares the cumulative club schedules to make sure that the same activity doesn't conflict with the activity of another club. 
The original duty of overseeing concessions is still an integral part of the organization. At the beginning of each year two lot­
terys are heid, one to determine 

Walk-a-thon scheduled 
The St. Joseph County March of Dimes will stage its annual 25 mile "Walk a Mile for the Life of a Child" Walk-A-Thon, Saturday, April 24, in South Bend and Mishawaka. 
Registration will begin at Notre Dame Stadium's Red Field West at 8:00am and the Walk will start at 9:00am. The walkers will start at the stadium and march through South Bend and Mishawaka and return. 
The walkers should get non­marching friends to sponsor them for a certain amount of money per mile completed. The money collected will then be used for birth defect research, patient aid, prenatal care and education in this area. 
Chairman, Mrs. Marty Lentych said, "This project is planned to involve the whole community in a fun event for a good cause-to help birth defective children of our country. The Civil Defense will maintain safety and com­munications; the Red Cross will pro~ide necessary medical help; pohce have promised traffic control; and donations of food soft drinks, teen bands and prize~ from various people and businesses will add to the day's 
festivities." 

Any individual or group in­terested in informantion walking, or sponsoring walker~ should ,call 287-5464 or 282-1611. 
ATTENTION ALL SENIORS, GRAD STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
Measurements for Caps and Gowns will be taken at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on 
April 21 and April 22 
THE HOURS WILL BE 
10 am to 5 pm 
to put up concession stands during football games and one for movie dates. The commission also handles professional con­cessions. Specifically advertising agencies such as College Marketing commiSSion the organization in various cam­paigns. The Services Commission also handles a refrigeration rental franchize on campus. 
The largest part of the Com­mission is the Campus Press. Extensive facilities including ditto, offset, and mimeograph are located in the basement of LaFortune. Facilities are open to students at a nominal fee~ 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 

One of the newest innovations in the Commission has come under particular criticism from the administration. Located in the basement of LaFortune, the Crypt is a discounted record concession run by members of the Commission. The ad­ministration's main complaint against thz Crypt is that the Profits or losses realized by the discounted records undercut the concerts are split in a fifty-fifty 
N.D. Hammes Bookstore causing agreement with a $9,400.00 Social a loss in Bookstore profits which Commission profit ceiling for the in turn may possibly cause a year. Any profits above $49,400.00 tuition increase. go to the ACC. Booking of groU!)S 
The Student Union Social is done by the Commissioner Commission is probably best either through agencies or known for its production of through the group's manager. concerts and its sponsorship of The ACC director usually sets a Mardi Gras. Collectively it is limit to the cost of any particular 
probably the most active of the 4 group. Anything over $15,000 Commissions, with nearly 100 guaranteed is usually too students working on its eight much,according to this year's committees. Mardi Gras is the Commissioner, Jim Porst. It is largest of the Commissions ac-the duty of the concert chairman tivities but it is through the to make sure the contract signed concerts that the Commission by the group is carried through realizes its greatest financial and that the physical ac­return. Budget-wise, the coutrements to the concert are organization is forcasted to break supplied. even but any excess funds at the Besides the concerts, the end of the year are allocated to Commission is also responsible the other commissions. The for the Homecoming festivities. A Social Commission maintains a special Projects Committee financial agreement with thz takes care of the Rathskeller Athletic and Convocation Cen-activities and the "Over the Hill ter's managing director, John concerts", both of which are Plouff, regarding -=-=th-'-e_c-'-on_c_e--'-r-'-ts--'-._g~u_a_!go?...,e_d_t_o_l....:o..:.o_se_m_o__n_e.:_y_.---, 
From the land of British Racing Green. 
Only 24 of the top racing drivers in the world are eligible to compete in all International Grand Prix. 
Morethan half of them are British. 
While for many nations, racing cars has become a national pastime, in England it has grown into a national passion. 
For the English, cars are a very no-nonsense, unfrilly business. In a car, they regard beauty as a function of how beautifully it functions, and nothing reflects the English character more in this regard than the classically British TR-6. 
It is English to the core. 
In fact, it's just about all core­a big, beautifully engineered 6-cylinder motor, powering asturdy transmission that slides solidly from one gear into another. 
A heavy-duty independent suspension that can take any­thing that any road can dish out. 
All tightly put together in a body with rugged, clean lines and topped off with a couple of comfortable reclining seats to sit in it with 

(The only concession to excessive luxury in the car). 
The classically British TR-6, is an utterlystraightforward, square-jawed kind of car. 
The kind they don't make anymore, anywhere but England. 
TheClassicaUy British Triumph TR-6[1 



AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY! 
(Also Spitfire Mark IV and G T -6) 

SERVICE HOURS 
Open Monday and Thursday nites to 9:00p.m. Tues., Wed. and Fri. 
to 6:00 p.m.,






Mill 
TRIU1r1PH ROVER LANDROVER 
916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka Ph. 255-4751. 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER Thursday, April 22, 1971 
If you want to help people, If you want to help improve 
the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community, then the 
Human Affairs Commission 
Needs YOU to work on: 

Counselling Programs 

Year Minority Programs International Students Orientation 
For further information call Steve Fortunato at 8515 or contact him through the Student Government Offices. 





RAP sponsors new concert 
The Refugee Aid Program <R.A.P.) has collected more than $850 to help the patients in the hospital at Quang Ngai, South Vietnam, according to an an­nouncement made yesterday by program spokesman Don Aerni. He also revealed plans for a free rock concert Friday and a Saturday afternoon picnic. 
"Easy" will play at a free concert tomorrow night from 8 o'clock to 11 o'clock on the North Quad between Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls. There will be free kool-aid. Saturday, from 2 
p.m. to 4 p.m. there will be a picnic in the big field in front of Madaleva Hall at Saint Mary's. Aerni invited participants in the program and everyone else in­terested to come and bring their own "frisbees, footballs, food, and whatever." 

TWO SMASH HITS 
Our Reg. 7.97 

2 RECORD SETS 
5.33 

Save 2.64! Sugg. List Price .... 9.98 WOODSTOCK TWO By Cotillion. The Festival ex­tended ... Jimi Hendrix, Jefferson Airplane Joan Baez 
Melanie, Mountain .... more! ' ' Crosby, ~tills, Nash & Young. By Atlantic. Their newest .... Just released ... FOUR WAY STREET. Scoop it up at 
our low, low prices. 

l{epresentatives of the R.A.P. will continue to be in the dining halls every evening, Monday thru Friday, to accept the donations from those who have saved money, Aerni said. In addition, he said that Peggy Thompson has organized a table in LeMans' lobby where information about the R.A.P. may be picked up and donations may be given. Someone will be at the table from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. daily. 
According to Aerni, the Morrissey Hall Council has voted to sacrifice a party for the section leaders and donate fifty dollars to the R.A.P. 
A room called Teahouse Etc., has been set up by the R.A.P. in the old fieldhouse. It is in the corner nearest O'Shaughnessy Hall and the Library. It will be open nightly from eight until 
McKinley Shopping Square, Mishawaka 
Hurry! Sale Ends Saturday, April 24th! 
NEW LONG PLAYING RELEASES Special Purchase Savings 
Our regular 3.47 
2.66 

Sugg. List Price ........4.98 LOVE IT TO DEATH, ALICE COOPER Warner Brothers FACES ........ BY LONG PLAYER Warner Brothers. 
1-------·---------------------------------------------i 
midnigpt. Aerni said that thz room's purpose is to allow people to come together, talk, and "drink coffee free while giving the dime to people who really need it." 
Lists of alumni, along with a sample letter and several suggestions, have been distributed to representatives in all halls but Stanford-Keenan and Zahm. Aerni said that everyone who requested a list should receive it by Friday. He also asked that anyone else interested in writing to alumni in their home town about the R.A.P. should call him or Frank Miklavcic at 3580. A letter explaining the program to the faculty is being written 

Judicial Boards 
Continued from page 1 

Tom Loew, the Sorin College judicial board head, and Bill Carey, the Walsh Hall J.B. chairman both try to settle cases out of court although they have had to use the board on occasion. Loew cited out-of-court decisions as a way to dispel any myth that the boards are a type of police­force watching over the students. Carey, on the other hand, tries to avoid usage of the board to keep things running smoothly. However, Carey, in contrast to Fr. Amen, sees trouble with the use of student pressure. He has said that students are respon­sible, but an arbitrary set of fines set on, for example, broken ashtrays due to in-hall football 
games,  shattered lights due  to  
frisbee  matches,  and  so  on  is  
more feasible.  

Jorge Rivera, chairman of the Zahm Hall Judicial Board, said a warning usually suffices to end any disruption of the hall's good order and he uses his board only as an ultimate resort. Speaking from his experiences in Zahm, Rivera said, "Mter looking back into the year, I would seem to think that, should things continue the way they have been going on, there should be no need for a judicial board to exist. 

eur 



F_ounder 
"We want to serve you better" 

ALL YOU 

CAN EAT 
Mon.-Thur. 5 pm-10 pm 
All the chicken or batter fried cod, served with ranch toast, french fries, and cole slaw. $U5 chicken, $1.15 Fish 
Fri. -Sat. OPEN TIL 2:30 a 

.~u~o~c:r d k:~ison and lrgnwuo 
Thursday, April 22, 1971 


THE OBSERVER Pages 
sr. marita and rick smith 
Last Tuesday Jim Rocap, Jim Hunt and I went to 

Sr. Marita's Primary Day School in the Episcopal Day Center on Thomas Street. It was the first time I 





where the 
had ever been there and it was quite a trip. The 
• school is on the second floor of the building and as 
IS we went up the stairs we could hear the noisy chatter of the kids, and feel, yes we could feel the

action 


life and vibrance of what was happening there. Rocap told us to expect anything, since we were strangers there. And he was right. Hunt, with his camera, was the immediate center of attraction, and I, as I usually do, retreated back into a corner and watched, amazed. You can really get used to the hassle and drag of the life here and to be sud­denly placed into the stormy whirlwind of all these crazy kids, all this pure and innocent life, well, maybe not that innocent--anyway, it was really incredible. 
After the tykes had been lined up and released, so to speak, Sr. Marita and I sat down and discussed .both the theoretical and the practical aspects of what she is doing. I don't know who was more full of life, the forty kids or this little old nun. As is evidenced in the following, the conversation wan­dered somewhat. But all in all, I would describe it as Sl)mething near a peak experience. 
Sister Marita has been working with children and their reading problems for eight years--five years at Marquette University and for the past three in South Bend. In Milwaukee, where she worked with children from suburban areas, she was funded by the Kettering Foundation to the tune of $100,000. She has been unable to get any grant during her stay in South Bend. 
"You cannot get into the inner city public schools. This is a big problem. And this is why I started my own school. Basically, the public school system does not want the problems exposed. And the main problem is a lack of teachers, a lack of qualified teachers. The emphasis is placed on equipment, buildings and on everything else except real teachers. The children in the inner city areas are still achieving at a rate two years behind the average white children. And this is what I am trying to say does not have to exist, if we would get with it. Our best teachers are usually placed on the schools on the hill, the middle class schools. 


"I have developed my own approach to teaching reading, the conceptual approach, where you buildon what the child is capable of, on the theory that what the child is able to think about or to conceptualize he is able to speak about because language and thought are really one. You cannot speak about something you cannot think about. We move from thinking to speaking to reading to writing. It is an integration of all four com­munication skills. We base it on not just what the child is able to think about but we build the background. I may spend two hours building con­cepts and talking, this is why we spend a lot of time reading to children and showing films, to build background, so that when they are talking about gulls they know what a gull is. They can go from this to reading material. 
"I developed this theory over a period of about thirty five years. I have found so many children with reading difficulties. Since we cannot attack these problems purely from a phonetic standpoint since our language is unphonetic there must be a different way. I have found that 'See Dick, See Dick run' material is not a challenge to a child. It's really almost an insult to his intelligence. Many of the programs now operating to counteract the 'See Dick run' approach are the look and say approach, the visual memory approach. Many of the programs now on the market are purely phonetic, that is not the answer either. I wanted something that is tied in more closely to the thinking process since many people tend to define reading as decoding or as getting meaning from the printed page, but I like to think of reading as being just defined as thinking. 


"I like to think of the children as being on a stage and I am the stage manager behind the curtain. At all times we are trying to develop a sense of responsibility, a sense of self-evaluation in them, to develop their self-concept so that they really feel that they are somebody worthwhile. We do this, in the beginning, through giving them a sense of achievement, so that a child in this program does not fail. He may be very slow as far as his progress is concerned, but he will never get this sense of failing. I don't care at what level he is reading. If he is continually faced with failure, he is not going to build that concept. I would say that children from the ghetto area particularly need this type of training, because their self-concept is so low as it is. They are almost considered as nobody. 
"Most of my children are seven, eight, nine years old. Mter they get out of here they go on to the public schools. What I am trying to show is that these children are as bright as any other child. The biggest problem I have with them is not so much discipline once they get this sense of security and achieving, but the biggest problem in the beginning is motivating them. To really get them to want to learn. They see no need for this. There are no books in the home. They have no contact with things of an educational nature. They have had very little need for knowing how to read or write. This is one of the biggest problems. 
"You have to start from scratch. It is a long 
process, a most difficult thing. You start where you would start with a child who is two or three years old. Getting them interested in books, this is what I try to do, to get them interested in stories by reading to them. They just eat it up. They have never been read to. This conceptual approach for this type of child is ideal in really motivating them. You cannot begin with any external motivation, until you have struck the internal. They see no need for it. They are not trying to rival with anyone until you can build within them a sense of wanting to learn. It is just continuous, small tasks that they do that they are achieving, having successful ex­periences. There is nothing that builds a self­concept faster than just having a successful ex­perience. I think that it is this inner motivation. They see the need for learning to spell, they start to spell. They see the need to learn to read when they can't do this or that unless they actually know how. Once they achieve at a certain level they see that they can do it. I would say continuously keeping the challenge above what they can actually reach, challenging them as individuals. So many times we talk down to them rather than talking up to them. 
"You know, no one has given me any trouble except the public schools. That's all. The main reason is that these children are learning, and that seems to be a threat. I don't know if you want to publicize that or not. But that's the way it is. 
"I'd have more kids. I could house ninety children, but I don't have enough aid. This is a plug for money. We live from day to day. We had $600 the first year and $6000 the next. I have an aide now. We've gotten more from Notre Dame than from anyone. As far as yearly expenses go, I'd like to figure on $250 per child. There have been times when I haven't had $20, when I first started. I don't have a movie projector. I could get films all the time from the public library, but I don't have the projector, that's expensive. This is a very important item as far as developing concepts goes. It is things of this type that I need. Though there is much you can get from books. That is why I have spent so much on the library. This is a very important thing, the integral part of the program. You can't get a child to want to read unless he is going to have an opportunity to read. He has to be surrounded by l!ood books. 
Here there is a much freer atmosphere. The children are able to express themselves more freely, to make decisions themselves. The purpose here is to help the child to mature. It is much more difficult than if you were teaching in a classroom of five rows of desks. If they want to go into the library to read, they can.Or else they can study, or there is always another choice. They are not forced into anything. It is more oriented toward meeting the needs of the individual child. There is no grade level. Which eliminates that threat to the child. You could do this with 400 children. You don't need a teacher for every 20 children. I'd rather have a teacher aide for every 20 children. It would cut down more than a half on the cost. 
The only thing that any Notre Dame students who may want to work here need is the willingness to work. Many Notre Dame students when they come like to become involved. This is a tremendous ex­perience just working with these kids. But you can't get personally involved, otherwise you just wreck the program. We're trying to stress the child, we're just behind the scene. 
Our whole program exists on the verge of being chaotic. We want it as free as possible without having chaos. Sometime it goes over the border and we do have chaos. In normal circunstances, no child is allowed to budge. This is why these kids are ex­cellent pencil pushers, in the public schools. This is what the teacher can most easily get by with. This is exactly what you don't want, this is why they don't learn to read. Most of their time is spent sitting quietly. These children are highly emotional and high strung. violent almost by nature because of the way they have to exist. They see violence. I've had six or seven close relatives of the children in this room murdered this year. They live with this. It is a re~l.violent life they live, fighting constantly, and thts ts what you have here. But if you keep them in their desks very quietly you won't have any problem. And they won't be any further when you are finished with them than when you began. Ex­cept that they can write, not really write, but write, copy from a book. As far as expressing ideas, no. 
One thing about these chilren that is obvious is that they are remarkably creative. Where another child does not see the possibilities. They have ten ideas where another child would have one. They are forced into this because of what they have to exist with. There was a birthday cake: a child picked up his sandwich and stuck his pretzels into it 'teacher I've got a birthday cake.' Which one of' us would have ever thought of that. This is the way they operate. They can find five ways of arriving at two fives are ten, and we can find one. 
About one out of five teachers aren't teachers anyway. Just glorified baby sitters. This is why they don't learn, they're not taught. I find these children every bit as intelligent as any white child. Take a child like Isaac who was never supposed to be able to learn to read and he's reading everything he can get his hands on. And Antonio the same thing. He's moved away now. This is what you hate to see. 
"Well, I don't know if there is anything else. I think we have pretty well covered it. Thank you. 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER Thursday, April 22, 1971 


Planner 

the letters on Saturday they had to be held at the post office to dry before being sent out. A dozen letters were returned to the senders, two of which were 
hazy totally illegible. 
post 

Brother Meduri also noted that if the mailbox continued to itself disguise itself, causing it to be mutilated further, it might as a become necessary to remove it. 
frog, a Those in Grace and Flanner 

beer and would then have to walk farther to mail any correspondence. 

on. The Fr. Amen concluded by saying,by "As Director of the Non-Violence 

the Program, I feel that violence to the mailbox must be stopped. After all, it has feelings too. In fact, it receives more mail than I do." 

early 

Buckley tickets 

Tickets for the William F. Buckley lecture Saturday at 8:00only are now on sale at the Student Union ticket office and at the dining halls. 
Tickets cost 50 cents in advance
an in~ 

sale and $1.00 at the door. The talk will be held in Stepan Center. 
McKinley Hwy. 

259-7679 

-N.Y. Times 
-Newsweek 
Funny from -Village Voice 

Admission $1.00 CAF Patrons Frte Engineering Aud. 
• 
Thursday, April 22, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Irish hand Valpo 4-2 setback 
Horan and Schmitz lead ND to 2nd straight win 
by Jim Donaldson Observer Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team was outhit Tuesday at Valparaiso but not outscored. 
The Irish, who have lost a number of games this season that they have "won" statistically, were able to collect just five hits against three Valpo pitchers but the safeties came at opportune times and carried Notre Dame to a 4-2 victory. The win boosted the Irish won-lost mark to 7-10 on the year. 
Ron Schmitz, the right-handed workhorse of the Irish mound crew, went the distance to chalk up his second win of the season against three defeats. Schmitz was tagged for 11 hits by the Crusaders, seven of the hits coming in the middle three in­nings, but the senior chucker was able to hang on for the win. 
The Irish banged out three of their five hits in the first inning against Valpo starter and loser, Ron Lewis, and scored three runs in the opening frame. Notre Dame did not get another hit until the . ninth inning when they touched Eric Hjerpe for the last two safeties and final run. 
Bill Schoen opened the game by singling. After two were out, a walk to Phil Krill and Bob Roemer's single loaded the bases for the Irish. Dependable Charlie Horan cleared the sacks with a triple, his third three-bagger of the season, to give Schmitz a 3-0 lead, all he was to need. 
Lewis, a freshman righty, worked just three innings for the Crusaders and was replaced on the mound by junior lefthander Tim Juran. Juran handled the Irish batters with ease, pitching hitless ball for five innings. He retired 14 men in succession during his stint. Hjerpe pitched theninth inning for the Crusaders and the freshman right-hander gave up an insurance run to the Irish. 
A walk to Horan, Joe LaRoc­ca's single and an RBI single by Schmitz brought home the last 
N.D. tally. 
Valpo did their scoring in the fourth and fifth frames, picking up a single run in each frame. 
With two out in the Crusader fourth, Garry Puetz doubled and scored on a single by Jeff Conner. 
In the fifth, three singles loaded the bases with nobody out but the Crusaders were able to pick up only one run in the inning, thanks to a big play at home plate by the Irish. 
Valpo second baseman Don Rice came to the plate with the sacks filled and none out and 



Coach Kelly talks about defense 
by Vic Dorr Observer Sports Writer 
Whenever the Irish football team runs through a Spring scrimmage, two things compete for the attention of the fans who happen to be present. The practice game itself always holds first priority, of course, but often the spectators seem to be just as interested in watching the ND coaching staff as they are in watching the ND players. 
And when this happens, it's usually a very good bet that Coach George Kelly is the man responsible. A stocky six-footer, Kelly is the Irish linebacking coach, and has held this position for the past several years. This in itself may not be too remarkable, but Kelly's on-the-field-manner is. During the course of any scrimmage game, it's not at all unusual to see-or rather to hear-him as he forcefully corrects one of his charges. In last Saturday's workout, for instance, one of the linebackers was unusually slow in dropping back to cover a flare pass, and Kelly immediately saw the error. 
"Look," he shouted. "They've only got one ball . . . and when they throw it, you'd better go after it. They're not going to throw another one." Needless to say, the player got the message; but so did everyone in the stadium. 
But this is not Kelly's true nature. Off the field he is a pleasant man who obviously has a deep understanding of defen­sive football ... especially as it is played at Notre Dame. 
"We operate around a defen­sive philosophy, and the four­mao linebacking group plays a major part in our thinking. We feel very strongly about our 4-4-3 system, and believe that the extra linebacker (most other college teams only use three) gives us added coverage against both the pass and the run." 
This philosophy is worthless, though, unless there are players who are good enough to put the ideas into practice. This season Kelly has an abundance of such players. 
"We've got Patton and Thomann to start with," he said, "and their experience will be invaluable to us. Jim Musuraca's had some time, too, and there's a good chance that he'll be starting for us this year. The middle linebacker position is the question mark. We have several good contenders there-Mike Webb, Gary Poetmpa, and Jim O'Malley-but it's really too early to say who'll be playing in the middle for us when the season opens. 
"We are certainly deeper than we have been in the past two years, but we are sorely lacking in experience. And, like I said before, it's still a matter of juggling. We want to get our best people at each position, and they work it from there." 
When Kelly says "work it from there," he's referring to the improvements which he hopes to make in the linebacking corps before the '71 campaign opens. 
"I'm hoping that we'll have a little more speed, and that our pass coverage by linebackers will be somewhat more effective this year. Our boys have always been good against the run, but we're trying to improve our pass protection. It's a difficult thing for a linebacker to do," he ad­mitted. "You're damned if you don't stop the run, and they your're damned if you don't stop the 12-yard pass." 
Although his prime concern is for the progress of the linebackers, Kelly is also in a position to observe the workings of the entire defense. 
"Right now it looks like we're going to be much quicker than ..ve were last season. The linebackers and the deep backs especially, and this is really going to help our overall per­formance. During our practices so far, the entire defense has looked good. The work of the front four has been extremely good so far, and the linebackers and secondary men have also shown great improvement. What we're stressing this year is team defense, and it looks like that's just what we're going to have. We've been very fortunate in avoiding injuries this Spring, except to Mike Kadish, of course, and if we can stay this way I think we'll be in pretty good shape for the season." 
It's only April now, but still there is no question that everyone connected with the football team is very much concerned with "the season". George Kelly is one of these people. 
"We expect our opponents to be greatly improved this year, because we always hope to be greatly improved ourselves. As for the new teams on our schedule, we always approach them with great caution because we know that they'll be coming at us with tremendous enthusiasm. I guess I can sum it all up by using the quote that Charlie McClendon used before our game with LSU last season: 'This game with Notre Dame is going to be the biggest game in the history of LSU football."' 

Thine/ads in Drake Relays 
Notre Dame, Ind. -Notre Dame track coach Alex Wilson will enter nine thinclads in the highly regarded Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa this Friday and Saturday and from all indications the Irish hurdlers may challenge 
· for individual honors. 
The Irish trackmen produced an outstanding effort last weekend at the Ohio State Relays, finishing with two vic­tories and two seconds. 
Sophomore Tom McMannon won the 120 yard high hurdles at OSU with a 13.9 effort, tying the school record set in 1949. McMannon will challenge Mike Bates of Kansas at Drake. Bates won the Kansas Relays with 13.8 time. 
Brother Mike McMannon joined Pat Mullaley, Dave Strickler and Joe Utz for a 54.7 clocking in the shuttle hurdle relay. The time was good enough to tie Michigan State for first and establish another school record. 
Mike McMannon was also second in the long jump and fourth in the triple jump while Elio Polselli was second in the discus and fourth in the sho~ put. 
Wilson will enter the shuttle relays foursome at Drake along with Tom McMannon in the high's, Polselli in the weight events and Mike McMannon in the long and triple jumps. 
An Tostal touch football playoffs 
First Round Holy Cross 18 Lyons 6 Pangborn 24 Fisher 0 Walsh 12 Sorin 6 Howard 30 Badin 0 Keenan 38 St. Ed's 12 Cavanaugh over Zahm (forfeit) B-P over Off-Campus (forfeit) Flanner over Grace (forfeit) tried a suicide squeeze bunt. Rice by O'Connor at the hot corner but 'Tlissed contact, however, and the Schmitz, alertly backing up the irish had Juran hung up between play, was able to retrieve the ball third and home. in time to throw out Boese at 

Schmitz, backing up catcher home plate. Roemer at the plate, took a throw That was the second out of the from third baseman Tom ninth, and Schmitz got Rice on a O'Connor to tag Juran at the ground ball to end it. plate. The Irish nine, which has spent 
Mark Rohde singled in Valpo's more time away from Notre second run of the game later in , Dame than Fr. Hesburgh, the inning but Schmitz worked playing 16 of its first 17 games on out of further trouble. the road, will retrun to Cartier 
Valpo threatened again in the Field this weekend for a pair of ninth. With one out in the inning, games against powerful Ohio tJ. Mark Boese reached first on an Sophomore Mike Riddell may get infield error and, when Steve the starting nod for Friday's 3 Huber drilled his third hit of the p.m. contest while Schmitz may game, Boese tried to go from first hurl Saturday's 2 p.m. game. to third. Ohio U. is currently sporting a 14­
Tbe throw from the outfield got 3 record. 
-----­


Charlie Horan's 3-run first Inning triple led the Irish past Valpo 
OPEN HOUSE For all those interested in membership 
Knights of Columbus 
Thursday 7:30 

(members needed to help) 

DIAMOND IMPORT SAVINGS 

AT FOX'S YOU GET ABIGGER, BEITER QUALITY DIAMOND LESS MONEY! 
DIAMOND 



$150 
3·SOME...... . 
1(•111
*SOUTH REND *MISHAWAKA 
BUDGET TER.MS 
NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTS 

-

• 
-
P~a~ge~8~------------------------------~T,~HEOBSERVER T'hursday, April 22, 1971 

Craftsmen in Optics~ 
SOUTH BENO-THE SHERLAND BUILDING. 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
JlouseofVisipJi I!) 
Thd House of Vision, Inc. 
--M­

. REFUGEt: AID A 
weekend activities FRIDAY NITE SATURDAY AFTERNOON 
8-11 PM _4 PM
2 Picnic Free Rock Concert 
• "E , at the field in fron 1.eaturmg asy on of Madeleva, at SM 
North Quad between BYO Everythingahm and Cavanaugh 
RCA Classical Record Sale at the NOTRE Notre Dame Bookstore 
VICTROLA 


VICTAO~;n 

l
JOSEF 
HOFMANN 
fiY~I rtJtiiJ>t 
of bi. !935 RC·1 rruxrdiux.\ 
CHOPIN 
BIZET L ARLESIENNE SUITES 1 and 2 
JOSEF HOFMANN 
VIC 1550 Chicago Symphony Orchestra/ Jean Martinon VICS-1593 

LANDOWSKA Pl. A YS BACH Wanda i..andowska, Harpsichord Pleyel VIC-1594 
Starting April 27, 

TCHAIKOVSKY CONCERTO 
No.1 IN B FLAT MINOR. Op. 23 Horowitz: Toscanini. NBC Symph. Orch. 
VIC-1554 

1971 
Sheehy to head Co-ed Commission 
Exectutive Cabinet approved 
by Missy llndennan 
St. Mary's Student Assembly last night approved the nominations to six Executive Cabinet positions in the student government including that of McCandles Hall President Jane Sheehy as head of the Coeducation Commission. 
Miss Sheehy, a junior from Toledo, Ohio, will work with 1\otre Dame Commissioner Bill Wilka to coordinate all student and academic areals involved in the merger of the two schools. 
"I want to see St. Mary's make as big a contribution as possible to the unification because I feel ther is too much to be offered here for it to be overlooked," Miss Sheehy said. Also appointed to the Cabinet were Chris Gainey, N.S.A. co­ordinator; Vancetta Chiles. ' 

Jane Sheehy human affairs commissioner; Marilyn Graves, off-campus commissioner; Darlene Gallina, public relations; and Kathy Eglet, student union assistant director. 
Commenting on the ap­pointments, Student Body President Barlow said, "Each of 
these girls has her counterppart at Notre Dame. Within the next week, the commissioners from both campuses will begin working together and, hopefully, the groundwork for the com­missions will be laid before the end of the school year." 
:::~::::::::::::::::::::::=:=;::::!:::::::::::::!:::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::8::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· 
"imminent danger" 
Ombudsman's statement 
Any student found to be an imminent danger to the University or its students will be suspended immediately, though. provisionally. This suspension will result when a serious charge is made against a person by a credible source. Anyone suspended under this clause will be brought before the University Appeals Board, as soon as he wishes. Full suspension will follow in the case of a conviction of a serious violation of the University rules. 
A student is a clear and present danger when he flagrantly abuses or takes advantage of another person. Chronic theft, psychopathic behavior and other dangerous misconduct are considered under this clause. The selling of drugs is likewise grounds for suspension because it involves a profit by the pusher at the psychological and physical expense of the user. A user is not considered a danger to the University in the same way the pusher is and will thus not likely be suspended. 
Interpretations of this clause other than that stated above are not in keeping with the spirit of the imminent danger clause of the University Judicial Code. 
Recently, the Cultural Arts Commission was reorganized. This was done so that the arts on campus would survive and continue to grow in the years to come. The key to this new organization Is people. Nest year the Cultural Arts Commission will present eight programs. We need people to put these programs·together--imaginative, creative individuals interested in art and willing to spend a liHie time in seHing up these series. Specifically, we need people for: 
A.ssistant Cultural A.rts Commissioner 
Publicity Chairman 
Business Manager
Sophomore Literary Festival Chairman (sophomores only-week long Festival> 
Film program chatrman 
Cinema '72, fund-raising films etc.)
Contem()orary Arts Festival chairman 
<year long dance and drama series)
Literary program chairman (year long series of literary artists, symposiums etc. different 
from the SLF 
Blues Festival chairman (three day festival with workshops etc.) 
Folk Festival chairman 
(three day festival with workshops etc.) 
Collegiate Jazz Festival chairman 
<three day festival) Special Pro{ects chairman 
(music ou side of the festivals, mixed-media, etc.-anything 
you want to do) 
All the above positions (with the exception of the Sophomore Lit. festival) 
are open to everyone--girl or guy, Soph. Jr. or Sr. Send or bring your name, phone number, and program interested in to the Cultural Arts Commission, '4th floor LaFortune. Any questions or suggestions, call Bob Brinkmann, 
3797 or 282-1726. 
Kathy Barlow In other business, the assembly approved a proposal by Debbie Carvatta to change hall election procedures. Formerly, the hall vice-president was an appointed position. The new procedure will be for the hall presidential candidate to run with a vice­presidential candidate. The Assembly also approved the appointment of Nancy Christopher, as student govern­ment secretary; Mary Davy as student government treasurer, and Molly Kowalczyk as student assembly secretary. 










