
ND and SMC student services-to merge 
released by student -leaders of "As a result of the cooperation and Services Commissioner. subject to approval by the Notre Ed Ellis 
both organizations yesterday. this year between the Student Applications and information for Dame Student Senate. McGrath Observer News Editor The statement was released by Services Organization of St. these positions will be available said he expects speedy approval, Notre Dame Student Body Mary's and the Notre Dame in the Student Union offices on probably at this Thrusday's 
The Notre Dame Student Union President John Barkett, St. Student Union, and in an attempt the fourth floor of LaFortune meeting. and the Saint Mary's College Mary's SBP Kathy Barlow, to provide better services for the Student Center until5 p.m. today, The eight appointments are Student Services Organization Student Union Director Bill student body, we announce the in 317 LeMans or 521 McCandless also subject to Senate Approval, (SSO) will merge effective April McGrath, and Diane Shahade, of complete merger of these two until midnight tonight. according to McGrath, but he 1, according to a statement the SSO. · groups," the statemmt read in According to departing Union says they may not be ready for 
part. Director Bob Pohl, the merger the Thursday night meeting. In the new Notre Dame-Saint has been under consideration The only new position among 
the eight is the position of SMC
Mary's Student Union, there will since February. The move was
Minnicks wins GSU 
be eight posts to be filled by delayed until the new ad­Coordinator. This job will guard application before Thursday. 
ministrations could be installed Saint Mary's interests in the new McGrath and Miss Shahade so they would have the benefit of organization and will attmd to emphasized in their statement starting out with their own problems and programs

Presidential election 
operative on the SMC campus but both ND and SMC students. McGrath, Miss Shahade, and not at Notre Dame. The eight positions are Miss Barlow emJitasized that The Executive Coordinator is 
that all positions would be open to system. 
by John Powers 
Associate Director, Executive with the new setup the Union will traditionally a minority student be more resourceful and the appointed to safeguard minority
Coordinator, SMC Coordinator, Comptroller, Academic Com­duplication of services will be student programs in an 
In an easy victory over one 
organization dominated by
missioner, Cultural Arts Com­eliminated. 
oppomemt, Matthew Minnicks, missioner, Social Commissioner, The mtire merger is now (continued on page 3)MBA graduate student, was elected the second Graduate Student Union President in the election on Friday afternoon. 
Hesburgh names new dean for law school 
MBA student Bill Witt was elected vice-president and Sister Eileen Muench was uncontested council of the Notre DameThomas L. Shaffer, associate received his B.A. from thefor the pa;ition of secretary­
dean of the law school, will College of St. Joseph in chapter of the American treasurer. 
assume the duties of dean on July Albuquerque, N.M. in 1958 after Association of UniversityAoubt :a> graduate departments 1, it was announced Saturday by serving four years in the Air Professors were represented by 40 students 
Matthew Minnicks Fa.ther .Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
Force. Shaffer is known for hiswho voted for their constituents, 
uniVersity president. humanistic approach to the
according to Bill Fowler, who graduate curriculum develop­training of lawyers. "Lawyers
Shaffer, a 36 year old native of 
managed the election ment, on-campus parking, in­with people-<:entered preparation 
Billings, Mont., succeeds Acting
proceedings. creased research assistant are in the best possible posture
Dean Edward J. Murphy, who
Minnicks defeated Marylyn salaries and more vigorous for the practice of law, which is 
has held the post since the
Leone with a "heavy majority" minority recruitment. 
new, nine-tmths counselling, that
resignation of former dean
on the first ballot. Fowler, Minnicks said Wednesday that is, helping troubled people in one­
William B. Lawless. Lawless
refused todivlge the exact results "the future of education at our on-Qne encounters," he has said.
resigned in February to join the
of the election. nation's leading institutions lies Shaffer is married and has 8
staff of a Wall Street legal firm. 
James Brogan, former OB­in the development and im­children.
SERVER critic, dropped out of provement of graduate The new dean came to Notre 
Dame in 1963, two years after
the race for personal reasons programs. We at Notre Dame Friday afternoon, according to should strive for the realization of graduating cum laude from the Congress ponders 
school he now heads. Specializing 
former GSU President Bill a graduate community whereby 
in estate planning, Shaffer spent
Lorimer. this university is recognized not Minnicks and Witt campaigned only as a football powerhouse but the two years with the In­draft extension 
dianapolis law firm of Barnes,
on a program of academic and as a .leader in advanced Thomas L. Shaffer
non-academic needs such as education." Hickam, Pantzer & Boyd. He 
Currently on leave to teach at WASHINGTON (UPI)-Debate the School of Law at UCLA, over a proposed two year draft Shaffer became a professor of extension highlights

Stoppard's drama talk well received 
law in 1966 and was appointed congressional activity this week ­associate deam in 1969. He has as both houses begin to wind been active in the American Civil down in a ticipation of an Easter
by Larry Ballantine there that night." complishing the same task. He 
vacation starting April 7.
Stoppard argued that when one attributes this enjoyment to Liberties Union (ACLU), the 
NAACP and the St. Joseph The Selective Service debate,writes creatively one is writing "writer's arrogance and con­
County Legal Aid Society. scheduled to begin Tuesday, will 
Speaking last night in as an individual and as such one ceit." "When I finally do it" he Washington Hall without a can not and should not test what said, "I want the audience to Shaffer has served on special be preceded in the House by 
committees dealing with
microphone but with a noticeable one wntes against anybody else's stand up and shout Clever! consideration of a Senate British accent, the highly ac­writing. He said, he only writes Clever!" preventive detention and abor­resolution on Monday that would claimed playwright Tom Stop­"about concrete situations". He Stoppard said he loved to place tion. extend President Nixon's pard delivered what he called, "a went on to say that as far as he is completely unfounded diversion Shaffer was a member of the authority to order wage, price series of non sequiters", to a concerned the subjective in his works merely for the sade University Committee for Afro­and rent controls to June 1. 
response to a play was more of psychological diversity. American Students which drafted Draft debate will center on a
fairly large and receptive audience. Stoppard, who recently valuable than its objective input. Pursuant to this end every one of the black studies program. He bill approved by the House Ar­received the highly coveted It was primarily for this belief his works contains and incident also served on the executive med Services Committee that 
Drama Critics and Tony awards that Stoppard chose not to argue where characters switch or :i_l$:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ would extend the Military Ser­for his play, Rosencrantz and with a recent acquaintance who forget names for no reason at all. vice Act from its June 30 ex­Guilderstern Are Dead, told his assured him Rosencrantz and Stoppard also spoke about a )correction t piration date to June 30, 1973. audience, "My coming 3,000 Guildenstern are Dead was a fine "feeling of arbitrariness in art". The bill would also authorize 
miles to talk about the theatre is protest against the Vietnamese He told of his favorite artist who .. The Observer wishes to military pay and allowance in­
only slightly more plausible than war. SaidStoppar, "If I wanted to painted a picture of a shoe in a ;~;~ apologize for a misleading ~:~: creases totaling $2.7 billion three coming to take a football I could write a sophisticated bird cage. The shoe had no more ;:;: headline printed on page 9 :::; times more than President Nixon 
~~j~ ~j~j 
y A 
scholarship". thesis making the same reason for being in the bird cage !;:; of the March 26, 1971 ;:;; asked for -as an incentive to After warning his audience not argument about Winnie the Pooh. than an alarm clock or a glove, :;:: t'dition of the Observer. :::: attract a volunteer Army and to believe anything he told them, The playwright spent a good bit whereas an egg might have more :;:; Thf' headline read "Black ;:;: permit Congress to let the draft Stoppard began his discourse by of time explaining a dilemna he reason for being there. In at­:;;; Studies dept. approved". ;!;! ~xpire. 
~.-........ _. ____,
explaining the difference bet­had worked himself into just tempting to explain his own :;:; There is no Black Studies ;;:; 
ween the rights and duties of a before leaving London. He is in position Stoppard said, "What I'd :;~ department. ;:~; . play. "A play has many rights", the process of writing a new play like to try and do is write about :;:; We apologize to Dr. ;i;! he said, "it has the right to in­which has advanced to the point eggs in bird cages rather than ;:;: Joseph Scott, director of :;:; t t flame its audience, it has the where an acrobat is killed thus shoes or alarm clocks." ;i;! thz Black Studies Program !;i; t~ .. Tht' four page insert in i right to titilate, entertain or causing a human pyramid to In the question and answer ;:;; for thz error. Headlines are :;:; today's Observer was paid ' outrage its audience, and it has implode. Stoppards' problem now period that followed his talk, ;!;i usually written on the basis !;~ t. for by the Nen-Violence A the right to put forth any lies in getting the corgse into the Stoppard fielded a variety of :;:j of what is contained in the ;:;; Program. It does no ' proposition it wants." He went on arms of a singer who is prac­questions ranging from "Are you :;:; lt'ad or first paragraph of a ;:;; t nt'ct'ssarily reflect the A 
vit'ws of the staff or editors ' 
to explain a play has a multitude ticing in her bedroom. Stoppard one of the Beatles and are you a :;~; story. The lead for this ;:;: of rights but only one duty and explained that in the media of Christ figure?" to "Who is your :;:; story was misleading for ;:;; !of tile Observer. f that is, "the duty to capture and film this would be no problem but favorite modern American ;:;: the ht'adliners resulting in :;:; retain the interest of one member he enjoys the challenge the playwright?" to "What is your ;i;l the above error. :;:; f t 
#::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~
of any audience even if he isn't theatre media presents in ac-favorite form of the media?" .&.............. ~· ._. ~ ~ ~ 
Monday, March 29, 1!171
Page 2 THB OBSBRIIM 
;:: Volunteers for general:::: 
:~~renovation work in the Work :~:j ;:;Release Center program spon-;:;i 




Festival's keynoter lauds drama
;:; sored by the Ladies of Notre;:;: 
:;: Dame are needed for the next two;;:; 
:;: weeks. The center will be used by~;:; 
:;:prisoners from the South Bend~;:: Steve Lazar 
:;::community during the six months ~;:j 
:;:;prior to their parole. Thee::: Campus Editor 
:;:;volunteers are espec!ai!Y needed~;~· . . . 
;:;:for carpen1tryand pamtmg work.;:3 ReJectmg the use t~ whi~h 
;:;:Experienc1~ is not necessary.:;: lan~~ge has been s.ubJected m 
:;:;Anyone in1terested should phone:;: traditional!. bom:gems th~ater, 
;:;:2:12-5755. Transportation will be:; drama cntic Richard Gilman 

·:·: .;: affirmed his belief in what he 
·.·called "the triumph of modern drama" yesterday to a large Sophomore Literary Festival Audience in the Library Auditorium. 
Gilman, a former drama critic for Commonweal and Newsweek, keynoted the Festival in which his address was on the topic ''The Fate of Language in Drama." 
Gilman defined drama as a compound art, compooed of both physical and verbal elements. The relations between the 
~~~~~!~~i~p~h~ys~ical and the verbal are what, 

~~--~~ -----------------il
\Jt. I I U\Jt.l Mt.K I U \Jt.l II I U\Jt.l Mt.K•••• 
in Gilman's conception, have 
determined  t.h e  "fate"  of  
language in the theatre.  
Gilman  traced  the  use  of  

language in the theater since Elizabethan times, marking thr~ periods in which the role of language has changed sub­stantially. 
The first p·eriod, that of "traditional" theater, is one in which drama was considered to be "characters in conflict, development and denoument, a story unfolding on the stage." 
In this type of theater, Gilman said, language was subordinated to physical structure, serving merely to guide the audience from one situation to another. This unbalanced reliance on story, scenario and situation to the neglect of language resulted 
in what Gilman called "an­tipoetry and anti theater." 
The period of modern drama, beginning with Ibsen, marked a change in which drama came to rely more heavily on language, Gilman said. He . described, modern playwrights as being first and foremost writers, with the consequence that in their works language is not merely "illustration or a guide to events, but a creation in itself." The "triumph of modern drama" then, according to Gilman is a result of the resurrection of language and the subordination of linear plot. He remarked that the works of the "absurdists" Ionesco and Beckett is often resolved into "pure language." 
At the present time, Gilman stated, the fate of language has entered a new arena. In this period language is being "besieged," questioned, "asked to account for itself." As a result 

of this questioning many ex­
perimental movements have 
been initiated in the theater, 
among them, attempts at non­
verbal theater, theater without 
actors, mixed media events, and / 
"happenings." Gilman viewed 
many of these forms as attempts 
to compete with film, but because 
of that art form's technical and sensuous superiority he found 1 their success to be only partial. 
The success of drama, Gilman 

maintained, rests on the "live 
cummunion" shared between 
actors and spectators, a com­
munion that results from the 
artistic blending of the poetic and 
the physical. 
"Language is never finished, 

never secure" Gilman stated, 
and through the reevaluation of 
language and for that matter all 
of drama, Gilman expressed a 
hope that theater will revive and 
flourish. 
an experience in Christian sharing. 
SPRING RETREAT April 17 -18 (Sat. & Sun.) lcAC revives Folk Festival 
t

SPONSORED BY SMC's Student Services Organization 
The Cultural Arts Commission

and ND's Office of f'ampll' 'lini.,tn t 
will sponsor the first revived Open to 40 ND and SMC students t Collegiate Folk Festival with a 
two-session concert on the steps Reservations must be-made. t of Washington Hall, weather permitting, April 24. 
For info call 5389 before Sat., April 3rd. 
t 


Professional folk artists such as Chuck and Mary Perrin, Stave Goodman, Authentically Merrywether and others have been tentatively scheduled, as well as the best of campus and· local talent. There will be no admission charge to the festival, which is seen as being the ground-breaking effort in establishing a permanent festival concept along the lines of CJF and the Blues Festival. 
"We are ·envisioning a much wider concept for the permanent festival than this year's," said festival chairman John Hurley. "We ran into booking tieu~ this year because of the concurrance of Earth Week and the fact that the idea was not discussed until about a month or so ago. This will be a real start thought." 
Sunshine & Polka. Dots Fashion Show 
Fashions By­
Village Scene 
LA FORTUNE . STUDENT CENTER BALLROOM 
AT 8:00PM ADM. 50 cents DOOR PRIZES 
Sponsored By: Student Wives Club 


-r-:~~~~~p-;-.;a-"v_e_l---r-·-·­
1 $245 Round Trip 
Large selection of dates . study tours and language courses -year round student service 
Join National Union of Students, Inc. now for full benefits · write or call for full information and 
brochure. Carrpus Rep required: Applicants for this financially rewarding position should"' mark envelop "Programme Co-ordinator." All Interested write to: National Union of Students Travel Service, Inc. Suite gi1 159 W. 33rd St. New York, New York 10001 Phone: (212) 565·1732 (212) 565·4199 Telex: 421437 
Offices In N.Y., London, Dublin, Paris 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Monday, March 29, 1971 
Page 3 

U.S. suffers heaviest losses of year 
. battle involving U.S. troops in U.S. spokesmen said. The 
SAIGON (UPI) -Communist over a year. · American artillery base is tro?ps swept through the "An enemy force of un­·located in rugged Quang Tin perimeter of a .U.S. base e~rly determined size" including Province, 330 miles northeast of yest~rda~ and k1ll~d 33 Amen~an commandos charged under cover Saigon, but well south of Khe soldiers m the smgle heaVIest of a round mortar barrage, Sanh where most recent action
50 

Observer announces merger of news staff 
The Observer;s Notre Dame paper. possibility of more variety for the and Saint Mary's news staffs are "The merger of the two reporter. I think this will also now merged, announced Ob­schools, the two student unions, encourage a higher level of server Saint Mary's Editor Ann and the imminent merger of the competency, especially on the 
Conway and News Editor Ed student governments makes it SMC side, where we are badly Ellis yesterday. futile to try to operate from two understaffed," he added. 
has centered. 
Seventy six Americans were wounded, the U.S. Command said. It claimed 12 Communists were killed. 
U.S. soldiers manal!ed to holrl 
their ground and were still in 
control of the area late Sunday, 
U.S.spokesmen said. During the 
attack, helicopters, jet ighters 
and artillery fire were called in to 
help the embattled Americans. 
Officers said the casualties 
were the heaviest suffered in a' 
single battle in more than a year. 
"We haven't been able to find a 
sin e day casualty figure that is as high as this attack Sunday" a 
U.S. spokesman said. 
The attack involved troops of the hard luck America! division. 
U.S. headquarters' regular Monday morning battle com­munique listed five Communist attacks on American troops in the Kh Sanh area, with the loss of four U.S. dead and 14 wounded. Americans are still dismantling Khe Sanh and are prdparing to abandon it. 
The U.S. Command also listed an OH6 "Cayuse" observation helicopter shot down in Laos 
Under the new arrangement, disjoint departments. This new students from SMC will be able to plan seems to be the best from do news stories at Notre Dame, the viewpoint of management 
NDSMC STUDENT UNION 
and ND studmts will be able to and efficiency," Ellis said. 
report SMC events. This was 
Applications for the positions of
rarely done urxler the old system of news reporting for the campus Miss Conway was appointed last week as SMC Editor, which 
ACADEMIC COMMISSIONER 
deals with all aspects of the paper 


SERVICES COMMISSIONER 
SU, SSO merge at SMC, not only the reporters. According to Ellis, she will still 

CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSIONER 
(continued from page 1) have the job of gathering in­
• euu ...
• -R
whites, accoroing to McGrath. formation at SMC, but the job of 
He has specific responsibility for assigning stories will be given to May be picked up in the Student Union Office, 4th Floor LaFortune today 
minority cultural programs. the Assistant News Editor, who and Monday, until5: 00 pm, and in rooms 317 Le Mans and 521 McCandless 
The Comptroller is the wat­has been assigning the stories to until midnite Monday. All applications must be returned to the Student 
chdog of the Union finances. He the Notre Dame staff. 
Union by 5:00pm Tuesday or to St. Mary's by midnite Tuesday. 
has ultimate fiscal responsibility Ellis noted that two of the five and must approve all ex­Assistant News Editors are Saint 
positions open to SMC. For informa.tion,
penditures. 
The Academic, Services and Mary's students. "As usual! we'll. 
Bill McGrath 7757 or 2345262
Social Commissions are headed try to give people a chmce of by by commissioners, each of 
stones, out now there will be the 


or Missy Underman 4229 
whom deals with his own area of concern. The Cultural Arts Commission, soon to be reorganized, is essentially a coordinating unit, designed to prevent duplication of effort and programs among the various cultural groups on campus. A Commissioner also heads this unit. 
The merger of the two organizations will mean another $2000 for the consolidated Union, according to Pohl. 
There will be an open house in the Union offices on the fourth 



Holiday Bound?
floor of LaFortune this Thursday afternoon for anyone wishing to work in the new Union. 


Stop sitting 
..l 
.. , 

around! 
/Yiut 

Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you 
u'lew 

fly whenever you want to (even holidays), gives you advance reservations and


IYiffony 

saves you up to 33V3 %. 
!hili~ 

If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? Stop by an Allegheny Airlines ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Only $5.00 for the rest of 1970. 
And remember, Allegheny also acoepts other airlines Young Adult 
.. $<""~"
$·····. Cards, too. 
I"
' Over1oo years invented •The Ti 
· ~Setting" for engag rings which has b .standard ever si ., Now, in addition, 

ALLEGHENY AIR SYSTEM® 
we intr9duce the "New Tiffany Setting• 
We have a lot more going for you 
designed by Donald Claflin: Rings start at $~95. · 



DFFANY&CO. 
..;,.; :t,.': 

CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Design Copyrighted 1971, T.&Co. 
Page 4 








THE OBSERVER 
AN IN.QEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen.S. Cor~ Editor~in--Chief 
•. <. 

John Abowd., Executive Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 
The Merger's a Good Thing 


Both in implication and in execution the long-awaited and long-overdue 
merger of SMC Student Services and ND Student Union organizations is a 
boon to the students. The implication, of course, is that merger of student 
governments is just around the corner. The execution promises both a 
trimming of self-defeating duplication and a further SMC involvement in 
the vital social functions Student Union controls. 
Now that Student Union will cease to be Notre Dame Student Union the Union will have to end its Notre Dame orientation. That termination' will be particularly important if social activities-become small-scale, as they have shown tendancies to do in the past and as indeed they must do if the Union is to be responsible to our social desires. 
That trend towards diminitude-towards Over-the Hill concerts and their :mccessors, towflrds hall social functions, and away from the gra.ndwse-and .expensive-ACe concerts that have characterized every socia~ season smce the ACC was constructed-puts very special demands on this mewly-merged Union. The Union must make sure that the new social functions can appeal to both campuses. Both campuses have made it known that the informal atmosphere of a hall get-together is infinately preferable to the large hoop-do-doo of a-say-Grand Funk Concert. The new commission is charged, then, with making this kind of function a 
regular thing. 

Such a move would not be inconsistent with President-elect Barkett's campaign promise to direct money back to the halls· nor would it be at all inconsi[stent with good sense and practicality. Th~ merger was a good move; the merged Student Union must move well now to assure its 
usefullness. 

Editor: 
Last Saturday night at a showing of Bresson's Pickpocket, we and our friends were disturbed throughout the entire fihn by the college children sitting behind us. The inanity of their remarks and the total inappropriateness of their responses were clear proof that they lacked the depth, the per­ceptiveness, the maturity, and, one fears, the intelligence, to have any idea of what was going on in the film. Bresson's films are inward, quietly composed things which use very little music or dialogue and much empty screen work and silent nuance. However, since there were no orgies or nude scenes in this particular film, and not even any rock music, its significance was obiously far beyond the capacities of the part of the audience sitting near us. It oc­curred to us that a better in­troduction might have awadened the interest and understanding of these students. We would have given a pitch something like this: 
Everybody who really knows about these things realizes that Bresson was a film­maker far ahead of his times. Although this film was made 
• way back in the 50's, it is actually about a super-dool character who is stoned throughout the entire. movie! 
Letters 

He's supposed to be a pick-­pocket, but we all know that's only a metaphor for masturbation. And besides, he's a homosexual; just watch that relationship between him and the police inspector! It.s obvious that his mother ruined him by being so possessive and never giving him a chance to resolve his Oedipus fan­tasies. Pay close attention to the scene where she ap­pears-it seems unimportant but of course it's the key to the whole film, if you know what to look for. His friend Jim has strong homosexual tendencies too, but un­consciously tries to deny it­which is why he gets the girl pregnant. He even calls the pickpocket "queer" at one point, though he secretly envies him and makes a habit of visiting in his bedroom. The pickpocket doesn't get really turned on until the very end, when the girl in­troduces him to stronger stuff than the grass he's been smoking. In the jail scene he talks about a sweet light rising, which is just a cen­sored English translation; what it really says is "a light sweetly dawning," and if you're with it you dan find a hidden allusion in those initials, right there under the nose of the authorities! Now, <:an you see what a revolutionary film this ac­tually is? What Bresson is 
•·eally talking about is sex and drug smuggling! We can almost guarantee that 
with an orientation like this, the film would not have escaped the comprehension of the audience as completely as in fad it did. There would have been an enthralled silnence throughout the showing (which would have allowed those of us who came to see and hear the film to do our thing), and and the remarks afterward would have been along the lines of "Oh, wow!" "What a great film!" "Man, was that symbolic!" After alL art is fine in its place and even great art can be OK, as long as we make it RELEVANT. Right? 
Some Graduate Film Buffs. 
' 

There is Another View 
The eV()r mounting enthusiasm over co-education has reached its 
zenit~ dw·ing the past few weeks he~ at Notre Dame. Amid popular 
backmg of strong ~'!lands and petitions aimed at obtaining official 
~onse!l~ from Admimstrators, consider two questions. First: What 
meqwbts or faults are inherent within the present co-exchange 
structure? And second: How does co-education remedy these im­
perfections? 

After gathering together all that has been said by proponents of the 
change, we can list their reasons as the following: social life on 
eampus needs eonsiderable improvement; Notre Dame males lack a 
proper understanding of the female· and a campus should resemble 
the outside workd, i.e. one of a hetero~exual nature. 
According to these same students it can easily be shown that with co­
education, a_) soc~a.llife is improved, b) each sex can more easily learn 
about th~ disp.osihon and mental attitude of the other, and also c) 
c:ampus life wlll be more representative of the world that college is 
supposedly preparing the student for. 
Logical? Not really, since the case for co-education has never 
honestly ?ealt with why the co-exchange program is inherently harm­
ful. For If the problem,. once decided, can be corrected within the 
status quo arrangement, then co-exchange is not the villain but rather 
the problem itself is. ' 
Now our immediate concern is determining and defining the real 
problem. If the reasons for co-education are those previously men­
tioned we_need g? no further. Wh?t do all three statements essentially 
declare? rhat girls at St. Marys are too far away? Obviously not. 
They find fault with the "number" of girls available the large ratio of 
males to female~. This is the obvious undertow of the' arguemen t. 
So the complamts have been manifest and the problem arrived at 
My fi~t ouestion ~as been answered. As to the second. I now nroceed: 
How IS co-educati?n the solution? If we can imagine a St. Mary-Notre 
Dame merger, With the present male-female ratio remaining con­
stant, how apparent a change would be effected? I think most would 
agreethatsu~h a cha!lgeof e~e~ts w~uldonly frustrate the majority of 
N.D. males, smce their association with the opposite sex would still be limited to a small number of co-eds. 
~onclusion: The availiabi~ity ~f females is more dependent upon their n_umber that upon which side of the lake they reside. So, co­edu~atwn is not necessarily the answer to the problems stated. Can we not mer ease the enrollment of St. Mary's, continue and expand the co­exchange program, and be assured of the same desired results as we wo':lld if N.D. became a co-educational institution and levelled off the ratio of ~ale to female in the process? Certainly. 
~e dif~erence between the two? Co-education would virtually erase the tdenbty of St. M<~:ry's. It would invade the privacy of the Notre ~arne man and drast~cally affect his habits and disposition. It would mvolve a more tedious and complicated organization. It would na.tur~lly attract more ~buse, including more parties with more social drmkmg for longer pertods at more frequent times; and also detract frof!1 what should be our primary objective: that of academic achievement and growth. 
The co-exehange program is a workable one able to fulfill social needs while not discour~ging our academic goal; and pursuits. To date the pr?gram has not failed. Once males are in proportion to females there Is no reason why university responsibilities and personal want~ 
~-----------------­
t 
·Managing Editor: Don Ruane

t Night Editor: Marty Miller . Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor 
Layout: Gene Slasont Features Editor: rick smith Headlines: Mike Moore 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields 

t 
Varityper: Bill Clemency
Campus Editor: Steve Lazar 

should not be satisfied. 
~~ 
....... ~~, 
t
t 
t 
t 

Controllers of the Night: Sue Banker A SMC Editor: Ann Conway & rick SMITH 
t 
' Advertising Mgr.: Bill Bauerle
I 


------------------------~ 
The Peacemaker 
We have a plan •••• 
We have a plan whereby Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students can reduce the intense suffering of the Southeast Asian ref~ees. Six to seven million persons in South Vietnam, Laa;, and Cambodia have been driven from U~ir villages and homes because of the grrund fighting and the extensive bombing. The question that has been ro the minds of many students and faculty and administrators is this: "What positive action can this group of people take to reduce the suffering that the war has cuased?" 
Our plan is this: Notre Dame students, faculty, and administrators would voluntarily agree to give up luxeries from April 4th to May 3rd. April 4th is the date of Martin Luther Kirg's assassination and Mary 3rd, the day of the Kent State 
killin~. 
Persons who agreed to give up lexery items such as cigarettes, alcohol, marijuana, record albums, new clothes, concerts, etc. would contribut the money that was saved to a Notre Dame fund that woad be given to a refugee assistance ITOgram that is yet to be determined. 
The community of people that agreed to spend money ooly on essentials would have a further responsibility. Two letters a day would be written by each member of the community to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni, explaining why the sacrafice is being made and requestirg that they join in the efforts of the com­munity by making financial contributions. 
This is a form of political action that is based upon personal commitment and sacrifice. 1h6'e is a basic difference between this form of political action and traditional actions that seek to reduce the suffering in Vietnam, for giving up luxery items that mve become actual, everyday, habitual needs is a form of personal sacrifice that transcends marching, leafletting, lobbying, or speechifying. living on a subsistense level will not be easy, but itwill be a living testament to our responsibility to reduce the suffering of 
have been suffitantially destroyed by American military actions. 
A true community of giving, loving,. caring people can be created around this service to the refugees that will not diminish the joy or the enjoyableness of our lives during this month long p6'iod. 
The awareness that our communal efforts are making life a little less miserable {or homeless Asians is joy in its true form, and more than makes up for a few missed pot JXtrties, or a pair of Gilbert's madras shorts, or a few hundred cigarettes. 
The alumni may respond in ways that they have never responded before. Knowing that students are giving up part of the "easy life" that alumni are so often critical of may induce alumni to take a serious view d our concern for the Viet­namese, the Laotians, and the Cam­bodians. P6'sonal letters touch a human chord that ro newspaper ad can ever ream. 
This common ity effort is essentially non­JXtrtisan. It can find support among right­wing, pro-Vietnam elements as well as among NLF suworters. 
Itdoes not rmlly matter to us how many students, faculty, and administrators agree to live without luxeries for a month. Obviously, the more people that con­tribute, the more suffering can be reduced. But this is oot meant to be a mass political campaign. We are going to do it, regar­dless of whether many people or few agree. 
But the response to this idea has been enthusiastic. The entire steering com­mittee of the Non-violence Program, in­cluding two priests, three lay faculty, and several sturents, have agreed to give up luxeries during this month long period. Father Hesburgh supports this campaign. other students that have been presented with the ilEa have responded that they would agree to participate. 

This plan can reduce human suffering in Southeast Asia and it can have a revolutionary effect upon our own lives in terms of what is really important to a meaningful life. It does not require much time to write two letters a day to alumni in your rome town or area. It does require will power to give up luxeries that have become secondary needs in affluent, Playboy America. 
If you would like to participate, s~mply give the irea some personal reflection, talk about it with your roommates, your housemates, your friends, your teachers. Perhaps you know a person at arother school that would like to organize a similar action at his high school or college. Perhaps your parents would like to par­ticiJXtte. Soon, there will be tables in the dining halls and in the concourse of the library where you can sign your name to join the community. 
The people are making the peace. 
Why are we in Vietnam? 
by Carl Estabrook 
The fundamental causes of the United States' involvement in Indochina should be sought in America, not in Southeast Asia. It has recently become fashionable among liberals (especially Democratic liberals) to castigate the war as a "mistake" which should be liquidated as soon as possible. But the war was not a mistake. It was a logical development of American policypolicy-both domestic and foreign-­for at least the past thirty years and, in its general orientation, for the past century and more. Critics of the war must ask themselves if they can separate the war from over-all American government policy in the last generation. Or does the existence of the Indochina war suggest that there is something seriously wrong in the American soul? 
Even if the basic forces that cause the continuation of a war which no ad­ministration, Republican or Democrat, seems able or willing to end are internal to America, it is nevertheless worthwhile to reflect on the circumstances which allowed these forces to descend upon the people of Indochina and also on what the United States has advertised as its mission in Vietnam. In terms of Southeast Asian history, how did what Bernard Fall call the "Second Indochina War (1961-· )" come about? And how did the U.S. get involved? 
In the first place it should berealizethat 
"Indochina" is the name of a geogr~phical 
region, not that of an historic nation or 
people. "Indochina" refers to the great 
peninsula on the south-eastern flank of 
Asia which has historically been shared by 
a variety of peoples and political organizations ranging from the feudal Thai empire <which is supposed to have offered to send elephants to aid the North in the American Civil War) to Chinese client states and near-stone Age tribes such as the Meo of Laos and the hill people of Vietnam whom the French called "Montagnards." Although the principal cultures and languages of Indochina belong to the Chinese cultural sphere. Chinese states have never exercised control over the entire peninsula. Indeed, the corner stone of the diplomacy of In­dochinese governments for a thousand years has been resistance--generally successfull--to the "colossus of the North." 
From the western point of view, the modern history of Indochina begins with the arrival of French missionary and military forces in the nineteenth century. The French penetration of Indochina again has to be seen more as a result of internal European political and economic pressures than as a matter of European­Asian relations. The incorporation of Indochina into the French colonial empire was part of the general "scramble for empire" by the newly-industrialized European nations throughout what we would now call the Third World a century ago. <The U.S. also participated in the scramble, of course, but somewhat belatedly, so that it was stuck with only a few true colonial outposts, such as the Philippines--which resisted the Americans with a 12-year guerrilla war of its own; we were therefore forced by circumstanc~s to 
U.S. Bombing Tonnage in Three Wars 
w~:l~!f:J511 ~iiM!Ii!i!ii!Iii!iiliii~Ill!Imtii@ii!!ii@~ 2,057,244 K?~:g~ ~~r ~635,000 


'w"daorchina .· · ~ ...•.•... li ~.i •.
.. • . •.• 
5•693,382
h1 
(Includes small 
develop a new form of "informal empire"­-classically formulated in the "Open Door" policy in China, which meant that all Western nations should have equal rights in the economic exploitation of Third World countries.) 
The gentlemanly division of Asian--and especially Indochinese--empires among the French, British and Americans (with a few other Western players) was rudely interrupted in the 1930's by the appearance of a non-Western power as industrially strong and as aggressively nationalist as the Western nations: Japan. It has been argued that it was the Japanese attempt to extend its "Greater East Asian Co­Prosperity Sphere" to include the French and British holdings in Indochina in the years immediately before the entrance of America into WW II that fundamentally destroyed relations between Japan and the 
U.S.--which saw itself then, as now, as a 

"Pacific power." In short, the U.S. fought ~~~\ Japan at least in part over access to In­dochina: we were not willing to be ex-eluded from part of our informal empire. 
As far as the Indochinese peoples were concerned, the coming of the Japanese in .-.. place of the French was simply the replacement of one conquerer by another. Anative resistance movement appeared in Vietnam against the Japanese. Although it was led by Ho Chi Mihn,--a poet, Com­munist organizer, and nationalist revolutionary against the French--it also included Vietnamese who had cooperated with the French. Like the contemporary 


Resistance in France, the Viet Minh represented a coalition of all anti-Axis forces, Communixt and non-Communist alike. With the defeat of Japan, the Viet Minh emerged as the principal native political organization, and on 2 September 1945, Ho Chi Minh proclaimed the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. If imitation is the sincerest form of ·flattery, there is a certain grim irony to the following words of the Vietnamese Con­stitution of 1945 when one thinks of the 

_._...•_:_:_-.)_· _!_:,_·_'.•.•_-./_._._._•..•_ ...•.·._;_._•.•.•.·.··.:._•_:.•..•.• ; ;·;: •••••••.•••_.,!_._•.·.················:····.·······························.·.:_._.1•.•_························ ··;;i ••••••••·••;;...•••::;fi:; 'i•_•••t ;;::~~r7~~~~e~:~nm:~ie
-==.:.••w•••••:""·...-,w>•;W;;;;.._.=w'"'····w:·:;;;'''''""''·•;;;;·••·~===·""'•"•""f"'•t""\""\"'fw);;;;)w/•"'••·••••""..,.'"":':'•..,./!JI pursmt of happmess." 1·6511966 [ Given the anti-Fascist orientation of the
1967 1968 1969 1970 ., • .,_f)O{IJ j 932,763 1,431,651 1,387,237 9?7,446 gUo~eedrnmSentunderHoChiMihnin1945,the T mt tates was willing to 1 et it survive;
1

" 2,000 Roosevelt had not wanted the French to return to Indochina after the war. But the 
amount of Souttt million or so Vietnamese that America hasi V•etnamese kill d . h I d d "All
137,292 bombing) e m t e ast eca e: men are created equal. They are endowed by their 


1~:~ri:~~ ~~~ 

French and the British had other ideas, and although France had originally recognized Vietnam as a free state within the French Union, in 1946 fighting broke out between the French and the Viet Minh. This "First Indo-chinese War" was to rage for the next eight years 0946-54). With the victory of Mao Tse-tung's Communists in China in 1954, the French were able to divide the Vietminh coalition by presen­ting the members with a choice between 
(Continued on last page) 

Films 

"Time is Running out" and "Vietnam Dialogue" will be shown this evening and Tuesday evening at 7:00 and 10:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
"Time is Runninv out" .was released early last week and deals wihh recent developments in the Indochina war. It was produced by Rennie Davis and the May Day People. 
The second film, by Schronbrine, discusses war activities up to the end of 1!170. Schronbrine has prolduced three other documentaries on Vietnam. 
South East Asian refugees 
WASHINGTON--Because of the ground American casualty figures are im­invasions into populous areas of Cambodia bedded in mind: 45,000 dead, 300,000and Laos and the ooundine:s from the air wounded. But foreign nonmilitary lossesthat have rea dled a tempo of a thousand are overlooked and buried officially. Thesorties a day, a new vale of tears is flowing Senate Subcommittee on Refugees saysacross Southeast Asia. 
that there have been one million civilianSenator Kennedy's Subcommittee on casualties and five million refugees inRefugees estimates that the conduct of the South Vietnam; tens of thousands of war in the last. two years has resulted in an civilian casualties and nearly one millionadditional half-million civilian casualties refugees in Laos; tens of thousands ofand generated three million refugees. 

civilian casualties and more than one andSupporting evidence for these figures can a half-million refugees in Cambodia.

be found in audits by the General Ac­In Washington, officials have attempted counting Office and certain secret field to show that the refugee problem in South reports from several sources in Vietnam is nearly solved. But unfavorable Washington. 
documents from the battle areas notThe precise numbers of these "wasted" shared with the American public aboutpeople <to borrow a grisly word from the bombed-out civilians indicate otherwise.

Mylai trial) can never be known. Their Villages are uprooted so thatwelfare and where-abouts are not of prime "unrestricted military strike operations"concern in the Vietnamization program; can be carried out by American bombers. 
nor do the three nations living under Pe?pl~ themselves are in a sense militaryAmerican bombers keep track of families obJectives: the phrase actually is "to denyattempting to flee the main business of population resources to the enemy." · war. But even if these numbers are ar­Semantic games have been played tobitrarily cut in half, the displaced persons make hundreds of thousands of refugeesstill exceed by far the million Palestinians disappear so that budgets could be cut for who have been stumbling-blocks to peace their health and rehabilitation. Some have in another sensitive area of the world for stopped being refugees and emerged astwo decades. 
"war victims." No longer are they 

The followin1g statement was signed by Father Hesburgh allld other national leaders: 
We believe that the United States should now set a deadline for the with-drawal of all American military forces from Indochina-­
including men in helicopters and bombers or serving as advisers-­
not later than December 31. 1971 · 
A clear and public commitment to total Americac withdrawal will demonstrate to the millions of concerned Americans that the United States military involvement will allow the Vietnamese people to determine their own future, and can pave the way for a negotiated political settlement. We believe that making this commitment is the best and perhaps the only way to secure the release of American prisoners of war and to assure the safe withdrawal of American forces. 
We believe that Congress should legislate a date for the with­drawal of a1ll American forces from Indochina. Any risk involved in legislating a deadline is far outweighed by the risks of not doing so: the risks of further escalation and endless military involvement. A failure to set a date would also mean the certainty of further killing and sufferin.e: in Indochina and continuing dissension at home. 
We call upon our fellow Americans to join with us in this effort and to help acn1eve the deeply felt desire for an end to American military involvement in Indochina. 
SPRING ACTION CALENDAR 
APRIL 2-4--TRIBUTE IN ACTION TO DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.--A series of local actions demanding 'Freedom from Hunger, War, and Repression,' called nationally by the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and the National Welfare Rights Organization 
APRIL 10--Women march on Pentagon in solidarity with women of Vietnam and the people of Southeast Asia 
APRIL HI-23--War crimes tribunal, White House vigil, and other actions in Washington, D.C., sponsored by Vietnam Veterans Against the War 
APRIL 24--Massive mobilization in Washington co-sponsored by the National JPeace Action Coalition, demanding immediate withdrawal from Indochina, a guaranteed annual income of $5500, and freedom for all political prisoners 
APRIL ~:6-30--People's Lobby, carrying the three demands to legislators and Federal employees 
MAY 1--Youth festival for peace in Washington (camping facilities will be available) 
MAY 2--Peaceful rally in Washington, D.C. sponsored by Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLS), People's Coalition, National Welfare Rights Organization and Mayday Movement. Poor people's mule train arrives. Movement center opens. 
MAY 3-4--Sustained nonviolent civil disobedience (under regional leadershilp) and disruption in Washington 
MAY 5--Issue call to Joint Session of Congress to deal with demands. People march to Capitol. Camp out around the Capitol 
"resettled"; imtead they are ·"resettled in b~dget of the one Government agency place." When_ this phrase was disputed by directly concerned with public health and the subcommittee counsel as a misnomer social welfare of the war's victims faces describing the actual conditions under severe cuts. which refugees lived, "resttled in place" In his office a few days ago, Senator became "resttled in place with Kenned_y described the refugees, civilian deficiencies." ' casualties and destroyed homes as "a 
One ohrase that is no longer heard reeional crisis of million!'. of neoole." He around Waffiington is "voting with their urged that such centers as those of the feet." That referred to the scores of World Rehabilitation Fund in Saigon,thousands of refugees who had fled from Danang and elsewhere to rebuild limbs 
the North Vietnamese and Viet-cong and lives be multiplied. South Vietnam's supposedly to reach the democratic civilian population of fourteen million has havens of the Saigon Government. But only 400 of its own nonmilitary doctors. after I he war was extended into Cambodia Senator Kennedy envisions an in­and Loas, refugees "voted" to go ternational war relief under United anywhere, including some Communist­Nations auspices. held areas, to escape United States B-52's Long aftff the B-52 vapor trails have fragmentation bombs, gunships and disappeared in the deceptive skies and napalm. Looking skyward, they have defoliation of the countryside has ended become human shuttlecocks. m_illions of_ civilian casualties and refuge~ 
I~onically: while the General Accounting will remam as testimony to the human Office confirms Senate Sub-committee destruction caused by the great engines of staff reports findings that "official war. Right now, however, these wasted 
people are (to borrow another Mylai
statistics on refugees and civilian war phrase) "no big deal." casualties have been misleading and grossly undlerstated," their treatment has been placed in "the lowest category" of Herbert Mitga ng is a member of the American A.I.D. health concerns. The new editorial board of The Times. 
April Speakers 
Staughton Lynd 
Therese Tull, State Dept. 
Daniel Ellsburgh, M.I.T. prof. Sen. Vance Hartke 
Prof. Carl Estabrook Sen. Edmund Muskie Prof. Bernard Norling 
Prof. Goerner Cynthia Fredericks, Concerned Asian Scholars 

-------------~-----------------------., 
When we kill enough. • • 
by steve Raymond Even without considering the hurried
As the U.S. Government has stated, we 
withdrawal from Laos and its relationship 

seek no wider war. 
to the South Vietnamese ability to "hack it" on their own, as President Nixon put i("

-L.B.J., February 7, 1965 
there is little disagreement that the South Vietnamese need and have been assured of

We have not widened the war. To the 
extensive U.S. air support. The South 
contrary, we have shortened it. 
Vietnamese "undoubtedly will have such air support for some time to come.

-Laird, February 9, 1971 
Politically it poses little threat for the Nixon Administration. Militarily, it is

"Protective reaction" bombing of North 
vital...Virtually no air force men, for

Vietnamese missile sites stopped as of 
example, were included in the latest with­

noon today. "I want to make that clear. 
drawal installment."
Those strikes have stopped." 
Further, as Tom Wicker, Associate Editor of the New York Times, observed

-Laird, March 22, 1971 
last week, it would be a mistake to think that the Laotian repulse will lead Mr. 

On February 7, 1965 the United States Nixo_n to a significant change of policy.
Air Force began bombing targets inside Nor IS there any reason to believe that the North Vietnam. On February 9 1971 the expulsion signals anything but even wider United States Air Force st~pped up and more destructive areial warfare "to bombing raids in Laos making possible an protect American lives." 
invasion of that country. On March 23 1971 What were the civilian casualties "United States fighters and bo~bers resulting from this sustained bombing of struck at missile sites inside North Viet­Indochina by American aircraft'? 
nam for the second consecutive day" (New According to Senator Kennedy's sub­York Times, March 23). 
committee on refugees: 125,000 to 150,000One ne~d not follow the war very ·closely civilian casualties from military action byto recogmze the extreme inconsistencies in both sides in South Vietnam in 1970, with Administration policy statements and the 25,000 to 35,000 civilians killed. These actual military situation in Indochina. 

figures do not include civilian casualties This political double-talk is not as im­in Cambodia or Laos. They are included in portant as the result of recognized tactical the 1.1 million civilian casualties including U.S. actions in Indochina. 

325,000 deaths, in South Vietnam since ~n co_nsidering the stepped up bombing 1965; of the total of those casualties about raids m Laos, Cambodia and North a third are thought to have been children 
Vietnam one is struck by the fun­under thirteen. d~mentally_ unchanging U.S. strategy. What is Richard Nixon's best estimate of 
Nixon's pohcy of Vietnamization demands the number of South East Asians ­"decisive bombing" and extensive "enemy" and "non-enemy" -that U.S. 
"support" of South Vietnamese "limited firepower will kill in the next twelve duration interdiction operations" (Laos) months'? through heavy air cover. Mr. Nixon insists He does not have an estimate. He has not that "the war is trending down." What asked Henry Kissinger for one and 
this means is thatthe "war", i.e. U.S. Kissinger has not asked the Pentago~; and ground troops, U.S. casualities, and none of these officials has ever seen an 
budget costs, are ''trending down". Yet answer, to this or any comparablethe . Administration (and many question on the expected impact of the war Amencans) simply ignore those aspects of policy on human life. (Systems analysts in 
the war that are "trending up", i.e. U.S. the bureaucracy make estimates as best air operations and the resulting deaths and they can of factors judged pertinent to casualties in Laos, Cambodia, and Viet policy: "costs" or "benefits," "inputs" or
Nam. 
"outputs." The deaths of "non-combatant 

The Peace Treaty 
Be it known that the American and Vietnamese people are not enemies. The war is carried out in the names of the people of the United States and South Vietnam but without our consent. It destroys 
the land and people of Vietnam. It drains Ama-ica of its resources, its youth, and its hmor. 
We hereby agree to end the war on the following terms, so that both peoples can live under the joy of independence and can devote themselves to building a society based on human equality and respect for the earth. In rejecting the war we also reject all forms of racism and discrimination against people based on color, class, sex, national origin, and ethnic ~ouping which form the basis of the war policies, past and present, of the United States government. 
I. The Americans agree to immediate and total withdrawal from Vietnam, and publicly to set the date by which all U.S. military forces will be removed. 
2. The Vietnamese pledge that as soon as the U.S. government publicly sets a date for total withdrawal: They will enter discussions to secure the release of all American prisoners, including pilots captured while bonbing North Vietnam. 
3.There will be an immediate cease-fire between U.S. forces and those led by the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. 
4.They will enter discussimns on the procedures to guarantee the safety of all withdrawing troops. 
5. 
The Americans pledge to end the imposition of Thieu-Ky-Khiem on the people of South Vietnam in order to insure their right to self­determination and so that all political prisoners can be released. 

6. 
The Vietnamese pledge to form a provisional coalition govern­ment to organize democratic elections. All parties agree to respect the results of elections in which all South Vietnamese can participate freely without the presence of any foreign troops. 

7. 
The South Vietnamese pledge to enter discussion of procedures to guarantee the safety and political freedom of thofe South Vietnamese who have collaborated with the U.S. or with U .S.-supported regime. 

8. 
The Americans and Vietnamese agree to respect the in­dependence, peace and neutrality of Laos and Cambodia in accord with the 1954 and 1962 Geneva Conventions and not to interfere in the internal affairs of these two countries. 

9. 
Upon the!'e points of agreement, we pledge to end the war and resolve all other questions in the spirit of self-<letermination and mutual respect for the independence .and political freedom of the people of Vietnam and the United States. 


PLEDGE: By ratifying this agreement, we pledge to take whatever actions are appropriate to implement the terms of this hoint Treaty and in insure its acceptance by the government of the United States. 
people" has never been regarded by of­degree of human suffering which has been ficials as being relevant to any of these carried on in my name as an AMERICAN. categories.) -Curtis LeMay once instructed a RAND 
About 50,000 civilians were killed in physician <Daniel Ellsberg): "War is Nixon's first year in office, about 35,000 in killing ... When you kill enough people, the the first half of his second, and more than other side quits." that in the second. 
As I recount these statistics I find it IS THE WAR WINDING DOWN'? impossible to comprehend the amount and 
Peace Treaty News 
On February 5-7, 2,500 student representatives from every state in the United States met at Ann Arbor to discuss the treatv. After unanimouslv adootinl! the treaty the Ann Arbor Chnference formed a Continuation Committee to work for adoption and implementation of the treaty. The spirit of Spolespeople for the Con­tinuation Committee such as Eliane Nanapolis of Indiana University and David Harker of Chicago stress that this is not a petition, but is a declaration of peace to a committment of action: 
"By ratifying this agreement, we 
pledge to take whatever actions are 
appropriate to implement the terms of 
this Joint treaty of Peace, and to in­
sure the acceptance by the govern­
ment of the United States". 

The People's Peace Treaty is the result of Decem her meetings held by the National Student Association with their counterparts in both Hanoi and Saigon. Student representatives attempted to set out the minimum requirements they felt necessary fer peace in Vietnam. Thus, the treaty was drafted and first aoorovoo bv the N .S.A. theNorth Vietnamese Union of Student and the South Vietnamese liba-atim Student Union. Since then many peace, &udent and religious bodies have adoptoo the joint Treaty. 
In Madison Wisconsin the City Council will be discussing adoption of the People's Peace Treaty. 
Berkley, California residents made an attEmpt to have the treaty placed on a ballot for a city-wide referendum. They were preventoo by a State Supreme Court ruling. 
Supported by Clergy and Laymen Omcernoo About the War, the American Friends Service and Episcopal Peace Fellowships, ~oupshave been going door­to-door and setting up tables on major activities in New York. 
Several Indiana O>llege legislatures, notable Buth'!· University, and Man­chester College have adopted the Treaty. At Ohio Univa-sity eleven students have formed a MayDay Theater which will tour Ohio CamfA.Jses d<ing guerrilla Theater and talking about the Treaty. This activity will be a full time substitute for their their. studies. 
Locally, Elkhart's Unitarian parish has begun abltaining from everything except necessary food and clothing until the war ends. 


Chicago: planning for Washington 
by Illve Lammers 
Steven Raymond and I went to Chicago two weekends ago to attend the nation~ coordinators meeting of the People's Coalition fer Peace and Justice, where plans were laid for action in Washington, 
D.C. for the periocl from April24-May 5. At that meeting there were two modes of thought about the spirit of the actions that were being planned. The old time peace organizers,such as Stuart Meachum of the American Friends Service Committee, argued that any actions in Washington should be aimed at "opening up the government" to tlte demands of the people for an immediate end to ·the war in Southeast Asia, a guarranteed annual income of 6500 dollars, and an end to political oppression of leaders of black, student, and peace groups. The distinguished Mr. Meachum recom­mended reading the names of government employees that sign the People's Peace Treaty, organizing large groups of lob­byers that would talk to all government employees abru t the three demands of the coalition, and organizing civil disooediance a:tiom at the Pentagon, the CIA, and the Seledive Service offices. He believes that such actions would be ac­ceptable by the 73 per cent of Americans that want the United States to leave the war by the end of this year. 
Younger, more militant members of the Coalition argued that it doesn't make any differmce how many Americans oppose the war, because the government is t.n1responsive to the present three-fourths of the population that want our nation out of the war.. A student from Madison ex­plainedhis feelings to meat lunch one day. First, he said that fJl per cent of the people could want the nation out of the war and Nixon would still not leave, because he has committed himself to keeping South Vietnam non-Communist. Secondly, tactics that aim to "open up the govern­ment" are ultimately ineffective; what is needed, he said, is to close the government down by blocking streets and bridges and making it impossible for government em}ioyees to enter government buildin~s. Trained and disciplined groups are bemg prepared for such actions in the first week of May in Washington, D.C. The studel!t from Madison argued that the pubhc alienation that might result, and the bloodletting that might occur, were necessary risks if the domestk cost of waging the war were raised by acts of disruption. 
I have outlined this tactical discussion not because I want people to choose what they are g~ing to do if they go to Washington, bult rather to show that the Movement has faced a tactical vacuum this year that has produced a large group of ~Wlg people that are _willing to ri~k their Jives in pseuoo guernlla warfare m Washington. 

The two questions that students are facing this year are this: Have the past actions of the peace movement had any effect upon the course of the war, and secondly, what, if anything, can be done this sprirg that will bring the suffering in Southeast Asia to a clooe? A priest told me recmtly that he does not even read articles about Laos because he feels that there is nothing ilhat he can do. That at­titude is understcmdable, widespread, but no less reprehensible. Twenty years from now, when rur chilldren ask us what we did to stop the !J!nocide in Southeast Asia, are we to reply that we did nothing because there was mthing we could do? Are we so weak of body and sprit that we justify our present ootrick-lilke stance by saying that nothing can be done, that we are powerless before the war machine, helpless to stop mass murder. 
I do not believe that we are helpless. I oo believe that the consequences of our past actions for peace are vague, but whm do 
we ever know the consequences of our actions? How can we know what the character of Ire war would be if no one had raised their voice last spring? How can we know that a:tions this spring are doomed to failure, if we do not act in the first place? 
The purpose of this ne)Vspaper is two fold. First, we de;;ire to inform people of the character ff the war and about what is being rune around the nation to bring that war to a ch~e. And since being aware of the situation is pointless unless something can be done, we will catalogue and describe forms of action that can be taken at Notre Dame to help bring the war to a close, to reduce the suffering of the Vietnamese. 
Fellow studmts, we don't want to play political games. We don't w<mt to be manipilatiw <r rhetorical. We do believe that the war tresents a serious challenge to our humanity, and that despair is not a proper response to the challenge that the war presents to us. 
Resistance: saying no to the war 
Natinnal CouncH to Repealthe Draft 
Now that other nonviolent activities 
have failed to bring an end to the war, 
it is clearly time to move beyond 
peace marches, petitions, and peace 
politicians. We realize that these 
tactics, in themselves, are not enough 
to end this war. VIe cannot, however, 
out of frustration, despair, or appease­
ment, become actively violent or 
violently inactive·. We have not begun 
to exercise this tJremendous nonviolent 
power we posses~:. That is the power to 
resist collectively. 
We are continuing to build a mas­sive nationwide draft resistance program. As a first step only we are appealing directly to the consciences of the men and women in Congress, who are the most responsible for the continuation of the draft and the war, and who, at the moment, have the power to 2nd it. 
Over one hundred local Showdown. centers and contacts have been estab-,.] lished in all types of communitie~. throughout the country. It is througr,· these centers and contacts that mosf of the work is being accomplished. As they organize, they move into other communities, especially the poor 
areas, from which the draft draws much of its manpower. These centers 
will also initiate local draft board actions as a way to dramatize resis­tance in their local areas. The time has eome to take an active and com­mitted stand. We must become eonsis­tent in our protests and collective in our actions. The fact is that there are millions of us who have protested this war and the draft. Yet millions of us are still supporting the war by carry­ing draft cards or paying war taxes. These millions of protesters acting in unison have the collective power to end the Vietnam War and the draft. By resisting together we can be most effective, and at the same time minimize the risk to ourselves. The government cannot easily ]ail hundreds of thousands of nonco­operators. 
Resistance has now reached the point where the federal courts can no lo'lger effectively prosecute us. Draft cases now rank fourth in number of federal criminal cases in the nation. In some areas, such as San Francisco, they comprise over 50% of federal cases. The Justice Department reports they have had to decide on 30,000 to 35,000 Selective Service cases in fiscal 1970 which were to be prosecuted. Of the total number of cases, only 3,873 prosecutions were initiated and only 968 (approximately 25%) of these received convictions. 

The growth of resistance has been tremendous. There has been a 1000% increase in criminal actions on Selec­tive Service cases over the last five years. However, eonvictions have dropped from 69% for cases prose­cuted in the same five years to 25%. 
What is misleading about these figures is that this represents only a fraction of the totaL number of draft refusers. The San Francisco Lawyers' Seleetive Service Panel estimates that between 1967 and 1969, 75,000 young men refused induction. We have reason to believe that in 1971 Show­down will see these figures sky-rocket. 
Showdown will sponsor massive civil disobedience and disruption of draft boards across the country during the last week of April. We also plan to turn Congressional offices into draft card collection centers. We urge resisters so inclined to bring their draft cards and those of their friends personally to their Senators and Representative. Continued Congres­sional support of the draft and the war should be confronted individually and personally. We will also endorse and participate in the April 24 anti-war activities. 
Terminating the draft should not be considered an end in itself; for the Selective Service System is only one part of the oppressive system we must work to change. To end the draft first 
and -then other forms of oppression requires a logic based on the belief that we do have substantial power when we act together. This is why we must take the responsibility for ending the draft. In this way, we are forming a base for ending oppression on other levels and taking control of our lives. 
-Fred Ingram and Marc Nevas Showdown, Berkeley, Calif. 

Why are we in Vietnam? 
two ancient enemies: the French on one side and a united, vigorous China on the other. The Viet111amese communists followed Ho Chi Mihn, but they wer.e reduced enough by defections to the French that they were forced to revert to guerrila warfare the next year, and the French were able to set up a government in the South under their former client Pmperor, Bao Dai. The Vietminh fought n, however, and the shaky governments of France's Fourth Republic faced in­creasing restlessness home at the cost of the war. (The war was so unpopular in France that the government was unable to use draftees in Indochina; U.S. govern­ments have not had that problem: although only 11 pe1r cent of the American military is made up of draftees, 65 per cent of the Americans killled in Vietnam in the first quarter of 19'70 were draftees.) In May of 1954 the French fortress at Dien Bien Phu was ove1~run by the Vietminh forces of Gen. Nguyen Giap after a two-month siege, and an exhausted France was willing to discuss terms of a peace. 
At the Geneva Conference of 1954, the parties agreed that Vietnam should be 
while not a signatory to the agreement,promised at the time to do nothing to overturn it. Nevertheless, the U.S. im­mediately stepped into the breech left by the French and began to support with money and material the government of the South, whose principal virtue seemed to be that it was anti-Communist. In 1955, Bao Dai was set aside in a dispute with his prime minister, Ngo Dinh Diem, who prnclaimed a Republic with himself as president. At the same time, Ho Chi Minh arranged to receive economic aid from the Chinese and acted sternly to eliminate his opponents in the North. The American picture of Ho as a blood-stained dictator is based on these events, but it was obvious to all that Ho, not Diem, was the popular leader of the vast majority of the Viet­namese, so in 1956 the Americans and the South Vietnamese government simply refused to hold the general elections for unification provided for by the Geneva treaty. At the time the reason given was that the American and South Vietnamese governments did not believe that free elections were possible in the North; the real reason, as President Eisenhower indicated in his memoirs was that it was 

divided into two temporary "regrouping • clear that Ho Chi Minh, the national hero, areas" under the government of Ho Chi was the overwhelming choice of the Minh in the North and that of French Vietnamese, while the government of the through Bao Dai in the South. The division South was facing armed opposition from was to be healed by a nation-wide election religious groups and others even in the to be held in two yeatrs. The United States, region it supposedly controlled. Simply put, elections would have resulted in the unification of Vietnam under Ho, and therefore they were unacceptable to American's Cold War foreign policy: thus the TJ .S. betrayed its most basic ideological position, the commitment to democracy and self-determination. 
Even with massive American help, Diem was unable to consolidate his position in South Vietnam. By 191)0, even the anti-communiist leaders in the Southh were denouncing his undemocratic policies, and in that year the National Liberation l:<,ront was established as an anti-Diem coalition similar to the old Vietminh. The U..S. responded by raising its troop strength in South Viet Nam to 111,000. In 1963 the continuing disaffection of the South Vietnamese from the Diem regime --now induding the opposition of the Buddhist leaders--leads President Kennedy to suggest that the Diem government "has gotten out of touch with the people": the military immediately stages a coup in which Diem and his family are killed but no new government that is at once acceptable to the South Vietnamese and to the Americans can be constructed. In the next two years, there are several successive changes of regime in Saigon, until Generals Thieu and Ky emerge as strongmen. 
The final phase of Amerkan in­volvement in the war began with the "Tonkin Gulf Incident" of 1964,. which it seems now never took place. Two American destroyers cruising off North Vietnam were supposedly attacked by North Vietnamese PT boats. On the strength of this incident, President Johnson was able to secure a resolution from Congress authorizing actions "to repel aggression'' ; this resolution the Johnson Administration later argued was its "functional equivalent" to a declaration of war. (This sole legal base for the war has been repealed; yet the illegal war continues.) On this basis, Johnson ordered air strikes against the north which were increased to full scale bombing of the North after an attack on an American base at Pleiku early in 1965. 
Since then, we have had three years of Johnson's "escalations" and three more years of Nixon's "incursions." The Pen­tagon says that 45,000 Americans have died in Indochina; some say that the figure is much higher. It is unclear how many of the "enemy" have died; American and South Vietnamese "body-count" statistics are a sordid joke. It is estimated that over a million civilian men, women, and children have died. Nixon's "Viet­namization" is not a plan to end the war but to continue it by shifting the burden from the American ground soldier to the Vietnamese soldiers supported by American air power. That plan kills more Vietnamese civilians but, it is hoped, it won't kill so many Americans: then we can fight to the last Vietnamese. 
Monday, March 29, H171 
Page 5 
B. Sureshwara 
•




Reincarnation and HindUISm 
Editor's note:This is what might be called a typical features article. When I first heard of it, I figured that this would be the kind of thing that maybe a few people would read-mostly the Indian members of the community, who have heard all of it before, and those in the Indian philosophy class. Most imporfantly for me, it would take up space. But upon reading the ar­ticle, I found it of excellent quality: highly readable, well strucured, of unusually scholarly content and yet not too stuffy for this paper, and things like that. So I can honestly recommend this to all members of the community in search of new meaning 
·B.. ure~ wara recezve _zs : zn 
for themselves and  a  new  world.  Thank  
you.  
S  h  ·  d  h·  B s ·  ·  

The most influential religions are Hinduism, Buddhism, Christianity, Islam and Judaism. The affinities between some of them are many; the differences are also many. But all of them have supplied an­swers to many of the great questions roused in every human mind by the mystery of life. All have brought strength to bear its sorrows, all have furnished assurances in the presence of dec;tth. All have brought answers to mans' pr.ayers. 
Thousands of years ago, sages or holy men stood in India's river banks and sang divine songs. Out of these divine chants and out of the wisdom and spirituality of the sages in the centuries since has grown the religion known in the world as Hin­duism, the faith of more than 450 million human beings in India alone. The ancient Hindu sages pondered the fact that all things eventually disappear. They were struck too by the eternal recurrence of life -by the caterpillar that became a butterfly
and the butterfly egg that became a 

Engzneen_ng from the Unz~erszty. of caterpillar. Individual bits of life, the Mysore,_ hzs M.S. and P:H.D: zn Applied sages reasoned must be born again and 
Mechanzcs {rom the Unzverszty of Notre Dame. and zs currently a faculty men:ber at the South Bend branch of Indzana University. 
In this article an objective attempt is made to present the fundamental ideas of Hinduism and Reincarnation. It is hoped this article will clear the misun­derstandings that are currently in vogue in the minds of some people about Hinduism and the Spiritual truth is presents to its followers. The author will consider his efforts greatly rewarded if this article can stir a few minds towards accepting the 
fact that there are different paths, not necessarily our own, towards achieving GODHEAD. 
In view of the very diverse religious compassion toward all living creatures. backgrounds of each. o_ne of ';IS, a brief The Brahman or the ultimate reality can recollection of the rehgwus philosophy of neither be described nor debated. Rio­Hinduism is essential to fully understand duism has shown great capacity for ab­the Theory of Reincarnation. This is sorbing ideas and adapting to conditions. particularly true since the idea or the Hindu religious thought is dominated by philosophy of reincarnation cannot be the concept of monism -the oneness of all divorced from the basic ideals of Sanatana things. To Hindus all is Brahman, in­Dharma more popularly known both in the eluding you and I. Only through ignorance East and West as Hinduism. do we see life as a multiplicity instead of 
One of the characteristics of ancient oneness. When we have acheived God Hindu thought is its indifference to history. realization or self realization, we flow The Hindu writers went to one extreme in back into Brahman -giving up a finite 
ignoring history altogether and this kept the date of origin of Hinduism always very speculative. The available records convey the existence of Hinduism as early as 5000 
B.C. In fact, Hinduism is the oldest living religion today. 
Modern Medicine 
presents Shangrila 
"Man will soon have the ability to halt the aging process at 40," declares an ar;­ticle in the current issue of Coromet magazine. 
The long-held dream of mankind--old age deferred--was explored at a little­reported conference of 16 specialists in gerontology conducted by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, according to the Coronet article. 
Dr. Harvey Wheeler of the center an­nounced that even the conservatives amongst the biologists agree that within ten to 25 years it will be possible to alter the biological clocks built into man to make them run longer or even to set them back. 
Dr. Wheeler believes that this could be done by diet and medication simple enough to be universally available. By "stopping the clock" at 40 and setting its alarm for 30 years later, for example, most of the deteriorative changes in an individual could be postponed. 
Another noted gerontologist, Dr. Alex Comfort, goes a step further in his analysis in the Coronet article, stating: "I believe that direct experiments on postponing aging will be conducted by 1975, and one sure way of extending vigorous life by 20 percent will be found by thz year 1990." 
Dr. Comfort's predictions are based upon work currently being done on thr~ different theories of aging .. Chemical in­vestigation is proceeding slowly but steadily in each of these areas, according to the Coronet article, and a breakthrough seems imminent. 
again. And behind the impermanent material world the sages concluded must be the invisible source of these individual bits of life and of all things -pure and unchanging spirit. 
Since the physical world is temporal, all our worldly desires are doomed to frustrationandthisfrustrationisthecause of all human suffering. Real peace can therefore be found only in the control of desire, by turning the mind to the one enduring, everlasting reality: GOD. 
The sublime objective of Hinduism is to achieve union with God-the eternal spirit 
which is Brahman. This union is achieved 
not only through ritual but through common ideals of Hindu ethics: purity, self control, detachment, truth, non­violence, charity and thz deepest of 
personality for an infinite one. Brahman the absolute is one, indivisible, un­changeable, beyond action and inaction, beyond good and evil. 

Hinduism has no fixed creed by which it 
may be said to stand or fall, for it is 
convinced that the spirit will out grow the 

creed. Hinduism is human thought about 
God in continuous evolution. It welcomes 

all new experiences and new expressions 
for truth. 

The Hindu -a follower of Hinduism -does 
not refuse to find reality in the Christian 
description of his personal converse with 

Christ, nor does he discredit the assurance 
which comes to the devout Buddhist who 
follows the middle way. He does not deny 

the Muslim account of cultivating sub­
mission to supreme sovereign of the world. 

The Hindu scheme of life is expressed in Sanskrit (the classical language of India) by the formula: DHARMA-ARTHA-KAMA-MOKSHA. Dharma denotes duty, Artha the wealth, Kama our human desires and Moksha ­implies not the annihilation of the soul but the annihilation of its finiteness and the consequent realization of its unity or identity with Brahman. It means therefore, not eternal death but eternal life. This formula indicates the ideal of a complete life taking into account all the facts of human life without doing injustice to the flesh or the spirit. This is proclaimed in thousand different ways in all Hindu literature. Hence Hinduism nowhere indicates or implies escape from the responsibilities of the earthy life. It only reminds us to concentrate all our efforts to achieve a strong healthy balance between the physical desires and Spiritual needs, as long as the Spriit of the man is separate from the Spirit of the Universe. 
An important development in the period 2000 B.C. is the conception of the characteristically Indian ideals of the Law of Karma or Fate. In fact, the Law o( Karma is the fundamental basis of not only all schools of Hinduism but of all schools of Buddhism and Jainism. 
A man is the creator of his own fate 
A man cannot fly from the effects of his own prior deeds. A man reaps that at the age whether infancy, youth or old age at which he had sowed it in his orevious birth. To a Hindu all the inequalities of life can be explained by the doctrine of Karma or Fate. Karma teaches that they are a result of mans' own doing. Karma is cause and effect applied to morals. Every action a man takes including those in his previous incarnations has inevitable moral con­sequences in this life or the next. In some cases it can affect a man through several reincarnations. An individual goes through this cycle of birth and death -rein­carnations -until he attains union with the infinite. 

Liberation from the cycle of birth and death or the end of reincarnations is to be sought only through the realization of ~h_e identity of Brahman and Atman -the spmt of the universe and the spirit of the man. This concept comes to occupy the foreground of a Hindu's religious life. All other things are subsidiary. This is in essential the concept of Reincarnation or rebirth. Reincarnation is the ultimate truth based on the law of Karma or Fate. 
The common aim of all religions is spiritual life. The spiritual life insists on a change of consciousness for w~i~h all else is the means. Each of our rehgwns have dogmas and creeds. But when we get down to the depths, we discover that all religions draw their strength from the same un­fathomable source. The recognition of this fundamental unity should make possible for co-operation on a common basis for the good of mankind as ·a whole. _All g~eat religions arouse and developed m vanous parts of .the world when mutual com­munication was impossible. In the years to come let us hope our efforts -including yours and mine -will be towards the gradual assimilation of all religious faiths to~ards a universal one. 
Let us conclude with the following wise words o£ Dr. Radhakrishnan, a great philosopher-statesman of the world. "The human community must become the organic expression of the faith in the oneness of the creative spirit of the universe and in a sense of fellowship. There is an immortal aspiration inhabiting every human frame, a universal con­sciousness expressing itself in limited minds and divided egos. Truth alone conquers, not falsehood, whatever events may befall us, the light of truth will not go out". 
Tara collection exhibited at gallery 
The feature exhibition of the year at_the University of Notre Dame art gallery, the Tara collection of African primitive sculpture, opened Sunday, March 21. The Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., director of the gallery, was the host at a public reception for the owners of the collection, Mr. and Mrs. J.W. Gillon, New York City, from 2 to 5 p.m. last Sunday, March 28. 

Distinguished by many unique, rare and outstanding examples of African design, the Tara collection includes several Guro masks from the Ivory Coast, junerary figures, symbolic and ceremonial images, and an unusual shrine door of wood and metal from the Senufo or Siena tribe. 
Carved in hard wood and painted red or black the Guro masks are portraits of ancestor spirits, and are considered among the finest carvings brought out of western Africa. Camaroon masks with surmounting figures are equally rare and the Gillon collection includes a wood sculpture with deep red patina. 
An image of a four-headed woman holding a bowl, the only ond of its kind in the world, comes from the Baluba Shankadi of the Congo. The figure is believed to represent a protective spirit, and the bowl to hold kaolin to protect the owner from evil or sickness. 
While these sculptures were prized by European artists like Picasso or Epstein because of their appealing design or wrought these works for more important reasons. They were symbolic or ceremonial images, done perhaps as fetishes to be worn by women to encourage fertility, or used as divination figures to bring good fortune or to protect persons, families or whole tribes. 
Joining Mr. and Mrs. Gillon at the reception on March 28 will be Mrs. Margot Plass, professor of primitive arts at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 
Located in O'Shaughnessy Hall, the art gallery is open to the public from 10 to 5 weekc1 'S and 1 to 5 on weekends. 



Page 6 
NDSMC STUDENT ·uNION 
AppliCations for the positions of 
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR COMPTROLLER SMC COORDINAT •• EXECUTIVE COORDINATOR· 
May be picked up in the Student Union Office, 4th Floor LaFortune today and Monday, until 5:00pm, and in rooms 317 Le Mans and 521 McCandless .until midnite Monday. All applications must be returned to the Student 
Union by 5:00pm Tuesday or to St. Mary's by midnite Tuesday . 
positions open to • • • Bill McGrath 
•rM .-• • 
IT'S THE REAL THING! 
Monday, March 29, 1971 

Harvard prof to talk on transportation 
Dr. Paul W. Cherington , 
professor  of  transportation  at  
Harvard  University'  graduate  
school  of  business  ad­ 

ministration, will discuss "Our Transportation Problem-How Can We Solve It?" during a Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture appearance at 3 p.m. Thursday in Notre Dame's Memorial Library auditorium. The talk is open to the public. 
A former assistant secretary 
PcJul Newman's RACING JACKET 
SPECIAL OFFER $ 99 
• 100% DuPont Nylon 

in the mail 
• 
Water Repellent 

• 
Men's small, medium, large and X-!arge 

• 
Ladies and children small, medium 'cmd lar!~e sizes 


See Details On Cartons of 
Coke 
Available AprilS thru May 1, 1971 


""Coca-Cola"" ond ··co~oo·· oro r.gi-od trade-marb which ido"tily only tho product of the C,ocoCColo Company. Bottlod under the authority of Tho Coco-C<>Io Company by, THI' 1:0CA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY 
How manycups 
~~tf 6atorad ® 
can you dlriilk between 
Corbin, Ky., and Tampa, Fla. (For free.) 

·~ 
On your way to your Flolida Easter break, every :J Marathon station along 1-75 from Corbin to Tampa will give you new orange Gatorade free. With or without buying any­thing. Thf~re's no limit. lf you're thirsty, drink all you want. (Our cup runneth over with conviviality.) 
There's also a straight reason for stopping at Mara-11 thon. Even your parents would approve. Our gasoline. That · we don't give away. We sell it. (A little capitalistic, maybe, but it's a living.) And to show that our hearts are pure, aJI Marathon petroleum products and automotive. services are guaranteed. Satisfaction or your money back, as our lawyers say. 
For considerations not entirely altruistic, our dealers accept most major credit cards. BankAmericard. Master Charge. American Express. Carte Blanche. Diner's Club. And. our own. 
So when you go south, keep your car filled with the Big Red M (your basic sis boom bah). Then when you get to Corbin; start filling yourself, too.41;; If you're flying down, we don't even want to hear about it. 

for policy and international af­fairs in the U.S. Department of Transportation, Cherington will also speak to faculty members and graduate students in the College of Business Ad­ministration at 7:30 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Center. His topic will be ''The Transportation De­
regulation Controversy'' at thiS meeting. 
Cherington has been associated as a member, officer or con­sultant with Pan American Airways, Africa Ltd.; U.S. Army Transport Command, U.S. Senate Military Affairs Com­mittee, U.S. Civil Aeronautics Board, Board of Economic Ad­visors to GQv. John A. Volpe, Massachusetts, and Tran­sportation Research Foundation. Among his publications are "Airline Price Policy," ''The Business 'Representative in Washington," and "Logistics adn Transportation Education in Graduate Schools of Business Administration." 
Directed by Dr. Herbert E. Sim, professor of finance and business economics the Cardinal O'Hara lectures supplement the regular program of courses in the College of Business Ad­ministration. They are presented several times during the acadenic year by outstanding scholars, businessmen and men of public affairs. 
DETROIT CLUB. EASTER BUS 
SIGNUP: 7-9 pm , Mon, Tues, Wed 
· 333 'Naish
OR CALL:. 8132 At ND 4618 AT SMC FOR RESE}lVATIONS 
OUNDTRIP: $11 members 
$13 nonmem. LEAVES: WED AFTERNOON RETURNS: N EVENING 
DON'T 
BUY ANY
... 
CAR Till 
YOU GET 
HAROLD 
MEDOVV'S 
PRICES I 
DODGE *CHRYSLER *RENAULT 
HAROLD'S CORNER 
LaFayette &LaSalle Phone 233-3154 

Monday, March 29, 1!171 7118 O.&rEIWEit Page 7 
Sinnott: a sixth man moves it 
by Joe Passiatore 
Observer Sportswriter 
When you've got a back court that .consists of one of the most potent scoring threats in the country and the other fellow is one of the game's most clever playmakers, it can be quite a task to try and break into the line-up. Just ask Tom Sinnott, who, in competing with Austin Carr and Jackie Meehan, found himself paired against one of the greatest combinations at Notre Dame since Rockne and the game of football got together. 
Despite being a victim of circumstances and having to be content with being a top flight "sixth man", Tom Sinnott has no regrets about coming to Notre Dame. Tom hails from Elizabeth, New Jersey and by the time college came around he had made enough of a name for himself at St. Patrick's High School that he rated college of­fers from such schools as Marquette, Georgetown, Duke, Notre Carolina and of course, Notre Dame. "I had always wanted to go to Notre Dame, so it wasn't a real tough decision. I have no regrets about coming to Notre Dame. I played on a great team for three years and was associated with some tremen­dous guys." 

When asked if he was satisfied with the way the season turned out Tom replied, "I am a little disappointed that we didn't do a lot better than last year. Of course we lost a lot of tough games." One of those tough games was the game that ended Notre Dame's season, the Drake loss. Tom accounts for the loss this manner, "They slowed the game down and got us to play their tempo of ball. As a result Austin Carr didn't get as many shots as he usually does and they beat us in a low-scoring game. They played a tough man-to-man defense, though, and were able to station themselves between our players and the basket and draw an unusually high number of charging calls against us." 
Questioned about his greatest thrill in a Notre Dame uniform, Sinnott quickly recalls, "My greatest thrill, teamwise, was 

Arc's boys open workouts 
Notre Dame, Ind. -Notre Dame's football team, an upset 1 winner over Texas in the Cotton Bowl, will begin preparations for its 83rd season on Monday, March 29. 
Head Coach Ara Parseghian will greet 88 varsity candidates and proceed with drills during the next four weeks with the annual Blue-Gold spring game scheduled for Saturday, May 1. 
Parseghian, starting his eighth season at Notre Dame, will be seeking to fill spots left by the departure of nine senior starters. 
"This will be an extremely important spring for us," reasoned Parseghian. "First we must take a good look at quar­terback, find key replacements 
Interhall 

This spring the lnterhall office will sponsor: 
BASEBALL Rosters must consist of at leastI. 14 players. Maxiumu number of players is 18. Rosters should be submitted to the Interhall Athletic Office or to the Interhall Issue Room. Deadline for all rosters and roster changes is April 6. 
SOFTBALL 

Roster must consist of at least 12 players. Maximum number of players is 16. Roster should be submitted to the Interhall Athletic Office or to the Interhall Issue room. Deadline for all rosters is April 1. 
TENNIS 

There will be a singles tennis tournament. The competition will be conducted in singles elimination manner. There will be two divisions-open and novice. To enter call 6100 or 8!175. Deadline for the tournament is April 5. 
at other positions and and then experiment on position changes and perha{E get an idea as to what type of offense our per­sonnel is best suited for next fall." 
A considerable amount of at­tention will be focused at quar­terback, where the Irish will be without All-American and Reisman Trophy runnerup Joe Theismann. Juniors-to-be Pat Steenberge and Jim Bulger and freshman Cliff Brown figure to be the leading candidates for the quarterback position. 
In addition to Theism ann, All-· American guard Larry DeNardo, · running mate Gary Kos, halfback Denny Allan and fullback Bill Barz leave the offensive unit. 
Defensively, the staff will be faced with replacing two linebackers-Tim Kelly and Jim Wright-plus defensive end Bob Neidert. 
Considering who started in Notre Dame's 24-11 Cotton Bowl victory over Texas, eight of 11 starters on offense and eight of 11 defensive regulars will return. Parseghian will have 24 of 37 lettermen returning. 
Anchoring the offense will be All-American receiver Tom Gatewood, one of the co-captains, and halfback Ed Gulyas, the leading rusher last year with 558 yards and a 4.3 average. 
Defensively, co-captain Walt Patulski at end and defensive back Clarence Ellis, an All­American for the past two years, return along with veteran tackles Mike Kadish and Greg Marx, linebackers Rick Thomann and Eric Patton and back Ralph Stepaniak. 
The Irish finished the 1970 :season with a 10-1 record and final number 2 rating (AP). 
Spring practice is starting a week earlier than usual because of the new academic calendar. 

Gustafson places 
Notre Dame's heavyweight wrestler, Phil Gustafson, was the only member of the 1971 varsity to make it to the NCAA finals. Gustafson, who entered the tournament with an undefeated career record made his way to the finals held at Auburn Alabama over the past weekend by placing fourth in the Region IV of the NCAA. 
Big Phil went 4-2 in the regional enabling him to secure the fourth position which was the minimum needed to reach the NCAA finals. Region IV was composed of teams from the Mid-American Conference, the Big Ten and Independents from the Midwest. 
In Gustafson's first win he registered an impressive 8-0 whitewash over Marquette's heavyweight Jones. Phil rolled on iu the second round by pinning Dan Gurth of Wisconsin. The junior who also is a member of the ND football squad, recorded his second tourney pin with a win over Illinois' Donatelli. 
Gustafson's first loss came to Osborn of Indiana State University. He was leading 2-1 in this rna tch but Osborn managed a takedown with only 15 seconds remaining in the match to secure the 3-2 decision. 
Gustafson was given second life when he was granted a wrestle-back opportunity. He won the first of these matches but in the Regional consolation he lost on the narrowest of margins on a referree's decision. The scoreboard read 1-1 after an overtime period and then Michigan State's Ben Lewis was awarded the victory. 
Results are not yet available on Gustafson's showing at Auburn but they will be printed in tomorrow's Observer. On the season the Galesburg, illinois native compiled a slate of 26-2-1. Of his 26 victories 16 came by pins. 

when we beat UCLA this year. As 
for me personally, it was when I stole the ball from Marquette and fed it to Austin to beat them in double overtime last year." 
Sinnott was then asked about the handicaps of being a "sixth man." "I'd say the most difficult thing is to be mentally ready. Usually when I came into a game my purpose was to speed up the game, maybe press on defense, 
and try to get some points in a hurry, so I had to be ready to go." 
Will Austin Carr have any , problems adjusting to the pros? "I sure can't foresee any. In my opinion he can't miss becoming a superstar. Back home I used to watch Bill Bradley at Princeton and people used to say that he was the best ever at moving without the ball. This is probably 
Austin's greatest asset -his ability to shake a defender. I know, I guarded him in practice and by the time it ended I was worn out from trying to stay with him." 
Right now, Tom is seriously considering an offer to go over to 
Europe and play in the European league next year. "The league has been around for about five years and they're starting to recruit college players from America. There are teams in Italy, France, Yugoslavia and a couple other countries. I know 
John f>leick is thinking about going over there and I heard that Rich Rinaldi of st. Peters is considering it." 
Itappears that Tom Sinnott has not yet given up in his quest to shake that "sixth man" tag. 


The Irish Eye 

Mter a time, you learn one thing about sports. That is, no matter what the contest, there can be only one winner. And so it went for another year in collegiate basketball. There was once again just that one final winner and for the fifth year in a row it just happened to be UCLA. 
Many fans were distraught to see the Bruins wind up on top again but, looking at the entire season and all of the teams, it was apparent that the UCLAns were worthyofthe national championship again. 
Since there can only be one winner, jow does this effect the many "near winners" in college basketball? Or more specifically, how does thz season results effect Notre Dame? 
The real die-hard Irish supporters were probably quite put out with the team's tourney showing. Mter all, hadn't ND done as well the year before? Also, didn't they have all the really important members back from the '69-'70 squad? Anything less than a finish in the final four wouldn't be acceptable. 
Well, this is true. Everyone expected great things from the Irish this year and there were days when these great things became reality. The only blemish on the mighty Bruins record came at the hands of Notre Dame. Adolph Rupp was finally beaten in "neutral" Louisville. Still there were disappointments during the season that people seemed to remember better than the achievements. But with the NCAA bid, all this was history. 
When tourney time came, Johnny Dee, head coach of the Irish, stated that this was a "new season, it doesn't matter whether you're 26-0or 19-7, the real season starts now." Dee's team finished 1-2 in "the real season" and ND was admittedly not in the toughest regional. So does this make the 1!171 basketball campaign a total failure for the Irish? 
It wouldn't be just to call the season a failure because that would mean all of the other college teams that didn-t win the NCAA would be failures. Itwas a disappointment but not a failure. 
The reason why it wasn't a failure can be seen by noting the final four participants in the tourney. Truly UCLA had the best material and altogether best team in the country. But the credentials of the other three teams were suspect. Kansas had but one loss throughout the season, but compare the Jayhawks schedule to that of the Irish. They were a fortunate team to get as far as they did. 
Then there were the Western Kentucky Hill toppers. To their fans WKU was without a doubt number 1 but to the rest of the nation they were comparable to numerous other teams. The Villanova Wildcats were probably the team in the NCAA's most like Notre Dame. Granted, the Wildcats manhandled the Irish in their meeting during the year but a rematch at South Bend could have produced the exact oppostie results. Both were capable of greatness or mediocrity. 
What the tourney boiled down to was a matter of which teams were 'able to get hot and stay hot. Only UCLA, among the finalists, were considered true favorites at the tournaments beginning and Kansas could at best be considered a darkhorse. WKU and 'Nova came from nowhere to reach Houston. It's just a shame that the Irish couldn't have been one of those team to get hot. They already proved that they could play with anybody during the season. 
And so the season closes with ND only a fourth place finisher in the 
Midwest but it managed to accomplish a few goals that will keep Notre 
Dame respected in the basketball ranks for years to come. 
Maybe Johnny Dee doesn't have the same value system as a lost of people. Maybe winning the big prize wasn't his only objective. He did take his team all over the country to play in fromt of more fans than any other team and at the same time to play the best competition possible. Darrell Royal said of the ND football program, "Why hell, that Notre Dame will play anyone, they don't care." He could have just as well have been speaking of the basketball program here also. 
So take heart Irish fans. Maybe your team wasn't the best but it certainly came through with some top thrills and it did this with the best around. Besides, Notre Dame did have one man who proved against the best around that he was the best of a them all. 
UCLA took the honors of best team but on that day whim they came 
up against the best player it was then that the Irish could be 
proclaimed "the winners." 

**I  KARATE INSTITUTE  
I*  52139 us 31  N  *  
*  South Bend, Ind.  #  

-----------------------------1

"********************************************t. 
St. Marys & Notre Dame students eligible for 
Student :reaching 
during the 1st semester 1971 -72 
should ~orne ond apply 
in room 320, Madeleva. 
Application deadline -Friday, April 9 
THE OBSERVER BUSINESS OFFICE 
is now accepting applications for the position of Business 
Manager for the Academic year 1971-72. 
Applicant must be present Junior Business Administration major or MBA Candidate. If an undergraduate, it is preferred that applicant be 
concentrating in either Finance or Accountancy. He must have a workingknowledge of both fields as position entails periodic preparation of formal financial statements, (Incomes, Financial Position, Source and Ap­plication of Funds, Cash Flow) maintenance of note liability, main­
tenance of Accounts Receivable, Capital budgeting, bookkeeping, and other aspects of financial management. 
Individual should be oriented toward growth of the ob­
sE·rver and be presentable in appearance and personality 
as position requires dealing with University ad­ministration, local financial institutions, and advertisers and their agencies. ­
Applicant must be willing to devote 15 to20 hours perweek. There is a 
possibility of academic credit in Business Administration and the salary IS $100 per month. 
Apply by sending letter including name, local address and 
phone number1 BA concentration, experience in extra­
curricular busmess management; and other information 
deemed pertinent via first class mail to: 
The Observer c/o Bruce Rieck , Business Manager 
P.O. Box 1100 
Monday, March 29, 1971 

Sophomore Literary Festival continues 
Fictionalist Leonard Michaels Michaels will lectllll"e on the 
and the novelist John Hawkes short story and read! from his 
will lecture and read from their fiction tcxlay at 3:30 p.m. in the 
fiction tcxlay as the Sophomore Library Auditorium. Hawkes will 
Literary Festival moves into its appear this evening at 8:00 pm.m 
second day of presentations. in Washington Hall. 
Both American writers, A teacher and playwright as 
Michaels and Hawkes are widely well as a novelist, Hawkes has 
published and both have received travelled widely in both Europe 
a number of outstanding awards and the Americas. His latest 
for their creations. novel, Second Skin, was written 
Michaels is tl1e author of Going during a sabbatical which he 
Places, a collection of short spent on the island of Granada in 
stories that was nominated for the West Indies. 
the 1970 National Book Award. Hawkes other works include his 
His stories have been published novels, The Beetle Leg, The 
in a number of American jour-Cannibal, and The Lime Twig. He 
nals including the Evergreen has IlJblished a book of short 
Review and Esquire. plays, The Innocent Party and a 
Among the awards he has collection of his short fiction 
received are the O'Henry Short titled Lunar LandscaJ~es. 
Story Award (three times), the Hawkes has been the recipient 
National Institute of Arts and of a Guggenheim grant and a 
Humanities Award, the National Institute of Arts and 
Massachusetts Review Quill for Letters award in 1962. In 1965 he 
Fiction (twice) and a lived in San Francisco as 
Guggenheim Fellowship. playwright-in-residence at the 
Presently Michaels teaches in Actor's Workshop under a 
the English Department at the fellowship from the Ford 
University of California at Foundation. 
Berkley and is also working on a Currently Hawkes is teaching 
novel. · at Brown Uniwrsity and working 
on a novel The Blood Oranges. 

fiNTEif~~!QNAL"STiiDENTS!
i ASSOCIATION MEETING i 
t Dote: Wed, 31 sf March 
t Time: 7 p.m. i 
' 

t Place: International Lounge f 
' ' 
(La Fortune Basement) f
It ' 
AGENDA: 
1. Annual Elections
t. 2. International Festival 't 
3. Freshman Orientation ',t 4. Spring Activities ' t 5. Annual Send Off For Seniors t , ' 
'-"'~~~.-.. ~ ~ ~ ...._.,. .._,,, ~m" ._,•. .._tu•· .._•• ._,... .....,,• .._,l,,. ..,.,'­
Continental Hair Styling Inc. 
Has Moved To 1321 E. McKinley Hwy. Mishawaka (appr(lx. 2 miles east of Town & Country Shopping Center) Serving the N D students in all hair care needs for 3 yrs. Call Now for appt. 259-7679 
NOW PlAYING 
"Don't Just Lay There" and ''The Final Blow" 
PROOF OF AGE ALWAYS REQUIRED 
t I 
t

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
I 
' 





