Vol. VI, No. 32 
Monday, October 25, 1971 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Stephan:"Progress"on Merger Talks 
SBP finds Trustees ''cordial'' in session 
presidents and the off-campus commission in the by John Abowd areas of improved hall life and the development 
Negotiations continue on the financial of an off-campus student center. arrangements of unification between the ---"the perilous state" of the student in University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's University decision-making. College, according to a joint statement from "The Student Life Council is losing its Mother M. Olivette Whelan and Edmund A. credibility as a viable legislative body since it Stephan, chairmen of the SMC and ND Boards of 
seems it is always being overruled," Barkett Trustees. 
added. 

"Progress has been made in several are_as The student body president called for in­attending unification," the statement satd, creased "student input" in the decision-making adding that "meetings will follow soon to further processes. He recommended acceptance of the 
consider financial arrangements ... " SLC's proposal to conduct a "professional According to the office of public information, survey of student life." "All of the principals in these discussions have 
The Statementagreed not to elaborate on the joint statement." 

On Thursday evening, a representative groupAn informed University source noted that of trustees and officers of the University of Notrepublic releases concerning. the. T~.ustees' 

Dame and Saint Mary's College met to continuedecisions would be forthcommg m several negotiations for the eventual unification of thedays." 

two schools. Following this session, separateSBP John Barkett, SBVP Orlando Rodriguez meetings of the full boards of both institutionsand Executive Coordinator Bob Weaver ad­were held over the weekend.

dressed the Trustees on Friday morning. 
Progress has been made in several areasThe session caused the Trustees to drop fifteen attending unification and meetings will followitems from their afternoon agenda to permit soon to further consider financial arrangementsdiscussion of the student sponsored proposals. 

after reports from auditors have been com­Student Presentation pleted. 
The overall goal for complete unificationThe student presentations stressed two major remains the academic year 1974-75, althoughpoints: there is still hope it can be accomplished sooner.

--The acceptance of the SLC proposal on Stephan: "Meetings will follow soon to Mother M. Olivette Whelan, Chairman· SMCminimum sanctions for larceny, assaultand further consider financial arrangements ... " Board of Trusteesselling of drugs which favored hall deter­Edmund A. Stephan, Chairman NO Board ofmination of parietal and alcohol regulations. 
Trustees---The improvement of the University's submitted by the ·Director of Public Infor­physical facilities especially in the individual 


mation, Richard Conklin
halls and in the student center. "These were the two most fruitful hours of our 
SBVP Orlando Rodriguez's speech con­administration because they will probably result centrated on the SLC's proposal for Universityin more improvement in Notre Dame than we sanctions.

have seen in a long time," Barkett said after the Rodriguez noted : meeting. 
---that the Hall Life Committee considered its "We were very impressed," he added, "with task "as being much broader than the Ad Hocthe cordial and open acceptance given to our committee" on disciplinary codes. As a result,proposals." 

"it was not that the committee advocated noThe trustees detained Barkett, Rodriguez and sanctions as some would have it, but rather noWcavcr for over an hour to discuss specific minimum sanctions."

clements of their suggestions. 
---that hall autonomy is "not really autonomy but "They were very direct and sincere in their authority for individual halls which submitdiscussions with us. They admitted that the sufficient proof of responsibility."

principle problem was lack of funds and asked us The student body vice-president advocated awhat areas we would give the highest priority," program termed "model halls" which allows the Weaver said. 
hall autonomy pr lOsal of the SLC to be im­All three stressed the willingness of the 

'.,.·~-·~
; I i ! plemented on an experimental basis if the 
trustees to give additional responsibilities to ­
' ... , ' I 'Jt trustees are unwilling to adopt the full proposal.
"rcsponsible students." 
Executive coordinator Bob Weaver discussed

Barkett predicted "mixed results" but was . I i'.~.~ ~ the physical facilities of the University.
optimistic that students would see "concrete •• I•J ""' ,-, .;_ -• ~, i-"1, ,._. ""1-"The importance of hall life is increasing andresults" from the trustees. 
unquestionably there is a tremendous emphasis Emphasizing the "responsible activities" of on the development of hall life," Weaver said.

the majority of students, Barkett noted: 
Barkett: "These were the two most He recommended:---what he called "the least publicized yet the fruitful hours of our administration ... " ---the addition of "more and better" lounge space most important events" meaning student par­in the individual sections of halls that currentlyticipation in many service oriented activities like lack such space.
the ticket exchange for the Navy game, --increased recreational facilities in the halls.
MANASA and the Neighborhood Youth Study ---extensive re-modeling of the student lounge totutoring program. 
eliminate "excessive lounge space" and "the---The research efforts of the twenty hall lack of social and recreational facilities." 

If the people running the Navy Ticket Exchange aren't able to enlist near one hundred monitors, they're going to have to give up the program. So if you're willing to enlist: 
Attend a meeting at the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune Student Center at 10 o'clock tomorrow. 
Don't give up your football ticket. You'll need it to get yourself into the game. 
If you just want to give up your football ticket; you'll get a receipt; just come over to the ACC ticket office between nine AM and four PM today or tomorrow. 
Shellings in East Pakistani; 59 dead 
<c> l!lil New York Times Pakistani announcements about 
had fired 1,600 shells at 11 border villages

guerrilla actions invariably describe 
in East Pakistan, killing 59 civilians.

Karachi, Pakistan, Oct. 24--The soldiers as "Indian agents," adding to 
The shelling yesterday at Nayanpur,

hctwee11 Kasba and the district capital of

Comilla, was said to have involved

recoilless rifles for the first time. These

supported by Indian troops and artillery. Thl.' departure today of India's Prime 
h(•avy infantry weapons are generally

The two attacks were said to have taken Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, on a three­
used against tanks or fortified positions.

place in Comilla district near East WI.'ek trip to Europe and the United States 
The first of thl.' large infantry actions

Pakistan's eastern frontier with India. was taken as a sign by some officials and 
today was reportedly ncar Kasba. The

Indian Hadio has claimed, and Pakistan 

has d!•nied. that the Kasba area is

"lih('I'Htl'd territory" held by the Bengali

creasing numbers of casualties have last March, has increased sharply during 
eontributcd during the last few weeks to th<' last month. 
fl.'ars abroad that war between Pakistan In actions yesterday, the Pakistan 
Indian plan<' violatl.'d l<~ast Pakistan's

and lnflia may be imminent. gm·Prnnwnt charg('d that Indian artillery 
airspace 


Page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Voter Registration Drive starts~ 

by Danit>l P. I{O('k 

Two Notre Dame students intend to conduct a campus-wide Voter Registration Drive this week. Seniors Pat Coyle and Joe Meyers will spearhead the campaign, which aims at registering as many ND-SMC students as possible in their horne states, if all goes according to their plans. 
The organization, termed "Voter Registration Drive" by its 
f 



( .~ 
Pat Coyle 

RMN: peace chances good; McGovern:no 
(c) 1!171 New York Times Washington, Oct. 24--President Nixon expressed optimism Sunday about the prospects for lasting peace, but at the same time he warned that "there are great differences" between the government of the United States and those of the Soviet Union and China. In a brief radio address marking Veterans Day, which he delivered from Camp David, the Presidential retreat near Thurmont, Md., Nixon said that his trips next year to Peking and Moscow "are directed toward" the goal of peace. But he added, "We go with no false hopes, and we intend to leave behind us in America no unrealistic expectations." Nixon also pledged his concern for the returning veterans of the war in Vietnam, which he called "the most publicized and least understood war in our history." He asked all Americans to join him in a commitment "to do all that we can do to insure that those who have borne the burdens of war are not made, because of their sacrifice, to bear disproportionately the burdens of the peace." A charge that just such neglect 
of the needs of Vietnam veterans was occurring was made by Sen. 
MEETING 


CHICANO STUDENTS 
All ND-SMC Chicano Students (Including Graduate Students) Are Requested To Attend Tonite. 
MONDAY NOV. 25 7P.M. 
IN THE URBAN STUDIES INSTITUTE OF THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester c.<<..:!pt vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class post~ge paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
co-founders is also being coor­dinated with Student Govern­nwnt, Mr. Robert MPagher of the Theology Department, and two national organizations, The StudPnt Vote and Youth Citizenship Fund, Inc. Meagher has published an article in the Scholastic urging student voting registration. 
"Some states do not permit absentee registration," said Coyle, "therefore, in most cases the only way for a student to register is to register in person at his horne county Board of Elections. Undecided court cases may permit a student to register and vote where he attends a college or university, but as of now, the full thrust will be at registering a student in his home state where he clearly has the right to vote." 
"Voter Registration Drive" will place emphasis on publicity before the Thanksgiving and Christmas vacations, according to Meyers, and absentee registration forms (for those states in Which they are per­mitted> will be available on 
George S. McGovern in a Veterans Day statement issued by his office. 
McGovern, who is a candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1972, said that the nation had "delayed too long" in guaranteeing to present and future Vietnam veterans "the best the nation can offer in health care, employment opportunities and benefits for job training." 
In support of his accusation, McGovern cited labor depart­ment figures that show "three hundred thousand Vietnam veterans among the millions who walk the streets unemployed." He also spoke of thousands of other Vietnam veterans "scarred by drug addiction and other psychological problems (who) are simply not getting the medical treatment they need because funds are short and facilities inadequate." 
Nixon, in effect, directly an­swered the Senator. 
He noted that, in June, he had ordered the labor department to inaugurate special programs to provide training and jobs for veterans, and added: 
"I am happy to report that during July and August alone, more than 121,000 Vietnam-era veterans were placed in jobs or in training for jobs." 

Spring Term class-registration day, January \8, \972. 
"It must be stressed," said Meyers, "I hat one should register to vote as early as possible in order to insure eligibility to vote in the upcoming Presidential primaries. Deadlines vary ac­cording to state requirements and the date of the state's primary." 
The organization plans to get at l(•ast one representative from 
••aeh hall, who they hope will ~olicit publicity and create desire ~MflfM!!~ in the students to fulfill 
n<•wly-cstablished rights granted to them by the 26th Amendment. The organization will hold an open mPeting Wednesday night at 
7: :~o pm in the Fiesta Lounge of the LaFortune Center. 



STUDENT TEACHING 

ANY STUDENT ELIGIBLE FOR STUDENT TEACHING DURING SECOND SEMESTER 1971-72 
SHOULD COMPLETE 


AN APPLICATION IN RM. 230 MADELEVA. APPLICATION 
.DEADLINE MONDAY NOV. 1 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 

Indiana Bell 
_M_on_d~ay~.-~__tob_e_r_2~s._1_97_1___________________________TlfE OBSERVER Page 3 
(c) 1971 New York Times News Service 
United Nations, N.Y.--An audience of United Nations officials and delegates and music lovers from all over the world heard Pablo Casals 
I 

conduct two Bach concertos, play a fold tune and lead the world 4:00--lecture, erik von premiere of his own composition, "Hymn," a short choral work en kuehnelt, renaissance dedicated to the United Nations. After the musical tribute to peace in and reformation,
=s

the General Assembly chamber, Secretary General Thant presented library auditorium and



World 
the 95-year-old cellist with the United Nation's peace medal. Clt lounge. 
4: 15--lecture, john houck, 

Edmonton, Alberta--Soviet Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin stopped in planning toward the Edmonton on his tour of Canada and visited a nickel refinery at Fort year 2000, 127 Saskatchewan. Unusually heavy security precautions prompted by nieuwland.
Briefs a t:J u
hostile demonstrations elsewhere in Canada discouraged most Ed­7:00--meeting, pitt club, montonians from coming out to see the Russian leader. Iafortune student center, 2d. Belfast. Northern Ireland--British soldiers shot and killed three men 8:00--lecture, prot. c.a.

s:: 

committing a robbery about 40 miles south of Belfast. An army maccartney, problems spokesman said the robbers ignored two warnings to stop. 0 of nationalism in the 
(c) l!lil NEW YORK TIMES hapsburg monarchy, Washington--The pay board will have the power to retroactively room 1201 library. grant wage increases that were affected by the wage-price freeze, Conald Rumsfeld, the head of the cost of living council, said. Leonard 
Woodcock, a labor member of the pay board, said that he would favor granting such retroactive raises. 
I 

Goal -1100 tickets 
Ticket program snagged 

harman kardon 
CADS 

ThE' organizers of the ticket week we called a meeting and exchange program are running only two volunteers showed up. into difficulties making some of This Tuesday at 10:00 at the thE' arrangements for South Bend Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune youths to see the Notre Dame­Student Center we will hold 

SAVE $30.00

Navy game. another meeting for those who 
One problem is that this year want to be monitors, excluding 400 more tickets will be needed, those already signed up. We explained organizers Jack would like the students to know Candon and Eric Andrus. Last that as monitors they will not year 700 tickets were turned in have to give up their tickets. for the Georgia Tech game. The Also, p!'ople with cars are needed planned goal this year is 1100 to provide transportation for the tickets. kids to the game" 
"Students can turn in their Jack Candon added that "we football tickets from 9 to 4 on r!'ally appreciate the efforts of Monday and Tuesday at the thE' students to make this a Convocation Center. No ID's are succl'ss, especially the tutors and required. One student can take as school captains in the neigh­many tickets down as he wants," borhood stu~y help _P!Ogram." Andrus said_ 
"They will get a receipt for their tickets. The week after the game they can get their tickets by turning in the receipt," he stressed. 
"One of the problems that we had last year was that very few turned in the tickets on Monday and we had to conduct an in­IE'nsive campaign that night to 

make sure we would come up Professional Tape Cassette 
with those tickets." "What appears to be the 


Recorder With Built-In Dolby
bigg!'st obstacle this year," said Andrus, "is that we don't have 

Noise Reduction Processor
t•nough monitors to watch the kids. We need a hundred. Last 



SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening 

. PITCHER

zs••• 
$1.00 
NIGHT 

Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. -1 2 p.m. 
LAUREL &HARDY ,.~~ 
PIZZA PALACE ~-'~ 
4til0Westem Ave. Belleville Shoppin2 Center 
Phone 289-7'183 




NOW $199.95 

Need help in literature? Ask the experts who prepare Cliff's Notes. Our authors are scholars who have taught the works they write about. They know how to explain 

J\Ud\0 them to you in clear, concise form. Increase your understanding. Get Cliff's Notes and get w1th the experts. 


~~c~usrs sales and. s~r'J\ce
Nearly 200 titles-always available 
wherever books are sold. 
Only $1 each 

. 3\onm\c\1\gan


.
.
.
. 
----~------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

--------·-----------­

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso ,\ssistant EditorAssistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
cease! essl y querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
.\dvertising Manager 

Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle
Jim Jendryk 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

News: 283-1715

Business: 283-7471 
From the Editor's Desk 


The Only Losers 
Notre Dame's football dreams died stillborn this season with the loss Saturday to Southern California. Those of us who are Seniors were looking forward to the team having an undefeated season, in this, our last year at Du Lac. The gentlemen from the most populous state in the union felt otherwise, and smashed the hope with a rather convincing finality on the turf. That the Southern Cal team showed more than their usual stuff cannot be denied. Such excuses sound hollow, though, the Monday after. They played well, well enough to beat us. Nothing more can or should be said about that. 
Another type of war was being waged the Thursday and Friday afternoons before the clash. The Boards of Trustees of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's met separately and jointly. They discussed finances---the finances of the unification action. As of yet none of them is talking to the outside world. That the Boards decided something seems fairly certain. What they decided is shrouded in secrecy. A vail able reports indicate that the rent demanded by the Holy Cross Sisters was deemed unreasonably high by Notre Dame. The same reports also indicate that one of the reasons the Sisters demanded such a high rent was to meet their financial obligations, obligations which consist of various mortgages against buildings on the St. Mary's campus. Thus as munificent as it might be for the Holy Cross Sisters to rent St. Mary's to Notre Dame for a. nominal sum each year, they are unable to do SIJ. 
If the Notre Dame trustees refuse to meet the Sister's price, the nuns • will lose anyway. Notre Dame's refusal, and subsequent action of going co-ed on it's own will surely lead to the demise of St. Mary's. What girl would attend St. Mary's if she were qualified to enter the University of Notre Dame? 
The Trustee's decision, according to administration sources, will become public in a few days. If the situation is as reports have indicated the financial machinations dreamed up by the ac­countants to solve the problem will be academically interesting. The aforementioned machinations won't be interesting, however, if they delay unification or seriously impede its progress. A delay of several years won't bother the Trustees or the Administration; members of both intend to be here for years. It will bother the students, all of whom will be gone in four years, most before that. It's wrong to promise a man co-education when he applies to this school, or while he's struggling through here and then to renege on it. 
The Trustees may not have a choice, though. They already have made a partial commitment to unify with St. Mary's, a com­mitment they were supposed to finalize this weekend. If that decision was made, and if that decision includes holding up unification for several years more, the only losers will be the students..Perhaps it can't be helped. Whenever high level games are carried out under unfavorable circumstances---as these have been---someone always loses, usually those with the least power. 
News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: rick smith Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Don Ruane SMC News Editor: Ann Conway Night Editor: Marty Miller Headlines: Jim McDermott, T .C.Treanor Layout and Editorial Assistant: Stan the Man ···j,· ! 'p,,troller: Joe Wilkowski 


"We 'II get there faster on our own" 
Don Ruane 
For What It's Worth 

Many Arts and Letters and engineering students have been quietly grumbling to themselves this semester as they labor just to get another requirement out of the way. 
Although it is already midsemester, they still have many grumbles to mumble because the Classic of the Week Club, also known as Collegiate Seminar is a two semester, six hour requirement if students in those two colleges want their diploma. 
The purpose of the course, according to Tom Musial, the CS assistant director, is to give the nearly 1,000 A&Lers and engineers a chance to arbitrate "various attempts by different men at different times" to answer the universal questions of existence, identity, etc. 
Musial says it is required because of the traditional culture of liberal arts education, the faculty's belief that students need to come to grip with these questions, another bleief that students should be active agents in their education and because there is no other department for this purpose. 
Many students will admit willingly that CS has excellent potential to fulfill its purpose, but its design, and particularly the tag "requirement", do much to destroy the spirit of the 16 year old course. 
There is nothing like walking into a class the first day and being handed a syllibus listing a book a week, ranging from Homer's Odyssey to Aristotle's Nicodean Ethics and on to Cervantes' Don Quixote (part one, but the introductory material covers the first 85 pages). 
The next surprises are that you will have to make some sort of presentation or paper on at least two of the classics, participate in class discussions, (as expected in a seminar) and keep a journal just in case you can't express yourself very well in class. 
The final surprise, depending on whether the seminar leader wants to tell you or on someone to ask, is that the CS faculty, for the most part, is voluntary and represents approximately 90 percent of all University departments, which means the leader may be buying the book for the first time himself. In the end from one view, it's just like having all the grading and evaluation power in the hands of one student. 
However, the faculty has one advantage. Each book slated for the nearly 50 section course is condensed into crib notes by one of the faculty-students and distributed to the leaders. This is very helpful for any guide, the generally accepted duty of a seminar leader, par­ticularly if he hasn't read the book. Thus another fine basis to evaluate a student's performance, the notes of another written on the assumption that the leader will read the book. 
In the meantime, students in the liberal arts tradition wade through reams of philosophical, metaphysical and theological thought, sometimes developed during most of the author's life, in one week, and are expected to find a fundamental approach to a particular universal question and be ready to "arbitrate" it. 
It seems that students could be given two weeks a book, or three periods per book for discussion; and maybe even some crib notes. As noted above, these thoughts and themes have been developed during entire lifetimes of both men and civilizations. 
Although Collegiate Seminar appears as a giant ogre, its director, John A. Oestrle, has attempted changes, only to be blocked by the College Council or the University. 
Attempts to drop the requirement label have been stopped by the 
A&L College Council and efforts to drop the standard grading 
procedure for pass-fail have been denied by the University because it 
is a requirement. 
However there is still hope in both these areas thanks to the merger of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. If the Bookstore's favorite course is kept as a requirement, it will have to handle nearly 1,500 students in each of the next few years. Faced with maintaining a strong staff, CS has not secured committments for additional staff and may be forced to take the elective root because of this development and the strain placed on the faculty by related freshman and senior level courses. 
THE OBSERVER ,Pages 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
t<:ditor: 
I have noticed that since last 
Saturday afternoon there has 
h<'l'n a great deal of speculation 
among the student body about the 
reasons for the defeat of the 
l<'ighting Irish by the Trojans. 
HPasons ranging from the poor 
wPathcr to the inadequacy of the 
Irish offense have been 
suggested. Yet these guesses are 
only stabs in the dark. 
Thl're is only one reason that 
this dark defeat could have been 
visitl'd upon Notre Dame. The 
Irish are being punished for their 
sins. Just ask any old grad why 
l<•ams have been defeated in the 
past and they will tell you that it 
was because of the low Com­
munion rate at required chapel 
on the morning of the Game. So 
l<'t's get out to the chapels next 
Saturday morning and help the 
tl'am score some points. 
Pll'ase note that there is no place for a female in a football W<'l'kend. So let's leave the SMC girls and the homl'town honeys at hom!' nl'xt wl'ek. A man must dt'votl' all his energies to sup­porting the team; get rid of the tPmptations caused by the pn•s<•ncl' of females. Why, the pro<'l'SS of sexual infatuation has hP<'n so marked and disgusting that I have actually heard a fn•shman contradicting the time honored IPgend that the statue atop thl' Goldl'n Dome is not Knutl' Hoekne in a raincoat but T<'rry Ruck in a maxicoat! 
Orw more historic convention which has been much violated of lat<• is the traditional prohibition that the unsanctified feet of undergraduates must never tou<·h the steps of the Ad­ministration building. Now, walk hy thP building at the class period and one is nearly knocked over by lhl' barbarian hordes of freshmen issuing from their calculus dasscs. And always, leading the charge, thl' females! Traditions fall, football teams fall. How many studl'nts marched down to tlw (;I'Otto to pray for the injured t<:d (;ulyas ? If this merger hdwPl'n the schools is ever l'Ompleted, I am afraid that we must first realize that Notre I>ame will never again win a national championship. Just look at tht• records and I think you will noticl' that the last championship was before the start of co-ex dasses. I am afraid that there must he a choice, either a coed l'ampus or a winning football t<'am, but not both. It is time for all Notre Dame men to realize that the "Our Lady" in the school of our Lady is neither Terry Buck nor any SMC rah-rah. 
Old Grad '72 t<:ditor: This letter is in response to the article concerning opinions by ml'mbers of the SLC on new hall life rules, as reported in the M<!_nday, Oct. 18 Observ~. I 
din•ct my rl'sponse to Fr. Blantz and his opinion on the regulation of paril'tal hours. He stated, "There is a question of the moral <'nvironment. If public hotels show some concern over un­married men and women soPnding the night together, then I think a Catholic university .... should be more concerned with the creation of an environment lwrc of high Christian standards and ideals". 

As of when, should a Christian university use the statutes of public hotels as guidelines for the "creation" of Christian stan­dards? Rather, I should think public establishments would look to the university for guidelines in the pursual of the essence of Christianity. The Christian university is a creative, viable community which can honestly s!'arch for a way of life in ac­cordance to the teachings of Christ; which is relatively free of jaded, prejudiced beliefs as to what actions, in a cold, objective manner, categorically brand you as a Christian of high or of low standards. 
In the parietal hours issue, we students are looking at the CJUestion in a creative, positive manner; we are frankly ad­mitting the fact that rules, similar to those used by hotels, art' not going to create a Christian community and hence a Christian set of standards, rather, Wl' believe that Christian standards can only be for­mulated by the individual himself, who has been educated in thl' values of a Christian way of lifl'. You are not going to create Christian standards or educate soml'one on the values of Christianity by blindly imposing rules on him. This way of in­stituting morality is a defensive, backwards sort of way of making a shallow stab at morality. 
This is why we object to the imposition of parietal hours. You arl' calling for the regimentation of standards for morality, which implies that the individual has no crl'ativc pow!'r of decision -no frl'l' will -to honestly decide how he should act. 
You can talk all you want about "Pxtremc" cases that would appl'ar under this type of life style, yet that is exactly what they arc : the extremes, and consequently, rare. 
Society imposes rules con­cerning morality, as some l•:ditol' 
I uotPd with interest the use of phnlsl' "non-nl'gotiable" by Sr. Alma Peter regarding the "sale" of St. Mary's. If any student IPadcr used that particular phrase he would be labeled as a danger to the greater ND -St. Mary's Christian community and dealt with summarily. Anything that students propose is negotiable, while much the ad­ministrators propose is not. The story alludes earlier to sister's willingness "to negotiate ac­ceptable financial ai"rangcmcnts". It would seem that St. Mary's is indeed for sale, hut what is negotiable is the price. If we don-t learn anything l'lsc while we're here, we cer­tainly learn how to bargain, don't Wl'? 
DPvotcdly yours in N.D. 
Edwin K. Isely 
Craduate Student 
Editor: 
This letter is addressed to the Notre Dame (men) Student Body 
The events of the past weeks here on campus are important to all of us. Parietals, drinking, etc. are the topics. And like any red­blooded Notre Dame man, I am against these sanctions because I think we should be able to do what we want so long as we do it in an adult manner. But these sanctions aren't the reasons I am writing this letter. 
We have also witnessed in the past months a change on campus -namely, more girls from St. Mary's are taking courses on campus due to the merger which is starting this year. And like any normal, red-blooded Notre Dame guy, I dig the changes. 
We should be satisfied that now at least we have more of a chance of meeting some girls from St. Mary's But, alas, some of us are not. These asses I am talking about are the jerks who persist in passing girls up at football games. Man, some of you guys are really horny if you get kicks from that. Don't you know what you're doing? Don't you realize that you are planting opinions in the minds of these girls? Un­favorable ones at that. How do you expect to meet a girl like that? Is that the only way you can? What about the rest of us poor slops who won't get to first base if you continue? I would like 

to go out with a St. Mary's girl, hut some of you guys are r·uining it for me. And for the rest of poor slobs who sit around on Saturday nights drinking our fool heads off. I'd much I"ather be with a girl than sit with jerks drinking, jerks who screwed me out of a possible date with a girl who has an opinion of all Notre Dame guys. 
We at Notre Dame are sup­posedly one, big brotherhood. With St. Mary's and Notre Dame merging, we are becoming one big family. These girls will be, in essence, your sisters. Would you sit by and let some guy molest your sister like that? 
Not only are you ruining it for us in this way, but also you are jeopardizing our chances with the sanctions. And believe me, the Trustees aren't blind at the football games. They are capable of putting one and one together. They might make their decision on what they see at the games. They might be wrong in doing it this way, but they are justified in doing it this way,too. So grow up brothers. And sisters of St. Mary's, at least one Notre Daml' guy is behind you in your timl' of need. 
A concerned ND gut 
Please print this letter. I am not including my name because some of my friends would say that I wrote the letter just to get a date. 


ACCOUNTING AND 
FINANCE MAJORS 
Let us help you: 
PLAN AHEAD To Become a CPA 
THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE 


INDIANAPOLIS 317-347-9971 
Our Successful Students Represent 
1/5 OF USA 


Tne Amencan Tnbai·Love Rock Mus1ca1 
Good Seats Still Available 
BOX OFFICE NOW OPEN 


Noon to Showtime 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 211 N. MICHIGAN STREET 
Orchestra & Mon. Oct. 25 8:30 p.m. 
7 PERFORMANCES 
Mezzanine Seats Tues. Oct. 26 8:30p.m. 
$7.50 
Wed. Oct 27 8:30 p.m.Thurs. Oct. 28 8:30 p.m. 
OTHER SEATS AT: Sat. Oct. 30 6&10:30 p.m. 
$6, $4.50, $3.50 
ALL SEATS RESERVED
Sun. Oct. 31 3:00 p.m. 

nwmbcrs of this university seem ,-------------------------==--===========...., 


PI,.fT WEEKEND 
Nov. 5-7 Pickup of Tickets Already Purchased Will Be Monday, Oct. 25 At 7:00 pm In Room 2-D La Fortune. 
FINAL PAYMENT DUE 
Additional Signups Will Be Held For Bus & Hotel 
intent upon doing, in a futile 
attempt to relieve its conscience 
of the guilt of not facing the real 
problems concerning morality. 
We must learn from these mistakes and set forth in an 
honest and positive manner. 
Sincerely, Michael Lally 
-----------------------, 
-ALL YOU CAN EAT!­This semester pizza hut offers two weekly specials 
Monday night from 5 to 9 all you can eat ­$1.25 per person 
Sunday thru Thursday, with ND or SMC ID, any large pizza -$2.00; any small pizza · $1.00 One pizza per ID PIZZA HUT 2 2307 E. EDISON RD. 








PIZZA HUT 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Monday, October 25, 1971 
Stokes' brother among them 
3 may lose s-eats In reapportionment 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
Chicago, Oct. 24---Black Congressmen in several states fear that reapportionment may cost them their seats next year. 
Rep. Goerge W. Collins, a Democrat from the sixth district on Chicago's west side, will almost certainly lose his seat. He was first elected in 1970, the year the Black membership of the House reached 12, the largest number ever. 
Under a court-written redistricting plan, Collins was placed in the same district with Rep. Frank Annunzio, a Democrat, who is white. In theory, they could run against each other, but the make-up of the district is such that Collins would face a hopeless fight. 

Annunzio has told friends in Congress that Collins "will be taken care of by the organization" of Mayor Richard 
J. Daley, implying that Collins will not seek re-election. But Chicago's other Black 
representative, Ralph H. Met­calfe, also a Democratic fresh-
Yates elected freshman class president 

}~'
.

I 
~~~ 


David Yates -­
man, has no fear now of losing his European stock. seat although he was placed in a Stokes said in an interview that south side district with Rep. Gov. John J. Gilligan, a Abner J. Mikva, Democrat, a Democrat, had promised to veto white liberal. Mikva may run any plan passed by the from another district but will not Republican-controlled challenge Metcalfe. legislature that did not protect 
Rep. Louis Stokes, Democrat of i n c u m bent Democratic Missouri's U.S. representatives, but the state Senate---led by two members with Washington ambitions of their own-drew lines that might lead to the defeat of both Clay and Rep. James W. Symington, a white Democrat. 
Cleveland, will be jeopardized if representatives. Stokes said that_T_h_e_m_o_s_t ________ 
the Ohio legislature, as expected, that was his "best hope." adopts the plan proposed by A third imperiled Black Robert Hughes, the Cleveland legislator is Rep. William L. Republican leader. Stokes's Clay, D.-Mo. The state House of district would be shifted to the Representatives approved an west,exchanging Black voters for apportionment map that would conservative voters of middle-have protected all 10 of 
In a voter turnout termed "better than years past" by sophomore class president Mike Sherrod, slightly more than 50 per cent of the freshman class voted in last week's elections. 
Approximately 1,000 votes were cast in the election that named David Yates, Diane Gavin, Sue Schneider, and Gail Fromm as president, vice president, secretary, and treasurer, respectively, of the class of 1975. 
Publication of the results of the election was delayed due to the loss of two ballot boxes, Sherrod reported. The signout sheet for the Dillon Hall box was stolen and the box could not be located. Badin Hall never received a ballot box due to a mixup in distribution procedures. These two halls voted on Friday rather than Thur­sday with the rest of the campus. 
Meaningful Semester 
you ,II ever spen d ••• 
·could be the one on 
World CamP.US Afloat 
Sailing Feb. 1972 to Africa and the Orient 
Through a transfer format, more than 5,000 
students from 450 campuses have participated 
for a semester in this unique program in inter· 
national education. 
WCA will broaden your horizons, literally and 
figuratively ... and give you a better chance to 
make it-meaningfully-in this changing world. 
You'll study at sea with an experienced cos­
mopolitan faculty_ and then during port stops 
you'll study the world itself. You'll discover that 
no matter how foreign and far-away, you have a 
lot in common with people of other lands. 
WCA isn't as expensive as you might think; 
we've done our best to bring it within reach of 
most college students. Write today for free 
details. 
TEACHERS: Summer travel with credit for teach­ers and administrators. 
Write Today to: Chapman College, Box r,r.?~ Oranve C•lilnrni• 9?~r.r 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
SPARE TIME TYPING. PHONE 234--1913 AFTER 6 P.M. 
Need 6 student tickets and 4 general admission tickets to Navy game. Call Ann Marie -5446. 
Need 2 general adm. tickets to Navy game. Tom 287-2731. 
URGENT: Need 1, 2 or 3 general admission tix to Navy game; Need not be adjacent. Call Leo at 1607. 
Wanted: One Electric Typewriter in good or great shape. Call Tom 287-2731. 
NOTICES 
Fix your own car. Tonight. We have the SPACE+TOOLS+PARTS AND HELP. You do the work and SAVE. Autotech -Rt. 31 South in Niles. 6S4-1960. Open evenings and weekends. 
NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund Basement of La Fortune 11:15-12:15. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and lnfor concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
1971 Senior Trip 
LSU vs ND 
Sign-ups Tuesday, October 26 7-9 pm. Coke Bar La Fortune 
($50 non-refundable deposit needed) 
FOR SALE 
Quality S-track tapes. Big selection. All only S3.50. Call 6715. 
Prices slashed on all posters to reduce stocks. Posters that were $1.50 now $1.00 -$1.25. For in­formation come to 815 Flanner 611 Grace or 315 Regina South or call 1694, 1167 or 4258. 
PRICES SLASHED Sale on now at Student Record Sale. $5.981ist $3.65. $4.9Siist-$3.15. 313 Morrissey. Ph. 3575. Open continually. 
ON SALE: Brand new, guaranteed S-track and cassette tapes. Fantastic selection. All tapes only $2.99. Call 1781 (Paul) quickly. 

LOST Woman's Omega watch in small manilla envelope. Call 287-1331. PERSONALS 
what is all this nonsense? only Zapd knows. do tell. 
All that is gold does not glitter---6719. 
Peggy, Happiness is having you 
here! (the s'amel Love, Phil. 
Worried about midterms? Come to our suicide party! 4772, 4777, 51Sl. 
SEE YOU AT THE BEAUX ARTS BALL 
ARKIE ESPIONAGE 
A RESOUNDING"THANKS" 
SARGE!" goes Mcarthy, for Saturday aftern out livening oons.  to  Sgt. up  Tim our  
JHi Christy Rag,  

Happy Birthday, Wish you were here silly rabbit! 
BEEF IT IN! 
-REDEFINE 

MAKE IT SING. 
-ABOVE ALL, FURDGE IT. --·------------­
Classified Ads paid for in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 12:15­
5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day before publication. 
W... 1da. 2da. Joa. 4da. SCia. 
l-It .H .75 l.M 1.15 l.ZS1 u-ts .M •·• us'us z.is 
11-ZI .71 I.IS 1_~7~ ~-·-Z.II\ 21-11 .15 1.35 Z.M 2... 3.45 Zl-3l 1·10 1.11 US Ut _4.1~ 31-35 l.ZI 1.10 Z.lt :US Ut! 31-41 1.35 Z.1~ 3.11 US s.ttf 41-451.55 ~.31 3.31 4.51 5.511 ~H1.75 2.58 3.Sft 4.75 I.N 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up this week for job interviews for the week of November 1 through 5. 
Interviews are open to ND and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding interviews and 
procedure. 
Nov. 1 
Nov. 1 -2 Nov. 2 
Nov. 2-3 
Nov. 3 
Nov. 3-4 Nov. 4 
Nov. 5 

.. american Air Filter Co., Inc. B.S., M.S. in M.E., E.E., Ch.E., Ch.E., C.E. 
American Oil Company and Amoco Chemicals Corp. Ph.D. in Ch.E. and Chern. Emory University--Graduate School of Business Admin. Any degree. Harvard University-Graduate School of Business Admin. All majors. 
S. S. Kresge Co. Bus. Ad. and Lib. Arts. 
Purdue University-Krannert Graduate School of Industrial Admin. Any degree. Only prerequisite is one of calculus. Alexander Grant & Co. B.B.A. in Acct. and Fin. M.B.A. Altschuler, Melvoin and Glasser. B.B.A. in Acct. Atlantic-Richfield Co. B.S., M.S. in Ch.E. and M.E. Illinois Central Railroad. B.S. in C.E. and M.E. Bus. Ad. and Lib. Arts. Social Security Administration (and other Government agencies not 
represented.) Bus. Ad. and Lib. Arts. 
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. B.B.A. in Acct. M.B.A. or J.D. with least 15 hours of accounting. Bendix Corporation. B.B.A. in Acct. University of Rochester --Graduate School of Management. Bachelors and 
Masters. Touche Ross & Co. B.B.A. in Acct. and Fin. M.B.A. Charmin Charmin Paper Products Co. B.S., M.S. in Ch.E., C.E., E.E., M.E. 
and M.E.I.O. M.B.A. with B.S. in Engineering. Internal Revenue Service. B.B.A. graduates. Ohio State University. Any candidate with baccalaureate degree or pur­
suing one. Travelers Insurance Co. Bus.Ad. and Lib. Arts. B.S. in Math. 
Monday. ~~ber 25, 1971 ~-~~~-~-~-~~~-~-~~~~~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P_a~~7 
Frosh have Fiesta in Mexico 
by Vic [)orr, '71 also a good dPal smallPr. And this things. I rPally won't know how Tom Bake and Chuck Kelly each think Wl' intercepted five or six of 
Last WPdnesday, as the Notre diffpn•nce in size was painfully Damp freshman football team horne out by the few final was prl'paring to depart for its statistics that were kept: 
spason-opcning game in Mexico --Thl' ND yparlings annihilated City, Coach Denny Murphy ex-Los Pil'les llojas (The RPdskinsl 
pressed genuine concern as to the !l0-0. caliber of opposition that his --The Irish gathered 795 yards 
tl'am would face. in total offense to 170 for the 
"About all we know," said MPxicans. Murphy, "is that we're going and --ND rolled to a 48-0 halftime wP're playing. We don't know lead, and enabled Murphy to anything at all about the other lwgin substituting early in the t<'am, and we can only assume sPcond period. that thl•y'll he our size and age --In this one game, the first-l<•vpJ." yl'ar ml'n scored more points 
The two teams tangled than did the '69 and'70 frosh units Saturday night in front of an l'Ombined. Pstimated Aztec Stadium crowd 
of :!5,000. And whl'n the final gun "We just outmanned them," had sounded, Murphy's concern admitted Murphy. "They were about a physical difference just a bunch of small kids, but hl•twPen the two clubs had been they kept after us all the ('Onvincingly borne out---although time.. .I'll give them that. not as the Irish coach had ex-"It'll be hard to evaluate our pl•cted. performance in this one because 
!<'or, while the Mexicans were of the opposition." he continued. approximately the same age as "We only had to throw the ball six thPir Irish ('Ounterparts (and timl's, and we were getting 90­perhaps a little older l, they were yard plays out of the most basic 
Jim Donaldson;:::::?-~8::::?.:::::::::::::8:::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:===================:::::=====:====: 
The Irish Eye 
You've got to do it on the field 
J:t:xecution is an important word in the game of football. The team that is able to execute its plays and game plan most proficiently generally emerges the winner. 
Southern California out-executed Notre Dame Saturday afternoon_ And, in doing so, they put to death Irish hopes of a national cham­pionship. 
The Trojans did just what they wanted to do--hit Edesel Garrison on long passes-early in the game and grabbed a 21-7lead, forcing Notre Dame to abandon their normal, ball-control offense and play catch-up football. And, as was evident Saturday, the Irish aren't a come-from­bl'hind ball club. 
Before Saturday's game, Trojan coach John McKay had said, "I think if we can protect the passer we can throw some on Notre Dame." 
Both Southern Cal quarterbacks, Jimmy Jones and Mike Rae, got treml'ndous protection from their offensive line and they were able to "throw some". It was via the aerial routes that the Trojans hurt Notre Dame. 
The Irish defense was unable to cope with S.C.'s fleet wide receiver, l<:desel Garrison, who runs a 9.5 hundred and is one of the world's premier quarter-milers. Notre Dame elected to try and play Garrison man-to-man and the junior split end shook loose from, first, Clarence f<:llis, and then, Mike Crotty, to haul in first quarter touchdown passes. 
!<:arty in the second quarter, he beat Ellis again to grab a 42 yard pass at the Irish four and set up the Trojans' third touchdown. "We were hoping Ellis would play single coverage on Garrison," McKay said afterwards. "We knew he could beat him (Ellis) deep.'' 
Ellis explained that the Irish single-covered Garrison because, "We had to balance our defense for the run. Their quarterback had a lot of time to throw --I don't care how good you are, there's no way to stay with a receiver when he has four, five or six seconds to run his pat­tern." 
It wasn't that the Irish weren't trying their darndest to get to Jones and Rae but, as McKay remarked, "Our pass protection was phenomenal". That might be an understatement. The Trojans were consistently able to neutralize the powerful Irish front four and seemed to have little difficulty picking up any Notre Dame defenders who tried to blitz. 
The Trojans early scoring punch made Irish hopes of victory unlikely. Notre Dame doesn't have much of a passing game and relies on a ball control, keep-it-on-the-ground, type of attack. They had hoped to control the football against the Trojans but, once they fell behind 28-7, the game plan had to be cast aside. The Irish were forced to go to the air in an attempt to catch-up and just didn't have the personnel to get the job done. 
Sophomore Cliff Brown, making only his second collegiate start, went all the way at quarterback for the Irish and his final passing statistics were 12 of 35, for 160 yards, and three interceptions. 
Commenting on Brown's play after the game, Coach Parseghian remarked, "I was quite satisfied with Cliff Brown's performance. He was under unusual pressure throwinl!: the ball, due to our deficit, but I thought he played pretty well in a catch-up position." 
One would hardly expect Ara to find fault with one of his players after such a tough loss, especially when the player is a sophomore. But it didn't seem to be the opinion of most of the observers in the press box, including this writer, that Brown's showing was satisfac­tory. 
He seemed to have difficulty picking up his secondary receivers and his timing with the receivers he did find was not the best. His passes often arrived much later than they should have. Those mistakes can be attributed to Brown's inexperience. But his costly fumble late in the game ended his club's slim chance for a comeback win. 
If there was any consolation present after this year's loss to the Trojans that was absent after last season's setback, it came in the fact that, at least this year, we got beat. Southern Cal just out-performed the Irish. There was nothing cheap or freakish about their victory Saturday. 
As Notre Dame backfield coach Tom Pagna said at Friday night's pep rally, "It's not enough to want to win--you've got to think you can win and then do it on the field.'' Saturday afternoon, the Trojans just did it better than the Irish. 
tlwir passes." One potentially serious problem---that of dealing with the 1\kxican officials---never materialized for the ND team. "I'd have to say that the refs were pretty fair," commented Clements. "It was a good, clean game, and there weren't many penalties. And when there was a penalty called, the referees knew enough English so that we had no trouble understanding them.'' Coach Murphy's charges, houyed by their opening game Iaugher, will be on the road next week, as they journey to East Lansing, Mich., to meet the Michigan State freshmen_ 

-

\1'1'11 w<' lookl'd until I get a chann• to SP<' lhl' films." 
But ll'hile the Irish coach was at a loss as to how to rate his ~Pam's performance, Tom Clt>rnl'nts, the frosh signal-caller, was not. 
"I think we looked real good," said Cll'ml'nts, who started at QB hut played only half of the game. "Everyone played," he said, "and everyone played well.'' 
But Clernl'nts, like his coach, had to admit that Saturday's t'ompetition wasn't exactly top­notch. "I guess their average age was about 20 or 21," he said, "but thl'y were real small. And they didn't know a whole lot about the gaml' either, because they'd just startl'd to play it a couple of years ago." 
Against such opposition, CIPmPnts had little difficulty in executing the Irish offense to rwar-perfection. 
"W<' threw six passes," he said, "and completed four of them for about 70 yards. There was one touchdown pass: a 15-yarder to <halfback l Ron Goodman. But n•ally," he continued "we didn't rwed to pass. We were getting ten or 15 yards every time we ran the ball, and there's no need to throw when you're doing that.'' 
And the ND ground attack was t•very bit as potent as Clements indicated. The freshmen shoved across ten touchdowns on the ground, and the scoring was Pvenly distributed among five offensive players. Halfback Bonny Goodman scored four times, and three of his tallies Wl're TD runs. Fullback Wayne Bullock ran for three TD's, in­eluding the game's longest play--­a 90-yard scoring run. Clements scored twice on the ground, and 
notched single scores. Notre Dame's other tallies eame on Goodman's TD recep­tion, and defensive end Bob Sweeney's 40-yard scamper with an intercepted pitchout. <'kmt•nts rounded out the scoring marathon by clicking on eight of 12 PAT's. The Mexicans, who had trouble stopping the ND offense, had Pqual trouble in moving the ball against the frosh defense. The Hl'dskins had limited success with trap plays and quick thrusts up the middle, but that was the Pxtent of it. "They tried to throw a lot," said Clements, "but they didn't complete too many_ And I 


•NHfUSFR B11SC11. ll'lf • ST LOUIS 

loo<¥o malt malt liquor••• good enough to be called BUIJWEISER® 

.-­
f 
~ 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Monday, October 25, 1971 
~ 
~ 
' 
~ ~ 
Trojans stun the lrish,28-14
~ 
f By Jim Donaldson Jimmy Jones whipped a first second down and completed a
f 
Sports Editor down pass to tight end Charlie pass to Garrison at the Notre 
~ 
Young at the Notre Dame 35. Dame four, where Ellis wrestled 
' 
The Trojans did it again.f After Sam <Bam) Cunningham him out of bounds.
Saturday's 28-14 defeat of Notre carried for four yards, Jones The Irish dug in, attempting to '~ Dame marked the second year in 

~ went to the air again and fired a duplicate last weekend's goal line 
, a row and the third time in the 
f last that Southern strike to Garrison, who took the stand against North Carolina, but 
eight years 

~ pass all alone at the three and the Trojans were not to be denied. 
California has knocked a romped into the end zone. Mike Cunningham carried threef Fighting Irish team from the

f Rae booted the extra point to give times, hurdling into the end zone
I unbeaten ranks. 
f the Trojans a 7-0 lead with 5:22 from a yard out on his final try,
The Trojans did it by out­remaining in the first quarter. and the Trojans took a com­' I playing the pride of the Irish ­The Irish weren't behind for manding 21-7 lead, only 2:12 intheir defense. Southern Cal long. Sophomore Gary Diminick the second quarter.

scored three touchdowns in the returned the ensuing kickoff 66 Two and a half minutes later,first 18 minutes of the game, yards to the Trojan 34 where the Trojans put seven more more touchdowns than the Irish Willie Hall, the kicker, and the points on the board. Notre Dame had given up all season, and the last man between Diminick and had picked up a couple of firstTrojan defense,playing their best the S.C. goal line, forced the soph downs after Cunningham's score game of the year, added a fourth halfback out of bounds. but their drive ended abruptlyscore midway through the second It took Notre Dame seven when Dyer intercepted a Cliff quarter to hand the Irish their plays, all on the ground, to reach Brown pass, intended for Darrylfirst loss. Southern Cal now has a paydirt, Andy Huff hulling over Dewan, in the flat and dashed,3-4 record this fall while the Irish left tackle for the score with 2: 11 untouched, 52 yards for a touch­are 5-l. 
yet to play in the first quarter. down. Rae added the 28th point-It was Southern Cal's passing 
Bob Thomas converted and the with 10:18 to play and the Trojans attack, with Jimmy Jones and Irish were right back in the thick had more than enough points to 
Mike Rae doing the throwing and of things. win. 

Edesel Garrison doing the The came close
cat­But the Trojans again moved Irish to ching, that carried them to 
quickly down the field to score. reaching paydirt several times victory. Charlie Hinton ripped off a 66 during the final 40 minutes of the 
Garrison's speed and moves yard return of Scott Smith's game but were only able to push 
were too much for the Irish kickoff to the Irish 35, where Ellis the ball across the goal line once, 
defenders to cope with and the made a touchdown-saving tackle, late in the third quarter. 
junior split end shook loose to to get the Trojans in high gear. The Irish scoring drive began 
snare a pair of touchdown passes on their own 46 after Jimmy
After grinding out a first down
and another long gainer that set Musuraca recovered a Mike Rae 
to the Notre Dame 24, the Trojans 
up a third Trojan score. fumble, caused by Mike Zikas'
went to the airways again. This 
Most of the capacity crowd of time, it was Rae who found jarring tackle. 59,075 had turned out in hopes of Garrison open in the end zone for The Irish quickly took ad­watching the Irish gain revenge six points. Rae kicked the second vantage of the break, Brown 
for last year's stunning upset but of his four conversions and it was firing a first down, 46 yard strike it was the Trojans who controlled 14-7, Trojans, with 42 seconds to Mike Creaney at the Trojan 12. 
Larry Parker picked up eight
the action, almost from the showing on the stadium clock. beginning of the game, and once It had taken Southern Cal just yards in two carries and then again spoiled Notre Dame's 1:16 to score the go-ahead touch­John "Cisco" Cieszkowski hopes of a perfect season. down and the quick striking powered into the end zone from 
Southern Cal, after being held power of the Trojans stunned the four yards out on a third down to one first down the first two Irish faithful. Notre Dame had play. Thomas added the extra times they had possession, drove yielded only two touchdowns all point to make it 28-14 with 4:04 for a touchdown on their third season but the Trojans had remaining in the third quarter 
attempt. equalled that total in the first but the Irish were unable to come 
THAT'S THE WAY WE ALL FELT! Junior cheerleader Rooney
Cornerback Bruce Dyer had quarter. And they weren't any closer. 
Frailey's expression after the Irish were upset, 28-14, by Southern Cal 
given the Trojans the football in through yet. 
"Southern Cal was an excellent Saturday, epitomizes the feelings of Notre Dame's supporters.
good field position after in­Southern Cal regained football team today," Parseghian tercepting a Cliff Brown pass at possession at the Irish 46 early in commented after the game.his own 23 and returning it 29 the second quarter after a short "Anytime you beat Notre 
yards to the Irish 48. It took punt by Brian Doherty. A first Dame you beat one hell of a Southern Cal just three plays to down running play went nowhere team; they're still a great score from there. but Jones decided to throw on football " McKay said_
... 





OBSERVER 

SPORTS 
Pagrs i and !! 
::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

Eric Kinkopf 
................................· Onward to vz'ctory
.•.•.·-·=·=·=·=·=·-·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·:·.·.· .. . ... 
Outlined against a misty, grey October sky, the myth was shattered. There were no four horsemen this time. There was no figure of a balding Rockne pacing the sidelines. 
There was only a band of football players facing the inevitable, fighting the odds, trying to recapture the words of Grantland Rice, trying to relive the heroics of Bill Shakespeare. 
But on the Saturday of October 23rd heroics were to be denied, and all that was left at the end was pride and the union of all Notre Darners ('Verywhere suffering as the dream was shattered, as reality and life ('onvened within the confines of Notre Dame Stadium. 
This time the miracles didn't come, or at least fell short of their mark. This time we found out rather painfully what we had tried to ignore, that we too are human. 
There is an old saying that goes something like ... "there are no good losers, only losers". But out of defeat comes something beautiful, something heartening, something real. 
What it is can't really be put down in words. It can only be felt when thousands of students rise after the players have left the stage, and amidst tears and wounded spirit, sing that song that means more than words can t'xplain. 
That my friends, not an undefeated season, not a national cham­pionship, is Notre Dame. And that, nobody, no team, can defeat. 



Jo:desel Garrison grabbed this pass from Jimmy Jones at the Notre llamr thrre yard line and romped in for the first Trojan touchdown. That's Clarence Ellis trying vainly to break up the play. 



