
Annexation Decision Approaches 

University sees 
Allen expects South Bend deleat ol plan 
to annex University 
in Monday vote by Cliff Wintrode who said there was no communi­cation with Notre Dame and no by Cliff Wintrode South Bend mayor Lloyd M. plans to begin further talks. He 
The University of Notre Dame Allen will not predict the out­added that last Monday he was "extremely hopeful" for a settle­
expects the South Bend Com­come of next Monday's vote by mon Council to vote "No" Mon­the South Bend Common Coun­ment but his hopes were "shot 
day night on the proposal to cil on the proposal to annex the down" Monday afternoon. annex the university complex of university complex of Notre He declined to comment on Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Dame, St. Mary's, and Holy the sudden turn of affairs. Philip 
Faccenda, Vice-President and
Holy Cross Junior College. Cross, hut he is optimistic the 
However, the university will decision will be yes. General Counsel to the Presi­"definitely" take legal action if The mayor answered ques­dent, said yesterday that there had been no contact Monday
the Common Council votes fa­tions about his pro-annexation 
between the university and any
vorably on annexation. Democratic Sen. Edward Kennedy (D) of Massachusetts has been stance earlier this week. 
representative from the city.
This was made known during ousted as Senate Democratic whip. Sen. Robert Byrd of West A settlement before Monday 
Allen said he was fulfilling his 
discussions earlier this week with Virginia won the post just minutes before the start of the 92nd appeared unlikely said Allen 
James Frick, Vice-President Pub­Congress. responsibility to the citizens of lic Relations and Development. 
South Bend by asking for the Frick said the university remains 
annexation to be approved. "1 believe most sincerely that

Kennedy loses Senate post 
firm in their belief that the 
it is imperative to the survival of is not in the best interests of any \II ASHINGTON (UP!) 92nd Congress still dominated Tennessee to win reelection as the city that it expand its boun­of the institutions and not in the Sen. Robert C. Byrd a West by Democrats which will deter­Senate Republican leader by a daries," he said. "The effect may best interests of South Bend. Virginia conservative with a poc­mine the outcome of President vote of 24 to 20. not be realized in one year or "We have an interest in the ket full of political IOUs surpris­Nixon's legislative goals for the Carl Albert of Oklahoma ta­two years, but in possibly city. We are not outsiders," ed the convening 92nd Congress last two years of his first term. king over as speaker of the twenty years. It is essential to added Frick. yesterday by ousting Sen. Ed­Fifty-five Democrats and 44 House from John W. McCor­the continual life of the city." ward M. Kennedy as assistant Republicans were seated in the mack of Massachusetts called on Notre Dame officials have 
annexation of the three schools 
The university, Frick said, has 
Democratic floor leader. Senate. Sen. Harry F. Byrd of Congress to "move cautiously contended that the annexation
"no reason to think otherwise" that a settlement will not be The coup which humiliated Virginia who won election as an but also with dispatch" in per­of Notre Dame is not essential to reached before next Monday. He Kennedy and cast a new shadow independent was admitted to the forming its duty to legislate. future annexation further north said he "really could not say" over his future as a national Democratic caucaus and Sen. Senate Democratic Leader of the city but Allen disagreed. what the university will do be­political figure was achieved on a James L. Buckley of the New Mike Mansfield promplty sound­He said that it was a "matter t ween now and Monday. While secret ballot of Senate Demo­York Conservative Party was for· ing a partisan note for the Con­of fairness" that if the Notre there is no direct communica-crats after Byrd made sure a key mally accepted into the Repub­gress that will end with the 1972 Dame annexation does not go supporter Georgia's Richard B. lican ranks despite a challenge presidential election challenged through, there will be no further (Continued on page 8) Russell gravely ill in a hospital by Sen. Jacob K. Javits R. N.Y. Pres. Nixon's pursuit of air war­annexation north of the city. was still alive. that failed on a 36-3 vote. fare over Cambodia and prdicted The little man north of the 
In the House there were 254 that two priority Nixon pro­
Byrd figured he had a 28-27 city when annexation is pro­edge over the Massachusetts li­Democrats and I 80 Republicans posals -welfare reform and re­posed for his area and the 
beral counting Russell'~ pr(Jxy with one vacancy left by the venue sharing -were in trouble. spectre of paying city taxes
Correction 
vote held by Sen. Herman Tal­death of Rep. L. Mendel Rivers, With legislators awaitng the looms up said Allen will ask Yesterday's Observer claimed madge D. Ga. but wouldn't chal­D. S.C. State of the Union message that why he is being forced to jointhat Richard T. Bohan SMC Pro­lenge Kennedy without it. After Hubert H. Humphrey D. Nixon will deliver before a joint the city when Notre Dame was fessor and candidate for Mayor determining Russell still clung to Minn. who once presided over session of the House and Senate not forced to join the city. He of South Bend., compared the life Byrd committed himslf and the Senate as vice president re­and a nationwide broadcast audi­can only conclude said Allen 
annexation of Notre Dame Ind. won 31 to 24. R usell died about turned to a seat on the floor ence at 9 p.m. EST Friday the that it is because Notre Dame is to South Bend to "armed rob­three hours later. ranking 9 3rd out of 100 mem­opening day was devoted largely more powerful than he is. bery." Mr. Bohan's remark was Kennedy confident going into bers in seniority as his colleagues to ritual and tradition. 
Allen sairl he was "v~ry much
actually a general comment on the caucus was stunned. "When gave him a standing ovation. But But Kennedy's defeat a~ 
concerned" with the "real rea­
the annexation policy of the you lose, you lose. If you don't Sen. Hiram Fang R. Hawaii pi­Senate Democratic whip the 
SL>n" Notre Dame has chosen to
city. ':now how to lose you don't qued by Democratic campaign second ranking position in the 
fight annexation which was a
"The city has approached an­deserve to win." said Kennedy oratory last fall refused to be party hierarchy overshadowed 
"fear of government." Their un­
nexation with all the finess and who himself had upset another escorted to his oath taking by the events of the day. 
easiness over a possible threat to
concern \t>r the annexed areas of southern conservative Russell B. his fellow Hawaiian Sen. Daniel Byrd who ranked just below the university's tax-exempt sta­
an armed robbery," he said. Long of Louisiana for the same Inouye. Kennedy as secretary to Senate 
tus in the far future if annexed
Bohan said, " I am not abso­joh two years ago. Pennsylvania's Hugh Scott Democrats never declared his 
was pointed to by Allen.
lutely oppossed to the annexa­Moments later the gavel overcame a late hard challenge candidacy but worked assiduous­tion of Notre Dame." fell for the first session of the by Sen. Howard H. Baker Jr. of ly behind the scenes; (Continued on page 8) 
Undergrad seminar planned 
A new science program con­the classroom into an interdis­summer will be information taining a seminar which will ciplinary medium to consider concerning the program. After allow students to consider pro­problems of current interest. tentative decisions are made on blems of current interest has As presently arranged the the applicants the final decision been announced by the College seminar is set for weekly hour for admission will be made by a of Science. Entitled the Notre sessions of ten to fifteen stu­committee which will interview Dame Undergraduate Scientist dents with a faculty advisor to the individuals. Program it is designed to provide discuss a pre-determined theme Dr. Hofman acknowledged highly-motivated, science­selected by the individuals. the difficulties which would oriented students with new Hofman pointed out, how­arise in such a selection process opportunities to pursue their ever, that a strength of the 
and admitte ~ that mistakes 
education. seminar would be in its flexi­
would be made. He stressed,
The program was designed by bility which would allow for the 
however. that the selection 
the Undergraduate Studies Com­groups to enrich their seminar 
would go beyond comparisonsmittee under the leadership of experience by arranging for field 
of grades, SAT's, and class rank Dr. Emil T. Hofman, assistant trips and inviting speakers from :.;Jd primary consideration dean of the College of Science. within and outside the university would be placed on the ability Ralph deTo!edano and President Nixon pose together withThe program will be put into community. 
of the student to receive and 
deToledano's new book "One Man Alone: Richard Nixon".
limited effect during the current The Undergraduate Scientist 
contribute value to the program. 
DeToledano will kick off the second semester activities of the Notresemester with the initiation .of Program will be put into full 
Hofman also put emphasis on 
Dame and St. Mary's Academic Commissions Sunday night at 8pman interdisciplinary seminar for effect in the fall semester of the 
the fact that though there is no 
in the library auditorium. DeToledano is a noted conservativepresent sophomores and juniors 1971-72 school year with the 
quota the program is not for 
lecturer who is a freq•Jent cont.-;btitc? to the "National Review".
selected for the program. The incoming freshman class. Along 
every student but rather requires 
"RFK: The Man Who Would Be Presid<..nt" is another of his tenseminar will attempt to have the with the packets sent by the (Continued on page 6) hooks. The lecture is free.
student put principles learned in Freshman Year Office over the 

Friday, January 22,1971


NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE OR RECORD CABINET? Buy it unpainted, save% or more 

Free Delivery 
2609 S. Michigan 
1217 E. McKinley (U.S. 20 Mishawaka
WilliAM'S -2 miles east of Town and 
Phone -288·2181 Coentry center) 
Right on Ce~mpus GREYHOUND GOES TO CHICAGO DIRECTLY FROM THE CIRCLE 
Leave  Notre Dame  4:45pm Friday  
Arrive  Chicago  5:55pm Friday  
Leave  Chicago  4:00 pm Sunday  
7:30 pm Sunday  
Call:  

Tom Boyer 283-6984 
Charles Clark 283-3329 
For Information and Tickets 
Student Union plans events 
Severa! speakers including
Gambling, parties, and the Florence Kennedy, black wo­
sound of the Supremes will soon man's liberationist and author of
be offered to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
a book to be released in the Spring, have been scheduled forMardi Gras, one of the Univer­the coming weeks. She willsity's biggest social events will speak in the Library Auditoriumbegin at 9 pm on February 3nl on February 1st at 8 pm. 
with the traditional kickoff Dr. J.C Willkie and his wife
party. The party will be held at the Indiana National Guard Ar-will touch on moral and ethical mary, and the Red Garter band questions regarding abortion 
willprovideentertainment. 
Pre-med head. named 
According to Student Union Social Commission spokCSJTI'1n,.· The Rev. Joseph L. Walter, this year's carnival, whicl~ will C.S.C., associate professor of run every night, except one, chemistry at the University of from February 4th thru 9th will Notre Dame, has been appointed be a little smaller than those of . acting chairman of the depart­the past. Admission will be ment of proprofessional studies. charged-$.25 per night or $1 .00 He succeeds the late Dr. Law­for five nights. renee II. Baldinger, who served 
The carnival will be closed as a faculty member and admin­Friday February 5th for the istrator at Notre Dame for 37 Supremes concert that night. 
Share theJovoryour 
with a COMMUNITY of CONCERNED and PRAYERFUL men involved with youth. 
For information about the BROTHERS OF HOLY CROSS write to: 
Bro. Robert Fillmore 
Basil Hall 
Notre Dam~ Indiana 46556 
when they speak in the Library Auditorium, January 26 at 8 pm. They have a!.lthored several books, including Handbook on Abortion which will be released in the Spring. 
Saul Alinsky, an enviornmen­talist, will appear on campus on February 3rd. 
years. 
Students in the department may choose to take a major in such sciences as chemistry. and biology which prepares them for a research-oriented medical de­gree or they may enter a con­centration program in preprofes­sional studies designed to pro­duce liberallly-educated students who wish to become practicing physicians. 
A member of the chemistry faculty since 1961, Father Wal­ter is particularly interested in the structures of metal chelates­--organic molecules like vitamin B 12 and hemoglobin which con­tain metal as part of their struc­tures. He has contributed to several technical journals, and is a member of the American Chemical Society, Sigma Xi and Phi Lanbda Upsilon. His research is supported by the National Institutes of Health and the Atomic Energy Commission. 
Father Walter holds a Ph.D. from the University of Pitts­burgh and a bachelor's of science from Duquesne University in Pit­tsburgh, Pa. He was ordained a priest in 1961. 





Mardi Gras 
notre dame charities 


Studertt Grand Prize 
1970 Fiat 124 Spider ~ 
;:­


Friday, January 22, 1971 
7118 O&r£RIIJ"It 



C.S. elimination explained 

•'Some departments must go, so that the others may prosper," said Glenn Waldman, Acting Chairman of the Department of Computing Science, in offering an explanation for the recent discontinuation of his depart­ment by the Academic Council. \{hile feeling that the Joss of Computing Scienct.: would be a Joss for the university, he felt that the discontinuation was necessary for the financial security of other departments. Waldman, who is also the Dean of the College of Science, said, "We "'ill try to miPimize the loss by expanding computing courses in otl>t(r departments." 
Of the six professors presently .n the Computing Science Department, only two are 
Hesburgh names Murphy 
(3rd floor LaFortune)
as temporary law Dean 
Edward J. Murphy, a veteran professor at Jaw, has been named acting dean of the University of Notre Dame Law School by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president. 
The 43-year-old professor suc­..:eeds William B. Lawless who announced his resignation Jan­uary 4 to head the litigation staff of a prominent New York City Law firm. Lawless was dean~. of the Law School for 30; months before resigning. Mur­phy, who recently served two years as the first president of the ' Notre Dame Faculty Senate, will occupy the deanship while the University seeks a permanent re­placement for Lawless. 
According to Murphy a new dean will be appointed by Hes­burgh before the beginning of the upcoming Fall semester. As the new acting dean, Murphy emphasized the continued im­provement of the Law School's curriculum. He could forsee no changes percipitated by Law­Jess's resignation. 
A native of Springfield, Ill., Murphy received his undergradu­ate and legal training at the University of Illinois between 1944 and 1951, a period which included a year's service in the 
U.S. Army. 
He was in private practice with the Springfield firm of Gra­ham and Graham from 1951 to 1954 and then spent three years as clerk to Justice Harry Hershey of the Illinois Supreme Court. 
Murphy joined the Notre Dame Law School faculty in 
HELP WANTED: Ticket manager and assistants for !;ocial comm1ssmn. CALL MIKE 7489 or 1367. 
Kepler Motor S•les 
'62 Cadillac 4 dr. HT $495 '63 Chevy II 6 cy. auto. $595 '63 Impala 4 dr. power $495 '59 Olds 4 dr. power $295 '65 Rambler conv. 6 cy. auto. 
$495 
All cars wid with lifetime warrent...Top prices paid for used cars 
2306 Western Ave. Phone -288-3250 
tenured. According to Waldman, ad hoc co.nmittee under Dr. the oth<-r fvur will not have their Frederick Rossini recommended c.mtract& after they expire, but moving Computing science into they will be honored until they the College of Science. Fr. run out. The two tenured pro­Walsh. then Vice-President for fessors, Don Middleman and Academic Affairs decided to 
Henry T!latcher, will be given a implement this plan. Later this year'~ notice as is customary. year, the Administration pro­Waldma·.1 noted that according posed the dropping of the new to University und AAUP regula­department. This was recom­tivns, a tenured professor may mended by the College of be dismissd Jfter a year's Science Council, and finally was 11otic~, if his derartment is cut passed by the Academic Council. out of the univer:;ity. W aid rna n While he admitted that he add,;d that the university will m;1ke every effort to place them in another department. 
Waldman also comme11ted on 
t.1e history of the computing 
3cience department. It started as 

part of the Computing Center. 
Durin~ late ·;pring last year. an 

7 ·-I 0 PM 
1957 and specialized in the law of contracts and commercial law. He is co-author of "Studies 
BOOK TURN-INS ANI) SALES TODAY (FRIDAY)
in Contract Law," a casebook 
SALES ONLY NEXT VI£EK (Monday-Thursday)
published last year and used by 
STUDENT SETS SELLING PRICE.
several of the nation's major law schools. 
.~ti-d<iij··-I 



ciWJ~
-·--­
sinales 21 -35 co•t ancf tie 9 pm-1 am 
At Nicholas Restaurant Just North of lJowntown South Bend at 809 N. Michigan 
the band 
l 
CREW 
Important Meeting Tonight 6:30 -7:00 317 Administration Bldg. 
Bring all mugs and money If you want to row be there 

SMC NEWS MEETING 
Tocl•y 4:30 PM Observer office 
New and Old Writers: All interested must come 
GLEE CLUB Tryouts 
ign-up outside 246 O'Sha or call 1344 for information 
Page 3 

One our 
Paulists calls it ''home"... 

Home is where the heart is. 
Home is also wherever a Paulist is needed. 
Whether the Paulist works in a ghetto, a college campus, a city parish or a remote corner of the United States, he is serving. 
The Paulist is ministering with words, deeds and sacra­ment ... and zealous care to the needs of God's People everywhere. He is meeting today's problems with thoughts of those that will arise tomorow. 
That is .the Paulist way. It isn't easy but the worthwhile things of life seldom are . 
If you are interested in learning more about the Paulist priesthood, write to: 
Rn. Donald C. Campbell, CS.P. Vocation Director 
'Paulist,~.
Pat1Iet& 
Room 113 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 

Don't Miss the Coolest Thread Sale At 

SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 2210 MIAMI STREET PHONE 289-3012 
Pants 25o/c off Shirts 20o/c off Sweaters 33o/c off Outerwear 25o/c off 

or call Jeanne ~358 STARTS SATURDAY 
Open D•ily 12 • 9 PM Saturcf•y 10 -8 PM 
711E OBSERVER.

Page 4 
THE OBSERVER 
All lnd5fl odlwt ltu.... N•• ,....., 
GLENS. CORSO. Ecltor-tn·Olief BRUCE RIECK. Businesa Manap NOTRE DAME, INOIMA 

Hopefu I Signs from the House 
The cautious moves of the House Democratic Caucus to reform the woefally antiquated Seniority system may well be the most important move either House will make this session. Policies adopted Wednesday make it impossible for Committee chairmen to serve as heads of more than one subcommittee, thereby sharply limiting their influence over committee legislation. The Caucus also modified the infamous seniority system; now, Chairmen will be nominated by the majority party of the Ways and Means Committee, rather than be chosen for duration of service. Although the most intelligent way to chose chairmen is by a vote of the committee inv6lved, the new system is not sure of gauranteeing control of the House to that peculiar group of elderly Congressmen from one-party states, and hence not as morbidly bad. 
Counteracting that tentative but evident step from senility, the caucus has agreed to consider a move to repeal the three week limit on the Rule Committee's consideration of bills reccommended by other committees. The bill, introduced by 81-year old Rules Committee Chairman William Colmer, would make the House revert to pre-1960 rules, under which the Rules Committee could consider any bill passed by any committee for any length of time. thereby effectively allowing the Committee to kill any bill introduced into the House:~ 
The Caucus' decision on this proposal is iniment; in fact; it may be a reality before this newsprint hits your eyes. It will be important, whatever it is. It will be extremely i.rnportant. In dint of the hemongous amount of vital legislation that will be up before both houses this year, it could be tragic. 
Friday, January 22, 1971 

Dove Kroshno 

Pork-Mayhew Report 
The Park-Mayhew report represents a discouraging step backward for Notre Dame. If it is accepted by the board of Trustees, the hopes for a real co-t-ducation raised in the last few months will be frustrated. Further, the University would be condemning its future students to what many here realize is an inadequate education. 
Park and Mayhew make St. Mary's a college within Notre Dame, but only "designed primarily for women." We can all agree that St. Mary's smaller campus offers a unique chance for a real community feeling. But we can add to that community by making St. Mary's full co-educational -academically and residentially. At the same time. women could enroll in Notre Dame's colleges. St. Mary's college could be an alternative liberal arts college within the University, with a different approach to different areas of studies. This would bring 
real co-education, while allowing more academic diversity. But instead of this, the Park-Mayhew report offers little more than a sophisticated co-exchange pmgra rn. 
Looking beyond this major flaw, the report is amazing ambiguous. It offers no clear answers to the questions that are most important. It declines to reccornmend a new residence policy. It suggests that the boards of trustees might merge. Some academic departments should merge, but the report doesn't specify which. Not a word is said about increasing female enrollment. 
Most obvious is the report's lack of empathy for the student, and the de-huminiaztion that is taking place at Notre Dame in the name of all-male education. Park and Mayhew seem concerned more with the beauracratic than the human; , more with 'tradition' than this university's students. An example is the failure to talk about residence exchange. Hopefully the "tradition" of Notre Dame is good, complete, and contemporary education for her students. The anachronism of the all-male institution is obvious to us all. It has 
already  begun  to  seriously impair the  educational  process  here,  
permanently  ·warp ing,  the  moral  and  social  attitudes  of  many  
students here.  

Already demands for rejection of the Park-Mayhew plan have come from Notre Dame and SMC students and faculty. For student government, full co-education has long been a goal. We have worked through the co-education committee, the Trustees, the consultants themselves, and our own social understanding committee. We will not stand by as the trustees consider ttu~ wnolly inadequate plan. 
A general assembly of students is scheduled for February 16th, 17th, and 18th. Before then, both student governments and some faculty members from both schools will work on a acceptable al!ernaiive plan for merger. This plan, if endorsed by both student bodies at the assembly, should have force when the Trustees meet (in Miami) in March. If this show of opinion seems unimpressive to the trustees, then other tactics will be used. The question of 
co-education is U.Jo important to the future of the University. We all must act. 
Managing Editor· Bill Carter Editorial Page Editor-Mr. Machine News Editor Ed ( the dread) E II is Features Editor Dave Lammers Sports Editor Terry Shields SMC News Editor Jeanne Sweeney Night Editor Jqhn Abowd Ass Night Editor Emmet 0' lroole Headlines Jim M c Dermot Layout DanieiV; Dan Ryan Most Co·operative Typist Ann Conway 
Friday, January 22, 1971 THB OBSERVM P_age 5 
S.G. Nessrer 
CHIMES: Poetry at St. Mary's 
The first issue of Chimes, St. Mary's There is Chuck Ryan's poem, "Con literary magazine, is published at last. Versing," whose rhetoric, dangling skill­People of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's fully as it does just on the threshold of community interested in the arts, and in coherence, makes a remarkable _Political the writing of poetry in particular, have statement. There is the quiet and new cause for excitement. They may have unanswerable power of Casey Pocius' waited long, they thought, for the first little poem, "0~ War"-a power derive? appearance of Juggler, Notre Dame's from the poen~ s refusal to seek senti­counterpart to Chimes, and longer still mental alternatives to the blan_k tr~t~. for the appearance of Chimes itself, but An~ th~re a_re moment~ even of _Imagistic their patience has not gone totally clanty m R_Ick Holst~d s ~;herwi.~e so~e­unrewarded. Chimes has assembled an ~hat cloudily conceived Poem as, for interesting body of work for its issue, mstance, when he writes: including a number of worthwhile things, I rem_ember f and one or two very fine poems indeed. cfarry m~ abyohung cal 
· Ph" · ' k"llf" I l"ttl rrm1 y m ot arms
There IS Amy ImJster s s 1 u 1 e or: poem, "The First Camp," which begins: miles and n'ril!is of dead coyotes I remember fire on mY face 
strung on fence postsLike an ancient mask, ar1d liking it. 
down a dusty farm road. 
Daniel V. 
Everytime I read (or browse througll) a copy of ictus I get the feeling that I've read the articles before. I am convinced th-at the fault lies with the magazine and not with me. 
The magazine is put out by the Insti­tute for the Study of Non-Violence. By and large the gentlemen who write and publish the articles reflect the same general viewpoint. All approach the pro­blems that men face in coping with society in the same way. 
The sad result is that the magazine is largely made up of essays that reveal to the (few) readers the personal torment the authors find when they honestly question their relationship to the corrupt society that surrounds them. The editors have decided that their evangelical mis­sion can best be accomplished by hammering into the reader the scope of the problems and choices that confront him. This may be a wise strategy, but, as Joseph Heller found out in We Bombed in New Haven, if you hit people too often you may simply dull their senses. 
This, I feel is the problem the editors of Ictus fail to confront. Those who read Ictus already subscribe to the philosophy in it. 
The editors are engaged in selective communication. The repetitive nature of the articles serves only to lessen the size of the potential audience. A large demo­graphical group already ignore the maga­zine because they have heard it all before. 
The subject matter of this issue is indicative of the lack of diversity in the magazine. The students read it once, recognize this, and ignore Ictus as they ignore the Scholastic. 
The students have read articles like 
David Darst's personal remembrances of 
the Chicago Convention. Darst's view that 
violence is not the answer to violence is 
scarcely unique and his writing is hardly 
memorable. 
The articles by David Riley and Michael Feeney are also attempts through the form of recollections to expose the reader to the mental dilemnas that the writers have faced. Pre-med students might be particularly interested in Riley's thoughts about his relation to the medical profession. 
The best article is one compiled from 
the letters sent by a ex-Notre Dame 
student who died while in the Peace 
Corp. Fred Schwartz found himself, 
"confused and frustrated by a rather 
vague sense of responsibility towards the 
people of the world ..." 
His search for the source of his frus­
tration led him to Africa. But as the 
artic.:le reveals, he could not find cont­
entment either there or in his own nation. 
He writes to a friend that, "I know I will 
never be able to live happily in our 
present society, I know I can't play a part 
and be happy. I know I can't fight it 
either, John that will only succeed in 
destroying me." One gets the feeling that 
he never would have been able to find a Anyone who has poked his nose in 
and around at the fieldhouse or attended 
an Art's Council poetry reading knows 
that the arts are flourishing at Notre 
Dame. That Chimes is an aspiring organ of that literary hum is more than evident in its current issue. Although the seeking out of its high points certainly warrants the traversal of its bad stretches, the issue can only be called, at last, uneven. There is an annoymg tendency to be satisfied with, to substitute at times, jejune 
verbosities and even sappy sentimentalism in place of those absolute necessities of 

art--shaping conception, craftsmanship, significant form. But despite these unfor­"tunate moments, there is indication, on every page almost, that Chimes is taking 
before you and, perhaps, en tel' with us to ask the uncomfortable questions we rudely insist on attempting to ask. Please refrain from squawking your intolerable answers at us--quit your foolish games of power and illusion-you are all darked eyed bastards like ourselves. Admit, children-and now rend yourselves open wide." 
The reader may accept the challenge to "ask the unforgettable questions we rudely attempt to ask." He may indeed wisely decide that a non-violent life style is the answer to the conflict that rages within him. But if that is what he decides it won't be because of what he read in Ictus. I mean, he's read that all before. 
itself seriously as a magazine of the arts-as well it should as certainly we encourage it to do. 
· Probably by far the most exciting poem in the issue is Ken Mannings' "Eight Frames (the Lake)." His experi­mental twinning of cinematic and descriptive/narrative techniques yields some remarkable effects. I would like to quote it entire, but space is prohibitive, and fragmentary quoting would largely destroy the effect, so I can only suggest that you go out and find a copy of Chimes-and read it. 
ICTUS.. You've heard it all before 
place on "Mr. Sammler's Planet." 
There is one article that I feel no remorse in scorning. The editorial is obscene. The language is also distastefuL It was written by Bozo X, a most revealing pseudonym. 
All in all it was merely what the Notre Dame community has learned to expect from Ictus. The writing was good, but not excellent. It explores one side of the issue well, but only one side. 
John O'Reilly wrote at the beginning ')f this issue that, "We have a magazine htore entitled rctus, holding meanings and reflections that you yourself might uncover. The light of the philosopher will probably not assist you--bring your own experiences, stretch out their naked selves 

CCOPYRIGHT 1970 GENESIS FILMS LTD. A CINEMUS MAXIMUS -NEW SHORT FILM EXCURSIONS 
nine shorts hy a new generation ofyoung filmmakers 
sponsored by Contemporary Arts Festival 
Engineering Aud. JAN 23 & 24 Students 1.00 7:00 & 9;JO Adults 2.00 

Page 6 711£ O&rUUI"It Friday, January 22,1971 
~~~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~#~#~#~#~#~##~#~#~#~#~##~#~#~#~#~##~#~#~#~#~##~#~#~#~#~#~##~#~#~#~#~#~##~#~#~H~##~#~#~#~#~##~#~#~#~#~##~ graduate years. 
The Observer Needs a Driver 
Tuesdays and Thursdays 
Must be free from 9 AM .. Noon PAID POSITION C•ll 8661, ask for Rleh Smith or leave • messaae 

;: 
Love comes in all shapes. 
~~ 
From one beer lover to another. 
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226 
Science program allows flexibility 
(Continued from page 1) 
a high degree of motivation besides ability. Upon admission to the program a student, to continue in it, must uphold the standards of the program while maintaining his normal course 
5:15pm Sat. 8:30am Sun. 9:45am Sun. 11:00am Sun. 12:15 pm Sun. 
load. Once in the program the 
o pport u ni ties available are diverse. In the freshman year the students will be assigned to a science advisor who will work in cooperation with the advisor from the Freshman Year Office. 

Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC Fr. Daniel Curtin, CSC Fr. Donald Abbott, CSC Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, OSB Fr. William Toohey, CSC 
The two advisors will work with the Undergraduate Scientist to plan modifications from the regular course of studies to best suit the student's interests. 
In the spring semester the freshman will be introduced to a directed reading program arranged by his respective department. 
The program will allow upper­classmen as well as freshmen to fulfill requirements without formally taking certain courses. The time released because of such an arrangement will be used by the Undergraduate Scientist for research and independent study. The guided reading pro­gram as well as the interdisci­plinary seminar will be carried on through the student's under-
Dr. Hofman commented that though many universities have used isolated facets of the current plan in their set-up, usually under the tags of honors programs, to his knowledge this is the first attempt to correlate all the aspects under one pro­gram. Summing up the merits of the program he said that it would attract superior science students and provide for them a "flexible, exciting and indivi­dually-tailored opportunities." 
Ch icagc expr€ss 

The Greyhound Bus Line is in trod u c in g d ire c t service between Chicago and the Notre Dame campus on weekends. The special bus will leave the campus from the circle bus stop at 4:45 PM on Fridays and will arrive at the downtown Chicago bus terminal at 5:55PM. The return trip on Sundays will leave the Chicago terminal rat 4:00 and 7:30PM. 
Anyone interested in tickets or further information should contact Greyhound campus representatives Tom Boyer, 504 Flanner (6984) or Charlie Clark, 326 Keenan 
(3329). 
r 
Founder 
Monday 
Ni~ht Special 

5 PM ·11 PM All the chicken you can eat 
$1.45 
Wednesday Night Special 
5 PM ·11 PM All the fish you ean eat 
$1.15 


Corner of Edison and Ironwood 
Friday, January 22,1971 Page 7
Til/!. O&I'ERWit 

The Bruins are coming, Irish wait 
Collegiate basketball's spotlight will center on Notre 
I) a m e ' s A t h I e tic a n d Convocation Center this ~>aturday afternoon when two of l he top teams' and possibly the two best individual players will meet in a nationally televised game. 
Unbeaten and top ranked lJC LA, seeking a fifth straight :K'AA championship, invades the ACC for a 3:30P.M. contest <· gainst ninth ranked Notre Dame. 
The Bruins will enter a Friday night engagement at the Chicago Stadium against Chicago Loyola with a perfect 13-0 ledger and a string of 47 straight non­conference victories. Notre I )ame, meanwhile, dropped its hurth decision in 12 starts Mon­t!Jy night in Pittsburgh against 1 ;uq uesne in overtime, 81 7 8. 
Much of the attention will f•>cus on two of the nation's r·remier players, UCLA forward Sidney Wicks and Irish guard /.ustin Carr. Wicks scored a ctreer high 33 points in the 94-76 victory at California last Saturday, increasing his average to 24.2. 
Carr, considered the leading candidate for Player of the Year honors, is the nation's second leading scorer. The senior star has scored 43 or more points on five different occasions this year and leads the Irish with a nifty 
37.2 average. The 6-3 All­American is shooting 53 per cent from the field and 82 per cent from the foul line. 
"UCLA has a great basketball team, but playing this type of competition is nothing new for us," said Notre Dame coach Johnny Dee, whose quintet has played one of the most demand­ing schedules in the country, having already faced the likes of Marquette, Kentucky, South Carolina, Indiana and Michigan. 
In fact, the Irish will have little time to rest following the UCLA contest. Notre Dame en­tertains a potent Michigan State team next Tuesday and then Illinois at the Chicago Stadium January 30. 
Dee is hopeful tnat he can receive some much needed scor­ing support for Carr and forward Collis Jones, the No. 2 Irish point maker witl! a 22.8 average. 
The Irish are averaging 86.1 with Carr and Jones combining for 60 of these points. Jones also leads ND in reboundmg with a11 II .8 average. 

In recent gam~.:s, Dee has started senior John Pl..!ick (5 .1 ppg.) at center with senior Sid Catlett (7 .8) and Jackie Meehan 
(3.5) at forward and guard re­spectively. 
Wicks, needless to say, has a fine supporting cast. Curtis Rowe, with a 20.2 average, will join Wicks at forward with Steve Patterson (I 2.3) in the pivot. The guards are Henry Bibby 
(12.0) and Kenny Booker (6.2) with Terry Schofield (6.5) the 

The Irish Eye 
~·····················-:.r,~·;·;·.························································Get It Togetter
.....................................·.·············································=·=·=·=·:·:·:·:·:·. n 
What's wrong with the Irish? That's been one of the major questions popping up at most bull sessions since the student body has returned from the long Christmas vacation. Th~ answer isn't very obvious. 
Eight and four isn't really a bad record but around Notre Dame it is second rate and Irish fans just won't stand for that. Possibly the schedule is the biggest obstacle that the team has overcome. Heing objective, however, I must say that in the truly tough games on tht: schedule the Irish stand a dismal 1-3 (i.e. Kentucky, Indiana, South Carofir.a and Marquette). 
The team just hasen't produced. Maybe the student body is expecting too much from the Irish. Maybe they're a bit overrated. I'd hate to think that this is the case but one can only base opinion on experience and experience this year hasn't shown ND fans a lot in the way of optimism. There have only been one or two runaways for the Irish and aside from the four teams mentioned their opponents have been little better than mediocre this season. 
I am not saying that Notre Dame does not deserve n.:y of the national acclaim that they may receive. Nor am I saying that I am "down" on the team. What I am saying is that their biggest challenges lie ahead. Within the next week the Irish mmt face National Champ UCLA (who are every bit deserving. of their title), Michigan State (whom the Irish haven't beaten in the last three years and this season's Spartans are better than those that have upset ND in the three previous showings) and the Big Ten leader Illinois. These three games will make or break the season. 
Anything less than two of three will be a disappointment. 
The schedule hasn't been the only thing plaguing Johnny Dec this season. The only player on the team that has really improved over last season is Collis 1ones. Jones has been shooting better than last season and his rebounding and floor game have been near perfect. Sid Catlett has come along S !.OWLY but he is getting better. Sic! has come no where near the expectations that ND fans had hoped for after an outstanding high school career. The big center-forward has ..hown sparks of brilliance hut most of the time he just simmers in mediocrity. 
Austin Carr has had the toughest job of all. He had to try to improve on perfection. At times the Irish captain has faltl:re.J a littk unckr the strain of carrying the 1cam (e.g. the Duquesne game) but his play has still been ALL. AMEKICAN. 
The rest of the cast just hasn't matched last season's performance. Doug Gemmell and Tom Sinnott have lost the shooting touch they had. Jack Meehan's knees have sluwed him up considerably and hi~ defense has showed this. John Pieil'k has been one of the best on the team in practiee but when the game starfs, the big guy just can't seem to unwind. 
In short, the Irish have yet to "get it together." They better start soon. The team that was once called the "best class in ND history" just wouldn't look that good competing in the NIT. UCLA won't wait for this to happen. Austin and Collis can't do it alone. The Irish must get it together now if their dream of Houston is to be realized. 
No. 1 substitute in the back court. 
Wicks and Patterson are also averaging I 3.3 and 11.7 re­bounds per game while Rowe is almost in double figures with a 
9.3 mark. Bruin coach Jolmny Wooden, with victories in 133 of the last I 37 games, coached basketball at South Bend Central High School for nine years until 1943. 
Notre Dame and UCLA have one common opponent, St. Louis. The Bruins gained a 79 65 decision at home over 
the Bills while ND won in St. 
Louis, 68 67. 

The Irish frosh, 4-2 before a Tuesday game at Ball State, host Grissom Air Force Base in the preliminary game at 11 : 1 5 P.M :, E.S.T. 

This foul shot by All-American guard Austin Carr against Marquette broke the Notre Dame career scor­inp record set by Tom Hawkins. Austin is also third in the NCAA in scoring average for a career. 
leers face North Dakota 
Maybe a 7-..7·-1 record would fail to excite some people, but Notre Dame hockey coach Lefty Smith is nothing less than pleased following a recent road trip. 
"It was a very profitable trip, it gave us a chance to know our personnel much better," said Smith, whose Irish hockey team won five of nine games including a 3-3 split against Pi.r Force, 
Colorado College and Denver last' week. 
The Irish, who play 20 of 29 games against Western Collegiate Hockey Association teams (3-6-1 at the present time), face another demanding assign­ment this weekend when the University of North Dakota in­vades for a Friday-Saturday ser­ies. 
Faceoff each night will start at 7:45 in the Athletic and Convocation Center where ND will play four of its next six games, including two against Denver Feb. S-6 . 

Smhh is espeically pleased with his defensemen. "I think our first five defensemen are as good as any in the country," said Smith, citing the number one unit of Bill Green and Mark Steinborn. 
Trackmen run in Chi town 
by Vic Dorr 
Observer Sportswriter 
The Notre Dame Indoor 

Track Team opens its com­
petitive season Saturday, and the 
indications are many that this 
season will be a successful one 
for the charges of Coach Alex 
Wilson. Only four lettermen 
have been lost from last year's 
squad, and the nucleus of return­
ing veterans will be comple­
mented by a promising group of 
freshmen. 
The Irish runners will be par­

ticipating in the University of 
Chicago Invitational Meet this 
weekend, and Wilson welcomes 
,~~~~~~~~ 
l Anyone interested in parti-& ' cipating in the 40th anniver-' fsary of one of Notre Dame's t l greatest traditions: PLEASE l 
' NOTE! ' 
l Training has begun for the A ' anm:zl Bengal Bout. tourna-' tment every weekend at 3:30 l in the Athletic and Convoca-' tlion Center Boxing Room. t l There is no experience neces-l ' sary, and the Boxing Club ' 
l welcomes any new "blood" t ' that would like to learn tof box, or just get in shape. f 
Nothing to pay -noth-lting to sign. Come out and ' l give it a try and if it becomes i ' too demanding ... there's al-' l ways Rugby. j
1..-.~~~~~~ 
the early-season opportunity of 
seeing his entire squad in action. 
"We're going to take the whole group up there," he says, "and try to choose a team from what we see." Regardless of who is tabbed to perform regularly, though, there is no doubt .that senior Rick Wohlhuter will, again, be one of the premier performers for the Irish. The NCAA 600-yard champion, Wohlhuter will captain this ND team through a schedule that is highlighted by dual meets with Miami (of Ohio) and Ohio State, and which also features the Michigan State Relays, the Cen­tral Collegiate Conference meet, and the NCAA and ICAAAA meets. 
Wohlhu ter, however, is far from the only first-rate athlete on the squad. Everyone returns to the sprinting events, with Rick Harris, Jack Samar, and Rick Vallicelli .all lettermen leading the way. Mike McMan­non will team with Vallicelli in· the 300-yard run, and a p fll m ising freshman . Dan Creehan will he the entrant in the 440. Wohlhuter, of course, will he competing in the 600, and he, Crehan, and Tom Gil­hooly. provide the core of a good two-mile relay team. 
The mile run will be another Irish strong point. Two fresh­men, Marty Hill and Dave Bell 
were both highly rated as school­boy runners. Hill will attempt to continue his success in the mile, while Bell, also a high school miler, will represent Notre Dame in the 1000. Dan Dunne and Pat Holleran, two cross-country stars, give the Irish a good one-two punch in the two-mile. The hurdling team, too, re­turns intact, and Coach Wilson terms the quartet of Tom McMannon, Joe Utz, Pat Mul­laley, and Dave Strickler "the best group ever at Notre Dame." 
Perhaps the only serious weakness for this team is the pole vault. Peter Hoffman is the only vaulter on the team, and he has been plagued by a dislocated shoulder. But Hoffman's shoulder has been improving, and with it, his vaulting per­formances. The duo of Mike McMannon and Kevin McAuliffe carry the Irish hopes in the broad and triple jumps, and McMannon also joins with Joe Utz in the high jump. Shot-put­ters Elio Peselli and Joe Roe round out the field events unit for the '7 I edition of the Indoor Track Team. 
This is basica lly the same team that last year compiled a 2-1 mark, losing only to Ohio State. But this year's team, strengthened by the addition of so much new talent, may well improve oR"that 2-1 record. 

TIIB Q&S'£RIIIIt 

Friday, January 22, 1971 
Allen defends annexation plan 
(Continued from page I) 

He said that he was also dis­turbed by the university's relud­ance to the possibility of having its students vote in city elec­tions. "I am not concerned at all about this. I believe they will vote more wisely than any other group," said Allen. 
He minimized the weight that the ten thousand new voters might have in city politics for "practically" he said only twen­ty percent or less of the eligible voters will cast ballots. 
Allen remained firm in his belief that Father Hesburgh 's views on the plight of the cities and his refusal to allow annexa-

The profitableness of annex­
rH~tee 


ing Notre Dame hinges on whether the city provides the
$TRfi(ES 

police and fire protection, gar­
A..HP 
Saturday and Sunday 
)IOU'R£ 
Doors open at 1:30 
IN COLOR WIDE SCREEN
RALPH 
317UIICHIGAII 
tion are "Contradictory." 

Father Hesburgh has talked compassionately of the exodus to the suburbs by the affluent citizens of a city and the influx toward the center of the city of the less affluent creating a des­parate need for money said Al­len. Then when this happens to South Bend and the city reaches out for avenues of increased funds Father Hesburgh then says no concluded Allen. 
Allen added that a city's necessity to enldrge its boun­daries and increase revenue be­sides having been cited by Father Hesburgh in the past is a philosophy taught at Notre Dame. 
bage pickup, and roadway main­
tenance that Notre Dame now pays. If the city does provide these services to the same extent that Notre Dame now does, then annexation will be a financial loss to the city. If not, then the city makes money on annexa­tion. 
Allen said that if Notre Dame is annexed then the city will provide "back-up" police and fire protection. No garbage pick-up or road-way mainten­ance will be provided he said. The city now gives "back up" fire protection to Notre Dame at the taxpayers expense. However, Allen said that these services will qnly be "back-up" and not equivalent to the ser-
Now Showing Open Fven. 6:00 Sunday -Open 12:45 

vices that Notre Dame presently 
pick-up garbage at !USB," said operates. He said that he did not Allen. 
think that the univeristy, if an­He stressed, however, that he nexed, would want the city to feels that the city has a responsi­pruvide its security force or fire bility to Notre Dame students 
hghting force but he added that and that is why the city will if the university did ask for these provide back-up police and fire services, the city wuuld decline protection said Allen. · to provide them. He did not believe that the 
"It is not a municipal respon­town and gown relationship has sibility to provide the internal "fallen apart much", and he said security of an industrial plant. that he did not intend to be The city does not maintain pri­"vituperative" whatever the out­vate roads. The city does not come of Monday night's vote. 
Colleges would fight annexation in court 
(Continued from page I) 

tion between .the city and the university, it is known that busi­ness groups are acting as inter­mediaries in discussions. 
A{! Indiana statute says it is necessary for the annexing city to have a plan to provide the annexed territory with the ser­vices that are provided con­tiguous city areas. Mayor Allen has maintained that this statue is not applicable here and that the city does not intend to provide the university with these services to this degree. 
Frick affirmed that the uni­versity has not seen such a plan and he added that although he was not a lawyer it did seem to him unconsititutional to do what South Bend intends to do. 
Mayor Allen's opinion that Father Hesburgh's views on the plight of the cities and annexa­tion were contradictory "does not follow" said Frick. "I think it is a non sequiteur," 
"Father Hesburgh is very 
·rvensona 
~Vespers) 
Ber,inning again this Sunday at Regular Times: Monday, Wednesday, Fri­(!ay at 7:00 pm. Sunday afternoon at 4:30pm. 
Sacred Heart Church 

H#####~~­
~~ 

~ MIDWEST'S LARGEST DISPLAY OF 
t NEW AND USED SPORTS CARS f 
!4 =@m Fl 
t CONTINENTAL MOTORS INC. t 
~ 5800 S. LA GRAHGE RD. t 
L---~~~G~I.!.k·~E:"~Q_ ___t 
~u GR-EAT sT~TE~_!H EAT REs~·;NTS~ 
Doors Open at 1:30 
Feature Times Today 1:50-3:50-5:50 
AHOWARD G.MINSKY·ART~U" HILLER Production 

~0 IN COLOR AP~RAMOUNT PICJURE Doors Open Late Show
Saturday 

12:45 11:00 PM 
Feature Times 1-3-5-7-9 

much interested in the plight of the cities and he is very much interested in annexation to in­crease the revenues of cities, but it is not going to be helpful' to the community to annex a tax exempt institution. Funds will be consumed by the services which the city will have to ex­
tend," said Frick. 

He stressed that the primary fear of the university is that when these funds are consumed and whenever there is a shortage of funds there will be pressure to make the university pay for the services provided and the city might yield to these pressures. 
If the university is annexed, the South Bend police will not have to receive administration approval to come on campus said Frick. "If they believe there is a violation of the law, they do not have to wait for a call from the administration, 'said Frick. 
"The  university  would  be  in  
their jurisdiction."  
Frick  seconded  the  univer·  

sity's desire to prevent devisive­ness between the town and Notre Dame. "We have tried for two years to carry on discussions without a public display of opposition," said Frick. 
However, he admitted that this lack of public reaction has given the people in the commu­nitv the idra that Nutre Dame w;s not against annexation. "By 
and large, we have a great deal of 
respect for Mayor Allen,'' said 
Fri~k._ "We sirr:pi_y do no~.think he IS nght m th1s mstance. 
~~~~~~~~
t 
410ENAMATH 
as C.C.Ryder 
ANIIIJ·MARGRET 
as his girl 
'" UAM• 
~OMPANY 

A High Powered Double Feature 
ROSEMARY'S BAB 
Kniahts of Columbu 
next to Bookstore Saturday 
2:00,6:30,9:00,11:30 

Sunday 
2:00,8:00, 10:30 







