
Hutcheson quits; merger blamed 

SMC dept. head says others will quit 
by Ann Conway 
be no separate Philosophy proceedings. It might have come
St. Mary's Editor 
Department. As of Spring, any slowly under McGrath he said, freshman or sophomore in­but Saint Mary's would have had terested in a Philosophy major time to establish an effective
Dr. Richard Hutcheson has 
will be sent to Notre Dame." rationale for merger. "Without
resigned as Chairman of the 
As for the merger itself, Dr. strong leadership, this wasn't
Saint Mary's Philosophy 
Hutcheson is opposed to it. He possible," he concluded.
Department effective this June. a definite
believes that there is Asked if he felt that otherChairman since coming to SMC difference in educational prac­faculty members might resigntwo years ago, Dr. Hutcheson tices and attitudes in a liberal before the merger becomes
cited the unification of Notre arts college as opposed to a complete, he said that of the 108
Dame and Saint Mary's as the 
university. faculty members, only 30 to 40 
reason for his resignation. "I 
He said that "Saint Mary's have tenure. Within three yearsguess it's not really complex. It couldn't exist without going coed 
Holy Week in jail most will be gone and will not
seemed obvious to me that no one 
with Notre Dame for several integrate into the University, he 
Fundamentalist preacher Rev. Carl Mcintire, an advocate of in this department had tenure. I reasons." ·First the schools are added. Even those who are "winning the war," addressed a group of 100 seminarians of several felt that when merger came, this "across the street" and draw tenured and who go to teach at religions. The seminarians are engaging in civil disobedience in front department would be the first to their students from the same the University will not be in of the Executive Office building in Washington, D.C. <UPI go," he saind. constituencies. Secondly St. enviable positions, according to TELEPHOTO) Dr. Hutcheson came to Saint Mary's doesn't have a strong Dr. Hutcheson.
Mary's because he was in­
enough faculty and ad­The other two members of the
terested in teaching at a small ministration to define itself as a Philosophy Department, Miss
college rather than a university. 
separate institution, Dr Hut­Anner. K. Clarke and St. Dorothy 
Rules disparity cited 
He had decided that even if he cheson said. All of this leads to a Weber, C.S.C. will remain on the
had been offered a job at Notre lack of "esprit d'corps" among faculty. Dr. Hutcheson will go to
Dame, he would not be in­the students of the college, ac­Clarkson College in Potsdam,
terested. 
cording to Dr. Hutcheson. New York to initiate a Philosophy

as merger obstacle 
"This department is uncertain. Dr. Hutcheson felt that the lack program at that college in the 
by Jerry Lutkus meeting saying the concept of By the end of next year, there will of a president hurried the merger fall.community government would not be involved in the merger of 
The chief problem of the services. She stressed her 

Brion announces April 14 or 15
coming merger between St. concern that this concept might
Mary's and Notre Dame may lie be lost in the unification of Notre in the different rules and Dame and St. Mary's.regulations of the two schools, St. She noted that the committees 

release of course evaluations 
Mary's Student Body Vice and councils of the St. Mary's
President Missy Underman said government would "continue to Monday during a Student Affairs function as such". She also said by Greg Rowinski 
with students in each professor's Committee meeting. that "any change in authority classes. The strengths and 
Miss Underman said that there would probably not occur next weaknesses of each teacher are
The Scholastic plans to release
will be no problem in merging year." emphasized in these evaluations. 
its course evaluation booklet on
aspects such as security, The Scholastic's purpose in
April 14 or 15, just before pre­
psychological services, and Note Dame halls are more the publication is "to do what
registration, Scholastic editor
dining halls. She said that the autonomous than the residence little we can to improve the
Steve Brion announced last night. 
problem may lie in the rules and halls at St. Mary's, acc:.~rding to aca~emic atmosphere" by
The evaluation is intended to
regulations of the two in­Sr. Immaculata. She used as an providing the criterion of the
provide the students with in­
stitutions. example, the fact that Notre faculty and courses, Brion
formation about each course's
Two of the problems cited by DAme halls have their own concluded.
organization, presentation, and
Miss Underman were the com­judicial systems while the The faculty has recognized the
work load, said Brion.
munity government system judicial process is campus-wide. worth of such an undertaking.
The booklet is concerned with
employed by St. Mary's and not Sr. Immaculata said that there Steve Brion According to Brion, the English 
Arts and Letters courses only.
by Notre Dame and the fact that is "really a need for a lot of good Department consults the booklet
This College had received the interested in those fields," Brion
Notre Dame has rectors in the thinking and planning," about the when considering the question of
booklet's attention, said Brion, said, "but more money and
halls while St. Mary's has student merger. She also commented granting tenure. When the
because nearly all students, at people would be needed to im­
advisors. Other problems noted that the Student Union merger Scholastic didn't publish its issue 
some time, must take courses in plement an expansion."
were the differences in student between the schools would help in September, it was faculty
that school. The Scholastic gains its in­
fees and the room selection student attitudes and social life, members who first spoke to him
Hopefully, the Scholastic will formation through department
policies of the schools. but she cautioned that this "is about its absence, he added.
expand its survey to include captains who assign workers to
Sister M. Immaculata only the very, very beginning". Problems of money and
Science and Business Ad­each professor. They then outline 
Driscoll, , dean of students manpower plague the staff and
ministration courses next year. the pertinent information andcommented further on the Continued on page 6 "There is a core of staff members add to it the results of interviews the Scholastic can ill-afford new 

features or expansion within the uReponse to suffering" present conditions because it is
on campus 
dependent on subsidies. Brion said, "it has been hard to put it

today... 
together," adding that the last


500 join Refugee Aid Program 
issue was the most expensive to 

8:00 lecture-alan watts: 
by Ed Lacey was evidenced during last years "Giving up luxuries is only part Continued on page 3 
student strike. of it" said Gies. The important
the joyous cosmology, 
Refugee Aid Program things is to generate an active
washington hall. 
Quang Ngai is a village in South
spokesman Tom Gies said 

Vietnam which has been set up as feeling of community and con­Monday that more than 500 a rehabilitation center by the cern throughout the campus as 
students have registered their well as among the alumni. The
American Friends Service James T. Burtchaell, the
support for what he called a giving up of luxuries is symbolic
Committee (a Quaker Action father of University
"response to human suffering." in that it indicates our concern.
Group). The villagers make Provost Rev. James T. 
The program, which lasts from artificial limbs for use by other Burtchaell, died early April 4 (the anniversary of villagers maimed in the war. <..Ties went on to say that those Saturday in a Portland, Martin Luther King's They are also trained as nurses, who casn't contribute with their Oregon, hospital. He had 
any non-profit activity of 
assassination) to May 4 (the date treating 200 to 300 people every money can help by writing letters been ill for some time with general campus interest 
of the Kent State killings), is month. to alumni, and by working on cancer. 
aimed at releaving the sufferings Gies emphasized that this is not future activities. The funeral Mass will be of the Quang Ngai refugees in a political movement. He feels at 4 p.m. Tuesday, April 6, 
may be listed in this 
column. submit all 
South Vietnam. Gies stated that that it is a program that can be Sign ups will again be held at in All Saints Church in
information to the news 
the program consisted in giving supported by both the campus Saint Mary's tomorrow night. Portland, preceded by a 
editor by 2:00 of the 
up luxuries to raise money for the liberals and the campus con­Gies pointed out that this is not an wake. 
preceeding day. 
villagers, writing letters to servatives. elitist movement. All are invited Mr. Burtch?.ell lived at alumni, and increasing hur1•. He further emphasized that the to participate. The program is 2:!08 NE 31st St. in Portland consciousness through further Refugee Aid Program has no not just limited to those who sign and is survived by his wife,
nd-smc 
activities. Gies hopes for the "formal contact" with any other up. Gies feU that response to the two sons, and a same feeling of community which organizations. program would be favorable. 

...--------------­
THE OBSBRUM. 


WANT $$$? 
A JOB FOR THIS SEMESTER AND NEXT 
IF YOU CAN TYPE 
WE WANT YOUR HANDS!!! 
CALL OR LEAVE MESSAGE SCOTT BRALEY 7471,8661 
THE ADVENT LOUDSPEAKER 
Audio Magazine Said of the Advent Speaker;"At twice the 
price the Advent Speaker would be ~ good value, but at $116 it 
is a bargain" 

STORE HOURS-3-B PM MON-TH '1-4:30 FRI & SUN I CLOSEO •SAT 1307 E. 
by Mike Nevens Several stereo tape cartridgesSecurity Director, Arthur were stolen Saturday night when Pears reported several acts of thieves broke the left front vandalism on automobiles over window of a car parked in Green the weekend. 
field. Three juveniles were 
Complete Spectacle Service Glasses Duplicated Your Doctor's RX filled 
Largest selection of wzres 
214 S. Michigan (next to State Theatre) 2!!9-7809 
Starts Friday 
Fri. -Sat. opens at 6:00 

starring ROCK HUDSON ANGIE DICKINSON ·TELLYSAVALAS 
.....................
close 

Free RIVER PARK Phone
Parking .." ................. . 
288-8488

MISHAWAKA AVE. AT 30TH. 
'IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, WORLD' 
STARTS FRIDAY 
THE #1 NOVEL OF THE YEAR-NOW AMOTION PICTURE! 
A ROSS HUNTER PIIOOOCTION 
AIRPORT 
BURT UNCASTER•DEAN MARTIN JEAN SEBERG •JACQUELINE BISSET 
AUNIVERSAL PICTURE • TECHNICOLORII> • Praduetd in TODD-AD II> 
~ AU.AGI!I.-rniD~ 
~ o.Nr•IAucloencn ~ 
Academy Award Nominations 
Come Spring ..... . 

Pears lists weekend vandalisms 
apprehended in connection with 
the theft and turned over to the 
St. Joseph's County Sherrif. 
At 5:55 p.m. Sunday a Notre Dame student discovered several vandals attempting to remove the mag wheel from his 1970 GTO. 
He was then attacked by the vandals who eventually fled in a nearby auto. Two St. Mary's girls who were with the student obtained the license number and description of the ·suspects. Arrests made Monday afternoon and the suspects are being held in County Jail awaiting iden­tification. 
Pears also reported two cases that have been turned over to Indiana State Excise Police and federal authorities. A local liquor store owner was charged with selling liquor to an underage student who was subsequently arrested for public intoxication. 
In a similar arrest campus police apprehended a student with false identification cards. These cases have been refered to the dean of students and the appropriate civil authorities. 
Another student was arrested on several counts of forgery. His case was also refered to the dean's office. No names were available in the above cases. 
Pears said that the largest number of cases involved sophomores with cars on or near campus. Pears said that his office is making a concerted effort to remove all such vehicles. Security units are checking sticker registration and lisence numbers in an effort to locate violators. 
Holding a large stack of motor­vehicle violation reports, Pears complained: "This is all we seem to be doing lately." 
Daley landslides to fifth term 
CHICAGO UPI-Richard J. Daley, in an awesome display of political power, swept to an unprecedented fifth four year term as mayor of Chicago Tuesday night. 
The steamrolling Chicago Democratic organization shot Daley into an early and in­surmountable lead over Richard 
E. Friedman, the man earring the Republican mantle, within 60 minutes after the polls closed at 6 
p.m. CST. 
With almost all of Chicago's precincts reporting-3,160 of 3,412­Daley had 659,265 votes, or 69.6 per cent, and Friedman 288,211, or 30.4 per cent. Daley's plurality was expected to come to well more than 350,000. 

The worlds great 
small car. See, drive and buy at 
Bertles Volkswagon Inc. US 31 N. 

The Observer is published dailY during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
---------.., 

Wednesday, April 7, 1971 
G S U starts special health insurance program for grads 
by Milt Jones 

The Graduate Student Union has formulated the first graduate student health program in the United States. The program was drawn up by the Insurance 
Committee  of  the  GSU  
specifically  for  N.D.  grad  
students.  
According  to  Bill  Lorimer,  

chairman of the Insurance Committee, "the main features of the plan are no medical exam, (subject to the underwriting requirements of the company), very good maternity benefits, and major medical benefit." The plan covers minor medical ex­penses as well as serious illness or accidents. 
Maximum benefit payable to any one under the plan is $15,000. The monthly premium for a GSU meJ]lber is $10.36 while a member, his spouse, and 
Female first 
OKLAHOMA CITY UPI ­Patience Latting, a wife and mother, was elected mayor yesterday, making Oklahoma City the largest city in America with a woman mayor. 
children must pay $30.36 per month. The basic benefits include hospital and ambulance service, pregnancy and infancy care coverage, supplementary ac­cident plans, and other such programs. 
Lorimer commented that "a GSU member becomes eligible for benefits on the first day of the month following his acceptance by the insurance company." He added that "members can choose the hospital and doctor of their 
~boice, and all members and 
·leir dependents are eligible." 
"This health insurance plan is the first graduate student health program to be set up by grad students in the United States," Lorimer stated. He also com­mented that the program is oper~ting in conjunction with a Missouri University at Columbia, Miami of Ohio, and Michigan State University. "Missouri has approved the 
STUDY S(}.IJND§ 
IMPROVE GRADES 
Improve Grades While Oevoting 

The Same Amount Of Time To Stwilf USE STUDY SOUNDS 
Increase Your Concentration And · ,n.,rove Your Comprehension. Study At A Fast~or Rate. ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED f>OUNDS CAUSE THIS TO HAPPEil 
Please Specify

8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record 
Send Check or ~\oney Order -$9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage 
Sound Concepls, Inc., -Box 3852 Charlotte'sville, Va. 22902 
FRANKIE'S 
Dinner Special 
With any dinner -DRAFT BEER 10 cents a glass. Spec. Hrs. 5-8. 
CAC' Cinema '71 Presents 
Alphaville and the Gladiator\ 
winner of the 1970 International Science 
Fiction Film Festival 
Engin. Auditorium Saturday, April IO and Easter sunday, April II 
2:00 and 8:00 • 
Admission $1.00, t Cinema '7I Patrons free 

program, but are not yet soliciting members," Lorimer said. He added that "Miami of Ohio and Michigan State have okayed the program and are soliciting members from about 10,000 students." 
According to Lorimer, anyone interested in the health insurance play should call the Association Plans at 288-3344 or Bill Lorimer at 234-2745. 
Release of course reviews booklet 
continued from page 1 
publish. 
"It is a question if we can do it 
on our own after this year," Brion 
said. An issue demands four to 
five days of concentrated work to 
compile. 
An innovation this year is that 
the courses will be listed by 
professor, not by course number 
as in the past. It is designed to 
alleviate the difficulty created 
when one professor instructs a 
number of courses. 
Michael's 
H,.iR STYLING FOR MEl\' 18381 Edison Rd. (% mile east of A.C.C.) Ph. 272-7222 . Jl.ppointments if Desired 

)JN \RlJ WINNING· STYLI~·.J~ 
'AVDARD HAIRCUTS-HAIR STJ' 
AZOF:. CUTS-HAIR .STRAIGHT:JNING. 
*********************************************
* . I
i HOI~y WEEK I 
# *
I (YOU ARE INVITED I 
#TO PARTICIPATE IN ANY OF THEf 
*
*

! FOLLOWING 
*
*
*
*
*

I THURSDAY 
*
*

~ Main Church j Breen-Phillips1 Cavanaugh 
** Dillon
Howard 
* Keenan-Stanford
I 
Morrissey 
:

* FRIDAY 
I* 

Main Church ~ Breen-Phillips 
* 
Dillon 

* 
Keenan-Stanford

* 
Morrissey

* 
Zahm*


*
*
*

# SATURDAY 

* 

Main Church Cavanaugh Dillon Morrissey 
*
* 

LITURGIES) J 
*
*
*
*
*
I 
* 

5:00pm*** 
5:15 pm # 
5:00 pm 5: 00 pm 
II

5: 00 pm 
6: 00 pm * 
8:00 pm 
#
* 

3:00 pm * * · 
2:00 pm ~ 
3: 
00 pm * 

3: 
00 pm ** 


3:00 Plll. 5:00pm * 
*
*
*
*
# 
* 

8:00pm 
11:00 
pm 

11:00 
pm 

11:00 
pm 


~****************************************.. 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
Epitaph on a Black gravestone 
"Here lies a black man killed by a yellow man while fighting to save 
democracy for the white man." --Charles Dollard in Caste and Class in Southern Towns --(New Haven, 1937) 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Hallelujah, 111aybe..... . 
There will be more rejoicing in heaven if one sinner returns to the flock, then if one hundred holy men remain faithful, Christ once said. 
It is doubtful that the celestial spaces echoed with hallelujahs Monday after the Student Life Council completed its meeting but the critics of that body did find enough for some small ironic smiles. 
In response to a motion by Student Body President John Barkett to reduce the membership of the council by half, the SLC mandated the Steering Committee to study the internal effectiveness of the body. 
Having a committee study a proposal is the oldest cop-out in the democratic world. More proposals have died a forgotten death on some dusty shelf than there are locusts in a plague. 
That the SLC would admit that there is something wrong with it, something wrong with its effectiveness is a beginning, however miniscule. It seems that the members of that much maligned body are slowly awakening to the realization that they have wasted an entire year pandering a bout. 
If the SLC is not to descend to the level of the Student Senate, which is more dead than alive, or the Blue Circle, which is dead, then it must handle this study with greater efficiency and dispatch than it handled the issue of, say, sophomore cars. 
If the student representatives on the board, especially the student government people, begin exerting pressure for internal reform and if they bother to do their homework and prepare specific proposals then possibly something might get done. 
An admirable start in this direction was made Monday with SBP John Barkett's successful proposal to seat three non-voting representatives from St. Mary's on the council. The next logical step it seems would be to draw up a comprehensive plan for the merger of the two school's governing bodies. Doubtless the trustees will have some say in the final make-up of the structure. The amount of say they do have though will be determined by how much work is done by the present governing bodies in drawing up a plan. If they allow them­selves to become involved in senseless petty wrangling, or if they neglect the matter, the trustees will move on their own. 
The SLC could have a sizeable say in determing what sort of body will govern the unified institutions, at the community level. Professor Vasta and Floyd Kezele' s joint motion stating that all SLC members be elected without distinction based on sex showed that there are some members who recog:'tize the nature of the task. Those who do cannot be content to sit back and wait from a sign from the trustees though. They must begin urging the SLC to get on the stick, so to speak, and move. 
If individual members begin asserting themselves, or concerting their actions with others then something can be done. If they complement this by presenting detailed, researched proposals then there will be hope for the SLC. If none of this is done, then the SLC will crumble from within and strangle on its own ineptitude. 

Thundercloud 
Tic, tic, tic, tic ... At last -D:Day! With obvious nervousness I 
ched the clock on the wall. Tech had promised that it would be ac­
curate within a fiftieth of a second. This morning it had been set by 
Naval Observatory time. I brushed my hair behind my head and 
waited. Restlessly. 
"Cirrus One to Cumulus Three ... " squawked a loudspeaker in the 
adjoining hotel room. Oh, how I despise Gen's codes, for that matter 
oh, how I despise Gen. Talking of the bastard-he came out of the 
other room, and walked over to say something to Zabrinsky. Gener::tl, 
of course, was wearing the uniform he had popularized among the 
"straights": red shirts with two white armbands. The famous green 
"Z" of Zabrinsky was on the bands. 
It is impossible to describe Zabrinsky. He was only slightly tall, not enough to be imposing. He had only two truly impressive features, and both of them were hidden behind his dark reflective sunglasses. When uncovered, his hard steel grey eyes beckoned to the viewer with hypnotic summons. Of the people in the room, Zabrinsky alone exuded confidence, sitting peacefully in his chair. 
There were two other people in the room besides Zabrinsky, General and myself. The four eyed phony was Harvey Schmidt, author of The Third World Arises, No! and The New Revolution. The heavy built jerk next to him was Tech, Zabrinsky's Chief scientist. He was a Cal Tech graduate, I believe. He was wearing one of Gen's uniforms. 
"Are you sure it going to work?" asked Harvey for the tenth time, getting his tenth reassurance from Tech. 
"What if it doesn't work? You've never tested." 
"It's obvious that we couldn't. And we didn't need to. Don't worry; it'll work." 
"What if it does work?" I asked myself. Tic, tic, tic, tic ... Men had to be killed if the revolution was to succeed. I had learned that a long time ago. It was not the killing but the method that annoyed me. Must It be this way? Itwasn't only a matter of killing Spiro, there was going to be a lot of innocent people killed as well. Washington was more than half black, a lot of them will be at the inauguration. I thought we were 
going to help them. 
I knew what Harvey would say, "Those people who passively sup­port the Establishment must expect suffering even if they are basically oppressed Third World Peoples." Hell, it still doesn't make 
me feel better. 
I had talked about it before with Zabrinsky. "Revolution isn't a party, or a game. If you want to make a change in the world, you got to fight and fight to win. So it is either Project Nimbus and victory, or nothing but four years of President Agnew." 
Tic, tic, tic .. .I glanced up at the clock on the wall. It was circular in• shape like the world. On its face, three arms raced around in circles. All three ended up in the same place where they started. The only difference was that some took longer than others to get back in the same place. Some rushed to go nowhere, some took their time. Tic, tic, tic ... 
I remembered the good old days. A simple faith that a few demonstrations, a couple of sit-ins, and together with the basic goodness of the people, this country would be Utopia. Then Chicago, and the November Moratorium. Finally the Philadelphia riot. For the first time I paid the pigs back. I can see the nameless policeman still, blood streaming down his face, and me holding a broken bottle. It wasn't the act that disgusts me; it was the deep sense of triumph that I felt. It is an elation that I still can't get rid of. 
Then came Zabrinsky's group-and the bombing of Police Com­missioner Niemand's house. He wasn't nameless, I saw his wife at the funeral, his kids ... The sense of joy, though, the sense of doing something real remained. There is nothing more real than death. 
Afterwards came the trial. Max, our attorney, defended me at a spectacular trial. Overnight I was a martyr to the cause-with no , burning at the stake. Max had gotten me acquitted. 
It was enough for Zabrinsky to have the symbol he wanted. I became one of his lieutenants. With his demanding stare, he offered me the job. There was his irresistable attraction. In him was found the Power to Do. The ability to get things done. This was his offer to me, all I had to do was obey. This was his offer to all of us, the ability to win. Tech and his scientists, Gen and his straights, Geronimo and his Cyclers, and me and my "Yips": we hated each other but the price of Zabrinsky's power held us together, made us work together. 
"Stratus One to Cumulus Three ... " That was Omaha calling. When this was over we were to go to the Omaha Rock Festival to try to get the crowd together (there was a good sprinkling of our members there.) 
"How's Offut look?" intruded Gen. I tried to shove him aside, but the time did it for me. 
A radio somebody had turned on spoke in the background. All eyes fastened on the clock. We followed those fateful hands in their endless journey.. Tic, tic, tic ... 
" ... Mr. Agnew is raising his right hand ... " 
Tic. A new sun rose in the east. "Thundercloud, thundercloud ... " spoke a radio operator in the other room. Half a minute later the noise of the bomb reached our ears. 
"Die, Spiro, die," said Harvey. 
I fell to my knees and began to weep. I don't know why. Zabrinsky came over and laid his hand upon my shoulder. 
"Weep not," said he , "for we are better than they." 
I looked up in horror to see the mushroom cloud reflected in his 
glasses. 
News Editor: John Abowd Night Editors: John Abowd, Jim 
Managing Editor: Don Ruane McDermott Features Editor: rick smith Headlines: Chris Sullivan, Jim Features Artist: bobby Shiel Roe 
S.M.C. Editor: Ann Conway Layout: Dan Ryan Advert ising Manager: Bi II Assistant News Editor: A.T. Bauerle 
Darin 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson NIGHT CONTROLLERS: jim mcgrath, mike heffren 
Wednesday, April 7, 1971 
THE OZIJ'EIHIM 

-and of women and children--are imposed upon the archtypal sacrifice of Judean innocence, as when soldiers break apart in battle. or when the hero-king lies in the dust of the Fallen Leader. It is the contemporary tragedy that makes us feel that mankind is forever keeping the death­watch at Calvary, and Easter can't come 
until the last body has been taken down from the final cross on the green hillsides of the world. 
The latest in the rollcall of Notre Dame dead to give poignancy to our alleluia hopes this year is that of a young man I didn't even know: Tim McGarry. In lines written on the death of Keats, Shelley's verses were: 
I weep for Adonais--he is dead 
0, weep for Adonais! though our tears 
Thaw not the frost which binds so dear a dead! And Keats was immortal in the elegy of his friend. For Tim, there is neither verse, nor immortality, nor even the gift of tears, at least from me, because strangers do not weep for one another. At least, they do not weep more than once, and I have already paid Tim McGarry the tribute of tear­drops. 
It happened on the day that the Dow Chemical arrest was made. I was wan­dering back to Keenan from the bookstore, dressed in my finest mufti, when a student rushed up to say, "The cops are at the Administration Building." I had im­mediate I had immediate visions of the Tactical Police force, with white helmets and upraised police clubs, advancing upon a bunch of flower-bearing kids, all hum­ming "Notre Dame, Our Mother." It looked to me like the Conrad Hilton scene in the summer of '68. 
moment, for the only time in my life, from a martyr's complex. A night-stick in the teeth was not my style of fun; jail was not the pad where I hoped to say my night prayers. But sometimes a chap needs to be where the action's happening: at Selma, or Catonsville (not really), or Res Resurrection City, if only to help out, or be identified with, the guys whose convictions I deeply care about. (A friend has suggested that, for the sake of in­volvement,! attend the trial of the Harrisburg Seven, preferably in a mule cart pulled by a team of faithful jerbals. Hopefully, I could kidnap Henry Kissinger 0!1 the way. 
I might have arrived at the Ad­ministration Building, that afternoon, before the constabulary had withdrawn themselves, if I had not stopped at Keenan to collar myself with the investitures of Rome. If there was violence, you see, I wanted to die with my boots on. In the end, boots were not required, and I turned out to be only a foolish fat man, puffing down an empty corridor in search of Golgotha, and finding himself, instead, like an un­stoned prophet standing at the gates of Disneyland. 
That night, in a South Bend jail, a kid unknown to me considered the triumph of his arrest. He wanted to be arrested,! was told, presumably because he could not compromise the fierceness of his inner commitment to peace. 
In mock-heroic worlds like mine, there was a weeping among the clowns for an Adonais not yet dead. 
In other, more religious ages, relatives would keep watch at the bedsides of the dying, and at a funeral, friends would want to learn the circumstances of the deceased one's final moments in life. At the death-
Page 5 

terrifying in its details--<>£ a boy who always seemed to sacrifice more of himself than the contingencies of life demanded, many of us, in our imaginations, ghave clustered like the midwives of eternity to the keeping of the vigil of Tim's last hours. We cannot endure the unsolved mystery of the "why" of his death. Our logic insists that the sacrifice could have been made only because of some truth unglimpsed, or because of an insight that could be shared or witnessed to, only by the shedding of blood. 
At the heart of the Christ-faith, there is a belief in th Victim Who suffered upon the cross, and the pattern of His agony followed the ancient prescriptions of the liturgy of sacrifice. But at the moment when the earth shook with fear and the sun buried its face in night, no one could possibly have seen the triumph of redemptive grace that was revealed in the broken body of a son lying dead in the arms of his mother. With Tim's death, it is still Good Friday; the hour is three in the afternoon; the grain of wheat has freshly fallen into the ground. 
0, weep for AGonais! though our tears Thaw not the frost which binds so dear a dead. 
In the land, the fresh, green turf of the season of life springs up like a promise of hope on the earth where the frosts have departed. Tim lies buried among all the ancient rythms of Springtime that have already planted the first flowers of a resurrection garden ... 
Mourn not for Adonais ... He lives ... 
He is made one with Nature: there is heard 
his voice in all her music ... 
He is a presence to be felt and known 
rev. robert griffin 
for an adonais, 
now dead 
In the ancient rhythms of the earth, where spring follows upon the winter, and ressurection is celebrated after death, and the grain of wheat must fall into the grpund and die before the harvest can appear, the feast of glory which is Easter must be preceeded by the sorrow and death of the Son of Man. Often in human 
experience, the deaths of other young men-Credit me with suffering at that 
jim rocap 
west of genoa, we si_ghted the s~o_r~line 
Quite a time was to be had by all last year. One could attend a demonstration or sign a statement as easily as he could take out a library card. Petitions and flyers from the mimeograph revolution could be purchased anywhere--for the price of a signature. "Statements" were popular--easy to write, sometimes a bit painful to sign, but never too painful to discourage many from doing so. It was all very comfortable, but the sallow taste lingering in our souls told us that this was not the way. Finally, out of the spectacle of thousands of headless impotent chickens traversing the streets of washington and the quads of Notre Dame, a profound and needed confusion emerged. Cambodia did not flee before the volley of leaflei:s shot from the printing presses of America's campuses. Vietnam got worse as it was supposedly getting better and Laos found itself not only on the stag~ but one of the major actors. we discover~d that we were not going to end the war in five days "or else". we were not surprisingly enough the s~viors of the ~orld. ' 
· t h'ch e iled stt'll
The waII agams w 1 w wa
stands, a bit bruised but nevertheless 
'eld' 0 th f 'd

stomg and unv1 mg. n e ar s1 e one 
finds destruction, starvation, an endless river of tears and over one million in­nocent victi~ of the twentieth century follies of man. But Americans tended to focus their gaze upon the destruction on this side of the wall: the frustration of 
failure the bitterness of impotence the deep ~res of defeat. For almost a y~r we have tended our wounds in a cloud bank of inaction and uncertainty. 
The wall still looms tall a':ld massive before us, but som~one ~as discove.red a weakness. Each of 1ts bncks myster10usly bears a name, and our name rests there as surely as anyone else's. We stare du~b­founded at the sight of our name blockmg our way, incredulous. ~at we c~ul~ be supporting the Inqmsttor, u~w1ttmgly supporting the one ~~o has decided that six million should diem the furnace, that another one million should fall unde~ ~he burning torture ~f napalm,. twe~t~ milhon under the monohth of racml e!ttlsm, and finally the One under the weight of ~he cross. Our impotence a!'~ frustratiOn 
suddenly appears as complicity, so we feel ashamed. 
Hopefully, the guilty-liberal-syn~rome which is a part of everyone will be rejected. We cannot afford to wast~ the time it takes to feel guilty about thesms of our ancestors. However, simple reflection on the abhorrent situation of milli~ns of people throughout the worl? can remmd. us of one of the resultant evils of retreatmg· from the wall as we have done during the past year: it seems that we have con­
. uff . . f
veniently neglected theirs ermg m avor 
of our wounds For so long we have been 
. · . . . 
obsessed w1th our sacnftces, our dtsap­pointments, our tears, our dea?. Should we be so bold as to remove our bnck f~om the wall, reach through to the. other stde and link arms with those suffenng on the other 
side~ . 

Thts does not necessarily mean that we shou!d proceed to st~rv~ ourse~ves, refuse medical c~re, and 1~hc~ P~Ishment on ourselves m order to tdentlfv w1th the poor. 
It does ~o necessartly meanleav~ng school or rummg ~aft ca~ds, although 1t Il_lay for some. Creabve res1ta!lc.e at bottom ~~none of these, but rather 1t 1s a. declarat10n ~f our ~reedom as human bem~s to commit ourselves to other mman bemgs. To d? so is, tot~n away from the wall, whose ratso!' d etat IS no longer. for those. who make It up •. but rather for 1ts ow~ existence. To do solS to throw ourselves mto the struggle, not a~ a .~archer or flag waver, but as a free mdivtdual who no lo~ger needs t~e co~.ort.~f numbers .to ~~ve. To do so IS to JOm . the re~olubon . . 
Creative rest.stance ca.n make a dt~­
fer~ce, removmg our bnck can make It 
easter. It does seem rather ab~urd to at­
tempt to beat down a wall whtch d~aws 
strength from our own support.. But if we 
can break throu~ the wall of guil! to ~ach 
out to the suffermg on the other s1de, If we 
can transcend the defeats of the p~st and 
the wounds of the prese~t, then posstbly we 
can ?ecome the cr~atlve force of co.m­
passwn and resistance that w1ll, 
•Iltimately. conquer t~e wall. If you smtle at me, I wtll understand 
c th t · th· 

ause ~ ts some mg . 
Everyboay does everywhere m the same 
language. . , 
I can see by you~ coat, my fnend, you re 
from ~he. other stde.; 

There s Just one thmg I got to know, 
Can you tell me please--Who won? 
Say .ca; I have some of your purple 
bernes · Yes, I've been eating them six or seven weeks now, 

Haven't got sick once. Probably keep us both alive. Wooden ships, on the water, very free and 
easy. Easy, you know the way it's supposed to 
be. Silver people on the shoreline; ;let 
Silver people on the shoreline--let us be-­Talkin' 'bout very free and easy. All we can do is echo your anquished cries. 
Stare as all human feelings die. We are leaving, you don't need us. 
for what it's worth .... 

In Tim Kendall's statement printed yesterday, the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth sentences of the 11th paragraph and the first sentence of the 12th paragraph, were supposed to read as follows: 
For another thing, the ability to
igor stravinsky convince a draft board of one's sincerity (unless on is a member1882-1971 of a traditionally pacifist sect) depends largely upon one's in­tellectual sophistication and eloquence-in a word, upon one's education. The task differs considerably in difficulty for one man who has never had the privilege of education and another man who has, for example, a master's degree in philosophy. The point is that 1-0 classifications are not equally available to all. They amount to a privilege reserved forthose who 
are fortunate enough to afford an education, and by providing a legal "out" for such people. they have the effect of considerably reducing opposition to the draft on the part of the more educated objectors to war. 
It is my contention that if one is going to oppose was (and the Indochina war in particular) and advise others to do the same, he should oppose it in a way open to all. 
Notice that everything between the first parentheses and the second parentheses was omitted. The OBSERVER gave all the premisses without so much as a typographical error, and likewise it gave all the incidentals and corollaries but the conclusion to which everything led and which was the purpose for writing it, was left out. 
Page 6 


Notre Dame admitted to WCHA 
by Jim Donaldson Observer Sports Editor 

Mter a year as a probationary member, Notre Dame officially became the tenth member of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association this past weekend at the WCHA meetings in Min­neapolis. The vote to accept the Irish was unanimous, 9-o. 
In other business at the meeting, the WCHA accepted compulsory scheduling for the first time and a point system for determining league standings was adopted, along with a new post-season playoff plan. 
Each of the 10 teams in the WCHA will play 26 league games next season. Notre Dame's schedule, which must be ap­proved by the school's faculty board before it becomes official, has the Irish playing 12 home games and 14 road contests against Association foes. Notre Dame will play Michigan, Wisconsin, Michigan State, and Colorado College four times (two home games, two away) during the '70-'71 campaign and will meet Michigan Tech and Min­nesota-Duluth twice, at home. fhe Irish will also play two road games against Minnesota, Denver and North Dakota. 
Since the WCHA also voted to increase the number of games· 
teams may play during the regular season to 32, one more than last year, Coach Smith has also scheduled six non-league games. Two of these contests will be in the ECAC Holiday Tour­nament at Madison Square Garden (with Boston College, Brown and St. Lawrence), two will be in the Great Lakes Tournament at the Detroit Olympia (with Michigan Tech, Michigan State and Dartmouth) and the other two encounters will be single games against Boston College at the ACC and Cornell at the Chicago Stadium. 
"I was quite pleased with our schedule," Coach Smith said yesterday in his office at the ACC. "I had hoped that we would play four games with Denver, rather than with Colorado College though," he added. 
Smith was also happy to see that the student body would be in school during the brunt of Notre Dame's home games. "Most of the dates, if approved by tht: faculty board, are good dates for the students and the com­munity," he said. 
The point system that the Association agreed upon to determine league standings next year works this way: Each season series is worth eight points. If Notre Dame plays an opponent four times during the 

The Graduate View 

IfJim Brogan can come back, so can I. 
Like the erstwhile cheerleader, I will be a graduate student here next year. This puts me in the position of taking orders from a guy who worked for me when he was a freshmen. 
Anyway, the first column I wrote way back when I was the boss man on page 8 concerned John Dee. This one does also. There has certainly been enough debate on our basketball coach to rival the SST fight. But once element in the Dee story has been added since the season ended. 
As students left for spring break and Austin Carr and Co. for Houston, rumors circulated concerning Dee's future. Speculation here and in Denver had Dee ticketed for the General Manager's spot in the Denver Rocket's ABA franchise. Some reports had it that Dee was getting a group together to buy the Rockets. 
Supposedly, the nitty-gritty talk was to come after the '70-'71 season ended. Well, it ended and Dee is still here. There has been no word of leaving for the Mile-High City and presumably Dee and his assistants are out on the recruiting beat. 
If you were one of the "Dump Dee" crowd (to which I belonged at various times), you were happy to hear the rumors. If you were a cynic (my chronic state of mind), you probably congratulated Dee on his foresight in getting out. Whatever your view, you're undoubtedly wondering why he is still around. 
Perhaps Dee is merely waiting for the ABA season to end before 
making his announcement. But this, as my boss pointed out (pretty smart for a punk kid, but then I did teach him all lie knows), would -­hamper the hirmg of a new coach and the recruitment of hot-shot prospects. 
I, for one, saw Dee heading for Denver on the next plane. Consider: first of all, Dee has had a rewarding past career in Denver. As coach of the Denver Truckers of the National Industrial League, he rolled up a 137-80 record, one title and three second-place finishes. 
Dee, if we can believe a recent editorial out of Denver, was very popular there and would be welcome back. He is a partner in a Denver law firm and once served on the Mayor's cabinet. 
Secondly, See would leave behind an iinpressive mark at ND. Only a 5-21 rebuilding year in '65-'66 tarnished his won-lost record. No other coach at ND has had four consecutive 20-win seasons as Dee has. Nor has any coach taken Irish squads to four straight post-season tour­naments. 
Dee recruited the finest talent ever seen here, built up a maior 
_program, and brought the best teams in the land into the Convo. About 
the only thing Dee cannot claim is an NCAA title but only John Wooden 
wins those anymore. 
Thirdly, John Dee has no real reason to stay here. He faces a 
traumatic '71-'72 season. The competition will be just as tough, but the 
players will be young and inexperienced. 
Now would be the time to get away with a fine record and let a 
younger, more resilient man cope with the sophomores. 
I don't know why Dee is still here. I don't want to ask him because 
I'm afraid he'll tell me he's staying because of his sneaker and sox 
business or because he can't sell his house. I would prefer to think Dee 
is staying because he likes it here and because he is not afraid of a 
challenge. 
In'67-'68, John Dee took a junior-laden team to the NIT with the 
worst record in the field. Mter an overtime loss in the semis, the Irish 
took third place. Next year, Dee will have the same prospects. If he 
gets into a tourney, it will be quite an accomplishment. 
year then each game will be worth two points. Against clubs that the Irish will play twice, each game is worth four points. The winning team will be all the points for each game, the loser, none. In case of a tie, the points will be divided. In .a perfect season, a club would amass 72 points. 
During the past season, the WCHA standings were deter­minced on a basis of winning percentage. 
Under the WCHA's newly­adopted post-season playoff plan, the top eight of the Association's ten teams Qualify for the playoffs. Then, on the Tuesday 
and Wednesday following the 
final weekend of regular season 
play, the top four teams will host 
the fifth through eighth place finishers (for example, No. 1 plays No.8 at 1's rink, No.2 plays No. 7 at 2's rink, etc.) in a two­game playoff. The team that scores the most goals in the two games will be named the series winner. 
The four winners then meet on 
Friday and Saturday with the 
teams again paired according to 
their regular season standing. 
The two highest finishers would 
be give the home ice advantage. 
The two survivors of the grueling competition will be recommended by the WCHA to the NCAA Western selection committee as the WCHA's representatives to the NCAA national championship tour­nament. 
"I think that this is a better 
system than the one used this. past season" Smith commented. "Ifa team plays one bad game, it isn't eliminated. They've got a chance to bounce back. 
This new system also puts a priority on finishing high in the standings," Smith continued. "Every game next year will be an important one." 
Golfers tee off this weekend 
by Joe Passiatore Observer Sports Writer 

Rev. Clarence Durbin, coach of 
the University of Notre Dame 
golf team, was associated with 
his first losing team at du Lac in 
twenty-two years of coaching, 
when last year's team ended the 
season with a 49-54 record. The 
losing record was a result of 
some uninspired performances in 
the many tournaments Notre 
Dame participates in. 
A review of the 1971 Notre 
Dame golf team indicates that 
Fr. Durbin's chances of ex­
periencing two consecutive losing 
seasons are remote. This year's 
starting team will be comprised 
of three seniors and three 
sophomores, a perfect balance of 
experience and enthusiasm. 
•

Irish nzne 
Notre Dame, Ind.--Notre Dame's baseball team, slowed by poor weather in the past week, will open its home season here Thursday afternoon against powerful Western Michigan at 3 p.m. 
The Irish nine will also face Western (9-3) in Kalamazoo Saturday afternoon in another single game. 
Notre Dame, in its 38th season under veteran Jake Kline, compiled a 5-5 record in a recent spring vacation trip. Since then, however, the Irish have had to compete with the weather while attempting to practice. 
"We played 10 games down South but I still plan to ex­periment with the lineup," said "Last year's team lost because we had a lot of seniors who weren't overly concerned with Winning," opined coach Durbin, "but this year with everyone wanting to win and the seniors playing pretty wel1, we could have a pretty good team." 
Bob Bettaglia is captain of the team and he, along with Jimmy Dunn and Denny Conroy, make up the senior portion of the squad. 
The sophomores are represented by Chock Voelker, winner of the University Open last fall, Mike LaFrance and either John Ricci or Chris Byrd. The latter two are vying with each other for sixth position on the team. Durbin sized up the quality of this year's squad by saying, "The boys usually shoot around 73 or 74, but when you travel around and play on different 7,200 yard courses their scores tend to fluctuate." 
The team recently participated ..... in a couple of practice matches with Auburn and Alexander College on a spring break trip down in Georgia and Alabama. It was the first action the Irish linksters had seen since last fall and as a result their rusty games fell prey to the southern boys, all of whom had been playing all winter. Coach Durbin explained the purpose of the trip, "We just wanted to get the boys back out on the course after being away all winter. Actually, we didn't do too badly, considering the lay-off." 
The season starts for real when Notre Dame jouneys to Ohio State this Friday and Saturday for the Ohio State invitational, involving sixteen schools. 
to play home opener 
Kline. "Several outstanding freshman players need some game experience," added Kline. 
Senior righthander Ron Sch­mitz (1-1) will start against the Broncos Thursday and either Mike Riddell (1-2), Jim Noe (1-o) or Rich Eich (0-1) will get the nod on Saturday. "Our pitching has been good so far," explained Kline, who watched Schmitz hurl a 1-0 shutout against Western here last year. 
Kline also indicated that three seniors, three juniors, a sophomore and a freshman will also be in the starting lineup. The lineup includes: seniors Bill Schoen (2B, .429), Phil Krill (SS, .257) and Chuck Horan (LF, .194), juniors Tom O'Conner (3:S, .273), 
Tom McGraw (CF, .242) and Joe LaRocca OB, .242), sophomore Bob Roemer (C, .176) and fresh­man Pete Schmidt (RF, .233). 
The Broncos captured both the Dolphin Classic in Jacksonville and the Florida State Invitational during a recent 8-3 spring trip that included two victories in three decisions over Florida State, last year's NCAA run­nerup. Western tripped Valparaiso 4-0 on Monday. Righthander Brian Sullivan (3-o) will start against the Irish Thursday with Larry Kulcsar (1­
1) due Saturday. Sophomore catcher Tom Vanderberg leads the Broncos in batting with a .552 average and 12 REI's in 29 plate appearances. 
World fencing tourney in ACC 
Notre Dame, Ind. --Two defending champions and a strong field of challengers from 21 countries will be featured in the 22nd World Junior Fencing Championships at Notre Dame University starting Friday, April 9. 
The four-day meet, being held for the first time in the Western Hemisphere, will conclude on Monday, April 12, in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The Soviet Union's Boris Lukomsky will be seeking his second straight title in the epee while Valentina Nikonova, also of the U.S.S.R. is aiming for a repeat title in the women's foil. 
"This should be the finest fencing competition ever held in the We'stern Hemisphere," said Notre Dame's Mike DeCicco, the chairman of the championships. "For the first time, two world champions return to defend their titles and this should provide exceptional competition." 
The Soviet Union is the defending champion, having won three of the four individual events and the team title on home soil in Minsk, Russia, last spring. 
DeCicco has received entries from Algeria, Argentina, the United States. More than 150 Austrailia, Austria, Belgium, athletes will compete.
Canada, France, West Germany, Junior competition is limited to Great Britain, Hungary, Israel, fencers under age 22. Men will vie Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico, for titles in foil, epee and sabre 
Norway, Soviet Union, Spain, u'""'"''"" while women will fence 
Sweden, Switzerland, and 
HARLEM 
~~~,6LOBETROTJERS 
."Sunday, Aprilll 3:30 p.m. 
ACC ND and SMC Discounts Ticket prices $4--No discount $3--Purchase for $2 (Limit 2) $2--No discount 
General Admissions--$1.50 Purchased day of game, only: 
Must present ID Card For Discount at ACC 
Student Government Needs 
People.with a concern for the Notre Dame-st. Mary's Com­munity, enthusiasm, and ability who are willing to work pn the following commissions: 
Academic Affairs Fred Guiffrida 7852 
Co-Education Bill Wilka 282-1726 Community Relations Dave Lah -1535 Hall Life Bob Higgins 8033 
Human Affairs Steve Fortunato 8515 
..... 
Judicial Commission Dave Tushar 8359 
Off-Campus John Drost-272-6909 
Public Relations Fred Schaefer -1723 Research and Development Ed Ellis 8028 
Ombudsman Service Paul Dziedzic 1609 
Please apply for specific.commissions by calling the above mentioned people. Do not apply for specific positions in the commissions, or Pick up applications in the Student Government office. 
3 halls hold elections 
Three new hall presidents were The largest voter turnout in elected within the last week, one Flanner Hall history elected by run-off in Breen-Philips and Sophomore Bob Welly and John another in Holy Cross after a Burkely as president and vice controversy arose over the hall president respectively. They policy concerning write in capture 213 of 366 votes as they ballots. defeated their nearest rivals, 
Junior Bill Derr.binski defeated Greg Bujan and Greg Einboden Sophomore Mark Kneepkens by 114 votes. Monday night for the Holy Cross The closest election of the three presidency after Thursday's was won by Sophomore Steve election was declared invalid by Jeselnick of Breen-Phillips He the Hall council. A sign over the defeated Bryson Cloon 106-9S in a ballot box validated w~ite-i~s, but · run -off election held Friday. they were declared mvahd ac-Freshman John Morin was cording to a notice on the ballots. electe<l secretary-treasurer of Dembinski won by better than a the hall. two to one margin. 
Eastern philosophy topic of Watts talk tonight 
English author Alan Watts, a specialist in Eastern philosophy, will speak Wednesday in Washington Hall.Watts' talk, "The Joyous Cosmology" will begin at 8:00 in the evening. 
Dr. Watts was born in England in 1915 and received his early education at King's School, Canterbury. He holds a master's degree from Seabury-Western Theological Seminary in Illinois and an honorary doctorate of Divinity from the University of Vermont. He is President of the Society for Comparative Philosophy. 
Watts wrote his first book, "The Spirit of Zen," at the age of 20 while active in London in the World Congress of Faiths.



Clothes and things 
Men's Boutique 

"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center -Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­n:ts 
'*****************************:
* St. Marys & Notre Dame students * * * 
#* eligible for #* * *
# Student Teaching # * *
*# during the 1st semester 1971 -72 #* I * 
* should come and apply # 
* **# 
in room 320,. Madeleva.
I 
I
* Application deadlii1e -Friday, April 91' 
* *
* *
***************************** 


