'Avoid military intervention' 
Hoopes: 'Lessons from Vietnam ' 

-That unless there is a significant past two decades has forced tfle U.S. Chief
by Bob Higgins 
presence by the Red Chinese or Com­Executives into a military conflict which 
Former Under-secretary of the Air­munists, which will act against our Hoopes said is "potentially disasterous". Force. Townsend Hoopes said last night national interests, there is no need to Hoopes lashed out at numerous ad­that the United States must face up worry about the form of government that a ministrative decisions,calling President to"particular mistakes it has made in one developing nation adopts. Nixon a "prisoner of this cold war syn­small corner of the world" and proceed Hoopes attempted to explain the reasons orome". The former member of from this realization to establish a foreign for the United States involvement in the Truman, Kennedy and Johnson ad­policy which "avoids military intervention conflicts, such as the one in Indochina, by ministrations blasted the Vietnamization like the plagu{" citing the "broad national consciousness of policy by saying it could never end the 
Hoopes. author of Limits of In-a Communist threat" throughout the war. Hoopes said that there will always be tervention, asserted that the United states fifties and early sixties. .,. a need for 150,000 to 200,000 United States could learn three lessons from its in­Contending that the executive branch of troops to maintain Nixon's idea of a just 
volvement in Indochina. They are: government asserted full control over the peace. --That there are definite limits to the military at that time, while Congress Hoopes pointed out that the president is 
amount of help that an outside major merely debated strategyy, Hoopes em­"continuing to pursue a win strategy, power can give to a weak and backward phasized that the basic reas.on for U.S. while he simultaneously withdraws nation. involvement was the widespread, troops." This, Hoopes asserted, is an 
--That the form of government adopted paternalistic national sentiment toward example of the "bold deception" that the by a developing nation can be determined counties threatened by Communism. The 
Continued on page 12
only by the people who live there. popularity of this sentiment throughout the Townsend Hoopes._ 
Vol. V. N<L.lliL.. March 26, 1971 
Americans pull back from Laos; watch for Cong buildup in DMZ 
SAIGON <UPll -U.S. forces cut short thz South Vietnamese cured six miles north of Khe Thursday started pulling back offensive into Laos was moving Sanh, spokesmen ·said. Com­deeper inside South Vietnam, into South Vietnam. American munist troops ambushed an 
abandoning thzir Lang Vei ar­withdrawal from support bases American patrol. killing five Gis mored base two miles from Laos. near the Laotian border was and wounding ond. Three other The U.S. Command said it was covered by B52 bombers that Americans were killed 15 miles keeping a "close watch" on a struck in waves across the northeast of Khe Sanh when 
reportedly large Communist frontier. North Vietnamese troops at­buildup in the demilitarized zone The U.S. Command said eight tacked an armored patrol.mMZl. Americans were killed and seven 
U.S. Command officials said Signs were growing that the wounded Thursday in a apir of Friday they are keeping a "close North Vietnamese offensive that clashes north and northeast of the wathc" on Communist activity in 
main support base of Khe Sanh the northern half of thz DMZ. which is alreayd being prepared Military sources said they would 
for dimantlemenn.
GSU holds executive elections 
Continued on page 12
The most costly fighting oc­by Don Ruane 
apply to the undergraduates increased research assistant'sOBSERVER Managing Edit"r since "there is a lot of policy that salaries and more vigorous Playwright, critic keynote

The Graduate Student Union, affects everyone." minority recruitment. which was threatened with Matthew Minnicks is running The failure of the G.S.U. will 
dissolution when no one filed a on a five point program with Bill depend on "its ability to more Sophomore Literary Festival 
petition for its presidency by Witt, another graduate of vital, interdepartmental ties both March 5, will hold its elections business administration. He said socially and academically, "Witt by Steve Lazar today at a meeting of the Wednesday that "the future of said. Minnicks and Witt summed The week long SophomoreGraduate Student Council in the education at our nation's leading up their opinions by saying the 
Literary Festival will be
Library Auditorium at 12:45 p.m. institutions lies in the develop­G.S.U. has accomplished many rollicking off to a start SundayCurrent G.S.U. President Bill ment and improvement of things but many challenges afternoon and evening with theLorimer said the nomination graduate programs. We at Notre remain in upgrading the status of appearances of drama criticperiod had been extended to Dame should strive for the advanced education at Notre 
Richard Gilman and British
March 12 after no one announced realization of a graduate com­Dame. 
playwright Tom Stoppard.·
his intention. Since then there munity whereby this university is Brogan. who served in the Gilman, who is a former drama have been three petitions sub­recognized not only as a football Student Senate and was well critic of Commonweal and mitted for the office. They were powerhouse but as a leader in known for his controversial Newsweek and is presently a submitted by Lyn Leone, advanced education." concert reviews as an un­Professor of Drama at Yale education: Matthew Minnicks, His program includes work in dergraduate, is running on an University, will be the keynote business administration and the academic, social. eleven point platform with speaker of the Festival, main­James E. Brogan. education. representational. housing and William F. Lynch III. taining the Festival's tradition of 
Miss Leone said Wednesday athletic areas. Minnicksand Witt Their platform is divided into opening with a critic. Author of that she is interested in forming a said they will emphasize housing the future of the graduate school. two books of criticism, The type of "federation" between improvements, on-campus 
Confusion of Realms and Com­(continued to page 12) mon and Uncommon Masks,graduate students and parking for graduate residents, Gilman is known as one fo the top professional graduate students three drama critics in the nation. 
such as those attending the law In his first book, The Confusion school. She said there are many of Realms, Gilman tackles aservices that each group could number of people currently Playwright Tom Stoppardexchange. 
writing literature. and per­
Another project of Miss forming drama of the culture: award-winning play, Rosen­Leone's is to create a more Marshall McLuhan, Horman crantz and Guildenstern Are centralized 
.Mailer, Susan Sontag, the Living Dead, Stoppard is also the author Another project of Miss Theater and black authors. of a number of radio and 
Leone's is to create a "more Gilman is considered in some television plays, some short centralized" job placement circles as holding a leftist point of stories, and a novel, Lord bureau for graduate students. view toward the form and content Malquist. and Mr. Moon. She said the present bureau is of dramatic art and has been Stoppard was born in "insufficient" for graduate described as being "sternly and Czechoslovakia in 1937 and came student needs. puritanically contemptuous of to England where he began his 
Miss Leone said she will also 
show biz." career as a journalist in the city seek to a joint com­Gilman's address, entitled of Bristol. having now turned to
establish 
"The Fate of Language in theater and fiction, Stoppard has 
mittee with the law students to Drama" will be delivered at 4 achieved an international
investigate the proposed 
p.m. Sunday in the Library reputation with performances offederation and the possibility of Auditorium. Stoppard will ap­Rosencrantz and Guildensternboth groups sitting on one pear that evening, at 8 p.m. in Are Dead in manuy Evropeananother's committees. She said Washington Hall. cities, New York, Tokyo andthis final possibility might also Perhaps best known for his Buenos Aires. 




Page 2 m• GBSIIIA 
March 26, 1971 

Celibacy defended by Hesburgh 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, President of the University of Notre Dame strongly defended an unmarried Catholic clergy before an organization of Catholic priests which supports optional celibacy on Monday, March 15. 
Giving the keynote address at the annual convention of the National Federation of Priests' Councils at the Holiday Inn, Hesburgh said, "This will seem unduly harsh, but the present crisis is such that we will not be able to do what must be done if we cannot count on total dedication in the evangelical tradition. I 'do not discount the possible contribution of married priests, particularly in certain areas of contemporary life, but they will not lbe the shock troops that will can·y the day against 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15pm Sat. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 8:30am Sun. Fr. Daniel Curtin, C.S.C. 9:45am Sun. Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. 
11: 00 am Sun. Fr. Andrew Ciferni, o. praem.
12: 15 pm Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
the monumental powers of 
darkness that presently threaten 
the people of God." 
Earlier in his talk, Fr. 
Hesburgh criticized the selection 
as bishops "of men who are safe, 
uncontroversial, favorably 
disposed to Rome and preferably 
Roman-educated, seminary 
rectors or canon lawyers or 
episcopal secretaries--in a word, generally those who will not make waves." In . acknowledging .some exceptions he later praised Cardinals John 
Dearden of Detroit and Lawrence 
Sheehan of Baltimore. 
Father Hesbrugh argued for 
teh choice of bishops by the 
priests and people of a diocese. 
While the method has short­
comings, he observed, it "is self­
corrective after people are made 
to live with their own bad choices" and "would avoid the horribel human anomaly that exists in some dioceses in the world today where the vst majority of the priests and people simply reject the ecclesiastical lear!er imposed upon them by the system." He also endorsed functional bishops not tied to geographical dioceses but to a specialized 'ministry, such as the inner city and rural poor. 

Notre Dame's president, who is chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission, urged priests t9 confront the real issues of "war and peace, racial justice, human development across the world, the human and humane uses of science and technology, the sanctity of human life as abused by a growing cult and legalization of abortion; Christian liberty and the draft for military service; Christian conscience and its obligations; Christian education adn a better understanding of the young who, if lost, signalize the loss of untold millions in suc­ceeding generations." 
He insisted taht priests deceive themselves by complaining about the crisis of authority or a crisis of leadership. "Wrong on both counts," he said. "What we are sufferei 
He insisted taht priests deceive themselves by complaining about a crisis of authority or a crisis of leadership. "Wrong on both counts," he said. "What we are suffering is a crisis of vision. It is the vision of Christ and his good news, His salvific message, that vivifies the Christian eommunity, age after age, and gives new life and continual inspiration to every priest in every age." 


causes



,---------------, Vogel: ac·l·ual pres~nce 
If 

NOTRE DAME BAND 
f 
POPS CONCERT
t
f ACC 
t
t March 26 8:15 pm 
' Admission free 
' 
&
.. ________________. 





noticemer1t of differences
IbyJohnFiann;gan
f t
f 
t
f 
~ 
f 

Personal presence is 
a physical sense of being that causes us to notice the difference between ourselves and another when our paths cross, according 
to Dr. Arthur Bogel, an Adams Professor. of Philosophical and Systematic Theology at Nashotah House, Wisconsin. 
Speaking on personal religion last night in the Architecture
Auditorium; Dr. Vogel said it is 
r--~-_ ..~-=.-=__::....______"""""=====:;J........:.:::::.:::::~~.:::.:..:._:_:::~..::::::.::::...:.::~ 
NDSMC STUDENT UNION 
-Applications for the positions of 
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR SMC COORDINATOR 
May be picked up Office, 4th Floor 


COMPTROLLER EXECUTIVE COORDINATOR 
in the Student Union LaFortune today and 
Monday, until 5:00 pm. They must be returned to this office by Tuesday at 5: 00 pm. 
All positions open to SMC. For information, Bill McGrath 7757 or 2345262 

For those interested or considering marriage within the next year, The Office of Campus Ministry announces the 1971 Marriage Institute 
THEME: Personal Growth in Marriage 
1st conference Mr. and Mrs. John Ragsdale Growth as experienced before the arrival of children Sunday, March 28, 3:30p.m. Engineering Auditorium 
2nd conference Mr. and Mrs. Robert Meagher Growth as experienced through the presence of children Sunday, April 4, 8:00 p.m.,Library Auditorium 
3rd coference Mr. and Mrs. Gene Guissler Personal growth as seen after the children have left home Sunday, April 18, 3:30p.m., Library Auditorium 
4th conference Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. The Celebration of the Growth of Love in Marriage Sunday, April 25, 8:00p.m.,Library Auditorium 
Certificates of attendence at a Pre-Cana Conference (a requirement for marriage in most U.S. dioceses) will be given to those who attend the Institute. For further in­formation call the Director of the Institute, Rev. Edgar Whelan, C.S.C. 
defficult to notice our natural similarities when we meet another human being because of this "personal presence." He described it as a physical sense of being, i.e. man is confined to his body and others are little more than objects for most of us. 
According to Dr. Bogel, this mentality is overcome through love; when love occurs, it escapes all definitions. Meeting and loving someone requires sharing our presences with each other. In giving his views of love, Dr. Bogel stressed the fact that love is a form of infinity, in that it cannot be fully comprehended. 
By citing passages from St. Thomas Aquinas and con­temporary theologians, Dr. Vogel concluded that a knowledge of ' 
By citing passages from St. Thomas Aquinas and con­temporary theologians, Dr. Vogel concluded that a knowledge of God is not a concept of Him as a Supreme Being, or a being at all is his he necessarily "contained" in people, according to Dr. Vogel, but he manifests Himself in the presence of others. It is by knowing other beings and sharing our own experiences that we truly come to understand the nature of God. 

Nixon proposes new reorganization 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -profound and lasting loss of Warning that the public is "fed faith." up" with ineffective government, But prospects were very dim President Nixon yesterday sent that Congress would gove Nixon's Congress his much heralded plan proposal its required approval. to dismantle seven federal The Nixon reorganization plan departments and replace them would abolish the present with four new superdepartments. Departments of Interior, 
The purpose of the most drastic Agriculture, Labor Commerce, shakeup of government Transportation, Housing and bureaucracy in the nation's Urban Development HUD, and history, Nixon said, was to Health, Education and Welfare rebuild cabinet level depart-HEW. To take their place, nixon ments "organized around goals" offered four bills creating 
of government programs. He Deppartments of Human said that would cut red tape and Resources , Community confusion within government and Development, Economic Mfairs give people quicker and better and Natural Resources. service. The plan l~ves virtually un-
When the government is touched the existing departments organized by goals, then we can of State, Treasury, Justice and fairly expect that it will pay more Defense. The Post Office attention to results and less at-Department already is being tention to procedures," the converted into a federally President said in a 7,500 word charted corporation. messagetotheHouseandSenate. Nixon left for later any 
He warned that when govern-proposals for streamlining the ment didn't fulfill its promises, scores of federal agencies that there was a "great danger ... that regulate industry and other momentary disillusionment with private activities in behalf of government wi}l turn into a more Congress. 
Voting law changed 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) -The stitution, but the resolution still Indiana Senate yesterday ap-must clear another session of the proved a joint resolution which General Assembly and go to the would have the effect of lowering voters for approval. The House the minimun voting age in In-on March 2 approved the 
·-diana to 18. resolution, 83-8. · The measure would be in line The measure also changes with a U.S. Constitutional residency requirements for amendment now being ratified by voting eligibility. Among other the states. things, it lowers from one year to 
The Senate voted 38-1 in favor six months the requirement for of amending the Indiana Con-. residency in the sta1te. 
I', T 1 ', I f

March 26, 1971 
Page 3 





Chicago Seven contempt sentences appealed 
CHICAGO (UPI)-The in the "Chicago Seven" riot a new judge, on the contempt the marathon trial were found punishment for these aftsd. federal government moved conspiracy trial. sentences handed down by U.S. guilty of inciting riots during the Thompson said the ruling Thursday to review and possible The U.S. attorney's office filed District Court Judge Julius J. 1968 Democratic National Con­would not apply if the contempt throw out the stiff contempt a motion with the U.S. Court of Hoffman last year. vention and were each sentenced sentences were meted out during sentences imposed on defendants Appeals asking a new hearing, by Five of the seven defendants in to five years in PRISON. the course of the trial. However, 
However, Hoffman also im­Hoffman waited until the trial's posed sentences ranging as high end before imposing his contempt 
$50 room deposit now required 

as 29 months and 16 days on all sentences. seven defendants for what he Thompson said he was acting called acts of contempt during under the direction of a letter
to reserve on-campus rooms 

the trial. from Atoorney General John First Assistant U.S. Attorney Mitchell which said, as a result of 
For the first time in the history of Notre Dame, a room deposit will be required of all students wishing to reserve a room on campus for next year. 

Father Thomas E. Chambers, Director of Student Residence, cited several reasons for this requirement in a letter sent to the parents of all Notre Dame students. The primary reason for this deposit is to prevent students who are uncertain if they will stay on or off campus from reserving a room and then not occupying it the next year. There were 82 empty beds on campus this year that were registered as being in use according to student account records. 
Father Chambers also said that the cost of room, board and laundry must rise in direct proportion to the number of empty beds on campus. 
The $50.00 deposit will aid in checking the instances in which students reserve a room for other students and then move off campus, Fr. Chambers said. He feels that the deposit also will help to straighten out the student account records. He said that there were several instances in which one student was found to be 

t...-------, 
:YACHTING . 
I 


tSUMMER • t IPOSITIONS 
I

fThe American Yachting Associa-jttion with listings on the East ' Coast, West Coast, Gulf Area, j
, 
and the Great Lakes is soliciting t i for summer crew applicants. j f Positions are available for ' texperienced as well as inexperi-f 
enced male and female college f fstudents and graduates. Experi­ence in cooking and child care jtmay be particularly helpful. ' 
Crewing affords one the f opportunity to earn reasonable • sums while engaged in pleasant t outdoor activity. 
I 
To apply type a 1 page resume following as closely as j possible the form shown below. f In April your resume will be 
f 
edited, printed and sent to . approximately 1500-2500' (depending on area) large craft owners. 11 , o 
RESUME :IFORM-(1) name, j addres·s (home and school). ' phone number, age; (2) relevant f work or recreational experience; f 
(3) 
dates available and area(s); 

(4) 
2 or more students wishing f to work together, state name of other parties; (5) other informa-I tion. ~ 


Send your resume with $6 j 
processing fee to: j American Yachting Associationt Suite 503, 8730 Sunset Blvd. f Los Angeles, California 90069 
Your resume must be received f no later than April 15, 1971. f 
~~~~~~~-A 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students ,of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame; Ind. 46556. Second class postag~ paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
registered in three halls and only by calling the various halls was it possible to discover where the student actually was living. 
The deposit works in the following way. The student pays the $50.00 during the week of April 26, which confirms his intention to live on campus next year. If there is any damage to the room the student presently occupies, the amount of the damage is subtracted from the $50.00. If there is no damage, it is possible to get a full refund of the deposit at the end of the year or leave it in student accounts to act as his room deposit for the coming year. 

Fr. Chambers feels that this deposit will cut the costs for all students in the long run by preventing the extra cost of the empty beds. 
James R. Thompson said the government was now seeking to review these contempt sentences because of a recent ruling by the 
U.S. Supreme Court. 
Thompson said the ruling, in the case of Mayberry vs. Penn­sylvania last Jan. 20, was to the effect that a judge who is the subject of personal attacks amounting to contempt may not, at the end of the trial, decide the the Mayberry decision, "Judge Hoffman lost the power to cite and punish those contempts under which he was the victim of '$ersonal' attacks, since bias might be presumed from the nature of the attacks." 
If the appeals court grants the government motion, Thompson said the chief judge of the Nor-
Continued on page 12 

TWA 





INTRODUCES 
With a Youth Pass­port card you get V3 off on all TWA domestic flights, on a standby basis. And reduced rates at many places you'!I stay. 
1hOFF. 
~ Youth Passport· 
TOUfM fAll IDliiTIFICATIOII CUD API'I.ICATIOII fOR l$15 12 TIIIIU 21 
,...,. 01 CK OLESKY . 
Youth Passport cards cost $3 and are available to students aged 12 thru 21. 
AND 2YEARS TO PAY 

TWA's Getaway Program U .S.A./Europe/ Asia/Pacific/ Africa 
With TW!Xs Getaway Card, you can charge airfare, hotels, meals, cars, just about any­thing to just about anywhere. And then take two years to pay. 
The Getaway Card is available to most students in the U.S.A. For additional information contact TWA 
1 or your local travel agent. 



Japanese firm may purchase US SST assets 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -As the federal government and the Boeing Co. took steps yesterday to dismantle the U.S. supersonic transport program, the State Department acknowledged that a Japanese trading company had expressed interest in buying America's SST assets. 
The White House said that "no firm offer has been received," but other officials said the possibility of a Japanese bid to acquire the U.S. government's multimillion dollar interest in the abandoned program was "one of the things that is in the wind." 
A telegram from the Ataka Trading Co. of Tokyo was received Wednesday morning 
FIRST TIME ON CAMPUS! 
UNCUT! UNCENSORED! Walt Disney's 
DAVY CROCKETT 
KING OF THE WILD FRONTIER 

WHAT LURKED IN THE BUSHES IN THE WILD FRONTIER? WHERE THERE ARE WILD MEN, THERE MUST BE WILD WOMEN! 
No RatingAvailable! Saturday -7:30, 9:30 and 11 :30 pm Sunday -8:00pm only Knights of Columbus Bldg. 
ONLY 

Starts Fri. March 26 
Strictly Adult 
I.D. Required 
X 
RATED NO ONE UNDER 18 ADMITTED 

WARNING-PUBLIC LAWS IN MANY STATES MAKES IT ILLEGAL TO ENGAGE IN MANY OF THE TECHNIQUES OF LOVE SHOWN IN KAMA SUTRA. 
Plus: Strictly Adult Co-Feature A shocking Glimpse Into the Warped Morals of the Mod World 
~\'\-~l\\\t\ "~\~ 
NOW PLAYING 
"Don't Just Lay There" and ~~The Final Blow" 
PROOF OF AGE ALWAYS REQUIRED 

Berram W. Rein, deputy owned SST technology-tools, assistant secretary of state for drawings, research and 
transportation and telecom-development. · munications, a few hours before In Tokyo, Ataru Takieawa, vice the Senate voted 51 to 46 to halt president of Ataka, denied his development of two SST company had sounded out prototypes. American officials about the 
One White House official said matter. But he did say that a the Japanese had signaled an "certain American source" had in.terest in obtaining go.:..ve.:..r,;;;,n~m_e.:..n.::_t-~aL.Jpp!;;;r....:o.-.ac.;;.;;h~e...::d....:A.:.:t=ak:::a=-=ab::.:o:..:u::..t..::.10=-=da::,y~s 
InternationaL Films Festival 
liThe Storm over the Yang-tze River" 
(Chinese) Friday, 26 March, 7:00 pm, Library 
II Anapuma/1 (Indian) 
Saturday, 27 March, 7:00pm, Library 
11 La Mentira11 AND "Viruta y Capulina'' 
(Mexican) Sunday, 28 March, 7:00pm, Washington Hall 
TICKETS AT THE DOOR ONE MOVIE-$1.00 3 MOVIES-$2.00 



FOR EVERYONE! 
"DISNEY'S GREAT PIONEERING VENTURE IS THE SEASON'S HIT REVIVAL!" Newsweek 
"AN INCREDIBLY REVOLUTIONARY FILM ... 
THE MIND CAN RUN RIOT!" The NYU Ticker 
"FAR AHEAD OF ITS TIME. ..BEST AUDIO-VISUAL EXPERIENCE IN TOWN!" William Wolf, Cue "BEST FAMILY FILM!" Joseph Gelmis. Newsday 
"A TOTAL EXPERIENCE IN SIGHT, SOUND AND COLOR ... MAKE FANTASIA A MUST!" 
Rnb Salmaggi, Group W t~etwork 

TONITE AT 6:30 8:30 SATURDAY-2:00 4:05 6:10 '­-­ 10:30 8:15  10:2 ,/  
Phone! 288-8488  

for directions to theatre 
-----------' 
ago inquiring whether Ataka was willing to sound out Japanese aviation interests about the SST should the Senate balk at further federal financing. "To this we answered yes," Takizawa said. 
Boeing President T. A. Wilson was in Japan Thursday on a previously scheduled business trip. "He has not been ap­proached by Japanese financiers, and we have not approached the Japanese," a Boeing Company spokesman said. "We have had not offers and no contact." 
Industry officials said, however, that Wilson obviously would be receptive to any Japanese overture. 
The State Department referred the Ataka telegram to the Transportation Department, which already had begun shut­ting down its SST program under William Magruder, the project manager. 
Western firms to buy Russian SST 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (UPI) ­Some free world airlines will buy Russia's version of the SST because Congress defeated the American plane, the chairman of a group representing 26 airlines said Thursday. 
"If the Russians put on a concentrated sales effort they may well find they have a market place in the West,", said Norman 
R. Parmet in an interview. 

Parmet, head of the airlines' supersonic transport committee comprised of technical management from 26 air carriers, also said! the federal government should refund more than $58 million invested by U.S. airlines in the Boeing SST. 
"We never anticipated the government would cut off funding of the SST for national policy reasons," he said. "There may be some question about the airlines' legal avenues in getting the money back, but I think the government has a moral obligation to return the money to us since the profect was canceled at the convenience of the federal government." 
Parmet said defeat of the U.S. SST by Congress "may force all of us to order the Russian version if it proves to be as good as they say it is." 
Parmet said the Soviet Union might allow free world airlines to fly over its land in turn for buying its supersonic transport which already is flying along with the British and French version, the Concord. He said, for example, an airline flying from Western Europe to Japan could save up to eight hours by flying over Russia. 
The two U.S. internationally scheduled carriers, Pan American and TWA, made risk payments totaling ~;25 million to Boeing to help in the development of the SST prototype, he said, with risk payments by all U.S. airlines more than $58 million. He said the payments were "to show our faith in the program." 
CAC presents 

The Innocents 
The film adaptation of Henry James' The Turn of the Screw 
Fri, March 26 & ~at, March 27 Engineering Aud. 7 & 9:30 General Adm-;s-sion $1.0'0 

Universityannouncesgrants 

The University of Notre Dame has accepted $438,529 in awards for the month of February to support research, new facilities and equipment and educational programs, according to Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, vice president of research and sponsored programs. 
The largest award was $198,500 from the National Science Foundation to support high energy physics research directed by Dr. V. Paul Kenney, professor of physics. Kenney and the group of seven physicists have found ­evidence that the proton is not the fundamental particle it was once believed to be, but is composed of smaller peices called "partons." 
Awards for research totaled $405,729, including the above grant and the following: 
--$62,251 from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for the "Development of Parasitic Nematodes in Vitro" by Dr. Paul 
P. Weinstein, professor of biology. 
Food service changes 
As a result of a meeting with the newly-formed Student Food Commission, Edmund Price, Director of Food Services, has made two alterations in the Food Service. Cold cereals will now be available at the Continental Breakfast. 
After the semester break, the 
policy of serving two 2 ounce 
patties will be eliminated. In­
stead, one 4 ounce patty will be 
served. These hamburgers will 
be of a better quality, due to a 
more efficient cooking process, 
which will provide for adequate 
drainage of grease. 
These hamburgers will be distributed one at a time, but there will be no limit on the number allowed to each student. 
Several other changes are being considered. When Sorimz arrives, melons, corn on the cob, and fresh strawberries will be inserted, if available. 
A plan is being discussed which would move Saturday breakfasts back to 9:00-9:45 A.M. 
A possible change in soda companies is also under sur­veyal. 
Cavanaugh and St. Edward 
:t I; ~ 

\ .-. ~ t_; \ 
$52,800 from Miles Laboratory, Inc. for "Care and Maintenance of Germfree Animals" in the Lobund Laboratory. 
--$40,918 from the NIH for "Structure-function Studies on Plasminogen and Plasmin" by Dr. Francis J. Castellino, assistant professor of chemistry. 
--$36,335 from the NIH for "Isopreniod Metabolism in Diptera and Parasitic Hemip­tera" by Dr. Robert D. Good­fellow, assistant professor ef biology. 
--$14,925 from the U.S. Army for a study of "Magnus Effects on a Spinning Body of Revolution" by Dr. John D. Nicolaides, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
Awards  for  educational  
programs  totaled  $20,800  and  
included:  

--Objects of art valued at $12,000 from James W. Alsdorf and original lithographs valued at $2,000 from Leonard Scheller for the University Art Gallery. 
--$2,500 from the Kress 
Halls are requesting permission to eat at the South Dining Hall. Any halls which would collec­tively prefer eating at the South Dining Hall and are presently eating at the North Dining Hall are asked to contact Mr. Price. 
Mr. Price would appreciate any response to the above changes through the Feedback in the Dining Halls. 
Mr. Price would appreciate any response to the above changes through the Feedback in the Dining Halls. 
Foundation for the "Catalog for the Exhibit on the Age of Vasari" put out by the Art Gallery. 
--$1,300 from the Ford Foun­dation for a "Faculty Seminar on China" directed by Dr. John Lyon, associate professor in the 
general program. 
--$1,000 from the Women's Auxiliary Notre Dame Club of Chicago for a program in the 
department of art. 
-$1,000 from the Aluminum Company of America for a program in "Industrial Design" directed by Frederick S. Beck­man, professor of art. 
--$500 from Gilbert's for a program in the department of marketing. 
-$500 from the Touche Ross Foundation for a program in the department of accountancy. 
Sylvania Electronic Products, Inc. donated equipment valued at $12,000 to the University for use by Dr. Mark W. Tenney, associate professor of civil engineering. 

The worlds great sma1t car. See, drive and buy at 
Bertles Volkswagon Inc. 
A REPRESENTATIVE FROM DEPAUL UNIVERSJTY GRADUATE 

SCHOOL OF BUSINESS WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS MARCH 29 TO DISCUSS MBA AND MS IN TAXATION PROGRAMS 
Interested students should contact the Placement Office for details 
. ):· . ! ' St. Marys & Notre Dame students eligible for 
, 1 .·r 
or 
Student Teaching during the 1st semester 1971 -72 should come and apply in room 320, Madeleva. 
Application deadline -Friday, April 9 
Page 5 
\ WITH MAX SHULMAN 
lBy lhP author tJ/ Rally Round lhf' Flag, BoyH ... lJob~tGillis ... tit".) 
Roommates; or Know Your Enemy 
You'd think that with all the progress we've made in the educa­tion game, somebody would have found a cure for roommates by now. But no. Roommates remain as big a problem today as they were when Ethan Mather founded the first American college. 
(Incidentally, despite what you've heard, Harvard was not the first American college. Mr.. Mather started his institution almost 100 years earlier. And it was quite an institution, let me tell you! Mr. Mather built schools of liberal arts, fine arts, animal dentistry and flintlock repair. He built a covered stadium for lacrosse that seated 200,000. Everywhere on campus was emblazoned the stirring Latin motto CAVE MUSSI-"Watch out for moose." The student union contained four bowling alleys, 21 horoscope machines and a 97-chair 
barbershop. 

(It was the barbershop, alas, that brought Mr. Mather's college to an early and total end. The student body, alas, then as now, con­sidered haircuts an Establishment hangup, and nobody set foot in the barbershop. The chief barber, Truscott Follicle by name, grew so de­pressed staring at 97 empty chairs that one day his mind finally gave way. Seizing his vibrator, he ran outside and shook the entire campus until it crumpled to dust. This later became known as "Pickett's Charge.") 
But I digress. We were exploring ways for you and your roommate to stop hating each other. This is admittedly no easy task, and yet it is not impossible if you will both bend a bit, give a little. 
I remember, for example; my own college days (Berlitz, '08). My roommate was, I think you will allow, even less agreeable than most. He was a Tibetan named Ringading whose native customs, while in­disputably colorful, were not entirely endearing. Mark you, I didn't mind so much the gong he struck on the hour or the string of fire­crackers he ignited on the half-hour. I didn't even mind that he singed chicken feathers during his prayers at dawn and dusk. What I did mind was that he singed them in my hat. 

To be fair, he was not totally taken with some of my habits either 
-especially my hobby. (I collect airplane tires and had, at that time, 
nearly 400,000 of them in our room.) 
Well sir, things grew steadily cooler between Ringading and me, 
and they might actually have reached the breaking point had not we 
each happened to receive a package from home one day. Ringading 
opened his package first, smiled shyly at me and offered me a gift. 
"Thank you," I said. "What is it?" 
"Yak butter," he said. "You put it in your hair. In Tibet we call 
it gree see kidstuff." 

"Well now, that's mighty friendly," I said and offered him a gift 
from my package. 

"Thank you,'~ he said. "What is it?" 
"A can of Miller High Life Beer," I said. 
"I will try it at once," he said and did. 
"Not bad," he said. 

"It is even better when you open the can," I said and showed 
him how. 

He consumed it forthwith. "Wowdow!" he cried. "Never have I 
known such mellowness, smoothness, amberness and generalized 
euphoria!" 

"Have another," I said. " 
"Oh, I must not!" he cried. "Obviously a beverage of such splen­
dor is made only for rare occasions and is therefore difficult to obtain 
and costly beyond the reckoning of it." 
"Ha, ha, the joke is on you," I said. "Miller High Life is brewed 
every single day by plain decent folks just like you and me and is avail­
able everywhere at a price well within the most modest of budgets." 
"Golly," he said. "Sort of makes a man feel humble." 
"Yes, don't it?" I said. 

Then silently we clasped hands, friends at last. I am proud to say 
we remain friends to this day. We exchange cards each Christmas and 
each Fourth of July, firecrackers. 
* * * 
We, the plain decent folks who brew Miller High Life Beer for plain decent folks like you, also bring you this plain decent column every week through the school year. 
, 









~------'-------J 
Page 6 
II, Yi,l f' March 26, 1971 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in--Chief Bruce Rieck Business Manager 
John Abowd, Executive Editor 
Youth is a blunder; manhood a_strugglt>; old age a regret. ---Benjamin Disraeli 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE OAME,INDIANA 
SST Defeat a Win for Everybody 
The recent defeat of the SST will doubtlessly be marked down as one of this Congressional session's finest hours, and one of the Administration's most serious errors. Despite the Administratign's dishonorable attempt to obfuscate the economics of the issue, fifty-four far-sighted Senators, including seventeen of the President's own party, wisely voted against continuing the mishappen SST project. 
The defeat was a well-deserved one from the start. Aside from being a danger to the environment and a pain in the neck for those desiring ~ace and quiet in the home, the SST was-and is-entirely unnecessary. The recently developed French and Soviet models will serve nicely for those who truly desire such a rapid trip across the continents; f<r the U.S. to build such a device would be an expensive redundancy. 
Noris the issue of national :rrestige a valid one. The United STates has won as many friends by standing behind ecological stabilty as it ever wouldhave by building a big jet. In the business community, rur prestige would not be heightened by such an expensive venture in the midst of a na tionwire recession. 
At once the mosh compelling -am thz most false -argument fi. the NixonAdministration for the SST is that it would create tens of thousands of new jdJs in an industry presently forced to lay off emplyees. That contention, endorsed by Nixon spokesmen ic Senate hearirgs, has been refujtedby suchdisticguished economists as Milton Friedman, and Nobel Prizewinner Dr. Paul Samuelson. The expensive project, accordirg to these experts, would have a neglibleeffect on the aerospace industry. 
If the Niixon Administration is truly interested in the plight of the aerospace w<rkers, it ought to provide for immediale unemploymenh benefits for those workers who are laid off during the current industrial crisis. Presently, those workers are forced to wait fuly three weeks before ti:~JT collect unemplcym ent benefihs. 
We ho~, then, that this defeat of the SST will indicate a renewed commitment in the Dena te to projects that are both ecologically safeand worth their price to everyone. 
Vandalisnt BL Loss for Everyone 
Reports indicating another breakout of vandalism are bad news. Y'know? 
Vandalism is a crime for which there is no defense, and no excuse. And no r.eason. The early Vandals joined the Goths, Visigoths, and later the Huns to loot Rome; it is ironic to see current vandals pester this alleged house of reason. That a place in which to study is beset by vandalism shows a triumph of unreason; a continuing triumph of unreason here has unpleasant implications. 
Since the rate of repair at Notre Dame continues to run at its normal, efficient p.aace, we are obliged to note that damage to a hall hurts mostly the poor people who have to live there; and damage to a facility hurts mostly the poor people who use that facility. In short, vandalism is specifically a crime-and an irrational crime at that-against the student at Notre Dame. 
Given that, we suspect that sterner measures ought to be used to deal with vandals here. Perhaps massive fines. Perhaps suspension-vandals are certainly a more "clear and present danger" than people tried and acquitied by civil courts on drug charges. Perhaps we all ought to sit down and map out a comprehennsive and effective plan to deal with vandals. This University sadly lacks one now. 

STRAW J sruFF'f!l.l~) STE.U C:..oaLS-<::i-C"-'E:. FofltvtR.. wart~ THE R.£\JoLL.Cr•o~A-fl( \AIAH))Jl ]l£.1) • Blt).lj) C.1 RCML.A-TioN \~ J:,M.,RD'J£.D • SL~~~ S rtt>wt~$ I.)S: <6. C:,R£A.T ~({ M:>~r-l:N(,. BA<:.KAUtE. • 
OA»Etl NoW ! 


Dave Krashna (Part II) 
The Krashna Administration is soon to pass into sweet oblivion; let it be noted that it did not pass without two curious salvos fired by the singular man who headed that crew. The late McKenna, Krashna's predecessor, could not leave without a protracted whine in the salesrag of Sophistry, the Scholastic, and Krashna, too, concocted his own peculiar signoff. But Krashna's signoff, unlike McKenna's. was imbued with his own personal combination of boldness and digncty; and it echoed that characteristic most underplayed and most overlooked in last year's administration -Krashna's own strange dignity annd his own peculiar boldness. 
In an otherwise dreary publication known, at least for the timd being, as the New Voice Krashna managed to slip in a quietly magnificent polemic, ostensibly on the state of what he, quoting 
W.E .B. DuBois called the' 'problem of thz color line," but just as much on Dave Krashna; what he is and what he believed in. Gone is the pedagogurey that inhabited his occasional columns for the daily rag; gone too iu the empty pedantry of some of his earlier political statements. Two pages of an otherwise meritless publication become Dave Krashna speaking, honestly, directly, and with eloquent sim­plicity, on a subject he holds dear. 
His argumentation is by no means complete, and the tritisms he repeats are by and large sad ones (e.g. "Also, that the color problem is nota black problem but a white problem.") 
Krashna by no means proves that the University is a white racist inshitution (he does conclusively indicate that for a long time the University was lax in minority recruitment, which may mean that thz Administration practiced racism or that the Administration prejudged the efforts of a Catholic University to recruit from that largely Protestant body of blacks in America to be futile); nor does he prove that there mush be a transitory separation of thz races that "may be generations" in its resolution in order to assure true equality of races; nor does he prove that Notre Dame is "(a) make shift praadise ... sick," something he calls "a reality which I asked each of you to face,-for black people here have and have coalesced for their own sanity." But he does establish the fact that he believes them to be true. And if he believes them to be true, the nature and direction of his year in office makes sense. For who, believing this institution to be guilty of the crime of racism ;xelieving this institution to be a sick makeshift prardise, could devote time in the presidency to anything but arresting the crime and curing the disease? 
His second salvo was a seemingly pointless bit of bravado he executed late last month. Reacting to a manifesto issued by Dean of Students Fr. James Riehle adivsing RA's to hawk after late-hour violators, Krashna and vice-president Winings issued an open letter revealing that they would be in violation of the ludicrous and arbitrary Parietal Laws and invitn g Riehle and Univeristy Provoft James Burtchaell to personally enforce them. Riehle refused to do so, and rather lamely suggested they report themselves. 
So the escapade was not pointless at all. It directly challenged an important University official to enforce a stupid and unpopular law, and that important official refused to do so. It established a precedent. It was effective. ­
So we learn, tragically late, that Krashna could be effective here on this campus if he wanted to be. But a larger and more cosmic vision deterred him, and we wo~.tld be base indeed to fault him for that no. 
Those two salvos will be with us for a whil,e, and Krashna Wllike his predecessor goes out with a bang inshead of a whimper. But that was Krashna'S STYLE. Even in pursuit of his cosmic vision, he could be effective in the real world. And in pursuit of that cosmic vision, he knew what the vision was and believed he knew how to reach it. He wau not a scattershot visionary; marching for GE strikers or ex­plaining the Weathermen wasn't his bag. His goal was arresting crime and curing disease at this University; and it was a goal he pursued with ignihy and strength. 
It is difficult for a man who has been consistently critical of Krashna 's performance to concurrently admit that it is elevating to knowwhathe means by it, but it is, and I do. 
March 
26, 1971 Page7 
An interview with Justice Douglas 


very heart of the system. Belief has always been thought to be immune from probing or investigation. The Congressional Committee asks the question, 'Do you believe in the United Nations?', well, the constitutional answer is, it's none of your business. I mean what you believe in. What he does is the government's business. 
Observer: Last semester I had a criminology course and I_ wrote a paper regarding free press and fair trial. I realize you may not want to comment on this because of certain trials now in progress, but I was wondering if you think the defense and prosecution attorneys have any ethical grounds to make a statement outside of the courtroom that 
would reflect on either attorney or on the
The following interview with Supreme 
defendent?

Court Justice William 0. Douglas was 
Douglass: My view of the attorney is my 
conducted on Thursday, March II as the 
view of the priesthood. I think they have a
Justice was driven from St. Joseph's 
tremendous responsibility to walk a
County Airport to the campus. The 
straight path and observe all the 
questions were prepared and presented by 
proprieties because they are, as such, the 
OBSERVER Managing Editor Don Ruane. 
custodians of the law and the principles of 
Observer: Several area papers have the judges themselves. Their office speaks 
quoted you on your decision concernin~ the for the court. 
selective C.O. The quote was that "we Observer: One of the criticisms I read 
have done an injustice to the philosophy of while researching the paper concerned the 
the First Amendment and we have taken a quality of furists and lawyers. Do you
step backwards." Could you elaborate on think we have a very good standard of 
that. sir? . these people throughout the nation and can 
Douglas: Well, it's a question that, at the we say that, as in anything, it is a minority 
Constitutional level, has never been an­that makes things difficult? 
swered by the Court. The Court has had a Douglas: I think, by and large, that we 
lot of, over the years, dictum about it and have a pretty _good bar association. I'm 
in the famous Macintosh case decided best acquainted, of course, with my own 
back in, oh, about forty years ago, thaf area of the country, the far west. We have 
Hughes wrote an opinion, and it was a very outstanding bars, high standards. 
descending opinion, but what he said on The judges out there are elected by the 
this point was a dictive and he was joined people and not appointed. They are state 
by Holmes, Brandeis and Stone. The four judges. The matter has 1never become 
of them said that this man should not be involved in politics. The governor names a 
denied his citizenship because he had a judge to fill a vacancy and then the man 
selective idea about what is a just war and runs in the next election. If he's elected he 
what is an unjust war. He'd fight a just war very seldom has any trouble being re­
but wouldn't fight an unjust war, and that elected. Once in awhile there is some freak 
was my view that I expressed in this thing.· He may be washed out because of 
opinion this past week. some tremendous presidential surge, you 
But it's a new question for the Court. know, on the other side and he is a casual 
It's not overruling anything that the Court victim, but it works well and we have 
has never decided, but it seemed to me to pretty good benches out there. 
be wholly out of line with the philosophy of Observer: Do you think you would 
the· First Amendment which puts con­recommend this as a national system, at 
science above the law in the sense that, by least as far as states are concerned? 
reason of conscience, we are supposed to Douglas: I wouldn't think so necessarily. 
be able to differ, not on little things, but on That came in during the 1830's under the 
things that we said in one opinion, go to the emphasisof Andrew Jackson. The election 
rick smith 


hello 
I've been here at the Observer for a has caught my fancy is the increased use 
while now and I had a fairly good working of pictures and photo essays. I think it is 
relationship with my predecessor. So that fairly obvious to those who can see and 
all tends to rob me of any high idealistic or hear that the printed medium is in its last 
romantic notions of what it means to be days. It did a fine job during its time, but I 
features editor. think we may need a new, more human, 
First of all, I find the term 'editor' more expressive form of communication 
somewhat incongruous since that implies for the dawning civilization. As an 
a measure of discretion and adaption of sorts, the best possibly within 
discrimination in the job. One edits, one the present structure, I would like to try to 
chooses good from bad, one prints or have as many photo essays and such 
throws out. But by the very nature of the things as possible. 
beast. the features editor prints all that he The new Voice said something to the 
can get to fit, to paraphrase. effect that some members of the com­
And so here I am, presuming to take a munity here retire, so to speak, into 
hard cold realistic attitude toward the job. positions such as mine and sort of go on a 
I'd like to make this as creative an exer­perpetual ego trip, always talking to and 
cise as possible. But with deadlines five among themselves. Which I think is a valid 
days a week, crt>ativity is consistently criticism. And I'd like to make my page 
forced to bow to expediency, to utility. As more pertinent to where the rest of the 
a possible solution, I have decided to people in this community are. Since it is 
concentrate all of my really fertile and hard enough to put out something that is 
imaginative potentialities on one page out ·read by others. But when one gets the 
of the week. Probably the Monday one, distinct impression that the only time 
since that wouk give me all weekend to people's eyes ever scan tne page is when 
work on it. Or else on Friday, since that some sex bomb has her body spread out all 
just seems like a pretty good day to do it up over the page, one tends to lose some of his 
really good. original interest in one's work. 
The rest of the week will be taken up And I'll even admit that I'm overly 
with catering to different people's pet sensitive :md cannot take much criticism. 
peeves and whims and desires. I'll publish And my creative and imaginative faculties 
promos for the different groups en­have fallen into a dormant state of late, 
deavoring to instill some degree of culture and it is going to take some time to get 
and real humanity into this rather sterile them exercised and back into proper 
and arid place. One change I am con­condition. 
templating is doing away with concert 
So this has been an attempt to relate to
reviews, since I really find little of last 
the reader some of my scattered ideas
_yalue in such postmortems. With luck, I'd· 
about my new page. As is the custom, I
like to have more book and movie reviews, 
guess, I would like to offer an open in­
with the hope of stirring up (agitator!) 
vitation to any and all woo may wish to 
some kind of discussion or debate on the 
contribute something of themselves to the
topic at hand. 
page and to the community. Thank you.
Another really neat innovation which haven't professionalized them as much asof judges was a part of the early so-called we should.
Jacksonian Democracy movement and Observer: Do you think the removal ofspread until three-fourths of the states now certain crimes which have been calledelect their judges. I would think that a "victimless," such as drunkenness, would system. whereby the states are permitted help clear up the court dockets and helpto experiment is probably good. There are things move along faster and more ef­different ways and there is no one way of 
ficiently?
doing it right. 
Douglas: I don 'fknow. I have the feeling Ob_server: What is your opinion on that a very large per centage of all crimes methadone centers? 
are related directly or indirectly to nar­Douglas: I have no information. I don't cotics. I just don't know~ I'm not enough ofknow anything about it. 
an expert to what should be done, but IObserver: Would you offer an opinion on think that narcotics probably is a centralpolice walkouts such as those in problem of the law at this time. NotMilwaukee and New York? · lightening up penalties for those whoDouglas: No, I won't. Those things are in traffic in these things, the merchants, butthe area of public employment. That trying to get at some new and differentwhole kind of issue is pressing for approach to the victims, what would work recognition by the court. We never got into 
it yet. · and what wouldn't, I just don't know, but I think that's the place where the greatest
Observer: From the Policeman on the advance on the criminal front could bebeat and the way he carries out his duties made. A guy on dope, he needs $40, $50, $60and the powers he has to work with, all the a week. He has to steal.
way through trial, appeal and execution of Observer: Would you offer some ideassentence if there is any, which area do you on what new developments in crime andthink needs the most improvement? 
crime prevention we might be able toDouglas: Well, I've thought for many witness in the next few years?
years that we didn'trate the police high Douglas: I don't know. I'm too farenough in our system of public services. 
removed from that. Now, there are peoplethat the educational standards were no. 
in Washington who are abreast of that. Our high enough, the salary wasn't higt Chief Justice is the head of our judicialenough, security wasn't high enough, conference, but the other members of theretirement and all the fringe benefits. I Court, we don't get into it. We don't study it think we need a career police system of except if we read it in the newspapers orvery high standards. When I grew up out see it in cases. There are committees ofwest the police were selected for their the American Bar dealing with this. Ibrawn rather than their brain. The FBI guess I'm not up to date on the problem.
opted just the opposite, for the brain and 
not the brawn. The FBI lives under our Observer: What do you think, other than constitutions. The FBI is the most efficient more money right now, could be done to police force in the world, I think. The FBI improve the prison system? has set up schools for state police all over Douglas: I don't know. I've been hoping the country and police come. That's all for for many years that we could introduce 
the good, but that means more than South into the prisons, some degree of Bend sending their policemen to an FBI rehabilitation, techniques for school, it means South Bend doing rehabilitation. Here again I am not an something in the selective process for expert, but in listening to the experts talk getting the highest quality men possible to at dinner tables, receptions and other fill those jobs. That means more salary, social events arounf Washington, I gather security, all the professional status and that 50 per cent or so of men in prison are that is the way, I think , we build up the not curable by known techniques. They're prestige of the police, and that's what we what you call a psychotic. But the other 50 need. per cent are (curable). What those 
Observer: What do you think the general techniques might be, techniques of opinion of police is throughout the coun­analysis, psychiatry, hypnosis such as is try? used in Alcoholics Anonymous. I just don't 
Douglas: I don't know. I just don't know. know. It's beyond me, but listening to I haven't taken samples myself. Where I these experts talk it seems to me that come from the police rate very high, we're on the threshold of something very they're indispensible to law and order. We creative there. have not treated the police fairly. We 
Charlotte Casey 
on Tim McCorry 
Charlotte Casey is a former student at St. Mary's College. She has been active in the women's liberation movement as well as.the People's Treaty movement. She was a close friend of McCarry's. Miss Casey gave the Observer the following article on the condition that we print it in its entirety. Yesterday, in its article on McCarry's death, the Observer excerpted from Miss Casey's article. For which reason some of the following is repeated from yesterday's article. For what it is .worth, we sincerely apologize to Miss Casey. 
Tim MacCarry, 22, (Notre Dame '70) died on March 18 in Santa Ana, Califormia. The Orange County coroner ruled the death a suicide. Despite the violent cir­cumstances surrounding Tim's. death friends feel that, for political reasons ~ further investigation would not 'be 
productive. 
At the time of his death, Tim was a teaching assistant in the department of social sciences at the University of California at Irvine. He was directing a research and discussion class on the Irvine Corporation, a company which, because of its extensive land holdings, is a very powerful factor in Orange County and the University of California political and economic affairs. He was associated with the Joe Hill collective, a group of people doing anti-war organizing around the Qeople's Peace Treaty. He was also working closely with organizers in the Chicano barrio and had exposed instances of police brutality. Close friends have stated that from their knowledge of the situation and of Tim's personal and political life, his death was not in­consistant with the principles by which he lived. 

-
Page 8 

THB OBS.&tfiDt 
POSITIONS ARE OPEN NOW ON THE OBSERVER NIGHT STAFFS If interested call the OBSERVER 
Especially Needed: HEADLINERS <FEMALE? > 
Calley \l~taiting termed ·cruel'; iudg~e tc, ask progress report 
afternoon to be present for there­FT. BENNING, Ga. (UPI) 
a verdict still has not been 
reading of some testimony. HeThe judge in the My Lai murder reached by that time. 
was puffy-eyed, and one of hiscourt martial of Lt. William L. The six officer panel has bbeen attorneys said he had not sleptCalley said Thrusday he will call deliberating the case for nine the previous night. 
the jury back into the courtroom days and defense attorney The jurors, too, were showingfor a progress reportt Monday if George W. Latimer has charged evidence of strain. Shortly after 
that it is "cruel and unusual 
returning from lunch Thursday
punishment to keep this boy 
Capt. Ronald Salem, the junior
wait~ng, waiting, waiting, for a 
member ofthe court martial
verdict that could spell for him 
panel, walked angrily from the
the difference between life and 
deliberation room with the jury'sdeath." 
big 30 cup coffee pot in his hands . 
. Col. Reid W. Kennedy, the 
"I want this cleaned, and
JUdge, answered that the jury 
cleaned now," he sternly told a
should spend "as much time as 
bailiff. The bailiff immediately
necessary to fully evaluate the 
tended to the chore.

case," but said he will recall the 
Calley is charged with the
jurors and ask them the reason 
murder of 102 South Vietnamese
for the holdup if there still is no 
civilians during an Americanverdict by Monday. 
infantry sweep through the
A co;d. jeavu raom dremcjed 
village of My Lai on March 16,
tjos omfamtru traomomg cemter 
1968. 

. .thursday and the ac­
He admitted from the witness
companying gloom seemed to 
stand that he exec;ut

lengthen the long hours of 
He admitted from the witness
waiting. Kennedy spent part of 
stand that he executed villagers, 
the time playing bridge with 
but said he did so on orders from 
newsmen, but Calley was 
his commander, Capt. Ernest L.
nowhere in evidence. 

Medina. This was denied by
The 27 year old defendant last 
Medina, who also has been or­
appeared in court Wednesday 
dered to stand court martial. 
Notes from all over 
The University of Notre Dame Dame are sharing in $5, 393,512 in today announced the setting up of financial aid of all types during a $500.000 Knights of Columbus the 1970-71 school year. Scholarship Fund. 
Announcement of the half-The Rev. James T. Burtchaell, million dollar gift to the C.S.C., provost of .the University University was made in 1967 on of N~tre Da~e, Will speak a~ the the occasion of turning over the openmg se~swn of the In~Iana old Notre Dame Post Office State Meetmg of the Natwnal building to the council to be Asso.ciation for Foreign. St~dent refurbished as its meeting rooms. Affmrs <NAFS~) o~ Apnl2 m.the The money given the University Center for ContmUI,ng ~ducatwn. came from the Council's Building The Rev. D.an 0 Neil,. C.S.C., Corporation, established some 50 Notre Dame, IS state chairman of years ago to provide campus NAFSA. quarters for the group, chartered Other speakers '?'ill include at Notre in 1910 as the first Cassandra Pyle, assistant to the college council in the Knights of dean of for~ign .admissio~ and Columbus order. study at Umvers1ty of Ch1cago; 
Income from the endowed fund Harol W. Lauver, Department of will cover the cost of educating a Imm~gration and Naturalization young man for the priesthood in S~rv1ce, Ham~ond, .Ind.; the Congregation of Holy Cross N_Icholas T. Patmo~, midwest and provide financial assistance director of the Institute of In­to Notre Dame undergraduates. te_rnational Edu~ation, and 
Fifty-four per cent of the un-Richard Mayer, director of the dergraduate students at Notre English Language Center at West 

Do you desire to live off-campus? Now taking reservations for Sept. l, 


100 blodl II.D.A. 
1971. Nine month lease, accomodations for four or five to an 

Pltone Mr. Zlnn 
apartm~:nt. 
2346847 
Notre D•me AYe. Apts. 
Badin, Ind. 

Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president at Notre Dame, will speak at the final session. His remarks will be preceded by talks by G. James Haas, NAFSA chairman at In­diana University, Bloomington, and Mr. Richard Rembold, South Bend Hospitality chairman for international students. 
Sister Marita teaches children in grades 1 to 3. She specializes in improving their reading. She needs volunteers who can work 8:30-12:00 or 12:00-3:00 once a week. There is not any teaching but there is much personal contact with the children. Simply call Sister Marita at 259-5427 any evening between 6:3o-8:00. 




-oos·1· E*'f~·.~tll~:_~l,~~STERI~A
H ft ,I! ':'' l·i I
'llil·'". ·:.tl',l!!l;,.~;:\1-1 ·•1..·. 
1 · 
! •• 
i 

SUN 1OPM WSND 640 

171B O&rERIIM 
Continental Hair Styling Inc.
Alumni Relations reaching out 
Has Moved To 
will "talk the university" and 
who didndisagree shouldn't be 
1321 E. McKinley Hwy. 
The Student Alumni Relations what it means to him. 
written off Davey added. Many of
Group (SARGl, has taken a look SARG has separated itself 
Mishawaka
these opponents wer pursuing the 
at itself and its methods in an from any public relations 
( approx. 2 miles east of Town &
issues and providing comment at 
attempt to reach more parents program and seeks to fill the void 
Country Shopping Center) 
these informal student alumni
and alumni, according to Mike of student-alumni contact. With 
sessions, Davey said. These 
Serving the N D students in all
Jordan, Assistant Secretary of active communication in mind, 
diverse attitudes should be 
hair care needs for 3 yrs.
the Alumni Associatgion. the group seeks not to convince 
cultivated, the grokp agreed,
It has had "mild success in its but to explain what is happening three years, but not the success today. we had hoped for," Jordan said. A number of the members It is planning to give its related their personal feelings, representatives more leeway in gained through experience at their contacts with alumni, he alumni gatherings. added. There was some discussion of 
At its meeting last night at the ths value of the promotional fipm Alumni Club, the SARG an­"Shake up the Echoes" which nounced plans to allow the ·was shown at some of the get­travelling teams of student togethers. Some felt that this speakers to decide the format of movie failed to give a true look at their talks. Some may choose the N.D. while others felt it was an present format while others may aij in that it provided basic in­decide on the innovation formation allowing rapid en­suggested at the meeting. The trance into more vital matters Ia tter takes the form of a when the questions began .. presentation, followed by Some admitted a certain questions from the alumni. alumni hostility around issues, 
The present procedure entails a though this atmosphere was short introduction by the students eased after furthzr discussion in followed by questions. The idea of most cases. the presentation, rather than an Ed Davey, one of the group'sintroduction, would revolve members who has recentlyaround the students' concept of returned from an alumni talk, the university, rather than felt that most of the alumni were specific czmpus iusues, such as a "extremely interested" in what judicial reform or drug abuse. was happening on campus.The issues would surface during Though some disagreed with the question-and-answer period. recent changes, Davey said, they 
In the presentation, the at least were "up on the in­students will try to help the novations." Lumni relate to the Noore Dame There was no question of dif­
student of today. Each speaker ferences of opinions, but those 
BlackStudies dept. approved 
earlier and had picketed outyide Confirmation of University the Indiana state basketball Provost's response to the tournament and the Collegiate
proposal for a department of Jazz Festival the previousblack studies has been recieved 
Saturday.
by Dr. Joseph Scott, Director of In his response Burtchaell said thz Black Studies Program. 
the program would not become a Dr. Scott said yesterday that he department on the advise of the recently recieved a letter from Academic Council. He also said 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, efforts were underway to hire 
University President, confirming qualified blacks in the area of that two black professors will be 
student affairs and that a black 
added on thz College of Artt and freshman counselor had been 
Letters in the next year and an retained for next year.additional two in the academic Dr. Scott said Fr. Hesburgh's years of 1972-73. 
reply advised that the direct roof 
A typed list of steps to improve the Balck STuies Program should thz program as Dr. Scott un­"share in th selection" of black 
derstood them was given to Fr. faculty. He also said Fr. Hesburgh when they met in­Hesburgh agrees with the idea 
formally for dinner on March 12. that the program director should 
Fr. James Burtchaell, Proovst, be chariman of the Black Student replied to the proposal on March Affiars since problems are most 9, after members of the blzck likely to reach the office of Black 
community met wth him a week Stuues 
OBSERVER NEWS MEETING 



N D and SMC staffs 6:30pm Sunday, March 28 Room 20, La Fortune 
Applications for membership are now being accepted by the 

KENNEDY INSTITUTE 
Membership is open to ND SMC students, 
Interested students should send name and address to 628 Flanner. 
allowing thz alumni to assume a 
Call Now for appt.
larger rorole in campus activity. 
259-7679 



NDSMC STUDENT UNION 
Applications for the positions of 
ACADEMIC COMMISSIONER 
SERVICES COMMISSIONER 

CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSIONER 
SOCIAL COMMISSIONER May be picked up in the Student Union Office, 4th Floor LaFortune today and 
Monday, until 5:00 pm. They must be returned to this office by Tuesday at 5: 00 
All position~mopen to SMC. For information Bill McGrath 7757 or 234 5262 
-
~--~~:.:... 
•"':"'"""'' 


Summer School. 
For those of you who don't want to give up one for the other. 
: Summer Sessions at the University of California offer college stu-: • dents and teachers a choice of courses for credit as wide as most colleges • : offer during the regular semester. . : • Each campus has the facilities and environment to which the most • • academic-minded student can relate. • : There are 2 six-week sessions at Berkeley, U.C.L.A. and Davis. And : • sessions of various lengths at Irvine, Riverside, San Diego, Santa Barbara, • • and Santa Cruz. • : All of them start in mid-June,fees for each ranging from $125 to $160. : • For an application and a bulletin on one or more campuses, just fill • : out this coupon and mail it to: : 
• 570 University Hall, University of California, Berkeley, Calif. 94720 ••• D Berkeley D Davis D Ii:vine D Riverside D San Diego •• : D Santa Barbara D Santa Cruz D U.C.L.A. :
•• I am aD student, 0 teacher at: •••• I am interested in these courses: •• 
• Name • • Address ••• City/State/Zip •• 
Page 10 7118 O&s:1Rf1!71t March 26, 1971 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS 
!vbil in or come by Observer ojjlce. For bzfornution call 7471. 
------------------~ 
SERVICES 
sreen-Phlllips Food Sales. 
· Call in pizza orders before 11:00 pm. 1294· or 1705. Pick up at 11:30. Stop on your way home from the library. $1.25 Cheese $1.40 Mushroom $1.50 Pepperoni $1.65 Everything 
Crypt-New Hours 12:30-4:00 Now on Stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 Cat Stevens-Ten fCir Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection $3.1 C 
Mountain.:..Na~tuck et"Sleighride 
Free taxi service available: limited to female aged 11-99. Phone Norwood or Evil, 1993 or 233-9508. Day or night (preferably night!) 
Hang out at the Rathskellar-Free coffee-12­12 HOUS .IG 
To Be Married Student needs suitable Off-Campus housing for 71-72 school year; Preferably furnished, Close to campus, and Rea1sonable 
Call Tom 282-2!!50 Leave Message 
Responsible female grad student desparately in need of summer housing. Ideal person to maintain home during summer months. Call 7159 
Wanted to Rent House for !<'all-Spring 1971-72. SingleIvVoman SMC Faculty. Call 
·"'nClark 4503. 
'71-'72 Seniors need roommates for O.C. house­Call Terry 234-3357 
Professional male to share beautiful apartment with student instructor now, summer or fall-Call 233-2394 after 5 p.m. 
Will exchange house in San Antonio, Texas for house or apartment in ND area. June, July, August or any part thereof. Four bedrooms, 2 baths, Beautiful residential district. Mrs. Anna Norton, 743 Susie Court, San An­tonio, Texas 70216 
L__ 
WANTED 
Wanted -1 good typist for a senior essay. Call 233-3453 Dave. 
Men of all trades to North Slope, Alaska and the Yukon -around $2800 a month. For complete in­formation write to Job Research, P.O. Box 161, Stn. A, Toronto, Ont. ­Enclose $3.00 to cover cost 
Boy Scouting Summer Camp Jobs-Field, Sports Instructor-21 yrs. old (by June)-N .R.A. certificate $700-Water Front Super­visor-21 yrs. old (by June)­Red Cross W.S.I. $800-Call 1253 weekdays 4-5 p.m. 
Greeting card ideas wanted-$10 each for college oriented situations­Important you enclose self­addressed stamped return envelope-Joy Card Co.-6th Floor-18 West 18th St.-NYC 10011 
Wanted-wet suit for this weekend-Call George 232­9816 
Newly formed Waterbed Company wants campus representatives for hottest selling item in states. 
Good commissions for a few hours work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. Write: 
Lightrays Designs, Inc. Lovesleep Waterbeds 
Division 3727 Walnut Street Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 
or Call: (215) 349-9330 
Interesting, fun job. Prefer business or graduate student but en­thusiasm main requirement. Able to work on your own for in­ternational student travel organization. Represen­tatives eligible for free trips to Europe, Caribbean, Mexico the year round-plus good commissions. Write: 
University Student Services Students Overseas Division 
3733 Walnut St. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 or Call: 
(215) 349-9330 

Irish cagers set records 
country," said Dee. The Irish cagers played 10 teams who gained post-season tournament bids and posted victories over Southeastern Conference champion Kentucky and Pacific Eight winner UCLA, an NCAA finalist along with Villanova, another ND opponent. 
The Irish were ranked 12th in the final AP poll and 14th in UPI while playing before a record 296,347 fans. an average of 10,218 
per game. Included in the at­tendance were 12 sellout crowds, two over 17,000 and a record 19,500 in Madison Square Garden. 
Carr, named College Player of the Year by both the Associated Press and United Press In­ternational, finished his senior season with 1,101 points, just five less than a year ago. Carr still became only the second player in 
collegiate history to score 1,000 or more points in two seasons and his career average of 34.5 is second behind Pete Maravich. He was also second the past two years in the national scoring race with 38.1 and 37.9 averages. 
The Washington D.C. native finished with 2,560 career points, the fifth best effort in college basketball. Carr also scored 289 points in seven NCAA tour­nament games, an average of 41.2, well ahead of the record of 
33.7 but one shy of the required number of games (eight). 
Carr, of course, holds all major Notre Dame scoring records and District Four All-American Collis Jones moved into fifth place on the school career scoring list with 1,367 points. Jones finished with a 
23.1 average this year plus a near record 382 rebounds 03.1 ). 

Although the Irish were knocked out of the NCAA Tournament, they displayed some great team spirit throughout the season and once again they won twenty games against the toughest competition in the countr . In so doing, they also set a new attendance mark. 
CAPE COD -TOLEDO -KANKAKEE 'S 
2nd Bi-weekly kickoff 
ELBOW BENDER 
(PARTY) 
HAS BEEN MOVED 
TO THE BASEMENT OF ALUMNI HALL. (ENTER FROM BACK ENTRANCE). 
9:00 Guests & members cordially invited 

HOSTESSES WANTED 
ND Dining Halls currently seeking volunteer hostesses to ~reet Notre Dame men as they arrive for our Hawaiian Night Dinner on April17. Please c.all 183·7253 during office hours for info. 

ROMA's RESTAURANT 
ROOM DELIVERY 
Open til 4 a.m. 
PIZZA -SANDWICHES 
JOHN ON THE ORGAN NIGHTLY 
Chapped Lips Friday & Saturday 
Tel : 234-3258 

EUROPE this summer?  Fly  
in  a  jet  chartered  by  the  
NATIONAL  UNION  OF  

STU DENTS and SAVE! Approx. 60 dates available for round trips betw. London & 
N.Y. this summer for $245. Many other benefits (travel passes, hotel discoun~s, etc.) Also available. For mfo. or application call: Tom 282-2250 from 5-10 prn . .Mon-Fri. 
March 26, 1971 771B ,.,.. Page 11 
Hockey team set for "next year'' 
by Jim Donaldson 5-4. Tech went on to win thz hockey progrjm from humble Observer Sportswriter WCHA championship. beginnings to the brink of the The moral victory over Tech national spotlight.
Back in December, just before was the first of a number of "high No other team in collegethe opening of thz '7Q-'71 hockey spots" in the '70-'71 season. In hockey has come as far as Notreseason, Irish coach Lefty Smith December the Irish recorded Dame has in so short a time and saij, "Our aim is to be com­home ice victories over Michigan the progress of the Irish icers is apetitive with WCHA clubs this State and Wisconsin and handed tribute to these two fine coaches. 
season. We might be biting off Bostom College a defeat in the There were a number ofmore than we can chew, but I Eagles' Chestnut Hill rink. standouts on this season's club.
don't think so." 
In January, the Irish swept a Junior goalie Dick Tomasoni,Coach Smith thought his Irish series against the Air Force who is currently competing in themight have their problems Academy in Colorado and World Championship Tour­coping with the difficult schedule registered a thrilling, overtime nament with the U.S. Nationalthat lay before them. Notre win over WCHA power, North team, was named the mostDame, in only its third year of Dakota in the ACC. valuable player this year, thevarsity hockey, listed 20 games Improving continually, the second time he has won thisagainst teams in the Western Irish chalked up their biggest win honor. Tomasoni was also MVPCollegiate Hockey Association, of the year in February, handing as a freshman. Dick did a fine job the toughest college league in the Denver a 4-2 setback of goaltending this year for the
country. Yet the Irish, a young club, comprised chiefly of fresh­Later in February, the Irish Irish. 
men and sophomores, managed swept a pair of games from the Another junior, winger Jim 
Cordes, was named the mostto post a 13-14-2 record against Michigac Wolverines in Ann Arbor, Notre Dame's only series improved player on the club, also college sextets and were 13-16-2 duplicating an honor he won two
overall. Notre Dame was 7-11-2 in sweep of the year against a WCHA competition. WCHA team. years ago. "I was quite pleased with thz In March the Irish played Sophomore defenseman Bill 
results of this season," Smith outstanding hockey in a pair of Green and junior wicger Kevin said yesterday in his office in the losses to the U ... S. National team Hoene were named as C"o­ACC. "We proved we could stay and closed out thz season with a captains for ths '71-'72 campaign. with any team in the country." pair of wins in the Convo over the They will take over the posts Air Force Academy. vacated by seniors Phil Witliff
The Irish, who will become Notre Dame's ac-and John Roselli.
members of the WCHA next complishments this season take Green was named the topseason, proved early in thz year on lustre one defenseman on the club this year that they could play on even an added when realizes that just four years ago while Hoene tallied 16 points onterms with even the powers of hockey was a club sport here at the year with 6 goals and 10that league. Notre Dame, playing 
DuLac. assits.
without high scoring John Noble, Coach Lefty Smith and his Witliff leaves Notre Dame with forced Michigan Tech into highly capable assistant, Tim a host of Notre Dame records toovertime, the first weekend of the McNeill, have brought the Irish his name. A powerful offensive season ic Houghton before losing 
Baseball team goes 5-5 
record toshow for their efforts.
And as far as pitching and
by Vic Dorr fielding practice is concernec, THis inability of the Irish to hit Observer Sportswriter with men in scoring position. The 
the Convo is fine. But you don't Mention spring training to any learn to hit breaking pitches by Notre Dame squad, in fact, 
baseball fan, and he'll im­spending hours under flourescent stranded 93 runners during the 10 games.
mediately conjure up thoughts of lights, and this presents the "Sometimes "he said "weFlorida and Arizona, and of palm problem which faces the Irish would have th~ee men
trees and sand. But mention it to team during the early stages of o~ base 
and nobody out, and wouldn't beJake Kline, Notre Dame's nearly every year. 
able to score; and the big reasonveteran baseball coach, and he'll It was, for instance, perhaps for this was strikeouts. This tripprobably think of snow and ice the only real difficulty to plague was the first time all season thatand the artificially-lit interior of the ND team on its annual spring we'd been outside, ann we justthe Convocation Center trip. The Irish played 10 games weren't able to handle some fo
fieldiiouse. while on the the curve ball pitchers that theyKline, who is entering his 38th It was, for instance, perhaps threw against us." 
season as te Irish instructor, the only real difficulty to plague But while outside practice will must use the facilities of the the ND team on its annual spring likely pull the Irish attack out offieldhouse as a substitution for trip. The Irish played 10 games this mild slump, Kline found histhe training that his team could while on this South-western team's performance to be en­receive on an actual diamond. swing, and returned with a 5-5 
couraging in many ways. The ND• mound rotation appears to be very strong, and the efforts turned in by members of the pitching staff were perhaps teh presence felt in awesome most encouraging facets of eh 
Stickmen wzn 
Last M onday, while fashion; the results of which were entire trip. Mike Riddell and Ronmany of their peers no better displayed than on the Schmitz both turned in excellentbuffooned in the sands of Florida 
and other tropical climes, the slippery astrturf in Cincy on showing on the mound, and fresh­
opening day. man Noe the
1971 Notre Dame Lacrosse Club Jim highlighted
Led to battle by captains Kenny 
opened up its spring season in the outing by firing a shutout against 
Lund and Jerry Kamer, the Irish 
chill of southern Ohio. Memphis State. Kline was also
started their scoring barrage
~ith a decisine display of deft impressed by thz play of another
early in the opening period and
stickhandling and precisioned freshman, Pete Schmidt. Sch­
unmercifully battered the
teamwork the Irish easily midt began practice as an in­
Bearcat goalies until the final
d~feat~d the University of Cin­fielder, but was switched to the
horn.
cmnati by an overwhelming outfield, and seems to have found 
Jim Laffey, a small but mighty 
score of 15-4. It was a fitting a home there.
veteran, scored early in the game 
debut for rookie coach Rich with a slashing shot from his "He was very impressive, •: o'Leary, who in two short months midfield position. From this point admitted teh coach, '"both as ahas masterminded the once on ND cQntrolled the game. fielder and as a batter."
lagging efforts of the stickmen Eddie Hoban put on an in­Now that their spring trip hasinto a respectful optimistic dividual lacrosse clinic by been completed, the baseballoutlook for the future. 
scoring six times before coach team will be idle until the regular 
Employing hardline 
o'Leary removed him from the season opens on AprilS. The Irish "Rocknian" tactics on and off the lineup. Lund and Dave Jurisich open at home this year, and their field, he has made his dominating followed in the scoring parade opponent will be Western with three goals a piece. Jim 
Michigan, a power in the Mid­
Bingle, Joe Anderson and Jim 
American conference. THe
Sailing meet 
Brown all contributed a goal each 
highlight of the '71 home schedule 
to complete the rout. . 
is a two-game home series with The Notre Dame Sailing Club is The ND Lacrosse Club is Ohio University, the defendinghosting their Intercollegiate looking forward to a successful Mid-American champions and aFreshman Icebreaker Regatta season and it sees action next on fourth place finisher in NCAAthis weekend March 26 and 27 April 3 against Ashland. The College World Series.
(Friday and Saturday) on St. team has plenty of potential with Joe's Lake. All invited to share Lund lmd Hoban leading the 
This 1971 edition of the ND the excitement of small boat offensive attack and Kamera in 
Baseball team will be out to competition among some of the goaL Perhaps the greatest asset better last year's 17-14 mark, 
best. midwest teams. is the new coach. Currently, he's and will be seeking a berth in the Racing starts at 9:00 and the only unbeaten coach on NCAA playoffs for teh second continues until 4:00. campus. year in a row. 
threat, Williff must be considered Notre Dame's first hockey great. 
Roselli was a hustling team leader who will be sorely missed next season. 
The top scorers on the club will be returning next season. 
John Noble sophomore center from Toronto, led the Irish in scoring for the second straight year, notching 43 points on 16 goals and 27 assists. 
Freshman winver Ian Williams was runnerup to Noble in the point parade, wilh 15 goals and 26 assists for 41 points. Sophomore center Paul Regan 02-22-34) and freshman winger Eddie Bumbacco 05-15-30) were third and fourth respectively. 
Leading the Irish defensive corps were Green and FRESH­MAN Billy Nyrop and Ric Schafer. 
"We had a better hockey team than a lot of people thought we would," Smith said, summing up the season. "Wilh the kids we have coming back, and another good recruiting year, I think we can be among the ten best teams in the country next season." 






DeCicco 
by Joe Passiatore 
Observer Sportswriter 
The Notre Dam e fencing team capped an utterly impressive season by finishing in sixth place in the NCAA fencing competition at thz Air Force Academy in 'Colorado Springs, Colorado during March 18, 19 anf 20. 
The three individuals who were responsible for the team's suc­cess were Rich Deladrier, epee; Doug Daher, sabre; and J.T. Lyons, foil. Deladrier compiled a 14-9 record in his division which was good enough to earn him sixth place, a medal of recognition from the NCAA, and a spot on the second all-America team. It was the second con­secutive year the Rip had gone 14-9 and finished in sixth place for his all-America status. Rip ac­tually tied fr fourth place on the basis of his won-loss recofd, but the rules committee instigated a "touch ratio" which demoted him to sixth place. 
For Doug Daher, coach DeCicco's choice in the sabre weapon, the tournament was frustraling "close but no cigar" story. Daher ran upa a 14-9 record against sabre com­petition, but it was only good enough for eighth place. Had Dough emerged victorious in just one other bout he would have vaulted in th standings from eighth place to fourth, and merited that coveted all-America status. Doug's sentiments on his unrewarded efforts were, ''Before the tournament I had no idea of how I would stack up against the competition in the nationals, but when it was over I experienced a feeling of emp­tiness because of how close I came to being an all-American." DeCicco went on to say, "Doug was probably our most disap­pointed fencer and it's un­derstandable in that he has defeated every fencer who finished 
DeCicco went on to say, "Doug 

•IS proud 
was probably our most disap­pointed fencer and it's un­derstandable in that he has defeated every fencer who finished above him sith th ex­ception of Bruce Soriano fo Columbia who was the un­defeated champion in sabre." Columbia migpt well give Daher some kind of honorary .award because it was Daher's victory over second place finisher Steve Kaplan of NYU that enabled Columbia to tie NYU for the championship. 
J .T. Lyons efforts in the foil division resulted in an 11-12 mark and fourteenth place. Coach DeCicco admitted surpise at the fact odds-on favorite NYU did not run away with the tournament. As for his own team's achievements he commented, "If our kids did any better I would have been in a state of ecstasy, as it is, I'm elated. Ifyou look at the standings you'll notice that of the five teams ahead of us all are schools which give grant­in-aids to fencers. We don't do that here at Notre Dame and it's really rewarding when you have a fellow like Doug Daher who never picked ujp a sabre weapon untilhe arrived at Notre Dame and four years later he's beating people who've been fencing all their lives and are the best college competition ic the country." 
"We did a helluva job out thej and we have nothing to be ashamed of. These kids worked harder than ever before for the nationaJs and they were in an excellent frame of mind for the meet. We were number on in the country as far as scholls that don'f give fencing scholarships. Again, the only disappointment was thet there will be no all­American plague for senior Doug Daher. " And so ended what was obviously one of the most rewarding seasons in coach DeCicco's nine year tenure aw fencing coach at Noore Dame. 
__j 
I I; '. · I .t
Page 12 
March 26, 1971 

Continued from page 1 
not rule out so called protective reaction strikes against newly built artillery and rocket sites in the six mile wide strip which separates thz two Viatnams. 
In Washington, the Pentagon said U.S. aerial reconnaissance showed thahNorth Vietnamese had moved big guns and rockets inside the Demilitarized Zone between North and South Viet­nam in the biggest buildup ther in 
years. 
The Pentagon indicated this posed a possible threat to Khe Sanh. which is 20 miles south of the DMZ. Defense sources said "If General Creighton Abrams, 
U.S. commander in Saigon, felt his people were being hurt, he would no doubt recommend that something be done about it." 
The U.S. eommand said Thursday that 54 Americans were killed in action last week, nine more than the previous 
ABSOLUTELY 
No crds accepted after 4prn on the day prior to publication 
Michael's 
H1.IR STY '-lNG FOR MEl\' 
18381 Edison Rd. (Y., mile east of A.C.C.) Ph. 272-7222 
t.ppointments if Desired 
J W \RD WINNING· STYLI' T~ 

.:4 'VDARD HAIRCUTS--HAIR STfLl1Y 
4ZOF: CUTS-HAIR STRAIGHT:J'VJNC 
For Junior & Sophomore St. Marys Students Paid position for Student Advisor to Freshman. 
-Office of Dtrector of Counseling-
Benefits include 
-$250 per semester applied to room and 
board -Inservice Education Program-covers all aspects of counseling -receives academic credit (2 per semester) for senior. 
Must applly by Wednesday March 31. Either stopin the Student Personnel Office for an application or call 4835 for additional information. 
week. U.S. combat dead since Jan. 1961 now total 44,730 
The figures showed 7,750 Communist troops killed during the week for thz highest enemy toll since the Cambodian in­cursion began in May of last vear. South Vietnamese forces iost 630 killed for the week, spokesmen said. 
.. American soldiers were pulling out of the Khe Sanh base Thursday for the second time in tw years. U.S. Marines withstood a 77 day siege in 1968 and later dismantled the base. 
The U.S. Army reoccupied the half mile by one mil ;e plateau on Jan. 30 for ths Laos operation. Now the Army is pulling out again. Officers said this would take one week to three weeks. 
A constant stream of giant C130 ·'Hercules" transports was carrying men and material back to Da Nang and ooher southern 
bases. 



:********************************************* 
* i*


i 'Fox' Foiled by Fuzz 
MONTGOMERY, ILL. (UP I) -The anonymous, one man anti pollution campaigner who * calls himself "The Fox" has escaped with his secret identity intact once again. * However, police in this community were crediting themselves with at least foiling an * attack on the Armour Dial Co. One even caught a glimpse of the furtive figure as he slipped * away in the darkness. * That's more than most police have been able to accomplish since the lone crusader * started guerrila warfare !tactics against large companies and utilities he considers to be * major polluters. * Montgomery police went into action after Chief Jack Hughes received a tip Tuesday night * that an attempt would be made to cement a drain pipe of the Armour plant outside of town. * Policeman James Meinholz was posted as a lookout. He reported everything normal at 9 * 
p.m. But at 9:30p.m. he spotted a figure in in dark clothing skulking along a creek near the * 
drain pipe. ** Then as Meinholz moved in for the catch, the figure darted away and melted into the *
* darkness of the surro!Jnding woods. 
* * At least Meinholz, investigation of the scene was more fruitful than the attepted capture. ** He turned up a flashlight, still lit, a 100 pound sack of cement, a quantity of lime and a note ** which said: "Armour Dial has polluted this creek for long enough; the animals of the forest *
* 
can no longer stand it."

* 
'Meinholz also found the sign of the fox-an orange sticker imprinted with the head of a fox-** * which always has been leflt at the scenes of the Fox's exploits minutes before the law. * ~ ButfortheF'oxhimselfitwasonemore"clean"getaway. *.-­


In the * 
In the past year, he has serawled nasty signs across the walls of industrial plants, plugged * # up sewage pipes and, most recently, sloshed what he claimed to be waste from a steel mill * * on the white carpeted floor of the office of a top U.S. Steel executive. * 
********************************************# 
Hoopes analyzes Vietnam 
continued from page 1) president 
employs on the American public. 
The Nixon Doctrine is out­dated, according to Hoopes, because it is no longer necessary to defend any threatened country as if the threat were directly made toward the United Statt,s. 
Hoopes pointed to the futility of tht• SALT talks, <Strategic Arms Limititation Talks l, as another error in the Nixon ad­ministration. He said that after 16 months these talks "have not 
gone  beyond  a  mutual  
examination  of  opposing  
positions."  

He described both of the ad­ministrations major military decisions as failures. Cambodia, he pointed out, has gone from a brief offensive to an all out war, inducting a seige of its capital Phnom-Penh and the Laotian invasion failed miserably, even with the support of American air troops. 
Citing an apparent discrepeney in the President's remarks of last Monday night. Hoopes noted that Nixon had felt the Laotian in­vasion was a success because the South Viet Namese troops were able to defend themselves, yet, he pointed out, the president or­dered a quick and onlerly wiith­drawal weeks ahead of schedule. 
Looking toward the future, Hoopes sees a change in foreign policy due to a' number of reasons. Citing the fact that the Kremlin "monolity" no longer existsbecause Communism has 
Applications for the following cabinet positions are available In the Student Government office th1is week: 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
HUMAN AFFAIRS HALL LIFE PUBLIC RELATIONS OMBUDSMAN 
RESEARCH AND DEVELPPMENT COMMU~~ITY RlELATIONS OFF-CAMPUS JUDICIAL COOR. RECRUITMENT ACTION PROG. 

Appllc:ations should be sent to John Bar"ett, 354 Morrissey, . Deadline is today, Friday March 26 1Cal1 611'1 for job de~n·iption\ 
been "Fragmented" and that growing domestic needs. This, is massive nuclear power has the sentiment of Middle America virtually eliminated the threat of which has been the mainstay in all out war, Hoopes indicated that the~ Adminisadministration 's perhaps the United States could support over the last two soon turn its attention toward decades, Hoopes added. 


GSU offices sought 
(continued from page 1) living conditions for graduate students and a merger of the 
G.S.U. with the undergraduate student government. _ Brog?.n advocated full voting privileges for graduate students on all university committees and councils pertaining to graduate education. He said a "definitive statement" defining the direction of the entire Notre Dame com­munity should be included in the final coeducation report. 
Another proposal by Brogan and Lynch would change the name of the G.S.U. to the Graduate Student Government and move its offices from the Administration building into the student center. The two governments would merge allowing them to approach the administration with their "mutual grievances." Brogan said he will keep many of the programs. such as life in­
surance,  that  came  under  
Lorimer's  administration.  He  
said  that  the  living  conditions  

must be improved. He recom­mended the expansion of the University Village as a "partial answer to the deplorable housing conditions in South Bend." 
The facilities available to graduate women must be ex­panded according to Brogan. He said he was particularly con­cerned with the infirmary where "women are not given beds even when they are available," he said. 
Brogan's final point would require two year's prior notice of the elimination of any graduate program and a statement of that 
department's status candidate applying program in question. Chicago 7  to for  any the  
Continued from page 3  

thern Illinois judicial district will appoint a new judge to review all thz alleged acts of contempt cited by Hoffman. Thompson said the new judge could then impose the same sentences as Hoffman, could mete out lesser sentences, or impose no sentences at all. 
The contempt sentences were one of teh most controversial developments of a trial full of controversy. 







