
Student Union leadership filled 


by Clifff "Buzz" Wintrode 
Student Union Director Bill McGrath unveiled yesterday the team of people he will be working with during the new Union year. 
The appointees will assist him in providing a direction for the Student Union as it begins planning for the coming year. 
This "direction" will be revealed later this week after a 
meeting Wednesday night of all in the Union
lr ares Increase the top people1 
hierarchy. McGrath decliced to comment on what possibly could 
• t come out of that meetiJ!g. The appointments were an­

t0 meet rlslng Cos 
nounced by McGrath are: . 
WASHINGTON (UPI)--The nation's financially ailing airlines won permission yesterday to impose fare in­creases that could cost con­sumers an extra $400 million over the next 12 months, depending upon the volume of air travel. 
The Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB), with two of its five members dissenting in part, authorized an immediate 6 per cent hike in coach fares and gave tentative approval for an ad­ditional3 per cent boost in 50 days if no objections are filed before them. 
The rise in coach fares means first class, ml1itary and youth_ fares will go up automatically as well since all are tied together under a formula. First class prices are 130 per cent of those for coach tickets, with military fares 50 per cent and youth fares two-thirds of the coach price. 
Increased Revenue 

CAB Chairman Secor Browne estimated that the two step in­crease would bring the airlines at least $115 million a year in ad­ditional revenues and might gentrate as much as $400 million annually if passenger traffic is heavy. 
For example, the present Detroit to Miami coach fare will go up from $81 to $86, the Atlanta to Memphis fare will rise from $32 to $34 and that from In­dianapolis to Washington will climb from $44 to $45. 
The higher ticket prices are expected to go into effect in about three weeks. The airlines are 
on campus today... 

7:30 lecture-walter e. schirmer: the executive tight-rope--business and social change, auditorium, center for continuing education. 
7:00 & 10:00 films-non­violence department: laos the forgotten war and the people's war, 122 hayes-healy. 
8:30 lecture-marty teitel, director of overseas refugee program: what students can do about the war, non-violence department, 2nd floor Iafortune. 
nd-smc 

required to give 21 days notice after filing their new prices with the CAB. 
The board's decision was the first stage of an intense in­vertigation into the airline fare structure. The CAB is likely to take action on other fares-­including discount and 'joint' or inter airline fares--later this year. 
The Nation's airlines had asked for increases ranging from 12 to 27 per cent this year. They registered combined losses of $195 million last year despite fare hikes of 10 per cent and 6 per cent in 1969 and 3 per cent in 1970. 
The airlines have blamed their deficits on spiraling operating 
Continued on page 8 
Preregistration for the fall semester 1971-72 will begin Thursday, April15, under a strict class priority system according to Assistant Registrar Daniel J. Rach. Photographs for Notre Dame and St. Mary's iden­tification cards will be taken during the procedures which end April 22. 
The priority stysem is designed to eliminate problems connected with check mark courses. Last fall many students had trouble getting into courses, par­ticualarly theology, philosophy and sociology, that were open on a 'first come-first serve' basis. Rach said some students prac­tically 'camped overnight' in front of departmental offices so they could be sure of scheduling the courses they wanted for the present semester. 
Seniors will be the first to 
register when they begin to 
consult their advisors or 
departmental heads Thursday. 
Juniors will begin on April 16 
while sophmores will report on 
April 19. Advance registration 
for the overseas program will be 
held April 22 in the Ad­
ministration Building. 
Instructions for preregistration 
have been mailed along with the 
'Form ~o·, which is required fo_r 
schedulmg courses. The pass-fail 
option will continue as in the past. 
It is open only to juniors, seniors 
and fifth year students. They 
may select one free elective, non­
major course per semester. 
Grades A through D will be 
converted to 'P' and 'F's will 
Tim Howald, assoctate director, Matt Kubik, executive coordinator, Kathy Eglet, assistant director, Milt Jones assistant director, and Tim Schaffer, comptroller. These people hold the very top management positions. 
Also, Steve Flavin, academic commissioner, Don Mooney, social commissioner, • Jim Schneid, services commissioner an£ Bob Brinkman, cultural arts commissioner. 
The Cultural Arts Commission will be reorganized, according to McGrath. 
Howald said that his primary task will be to follow through on ideas that either McGralh or he come up with, but are too time­consuming for McGrath. 
"I will also keep on top of the commissioners and their ac­tivities," added Howald. 
Another area of his concern would be to handle relationships with the Vice-President of Student Mfairs, Father Thomas Blantz or another administrator. 
Howald also said that McGrath and he will share the duties at the top "almost equally" though McGrath will have the final say in any action.• 
Mooney said that the Social Commission will concentrate on many small free events while keeping the big money-making concerts. Three big spring concerts may be held next year, he said. 
There will be TGIF parties "every so often" and an attempt will be made to organize im­promptu afternoon concerts on nice days, added Mooney. 
The Social Commission will also co-sponsor hall social ac­tivities and make the Union's experience in such events available, Mooney said. 
Schaffer will have ultimate financial responsibility in Union business affairs and all the business managers will work directly through him. 
He said that there will be a change in the Union's policy on handling •complimentary tickets to its workers. One-hundred single tickets will be available instead off fifty sets of tickets. This practice is only employed for the big concerts. 
Schneid said that his top priority is to get more students involved in working for the Services Commission. There are jobs open which require no more than an hour's work a week, Schneid said. 
Continued on page 8 

Ho/bert reinstated after suspension 
by Bill Weber The suspension of Donald Holbert, a junior pre-med student who was involved in the drug raids last December, was revoked by the Judicial Appeals Board last Wednesday in a closed hearing. He is now reinstated and on disciplinary probation. 


Preregistration by class to begin this Thursday 
remain as such. The check mark course procedure will also be the same as in the past. 
Rach said that time will be saved and proceedings will be smoother during the week of registration next fall because the ID photographs will be ready when the students arrive on September 7. 
Course booklets are now available starting today at the respective dean's office. 

Holbert was arrested by South 
Bend police last December with three other Notre Dame students, Donald Badger, John Brennan, and Mark Hannahan after an extensive undercover narcotics investigation. 
Charges against Holbert were dropped by the civil court in January but he remained suspended from the University from the time he was arrested until Wednesday. 
Judicial Coordinator Greg Potts said that the Bo~rd's rationale for the decision would be released in a few days. Holbert was reluctant to discuss the facts of the case and just said that he was glad the whole "mess" was over. 
Of the other three students. involved in the same 'bust', only Mark Hannahan has been reinstated in the University. Badger's suspension was upheld while Brennan's appeal has not yet come before the Board. 
HPC discusses roompick policy 
Incoming freshmen will be shifted to halls with open rooms or doubled up in existing rooms if there is a campus wide shortage, it was reported at last night's Hall President's Council meeting, by one hall president. 
HPC chairman Buzz Imhoff claimed that Fr. Chambers, director of student residences, "doesn't seem to be very con­cerned about the situation, so I guess we shouldn't eithzr." Fr. Chambers was unavailable for comment. 
Imhoff also announced a two day leadership conference to be held next between the hall presidents and recto~s, ad­ministration representatives and outgoing hall presidents. The conference will run from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Farley chapel next Wedndsday and Thursday. The conference will concern room selection, hall fwllows, freshman orientation and other topics. 
A pamphlet describing the various An Tostal activities will be distributed and methods of doing so were discussed. One involved borrowing several cows from the St. Mary's dairy farm and having two people dressed in "zany costumes" standing with them and ringing bells while handing out the pamphlets. Flyers will also be mailed out to all off-campus students nexy week describing the weekend. Executive Coordinator Fritz Hoeffer saij that he was probably going to go over thz $300 ad­vertising budget, but doubted the overrun would cost each hall more than $10 or $15 each. 
Presaent HPC secrdtary Jim Bowman resigned and Imhoff announced he was going to place an ad in the Observer for ap­plicants. The posiiton is volun­tary and does not pay. He asked all those interested to call 8020. 

The president of Breen-Phillips claimed that due to "snafu" in room picks, the hall had been forced to hold them over again last night. 

Tuesday, April 13, 1971

Page 2 


WITH MAX SHULMAN 
(BJitiu:authorof RaUy Round the Fla{}, BoyR,., DoMt>Giliis.,. rll'.) 
The Preening of America 
Recent polls taken on American campuses by Time and News­week have revealed unexpected, and most welcome, results. Both mag­azines found that today's undergraduates, far from boiling with revo­lutionary fervor, are just as torpid as everyone else. 
Joyous tidings, of course, but I must say that I was never worried. Sure, life-styles are a little different on campus these days; neverthe­less, I've always felt that down deep this generation clings to the same solid values that sustained all their predecessors. 
In my own college days, for example, the most popular aid to socia­bility on campus was precisely what it is today: Miller High Life Beer. And, mind you, my college days were a good long time ago. I got my 
B.A. way back in 1908. (My alma mater, incidentally, was a school I'm sure you all know-the Wyoming College of Belles Lettres and Commercial Baking, from whence, as you are undoubtedly aware, came a veritable host of graduates who later achieved stardom in the breadstuffs game-men like Darrell J. Inskip who invented rye bread with caraway seeds; Irving T. Whitsun who invented the toothpick, thus making it possible to eat rye bread with caraway seeds; Sol Bagel who invented the permanent doughnut which bears his name; and many, many others. Indeed, the list would be far longer if the college had stayed in business but, alas, it was killed by mold in 1921.) 
But I digress. Even in 1908, I say, Miller High Life was a campus favorite. In fact, it was popular even before 1908, for Miller has been delivering flavor to discriminating Americans for over 115 years! And today it is more widely appreciated than ever! And why wouldn't it be? In 115 years no other brewer has ever duplicated Miller's flavor. Oh, they've tried to copy Miller, you can bet, but a fat Jot of good it did them. Since the very beginning Miller's superb brewing formula has been one of the best kept secrets on earth. It has never been known to more than one man-Miller's chief brewmaster-and he has always been kept inside a hollow mountain in downtown Milwaukee. 
But I digress. The polls, I say, have proved that today's college student, though he dresses in a homespun robe and wears chicken bones in his ears, cherishes the same dreams and drives that students have always held dear. 

To illustrate, I recently visited a student commune at a prominent Southern university (Michigan State). Now, I'll admit it didn't look much like one of your old-fashioned fraternity or sorority houses. First of all, there was no house. Everyone slept in trees, except for one girl who made a hammock out of a discarded bra. In the second place, meals were not served; they were trapped. And in the third place, the kids didn't talk about the usual things like life, sex, truth and beauty. In fact, they didn't talk. They just sang "Om," holding the note till they hyperventilated and toppled over in a faint. 
But appearances are only appearances, as I discovered when I started to interview these people. 
"What are you studying?" I asked one young man. 
"My navel," he said, and I was vastly reassured, for we all know the crying need for new doctors. "What do you want to be when you finish school?" I asked another young man. "A druid," he said, and again I was reassured, for as anyone on Wall Street can tell you, forest ecology is the coming thing .. 
"Do you believe in women's liberation?" I asked a girl. 
"No," was the answer. 
"Why not?" I asked. 
"I'm a boy," was the answer. 

And so it went. And so I say to you again: worry not. Take away the beards, the beads, and the buckskin, and you've got the same lov­able freckle-faced achievers you always had, only naked. 
* * * 
We at Miller High Life are brewers, not social scientists, but this much we know: whatever may be changing in this country, it certainly is not taste buds. We will continue, therefore, to bring you the same delicious Miller High Life. If you've got the time, we've got the beer. 
'Daisv. Cutter' used 

New US air offensive be 
SAIGON (UPI) -U.S. war planes dropped more than 500 tons of bombs Monday on North Vietnamese forces besieging Fire Base 6 on South Vietnam's Central Highlands. 
The biggest conventional bomb in the U.S. arsenal -the 7.5 ton "Daisy Cutter" -was used for the first time against troops. 
Military sources reporting the blitz in the jungles around Fire Base 6 said two "Daisy Cutters" were dropped from four engine C130 transport planes in an at­tempt to crush North Vietnamese units which have been trying to take the hilltop outpost for almost two weeks. 
Flights of 352 Stratofortresses also winged over Fire Base 6, dropping their 30 ton cargos of 500 pound, 750 pound and 1,000 pound bombs in 23 sorties around the outpost. 
Tne "Daisy Cutter" has been used before in the Indochina fighting but not as a tactical weapon against troop con­centration. 
The big bomb has been used extensively as a destroyer of jungle foliage to create "instant" landing zones for helicopters carrying Allied troops into battle in remote areas. 
There was no immediate assessment of the "Daisy Cutter" damage around Fire Base 6 Monday, but military sources said the explosive. power of the bombs was demonstrated during 
Notre Dame -St. Mary's Academic Commission 
NEEDS PEOPLE 
Stop by the Academic Commission (4th floor LaFortune) 
or call Becky Minter 4504 Steve Flavin 234-5262 


Craftsmen in Optics® 
SOUTH BENO-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 


Jlouse ofVisioli 6) 
The House of Vision, Inc. 
r~~~........................ ........................,
~ 

~  OBSERVER news staff  ~  
~  I  
~  general meeting Wed. April 14  ~  
~  6:30  ~  
~  all reporters please attend  ~  
~~  ~ 

................................................ 
In this 1969 photo, an instructor shows ARVN Artillery school students the workings of an American-made artillery piece. 
the South Vietnamese offensive 
into Laos earlier this year when 
the devices caused landslides 
blocking Communist supply 
roads in mountainous regions. 
The effect on people was 
believed considerable. Even well 
outside the immediate blast area, 
the concussion of 7.5 tons of ex­
plosives would disable troops by 
causing bleeding from the nose 
and ears, military sources said. 
The bombs are dropped by parachute and detonated just above ground level, blasting clear an area as big as a football field. Military sources said the target for the bombs used Monday was an area where North Vietnamese troops were reported massing. 

Vietnamization is the Nixon Administration plan for U.S. disengagement from Indochina. UPITELEPHOTO 
UPI correspondent Robert E. Sullivan said spokesmen in the field told hem as many as 10,000 Communist troops had movea into the Fire Base 6 area as part of a local Hanoi offensive to prove that the South Vietnamese campaign in Laos had failed to break the back of North Viet­nam's war machine. 
Saigon communiques Monday reported 2, 624 Communists killed in the Fire Base 6 area in the past 12 days. South Vietnamese losses were placed at 172 killed and 292 wounded. 
Collection for Viet aid center tonight 
Monies for the medical aid center in Quong Ngai, South Vietnam will be collected in the dining halls tonight. The 600 students who agreed to abstain from luxeries can contribute their savings at the dining halls. Students who did not sign up as participants in the Refugee Aid Program are, of course, welcome to contribute. 
The 

ND-SMC Social Commission Needs 

People and ideas for: dancing, music, fun, movies, concerts, food, frisbees, grass, dunes, football, gambling, posters, money, places wine parties, pranks, kites, b~ttons' truc.kin', circuses, and just gettmg people together. 
Applications being 
accepted for: Asst. Commissioner Business Manager Apecial Projects (freaky stuff) Concert Chairman Homecoming Chairman Mardi Gras Chairman Promotion Ticket Manager 
Stop in the Student Unim Office .otth Floor LaFortune a"l v Week­day afternoon for lob ap. plicatim a"ld description. 

Tuesday, April 13, 1971 



Re_s_p_onsibilities defined 



Vice-presidents assess their roles 

by Kevin McGill students and answers queries from other universities about
This is the first of a two part matters such as Notre Dame'sinsight designed to acquaint our policy about alchohol on campus.
readers with the responsibilities With coeducation now becomingof the six vice presidents of the a reality, he has "an awful lot ofUniversity. It also describes the meetings and conferences withefforts they make to keep abreast the other side of the road."
of both student life and the events Fr. Blantz is an electedeffecting the University in the off­member of the Board of Trusteescampus community. Today's where he represents the students, insight focuses on the Rev. 
and a member of the Student Life Thomas E. Blantz, vice president Council, where he represents thefor student affairs; James W. 
administration, action as a go­Frick, vice president for public between for the administrationrelations and development and and the students. He is also onPhilip J. Faccenda, vice the Student Union Board ofpresident and general counsel. 
Directors, the Faculty Board for the Control of Athletics, theThe Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, Campus Ministry Committee,C.S.C., vice president for student and the Academic Council.
affairs, says that his office is Understanding and Supportconcerned with "all student life 
James W. Frick is the viceexcept academics." He is the president for public relations and man who listens to the monetary development. His job is toproblems of the Skeet and Trap "generate understanding of andClub and who arranges for extra support for the University."
security when a group is playing According to Frick private in­in Stepan Center. 
stitutions will succeed in theFr. Blant's office is in La future only on the basis of theirFortune and much of his day is ability to put support together,occupied meeting Student Union and very often understandingrepresentatives or people from 
leads to support." Observer Insight Besides tuition, auxiliary operations and endowments,
other student activities who wish 
Notre Dame's support comes to discuss plans for next year or from the gifts of alumni, parents, budgetary problems . "Unlike foundations, corporations and
the other vice-presidents we are who are of
"others just the not botheredd by interruptions," University."
said Fr. Blantz. "This is chiefly a Frick's office is directlyservice office and part of my and responsible for the totalmy assistant Fr. Shilts' job is to public relations of the University. 
be available here as much as All publications except studentpossible and to be of assistance. 
and scholarly works, go through
We try to make student life a the office. includes,
This for
little better, a little more instance, a brochure on thepleasant." 
College of Business Ad­
Budgets for student activities, ministration. the band, and certain lectures The University's primaryand cultural concerts are under external contact with the public
Fr. Blantz's jurisdiction. While is through two publications.the student government handles Alumnus magazine, besides most of its own financial presenting news of th-e· arrangements itself, he coun­University, presents the tersigns all of their checks and criticism of all facets of the 
contracts as a "permanent alumni in a letters section. university official." "Insight" has a circulation of The dean of students, the in­90,000, half going to almuni and firmary, the campus ministry, half to others with whom th~ 

university is concerned. Projects deals with matters such 
Frick supervises the activities planning for presidential dinners 
of the Alumni Association, the and arranging board and lodging 
Development Operation, In­during Trustees' Council 
formation Services, Publications, meetings, Frick said. 
the Placement Bureau, and Much of Frick's time on 
Special Projects. Special 
Continued on page 6 

Course evaluations by faculty now available 
Course evaluation booklets 
stressing the faculty view for 
most of the departments in the 
College of Arts and Letters are 
now available in the respective 
department offices for interested _students Academic Affairs Commissioner Fred Giuffrida announced yesterday. 
According to Giuffrida, "This 
is not intended to be competitpon 
with the Scholastic evaluation. 
We just feel that these 
evaluations put together by 
faculty members wokld expand 
on the Scholastic evaluation, 
which is done by students. We 
thought it would be desirable to 
have the faculty viewpoint." 
Giuffrida, along with his 
Associate Commissioners Dave 
1

Hoppe and Tom Long has been working on this project since he took office. "A lot of the work has already done for us by the various departments. They have the material, all that was needed was for it to be publicized." 
The following departments have their course outlines ready for distribution: 
Philosophy -200 copies, more 
will be printed as needed; Music­
200 copies ; Theology -300 copies; 
English, Sociology, An­
thropology, Psychology and 
History all have "ample 
amounts." 
The Government Department has nothing available because there are no electives open ex­cept to those in The Committee for Academic Porgress. Also, there are no booklets for the General Program because there are too few students taking GP courses as electives. 
Giuffrida said, "Without the help of Dave Hoppe, Tom Long, Dean Dever T. Plunkett and te various faculty members, especially Dr. Bernard Norling in Hisotry, we would not have been able to do it." 
He also urged that those students interested in courses by request begin thinking about it seriously. Fifteen students and a professor are the pre-requisites for starting a course not presently offered by the University. 
Page 3 

Founder
~-'"""--~·-........ 

"We want to serve you better" 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 

Mon.-Thur. 5 pm • 10 pm 

All the chicken or batter fried cod, served with ranch toast, french fries, and cole slaw. $1.45 chicken, $1.15 Fish 

Fri. -Sat. 


_____________J,;,;;C""...o-.r;.;.~e..;.r..;u;_f_E:;.:"~:....i;;.su;;.n....,;..an:_d;;...:.:lr...:Q:.:;n:.:w::..:o:.:IJ:..:4, 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Requests for CHARITY CHEST money (Mardi Gras funds) must be turned in by Friday, April 16, at the Student Government Offices in LaFortune. 
Interviews will be held next week 
student housing and psychological services all report to Fr. Blantz. Much of his work is administrative, trying to coor­
Come Spring ..... . 
dinate these departments. Most of this work is done in the evening when he is not busy with students and faculty members who come to him, some with appointments and some unannounced. 
Fr. Blantz corresponds with various departments and the administration in the evening. He also writes recomendation for 
-.....-=;:... -··~-­
-
-.._-... 

--· 
a young man s cy turns to 
all the good things at 





EDDIE'S RESTAURANT 
1345 No. Ironwood Drive 
The Cbserver Is published dally 
1 0% reduction on all menu items for college and university students 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
Complimentary split (small bottle per couple) of any wine 
be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 1nd. 46556. Second class postage 
on our magnificent wine list for those of age.
paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Page 4 THBO~ 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
When the hounds of spring are on winter's traces, theMother of months in meadow or plain, Fills the shadows and windy pl.aces With lisp of leaves and ripple of rain. 
··Algernon Swinburn 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Clear and Present Danger to the University 
The first chapter of the great Drug Bust has apparently come to a close. Don Holbert one of the four who was suspended by the Dean of Students whom the civil charges against were dropped, was fin~lly told that he would be alloweq to continue at Notre Dame. No doubt Holbert IS ~rat_eful to the board for res~u!nghim from his state of limbo-a state of not knowmg if the grades he was receivmgwould ever be recorded or having the threat of a sudden and friendly summons from the Selective Service hanging over his head. The length of time the process took and the very reason tq.at th~ process was i!J.itiated point out a fact that is rapidly becoming most dtsturbmg--the most Immment, clearest and most 
present danger to the students is the Judicial Code. The present Judicial code was SLC's third choice; the first two being rejected by Fr. Hesburgh and the Board of Try . . . . 
The present Judicial code was the SLC's third chOice; the first two bemgrejected by Fr. Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees respectively. As former Student Body Vice-President Fred Dedrick's letter (see right) makes clear~ 
misplaced faith in the basic goodness of men's judgement led the composers or the present system and the Student Life Council to 
accept a system in which there is no guarantee of student rights. The present
code is a loose one, and the biggest losers under it are the students. 
The first ~rave hazard of the present code is the apparently limitless leeway to initiate action given to the Dean of Students. Reihle exercised that leeway by 
suspending Badger and Holbert before they reached the appeals board, so that those two men were forced to prove their innocence. The obvious prejudicial power ~iven to the Dean of Students. is powerful enough by itself to abrogate the 
entire JUdicial process.

The second grave hazard the present code posesses is the arbitrariness of the Catch-22 charge under which Holbert was originally suspended. A "clear and present dan~er to the University"could be any number othings, including
political radicalism. An unfriendly court could amplify the political effects oi any attempt to limit student dissent on campus. Or it could dispense punishment and absolution from the position of benificient diety, as has apparently been done 
in the Holbert case. The present system cannot and should not last. The Dean of Students was 
overruled in two out of the three cases that have been heard. Holbert's case, even more than the other two, was a clear miscarriage of justice. The South Bend Police, never noted for tolerance towards drug abuse, declined to even bring him to trial for lack of evidence. Yet Holbert languished in an uncertain state for several months. It is painfully obvious that the decision to suspend the three was an overreaction on the Administration's part. The ugly fact is that such overreaction is sanctioned by law. That law can and should be modified by the near moribund SLC, before further transgressions, under the guise of 
legality, take place. 

Night Editor: Jim McDermott Headlines: Chris Johnson Layout: Tom Hesson, Dan Ryan, Deb Carrella, Larry Ballantine, The Abowds Night Controllers: Mike Heffren, rick smith 
Tuesday, April 13, 1971 


"i'm fighting in Indo-china for God. my country, my family... and because I'm a pyromaniac. 
The Observer received this letter in the Mornign Mail yesterday, and we thought we'd turn it into a column because the subject discussed is particularly germane in light of the Judicial Council's reversal of Father Reihle's Holbert suspension. Mr. Dedrick was Student Bori~• Vice-President last vear. 
Fred Dedrick 

Informality 
Sometimes a newspaper carries devastating weight. Tim McCarry's suicide. Co-ed by 1974. Summa goes over the top. The suspension of a student. ..without a trial. 
I'm sorry Tim is gone. He was a friend, although we argued more often then we said hello. But I will save the eulogies for other friends and other times when we can come together and remember him. 
I'm surprised that the University has finally decided that Our Lady 
is good enough for ladies. But then I suppose it was just a matter of 
time, and more time and more time. 
This Summa campaign is wonderful. $54 million and sometimes we couldn't get hot water in the halls. 
Ah, but this last item was the one that drew me out of my com­fortable chair. Perhaps I should just laugh and forget about it, chalk it up under that lengthening column of "things to be forgotten about ND." But since its a Saturday night I'll try to state my case and then go to bed. 
You see it all began way back at a meeting of the SLC when it was decided that the Student Judicial Code was not working very well and should be revised and brought up to date. This was approximately in Apr. of 1969. Beginning then and continuing until November a com­mittee of six worked many long and frustrating hours. Eventually the final committee copy was finished and after many hours the SLC passed it with amendments and submitted it to Fr. Hesburgh. Now admittedly the finished copy was long and probably a bit too com-· plicated. It was a compromise between two lawyers, Mr. Faccenda and Dean Faschio, two students, myself and Gary Macinerney, and Prof. Norling and Fr. Rhiele. Believe me it was no easy task. 
Two months later Fr. Hesburgh had still not said whether it was approved or disapproved. They told me he was busy. Unfortunately he still had time to approve injunction proceedings. 
After the Dow-CIA demo and the following trial, everyone knew that the SLC would soon have to find out what Fr. Hesburgh 's answer would be. By February he told us ... No. When we attempted to re-work the code, Fr. Burtchaell came up with the wonderful idea that we should try to do away with some of the formalities that makes the judicial process slow and complicated. Everyone was relieved. Instead of going over again that long and cumbersome code we would simply write up a few pages of informal proceedings and rely on the goodness and fairness of people's hearts. 
I am not surprised to see the outcome. From the article in the Ob­server, the atmosphere was informal. The Administration alone decided what "imminent danger" was, the Administration used evidence obtained during an informal conversation and the Ad­ministration decided what type of counsel was allowed. An amazing display of icformality! ! ! ! And did you catch that informal penalty! ! ! 
Yes, Fr. Burtchaell has done it again. And yet I can remember so vividly those meetings where he said that the rights of the student would be protected. I remember asking for a furtherdefinition of what an imminent threat to the University would entail. I remember hearing Fr. Rheile continually repeating that he always let the student know where he stood during those "informal" hearings in his office. The tragedy is that I believed all that crap. I should have taken the advice of my draft board and assumed that everyone is insin<:ere unless they can prove their sincerity through two interviews, copious letters, and an abridged life story. 
Perhaps this specific situation is more complicated than I un­derstand it to be. Nevertheless if the phrase "imminent danger" remains undefined, if students are denied the advise and represen­tation by legal council and if the University hides behind the mask of informality in order to get rid of "undesirables" then Notre Dame has returned to the Stone Age of student rights. 
By the way is that "temporary" injunction still in effect? 
Tu_e_sd_a_y_,_A_pr_i_l_l3_,_19_7_1________________________________~~()~ 
Page 5 

rick libowitz 


law and order at the golden dome 

The days drift on, some better, some longer, than others. Often thoughts turn to times past; the people, the places we went and the things we did together. Oc­casionally, a letter arrives from one of those people and all else is put aside, for the letter to be read, re-read and mused over. This afternoon, a letter arrived, from Pat McDonough, one of the closest in an emotion-packed Senior year. The envelope was filled with Observer clippings and comments on them. Arrests, R.A.'s ra new term. at leastl turned police, Student Center managers being fired; people filled with distrust. suspicion and inflexibility. Always, two n,ames, James Burtchaell and James Riehle. For me, it seemed like an old, old story. 
It must be said, in all fairness, that Fr. Riehle is a symptom, not a cause. The teacher I most respect once told me, "You know, one of the criteria for making a man Dean of Students is his expendability." This isn't a personal attack on the man; during some of our most bitter struggles, we had occasion to meet in informal cir­cumstancC's, in which he was always pleasant. Fr. Riehle wears different hats for business and pleasure; he's not an ogre. However, the business hat needs changing. 
I don't know the full details of the trials that took place this year, so I won't at­tempt to judge them. At the same time, they wound suspiciously akin to those a number of us went through just one year ago. 
You remember,Dow Chemical and the CIA? Hecruiters who refused to speak to long-haired students, 10 students suspended for obeying conscience and four others sent to court? Four students and a mini-skirted nun. You remember, it was in all the papers. There were all sorts of statements and articles at the time, for us it was a long, uncomfortable time. But what did it mean? 
In December, we thought we had come 

an exhibit 
but being for law and order is I ike being for motherhood; it's a lovely notion but there's a big difference between love and rape. 
to an agreement with the University, to drop the case. Someone changed some minds, however, and we were forced to go to court. Brian Mcinerney was found guilty of using the pronoun "we." Fred Dedrich was found for not for we are able to sue today.) We decided not to do so; we had no desire to "punish" the University in that way. That was the highlighting difference between "us" and "them"; we sought explanation, not discipline. We wanted the University to 

any actions he might take in the future. I was found to be the head of the Free University (no surprise) and cleared. Tim MacCarry was found to have been outside the Administration Building when the alleged events were said to occur. He was cleared. The University was satisfied; their restraining order had become a temporary injunction (it's probably still posted by the Recruiting Office). But what of us. 
We had lost many hours of sleep, meals missed, studies destroyed for the remnant of the semester. It had cost us money, but Paul Kusbach, our lawyer, had been more worried about the case than the fee. We were raising money for him, but not being pressed. On the surface, we had lost much, but in fact we had gained something much more valuable. We had seen how people act, and picked up a moral. 
When Tim and I were cleared, we 
became eligible to sue the University for 
the recovery of monies lost during the 
trial. <As there is no statute of limitations, 


by tom breitenbach at the memorial library 

understand, to realize that so many of the students were not playing games, or disrupting for the hell of it. A lawsuit would have been fighting the University with its own dirty weapons. At best, it offered an empty victory. 
I've had time to do a great deal of thinking, in the past months. Sitting by a wadi in the Negev, I spent many hours brooding over what had been done, why and with what result!> I thought about the people involve9-. symbolized by Fr. Riehle, andmy overwhelming feelingwas pity for them. 
They just cannot see; they think punish­ment. rule by fear and fiat solves all problems. They cannot seem to realize that, at best, this merely delays the inevitable confrontation, causing it to be more bitter and violent, when it does oc­cur. Charles McCarthy defines violence as "any action in which a human being is treated in an inhuman manner." Clearly, violence is rampant at Notre Dame. 
I saw Fr. Hesburgh, during his visit to Jerusalem last October. His response to my questions about the campus was "Things are quieter than they have been in a long time; the people are friendher." Have more damning words ever been said about a so-called place of intellectual ferment? 
For a University to be "quiet", for the only clashes to be on the playing fields, is for that University to die. The campus remains isolated from what some people refer to as the "real world", past the boundaries of Notre Dame Avenue and 
U.S. 31. It could be the perfect living laboratory for human evolvement-where intellectual battles may rage. Inside those hideous Neo Gothic buildings, the true search, probing and experimentation may occur that will change a high school graduate into an individual, a distinct personality, with positive notions about love, honor and morality. This should be the imprint of Notre Dame on its men (and soon, its women); there seems little room for the love, honor and wisdom, shown me by my best teachers, in that gray-flannel facade some wish to perpetuate. 
Do I have "the" answer, a magic 
patented plan for making things perfect? 
No. Of course Fr. Riehle should be 
replaced; the pistol-packing Dean went 
out a long time ago. I'm not proposing to 
throw out everyone who doesn't agree with 
me. I only ask that their reasoning be 
sound, their positions. honest. 
Too many people have forgotten that 
there exist two phases to law, letter and spirit. They have forgotten the spirit, which is, in fact, the justification for the letter. The spirit of the law is missing at Notre Dame. How may it be acquired? By making, in effect, a new "leap of faith"; by creating guidelines, adjustable to the situation, rather than prison-like "rules and regulations". By creating an at­mosphere of sympathy with the student, rather the drawing lines. By having open discussions and private rooms, rather than _pass keys and fifteen minute regulations. 
We've come a long way at Notre Dame; a great number of the little hypocrisies of life at du Lac have been eradicated, because the Administration became convinced that the students would no longer tolerate them. Yet we have still not faced some of the basic hypocrisies. It's not a call to revolution-although many are near it-I want to stress the desparate need for rapid evolution at Notre Dame. Firing young teachers and retiring others because they are 70 is not the way. Suspending students and going to court is not the way. Sending one student into another student's room is not the way. Is "Do as I say, not as I do" to continue as the guiding light? Preach love and prosecute? Must the cooperative spirit, the spark of unity witnessed last May, be created only by student deaths? 
Portrait of Lissy B. She caused me to rediscover beautiful colors after a period when my paintings were very somber, reflecting my depression. 
Center panel of a triptych for Jim Morrison of the Doors. Untitled. It depicts a modern metropolis of the future at noon. Morrison hopes to use it as a cover for an album of poetry. 
Pa 6 711B Tuesday, April 13, 1971 




Ad warning issued 
The Ombudsman's office issued a warning yesterday concerning advertisements or posters offering summer jobs but requiring a "substantial fee" before receiving information or consideration for the job. 
Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic said an "investigation has shown that most of these operations manage to stay within the law but don't deliver jobs. They mention great salaries or utopian working conditions but only promise to send information or put your name on a list." 
Dziedzic said there isno guarantee that there are jobs are available or the downpayment will yield a job. He called the "come-ons with questionable follow-throughs." 
The recent ad for summer employment on yachts was recently investigatedby Dzied­zic's office and declared an 
ABSOLUTELY 
No ads accepted after 4pm on the day prior to publication 

CLASSIFIED 
ADVERTISEMENTS 

HOUSING  
Roommate for summer to share inexpensive, large, well-located apartment. Call Bill 283-3295  
FOR RENT this summer-nice 5-room (2 bedroom ( house. Call Ted or Paul 283-1588  
Apartment for rent during summer months. Frunished, carpeted, freshly-painted, air-conditioned; bedroom, living room, bathroom with shower, small hall. and two closets. Call Tom 282-2250  
For rent over summer: Four bedroom house, air-conditioning, two-car garage, Good location.Call 1075  
Home for summer rental: 2 bdrm. on large wooded lot near campus, nished, air conditioned, garage, included in rental to responsible party. Call234-8652  

fur­car 

For rental. Summer-June, July, August. Near UND-4 bedrooms­Utilities, Furnished: $150 per month· 
Call 284-1774 after 5:30pm. 
Efficiency apartment close to N D, hospitals, ad downtown. Call 287-5371 after 5 pm 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard, lost after break: tasty reward. Call Tom 8014 
WALLET FOUND: owner must identify. Call 5246 

Lost -Eternamatic Watch (without band) in vicinity of Keenan-Stanford or St. Joe Lake. Initials on back (J.H.W.) Reward call John 3348 
Found: Set of keys behind Admin. Building. Call Bob 3721 
HELP WANTED 
Newly formed waterbed company wants campus representatives tor hottest selling item in states. 

Good commissions tor a few hours work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. Write: 
Lightrays Designs, Inc. Love sleep water beds division 3727 Walnut St. Philadelphis, Pa. 19104 

Pr Call: (215) 349-9330 
Interesting tun job. Prefer business or graduate studet but enthusiam main requirement. Able to work on your own tor international travel organization. Representatives eligible for free trips to Europe, Carribbean, Mexico the year round­plus good commissions. WRITE: 
University Student Services Student Overseas Division 3733 Walnut Street Philadelphis, Pa. 19104 

Or Call: (215) 349-9330 
Bass player and Lead singer needed immediately. Call Jim 1859 
!Vhil in or carne hv Uhserver ojjlce. For infcnmtit,J! ·-:til! 747j_ 
College Students with car needed to demonstrate technicolor photo and movie equipment--guaranteed $100 a week ·· top men make· $200 working evenings 5-9. Call technicolor sales office 289-3662 tor appointment 
has 

TRAVEL 
Cruise to Bahama Islands for Easter Vacation: $100 tor tour days. Includes scuba diving, speartishing, nights in ports at West End and Freeport, meals and sleeping accomadations-­Ages 18-23. 
For more intoramtion write Vic Horrell P.O. Box 892, Cocoa Beach, Florida 32931. 
Spend the summer in EUROPE. Charter jets to London, Amsterdam 
md Paris. More than 40 dates .,vailable. INTERNATIONAL >TUDENTS ACADEMIQUE ;oCIETY. Also eligible tor many ·!her benefits (railroad passes, hotel Jiscounts, etc.) For information call 
c::rank 233-8142. 
Want to take a trip to EUROPE this summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the NATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS and SAVE! Approx. 60 dates available tor round trips betw. London and N.Y. this summer for $245. From London connect to any of 50 European cities at discount fares. For example: London Paris: $12.60, London ­Amsterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich :$15.00, Zurich -Rome: $20.00. Many other benefits (travel passes, hotel discounts, etc. ( Also available. For info or application call Tom 282­2250 5-10 Mon.-Fri. 
Study in Verona, Italy next year. Academically accredited nine month program in historic Renaissance city tor sophomores and juniors. Art, literature, history. Family living. No language prerequisites. Cost. in­cluding tuition, room, board, field trips, one way transportation: $2690. Director, Overseas affairs, Regional Council tor International Education, 1101 Bruce Hall. University of Pitt­sburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
FOR SALE 
For sale: Reader's Digest. One yea1 
•nly $2.00. Call Bill 288-3295. j 
"unwise investment." He said there is nothing illegal about the ad but his contacts with a California alumnus and the Los Angeles Police Department have indicated that "operations of this kind produced few jobs for those who apply." 
The Ombudman's office could not get specific information on the ad, which offered to send a list of names to yacht clubs throughout the United States for six dollars, because it had no telephone number and was not listed in the Los Angeles Better Business Bureau files. 
Dziedzic said his office has not found any illegal operations advertised for Notre Dame students but re-emphasized the opSnion that they are poor in­vestments. 
Nater mattresses tor sale: to obtai info or place orders call Tom at 282 2250 from 5-10 pm Monday-Friday. 
Hot News Flash: New compan born-VANGUARD LEATHE GOODS, INC-823 Flanner Hall. 283 1176-Specializing in: watchbands wristbands, belts. wallets, headbands hair barrettes, and anything els made of leather--Owned and operate by Milt Jones, Wayne Hall. 
;torage space available durin summer. Call Tom: 282-2250. 
For Sale 12 string folk guitar, ex­cellent condition. Best offer. Pat 8895 
AUTOMOTIVE 
For sale 1969 Fiat '24 Spider $2195 Dave 232-1611, 232-2322 
For Sale -1966 Ford Econoline ­Paneled, carpeted, with bar and bed, 10 Speaker Stereotape System and more. $850 or best offer. Call John 233­9508 
SERVICES 
.:rypt-New Hours 12:30-4:00 Now on stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 Cat Stevens-Ten for Tillerman-$3.1! Elton John -Tumbleweed Connection 
;3.10 Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 
RIDES 
Kentucky Club Derby Bus leaves Friday 4-30-71, 3 pm returns Sunday 5­2-71. 12 noon. $15 round trip. Sign-ups 7-9:30 pm LaFortune Basement. Thursday 4-15-71 
Need ride to Indianapolis or Munci this weekend. Call Ohle at 6805 
PEANUTS PERSONAL 
Happy one month anniversary to m sweetie from your loving mistress 
Jude -You owe the Observer $.50 Kelly 
50052041 0410 
0510380510050038039039038041041028 

CLASSIFIED RATES 
Words  1 day  2 days  3 days  4d<·'/S  1 W9  
0-10  .50  .75  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11·1 !'"  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  2.15  
16-20  .70  1.15  1.70  2.40  ?..80  
-!1-25  .85  1.35  2.00  2.9~  3A5  
26-30  1.00  1.60  2.35  3.40  4:10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
36-40  1.35  2.10  1.10  4.25  5.10  
<'1-45  1.55  2.30  3.30  4.50  5.50  
46-,;o  1.75  2.50  3.50  4.75  G.OQ  

Detroit police and firemen remove the dead and injured from a six car crash which killed seven persons on the Frod Freeway on April II. Nineteen more were injured. Police said the disaster occured after an 



V-P's assess their roles 
Continued from page 3 
campus is spent attending 
meetings, but he was away from 
the campus for approximately 30 
weeks last year. "I doa lot of my 
creating, thinking, and planning 
on planes," he said. 
Frick is the president-elect of the American College Public Relations Association and serves on the board of the St. Joseph Bank and Trust Company in addition to other national and local positions. Every year he takes courses to keep in touch with what is happening in education. He is a MorrisseyHall Fellow which, he says, helps him "find out what students are thinking." Frick has served as a consultant to many colleges and universities all over the world. He hopes that these many outside involvements "will broaden my vision and give me new per­spectives so so that I become the most efficient person for this office." 
Frick is also a member of the Academic Council and the Financfaf Executive Committee. 


/Yiui 
ul~w. 


:YtffonJI 
.fhtle~ 
.. 
~ .' 
....... -~ . 


.N::2~:~~~!~g!~
designed by Donald Claflin. Rings start at t:<?95. 




nFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL.: (3"12) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Design Copyrighted 1971, T.& Co. 

eastbound auto, travelling at a speed estimated at up to 100 miles per hour, went out of control, hit the median curb, catapulted over the dividing rail and hurtled into the westbound traffic. UPI TELEPHOTO 
Cut and Dried 
As the Vice President and General Counsel, Philip J. F Accenda has both professional legal functions and ad­ministrative functions. As the chief attorney of the university, his work is "cut and dried, very much like a lawyer's." He is consulted in all legal matters of the University, and offers advice 

and  occasionally  his  time  to  
students.  
He  has  five  law  student  

assistants conduct much of his legal business through two South Bend law firms. If, for instance, a dispute should arise between the architect and the contractor working on a University building, he would refer it to one of those firms. 
"Basically," Faccenda said, "we work on problems before they are contested. We do the planning so that litigation does not occur." 
Part of his administrative work is to represent the University's interests as a corporate entity to the city, county and state goyernments and the major service institutes in South Bend. He tries to keep informed of developments in the state legislature and to talk to many state representatives. He is a member of the Board of Direc­tors of the Indiana Forum and is on the boards of directors of the South Bend Chamber of Com­merce and Urban Coalition. 
Faccenda is the assistant secretary of the University Board of Trustees, which he compares to being the secretary of a cor­poration. It is his job to schedule and call, in a legal manner, all the meetings of the Board of Trustees and to prepare all the correspondence between the University and the board. 
He is in almost weekly contact with the Board members by telephone, and frequently communicates with them by mail. In this way he is the Board of Trustee's representative on the campus. Since he also schedules and attends most of the Board's committee meetings, he is able to communicate between the various committes. 
Faccenda is on the Academic Council and the SLC. He is Fr. Hesburgh's representative to the Faculty Senate and coordinates the advisory councils in the various colleges. 

STUDY SlJ.lJNDS 
IMPROVE GRADES 
Improve Grades White Devotina The Same Amount Of Time To St"-t" 
USE STUDY SOUNDS 
lnc:r.ase Your Concentration Aotd ·.ro.,rove 
Your Comprehension. Study At A Fash:r Rate. ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED 50UNDS CAUSE THI5 TO HAPPEI4 
Please Specify 8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record Send Check or t..on•y Order -$9.95 Each Include 75c Handlina and PostageSound Concepts, Inc., -Box 3852 
Charlottttsvllle, V•. 22902 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
l
I I
Tuesday, April 13, 1971 7118 Q&fBRWit Page 7 
I 
I I I I
Irish drop pair to W. Michigan 
by Jim Donaldson good for two runs. Western McGraw loaded the bases for The senior right-hander went six Western Michigan bullpen. Yesh Observer Sports Editor Michigan then brought in Bill Notre Dame with none out in the and a third innings and was was able to retire the side without Lauber to relieve starter Brian fourth. Tom O'Connor's long tagged for 12 hits. He gave up further damage.
Last season, Notre Dame's 
Sullivan on the mound. Lauber double to left brought home two nine runs, five of them earned,
baseball team went unbeaten in walked the first batter he faced, runners and sent his highly vocal struck out four and walked none. Western Michigan had beenall ten of its home games but the Bob Roemer, then gave up a run cheering section into hysteria. Jim Noe and Mark Pittman held to just four hits over the first Western ·Michigan Broncos scoring single to pinch hitter Jim Bronco pitcher Sullivan worked finished up the game for Notre seven innings Saturday, but thecrushed any hopes the Irish had Panici. Tom O'Connor's single out of further trouble though, Dame. Noe gave up three hits and Broncos broke loose in the eighth for compiling a similar streak loaded the bases for Notre Dame fanning Notre Dame's starting a run in an inning and two-thirds frame. Bruce Mierkowicz led off this year by quelling a ninth and coach Jake Kline sent up hurler, Ron Schmitz, and Bill while Pittman hurled one hitless the inning with a single. After twoinning Irish rally and handing another pinch hitter, Gary Schoen, and retiring Schmidt on inning, striking out two. straight force plays at secondNotre Dame a 10-7 setback last 
Mayer. Mayer brought an abrupt an infield fly. Sullivan picked up the win for base, one coming on a great play Thursday. The Broncos also beat end to the Irish rally by hitting a The Broncos took the lead for the Broncos, despite yielding 14 by Krill, it looked like Riddellthe Irish in Kalamazoo on 
Saturday, scoring three runs in ground ball to the Bronco second good in the fifth stanza, scoring a hils. , might be out of trouble. His baseman who tagged O'Connor run on a double and an infield In Saturday's game, the Irish troubles were just beginning
the eighth inning to post a come 
on his way to second then threw error. broke up a scoreless pitching duel though.
from behind 3-2 triumph. 
to first, doubling up Mayer. Western Michigan added two between Notre Dame's Mike Singles by pinch hitter JackNotre Dame came to bat in the 
There were 31 hits in Thur­more markers in the sixth, Riddell and the Broncos' Larry Daniels and Scott Kemple plated ninth inning of Thursday's home 
opener trailing the Broncos 10-3 sday's slugfest, 16 of them by thanks to three singles and a two Kulcsar with a pair of runs in the the first Bronco run. Kim Notre Dame. The Irish were hurt base error in the Irish outfield. seventh inning. The Broncos, Dagenais, another pinch hitter,
and almost staged a tremendous by poor defensive play however, Tom Monroe's wind-blown three however, rapped four hits and rapped the third consecutive W.
comeback. 
Pinch hitter Rob Rechan committing five errors that led to run homer in the seventh inning took advantage of an outfield Michigan single, to center field, opened the Irish ninth with a four unearned Bronco runs. was the big blow in a four-run error to score three runs in the and, when the ball skipped past single. Pete Schmidt and Joe Notre Dame took the lead in the Bronco outburst and Western eighth for the victory. McGraw for an error, Kemple 
LaRocca followed with singles to first inning, scoring a run on a Michigan concluded their scoring The Irish runs came with one was able to score from first base 
load the bases. The Broncos got double by freshman Pete Sch­by picking up a run in the eighth out in the seventh. Horan started with the winnirig run. Kevin the first out of the inning when midt and a single by Phil Krill. on a walk and a pair of singles. the surge with a single and Fanning came on in relief of 
Riddell at that point and got the
Phil Krill hit into a force play at Western Michigan came back Schmidt, O'Connor and Roemer drew a walk, putting second base while Rechan to take the lead with three runs in Roemer each had three hits to men on first and second. Tom last out. scored. Charlie Horan batted the fourth inning. Dick Cox Jed off lead the Irish at bat. Horan also McGraw then got a single on a The twin losses to the Broncos 
chipped in a pair of safeties. dropped the Irish record to 5-7.
after Krill and the Irish captain the frame with a line drive home ground ball that took a bad hop drilled a triple to right center, run to left center thwt cleared the Monroe was the big slugger for over the Cronco second Coach Jake Kline's squad was fence about 360' from home plate. The Irish picked up a couple of the Broncos, collecting four hits baseman's shoulder and Horan in action yesterday, playing at 
A double and a pair of singles runs in their half of the fourth to and five runs batted in. scored. A single to center by the U. of Detroit, and has a resulted in two more Bronco tie the score, 3-3. A walk and Schmitz took the loss for the Riddell plated Roemer and doubleheader on tap today with tallies. singles by Bob Roemer and Tom Irish, dropping his record to 1-2. brought Mike Yesh in from the the U. of Michigan at Ann Arbor. 
JIM MURRAY 
© 1971, Los Angeles Times 



~ne of the things that will _coJ?fort the 34-year-old basketball player, Wilton Norman Chamberlam, m his old age and when he's no longer able to make the dunkshot, is the fact he's certain to go into the Guiness Book of World Records, anyway. 
Wilt will not go in the waxworks of great human achievement wearing his basketball suit with the No. 13 on it, or his size-16 sneakers and yellow headache band. Guinness will pass right over the fact that he is the only pro basketball player ever to score 100 points in a night, ­pull down 55 rebounds, make 18 consecutive field goals, or score 4,029 points in a single regular season and nearly 30,000 points lifetime. 
No, Chamberlain will be immortalizedwith a steering wheel in his hand, not a basketball. His real records are automotive, not athletic­more in the mold of Barney Oldfield, Gustav Daimler, or Dan Gurney. Charles Lindbergh, even. 
Wilt Chamberlain has soloed across the United States of America from sea to shining sea more times than any 7-foot 2-inch chauffeur in 




Thine/ads second in Ohio 
history. In a sin~e-engine Bentley, and an open-cockpit, water-cooled medicine bali across the third place honors.
Maserati. by E .J. Kinkopf Potomac, captured the first place Marty Hill, running in the mile To Wilt Chamberlain, New York-to-San Francisco is just a com­Observer Sports Writer honor in the shot put with an event, took a fifth.
mute. He holds the unofficial transcontinental record of 42 hours flat, 
Juniors Mike McMannon and 
effort of 54'4%". Elio also placed The meet, evidenced by thefrom Harlem to Nob Hill. His NY-to-LA record rivals the Union 
Elio Polselli carried the Notre second in the hammer throw, final scores, was relatively close. 
Pacific's--36 hours and 10 minutes. 
Dame Track team to a second 
125', and the discuss toss, Miami won, amassing 76 points,Nine times, Wilt Chamberlain has made this milk run. It is expected 
place finish in a tri-meet with 173'5112". 
while Notre Dame edged outhis Bentley will one day hang in the Smithsonian, and that he will bring 
Miami of Ohio and Bowling 
The 440 yard relay team, which Bowling Green for second placeout his memoirs under the title, "We." After all, Lindbergh only had Green last Saturday. 
failed to place at the Kentucky by a single point, 65-64.
to stay awake 33 hours on his famous solo. Our "Lone Eagle" wasn't Between them, McMannon and Relays, turned in a time of 42.6 The final scorecard could very even yawning after 40. In fact, he's considering a round-trip next 
Polselli accounted for 21 of the seconds, good enough for a first easily have had the Notre Dametime. He'll circle the Empire State Building and start back. Bear in team's 65 points, bringing home place finish in the warm sunshine contingent ranked first, had Rick mind, also, Lindy didn't have women drivers, traffic cops, cows and 
three first place honors and two 
at Oxford, Ohio. Wohlhuter, who owns the 880, andone-way streets to contend with. 
seconds. 
The mile relay quartet cap­Pat Holleran, a 3 mile specialist, Chamberlain fels sure he has broken several of Richard Petty's one­McMannon, who specializes in tured a second with a clocking of been able to run. Both werel~p stock car records along the way. But they weren't electronically­
any event that contains the word 
3:22.9. sidelined for their specialties.
timed. At least, he hopes not. For instance, he set a non-stop LA-to­
"jump,'"' brought home two blue 
But McMannon and Polselli Their meeting with the BlackKansas City clocking of 18 hours and 12 minutes direct from the 
ribbons, winning the long jump 
were not the only ND tracksters Knights of Army cancelled forFreeway Interchange to to the Muehlbach Hotel. 
and triple jump with efforts of 
to score in the individual events. this Saturday, the team will light Wilt's trips hardly constitute an economy run--unless you count the 23'4" and 47'2" respectively. 
Rick Vallicelli took a second in out for Columbus, Ohio to par­savings on food and lodging. He has had the Bentley up to 150 m.p.h. 
Polselli, the massive the 100 yard dash, while Don ticipate in the Ohio State Relayson the straight plains runs through the panhgandle of Texas or across 
muscleman from Windsor, On­Creehan in the 440 and Gene on Friday and Saturday of thisthe plattes of Nebraska. "Did the cops ever chase you?" I asked him. 
tario, who could probably throw a Mercer in the 880 brought home weekend.
Wilt reflected. "I don't think so," he said. At 184 m.p.h., of course, pursuit could hardly be called a "chase." The police couldn't keep up with him by wire. 
Zahm cops Interhall track title
Wilt makes the run under Spartan conditions. The car is stripped down to essentials like a telephone, a record-player (not a tape deck, a Mark Pittmann recorded a pair Holy Cross with 5 points each. establishing a new long jump
three-speed record player), a hot plate, a bouquet of flowers (one The meet was highlighted by mark with a leap of 20'2 and
of first place finishes to led Zahm • never knows what one will run into), a television set and a hamper of 
Hall to the 1971 Interhall track several excellent individual three-fourths inches. 
gourmet sandwiches. Wilt Chamberlain goes across country looking championship. Pittmann won performances. In addition to thelike a guy on his way to the opera. In the other individual events,
the high jump and took first place new 440 mark set by Pittmann, Tome Gere of Zahm took the 880He nevet gets out of the car in gas stops, which is a good thing. A in the 440, setting a new record of new Interhall records were also in 2:07.2 and Jeff Warnimont ofgun-metal siiver Bentley pulling into a prairie gas station late at night 51.8 seconds in the process, as the established in three other t'!ents. 
Badin won the 60 yd. low hurdlesout of which would unravel a 7-foot 2-inch apparition, would be sure t~ Zahmbies coasted to the Interhall In the 60-yard dash, Joe Nitti !lf 
with a time of 8.0 seconds..
start rumors of a Marian ivasion. title. Holy Cross posted a winning time Lewie Alcindor might win the upcoming on-court matchup with Wilt Zahm notched 25 points, almost of 6.5 seconds, .1 of a second Morrissey captured the 4-lap in the Laker-Bucks playoff series, but, after all, basketball is only doubling the total of second place better than the old standard. The relay race and Cavanaugh won Wilt's second (or maybe third) best sport. Wilt can take comfort that, Morrissey, which had 14. Badin mile record of 4:53, set last year, the 8-lap relay. Second place in the enduring record books, he's safe, and that he can probably spot took third place with 11 and was fell to Rich Macchia of B-P who finishes by the Zahmbies in both Lewie a head-start to St. Louis and still beat him by a day in followed by Cavanaugh with 10 turned in a 4:49. John Hoppe of these events clinched their Milwaukee-to-Montevideo endurance run. points, and Breen-Phillips and Morrissey set the third record, ov<>~::.!! victory. 



Applications for: Student Organizations Director Transportation Director Calendar Director 
On campus mail director Refrigerator sales 

People and ideas for: the telephone directory, movies, concessions, co-ops, European and other trips, the rider service, and other original ideas. 
sto~in. the student unm·oo Ottt'ce -4th
flooc at-an.une.an')' wee dav_a rernoon 
tor 10 appl1cat1on and escr1p 1on 
Before: 

-

During: 

Student Billing Service makes Sense! There's no 
Two antagonists -a member of the Movement and a member of the State Department -clashed last night over the war ic In­dochina and the Unihed State's foreigc policy. 
The informal but spirited debate, held with good hum?r was a clash of differing basic assumptions about U.S. efforts in Vietnam and throughout the world. 
The result was a diff~rence over the same event emanating from the opposing eye level at whicp the conflict was seen. 
Sidney Lens, editor of Liberation magazine and a lecturer at the University of Chicago, and Dr. Ralph Jans, Chairman of the State Depart­ment's Southeast Asian Area and Country Studies since 1967, talked before a small crowd in LaFortune last night. on the War and Foreigc andforeign policy. 
Jans said our involvement in 

Southeast Asia after World War 


reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your dorm room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm residents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the
• 
Indiana Bell Business Office. Talk it up. 
@ 
Indiana Bell 
II was as "reluctant dragons" necessitated by our belief that communism was monolithic and had to be stopped. 
Lens said that the United States has "become the greatest im­perialistic power in the history of the world" and okr involvement in Indochina was a continuation of that policy. 
Jans said that four presidents 


Student Union 
Continued from page 1 

He added that on-campus mail service will be revitalized for next fall and hopefully expanded to include St. Mary's with one mail delivery a day. 
The placing of the used boo~s and record co-ops at one spot m the Student Cenner is also scheduled Schneid added. 
Kubik s~id that he will be in­charge of all comr:nunity relations involving the Umon. He, also said that he will be attending HPC Senate, and St. Mary'sStud~nt Assembly meetings in order to insure good relations for the Student Union., 
Student attitude surveys determining how the people of each school view the other will be taken in the near future. From the results the Unign will be guided in their activities, sai!,l Kubik. 
The post of executive coor­dinator is newly created and hopefully Kubik said, he will be able to remove much work from the shoulders of McGrath and Schneid. 


Police Conference planned 
The Problems of Law En­forcement is the topic of a Police Conference in the Library Auditorium on Wed.Qesday, April 14. 
The conference, organnized by 

Jack <:anden and Eric Andrus. is 
an attempt to establish better commumcauon between pollee and students. 
Three panel discussions are planned, one at 10 a.m., dealing wnn specific problems of law enforcement. The others are at 2;15, investigating the Law behind the Enforcement, and the final session is at 4:00, examining the Alternatives to the Present System. 
Participants in the conference include sociologists Francis Cizen and John Maiole, Thomas 
Foran former U.S. Attorney in lllmms' and prosecuter in the Chicago 7 Conspiracy trial, University Vice-President and General Counsel Philip Fascenda, Associate Dean Leslie Foschie of the Notre Dame Law School Renault Robinson, and as many secretarias of state had decided taat it was "in our national interest" thwt com­munism be stopped in Southeast Asia. "Rightly or wrongly, we viewed cmmmunism as monolithic and controlled by the Kremlin," said Jans. 
Lens disagreed that the United States had a right to intervene in foreign natigns when our national interest was st stake. In­tervention of this type is "im­moral" said Lens. 
Lens said that "we are living in an era of revolution such as no time before," and this fact hus escaped the notice of thz State Department. 
Hundreds of millions of people over the globe are agitating for political freedom, social justice, and an edn to poverty and disease and thwt "the nation that stands against them the moyt is the Unihed States," added Lens. 
C?n_ca~pus 

-"ioaay~'.. 
9:00 meeting-ombudman's staff and interested people, student government cabinet offices. 
College of Business, and Charles Boone, Police Chief of Gary, Indiana. 

A" f upped
lf areS 

Continued from page 1 
costs and a virtual standstill in 
the volume of ticket sales. 
The Air Transport Association, a trade orgainzation representing the major carriers, has reported that traffic increased by only 1 per cent last year in contrast to 1969's 10 per cent climb. 
But CAB board members J. Joseph Minetti and Robert C. Murphy took issue with the in­dustry's explanation for airline losses. 
'We cannot emphasize too strongly that the carriers' salvation lies primarily in cutting costs, adjusting capa~ity to m~et demands and gettmg paymg 
passengers in a higher proportion 
Presid~nt of the Chicago Afro­
to their seats, rather than these
American Partrolman's League, 
fare increases,' they said.
Professor John Houck of the 
CAC'S Cinema '71 Presents 
Jean -Luc Goddard's 



ALPHAVILLE 
8 pm Tuesday April 13 Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 Patrons free 





