-------<-----<­

serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
VoL VI, No< 48 
Wednesday, November 17, 1971 

'Halls not ready for the responsibility r 
Sr. Alma vetoes SMC parietals
by Joseph Abell 
The St. Mary's Student Affairs Concil yesterday passed the parietal amendment proposal but SAC Chairman, Sr. Alma Peter, subsequently vetoed the Bill, St. Mary's Student Body President, Kathy Harlow announced last night. 
The proposal, had it passed would have amended the St. Mary's Student Procedural Manual such that St. Mary's halls could control their own parietal regulations< The proposal was presented to the SAC last week, but by the SAC's rules was carried over to yesterday's meeting for the vote. Meeting in LeMans, the council listened to debate for two hours before the proposal won a 4-2 vote, with one abstention, but immediately after the vote Sr. Alma asserted her veto power and killed the proposaL 
According to Miss Barlow, Sr. Alma gave three reasons for her veto: 
---she didn't feel that each hall at St. Mary's was "ready" for the responsibility of hall autonomy; 
<--she said she had talked to many parents on the subject of parietals and found great opposition to the program from that source; 
---discussions with members of the St. 
Mary's board of Trustees also revealed opposition to the plan<
Miss Barlow said her feelings on the decision were more concerned with the 
principle of hall autonomy than with the actual parietals uissue. "The University should challenge the students to choose life styles, make decisions and to live in a community with other women," she said. "If they (the students> accept this parietals decision, they accept the decision of the Trustees to make decisions over their lives." 
At the present time, Miss Barlow said she is "undecided" about future plans for the vetoed proposal. She outlined what she saw as five alternative actions: 
---The first was that each of the halls can take illegal action, that is, go ahead and have their own parietals, and take the consequences. Neither she nor Darlene Galena, who originally proposed the bill, was very enthusiastic about this idea. "They'd stop that right away." Miss Galena said, referring to St. Mary's ad­ministration. 
---Secondly, the SMC student govern­ment could simply drop the issue entirely, an alternative which Miss Barlow siad, "I won't even consider." 
._., , < •·• '" ~~ ' ' 
It ' 
~ ·-I. 
ff . 


Darlene Galena on taking illegal 
action about parietals: "They'd 
probably stop that right away." 
---A third alternative would be to start the legislative processes over again, retaining the same philosophy of hall autonomy, but having each hall draw up its own proposal. Miss Galena was in­different to this alternative. "The same thing will probably happen to it," she commented. 
Continued on page 6 

8 days 'till 
Thanksgiving!!!!! 
Hall Life Fund...see page six 
Civil Rights Commission Blasts Wixon Administration...page 3 
If our weatherman is right we'll be getting rain tonite Temps won't be bad today In the fifties, I would say For these reports I don not care As long as the snow isn't there And I'd finish this crazy line But my thoughts are fixed on Turkey time 

Toohey wants ''amnesty'' for draft resistors 
• by 0. Patrick Rock opposition" in support of his blunder and therefore refused to are labeled ''heroes" and the proposal Toohey said that the participate in it." men who sought to avoid such 
Director of Campus Ministry move was a "startling" one on senseless killings are branded Fr. William Toohey released last the part of Bishops, and they "criminals". Surely if a night a Iettter he sent to used. according to Toohey "very Political issues President can intervene per­
President Nixon yesterday, strong language" in their sonally in a Calley case, he can do urging Nixon to grant amnesty to statem<'nt. no less for a resistor." th(' ml'n who have been im­"WC' must acknowledge the Toohey expressed ap-
Toohey said that he hopes theprisoned or have left the country agonizing truth that American prehension over the political letter acts as a catalyst for abecause of "sincere opposition" implication of such a move. "The
intervention in Vietnam was a student letter-writing campaign. Fr. Toohey, "We mustto th<' draft. granting of amnesty to resistors
tragic mistake--both in­"A simple letter is no big deal, acknowledge the agonizing
and defectors must not be

tC'rnationally and domestically," but if C'nough of us will take at truth ... " 
allowt>d to become merely one 

Cites bishops' plea Tooh<'y said in a press release more calculated political issue lC'ast that much time and trouble, "a number of possible ways" to
yesterday. "There is a 
it will represent a sincere undertake such a drive. He
designed to capture the vote of

therapeutic measure that can be the eighteen-year-olds," he said manifestation of our own per­suggested that "creative andToohey cited a resolution 
taken by the government and that sonal concern and an effort to
rC'c<'ntly passed by the Catholic is to grant amnesty to the in the press release. The gesture imaginative P<'ople are needed." 
should be only a long overdue communicate to a man who needs Tooh<'y expressed "hope" that aBishops of America urging the 
thousands of our young people to know how America feels," he
st<'p toward regaining balance in good number of students wouldU.S. Government to "grant who perceived the complexity a culture where the perpetrators contended. write independently of any drive. 
amnesty ... because of sincere 

and hopelessness of the Vietnam According to Toohey there are
of acts like the My Lai massacres 






Library cramped; 2 building plans 
Law school additions: no verdict 
by Maria Gallagher 
Notre Dame law students have been lobbying for about four years for more modern facilities to replace the cramped and antiquated law building which is more than 100 years old, but their 
case  seems  to  have  recieved  
scant  attention  from  the  ad­ 
ministration so far.  

Observer Insight 
~ccording to Tim Hartzer, a th1rd-year law student and president of N.D.'s Student Bar Association, tentative plans for a new Law Center complex have been in existence since he came to Notre Dame and a number of ideas have been espoused, but as yet no concrete action has been taken to either add to the present 
· building, or to initiateie con­struction of the proposed com­plex. 
Hartzer said he personally feels that the present building is "grossly inadequate," noting in particular the library seating space and the volume capacity of the library, which is about "half of what it should be," for the nearly 500 students who use it. He He also called the proposed complex plans "unrealistic," but added that oromises were made and people were led to believe that its construction would begin in the not too distant future. The 1970 Dome, in its Law School section, features a picture of a scale model of "Notre Dame's new Law Center (which) will be ready to accomodate them (the students) by 1973." The Dome went on to the the predicted fact that the Law School planned to double its enrollment within five years. If that be the case, the present inadequacies of the existing building will be in· creased fivefold. 
Dean Thomas Shaffer of the Law School fully agreed with1 the students' contention that more spa( e is necessary, but con­tended that financing is a for­midable obstacle. 
"Within two years a decision will have to be made one way or another to expand the present building, or to build a new one altogether," Shaffer said. Other possibilities previously suggested were to move to an already existing building on campus, or, as Fr. Burtchaell hinted last year, to create a graduate social science complex at St. Mary's upon completion of the merger. 
However. the financing 

Everybody says the Law Building is inadl~ou<~t~> anything about it. 
PROOF OPEN 
OF AGE REQUIRED 



LOTS TO LEARN 
plus 
Operation: Sex Appeal 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
problem remains. "The Law Center drive has already raised enough money for addition, but not enough for a new building," Shaffer said. 
"Some concrete proposals are presently under review, and although there is limited space for expansion, there is some room for it toward the east by the engineering building. A remodeling would approximately double the size of the place," he speculated. 
Hartzer, however, said that a new building might prove a better investment in the long run, since the Law School will probably continue to expand. 
"If no further financing is in sight by June 1, the two million dollars already available will have to be spent toward an ad­dition. The "cosmetic changes" made over the summer have made the building more liveable, but as far back as Dean O'Meara the building was being labled inadequate, and conditions will probably continue to be so until a new one is erected. 


...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 

Indiana Bell 


Orpheus in the Underworld 
Friday, Saiurday, Sunday Evenings 
November 19, 20, 21 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
A comic opera with an all-city cast. Sponsored by the Michiana Arts and Science Council. 
Tickets: $4, $3, $2 Available at box office 


Washington. Nov. 16-­
fhe U S Commission on Civil Rights today accused the Nixon administration of failing to Pnforce adequately civil rights laws and regulations. 
For the third time in a year, the investigatory and advisory body used particularly strong language to blast the ad­ministration's enforcement ef­fort. 
The White House itself fared better than any other agency included in the commission's investigation, but the best the White House could get was a "less than adequate" per­formance rating on a chart in which the agencies were rated either poor, marginal, adequate and good. 
Not one of the 29 agencies 
received a rating of adequate. 
The Office of Management and 
Budget, which is under the White 
House, got the highest rating, just 
below the adequate level. 
A White House spokesman said 
there would he no comment on 
tht• report since the President 
only received it on Monday. 
The commission reported that 
it would found some progress 
within certain agencies, mainly 
lht> establishment of machinery 
to begin enforcement. 
"Actual performance in the 
resolution of problems, not 
progress in the development of 
mechanisms alone, is the 
realistic yardstick by which the 
government's civil rights effort 
should be measured," the report 
said. 
"It is no consolation to the 
black farmer who continues to 
receive assistance from the 
extension service on a racial 
separate and unequal basis that 
the Department of Agriculture is 
making progress. It is no source 
of satisfaction to the Mexican­
American of Puerto Rican job 
seeker turned down by a 
government contractor that the 
Office of Federal Contract 
Compliance is gradually im­
proving." 
At a news conference this af­
ternoon. the Rev. Theodore M. 
llesburgh, Chairman of the 
commission, added: 
"No one can get greatly excited 
about progress that is made after 
ht• is dead." 
The report released today 
follows two previous studies of 
federal enforcement by the 
commission. In October, 1970, 
the commission charged that 


there had been a "major break­on the progress made on its categories,there was marked down" in enforcement because recommendations of last year. improvement in only three areas, the federal government had Thus, in overall effort in specific policy making. virtually abdicated its respon­
The 0 bserver

sibility. And in a report seven months later, last May, the 
Local Insert Price List

commission noted some progress, but also found sub­
per 1000 (10,000 must be printed)

stantial regression in civil rights activity in some agencies. 
2 page ..............••.... $10.00 Commission officials denied 
4 page ...................• $12.00 that there was a split in the 
6 page .......•......•...•.$14.00 

position of the commissioners 
8 page ..................•.$16.00

and the staff. Father Hesburgh's 
12 & over pages ...........$20.00

statement was more moderate than the language of the report. 
Pamphlet

Asked about this, he said the commission would stick to the 
8 page .................•..$12.00 statement. However, John 
16 page ...................• $15.00 

Buggs, acting staff director, said 
24 page ....................$18.00 

the commission fully endorsed 
30 & over pages .......•...$24.00

the report, "otherwise, they would not have released it." 
Pre-payment Required.

In rating the performance of agencies for today's report, the 
Call 7471 for further information. 
commission based its conclusions 
Feel lost, out of it • • 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP
Find it at 

GIFTS • BOOKS 
POSTERS
The 

LOVE NOTES 
GREETING CARDS
Hideaway 
RELIGIOUS 
EDUCATION 
MATERIAL
Lounge 

ONE BLOCK EAST 
OF NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD
this week, we give you ••• 
BROWSERS WELCOME FREE PARKING
''The Robert's Brothers'' 
OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY 
TIL 7:00 PM 
Monday thru Saturday 8 pm till 3 am 
AQUINAS 
Wed. Ladies night, Ladies Free, Guys $1.00 
BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAD
122 W. First Street 

SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
PH. 272-1704
Downtown, Mishwaka 


Page 4 THE OBSERVER. 
--'=-----------~-------·-­
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso Assistant EditorAssistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 

ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
Advt'rtising Manager 

Rusiness Manager anyone or anything if thE'y can help 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them. Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 
News: 283-1715Business: 283-7471 

The Only Alternative Left 
It toOO: about two months for the comprehensive St. Mary's hall autonomy bill to work its way from the drafting board to the Student Affairs Council. It took all of ten minutes for Acting SMC President Sister Alma Peter to kill the bill with a slash of her pen. 
The soulful liberal who serves as Acting President did have the cour­tesy to forward a number of schoolmarmish reasons for her veto. She did say that she had talked to some of the parents and that they had discouraged her, she never did get around to explaining why the parents of a group of legal adults had any influence on her decision. She did say she had talked to some of the Trustees and that they discouraged her, she never explained why she had to sound out Trustees for her decision in light of the fact that they would eventually pass judgement on the bill anyway. Finally, she ventured her own opinion-that the halls weren't 
''ready" for such a move, whatever the hell that means. 
She missed the whole point of course. It's not her right-or the Univer­sity's-to decide lifestyles for grown women-but let it pass. Trying to talk sense with obdurate administrators is a little like trying to restore the dead-occasionally you get a rise out of them, but generally it's just rigor mortis. The fact that she's only Acting President and due for a swift retirement when the merger comes can provide some small solace when one realizes what an incredibly bad actor she really is. 
The question SMC student leaders will have to ponder over the next couple of days is what course of action they might take in response to the veto. SBP Kathy Barlow, in ourfront-page story, went over some of them. What SMC cannot do is precisely what ND has done-wait for a more reasonable judgement next year. For SMC, Hall autonomy exists neither de jure nor de facto. People actually suffer for the stupidities of thier administrators. 
The other courses range from a resubmission -which would presumably guarentee the same result -to widescale and far ranging violations-which would probably result in mass execution or whatever they use to deal with sinners atSt. Mary's. 
The most promising course-and it's not a very promising course -is to igonre Sr. Alma's veto and take the thing to the Board of Trustees. They may not approve it, in which case we're back to where we are now. But if it's given an impressive defense -a defense as impressive as the one Barkett, Rodriguez, and Weaver gave before the stolid ND Trustees -it may sway enough people to actually carry the bill. Of all the alternative courses Barlow mentioned in her commentary, this is theonly one that might give St. Mary's hall autonomy-this year. Or, alternately, it might soften the Trustees up for concessions in other areas, as it surely did here. 
In any event, it can't hurt. 
Nite Editor: Gene Slason 
THE OBSERVER

Ass't Nite Editor: Anthony 
Abowd Headliner: Criss Sullivan Nothing Again: Maria Gallagher nite controller: mark i. Where the __were you George 
niederkorn 

Lund? Headliner: Don Biancomano News Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
Typists: Helen Smudski, Debi SMC Editor: Ann Conway Gras, Mark Lammert features editor: rick smith Sports Nite Editor: Eric Kinkopf Campus News: Don Ruane 
Housemother: Ceil Popovich Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Visitors and Others: Joe Abell, Marty Miller, Ed Ellis, T.C. 
Treanor 
THANKS EVERYBODY! 


( C HEn1f.S~Y fl-,) 
I
eX AM tN'A (#0-'V 

Htlf)l Ill 
I 

I~Mi ~ .s ort OiT'i""fl.. St.9t'fE"~ P"1"'r 
I Fo~ l'tl.a; ,, I 
..s-'""'f' oF '+ 4 "\Nome= ~"61; P~),.;r
•,-fl'toit_ 'I If,,., I' 

Only Castles Burning-------­
A Bastian of White Male Chauvinism
--------'=--=~---John A bowd 
There are over one hundred twenty-five men here. They have come 
from all over the country this Saturday afternoon just to be in South 
Bend. There is not a black face among them; there is not a brown face 
among them; there is not a woman among them. (There are, of 
course, women operating the only typewriters in the place-the 
western union tele-type machines.) 
I have only been in one press box in my life, Notre Dame's, and I 
have only been there twice (neither time as a reporter) but I would be 
very surprised if the situation is much different around the country. 
Perhaps it was a little naive to expect that some "progress" might 
have occurred since discrimination on the basis of race and sex (and a 
few other things) was made illegal in 1964 but a little taste of the real 
world quickly dissolves such an illusion. I am not picking on press 
boxes. They are not the last bastion of white male chauvinism, only a 
catalyst that suggests to me that years of looking at discrimination as 
a socio-legal problem was useless. It's time to reconsider whether it is 
possible to provide all people with equality of opportunity without 
coming to grasps with the behavioral conditions that cause 
discrimination. 

We have usually considered the problems of sexism and racism 
related but not congruous. Racism was viewed as the outgrowth of 
years of conscious efforts by white people to subjugate colored races. 
The personal prejudice that caused racism could be circumvented by 
effective enforcement of civil rights liegislation. Sexism was viewed 
as the result of a conflict between the female and the male idea of her 
socialized sex role which would be difficult, but not impossible, to 
eliminate by legal action. The basic similarity between the two was 
the opinion that the individual who held prejudiced attitudes was 
responsible for those opinions-that if he chose to change his opinion 
he could; that he had achieved the freedom to which the subgated 
people aspired. That, finally, even if the discriminator refused to 
surrender his prejudiced beliefs, his attitudes could be circumvented 
and society could progress without changing the hard-noses merely 
leaving them to die off. 

But it has not worked. Perhaps, these assumptions were wrong. Perhaps the discriminator is no freer than those he dominates. Perhaps he is no more responsible for his own attitudes (and the behaviour through which he manifests them) than the slave is responsible for his enslavement. Perhaps man (or woman) cannot choose among attitudes, then, there is no freedom in the classical sense 
only happiness or supposed happiness. 
The dominated peoples of the world do not really aspire to the white 
man's freedom, only to what they suppose is the greater happiness he 
possesses as a result of his dominant position. This does not change the 
Iegitamacy of ending racism and sexism, it merely suggests that the 
way to accomplish the goal is not by circumventing individual at­
titudes but by engaging in behavior modification to eliminate those 
unfavorable attitudes. 

White male-prejudice is in the public domain. Actions which alter 
the environmental contingencies that produce this prejudice are the 
only possible method of permanently eliminating the diseases of 
racism and sexism. If man was not free when he chose to be 
prejudiced <prejudice is conditioned), then we are depriving him of 
nothing if we treat that prejudice as a disease to be cured. If we 
eliminate from our environment (or culture if you like) those things 
which reinforce the disease then we can eliminate the problem . 
The critical difference is that instead of considering attitudes and 
behavior separately we consider attitudes as a form of behavior and 
therefore susceptible to the principles of psychological conditioning. 
That's the Pandora's box because such a belief has staggering 
possibilities if used by people to perpetuate the disease rather than 
destroy it. But, if the approach works it will not matter whether we 
think man can hold a free belief or not. 



Wednesday, November 17, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
greg stepic 


mardi gras '72 ­where the money goes 
The 1972 Mardi Gras Notre Dame Charities Raffle r-------------------------gets into full swing this week when the raffle 
sr. marita, one o~ the people you can help through mardi gras jean mcnulty 
The following is reprinted from the October 22nd issue of the "Marianews"--a .~tudent publication of Marion High School in Birmingham, Michigan. The author is an associate editor of the newspaper and l'isited our campus several weekends back. Her observations may be taken with as many grains of salt as you wish--being based primarily upon surface impressions instead of, say, person-to-person dialogue. However. it is hoped that they still offer some insight into how other folks view this place .. ed. 
Nestled on a shady campus outside South Bend. Indiana, is the social phenomenon known to college catalogues and incoming freshmen as Notre Dame. Ht•cently I visited this university that time has seemingly forgotten, and for the purpose of educating the public, and eompleting this week's journalism assignnwnt. my observations are recorded below. 
Notre Dame looks like someplace where vour father and favorite uncle went to school. Ivy covered halls and shaded sidewalks are reminicsent of another time and taste. An important domed cathedral casts a giant shadow across the university. 
It is in this shadow that thousands of young men land women, from nearby St. Mary's l are being trained for life. 
A study of student bulletin boards reinforces a first impression of stark eonservatism. One board advertised a Saturday night bridge game at Grace Towers, an offer to sell two tickets to the football game, and a reminder to talk to your hall representative about some meeting that had been held. No demon­strations being organized. (No Black Panthers. l Just pigskin and bridge games. l 
While I don't support an overthrow of the system. there is a great deal to be said for an institution than encompasses a variety of opinions and life styles. A good part of an education is learning to cope with at­lal·ks. Open your beliefs. If nobody rocks lhe hoat. you'll never learn to sw1m. 
Saturday night brought the St. Mary's girls out in their dating finery. <Ratio of guys to girls: 6 to 1). There was a certain quaintness about watching a whole university shave and dress for something as traditional as a Saturday night date. 


''the ·
un1verse
Over at St. Mary'. girls parade around in a frenzied state of near undress borrowing panty hose and bobby pins. Fourth floor Holy Cross Hall looked like a scene from 

is not only queerer
lhat darling movie "The Trouble with Angels." The boys move en masse, like a brigade of Ken dolls, to call for "their girls." In­

than we suppose
teresting point about their dress: they all look alike. Every boy wears suit coat and lie. Every girl wears a dress. Most wear patent leather pumps and carry handbags. !The girls that is.) 
Watching the concert-goers across eampus. I felt like someone had thrown me hack in time to the late 1950's. The mental impact of the thrust was unnerving. Notre lla me boys still conduct panty raids. They wear straight-legged jeans that don't fade­not ever. Ot is rumored that the Indiana air produces this phenomenon.) They wPar P.F. Fliers and blue and gold T­shirts and white socks. You almost expect the next person you meet to introduce herself as Gidget. 
(Things I didn't see on campus: bell bottomed jeans. A Jefferson Airplane album. Anything by Abbie Hoffman. Abbie Hoffman.) 
I do not doubt that Notre Dame can boast or an admirable curriculum. If you play 
but queerer football. you've found the place. If you're majoring in cheerleading or dating,RUSH our application to St. Mary's. 
If. however. you seek an education 
than we can suppose" 
lll'yond books and goal poets; if you have sonwwhcre acquired the fool notion that a lwalthy differPnce of outlook and opinion eontrihute something to the learning pron•ss. then you'll be appalled at what lhe p1·idc or South B<>nd is calling an t'ducation. · 
j.b.s. haldane
This is not to say I didn't (•njoy the \\'t'l'kPml, or I ht' pt>oplt· I met. Some of the 
I 
ni('t'sl pt•opiP I know go to Notn• Dame and 
I 

I drawings by ben shahn
St. Mary's ... unfortunately. 
'packets are distributed campus wide. Many people 
often wonder where the money goes each year-­
well, here is an opportunity to find out. 
cila ­
a mutual experience 
CILA was Notre Dame's biggest winner last year when it received a $2800 allocation from the Mardi Gras Charity Chest. This money is used in support of the summesocial work of many of our students who travel to Indian reservation, poor Appalachian communities and towns as far away as Mexico and Haiti. A mutual educational and human experience is lived by both the natives and our students during the summer. 
council for the retarded ­giving to others ' lives 
"To bring a smile to a retarded child is a heart­
warming experience for anyone." This appeared 
adequate enough to donate $2000 to the Council for 
the Mentally Retarded. Many of our students give 
up valuable 'sleeping' time on Saturday mornings to 
work with the children at Logan Center. 
Activities including swimming, music, arts, and 
crafts, and bowling are just a few of the programs 
our students join in on to give a sp~rk of meaning to 
the lives of the Logan Children. 
study help ­wonders & concern 
The neighborhood Study Help Program involves some 900 underpriviledged South Bend children and the concern of several hundred Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. Sometimes only a little personal interest into the life of a child can do wonders-­which seems to say enough for this community project. The Charity Chest donation of $2150 was only a small portion of the program budget and our only regret was that we couldn't help them a little more. 

manasa -caring for our brothers & sisters 
MANASA is a student interest group which concerns itself not only with the retarded children at Northern Indiana Children's Hospital but also with those who have become afflicted with mental disease. Trips are made by those involved to the Beatty State Mental Hospital. MANASA received a contribution of $750 from N.D. Charities last year. 
srmarita's­giving them a chance 
Sister M. Marita's Day School attempts to give some of the South Bend underpriviledged a fighting chance in this world by giving them a more per­sonalized academic training. Often times these students are labeled by the public school systems as 'slow'. Sr. Marita shows what a little interest can do. Sister received $600 from the Charity Chest. 
if everybody would 
just help a little 
The above groups received the major donations from the Charity Chest last year. Others that received an allocation include the Student Inmate Education Program, Bengal Mission Bouts, Non­Violence Program, Corvilla Inc., People's Pantry, Notre Dame Credit Union for Account of "Prison Teachers", and the Student Drug Information Center. 
When added up the allocations by the Charity Chest amounts to $10,305.00. Such a small sum ­our potential is so great! If each person on campus sold but one book--well, you add it up. A small but universal effort by our community will make Mardi Gras '72 a success for everyone. Please help this year. 
du lac: where your father would have gone 
---------·----------------------~---·------­
r----------~----------­
Wednesday, November 17, 1971
~~~g~e6~----------------------------~THE OBSERVER 
'an equitable s distribution' -Ed Motto 
•

$ 10,000 1n Hall Life fund grants awarded 


board members, and contending 

financing amendment to the Tax 
that her influence on the board was considerable. 
Her only plans for the im­mediate future are to attend the meetings of the hall councils and discuss the issue with the hall presidents. 
"We've already talked with the hall presidents and they seem to think it's a bad time for the students," she said, referring to the upcoming end of the semester and academic pressures on the students inherent with'that. 
She added that she would know more about the situation and her further plans in the next couple of weeks. 
one show only 
Continued on page 8 

CALIFORNIANS 
X-Mas Round Trip LA or SF $1 1 8 7 -8 Tues. 1 6 ­
Thurs. 18th Room 1-D 
La Fortune Tony 7865 Rick 1753 
Richard Harris in 
CAMELOT 
At 8 P.M.
IFri. Nov. 19 

O'Laughlin Hall $1.00 
SMC soph class 
dust cover, ready to go. 
transistors in the amplifier. 
The regular price of 324.95. 
59.95 off the regular price. 
trade-in value, in writing. 
gets you started. 

hilll Life Fund 1971-72 
Hall 
Dillion Badin B.P. H.C. Zahm Howard Lyons Walsh Stanford Keenan Cavanaugh Alumni Fisher St. Ed's Pangborn Morrissey Sorin Farley 

Request 
1'746.00 783.20 1,036.00 860.00 2,515.50 1,292.78 650.00 950.00 2,606.50 800.00 1,576.00 1,331.00 3,517.00 1,265.00 850.00 1,550.00 483.45 3,703.60 
Grant 
575.00 670.00 600.00 860.00 
740.00 295.00 650.00 750.00 405.00 
3.000.0<' 
200.00 210.00 475.00 210.00 475.00 
Total 

27,517.03 '0 "Ort.OO 
--------------------~-------1 
Wednesday, November 17, 1971 THE OBSERVER P~7 
Managing; a learning experience 
E.J. Kinko11f '7:! 



Bill Nugent's , 1the head dummies, getting the right served as a great insight into the Conw next September, Ara and Pxecutive sideline positions are business world as well as into the 
his staff will have many holes to not so glorious. They are filled football manager\, activities number of footballs on the field 
ran~(' from serving the pre-game cl<'aning up lockerrooms, picking world of collegiate football."
fill as a n•sult of the graduation of with rainy, cold days setting up up laundry. and generally just "It gave me a taste of com­standouts like Walt Patulski, tackling dummies on the practice Mass at Moreau Seminary to sticking close to Ara servicing the coaches. As a fresh­Buster "You
Clarcnce f:llis. Eric Patton and field, or scraping mud off 50 to 100 to correct petition," added. 
any last minute changes that man you do this stuff at least are given a job to do, and must
Tom Gatcwood. pairs of cleats after a muddy 
All of the senior football practice. have to be made before game three times a week, for around try to do it as efficiently as But the experience they have limP. four hours a day. It's rough, but possible. And then you are
playcrs will bc sorely missed by Buster Keating, the number when I did it, I just kept the graded on how well you per­the coaching staff, because acquired is worth it they say. It benefits out in front of me where I form."

lhcy've been such an integral must be. Because their job, the two man in the managerial 
part of Notre Dame football for drudgery. the everyday work far hicrarchy. has duties that include could see them. And now I know Come this Saturday, the Irish the past four years. l'xceeds the Saturday afternoon keeping the official playing times that it was all worth it." football players will be executing 
But if you asked Ara, I'd be glory. of the players, taking care of The sophomore year is much of on the field for possibly the last willing to bet that he'd say he'll But the way these fellas explain <'xpense money on trips, setting the same, although the time. And these three men, 
Nugent., Keating, and
miss three fellas by the names of it. the advantages far outweigh up rooming lists, and working sophomores act as overseers of Nugent. Keating and Mac Donald any disadvantages. closely with Robert Cahill, the freshmen. But after those two MacDonald, will be working on as much as he will his AII­Rill Nugent puts it like this; Business Manager of Athletics, initial years of labor come the the sidelines for the last time. 
Buster and Bill leave few words 
Amcricans. "Sure it takes up a lot of time, on transportation schedules. rewards. 
behind for any students who are
Who'? but a student who can budget his Jim MacDonald is equipment "It's worth it man," said Jim, 
man Gene O'Niell's right hand. contemplating joining the student 
Bill "Nugget" Nugent, Mike time can work around the long "I mean last year at the Cotton 
"Buster" Keating and Jimmy hours. And being part of the .lim spends the night before a Bowl, and even this year at managers organization. game checking out equipment, "I know nobody, , Buster said, 
"Mac" MacDonald, that's who. greatest team in collegiate Purdue. Just being associated "who has stuck it out andThe senior football managers. football means a lot. Being able and overseeing the painting of with the team after those two regretted it."
The guys behind the scenes. to know the coaching staff, a helmcts. victories makes all that work "I've talked to managers atThree students who have brilliant group of men, men at the Even though they have more or well ... seem like nothing." ' reunions from way back in thed(•dicah•d upwards of 2,000 hours top of their professions is a great less matriculated to white collar And the affiliation with the 1930's, " Bill added, "and therein thcir four year managing experience. I know I've made positions over four years of football team goes even further hasn't been one person whocareers to polishing shoes, some aquaintances that will last service, these same guys labored than that. 
hasn't said that managing wasn't
painting helmets, cleaning up mc a lifetime." in the shadow of the Cartier Field 
says it a "It gave me an experience the highlight of his college
lockcrrooms and making sure Jim MacDonald in goalposts for three years outside of the academic world," career."
that the little details, that seem different way. dedicating themselves to th~ Bill said. "I've dealt with people It's been more than a highlightnon-existent on a sunny football "There's great pride in being duties of a student manager. 
in all levels of life, from the for these guys, managing hasSaturday, are well taken care of. associated with a class "The freshman year is more a bottom to the top. It's been a been their college career.
To an outsider, the student organization, an organization year of physical work," Bill great education for me, learning A career that has proved to be
managing job appears quite that goes first class all the way." Pxplained, "setting up tackling how to conduct myself. And it's an education in itself.
prestegious; watching the And Buster; managcrs chase after footballs "Being a manager connected on the field before a game, and me with the team in the best and 
Irish move up to 7th in both polls
stand alongside Ara or Tom only way outside of playing. I've l'agna during the game. had some really great ex­
There was little change in the 

Associated Press United Press 
But the years that precede the periences after four years." 
top ten rankings of the wire service polls this week. I Nebraska (40) 1~0 1.1166 I. Nebraska (30) 1~ 345
Mike P a v lin:;;;;;:::::::::::::::::=:==========~=;=====:=~=~========================================================· 2. Oklahoma (8) 9-0 986 %. Oklahoma (3) 9·0 305
Notre Dame moved up one spot 3. Michigan (4) 1~0 788 3. Michigan (I) 1~0. 252 in both polls to 7th, following 4. Alabama (I) 1~0 7:;:; 4. Alabama (I) 1~0 245 
5. Auburn (1)9-0 .. 686 5. Auburn 9-0 ... 239
The Graduate View Georgia's loss to Auburn. 
6. 
Penn State (I) 9-0 635 I. Penn State 9-0 172 

7. 
Notre Dam~ 8-1 4<16 7. Notre Dame 8-1 . lOll


Georgia dropped to 8th in the 

8. Georgia 9-1 ..... 373 8. Ariwna State 8-1 15
AP and 9th in the UPI balloting. 9. Ariwna State 8-1 353 9. Georgia 9·1 71 
10. Colorado 8-2 313 10. Colorado 8-0 29
Louisiana State, whom the 

11. Tennessee 6-2. 250 11 Tennessee 6-2 13
Irish meet this Saturday night, 12. Toledo 1~0
Bcsides the fine showing by Cliff Brown, there is more good news out 1%. Texas 7·2 . 234'-'l 13 
moved up to 14th in the AP, and 13 Toledo 1~0 143 13. Houston 7-2 II
of last weekend's sport activities-~ven out of losing efforts. 14 Louisiana State 6-3 95'h 14. Texas 7·2 .
IRth in the UPl ratings. 10 
ThP Irish frosh were bested 30-13 in their second lop-sided loss. Yet 15 Southern Califorrua 6-4 79 15. Michigan State 6-4 . 5 
16 1&. Southern Califorrua 6-4
it is hard to become pessimistic when one realizes that, as in the Southern Cal, 6-4, held onto Houston 7·2 78 4 
17 Arltansas 7-2-1 51 17. North Carolina fl.2 3Michigan game, the slats were even. The frosh totaled 428 yards and their 15th place spot in the AP, 18. Stanford 73 29 18. Loutsiana State 6-3 2 10. lie Ar11ansas 7-2-1
Tom Clements went 18-31-245 with 12 compltions going to Pete .and dropped one spot to 16th in 19 Mirlugan State 6-4 22 I 
20 Mtf.sJSSippt 8-2 and Stanford 7·3. I
I>Pmerle. There are many outstanding individua~s on the sqad and, the UPI poll. 7 for the firsttime since ..Joe Theismann was a freshman, the Blue-Gold 
Michigan State broke into the 

spring game shapes up as an interesting contest. The varsity may 
AP rankings with a 19th place, 

Nelson to emcee banquet
have a rcal problem on their hands. 
and remained in their 15th spot in 

Despite a 6-5 loss on Saturday night, the Irish icers have reason to the UPI. 
Lindsey Nelson, veteran New Dame Development Office, or byfeel satisfied after their weekend in North Dakota. Opening on the York sportscaster and the calling 283-6516 weekdays. All
road. the Irish could have suffered a disastrous eight-point loss in the WCIIA standings. By winning on Friday, they at least get four points Boaters win television voice of "The Fighting proceeds will be added to the 
Irish" for 145 stations carrying dub's scholarship fund.
and come home this weekend with some valuable game experience. 
Jafar Moghadan's two goals the Sunday morning replay ofLl'fty Smith's crew certainly proved they can score, with 10 goals in 
two nights. led the Notre Dame soccer team Notre Dame games, will be the Novakov getsto a 5-2 victory over Cincinnati in master of ceremonies at this
One wonders what goes through the frantic minds of bowl com­the season finale Saturday behind year's football banquet in the
mitteemen around this time of year. It seems certain the Orange and game ball
Stepan Center. The win left the University's Athletic and Con­Sugar Bowls could feature SEC Big Eight match-ups. But who goes Irish with a 3-6-1 record this fall. vocation Center Thursday,
where? If you represent the Orange Bowl, do you try to grab The game awards for the
Cincinnati opened the scoring December 2.

Nebraska and Alabama before their Thanksgiving week clashes with Tulane game were presented at
with a first quarter goal but the Named by his colleagues, the
Oklahoma and Auburn; or do you wait until after those gamPs anu Cartier Field Monday with Dan
Irish began to control the play in sportscaster and sportswriter of
hope the Sugar Bowl doesn't make off with the "right" team? Novakov, Rick Thomann and
the second quarter and America, as the No. I sport­
Maybe, if you are cautious, you play it "safe" and sign up Penn .John Dampeer coming away the
dominated the action the rest of scaster in the nation for four
State !who looks powerful enough to take Tennessee) thus making big winners.
the way. consecutive years, Nelson has
sure of having at least one unbeaten team. And if you represent the Novakov, the senior center,
Moghadan's first goal, three announced 10 Cotton Bowl games, 
\olton Bowl what do you do with your unglamorous attraction? Do playing in his final home game,
minutes into the second quarter, including the last two with Notre
you try to get Penn State or do you invite Notre Dame and try to cash received the game ball.
tied the score and Rick Coleman, Dame, four Rose Bowl contests,
in on the "re-match" theme'? Linebacker Thomann received
who had assisted on Moghadan's and three National Football
Finally, where do the Toledo Rockets with their 33-game win streak the award for his defensive
tally. put the Irish ahead to stay League championship games. He
fit in? If you are a committeeman from one of the three major bowls, contribution while John Dampeer 
five minutes later. Jeff Noonan does the commentary for an NFL
do you take a chance and invite them? Or would that be like inviting was honored for his contribution
was credited with an assist on game on CBS -TV every Sunday 
an Ivy League team? In fact, would Toledo even accept a bowl bid? to the offense.
Coleman's score. The goal was and is "The Voice of the N.Y.
The Hockets are obviously the class in their conference and are in Mike Peiffer and Terry Phillips
coieman's sixth of the year and Mets" during baseball season.
position to make a run at Oklahoma's 47-game streak. Would they risk of the offensive and defensive 
gave the senior captain the club

that chance by playing someone out of their class like Penn State, Nelson, who did the NCAA preparation teams were also
scoring title.

(;£'orgia or Notre Dame? And if Toledo is better than Ohio U. and Ohio "Game of the Week" for five cited at awards day presen­
Noonan made it a 3-1 game 4: 15

U. clobbered Tulane and Tulane gave the Irish a hard time, just how years with Red Grange and for tations.
into the third quarter with an

~ood are the Rockets'? four years with Terry Brennan, JUST FOR THE RECORD--All of the following marks are new assist from Gary Troy. has a rich knowledge of locker Grad hoop loop
Moghadan's second score, at 6:00

records unless otherwise indicated. room highlights in sports history 
of the third stanza, gave the Irish Rosters for teams entering the 
TEAM--GENERAL and is expectec\ to report many
a three-goal advantage. Noonan Graduate School Basketball
I. l Most Consecutive Games Scoring: 61 ol his personal behind -the ­TEAM--SINGLE GAME picked up an assist on scenes with League must be submitted to the
contacts sports 
l.l Yards Interceptions Returned: 185 Moghadan's tally. notables. He will introduce coach Interhall Athletics office by 
Troy completed the Notre f'riday afternoon.
2. 
l (record tied l Interceptions: 7 Ara Parseghian, Rev. Edmund T. 

3. 
l " " Interceptions for TO's: 2 Dame scoring at the nine minute Joyce. executive vice president, Teams are generally ·INDIVIDUAL--SINGLE GAME mark of the third quarter. and other University officials in associated with departments, but 


('incinnati managed to score

I.) !record tiedl Interceptions: Ken Schlezes 3 a ttcnda nee. inter-department teams may be 
" another goal midway through the formed. Hosters mav contain as
2. l " Interceptions for TO's: Mike Crotty, Ralph Stepaniak as 52nd banquet,
:u " " Field Goals Made: Bob Thomas 3 fourth quarter but that was The annual many players as desired, as long 
INDIVIDUAL--CAREER close as they could come to the sponsored by the the Notre Dame as all team members areClub of St. Joseph Valley, ,is open
I. l Passes Broken Up: Clarence Ellis 27 Irish. rcgistered graduate students or 
to both men and women. Tickets
2. >Tackles for Minus Yards: Walt Patulski 39 Seniors Dick Seryak, Mike Notre Dame faculty members.
for the 7 p.m. dinner are priced at
:uPass RPceptions: Tom Gatewood 150 Mackcn and Coleman wound up Official rules and game
$11.00 and may be reserved by
4. 
lTd Pass Receptions: Gatewood 18 playmg carcers with the win over procedures will be forwarded to

writing to Tom Sullivan, Notre

5. 
l HPception Yards: Gatewood 2208 l'incinnati. the captains. 




Pay board undecided on teachers' back-pay 
Washington, November 16--A long pay board meeting broke up today without reaching a decision on whether school teachers should recover the wage increases that hundreds of thousands of them lost during the 9o-day freeze. 
An agency spokesman reported cryptically after the session ended that the 15-member board "discussed methods of im­plementing its policies pertaining to retroactive wage increases." 
No new policies were devised, the spokesman said, but he declined to elaborate and gave no indication of the extent to which the pay board had gone into the frozen wage question. 
The regulations issued by the agency so far would bar recovery unless workers could convince the board that employers had raised prices to pay wage in­creases, that retroactivity was traditi-onal, or that "severe inequities" existed. 
The five labor representatives on the board, afraid this provision would prevent most workers from recouping the lost money, have opposed the stan­dard since it was first proposed. 

The agency has been under heavy pressure to liberalize its position on the retroactive issue, and it was reported over the weekend that support for such action had gained ground. 
The board could allow frozen raises for school teachers either by ruling that any tax increases designed to pay for them were in dfect "price" increases or by interpreting the "severe inequities" clause to benifit the educators. 
It appears that one problem has been that while the five public members of the board are inclined to five the teachers a break, they are anxious not to open the door to recoveries by others with frozen raises. 
The National Education ssociation said today that a sur vey of its 1.1-million memvers suggested that 63 per cent of the nation's teachers lost pay raises during the freeze that ended Saturday. 
.. .r.~lv'ED

Cl. _..~ -1"'~._; .11 ~ ADS 
WANTED 
Need ride to ot towards Greely Colorado for Thanksgiving. Call 
Chip  8256.  
WANTED  CAMPUS  SALES  
REPRESENTATIVE.  New  

patented Iine of hi -fi and audiophile speaker systems. This product has excellent sound reproduction and new, progressive styIing. It is being offered tor exclusive represen­tation on the Notre Dame campus. Hi -fi system tor demonstration is desirable. Please send resume to 
P.O. Box 62052, Indianapolis, Indiana 46226. 
Needed: Ride to Pittsburgh Nov. 
20. Call Carol 5748. 
Riders needed to Eastern Penn­sylvania for Thanksgiving (Scranton, Allentown, and all points East on interstate 80.) Leave this Friday or Saturday Reasonable rates! Call Bob 1474. 
Need ride to Baton Rouge for LSU game this weekend can leave anytime after noon Friday -call 8256 or 8257. Will share expenses and provide a place to stay and meals. 
Needed: Ride to NYC fir Thanksgiving. Can leave Nov. 19. Call Mike 1628. 
Need ride to Florida (Ft. Lauderdale l for Thanksgiving. Call Mike 1650. 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio Friday Nov. 19. Call Joe 1650. 
Need ride to St. Louis, Nov. 20. Call Steve 1691. 
Need ride to Dayton, Ohio on Friday Nov. 18. Call Nancy, 232­6882. 




