
Election goes to Monday run-off 
by T.C. Treanor ter Jim Riebandt fell beneath Barkett took sixteen of the 23 thirty seven. did as well as we expected to 
Hall President's Council that mark, Hendrick with sixty halls on campus. Mooney col-The closest race was Alumni, do." Chairman John Barkett held an and Riebandt with ninety-two. lected six halls and the off-Mooney's home hall last year, In a statement to the Observer, impressive but inconclusive lead Among the five losing candi-campus vote. Fitzpatrick finish-'where the 0 -C Senator led Bar-the Mooney camp predicted that over off-campus Se.nator Don dates, Rich Sherman and Jim ed second to Barkett in Lyons, kett by only two votes, ninety "We're going to win Monday if Mooney last night in relatively Riebandt were the only two and tied Mooney behind Barkett seven to ninety five. the people around here want low student body presidential ready to make endorsements. in Sarin. The Observer was able to reach something more than empty pro-
voting. T)le Chicago-born Riebandt en-Barkett's biggest margin was in four of the six defeated candi-grams and bureaucracy from Barkett led Mooney by almost dorsed Mooney, claiming that his home hall, Morrisey, where dates last night to hear their Student Government." 
six hundred votes, but he fell "of the two candidates, I think he collected one hundred ninety concession statements. Richard "We know we're on the up-over four hundred votes short of Don understands the problems six votes to thirty three for Sherman, who captured seventy-swing," the statement said, and an absolute majority· A runoff is of this place better." Mooney. Mooney's most com-five votes in his home hall of it '<llso contended that "we know scheduled Monday between the Sherman endorsed Barkett, fortable edge was in Holy Cross, Dillon and finished fourth overall certain things must be done, but two leaders. while at the same time stating where he led Barkett sixty to on campus, contended that "we which can be done only when 
The surprising show of Eileen that he felt "Notre Dame guys the students take the initiative in Fitzpatrick played a heavy hand are big enough to make a deci-matters that concern them." in last night's voting. The sian by themselves." Jn a similar statement, the SMC-registered sophomore gam-"We feel guys should put the Barkett again invited Mooney e red five hundred fifty-one platforms together because we and Sherry to discuss the issues 
votes, nearly thirteen percent of don't want to mislead anyone, as in joint campaigns. the totals. , Rh:hard Sherman I would like to "We extend again our invita-Six of the eight candidates throw my endorsement to Bar-tion to Don and Dan to join collected at least one hundred kett. My running mate, Mike with Orlando and myself to dis-
votes. Only sophomore Chip Murphy, will remain neutral be-cuss the issues with the students Hendrick and WSND sportscas-cause he doesn't want to mislead on Sunday night," Barkett said. anyone," Sherman said. Jack Candon, Mooney's cam-Burtchaell gives Jamie Eagan, who is better paign manager, said that he known as "The Naked Kahuna," would meet with Barkett's cam-new drug pol icy said that he was going to make paign manager, Bob Weaver, to an endorsement tomorrow. Ka-arrnage the details of such a
Fr. James Burtchaell, Provost huna, who comes from Chicago, meeting.of Notre Dame, yesterday 
was disappointed by his overall Counting votes at election central. announced the new University showing in the election. "I policy on alleged drug sales' thought I was going to do better offenders in some halls. I was appreciative 
Saunders blames cowardice 
(See Page 5 for text ofBurtch-· of my vote in Stanford; I though ael/'s statement) I could take Breen-Phillips by He stated that anyone accused myself" 
for recent student apathy
of peddling drugs will be "provi­Egan finished second to Bar­sionally suspended, pending 
kett in both halls, collecting
resolution of the criminal char-forty-eight votes in Stanford and by Mike Nevens work of imparting ideas begins." taken only a passing interest in ges." forty-seven in his native Breen­Citing Jesus Christ and Moses as all the issues of the past decade. He cited a section from the "Don't tell me that our genera­
Phillips. the greatest organizers of all His most damning commentar­
University Disciplinary Proce­
tion has done nothing when you 
time, he explained the two po­y was reserved for the student have done nothing, and you have
dure Code as the basis hr the tential methods of organizing. anti-war movement. Claiming policy. Section 111-D gives the our ~story to look at." With Christ was his example or a man that the movement was started this challenge, Warner Saunders
Dean of Students, Fr. James who organized around a person­by "an elitist white class", he Riehle, the right to suspend or began a look at the state of ality and Moses as a man who said that the reason that the expel students when he feels organization at Notre Dame. organized around a cause or is-movement had collapsed was a 
there to be serious harm to Turning his self-proclaimed sue. 
reversal of fear. That is, the persons or property, or serious "State of the Ghetto" address But the mechanics of organiza­earliest fear of dying in a war in obstruction of University Life. into a discussion with the audi­tion, according to Saunders, are Asia was replaced by the fear of 
Burtchaell said that since there ence of about thirty, Saunders made more difficult by the dying on campus if students is no greater "danger of serious began to criticize and then to "moral bankruptcy of society.'' . chose to oppose the war. harm to persons" than the "pre­suggest direction for organiza­He charged that this is the reas­Further he charged that the datory sale of drugs," the Dean tion. on that blacks want to separate underlying reason that such a of Students does have the right "Smashing apathy begins with from white society, as well as collapse is possible is the basic to provisionally suspend. John Barkett organization --then the hard the reason that our society has moral laziness of students today. 
He termed apathy a "comfort-
Student Affairs Committee meets 
able term for cowardly.'' He parallelled this with the highly successful Civil Rights move­ments beginning with Rosa Parks 

Trustees react favorably to co-ed proposal 
and extending through King. "You saw that your fathers would shoot you down at Kentby Greg Rowinski He added that the "splinter derlined the obligation to "ap­presented College. This 2-year institution State, now you are frightened
group proposal" by proach the basic need" for co­was dedicated in January.
The Student Affairs Committee Carol Henninger and Barney education. 
The college's purposes, besides We knew your fathers would killof the Board of Trustees heard Gallagher "added depth to the contributed
Krashna the 
thut of providing the academic us but we didn't quit."two co-education proposals discussion." In short, this thought that the Park-Mayhew qualifications for further He stressed that otganization
yesterday, a request for counterproposal to a complete Report was a "good! point of university work, are to prepare was the only, although difficult, recognition of a junior college merger suggested that the providing
departure," the 
the students for the "cultural alternative to continually losingprogram on an Indian Reser­Liberal Arts Colleges be kept necessary "framework" for shock" of off-reservation to the system. Using the ghettovation, the findings of a Student separate. 
creating a feasible formula for 
education and to provide vital as an example of this, he spoke
Government investigation of St. Mary's Arts and Science co-education. 
recent faculty firings, and a grad information on the little-· of his own experiences in the
College would be run under a A request for official 
student proposal at an aU-day "humanistic approach," while understood special problems Lawndale area. There, the day to
recognition of a pilot Junior 
pose~ in educating Indians. . d.:y urgency of life, he said.
meeting. Notre Dame's would become College on a Sioux reservation in 
more highly specialized. This Dakota was _This latter eff~ct, explam~d magnifies all the problems to the
South made by
Committee reaction both Bill Kurtz who chaired last years simple one of "Getting them
to proposal, Krashna suggested, not Professor Sullivan of the English
co-ed programs was only expressed concern with Conference, would be ~nhanced that's got to give to them that
Department and other interested 
"favorable," according to social but also em­bythehope~-forextenswnofthe aint.'' But the logistics are im-
SBP aspects, faculty and students. 
Dave Krashna. He expressed phasized the "academic This program was the result of proglrtam Width atcdo-etxchbantgeeeof possihle without community or-
f the Indian Conference held last Spotted Tail and Notre Dame. gamzahon' he satd. en .a. e satisfaction with thz positive creativity" that co-education acu y an s u en s e w n . . . . . Wh . sk d 
reaction of what he called a would make available. 
year. There, a rough outline of a Other institutions involved in what we could (~O to help m the"sounding board" for the Board The committee liked the plan to prepare Indians for the experiment are the ghetto, ,h,~ replied "What haveof Trustees. He felt that there programs, in general, and of­
higher education was propos~d. 
Universitys of South Dakota and you got? In other words, theexisted an air of inevitability" fered suggestions about their 
Stanley Redbird, a member of the 
Colorado, Harvard, and Black organization must be composed
concerning concerning co­presentation, added Krashna. 
Sioux tribe, took up the idea and, 
Hills College. Notre Dame has of the people of the ghetto andeducation as the student The group suggested guidelines 
with some of his own adaptations, 
the lead in the program becausereferendum was presented. in their final form and un­
established Spotted Tail Junior 
it initiated and has worked in it ( Conrinued un page 8) (Continued on page 8) 
Page 2 THB QNQfJER. 
•
Faculty wants tenure guarantee 1n merger 
by Steve Lazar Reactions against the Park Mayhew Report, a proposal to insure current tenure arrange­ments, the ammending of the Faculty Manual, and the com­plete merger of Notre Dame and St. Mary's are among five resolu­tions that were released yester­day by a subcommittee of the Faculty Senate. The resolut~ons, which ar:e to be voted on at next Tuesday's Faculty Senate meeting, were released to the Observer by 


chairman of the Senate sub­committee that drew up the resolutions. 
Manier, stressing the impor­tance of an informed and active debate of the issues by the faculty's representatives, emphasized that it was necessary for the faculty to read and dis­cuss the proposals prior to Tuesday's meeting. 
The five resolutions, listed here in a slightly different order than the way they were re-I leased, are as follows: 
I) The Faculty Senate of the Notre Dame 

Jamie Naked Kahuna Egan and Q. Sturm conducting their 
clean up and exposure campaign in B-P's first floor john. The 
campaign included seven showers and went through Stanford, 
Keenan, B-P, Cavanaugh, Zahm, and the Huddle. 
In a show of shower power a new coalition was forged 
Wednesday night when the Stanford Deviates, Keenan Raggers, 
and the B-P Nads gathered to help the Naked Kahuna reveal 
the 'naked' truth. Naked claimed through the campaign that 
he would reveal all the issues. All there can attest that they 
were exposed to the issues. However a few questions caught 
Naked with his pants down. When asked what would happen if 
he won Naked offered all at the rally a position in student 
government. The rally broke up after the seventh shower when 
Naked claimed he was growing scales. Love, Peace, & Stay 
Naked! photo by Ed Klunk 


WSND -FM 
needs student volunteers 
from ND & SMC for on-the-ai 
morning and afternoon. 
positions for faII I 9 7 I 
Applicants should be interested in classical 
music, fine arts, &/or educational broad­
casting. Must be willing to work 4 hours 
per week 
recommends to the Board of Trustees of the University of 
Notre Dame that any plan provi­ding for a closer association of St. Mary's College and the Uni­versity of Notre Dame should include guarantees for the pre­servation of tenure arrangements for all current faculty members of each of the two schools. We further recommend that a joint committee of the Notre Dame Faculty Senate and the St. Mary's College Faculty Assem­bly be created to formulate mutually acceptable tenure arrangements and report back to their parent bodies. 
2) The Faculty Senate of the University of Notre Dame rejects the proposition that a viable college or university curriculum can be "primarily designed" for men or for women, and strongly recommends against accepting a 
college so structured as a separ­ate and distinctive entity within the larger University framework. 
3) The Faculty Senate of the University of Notre Dame rejects the proposition that the Univer­sity needs the humanizing influence of a second Liberal Arts College operating as a separate and distinctive entity within the larger University framework, if its curriculum would simply duplicate fractions of the curricula of the current Colleges of Arts and Letters and of Science. 
4) The Faculty Senate recom­mends the complete incorpora­tion of St. Mary's College into the UniversitJI of Notre Dame; this should not entail a distinct St. Mary's College of Liberal Arts in the University of Notre Dame. 
S) The Faculty Senate of the University of Notre Dame· authorizes the Chairman of the Faculty Senate to appoint a committee to formulate appro­priate amendments to the Facul­ty Manual and to suhmit these to the Faculty for its ratifica­tion. This committee may con­sult with representatives of the Faculty of St. Mary's College and with representatives of the student body of the University of Notre Dame and that of St. Mary's College. 
Rationale. Some recent admin­istrative initiatives in the areas covered by the University of Notre Dame Faculty Manual have not followed the guidelines set forth by that manual. 
Any modification of the Uni­versity structure as significant as the incorporation of a distinct college and large numbers of new faculty members will place new and unforseen burdens on the Manual. In particular, the faculty Senate cannot accept the proposition that a new office of Vice President in the University of Notre Dame can be created and filled before the Faculty Manual is amended to recognize ~uch an office. 

Do you desire to live off-campus? Now taking reservations for Sept. l, 

800 IJioc• N.I).A. 
1971. Nine month lease, accomodations for four or five to an 

apartment. Phone Mr. Zl'nn 
2346847 
St. Mary's Sop~h. Class drafts letter on COD1Dllllllity govennnent 
the class submits that 78 per cent of the income is being used for purposes other than those specified. "Despite our best efforts, we have been unable to determine where your money is being spent," they claimed. 
The sophomores also reviewed the recent administrative re­organization, which included the appointment of a vice-president for student affairs (a newly­created post) and creation of a Freshman Year Office to cope with counselling a large fresh­man class. 
"Our concern rests with the means used to attain the ends," the letter stated. "Saint Mary's College has for past years en­joyed a system of participatory government which we proudly called community government in which students, faculty, and administration shared their views and concerns." "These latest actions by the ad­ministration have dealt the concept of community govern­ment a serious, if not mortal blow," the letter continues. "The actions were taken without any discussion or knowledge of Community Government, in­cluding the Student Policy Committee and Educational Policy Committee of Board of Trustees, and the Student Affairs Council and Academic Affairs Council of St. Mary's College." 

9:45 a.m. Sun.  Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C.  
11:00 a.m. Sun.  Fr. Frank lluilnn, D.P.  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. t¥illiam Toohey, C.S.C.  

Planned without any con­sultation with the Dean of students or her staff to which thev primarily effect, the 
changes, the sophomores
related, resulted m the aean's resignation and a censure by the campus chapter of the American Association of University Professors. 
Concluding the letter, the sophomores suggest that the parents question not only statements made by ad­ministration and the faculty, but also the ones that the class asserts. The letter urges parents to discuss these issues openly with their daughters. 
In writing the letter, the class consulted with a member of faculty members and ad­ministrators to verify their in­formation. 
rhe Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 1nd. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
by Ann Therese Darin In the only action bv any student government at St. Mary's on recent changes in the ad­ministrative or financial policies, the Sophomore Class has drafted a letter to be sent to their parents. The letter, endorsed by 62 per cent of the class, questions the tuition hike, the resignation of the dean of students, and the ethics in the creation of an office for the vice-president of student affairs and a freshman year office. "I am very excited about the overwhelming response of the class," stated Sue Welte, sophomore class president. "It 
proved that dass government as well as th~ class in general can be and is involved in matters that concern us all as a community." 
In the letter, the sophomores question the $75 per semester tuition boost which reportedly would generate an additional $250,000 for the college. The class contends that the Board of Trustees authorized the increase for faculty salaries. Only 100 faculty m•~mbers, however, whose average salary was $11,000 received an average raise of 5 per cent. they alleged. 
Since this would account for only $55,000 of the revenue ob­tained from the tuition increase, 

MAIN CHUR~CH SUND~AY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat Fr. Robert Gl'iffin, C.S.C. 
8:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. (Special Junior-Parent Mass) 


SMC NEWS C,FFICE 
If you have any news scoops come to 128 Madeleva or call: 4967 
Noh D•,.. Ave. Apts. 
Friday, February 26, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 3 
Answer read at SMC assembly 
Sr. Alma replies to AAUP action 
by Jan Walton 
Sr. Alma's reply to the cen­sure of her recent actions by St. Mary'S chapter of the AAUP was read at last night's meeting of St. Mary's ~udent Assembly. 
Writing from Rome to Sr. Franzita Kane, president of the AA UP . chapter, and the other administrators addressed in the r.~ensure, Sr. Alma stated her displeasure that the statement of censure was published in The Observer instead of being sent directly to her in Rome. 
She pointed out that two mis­understandings were made in the censure. The Director of St11rlfmt Aid and the Director of Housing have not been eliminated, said the acting president of St. Mary's, but have been lowered to the third level of the admini­their present $1500 budget to enable them to bring more speakers to campus, in con­junction with Notre Dame's Corrnrission, which still will bear more than it's five-sixths of the financial burden with a $19,000 budget. The motion was passed 
unanimously. 

$500 to $600 probable-cost was requested by the Health 
stration structure, and thus no 
longer appear on the structure 
chart. 

In other business, Anr. Marie 
Tracey said that $900 ""ill he 
allocated to finance the teacher­
-course evaluation, leaving 
$8,620 in the treasury. The 
meeting was then open for re­
quests for funds. 

The Academic Commission re­
quested that $1000 be added to 
'Education Management' talk Friday 
Noted educational researcher and psychologist, Dr. Ogden R. Lindsley, will speak on "Prin­ciples of Precision Education Management Systems" at Notre Dame Memorial Library uditorium on Friday, February 26, at 4:15. The multimedia presentation will include topics of wide interest to social scientists, educators and parents, such as behavioral analysis and modification in the classroom setting. 
Dr. Lindsley is presently the Director of Educational Research of the Children's Rehabilitation Unit of the University of Kansas Medical Center. 
Dr. Lindsley has conducted research on special education diagnosis and remediation. 

Corrnrission to cover a profes­sionally prepared questionaire to be circulated on both campuses on student need for ahuman sexuality seminar. 
If need can be proven, the administration will endorse the seminar, which hopefully would be started in the fall. After much discussion, a motion to absorb the cost entailed was passed with one dissenting vote. 
To remodel the now-defunct coffee house into a student cen­ter, the SSO requested $2000. They propose to redecorate fur­nish, and carpet the room' and turn it into a place where stu­dents can go during leisure time. 
A motion to allocate $1000 on condition that the trustee~ and the alumnae be asked for additional funi:Js, was passed 
with one opposing vote.  
The  assembly adjourned,  to  
meet  again  next  Wednesday  at  
6:30 in Holy Cross Hall.  


New WSND-FM transmitter planned 
WSND-FM, broadcasting fine arts and educational programs since 1962, has received notification from the Federal Communications Commission in Washington D.C., authorizing construction of new transmitter facilities and installation of new equipment. 
~.~t;~::!~:iJt~r·H~f~e:t~ !~ ROGERS OPTICAl. I 
operating with an effective power 
of 17 watts, will be moved to the WNDU tower site south of the city. A new 1000 watt transmitter, stereo equipment and a new 
antenna. have been planned for 
the station. 
Presently, two nsw studios are 

under · construction , in 
O'Shaughnessy Hall as part of the 
exp~nsion program. ~ccording to 
Ass1stant Program D1rector John 
Bryan, "For those of us who have 
been with FM for some time, this, 
is the realization of a dream 
Starts February 26 


Junior Parents Weekend plans announced 
By Mike O'Hare The nineteenth annual Junior, Parents-Son Weekend will take place this Friday, Sateurday, and Sunday, February 26,27,:1.8. Tom D'Aquila, Ray Commell, and Tim Taylor, and Weekend's coordinators, cite the purpose of the Junior Parents-son Weekend as being, "geared to expose the parents of Notre Dame students to the various facets of students' academic; cultural, and social life." The activities planned for the Weekend reflect the desire to achieve a realistic cross sectional view of life at Notre Dame. The Weekend's activities commence Friday with registration in thz lobby the Cent for Continuing Education. Weekend packets, ac­commodations lists and tickets for the Presidential Reception will be issued. The Weekend's activities commence Friday with registration in the lobby of the Center fmr Continuing Education. Weekend packets,· accommodations lists and ta­ickets for the Presidential Reception will be issued. 
p.m. for the evenings enjoyment. 
On Saturday, registration continues until noon in the Center for Continuing Education. Parents and sons will be greeted by the Dean's of their respective college's at 9:00 a.m., and will 
MOCK STOCK MARKET 
March I -April 7 . I I st session l April 8 -April 30 (2nd session) Prizes: $5, $10, $20, & $100 Grand prize Presented b" Finance Oub 
Sponsored by: Thomson-McKinnon Inc. members NY Stock Fx 
then proceed to department meetings. 
To better acclimate parents with student life, a luncheon will be held in the South Dining Hall at 11:30. Following the luncheon, a presentation of issues relevant to campus life wiH begin at 1:00. 
In the Engineering Auditorium, NBC's First Tuesday film on Notre Dame will be shown and Bob Meyer will moderate a critical review of the film bet­ween Glen Corso and Don Mooney. 
In lieu of the film, parents may want to hear a discussion of Coeducation and Notre Dame, which will be at some time presented in the Center for Continuing Education. 
At 3:30. a Presidential Reception will be held in The Center for Continuing Education, with the President and Vice Presidents of the University present. Rev. Robert Griffin will celebrate mass in Sacred Heart Church at 5:15p.m. 
The highlight of the Weekend, The Presidential Dinner, will take place at Stepan Center at 
7:30. The featured speakers will be Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, President of the University and Gregory Stepic, President of the Junior Class. To close the evening, Rev. Thomas Chambers will celebrate midnight mass in Morrissey Chapel. 
On Sunday, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh will celebrate mass at 8:30a.m. in Sacred Heart Church and Rev. William Toohey will give the homily. Following mass, there will be a Communion Brunch held in the North Dining Hall at 9:30 a.m. Assistant Football Coach Tom Pagna will highlight the formal closing of the weekend, speaking about "The Relevance of Sports at a modern University." 

By presenting a crossection of the University community, Junior Parents-Son Weekend hopes to provide parents with a true picture of the diverse elements that constitute student life at the University of Notre Dame. 
One weekend onlv! The ND-SMC Studio Theatre will presPnt 
DARK OF THE MOON 
a powerful dramatization of an American folk ballad by Howard Richardson and William Berney. 

WASHINGTON HALL 
March  5th  &  6th  
at  8:30, and  7th  
at  7:30 PM.  

subscribers free. tickets $1.00 call 284-41 76 

CONTIN£NTAL HAIR STYLING 
306 Sherland Bldg.
For men  South Bend  
only  tel. 234-0811  
Serving the  N.D. Men  for 2 years  

in all hairstyling needs and supplies 
(Watch fur the grand opening of New) 

INTERLOCKEN LTD. 
opening March 15th 
made possihlP through a lot Qf longer have to turn to Chicago for hard work and planninv. for the best in fine arts FM stereo tnose newer people at the station, broadcasting. The best would be there is a challenge to achieve the here at Notre Dame." full potential implied by such WSND-FM is owned by the improvement plans. The people University but operated entirely of this community really stand to by students at Notre Dame and gain ths most since they would no St. Mary's. 
~:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::=$::;:::::,:::~~:iW.&h?.i:~:~::::.'J:"::::::::::::::~::::~~ 
l••.=.l.=.:. Complete Spectacle Service ~.·..~·. 
n 

!;!: Gldes Duplicated '!I 
!;!; Your Doctor's RX Filled 
:::: 
~~j~ L•raest selection of ...JrH" 
·:;.:
•····
::~ 214 S. Michigan (next to State Thiltre) 289 7809
$! :;:; · Mc::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::;:;:;:::::::~,.:;:;:;:::;:;:;;;::~:i:>:i:i:>:i:::>::s:.-:::;:::::::.-::::::::::::: · 
Career Opportunities in 
COUNSELING PSYCHOLOGY 
Inovative approaches to social problems Training in individual & "group counseling 
Focus on service to campus community M .\ &. PhD programs thru Institute· for studies in Education. l:onsultation to off-campus community social service agencies 



OPEN HOUSE 
Counseling Center Fri. Feb. 26 315 Admin Bldg 1 _ 4 pm Refreshments Serwd 
':!' .............................. .. 


CACs 
Contemporary Arts Festival 
presents 
THE NATIONAL PLAYERS 
in 
-Sat. Feb. 27

G.B.Shaw's Arms and the Man Shakespeare's Twelfth Night 
-Sun. Feb. 28 both performances 8:30 p.m. General Admission $3.00 · O'Laughlin Auditorium Students $2.00 
CAF patrons $1.00 

.. 
Page 4 
711E OBSEIWER. 







THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief John E. Knorr. Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
The question is this: Is man an ape or an angel? I, my Lord, am on_ the side nf the angels. 
-Benjamin Disraeli 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
From the E-ditor's Desk 
To the Parents 
Today marks the start of the nineteenth annual Junior-Parents weekend and the 
Observer wishes to extend a cordial welcome to those parents who were able to 
come down. 

Despite the criticism and complaints about Notre Dame most will agree that this place has chanted a lot since we juniors first set eyes on it back in the fall of 1968. 
When we first arrived women were allowed in the rooms only on football Saturdays and then for a few hours. Security guards prowled the campus on Friday and Saturday evenings looking for students carrying beer on campus. Student rights under the judicial code were in their infancy and the Student Life Council was just beginning. 
Most important of all, there were virtually no women in classrooms. The co-exchange program had just started with one shuttle bus going between the two campuses and the ACC opened for use for the first time. 
Forced doubles were in vogue that year and Flanner and Grace were unfinished hulks. Second semester seniors were the only on campus students allowed to have cars, and all on campus students were required to sign in once every twenty-four hours. 
St. Mary's girls are now found in dormitory rooms every day of the week. 
Coeducation looks to be just around the corner, pending the outcome of the joint 
Trustees' meeting in March. 

It won't be the instant panacea that some expect it to be, and it won't be here over night but as it does come it can't help but make this a better place to live. 
Students, some of them at least, walk around the campus openly with beer and on weekends kegs are common in most halls. Other students have turned from beer are into different things, as evidenced by the drug raid last semester. 
The Student Life Council, after a brilliant start, has slowed down and seems to be in the midst of an identity crisis. It did pass a new judicial code, but as shown in the case of the two students suspended for being accused of drug possession, is far from perfect. 
Co-exchange is in full gear but most of the girls are in Arts and Letters classes. There are two shuttles now and a third was recently added during the busiest hours of the class day. 
The bigger concerts and all the basketball and hockey games are put on in the Convocation Center. Other activiites go on there also, some oriented towards the people in South Bend. Student groups would like to use it more, but complain that the minimum $1000 rental is being too high. 
Forced doubles have gone the way of sign ins with the opening of the new towers, 
but there is room shortage facing the University as it continues to admit more 
freshmen each year. 

Car privileges were recently extended to Sophomores, but the University claims a parking space shortage. The mood and tempo of the campus seems more relaxed than when we first came here but there are still problems. A lot of students turn to alcohol on the weekends and the results are shown in the shattered windows and damaged walls found in the dorms Monday morning. 
Minority students feel that the University is not putting enough time, money, and effort into recruiting and scholarships, while the University points to a shortage of funds. 
Notre Dame has a long way to go both academically and socially. Change has and will come. How fast and how far it will go depends on the students and faculty and administration. They can make this place the truly Christian University it deserves to be. 

Dave Lamme...~=-=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·······=·········=····;·.·.·;·.·.·.·.····
a ~ • ,;:, .................................. ······· ········· -·-·-·-·.·-·-·-·-·-·-·­
Df!ar Fr. Burtchaell 
While he was at dinner in the house, it happened that a number of t:.1x collectors and sinners came to sit at the table with Jesus and his disciples. When the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, "Why does your master eat with the tax collectors and sinners?" When he heard this he replied, "It is not the healthy who need the doctor, but the sick. Go and learn the meaning of the words: What I want is mercy, not sacrifice. And indeed I did not come to call the virtuous, but sinners." Matthew 9:10. 
I heard a story once about a guy in Lyons that stayed in his single room all day and all night, never studying, never talking to those around him,leaving his room only for lunch and dinner and trips to the bathroom, never going to class. He finally went insane and left the university. I know other people at Notre Dame, students, faculty, administrators, that are alcoholics. There are others, unable to face the complexilty of life, that have turned to drugs. Some of these people sell drugs, as a way of affirming their identity, a way of making money and holding power over people by having drugs that others want to buy. 
We all have problems; some of us have problems that are so severe that the inner turmoil manifests itself in forms of self-destruction. This is not abstract rhetoric, for we all know persons that need our love; our compassion, our friendship and understanding, to obtain the strength to leave the path of self-destruction. All of _us need 'this love and compassion to be happy, others need it so badly that drugs, alcohol, power, and exploitation are used as replacements, as signs that point to a great personal need. The core of our worth as human beings lies i111 our individual ability to respond to the personal suffering that is all around us, and within ourselves. All the people that live and work at Notre Dame are collectively, and individually, responsible for the well-being of every person within the community. 
Father Burtchaell is well aware of this, for as a New Testament scholar and as a practicing Christian, he must know that Jesus had a special compassio-n for men and women that had turned to evil as a way of conft·onting life's complexities. That seems to be the point of the Mary Magdalene story, for example. Jesus did not report Mary Magdalene to the authorities, he did not defame her before the self­righteous, he did not place her outside the community as too corrupted to be saved. The whole spirit of Jesus' teaching, if I remember what Father Burtchaell taught me in Bibilical theology Freshman year, is that love, forgiveness, and compassion can never be replaced by law, authority, judgement, and punishment. By placing a person outside the community we are losing nope:, giving up on faith, sinning against the humanity of the person that is confronting us. Did Jesus command the police to storm into Mary Magdalene's bedroom, did he call for her damnation because of whoring? Of course not. Jesus responded with love and compassion for a woman that was crying out for love and compassion, and because Jesus responded to her needs, she believed in his goodness. 
It is self-evident that many people respond to the harshness and 
inhumanity of existence at Notre Dame by turning to drugs, alcohol, 
exploitive sexuality, and false pride. We !re. all guilty; we are all lost; 
we are all r•esponsible; we are all needful of each other's ability to love 
and care and forgive and heal each other. 
Some of the people on The Observer myselfincluded; have been very harsh to Father Burtchaell and Father Riehle. We have judged and condemned in response to judgements that we perceive to be wrong. I apologize for that.lack of humanenessand I hope that respect has-not 
been completely destroyed. 
But the probl~m that I have been talking around remains. It appears 
that Father Burtchaell has decided that Misters Hannahan, Badger, 
and Brennan are guilty of wrongdoing that exceeds our powers of love, 
compassion, and forgiveness. They are judged to be "imminent 
<'angers to the community;" sinners that cannot be forgiven; persons 
that must be expelled from the community and handed over to the civil 
judges for punishment. Is this a Jesus-like response? 
·Father, eould you explain to the community, in the form of a letter 
to this newspaper, how suspending Mark Hannahan, Donald Badger, 
and Timothy Brennan is fulfilling our mandate to act with forgiveness, 
love and •compassion? 
Friday, February 26, 1971 
THE OBSERfJER. Page 5 
Father Bill Toohey 
LOVE AND DAVE BECK 
If you're going to say anything about tove Story you had better be quick about it, because everybody is getting his licks in and soon it will all be said. It seems that we have reached the point where it is becoming extremely stylish to be highly critical of Erich Segal's novel and film, almost as though it would be corny at this point to say anything nice about something so many people have said nice things about. It seems to be an application of the old rule: "Anybody who has made that much money on a book and a movie deserves to be blasted." 
l was in an interesting discussion the other night, and we got to talking about the gospel according to Segal; and, in particular, the now famous line from the book and movie, "love means never having to say you're sorry." There were num­erous insightful comments about that line, many people interpreting it one way or another, some agreeing with the thesis, some disagreeing. When l first read the line in the book it bothered me a bit, but I didn't stop over it -kept right on reading. But when it came up in the movie and I reacted to it similarly, I began to reflect on it. I think the thing that bothers me is that it suggests (this may be the fault of the reader or the viewer) -it seems to suggest a universal principle: "Love means never having to say your're sorry". But love doesn't, always, in every circumstance, mean that. 
Perhaps it's the problem of failing to see the difference between love is and love means . In other words. there'~ a great difference between what love is-its basic definition and, on the other hand, what this basic definition means in all the ramifications, manifestations, and imple­mentations that are necessary because of unique and special circumstances. In short, you just can't capsulize the impli­cations of love in twenty-five words or less. 
According to the gospel, love is the thinking, the willing, and the doing of good to another person. The highest form of this love is the love of God, agape. If there is any love of God in your life or my life, it's not so much that we love him, but that he loves us. If we consent to the love of God, we then have his love -we have agape -in our lives. This then begins a sequence, a chain reaction. Once we have the love of God in our lives, this love must expand; it must extend itself through us. Love is diffusive of itself, which means that we must, in turn, love others. This is why love of 
neighbor becomes so crucial for the Chris­tian person. If l refuse to love one who is my brother or sister, I have really refused to allow the love of God in my life to express itself thnmgh me in my relation­ships with others. 
And, amazingly enough, when I allow this chain reaction to happen I discover that, at the end, in loving my fellow man l do, in fact, love God. The impossible has become possible. It is, we would have to assert, absolutely impossible to love God in the sense of love being the thinking, willing, and doing of good to another person. You and l can't do anything for God; he has no need of anything from us; he is not in any way insufficient or inadequate. But because God has become man, he has so united him,elf with all mankind, as Jesus himself said, that whatever we do to another man we do it, in fact, to him. Because God became man, the love of man is now theological; it is, in fact, in the fullest sense of the word, loving God. This is the marvel of the Christian life. And this is why the fulfuillment of the second com mandment, "love your neighbor as your­self," is in fact the only definitive way we know we are fulfilling the first command­ment -to love God with all our heart, mind, soul . and strength. 
Once we have established what love is, then because of all the circumstances challenging us, what love means will tak~ on multiple dimensions. It can mean at one time giving a drink of water to a child . at three o'clock in the morning. Love can mean smiling and saying "good morning." Love can mean to shut up and let another person talk for a change -a person who very desperately needs to share deep thoughts and feelings with a friend. 
There is a craze on the west coast right now, about to sweep the country. It is the water bed. In its most typical dimen­sions, the water bed is approximately two hundred gallons of water encased in a high-test plastic bag, about seven feet long, six feet across, one foot high. The water bed perfectly contours the frame of the human body; it is absolute perfect comfort. Well, love is like that. Love has to be like that. It has to contour the frame of the unique and special needs of a person. It has to respond to the special contours of needs that each of us has. 
Love means a lot to me, because I see so much of it every week. I see so much of . it every day; and some days are specially 
filled with love's dimensions. For exam­ple, a couple of weeks ago, I went to Dayton, Ohio to attend the funeral of David Beck. David, as you know, was the · sophomore Notre Dame student who died following an accident after the UCLA game. I saw all kinds of manifestations of love on that occasion. I found out what 
love means. Love means -well, it means a mother and father who are torn with pain over the death of their oldest son who can only think of being gracious and kind and sensitive to the needs of others, wonderfully hospitable to the relatives and friends who were with them on that occasion. Love means -well, love means the grandmother of David Beck, herself dying of caner, yet the most outgoing, energetic, least self-pitying per­son in the crowd, And love means three carloads of Notre Dame students, who got up at four-thirty in the morning that Wednesday and drove through! the bliz­zard of northern Indiana to be with their 
friend David. 
The song is right: "What the world needs now is love, sweet love; that's the only thing that there's just too little of." But it seems there's more to it than that. Although there is indeed a great lack of love, such a tremendous need for more love in this world, there are also -if we look at the total peicure-fantastic de­monstrations and manifestations of love around us all the time. We ought to see this. We ought to rejoice in it, thank God for it...recognize him in it. For, after all, love is his name. 
I guess it's for all these reasons that I 
was particularly moved the other day 
when l received a letter from David 
Beck's mother. She had an unique and 
unusual (truly beautiful) request. Many 
Masses had been offered for David; and 
his parents deeply appreciated this. Now, 
however, they wanted a special Mass 
celebrated. as Mrs. Beck put it. "to 
rejoice in the lives of those Notre Dame 
men with whom David had so much fun, 
and who have sustained and comforted 
US:·" 



Position on drug sellers explained 
During the Christmas recess the Officers they will be forthwith expelled. If they cannot compound the misfortune by with reluctance. The damage from nar­of the University of Notre Dame deliber­are found innocent, the University re­tolerating this often unwitting disaster. It cotics is today so ominous that we would ated at length and resolved upon a com­serves the right to undertake its own is our policy that anyone who distributes be irresponsible did we not use whatever mon policy with regard to various alleged regular disciplinary proceedings. It should any amount of dangerous drugs has no remedies are possible to eliminate those drug sales. The following memorandum be emphasized that this provisional and place at Notre Dame. who prey upon their fellows. was then drawn up and the Dean of summary action is taken without pre­The University has recourse to its most (Rev.) James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. Students was instructed to act accord­sumption of guilt, and may be reviewed severe penalties o~ly infrequently and Provost ingly: by the Appeals Board after conclusion of 
"On December 17, 1970, four Notre the criminal case." Dame undergraduates were arrested by Three of these cases are no longer under local police and charged with the salr ?nd consideration by the civil court, and have possession of dangerous drugs. Their cas<:s received regular disposition by the Uni­are to be tried in the State court. versity; one is still pending. But these 
"University Rule 6 reads: 'Students events have raised larger issues which may not use, possess, distribute, or offer deserve some comment. for sale narcotics or dangerous drugs, The University administration regard8 including marijuana or any hallucinogenic the sale of harmful narcotics as a vicious agents.' The University will not com­and exploitative crime. The number of mence ordinary disciplinary oroceedings students whose physical and mental until the criminal charges are decided by health and future careers have been de­
the court. stroyed by drugs is increasing. We are 
"On the other hand, University Discipli­seriously and unequivocally committed to nary Procedure Ill, D reads: 'In emergen­the elimination of drug traffic at Notre cies where the Dean of Students judges Dame, and will seek to impose the heavi­there to be imminent danger of serious est penalties upon those who are found harm to persons or to property, or serious guilty, according to our disciplinary pro­obstruction of University life, he may cedures, of distributing drugs. There is no summarily suspend or even expel stu­member of the University against whom dents. These measures shall be pro­we shall fail to take action when provided visional, until the Appeals Board has with satisfactory evidence of guilt. considered the case without presumption A distinction is sometimes made be­of guilt and rendered a decision.' tween those who sell large quantities of 
"In the present circumstances the Uni­drugs for enormous profit, and those who versity can and will make absoh,1tely no casually distribute individual doses. Yet judgment on the guilt or innocence of the most of the narcotics used on this campus students who face these charges. But the apparently reach the user through this nature of the offense, distributing hard latter; more carefree transaction. Many· narcotics, is extremely serious. There is students are inclined to excuse this as no more 'imminent danger of serious petty and harmless. The sellers, they harm to persons' on university campuses observe, are not vicious persons. Sadly, 

than the predatory sale of drugs. Conse­however, the damage they do is 1110st quently, pending resolution of the crimi­vicious. It is a tragedy when a student is James Otis plays Sir Andrew Aguecheek in Shakespeare's comedy, TWELfTHnal charges, the University has decided destroyed by narcotics. It is even more NIGHT, to be presented here by National Players. under the auspices of CAF ,)nthat these students are to be provisionally unfortunate when he is the victim of a Sunday at 8:30p.m. in O'Laughlin auditorium. 
suspended. Should they be found guilty, friend who meant him no harm. We 
Page 6 THE O&fERVER. 
----------------------------------------------~ 
•

Irish 1cers meet BGSU home and home 
Notre Dame, Ind. -Notre Dame's hockey team will attempt to reach or pass the .500 plateau this weekend against potent Bowling Green. The Irish face the Falcons in Bowling Green Friday night and then return home for a Saturday 

-....................... . 


~-~~.~q

BH'·'·O,

DOLLY!­
No RESERVED SEATS 
201h CENTURY FOX PRESENTS 
BARBRI WALTER 
STREISAND · MAmiAU 

night engagement in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Saturday's 8 p.m. contest is the first of five straight home encounters for the Irish as they enter the final stretch of the season. The U.S. Nationals in­vade the AC'C for a March 6-7 series before heading for Europe and the World Championships and then a two-game set with the Air Force Academy March 12-13 will conclude the cam­
Pll.ign. . d . f'
N"otre Dame game 1ts ust series sweep in its three year history against Western Colle­giate Hockey Association com­petition last weekend against Michigan in Ann Arbor. The Irish, 11-12-2 overall, tripped the Wolverines 4-2 and 54. 
"There isn't much difference between anyone in the WCHA, the series at Michigan wasn't any easier than any other series this year," said a pleased Lefty Smith, whose team finished with a respectable 7-11-12 (.400) record against WHCA teams. 
Notre Dame received excellent goaltending efforts from veteran Dick Tomasoni on Friday and sophomore Chris Cathcart Satur­day. "Chris showed me he can do the job with his effort against Michigan," said Smith, who will probably use two goalies in the remaining three weekends of ac­tion. 
BOGIE 
in 

Fri, Sat 7:3o, 9:3o"THE BIG SLEEP" 
BADIN VINTAGE CINEMA 
First Floor-Badin Hall 
Now -Open 12:45 
-Feature Times -­

Nominated for 7 Academy 
A wards including Best Picl ure. 
PWIIOUNI PK:lURfS PRESENTS 
AllMac&raw •RyanO'leal lOth 
... Week 

John llarley&layMillaa• 
~ I COUJII APARAIIOONT etCllll ~~~----~~----~~--­
Proof 
of Age 
Required 
Animal Worship, all brought together for the first time. 

SEX RITIJllbS OF THE DCCUbT 
THIS 
FILM 
RATED 
® 


DUDE RANCH' 
Freshman winger Ian Williams and veteran center John Noble, both playing on the first line, continue to anchor the Irish scoring attack with 36 and 33 points respectively. Williams has 14 goals while Paul Regan, with a hat trick on Saturday, and freshman Eddie Bumbacco both have 12 goals. 
Injuries, however, may force Smith to alter his lines in the remaining games. John Roselli (groin) Noble (bruised kidney) and Jim Cordes (hip pointer) were all under par against Mich­igan. 
The Irish will be facing a red-hot Falcon team that has posted 11 straight victories while compiling an overall 16-11 record. Bowling Green gained 64 and 7-3 victories at Ohio University last weekend to win the Mideastern Collegiate Hoc­key Association title with a 7-1 record. 
The Falcons have not dropped a game since a 6-2 sethack at second ranked Boston University a month ago. Among the Falcon victories was a 7 4 home success over high ranking Clarkson. Centers Gerry Bradbury and freshman Mike Bartley led the scoring parade with 46 and 3 2 points respectively while winger Pet Badour has 31 points. Bart­ley has 19 goals. 
Notre Dame decisioned· the Falcons 9-3 at Bowling Green a year ago and then registered a 44 tie at home. 







Voices from the Crowd 
Sports Editor: 
Anyone associated with the Notre Dame Club Basket ball League is certainly aware of an organization named the Cape Cod-Toledo-Kankakee Club. The CCTKKK (as it is known to its members) IS another one of the fine examples of the very loosely defined term "dub." 
Upon asking one of its mem­bers the reason for the unusua! title, . he answered that these were the home cities of the members; not all the members, but three who happen to be from Cape Cod, Toledo, and Kankakee, respectively. 
The member replied that it was actually a bunch of guys from B-P who have parties and stuff together. 
But. with regards to basket­ball, the CCTKKK is actually known as The North Quad All­Stars. Four of their starting five were all-league selections in lnterhall Basketball, namely Fritz Hoefer and Bill Schmidt of B-P and Bob Bingle and Clark Keller of Stanford. 
As of now, the CCTKKK is leading the league and appears a good bet to lake the Club Title. Reportedly, they will then issue a challenge to Pangborn for Campus Basketball Champion­ship. 
So what the CCTKKK boils down to is an amassed bunch of jocks united into a learn with fancy uniforms, and large thirsts. This is a "club." 
It seems a sad state that the Club League had to allow the 
HELD OVER 
North Quad All-Stars entrance and prove the CCTKKK 's true into the leagUte. But, since they worth: all-star Jocks out to des­paid the entrance fee, there isn't troy the dub spirit. much that can. be done. 
So Pangborn, it's up to you to Stan Urankar accept the challenge and go out 330 Cavanaugh 
Tom Pagna to speak at m~emorial breakfast 
Notre Dame, Ind.--The 40th annual Knute Rockne memorial breakfast will be Sunday, March 28, in the University of Notre Dame's North dining hall. Mass at 8:30 a.m. in the Stanford­Keenan Chapel on the campus will be followed by the breakfast at 9:30. 
Principal speaker at this year's event, held annually on the Sunday closest to the date of Rockne's death on March 31, 1931, in a Kansas plane crash, will be Tom Pagna, offensive backfield coach of the Notre Dame footbaH squad. In great demand as a speaker at athletic events, Pagna combines humor and football lore in his presen­tations. 
Pagna was a spectacular halfback under Irish Coach Ara Parseghian at Miami of Ohio, twice winning little All-American and all-Ohio honors. He played professimnal football with the Green Bay Packers and Cleveland Browns before joining Parseghian's staff at Nor­thwestern University in 1959 and making the switch to Notre Dame in 1964. 
His coaching has been in­
--SHOWTlMES­1:45--3:45-5:45

7:45-9:-l5
Daily ,m=~~~~r
UO J.m. " -1676 Nominated for 4 Academy Awards including Best Pictun~ & Best Actor Jack Nicholson 
COLUMBIA PICTURt::, f-'resenrs a BBS Product•on 

JACK NICHOLSON 
1'7VI! It/lilY J:IJlCt:J!S riil 
COLOR t.BJ 
strumental in the performances of such Irish greats as John Huarte, Nick Eddy, Bill Wolski, Larry Conjar, Terry Hanratty, 
Boo  Gladieux  and  Joe  
Theismann.  
His  schedule permitting,  Ara  

Parseghian will attend the break­fast to recount thz highlights of the past season and outline the prospects for the 1971 campaign. 
The memorial program will conclude with a brief ceremony at the site of Rockne's grave in Highland Cemetery, South Bend. Edward W. Krause, athletic director, and James Roemer, a South Bend attorney and chairman of the program, will place a wreath on the grave. 
Alumni, friends of thz university and their families are invited to the program. Reser­vations for the breakfast may be made by calling 283-7623. 

/nterha/1 news 
The lnterhall Office has an­nounced a wrestling tournament that will be held during the week of March 5. Weight classes are 123, 130, 137, 145, 152, 160, 167, 177 and unlimited. 
To enter come to the Interhall Issue room or call 8975 or 6 I 00_ Deadline for entries is March 5. 
There will be a swimming meet at 7:00 March 9 at the Rockne Memorial. There will be events in all strokes. Divers must turn in their list of dives before the mee't. Varsity and freshmen swim teams are ineligible. Dead­line for entries is March 8. For further information call the lnterhall Office (Tel. 6100) or Mr. Dienner Stark, Swimming coach. 

Notre Dame Knightls of Columbus presents 


A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS 
Paul Schofield Orson Welles Robert Shaw Wendy Hiller 
Academy Satu rd<ay Feb 27 
Award 
Winner 2:00,7:010,9:15,11:30 
Sundc:•y Feb 28 Non-members $1.00 2:()0,8:00 
Best Picture Best Actur 
Members Free 
Page 7 

Friday, February 26, 1971 THB OBSERVER. 
•


Irish must win at St. John's 
Notre Dame, Ind. -Notre plays its final road game of the ter the 8 p.m. tipoff against the Square Garden last Thursday center John Pieick (ankle) will Dame's basketball team, seeking season Saturdjly night against Redmen seeking their 17th vic­and then bounced back for a not curtail their status for Saturc 

a strong finish that would insure equally determined St. John's. t9ry in 24 starts. The Irish will 107-98 victory at West Virginia day. a post-season tournament bid, Johnny Dee's quintet will en-return home for the final two on Saturday. St. John's meas­St. John's will present a pro­games of the season against two ured West Virginia at home blem with 6-7 sophomore center 
other tournament minded teams I 00-82 while losing to Fordham Davis, one nation's
Mel of the -Dayton ( 16-6) and Western 76-72 in the Garden. 

leading rebounders with a 17.5

Michigan ( 14-6) on March I and 
Against West Virginia, the Irish average. Davis also leads the4 respectively. 
againg received a tremendous Redmen in scoring with a 19.0
St. John's, fresh from an im­
scoring effort from Austin Carr mark. Another sophomore, 6-5
The Irish Eye 
presive 7 4-6 7 success over Tem­
and Collis Jones. The two com­forward Bill Schaeffer, is next
ple, is also hopeful of gaining a 
bined for 81 points (with Carr with IS .0 ppg.
post-season offer. The Redmen collecting 47) as Carr raised his 
Notre Dame's freshman

have won i 5 of 22 games inclu­
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::The Locker Room average to 37.3 and Jones to basketball team (124) will play
ding eight of nine in Alumni 
23.2. 
its final road game of the seasonThe Irish locker room looked a little like a funeral parlor after the Hall. The Irish also received a big Saturday (5 :45 p.m.• CST) atSouth Carolina game back in December. The <>verall atmosphere was The two teams have played lift from substitute guard Tom Bradley. The Irish gained athat of people who had lost something very dear to them. In a way, three common opponents -both Sinnott in the stretch against 99-78 win at Illinois last Fridaythose present had done so. It was the first defeat of the year for losing to Fordham and Villa­WVU (five of eight, 11 points) with center John ShumateNotre Dame and the seniors on the squad realized that there would nova while beating West Virginia after starter Jackie Meehan (23.2) and guard Bob Valibusnever be an unbeaten season for them. The Irish dropped a 94-88 fouled out. Dee is hopeful that scoring 25 apiece.

It wasn't the end of the world, however. Coach Johnny Dee was decision to Fordham in Madison injuries to Meehan (knee) and crouched in front of his team as they Silt leaning back against their lockers, most with their heads bowed and some with a little moisture in their eyes. In his baritone voice he concluded his post-game message by saying, "Shake if off. We can get back at them in Houston." 
Austin Carr, the team captain, stood up and walked to each man on the team individually to get them "up" again. He grabbed Jack Meehan and whispered something in his ear. The dazed Meehan wasn't smiling but he had stopped frowning. Austin merely clipped Collis Jones on the head and Collis forgot about the poor shooting night he had had. It went on this way with each teammate. You knew then that this was not a team that would stay down. This was a team that believed its coach. They would get back. 
It's nearly three months later now and during these three months there were times when it looked as though neither the Gamecocks nor the Irish would ever meet again this season...at least not in Houston. • 
After both teams have absorbed some tough defeats it still appears that they can face each other again, but it won't be easy. The Gamecocks must endure that ridiculous Atlantic Coast Conference Tournament before they get on the road to Houston. The Irish, well, all they have to do is finish the season without another loss. 
It seems sort of ironical that after all of the UC LAs, Marquettes, Michigans and Kentuckys that ND has faced this season the two The Irish look toward St. John's, Dayton and, hopefully, an NCAA bid. truly big games are now against teams from St. John's and Dayton. Neither is heralded but, to be sure, both can catch the Irish on a bad night and, if this should happen, Austin Carr & Co. will never even get close to the Astrodome. Before the season, Johhny Dee stated 
Pang born takes I H crown 
that the Irish "would probably lose seven or eight games this year throws for their 66 points. Farbatko. The sophomore from
but that doesn't mean we're not a good ball club." One has to agree with Dee that ND is a good club but they must still prove it this by Stan Urankar Charlie Horan took Pangborn's Chicago averaged 13.0 ppg in 
high point honors with 18, while three playoff contests, including
weekend. NCAA bids come out Tuesday. Nothing official has been Pangborn kept the lnterhall Farbatko added 16 and Patulski a tournament high 29 in the
said by anyone but those in the know seem to think that the Irish Basketball championship on the 13. DiPiero paced Flanner with second game of the finals.
will get a bid somewhere, if they win. 
South Quad with a frantic 66-64 14. O'Brien arid Jim Marcucilli Joining Farbatko on the all­For example, the other night after the NYU game ND sports win over Flanner to take the each had II, while Steenberge star squad are teammates Ralphinformation director Roger Valdiserri was asked how things look for best-of-three series, two games added 10. Stepaniak, Walt Patulski, and a trip to either Athens, Ga. (Mideast) or Wichita, Kan. (Midwest). 
to one last night at the ACC. The Inter AU-Tournament Charlie Horan; Tim DiPiero,The congenial SID's reply was simply "Let's beat St. John's first." 
The lead exchanged hands no Team was also selected after the Tom Kemps, and Bobby O'Brien That short quote says it all. Notre Dame simply cannot afford to less than 13 times throughout contest, with this year's MVP of Flanner; Willie Townsend and lose another game. St. John's has an erratic team that has shown the seesaw contest, with Walt honors going to Pangborn's out­Mike Brown of Fisher; and B-P'ssigns of greatness in the future. They feature one of the best Patulski's tip-in and two free standing floor leader, Pete Tom Davis.
sophomores in the country in 6'7" Mel Davis at center. Since the 
throws with 4:25 to go in the 
game is in Jamaica, N.Y., it will be all the more difficult for the 
final period giving Pangborn a
Irish. The NCAA won't be taking this into consideration, however. 
60-56\ead. 


ND athletes visit 
The only thing they'll look at is the final score. Another close loss 
Pete Farbatko's jumper and
will be worth about as much as a "Hook 'em Horns" button after Notre Dame, Ind.---Four Ohio State and possibly next New Year's Day. Notre Dame winter sports week at the ICAAA finals at
two foul shots negated two Tim DiPiero free throws and a run­
Should the Irish win at the Redman's wigwam only half the battle teams-fenccng, indoor track, Princeton. 
ning hood by Bobby O'Brien. swimming and wrestling-will Tom McMannon and Polselliwill be won. The Dayton Flyers, a perennial tournament team, is and Fianner was still down: be on the road this weekend as have also qualified for thevying for the same berth as the Irish. Barring any major upset the 64-60, with two and a half they head into the final month NCAA finals along with longFlyers should enter the Convo next Monday evening with an 18-6 minutes to go. The Irish fencers, with an jumper Mike McMannon (24-1)record. Reports from Dayton say they'll also be bringing a few But Pat Steenberge hit for impressive 15-3 record, face and hurdler Joe Utz.
hundred fans. For the UD squad it will be the most important game two foul shots and O'Brien M.I.T. and Wisconsin Parkside McMannon was fourth in theof the year. They'll definitely be "up." 
tossed in a jumper to tie the in Milwaukee Friday and then CC's but his 24-1 effort was justThese are the two problems to which this long and difficult season score, 64-64, with I :I 0 left. Wisconsin and Illinois Saturday one inch out of first place.
has distilled. 
Ralph Stepaniak was fouled in Madison. Mike DeCicco's Notre Dame's swimmers, an You think back again to that locker room scene. Johnny Dee with 49 seconds left. He missed team decisioned three Big Ten 83-38 loser at home to Purdue sounded confident that ND would be in Houston. Austin Carr schools last Saturday, Ohio last week, close out their dual
the one-and-one, but Pangborn
looked as though he and his mates were equal to the task. The next State 06-11), Indiana (20-7) meet schsdule at Northern
got the ball out of bounds. With 
three days should tell all those who back the Irish just how much a and Michigan State (20-7). Illinois Friday night.
28 seconds to go, Patulski had a
locker room talk means. Notre Dame's indoor track Sophomore Gene Krathaus won
one-and-one, but missed.
IRISH EYE-TEM: Notre Dame's Austin Carr has now moved into team, eighth in Central the 100 freestyle (50.5), fresh­
But big Walt was fouled again
the number two position in the history of college basketball in Collegiates at Eastern man Ed Strack the 200 butterfly
on the rebound, and made one
careet scoring. Carr, the senior, All-American in the final stages of a Michigan last Saturday, will (2:12.4) and the Irish 400 
of two shots. Pangborn again
brilliant career, scored 122 points in three games last week, to raise compete in the Oiho State freestyle relay team with a 
controlled the carom, and again
his career point total to 2280 in 67 games for an average of 34.0. Invitational Friday and 3:23.5 effort. 
Patulski was fouled, this time
Pete Maravich is the record holder with a 44.2 average while Oscar Saturday. Coach Alex Wilson The Irish matmen will 
with only eight seconds left. watched ace Rich Wohlhuter compete along with 16 other
Robertson dropped to third with a 33.8 career average. Carr scored Walt made the first, but missed win the 880 (1:51.0) and Tom schools in the National Catholic 
47 points at West Virginia, the eighth time this year he has been over the second to make it 66-64. McMannon and Elio Polselli Tournament at John Carrollthe 40 mark. 

O'Brien grabbed the rebound, finish second in the high hur­University in Cleveland.
All-American forward candidate Collis Jones scored 34 points at saw DiPiero streaking down dles (7.34) and shot put (56-Heavyweight Phil Gustavson,West Virginia -the second best effort of his career to reach the court alone but overthrew him 11%) respectively in the CC's. now 20-0 this year and theI ,206 point plateau at Notre Dame. The total is the ninth best in and Planner's victory hopes. Wohlhuter has already winner of 37 straight dualschool history and if Jones continues at his present rate (23.2) he qualified for the NCAA Indoor matches in the past two years,
Flanner controlled the game at
will finish fourth or fifth. 
champions in the 600, 880 and and 150-pounder Bob Habig are
the foul line, where they hit on
In the recent Associated Press basketball poll, Notre Dame is the mile but Wilson has indicated defending champions. Another
30 of 38 for an unbelievable
only team that has played seven of the top 12 teams. The Irish hold that he'll let the Irish star strong Irish hope in Tom
791Yo, but could only hit on I 7 
victories over three conference leaders -top-ranked UCLA, defend his 600 title March 12-13 Ciaccio (118), who set a new
attempts from the field. Pang-
Kentucky and Michigan while losing to South Carolina, in Detroit. Wilson, however, school record last week for Marquette, Duquesne and Fordham by a total of 17 points. horn had 22 baskets and free will run Wohlhuter in the 880 at most career victories with 41.­
Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
Trustees receive tenure report 
(Continued from Page 1) 

that of cost. The expense of 
for the longest period of tpme. supporting this on-the­This experiment will hopefully reservation school would be less work to lower the current 85 per than the cost of scholarships. The 
cent Indian dropout rate from proponents wanted to "let the non-mission and non-bureau of Committee know the plan is Indian Affairs schools, suggested working," to ask for funding, and Kurtz. 
to obtain ideas for findingFormed by the Indians avenues in the university and 
themselves, this institution, now outside it to other financial servicg nearly 200 students, will backers. do what other colleges can't; in The reception, said Kurtz, was the words of Kurtz, it will "teach "extremely warm and in­the Indians to be Indians." terested." With this reception,
Among the arguments the supporters have begun efforts presented by its supporters was to write down specific proposals 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS 
LOST ANIJ FOUND 
SERVICES 

Breen-Phillips Food Sales.
FOUND watch in A & P lot on Eddy call in pizza orders before Feb. 12 -call 289-8994 after 6 
1 1 : 00 p m . 1 2 9 4 or 1 7 0 5 .
must identify and pay for ad Pick u·p at 11:30. Stop on
\·VANTED 

your way home from tne Please-need ride toN .Y .C. library. $1.25 Cheese; 2/28 and/or 3/12. call Jack $1.40 Mushroom; $1.50 282-2250 Peppero~ ~;_$1.65 Everything Help Wanted 
Student artist capable of PEANUTS PERSONAL 
doing lettering & artistic To whom it may concern­Jean-Louis et Tunes will be
conception drawings. Call listening to election results in 272-8448. 
their room with beverages. Drop in. Vote Sherman-Murphy. 
J. L. & T. 
HOUSING 
Getting Married? 

Dear 6Y., Need housing for Fall '71 
Found glove. The Duchess Call 255-8073 
suspects nothing. KCAJ
AUTOMOTIVE 
Wanted to Sell. 67 BMW 

2000 T I. Factory Price 3850 Listen Folks, KALU lives 
Good Condition. 2000 or 

in the EVERGLADES! best offer. 288-4516 the vegetable people 
'63 Ford Galaxy 500 XL, 4 door hardtop, 390 V-8, Automatic, bucket seats, Runs Spock well-clean-$395-call 291-3170 Guess Again! anytime. your Secret Love 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: One obselete six-string Linnsine Lady fender guitar. Deplorable condi­Where are you and tion and an outrageous price. the purple monster? Former owner--a derelict. Call-­
6930 

Time, Inc. 282-2250 Available at Student -.... ..... 1­
.... ,,. 1.00 1.20
Rates: Time, Life, Sports ... ·-·-1.15 
11·115 ... .... ,.... 1.75 .... 
Illustrated, & F or tune 
,,.

..... 1.15 1.70 2AO .... 
..... -1.311 .... .... ...
Magazine. Call Tom, 
1.00 uo .... uo ..1. 
282-2250. 
1.311 2.10 31.10 ....·-&.1D 
For Sale: Mac Gregor-Jack 

-
• 1 ... 1... .... 3.30 .... ... 
Nicklaus irons, woods, bag, putter 
1.11 .... uo ..,. .... 
and dirty towel-$170 value for $80 or so-call 6841 



NATIONAL PLAYERS 
in Sun.: Feb. 28 
Shakespeare's 

Twe-lfth Night 
Sat.: Feb. 27 

George Bernard Shaw:,· 
Arms and the Man both performances 8:30 pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Admission: Adults $3.00 Students $2.00 CAF Patrons $1.00 
Contemporary Arts Festival 
----------------· 
to be presented to the Board of renewal cases, ·and thwt the one full participating member." Trustees and have also begun actual decision b1~ removed from The Committee expressed "full "shopping" for funds, said Kurtz. the Deans of colleges not in-support" and promised "to speak 
Dan Moore and Jim Heitzman volved. to the right people" about the presented the results of a Student· The Committee, according to matter. Government investigation of Moore, seemed to feel that it was The Graduate Affairs Council recent faculty firings. This in-a good idea for the students to was then discussed. This group, vestigation began after over 1300 have a more active part than that an outgrowth of the grad students signed a petition, cir-allowed by the computer cards. students' attempt to gain culated by Heitzman, that ex-However, the Committee representation on the SLC, pressed dissatisfaction with believed thut the issue "wasn't performs for the Grad School decisions made regarding denials entirely within their jurisdic­what the SLC does for the entire of tenure and renewal of con-tion," added Moore. Univeristy. Isely and Lorimer tracts. It was intended, suggests They were intE~rested and felt suggested that this Council its text, to "affirm the rights of that the idea of student par­consider academic due process in the student body to take a more ticipation was valid but the thz Grad School and a re-­active and valid part in this proposals were outside their evaluation of that school. matter." scope of operation. Moore was This study would lump such 
The report proposed nine "pleased" with the general issues as a judicial code, points. These points emphasized reaction. recourse on exams, and the a need for a supplementary Bill Lorimer, GSU president, treatment of non-professional committee of each department's and Ed Isely, presented two conduct. majors to make recom-reports to the Committee on mendations for each case of behalf of the graduate students. 
ECOLOGY TALK

tenure and renewal. The purpose of the presentations, It further suggested that according to Iselly, was to get a election procedures for the Ap-response in order to plan follow­
As part of the ND-SMCpointments and Promotions up actions. 

!Academic Commission En­Committee be changed to allow The most important issue was lvironf!1ent Series, Jamesall full-time faculty to vote, that that of placing a representative !Ridgeway will speak on his book, minutes of proceedings· be on the Search Committee to 

rrhe Politics of Ecology at 8:00

available for review, that "the appoint a new dean of thz Grad pm, Tuesday, March 2, in thsAcademic Council be made into School. Isely quoted the Com­~ibrary Au9itorium. 
an Appeals Board for tenure and · mittee's answer: "We are to have 

Pangborn starts slow slump 
earth, the heavy center of the 
building during a heavy rain ncarby Bill Weber building sinking faster than the a door where the building has You probably haven't noticed perimeter. Its progress is not so sunk. 

any curious activity around great that students will have the I would estimate that from Pangborn Hall but it's there-­opportunity to live in a truely 
today Pangborn and the Geology working its slow, silent machin­"underground" hall for a 
Building could continue to stand ations on the very foundation of number of years, however. The for about the same number of the hall. This is a movement building will probably crumble 
years," said Fr. Murphy, "and which has been doing its work or be torn down before that day 

the Geology Building is II S for a number of year now, recog­
comes, Father Murphy esti­
years old.'' 
mates.

nized by only a few, covered up Fr. Murphy attributes this
by the Administration and the Maintenance Department but is action to the faculty foundation Saunders' speech
and the ineptness of the generalnevertheless unstopa ble. 
contractor. (Continued from Page 1)
The truth of the matter is that driven into the ground for a firm the only thing whites can give isthe "underground" is coming to 
foundations but this was not money."
Pangborn. Maybe it would be done for Pangborn. "The Mem­While terming his excursion tomore accurate to say that orial Library and the Mathema­Notre Dame as a vacation fromPangborn is going to the "under­tics Center have piling founda­his real work in the ghetto, heground." 
tions. The earth beneath the sincerely pleaded for the youth"When Fisher Hall was built, Radiation Laboratory was to show some sort of leadership.
about 1951, they excavated and vibrated into a firm compac­However, his closing remarksthrew the soil onto the area tness." showed that he did not expectwhere Pangborn was built about A study was done several any such leadership to comethree years later-not nearly long years ago which revealed that from the "lazy" people whoenough for the ground to be there is a difference of one and populated Notre Dame and oth­firmly settled," said Fr. Murphy. 
one-quarter inches in elevation er campuses . 
He went on to explain that between the end of the central "If a group of people in thismost buildings have pilings corridor and the center of the country can save the country, it
Father Michael Murphy 
building. rt is probably greater will be the black youth. For C.S.C. Chairman of the Geology by now. There are obvious they are the only ones that have 
Department, reports that 
shown me any type of moral

cracks in the building bricks and 
Pangborn Hall is sinking into the 
water drains into the rear of the courage." 
.Friday and Saturday nights 
AMERICA COFFEEHOUSE 
presents 

IN CONCERT 
\ t 

the super gruup of 
lt HURLEY SHEEHY 
8:30-12:30 MacKENZIE 
I 
I 
March 1. 197_1________________---:-:-:~~:.J!"/l~'E~Q:!!!!8=t&~'R=IIE4=~ 
~.=;=:=:=:==~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::::::::::::~:::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~:~:~:~:
t .. ···· Rev. Robert Griffin · 





II . . Munchkins and Demons! 
t 
~ 
Saturday at midnight seems to me to be tp.e most perilous hour of the week for the munchkins tripping in the Land of Oz at this University. If horror hosts a plot to tangle living flesh with speeding steel on Notre Dame A venue, then death is most apt to come as a midnight rider, and a weekend rider, at that. If violence flares up with a twist of knife among bones that live, it most often seems to be at the hour when only the twelfth stroke of the clock separates a seventh-day evening from the first instant of a Lord's day morning. If somewhere in a turned-on crowd, a mind dances the arabesques of terror to the off-beat tunes of a psychedelic ballet, it will most probably be as a ritual in a witchesi sabbath wheri midnight hags ride their broomsticks of fear across the skies arching the soul, until the Sunday holi­ness begins with daybreak. 
On a recent Saturday evening, when my imagination was wide awake with images as Gothic as those of any opening para­graph I have ever written, a friend named Rich approached me with introductions to a boy waiting outside my office door. Rich said of the boy, "He's bumming," by which I understood him at first to mean that the lad was a hobo, down on his luck, wandering from a somewhere town to the neighborhoods of no place to go. Then I understood the boy was a traveller only in the mind; his trip was on 
drugs, and all of the vibrations were bad. For the next several hours, R1"ch and I and Jim McDermott, a worker in the 
Drug Information' Center whom I sum­moned from tl1e fourth floor of Keenan, 
offered the boy the therapy of conversa­tion, in an attempt to talk him down distrust the young man who spoke with me; hopefully, he will go home, and with a ho-hum of disdain, he will burn his notes. But in the event that he doesn't, I thought to myself, my attitudes as rector are too important at least to me, to rely for their reporting on a vety young man starting out in student journalism. Thus, this column. 
Of drugs themselves, let me say there is nothing I fear more unless it be the death of God, or my own damnation. Some­times I wonder if damnation itself is not a bad trip to infinite depths, to where the soul is locked-in on itself to experience the eternal horror of its own being, emptied, by choice, of love and conse­quently creatured with loathsome and slimey things that crawl up from the night swamps of the doomed imagination. Last year, after endlessly rapping with hall residents on the tedious subject of 
parietals, 1 rather suddenly became aware of the escalation in drug use on the premises of my beloved Keenan, and 1 felt towards the parietal discussions like a dog to whom a meat bone has been tossed by a burglar making off with the family silver. I remember also, last year, zoning in on a kid, who seemed to cxemplify, in his weight Joss and in his saffron complexion, the deterioration that is, traditionally the "dope fiend's" lot. Ultimatums were leveled against the kid: stop! or phone calls will be made to 
Papa, and you can settle the problem together in the suburbs west of Chicago. 
But the kid would not promise to stop;he could not lie to me, he said. He chose instead to leave the hall, and his friends came as intermediaries. They said: there 

~~~c~ep~~~s~!~o~o~~ain:~::~a~~e!es~ ~o;lr=~~y h:sn d~~-~i~~~n~~~h~;t:~eu~d t~i! 
caline. (The boy's supplier, thinking the mescaline to have gone stale, gave his protege in drugs a double dose of the 
crud. The reactions were so severe that the boy supposed he was freakiJ,g out on L.S.D.) Eventually, I learned hat two other students were undergoing a similar distress, as partners in the same sale of mescaline, in another hall on campus. They finally appeared at Keenan, where friends gave them comfort and shelter for the rest of the night. 
Ordinarily, I would not view the hap­pening~ of ~ Sa~urday night as grist for 
the scnbbler s m1ll_ ex_ce~t that, as a result . trifle. Drug use, I consider, is no trifle, '
(I suspect) of th1s mc1dent, a reporter from one. of t~e campus publi~ati~ns came to mterve1w me as a Umvers1ty person with some expertise in the therapy· for kicky drugs. I spoke to a well-mannered, intelligent cub reporter of my very limited kind of awareness of the events on the local drug scene, and I told him of my views, formulated as rector, toward the drug users in Keenan Hall. Afterwards, I said to myself, I do not 
Bruce A. B Broillet 
It was an extraordinarily miserable day on the campus of du Lac when Nobody decided to stroll over to the student government offices and pick up a petition for SBP. The idea to run for office was never conceived and didn't mean anything anyway, as it was received with absolutely no acclaim or censure. The Observer made no mention of Nobody's candidacy and the Scholastic followed suit. He had no machine to help him win and nobody supported anybody, that is, everybody supported Nobody. He ran a campaign in which signs were placed in every hall on campus proclaiming that "Nobody will speak in the student lounge this evening at six thirty. No one is invited to attend and nothing will be said. No questions will be answered afterward. Please don't come." On election eve there was no excitement at Nobody's non-existent campaign headquarters and, as might be assumed, the well-informed powerless to touch his son's inner will. In the end 1 had to work out other terms with the boy; it seemed in no way desirable to dismiss him to an off-campus room, where he could stone himself into 
madness. My situation was like that of another 
dad 1 have heard about: he commanded a child of his flesh named David, "Get a haircut, or get lost." David, feeling that a father's love should be based on contin­gencies more basic than a hair-style, opted to leave home. In tears, the father apologized to his son, shocked at his own near-deed of throwing away a child for a 
but I refuse to let it alienate me from a kid who, at that point, may be most in need of my friendship. 
My attitude toward this boy is illustra­tive of my feelings toward all the mem­bers of the Keenan enclave. Obviously, one cannot condone the use of drugs, since, among other things, there are federal laws curtailing the operations of even such free spirits as the Rector of Keenan. Of drug use, I am not, nor do I 

l 
~ 
intend to be, penmss1ve; I hate the practice with a passion more intense than even my love for God, or so it seems when I compare the intensity of my prayers with the revulsion I feel at the thought of L.S.D. But drugs are a prob­lem too serious to he treated only as an upset to disciplinary schemes. In the sub-culture of today's youth, attitudes have developed that were undreamed of in my own formation as an adult human being. As a chaplain, 1talk regularly with students who approach life with a dif­ferent frame of reference, a different set of values, a different structure of premises, than my own; and if I have to deal with drug-users, I must do so in'such a way that they will not carry their practice underground, where I will hear about a kid's drug-induced dilemma only after he has arrived at the state of being a 
mindless vegetable. 

There are two kinds of campus facilities I will try to impose, when needed, on a drug user: ( 1) the Student Drug Informa­tion Center, founded by Tom Tollaksen after a germinal suggestion from me; and 
(2) Psychological Services -and the sug­gestion is made not for the boy's punish­ment, but for his healing. If discipline is imposed, it must be as personally tailored, and as therapeutic, as apenance given after sin. 
In my own experience, I have never seim a drug-user with his inner mess-tips whom I have considered a source of contagion to his classmates. Even with the shabby chaps who sell drugs, I am tempted to deal gently. (Note the differ­ence between a supplier, who claims to provide a marketplace for customers who wish his merchandise, and a pusher, who 
tries, I am told, to get his clients hooked into a drug dependency. I have never consciously met a pusher; I am on speak­ing terms with several who are suppliers.) Speculatively, I can imagine the supplier as a creep with all the earmarks of a moral monster; in practice the suppliers I have met seem like regular chaps, though screwed up in some of their personal judgments and usually a little paranoid. None of them seemed sinister, and all of them seemed worth saving, whatever the word salvation may imply. 
In writing of my feelings about students who are using drugs, I speak of myself as a fallible creature who has tried to temper the wind to the shorn lamb in order to keep that lamb from perishing. If I had done otherwise, I think to myself, fright­ened freshmen would not come banging on my door at midnight, and Saturday evenings would not be times when. once in a while, I feel much needed, because the Demons of mischief are conspiring against the peace, happiness, and survival of the children in the land of the munchkins. 

Page 5 

Notre Dame graduate Rick Libowitz on the Hebrew University Campus. 

Graduate in Israel 
Jerusalem, February, 1971: "I want to become a rabbi because of the idea of doing things with and for people," says 22 year old Rick Lobowitz who this year is studying at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and plans to return to the United States where he is enrolled in a 
Rabbinical School. 
Rick, son of Mr. and Mrs. Milton Libowitz of 3 Rocky Rapids Road, Stamford, Connecticut, has a long record of work in both politics and civil rights. He worked towards voters' rights in the South and helped in election campaigns for Robert Kennedy and Eugene McCarthy. 
After completing a B.A. degree in English at the University of Notre Dame Rick came to Israel in July and spent two months learning Hebrew at a course of the Teachers Training College at Sede Boker, a kibbutz (collective agricultrual settlement) in the Negev desert whose members include Israel's first Prime Minister, David Ben-Gurion. 
He then spent a week touring Israel hefore ooming to Jerusalem where, in addition to studying at the Hebrew University, he is also enrolled at the Hayim Greenberg Teachers Seminary. His programme includes Bible, Talmud, Jewish History, Jewish Thought and Sociolagy, but he is most concerned with learning Hebrew. 
By studying at the Hebrew University, Rick says he is following a cousin, Dr. Lewis Kaplan, former head of the Baltimore Teachers' College, who, in 1925, was the first American to study at the University which was founded on Mt. Scopus in I 918. Access to this site, cut off in 1948, was regained in 1967 and last year the entire Law Faculty and all first year science students were transferred th_ere. There were only a handful of overseas students at the University in Dr. Kaplan's student days. This year almost one quarter of the University's 16,000 students are from abroad, an increase of 400'Jf. since the Six-Day-War in 1967. 
As a result of the strikes on the United States campuses, when Rick started studying at the Hebrew University, it was the first time he had been to rt:gular classes for seven months. He commented on how good it was to see full classes again. He dinds the classes enjoyable and likes to see so many people from different countries congregated. He adds, "where else can you lay outside in the grass in November?" 
Rick sees Israel as a "mixture of 
things." He feels it is difficult at first to 
get used to a different style of life yet his 
is already changing. "If my mother saw 
me eating tomatoes and egg-plants, I 
would not get the same treatment at 
home again," he comment'>. He likes the 
way people in Israel have "good, concrete 
goals" which they try to accomplish. 
In the future, Rick would perhaps 
consider returning to live in Israel but for 
the present his plans are already made. 
Next year, he will begin studying to 
J_ 

become a rabbi at a Reconstructionist R:.~bbinical College. In any case he has to return for a while, "I've spent four years trying to change things in the 1Jnited States, and working with similarly oriented people, and that is too long to <urn my back on it all, he concludes. 

Nobody Wins 
electorate of this University was quick to elect him by a landslide margin over every other candidate who did!l't run-you see, Nobody wag the only name on the ballot. No victory party was held and so, in gracious manner, absolutely Nobody won the election for student body president -par for the course at Notre Dame. 
The after effects were remarkable. No congratulations were in order for the victor so he quickly set to no work at all. First, he abolished any semblance of student government and replaced the whole "blasted mess" (in his own memorable words) with a Department of Everybody, in order that he might avoid double negatives-he was an English major. Thus, when Nobody was doing anything, at least it could be said that Everybody was doing nothing. The trivial wordplay which ensued was too marvelous for this author to relate. 

At the first football game, Nobody presented the flag to Mr. and Mrs. Edmund Stepan -but they unflinchingly played their parts, walked empty-handl J over to the flagpole, and raised absolutely nothing to the top of the pole whilst the band played on. No concerts were held since Nobody bried to arrange them-and most students were relieved at this turn of events following the fiascoes of 70-71. In fact, a whole year was spent with nothing happening in student government. Yet, somehow the year was no different from any other year at Notre Dame. And when the new election time came around, Nobody supported anybody who didn't run, and people began to realize the tmth of the childish, high school game at Notre Dame in,accurately referred to as student government. And the suct:ession of Nobodies pertetuated itself-Everybody saw t0 that. 



One of our 
Paulists calls it uhome"... 
Home is where the heart is. 
Home is also wherever a Paulist is needed. 
Whether the Paulist works in a ghetto, a college campus, a city parish or a remote corner of the United States, he is serving. 
The Paulist is ministering with words, deeds and sacra­ment ... and zealous care to the needs of God's People everywhere. He is meeting today's problems with thoughts of those that will arise tomorow. 
That is the Paulist way. It isn't easy but the worthwhile things of life seldom are. 
If you are interested in learning more about the Paulist priesthood, write to:' 
Rev. Dooald C. Campbell, C.S.P. Voc:atioo Director 

~ulistth
Pa erG 
Room 113 
415 West 59tb Street New York, N.Y. 10019 


Let us help you to understand the motivation and the meaning behind her culture and architectural masterpieces, her forgotten crafts and magnificent works of art. 
Let us help you get acquainted with her in a way so few have come to know. 
We have the means, like our "Meet the People Program," reduced student,rate travel fares (at least half the regular fare on rail, bus, and certain domestic flights), youth hostels and holiday camps (less than $1 a day), introductions to our college and university students, and more. 
For more information, see your Travel Agent or contact us, The Government of India Tourist Office, by mailing the coupon to the address closest you. New York: 19 E. 49th St., Chicago: 201 North Michigan Ave., San Francisco: 685 Market St. Offices also in Canada and Mexico. 
The vision of the oneness of life. A gift from India. 
Please send me your free 52,page brochure telling me all about India. Name________________________________________~------------------------­Address.__________________________________________________________ 
City__________________State_______Zip.______ 
SeeIndia.ltsanotherworld. 
•• 0 
7 

March 1, 197-1
THE 


Junior parents comment on student life 
(Continued from Page 1) 
at ND was not depicted on the film. The parents in the audience were then asked for questions. One father wanted to know what student life should be like. Mooney answered that it should be as diverse as possible and that there still may be too many Irish catholics on campus. 
He also said the social aspect of the university must be much looser and that co-ed dining halls and dorms should be pushed. 
Corso answered a query on the cause of the damage of weekends by stating that there is not enough to do on campus. He put the blame on the students for the vandalism. 
Mooney said that it is not the fault of any one group, students or administration, but just the way things are presently set up. 
A parent commented that twenty years ago students at ND had the same weekends to put up with, "yet there was not all this drinking and vandalism." In 
Collegiate Jazz Festival 

23 big bands and combos from 20 schools 
March 5 & 6 , Stepan Center 
in the Dining Halls Tues, Wed, & Thurs
TICKETS: 
and at the door 
Sat afternoon session --$1.50 

Fri & Sat evening sessions·· $3.00 
All sessions--$4.50 

FREE SYMPOSIUM "Jazz and Race" 4:00PM Friday Audio-Visual Thester; Center for Continuing Education. 



Have thevisionofthe oneness oflife. 
Beyond all the magnificence of her temples and tombs and monuments. Beyond all the brilliance of her festivals and feasts and holy days. 
Beyond all the beauty of her mountains..and valleys and cities. Beyond all this, and more, lies the true vision of India. You will find it within the spirit of the People. For they are the exemplification of the total oneness of life experience. From the seeker of truth and the prince of wisdom. To the scholar and the doctor. To the fisherman and the farmer. The People of India are the soul of India. 
reply Meyers pointed to the fact that ·"ours is a more affluent society, the students today expect more." Mooney added that an all-male university is no longer conventional, and that with coeducation the vandalism would stop. 
Corso said that co-education wouldn't help all that much because some students would still drink too much but going co-ed would help,-even if it would rtot solve the problem. 
A junior in the audience 



LaFortune manager dismissed 
by Jack Bennet 
The T.G.I.F. concert held in the Student Center on Friday afternoon developed into an all night show after a large crowd filled the Center for most of the night. The extension of the concert led directly to the dismissal of Student Manager
-l 

added that twenty years ago students lived in fear of the administration. He noted that students have been given more responsibility today. 
Another junior said that there an: few activities in northern Indiana for those under 21. "All that is left is drink and drugs but with co-education there would be new alternatives," he· said. Mooney added that co-ed dining halls would stop much of the food-throwing there. 
Mark Stoltz who made the decision to keep the show running after the hour originally agreed upon with Center offic­ials. 
W When the concert finally broke up a 3:00 am all of the audience who had remained helped clean up the entire area. 
The dismissal of Stoltz came late Saturday afternoon when he reported for work. According to Stoltz, Brother Francis Gorch who is official manager of LaFortune Center demanded his resignation for Stoltz's decision to allow the concert to continue past the previously agreed upon 
Father Burrell appointed to head Theology position 
Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C., has been appointed chairman of the department of theology, effective September I, it has been announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president. 
termination time of I 0:30 pm. 
Stoltz who ordinarily closes the Student Center at 12:30 am 
on Friday nights said he made the decision because he felt that it was in the best interest of everyone to keep the concert going. 
"For the first time since I've worked here this place was actually being enjoyed by the students,'Stoltz said.He pointed out that he had willingly donated his time and services to keep the Center open late and had personally supervised the clean-up operations. 
Other comments which had 
been in.terspersed in the discus­
sion included a note that the 
only thing parents were con­
cerned with once the student 
gets home is grades, that the vocal I0% of the students get the headlines while 90% only want a good education.Mr. Aldo Corso said the problems in going co-ed only confirmed what parents had known all along, that "women are the source of all trouble." 
Father Burrell, 38, a specialist in the philosophy of religion, has been a member of the philosophy faculty at Notre Dame since 1967 and holds the rank of associate professor. Man 
Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. open to both philosophy and theology students at Notre Dame. 
(Continued on Page 8) 
JAZZ ROCKS CJF 
European Student Travel $245 Round Trip 
Large selection of dates -study tours and language courses . year round student service 
Join National Union of Students, Inc. now for full benefits -write or call for full information and brochure. CafllJUS Rep required: Applicants 
for this financially rewarding position should mark envelop "Programme Co-ordinator." All Interested write to: 
National Union of Students Travel Service, Inc. Suite 911 159 W. 33rd St. New York, New York 10001 Phone: (212) 565·1732 
(212) 565-4199 Telex: 421437 
Offices in N.Y., London, Dublin Paris ' 

THB OBSE/lfi£R. 
Page 3 

Choice: Mooney, Barkett? Final endorsements given 

Eileen Fitzpatrick and the Student Government Coeduca­tion Coordinating Committee, in 
separate announcements yester­day, declared their support for Off-Campus Senator Don Mooney in his race for the Student Body Presidency. 
Also, in a letter to Grace Tower residents, Hall President Frank Musica endorsed Hall Presidents' Council Chairman John Barkett in his bid for the post in today's run-off. 
In their endorsement, Miss Fitzpatrick and her running­mate, Walt Secada, said that they '"recognize in Don Mooney and Dan Sherry the embodi­ment of most of the ideas we stood for." 
They also said, however, that "we have strong personal convictions, yet wonder what right we have to speak for the people who supported us. We 
Notre Dame team analyzes Ford's Pinto 
by Tim Burke According to the report issued by the Notre Dame research team the potential purchaser of Ford Motor Company's Pinto "X" tends to be sports-oriented, liberal, optimistic and an innovator." Ford's new subcompact has been the subject of a complete· marketing report, recently com­piled by the Notre Dame research team. The 200-page report, which was finished in February, has been sent in to Ford Motor Company and the College Marketing Corporation, sponsors of the project. Notre Dame was one of 160 universities throughout the nation selected to participate in the contest. Ford is offering sixteen regional grants of $1,000 each, and a national prize of $5,000, to those schools that most effectively analyze their target market, and the marketing strategy of the Pinto. The winning schools will be an­nounced on April I. The Notre Dame research team was comprised of a faculty advisor, Dr. David L. Appel, and six Notre Dame seniors majoring in marketing. Those students are: Bob Fries, John Hafel, Eric Korth, Bob McCarthy, Kevin Moore, and Ken Strottman. The project was begun last October as a special course designed solely around the Pinto contest. Notr-e Dame received, as did each participating school, a fully-insured Pinto for six weeks and $250 to cover expenses. According to Bob McCarthy, their goal was "to identify the potential Pinto purchaser at the ND-SMC community, analyze his or her car demands, and present Ford with a complete marketing report." However, McCarthy pointed out that the Notre Dame report was not designed to represent the average American College; instead "it should give Ford a realistic picture of the medium­sized private university in the United States today." The ND team divided their research into three major pro­blem areas, and investigated each through the use of a question­naire-a master questionnaire, a test-drive questionnaire, and a 
JF IS COMIN 
MARtli'5&6 
Stepan center 

The Observer is published daily during the coll~ge semester except vacations by the students ol the . University of Notre Dame and St. 
· 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purcha$Cd for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
promotional questionnaire. 
Four hundred Notre Dame students and one hundred St. Mary's students were selected at random to receive the master questionnaire. The research team received 400 replies, while it needed only 385 replies to make an accurate analysis. 
The questions were designed to ·identify the potential Pinto buyer, reveal his primary pur­chase motivations, and suggest the most -effective ways of communicating with him. They analyzed the socio-economic, demographic, and psychological aspects of potential buyers. 
From those respondents who indicated that they were inter­ested in buying a car in the next 12 months, the researchers selected approximately 40 people to test-drive the Pinto. Each driver answered the test­drive questionnaire while taking the Pinto on a IS-minute cruise around the campus. 
"We wanted to see if it is worthwhile for Ford to push test-driving as a promotional device," explained McCarthy. The team compared the initial opinions of the drivers with those that they had "after finishing their drive. McCarthy said that most people were "much more impressed with the car after driving it." 
A Pinto advertisement, designed and donated by Ford Motors, was placed in the Observer last fall. A month later, the researchers placed an adver­tisement of their own design, 
uniquely  tailored  to  the  
ND-SMC community.  
The  promotional  question­ 

naire was used to compare the effects of both ads. A telephone survey was conducted to test student recall and awareness of the advertisements. One hundred students were contacted follow­ing each of the ads; however, the difference in response between the two ads was "insignificant." 
Also included in this survey were questions pertaining to student awareness to the various media. In a survey of 184 people conducted by the reesearch 





Student-Railpass. 
an un 
(Would you believe two whole months of unlimited rail travel throughout thirteen European countries* for a modest $125?) 
Our brand-new Student-Railpass gives you all that Second Class rail travel on the over 100,000 mile railroad systems o~ Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. You'll discover that there's very little second class about Second Class. You 
team, over 97% said that they "read the Observer regularly." Based on these results, the team concluded that "the Observer is far and away the most effective way of reaching students on campus." 
MARUI 1 _ 
MAROI 2 _ 
must respect their freedom of decision as they respected ours to run. It is as individuals, then, that we speak." 
Musica said in his letter to the Tower residents "when I return, I would like to see a different Notre Dame, I feel that if John is elected, Notre Dame Student Government will be more than just a play ground. Now is your opportunity. Give Student Government a chance.· I strongly urge you to vote for John Barkett and Orlando Rodriguez tomorrow." 
Musica also spoke of a "disap­pointment" on his part this year. As one of the causes of this he mentioned "a failure on the part of Student Government. It seems that every time things go wrong . . . they blame the structure instead of themselves." 
(Continued on Page 8) 

COMMISSION. 
CALENDAR 
8:00, Fr. Ralph Beiting, Director of Ouistian ApJruachian Project. 104 ashaunessy. 
8:00, James Ridgeway, speaking on "The Politics of Ecology." Ubrary Auditorium. 
1\'ARGI 3 _;~:00, Cbrdon Shenmn, speaking on 'The Role of the Radical Businessrmn In the Community." 104 O'ShalUlessy. 
MARCH 4 _ 8:00, fr. Rudolph Gerber, Abortion Fonun on "Abortion:kpects for [.)xision." Ubrary Auditoriun1. 
ALL EVENTS SPONSORED BY ND-SMC ACADEMIC COMMISSION 


l1eva e new product:_ 
r---------------------------------------------------------1
I STUDENT•RAILPASS The way to see Europe without feeling like a tourist. J
I *Eurailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, I Sweden and Switzerland. 192 .~ 1 Eurailpass, Box90, Lindenhurst, New York 11757. I Please send me your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 Or your free Stu.dent-Railpass folder order form. 0 

can sleep in a Couchette·for only $4.50 a night, and eat in inexpensive cafeteria-type Dining Cars. 
If you haven't got two months, or you prefer the luxury of First Class, there's our regular Eurailpass. The three week Eurailpass costs $110, one month $140, two months $200, three months $230. But remember-you can't get Student-Rail pass or Eurailpass in Europe. You must buy one before you leave, so see your Travel Agent. Meanwhile, send in the coupon below for your free Student-Railpass or Eurailpass folder. 
Page 4 THB O.&rERWR. 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
GlenS. Corso, Editor-in-Chid John E. Knorr , Executive Editor Bruce Rieck , Business Manager 
For forms of government let fools contest, Whate'er is best administer'd is best. 
Alexander Pope 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
John Barkett 
Today's runoff election for the Student Body Presidency is probably the Single most important day in student government's existence since J. Richard Rossi won the first rights of student self-government from the University. For the first time since Rossi, we have a candidate who is committed to a series of positive and realistic goals, articulated before and argued throughout the campaign. That candidate is John Barkett, and we strongly urge his election as student Body President. 
John Barkett is more than a fine administrator. He is a man with a record of getting things done. His 2-year record in Morrisey speaks for itself; it is one of the best-run and most socially active halls on campus. Likewise, the Hall President's Council under his administration as chairman set up a leadership conferance which helped other Presidents in their halls. It has also established definite conclusions about the rector-hall relationship, and in general has behaved in a far more active manner than it ever has before. 
Barkett is informed, direct, and honest. He'll bother some administrators who are used to limiting student power by being better aware of the University's operation than student power's elected representatives, but he will represent the students, and represent them well. The way he'll represent them will not be with the empty rhetoric of confrontation, but with solid and inevitable reason. 
When we write of honesty, we do not mean the trivial tests of honesty that have cropped up in the campaign. 3oth candidates pass that test. 
The honesty we refer to is John Barkett's honest acceptance of the fact that student government can address itself to important problems effecting the students. This is where he differs from his opponent, and this is where he best shines. The programs John Barkett espouses are ones we can realistically expect to get next year. Barkett espouses them because he believes we can get them. 
We can get the thing Barkett has pledged to get. The long-overdue "money back to the halls" project Barkett has endorsed can be accomplished without a raise in the activities fee. The Barkett minority program, written by' Orlando Rodriguez, the Krashna Administration Human Mfairs Commissioner and easily their most knowledgeable man on Minority Affairs, is a logically sound one and one that won't be hindered by the University. Barkett's plan to create a Student-Faculty Advisory Board for Security is eminently workable and would only help a deteriorating situation. 
Probably the most important aspect of Barkett's campaign is his approach to coeducation. He recognizes both its economic necessity and its inevitability, and the suggestions he has made to antitipate coeducations are both commendable and helpful. 
Particularly important are his suggestions to adjust the placement bureau for the admission of women, to appoint a co-ordinator, to recruit female professors and female administrators, and to provide gynecological services in the infirmiry. 
The merger of Notre Dame's student government with that of St. Mary's will be consumated regardless of who wins this election. Kathy Barlow has said this several times before her own election. We are confident that she will find it as easy to merge with a student government led by John Barkett as with one led.by Don Mooney. 
Mr. Mooney's campaign continues to be a dissapointment. In an effort to "get specific" Mr. Mooney has written a list of programs; some of them of the promise-the-world variety ("open air concerts with good inexpensive groups") some already suggested by John Barkett (such as the Junior Year at Home Program) some of them vague ("revitalization of the Social Commission.") and some of them impossible to obtain, no matter how much confrontation is used (such as putting approval of the rector in the hands of the hall members.) Mr. Mooney has run an honest and fair inquiry into the affairs of the campus, but he has found no answers. Mr. Barkett has. • 
It is for all these reasons, then, and for the reasons expressed in last Wednesday's Observer that we endorse the Student Body Presidential Bid of John Barkett. 
Issue Staff 

Night Editor: Don Ruane 
Asst. News Editor: Tom Bornholdt 
Headlines: Mike Moore, Gene Slason 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter 
Layout: Bob Young, Gene Slason, 
News Editor: Ed Ellis 
Joe Abell 

Controller of the Night: Rich Smith 
Features Page: Joe Abell 
Bill Carter and John Knorr 
Unsolicited Appreciation 
All "good" things must come to an end sooner or late.r, and so, it 
is with another year at Notre Dame. We feel that the year is over for 
all practical purposes since the Krashna administration is out and the 
general yearly turnover of personnel is about to begin. 
Since we don't want any of the efforts of campus personalities to 
go unappreciated we would like to say thanks to various people, and 
present some awards to illustuous campus dignitaries who in our 
humble opinion have helped make this last year one of the great 
years in recent campus history. 
So here first are our heart-felt thanks: 
TO TOM THRASHER -thanks for nothing: we wouid have been 
morem~~~ b~~n~you~~ n~ub~naccu~dofbcingw,we
won't be either. 
TO PARK MAYHEW-thanks for a job well done. Now. when is 
the real proposal going to appear'? (I wonder where they went to 
school?) 
TO GARY CARUSO -a special thanks for the fine exhibit of 
bureaucracy in the sophomore car report. (I wonder if he ever 
thought ofreviving the Leprechaun?) 
TO SISTEH ALMA -a special thanks for the open mindedness so 
essential in formulating lasting results between communities. 
TO TilE HUDDLE -a great thanks for personally attempting to 
finance lights for Wrigley Field. Too bad the project got gummed l-IP· 
TO THE STUDENT SENATE AND ITS ILLUSTRIOUS 
MEMBERSHIP· a thanks and a congratulations for a job well done. 
We're glad to see students take their positions so seriously. You 
succeeded in making a mountain out of a veritable sand box. 
TO ARTHUR PEARS-thanks for another great year of security. The murder rate was again 0! TO JOHN BARKETT AND THE HPC -a thanks for showing the Senate that there is a need for only one good governmental body 
(Now, where did the SLC go?) 
TO DAVID KRASHNA -a sincere thanks for trying ( and we 
mean this one) bJJt people didn't deserve your efforts. 
TO THE ND BASKETBALL TEAM -a special thanks for the 
UCLA game. No matter what else, this is the one to remember. 
TO PROFS. ESTABROOK, WILLIAMS, HINKEMEYER, AND 
RUNDE -thanks for the efforts towards a better academic 
environment. (It's tough fighting city hall.) 
We seem to have run out of people to thank. So now for the 197 I 
Dubious Distinction Awards. 
TO STEVE BRION AND THE SCHOLASTIC GANG -the Annual 
Overkill award, for managing to spend $50,000 publishing a 
magazine with a circulation of 14 students, 6 faculty and l stall in 
Dillon Hall. The prize consists of 497 cans of alphabet soup so that 
all the editors can continue to sit around and spit letters at each 
uther. 
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE SLC ·a pair of gold-plated bellows, symbolizing supremacy in the windbag competition among all the committees and councils on campus. (To be eligible a committee must hold regular extraordinarily tedious meetings which do absolutely nothing but give members a chance to shoot their mouths off) 
TO ARA -an honorary engineering degree and 200 blank blueprint sheets in appreciation for his prize-winning creation of the Wishbone defense. 
TO TERRY SHIELDS -a very special silver loving cup, for the outstanding dedication and devotion to all sweat:Producing endeavor. (As an added attraction, we can also assure you, Terry, that the trophy was once worn by Ralph Gugliemi against Purdue) 
TO MR. CARL KOCH ·a lifetime membership in Students against Racism and the Afro-American Society, plus a complete listing ofnational zipcodes. 
TO JIM HOLSINGER (editor of the New Voice)-a trunkload of 
sour grapes and a license plate size motto board reading: AMBITION 
(there's a rumor that the plate once belonged to a certain noted Theology teacher but we can't confirm that-sorry Jim.) 
TO CHRIS WOLFE-The White Knight award, for his courageous 
efforts to single-handedly save the campus from the threat of 
open·mindedness. 
TO BISHOP PURSLEY-The Ti Grace Atkinson Chair in Modern 
Church Thinking, which comes with a stipend in the form of a free 
subscription to the Observer for a year. • 
TO Tl GRACE -a copy of Pres. Harding's presidential theory, 
"return to normalcy." 
TO GLEN CORSO -the Sacred Jleart Award for Religious 
Excellence, which comes with a book of prayers carrying up to 15 
years indulgence. 
TO DAVE BACH -the Tim O'Melia A ward for Editorial Longevity. 
TO ED ELUS, TC TREANOR, JOE CASSIN I AND THE CREW 
-the ND A lmissions Office Public Relations Award for Best 
Presenting an ( bjective View of Life at ND. It comew with a stipend 
in the form of transfer forms to schools where supposedly the life is better. Take them. TO FR. RIEHLE-The William Kunstler Memorial Law Book for excellence in the legal field, as exhibited in the recent drug case. 
TO THE STUDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION -the Sealy-Posturpedic Award for excellence in promoting sleep on campus. • · 
TO THIS COLUMN-the Nobel Prize for outstanding journalism in a Michiana morning daily. And finally, lest we forget him, a special a ward to: 
FR. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL -the Avis "we try harder" Trophy for his great work in championing student causes sw.:h as scholarship rights. (Here's to a long life for number 1.) 





