-----~--------------­

Vol. V, No. 80 Serving the Notre Dame and Saiiu Mary's College f'ommunitl' Wednesday. February 17. 1971 
Barkett announces candidacy 
by Jerry Lutkus running mate Orlando Rodri-minority recruitment, review the -• & Fred Schaefer gut'Z, present Human /\Hairs "academic priorities", and a 
John Barkett announced last Commissioner. merger of ND and SMC student I night his candidacy for the of-The pair stated that their governments. lice of Student Body President. "central concern" will be resi-Concerning hall life, Barkett Barkett, chairman of the Hall dence hall life at Notre Dame. called for a "return of money to Presidents' Council. chose as his Ti1ey also plan to emphasize the halls." He also feels that 
"communication is the key force." To implement this, he
Cassidy, Bayer 
and Rodrigue~ hope to use the rectors and RA 's as lineups of communication. 
Also in their plans arc a l:am­

enter SMC race r
pus-widc flail Fellows Program, and a Hall President's Manual, &... by Jeanne Sweeney which Barkett intends to write. 
John Barkett Orlando Rodriguez On minority recruitment, the
Kate Cassidy and Laura and broad program, ranging vlarv's. In conjunction, they
c<~ndidates said, "our major
Bayer, two sophomores from from such specifics as a review plan to merge with the SMC Stu­
point is that this year's Student
Regina Hall, became the second of the freshman math require­dent Government, saying it is 
Government did not give any
team to announce their candi­ment to the general question of the "most logical" move. 
money for this purpose." They
dacy last night for the presiden­hllsk ac:1 demic priorities." This Barkett feels that St. plan to look into the possibility
cy and vil:e-presidency of stu­he listed as the basic academic Mary's will lose its' identity,
of taking some money from the
dent government at SMC. proposal of his platform. but nevertheless favors the mer­
activities fee and giving it over to
Discussing the candidates' in­More specifi<.:ally, Barkett ger. He is pushing for Co-ed recruitment.
terest in the top offices of stu­questioned t'1e qeecl for CalcJ•lus housing, and feels, depending Barkett and Rodriguez <1lso
dent govrnment next year, Kate as the required course claiming upon the Trustees decision, that plan to utilize service~ of alumni
('assidy said "we are interested t:1at "many students don't have it can become a reality in Septem­in the offir;es bel:ause this will be the interest." ber.
and student government people to campaign for minority re­
the year when St. Mary's exis· 

He explained thllt many stu-Rodriguez said, "We need to ten<.:e is l:alled into question and cruitment during vacation per­dents, realizing that it would be bring girls and guys together in ils future decided." iods. Campaign manager Bob their last year of math, just did normal everyday situations." He 
She added, "the whole year Wcave_r noted Rodriguez' exper­not put forth enough effort. noted particularly co-ed dining, has to be approached seriously ience with Chicanos and work as The candidates claim, "The dorms, and classes. and it should not be merely an Human Affair:; Commissioner as Co-Education proposal will be-They feel that "the most log­expression of political ambi-"invaluable in this area". ~:ome a reality next month." ical place" to have co-ed housing lion." Barkett called for a "flexible They expc<.:t a merger with St. (continued on pg. 3) 
Both girls emphasized that their campaign will hopefully make the students face the many 
Badger, Heneha acquitted in trial 
important issues which make 
asked him "to give him three chemist revealed that a "cover next year a crucial year. They by Dave Lammers 
more dollars" when the two met letter" had accompanied the vial plan to visit every floor in every 
D.·nalct Badger and JVark in the parking lot behind the to Chicago, and that the vial had dorm after their platform has 
Henehan, two Notre ));'me Notre Dame apartments. been recieved along with several been d istrihuted to the residents. 
Laura Bayer seniors accllsed of the sale Jnd Mr. Singer's <.:ross examination other vials from the narcotics 
The girls said they would set that as juniors, thr:y would be possession of dangnous drugs'on concentrated on Officer Worvos' bu.reau. The judge later agreed aside two hours for each meeting closer to the student body as a Novemher 6 of last year, were handling of Exhibit No. I, which that Sgt. Thomas' self-contra­and hopefully after reading their whole. Laura Bayer added that acquitted yesterday morning in was two clear capsules which dictions, the mishandling of the 
platform, the ideas it pn:scnted next year, as juniors, they could the City Court. <.:ontained a white powder. Sin­vial, and the absence of the could generate discussion. represent the students on a L:oq Badger, a senior who ger asked dozens of questions "cover letter", had resulted in a Miss Cassidy and Miss Bayer broader basis. Miss Bayer said resides in the Notr Dame apart­about the meeting between Offi­"breach of custody.'' 
consider this election much "since student government is ment~. was the first to be tried. cer Worvos and Sergeant The main breakthrough of the more serious than any election representing the people it is al­The prosecution opened by Thomas, the head of the Nar­defense occurred when the in f'revious years. du~ t 1 th·:great ready important that the officers calling to the stand Offi·;er cotics Bureeu in South Bend. Deputy Prosecutor attempted to 
number of issues under discus­he in touch." Worvos, thi.! undercover agent The handlin:; and identification recall Officer Worvos to the sion at the present !in·. The team emphasized that whose work resulted in the. four of the capsules, the type -of stand. The rule of Judge Kom•pa "We just want people to get "busts" that occur•.·d December envelope they placed in,
were

they worked well together in the before the trial began was that interested and if we go around past and their variety of back­17. Offil:er Worvos began the seal used on the envelope, there was to be a "separation of and talk to everyone they will reading an account of his actions
grounds was cited as another one and Sgt. Thomas' method of witnesses." Witnesses were huve to be interested and start of their advantages. on th ·aften·oon of November 6, storing the drug were questioned required to wait outside until 
formubting views," Miss Cassidy when he met with Badger and by the defense attorney in an their testimony, and after Of­
Kate Cassidy has sat on the 

said. J udical Board for the past two Henehan, from a she<:t of note­attempt to establish a "break in ficer Worvos had first testified, The sophomores do not con­years and she claims to have book paper, which was objected eustasy" by the police. Mr. Sin­he occupied a seat in the rear of sider their cluss status as any gained enough experiencr~ and to be the de.ense lawyer. Worvos ger's objection to the placing in the courtroom during later testi­
\la.tdicotp anci th ·y 'JJ! 111ll<i!e•l then relateu that Eadger had 
evidence of the capsules and the mony. The attempted recall of
(continued on pg. 8) 

envelope they were stored in Officer Worvos resulted in strong were overruled. objections from attorney Singer, 
It was the lengthy cross­which were sustained after some examin::tion of Sgt. Thomas that debate by Judge Konopa. resulted in the acquittal of Bad­The closing statement by the 
Krashna refuses to convene assembly 
ger, and then later, of Henehan. defense contended tl1at the state Mr. Singer queried the police­had not proved either sale or man about the manner in which possession of any drugs, since 
due to great lack of attendance 
The representation of the stu­would probably be cancelled he identified a vial containing Badger had only asked for three dent body amounted to 53R also. He poiPled out that it 
some of the white po;vder. On more dollars and no capsules
st Hdents. The largest gruup of would be useless to sp..:nd the
See pg. 3for Nov. 9, Sgt.. Thomas had re­were involved. The breach in 
stud c nts came from r;race money on the Assembly 
moved OI1P of the capsules from custody by Sgt. Thomas and the
Krashnrt-Lorirner statement Tower with 63 and the smallest Thursday night if thl! first two 
the manila envelope where they federal chemist were "well­representation <.:ame from Notre meetings were cancelkd. Thurs­were stored, \Vith the intent of received," according to the 
Dame's Holy Cross Hall with 4 day is the last day slall'd f.H the 
sending so me of the powder to judge.
:\ssembly.
students attend in g. 

the Federal Na1cuti<.:s and Dan­l he final statement by the
by Art Ferranti At 7:25 PM SBVP Mark if the General AssJmbly is 
gerous Drug laboratory in prosecution indicated that "evi­
completely <.:ancelled, the pro­
Winings 11sked for the c0unt of

The I97 I Notre Dame-St. Chicago. Sgt. Thomas was un­dence is evidence" and "the
posals will ht! channelled
students present at Stepan and

Mary's Student Assembly was sure about the manner in which state not get
at 7:40, ,.,hen the tallying was through student government. did to rresent its 
cancelled last night by St udcnt he identified the vial, and mailed <.:ase as it would have liked to
ac<.:ording to Krashna. However,
completed, Krashna declared

Body President Dave Krashna the vial along with several other have done."
he stated, thr proposals will not
that he would not convene the

due to the lack of attendcnce. vials to the Chicago Ia b; When Shortly after Judge Konopa
be accomplis'1ed as fast or as
assembly. If the assembly is con­

Krashna also said that if 1000 the powder was returned to the ruled Badger as "not guilty," Mr.
completely if the students do
vened tonight, the first topic to

~I udent s do not attend tonight South Bend Police Department Singer moved that Mark
not show any <.:oncern for the
be discussed, said Krashna, will

"I will not waste your time or by the lab, Sgt. Thomas' initials Henchan's case be dismissed on
issues now.
he coeducation.

ours'' meaning that hl! will had b~en removed and the ''ial the grounds that the same
Krashna attributed the lack of
If tht! assembly docs not

cancel the assembly again if tht! attcndence to was reidentified by the Chicago breach of custody applied to Mr.
both apathy and
convcn: tonight, Krashna s:tid

numbl!r of those attending does lab. 
Henehan. The move was granted
an ignora nee on the part of the
that tile Thursda: Assembly

not reach I .000. Testimony by the Federal by the judge.
(continued on pg. 8) 




---
~-----­
THE OIJSERJJER. 
Wednesday, February 17, 1971 

--------------------------------------~--------~--~~~~­
Room-picks could prove frustrating 
by John Powers the individual hall to make it a
should." This is not the case at Residence Father Thomas E. Notre Dame, although enroll­As the Director of Student place where you want to stay."
Every spring, Notre Dame stu­The responsibility for runningdents experience a week of ex­Chambers remarked, "It is a pri­ment has increased in recent room selection rests with thecitement, tension and nervous­vilege to live on campus," and years. 
Chambers favors the present hall government, and dependingness which is satisfying for few most students would agree. "We 
should only have persons who stay-hall system which allows a on the rules, the task can be
and frustrating for many. This is student to remain in his dorm as done quickly or take weeks. Ifnot the time of An Tostal or the want to live on campus," said 
annual spring panty raid, but Chambers, "and the campus hall long as he wishes. Stay-hall is a there are too many loopholes, 
"way of letting the hall deter-. then choosing a room can be room selection, and this year it should be a place of growth." 
mine how they want to let the very difficult. Most picks runpromises to be as interesting as If anything is growing, it is rooms go." Chambers suggests according to a lottery by class. 
any in recent times. the size of the student body. one way to alleviate the present "I do need responsible guys,"
What is going to make "room­This year's 1unior Class con­situation in students room depo­said Chambers. "Support of hall
pic)<" interesting is the fact that sisted of 15 50 freshman in Sep­sits. This would insure that each government is extremely neces­the largest freshman class in the tember 1968. The sophomores Rev. Thom11s E. Chambers, C.S.C ..
student who paid a deposit for a ~ary·."
_history of the university will be were about 1600 in September room would receive that room Zahm Hall President Mark "We hope to have every seniorsucceeded by the second largest 1969, and 1600-1650 freshmen the next year. St. Mary's College Kurtzman believes the "purpose and junior stay in the hall," saidfreshman class. Each hall's quota are expected in September 1971. 
operates under this systeJl!. of stay-hall is to give a guy a Kurtzman, "Sophomores (soph­of frosh is 33%, and combined About 2450 will be accepted for chance to settle down and omores-to-he) will. be the onlywith the 1720 present freshman, next year's class. 
stabilize himself in the univer­ones cut down."
0 bserver Insight

the plans for housing every per­"Money is very tight," said sity," but "it doesn't work with Some will be disappointed,son who wants a bed on campus Father Chambers; "other col­
It is the stay-hall which is the 
the freshmen coming in. (next and others satisfied with the re­ought to bring up some interest­leges may be accepting many root of the problem, and the ir­year)" Zahm Hall has a quota sults of the room pick, but noing ideas. 


more students than they 
responsibility of some students who try to "beat the system." "I'm really questioning it," said Chambers. "The hall has to offer


ARCHITECTS 

them (the students) spirit, a 
place where they can get work 
done, spiritual life...It's up to for each class in the hall, with rooms pi·~ked by averages. But so many seniors are staying on campus this year that Zahm, with two seniors two years ago, 39 this year, along with a large number of sophomores-to-be. 
one will be bored. Father Cham­ber's advice to those who will be involved is probably the most helpful that can be offered: 
"The  best  thing now  is  to  be  
calm  during  this  room  selec­ 
tion."  

...you've got skills 

One-to-one coed ratio for Towers
use them 


proposed by Flanner commission 
Dame and Saint Mary's students excluded, at least for the first
by Kevin McGill 

was established in September. year.
JOIN VISTA 

The study, originally planned to
The Flanner Tower Academic Of 380 residents who
be released in May, was finished
Commission yesterday released answered the Commission's
in time for the present Student
its report on the feasability of questionnaire, 361 wish to live
Assembly. It will also be pre­
making Flanner Tower into a in either dorm, 93 would will­
sented to the Board of Trustees.
co-educational dorm. The report ingly move to Regina, and 37
George stressed the fact that 
proposes that Flanner house 264 would willingly move off
the report was the work of the
males and 264 females next campus or to another hall. 419
For information and 

hall. "Its not a proposal like 
year, and that Regina Hall North Saint Mary's students were q ues­
applicatiu 11 ••• 

Pangborn and Keenan-Stanford
be made a male hall for the over­tioned, and 3 I% said they were
...see repr!'sentative 

where the students didn't want
flow of those presently living in willing to live in co-ed Flanner
at the Architecture School 

it." He said "Flanner wants it."
Flanner. next year. Most of them said
today & tomorrow 9-5 

The report states that "if we
Micheal George and Randy they would put up with the 
have made the

Istre, co-chairmen of the Aca­inconveniences of eating at
Slide Show: Feb. 18, 2:00 

The report states that "if we
demic Commission, had worked Notre Dame, the laundry sys­
Room 202 

have made the decision that
on the proposal since summer, tem, and the limited wardrobe 
education proceeds best when
and a staff consisting of Notre space. 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN IMPROVING YOUR ENVIRONMENT? 
Many of you will soon have to make a decision on your major. The Notre Dame Geology Department invites you to consider a career as a geologist. There is a gread demand for geoscientists, not only by government and industry, but especially for improving our environment. We need Ralph Naders in geology. How about a career that combines geology and law, or social science? It is possible to concentrate in geology, receive a B.S. degree, and have 41 hours of free electives which can be taken in business, english, or any field of your choice. 
The following quote is from a speech given in November, 1970 to geology department chairmen: (The speaker is an english professor who received his undergraduate degree in geology. ) 
"The management ZeveZs of gove:r>nment and business ha:ve a c:r>ying need for broadZy-trained scientists who can function effectively· in positions that Zink technology to the nonscientific world. The geoZogist is welZ-suited for this by virtue of a bPoad scientific training and, given additional breadth and interest, can participate Ve:r>y effectively in these problem­oriented management positions. Geology at the undergraduate level can be an e~~:cellent preparation as a Ziberal arts and liberal science background.••• 
Geology students must develop an awareness to create the need for their view­point and background in environmental matters. They will freq~ently ha:ve to displace nonscientists who are there before them. The political furor over the environment has largely died away since Earth Day but the problems remain. The burden is now to make people realize that, political furor or no, our use of the environment dictates not only the quality of man's life but the length of his civilized existence as well." 
If you are interested and would like further information, come over to the Geology Building some afternoon and we will be glad to talk to you. 
We would also like to call your attention to the following excerpt from Time, 2/15/71. 
New England and the mid-AtlanticJobs for. Tomorrow states. 
G
Among the most promising occupa­OVERNMENT and private studies of agricultural workers will decline tions to aim for: predict that white-collar jobs will 21%, leaving only 2.7% of the labor occupy more than half the U.S. labor force on the farm. Computer programmer Optometrist force by 1980, compared with just over The most rapid gains. are anticipated Craftsman Physician a third in 1950 and 43% in 1960. in state and local government jobs (up Dentist Psychologist Am<>tg the 15 million new jobs ex­52%), service industries (up 40% ), and Dietitian Repairman pecte.'\ to become available in the pres­construction (up 35%). Job openings Financial expert Salesman ent decade, about a third will call for should increase at the fastest rate in ~ Social scientist professional or technical skills. Because the Pacific and Mountain states, while ~echnician Systems analyst of increasing mechanization, the number growth will be comparatively slow in Oceanographer 
TIME, FEBRUARY 15, 1971 
both men and women are The plan proposes increasedengaged in the free inquiry and security measures at Flanner,that a certain large part of the calling for the locking of all Notre Dame education takes doors but the main door whichplace within the hall, we must would be manned by residentsadmit that co-educational resi­of the hall. Except for certaindences arc the logical outcome." 
commun areas of the hall, visita­Because of Flanner's separate tion between the men's andwings and extensive study and women's sections would be regu­lounge facilities, it is well suited, lated by the hall members. Theaccording to the report, for an area at Regina now open only to ex per imcnt in co-education. 

women would be open to allEqual members of men and residents. Female Resident Assis­women would live on each floor. 

tants would have to be hire forEach of Saint Mary's returning Flanner, and male R.A.'s forclasses would be given 88 spaces Regina. The study also found to fill, and returning Flanner that Saint Mary's students gener­residents would live either in ally do not want maid service,Flanner or Regina North, as and it proposes all maid servicedetermined by lottery, but in­he stopped in Flanner when it coming freshmen would be becomes co-ed. 

' 
Live Entert2in ment t 
Wed. to Sat. Dancing 
t 

' 7:Jtf ' 

t Mixlltlo t 
' 

"THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST" 
t 

525 North Hill Street SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619 ,­
' 
t
:;<-1,-' L­

A !tended Parking 
., I 

' ' 
In the Rear ,,:tJ' <•i\.; t:.E. 
' 

' THURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY NIGHT ' 
' t t t 
IJownstairs starting at 9 pm
t 

Everyone's Wdcome
t t 
Happy Hour 5-!l Daily 
' 

All beverages $.60 during Happy Hour 
t t 
Upst;:;irs Only
t I 
~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~..._.. 
Wednesday, February 17, 1971 

Student Assembly 
Krashna-Lorimer statement 
We see certain problems which pervade this institution affecting undergraduates and graduates alike. Two striking examples are !security and student participation in university policy-making. In Jorder to act more effectively we see the need for greater and closer 
ommunication and co-operation between the undergraduate fSludent body grovernment and the graduate student union. 
Immediately we stress the importance of the participation and pttendance of all students at the students general assembly .which ~egan last evening at 7:00 p.m. at the Stepan Center. We urge all ~tudents to attend! 

Agenda 

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF STlDENTS February 17, 1971 Wednesday 
AGENDA: 

Co-Education Proposals · 
1) Experimental College Proposal. 
2) Comprehensive Co-Education proposal by Student Government. 
3) Specific proposals by individuals· 
a) 
Flanner/Regina Co-Ed proposal. 

or 


b) 
Pangborn/Regina Co-Ed proposal. 


K.C.'s present donation to Sr. Marita's school 
Bob Walton (center) and John Walker (right) present Dr. Paul Rathburn with a check for $400. 
by Ann Therese Darin 
The Knights of Columbus last night presented Dr. Paul Rath­burn, chairman of the Board for Sister M. Marita's Primary Day School, with a $400 donation. 
The check was the proceeds gained from a Shakespeare film festival, sponsored by the Knights and the English depart­ment, and food sales from a 
football  Saturday.  
"It  continues  the  effort  
sprung  from  the  successful  

Shakespeare marathon which raised $3000 last fall," com­mented Dr. Rathburn. 
"This much money ( $400) could buy enough milk for every child in the school for a year," he continued. "Right now, they're drinking water." He commended the Knights for their work. "They were the only ones who were willing to let us use their facilities," he added. 
Profits from the four addi­tional films that the Knghts plan 
The joint ND-SMC freshman senate will meet tonight at 9:00 
p.m. ill the LaFortune amphi­theater. President Rick Hilton requested that all members be in attendance. 
to show including "Taming of the Shrew," "Macbeth," "Henry V", and "Richard III" will also he. given to Sister's primary school (grades)-3). The school features an experimental reading program for 45 inner-city chil­dren from the model cities area. 


Page 3 
Harboring indictment dismissed 
( lfill) -Federal indictments against two men on charges of harboring antiwar priest Daniel Berrigan, S.J., were dismissed yesterday in U.S District Court. 
The dismissal by Judge Ed­ward W. Day came on motions from attorneys for episcopal theologian William Stringfellow and poet Anthony Towne. 
The judge, in an oral ruling from the bench, said the indic­tments were insufficient and failed to make adequate allega­tions under the law. 
Neither man was in court. 
The pair pleaded innocent Dec. 17 to indictments charging them with harboring and con­cealing Berrigan at their home 

on Block Island. The government said Berrigan stayed on the island fr.om Aug 7 to II when he was apprehended by federal agents who posed as birdwatchers. Berrigan, being held with his brother Philip at the federal pri­son in Danbury, Conn., also a priest, was being sought in con­
nection with the destruction. of draft records at Cantonsville Md., in May 1968. ' 
At the time of his arrest, Stringfellow, who is also a New 
York  lawyer,  said  he  heard  
noises  in  bushes outside  his 14  
room  mansion.  Upon  investi­ 

gation, he said he found a man in the bushes with binocular8 
Invites Mooney to debate 
timing of his announcement,
(continued from pg. 1) 

Barkett replied that they had in­
is Flanner or Grace. They see the 

tended to announce two days
"essential problem" as being 

11i'1 er Mooney made his announce­
finding room for the im:oming 

ment. He said, "It was not
freshman. 

planned to conflict with the stu­
In their statement, Barkett 

dent assembly."
and Rodriguez invited Don 
The Candidates concluded by
Mooney and Dan Sherry to go to 

saying, "Our approach is a fresh
the halls together to speak to the 

one, a drastic departure from
students. "During the campaign 

that of past administrations; we
hopefully Don and I will go to 

will focus on practical solutions 
every hall together, and at dif­

to pressing needs. The time has
ferent times Orlando and Dan 

come for student government to
will do the same." 

stop '0~H-it1g' and start 'perf­
When questioned about the 

orming'". 
As a Student Service••• 
who claimed he was a bird­watcher. 
A dozen other agents then jumped out of the bushes. Father Berrigan, 49, came out of the house and was arresteci 

Alumni vote 
A three-way split in the voting for hall president in last night's Alumni Hall elections caused a failure to produce a clear majori­ty winner and will thus necessi­tate a runoff election between the two top vote-getters. Sopho­more Mike Hansen tallied 88 votes to lead the balloting but will have to run again against Sophomore Ron Pegge who fin­ished second with 61 votes, nar­rowly edging Sophomore John McLane who had 6()-. A date for the runoff has not been set. 
In the only other race, Sopho­more John Horeled defeated Freshman John Samarron for the office of hall Secretary­Treasurer by a vote of 124 to 72. 
~~~~~~~~ 
f To my secret love: f t Who are you? t 
I Spock 
I 

l ~~~· 
* AUTOMOTIVE 
Scooters & Cycles Auto Parts & Service Aviation 
* EMPLOYMENT *FOR RENT 
Apartments Houses Rooms 
*FOR SALE *PERSONAL *PEANUTS PERSONAL 
* REAL ESTATE *RECREATION *SERVICE 
Typing Service , 
*TRANSPORTATION *WANTED 

The Observer will run a classified advertising section. Rates for this service are reduced in an attempt to make this service open to every one. 
Words  1 day  2days  3 days  4days  1 week  
0·10  .50  .75  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11-15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  2.15  
16-20  .70  1.15  1.70  2.40  2.80  
21-25  .85  1.35  2.00  2.90  3.45  
26-30  1.00  1.60  2.'35  3.40  4.10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
36-40  1.35  2.10  3.10  4.25  5.10  
41-45  1.55  2.30  3.30  4.50  5.50  
46-50  1.75  2.50  3.50  4.75  6.00  

This Section will appear Daily. Copy and payments can be sent through the mail or brought by the Observer Office. Payments must be made in advance. All copy must be received by 3:00 prior to date of publication. 
For Information Call 283-7471 between 2:00&5:00 





VISTA 
(Volunteers in Service to America) 
EDUCATICN MAJCR5  ARCHITECT5/CITY F'LANNER5  
LAWYER5  HEALTH 5F'EC'AL15TS  
BUSINESS MAJORS  LIBERAL ART5 MAJORS  

and THOUSANDS OF OTHERS!! 
CAN Y,OU DEAL CAREFULLY WITH THE LIVES OF THE 
VISTA :Jrovides t!lis opportunity 
Representatives on campus today & tomorrow Library Lobby 9:00 to 5:00 
Free Flick: Today & Tomorrow LaFortune Amphitheatre 4:00 
PEOPLE ?? 

Page 4 
THE OBSERVER 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
GlenS. Corso, Editor-in-Chief John E. Knorr, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck , Business Manager 
0 lord, forgive the little jokes I play on Thee And I'II forgive thy great big one on me. 
--Robert Frost 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
APATHY-A GOOD THING? 
Student Body President Dave Krashna's action in calling olf last night's Student Assembly meeting was a good one, and probably the only decision that could have been made under the circumstances. · 
With less than 550 students in attendance, less than 7% of the combined student bodies, no resolutions passed would have had any mark of kgitimacy. If student government had gone to the trustees with the proposals passed by the assembly, they would have been laughed right out of the room. 
Students have been characterized around here by many as being "apathetic". Student government and student media has said time and again that the student should care, because if he does changes can be made that will better his living conditions. 
It is painfully obvious now that students around here really don't care, at least not in the sense that student government and the media use the won.( 
Co-education, a topic that in the past never failed to arouse some sort of excitement on the part of the students has evoked barely a ripple of comment. This, despite numerous proi)OUncements by student government people and volumes of commentary by the media. 
There are endless theories on why the students don't give a damn. Some claim that cynicism abounds among this community of scholars and manifests itself in the attitude of disdain most have towards the actions of poohahs and the media. 
Others claim the students don't get excited because they realize that very little real change will come during the time they are here. Any that does come, the theory runs, will happen with or without the endless machinations of student leaders. 
A third group maintains that students have it so good now that they see little value in pressing for further change. After the first year most students adjust to life around here and as time goes on their thouughts and attention start to shift away from their lives here and now, to what advantages the Notre Dame "name" will bring them after graduation. 
A proposal was made recently, by Sorin Hall Senator Chuck Ryan, that Student Government and Student Union should disband for one year so that " ... we may all have a better perspective with which to work." 
Last night's student assembly seems to indicate that the Notre Dame student body would overhwelmingly back such a move, or probably it too would probably die of apathy. 
If the students refuse to back their Student Government then it will die. The only reason it will expire is because that is what the students wanted. 
This publication has always stood behind anything that the students have truly desired. If they wish student government to disband then we respectfully submit that the administration take its cue from the students and in their leisure time join them in their world of basketball games, beer and television. 
Staff 

I'm R\£N~H~6-Fo~
Managing Editor: Bill Carter 
Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor 

Sl'At>E.t.JT ~oD'f '"PR~ L.D£NT _, A-N [)•••
Features Editor: Dave Lammers 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
Campus Editor: Steve Lazar 
SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney 
News Editor: Ed Ellis 
Advertising M'ger: Bill Bauerle 
Circ. & Sub. M'ger~ rick smith 
lsslle Staff 
Night Editor: Jim Graif 
Layout: Joe Abell . 
Verityper: Bill Clemency 
Photo Shooter: Tim Farrell 
Controller of theN ight: rick smith 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's'Cot:age. Subscriptions m~y 
be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. · 

Gl..AD -HAN I> TcM£ 
Ab-A-1 N 
. -'•" ... '<··"' ...,,.. 
Wednesday, February 17, 1971 


--------------------· 
Bill Carter & John Knorr 

It's time again?! ~ 
h~ 
,,-/---\~ 

----·---------------­
In case you haven't noticed, the student body decrions are about 
to begin. As experienced observers of the student campaign 
race/festival/variety show, it's not hardfor us to predict some of the 
obvious events !;non to take place all over campus as the 
q uartcrbacks (and vice-quarterbacks) of I he Hoopla Bowl complete 
their three years of warm-ups on the sidelines and dive headlong,. 
g;!me plans and reams of cheap ditto palJer in hanci, into th'~ L:ontcst. 
(;uaranleed to result from these four days of c0nfrontation are 
the lifelong student election "issues," such as coeducation, livelier 
social life, (implications all over that Notre Dame can become that 
exciting party school all your friends from high school brag about, if 
so and so gets your support, dl:., etc.) student voi~:e in academic and 
living reg.ulations (i.e. "student power could he overwhelming if only 
it was united behind the issues" in other words "if only student 
power united behind my power") and other exciting and 
emotion-stirring topics of interest that strike close to home for each 
and every student. 

One problem for the newcomer to student elections muy be the 
confusion in determining just where each of the candidates stand on 
these vital issues. The problem is easily solved simply find out 
where one hopeful stands and and assume the other candidates will 
agree completely. This saves the wear and tear of having to read a 
dozen or so position pa'pcrs attempting to see what ambiguous and 
colorful words each candidate will use to make his platform soun<i 
different. 

There are .some· e-asy short-cuts to candidate choosing. For 
instance, if you live in a single, rule out lht• first candidate to 
mention "community" more than 46 times in his position papers (if 
1hey all exceed the limit, write in Fr. Duck, Knute Rockne, El Sid or 
some other colorful name). If you are from the East Coast turn off 
all candidates who speak like they lost their nostrils in an accident at 
age six, and conversely if you arc from the Mid West, rule out all 
candidates who pronounce "car" as a nine-syllable word. If you are a 
Poli Sci major, listen intently to all the candidates, take everything 
they say very seriously, then write in your own name. If you arc a 
serious student, spend campaign week studying, and vote for the 
candidate with the highest grade point average. 
There is almost always an apathy candidate for all the indifferent 
slobs on campus and a moron candidate for all the clowns on 
campus so that these two marginal (though huge) parties are not 
deprived of their franchies. The proper procedure, by the way, for 
rating for your apathy party candidate is fulfilled by writing in the 
quaint (but oft-used campaign slogan), "Who the hell cares?" 
It seems improbably hut it might be hoped that we graduating 
seniors might still get to sec some real candidates appear on the 
horizon to inject some life into the tedium of this yearly show of 
so-what and ho-hurn. !low about something like a real knockdown, 
dmg-<>ut, mud campaign where one candidate leaks a rumor to the 
hotly anticipant representative of the student press that his 
opponent is leading a double life and disappears on weekends to 
Palm Springs where he runs a highly-profitable Nude Ranch and 
sponsors Saturday night orgies for swinging singles'! Or else one 
candidalc digs up eviden~:e ll1at another is n.:aily a JR yt·ar-old, 
powl'f-crazed lJL•.al!h nut who has been livmg on carrot-juice and 
rarsley for 17 years just so he can maintain his youthful image and 
;Jpply to colkge every four years in the hopes of grabbing <~ff every 
politic:d position on each campus that is apathetic enough to cled 
him to ·I•> something. To draw this to the logical extreme, another 
r'lmor might he circulated conceming a candidate that he is really a 
35 year old cleric who resides on the 2nd floor unc.ier the rays of the 
(;olden Dome, and who is a hopeful for the top joh on Campus. This 
of course wo11!d have to he SBP matnial. 
Heller still would he some real issue candidates. Like rna)'hc a 
screaming libertine who promises (and gets''') the ultimate push for 
co-cduc<il ion, co-ed rooms (with bath) co-ed gym class, co-ed 
foot hall and wrestling teams, co-ed term papers, co-ed marks, cc-ccl 
degrees! lle could support the demolition of all buildings on can, pus 
except the dorms and the administration building where all religious 
on campus could live in a commune and hold all classes as 
celebrations of life. 

lie could be oppused by <t gaper of a fascistic reactionary, whn uses termr tactics first to rise to power in the obscure "Students for A Police State On Campus," and then with the aid of his intensely loyal "muscle boys" from that group, takt's off in quest of the student body presidency, holding huge rallies on the main quad, speaking from the steps of the Rock to crowds mesmerized by his powerful rhetoric (even though he has the vocabulary of and ••igilt year old). lie could sponsor a giant rock festival on campus, which would consist of his followers tossing giant rocks at his opponent~ follower~. (and any passing Creeks who wander along the quad, our man having hated (;reeks from d1ildhood when he contracted som~ vague st:xual disease while dancing the bazooki with Shelly l'elapoupolos at a picnic in third gr;tde.) 
Hut this is all idle fantasy, an unhoped-for spasm of relief from the tired pandering and posturing that will inevitably characterize this, our last election, just as it characterit.cd <Jll the others. But if we hope for escape from the dulling blahs of the student election we're only kidding ot1rsclves, the clowns and dullards on the national scene:: will surely put all of these campus heroes to shame. 
Wednesday, February 17, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 5 
Nick Kiernan 
Reforming the mess at SMC 
The imminent arrival of co-education is upon us. Of course, the ·Jews waited 2,000 years for the imminent arrival of Jesus Christ. Hopefully du Lac's savior will not wait so long. The lsrealites had to cross the Red Sea to prove their worthi­ness while Notre Dame need only cross U.S. 31. 
Merger of Notre Dame and St. Mary's is implied in any mention of co-educa­tion. Parks-Mayhew provided a necessary and valua bh: framework for t'1c merger of lhe two administrations. fhe complex nature of the administrations is probably the merger complication least understood by the students. However, student life and hall life were regrettably glanced over by the report. If merger is to he, then the mirage of rules which govern a St. Mary's 
student  must  he  reconciled  with  the  
nebulous  suggestions  made  to  Notre  
Dame stude:Jts. For example:  

Althot,gh many from St. Mary's know 110w to skip tloors in the Grace or F!anner t:levaturs or can understand the"" room numbering system in Morissey, few Domers have seen the second floor hall of Regina much les~; a room. Except for the Sunday afternoon "privilege" of Le Mans 

Notes from Rome 
The penguins are discussing the age of reason. In their time each was runner-up in an age-of-reason beauty contest. The also once were considered to he quite cre­,,tive. Theycreated systems. Today, how­ever, they are floating on the iceberg with t!H~ir flippers fluttering. Today, the Tizi­
anu Liberation Front liberated their 
minds, bodies and souls within sight of 
these 3 birds (incid<::ntally of the sandus 
crux species now threatened with extinc­
ti•m). 
The TLF is not an organiz:~tion, union, fraternity, movement, title, anything. It's just US. There's about 70 of US (not to he confused with U.S.). We are not all the same. There are straights and crookeds. Today we had "una festa." We celebrated ourselves. Not even all of us know that the TLF is what we are, hut we are that as much as we are anything else. That is, it's a convenient something to call what we are. We are what everyone laughs at these days, thinking it to he a myth, a Christian community. 
Today we played hippy-freaks and greasers. This was enough to shock most anyone in lJ.S., but it might be con­sidered scandalous in Roma. The pen­gHins plugged the variables into their system and that's the answer they re­c·eived. 
We aren't proud. Don't give a damn what the Romans think. We know we're just as much fools as anyone else, ask 1-:ra~mus. We reminded ourselves of that today, we Ia ughed <Jl ourselves. 
Last night near Piazza Navona I saw lit­tle lt<Jlian children dressed in costumes for a festival. This afternoon we went to the piazza, freaks and greasers, for a group picture and "una festa." Girls dump..:d in tile fountain and frisbees fly­ing. The ph;tures taken. Did it hurt? Not the nine month homes of St. Mary's students is forbidden territory to the aliens across the road. If one has r~ached the magic age of 2 I, liguor is permitted in the room --but only in a sealed bottle. Catch-22. Parental permission allows upper class women to be anywhere at anytime -if they let the school know where they'll be and until what time they'll be there. Freshman are subjected to the time-honored tradition of hours. Perhaps a period of adjustment to college life is beneficial but at least by the second semester a period of adjustment becomes an opre·:~ive ordeal. 
Refvrm of these rules has been started. Jackie Stone, after an <Jrduous treck through the labryninth of administration, finally convinced those on high that four hours of Notre Dame meii in St. Mary's in dealing with hall life, even closed lipped. For example, they gave no expla­nation in refusing the off-campus housing propvsal for juniors. To avoid a confron­tativn with the hoard of Trustees, Jackie 
;pproached the student policy com­mittee which saw four hours as reason­able. 
These changes will come slowly -as 
four hour Sunday visitation proves.
Nevertheless, the administration backs 
the students. Although they will present 
endless arguments against a proposal, if it is rational and if the proposee knows what she is talking about, the ~ dministra­
1 

lion will eventually accede. In Jackies' opinion more organized effort is needed.. especially on the hall level. Since St. Mary's is a small school a girl would be more mclined to be inclined to be 
involved with student government than 
with hall government. 
Some of St. Mary's would of course oppose parietals fearing the incon­venience of uncontrolled males with free­dom of their halls. (translate: legalilrd panty raids) This opposition is m•lre pronounced in the upper classes and should be included in any discussion of 
visitation reform. But male visitati<'il priveledges, the paradoxical liquor rules, 
the sign out irrationalities and the mili­tancy of the freshman class against hours must he accounted for if St. Mary's is to have parity with Notre Dame, not only on the administrative and faculty levels but on the student level as well. 
A St. Mary's senior said, "Student life here IS a real mess but it's all I've ever known." 
rooms would not destroy the moral fibre 
of the school, at least on Sunday after­l.ambe Vendido Chavis 
noon. Men are now permitted to visit Le Mans between I p.m. and 5 p.m. on that H0 W 
to be a good Mexican
day. Jackie feels those in direct authority over the students (the nuns) are not ti-Je primary opposition to reform. Rather, the Board of Trustees presents the main obstacle. They are extremely conservative 
3 penguins have been observed from a collegiate sub per1scope 
bad. The Romans played frisbee with us, laughed with us. They are a live people, not puritans. Sure, some stared. 
But none·of us did. We're not a herd, everyone following the crowd. We're all different but not afraid of each other. ('a use you see, the TLF is not political, you do not have opponents to oppress or pawns to impress. 
So it was a celebration and we yelled our favorite cry, 
SFMPRE DRlTTO which if you translate it, means "right­on," hut don't translate it too literally, it was coined hv the TLF. 
And for a couple thousand years they've been saying what I heard an American tourist repeat the other day, "When in Rome do as the Romans do." 
But what if the Romans are a little messed-up. When in Rome, do as the TLF d::>es. 
So the penguins can't figure out a 
system for us. They are threatening us 
with extinction. Silly birds. See, they 
won't admit that they are fools. Its their 
race that's dying. Ours is jus! coming 
ALIVE. 
.1 christian 

(The j(J!lowing is a satire) 
l .) Whenever an ,.nglo addresses you, 
be sure to say Sir or Madam. 
2.) Remember: You are born stupid so 
don't fight it. ' , ' 
3.) Don't forget that since the Anglos 
invented democracy and since the U.S. is 
a democracy, they know how it operates 
better than you do so unles.-; you are 
absolutely sure what's best for you vote 
for who!lL your Anglo friend or neighbor 
(or their duly authorized ·chicano 
representative in your area) suggests; if 
you are in the Barrio where no Anglos or 
their Spanish representatives are readily 
available for guidance, consult your local 
Anglo-run newspaper or your local 
hanker or finance company employee. 
4.) Stop speaking Spanish, so that you 
won't infect your children with it. 
5.) Send your children to school, parti­
cularly the public school system. Unless 
you do this, they may not learn proper 
respect for Anglos and the American Way 
of Life. This learning is very important if 
your child can ever hope to become a 
good janitor, garbage collector or 
frontline soldier in Vietnam. 
6.) Teach your kids to respect other 
peoples' property, since they will never 
have very much of it. As you know, one 
of the greatest contributions of Anglo 
culture to us all is the love of money and the encouraging of competition, parti­cularly among the young. The old Mexican ideas of communal use and ow1tership of property and learning to respect one another simply have no place in I i·,c 'race-age, modern, technological wurld with so many advanced ideas and invel.tions. 
7.J lf you have a grievance, don't demonstrate, go to court and you'll get justice. 
8.) Be sure to rememher to read your daily newspapers. This way you keep up with what's happening and avoid coming into contact with left wing, communistic and subversive propaganda, in particular literature that stirs up race hatreds by falsely challenging the superiority of the Anglo and the Anglo society. 
One Caution: If you have anything to lro with (cross yourself) Rodolfo "Corky" Gonzalez of the Crusade for Justice, Cesar Chavez of the Grape and Lettuce Boycott, Mario Compean of MAYO, Chicano Liberation; you will be forever doomed, unless, by the Grace of God, you are forgiven. Pretty much the same is true for. the Alianza, MAY A, MAPA, MfTHA, and the Brown Berets. !f one of these poisonous contacts should occ.ur, go immediately to your local policeman and FBI Agent-it is just possible that yon can be saved. 



SMC features Andre Watts in Thursday piano concert 
Andre Watts, who will give a performance at O'Laughlin Thursday 
Modern impressionistreceives award 
TOPEKA, Kan. (UP!) D. James Orang, the winner of a recent painting contest, has Iurned out to be none other than "Djakarta Jim," an orangutan at the Topeka Zoo. 
"Jim" won first place in the painting contest at the Conference of the Kansas Recreation and Park Associati,Jn in II utchinson. The other contestants were children. 
Gary narke, director of the lOll, said Monday the judges didn't know D. James Orang was an ape until after he was selected the best for his creations, "Trains from Tokyo" and "Tornado." 
"He's a modern im presstontsl, hut his work defies description," Clarke said. "You might call him primitive." 
Jim is working for more than artistic expression. He's going to pay for his mate, Daisy, who was recently purchased from the Dallas Zoo. 
Clarkl' plans to sell Jim's work to the public to pay for Daisy. About half of the $5,000 for the animal has been raised. Daisy is already at the Topeka Zoo. 
('Iarke says Jim paints with his feet and hands, and occasionally even gets his hig lips in the work. He usually tastes the paint before using it. 
Internationally acclaimed Black pianist Andre Watts will appear at Saint Mary's College, February 18 at 8:00 p.m. in O'l.aughlin Auditorium. The concert marks the third event in the College's Performing Arts Series, which seeks to bring to the campus major artists and cultural productions. 
Andre Watts, 24, first gained the pub­lic's attention eight years ago when he was chosen by Leonard Bernstein as a last minute substitution for pianist Glenn Gould for a performance with the New York Philharmonic. Watts' interpretation of the Liszt E-tlat Concerto won him critical raves. 
Since that debut he has performed around the world in concert with such major symphonies as the London Symphony, the Orchestre National of Paris, the Berlin Philharmonic and the Boston Symphony. In 1967 he made a tour of Europe and Asia with Zubin Mehta and the Los Angeles Philharmonic and in \969 was chosen for a U.S. State Department tour of the Far East. llis performance of Brahms' B-flat Concerto in his second appearance with Bernstein and the New York Philharmonic in 1968 was another critical success. 
Born in Nurnberg, Germany, the son of an American G I father and a Hungar­ian mother, Andre Watts bt:gan his piano studies under his mother's tutelage. He studird at the Musical Academy of Phila­delphia and graduatt:d from Lincoln Pre­paratory School. He is presently studying under Leon Fleisher and working towards his bachelor of music degree at the Peabody Conservatory of Music in Balti­more. 
In addition to his concerts, Watts has made three recordings: his two perform­ailces with the New York Philharmonic and a third, in which he plays Liszt, Haydn, Chopin and Debussy. 
Tickets for the Andre Watts concert on Febru:uy I 8 are $3.00 for adults and $2.00 for students and may be purchased or reserved through the Saint Mary's Programming Office, 284-4 I76. 


Page 6 
Wednesday, February 17, 1971 
.. 


(The following is an open letter it might be more practical to reason for selecting this alterna­others are gaining: sent to Rev. Theodore M. Hes­these tive as optimal is its political I) The disbanding of the lake
weigh factors in conjunc­burgh by Steve 0 'Brien)-ed. tion with an economic systems feasibility for enactment. We did committee so vital in weekday Dear Fr. Hesburgh: analysis. not need consultants to tell us parties(i.e. "Let's throw 'Swivel' 
In January of I 970 a group of in the Lake").
Such a study was what were­this. 
"Notre Dame students, John Zim­In fad this study was to pro­2) The loss of ones friends so
quested of the Board. They were merman, Tim Connor and my­very receptive to our entire re­vide sufficient facts and data to vital in weekend deviating. self, representing Student Go­3) The loss of our image of
port, and agreed that a thorough give political leverage to Notre 
vernment, presented a report to being horny, so vital in maintain­
·economic study might save va­Dame in its bargaining with St. the Board of Trustees on the ing the Notre Dame tradition.
luable resources and prevent Mary's. Either the students and multiple advantages and disad­4) The lo8s of our maid,
many costly and painful errors. the rest of the academic commu­
vantages of coeducation for the Helen, so vital in our need for a
The Park-Mayhew Report is nities wt•re sold out, or the 
Mary's mom.
Notre Dame--St. com­now available, and I cannot help Park-Mayhew Report comes up
munity. We found the evidence 5) The loss of our proximity
but wonder whatever happened with a score of zero for failure 
overwhelmingly in favor of a full to classes, so vital in our excuse
to the report the students were to follow the assignment. 
merger. However, we recognized for cutting them.
promised. This report attempts The entire first half of there­
a certain degree of superficiality port a restatement last 6) The loss of ones most vital
to offer the most politically feas­is of 
in our study, and therefore, ad­need, a typical male bathroom.
ible arrangement for the future. year's Student Government re­
we gain'!
mitted the need for a compre­No where is there mention of port. Indeed, it is a rather infer­But of course what do 
hensive economic feasibility stu­I) Little cubicles in Regina to
the dangers of future bankrupt­ior job at that. For every nega­
dy of the several alternatives for deviate alone. 
cy for both institutions, a consi­tive factor mentioned in the new cooperation and coordination 2) Bed check, so vital to good
deration of great importance to report regarding increased coop­
between the two institutions. A behavior.
future planning. The report sug­eration, we able to show that 
complete systems analysis might 3) Hours ('?) so vital toward
gests that their proposed alterna­this is really a minority opinion,also incorporate the social and getting one's r't!st.
tives will benefit both institu­not the majority. Park-Mayhewacademic benefits to be derived. 4) I 500 girls, so vital that
tions financially, academically omitted this important detail. These might be more difficult to they won't be allowed in
and socially. There can be little Steve O'Brien our measure, tho\!lili, Consf!quently, rooms.
doubt about this, but the only Ann Arbor, Michigan 
~-----,~~~~~--~wn~ 
5) A one mile bus trip (and,
Advantag;cs? 

or walk) so vital in keeping in Fditor: shape. What does Third Floor ,r 
It has been brought to the propose? attention of The Third Floor I) A lake outside Regina. Stanford Deviates that there is 2) A subway system. an underlying movement in the 3) A change in plans--to Zahm surrounding halls to foster their or Breen-Phi~lips. 
ideals of supply and demand. It 4) Moving Notre Dame to is not that we disfavor co-educa-Saint Mary's and Saint Mary's to 
A play by Lillian Hellman 
WASHINGTON HALL 

tion, it is just that there are <fllywhere it will be taken.' 
Feb. 19,20,25,26,27 

more cons than pros. If all goes to naught and weTickets 1.50 
at8:30 PM & 

Being as horny as the next still have our 287 beds, Third Information 284-4176 
floor, third floor doesn't look Floor Deviates of Stanford pro-forward to losing more than the pose that out of the goodness of
*******************************************•• :>ur he~rts, we w~l _our 
Feb., 21 at 2:30PM 

share

I ATT E NTIo·N I #~~~rsd w:~~~:e~:a6n~~;~mD:v~::::.·
# Howard Hall Lectures 
• l"d"
I 
· * ' 1tor:* * r would like to reply to the
The Observer needs people 
*article written by Miss Pamela 
* Voss in the February I 0 issue. ~Or l•ts 1971 n Staff. .*The Howard Hall Lecture
1 

~ • • * S e rnios is a bona fide
I
* *symposium created to bring to * *the residents of our fine hall 
* l'o experience necessar" in re­
*speakers, qualified their 
* J ~ spective fields, either by degree * *or by experience, in order to in­* *form and enlighten them in 
I Positions range lrom news writing to production.,* fie~! 0ts;~~~~i~sgi~~;e:~~ execu­
* 
tive committee) feel that Miss 

* 
Voss' spoof was uncalled for and 

* 
FOR THOSE INTERESTED we take that she wrote it not 

* 
· realizing the excellent quality of * our program. We would like to 


* 51.-_. ....find, to
*invite her this Sunday's lee­
* 
I"IUW"& 1ft a * tures which will commem:e at I 0 * *p.m. in front of 320 Howard, 

* 
Th d F b 18 *featuring Mr. Raphael Scotto, 


* Urs e
ayt *Prefect Emeriturs, on "What is a# *Domer" and John (;angl giving * • *an analysis of pronography. If 
* 6·•30 -Fiesta lounge ** :lfter 1tl.ending Mis~ Voss still
has a derogatory opm10n of the
* Lecture Seri1~s or of our previous speaker, Mr. Kenneth Conant
I * 
* l a Fortune Student Center llll,thenl'msurewecouldhave
.*******************************************~
_ · speak1t arrangedherself.. for Miss Voss to 




TIME IS RUNNING OUT. • 
• 

jar application to the 
Air Force ROTC 2-year program. 
ifyou nre -interested in tlying -in good academic s:anding -physically qualified 
then contact the 


Department of Aerospace Studies ROTC Bldg. 283-6635 Buf hurry! Time Is running out. 
Furthermore, I would like to amend Tuesday's article on Mr. Conant's lecture to thank those who made it possible, specifical­ly, Dr. William Surver of the N D biology dept., publicity: Mr. Thomas Lozano, manager; Mr. Clifford Zmick, business; Mr. Joseph Leahy and Mr. Jefferson Hein, special effects and casting; 
M.r Arturo Jones, asst. manager; and Mr. Willis Elliot, wardrobe. I would also like to extend special thanks to Mr. Aloysious Krenit­sky of the Notre Dame Law School and his colleague F. Lee Scotto for their excellent legal counsel. 
Sincerely yours, 
J.J. Deschauer 
Slanderous Accusation 
Editor: 
I would like to respond to 
your editorial against the Pro­
vost of this University, Father 
James Burtchaell, CSC. I am 
aware that an editorial column is 
the place for opinions, and often 
outspoken ones, having written 
for student publications since I 
was in high school. I was not 
aware that an editorial column 
was the place for slanderous ac­
cusations and q notations taken 
out of context. 
In a Christian University, it 
would seem to me, there should 
be some respect for its members. 
You spoke of Father Burtchaell 
not "explaining the situation," 
whereas the column in last 
Thursday's Observer made no at­
tempt to make anything dear to 
a reader not in possession of th;! 
alleged "obnoxious" accusa­
tions. The purpose of criticism is 
generally thought to be 
constructive; I could find no in­
1imalion of constructive sug­
gestions in that column. 
The column, as well as the ac­companying cartoon, do nothing b•1t m:Jke accusations which are based upon :1 letter of which the reader is ignorant. It reflects upon the Observer poorly, and if we can expect nothing better from the campus' daily publica­tion, perhaps wt:. should look elsewhere. 
Sincerely, 
Mary Ellen Stoltz 
Sexist Advertising 
l~ditor: 
In attempting to explain the 
blunder in the not-too-distant 
past concerning the publishing 
of the ad for abortions, it was 
mentioned that all ads placed in 
The Observor are carefully 
screened, and that for that parti­
cular ad the screeners were 
caught lax in their task in allow­
ing its printing. 
I am thrilled to see that your committee is on the job; certain­ly it must have taken hours of discussions before the final OK was given to print the recent ad­vertisement for the Evelyn Wood speed-reading course. There must be hundreds of valid asso­ciations which were meant to be conveyed by the picture accom­panying the ad, the relating to the advantages of speed-reading; unfortunately, I could discern only one of them: in the copy it mentioned that extra social acti­vites were open to a speed-reader which one with less reading abili­ty was missing. Of course, the 
lovely mini-skirted lady re­clining on the wall is one of these "extra social activities." 
fn the name of human dignity I resent such blatantly sexist a-dvertising in a publication which has the prerogative of se­lectivity in such matters. 
Sincerely, 
David Tokarz 

~---------------­
Wednesday, February 17, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 7 


Irish thine/ads set world record • relay 
by Vic Dorr 
The world indoor mark was 

Observer Sportswriter set in the shuttle hurdle relay 
Seventeen members of Coach event, when the team of Mike Alex Wilson's indoor track team Dimick, Tom McMannon, Dave participated in the annual Michi­Stickler, and Joe Utz covered gan State Relays Saturday, and the 240 yard distance in a torrid the Irish runners returned to time of 28.4. Their performance South Bend with several high toppled the old record, which finishes and one world's record was set last year by Michigan to show for their efforts. State, by one tenth of a second. 
Fencers solit pair 
The "fabled fencers" win -Glenn Kalin and Mike Cornwall streak for this season was ended did not make the trip due to ill­
at nine by a rugged University of ness. Notre Dame started two 
Detroit Titan squad last Satur­frost in their stead and one of 
day afternoon by a close 15-12 them, Jim Mullenix came 
count. ND had beaten the Uni­through with a promising per­
versity of Chicago earlier by a formance. 
wide margin of 24-3. Besides beating NO's foils­
In the Chicago match it was men, the Titans also edged the 
all Notre Dame as each sword sabre squad 54. The epeeists 
division dominated the Chitown were the only ones to take a de­
swordsmen. In epee, co-captain cision from the Motown squad. 
J.T. Lyons looked sharp in ND won those bouts 6-3. 
leading his mates to a 7-2 vic­Coach Mike DeCicco was not tory. Epeeist co-captain Rick actually pleased with the week­"Rip" Deladrier was outstanding end's results. (Then again he in the epee's 8-1 verdict. Ron rarely is pleased when Notre Sollitto was a pleasant surprise Dame losses a match). He ·was in the sabre division. He was one upset with the performance of of many great performers in the the. foilsmen though Kalin
even heavy sword's 9-0 shutout. and Cornwall were not in the The Chicago win made IJ.ine in I ineup. The sabre performance a row for the Irish since their c;gainst Detroit was also a bit of east coast trip then they fell to 
a letdown. 

rugged Detroit and the country's The 1-1 weekend slate now leading foilsman, Ty Simmons. puts the Irish record at 11-3. Simmons led his foil teammates The next match is this Friday 
to a convincing 7-2 win over ND evening at 7:00p.m. in the Con­byt l.yons gave Simmons all he vo's Auxiliary gym versus Case could handle before Simmons Western Reserve. Saturday after­took the dose verdict. It might ~won the Irish host Michigan be noted that two Irish starters, State and Ohio State. 
Gustafson, Ciaccio set 
by Terry Shields 'hey split a pair of matches with Observer Sports Editor Findlay College and Cincinnati 
The Notre Dame wrestling University. The Irish took the team couldn't make much pro­measure of Findlay by a convin­gress on its season record this cing 28-12 spread. The Bearcats nast weekend but records of of Cincy proved a little tougher other sorts are falling by the competition and they oupointed 
wayside. the Irish 21-13. The Irish journeyed into Ohio In the Findlay match Tom Jut Friday and Saturday and Ciacdo was beaten in the 118 

huter, who placed second. The"It's won't be recognized as he took the triple jump with a 

quality of the competition­

an official world's record," said leap of 48-Yz. McMannon also Michigan State, Missouri, andWilson, "because the United placed second in the broad jump the Air Force were the otherStates is the only country to with a distance of 23-3, and Elio 
major contestants-~tifled the re­

keep indoor ;·ecords. But still, Polselli's toss of 54-8Y2 was good maining Irish entrants, but oneours is the best time ever run in enough to rate a fourth place in can hardly be upset with thethis event. We beat Michigan the shot put. 
overall results of the meet. Al­State's old record, and it was But the evening's competition though the Relays do notonly set last year. Ours may also held disappointment for the feature a team winner, the Notrestand for longer than that, or it Irish. Rick Wohlh4ter, NO's ace Dame squad obviously fared may fall in two weeks. You middle distance man, was defeat­very well against the toughestnever can tell." Despite his cau­ed in the 600 yard run. Wohl­· competition that it has facedtious tone, though, it was ttuter is the NCAA champion in this year. 

obvious that the Irish coach was lhis event, and he usm:lly finish­The Irish track team is on thevery pleased with the perfor­es no worse than first in it. 
road again this weekend, as itmance. Michigan State's Jim Casselman, travels to Ypsilanti, Michigan for Mike McMannon was the only though, turned in a very fast the Central Collegiate Con­other winner for Notre Dame, as time of I :08.8 to upset Wohl­ference Meet. 

Tankers lose on error 
The Irish returned from with a I -2 in the 50 Free (G. which was maintained by the Olean, N.Y. after a very exciting Krathaus & J. Cooney). The I.M. other three members of the relay Saturday afternoon of competi­went to the home team but team -M Wilcox, J. O'Connor, tion. It was an afternoon sche­N D'.'s E. Graham got in between J. Sherk -with their final time a duled as a meet between St. their contestants. The I meter 3:25.0 compared to a 3:25.7 by 
Bonaventure vs Niagara; and dive went to St. Bonaventure 1 ­St. B. The Irish were so excited 
Notre Dame vs Niagara; and 2, with N.D.'s )Strack & Gra­about wmning the event and the Notre Dame vs St. Bonaventure, ham) placing 2 -3 in the Butter­
meet that no one paid any atten­with the major emphasis on the fly. 
tion to Niagara's team that was Iatter since all signs indicated a The 100 Free found N D.'s G. 
still swimming (finishing 3:38.8)dose meet. Actually this was a Krathaus being out-touched by However before they finished re-match of the meet of a year .I sec. with J. O'Connor finish­
one other member of the Irish ago at Notre Dame when the ing 3rd. A similar finish was ex­foursome found himself in the Irish won in the last event. perienced in the backstroke with water. This cause a controversyNotre Dame won the first J. Cleaver & J. Balthrop finishing which was not untangled until event with a come from behind 2 -500 Free
-3. The next event 15 min. after the completion of effort (Medley Relay), which went to the Irish 1 -2 with (J. the meet with the final decision 
really set the tone of the meet. Sherk & M. Kilpatrick). In the finding the Irish being disquali­
They continued with a 1 -2 in breaststroke Bob Ferraris posted fied and St. Bonaventure the I,000 freestyle (J. Sherk & his best time of the year winning the meet 59-54. 
M. Kilpatrick). St. Bonaventure (2:28.7) in winning this event. With the big battle between countered with a 1 -2 in the 200 The 3 meter dive saw St. B. clos­N.D. and St. B., Niagara got hit Free; which the Irish replied to ing the gap with a 1 -2 effort, hard by the Irish 85 -19, and by 
thus making the score 54-52 in St. B. 73-31. favor of N.D. The Irish now 5 -5 meet a 
In-the final event, which is tough Purdue team on Sat. Feb. 
scored 7 and 0, M. Kilpatrick led 20 at 2 p.m. at the Rockne pound class and this was about off the got the Irish a slight lead Memorial Pool. the biggest surprise of the even­ing. Ciaccio's partners fairecl a little better with Steve Moy!Jn 

new marks 

Fight on closed circuit 
and Chris Paige registering for­

The Muhammad Ali-Joe
feit victories in 126 and 134 di­(through college age) and $10 
Frazier world heavyweight title
visions respectively. for the general public. 
be carried closed
Bob Habiz (150), Rob Ben­fight will on For mail orders send payment
circuit television in South Bend.
nett (1 S 8) and Phil (~ ustafson for tickets with a self-addressed 
The fight, scheduled for March 8 
(HW) all won their matches by stamped envelope to: 
at 9 p.m., will be shown at the
pins. It took Habig 3:30 to win, Morris Auditorium 
Morris Auditorium.

Bennett needed 3:06 but Gitstaf­211 North Michigan
Tickets for this event may be
son didn't waste any time. He South Bend, Indiana 46601.
purchased at the Morris Audito­
had his man's shoulders on the 

rium box office from 9 a.m. to 5
mat in a mere 0:57. 



,------------.. 

p.m. Monday through Friday
In the Saturday match with I Sailing I
(prior to February 22 only mail
Cincinnati captain Ciaccio got orders will be accepted). Tickets I I

back on the winning side by 1 There will be an open I
will also be available on campus
dominating his opponent, Larry at the Union 1meeting for all St. Mary's girls I
Student ticket
Frank, 9-0 at 118. Not many of 1interested in joining the Sail: 1
office from 11:00-12: 00 and
Ciaccio's mates did as well, how­1~ng Club this evening at 7:00 1
4:00-5:00 p.m. daily.

ever. I m room 232 Moreau Hall. If 1
Ticket prices for viewing "the
Only two other Irishmen championship of the whole I you're interested please plan 1 could manage victories in the to attend. 1
world" are $6 for students 
days proceedings. Kirk Bottjer 1------------· won by fall over Vince Ronaldi at 2:47 in the 167 lb. division. 
Just for the Record 
Then the mighty Gustafson took 
by Mike Pavlin

his opponent Frank Sberna in a tough 5:36 to gain his lith vic­After having done this column for several weeks, I finally realized lory of the season without a de­that the ND Record Book contains an error. The most points scored ft>al. No one for ND was pinned. in a season is 948 and the book further claims that the record for 
Ciaccio set a new career win scoring average is 37 .2. But even a History major like myself can tell rt'cllrd over the weekend. His that 26 into 948 (games played into points scored) equals 36.5 and victories now number 38 and not 37.2. this is the most by any Notre Collis Jones has moved into 9th place on the all-time scoring list, Dame wrestler ever. Tom's re­with 1157 points. cord is in grave danger of being broken before too many more INDIVIDUAL --SEASON seasons, however, because his big 1.) (New Record) Most Points by a Senior-Austin Carr 745 buddy Phil Gustafson has a 2.) Points Scored --943.) Scoring Average--36.5, Carr 37.2 streak of 32 career wins without 4.) Field Goal Attempts-681, Carr 567 a defeat. Ciaccio is a senior but 5.) Field Goals Made-376, Carr 298 the mammoth Gustafson is only 6.) Free Throw Attempts-264, Carr 185 
a junior and he should be able to stow away a few more wins be­

lNDlVIDUAL--~-CAREER 
fore leaving the du Lac campus. 1.) (New Record) Points Scored--Carr 2204 
The grapplers record now 2.) (New Record) Scoring Average --Carr 33.9 stands at 6-7-1 on the year and . ''1\Jew Record) Field (;oal Attempts--Carr 1658 they will be in action again this 4.) (New Record) Field Goals Made --885 evening against Western Michi­5.) Field Goal%-.485, Carr .534 gan. The Irish commence their 6.) Free Throw Attempts (3 years)-543, Carr 534 match at 7:30 in the Convo­7.) Free Throw%--.804, Carr .813 cation Center's Auxiliary Gym. 8.) Games Appeared In--85, Collis Jones 76 
r 
-------------------------------------------------~-ll,--~___()1l£_~---~----------------------------------~W~e~d~ne~sd~a~y~,F~e~b~ru~ar~y_1~7~·~19~7~1 
Barber president charged for clipping pe.nsions 
(UPI)-A federal gnpd jury yesterday indicted the president of the international barbers union and two others on kick­back charges in connection with loans from the union's pension fund. 
Attorney General John N. Mitchell announced the indict­ment was returned in U.S. Dis­trict Court in Chicago against Joseph Depaola of Indianapolis, president of the International Journeymen Barbers, Hair dress­ers and Cosmetologists Union, and chairman of its pension fund. 
Also indicted were Thomas A. Shaheen Jr., 38, an investment consultant to the union who for­merly lived in Chevy Chase, Md., and now resides in London, Eng­land, and Max Block Jr., des­cribed simply as a New York at­torney. 
The Columbia Financial Corp. of Chevy Chase, which is owned and controlled by Shaheen and Block, also was indicted. 
Named as a co-conspirator-but not indicted-was the Winthrop Lawren~:e Corp. of Chevy Chase. Fifty per cent of the corporation is owned by Columbia Fin:rnc:,d 



NEWS MEETING 
THURSDAY FEB. 18 
6:30 P.M. 
ROOM 20 LAFORTUNE 
SBP campaign plans to be discussr:d 




EVERYBODY BE THERE 
SALE SPORTCOATS 
SUITS 


SUBURBAN COATS 
& JACKETS 
at savings of 



1/3 /112)1/4 
NEW 

BRUSH DENIM HIPHUGGER JEANS 
Button Front, in red, blue, brown-


i..~Nit·THIRD IN JUNE 
ONE-THIRD IN JULY 
ONE-THIRD IN AUGUST 
No carrviflf! char.ee~ nrldt!d. 

and tht: other half is owned by Lamont Dupont Copeland Jr., heir to the E.l. Dupont Nemours family fortune. 
Blm:k was listed as an officer in both the Winthrop Lawren~:e Corp. and Columbia Financial. 

Both Winthrop Lawreno.:, :• holding company established in the 1960's, and Copeland have filed in bankruptcy courts for re-organization. 
According to lhe indictment. Shaheen, Block, DePaola and Columbia l:inancial coaspired with Winthrop Lawrence to get fees, kickbacks, commissions and other things of value from Millerton Lake Development Corp,. a California company, to give to Shaheen in order to in­fluen~:e his decisions regarding the pension fund. 
In a second count, Shaheen, Block and Col urn bia Fin a n~:ial were charged with conspiring to 
SMC candidates formulate plans 
(continued from pg. 1) 
knowledge of the problems and rules which have to be elimina­ted or changed. 
Laura Bayer is presently hall president of Regina Hall which also places her in the executive cabinet and on the Student Af­fairs Committee. Last year she was elected to the hall council. 
The platform of the .:andi­dates cannot be rekased until af­ter midnight Thursday, so the girls were not able to make known any of their specific plans at this time. 

pay fees and commissions to-De­Paola, chairman of the barbers union pension fund, in order to influen~:e his dedsions about I he fund. 
DePaola was a~:~:used in 14 wunts with soliciting •md re­ceiving a total of $29,000 in fees, kickbacks and ~:om missions from Shaheen, Block and Co­lumbia Financial in order to in­nuence his decisions. 
In 14 other counts, Shaheen, BI(H:k and Col urn bia Finanl:ial 

Krashna: 1000 needed to meet 
(continued from PK. 1) 
students who do not realize that a strong student support of the Assembly would wnsiderahly in11 uence th<' Administr:Jtion und Joint Boards of Trustees on the issues presented. 
·He said th~tt co-edu~::Jtion is inevitable but the type the stu­dents want and the type they may end up with will he two different things if the students do not show their concern by participating in the Assembly tonight. 
The major proposals of the eight brought before the Assem­bly include the firing of basket­ball cou~:h Johnny Dee, a pro­posal on faculty tenure, minority recruitment, students' rights in the dorm, and a call for a new honor ~:ode. 
The Assembly will meet tonight at 7:00 PM in Stepan Center to discuss the above pro­posals if enough students can attend. 

Boiler problem causes blackout 
by Bill English of the Nolre Dame campus with­A hailer problem in the main out electricity last Friday night. 
power plant left three sections A~:wrding lo William (Ianser, plant engineer, the trouble was due to a .:oal bunker being clog­ged. This resulted from the se­vere weather last week, which




SALE 

left a coaI ing of ice on the w:JI. The load being carried by the 
other boilers had to he reduced, since this fuel feed was not 
POPULAR 
w~:re charged with giVIng $29,000 to DePaola to influen~:e his decisions. 
In addition, Shaheen was ac­cused of soliciting and receiving commissions and fees from Mil­lerton Lake in the amount of $112,597, negotiable notes with a face value of $25,000, I 00 anes of land, and two consul­tant agreements which would pay him $4,000 per month for 36 months. 
DePaola was charged with I 3 .:ounts of soliciting and receiving a kickback, Shaheen and Block were charged with 13 counts each of giving a kickback, Sha­heen was ~:harged with five counts of solidting and receiving kickbacks, while Shaheen and Block were charged with two conspiracy counts and DePaola with one. 
NYU Tickets 
Thr organizers of the NYU ticket exrhange prob'fam said yesterJay that they had reL'eived "excellent cooperation" from i\thletic and Convo~:ation Center Ticket n1an:Jger Don Bouffard, and that there had been some response already to their n!c; uests for ti~:kets. There is still I he need for more tickets and drivers. 
Accurding to a spokesman for the group, plans were going well, hut there was a shortage of dri­vers. The drivers are needed to take the ~:hildren involved in the Neighborhood Study llelp Pro­gram to the Convo and return them to their homes after the game. Twenty l:ars are needed and 80 student tickets. 
Students who may encounter a mem hl'r of the program in their assigned seats ar<> asked to acwmodate them if at all possi­ble. 
The program for the NYU game ncxl week is a pilot project only, and if it is suc~:essful, fur­ther efforts along these lines will be made next year. 
Students wishing to ht'lp are asked to .:nntact Hru~:e Bower, in X07 Flanner ( 14X8), or Chan­ning Brackey, 62X Flanner (I 145). -
Tickds may be turned in at the Convo ti~:ket office anytime between ')a.m. and 5 p.m., and may be pil:ked up the day after the game. 
PROOF OF AGE 
IS 
Al'NAYS 
IllbE 

Pleasure 
••=llines 
THEY COULD DO ANYTHING PEOPLE COULD, ONLY LONGER AND BETTER 


lONG SLEEVE DRESS SHIRTS 
Now at savings of exactly 




IIZ[J NEW 

T'le Oingo 3oots are in 
Jantzen Summer I( nit SI-Jirts 
S'lortsuits at 25% off 
opera tin g. Rather than shutting down the A('(' and the Library, m:Jintenance decided to ~:ut off eledricity in other areas. It took approximaIely forty-five min­utes to restore power. 
(;anser said that with similar conditions, dwnces of a recur­rence were possible. However. he 
noted currence  that was  the in  last such l 94 8.  oc­ 
p l u s  

FORBIDDEN BY LAW FORBIDDEN BY SOCIHY FORBIDDEN BY COMMON DeCENCY BUT EXPOSED BY THE CAMERAS OF OLYMPIC INTERNATIONAL FILMS 
DEn 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 





