
--~----~ -----------~-------------~ 
rains came 
rain has been seen in the skies ()Jer dulac and is detini~ly on the ground. , 
more Of the same ()Jer 
the weekend 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 31 Friday, Oc t(ber 22, 1971 
Nixon tabs Powell, Renhquist 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
Washington--President Nixon nominated Lewis F. Powell, Jr. a former president of the American Bar Association, and William H. Reinquist, an assistant attorney general, to the Supreme Court tonight. 
The President told a nationwide television and l 
I
radio audience he had selected Powell, a 64 year old lawyer from Richmond, Va. and Rehnquist, a 47-year old constitutional expert from the Justice Department, in the belief that they epitomize his own conservative attitude toward legal justice. 
The nominations represented abandonment by Nixon of his intention to be the first president to name a woman to the nation's highest court. 
Nixon said that it would be desirable for all segments of the populations to be represented on the Supreme Court, but that with only nine seats, this would be impossible. 
In addition, Nixon passes over the two can­didates he had asked a committee of the American Bar Association to approve. His action was perhaps in recognition of the legal group's judgment last night that the two were unqualified. 
In nominating Powell and Rehnquist, Nixon passes over the six candidates he had asked a committee of the American Bar Association to evaluate. 
Lewis F. Powell, Jr.: Former
The White House issued a statement tonight 
president of the ABA, southern,
from Attorney General John Mitchell ter­
64 years old, no judicial ex­
minating the year-old arrangement under which 
perience
the Bar Association screened prospective nominees in advance. The Attorney General complained of violations of "confidentiality" by the Bar Association. 
The President appealed to the Senate to confirm both nominees quickly. He said there was no doubt in his own mind that Powell and Rehnquist would be "guardians of our Con­stitution and would dedicate themselves to law, order and justice. 
(Continued on page 3) 
Parietals experiment needs 
A meeting tor all prOspective
Student Affairs Council OK 
~wsmen will be held Sunday n1g ht at 7:00pm in the Observer 
Jean Seymour, a member of 
Office. Anyone in~resled is in. 
the SAC, stated, "The LeMans 
vi~d to at~nd. All questions
The LeMans Hall parietal Pxperiment has been worked out 
concerning news reporting and t'Xpt>riment has not received final wdl and is very concrete. It has a 
production Of a newspaper will be 
approval and will not be in effect vt>ry good chance of passing." 
answered. Free refreshments 
this week. Tabled last week by Miss Seymour thinks the 
will be served. 
the Studt>nt Affairs Council, this faculty and administration proposal must be passed by the membl'rs are seriously con­Council and then obtain final sidering the bill before the vote. Pndorsemmt from the Executive She mmtioned that the LeMans Committee of the Board of llall Council and staff are Trustees. organized and the mechanics of 
A completely different the proposal are quite clear. proposition, the hall parietal As to the general parietal 
hours statement, is also awaiting proposal, this is due to be ratification by the SAC and the prt>sentt>d to the SAC on Nov. 1. Trustl'es' Executive Committee. Miss Seymour called this 
This proposal would give the 
(Continued on page 8)
detl'rmination of parietal hours to the individual residence halls. 
The LeMans bill by-passed the Student Assembly and was passed last week by the Student Affairs Committee. Since the SAC has a practice of never voting on a bill at the time it is proposed, the experiment will recl'ive consideration at next wepk's mel'ting. 

reminder 
Former SMC prof 
An obvious reminder with a bit of 
editorial comment, was given to LeMans Hall residents 
sues for 'racism' 




Story on page 8 
THE OBSERVER
Page 2 

Ballot boxes stolen, missing 


Frosh elections delayed 
Theft of the Dillori1. Hall hallotbox has caused a delay of the release of freshman class officers election results, an­nounced Sophomore Class President Mike Sherrod. 
A missing boxful of ballots in Badin Hall also contributed to the delay, he added, mentioning that winners in the four races will be announced through WSND early this afternoon. 
Ballots will be held during the lunch hour in both Dillon and Badin today, and tallying of the \'Otes will be made as soon after that as possible. 
Commenting on the election in gl.'neral, Sherrod noted that the freshman turnout was "very 

Rallyers at the Senior Bar last night (lower photo} listen to speaker Officer Tim McCarthy Of the lrdiana State Polvce (upper photo}. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre .Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 

postage 46556.  paid,  Notre  Dame, Ind.  
8:30a.m. 9:30a.m. 10:45 a.m. 12:45 p.m.  Fr. Ned Reidy Fr. Eugene Gorski, C.S.C. Fr. Nathan Mitchell, O.S.B. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.  
Vespers:  Sun. Thru Thurs. at 7 p.m.  

STUDENT TEACHING 
ANY STUDENT ELGIBLE FOR STUDENT TEACHING DURING SECOND SEMESTER 1971-72 
SHOULD CO-MPLETE 

AN APPLICATION IN RM. 230 MADELEVA. APPLICATION 
.DEADLINE MONDAY NOV. 1 

good." 
"We've had about 850 to 900 \'Oil's counted and we haven't gotten to two other boxes, in addition to the Dillon and Badin boxes," he said. 
He expressed hopes of counting over 50 per cent of the freshman dass and praised the sophomore dass government members for their work in publicizing the election. 
II<' also urged the freshmen in Dillon and Badin halls to vote in tomorrow's ballot. 

1u51iiii) South Bend Only 
............... _.......,...,..,..........~.--···· 

r;;. .'R 
-aii\i. t.~~ • 
_;.,..:· ... 

Shown in optional walnut case 
Beautifully-styled stereo control center delivers purest full-range stereo. Professional controls. 
Allied powerful 125-watt Stereo FM-AM Receiver 
Was 299.95 

Save 100.95 
Ston• Hours

4035 S. Michigan 
MTWS Ill a.m. -G p.m. Th. & Fri. 10 a.m. -!I p.m.
Ph. 291 -4888 
Sun 1 Jl.m. -5 p.m. 

NOW AVAilABlE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
PARSEGHIAN AND 
NOTRE DAME 


FOOTBALL 

by Ara Parseghian and Tom Pagna. The coaches handbook. An inside look at the "Parseghian system", from practice field to game action. The philosophy, drills, formations, plays, and strategy that make Notre Dame America's No. I colleg.e football team. Over 400 illustrations, photos, diagrams... for coaches, players and super fans of the Fighting Irish. ........$9.95 
also available 


NOTRE  DAME  FROM  
ROCKNE  TO  PAR­ 
SEGHIAN ... by Francis Wallace ... hardbound  KING OF Brother  COACHES, Daniel  
$5.95  J3engert's story of Knute R.ockne ... paperback...$1.25  . I KNUTE· ROCKNE, YOUNG .ATHLETE BY  
Van Riper...$2.75  


~--------~--------------~ 
Friday, October 22, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 
Page 3 
Washington -United States officials said Thursday in Washington that both the U.S. and the Soviet Union have been pressing India to 
I

restrain herself in any action that could lead to a war with Pakistan. 3:30, 7:00, 9:00 -flick, the dut­Although there was guarded optimism that India was heeding the rn chman, carroll hall international appeals, the Soviet Union was said to have warned that 4:00 -cellequim, dr. martenWorld Pakistan might move against India. :s I
kelsey, the psychology and .. United Nations, N.Y. -Britain, speaking in the United Nations c.. world view of carl jung, room ..... debate on China, said it would oppose the American resolution making 206, psychology building 
0
the expulsion of Nationalist China an important question requiring a 7:00-party, international student Briefs two thirds majority because it would cause further delay in the ad­E organization, st. mary's a. mission of Communist China. tJ clubhouse, 50 cents Stockholm -Pablo Neruda was awarded the 1971 Nobel Prize for 7:30, 9:30 -flick, last summer, a
u

Literature, the 67-year old Chilean poet, diplomat and Communist engin~ering auditorium, $1.00 leader had his first poems published when he was 13. He is currently 8:15 -music, alistaire trio with -< Chile's ambassador to France. s::l louis sudler, library
Phompenh --Cambodia's government denied that it was abandoning auditorium, $1.00 democracy and would rule by dictatorship but did not deny that the 0 8:30 -drama, the duchess of functions formerly exercised by the Parliament had been conferred on malfi, o'laughlin Premier Lon Nol's government. The denial was prompted by foreign 
I
I 

news stories describing the new government powers. 
No judicial experience 

Nixon chooses unexpected candidates 
(Continued from page I) rPporters this morning that "you "The constitution does not Thus Nixon's efforts to reshape and led to two defeats in the all know the Senate has he require the consent of the the Court into an instrument of Senate, have become enmeshed Tlw President said he did not responsibility under the Con­A.B.A.'" Ziegler went on. He his own judicial philosophy of in a dispute with the Bar 
expect those he named to the stitution to give its advice and said the Bar Association's advice "strict constructionist" con­Association as well. 
Supreme Court to agree with his .consent" to Supreme Court was welcome, but "the A.B.A vcrvatism, which had spawned a Attorney General John N. own views on every issue. They eandidates. does not have veto power." series of ideolological clashes Mitchell pledged in July, 1970, 
will make from FIVE to SEVEN additional pur­chase~ of life insurance during your lifetime! 
Make sure that you get the most for your money 






LEATHER LTD.

-TODAY and TO:\! OR ROW! You'll do this through the C. I. P. (College Insurance Program) and the wide range of competitive plans offered 
bas changed... 


through American General! 
Give us a chance to prove it! 
custom liatbar ·jeans· sandals 

macs.boats·patfarJ 

~.:.\m~rican c~ncral 
118 sautb main 

\ ~ LIH .~~~~~~~~~E .~~~~~U 




· featuring M•l•jeans
American General Life Insurance Co. 815 La Salle Street South Bend, Indiana, 46601 219-234-3480 
must not, he said, be "puppets on a string pulled by the President who appointed them." 
Nixon named Powell and lkhnquist barely 24 hours after thf' Judicial Fitness Committee of the American Bar Association declined to endorse the Presidents' reported choices for the two vacancies. 
The Committee reportedly votc•d 11 to I to reject Mrs, Mildn•d L' Lillie, a justice of the California Court of Appeals in Los Angele!'. as unqualified for the Supreme Court. The Scan­ning Committee was said to be dividf'd li to 6 on a motion to dPsignate "no opposition" to llerschcl H. Friday, a Little Hock, Ark., attorney. Under the Committee's procedural rules, that meant Friday also was given a rating of "not qualified." 
l<:vf'n so, there had been spl'culation today that the l'n•sidf'nl would name one or hoth of them to the Court tonight. 
Honald L. Ziegler, the White llousf' told 

The Importance of the Guaranteed Insurability Clause in your College Insurance Program-­
The purchase of a college insurance program toclay is important, but studies show that you 

The Nolllinees 
WASHINGTON--Early this week, William Hubbs Rehnquist, assistant attorney general, sent a memorandum to the American Bar Association defending Judge Mildred L. Lillie, who had been proposed to the Association by President Nixon as a possible Supreme Court justice. Tonight, Rehnquist, a conservative Arizonian, was himself nominated by Nixon for a seat on the Court. 
It was only this afternoon that Rehnquist's name was even mentioned in speculation about the President's choices. But, in retrospect, observers here realize that he fits perfectly the President's job description. 
He is described by his colleagues in the Justice Department as a brilliant lawyer who, having once been a clerk to the late Justice Robert H. Jackson, is completely versed in the Court's operations. 
NEW YORK---If confirmed, Lewis Franklin Powell Jr. will bring to the Supreme Court the southern voice that President Nixon is looking for --but it will be a soft and reasoning in­flection that traces back to his native tidewater Virginia. 
In manners and polish, Powell fits confortably into the image of the ante-bellum South. But in the moderation of his ideas and his approach to integration, he appears to belong more to what has been called. "The New South." · 
While serving a nine-year term on the Schoool Board of Richmond,Va., he quietly ad­mitted Negroes to white schools in 1959; while the issue raged in other Virginia towns no schools closed in Richmond. ' 
that he would consult with the 
Association before recom­
mending nominees to the 
President. That decision 
reflected White House hopes of 
cnlisting broad professional 
support for nominees and a 
desire to overcome unhappiness 
within the legal establishment 
over the Association's after-the­
fact endorsements of Clement F. 
llaysworth, Jr., and G. Harrold 
Craswell, both of whom were 
rejcted by the Senate. 

But White House officials made 
it clear, however, that the 
President was principally in­
terested in ratings on Friday and 
Mrs. Lillie and one White House 
official said that he had the 
impression that they wre "locked 
in" two weeks ago as ·the 
President's choices. 

The decision to announce the nominees on nationwise relevision in a prime evening hour appeared to reflect a desire to solicit public support for the candidates, lacking enthusiastic endorsements from the Bar. 
---------~----------------------------------------------~ 
------~------------~-­
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Friday, October 22, 1971 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Assistant Editor 
T.C. Treanor 
Business Manager Jim Jendryk 

B us ine ss : 2 8 3 -7 4 7 1 
Editor-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend anyone or anything if they can help Advertising Manager it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 
News: 283-1715 

Sorry 

Okay. We made a mistake. 
When we said "Le Mans to have parietal hours on Friday," we were wrong. Unless the proposal goes through the Board of Trustees, LeMans won't have parietal hours for a while. We got it messed up. It happens sometimes. The poor headliner needed a slug of scotch after he aded through all the St. Mary's governmental structures, . and it sort of af­fected his judgement. 
We're wrong and we admit it. If we're wrong in the future, we'll admit it then. It's the only way we can keep our credibility with the student body. 
We hope that when the St. Mary's Board of Trustees meet, they can do the same. For it was surely a mistake to lock up Le Mans -and all the other St. Mary's halls-against the will of the people who live there. After all, the students in those halls will have to pay the consequences for whatever hours are set up. They ought to be able to determine what they are. 
If the St. Mary's Board of Trustees sits down and considers the situation, honestly and in the light of the fact that most St. Mary's women are legal adults, they should have no problem passing the Le Mans companion bill, which would give all St. Mary's halls the right to pass their own parietal hours. After all, anybody can make a mistake. It takes a certain dignity to admit the mistake. It takes a certain courage to correct the mistake. 
But it takes nothing, and credits nobody, to persist in the mistake. 
Thanx, Publications 
Editor: 
Several letters last week pointed out that the activities of some at the Michigan State game were quite discourteous and even dangerous to the Band on the field and to St. Mary's students in the stands. The point was well­taken; I believe, and the response of the student body has been ex­cellent. I think a word of sincere thanks and appreciation is due to all, including THE OBSERVER and SCHOLASTIC, who had a part in this decision. Thomas E. Blantz 

I ~ Vice President 
I 
Thanx, Poco 
Editor: This letter is intended as a public thank you to POCO. 
I am a Pre-Med taking Em­bryology. If you don't know what that means, stop by .the library some Friday night and ask 

l.4etter s 

Embryo test this Tuesday and all week I was pretty up-tight about it. I spent all of Friday night (my birthday), cramming for it and intended to make Saturday a repeat performance. (No tears please). 
At about 8 pm Saturday I found myself in such a stupor that I slammed shut my books and high-tailed it over to the concert. POCO was just the therapy that I needed. POCO wanted us to feel loose and that we surely did. From approximately 10:15-12:15 POCO helped me forget all my worries. In fact a friend who saw me at the concert asked if I was stoned. I was stoned all right -­on good music 
I'm sure I'm speaking for everyone who was able to "get loose" Saturday night, in saying: "Thanks POCO for letting me be myself in the midst of all this intellectual frustration." 
Well Time to get back to work. 
the staff Mail Rape 
Editor: 

When mail rates were in­creased to 8 cents, the Post­master General promised two­daymail service between any cities in the United States. Notre Dame did not follow suit, leaving the cost of on-campus letters at nothing and promising nothing. 
Today I received a letter from St. Mary's on October 4th via campus mail. Fourteen days is not bad, but the condition of the envelope indicated that it had been repeatedly raped and beaten between here and there. 
It's gratifying to know that ND rriail service offers one of the few genuine bargains available today. 
In rain and dark of night, 

Greg Perczak 
p.s. I'm walking over to deliver this. 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editor: Jack Frischkorn Copyreader: Greg Rowinski 
The "Maybe Next Week" Girls: Patty Abell, Ann Smith, Marlene Zloza, Noli Kane, Sue Prendergast, Peggy Lawlor Last Minute Photo Bug: At (excuse me, Ann-Therese) Darrin Voice on Phone: ME Friends of the Night: Mick Kane, Dan Thornton, Maria Gallegher, B~ Hughes, Mike Murphy (who gets an extra thanx), Joe Cottrell Villian of the Night: Hal Ill Boozers: Lutkus, Ellis, and some others. Controller of the Night (who deserves a really extra-special thanx: Helen Smudski Where was my slug of scotch tonight, glen? 

Meow! 
Debbie Kerr 



The Second Editorial 

The education of the innocent, the ingenue is futile. The naive pupil has no self-control; he is not free nor does he allow others their freedom. Unitl innocence is voluntarily willed to pass, the door into the self stands locked; the countenance stands shining, clear, blank; the soul is static. 
To be naively innocent is to be a slave. By relying totally on in­
nocence the right to determine personal philosophy is surrendered to experienced persons and fates which easily mold the innocent soul to fit whatever form is convenient or momentarily necessary. At the passing of the moment, the innocent is left behind once more, groping for a new sculptor to shape him again. The one who absolutizes himself in innocence, who remains innocent judging it to be "cute" or "entertaining", is not only stifling his growth, but leaving himself the prey of the experienced world and its London-ish citizens. 
Mind is a cube. A three dimensional object with six equal and square sides. It contains twenty-four 90 degree angles. The cube is sealed. The innocence is impervious. 
Thoughts flow continually all over every side. They pulse around corners, they chase across tops and cling desparately to bottoms and sides. Rarely changing, they merely make room for new thoughts, granting them a place on the smooth, flawless surface. Running over and fragmenting facts, they fuild only momentum. 
Innocence leaves, however, with the one who opens the cube of mind just a crack and then leaves you alone to cope with the fissure. The sliding cogitations slip in parts into the space of the cuge, bringing dark into the hole desparately light. The brightness wraps around the first lost thought and is dragged down to the floor of the cube and is dropped. Innocence is willed away and its helplessness with it. The lost one in the bottom wills another, slightly different than itself, to join it in the dark. The self-perpetuation of learning is learned. 

The thoughts outside notice that something is missing; their form is no longer complete. The cube feels the change and opens in one side a hole through which a light pours, illuminating an endless tube of thought, traveling all the way through the late cube, which is now an open rectangle, traveling ,in the back, to the vanishing point and beyond. Gone is the perfectly sealed three dimensional figure. 
Observations, not facts, ideas and energies spill into the open space and tumble and fall over one another, each begetting a new, somewhat different than itself. 
The limitations of the body and mind must be confronted, its ar­tificialities must be rejected. Because the cube of innocence is secure and regular and tight does not mean that it should always stay so. The first fissure can come with the guilt of the flesh, with a jab at the mind, by a friend planting only one seed on the surface of the waste land. The split cannot be plastered, but must be torn wide open. The experience eained must lead a gin to the higher innocence of creativity. 
And after looking inside at the evil and the good, and knowing them both, then with love comes the meeting of your soul on a path. And self-control follows the meeting. The freedom to reject the soul is used instead to welcome it, and no longer alone, the soul, mind, body walk through the rectangle. 
The forces which are constantly working to reshape the self can be dealt with while facing the world of education with all its fringes. And self-knowledge craves more knowledge, sorting and filing it within the rectangle, where it continually falls from the shelves to the floor or ceiling to complete itself with other knowledge. 
The Prophet: " ... the treasure of your infinite depths would be revealed to your eyes ... the soul unfolds itself, like a lotus of countless petals." Let it be. 

--~-­
f<'riday, October 22, 1971 
THE OBSERVER. 
!=Ia e s 



CLASSII''IED

Nursing school suggested 































FOR SALE 
Quality 8 track I apes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715 
Prices slashed on all psoters to reduce stocks. Posters that were $1.50 11ow $1.00 $1.25. For in 
general admission 
tormntion come to 815 Flanner, 611 Annabelle 5114. 
Grace or 315 Regina South or call 1694, 1167, or 4258. 
RESORT For Sale: 66 JAG X TYPE E COUPE 
certified and non-certified 
4 Gear, 48,000 mi., AM-FM Radio. a ski director. 
Pirrellis British Racing Green. lifts. 
Call 259-0662 John or Fred or see at 739 E. 9th, Mish. 

B~ ;ate~ f,,:-;~nt criminal assault
Experience in with SHERIFF 50. NEW INVEN STOPS AN ATTACKER, EVEN A GANG, INSTANTLY. Only $2.98. Rick Dunlap 717 W. Marion, Mich.

for March of 
Call 259 4873. 
· come FREE Delivery.
10:45 
-----·-·------­
alumni for con­
BSR 610X Turntable $45 or best offer, Call 272-2118 after 6 pm. 

for United Fund '56 CADILLAC. White convertible. 
60,000miles. ALL POWER. Call 234sell 
0945 after 5:00 pm. 

For Sale: '66 Ford Fairlane. Must
Southern Cal sell. $4.50. Runs fine. Mike 6729.
638-9181. 

PRICES SLASHED game on TV and 
Sale on now at Student Record Sale.
me your student S5.981ist $3.65. $4.981ist. $3.15.
Call Pat 
313 Morrissey. Ph. 3575. Open continually. 

TYPING. PHONE 
LOST 

Lost· Pair of Wire-rimmed glassesNavy game. 
between Madeleva and Regina Halls.
5446. 

If found please call Ilene 5222. Badly needed. 

FOUND 
Navy game. 
Pair of qlasses found at the infirmary
5446 . 

last week. Please come by. and claim if they are yours. Glass case is marked, West Palm Beach, Fla. 

PERSONALS
30 DOLLARS GENERAL AD 
what is all this nonsense? only Zapd
DESPARATE! 
knows. do !PII. 
2 pairs of 
All that is gold does not glitter---6719. tickets for 4 Willing to pay ad­
Maureen in section 32, ready lo take it all off for USC? Naked J. 
Peggy, Happiness is having you 
here! Ohe same) Love,be Monday, 
Phil 
2-D La Fortune at 
Worried about midterms?
WILL BE 
Come to our suicide party!
BUS AND HOTEL. 
4772, 4777, 5181. 
Tonight. We have Happy Birt11day Teddy Bear Bolger­AND Hope your day is happiesl.
You do the work and SAVE 
Today you are No. 1Rl. 31 South in Niles. 684 Luv, Mik. 
Open evenings and weekends. 
To Mary Lonergansplendid sybartic Syracuse, N.Y. 
left for 1-2. 
We miss you and wish you were here to qet drunk with us. You're loads of fun and alot of laughs. Love, Mike, Mark, Andy (Burnie), Frank Ferter, Teddy Bear, Puerto Rico, Bearo. Harry H., Sweet Burns, Larry, Don, AI E. Gator, Gary M .. Gum Boy, Steve, and last but not least, Boobs. 
Viviane Woodard Dear Juliet in jeans,Endorsed by If life has a meaning and I have someAvailable only life lhen you are the meaning that makes me love Iife. Happy Birthday, Billiteri 
·------­
Love,
AND S'M.C. 
Romeo in rags.
Beatie Festival 218 
Thanks for the thought but 1 neveralbums will be 
imagined it a cold war. j. 
Annie,Bend Ave. at 
May Wf' search together and con timue the bed time story. 
Dear lnqrid, Gulliver says "Happy Birthday, 
n1any more. Jl 
October 26 7-9 Love, 
Dean 
Dear Ed, I miss the Boys, Please find me. 
Zip
Office hours 12: 15·· 5:00. day before 
Happy Birthday, Mary Beth! Altention SMC! The Kansas flash is back. See him Saturday night in 236
Jda. 4da. Sda. 
Keenan. Sling's Fellas
1.00 1.15 1.%5' 
Snarky Spores and Sparkles in the dark. 
1.35 '1.75 %.15 
I.7o z.4i. z.so\ 
2.80 ilfl 3.~ 
Debbie, we don't know what you see in chuckles, but give us a sample of what he sees in you.
1.10 2.35 3.40 ···~ 
1.90 2.80 3.85 4.7tl 
Dearest Cuddles, What else could it be?
2.30 3.30 4.58 !i.51/ 
Luv, 
2.so 3.50 4.75 1.eal 
Markiepoo
------1-------------' 
Micht>le i\rrieh 

The Inner Institutional Team on Academic Affairs has asked both Presidents of SMC and ND to appoint a committee to look into the possibility of establishing a School of Nursing and programs in the paramedical areas. Paramedical refers to services conducted in a hospital such as physical therapy and x­ray technician work. 
f'our reasons for initiating such 

a program were given: 
I. There is an enormous need for workers in all of these areas. The Carnegie Report on Higher Education and the Nation's Jlcalth states that there is a need for around 200,000 more nurses and almost 150,000 technicians in the health field. 
2. 
This sort of program gives an opportunity for training women in roles of leadership which is a part of SMC's mission. 

3. 
This type of program gives an additional thrust to the woman-oriented educational oportunities in the University. 

4. 
It is a natural area of interest for those at SMC because it eombines two of. the mission areas of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. That is , the Sisters have made major efforts in the fields of higher education and nursing. 


Committee members are: Dr. . Jack Dt>tzler, chairman, and 
Grace security 
Fr..James Burtchaell, Provost r====s;;;~;;;;;::==~~~~~~==::;ii;;:~;:====:i__ 
of the University refused com­nwnt on a letter sent by Grace rt>sidmts printed in the Observer last Wednesday. This letter eonc<>rned increased security protection on the campus rdcrring directly to the Oct. 4 armPd hold-up in Grace. 
In rt>gards to the hold-up, Mr. Arthur Pears, Director of ND Sl'('Urity, attributed the delay in St•curity's arrival at the scene to lhe fact that less security was available that early in the t>vcning and that security was "I it•d up in other cases." . PPars pointed out the difficulty 
m secunty enforcement in the ~~~-::-~~~~~~~~~~====~~~~~;;;~==~ 
halls, because they are always
open and "anyone can walk in." The ND security force at 
present consists of patrol cars and walking patrolmen, but Pears added that the degree of 
security within a hall is deter­
mined by the hall rector. 
If "the party that committed the act arc outsiders" as it was assumed in the Grace incident the SPcurity Director said that South Bend and St. Joseph County police are called in. 
1------------------------------~=-~~============~ 
HPC Presents: 






IN CONCERT 
Chapped Lips Strangers, Friends, & Brothers 
For your FREE enjoyment Saturday Nite 7:30 Stepan Center 
BYOB (Bring your own blanket) All you have to do to get in is show your ND-SMC ID or be accompanied by someone who has one. , 
Mrs. Hosemary Doherty, both from SMC, Dean Hichard Thompson and Father Joseph Walter from ND, Sister Blanche who works at St. Joseph Hospital, Sister Ann Josephine who is administrator of Holy Cross llospital in Salt Lake City, and Sister Rose Bernard, who is a nurse and Professor of SocioloJ;!v at Dunbarton College in Washington D.C. They have met once and plan to meet again on October 29. 
The Committee is gathering information as to curriculum, financial implications of such a school, and gover~ment support available, and .are making contacts with state and natoonsl nutdinh oggivisld yo yhrdg 
The Committee is gathering information as to curriculum, financial implications of such a school, and government support available, and are making contacts with state and national nursing officials to these ends. 
People & Song 
CAMPUS FOLK ARTISTS 
Alumni .Hall Lounge This Friday 9:00 -2:00 4th BIG WEEK 
Refreshments 25c Admission E••n•....u• 
HOlJRS: MON -TUES -THUR -FRI 
9 AM 5:30PM WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE S1'0CTACLE





ROGERS 
SERVICE 
ALL EYE 01!.'S 
PRESCRIPTIONS HONOREC

Optical 
Call 

ROGER ATWELL -189-7809
OWNER 

Notre Dame Theatre 
l­

-Saint Mary's presents John Webster~s 
I

THE DUOIESS OF MALFI 
~'Laughlin Auditoriu.m October 15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 
8. 30 pm sharp. Ticket Reservations $2.00. St~dents, faculty, ND-SMC staff $1.50. Ticket office open 4-6 p.m. or call 284-4176. 
When this information is gathered, it will be presented to the college committees and boards for consideration. 
Until all the questions are n•solved, it is not clear just how t•arly the program can be initiated. 
It is anticipated that the school will admit 50 students each year who are interested in nursing and paramedical fields. 
Scholarship grants 
The Univcersity of Notre Dame has recieved $3,040 from the Upper Division Scholarship Program (UDSP) to assist student~ from minority populatiOns transferring from two-year colleges. Inaugurated by the Ford Foundation, the UDSP is administered by the College Entrance Examination Board and will provide $197 000 to 150 students this semester' at 61 Midwestern institutions. 
ADS 
WANTED 
Wanted: Five N<wy lickets. Call 
ROYAL VALLEY SKI Main Sl. Buchanan, Mich. Wanted: Ski Instructors and Part time help in lodge and on Phone (616) 695-5862. 
Wanted: Some with refriqeration repair. Call 1409 911 Flanner. 
Volunteers needed Dimes Saturday before game to 121 O'Shag anytime after s11elp "hustle" tributions. 
Volunteers needed drive Saturday before game. come to 121 O'Shag anytime after 10:45 shamrocks for charity. 
Urqent: Need one tickel. Call Beth 5497 or 
Watch the USC make money. Sell ticket for that qame for $12. 3692. 
SPARE TIME 234 191320 AFTER 6 P.M. 
Need 6 student tickets and 4 general admission tickets to Call Ann Marie 
Need 6 student tickets and 4 general admission tickets to Call Ann Marie 
NC'ed 2 qeneral adm. tickets to Navy qame. Tome 287-2731. 
WILL PAY UP TO EACH FOR 3 MISSION TICKETS. GRANT 1679. 

Will inq to exchange Southern California adjacent seats. ditional conisderations. Call 4611. 
.NOTICES 
PIT WEEKEND ·pickup of tickets 

already purchased will 
Ocl. 25 in Room 
7:00P.M. 
ADDITIONAL SIGNUPS 
HELD FOR 

Fix your own car. the SPACE I TOOLS t PARTS HELP. Autotech 1960. 
En joy off campus living. House has room C11i 289 1915 after 6:30. 
NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund Basement of La Fortune 11:15 12:15. 
-·-·---------­

Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and lnfoe concerning Excl. Cosmetic Line, Harper's Bazaar. ll1rough indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
ATTENTION N.D. BEATLE FREAKS! Saturday 6:30P.M. Rooms 202 -t Holy Cross. ALL played. Free! Byo. 
New and Used Books bought and sold. PANDORA'S; South Notre Dame Ave. 
--------·------­
1971 Senior Trip 
LSU vs ND 
Siqn ups Tuesday, 
pm. Coke Bar La Fortune ($50 non refundable deposit needed) 
Classified Ads paid for in cash when ordered. 2. Ads in by 2:00 on publication. 
Wonh 1da. 2da. 
l-It .Sf .75 
11-15 ... 1.10 11-ze .7e 1.15 Zl-Z5 .85 1.35 
Z6-30 I.OO
31 35 
-I.ZO 36-40 1.35 2.10~ 3.10 4.25 5.1t/ U-451.55 46-501.75 


------·----------------­
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Friday, October 22, 1971 

Frosh debut in Mexico 
by Vic Dorr 'H 

Tom Gatewood said it at the first pep rally of the 1971 season: "There's one thing that makes a football team successful, and that's enthusiasm." 
Gatewood's words though they were meant for the Irish varsity, can also be applied to the Notre Dame freshman team. For even at this early date, the first-year men have created plenty of in­terest and enthusiasm in the frosh program. And if Gatewood's words can be taken at face value, then the freshmen are assured--in this way, at least­-of a successful year. 
The enthusiasm surrounding this year's frosh squad is evenly distributed between the players and their schedule, and with good reason. The '71 freshman roster appears to be loaded, and the team could very well better the 1­2 mark which Cliff Brown, Greg Hill and Co. posted last season. 
"I'm very enthused about them, said freshman coach Denny Murphy, "and so are the rest of the coaches. I think they've progressed very well. They've been practicing only since the beginning of school, and we've given them a lot in a short span of time. The kids have done very well in picking up the knowledge and the techniques." 
Murphy, though he declined to single out. any individual stand­outs from the early fall practice sessions, did comment favorably on his team--especially on the offense. 
"I hate to cite anyone before the first game," said the frosh coach, "because game situations are what tells the story. The pressure's on then, and it's a good bit different from practice." 
"But I can see that we're going to have a real fine quickness at our offensive skilled positions," he continued. "And our offensive linemen are being coached by Larry DiNardo, so the blocking has been steadily improving. As far as quarterback is concerned, I've decided to go with Tom Clements. He has a real good arm, and I'll stay with him unless something drastic happens." 
When Murphy spoke of quickness on offense, he was primarily speaking of Eric Penick, a 6-1 halfback from Cleveland, Ohio. "Penick is the track champion you've probably heard about," he said. "He's run sub 9.9 hundreds several times, but I don't know exactly how fast he is." 
Joining Clements and Penick in the starting offensive backfield will be fullback Wayne Bullock 
(6-1, 210) and halfback Ronny Goodman (5-11, 185). "The Wish­bone-T will be our basic running set," said the frosh coach, "and Saturday we'll start as a running team. Our passing will depend on the game situation, but we'll start out on the ground." 
The key to the freshman ground game will be the the of­fensive line, which is anchored by 6-3, 225 pound center Scott Lorenzo. Joining Lorenzo on the offensive line are guards Gerry DiNardo (6-1, 230) and Steve Sylvester (6-4, 225), and tackles Steve Neece (6-3, 240) and Kevin Costello (6-5, 240). · Tight end Ed Bauer and split receiver Pete Demerle will round out the fresh­man offensive team. 
"Defensively, we'll be using the same 4-4-3 that the varsity goes with," said Murphy. "This will be our basic defense, and everything that we do will revolve out of that one basic set." 
Though not as physically awesome as their varsity counterparts, the freshman defenders aren't too far behind. The yearling front "four" will be f'Ssentially a five man unit. Ends Bob Sweeney (6-3, 215) and Mike Fanning (6-6, 235) will start along with tackles Bill Arment (6-5, 230 and Kevin Noschbush (6-4, 255), but tackle John Roscoe also figures -to see plenty of playing time. · 
Behind the front four will be linebackers John Freeman (6-0, 230), John O'Donnell (6-1, 225), Greg Col~ins (6-3, 215), and Sherm Smith (6-2, 214). The Irish deep three will consist of defensive backs Reggie Barnett <5-11, 18)) and Jim Chauncey (6­o, 190), and safety AI Samuel (6-1, 
175). 
This is the team that Coach Murphy will field tomorrow night when the Irish freshmen--through a ~it of weird scheduling--go agamst an all-star team from the National University of Mexico in the season opener. 
The Irish yearlings will meet the Mexicans in an 8:00 p.m. game 00:00 p.m. South Bend time l in Mexico City's Aztec Stadium, and the teams will be playing in front of a crowd that may range anywhere from 70,000 to 90,000. 
"'The game is being played primarily to give impetus to American football in Mexico," said Murphy, "and most of the arrangements were made during our practices last spring." 
"About the only thing we know about the game," he said half­jokingly, "is that we'regoing and that we're . Other than 

Corb_y's 
.' 

Culteral Arts Commission's Cinema '72 presents 
GRAND ILLUSION 
Oct. 23 & 24 (Sat. & Sun.) 
that, we're prepared for anything. We've shown our kids every possible offensive and defensive formation that might get thrown at them, so now we;ll just have to see what happens." 
The partisan crowd in the huge Aztec Staduim (capacity there is 100,000) will be the least of the team's worries, according to Murphy. 
"I think it'll excite the kids," he said, "not scare them. And besides, it might be a good idea to get them broken in in front of a good-sized crowd. After all, 80,000 Mexicans will probably sound a lot like the north end zone in our home stadium." 
After the season opener, the Irish frosh will settle into a more regular schedule. They will meet Michigan State at East Lansing 
featuring original works of graphic art-etchings, lithographs,-by leading 
20th  century  artists:  
Picasso  Dali  
Miro,  Calder  

Chagall Friedlaender Searle Rouault Vasarcly and others. 

SUNDAY 
AFTERNOON, OCT. 24 RAMADA INN BALLROOM 
Auction Time · 3:00pm Exhibition of Art · 1: 00 . 3:00pm Prices begin at $15.00 Free Admission 
on October 30, and then will come home for a November 6 matchup against Michigan. The freshmen will close their '71 campaign on November at Knoxville, with a game against Tennessee's Baby Volunteers. 

Rowers open 
A spectator bus for anyone interested in attending the crew team's race against Mercyhurst College Sunday will leave the Notre Dame circle at 12:30 p.m.. The race will begin shortly after 1 o'clock. 
-~-P.!'i!DlrtHRA~a~l~rz~mma '..1 
I MISHAWAKA AVE•.AT JOTH. 
I No~_Showing 
"ESplpE
fROM
THEPlANET 
THctAnES~~ 
~OLOII @-00 


Cultural Arts Commission Fund Raising Film Series Presents 
LAST SUMMER 
Oct. 21 & 22 (Thurs. & Friday.) 7:30 & 9:30 at the Engineering Auditorium Admission $1 
1:45 -3:45 -5:45 -7:45 -9:45 
Which Is the Best 'Love Story' 

ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM !., 
Fund Raising Film Patron Cards
' I
7:00 -9:00 p.m. 

Admission $1.00 
will be sold at the 'door at $5
i 
I 
Cinema '72 card holders free!! 
fund raising film patron card holders free! 
Patron Cards will be sold at the door 
----~---~~~~----~ 
-~--~--­
• 

Friday, October 22, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Irish seek revenge against SC 
by .Jim Donaldson SJiorts Editm· 

Wlwn a club with a 2-4 record arrives in South Bend to play Notrl' DamP, Irish fans generally ''iPw the game with a ho-hum attitudP. But that's not the case this WI'PkPnd. Irish backers have lwt<n waiting for tomorrow's game since last November. 
. John McKay's Southern <'alifornia Trojans invade Notre Dam<' Stadium Saturday af­ternoon and Ara Parseghian's Fighting Irish are out for n•vpngP. l{<'vPnge for last year's :!11-28 dPfPal at the hands of the Trojans in the final game of the rPgular season that cost Notre DamP the national cham­pionship. 
f{pvenge for hurt pride. Pride that was woundPd not only by last \'l'ar's sPtback, but also by the i·ad that Notre Dame hasn't heaten the Trojans since 1966. 
Sine<' the Irish drubbed the Trojans 51-0 at the tailend of the 'fifi campaign, Notre Dame has h1•Pn able to salvage just a pair of ties in Ih<' last four meetings lwtwl'l'n the two collegiate powt•rhouses. The Trojans won 24-7 in 191i7 and the clubs battled to 21-21 and 14-14 deadlocks the rwxt two seasons. And the 
Hockey 
•

scrimmage 
The Notre Dame hockey team will conduct its third open scrimmage Sunday afternoon at 
4:30 on the ACC rink. 
The intrasquad contest is open to the public free of charge. 
Trojans eamc out on top last 
\'Par. 

· The Trojans began this season 
with high hopes but, right from 
tlw start, things have gone wrong 
for them. They dropped their 
spason opener, 17-10 to Alabama 
and then, after whipping Rice 24­
0 and 11\inois 28-0, Southern Cal 
has lost three straight, bowing to 
Oklahoma :!3-20, Oregon 28-23 and 
Stanford :1:1-18. 
Tlw Trojans' defense has been 
ineffPclive in their last three 
outings and the offense has failed 
to pPrform as expected. 
Commenting on his Trojans 
heforl' the season began, coach 
MeKay had remarked that, "Our 
1971 offense should be im­
provPd". And when one considers 
that Southern Cal's 1970 offense 
had produced 343 points in 11 
games, the school's highest 
scoring total in 40 years, that's a 
prdty frightening statement. But 
tlw Trojans just haven't been 
able to put the points on the board 
tlw way they had expected. 
This is surprising because Southern Cal has some first-rate offpnsi ve performers. Senior quarterback Jimmy Jones, in his third year as a starter, directs tlw Trojan attack. He has con­rwctPd on 57 per cent of his passes this season while tossing four scoring passes. Jones holds 12 school passing, rushing and total off<'nse records. 
.Junior signal caller Mike Rae has also seen plenty of action this fall. lie hoasts a 52 per cent ac­euracy mark and has thrown five touchdown passes. 
Tight end Charlie Young has hl'l'n the favorite target for Jones and Rae, grabbing 12 aerials for
., 

155 yards. Flanker Lynn Swann 
and fullback Sam (Bam) Cun­
ningham arP right behind Young, 
with II r£'ceptions apiece, and 
wide receiver Edl·sel Garrison 
has caught 10 passes. 
Garrison, described as "a 
Irack man out for football" by 
1\h'Kay, possesses blinding speed 
(9.5 in the 100) and good hands. McKay rates Garrison highly . "Edesel has developed into our Ill'sI receiver," the Trojan nwntor said. 
Tlw Trojans also have some good runners to compliment their a£'rial attack. Cunnningham has done the brunt of the ball l'arrying this fall, toting the pigskin 115 times for 586 yards, a 
5.0 average, and four touch­downs. 
Tailbacks Lou Harris,332yards 
and a 5.27 average, and Charles 
Hinton, 207 yards, 4.81 average, 
do their lair share of work, too. 
Cunningham and company gen£'rally get ample blocking from a veteran offensive line, anchored by tackle John Vella. The Trojan defense isn't so im­posing, despite the presence of Pnd Willie Hall, who played an outstanding game against the Irish last year, dropping Joe Tlwismann for losses seven times and causing two fumbles. End .John Grant, middle linebacker John Papadakis and cornerback Bruce Dyer arc other standouts on the Trojan defense. 
Commenting on the difficulties his Trojans will have against the unbeaten Irish, McKay said, "Notre Dame's defense will present problems greater than any we've faced all year. It will be a question of whether we can move the ball at all against a v£'ry, very fine defensive team." 
"I think if we can protect the passer we can throw some on Notre Dame," McKay continued. "For us to hope to run on them only would be foolhardy." 
The Irish defensive unit has posed problem for every team they've faced this fall. Boasting a big, mobile front four, quick, strong linebackers and a ball-hawking secondary, the Irish have shutout their last two op­ponents and have not allowed anyone to cross their goal line in 14 consecutive quarters. 
Notre Dame ranks second nationally in rushing defense, yielding just 65.8 yards per game, and they are among the top five 

Always dangerous, Jimmy Jones will be making his third start against 
the Irish Saturday. 
in scoring defense, allowing only 
:1.2 points per game. 
The Irish offense has not been 
so proficient, however. Since 
their 50-point outburst in the 
season opener against Nor­
thw£'stern, the offense has been 
unable to score more than two 
touchdowns in a game. 
But now that sophomore Cliff Brown has taken over at quar­terback, the Irish have shown signs of increased point production. The young signal caller, making the first start of his career against North Carolina, combined on a couple of long aerials with his All­American split end, Tom Gatewood, giving an inkling of things to come. 
Parseghian was pleased with Brown's play against the Tar Heels. "Cliff did a good job last Saturday. He made some mistakes and he knows what they were, but it's normal for a sophomore to make errors in his first starting assignment." 
The Irish have moved the ball better on the ground than in the air thus far this season. A solid offensive line has consistently opened holes for Notre Dame's bountiful supply of running backs. Bobby Minnix and Andy lluff have been the top ball carriers for the Irish this fall but .John Cieszkowski, Darryl Dl'wan, Greg Hill, Bill Gallagher, Larry Parker and Gary Diminick have seen plenty of action also. 
Despite their lack of an overpow£'ring offense, the Irish are capable of putting points on the board against an average Trojan defense. And Irish don't need many points with the type of defense they have. 
Parseghian is wary of the Trojans, despite their 2-4 record. "WP know that Southern Cal is one of the finest teams in the country. We've had some super games over the years with Southern Cal and I'm sure it will remain the same this year." 
This is the 43rd meeting bet­ween the two schools and Notre Dame holds the edge in the series, 25-13-4. Neither Par­seghian nor McKay has a winning record in the series. Parseghian is 2-3-2 against the Trojans and McKay has a 4-5-2 mark versus Notre Dame. Kickoff Saturday is at 1::10 p.m. 


Jim Donaldson;=~=~=!:~=~=~=;;;:;:::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
· The Irish Eye 

This looks like "Big Ten Week" in the Irish Eye football picks, since selections for all five games taking place in that conference are in-eluded in this week's choices. 
All the attention isn't centered on the Big Ten, however. There's a pretty fair ball game tomorrow here at Notre Dame, as the Fighting Irish and the Trojans of Southern California renew an old rivalry. The Irish are sky-high for the encounter, seeking revenge for the 38-28 setback that John McKay's club dealt them last season. That loss cost the Irish the national title. 
The other top games this weekend include Houston versus Alabama, Pittsburgh at Boston College, Georgia Tech at Tulane and Wake Forest versus North Carolina. 
There's the way the Irish Eye sees the outcome of this week's 
games: 
Notre Dane over Southern Cal--The Trojans have had theirH arrie fS in aCtion 
problems this season, losing four of six games. The Fired-up Irish s.hould hand them loss number five Saturday. 
Purdue over Illinois ---Soph quarterback Steve Burke led the Boilermakers last week and won't have any problem directing Purdue past winless Illinois. 
Army over Virginia ---The Cadets are winning their fair share of games this fall. Michigan State over Iowa ---The Spartan alumni are really beginning to ride Duffy. He can't afford to lose to the Hawkeyes. Northwestern over Indiana --The Wildcats can handle the Hoosiers with ease. Alabama over Houston ---The Crimson Tide should ride high over the Cougars. Auburn over Clemson-The Tigers continue to chase 'Barna for the South's top ranking. Tulane over Georgia Tech---The Green Wave is finally playing the type of ball that was expected of them before the season began. Georgia over Kentucky --The Bulldogs record will remain un­blemished. 
North Carolina over Wake Forest --The Tar Heels want to beat Wake Forest as badly as the Irish want to top Southern Cal. This game could decide the Atlantic Coast Conference title. 
Michigan over Minnesota--The Wolverines are too tough for the Gophers. 
Colorado over Missouri---The Buffaloes should trample the Tigers. 
Boston College over Pitt---The Eagles are flying high this season. 
Ohio State over Wisconsin---The Buckeyes will have to fight hard to get the best of the Badgers but the game's in Columbus and that's a 
big help. . 
The Irish cross country team will be in action this afternoon against a couple of formidable opponents, Indiana and Western Michigan. 
The triangular meet is slated to begin at 4 p.m. on the Burke Memorial course.
R . 
Ug g e r S,S [ l C km en pIay sa turday 
The Notre Dame lacrosse and rugby teams will be in action this weekend, the stickmen playing an Alumni team Saturday af­tl'rnoon while the ruggers play host to the University of Wisconsin ''A" and "B" teams, Saturday morning. 
The lacrosse game is scheduled to start at 5:30p.m. on Cartier Field. 
The "B" rugby game will start at 9:45 behind Stepan Center and the ''A" match will begin at 11 o'clock. Wisconsin, last spring's 
Midwest Rugby Union cham­pions, should prove worthy op-

Upset of the Week: . ,position for the Irish ruggers. 
Harvard over DartJ'}1outh -·-The Big Green won the Lambert Notre Dame's "C" rugby team 
Trophy, symbolic of Eastern supremacy, last season while going 9-0. also has a game on tap this 
They're unbeaten this year, too,but the Crimson could change that weekend, taking on the Amoco Tom Gatewood, shown hauling in a TD pass from Clirf Brown against 
tomorrow. rugby club .Sunday afternoon at North Carolina, is now the leading receiver in Irish history. Mike Last week: 13 of 15 .867 Season's Pet.: 68 of 90 .756 2: :~o behind Stepan Center. Creaney is in the foreground. 
_j 
---~-----·--­
• 
THE OBSERVER 

Page B 
Wants ten million 
Geoffrey sues ND, Hesburgh 
Former SMC art professor, He charges that he has not been True." of three doctoral degrees and is Syed J. Iqbal Geoffrey, claims he considered for an administrative Geoffrey, in his statement to listed in major Who's Whos of the has suffered damages and job at Notre Dame because of his the Fair Practices Commission, Wo•·Id, internationally. humiliation in excess of $10 race, color, religion, national said he was a Semite, Black, Geoffrey, who last year million, at the hands of Notre origin, and ancestry. Muslim, Pakistani, and a direct planned to sue SMC because he Dame and Father Hesburgh, He also charges that Notre descendent from the Prophet was denied a teaching position because of their racist hiring Dame has never considered any Muhammad. and was refused consideration policies. Black man as worthy of an Ad­Among his qualifications he for the position of President, both 
Geoffrey, also known as Jafree, ministrative position. claims to be a highly qualified on the grounds of race and creed, has taken action against the Geoffrey stated that the latter accounta~. author, art historian, stated that 'The action of this University by filing a complaint allegation could be confirmed by published poet and author, University can be considered to with the South Bend Human Joseph F. O'Brien, Director of economist, management con­be " ... repulsive, Relations and Fair Practices Personnel. O'Brien commenting sultant and admisistrator. He The Fair Practices Com­
• Commission. on the charge said it was, "Not also says he holds the equivalent mission said they have taken no 
action as 
Parietals need OK 
(Continued from page 1)  LeMans would have authorization for its experiment.  Friday, Nov. 5  
proposal, "so open and general;  "Since  they  have  already  8: 00 pm in the ACC  
such a blanket statement that it  passed the hall referendum and  Tickets $4.50 & $3.50 on sale  
would be hard to work out quickly and completely." She feels it  set up the system," Underman, "LeMans  said Miss would be  Today at the Dining Halls  
needs '"!lore and closer. scrutiny  one step ahead of the other halls  
before It would be feasible.  · in any case."  
Missy  Underman,  Student  The reason both proposals need  
Body  VP,  cited  the  possi.bility  the  approval  of  the  Trustees'  
that the ~eMans  gr~up  Will  be  Executive Committee is that they  
-asked to withdraw their proposal.  are not considered extensions of  
Thi~  would  ~llow  the  gen~r~l  any  existing  policies,  but  an  
panetal policy  the  Council s  entirely  new  policy  in  them- 
entire  if it  presented by social  com mission  and the  
ace  

Friday, October 22, 1971 
BEATLES 
festival 
Sat., Holy Cross Hall 
All American and Christmas Albums will be played. Plus Bootleg Let it Be 
Plus "Live" Shea Stadium 
Music Begins at 6:30 


-ATTENTION­
PAUL'S 
SHOE REPAIR 
Rear of Main Building 
-HOURS­Daily 7 A.M. to 6 P.M. 
Saturday 

8 to Noon 
Shoe Strings, Polish, 
Quick Service 

$10.0° CERTIFICATE 
This certificate will be good for $10.00 reduction on any suit or sportscoat'slack outfit from our regular stocks. You can choose from a fine selection of university styled apparel i?cluding the great new double knits. We make this offer to win new friends and keep old ones. Stop m soon. Use your 
Campus Shop account. 
Offer expires Saturday, December 18 
PAY NOTHING TILL 
NEXT SUMMER 
True! ... you wear and enjoy your apparel. Now, pay one-third next June, one-third next July and one-third next August. You pay no service or carrying charge 
for this exclusive way to buy. Open your 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME

-1 account ... what could be easier? 
======~========================~ 
j 
SELL IT FAST .... 
USE THE CLASSIFIEDS. 
------------------------------------------------~ 








