Vol. VI No. 24 

Moratoriwn plarmed today 
The People's Coalition, which 
from noon to 4 p.m. on the main 
sponsored lhe nation-wide 
quad around the flag-pole unless it 
Moratorium in October of 1969, 
rains, and then it will be in Stepan
has named today as Moratorium 
Center. At this time there will be 
Day. 
discussions and different games. 
The program will be entitled 
At 4 p.m. Sister Margaret
"Things as they might be", AND 
Traxler will speak, to be followed 
IS BEING SPONSORED BY 
by Jane Kennedy, who was 
TJII<: Program on Non-Violence 
recently released from prison
and the Campus Ministry. 
following a conviction on a draft 
Fr. Maurice Amen, director of 
action. th{• Non-Violence Program, said 
Tables and booths will be set up 
that the purpose of the 
with people from InPirg, NOW 
moratorium is to "provide a ROTC, Draft Counseling, the President Nixon announces another presidential trip.
forum for the discussion of Fr. Maurice Amen some
Feminist Movement, and 
various topics. It's an informal 
anti pollution peeople. 
learning experience where For instance, I have a thing about 
Following the speakers and 
people get together and express Charlie Brown and therefore an Nixon to meet Soviets
discussions, Fr. William Toohey, 
and share ideas." going to have a try at psychiatry 
head of Campus Ministry, will be 
for five cents." 
the main celebrant at a Mass at 5 
at Moscow summit talk
Nickt'l Psychiatry Sister Patricia McNeal, a non­
p.m.. At this Mass there will be 
violence program instructor will a "very
what Fr. Amen called 
have a program entitled "Know (f) 1!171 Nt'w York Timt>s
different liturgy" with people would be premature to do so ,Fr. , Amen added that the 
your subversives." There also Nixon said he and his Soviet
acting out certain. parts of the Washington, Oct. 12--Presidentmoratorium will have a lighter 
will be helium-filled balloons and Nixon disclosed today that he will "all
liturgy and taking parts from Fr. counterparts would reviewside: "It's not going to be 
free coffee. Daniel Berrigan's S.J. play, "The go to Moscow for a summit major issues,"including armscompletely serious. Some of us The moratorium will take place Trial of the Catonsville Nine". meeting with Soviet leaders next control, the Middle East, East­are going to have a good time. 
May. West relations and other matters. 
SAC must judge LeMans plan The announcement was made Without directly saying so, by the President himself at a Nixon suggested that nothing surprise news conference at the would delight him more than to 
be able, while in Moscow, to join

SMC Pari•etals not approved 
White House this morning. He
read a formal statement that was the Soviet leaders in signing a released simultaneously in stategic arms limitation
connected with the proposed .. residents, who would also Moscow, then opened himself to agreement. He said that "we areby Maria Gallagher LeMans Hall Experiment." determine hall security and questions on a variety of foreign making progress"toward such an'The oarietal expenment." procedure during the visitation and domestic issues. 
agreement, and expressed the

Contrary to what was reported continued Missy Underman, "in 
hours. Nixon described his visit to hope that the issue of armsyesterday in the Observer, LeMans Hall was not voted on by This proposal, Miss Underman Moscow as"Independent" of his 
limitation "may be behind us" byLeMans Hall will not experiment the Student Affairs Committee. It stressed, must go to the Student propusf'd journey to the People's the time he arrives in Moscow.

with a new parietal policy until was formulated by the LeMans Affairs Council for approval or Republic of China, which he Nixon said the idea of a summitthe plan has been approved. Hall Council and the plans are not 
rejection. announced last July, insisting meeting had been discussedMissy Underman, chairman of completed." 
The freshman no-hour proposal that neither trip "is being taken informally at various levels of the the Human Affairs Committee, Miss Underman noted that the was passed, said Miss Un-for the purpose of exploiting what Unites States government everand Margie Rurak, LeMans hall parietal hour proposal would give derman, "by the Student Affairs differences may exist between since he entered the Whitepresident, said that "The parietal each hall the power to "formulate Council Monday afternoon. It had the two countries." 
House--and with the Soviets onhour proposal formulated by and exercise jurisdiction of hall passed by the Student Assembly On the contrary, he stressed several occasions during the last 

Darlene Gallina, Gary Caruso, parietal policy." In short, hall and Student Affairs Committee that both trips were conceived 13 months-but that he had
and Mary Kay Tobin is in no way parietals would rest with the hall 
the week before. with a single purpose in mind-­resisted the notion until he sensed -------------1 achieving "better relations" with that there had been satisfactory
I the Communist world--and that progress in bilateral negotiations 
Rubin to speak here 1 Attention: 1 neither trip "is being taken at the between the two governments at 
1 1 expense of any other nation." lower levels, and some evidence 1 1 that the two nations could reach
Yippie co-founder and author of SLC M££1'lNG Ni~on said he pianned to vistt 
the controversial bookDo It, will the free speech movement at the 1 1 Peking first, and suggested that agreement on specific, concrete speak at Stephan Center at 8p.m. University of California at I I he had chosen the month of May subjects. Thursday evening. Berkeley in 1964. As a result of I The Student Life Council will I so as to sandwich the Soviet visit The President went on to say, 
ThP speech, entitled 'The Big the Festival of Life, he and Abbie Imeet Thursday night to discuss I between the China journey and however, that a careful LiP' is co-sponsored by the ND­Hoffman organized at the same !two different proposals fori the beginning of the political examination of the last two years SMC Academic commission and time as the 1968 Democratic lfJniversity sanctions. . 1 season at home next summer. revealed that there had, in fact, !h(• South Bend branch of the Convention. He was tried and I The meeting wil1 be held in theI The President said the trip been sufficient progress in United PPople's Coalition for Peace and acquitted of conspiracy charges. I Center for Continuing EducationI would be a "working visit" and States-Soviet relations to con­.Justice. There will be a 25 cent ad-I that ceremony would be kept to vince him and his Soviet coun­
. . h IAuditorium at 7:00p.m. .. b 1 t · · "H 'd terparts that a summit could be
Hubin was one of the I~a~ers of ... -~ISSIO~ _c_ -~~~~: ...... _.............. The agenda is: I an a sou e mtmmum. e sat
:·:·:·:·:~:~:·:·:·:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;;;;;;;;;.;.;;;;;;;;;;:.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:~:~:·:~:~:·:·:·:~:~:~:~:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:~:::·1--steering Committee report I he hoped to confer with Premier staged with at least a reasonable 
hope of "mahing significant

j~j1 :~~~: 1--General discussion of drinking, I ~:~~r:: ~~s~~~g:~~Y, P~~~id=~~ progress.'';j;: ld B • f :~;~: lparietals, and sanctions. yotingl pected his most "significant" As evidence, he listed treaty
:::: Wor rie s ::::: ISLC 
members only Will bel encounterwouldbewithLeonid I. agreements with the Soviet Union 
:::: ::::. allowed to speak.
" ···· 1 1 Brezhnev, Chief of the Com-barring nuclear weapons from 
;:;: :;:; --Vote on the Hall Life Committee I munist Party and Russia's most seabeds along the continental :;:; :::: I report I powerfu~ single figure. shelves, a treaty curbing the use 1111 @'--vote on the alternative 1 Although he resisted of biological weapons, and an 
1!171 New York Times News Service lproposal. I discussing the agenda of the talks agreement designed to reduce the risk of accidental war.
Washington--A costly program of "pacification" and other un­·-------------talks in detail, asserting that it conventional warfare strategies for Cambodia that will protect South 
Leader says they will \\tdkoff next time
Vietnam's western flank as American forces continue withdrawing from Indochina is said to have been designed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, according to congressional sources.. They also have ~udget gimmicks to augment the funds Congress will be asked to provide for 
Band objects to halftilne antics 
the plan. 
There's a good chance that the Cannata said if there was danger no one runs on the field 
Washington .. A constitutional amendment prohibiting band will leave the field if of someone being hurt. deliberately to disturb the band, discrimination based on sex was overwhelmingly passed by the House students swarm all over it during ThP dustUtbance, O'Brian felt, the situation is still hy a vote of 354 to 23. The amendment, favored by women's rights their half-time show, as they did was definitely not caused out of • • d i s i 1 1 u s i o n i n g a n d advocates, no longer includes provisions however, for only drafting during the Michigan State game, malicousness, but rather out of discouraging." men. The fate of the amendment in the Senate is uncertain and if warned Marching Band thoughtlessness--thoughtlessness Cannata pointed out the per­passed, must still be reatified by at least 38 states. President, Greg Cannata. for the people who spent many formance was disturbed for those 
Band Director Robert O'Brian hard hours in working out the watching on television as well as and Cannata both criticized the schedule and the program. fans in the stadium. O'Brian cited 
Calcutta-Military equipment has been arriving in Calcutta by who on field
students ran the O'Brian said he wouldn't object letters recieved from across the
special freight trains every day for some time. The Bengali forces, during the Michigan State game I? the people running ?Ut ?n the nation as proof that the fans werewho are fighting for East Pakistan independence, will reportedly halftime show, and said they felt held If they had a special time to obviously not pleasf'd.
recieve the arms, and are believed to be preparing to step up their such activity should be banned. d_o so, when the band was off the I Both rnen expresspd concernactivities against the Pakistani army. According to reliable sources, 
"We've pretty much decided field. for the safety of the people in-India and Pakistan have reinforced their troops on both the Eastern that we '11 leave the field," He added that while reailzing vol ved. 
and Western borders. 

-

·-----r===========~~====~======~=-~­

't d ~.f

Dr• ACkerman, new ass • ean OJ Students commentls on hz·s j·ob 
/ bY Larry Dailey Dr. Robert Ackerman feeIs 
· t tht h.

th
a •s appom ment as e new Assistant Dea'tl of Students is a
"reflection of the university's 
concern towards the develop­ment of the student's life outside the class room."
Asked his impression of the role of an assistant dean of a modern university, Ackerman first explained that his position "is not a universal title, since not everybody does the same thing." 
Although realizing that he is considered a disciplinary agent, ..1. Ackerman commented, "I look upon myself as more of an educator and counselor. Acting within these two fields, I feel that I can fulfill my responsibilities towards discipline, since it is an important part of the outer class life of the student." 
Dr. Ackerman also confessed that he enjoyed "all aspects of university life" and feels that "Notre Dame is at a threshold" in its history. Since he completed his doctorate in the area of student development, Ackerman considers himself professionally trained and hopes to "bring a new perspective to campus life." 


He hopes "to bring a new 
perspective to campus life." 
Even though he has been on the campus for only six weeks, Dr. Ackerman has already demonstrated his enthusiasm 

. f towards student c&mpus life . Along with members of the hall judicial boards, Dr. Ackerman has undertaken the publication of a manual for members of all hall judicial boards. 
Debaters win 
The Debate Club captured two trophies over the weekend at the University of Kentucky's annual tournament but failed to win first place. ~ 
Seniors Tom Gies and Mike Connor advanced to the semi­finals as a team before dropping a 2-1 deci!'ion to the eventual tournamen't winner. 
They argued the affirmative side that present investigative apparatus of the welfare program is unfair and violates human rights. The topic for this year is that greater controls should be imposed on the gathering and utilization of inc formation about U.S. citizens by government agencies. 
The team of Senior Tom King and Junior Jack Keeney was undefeated in the sex preliminary rounds and reached the quarter-finals, where they lost the 2-1 decision. 
There were42 teams from 31 colleges and 17 states in the tournament. 
Last week Dr. Ackerman pa_rticipated in a "rap session" wit.h students concerni·ng panetals, and has also written his 
interpretation of the Trustee's 
-~ 
" Dr. Ackerman: "Notre Dame is at a threshold." 
rationale for parietal hours. 
One fear Dr. Ackerman holds about parietals is that too many people are bogged down "by time and hours." "We should look beyond the policy and reflect upon whether or not a student is capable of developing his own 

personality, since both the · · trustees and the students desire the same meaningful effect. I'm hopeful that the institution can look beyond parietals, and reflect upon the role of the university in the U.S., how a university should relate to society, or even how can one individual relate with another?" 
Ackerman also enjoys working as dean because of his superior -­the Rev. Fr. James Reihle "of whom," Ackerman said he' has "a great deal of respect. He communicates well, shares his opinions with others, and the students who have contact with him constantly comment on his sense of fair play. We do however have one major disagreement, since Fr. Reihle is a loyal Detroit Lion fan and I follow the Packers." 
Besides the absence of girls, Dr. Ackerman explained that the one major diference between Notre Dame and other univer­sities he perceived was "the 


Nixon narrows court choices 
Washington, October 12-­

Pre~~~N~~~d~~yth~r~===~=~==~~====~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
he would announce next week his selections to fill two vacancies on th~ .Supreme Court, and he held 

************** 
out the possibility that one of the nominees would be a woman. Nixon told a news conference 



WANTED: 
that Senator Robert C. Byrd of ~est Virginia, Democratic whip 

************** 
m the Senate, was "Definitely on the list" of persons who were being considered for the court along with "at ~east two women." IStudent 
At t~e same hme, however, the 

Union needs a secretary fro 
President apparently sought to discourage speculation that Byrd was in line for one of the vacancies created by the retirements last month of the late Justice Hugo L. Black and Justice John M. Harlan. ' 
The President said that what he described as "dope stories" that Byrd was certain to get the nomination and then that he was out of the running were both wrong. "I don't rule out Senator Byrd," he said, but then later he explained that the Senator was being considered ''as a result of several of his colleagues recommending him." 
White House sources earlier said the list of potential can­didates had been narrowed to 10 or 12 persons, and similarly they sought to dampen speculation that Byrd was at the top of the list. 
interest students showed in events ocurring on campus. They are always willing to work on
problems and also listen to views 
of others." 
Dr. Ackerman also added that he was very impressed with the 

first Student Life Council ~======-====================~ 
meeting "where students t-
exhibited concern and did so in an absolutely commendable manner in a difficult time. In no way, did it resemble a mob." 
Because Dr. Ackerman feels 
that every administrator should teach at one point in his career, he has announced that next semester, in conjunction with the Dept. of Education at St. Mary's College, he will teach a course entitled "The American College." Ackerman hopes to give the college student a look at 
the "university institution and how it developed in the United States." 
"I have a great love for the university as an institution and I hope to show my feeling to the students." 

October 27 through December 18 
Mondays and Wednesdays only. 1 to 5 PM·. $1.60 per hou~ Come to 4th floor LaFortune 
·ri .)•• 
or call 7752.
(\ ·:; ... J'll -.. 
Saturday1 October 16 
8: 30 pm m the ACC 

Tickets $4.50, $3.50, $2.00 at . 
The Student Union Ticket 
Office and Dining Halls 

presented by Student Union Social Commission and ACC 
TRUE HOUSE 
A charismatic Christian Community at Notre Dame welcomes all interested 
tojoinitinadailycelebrationoftheliturgy
at lBreen-Phillips Chapel 5:00 PM Monday-Saturday and 1: 00 AM Sunday. An explanation
f h c h 1" Ch · t" 1· •
o t e at o lC artsma lC renewa lS given on
PM · th h 1 d
Tuesday at4:. 30 m e c ape, an a prayer meeting is held during the Mass on Thursday.
For further t"nform.,tion contact True Hous'e
" 

office (283-3035) or Paul Scheuermann 225 B·P (283-1281). 
Sophomore Parents Weekend Buffet Dinner 
Saturday Oct. 30 after the Navy game 
featured speaker 
'DIGGER' PHELPS tickets will be on sale Oct. 11 thru Oct. 15 in the lobby of the Dining Halls 
PRICE: $650 those who have already purchased their tickets may pick them up at this time 


11tlt~tl 
**** 

li\'illtJSfttll t;J\Tittl• 

Wednesday, October 13, 1971 
TilE OBSERVER PaR! 3
-----------------------------=-----:-======--====== 
POOL

2 hall commissions merge 
Play One Hour, Get One Hour FREE 

by Ann McCarry 

The Academic Commissions of Farley Hall and McCandless Hall have merged in an experiment in the area of hall life. 
This merger was proposed by Chris Singleton, of Farley, when he learned that Mary Kay Tobin, of McCandless, had been authorized to institute the Hall l<'ellows program in McCandless this year. 
The Hall Fellows program, which has been practiced at Notre Dame for several years, gives students a chance to meet with the faculty on a more casual, communicative level. Singleton felt this would benefit McCan­dless because the Farley program had been operating for several years and that the residents of both halls could benefit greatly from such a relationship. 
Miss Tobin and Singleton agreed that a true community feeling was definitely lacking at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Both student bodies have wrong impressions of the students on the other campus. These im­pressions lead to grave misun­derstandings. 
Realizing that misun­derstandings of this type are detrimental to both coeducational plans and the personal development of in­dividuals, Singleton and Tobin proposed this experiment to their hall councils. Both the Farley 
On October 11, the Observer presented several complaints concerning the shuttle bases to Mr. Timothy H. Poley, assistant to the coordinator of analytical studies. The following are these complaints and the responses they received from Poley's of­fice. 
Complaints have been received stating that the shuttles scheduled to run at 12:15 a.m. often do not run. A case in point is that of a St. Mary's freshman picked up hitching back to SMC alone at 12:30 a.m. because the shuttle had failed to appear and she was late for curfew. 
Poley responded that as far as his office and the bus company knew there was a shuttle operating at this time. He did suggest, because there are so many new drivers this year, who are unsure of the campus and the schedule, that the failure of the bus to appear was perhaps due to a misunderstanding on the part of the driver. 
On Friday and Saturday nights two shuttles are run, as opposed to only one on weekdays. One of these buses goes home at 3 a.m., the other at 3:30. The 3 a.m. bus puts up the garage sign after it leaves St. Mary's the last time. It does return to Notre Dame before going to the garage. The sign is 
put up for the beniefit of those 
students who board the bus at the 
Grotto, planning to ride it around 
Notre Dame and then back to St. 
.Mary's. This bus goes only to the 
library before going to the 
garage, leaving students traveling to SMC farther away than when they started. A new bus is scheduled to leave St. Mary's between 5:45 and 6 
p.m. to alleviate overcrowding on the 6: 15 bus. The problem at this time Poley stated was not that the bus was not showing but that, because it was so quickly filled to capacity, the drivers were leaving ahead of schedule. 
Neighborhood Study 
needs more tutors 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program needs tutors to work in the South Bend schools one or two afternoons a week from 12: 45 
P.M. lo 2:10P.M. Transportation will be provided. Volunteers are also needed from 6: 30 to 8: 10 in the evening center two nights a week (Monday and Wednesday or Tuesday and Thrsday). If in­terested contact Tom Reid at 7927, John Rompf 1847, M. J. 
Griffin 5161 or Kathy ~3!_n~ 5734. 
Notre Dame • Saint Mary's Theatre presents John Webster~s 

THE DUCHESS OF MALFI 
October 15, 16, 21, 22 and 23 O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's 8:30 pm sharp. Ticket Reservations • 284·4141 or at O'Laughlin Box office 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
The development of the program depends on student interest. "You can't really tell yet what will grow out of the program," said Miss Tobin. "We're not setting our ex­pectations too high. I just hope that the program is mutually 
beneficial for McCandless and 
110 lh North Main-Street Through Allen's Alley Farley and that some good Rear JMS Building 233·0660 
KICKOFF PARTY Friday Oct 15 9pm-1am South Bend Armory· $5°0 pe•· couple tickets at door music by FRIENDS,BROTHERS,AND ST,RANGERS 
REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED 
special busses will leave the ND circle at 8:30, 9:00 and 9:30. Five minutes later from St. Mary's. 


•••and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card nowI 
@ 
Indiana Bell 
with coupon The New 






RED DOOR CLUB 
Offer Expires October 31, 1971 
------·------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, October 13, 1971 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
•:ditor-in-<.'hief nushwss :\hll\agt•t• Glen S. Corso .laml'S .Jcndryk 
All successful ··newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and belli<.o~e. They never defend any.one "' anvth1119 of they 
.\d :\lana~l·r can help it; if lhe job is for.:ed upon them, 
Exceutivf' F.ditor 
IIi II n.uwrlc 

they tackle it by denourocing !.nmeone or 
something else. -H. L. Mencken, 
T.C. Treanor 
Founded Nov<>mber 3, 1966 Nut rt' Da nw. Indiana Business 283-1471 New~ :!11:1-1115 
~------·--~~------------------------------------------------·--------­
The Budget; A good job, 
alntost 

Among a number of wise budget deCisions made by the Student Senate 
the other night, one foolish move robbed the students of one of the most 
valuable services offered them. 
By refusing to grant the -Scholastic money to publish the Course Evaluation Booklet, the Senate eliminated one of the most valuable publications on campus. The Booklet, in the past, reviewed most of the Notre Dame Arts and Letters courses, thus covering the largest college in the University, one in which virtually every student takes courses at one time or another. 
The Scholastic was willing to devote time and effort to the task of publishing the booklet, all they asked of the Senate was money to finance it. Instead, it was suggested that they cut one-seventh of their scheduled issues to produce it. This is obviously impractical. 
Even if a smaller allocation had been voted, the Scholastic might have found a way to produce the bookl-et for less cost. .. But the members of the Student Senate could not even see a partial allotment. 
Luckily, a far less plebian mood prevailed when the Senate voted to allot $5,000 to the off-campus-hall life fund. Bold and imaginative programs put together by hall governments and the off-campus office won't suffer for lack of finance. In the process the sagging concept of hall autonomy was given a boost. 
The increased allocations for the Mexican-American and Afro­American Societies were wise and generous decisions. Both organizations set forth year-round programs which justified the monies ­that they _requested. 
_. 

Though the Student Union recieved far less than it originally asked for, the money looks to be well spent. The mood prevailing the Union this year is away from grandiose mass events and towards more informal affairs, and that's a good thing. 
Though the Student Union's Cultural Arts Commission's original budget request was almost equal to the$37,500allocation recieved by the entire union, thier program of events should be equal if not better than last year's. 
It's probably too late to save tne Course Evaluation Booklet this year, but the Senate managed to learn from it's mistakes of last year, when it voted the halls a paltry sum. The situation had better be different next time. 
lJ::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;\~l 
:;:; Night Editor: Gene Slason Layout: George Lund Controller of the night: ::;: :·:· mark j. niederkorn ·:·: ;:;: Assistant Night Editor: Anthony Copy Reader: Jim R~ ~;~; 
;:;; Ab!Mid Headlines: Cris Sullivan Typists: Girard Schmid :;:; 
1.1.:.1. ,.,.., Ed;t"' John AbOod THE OBSERVER sM:·:,:"''"'':n coowav 
!.;.1.1.·. 

Features Editor: rick smith :~:~ Managing Editor: Don Ruane Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson::;:! 
ll~::;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;::;:;:;:;:;:::;:;;;:;;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::Jjj 

any.' 

Foreign Affairs 
Odyssey among the spooks 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. C. L. Sulzberger 
Monte Carlo, Momaco --The spindrift of the cold war is the human 
spray blown hither and thither by ideological gusts. This is typified by 
dissidents who flee communist lands in search of freedom, by draft 
dodgers seeking to escape the United States Armed Forces abroad, 
American Black Revolutionists in foreign havens and by defectors 
from rival diplomatic or espionage establishments who for different 
reasons abandon their native lands. 
One of the moft puzzling of these instances is that of Jozsef Sz~ll 
Hungary's senior career ambassador and most recently special ad~ 
visor to the foreign minister. Szall fled Budapest last year, spent a 
considerable time under interrogation by Italian security represen­
tatives in Rome, where he had long been envoy, and early this year 
was flown to the United States by the Central Intelligence Agency 
whose voluntary guest he remained for weeks. 
Szall, his wife and 12-year-<>ld boy benifited from the hospitality of a 
C.I.A. safe house near Washington during which time the family acknowledges it was amiably treated. They visited Washington theatres and museums but were isolated from direct contact with friends or non-C.I.A. officials. 
However, alt~o~gh the C.I.A. offered to facilitate the Szall's per­
manent admissiOn, the ambassador remained uncertain that he 
wandtd to make the final leap. He still felt Hungarian and a 
"Socialist" if of a heretically liberal sort. 
Therefore, with the intelligence agency's help, they flew back to 
Eur~pe, stopping first in Switzerland. The Swiss security police im­
mediately_ wanted a report on everything he had told Italian and 
American Intelligence, when he refused they eased him out. 
The Szall~ then _went to Vienna where they established telephone contac~ w1th var_10us Hungarian officials as well as Budapest's em­bassy m AustraL Somehow, by wishful thinking they hoped they might still be forgiven and allowed to return home again to an 
esteemed position. 
Just why they should have cherished such a delusion is hard to 
fathom. While the Szalls were still refugees in Rome on the initial lap 
of their strange odyssey, they attended a pre-arranged meeting in St. 
Peter's, Vatican City, and were almost kidnapped by the Hungarian 
"diplomatic representatives" whom they met. Alert Italian security 
agents apparently prevented their forcible removal. 
Even before they transferred from an Italian safe house to an 
American safe house, Mrs. Szall's elderly parents in Budapest had 
been dispossed of almoo all their belongings and contact between the 
ambassador and his friends had ceased. 
It was difficult to imagine that a term as guest of the C.I.A . would 
improve Szall 's chances of advancement. Nevertheless, at first he was 
recieved by the Hungarian ambassador in Vienna and talked with 
officials by long-distance telephone to Budapest. 
Soon the freeze began, however, and szall's curious dream of­
nredefecting began to vanish. He demanded a safe conduct and a 
ritten amnesty. "What do you expect?" he was asked. "The red 
carpet treatment?" All doors closed. 
At this point Szall decided to return westward. He had no wish to go 
back to Italy where the security apparatus didn't feel especially 
chummy following hi!'> departure from the hospitality of Rome spooks 
for that of Washington's. 
Nor did he aspire to try so soon again to revisit the United States, 
which wouldn't have been easy anyway. He wanted a neutral corner; 
Switzerland was inhospitable; so he came to this little principality. 
Although Monaco is virtually a piece of France, it has its own flag and 
sovereign and no relations with any communist states. 
Szall, who now lives in a modest apartment here, is in no sense a 
major figure in the criss-crossing tide of hv"'lanity set in motion by 
Europe's East-West ideological cleavage. 
NPvertheless, he is the highest-ranking Hungarian defector since 
thP revolt that shook his country exactly 15 years ago and perhaps the 
most distinguished political refugee to seek sanctuary here. More 
singularly, he is one of the few instances of a re-defector, by intent if 
not by.achievement so far produced by the cold war. 
•• • ., ., ~ I ~ ( . ,, 1 I l· -~ ·~ 


-------~-­
Wednesday, October 13, 1971 
THE OBSERVER Pages
---------------------·------------------­
a power struggle ending
the duchess "' VI --niT111~·· • r •I in blood and destruction 
1\ladm•ss and a ~ersonal lust for power an• kt>y llwnws of the opening productioP. for tlw Nolt·e Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 1\171-72 st•ason. John Webster's, The nuclt!'ss of Malfi. 
l>irPetPd by l<'rederick Syburg, the . lacoh<•an play is set in Malfi, Italy in the late lfith cl'ntury. The drama depicts the struggle of the Duchess of Malfi, played by (;race llartigan. who must cope with personal desirl's and royal committments. l.ockPd with lwr in a struggle for power. n•solving into blood and destruction, are hPr hrothl'rs. l<'t>rdinand, played by James II llawthorm>, and the Cardinal, played by !\lark Swirwy. 
l!av lkrndt. as Antonio, the Duchess' siPwiml. is cruslwd by the insane minds l'd hy power wlwn lw falls in Jove 
-


what's happening at iusb 
theater i u presents shaw 
"Arms and the Man," George Bernard Shaw's satire on the romantic view of life, will begin a six-performance..>run at In­diana University at South Bend Thursday Wet ober 14 l. 
Directed by .John W. Toth, the first play of thl' sl'ason by Theatre IU at South Bend will lw presented in the IUSB Theatre at 
II: 15 p.m. Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, and again on October 22 and 23. A matinee JWrformance at 2:15 p.m. October 23 will dosl' the run. 
Warrl'n Pl'pperdine, director of Theatre lliSB. has designed the settings and costumrs for" Arms and the Man," Shaw's l'omt>dy about war which features a hero who carries chocolates in his cartridge hl'lt. 
Authentic military uniforms of the late l!lth Cl'ntury have been constructed by l'l'pperdine and costumer Delores Blicher. l'l'ppl'rdinr describes the set designs as trying to capt'ure the flavor of Shaw's dl'scriptions of psuedo-Viennese Vic­toriana as it was influenced by the Turkish l•:mpirl' in Bulgaria. 
folk !ife festival plans 
An organizational meeting for the 6th annual l<'olk Life Festival will be held at 
i:45 p.m. Thursday, October 14 in Room 117 of Indiana University South Bend's Northside llall. ' 
.John Frazier. chairman of las't spring's festival. said all intprested members of the l'ommunity are invited to the meeting. 
The annual. two-day festival has been a produd of tlw combined efforts of the with llw Duchess and secretly marries lwr. 
Olht•r· major characters indudP Bosola, played by .John Paul Duffy; Cariola, playt•d by 1\laribeth Fencl; Julia, played hy 1\imlwl'ly 1-:rb; and DPiio, played by l•'prd ( 'IPmPns . 
The st>t. dPsigned hy Zack Brown, 

consists of two winding staricases, with a . 
~round floor entrance in the shape of a ~rotpsquP mouth and hands, accented by Jon~ tapPring finger·s, adding to the 
macabn• atmosphPrP of the play. 

Patricia D. Gruska. costumer for the ..i-.. Notre DamP -Saint Mary's Theatre, has 'd<•sigrwd costunws in the late lfith century l'ogut• inspired by the mannerist influence. 
1\lajor charactPrs are costumed in colors t~·pifying tlwir humor. 
\ 
I ._ ' 

l.i~hting has heen designed by Richard lkrgman. tPchnical director for the Notre l>anw -Saint Mary's Theatre. 
Sound has been co-ordinated by Robert Souders. Jr. 
l'roduclien dates for The Duchess of Mnlfi an• October 15, 16, 21, 22, and 23. l'urtain is at 11::30 pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium on the Saint Mary's Campus. 
Tickets for the production are $2 and !1:1.50 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's studl'nts and faculty. Reservations can be 
madl' by calling the Speech and Drama 
I>epa rt nwn t at 284-4935 or· 283-4141. 

Any other additional information can be n•ceived by contacting Carol Riordan at , 21\4-4\):35 or Mr. Charles Ballinger at 284­-1144. 
_ 1·~Y-..._,__,.,._. _The Notre Dam~ St. Mary's.n.eatre opens its 1971-72 season wi.th John ~ebster's "The ;a -_ . _-~~--· · ·• Duchess of Malr1". Portraymg major roles are <above, left to nghtl Mar1beth Fencl, as
. 

·_. -~ ·¥,.... Cariola, Grace Hartigan, as the Duchess, and James H. Hawthorned, as Ferdinand. 
•2· ·• " • On the left, Hawthorne and Hartigan go through one of the play's intense scenes.
t• .
,,...
. . 
~... )" 
::· 
-.',( 7-b­


·t&t.J( 

·_' ... '' ..~:\'>
~· • 

\' ...:. . 
~ -~.-~ **·-~-~. 

South Bend-Mishawaka community and IUSB's Student Government, students, 
and faculty. 
The dates of the 1972 Folk Life Festival have not been established, Frazier said. but it is hoped that the event can be held on a weekend in March or April. 
Last spring, the festival included two folk concerts, an international folk-culture fair and a variety of folk-music workshops, as wpJl as a special concert for children. 
free flicks 
Tonight the Civilisation film series continues with "The Hero as Artist" at 4 and 7::30 p.m. in room 126 Northside Hall. Tlw series is narrated by Kenneth Clark and has received much critical acclaim. Admission is free. 
On Friday, October 15, the IUSB Student Government film series will screen "Daddy's Gone A-Hunting" at 9 p.m. in room 126 Northside Hall. Admission is free. 
in case you don't 

know h h 
The best way to get to TUSB is to take Erlrly Street all the way down to the Mishawaka A venue Exit, just before the river. and take Mishawaka past Twyckenham to Greenlawn, where there is a traffic light and a Coca-Cola bottling plant (and a lighted red and white sign) and turn right on Greenlawn, go about a block and you are there. Or you could take Twyckcnham to Mishawaka, turn left and go to Greenlawn, about a block or two nway 1 think, and there you are. The big building on your left is Northside Hall. To g<'l to rooms 126 and 117 you should enter WJ.dc>r thc>pover~·d pprt_it;:o towards the ~tast c>nd of the'building. Just follow the crowds. 
russell baker 







hoir on the potomac 
OW to get t ere longer than three rounds without collap­
(c) 1971 New York Times Washington Toughness. Yes, toughness. That is what we admire here. 
Here in Washington. The nation's capital, baby, and don't you forget it. 
Note the iron-fisted quality of that opening paragraph, for example. Its trip­hammer power. Its bluntness. Its utter lack of grace. Five periods in a mere twenty-one words. It is a paragraph with hair on its chest. Hair all over its face. A tough Washington paragraph. 
In Washington, of course, we don't talk in paragraphs as tough as that. 
No sir. 

When we talk in Washington, we like to let on that we're a bunch of pussyfooters. "Oh, yes, good citizens," we say, "we shall implement that for you just as soon as the input process of the game plan has received maximized minimunization at the subcabinet interagency cosmolunatic review level, with the provisio that coordination has been fully internalized in consonance with the effluvium plug." 
You see the point. Pussyfoot talk shows that we are cool, contained, and don't know what we are talking about. 
But underneath all the syllables, we are thinking in tough paragraphs. 
Tough. 
Paragraphs. 

The kind of tough paragraphs that only the truly tough-minded can think in for 
sing in mental exhaustion. Because we are nothing here if not tough-minded. 
Some people will tell you we are too tough-minded here in Washington. They don't like the way our tough minds shoot first and sit around quietly coddling this and that, and then maybe shoot later but only if the coddling doesn't pacify the object of our gunfire. 
the whole world unless he's out of Cuba by sundown. But it's a lot of fun if you like playing games in which everybody can get killed. Provided you're tough. And have a hard nose. 
Flabby-minded people are permissible, of course, because it takes minds in all sort of physical condition, including run-down and easily winded, to make up a country. Nobody in his right tough mind, however, wants flabby-minded people in Washington. 
Flabby-minded people are sissies. 
They are soft-nosed. 
They are coddlers. 
They come back without the coonskin. 
They would let the country become a pitiful helpless giant. . They would let a rat get away with the 
bacon rather than stand on principle and 
blow up the smokehouse, burn down the 
farm and defoliate the corn crop. 
And after that happened, pretty soon rats everywhere would be saying, "America is no longer number one. America has become number two." 
America is playing in a tough league. A league gettting tougher every year. Keeping America number one requires men tough enough to mousetrap the yen, fake the Chinats out of theU.N., bribe the scorekeeper in Saigon, throw the bomb against the North Vietnamese and jail or shoot anybody in the stadiumwho boos the game plan. 
Sounds mean, doesn't it? That's because it is mean. It's got to be mean. Because toughness is what it takes here in Washington. W Where the name of the game is machismo. 
That's machismo, baby. Never forget it. 
And wipe that smile off your face. 
Pronto! 

Thank fifty years of cowboy movies. We 4 aren't going to listen to that kind of talk. 
kite flyers

Not u:s.We say the time to ask questions is when there's nobody left to. disagree with 
Needed to fly kites at the Urchins' Mass our answers. . on Sunday, October 17 at 11:00 a.m. The only reason we can say that IS Contact the Kite Master Room 120 because of our toughness. It isn't easy to ~Kl'enan. Telephone: 7066 tl'll some big creep you're going to blow up "~-"""'-"""'______"""'____, 
' 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, October 13, 1971 
Editor: 
field is mostly phoney anyway.
Congratulations, Notre Dame! 
Past generations of Notre Dame 
You finally made the big time -men have cheered national



--Letters -­
Editor: 
The Pride l felt after that fantastic display of Notre Dame spririt on the field at halftime, and in the stands during the fourth quarter, will probably never be equaled for me. Before 60,000 fans on the scene, and many more watching television, the students of Notre Dame, or a( least a very active minority, showed what they are made of. 
All the students of this in­tellectual community owe a great deal to the caped beer slayer who, by running roughshod through the marching band, rallied a thousand more in­telligent young men and women onto the field to gawk a t the cameramen who were looking back with the interest of a normal person watching the activities of the insane. 
Yes, we all owe the people who represented us on. the field at halftime a great debt for having the talent and courage to do what most of us were too inhibited to do. Even the ABC commentators were impressed as evidenced by 
the continuous comment that; "I've never seen anything like this." They even went so far as to call it a "happening in South Bend." It's just too bad the band didn't leave the field so that the more representative student group could have had greater freedom of motion. 
It's also a shame that the other manifestation of what ihneans to be an ND man was not covered by the television cameras. Imagine the pride we would have all felt if television audiences could have seen the mini-skirted girls being passed up into the stands on the hands of sensitive, emotionally mature MEN.. Although such an activity would normally con­stitute assault, it's all part of the traditional Notre Dame men­tality that the nation saw so much of Saturday. Besides, we all know the girls love it. 
Thank you beer slayer, gaping students, and everyone who was passing people up into the stands 
for showing the nation exactly what Notre Dame is really like. After Saturday's display, there will undoubtedly be many people calling du Lac the Harvard of the midwest. 

Editor: 
The Notre Dame Student Body is mature, responsible, con­siderate, and capable of deter­mining and controlling their own life-styles and affairs. At least that's what people are led to believe by the actions and words of student "leaders" and student publications. Students here show their exemplary behavior by being at their very best at times when millions of people are watching via television. 
I refer specifically . to the exhibition that took place during the half-time show of Saturday's game. Students showed deep concern for their fellows, con­sideration for the other fans, and provided the television audience with an insight into the unique intellectual and athletic reputation of Notre Dame by rushing onto the field and acting like two year-olds. This com-




LBATBBB LTD. 
custom liatbl·jeans·sandals 
macs·boats·pati1y 111south main 
featuringMalejeans 
munity of scholars and honor;ible men <remember, the television cameras did not focus on the remair.ing students in the stands) which desires to expand and exercise its mature abilities into the areas of drug-use, alchohol, and sex managed to destroy the · enjoyment of a good part of the half-time show for many of the spectators, and showed the grossest rudeness to the mem­
bers of the band. 
This was supposedly done under the guise of "school spirit" but in reality had little to do with athletic pride. It could have been worse. At least students didn't bother the Michigan State Band. There is no excuse, however, for students to rush onto the field while the half-time show is in progress to play grab-ass, belly bounce, form pyramids, and carry certain signs which have nothing to do with athletic prowess. 
These coarse activities made it 

impossible for many to enjoy the show because they couldn't hear i t well or see it properly. These activities do not inspire the team. It's obvious that these diversions show little respect or courtesy for the efforts of the dedicated Notre Dame Bandsmen who spend approximately fifteen hours a week (after classes) to memorize their music, learn their for­mations, and polish their 
technique. 
These same bandsmen, 
regardless of the weather or 

circumstances have always 
vol•1ntarily come to the rescue 
when needed for a multitude of 
jobs. The student body owes 
these bandsmen a sincere and 
prompt apology. 
A special note to "Beerslayer" 
who found it necessary to "fly"' 
through the band's ranks: If, 
dear fairy, you get near that 
band again, I will personally 
ground you by breaking both of 
your .. god Damn legs! 
Instead of exercising parental 
control, perhaps the ad­
ministration should provide 
locked cages for a segment of the 
student body. 
G-man 
class of 1971 now you are fully qualified to go Ivy League all the way. . .The antics of the Skin Group at half­time on National TV during the Michigan State game signal a low in South Bend. It has become customary to see Harvard, Columbia and Princeton people leading the fringe groups; but when it happens at Notre dame, some type of comment has to be made. 

Based on observations on TV, it would appear that sorne 20 percent-30 percent of the student body are rank exhibitionists, eager to jump at any excuse to comport themselves in a way which will discredit themselves, the school, their parents and all the traditions of the past. In this case, they chose National TV in a year when the football team is struggling to establish itself in the national rankings. This was a phony occasion and a phony excuse and the creeps who went on the field at half-time were really not there to support the team but rather to display themselves and perhaps bask in the reflected glory · which the team generates wherever it goes. 
Can this group of exhibitionists be so naive that they do not know that by conducting themselves in such a manner -and in such a state of undress -they give aid and comfort to the legions who hate Notre Dame and who leap at any opportunity to criticize? How long do these sweet uninhibited souls have to be exposed to Notre Dame before they get the message that the place is something special ­something not to to be lightly considered and something not to be cheapened? The Alumni have been told for years how difficult it is to be accepted at Notre Dame and how high the standards are getting to be. Somebody has been kidding somebody. Either the University has been pulling the legs of the Alumni or the ap­plicants have been snowing the Admissjons Office-because, let's face it, there was no CLASS exhibited on the field at half-time last Saturday -except by the guys in the band. ,.. 
That business of going on the 

Cultural Arts Commissio~ Popular Film Series Presents 
The Fox 
Oct. 14 and 15 7:30 & 9:30p.m. Price $1.00 
Engineering Auditoriurn 
Patron cards will be sold in Dining Halls Thursday and Friday 

1971 SENIOR TRIP 
L.S.U. vs N.D· 


SIGN UPS 
Thursday, October 14 7-9 Coke Bar La Fortune minimum deposif$50 (non-refundable) 
championship football teams in that stadium without once ever putting one shoe on the grass. That was back in the dark ages when Notre Dame men wore shoes and covered their nakedness with shirts; ~ and, I would remind you, back in the days when Notre Dame won national championships -can there be a moral there? 
No person of reason can find much fault with youthful en­thusiasm or a little hell raising on campus in the heat of a football season. That is part of the whole business of college life. On the other hand, a certain amount of responsibility is expected to be shown in tempering that that enthusiasm, especially at Notre Dame. The people who shamed Notre Dame at half-time last Saturday just don't understand the meaning of responsibility or "class". Fortunately there were a great many who stayed in the stands and were probably as disgusted as the rest of us by the display. Unfortunately the image carried away by the TV viewer was not that of the wholesome people in the stands but of the unwashed on the field. Even old pro Bill Flemming of ABC was somewhat embarrassed and had to struggle to find the right words to describe it. There will no doubt be a hard core on campus who will take great comfort in knowing that they created something of a stir on National TV. Those who fit this descrip­tion and whose minds are either so weak or so perverse or so ttnfeeling would do well to con­sider finishing school some place else -they are not Notre Dame material. 
The rest of you who showed such good sense by not taking part in "Operation Shame Notre Dame" are certainly to be commended by all those who hold Notre Dame dear. Keeo up the good work -help get rid of the chaff on the campus -and keep up a real old time support for the team -it maybe one of the very best we have ever had. 
Smith A. Funk 
N.D. 1950 


Wednesday, October 13, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Page 7 

Obser~erJ • 
expose: 





arme 'Naked' Egan reveals all 

on." or off. as the case may be, is 
h~ E ..J. Kinkopr '72 l\1aria Montez who works down atIn this day and age of 
the Torch Club. She's reallyuninhibited show and tell, with friendly. and after her show she's movies like Withnut A Stitch and always willing to give me ahooks like :\ak1•d ('amt' Tht' pointer or two ... or three ...orStnw~~·r, .Jamie I<:gan comes 
" 
across like a breath of fresh air. 
Freud would call this desire toMany of you probably know l"!'main unclothed an attempt to.Jamie by his baptismal name of gl't back into the womb. Jamie.James l<~gan. Many know him -·. • would call it the desire to beonl_y as the NahkedNKathuna, the 1'\: ,,__ 
ll;Jk('d.
stnpper at t e o re 0arne t' . 
But as it usually happens, those football games. And most of you in power force the non­probably wouldn't know him eonformists to conform, and 
l"rom Adam. 
~ 
N;~ked's case was no exception.
And yet at such a time in the 'j They wouldn't let him into gradehistory of this great nation, when ~-.. 
or high school unless he was fullyour whole society is being un-,!, 
1 doth('d.
derminl'd by effete, egotistical •• Rut like a true revolutionary,snobs. trying to perpetrate and f. 
Naked would foil their attempts
perpetuate, stagnate and in­
at complete dominance by at­filtrate, it is well indeed that tending school minus some piecethere 1•xists such a savior to bring of clothing, usually underwear.
us back to the reality of Yet it was not until his!'xistenee ... the flesh. 
sophomore year at Notre Dame.Jamie "Naked" Egan is such a that the now famous "Nakedman, a social savior. A man who 
Kahuna" make his personalmodels himself after such • 
eommittment and ifnally showedrealists as Blaze Starr, Kandy t what kind of stuff he was reallyKanP and Wonderous Wilma. A made of.
.Jamie "Naked Kahuna" Egan,
man who knows where the real "Basically, people really likeinterests of the masses lie. before ..... 
nudity, and I felt it my duty toA man who is not afraid to of clothing, usually underwear. 
supply it to them. I looked at"show it like it is." Yt't it was not until his myself in the mirror at the end of.Jamie I<:gan was born, ... naked sophomore year at Notre Dame my sophomore year...naked ofof eourst'. The exact location of that the now famous "Naked course, and decided that I wasthis historical birth has nothing to Kahuna" made his personal potentially the best supplier ondo with anything. The important eommitment and finally showed campus."
fact is that "Naked" he came and what kind of stuff he was really And that in a nutshell, is howprobably "Naked" .he will go. made of. 
the patriot was born. But theAnd while most of us are "Basically, people really like road has not been easy. Along the plagued by cultural neurosis' nudity, and I felt it my duty to way there have been zippers thatimplanted in our psyches as we supply it to them. l looked at hot stuck, and buttons thatgrow up, the only hang-up Naked mys<'lf in the mirror at the end of refused to open. But like allhad in his early years concerned my sophomore year, ... naked of dedicated idealists, there werehis mother's attempt to make course, and decided that I was inspirational people to carry himhim eonform by wearing clothes. 
potentially the best supplier on 
through the rough days. 
J<'rt'ud would call this desire to campus."rt'main unclothed an attempt to But no professional ecdysist
And that in a nutshell, is how 

~~·t back into the womb. Jamie ean succeed at 1the art without
the patriot was born. But the road would call it the desire to be has not been easy. Along the way some sort of gimmick. Lotsa 
naked. Lolla, an exotic dancer who is
there have been zippers that got
But as it usually happens, those based everywhere pretty well,
stuck, and buttons that refused to 
in power force the non­but operates mainly in Dallas
open. But like all dedicated 
eonform ists to conform, and uses an exploding couch. And
idealists, there were in­
Naked's ease was no exception. Penny Cillin uses the ol' tassel
spirational people to carry him 
They woulkn't let him into grade twirl to tittilate her admirers.
through the rough days. 
or high school unless he was fully "Tom Allen, the stripper of '68 But Naked felt it would be too l'loth<'d. and '69 was a great inspiration hard to get a couch into thP. 
But like a true revolutionary, 

for me. In fact he's the one who Stadium, and after hours of Naked would foil their attempts really helped me to realize my practice, he gave up on the tassel at. complete dominance by at­potential. But I guess the one who twirl. So he had to hunt for his tending school minus some piece has really helped me to "get it special gimmick. 
Stickmen stopped at Michigan 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse 

team opened its 1971 fall season 
Sunday with a 7-6 loss to 
Michigan, the defending Midwest 
dub champs, at Ann Arbor. The 
Irish were hampered by the early 
loss of all-Midwest attackman Ed 
lloban, who suffered a shoulder 
injury in the opening minutes of 
the game. 
The Irish opened the scoring at 

I:t7 in the first quarter with a goal by midfielder Jim Bingle. Michigan tied the score later in Ihe first quarter, and went on the score twice more for a 3-1 lead midway through the second period. Jim Bingle's second goal with forty-five seconds remaining in the half made the Sl'Ore 3-2 at halftime. 
R.J. Ringle tied the score 3-3 at 

7:27 of the third period but the Wolverines took the lead again s<>veral minutes later. B.J. 
•1Bingle knotted the score again and the Irish took the lead 5-4 with a fast break score by mid­fielder Jim Lepley. 
t<:arly in the fourth quarter Michigan tied it up at 5-5, and lh(•n went on to score two more goals in a :!4 second span, the decisive score coming at 8:49. 
Co-captains of the Irish lacro~~se team are Gary Rlopko, left, a mid­Dave Jurusik brought the Irish to fielder and Ed Hoban, a senior attackman. 
within one with three minutes remaining, but that was as close scor~· in five attempts. Michigan in the preliminary game. Cliff as they could get. scored three times in similar Wnlton and Joe Meares each had The loss of Hoban was par­situations. two goals while Bill Dacey, John ticularly felt in man-up situations The Irish "B" team defeated Corcoran ;md Fedele Volpe where the Irish were unable to their Michigan counterparts 7-6 scored once for the Irish. 

-. ­
.... and after. Those gents giving Jamie's performance an added lift are his faithful holders, "Squirtin" Q. Sturm, and "Lightning" Tom Davis. 
"My main concern is getting There is one thing that bothers 
the fan's attention. So I have the Kahuna though. All this co­
perfected the technique of taking <'ducation stuff has seemingly 
my pants off before my shirt. 
passed him by. And that makes 
Actually it's a technique I sort of the Kahuna feel rather unwanted. 
fell into, but it looks as though it's What the Kahuna would really 
pretty popular with the crowd." like to do is work in tandem with 
Music is also very important to a female who is committed to the 
the stripper. Most pros choose flesh, and the appeal of the naked 
the song best suited for their body. 
various bumps and grinds. But And according to Naked, there 
Naked says that any music turns would be only a few requirements 
him on. And when he strips to the for a female Kahuna. One would 
tune of the Hike Song, he gives be that she must look good both in 
the fans a chance to see a dif­1nd out of a bathing suit. The 
ferent kind of Hike step. other is that she would have to be 
"Yeah, whatever the band willing to practice with the Naked 
plays is O.K. Really, any music Kahuna at night...in private of 
turns me on though. In fact my course. 
roommates have to carry me As for the future, the Kahuna is over to the game in a straight negotiating with the Bears for jacket, because whenever the stripping rights in Soldier's band goes by playing a song, I go Field. And if the Army doesn't mto a frenzy trying to rip off my try and clothe (wash my mouth clothes" out with soap l the Kahuna in 
But Naked could not perform green khakis, you'll probably be without the able assistance of his able to find the Naked one jn two "holders", ""Squirtin" Q. Naked City, Indiana judging the Sturm and "Lightning" Tom Naked Miss Universe Pageant
Davis. They are the two men there during the summer. responsible f<>r the heighths And for those of you who are Naked's act reaches. thinking about following in the 
"My _holders are the cor­Kahuna 's footsteps, Naked offers nerstone to my whole act. you these inspiring words ... Without them the act wouldn't "Great strippers aren't born, have a chance of standing out in a they're made." crowd. And they really give me a And coming from the mouth of lift. I missed them in Dallas at Jamie Egan, you can bet that's the Cotton Bowl though. They the naked truth. were both hospitalized with hernias. 
LaFrance 1st in Ruggers win NDOpengdf 
The Notre Dame rugby team Junior Mike LaFrance, captainchalked up their second win of the of the Irish golf team, cardedfall season by drubbing Kent rounds of 70-74-73-72-289 to defeat 
State, 10-0 Saturday at Kent. 
94 other entrants and capture first place honors in the NotreThe Irish built a 6-o lead in the Dame Open golf tournament.
first half on a try by Joe Deloise 
and Phil Callandra's conversion LaFrance's 289 score gave him 
and added four rriore ooints in the eight-stroke bulge over
an run­
second half on a try by Herb ners-up Chuck Voelker, a juniorGiorgio. 
and also a varsity golfer, and freshman Mike Kistner.
The ''B" team also won their match with the Kent "B" squad, The tourney was held in 12-3. Rich Campagna, John generally cold, rainy and over­O'Conn_or and Ed O'Connell all cast weather on the Burke scored trys for the Irish. Memorial course the weekends of 
Sept. 23-26 and Oct. 9-10.
The Notre Dame "A" team, sporting a 2-1 record, will play at Also finishing in the top ten the ll. of Michigan next weekend were Phil Byrne (299), Jeff while the Irish "B" and "C" Burda <304)' Buck Boetto (304), dubs will host the Marquette Marty Best (305), Jim Barbour ruggers Saturday morning (309), Fred Lohman (314) and behind Stepan Center. Gary Quinn (315). 
• 
.. 
for 
he 

... Playoff last week, leading few to suspect that he would shooldown the high-flying Orioles today. 
But he did, facing only 32 batters and allowing only the -three hits plus two walks while 
striking out eight. 

Wednesday, October 13, 1971 

-champaigne Friday & Saturday $1.00 covercharge 
OPEN DAILY 8 pm till 3 am 



