Is the football stadium parking lot a public place Mr. Stephan ? 

Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Monday, October 4, 1971 
•
Thieu wins confidence vote In landslide 
(Cl 1971 New York Times dicided to vote against Thieu by per cent-came m the delta showed that more than 80 per year-old former premier will be mutilating or throwing their province of Bac Lieu, where the cent of South Vietnam's seven inaugurated in an official 
Saigon, Oct. 3--President ballots away before dropping president's cousin presides as million eligible voters went to the ceremony. Nguyen Van Thieu won his new envelopes in the ballot boxes. province chief. polls despite the enemy shellings Thieu, who won by 35 per cent four-year term Sunday in a one­These conditions were set by The final return from the of at least a dozen cities and of the vote four years ago, had candidate election marked by Thieu in the absence of any other remaining 33 provinces and cities hamlets, including Saigon and wanted to limit his opponents this scattered protests, terrorism, presidential candidates probably will be known some. four provincial capitals. The time so he could don the mantle of intensified Communist shellings Official figures from 16 cities time Monday. The trend of high attack on Saigon, the first in 10 a majority president, but now, in and apparently one of the largest and provinces Sunday night percentages is not likely. to be 
the view of many observers here, voter turnouts in Vietnamese reported that an average of some reversed. his victory in an unopposed history. 95 per cent of the voters cast Thieu, who voted in downtown election has undercut his 
Early returns from the regular ballots, regarded by Saigon, has said that he would legitimacy for the next four years government's election In­Thieu as "votes of confidence". resign if more than 50 per cent of no matter what the final figures formation Center showed that One of the largest demon­the ballots were cast invalid. show about the extent of the vote only a small fraction of the voters strations of support--s~me 99.6 The preliminary returns also or confidence. 
The South Vietnamese Military Command, meanwhile, reported 52 enemy attacks in the 24 hours
Ahmad and Kennedy lead 
before the polls opened this morning, the highest level in about six months. Most of the
Cook County prison protest 
shellings against cities and hamlets involved less that six
by .Jim Gresser sequences. prison in August, indicted the Nguyen Van Thieu rounds of rockets in each in­However he claimed, that those prison system as being able to do stance.
Three hundred and fifty people, who are in prison are not the real one thing; "It forces a prisoner to months, killed three and wounded The American Militaryrepresenting various interests, lawbreakers, but rather those hate!" Miss Kennedy called five. 
Command also disclosed stepped­converged on Cook County Jail who are responsible for mass prison "the most oppressive If the present trend continues, up enemy attacks, reportingOct. 2 to show their concern over murders such as the Attica experience of my life." the reported turnout would be eight shellings against Americanthe affairs of the prison system in tragedy and for the "undue, Although prisons claim to larger than the 79 per cent that units. The only casualties oc­the United States. illegal use of power in continuing correct the habits of the prisoners went to the polls in the lower curred in Tayninh, northeast of
Along with the others, four the Vietnam War. such as drug addiction, she stated house elections in August. In the Saigon, where an artillery unitNotre Dame students and two Ahmad added, "We want those that they actually offer no real Presidential Elections in 1967, was attacked by eight mortars.
faculty members heard seven responsible for the massacres to assistance. Calling the jailers when Thieu defeated 10 other As Communist gunners con­different speakers express their face humanity" for their crimes. "keepers of cages," Miss Ken­condidates for his first term, 83 tinued small-scale attacks thiscommon disgust with the present He said that authorities who nedy explained their inability to per cent of the electorate voted. 
morning, anti-government
prison system. The rally was claim to believe in the system treat the prisoners as human Among those who refused to 
protesters were. also busy,
followed by a march around the must also be bound by it. beings and acknowledge their vote Sunday in line with the particularly in Danang where a
fail. In an interview after the rally, basic human dignity. boycott demanded by various demonstration turned into
The rally was a result of the Ahmad spoke of the need for Miss Kennedy spoke of many anti-government groups, were violence. About two dozenrecent tragedy in New York complete openness in all court incidents in which medical ex­Gen. Duong Van Minh and Vice persons, including severalState's Attica prison. A coalition proceedings and also stated the perts and psychologists were not President Nguyen Cao Ky, the policemen, were reportedof orgainizati01 from the possibility of coming to Notre only refused to inspect the con­two potential challengers to wounded.
Chicago area sponsored the rally Dame in mid-October. ditions of the prison or work with Thieu who pulled out of the race Even in Danang, wllere anti­
as one of 13 held in other major the prisoners, but were even in mid-august. They charged Thieu feeling runs deep, thecities around the country. OHSEHVER SPECIAL denied permission to set foot Thieu with election-rigging. 
government reported a turnout of
The two main speakers for the inside the prison walls. Minh went to a nearby beach about 76 per cent. ·officials saidrally were Eqbal Ahmad and Miss Kennedy, in what was A prime example was Cook resort and Ky played tennis. 
that only 25 per cent, or roughlyMiss Jane Kennedv. Ahmad, one probably the day's most moving County Jail itself. She told how Ky, who has been attacking the 40,000 voters, showed theirof the "Harrisburg 8" defen­speech, related her experiences for weeks she and members of a president as a dictator and contempt for Thieu by castingdants, called for a restoration of in prison as a result of her anti medical commission have been calling for his downfall, will invalid ballots.
·'law and order." He felt that war actions as a member of the trying to inspect the medical remain vice president until Oct. those who break the law must be "Beaver 55". 31. Thieu and his new ViCe 
(Continued on page 2) (Continued on page 2)
willing to suffer the con-She, having been released from President, Tran Van Huong, a'70­

THE OBSERVER. Monday, October 4, 1971
Page 2 

Viets turn out for Thien ~~£[f!J~~[[f!J~[[f!JU£~ 


(Continued from page 1) 
In Saigon, the small bands of street demonstrators who had been protesting Thieu's determination to go ahead with the uncontested election remained quiet. But terrorists set off explosive devices this morning near seven Saigon polling stations, wounding two persons at one. 
There were more police and 
armed soldiers on duty as a 
precaution against protesters. 
Government banners fluttered 
over the streets saying "There is 
Only Peace in Victory" and 
precessions of decorated vehicles 

Carmichael quits trustees, Remains SUMMA head 
Dr. O.C. Carmichael has resigned from the University Board of Trustees because of legal provisions connected with his new post as chairman of the Commission for Higher Education for the State of In­diana. 
Dr. Carmichael, who was a member of the board's executive committee, will remain as national chairman of SUMMA, the University's $52 million fund raising project. 
SUMMA has surpassed its goal, but does not end officially until June, 1972. It has helped Notre Dame raise more than $100 million in the past decade. 

Dr. Carmichael has several individual objectives connected with SUMMA. They include endowed chairs for faculty development and student aid in exhorted residents to vote. 
Apart from the early morning explosions, almost no one misbehaved so the soldiers sprawled on the city's sidewalk slept or read or clustered in outdoor cafes. 
The single loudest voice of protest came, predictably, from the An Quang Pagoda, now a center for all the groups con­demning the government and the Americans, whom they feel are responsible for keeping Thieu in office. Here, in the Pagoda, were the only banners in town denouncing the election as "A day of shame". 

"With this election the Viet­
~~~~~\!~d ~~~~lec~~~~l;er h~: MED I TATI 0 N 
dishonest is the face of the Americans" the venerable Lieu Minh said, addressing a crowd inside the pagoda. 
Nearby voters who sent to the Nhut Tao School to vote were dropping Thieu's ballot into the trash cans with some regularity. At one station, an official said that about 350 voters had turned up by noon. And a quick check of the old Esso fuel cans being used for trash showed about 100 rejected ballots. 
Never before in an election have trash cans taken on so much significance. In one suburban area, at the Vinh Hoi School, officials explained that the voters were confusing the small cans with the ballot box and thus throwing their voting envelopes away. 
The solution occurred to the local district chief who ordered all his cans removed from the blue-curtained booths. The result was that the voters had no in­conspicuous way of discarding ballots. 



AI TAUGHT JY 
MAHARISHI MAHESH YOGI 
TRANSCENDENTAl. MfDITATION IS A NATURAL SPONTANEOUS TECHNIQUE WHICH ALLOWS EACH INDIYIOUAL TO EXPAND HIS MIND AND IMPROVE HIS liFE 
Introductory Lecture 
NOTRE DAME 
OCT. 5 8:00p.m. 
O'SHAUGNESSY HALL 
ROOM 204 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 
Indiana Bell 


Monday, October 4, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Page 3 



OTB isn't going anywhere in Harlem 
by Steve Cady 

(c) 1971 New York Times 
New York, Oct. 3-The shriek of an ambulance siren broke the early Saturday quiet. Then the affluent whine of a silvery jetliner letting down through the smog over Harlem toward a 9 
a.m. landing at LaGuardia. A sanitation department truck lumbered past on schedule, hurling sheets of water against the hubcaps of cars parked at the curb outside the Offtrack Betting Corporation office at 215 West 125th Street. Across the street, a man in purple pants half­heartedly mimicked the wiggle of a passing girl, but she paid no attention. On a nearby corner, a group of youngsters in faded green football uniforms dreamed of glory while they waited for their bus. 
Inside the OTB office, behind the blue and orange plastic flowers, half a dozen horse players scanned the entry lists as they worked on another kind of Harlem dream: winning a substantial amount of money in a hurry. Seventy five percent of the shop's action is on daily doubles and exactas. 
"Folks up here don't want $5.80 for $2," said Bill Merchant, a cheerful, 52-year-old former poverty-program publicist ·who manages the branch. "They're accustomed to playing the numbers, and that means a windfall (8-1 for a single, 600-1 for a triple) if they hit." 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
In the OTB chain, the 10­window Harlem shop rates near the top for attractiveness. Set back from the sidewalk on the ground floor of a new community­owned building, it's spacious, pleasant, immaculately clean. It's also the least productive of OTB's 24 sites. Pitted against the numbers in what most people regard as the biggest mismatch since Bob Pastor challenged Joe Louis, OTB continues to struggle ten week_s after its debut, the Harlem branch can't meet ex­penses with a daily average of about $6,000. 
"We should do $15,000 a day soon," Merchant said. "Maybe that's not much, but Saratoga doesn't handle as much as Aqueduct. They cater to a certain group of people when they keep Saratoga open in August. I equate Saratoga with Harlem. The folks here deserve the same con­sideration." 
He led the way out onto the sidewalk for a quick tour of the neighborhood between Seventh and Eighth Avenues. Three doors down, signs in the window of the Palm Cafe offered a special OTB cocktail for 50 cents and an in­vitation to "Pick your horses in the comfort of the Palm." A cigar store displayed new "dream books" keyed to OTB betters as well as numbers. 
Merchant defined his potential market as the area from 116th Street to 145th Street, river to river, the core of Harlem, 700,000 people, perhaps 70 percent of them on welfare. He defined his major problem as "unjustified fear," both black and white. "Black folks on welfare are accustomed to spending that money the way they want. Some of it goes on numbers. They're afraid if they're seen betting with OTB in the open, their welfare checks will be forfeited." 

Campus News Shorts 
18 year vote 

A new organization called Voters for a New US (VNUS> is concentrating on sending 18-21 year old representatives to the 
1972  Democratic  National  Con­ 
vention in Miami.  
Joe  Raymond  an  ND  

sophomore is co-chairman of VNUS. He stated the purpose of the organization is to get off campus students and students who are Indiana residents to run for the state convention. He also hopes for all ND students to take VNUS ideas back to their home state and use them. 
Raymond said, "T.he Democratic National Committee on Reform pointed out the discrimination against women, blacks and the young at the 1968 National Convention. We are simply trying to remedy this situation." 
The organization is active in Indiana and Massachusetts and is starting in several other states. 
In St. Hoseph County, where ND is located, Raymond reported that so out of 130 state convention seats were presently unfilled. 
"The state convention is the way Indiana picks its delegates to the national convention. We should be able to get some of those seats." Raymond stated. 
The organization hopes to back all 18-21 year old delegates to the state and national conventions. They are however asked to support the general idea of the platform for VNUS. The plat­form contains ten objectives of foreign and economic policy including: immediate US with­drawal from Vietnam, a volunteer army, full employment economy and a guaranteed in­come for all citizens. 
VNUS has information about convention procedures for every state. Since the organization has no office on campus Raymond suggested that interested people phone him at 234-9908 for more information. 

ND Republicans 
The Notre Dame College Republican Club held its first meeting of the academic year 1971-1972 Thursday evening for organizational purposes. 
Joe Fitzmyer,chairman, looks forward to this year because it is the first year in which all the students on campus will be eligible to vote. "This will provide greater interest in all political speakers," Fitzmyer said. 
John Gaither, former chair­man and Indiana State Secretary, spoke briefly on the history of the club and made projections for the coming year. Gaither said the trend of college 
students away from party af­
filiates is good, "Now people will 
listen to all points of view and 
evaluate them on their merits." 
Gaith recommended that the 
club develop a speaker program 
to acquaint people on campus 
with the viewpoints of prominent 
Republicans. 
The club adopted a res<>lution support for President Nixon's economic program. The resolution read in part, "We feel that his action was needed to halt the rise in unemployment with the ending of the war and to reverse our balance of trade. 
Committees were formed during the meeting to organize activities for the coming year. 

A&L Reps 

Interviews for more than 50 students who applied for positions in the College of Arts and Letters College Council will be held late this week or early next week, according to Kweek or early next week, according to Dan Moore, president of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Committee. 
The chosen students will be the first ever to sit on the Council' 
Moore, working in conjunction with Dean Fredrick Crosson, cited some of the objectives of the Council in an interview Sunday. 
A chief aim of the body will by to set up a structure whereby any academic greivances might be heard. 
Moore also pointed out the need for improvement of the coun­seling system. Concentration would center on aiding sophomores, who are usually undecided and confused about picking a major. 
A more general function of the Council, in Moore's view, will be special research. As a research body the body will concern itself with curricular revision and improvement of the area studies program. 
A final matter, considered very important by Moore, is the adademic implication of coeducation. Many com­plications in the process of merging the Arts and Letters departments, such as requirements for a certain major, will need the attention of the Council. 
This is the first time students have been given this much responsibility in the area of academic affairs and Moore was very pleased by the response to the solicitations of the Council. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 p!:r semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dilme, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

Sanction meeting 
An open hearing is scheduled tentatively for Tuesday night at 8 
p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education concerning SLC Ad Hoc Committee on Disciplinary Matters' proposed sanctions on university parietal, alcohol, and drug violations. 
Meeting last Friday, the SLC steering committee set up the open format hearing, which will give all university students, faculty, and administrators the opportunity to express their opinion. Because the newly reorganized SLC opened all committee meetings, Steering Committee Chariman, Flayd Kezele said the Tuesday night meeting would give everyone a chance to express their opinions on the proposed sanctions. 
Following the open meeting Tuesday, the Steering Committee will report back· to the SLC Friday. 
Three new standing com­mittees were created by the Steering Committee last Friday. Planning, hall life, and rules and regulations committees were organized under temporary chairmen, Dean Waddick, Fr. Thomas Blanz, and Fr. Thomas Chambers, respectively. The proposed sanctions were referred to the Hall Life Committee. 
Further action on the present sanction guidelines will be in­cluded in a report to be made to the Trustees by October 22. 
The Cultural Art's Commission's Performing Arts Series 
presents as its season premiere Samuel Beckett's WAITING FOR GODOT directed by Alan Schneider with Zero Mostel 
and also Samuel Beckett's FILM directed by Samuel Beckett on Oct. 4, 7:00 & 9:30p.m. at the 
Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 Cultural Arts Commission Performing Arts Series Patrons Free Patron Cards will be on sale in the dining halls at the evening mealsThursday, Friday, &Monday; 
at the Student Union Ticket Office and at the door Monday. 


Page 4 THE OBSERVER. Monday, October 4, 1971 
THE OBSERVER 



Editm·-in-Chief Glen S. Corso 
Executivt-Editor 
T.C. Treanor 
Founded NO\:Pmber 3, 1966 
Business 283-1471 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
All successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend anyone ~r anyth•ng 11 they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. -H. L. Mencken. 
Bushwss :VIanagc•r .James .Jendryk 
,\d :\laua~wr Bill Bauerle 
Nolt"t' l>anw. Indiana News 2R:~-1715 
The Invisible Exception 
Further, the use or presence of alcoholic beverages is forbidden in all public places in campus. Public is defined as all areas on the campus except rooms in dormitories. 
-University of Notre Dame 1971-72 student manual, page 24. (under "University Rules"). 
As a prologue to this editorial, we will assume that the football parking lot is a public place. A whole lot of people go there, and it isn't a room in a dormitory. (We know that because there are no cockroaches in it.) 
Now, let's consider what happened last Saturday: 
The day was a hot one and there were no signs of relief. A considerable number of Alumni found themselves thirsty. So, they sauntered to the parking lot, opened up their cars and tanked it up. 
They did this in full daylight, in full view of the University's deputies, as though Mr. Stephan didn't exist. They were not at all camera-shy, and you can see the results on the first page. The one lady standing next to her car looked to be in posse sis on of enough booze to keep the entire Notre Dame community in euphoria for a week. 
Let's take another look at the rules. The rule doesn't forbid public boozing to students; it forbids public boozing to everybody. It does not rely on Indiana state law; it makes appeal to some vaguely pronounced higher law-the law of Goa, pernap:s, or the aforementioned Mr. Stephan. And it was that law that was violated, both at halftime and after the game. 
Could it be as Mr. Candon and others suggested in their letter of Steptember 30th, that the University condones a double standard? Could it be true that there is one set of rules for drinking in public for alumni rich enough to hall themselves down to the game and another for students? If so, thz University ought to hie its corporate self down to the typesetting room and correct the manual's discrepancies. 
While it's doing that, it might corporately consider another drinking problem rampant on campus. It appears as though many of the hall chapels are serving Communion under both species at Sunday Mass. Since orthodox Catholic theology contends that the consecrated wine retains the "appearances" (i.e. taste, color, form, and smell) of wine, it would appear that this is an obvious case of drinking in a public place. Does that mean these halls are soon to lose their mass privileges? 
We will be awaiting the Board of Trustees ruling with bated lears. 
Night Editor: Marty Miller Layout: Don Biatncamano, T. C. Treanor, Glen Corso, Candy Clark Headlines: Mark Hamilton Night Controller: rick smith Features Editor: rick smith Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson News Editor •John Abowd Associate Editors: Ed Ellis, Ann Therese Darin, SMC Editor: Ann Conway Managing Editor: Don Ruane Compugraphic Manager: Dan Thornton Headlniner Operator: Mick Kane 
Can you teach an old dog new tricks'? Can you teach any dog new tricks? 
Steve Lazar 
The Human Toy 
My friend Rex is a toy. Really, he is. Ever since junior year in high school we've gone over to his house on Saturday afternoons to play with him. His mother always lets us play with him because she knows that Rex likes to go out with us and do fun things. But wise and loving as she is, she has no idea that Rex is a toy. 
Sometimes when we go over to get him we find him moaning and groaning and rolling in his bed. His family thinks that he's sick but we know that the matter is really something else. After we shoo them out of the room we pull out his great chrome turn key and wind him up. Then he gives us a big grin and wants to play. 
Back in high school Rex was the smartest kid in the class. He never studied or did his homework or anything like that because it wasn't very much fun. He always got lOO's on the tests, though, becausl he discovered that high school teachers make tests like puzzles, and if you can crack the method you've got the whole thing solved. If you were a toy, of course, like Rex,it was easy. 
Wh'='r. those of us who are Rex's close friends went away to college he stayed behind and went to the local university. When we came home to visit him at Christmans, however, his parents were afraid to let us play with him. They thought we had become bomb­throwing fanatics because our hair was a little freaky, and they feared we would subvert their boy. Well, little did they know that the most threatening subversive in the group was dear Rexy. 
It would be hard to catalog all the things that Rex has done since he started college two years ago, but one that stands out among them is the way he infiltrated ROTC. He had been toying around that year, trying to find a scholarship, but he could never get himself to sit down and fill out an application. While he was frit­tering away his time (which to a toy, of course. is irrelevent) all the deadlines had expired except those for ROTC scholarships. So before~the CIA could prevent it, the Army had placed under con­tract its first human toy and had given him a scholarship and honors to boot. 
It would be hard to call Rex's activities in ROTC anything else but subversive. Not only did he sew his official patches on the rear end of his blue jeans, but when awards day came around he didn't take his plaque with the traditional handshake but instead gave the officer a juicy big kiss. The army hierarchs, to say the least, were chagrined. 

Rex had another encounter with governmental agencies that is worth mentioning. Roaming around the Post Office one day trying to crack the zip code, he stumbled onto an auction of used postal vans. He picked up a bid sheet and put down a good number of low bids hoping that with luck he might actually get the rights to one or two of the vehicles. (It should be noted here that to a toy, money, like time, is meaningless. To Rex the stuff has no value other than that of lettuce or cabbage or some other leafy vegetable substance that is fun to crunch around in his pocket). Needless to say, within a week Rex had thirteen postal vans headed his way. Needless to say, this time it was his father who was chagrined. At any rate, the toy did get out of this one. He took a large bit of what is known as humble pie and wrote the government asking them to set him free of his responsibilities in the matter. To one degree or another, he claimed insanity. When they discovered that they had been dealing with a toy the officials quickly suppressed the whole affair and Rex was luckily freed from a great bother. (Mostly, his father). 
Besides subverting the educational, military, and governmental institutions of the land, as well as rendering meaningless the realities of temporal space and capital, our toy Rexy has destroyed the penultimate value of this society--the American notion of three meals a day. Who, we may rightly ask, but a wild-eyed fanatic could do such a thing? Let an example suffice to show his anar­chistic designs. One day, instead of eating breakfast, lunch or dinner with his family, he went off by himself and played and played until three o'clock in the moring. Then when he came home he didn't say his prayers and go to bed but proceeded to devour everything in sight. A few hours later when the sun was dawning Rex had run out of things to eat. To this day he remembers nothing of that night except a half gallon of vanilla ice cream that went sliding down his throat like an iceberg. See how he is! 
The relevent question at this point for all people of vested in­terests becomes, Can society survive in the face of Rex? Ob­viously, it cannot. Rex is the salvation of repressed industrial society, the new hero, the pure unadulterated comic hero of the ' world. With assurance we may say to the peoples of the technocracy, "Take heart, the Rex will save you." 

Monday, October 4, 1971 THE, OBSERVER !='age 5 
mike george 
the beach boys ­for a while we weren't so grown up 
The Beach Boys came to the A.C.C. Saturday night with something to prove. The sell-out crowd just came to have a good time. And it seems, everybody went home happy. 
The theme of the concert was an­ticipated in the advertising build-up. The lkach Boys, radio commercials enthused had grown up since the early sixties whe~ thl'Y had been everybody's favorite surfer group. Now they were prepared to en­tertain us with some heavy stuff. To back up this claim there were SJphisticated n•vil'WS of the Biys' new album, Surf's lip, in both Holling Stone and Time. They'd played the old stuff, the radio said, but they wPre also going to play the heavies. lksides that, the Social Commission had managl'd to keep ticket prices low. So for these reasons and for a lot of others 8 000 pt>ople decided to come and listen. ' ' 
AI the beginning of the concert Brian Wilson reemphasized the basic theme. "W<''re going to be here for a long time " lw said, 'so relax. We'll get to <'Verything." And he almost kept his promise. The concert was a blend of the material that made the group a success whl'n most of uswere still in grade school and the material on which they hope to build a come-back. Breaking out of the Social Commission of preceding the main attraction with an unkown group, the lkach Boys did the whole two hour show hy thl•mselves. The fact that even then they didn't have time to play some of their biggest hits ("Barbara Ann", "Don't Worry, Baby", "409") reminds us of what giants they once were. Throughout the first two sets it was the old songs ("Good Vibrations", "God Only Knows", and "Wouldn't lt Be Nice") that brought the greatest reaction. But when they weren't elapping, cheering, and singing along the crowd seemed to appreciate the solid material from Surf's Up. Among the best of the new songs were "Disney Girls, 1957" and "Don't Go Near the Water". 
lt was obvious that the Beach Boys had matured just as we'd been told. They had l'ven grown up enough to make jokes about !he light weight songs that had made them famous. As Mike Love joked about the so<'ial significance of surfing songs, his hell-bottomed farmer jeans seemed an incn•dibly long way from the old madras shirts and the sun·tanned Levi's. Brian, rl'portedly the man who determined the 
group's direction, was more serious about 
their come-back. At one point, when the 
erowd began shouting requests, he replied 
almost with reproach, "Look, we haven't 
seen you in four and a half years. We're 
trying to show you what we've been 
doing."' 

It was not as though the audience had to suffer through the Surf's Up songs, just that what they really came to hear were the things that made the Beach Boys a part of their growing up. None of the usual town kids showed up to storm the stage screaming, perhaps because they were too young to remember when rock groups had short hair and dressed alike. Maybe Saturday night was all part of the current nostalgia kick, but most of the people at the concert had been touched by Beach Boy music and they wanted to be reminded of what it was like. They wanted to think about grade school and high school days when things seemed less complex. And they wanted to think about the awkward deelings at those first mixed parties and about the first summer sweetheart. This was the music that helped them to do that. 
So after the first two sets of serious music and solid, professional per­formances from the Boys and from the band that they had brought with them, <'Verybody was ready to let loose with the "Golden Oldies." Mike Love set the mood for the clelebration during the first encore saying, "You know the words; sing along. You're part of this •· And so we sang along. To 'California Girls", to "Get Around", to "Fun, I<'un, Fun", and <'Specially to "Surfer Girl." We em­braced the sdf consciousness that we have felt at the other concerts. We enjoyed being kids again. We enjoyed it so much that we brought the Beach Boys back from the dressing room three times to help us. 
And when it was over (when those nasty ogres from the A.C.C. turned on the lights to make us see that we really had grown up l we went away happy. We were happy for what they had given us. We were happy also for what we had given them. Because we had, after perhaps thousands of other concerts, made them enjoy this one with us--obviously. And we were happy to give the dome-back dreams of our old friends a boost. 
..,.....::.WI 
a vintage folk festival 
About four or five years ago, there was a small but extremely talented group of talented folk musicians operating on and around the Notre Dame campus. Frankie's and Skiffles were boogeying affairs, the Crystal Ship brought its cargo of good vibes, and a renovated dive on Mill Street became an intimate coffeehouse. 
Frankie's basement now caters for banquets, the Crystal Ship's crew has scattered, and the coffeehouse on Mill Street will soon fall to urban renewal. But this fall, somehow many of the talented musicians of that brief erea have returned to South Bend and on Wednesday, October 6, Couplop Productions will present, in conjunction with the Student Union, a free concert in the ballroom of LaFortune Center, featuring some of the outstanding talents of those times. The concert will begin at seven thirty and it is absolutley free. 
Featured performers include John MacKenzie, Paul Guernsy, the Occasional Blues Band, Davy and Sorrell, Dennis Lopez, Bob I<~ven and John Bachman. To repeat, it is at 7:30 and is absolutley free. 
"• 


Page 6 THE OBSERVER Monday, October 4, 1971 
O.ance misunderstanding led to Attica riot 
The following article was prepared by Joseph Lelyveld, Francis X. Clines, Michael T. Kaufman, and James M. ·· Markham, members of the New York Times Reporting Staff. This is the first of a four part series. 
(c) 1971 New York Times News Service 
New York, Oct. 3 -"The situation at present is rather fluid indeed. All we received were promises of change ... " 
So wrote inmate 22480 at the Attica Correctional Facility on Wednesday, Sept. 8, to John R. Dunne, the Chairman of the Committee on Crime and Correction of the New York State Senate. Inmate 22480 was Her­bert X. Blyden, a black Muslim who 13 monthsearlierhad been a leader of the prisoners' revolt at the Manhattan Men's House of Detention, known as the Tomb. Now he signed himself "Minister of Information for the Attica Liberation faction." 
The situation, apparently, was more fluid than even Blyden suspected, for a few hours after his diplomatically worded plea for a visit to Attica by Dunne had been dispatched, a chance misunderstanding occurred in A Yard that was to lead directly to mass insurrection by inmates at the maximum security prison. 
By the time the letter arrived at its destination, the four day revolt had reached its bloody climax with the loss, finally, of 42 lives. 
To investiage persistent rumors and fill in large gaps in what has been known about the Attiva events, the New York Times has attempted to piece together a chronological account through interviews with legislators, inmates, lawyers, doctors, negotiators and others and by examining tapes, letters, and notebooks from inside the prison. Numerous requests for interviews with state officials -in Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's office, the Department of Correction and the State Police­were all turned down. 
The misunderstanding in A Yard tnat Wednesday afternoon occurred at about 3:45p.m. as the yard was filling with inmates returning from work stints. The usual cliques formed in the usual places, with some men playing ~cards and others watching television. 
Off to one side, a white inmate, Ray Lamorie, said to be a defensive coach for a prison football team, was showing a young black inmate named Leroy Dewer some linesmen's moves and feints. 
To Lt. Richard Mulrooney, a seasoned correctional officer who had just stepped through a door in the yard wall, it looked as if the two prisoners were fighting. An inmate who was there described what happened next: 
The officer, he said, ap­proached the black man from the rear and placed a hand on his shoulders. Acting apparently on instinct, Dewer spun around and struck the guard -a breach of prison order so stunning that activity in the yard froze almost instantly and all eyes turned to the three men. 
The lieutenant, with three other officers now backing him up, ordered Dewer out of the yard -to "the box" or segregation, the other prisoners assumed -but Dewer wandered away into a crowd of inmates that encircled him protectively. 
Lamorie angrily started protesting Dewer's innocence. "Get your hands off me!" he yelled at a guard who tried to quiet him. 
Deciding not to press the issue for the moment, the guards moved away. Someone shouted after them: "If you take those guys out tonight, we'll take this prison off you." 
Two hours later, after the in­mates had been "locked in" guards summoned Dewer and Lamorie from their cells on 3 gallery and 5 gallery of A Block <one of the five cellblocks at Attica). Soon a report circulated that the two inmates had been beaten. The report carried by an inmate returning late from a
clerical job, began spreading ~==:.:...:..----------~_:__~..:.:.::.:...:..:.:..:..:c_:___:_.._..__:___:..:.:.::.:...:..:.~--------------1 
through A block's 12 galleries. 
.. Thursday morning at about 10 minutes before nine, when they were on their way to the mess hall for the second breakfast sitting, the men of 5 gallery ­neighbors of the white inmate, Lamorie -burst into rebellion. Among them was a Muslim minister who would later emerge as a leader of the rising, Richard Clarke. 
Surging into a vestibule on the main floor of their cellblock and a passageway that runs through the yards, the inmates easily overpowered the five guards they found in their way. An in­
mate who looked on saw one guard clinging to the gate of the vestibule. The uproar in the vestibule 


could be seen plainly by a guard who was protected by a series of electric gates that he controlled. 
By this time, rebel inmates had stormed the 100 yards down the narrow passageway to "Times Square" the critical in­tersection where the four yards meet. There a single guard was on duty at a manual gate that always was left open during the breakfast hour. 
The guard, William Quinn, was unableto secure the gate against the inmates. As he was subdued, his skull was fractured in two places. 
Our Ski Pro Shop Will Be Open for Business Today 
2607 U.S. 31 So. Niles Phone 684-0750 



' Look for our GRAND OPENING • OCTOBER 15
' 
Drawing Valuable Prizes · Ski Trip -' 
' 
Having taken Times Square, the inmates had easy access to B, C and D cellblocks. Raiding parties moved off in three directions. Behind B block was the metal shop -a factory where prisoners manufacture office furniture -which became a prime objective. 
Sgt. Edward Cunningham, who was to die four days later in the police assault, locked the doors of the shop to keep the raiders out. It took only a few moments, however, for the doors to be forced open. At that point, Herbert V. Blyden -who already had a 72 count indictment agains.t him for his role in the Tombs rising-was working in the rear of the shop. 

Not all inmates were eager to be "liberated." In 12 gallery of A block, a group of 30 prisoners ­blacks and whites -obtained a set of keys and locked themselves into their cells. Rebel inmates, armed with pipes and razors, found another set of keys and opened the cells, announcing in tones that did not invite disagreement, "Everybody's going down to D yard." 
TO BE THE FIRST IN SERVICE­WE PUT SERVICE FIRST! Visit our Triumph Service Center For All Your Needs 
(MG, Fiat, Austin, VW, Toyota, Datsun, Volvo owners.... we can handle you , too!) Call Craig Hileman, Service Manager at .... 
I 
ILlIIIII 
TRIUMPH, SPITFIRE, GT6, TR6, & STAG 916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka Phone 255-4751 

Monday, October 4, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Page 7 

Defense shines in 3rd Irish win 
Minnix scores twice as ND tops Spartans, 14-2 
by Jim Donaldson SJiorts Editor 
Duffy Daugherty saw nothing hut red Saturday while Ara Parseghian was flush with victory. 
Another great performance by the Irish defense carried Notre Dame to a 14-2 triumph over the penalty-ridden Spartans of Michigan State in sweltering Notre Dame Stadium. 
Senior quarterback Bill Etter, making his first start of the sPason, directed the Irish to a pair of first quarter touchdowns and the Notre Dame defense made that early lead stand up the rPst of the way. 
Penallties were almost as big a problem for State as the Notre Dame defenders. Daugherty's Spartans never penetrated beyond the Irish 47 without 1-(etling the ball called back because of penalties and it was the infractions, not the 85 degree tpmperature, that made the usually genial Irishman hot under the collar. The Spartans were assessed 91 yards in pPnalties. 
"This is the worst officiated game I have seen in all my years coaching," an angry Daugherty said afterwards. "It's a frustrating thing to play hard and he denied because of the calls " 
The calls hurt because we lost our momentum," Daugherty continued. "We were never able lo get good field position after that. Without those calls I feel that it could have been a heckuva dog fight." 
An early off-side penalty against State on the Spartans' second play from scrimmage had a devastating effect on the Spartans. 
The Irish had marched 80 yards for a touchdown after taking the opening kickoff but State seemed destined to tie it up in a hurry the first time they had the football. 
Fleet tailback Eric Allen ran for 14 yards around right end on the first State play from scrimmage, giving the Spartans a first down on their own 42. Spartan quarterback Frank Kolch hit tight end Billy Joe Dupree over the middle on the next play and Dupree rambled to the Irish six before being hauled down, picking up 52 yards. The play was called back because of the off-side penalty, however. 
Faced with a second and 15 situation at his own 37, instead of first and goal, Kolch again tried to pass. This time, he was dropped for a 1.0-yard loss by Walt Patulski. The Spartans elected to stay on the ground on third down but fullback Henry Matthews fumbled a pitchout from Kolch behind the line of scrimmage and Jimmy Musuraca recovered the loose football for Notre Dame at the Spartan 17. 
It took the Irish just two plays to score their second touchdown and although Notre Dame wasn't able to score again the rest of the way, missing several op­portunities, the issue was pretty well decided because the Spartan offense never threatened Ihereafter. 
At the outset, it appeared as if the Irish might run away with the game. After Greg Hill and Gary Diminick bobbled the opening kickoff and down the ball in the end zone for a touchback, Etter took the Irishall the way down the field in 17 plays. The drive consumed 8: 11 of the first quarter and was the longest march the Irish have put together this season. 
I<:tter looked sharp throughout the drive, faking and running well and p&ssing when necessary. 
Notre Dame picked up six first downs in their march to paydirt, gaining yardage in short chunks. Passes to Bob Minnix for 
• ·-·.
;. ,.r A.~ •. 
' '\' • • , f I, .. 
~ .•_.-#~............ 

...... . . 
" ... ' . . \·
~ 

,· •••,': ·'-...6.*'. -· . ') ,.. ....
j ·.. " \ ~ r,..-.'l.,} . •.r • • .J 
J:... 
.-• 1:'1 • •• • f ...._ _.-• . -}. "1" • .,r Tl ,.,.•, . ""'-'' 
..... .. ••«"'., •• ' • f·, i:.IL ..._~._" . c­
.\ -s.· ~ . •,l... • i.:iJ'~o...,. .... -."'l. 
,• ,.. . . . ) r T T'11> .. 1 , .• 
. """ ,. ". • .., ,.. 'I' 't.:_ .-~·-: ./. ·..
. 
~ ;,.~ . . r. .,.,q, ~ ..
..~~ .. 
' ._tri.. ..... -#' ' 
.. -, ~ ~ .,..,.. ~ ~~ 
I J f-r,.. ;:~ ~\< .. 
,.~~fir· 
1:! yards and Tom Gatewood for 
12 'were the longest gains in the 
drive. Minnix capped the march 
by hulling his way into the end­
zone from the one. Bob Thomas 
kicked the extra point. 
Minnix also tallied the second 
Irish touchdown. Taking over on 
the State 17 after Musurcaca's 
fumble recovery, the Irish scored 
in a hurry. Greg Hill broke loose 
around left end for 12 yards and 
Minnix angled off left tackle for 
six points on the next play. 
Thomas again converted, 
although this time he had to boot 
the point from the Notre Dame 25 
after an off-side penalty had 
pushed the Irish back five yards. 
Notre Dame's offense ac­
counted for the only other two 
points in the game, although they 
were registered on Michigan 
State's side of the scoreboard. 
After Spartan punter Bill 
Simpson had one of his kicks 
downed late in the first quarter at 
the Irish one yard line, Notre 
Dame tried to run the ball out of 
I rouble. 
On the first play, Larry Parker 
carried into the right side of the 
line. He took a good jolt at the 
three from big Spartan tackle, 
Hon Curl, and the ball popped 
loose, into the Irish end zone. 
I<:tter alertly fell on it there for a 
safety, saving a touchdown but 
giving the Spartans two points. 
There were 35 seconds 
showing on the stadium clock at 
that point and the final 45:15 of 
the game were scoreless, 
although the Irish came close on 
a number of occassions. 
Notre Dame drove from the 
Spartan 45 to the 5 yard line in 
the third quarter but Ron Joseph 
broke through the Irish forward 
wall to slam Etter from behind 
and jar the ball loose. Ernie 
Hamilton recovered for state to 
halt the Irish threat. 
Notre Dame actually moved 
the ball across the Spartan goal 
., ..t.~ • . • .. 
"' 1.'-" ... ~
·-flft~ ,.• •• •" · • 
."~: ''"· . ,r • .. ·~
.•• , I ..-r, ;­
." . . 
~ 
Blil Etter directed the Notre Dame attack untO an Injury forced him to 
the bench in the fourth quarter. line midway through the final period, Etter passing three yards to John Cieszkowski in the end zone, but one of the Irish lineman was off-side on the play and the score was nullified. The Irish ended up trying a field goal but Thomas' boot from the 13 was wide to the left. Notre Dame came close to scoring once again, late in the game. With Pat Steenberge filling in for Etter, who had left the contest with a bruised forearm, the Irish managed to penetrate to the State six before being halted. Noting the difficulty his Irish were having getting the ball into the end zone from in close, Ara remarked in the locker room that "We are going to have to develop more punch near the goal line." Parseghian had words of praise for his defensive unit and Etter. "Our defense played very well again today," the Irish mentor said. Physically we did a good job and were quite consistent on defense. Patulski and Kadish in the front four. Patton in the linebackers, and Ellis in the secondary were outstanding." Evaluating Etter's play, Parseghian remarked, "I was pleased with Bill Etter's performance." 
"I started Etter today because on Thursday and Friday he looked as if he was regaining the confidence he had as a sophomore," Parseghian com­mented. "Based on his per­formance today, I plan to start him next week." 
Etter was Notre Dame's busiest and best ball carrier, gaining 45 yards on 14 rushes. He was impressive passing, too, hitting 9 of 14 for 83 yards. 
Etter had a suspicion that he would get the nod at quarterback from Parseghian against the Spartans. "I wasn't sure I'd start, but I suspected it from Tuesday on," he said' "I felt he <Parseghian) wouldn't rotate us <he and Steenberge> as much if I did a pretty good job." 
The senior quarterback was pleased with his showing in his first start at Notre Dame. 
"I'm satisfied with my per­
offense," he commented. "We 
showed the people we can move 
the ball." 
Parseghian agreed with Etter, 
saying, "We moved the ball more 
consistently today." 
Daugherty also complimented 
the Irish on their showing, 
remarking that, "Notre Dame 
is a very fine team, one which 
overpowers you in defense. It's 
hard to make a sustained drive 
against them." 
The Spartan head coach had no 
kind words for the officials 
though. He was particularly 
upset about two offensive pass 
interference penalties called on 
the Spartans and he felt should 
have have been a roughing the 
kicker penalty on Clarence Ellis 
of the Irish. 
"The men the pass interference 
penalties were called on were 
receivers and were trying to get 
away from defenders as I saw it. 
I also felt that it was a mistake 
not to call roughing the kicker," 
Duffy continued. "If that wasn't 
roughing the kicker, I don't know 
a thing about football." 
The victory gave the Irish a 3-o mark on the season, while the Spartans dropped to 2-2. All three of Notre Dame's wins have come against Big Ten clubs. 
Parseghian summed up the day's action by saying, "I was pleased to win, although I was disappointed we didn't score in the last three periods." That's just about the way most of the · 59,075 fans in attendance felt, too. 
O's and Bucs win Sunday 
The Baltimore Orioles posted a come-from-behind, 5-3 victory over the Oakland A's and the Pittsburgh Pirates clubbed San Francisco 9-4, Sunday in major league playoff action. 
The Orioles, defending American League and World champions, lead their best of five series with the A's, one game to none. The Pirates who won the National League East Division last year but lost to the Cincinnati Heds in the playoffs, are knotted with the Giants at one game 

Rob Minnix breaks Into the end z~e for the rtrst Irish touchdown of the formance and I'm happy with the apiece. 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER l\'J.onday, October 4, 1971 
CE's Prof Morgan to chase tornadoes 
be the torpedo and the storm theMorgan and he and his crew will ship, the techniques transferrace towards the storm until they quite easily," the professor said. sight it. Tornado Alley. located inThe carrier will be unloaded, · central Oklahoma and Kansasand Prof. Morgan along with his was chosen for several reasons.driver and a meteorologist will It is the sight of many severemaneuver in front of the tornado storms and the facilities of thewhile the flatbed trailer driver NSSL are availible.heads for safety. Prof. Morgan's findings should"We'll just get in the way , park 

be particularly helpful here,

and hold tight," Prof. Morgan because it is a relatively un­said last week. populated area but growingNoting the safety of his vehicle, rapidly.which will be modified somewhat "We're not concerned with thewith special equipment, Prof. damage a tornado does,"Morgan said it could be rolled Prof.Morgan said adding a hailover several times without injury storm could do ten times theto passengers. damage of a tornado.They will attempt to intercept "The tornado is a real killerthe tornado much the way a and is a real disaster when ittorpedo is used to intercept a strikes a populated area," the 37ship. "If you consider yourself to year old professor said · 
Cl_.~ASSIFIED ADS 
WANTEDNOTICES 
Wanted: R Wanted: Ride can be? Let Viviane Woodard 
Are you as beautiful as you 
from N.Y. area to Notre Dame 
on any home football
teach you how... with two t~ee weekend. Jack 1629
make-up lessons. )Call Joanna al 287-2731 for "nnt l 
Need ride to Boston at Thanksgiving. Will share Alterations or dressmakings: 
-
driving and expenses. Aidan speedy work-reasonable 
8978 
Need Ride to New York, Albany,or that area, Oct. 6, 7, 
8. Will share expenses and driving. Please call Jack at 289 7433. 
-NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO FOR TWO FRIDAY, OC­TOBER /• PLUS ANY NAVY TICKET. TOM 1385. 
Need: Ride to Chicago loop or 
Maywood, Illinois area any 
weekend. Call Patti-4355 
WANTED: 
Ride from Phila. area to Notre Dame on any home football weekend 
Jack
lt.?Q . 
I 
FOR SALE 
1967 Ford Galaxie, 390, 4 dor­or, auto, P.S. See at Cir's Marathon, 1914 Miami or call 289 5100. 
NEW, GUARANTEED 8 
TRACK TAPES ONLY $3.50 
CALL 6715 
New Posters have just arrived and are now in stock at ex­cellent prices. Come to 815 Flanner, 611 Grace or 315 SOUTH Regina or for more information. Call 1694, 1167 or 4258. 
19" Portable T.V. and stand ­$25. One year old 12' by 15' Pink shag carpeting $15.
Mr. Sporleader's MWF design Girl's bike . $15. 272;-0513.
class owe 65 cents to pay for 
·­1962 Valiant; good running
photographs of the alley 'condition good tires (2 ex-project. Pay Bob Palmiter in 
TrasJ; For Sale or Trade.
class. 
Sale: $50. 
. 
Trade: 6 N.C. Tix or 4N.C . and 2 U.S.C. Tix or 2 N.C. and
1. Classified ads paid for in 4 U.S.C. Tix or 6 U.S.C. Tix.
cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 12:15-5:00. Ads in by Call .234-5735.
2:00on day before publication. 

j.y... ...,. 1 ..,.. Sdaya ....,.. 
I weel 
1·11 ... .75 1.15 l.ZI 
11·11 ... .... 1.75
1.35 Z.ll 
11-zt .71 1.15 1.71 z.... z.~t· 
Zl·ZS 
.85 1.35 z.oo Z.IO Ul 
H-30 
1.00 1.10 
Z.35 3.CO Ut 
-
·31·35 1.ze 1.90 Z.841 3.85 C.78 
36-4!) 
1.35 Z.IO 3.10 4.25 
5.18 
41-45 
1.55 2.30 4.50
3.30 !t.Sft 

by Don Ruane -in property damage each year. Severe Storms Laboratory in Prof. Morgan's long range goal Norman, Oklahoma, Prof. 
A member of the civil is to design buildings which can Morgan plans to use militaryengineering faculty has decided withstand the onslaught of severe tactics to catch a tornado. to try to catch a tornado in April storms. Such a design would be In January, he will go to the 1973 if preliminary plans go well. particularly useful for such weather center to discuss plans
Prof. Bruce Morgan wants to structures as schools and for next April, when he will at­find out more about the deadly hospitals. tempt to photograph a tornado whirlwinds which cause more Working in cooperation with from.the periphery of the storm. than 100 deaths.,and $75 million meteorologists at the National If this project is successful, Morgan feels the NSSL will give full approval for him and
Riehle maintains student 
associates to "go right into the heart of the storm." By now, one's impression, like Prof. Morgan's wife and two
Character evaluation is 
daughters', is that he will be "blown to bits." However, with the help of the 
campus ROTC unit, he has secured the use of a two and one 
by Bill Lay for four years, Fr. Riehle replied half ton armored personnel that very few bad reports are carrier. sent out by his office. The carrier will be mounted on 
Confidential character forms He added that the possibility of a flatbed trailer, while the have been compiled on each personality conflicts between scientists cruise about "tornado Notre Dame student for many rector assistants and students is valley", within the 100 mile range years, but the practice is now always borne in mind. of the NSSL laboratory in Nor-being revaluated by the dean of Fr. Riehle noted that the forms man. · students and other ad-are generally destroyed after a When the meteorologists find a ministrators. The forms, student graduates. storm, they will radio Prof. described by Fr. James L. Riehle 
~as a "hangover from the old days," have changed a great deal 
Still useful to hall rectors 
SMORGASBORD
since they were inaugurated. 
The forms originate in Fr. 
Every Monday 
5-9 pmRiehle's office each spring, and are then sent to the hall rectors. $1.25 All you can eat The rectors generally give the forms to the resident assistants to fill out. The forms then return to 
Every Wednesday evening
dean of students' office, where they are accessible only to the dean and the rectors. 
. PITCHER 
zs••• $1.00
At one time the forms demanded evaluation of a 
NIGHT 
multitude of student charac­teristics. Included in the 
Every Friday night
evaluation were religious at­tendance, personal integrity, adjustment to hall life and other 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
highly subjective areas. Eventually administrators concluded that they could not 
Every Saturday night
effectively interpret the complex forms, and the forms were greatly simplified. 
POLKA BAND·DANCING 
The primary purpose of the present forms is to give the rectors a chance to mention any outstanding features of a student. 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. ­
The necessity of even such simple forms is being questioned, however. The forms, according 
LAUREL &HARDY
to Fr. Riehle, are most useful in instances of hall transfers and 
PIZZA PALACE
letters of recommendation. 
4ti10Western Ave. Belleville Shoppin2 Center unfairly stigmatize a freshman 
* Asked if the forms could not 
Phone 289-7983 
NOTICE (Placement Manuals will be mailed out this weekend) 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S 
AN INVITATION TO GRADUATING SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS 
PLACEMENT BUREAU OPEN HOUSE 
October 4, 5, 6, 7, ... Mon, Tues, Wed, Thurs,... 1 :30-4:00 p.m. Placement Bureau, Administration Building Room 222 
PICK UP EMPLOYER LITERATURE AND BUREAU REGISTRATION Grad II Computer forms... See interviewing rooms... Enjoy refreshments and visit with the staff... ask questions... sign-up for employer interviews for weeks of October 1 1 and 18 












