
weather -more rain, more clouds. more cold, but not very. fog, too, at night. 


Vol. VI, No. 57 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Monday, December 6, 1971 
Student group wants ''arbitration'' 
by John Abowd Observer Assistant Editor 
A group of independent students last night released a statement calling for arbitration of the Notre Dame St. Mary's merger problem by "a delegated representative of the Roman Catholic Church." 
"We feel that the Church has the clearest legitimacy in the dealings of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's," the statement said. 
The proposal also called for : 
-"the full Boards of Trustees of Notre Dame and St. Mary's to meet on campus during February or March of 1972 to discuss the possibility of renewing plans for merger. These meetings should be opened to student and faculty participation." 
-"maintenance of operations at the present level of cooperation until a final decision is made. Women promised Notre Dame degrees should receive them." 
The statement was signed by Don Mooney, Eric Andrus, Steve Flavin, Dan Sherry, Jerry O'Connor, and Jack Candon of the Student Union; Phil Michaels and Bob Welly, hall presidents; Joe Hotz, co-editor of the Scholastic; and Glen Corso, editor of the Ob­server. 
"We felt independent action by students is good for the University and that the temper of Notre Dame student government so far on this issue has been one of inaction," Mooney said in explaining why the students had not gone directly to student government. 
"It is time," Mooney added, "for some type of action to be directed at the Notre Dame ad­ministration and not just at St. Mary's" 
The statement notes what Mooney termed the "lack of specific information" available about the reversal decision. 
"'Until the facts are known, we must assume that at least half the blame must belong to the University of Notre Dame," the statement says. 
The students plan to take the proposal to Fr. Hesburgh and Provost Fr. James Burtchaell, Mooney said. In addition to administrators they also plan to ask for student senate and hall presidents council, according to Mooney. 
"As students of Notre Dame we feel an obligation to the present students of St. Mary's. They have been active membrrs of this University's community. Many of them came to the University wilh the expectation of receiving a Notre Dame degree an an education superior to ond offered by an independent St. Mary's. Many students at Notre Dame feel these women should not be abandoned so non-chalantly," the satatement ways. 
"At the same time" it continues, "merger with St. Mary's offers a richer academic atmosphere to the University in the future." 


Don Mooney Eric Andrut. 
If they have ND majors 

SMC upperclassDlen can win Notre Dame degrees 
by Ann Therese Darin 

St. Mary's upperclassmen currently <'nrolled in exclusively Notre Dame major departments will receive Notre Dame dt-grt>es, announced Mother Olivette Whelan, SMC Board of Trustee chairman at a student convocation Friday. 
Four student representatives and four faculty representatives will be allowed to explain their opinions on the merger stop­page to the Board at its meeting, Dec. 18, Mother Olivette said. 
Before introducing the trustee chair­man, who flew in from a Boston meeting of the Sisters of the Holy Cross specifically to address the student convocation, Kathy Barlow, student body president, an­nounced an emergency meeting of the Board of Trustees had been requested. 
Acknowledging the request, Sr. Alma Peter, acting college president, told Miss Barlow she had notified members Thur­sday night and wa·s waiting replies Thursday night. 
"At Notre Dame there is no opportunity for women," Mother Olivette said, defending the college's position. "They are not yet ready for them." 
However, despite the college's feelings, Mother Olivette emphasized, "there will be no change in the coexchange program for next Sl rnrllter." 
She expressed disbelief that the St. Mary's Freshman Year Office had denied freshmen the opportunity to sched~le Notre Dame classes. becau~e the shuttle buses are too crowded. She said that if they wanted to, freshmen could sign up for all of their classes at Notre Dame. 
To substantiate this, Mother Olivette quoted Fr. James Burtchaell, university provost, who was unable to accept the chairman's invitation to accompany her to the student convocation. 
"While it was impossible for Fr. Burt­chaell to be here, " she said, "he did send a message with me: 'There is absolutely no change for next semester. No fees. You can register for any class offered by Notre Dame' ." Burtchaell claimed, she said, 

that  this  semester  would  give  the  two  
schools  time  to  reach  an  equitable  
solution.  ·  

In revealing four students could attend the Trustees meeting, she acknowledged "We always have a time when students and the Board can speak at the other two Holy Cross colleges (Dumbarton in Washington, D.C. and Cardinal Cushing College in Boston.) This has not been done here and I think this was a mistake. I in­tend to see this will be done in the future." 
Before the May ratification of unification by both boards of Trustees, Mother Olivette noted there was much talk about how size and inequality of size, would effect unification. 
To stress her point, she illustrated it with an anecdote about a 6'6" man who married a 4'4" woman, who both realize there are going to be problems because of size. The man says, she quoted, "We're going to do things my way." 
This would not be the case at St. Mary's and Notre Dame, she stated flatly. "The atmosphere has not been there for the input of women into Notre Dame. Fr. Burtchaell said they wanted such help, but I haven't yet seen it, "she claimed. 
Denying financial problems were the major problem, she quoted an article in this week's Time Magazine, on coeducation: "Coeducation is a sham unless it has a genuine equality. There must be an opportunity for women." 
Most SMC administrators feel, she stated that Notre Dame was reneging on its commitment with SMC for unification, made last spring. 
In the spring meetings, both Notre Dame and St. Mary's had agreed that both schools would be re-organized into a new University of Notre Dame encompassing the best of both schools, Sister comment. 
"We had this third entity vision in the 
future," Mother Olivetter reflected, "but 
what has been taking place is something 
rejected by all of you (students), faculty," 
and as the Park-Mayhew report predicted, 
the Board of Trustees have also. "This is 
absorption," she continued. 
"Merger is not possible between two 
unequal institutions," she emphasized. "It 
must be incorporation." 
For this reason, The Observer learned 
Friday, St. Mary's alumnae board 
representatives had refused voting 
privileges on the Notre Dame Alumni 
Board last fall. They felt, sources claimed, 
they would be absorbed into Notre Dame. 
Instead, they requested a complete 
reorganization of the Board with equal 
representation for women. 
She implored students to hold off 
because "we have some work to do as a 
group of women and as a women's 
college" before unification could be ac­
celerated again. 
SMC students disputed her statement, 
that "We can show some of the trends of 
where education can go and we can do this 
and we can influence Notre Dame, but not 
too quickly." 
Describing Notre Dame as "very 
traditional" amid much applause from the 
audience of 1100 students, she said "If we 
are content to stay in a traditional life, all 
right, this is a choice we can make." 
Exiting off stage to a waiting pool of 
reporters, Mother Olivette said "they can 
destroy St. Mary's," refering to the 
students, "It's within their oower." )
(Conttnued on a e 12 

Inside 
India badly beats Pakistan in battle ... 3 An analysis of post-unmerger activity ... 5 Bond elected New Voters Conference co -chairman ... 8 Irish beat Valpo in rought match. 81-71 ...11 



TWO-YEAR PROGRAM 
Applications are now being accepted for the army Rotc two-year pr-ogram. If you are 
SINCERELY INTERESTED in becoming an Army officer, apply now. Applicants must pass an 
interview by a board of officers, take and pass writtef! tests, be medically qualified and have at least two years of academic work remaining (undergraduate or graduate). Successful applicants will attend a six weeks summer camp (in lieu of the first two years 
of Rotc) and then be enrolled in Army Rotc for two years. They may attend any University
. 

. 
or College offering Army Rotc. Upon completion of Rotc the students are commissioned as second lieutenants in the United States Army. Dependent on the needs of the Army they may serve two years active duty and four years in the reserves, or three to six months active duty for training followed by seven and a half years in the reserves. Students being 

c.vmmissioned may attend graduate school prior to reporting for duty. A $1 00 PER MONTH SUBSISTENCE ALLOWANCE is provided while the student is enrolled in Rotc. 
Students · enrolled in Rotc have the opportunity to compete for the following programs: 
A. Subsidized Medical schooling with full pay and allowances. (Two of our cadets commissioned in May 1971 are currently attending Medical school under this program). 
B. Subsidized graduate study with full pay and allowances for two years. .. .'u ... ,, 1 
.. I J I l . ' 

c. Scientific and Engineering Graduate schooling for distinguished Military graduates.' ':~ :··; · · ·· 
l"l'll•, I' til 

D. Regular Army commission and a career in the Army. 
E. Flight training. F. Airborne school. G. Ranger school. 
To apply visit Army Rotc in the 1\-iilitary Science Building. For information call: Lieutenant Colonel Lake at 219 2H3-b2b4-65. 
Page 2 

SG announces support of SMC student reactions 
by Jerry Lutkus Observer News Editor 
A statement released last night in the name of the Notre Dame Student Government decried the "injustice" done to the students of St. Mary's and urged the University to give preference to SMC girls transfering into Notre Dame. The statement further asked the university to clarify their position on Notre Dame degrees for St. Mary's students. And it supported the strike action of the SMC students. 
"It is quite apparent," the statement reads, "that the feelings and rights of the women at St. Mary's-particularly the Freshman--have been disregarded, and that they have been done a great injustice." 
The release urges that the students of St. Mary's who apply for transfer should be given preference over "students ap­plying for transfer from othe_r schools". In a count conducted Thursday and Friday, ap­proximately 600 St. Mary's 

students have filled out tran-..-------------., 
script forms in preparation for transfering, although not all of these students have applied to Notre Dame. 
The statement also urges a clarification of the degree situation. "We specifically request that the Provost in cooperation with the four College Deans and the Department Chairmen of all colleges clarify, before Christmas, precisely the details of Notre Dame's willingness to grant degrees to qualified St. Mary's students." <This same point was clarified somewhat by Mother Olivette Whelan in her Friday press conference. See story top page one.) 

The stopping of the merger has created confusion in the minds of students and the statement asks that Notre Dame clarify the situation of the co-ex classes. Student Government feels that this is "crucial" to clearing up much of the confusion that the unmerger has caused. 
The statement further decries the lack of information that has been supplied to the students, faculty, and many ad­ministrators. It also calls for more student aid in the decision making process. 
"We believe the University must realize the importance of student input into the decision­making process and in the decisions themselves," the release reads, "Students make up a sizable segment of Notre Dame and to consistently ignore them and their elected representatives--even unin­tentionally--can only lead to a serious distrust of the communit) we purport to have here." 
Notre Dame will hold this semester's final examinations from Sunday,. December the twelfth through Saturday the eighteenth, Dean of Students 
Rev.  James  L. Riehle  C.S.C.  
announced last night.  
According  to  the .  Dean,  

students with conflicts in examination schedules or who through "emergency absence or illness" are unable to attend a final exam must report to the Office of the Registrar some time before the examination com­mences. The Registrar's office is located in room 215 of the Ad­ministration Building. · 

HE ARMY· ROTC 
THE OBSERVER Monday, December 6, 1971 



ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. o ST. LOUIS 

·---..--4............._............. •"': 

SM C faculty seeks unification 
The SMC faculty called for a "candid account" of the proceedings that led to the merger cancellation from the Board of Trustees and endorsed a letter from Dr. Paul Messbarger, which contended that "we must have some assurance that the leadership of this institurion will be changed," in a faculty Senate meeting last Friday afternoon. 
The meeting, which was open to the students for the first time in the Senate's history, also saw the faculty send Messbarger's letter to the full SMC Board of Trustees. 
(l·l l!lit Nt>w York Times 
Suadih, Pakistan, Dt>c. 5--The ruins of this small East Pakistan village are still smoldering---the mud huts with thatch roofs smashf'd by Indian artillery shells firing on retreating Pakistani troops. 
AI the edge of the village, in a vf'getable field, the bodies of 22 Pakistanis lie sprawled in the tn•nches of their bunkers, where they Wf're overpowered by a superior Indian force with tanks. 
Nf'arby, people gather on the roads to shout "Joe Bangia! (Victory for Bengal! l" to passing Indian troops. 
Tlwse an• some of the marks of tlw two-day-old Indian thrust into East Pakistan. The Indians' aim is to bring the !10,000 Pakistani troops in the eastern province to lhf'ir knf'es and set up an in­surgent Bangia Desh or Bengal Nation government on East l'akistani soil. 
In this area, thf' Jessore sector, lht• Indian forces---who greatly outnumber and outgun the Pakistanis·--had by nightfall pushI'd to Kotchandpur, a town about 16 miles within East Pakistan. and were driving on toward Kaliganj and Jhenida to try to cut off the Pakistani escape routes to the capital at Dacca. 
Suadih was finally wrested from the Pakistanis early this morning after fighting that lasted about 15 hours. 
As Indian officers, standing amid the Pakistani bodies, ex­plainl'd it this afternoon, two eompanies of Pakistanis from a Punjab Ratallion about 250 men, had straddled the road at Suadih to try to halt the Indian advance. 
The Indians siad they sent a company around to attack from the north, with another company in reserve. Three light tanks and some 25-pound artillery guns were moved in to support the Indian troops. 
The fighting began about midday on Saturday, the officers said. One of the Pakistani companies retreated The other, dug into bunkers in the vegetable field, stayed to make a stand. The villagers of Suadih had already ned into the brush. 
Two of the attacking Indian tanks were disabled in mine fields, but the artillery pounded the Pakistani positions relen­tlessly. Most of the Pakistanis appear to have been killed by the shelling. The Indians finished them off with an infantry charge, hurling grenades into the bunkers, the officers said. 
One of the bunkers was overrun by the remaining tank. 
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester ex. cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
The faculty's own resolution, which was presented by the Executive Committee of Notre Dame's Academic center,said in part that "the St. Mary's faculty assembly urgently requests an open meeting in order that the communities be able to assist them in solving the problems preventing unification." 
The meeting came after SMC Trustees Chairman Mother Olivette Whelan met with the Senate's Academic Affairs Council, which includes Messbarger, Dr. William Hickey, Dr. Bruno Schlesinger and Dr.
k • 
Clarence Dineen. In this meeting, according to Senate member Dr. Donald Miller, Mother Olivette invoted an as-yet-unnamed faculty committee to meet with the Board of Trustees at the scheduled December 18 session. The faculty Senate directed the Executive Committee Faculty Assembly to set up the machinery for such a meeting. 
About fourty-five faculty members -some of whom walked 
out when the meeting was opened : to the public-were present at the • Friday meeting. • ,. 
• 
1/2 PRICE COLOR PRINTS? 
SAVE ON SLIDES -MOVIES -B&WPRINTS, TOO 
This low price saves you up to 50% over usual "drug store" prices, rushes high quality color prints back to your door in just a few days. Try the film service used on many mid-west and southern campuse~. 
SO EASY, SO CONVENIENT ... just use your own envelope and the coupon below. Fill in name and address, write name oh roll or cartridge, enclose coupon and remittance. Or, use the coupon to get film mailers and dis· count coupons; order film and flashes at low prices ... a better deal than "free" film. Savings and processing quality l(uaranteed. 
YOUR ORDER MUST INCLUDE THIS COUPON-.~ Name____ ---·---_ \\S\t!.\~~\1\1 Address___. ____ . _ ----·--·-'i\~\~1 ------· \a¢\~ 
City State ip__ -· 

• 
• 
e • 0 Send me free film mailer envelope and discount .... Prk:e '",., e
I de 
n tans Overrun Pa lstanl troops.: 0 ~.::::losing_rollsollilmandpaymenl(plus 8~~::::~~a:::;,~;:e. . ::: ,:: • 
lax in Ohio) 0 20 exp. Slides or 8 mm Mov~es . 1.41 1.12 • 
0 Send me lresh Kodacolor f•lm and/ or flashes • 
• 0 I am enclosing an extra 25¢ per roll lor express Circle your size, llimiltwol . .811( each • handling and first-class mail return lnstamalic 126·12 _ 127 _ 120 _ 620 · l<:ach bunker held two or three protruding through the dirt. • •·~'''" ''" '" Circle your nash, llimittwo sleeves! ...811( each • bodies. Flies were gathering. One 
In another, a soldier, e 0 12 exp Kodacolor $2.99 $2.33 Cubes-AG·1-M·2-M.J e . I k d I • 0 20 exp. Kodacolor .. . . 4.49 3.55 Magicubes . .. . .$1 19 each •
hunker had caved in, burying its seemmg y unmar e , ay per-MAIL TO· · · . 
dead occupants, all that could be fectly straight on his back, his • • SPE·D·PICS • Box 299 • Cincinnati, Ohio 45214 • Dapt. N D' • seen were two booted feet 
f'yes closed, as if in a coffin. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
A A • -·-• ... 
ul worked hard all summer to get enough bread for a down payment on my new bug. So I'm going to baby it~' 

You worked hard for that new car or yours. '"ow all you have to do is take care of it. Part of it's using the right gasoline. Amoco®. The type most new car owner manuals recommend. 
Amoco is specially formulated for your new car's anti­pollution engine. Made to help it run better. longer. And Amoco can double the life of your tail pipe and muffler compared to fully leaded gasolines; spark plugs last longer. too. 
That's why more new car buyers use Standard gasolines 
than any other brand. When it comes to high-quality 
gasolines. you can depend on Amoco and the other 
gasolines at Standard. All the time. 
So now that you've got that new car. use the gasoline you can count on. 
You've got a new car: Weve got a new car gasoline. 
~~ ~,~ 
STANDARD 


~·., 

You expect more from Standard and you get it.T.. 
@ Standard Oil Division of American Oil Company 


THE OBSERVER Monday, December 6, 1971 



world briefs 
(C) 1971 New York Times 
.. Moscow--The Soviet Union called Maoist communism a "utilitarian, pragmatic" ideology that puts the nationalistic interests of China above all. The anaylsis, an escalation in the ideological warfare between the Soviet Union and China, appeared in Pravda and seemed to reflect the Kremlin's analysis of the downfall of Lin Piao. 
New York-A small foundation in New Brunswick, N.Y., that has distributed less than $5 million, mostly to hospitals in New Brunswick, since it was formed in 1936 by Robert Wood Johnson, then the chief executive officer of Johnson & Johnson, disclosed that it had received more than $1 billion in securities from the estate of the late Mr. Johnson. Among foundations, only the Ford Foundation is now wealL.'lier. 
.. Washington--sources familiar with the workings of the price com­mission said the body would rule this week that hospital charges can rise between 5 and 6 per cent and that doctors' fees can also rise, by perhaps 2 per cent. Hospital charges have been the fastest rising compenent of the cost of living over the past decade. 

4: 15---lecture, bernard norling, violence is neither good nor bad per se: it is neutral and all 
depends  on  the  cir­ 
cumstances.  127  
nieuwland  

7:30---lecture, dr. gideon hausner, the eichman tria I in retrospect, library auditorium 


Christmas shop at your Golf Pro Shop "in the Rock' 
-Golf balls -gift wrapped -Alpaca Golfing
Cardigans

UN: invite Bangia Desh reps? 
-Jantzen Golf shirts -Monogrammed Caps 

((') 1!171 New York Times News Service 
llnited Nations, N.Y., Dec 5---· The Security Council met for the second consecutive day today to discuss the India-Pakistan conflict and found itself im­mediately embroiled in a wrangle over whether to invite a representative of the insurgent Bangia Desh to address the council. 
A decision was deferred after Yakov A. Malik, the Soviet Delegate, as the chief sponsor of the invitation to Bangia Desh, the East Pakistani autonomy movement, declared that he would not press for a vote now. 
Malik made his concession after Carlos Oritiz De Rosax of Argentina pointed out that the Bangia Desh delegation in a letter to the council president had asked to be heard in the capacity of representatives of "the government" of Bangia Desh. The implication of Oritiz De Rosaz was that the council could not possibly give Bangia Desh government status. Malik agreed that the matter needed further consultation. 
ABU Sayeed Chowdhury, the leader of the Bangia Desh delegation, watched the council debate from the visitors' gallery. 
The meeting was delayed three-and-a-half hours as the delegates, in a mood of growing tension and frustration, sought to bridge the gap that had opened during the first meeting last night between the unconditionally pro­Indian position of the Soviet Union and the equally adamant pro-Pakistani stand of China. 
The central issue in these 
consultations was whether the 
council should, or could, pass a 
resolution that would call for an 
immediate cease-fire in the in­
dian subcontinent and for the 
withdrawal of Indian and 
Pakistani troops to their own side 
of the border. 
The Soviet degegate, Yakov A. 
Malik, was understood to have 
told his colleagues that he would vote against any resolution that included cease-fire and with­
drawal calls. His vote as a per­
manent member of the council 
would consitute a veto. 
Early this morning, during the 
first meeting of the council, 
Malik had in fact vetoed an 
American resolution calling for 
cease-fire and withdrawal as well 
as for the dispatch of a U.N.'s 
observer force if such a force was 
desired by the two governments 
directly involved. 
George Bush, the American 
Delegate, made it clear during 
today's consultations that the 
U.S. could not vote for any resolution that did not include calls for cease-fire and with­drawal. Bush was understood to have received strict formal in­structions to this effect from President Nixon, conveyed by Secretary of State William P. Rogers this morning. 
Speaking informally to 
reporters between consultations 
with his colleagues, Bush com­
pared Pakistan to a "man who 
has his leg almost cut off." 
"What you do in such a 
situation is put on a tourniquet," 
Bush added, explaining that this 
was the reason for the American 
insistence on cease-fire and with­
drawal. 
India ·clearly was "the major 
agressor," Bush said. 
The Chinese delegation, led by 
Huang Hua, the permanent 
representative, hardly took part 
in the informal consultations 
preceding today's meeting.
"Our position is so clear there 
is no need for consultation," a 
Chinese delegate said. 
The Chinese todav submitted a 
Pitt Club 

Sign-ups and payment for Christmas Bus. 
Wed. Dec. 8 
7:30 pm to 8:30 p.m 
Room 2-D La Fortune 
. . 

INTERYIEJV CANCELLED? 
YOUR 


AIR FORCE 
IS HIRING 
At these typical annual salaries for Junior Off~een: 
$8,300 at entry (9,500 if you fly) $10,200 after 2 years 02,000 if you fly) $12,100 at 3 years (13,900 if you fly 
RR:l5 With many sweet frinp benefits. 

THERE IS STILL TIME! Call ext. 6635 WITHOUT DELAY! 
-Munsingwear Golf Jackets -Novelty items draft resolution that not only -Socks -Ski & Tobo an hats called for a cease-fire and with-;-;:::=========:;;;;;:;;;!:!:~===================::::::; drawal but included a clause ATTENTION NON-CATHOLICS 
"strongly condemning" India F r all Uni·versi·ty students and faculty
0for "creatmg a so-called 'Bangia Desh' and for subverting,  0  LISTS OF NON-CATHOLIC SERVICES IN THE  
dismembering  and  committing  NOTRE DAME AREA ARE AVAILABLE FOR  
aggression against Pakistan."  THE  ASKING  AT  THE  CAMPUS  MINISTRY  
By  the  time  today's meeting  OFFICE  ROOM  103  MEMORIAL  
started at 6 P·~·· delegates from  LIBRARY.LIST INCLUDES PROTESTANT  
several countnes .felt that ?nlyone draft resolutiOn remamed  AND  JEWISH  CHURCHES'  THEIR  AD- 
that still had a remote chance of  DRESSES  AND  SERVICE  SCHEDULE  OF  

being adopt~d by the council. b==E~~~C~H~·_;:;:..:::=;;;:;;;-=================-=-=j 

-Compliments of afriend 
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 
Monday, December 6, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 5 
Observer Insight 

ND cantpus now involved in unnterger reactions 


Rt>v. James Burtchaell 
by Ed Ellis Obst>rver Associate Editor The revolution finally came to 
. Saint Mary's last week, and, as one girl at SMC student govern­ment offices commented, "It came when people's interests was directly involved." 
Today, after a week of protests, letter-writing, petitioning, and organizational meetings, the focus of unmerger action is about to broaden, to include the Notre Dame campus, its students and faculty. And two weeks away looms Christmas vacation. 
Last Tuesday, the crucial announcement was made of­ficially confirming what people had suspected for seceral weeks, namely that the proposed merger was bein~ canned. 
The unknown -and officially still unknown -reasons sup­posedly were of two types, financial and philosophical, and they were supposedly of such a deep and enduring character that no one could bridge the gap., 
Notre Dame President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., pacifying the crowd of several hundred in Farley Hall last Tuesday night, refused to lay the blame anywhere, which of course makes it especially difficult for studens to direct their efforts at correcting the situation. Many students have wondered, par­ticularly in the past few days, whether Fr. Hesburgh perhaps refused to blame the nuns -as it was obvious he was refusing to do -because he was "human being and a gentleman," as he said or because the blame did not indeed lie there. 
At any rate, this disavowal of blame did not salsify anyone, and the studens decided to boycott SMC classes Wednesday, a tactic which was well-adhered to, . As 
_ ... !.LJL~;-w~ ~uggest, initial efforts eonc£'ntrated on St. Mary's and in particular. on a group of nuns believed by student leaders to be solely responsible for the ob­slr!.wtion. 
Wt•dnesday night, the "power­experience at the college. The four girls who spoke with Sr. Gerald, Regina Ivory, Cathy Hicks, Ann Shoemaker, and Grita Anderson, came away from the meeting with the opinion-new at the time -that the meger had been stalled by the fear of the nuns that they would lose ontrol of the students now under their jurisdiction. 

This contradicted the view that finances were the stumbling block. 
Sr. Gerald also held to the "no comment" line when it came to affixing the blame. 
Thursday, the major hap­penings stopped, to be replaced by the intense an hopefullly prolonged protest activiity that involves tuition-witholding, transfer application, and negative recruitment. Still, the thrust of the activity was at the nuns and was called "their decision." 
Another pacifier was injected into the complex and situation when the chairman of the SMC Boad of Trustees, Mother Olivette Whalen, C.S.C., ap­peared rather suddenly on Friday to address the student body. Apparently her statements were received wilh little more 
enthusiasm than were Sr. Alma's' on Tuesday night. 
Meanwhile the faculty of St. Mary's with some backing at Notre Dame, was moving towards a position of solidarity with the students. Under the 
direction of Dr. Paul Messbarger, chairman of ths SMC English Department, the faculty participated in the discussions held by the students and proposed a resolution in the Notre Dame Senate criticizing the secrecy of the circumstances surrounding the merger break-. down. · During these attacks on the SMC administration, little has been said about the Notre Dame I 
affected -if they were, the rabble would be roused already -the activity will be directed more at the facts surrounding the merger and at the silence of Fr. Hesburgh and other top ad­ministrators than at the actual merger breakdown itself. 
And the infinitely larger queston involved here is one of "who decides?" 
Students have long argued that they should make most, if not all, the decisions directly involving their lives, but student apathy has always stifled all but the most aggressive protesting this area. The most recent issue was that of parietals, when over 600 students appeared at a Student Life Council meeting in op­position to a strict plan for en­forcment of parietals. The Board of Trustees never gave in, but neithe did the students, so the result is ''discreet unen­forcement," where few are caught and nobody cares so long as it isn't him. 
Apparently this sort of situation willl continue as long as there is no uprising or "cause celbre" to unbalance things. 

In addition to basic question of merger, however, one other factor entered into the necessity to involve Notre Dame inwhat has thus far been "a Saint Mary's problem" At the joint Board of Trustees meeting at Key Biscayne last Spring, the statement was made that the 
Sr. Alma Peter 

merger would be a "new Notre 
Dame," not merely the collapse 
of one institution into the 
structures of another. 

In this goal, SMC student government leaders were one wilh their administration. But when it came time to work out the details it apparently seemed to the nuns as if the feared "collapse" were on its way. This. they could not accept, so tliey backed out of the merger en­tirely, or at least long enough to make the Notre Dame brass think twice. . 
This theory, like most of the 
others, is largely speculation, 
since nobody will talk onthe i 
subject so far. :. 
The question that now arises is that of time. The semester ends in less than two weeks; for many, a good deal less. If the protest. movement is allowed to continue with unsatisified basic goals there is good question whether it will ever start up again in suf­ficient force. The expansion of the movement to Notre Dame in one weeks time diffuses the available pressure. It's fairly obvious that the two ad­ministrations have been playing for time all along, but an even worse thought is that they might actually get that time to defuse student protest. 
In short, last week brought confusion to an already dimly lit scene. Th weekend brought ~haos, and theweekto come may 
Kathy Barlow 
administration and its part in the I .---------------------------, 
failure of the merger talks. The A group of twenty nine Sioux reasons for this are three. First,. Indian students from Rosebud, many people actually believed I South Dakota will be visiting the that SMC and the nuns were! Notre Dame-St. Mary's campus indeed the sole cause of the: this Thursday, Friday and failure. : Saturday. 
St'condly, because the Notre Chief Redbird, who will ac-Dame students are not directly company the high school affected by the breakdown, it was students, will give a lecture on assumed, not without some Thursday at 8:00 on the ex-justification, that sufficient perience of the American In-pressure could not be brought to dians. The lecture was originally bear on the Notre Dame ad-
scheduled for the Library Auditorium, but has been moved to Washington Hall. 
The Indians will also be going to the Notre Dame-St. Louis basketball game on Saturday. Notre Dame students have been asked by their student govern­ment to donate their tickets by giving them to their hall presidents after Monday night's game with Western Michigan. 
ministration. I 
Thirdly, some people believe! that Notre Dame is better off without SMC in the combination, particularly if the nuns ar going' to be obstinat~ about it. 

q 
ROBERT HALL CLOTHES
However, as l'le saying goes, it 

takes two to tangr, and pressure is 
404 WEST WI:STI:RN AVENU!: • SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
slated to build at the Dome within the next few daF. A difference will arise, 
Open every night

however, in the two pressures. 
'til9:90

Since Notre Dame students are Inot as directly Jnd obviously 
behind-the-throne'', Sr. Gerald Hartney, C:S:C., was visited ~­student opmwn for what. was 



TONIGHT 
believed to be tbf first time in her 


6:30 
OBSERVER NEWS METTING 
ALL OLD REPORTERS AND ANY 
INTE.RESTED STUDENTS WHO 


WISH TO WRIT;E SHOULD ATTEND 
I 

John Barkett 2-D ·<A FORTUNE 
~----------------~ 
\ 

PHON!:: 287-6722 
lmng worse.· The two ad­ministrations have refused to talk and students -those whose lives are most directly affected ­are left without explanation for the most important happening on this campus since the mer~er 
lot r~pirit 



goarf
• 
TAKE TIME TO VISIT THE 
NEW 


AQUINAS 

BOOK SHOP 
GIFTS • BOOKS 
POSTERS 
LOVE NOTES 
GREETING CARDS RELIGIOUS EDUCATION MATERIAL 

ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD 
RROWSERS WELCOME FREE PARKING. 

OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TIL 7:00 PM 


AQUINAS 

BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAD SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PH. 272-1704 

ALL STAFF MEMBERS 
t:ONTACT HEAD OF RESPECTIVE DEPARTMENTS 
TODAY CONCERNING OBSERVER CHRISTMAS PARTY 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Monday, December 6, 1971 
--------------------------~~~~~~~~--~-----------------------------------­
For What It's Worth---------­




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
F..dltor-ln-Cialef. GlenS. Corso Assistant Editor
Aw.t.n&Ea.r 

All successful-newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 

ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
Advertising Manager 

Buslaeu Mau1er anyone or anything if they can help 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job Is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by deno..,ncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7471 News: 283-1715 
Fr. Hesburgh, Sr. Alma: 
It's Your Move 
Amidst the babble of controversy, demagoguery, radicalism, foolishness, and idiocy that surrounds and now threatens to engulf the "unmerger" decision made just before Thanksgiving, a whole new set of rationales for the move are beginning to emerge as St. Mary's basis for suspension. 
Two entirely different rationales have been repeated most frequently. One that contends that the Sisters ofthe Holy Cross have invested a great deal of time, money, material and human toil into St. Mary's and the offer tendered by Notre Dame for the use of tlw.. campus was simply in­sufficient-the second says that despite th~···'rhetori~ of the unification agreements conclude by both boards of Trustees, rhetoric claimiQg. that a new institution would emerge from the unification of the two 'schools, which would take the best elements from both, the merger looked more and more like Notre Dame simply absorping St. Mary's-taking what it wanted and casting the rest aside. 
No hard information has come out supporting either contention. Sister Olivette Whelan, in her talk Friday, stated the latter reason as one thing that held up unification and rumors from highly reliable sources have supported the former. 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, has been officially silent. Some highly placed administrators have hinted that St. Mary's asked an ·ungodly lease from Notre Dame for use of their campus, in order to pay off a myriad of mortgages against the school. Nothing has been released backing up the charge. There has been no response, official or unofficial, to Sr. Olivette's charges from the university. 
What the actual reasons for "unmerger" are shrouded in mystery-a mystery apparently imposed by a joint agreement, an agreement made to minimize the backbiting and blame fixing that was sure to come about. 
So instead of announcements from each school flatly stating the reasons they believe to be the true ones for the "unmerger", vicious rumors are circulating both campuses, rumors that gossip mongers hopping, rumors that are serving to cloud the issue, rumors have invited, are inviting and will continue to invite backbiting and blame fixing .. 
The fact remains-a gross injustice has been done the St. Mary's girls­an injustice which has not been explained. 
We think the students are entitled to that explanation. The Observer hereby officially extends an invitation to Sr. Alma Peter and Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, to send us, in a sealed envelope the reasons they believe to be the correct ones for the suspension of the merger. 
We are ceasing publication on Wednesday, for the Christmas Holidays. On that day, if we have received the correspondence, we will print it. Sr. Alma and Fr. Hesburgh-the move is now yours. 
An ND Power Sweep? 
----------------------Don Ruane 
A few days ago when this unmerger mess finally came to light, I for one, was ready to accept Fr. Hesburgh's attempts to be a "human being and a gentleman." There was no apparent need for blame to be attributed to anyone. 
Both institutions admitted they had broken off more than they could chew, and seemed willing to continue building bridges principally through the coex program. 
The one thing that bothered a great many persons, at least super­ficially, the refusal to reveal any of the specific problems that tor­pedoed the merger. We had been hearing favorable things, except for supposedly moderate problems in the financial aspects of the negotiations. 
And then the bomb was dropped with Notre Dame and Sr. Alma claiming financial and administrative reasons, SMC Trustees Chairman, Mother Olivette Whalen, saying they were only two of many. 
It is beyond many students why the reasons must be so abstract. Why can't the Trustees of both schools get together and tell us with no holds barred. Fr. Hesburgh said Tuesday that the executive com­mittee of the ND board feels it would be "counter productive" to release the whys. 
How would it be counter productive? Is there something to hide that is an embarrassing blunder by the negotiation teams? Or is there something more basic, and base, about the whole thing? 
A local television station Friday night ran a film clip of the all school convocation at SMC that day. Mother Olivette, intentionally or not, hinted at something very ugly, especially for a leading, modern, Catholic university in the United States. 
Mother Olivette compared the merger to a marriage, a marriage 
betwf'en a five foot, two inch women and a six foot, plus man. 
Recognizing the differences in size, the prospective groom gets 
chauvanistic and states that since there is such a difference, and since 
he is the larger; things will be done his way or not at all. Needless to 
say, Mother Olivette said this would not be acceptable iri the spirit of 
cooperation. 
Has Notre Dame tried a power play? Did Du Lac want to buy out 
SMC and assume full title instead of following the Park-Mayhew 
report receommendation that SMC be a minor campus, and be listed 
as St. Mary's of Notre Dame? Perhaps the power play, if there ever 
was one, took another, unknown form which was not financially ac­
ceptable to the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
In any case Notre Dame has, in effect, been called a bully. St. 
Mary's refusal to reveal anything indicates she has attempted to be a 
human being and a lady, and it is surprising that such an analogy was 
made. 
No m~eally wants a scapegoat, but it now appears that there could 
be one. If fatts are not revealed more ugly remors will rise from this 
mess and hurt the reputations of both schools. It is also human and 
gentlemanly to respect the students. The whys should be revealed. 
+++ 

It has been difficult to believe St. Mary's is completely at fault for 
the failure of the merger, as some people like to think. It is difficult to 
convince the other especially when there is so much to discuss, and so 
little time to discuss it. In this sense it is good the merger was post­
poned. 
In retrospect, it was a mistake to set the time limit. Last year in 
Florida, St. Mary's was pressured to go ahead with the merger out of 
fear of a coeducational institution across U.S. 31. Too little time was 
available for St. Mary's, but her big mistake was not thinking in terms 
of the future, especially when several eastern women's schools went 
coed with neighboring male institutions. 
Another mistake made by SMC-Notre Dame occured when it ap­
peared the Park-Mayhew Report would not be followed. However•. ,,. 
both institutions went ahead with a timetable, and no plan to fit it. This · 
makes St. Mary's argument that 80 percent of the freshmen were 
accepted before t';'e merger was announced is shaky when you con­
sider how many admission catalogues promoting an unplanned but 
timed merger v-ere in circulation before the announcement. 
..-~ 
+++ 

One of the most foreboding things revealed has been St. Mary's lack 
of concern for student-faculty views. More consultation has b(::en 
promised in the future during various assemblies and press con­
ferences last week, lmt fitculty and students have heard this before. 
Thus far reaction from these-tw6..groups has taken a sound course. 
This faculty letter from Paul Messb~~geris well written and contains 
sound statements of feeling and recommendation. St. Mary's cannot 
operate in their :nterests of education when it is subject to the interests 
of the Holy Cross Sisters. 
The s.tudent boycott is always effective to some degree, and cautbn 
should be exercised. If it is to be Hfective, SMC residents should r Jt 
spend their time listening to records and discussing the unmerger. 
Many have worked hard this semester and it is senseless to let that 
effort be wasted with only a week to go. 
+++ 

l]NMERGER FOOD FOR THOUGHT: In less than two weeks C~lristmas vacation starts, and is a good tim~ ~o dis~uss wi_th your fot.ks to stick it out or transfer. Please be sure It IS a wise chmce, and thoise who decide to return, be ready to continue the protest. Merry 
Chr~tmas. 
\ ­
J 


Monday, December 6, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
obeying a higher authority: a commentary 
the buffalo -to promote & preserve life 

On the night of Saturday, August 21, 1971, five people were arrested by FBI agents and Buffalo police in the old federal building in Buffalo, New York while at­IPmpting to destroy draft records and remove files from the office of army in­telligence. 
The five -Maureen Considine, Chuck Darst. Jim Martin, Ann Masters, and J<'remiah Horrigan -were then in­terrogated by the FBI for five hours early Sunday morning before being removed to the r:rie County Jail. 
Arraignment followed later Sunday and the five were charged with theft of government property, destruction of govPrnment property, and committing a crime on a federal reservation. 
Bail was set at $15,000 for Jim, Ann, and Maureen. Bail for Chuck and Jeremiah was $35,000 because they exercised their lpgal right to remain silent. Their bail was later reduced to $15,000. 
At a pre-trial hearing on August 31, the five were ordered held for further action hy the federal grand jury. 
Indictments against the· five on charges of conspiracy, theft of government property, and burglary were announced by 
U.S. attorney general John Mitchell on Thursday, September 30, 1971. 
Arraignment on these charges was held in Buffalo federal court on Friday, October 
B. 1971. The five entered this statement in lieu of plea which the judge accepted as a plea of not guilty. 
We find it extremely difficult to enter a plea of "guilty" or "not guilty" to these charges -not that the notion entering a plea is necessarily bad, but because of the Pxtraordimiry times in which we live and the crucial circumstances surrounding out act. Ours is no criminal act. Ours is a moral outcry aimed at those who, in the name of Law and Order, perpetuate such social evils as war and poverty and prisons... namely the makers and upholders of the law. 
We want to say with our lives that we want to promote and preserve life, not death. And when one is trying to stop a crime, how does he enter a plea of guilty or not guilty? Our plea is to you to help stop this madness. 
The Buffalo are continuing to address themselves to the compelling reasons which led them to act. They are continuing to say with firmness, vigor, courage, and sincerity that obedience to a higher authority has precedence over obedience to the state and the position of a respon­sible person today •is in opposition to en­trenched power. 

J. Edgar Hoover and the federal government may believe that they have 'broken the conspiracy' which to them includes the Catonsville raid, the Flower City Conspiracy, actions taken by the East Coast Conspiracy to Save Lives, the Harrisburg case, and now the recent Buffalo and Camden draft board raids. 
They have not yet realized that what they·are up against is a movement, an idea that cannot be walled in and crushed by the tactics of electronic Sl!rveillance, prison terms, and fear of spies and informers. The movement stands for life and justice while the state is choking on its diet of death, racism, and fear. 
The five brothers and sisters of The Buffalo actively stand for life, a stance for which the state will try to send them to prison. If the state succeeds, Chuck, Ann, Maureen, Jim, and Jeremiah will not be the ones locked inside of walls. 
the buffalo: Chuck Darst, Jeremiah Horrigan, Ann Masters, Jim Martin, and Maureen Considine. Darst and Considine were once students here. "Simply stated, we stand for life, l&ve, laughter, music, good friends, air, sunshine · all things green and living and beautiful" from the statement of the buffalo 
A community of support for The Buffalo is nourishing. People are gathering to share with the five people the joy and anguish of coming months. 
The Buffalo Defense Committee is not only organized for the purposes of raising money for The Buffalo's legal proceedings, but also for handling their speaking and publicity efforts. 

The five people will be busy talking to groups of all kinds in the western New York area ulttil their trial. They hope by confronting people on a personal human level an exchange of ideas and energies will occur. Their desire is to communicate with as many people as possible. The Buffalo's trial will be expensive and there's an urgent need for them to share their ideas. Legal costs are not inex­pensive in this society where it is a crime to be poor. Contributions should be made out to The Buffalo Fund and sent to: The Buffalo Defense Committee 124 Jewett Parkway Buffalo, New York 14214 (716-8:36-3262). Arrangements for a rap session can be made by contacting the defense committee at the above address. 




at pandora's, books and friends 
Pandora's Books, a new store at the corner of Notre Dame Avenue and South Bmd Avenue, offers a number of services not available to the university community anywhere in the South Bend area. 
I<'irst of all. Pandora's carries over 8,000 ~econdhand paperback titles, especially those of current interest to the student, as well as the paperbacks used in courses. Non-fiction used books are discounted between 25-40 percent of their new price. I<'iction books are a flat 40 percent. 
Secondly, Pandora's buys paperbacks. In most cases, they will pay about 20 percent of a hook's retail price in cash or give 40 percent credit toward used books. For example, if you brought in paperbacks for which you had paid $5.00, you could <'ither be paid $1.00 in cash or given $2.00 credtt toward used books. 
Third, books can be ordered. and in many 
instances, received within three busin~ss 
days of the order. Special orders are not 
limited to paperback books or used books. 
f~ven some out-of-print titles can be ob­
tained through Pandora's. Pandora's is 
able to offer an additional discount on 
quantity orders. 

In addition, Pandora's carries a fairly 
Pxtensive collection of new paperbacks, 
especially those of current interest to 
students. Books like The Tt>achings of Don 
.Juan by Carlos Castenada and the works of 
people like Brautigan, Vonnegut, and 
Mailer are of course available as new books when used copies cannot be located. You should not be surprised to find that Pandora's has a just-published book you want --well in advance of any other bookstore in the area. 
Pandora's also has a full selection of underground newspapers from around the country. You'II find quasi-establishment papers like the Village Voice and the Boston Phoenix as well as the L.A. Free Press, the Berkeley Barb, the Tribe from lkrkeley, the L.A. Staff, the Seed from Chicago and South Bend's own River City Heview. among others from New England, the South and the Midwest. Political newspappers like the Liberated Guardian, the Cuban paper Granma, and the Daily Worker are also sold. Pandora's is also selling the Realist, The Black Panther, and I.F. Stone's Bi-Weekly. 
You'II also find a wi9e selection of 
literary and scholarly magazines at 
Pandora's. Their magazine selection in­
cludes those two organs of sexism, 
Playboy and Penthouse, as well as 
Psychology Today, Esquire, Rolling Stone, 
Hamparts and Evergreen. Pandora's also 
has a large number of underground comix 
such as Zap, Greaser, and Yellow Dog.. 
You can also buy rolling papers and pipes 
at Pandora's. 
On Sunday you can get the Sunday New 
York Times at I p.m. They also hav,e the 
Sun-Times, the Chicago Tribune and the South Bend Tribune on Sunday. 


Pandora's Books wants to encourage people not only to come in to sell and purchase books, but to hang out, have a free cup of coffee or tea, and feel free to read their books and periodicals. They are open from 10 in the morning until at least midnight Sunday through Thursday, and from IOp.m. until at least 1 a.m. on l<'riday's and Saturday's. Their phone number is 233-2342. 
It is likely that a student could save up to a third of his total book cost by buying and ordering his books through Pandora's. In order to obtain fast service there is no choice but to use the long distance telephone and charge the customer a service fee to cover the phone calls nPcessary, about 25 cents depending on the number of calls that must be made. Therefore, if you wish to order next semester's books from Pandora's, it would be best to leave your list with them over the semester break and avoid the service fee. 
The people are friendly and you won't find anything like it anywhere in South lknd. 
THE OBSERVER Monday, December 6, 1971
Page 8 

Coalition of new voters 'I'ake a Break From Finals 
headed by Julian Bond 
by Jack Kelly 
Three thousand student leaders from across the nation saw Georgia state representative Julian Bond elected co-chairman of the Emergency Conference of New Voters, at Loyola University in Chicago, this weekend. 
Bond was elected so as to form a coalition between the National Youth Caucus, the Black Caucus, and the Women's Caucus, in order to maximize their strength at the 1972 Presidential Nomination Conventions organizers claimed. ' 
The conference was billed as "non-political" and, according to organizers, supposed to "show youths how they can elect a president who speaks to their hopes, rather than their fears, one who believes that honesty and not deception is the surest appeal to America's greatness." 
many Democrats 
Most of the "names" attending the conference were Democratic raising the complaint among some delegates that the con­f~r~nce was partisan, despite its billing. Among those attending were; Sen. Alan Cranston, Re. Bella Abzug, Rep. Walter Fauntroy.' Daniel Ellesberg, 
A.D.A. VIce Chairman Joseph Rauh and singer Peter Yarrow all Democrats, and Ion~ 
Republican  Rep.  Peter  
McCloskey.  
"All  I  have  seen  here  are  

Democrats," one delegate said, "I was under the impression that the kids would run this thing but I was mistaken." ' 
The overall effectiveness of the weekend, organizers said, will not be felt until the slating of delegates at the ive 



SISTER FANNY 

2 Legal Proofs of Age Always 

nominating conventions. 
However  some  present  did  
venture  their  opinions  on  the  
effectiveness of the neeting.  

Former Rep. Allard Lowen­stein, in an interview with the Obs<'rv<'r, said "this conference will create a greater political atmosphere to dump Nixon, I feel that Pete McCloskey will be a great help to our cause." 
Daniel Ellesberg, who revealed the Vietnam Pentagon papers this past summer, felt "from this conference will emanate a kind of process, a decent process." 
Notre Dame seniors Bill Eiler and Don Mooney, part of Notre Dame's delegation to the con­ference, were uncertain as to the effectiveness of the conference. 
"There is a national spirit here, but if the coalition doesn't elect delegates, everthing goes down the drain," Eiler said. 
"There is a lot of delusion of power here," Mooney, ND Social Commissioner said, "and a group like this will never have any power." 
And Blow Your Mind On Pizza 
-ALL YOU CAN E"AT! 
This semester pizza hut offers two weekly specials Monday night from 5 to 9 all you can eat · $1.25 per person Sunday thru Thursday, with ND or SMC ID, large pizza · $2.00; small pizza · $1.00 One pizza per ID PIZZA HUT 2 2307 E. EDISON RD. 






PIZZA HUT 
Immortal Performances now even more priceless at our 
low Victrola prices. 



TOSCANINI ·-y.:~~~­
Hespi~hi: Fountains ofRome ·Pines ofRome Berlioz: Roman Carniz>al Saint-Saens:Danse macabre 
NBC SYMPHONY OHCHESTRA 
l~ 

,.,~-A 
»·:oY·* 
=~:t7.:";:.':"'-... ~.. -•• 

RESPIGHI: FOUNTAINS OF AQME; PINES OF ROME BERLIOZ: RO~AN CARNIVAL SAINT-SAENS: DANSE MACABRE 
Toscanini, NBC Symphony VIC-1244 



RAVEL: Bolero • La Valse \'-•~•-• DEBUSSY: Ahernoon of a Faun IBERT: !;.scales (Ports of Call) 
MUNCH/BOSTON SYMPHONY 



Our price $1.79 Notre Dame Bookstore 


Monday, December 6, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 9' 
CHEAP THRILLS

India and Pakistan deadlocked 
(Dispatch of the Times, London) claims to have destroyed or jets shot down in the vicinity of some parts of the city electricity damaged 61 Indian aircraft in air Dacca. is switched off automatically on 
Hawalpindi, Ot>c. a---Pakistan combat or through ground fire of India appears to have made the sounding of the air raid appears to have made no which 46 are said to be "con­only limited sorties over West warning to ensure that no lights significant gains across the firmed." Pakistan, using between two and are visible. Western border with India in the Making maximum use of their eight planes in any one attack. Many cars have been 
two days since full-scale two squadrons of Mirage 3's, the Their raids last night were camouflaged with mud and three hostilities began. Pakistani Air Force first crossed concentrated on Karachi Harbor limbs as protection against 
A military spokesman here the border on Friday. and airport, but there have also daylight raids. Families have today declined to say how far The strikes against airfields been attacks on the northern been similarly covering the Pakistan troops had penetrated and radar installations followed air bases of Peshawar, Sargodha houses or makeshift huts or tents Send to
into India, but he spoke of an allegations that Indian troops had and Shorkot. in which they live. Whits LTD. 215 S. Taylor St. 
advance across the cease-fire attacked all along the border. Pakistan, like India, has made Throughout the day and night line in Kashmir and said that the The Pakistanis still decline to say no formal declaration of war. there are fairly frequent air raid South Bend Ind. 46625 
Pakistani army was not how many planes they destroyed Prior to the United States warnings. When they sound. dominating the town of Poonch, on the ground or what other demand for a convening of United some people make for the slit 
which lies close to the border. damage was done in the first air Nations Security Council, trenches dug beside streets or INPERSONI , 
Heavy fighting is also said to be assault, but when an official was diplomatic sources here were next to houses. Others ignore the taking place in the areas of Tith­asked whether they were happy saying that Pakistan's attitude sirens and stay where they are. wal and Uri, north and south of with the results he said, "we have was that it would ask for the At the Intercontinental Hotel, 
THE Lahore. The Pakistanis have also every reason to be satisfied." advice of the Security Council, residents including families claimed the capture of a number In continuing attacks since based on consultation with in­evacuated from Lahore, have of border posts. At the same time, then the Pakistanis have struck dividual members. moved to the basement. There they have conceded some losses most Indian airfields, including This morning, officials said, has been an absence of panic, and nf territory along the front but raids last night on Pathankot, two Indian planes strafed the during the daytime,. life has will not say where or how much Srinagar, Sirsa in the Punjab and airport here, destroying a United been proceeding fairly normally. ground is involved. Agra, over 400 miles from the Nations plane and a sporting Most of the Indian planes flying 
In the opening stages of the border. aircraft belonging to the United high overhead are on their way to eonflict both sides recognized They have also made ground States embassy. more distant targets, but there that one of the most important attacks against Indian troop and In Rawalpindi there is now a have been repeated bursts of fire battles was for control of the tank concentrations. The regime total blackout the little traffic from antiaircraft guns. skies above the battlefields of the still maintains that the only that is on the streets moves In the event of war, the general western border. Pakistan now planes Pakistan has lost were two slowly and without lights. In assumption here had been that 

SHOW

the Pakistanis would want to 
Wtth the

seize a substantial chunk of 
territory before a cease-fire was PENNSYLVANIANS 
imposed and then use it as a IN CONCERT 
bargaining counter in subsequent 
negotiations. Athletic and 
was the achievement of coaxing a unit of the National Institutes of The drawback to making Convocation 
Possible cancer viruses found 
((') l!lil Nt•w York Times News 

viruses forth at last that led to the Health. thrusts across the Punjab or into 
St>J"Vict' 
Center

announcements from each team. In the research done primarily Rajasthan is that even if the Much experience in animal on the west coast cells from a initial breakthrough was suc­
Washington, Dec. 5 --Research Sunday, Dec. 1 2 
research has shown that tissue culture derived from the cessful, there are no obvious
workers here and on the west detectable virus often disappears young girl's cancer cells were defendable positions for them to 7:30 p.m.

coast have announced the 

from cancers known to be caused injected into fetal kittens still in hold. They would be exposed to
discovery of two new viruses that ND-SMC Students
by that virus. New techniques to the mother eat's womb. After counterattack and particularly in
could be the link with cancer in Special discount. Prices 
make those hidden viruses birth. some of the kittens the case of Rajasthan, to the
humans. 

reappear have generated much developed tumors which showed severance of their supply lines.
The discoveries, made in­Lodge-Floor-Platforms­
new study in recent years as strong evidence of being human The most tempting prospect for $2
dependently of each other, are 

scientists have tried to use the cancer tissues rather than the Pakistanis has always been 
new developments in a great .Lower Arena-$2
lessons of the research in animals animal. From one of these Kashmir, which they have
ferment of research currently Bleachers-$!
to solve the still-unanswered cancers much virus had been claimed since partition in 1947
trying to link viruses with human 

question concerning viruses and obtained. and which has a majority Present Student I. D.
eancer. When and if such a link is 

human cancers. It has long been In interviews by telephone, Moslem population, but such an
proved, it is expected to have at Box Office 
known that viruses can cause Gardner and Huebner both said operation might require con­
profound effect on man's un­Mon.-Sat. 9:00a.m. 
cancers in animals. the evidence to date suggests siderable time to clear Indian
derstanding of cancer, and , to5:00 p.m. 
strongly but does not yet prove, positions.
The announcement from Lospotentially. his ability to deal 1\ngeles was from a team led by that a human virus has beenwith it. There have been several 
found in these cancer cells.

Dr. Robert M. Mcallister and Dr. 
other suspected human cancer Murray B. Gardner of University Whether it is a virus that caused viruses, but none has been proved of Southern California School of the original cancer is unknown. 

to date. 

Medicine, in collaboration with Attempts to prove that point will There are strong similarites scientists here, including Dr. be the focus of future research.
between the two new candidate 






BANDY

Hobert J. Huebner, head of the The work by Dr. Stewart andviruses, but also evidently some viral carcinogenesis branch of her colleagues at Georgetowndifferences. Roth are of a kind 
...

also involved tissue culture cells
the National Cancer Institute.
eall(•d "C type" viruses. Much of Thf.' other success in finding a derived originally from a cancer current cancer virus research is eandidate C-type virus of man patient, but did not involvefocused on these. 

was led by Dr. Sarah Stewart and animal research. Instead, theBoth newly found viruses are 
team used a new chemical 
NBIM4N
colleagues of Georgetownthought to stem from cells of one University School of Medicine technique developed by Dr.

kind of human cancer --a cancer 

Wallace P. Rowe and colleagues
here.
of muscle tissue called rhab­Both projects are supported by of the National Institute ofdomyyosarcoma. The cancer the special virus cancer program Allergy and Infectious Diseases toI issue studied on the west coast 

BONNII RAITT
of the National Cancer Institute, coax forth hidden viruses from was from a seven-year-<>ld girl; 
cells growing in tissue culture.


that on the east coast from a 38­year-<>ld woman. In each case, cells from the 

CONTINENTAL HAIR
original cancer were propagated at length in laboratory flasks and 


STYLING
showed no evidence of virus. It 

1321 E. McKinley Hwy. Mishawaka, Ind.
Dr. V. De Santis 

259..7679 '3y Appointment Only

to speak at IUSB 

SERVING ND MEN FOR PAST 
Dr. Vincent P. DeSantis, 


4 YEARS IN ALL HAIR NEEDS.
professor of history at the 
University of Notre Dame, will 




SHAGS, EUROPEAN 
lecture on "The Politicos of the ' Gilded Age: A Collective Por­


LAGER CUTS
trait" at Indiana University at South Bend Tuesday <Dec. 7). The lecture, which is open to 

Specializing in Long Hair Look
the public without charge, will start at 8: 15 pm in the faculty 1 lounge in Northside Hall. 


STUDENT SPECIAL 
Dr. DeSantis is a former 

Monday & Tuesday
chairman of the Notre Dame 
History Department. His talk is 
co-sponsored by Phi Alpha Theta, 


Complete
honorary history society, and the 
IUSB Forensic Association. 



Friday, December 10 8:00p.m. O'Laughlin Aud. Tickets $2 at S.U. Ticket Office &Pandora's Books 
THE OBSERVER Monday, December 6, 1971
Page 10 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: The reporting of factual issues 
Today being Thursday, this has is more profitable to your readers been the third morning that Holy than are fairy tales. The law Cross Hall has been without hot school states its policy that water in the last four mornings. scholarship grants are given on Tuesday there was hot water. I the basis of "need". May I mention this fact, not to engage submit for your evaluation two sympathy, nor even to elicit typical illustrations of how this sarcastic remarks about where policy is implemented. First, the bad smells in classes come there are students who can well from. Rather, I would like to re­afford to attend the law school, state a point made ad infinitum but they are also highly qualified on this campus: the lack of students, even valedictorians. respect and understanding by the They are given full grants plus a administration for the point of "little something extra". What view and situation of the student. "need" does that student have? 
If, as I have said, this point has Secondly, there are minority already been made more times · students who can also well afford than anyone would care to recall, to attend the law school. A then there is no need for it to be similar grant is given to these made again, except that the students. (I ~ubmit that minority circumstances surrounding this does not always equal indigent as particular telling are rather the law school assumes.) What unique and amusing, in a per­"need" does that student have? verted sort of way. The cir­I am somewhat confused over cumstances of this particular the published policy of the law telling are that Holy Cross Hall school and the actual cir­has been, more times than could cumstances of scholarship be believed, without hot water in distribution. Just exactly whose the morning. need is the law school talking 
This circumstance is amusing about? Is it the need of the because students seem to think student? Or, is it the need of the that money grows on trees, that law school to have highly hot water on a regular basis is qualified students who might something less than a luxury. The have gone elsewhere, or to have problem lies, fundamentally, in minority students, that is, any the automatic re-set on the boiler, minority student, so that there which switches off after a large would appear to be equal relative increment in the tem­representation? The law school perature and fails to switch back should and must recruit highly on (from o degrees to 25 degrees qualified students as well as is a large relative increment). minority students, but when they What is needed is a new boiler, have no financial need, the law and for that what is needed is school should not bait them here about $1500.00, and money, as by offering them full grants when noted above, does not grow on many more students "need" at trees. least partial grants. 
The amusing twist to this Hypocrisy is an evil which 
particular tale lies in the fact that affects individuals; it is even 
THEY <either the University or baser when it appears to affect 
the C.S.C. Order: no one knows or institutions. Reverse 
is willing to say) can afford to discrimination on admissions did 
renovate the old infirmary, from not work at U. of Washington's 
the days of the minor seminary, law school, will it work here on 
at great cost exceeding $1000.00, scholarship grants? The answer 
in order that the rector and to WHOSE NEED seems all too 
assistant rector can live there, simple, but is it the answer which 
deeming the noise level around the law school appears to be 
their present rooms to be too using? 
excessive. And so, while THEY Name withheld 
can finance the retreat from that 

thick of things to which a hall -merger morality-
staff presumably should address 
itself, there is no funding for hot Editor:water for the hall ... 

It seems that all the discussion It has been noted in an Ob­that has occurred in the past two server article that Holy Cross days regarding the decision of thereceived $866.00 from the Hall trustees about the merger willLife Board. This was for that come to nought if we continue tocarpeting in the corridors which overlook one very importantall other halls have, which we dimension of that decision,must put in ourselves, because namely, the moral dimension. Inthere is no money ... 
our ethical theory class todayRadiators have exploded in <Phil 314) we tried to articulate rooms, and the plumbing in precisely what constitutes thiswashrooms (and I don't mean the dimension of the decision. We feltsinks) has been known to back up that our reflections might proveand drip down into rooms, but valuable to a larger community, there is no money ... 
for which reason we have drafted There is no money. 
this letter. 
Perhaps a bingo party. 

We began by accepting as fact that the members of this com­David Tokarz munity <trustees, ad­219 Holy Cross ministrators, faculty, and 
students l profess adherence to a Christian, humanistic ethic. Such an ethic we believe excludes an £'thical egoism, by virtue of its commitment to a common good, as well as moral authoritarianism, by virtue of its commitment to reason and the intelligent solution of human problems. Furthermore, we take as a central moral principle of this ethic the claim that men are always to be treated as persons, as free, rational moral agents, and nt-ver merely as objects, things to be manipulated. Yet the trustees by their action, specifically, by their un­willingness to either consult with faculty and students or to explain the rationale behind their decision, have evidenced both an attitude of moral authoritarianism, which could be merely a sign of stupidity or cause for moral concern depending on their motives, as well as complete disregard for the above moral principle, which is just cause for nothing short of moral outrage. In handing down a fiat the trustees have in effect said that faculty and students are merely objects to be manipulated in whatever ways necessary to achieve efficiency of operation. This is a complete denial of our being as free, rational persons. It is, moreover, a denial of the community that supposedly embraces trustees, students, and faculty, for we do not usually speak of a community of persons and objects. 
Perhaps even more alarming though is the indifference and unconcern of the majority of Notre Dame undergraduates toward even the moral aspects of the decision of the trustees, which aspects should be as much a matter of moral outrage on their part as on the part of the faculty and students of St. Mary's, for presumably we are all part of the same community. However, the primary and exclusive concern of most Notre Dame un­dergraduates seems to be final exams, which would seem to indicate that the principles of ethical egoism rather than any concern for a common good govern their practical thinking. If such be the case, then all the rhetoric about building a Christian community in the dorms was just that---rhetoric! There is no community at Notre Dame, nor between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. At best there are the social and cultural trappings of community, not any moral foundation. If anyone denies that this is the case, let their denial take the form of action, not more rhetoric. 
Leonard M. Fleck <instructor in philosophy, SMC) Deborah A. Batt Denise Salerni Teresa How Brian McMahon C'arol Longo 

-Law School-

THE lMPACT OF NUCLEAR 
Editor: As a member of Notre Dame's 

ENERGY ON SOCIETY law community may I suggest that your paper end its fantasied reporting about a Law Center which will make the law school 
A course designed to introduce students in the 
the Harvard of the mid-West and 


Liberal Arts to a technology thich will !ilUb· 
begin to query about serious 


stantially effect their world now and in the years 
problems affecting the law school 


to come. Topics will include thermal pollution
<of which there are many). I 


(is it necessary?), Radioactive Fallout (what
would suggest that you inquire into an issue which affects all of 


has it done, what can it do?), Energy Shortages 
the law students, that is the 


(which city will have a brownout next?), and 
distribution of scholarship grants 


Crime Detection (have you ever seen a nuclear 
<or the lack thereof). The 


finger print?). ME 213 2 MWF
scholarship program of the law school is run like a sham, and it effuses a strong aroma of hypocrisy. 



-selfishness-

Editor: 
The failure of the Notre Dame student body and faculty to contribute to the St. Mary's student body and faculty protest against the nonmerger of the two schools indicates not only selfishness but also a failure to perceive the extent to which Notre Dame is the loser in the fiasco. 
The situation which the proposed merger would have remedied is best, if seldom, described as one of segregation. As in the case of blacks and whites, the segregation of men from women during the educational process is the segregation of the ins from the outs, the power or ruling class from the powerless, ruled class. As always happens in such situations, the heirs to power get the best of everything, while the powerless get what's left. Notre Dame has the grad school, the labs, the library, the grants, the diversity, the name. St. Mary's has the fine arts, and it has them only because our over­masculinized culture values the fine arts so little. 
Segregation clearly hurts the powerless, and those of us who belong to the class with social and political power ought to help those who are denied our privileges. But segregation also hurts the powerful; indeed in the long run segregation hurts the powerful more than it hurts the powerless. Because we (whites, men) are segregated from them 
(blacks, women), our stereotypes 

insensitivity to their plight is increased, and our access to their collective and individual wisdom is diminished. Basically segregation keeps the powerful from seeing either that their power rests on a flimsy foun­dation --one that is both unjust and unnatural--or that their position of power enslaves them as much as it enslaves the powerless, only in subtler ways. That man is not free who cannot accept another person for all that the other is. 
This letter has been quite abstract, but I think that anyone who has lived at Notre Dame for any length of time will find it easy to instantiate my generalizations for himself. My hope is that those Notre Dame students who take the time to reflect on how segregation hurts them will then get involved in the nonmerger protest. Notre Dame's gradual approach to coeducation, without St. Mary's cooperation, is clearly a case of too little too late for any present Notre Dame student. 
Sincerely, John Robinson 

All letters to the editor should be sent to Box Q, Observer, Notre Dame, Ind. They should be typed, double-spaced, and signed. Names will be withheld upon request. 
of them are perpetuated, ~-ur--------------q; 


FRANKIE'S 
Dinner Special Chicken, Steak or Perch Dinner with Turren Soup, Salad & Coffee 
$1.50 

We want to talk to you about a career in law . .. without law school. 
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant, you'll be doing work traditionally done by lawyers -work we think you'll find challenging and responsible. And Lawyer's Assistants are now so critically needed that The Institute for Paralegal Training can offer you a position in the city of your choice and a higher salary than you'd expect as a recent college graduate. You'll work with lawyers on interesting legal problems -and the rewards will grow as you do. 
A representative of The Institute for Paralegal Training will conduct inter­views on: 
WEDNESIDAY, DECEMBER 8 
Inquire at Placement Office for exact location of interview 
NOTE: If registration for this seminar is filled, come anyway -we'll try to talk to you. Or call us collect at the number shown below. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
13th floor. 401 Walnut St. Phila. Pa. 19106 (215) WA 5-0905 


Monday, December 6, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
Irish outslug Valparaiso 81-71 
Even record at 1-1; face Western Michigan tonight 

John Egart turned in the best performance of his career in helping the Irish record their first win of tbe season Saturday night, an 81-71 
by Mike Pavlin '71 their lead to 16, then held on as 
Coaches are wont to complain the Crusaders twice closed the 
that in cramped, antiquated gap to six in front of a roaring 
gyms, their players need crowd of 4,000. 
protection from enemy fans. The tiny floor was tailor-made 
Saturday night in Valparaiso, for the ND press and the Irish 
however, the fans certainly had forced Valpo into several early 
the right to demand protections turn overs. The Crusaders, 
from the players. The Crusader coming off a 110-74 pasting of 
gym resembled a battlefield with Carroll (Wis.) College, were 
<'nough elbows thrown, punches unable to hit from floor or line. 
Pxchangcd, bodies knocked The Irish had great success 
around and blood spilt to have the working inside against a Valpo 
fans begging for plexi-glas along forward line of approximately 
tlw sidt-lines. the same height and build. ND 
The Irish took away an 81-71 Pven dusted off the old "back victory that was literally "hard-door" play and worked it for easy fought." There were 45 personal buckets throughout the game. fouls. !ill free throws, 52 tur-The first half quickly novPrs. four players fouling out dpgenerated into a hacking and and two !'jected for fighting. ND shoving match with the Irish did most of the fouling and had picking up fouls with careless most of the turnovers. but had the abandon. The ND corps of guards higher shooting percentages in was soon decimated: Bob Valibus upping their season record to 1-1. got his :3rd at 15:16, Tom Hanset 
It was more like an episode his at 12:53, John Egert his at 
from th!' Thirty Years' War than li:-1:3 and Tom McGraw his at 
a hall game, but coach Digger :.!:40. Egart also added a 4th 
l'lwlps' crew made the key shots before the end of the half. 
and kept their poise down the Luckily, Chris Stevens, Tom 
streteh. The Irish vaulted to a 43-O'Mara and Gary Novak were 
:u; halftime udvantage, extended able to control the inside on of-
Jim Donaldson:============================================================================================== 



The Irish Eye 
:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:::::::: You blew it, ref! 
Referees are both the savior and the bane of sport. It's impossible to 
conduct an athletic contest without them, yet on occasion, these 
gentlemen, and not the participants, can be directly responsible for 
the outcome of a game. It shouldn't happen, but it'c; unavoidable. 
Friday night at the Michigan Coliseum, the officials cost Notre Dame a victory. And they were a contributing factor in Notre Dame's demise Saturday too. 
In general, knowledgable sports fans must sympathize with the men whose joo is to determine rules infractions in a sporting event. Calling fouls and penalties in a fast-moving game is no easy task. Assuming control of a game and gaining the respect of the players is most difficult. Referees have been known to make mistakes in judgement calls but they call 'em the way they see 'em and it's an honest mistake, one of "the breaks of the game." 
But there is never an excuse for an offical failing to make a call because of lack of nerve. 'And that's just what happened and enabled Michigan to beat Notre Dame Friday night. 
The Irish were leading the Wolverines 4-2 in the second period Friday when Michigan's Bernie Gagnon came skating down the right side and fired a shot on the Irish goal. Dick Tomasoni stopped the puck and was juggling it a bit, trying to gain full possession, when referee Bob Gilray blew his whistle. 
What happened in the next second and a half is hard to believe. Tomasoni, hearing the whistle, let the puck drop to the ice and Gagnon swooped in on thedisc and flipped it into the net. The red light behind the goal went on and the Michigan fans let out a roar. 
It seemed like a small matter. Gilray would merely disallow the goal because he had blown the whistle, the Wolverine fans would vent their wrath upon him, and the game would continue. 
That's what should have happened, but it didn't. The jubilation among the Wolverine players and fans continued unabated because Gilray allowed the goal. It just didn't seem possible, but the tally was permitted to stand. Gilray claimed he never blew his whistle and Irish pleas to the contrary went unheeded. Their complaints fell on deaf ears, as proven by the fact that Gilray claimed later that he never heard his whistle. 
"I put it <the whistle) up, but I didn't think I blew it" Gilray said in his dressing room afterwards. ' 
lie blew it alright. 
Gilray's fellow official, when questioned about whether or not he had 
heard the whistle pleaded the Fifth Amendment with the comment, 
"Ask me no questions and I'll tell you no lies." 
Tomasoni said, "Of course I heard the whistle" and Wolverine coach 
AI Renfrew admitted that he, too, was aware that the goal should 
never have been allowed. 
It was a frustrating experience for the Irish and provided Michigan 
with the elusive quality, momentum. The fired-up Wolverines, 
overjoyed at being presented with a gift goal, came from behind to tie 
the game and went on to win in sudden-death overtime. A game that 
should have ended with the Irish on top 5-4 ended with Notre Dame on 
the short end of a 6-5 score, all because of an inexcusable, foolish 
blunder by an offical. 
Saturday night, the Irish were again victimized by the same pair of 
officials. Gilray, a veteran WCHA official, but one who should have 
retired a couple of seasons ago, was often out of position to make a 
good call. His partner, a first year man, simply didn't have the con­
fidence (maybe guts is the right word) to take charge of the game .. 
The duo turned in a disgraceful job for presumably qualified college 
officials. 
Notre Dame did not play the brand of hockey they're capable of playing over the weekend but it was chiefly because of the official's ineptitude, and not Notre Dame's deficiencies, that the Irish left Ann Arbor with a 4-4 record and not a 6-2 mark. 

fense while the Irish found that putting the Crusaders on the foul line was a sound strategy. Valpo converted only 14-24 (59 per­cent l free throws. From the floor, the Crusaders were no better. 6-8 center John Wolfen­berg. supposedly the team's best inside shooter, went 3-13 with his new pair of contact lenses. 6-5 forward Tom Hoerl, who had 26 points against Carroll, hit for only :3 first half points. 
Novak, O'Mara and Egart led the Irish to a 36-24 bulge at 7: 15 and withstood some hot shooting hy Tom llaeberle to leave the rtoo.liJ up sevrn points. Novak had 15 and O'Mara 11 points as the Irish shot :l9 percent from the fiPid, due mostly to a bushel of missed tip-in attempts. The Crusaders were led by Haeberle and former South Bend St. Joe star Dale Lesicki, each with 13. 
Wolfenberg put his old glasses back on for the second half but they didn't do him any good as he shot 5-22 for the game. Starting forward Wally Schultz departed at t5: 23 via his 5th foul and the Irish further depleted the Crusader ranks when Hoerl and Don Silinski traded blows during a scuffle over a rebound at 13:22. Though their antics were per­fectly in character with the general trend of the game, they were banished. 
With their first string un­productive <Lesicki was held scoreless l, Valpo turned to reserves Gus Haeburg and Rick List who combined for 16 second half points. Novak, Egart and Valibus helped push the ND lead to 62-46 at 11:55 despite con­tinuing to pile up fouls. This half, however, the Irish forwards did most of the fouling so no Irish­man departed <except Silinski) until the 1:15 mark. 


leers drop 2 at Michigan 
by Jim Donaldson 
Sports Editor 

It was a frustrating weekend for the Notre Dame hockey team. Victimized by sub-par defensive play and poor officiating the Irish suffered a pair of tough losses to the Michigan Wolverines Friday last weekend at the Michigan Coliseum. 
The Wolverines posted a 6-5 overtime triumph over Notre Dame Friday night and edged the Irish by the same score in regulation time on Saturday. 
The double setback left the Irish with a 4-4 record and dropped them out of first place in the Western Collegiate Hockey As$ociation. Michigan upped their league mark to 3-3 and pkked up four points in the standings. 
Notre Dame was unable to sustain leads in either game and saw the Wolverines come from behind to win both nights. Bernie Gagnon scored the game-winning goal for Michigan Friday night, at 6:13 of the sudden-death overtime period and Pat Don­nelly did in the Irish on Saturday, pumping in the Wolverines' sixth goal atl5:20ofthethirdstanza. 
It was a goal that Gagnon did, yet didn't, score that was the key factor in Michigan's triumph in the first game of the series. 
The Wolverines were trailing 4­2 in the second period when Gagnon came down the right wing and gunned a slap shot at Dick Tomasoni in the Irish cage. Tomasoni stopped the shot with his chest and juggled the puck, trying to gain possession. The official, Bob Gilray, blew his whistle and Tomasoni let the puck fall to the ice. Gagnon then swept in and stuck the puck into the net, lighting the red light and sending the Wolverine fans into hysteria. The Irish kept waiting for Gilray to disallow the goal, but, remarkably, he never did. 
The Wolverines, overjoyed at this gift goal, largely controlled play therafter. Bucky Straub tied the game at 11: 15, banging a rebound past Tomasoni after an Irish defensive misplay. 
Ric Schafer put Notre Dame on top again at 13:40 while Michigan had two men in the penalty box but the Wolverines tied the game again, at 11 :20of the third period, on a power play by Donnelly. Gagnon won it for Michigan in the overtime period, stealing the puck in the Irish defensive zone, faking Tomasoni out of position and putting the puck into the net. 
Michigan scored first Friday, going ahead at 3:28 of the opening period on a power play goal by Straub, but the Irish bounced back with a pair ofgoals, to take a 2-1 lead after the first 20 minutes, 
Freshman Ray Delorenzi netted the first Irish goal on a power play at 9:46 and Eddie Bumbacco's lOth goal of the season, at 17:22, with both teams a man short, put the Irish in front. 
Ian Williams' power play goal made it 3-1 in favor of the Irish at 
2:43 of the second period but Gagnon cut the Notre Dame lead to one with a power play goal of his own at 5:51. Paul Regan put the Irish ahead by two again at 
!i:38 but Gagnon got his "free" goal less than two minutes later 
'[F/[ ,'t-< 
> 
t 

victory over Valparaiso. The Crusaders refused to let go despite their miserable shooting and began a late comeback. Wolfenberg made up for his poor shooting by grabbing 21 rebounds and Valpo began to make 2nd and :lrd shots count. Phelps sent the Irish into a slow-down offense but the Crusaders rallied to cut the deficit to 65-59 at 6:52. 
Baskets by Egart and Novak, some Valpo turnovers, and a fallaway jumper by Willie Townsend got the Irish a 12-point bulge again. Valpo came right back to make it 71-65 at 3:03, but a running hook by Novak and a tip­in by Stevens ended the threat. 
\. 
' 

Novak had a superb outing: 13­22 from the floor, 4-4 from the line, :30 points and 9 rebounds. O'Mara, injured in the second half, added 15 points and Stevens had 13 rebounds. Egart and Valibus each scored 10 points and !'ach added six assists. Egart was particularly impressive, playing the t>ntire second half with four fouls <until I: 15l. Haeberle, had 20 points, Lesicki 13 and Wolfenberg 10. 
From the floor: ND 32-75-40 percent, Valpo 24-70-34 percent. At the line: ND 17-27-63 percent, Valpo 23-41-56 percent. Hebounds: ND 51, Valpo 67. Turnovers: ND 27 Valpo 25. 
to turn the game around. 
Saturday night, Michigan overcame a three goal deficit to win. the game and sweep the sertes. 
Michael Jarry's power play goal at 14:42 of the openingperiod had given the Wolverines an early advantage but Regan scored for the Irish at 18:24. 
Rich Mallette put Michigan ahead again at 5:20 of the second stanza but the Irish got a break several minutes later when the Wolverines' "Punch" Cartier put an elbow -into John Camp­bell's face, drawing a five-minute major penalty, joining teammate Randy Neal in the penalty box. 
The Irish, fired up by Cartier's cheap shot, which sent Campbell to the bench for the remainder of the period, unloaded a barrage of shots at Michigan goalie Karl Bagnell during the ensuing five minutes and registered four scores. 
Bumbacco hit the twine first, at 9:01, and Regan tipped in a slap shot by D'Arcy Keating a minute later. Keating drilled his slap shot past Bagnell without any help 90 seconds later and Delorenzi finished off the Irish scoring flurry a little over a minute later. 
Michigan managed to close the gap to 5-3 hefore the period en­ded. thanks to a power play ·goal by Straub and tied the score early in the final period. Paul-Andre Paris scored at 1:53 and Neal tallied a power play goal at 4: 13 to knot the count at five-all. 
Donnelly's  25  foot  slap  shot  
wrapped  up  the game  for  
Michigan.  


Page 12 THE OBSERVER Monday, December 6, 1971 

It's the sa1ne way everywhere 
Ry Sue Oblesbet~ week, could not have sent a large delegation to spread their en­
The following is a commentary 
thusiasm and dedication to 
on the Loyola conference. It does 
change the traditional ethics St.
not necessarily reflect the qpinon 
Mary's College has adhered to
of the Observer. 
in the past 125 years. 
This past weekend, Loyola Coincidentally, the ideology on 
University in Chicago was the which the Conference was based 
site for an Emergency Con­is identical to that which the 
ference for New Voters with students at St. Mary's formulated 
representation from the major and initiated for its acceptance 
universities, and minorities such last week. Both aims are to 
as the woman's coalition, the enter into a coalition in order that 
Chicanos, and Blacks. the majority in either situation, 
Theoretically, it was a shame the students and faculty and the 
Saint Mary's C':>llege, with the citizens of the U.S., may have a 
spirit they have shown in the past leadership who employs ~ts 
dispute over merger vote 
(Continued from page I) 
In a private interview, The Obse•·vn questionned the chairman on the way the decision was reached by the Executive Board. 
"Four members of the Board were physically present in the same room, for the vote. The fifth \Robert Cahill) I personally contacted," she responded. 
Cahill however, last Monday in a telephone interview with The Observer, denied he was con­sulted on the decision. 
Some students had felt that even if P. Jordan Hamel (the only layman supposedly present at the meeting) voted against suspension of unification, the tbree sisters on the committee, Mother Olivette, Sr. Gerald Hartney, community treasurer, and Sr. Alma, acting college president could have made the decision with their bloc of votes. Hamel could not be contacted. 
When unification was an­nounced by the Executive Committee last spring, it was contingent on ratification by both Boards meeting as a whole in May. Mother Olivette agreed after questioning that this new decision would also not take effect until ratification by the Board, Dec. 18. 
She denied the possibility that SMC would also announce plans tc go coed on its own if student enrollment dropped sub­stantially. 
In other news, reaction among alumnae to suspension of the 
ND to exhibit 
Lauck art show 
An exhibition of the sculpture and drawings of Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., University of Notre Dame professor or art and director of the art galleries, is scheduled during the month of December at Saint Francis College, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Included in the exhibition will be carvings in wood and stone, ceramic sculpture and pottery, and drawings in various mediums. Father Lauck's recent exhibitions have included one­man shows at the Jacques Seligmann gallery in New York and at the Rockford (Ill.) Museum of Art. 
A reception is planned for exhibition visitors and friends of the priest-artist in the Saint Francis art lounge from 2 to 4 pm Sunday <Dec. 5). 
A native of Indianapolis, Father Lauck received professional diplomas from the John Herron Art School and the Corcoran School of Art, Washington, D.C. He has been a 
• member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1950. 
merger has been non-existent. Reached in Munster, Indiana, .Mrs. Timothy P. Galvin, president of the St. Mary's Alumnae Board, said she had only received one letter from a student so far. 
"I have had no reaction from alumnae," she added. She ex­pected the bulk of the letters to come probably Wednesday after alumnae had seen national press and television coverage. 
She sent a letter to Mother Olivette Whelan in the name of the alumnae, Mrs. Galvin said, requesting clarification of the statement. 
The SMC Presidential Search Committee, reactivated last week by Sr. Alma, acting college president, to find a replacement for the late Fr. John McGrath, has reported two nominations already. 
Both nominees are Sisters of 
the Holy Cross. Sr. Basil Anthony 
O'Flynn, college vice-president 
for fiscal affairs, is one nominee. 
Sr . .Miriam Patrick Cooney, 
mathematics department 
chairman, another aspirant, 
headed last year's search 
committee. 
To attempt to force a 
unification of the schools, 
students have submitted Fr. 
James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., 
university provost, to the list for 
consideration. They may cir­
culate petitions among students 
to affirm the choice. 


SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening $1.00 PITCHER NIGHT AND LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 1.1 a.m. -12 p.m. 


LAUREL &HARDY· 
PIZZA .PALACE 
4610 Western Ave. Belleville Shoppinr 
Phone 289-71183 
energies to conform to the majorities hopes and not their fears and who believes that honesty and not deception is what the people should have in a leader to pride themselves that they are members of that community or nation. · 
The Conference declared that support would be given only to those Presidential candidates who are dedicated to making necessary changes so that the wishes of the American people may be fulfulled. St. Mary's, aren't you doing the same thing? 
Another purpose of the con­
ference, in terms of the girls of ' St. Mary's, "to end the deceptive I 
lies," by national leaders. Isn't it 

ironic how the corruptiveness of CL~1SSIFIED ..4DS 
politicians is critized, yet the Trustees seem to be playing the 1----_.-_-_-_-_-_-_--=_-=._-_---,.--------------l 
game, "do as I say, not as I do". I 
Would you elect one of our 
Trustees President of the United 
States? 
The Conference also·stated that 
one of its goals was to put an end 
to the discrimination and 
repression which now prevails, 
and the high rate of unem­
ployment. 
Because of the courses the past 
two presidential administrations 
have followed, the citizens of the 
United States have developed a 
mistrust of the political process. 
This same situation of distrust is 
present at St. Mary's . Tjead­
ministration of both have not 
produced resulss which place 
faith in their prestigious words. 

Isn't it a warm teeung tnat thts mistrust has notled to a complete loss of self-confidence that the status quo can be changed. The strength of the women of St. Mary's should break its walls of isolation and grow in the many political campaigns already underway. 

cf@P 

10 % OFF 
n any mechanical 
ork and winteri_zing 

snow tires included) 
oseland Gulf 
d
02 U.S. 31 North Across from Burger King 


130 Dixieway South Roseland 
A_ .JJJJJJi DINNERS 
~ from 52.65 
Luncheons from 51.4 Visit The New HARP PUB 
and enjoy your favorite beverage 
Banquet Rooms Available Reservations 
272-7373

Up To 200 People or 
272-7900 
WANTED 

. ·--·--··-------·-­
Make extra money on immediate. commission basis. Call 250·0339. 
Need a ride to New York·New Jersey area lor Christmas for a freak and his brother. Will share expenses and anything else. Please call 8713. 
Need ride from Midwest (i.e. closer to Springfield Illinois than to N.Y.) to N.Y. area between Xmas and New Years. 6719. 
Wanted: Please sell me one good bicycle lor Christmas. Like my girl: Used and Cheap. Call Randy 8726. 
Needed: Garage storage lor car over Xmas break will pay. Call 8520. 
Three riders needed: Ph ita., S. Jersey; Leave morning 12·19. Two Suit cases max. Gym and travel bags OK. 
Need ride to Baton Rouge, La. area around Fri. 17 Dec. 71. Call 8257. 
Floyd "Potato Chips" 'Kezele tor student body president campaign needs help desparately. Call 1694. 
FOR SALE 

Great Christmas Gift idea Complete Line Waltham Watches and Jewelry. Wholesale Prices Call Tom 3575. 
Unique personalized stationery, the perfect Christmas gift tor that special someone. Inquire by call 1167 or come see our vast selection at 611 Grace or 315 South Regina. 
FOR SALE: Men's figure skates, size 10, hardly used; 8648. 
Christmas give away. All 8· tracks now only $3. Call 6715. 
Sale: Sony TC8 track cartridge recorder. New $135. Now only $90 or best offer. Frank 3238. 
Unworn men's Wyler Watch. Retails $50 will sell for $30. Original guarantee included. Call 3662. 

For sale: one pair Head Kilty 800 skis. Brand new, perfect con· dition. Good price. 318 Howard, 8240. 
Great Xmas present. Portable a. track tape player; like new. Call Tom 1208. 
For Sale: Sony Stereo Taperecorder, acces0r ies. Gilrrard SLX·2 Turntable, Complete Excellent Condition. Must SC'II. Best Otter. Mike· 8712. 
What? Can't Type? Will type papers ot any size for reasonable fees. Bibliographies and footnotes too. Want to do t11em over the weekend and even through exam W<'ek. Call Chip at 8257. 
For Sille: Darkroom Equipment. OmC'ga B 22XL enlarger,? lenses, dryer. timer, safelight, rm trays, lllilllY extras, 3 months old . save over $100. Total Price $250. 232. 81>98., 
"LAW SCHOOL · WILL I LIKE IT? CAN I MAKE IT?" A new book by a recent taw graduate for prospective taw students. It looks at how to best prepare for law school. including what books to read, and analyzes several for. mutas based on admission studies to predict first yearaverage. It is possible to determine how one will do in law school. For your copy 
send 3709A, 53217.  $2.95 Mi to lw Kroos aukee,  Press, Wisco Box nsin  
LOST  

Lost at SMC engagement ring. 2 diamonds gold band. 4712 
~f'ward. 
Lo<;t: Will Mary Muligan please call Ken. Miss you! 6442. 
FOUND 

Found: 1971 St. Charles Prepatory ring. Call 3438. 
NOTICES 

Christmas Loans up to $150. Pay hack January 20. Morrissey Loan Fund Closes Dec. 10. 
Call Joanna at 287·2731 tor Appts' and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, ilvailable only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
NE:ED MONEY? 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
BssemC'nt of La Fortune 
11:15 12:15. 
F<~ntastic otter to ski the Alps during Christmas vacation · $270. Inc tudes evC'rything. Call 8853. 
Facuity: Why break your back? LC't Shamrock Services fret over snow. Sidewalks as low as $10 monthly, driveways $25. 288·3639. 
NC'ed added income? Sell a needed tamily service. Call 250· 0339. 
Cleveland Club Christmas Bus. Sign ups La Fortune coke bar. Mon. Tues.·Wed.7·8p.m.orcall 
·Gary 8150. 
FOR RENT 

Single room tor rent second semester. Good hitching. Call 233 6534. 
PERSONALS 

The Dairy Queen ot Skokie is still milking MAGIC BOTTLES. Stop in 416 -Augusta 5106. 
More applause PLEASE. CHIP REALLY HAS IT. Ask George. 
Word~ Ida. 2da 3clil 4da Sda 
l-10 .65 .95l.JSI.351.SS 11·15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16·20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26 30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 JJ.J5 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.3S 6.15 36·~0 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.7S 7.75 41 ~~ 3.1~ 4.70 ~.90 7.10 8.20 46·50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 











