
Tracey approved as SLC candidate 

Orlando Rodriguez 
Ann Marie Tracey will be allowed to run for a seat on Notre Dame's Student Life Council. 
At a specially-convened meeting of the Senate last night, Notre Dame representatives decided by a vote of 21 to 4 with one abstention to allow Miss Tracey to run as a candidate from the North Quad. 
To give her the same op­portunities to campaign as the other candidates, the Senate also passed a bill to move the election to Friday. The motion proposed by Don Mooney, also raises the amount of money that a can­didate can spend on his campaign 

to $60. Despite this move, the senators neglected to change the campaign deadline. As scheduled, the SLC campaign ended at two o'clock this mor­ning. Any candidate caught compaigninging after two o'clock this morning will be disqualified. 
The new election committee will meet today to determine if this rule can be waived. 
Other bills introduced at the meeting, including a move to establish a permanent standing committee to control elections and a "Quality of Life" proposal to increase the student activity fee by $2, could not be considered due to lack of a quorum after the Tracey proposals had been passed. 
In proposing the amendment to allow SMC students to campaign for SLC, Steve Novak cited the legal aspects. 
"We have one precedent for this move," he said. "This body did not challenge the candidacy of Eileen Fitzpatrick for student body president in February. If elected,· Eileen would have served as an ex-officio member of the SLC." 
Continued on pg. 10 



SLC criticized by five candidates; changes outlived 
that he will approach the debate on each proposal. He feels
by Gary P. Hunt 

problems from the viewpoint of that this plus more "homework" Each of the Off-Campus SLC an average student. on the part of the SLC members 
candidates expressed varying According to Clement and 
would create a vastly more ef­
degrees of disappointment in the nearly all the other candidates, ficient legislative body. 
Peter Clement 

way in which the SLC has been the main issue of the SLC this Tom Foy, an Off-Campushandled this year. year is co-education. He feels student, feels the most important frontation is one of the more 
Peter Clement, a junior from that in order to prepare for co­thing the SLC can do is to con­important aspects of the SLC. He Dillon hall, feels that the SLC has education the SLC must be front administration and sees a need for a basic change in 
the 

done little this year for the restructured, but before this can force them to see the student's the structure of the SLC, with an students, and the little that has important part of the change
be effectively accomplished, a side. He feels that as it stands been accomplished has involved study must be made to determine now, the SLC was given to the being the introducticn of SMC vast amounts of red tape. what the most efficient form of students by the Board of Trustees voting members on the council. Previous to his SLC candidacy, SLC government would be. as "something to play with," and Also he feels that the present Clement has not been involved in Clement said that he is fully that it is in reality a "non­ratio of eight student members to student government, however, he behind the bill being presented eight faculty members to eight
functioning body." He also feels 
feels that this fact is an asset in that would limit the time of that SMC should have voting administration members is unsatisfactory. He feels that the
representatives on the council. 
ration should be one-half students Foy wants to work on the things and one-half faculty and ad­which will influence student life ministration. SMC also should benow, rather than dealing entirely part of this ratio. Schlosser feels with long-range projects. One of that sincere consideration should the things which Foy would like be given to the resignation of
to see done immediately is the Father James Riehle and Fatherabolishment of the "imminent James Bujrtchaell. He said thatdanger" clause. He feels that this 
they are "playing with the
is necessary if the student is to 
University and with the
retain any of his individual students." Schlosser also feels
rights. 
the SLC should re-evaluate theJoe Schlosser feels that con-
Froines warns against DC vi9lence 
John Froines sternly warned mer. "Thus," said Froines, co~scwusness has. always yesterday that anyone who wants Madame Bingh of the "American casualty fi~ures were ret~ forced the VIetnamese to go to Washington this weekend Provisional Revolutionary too high when the Umted States dunn~ war becaus~ th~y k~ow to "trash," should stay in South Government will make a tried to kill'the 'fish in the sea' so that tf one generation ts. Wl~ Bend. Froines spoke to a good statement in Paris Saturday America decided to 'remove the out, .that the n~xt generation will size crowd in Washington Hall. calling for disruptions of all sea from the fish,' and create war contmue the ftght. 
"We don't want any violence on American ins t a II at ions induced urbanization.'' Froines noted that the genetic our part in Washington," said "throughout the planet," said Froines cited these military effects of the chemical defoliants Froines, a member of the Froines. policies as forming the United the United States has dropped in People's Coalition for Peace and States' "genocidal" war in In-Vietnam is six times greater than Justice which is sponsoring anti-Outpourings of anti-U.S. dochina. the genetic effects of Hiroshima, war activities in Washington next student, demonstraters in the _Extensive de f 01i at i0 n and it is this which is dangerously 
week. streets of Saigon will begin this affecting the growth of the next 
Saturday l·n a coord1' ted eff 0 rt practices of rural areas including
At the same time, Froines said na farmlands. generation. Fifty percent of all these activities promise to be the to protest American presence in -Use of saturation Vietnamese children are born
B-52

"most coordinated massive ef-Indochina Froines said. deformed or will soon die claimed 
Froines said that the respon-bombing of villages.
fort to stop the War in the history sibility to initiate a concerted -Selective killing using sensor Froines. of the anti-war movement." He · . devices which in a matter of
1 

added that this will usher in an contmumg "rea " movement is
"ou s N0 bod 1 · · t d minutes can have a bomber
"immense" summer program of r · Y e se Is gomg o o
it for us." dropping its load on an area activities. detected of possessing life.
He outlined plans to block the Froines charged the United -Use of terror weapons, in-only roads leading to the Pen-States's with waging a
" 'd 1" d eluding C-5 gas, cloth mines,
tagon and the Justice Depart-genoc1 a war in In ochina. 
pellet bombs, and spider bombs, 
ment by junking motor vehicles "We are wreaking the destruc-designed not to kill but maim, in the roads. Among other more tion of a people, a culture, and a 
and scare the people into the
bizarre activities, he told of plans race." cities. to stage a mock amphibious He said this policy comes out of attack on the Pentagon from row a "very simple strategy" which Froines described the Viet-boats on the Potomac. takes into account an American namese consciousness as a 
He said that demonstraters will impatience of continuous high collective sense of their history in act by states in Washington and G.l. casualty figures and decides fighting for their freedom from afterwards will decide on that an acceptable way has to be the Mongols onward to the John Froinesstatewide actions for· this sum-found to prosecute the war. Americans. He said that this Dave Tushar 





ROTC program and all govern­ment contracts. In conclusion he said that SLC must be a leader · and must remain in constant contact with the student body if anything is t~ be accomplished 
Dave Tushar was Assistant Judicial Coordinator last year and is this year's judicial Coordinator. He has also worked with the Drug Procedural Committee of the SLC. Tushar feels that "more honesty and less Confrontation politics" would make the SLC more effective. He 
Continued on pg. 10 
·On campus today••• 

4:00 
lecture-dr. richard giardina: united states and south africa, area studies room, 12th floor memorial library. 

4:00 
lecture-wayne c. booth: the autonomous self and the warrants of dissent, library auditorium. 


7:30 lecture-eliot Ievinson and gail donovan Ievinson: urban politics, carroll hall smc. 
8:00 
mass for peace­refugee aid program, the grotto. 

8:00 
to midnight coffee 


house- teahouse,  etc.,  
fieldhouse, free  
8:00  movie- cultural  arts  

comm1ss1on: forbidden planet and this island earth, engineering auditorium. 
10:00 prank-mooney's merry pranksters: election prank, teahouse in the fieldhouse. 
nd._smc 


Page 2 THE OBSERVER April 28, 1971 
SLC team evaluates hall life 

SOPHOMORES
•• ·:ROTC cadets to quit
' 
• 
students, telephoned at random, were asked to answer a questionnaire. The subcommittee compiled this data and two of its members, Student Body President John Barkett and Fr. Schultz, drafted the report. 
Among its findings, the report notes that rectors and resident assistants are "moderate or lax" in their enforcement of parietal rules. The students questioned considered themselves "lax" and would not try to correct parietalviolations. 

STUDENT AUTO FINANCE PLAN 

No payments for ninety days! New or used cars to qualified graduating seniors. Lower payments 
available  for first  1/3 of contract  with  nominal  
down  payments.  For  more  exact  information,  
contact- JORDAN FORD  
609 E. ) efferson  
Mishawaka, Indiana  



t 


ATTENTION ALL 
t 
Sophomores may start placing ring orders NOW 
~ 

Hours: 1:30-4:30 Monday Thr1;1 Friday 
1 The demonstration was
in office on second floor of ND Bookstore organized by the Notre Dame _ _ ~-_ _ .... 1• Peace Action Committee and -----------followed a talk given by leading
---------------------------------------~anti-war activist John Froines

B ~~ d ~

011 es cans an on 10p the three best beers in America 
. Bl

Is atz

• organizers said reached eighthundred people. 

The leaflets asked the cadets to renounce their implicit support of the United State's military in Indochina and its "genecidat­tactics" and leave ROTC to join 

ND prof, McClelland, runs for S.B. mayor 

Samuel D. McClelland, assistant professor of com­munication arts and a former Notre Dame graduate will seek the Democratic nomination for the South Bend mayorality in the primary to be held May 5. 
In an interview with the Observer yesterday, McClelland rested his platform on imperative change needed within the South Bend community. Two central problems require attention, according to McClelland. City social divisions between blacks and whites, young and old, have and have-nots, radical and conservative factions must be disbanded, he said. Programs must be solution-oriented, not just problem-oriented as they are now, McClelland added. 
"There exists a split in the Democratic party here in South Bend. The J)resent political structure does not respond to issues. South Bend must stop the flow of people and money away from the city. It is my goal to make South Bend a better place




oldblatzisbest. 

to live in," McClelland said. "If the election primary is to be 
Among its parietal recom­mendations, the report suggests that each hall, in consultation with the Hall Life Board, should form regulations and en­forcement procedures for parietal hours, appropriate to the individual hall. 
In its section regarding alcohol, te report suggests that the Dean of Students clarify and publicize rules for allowing beer to be brought on campus. It also requests that hall staff and hall government publicize a distinc­tion between public and private rooms and enforce the distinc­tion. Finally, it recommends that hall government; in conjunction with the rectors, should establish guidelines for section and hall parties. 
According to Barkett, the first report, that was presented to a March meeting of the Executive Board of the Board of Trustees, did not make any recom­mendations. This second report, he noted, made recom­
-

Approxiamately 40 people passed out anti-war literature yesterday urging cadets leave 
~ ROTC and promoting ap anti-war meeting tonight in the ballroom at Lafortune. The demonstrators put leaflets on parked cars and passed them out to passing motorists and military per­sonnel in front of the ROTC building. 
mendations. 
Tom Schoaf, a member of the subcommittee that drafted the interim report noted that it was little more than a summary of data compiled via questionairres that had been sent to all hall rectors and presidents. 
Fr. Thomas E. Blantz, vice president for student affairs and an ex oficio member of the SLC, noted that the second report was "fuller" than the first. 
According to the text of this report, "The results of this questionnaire corroborate what was discovered in the earlier investigation and incorporated .in the report submitted to the Board at their March meeting." 
In its section on Hall Staff and Hall Government, the report said, ''Overall, the quality of leaders in residence dorms was considered good." 
It suggested a continuing review and upgrading of rectors and a training program for resident assistants. 
In conclusion the report says, 
• 
Demonstrators urge 
which urged support of the massiv.e civ.n disobe~ience 

~=i~"~~~:~h;~~:~~::::~::: 
was held without incident amid a convivial atmosphere which 
determined simply by monetary campaigning and advertising, the high business interests will win out. And McClelland said noting that interest in the primary ballot is his weakest point, the truly critical issues will be overlooked. He said he would end political patronage and that nonpartisan registrars should be freely available to all citizens. When asked about the possibility of annexation of Notre Dame to South Bend, McClelland asserted annexation is "only a matter of time and sound, acceptable proposals." It is a long run must, economically and student par­ticipation in local government will be beneficial, he added. 
"A city cannot be great without a strong-spectrum middle class and the present abandonment of this group will provede the long­run end to the city itself," McClelland said. Human development and drug in­formation cente~s for adu~ts ~re needed along with humamtarian p~ojects which means Sou~ Bend Will need more federal a1d, he said. 

John Barkett 

"The time elements and the 
scope of the study made it im­
possible to accurately depict the 
state of student life at Notre 
Dame. 

"We believe a comprehensive study should be made of all facets of student life, on and off campus, if. a fair description is desired. 
With the approval of co-education and the pace of other changes, such a study is needed to provide us with information to prepare and provide for the Notre Dame student of the 70's and thereaf­ter." 
the peace efforts. "T)le United States military policies of free fire zones, saturation bombing, mining fields, and defoliating farmlands and forests are all designed to induce rapid urbanization where no dissent is allowed," said an organizer. "The United States has decided to insure the eradication of the 'enemy' by destroying the entire population after efforts have failed to destroy only the 'enemy.' '' 
A few ROTC cadets stopped to discuss the War and ROTC with some of the demonstrators and the talks were intense. 
An organizer said that 'the reception the demonstraters received from almost all the people in passing cars was "cordial and open" and added that many of the people indicated their support of the peace efforts. 
He said that he was "pleased with the day's efforts, and was enthused for future actions." 


April 28, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Page 3 
Alumni to meet 


here on weekend 
by Greg Rowinski students involved have reduced 
The Alumni Board and Senate the number of open rooms. So, will hold its Annual session on according to Cooney the campus on April 29 and 30 and Association is having "a real May 1, the fifth anniversary of tough time finding rooms." the group, according to Alumni Cooney asked that any students 
Association Secretary James willing to put up alumni should Cooney. contact the Alumni Office at 7267. Since its founding in 1967, the Cooney fears that if the Alumni 
group has tried "to improve are forced to stay in motels the weekend will ''lose some of its
communications between the flavor."
institution and its alumnae by 
providing a two-way com­One of the highlights of the munication channel," Cooney. weekend's events, Cooney said, said. will be the presentation of the For the second year, the Association's highest award to Association plans to house the the Senate's founder, Dr. Thomas alumni in the residence halls. P. Carney. In describing Dr. Mike Jordan, assistant secretary Carney, the present chairman of of the association, made the the Board of Trustee's Student arrangements through the Affairs Committee, Cooney various Hall Councils. called him "one of the great, 

However, the An Tostal enlightened trustees," a man who Weekend has put the program could bridge the gap between the "into a scramble" Jordan said older and younger alumni. Although the availability of Alumni will have the op-1 rooms was tentatively deter­portunity to eat in the student mined, changes in plans of the dining halls and will return the 
favor by inviting their studentRAP candlelight roommates to a dinner Thursday 
• 
night, at which Student Body

procession 
President John Barkett will speak.
A candlelight procession from Other activities of the weekend the grotto to Stanford-Keenan include a talk on co-education by Hall chapel will highlight the Theology Dean Fr. Charles E. final week of Refuge Aid Sheedy; a report on the topic,Program activities according to "The Alumni Association: Where spokesman Tom Gies. Do We Go From Here" by
The processiOn Will be held Cooney; a panel on the state of beginning at 8:45 Tursday and the residence halls and the will be followed by a con­Blue and Gold game Saturday
celebrated Mass in the chapel. 
Afternoon. 
On May 1 there will be a film I --· Idocumentary on the Vietnam I War "In the Year of the Pig" and I
I 
another on Quang Ngai, "Once I
I
Upon a War." The films will also be shown on 
I
May 2. Donations will be ac­cepted that evening during the An Tostal Blues concert behind Stepan Center. According to Gies, more that $1,200 has been collected including a $50 donation from both Morrissey and Breen­Philips Halls. Seniors who decided not to wear the traditional commencement cap and gown have donated $40. 
Final collections will be held on Monday, May 2 and Tuesday, May 3. Gies said a rise in donations is expected during the final two days because it is "presumed that students have • Filmed in. <;olorbeen saving all along and that I they will contribute ac­
I I.D.'s Required

cordingly.'' .. ____________ I.. 

~~J 


HAGGAR 
Slacl<s
• 



'.te~i' 

, -. , r 
Now you can have your fashion and be comfortable too. 100% Fortrel~ polyester gives with your every move, impossible to wrinkle, and they can be machine washed and dryed. You'll like the comfortable price. 
f6.00 to 2 2. SO 

Acollege graduate just doesn't getthe warm welcome he used to. 
There's a lot of competition in the job markef 
today. And a college degree alone just 
doesn't carry as much weight with some 
employers. 

That's why Honeywell developed their 
Postgraduate Studies Program. A program 
designed exclusively for college graduates. 
No matter what your college major is. If 
you can qualify you'll be ready to learn com­
puters from one of the world's top computer 
manufacturers and leading educators, 
Honeywell. 

You'll be ready to start right off in the fastest growing industry around. An industry that doubles in size and opportunity every five years. 
There still won't be any brass bands around to greet you, but you will get a warm handshake. All you have to do is mail this coupon. Or call (312) 368-0688. 

r----------------,
Admissions Officer 1 Honeywell Institute of Information Sciences La Salle Wacker Building, 221 North La Salle St. I Chicago, Illinois 60601 I 
0 I would like additional information : 1 
on your program. 

I am interested in 0 Day 0 Evening classes. Name:___________________ 
College: ___________________, 
College Address:_________ _______Phone:________ 
Home Address:__________ _______Phone:_______ Approved for veterans. I 
L----------------J 
TheOtherComputerCompany: Honeywell 
Approved by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction State of Illinois. 

.......·-.. -. •..·-···-·----:·-·-~-:~·-:-·-·:.~-··-~ 




Trust love. 

THE STROH 8R£W£RY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 
April 28, 1971 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

beginning and an end, with acontacted a friend of mine who specific punctuation for each. Itwrites for your paper. He agreed is a simple rule to learn, andto write a story and this was quite useful to follow. I avoidhanded in, along with a picture of University (which the St. Mary's
ignoring the present orientat~on It would seem that a more mixing direct quotation with themyself. of the institutions and one wh1ch constructive approach would be a Community is not yet fully a part reporters' loaded paraphrase,Monday's paper to my sur­on.
would brake progress in an area view of students helping other (In which the quote, "But Lincoln prise, did not contain the article where students should take an students to fulfill their wishes. I regret that Miss Tracey chose was fighting for human my friend had written, but a active lead. Should a district decide to send this time to run for an office such 
freedom,'' becomes the
watered down version without a The crux of the problem is Miss anyone (who is not on academic as this, and I also regret that it paraphrase, "But Lincoln waspicture. In the same article Urda Tracey's qualifications as a probation) as their represen­has cost the students of Notre 
trying to enforce the law.") This& Imhoff received their second "representative of the Notre tatives to any board, it would Dame one of the best candidates assumes that you wish to avoidexposure to the campus. Dame student body" on the SLC. seem to be the obligation of the for an S.L.C. seat in Don Mooney. 
such mixing. Further, I haveFeeling that maybe I should Had Eileen won, whe would student leaders to facilitate the Butuntilthetwo communities are been taught that the purpose ofattempt to catch up to them, I one (and not Notre Dame and-or 
presently be sitting on said accomplishment of such a 
an elipsis was to eliminate
purchased an ad from vour St. Mary's) this will continue to
august body as such a decision. unimportant words, not in­
paper. This ad, though in well happen.
representative. The time to have If students transcend the convenient ones.

before the deadline, never ap­
raised such objections, then, was "bounds" of their own power, T.J. Carney Editorials should be found onpeared. during the SBP campaign. There rest assured that Fr. Burtchaell 221 Stanford the editiorial page (where they
Whether these instances of is now a precedent saying that a and his compatriots will fly to the are often surprisingly good.)
favoritism were intended I 
student matriculated at SMC defense of established norms. We Editor: Hatchet jobs --especially suchcannot be sure. What I do know is could, in theory, be duly elected would be fools not to seize the The first weekend of May is not amateurish ones --should bethat such journalism is very to such a board. Furthermore, 18 present moment of flux, to test a time for celebration. One year found in the circular file. Butunfair to myself and the student percent in theory, be duly elected the bounds of student power, and ago, troops. of the United States perhaps I am too harsh. Con­body. 

to such a board. Furthermore, 18 to try to extend them to obtain invaded Cambodia. Within two sidering the usual quality ofGary J. Caruso 

percent of the electorate (the 13 some effective nontoken control weeks after that invasion, four of Observer material, this article percent who voted for us, and the of our own lives. If students begin our fellow students at Kent State, could have the best of intentions, 5 percent who voted for Cervas­acting as checks on each other's and two of our fellow students at but intentions serviced by a 
Deiss) feel that an SMC attempts at being creative, and in Jackson State, were killed by journalistic competence that canEditor: matriculated student who has the name of good diplomacy with troops of the United States. No, charitably be described asThe issue that was presented some connection with Notre the higher ups no less, the best we there is no cause for celebration minimaLby Anne Marie Tracy's attempt Dame could in fact represent will ever obtain will be tokenistic this weekend. Phd Cardarellato be placed on the SLC election them. The decision, therefore, tid bits from those same higher But here at Notre Dame, (Law School) ballot was not the representation 

must be considered a step ups. students are celebrating. They
of St. Mary's College on a Notre backwards in the merger of both Walter G. Secada are chasing pigs, and smashing
Dame board. Fr. Sheedy stated The Refugee Aid Program
student bodies. 

pianos, engaging in kissing
Sunday that "the decision has wishes to publicly disclaim and
What other qualifications are marathons and doing all sorts of
been made for coeducation: urge people not to participate in
necessary? Living in the area you Editor: other thPngs of similar im­
coeducation is here now." It is activities planned to "disrupt"
would represent? Don Mooney is We are once more engulfed in a portance·. Meanwhile, in
my firm belief that the words An Tostal weekend. Such actions, 
living off-campus and is running ·senseless controversy. A young Washington, students and other
"Notre Dame student body" do in while making a worthy point of
on the South Quad. T.C. Treaner woman at St. Mary's College has Americans are laying their
fact include all male and female the need for sober contemplation 
lives in the South and is running ventured across the road to run bodies on the line in an attempt to
members of this community. The about the war, seem to be the
for the North. Approval by daddy for a north quad seat on the prevent any more of the kind of
choice of legitimate student worst moralistic way. Imposing
in the form of the administration Student Life Council. This in turn killings that occurred last May,
representatives is the one area in one political belief as being right 
and-or board of trustees? But has created a storm of rhetoric on and that have been occuring with 
which the students have sole for all people, and harassing
aren't we even now running our the issue to which I add my little far too much frequency for the
jurisdiction. With respect to people who do not agree, appears
elections against the constitution bit. past 7 years.
representation, we are one to be the height of insolence.
which says they are to be at To me the issue doesn't appear When Allan Ginsberg was here
student body as soon as we The Refugee Aid Program has
large? Furthermore, Eileen to be that complicated. We two years ago, he said that he
choose to recognize ourselves as Sl)pported An Tostal as a good
spoke with Mr. Faccenda (an ex­(S.M.C. and N.D.) are in the couldn't ask students to engage in
such. way for people to have a needed
officio member of the board) proccess of merger. However, we an action which he himself would 
I welcome the Student Senate's good time at little expense, in line
about whether or not they would are not yet merged. The S.L.C. is not be able to join in. So we don't
decision to allow Miss Tracey to with our plan of saving money for 
seriously consider her a a body on one of the two cam­necessarily ask you to go
run for the SLC position. Every the rehabilitation center at
representative of students were puses that is composed of Washington this weekend, since
student elected on Friday must Quang Ngai, Vietnam. A
she to win. He assured her that Faculty, Administrators, and we won't be able to go ourselves.
consider himself a representative collection for thz refugee fund
whoever the students chose as Students of that campus, and has But we do ask you to refrain from 
of the same constituency --the will be made at the Segal-Schwall 
their representatives would, in absolutely no jusidiction what-so­celebrating this weekend. We ask
Notre Dame students, male and blues concert Saturday night, and 
fact, be considered as such. He ever on the other campus. you to consider what happened a
female. we urge people to attend.
also gave her permission to quote I'm sure that Miss Tracey is year ago, and we ask you to show
My hope is that all of us who An Tostal need not make us
him on that point. One wishes very qualified as a former your support for those who will be 
.are the elected representatives forget the fravity of the war, the
people would do their homework Student Body President of St. in Washington over the next few
of the student body will pattern seriousness of the refugee
on such matters. Also, is such a Mary's College to represent the days. We ask you to express, in a
our future actions on the Senate's problem in Vietnam, or the
worry even legitimate? St. Mary's point of view. This, more appropriate way, the
progressive move. deaths at Kent State and Jackson 
Additional quibbling about however, does not qualify her to sorrow and outrage that is
Kathy Barlow State. People should celebrate
qualifications is precisely that -represent the Notre Dame point produced by the memory of last
SBP -St. Mary's spring-and think about the war
quibbling. It seems to me that the of view for Notre Dame Students May. 
at the same time. We think it canNorth Quad students should be at a body responsible for the Steve Novak be done, and An Tostal need notthe ones to decide about further "Life" at Notre Dame. And until Don Mooney
Editor: be disrupted to do it. 
The recent dictum issued by qualifications -a duty, whj~h, St. Mary's has been incorporated Tom Giesjudging from my encounter w1th as part of Notre Dame, I don't
the election committee on Miss 445 Lyons
Ann Marie Tracey's candidacy the Keenan Hall cynics, they feel that any member of the St. Editor: Refugee Aid Program
would more than adequately Mary's Community is any more The Observer is not a par­
for an SLC seat from the North Molly Kowakzy 
discharge. qualified to represent the ticularly good newspaper, so it
Quad requires considerations of 447 LeMans
But place the decision in a Students of Notre Dame than a came as no surprise that the
the type Eileen Fitzpatrick and I Refugee Aid Program.
wider perspective...that of member of the South Bend April 26 issue began by
tried raising during the recent 
students studying the possibility Community that isn't enrolled misspelling Dean Foschio's
SBP elections. Apparently, they of creative student initiative. One here but spends much of his time name, and moved on to equate BAZOO BAZOO!!! 

were lost on some; hence, I will must now question the ·role of here. "half-million" to "250,000." Such Night Editor: Joe Cassinihere try to elucidate upon them. 
students attempting to govern For this reason I support the are the inadequacies of jour­(Dubi~ "Q")The statement begins by asking other students, for that way we decision of S.B.V.P. Orlando nalistic sloath. However, the Layout: Brian Hickeyus to "leave aside any con­can expect a year of students Rodriguez in making her can­report on the Buckley speech was (Ruthless "Q")sideration of sex and look at bogged down in playing their own dacy illegal. The seat on the exceptionally shoddy, even in its OJpy Editor: Jim ROeNotre Dame and Saint Marys' 
political games of whether or not S.L.C. is not merely another undistinguished environment.
just as two separate in­Knights of the Controls: 
daddy will approve of student student position.lt is a part of the Let us assume, for the sake of
stitutions." This sets the tone of Jim McGrath, Mark Niederkom 
actions. governming body of this argument, that it was the desire
the whole opinion-it is status quo, 
··~·l 

Written and produced by The Observer 

Washington Bureau: 
John Abowd Larry Ballantine Roger Burrell 

Ed Ellis Bob Higgins Fred Schaefer 

Photos by: Joe Raymond 
"I urge this nation to pay tribute to my martyred husband by withdrawing all troops from South East Asia by Auguest 28, 1971, the anniversary of his 'I have a dream' speech." Coretta Kinl! 4-24-71 
"Without sticks and rocks we can and will be heard." John Kerry 4-24-71. 
"And its one, two, three What are we fighting for 
Don't ask me, I don't give a damn 
The next stop is Viet Nam." Country Joe 
McDonald 4-24-71. 
"I am notgoing to do Give Peace a Chance. There's no time for nice songs anymore." Pete Seeger 4-24­71. 
"We must organize as never before to get the forces of war, repression and racism out of our government." Ralph Abernathy 4-24-71. 
"Ho-ho-homosexual, Bombs and wars are inef­fectual." The Gay Liberation Front 4-24-71. 
Depending on whom you ask, there were 200,000 or 600,000 thousand people in Washington D.C. on April 24, 1971. There were enough people to com­pletely cover Pennsylvania avenue and the entire Capital lawn at 3:00 in the afternoon. 
In fact, the only significant person missing was Richard Nixon himself. He was off to Camp David. Having boarded a helicopter on the White House lawn on Friday afte~oon, in full view of the early arrivers for Saturdays march on the Capital. 
The April24 march is one event in a series of anti­war protests gradually escalating to a national moratorium on May 1. In context, the event directly followed the action of the Viet Nam Veterans Against the War and preceed the upcoming attempt at massive civil disobedience by the People's Coalition for Peace and .Justice. 
By the end of last Friday, the Washington Week of the Viet Nam Vets, characterized by their en­campment on the Capital mall, added a new dimension to mass protests. These 800 veterans caused an outpouring of public emotion and provoked an unsteady reaction by the federal government. 
Those who came a day early witnessed two hours of campaign ribbons, service medals and Army 

inside 
---~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
April 28, 1971 

Page 6. THE OBSERVER 
Without sticks and rocks we can and will be heard. 

John Kerry 

letters of commendation showering the Capital steps. For anyone who thought that the day of ef­fective mass demonstrations had passed, the veterans gave new life to the idea that such a protest may yet move the United States to disengage itself completely from Viet Nam. Cer­tainly the veterans were able to widen public sen­timent against the war. 
The conflict between the Executive branch and the Judicial branch of the federal government over the question of sleeping quarters for the G .I.'s in­volved the president's decision not to enforce a ban on encampment on the mall which he had specifically sought in the Supreme court. 
The camping controversy prompted John Kerry, one of the Vets organizers, to remark at the rally that "the federal government cares more about the legality of where men sleep than the legality of where they drop bombs." 

We have come here today half a million stro_ng to meet in the courts of Pharoah Richard Nixon. 

Ralph Abernathy 
Saturday's march was co-sponsored by the National Peace-Action Coalition and the Student Mobilization Committee to End the War. It was planned as a massive, peaceful demonstration that could provide in David Dellinger's words: "The first opportunity for protest by those who are not used to opposing their government." 
But the march was more than a first opportunity, it was the first significant coalition protest against the Vietnam war. Quite naturally a large number of the participants were white college students but middle America was also well represented. 
Middle-aged men and women, many ac­companied by their families, marched with the student groups. Many men wore suits and ties, and their obvious fatigue after the long march was unmistakable evidence of the fact that this was their first demonstration. 
Occasionally a "Vets for Peace" hat appeared in the crowd. These vets, however, were not Viet Nam vets, rather they were from World War II. 
Contingents from various labor unions also dotted the mammoth crowd. The United Auto Workers came in spite of the fact that the national union refused to support the march. 
One eye-witness reported seeing a blue collar worker, armed with a bull horn, calling for a worker-student alliance. He claimed "a boss is a boss is a boss.'' 

"An alliance between the workers and students would have the power to work without union bosses and two-faced liberal politicians," he added. 
Other groups in attendance included The Young Socialist Alliance, The Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the Black Panthers, the Charlottesville Draft Resistance Group, various Women's Liberation groups, the S.O.S., numerous High School Groups, the National Welfare Rights Organization, the Gay Liberation Front, and a few scattered Yippies. 
The Yippies, painted like Indians ready for battle, dotted the air with their way cry: "yip-yip-yip-yip­yip-yip-yip." 
No less colorful was the Gay Liberation Front. Adding a humourous note, they cheered "Out of the closets and into the streets," and "Ho-Ho­Homonsexual, Bomb and war are in effectual." 
Be it known that the American and Vietnamese peoples are not enemies. 


People's Peace Treaty 

Members of the Charlottsville Draft Resistance were distributing a pledge that when signed, obligated the signee to turn in his draft card when the petition accumulated 100,000 signatures. The entire group of resisters would then demand prosecution. 
Many men turned in draft cards or war medals at the march. The May Day tribe collected over 500 on the spot. Over 100 were turned in to Ralph Abernathy, SCLC leader. 
"Free Ericka" sweatshirts and buttons ear­marked the Black Panther Groups in the crowd. These referred to Ericka Huggins, one of the newer "political prisoners" in America. She and Bobby Seale, Panther Leader, are presently in jail in New, Haven, Conn. in connection with the murder of an alleged panther informer. 
The diverse character of the crowd was probably due to the multiple demands of the march. The principle rallying point was immediate withdrawal from VietNam. Most of the groups participating in the march favored the adoption of the "People's Peace Treaty." 

The People's Peace Treaty is a document negotiated by student groups from North and South Vietnam and the United States. It calls for total American withdrawal along a publicly announced time-table. In return, the Vietnamese are expected to enter a cease-fire and to engage in discussions to guarantee the safe withdrawal of American troops. 
The Southern Christian Leadership Conference, The National Welfare Rights Organization and other Black and Chicano groups stressed the domestic demands of the rally. The major welfare demand was a guaranteed annual income of $6500 for every family of four in the. U.S. 
The third element of the coalition was the Women's Contingent. This groups was an ad hoc organization of women's liberation groups and female anti-war organizations. In addition to stressing the electoral power that women, as 53 per cent of the population, have in ending the war and pressing for social welfare legislation, the women's groups reminded the marchers that twenty-four hour day care centers, in addition to being a feminist demand, also affected the welfare demand of a guaranteed annual income by allowing female heads of households, presently on welfare, to seek employment. 

The march began gathering at 10 a.m. on the White House Ellipse where thousands had spent the night. At 11:30 the marchers started moving slowly down two lanes of Pennsylvania A venue. Directed by some 8,000 trained marshalls the crowd proceeded past the Commerce Building and the Justice Department. 
The west lawn of the Capitol quickly fulled up in anticipation of the rally and the march backed up to the White House for the next three hours. Attempts were made to reroute the crowd down Constitution Avenue, but this did little to relieve the conjection of bodies. 
Nowhere was the diversity of the event more apparent than on the speakers' platform. The best received speakers were the ones who approached the demands of the rally with a conviction of greater militancy than the march itself represented. Students, while they were not the only group 
Air support is George Orwellian for bombing villages and civilians. 

David Dellinger 
April 28, 1971 



THE OBSERVER. 

present, were the most vocal. They reacted to the activist rhetoric that is more common on college campuses than at labor union meetings. 
The best examples of speakers who appealed to those advocating more deliberate action were David Dellinger, one of the Chicago Seven and a long time advocate of non-violent civil disobedience, and John Carey, one of the organizers of the Viet Nam Veterans Against the War. 
Dellinger called "violence the government's method" while advocating non-violent disruption of daily governmental operations as the People's Coalition for Peace and Justice plans in its May Day protest. 
"It is not enough to simply march, rally, go home and wait. We must make the anti-war movement a continuing struggle. The Viet Nam vets and the G.I.'s are the new cutting edge of this struggle," he said. 
Dellinger's most effective argument urged students to abandon "trashing" and other forms of reckless violence. He argued that the money to repair this damage "is not the system's problem, they have enough money to make a profit on the repair." 
The veteran of many anti-war offensives saw stopping the government from waging the war as the only effective means of forcing an end to the Vietnam conflict. 
With anti-VietNam G.I.'s the major new addition to the peace movement, John Kerry's speech had special significance. When he discussed the veterans protest of the previous day, he spoke of the dignity the government had taken from the G.I.'s. 
"Service of our country has been perverted these last few days. This administration forced us to return our medals by denying us the integrity these symbols gave our lives. 
The Pentagon, the Justice Department 
Key Bridge, Va., Washington Circle 
May Day Targets 

"We will keep coming back until this war ends. We will alter the basic structure of this country by taking the government to task at the polls. It is the truth that makes us free. 
"So when thirty years from now we face our brothers we can say Viet Nam is where America turned and soldiers like ourselves helped to start it." 
Kerry's speech combined a realistic outlook 
towards protest with the firm determination that 
members of the anti-war movement have come to 

•

1n 








ction 
Page 7 

admire. 
The speakers were so overshadowed by the magnitude of the demonstration that the only really rousing crowd reaction came when Country Joe McDonald did the "fish" cheer and "Viet Nam Rag" on the steps of the Capital. 
The actions of the demonstra lion contrast sharply with a series of more militant acti, 1s, including civil disobedience, and mass traffic tie-ups, scheduled for the next two weeks by another an­tiwar group, the Peoples Coalition for Peace and Justice. 
From Monday May 3 to at least May 5, elements of the Peoples Coalition plan a variety of gradually escalating/-actions, culminating in attempts by thousands of demonstrators to block early morning commuter traffic in downtown Washington and suburban Virginia on May 3 and 4. 
Twenty one targets have been selected for disruption with the main concentration on traffic circles, bridges and the Pentagon. Itis the object~ve of the demonstrators to block these targets durmg the early morning rush hour, thus sealing off the Federal Triangle area of Washington and discouraging Federal employees from attempting to reach their respective places of business. 
The target for May 3rd is the Pentagon. While a large segment of the Peoples Coalition march on the structure itself, regional organizations will disrupt traffic around a strategically defined perimeter of the city. 
I saw many men a dyin' 
I saw many more a lyin' 
But I ain't a marchin' anymore 
Phil Ochs 
The following day, action will concentrate on the Justice Department. The same proceedure will be employed in an attempt to close down the seat of 
Justice in the United States.  
A nationwide  Moratorium  is  planned  for  the  
following  day, May  5. The  Coalition  is  urging  
"everyone  who  possibly  can  to  come  to  

Washington." They also encourage work stoppages, by the same techniques of non-violent direct action, in home communities. 
The area of concentration on Moratorium day is the Congress. The People's Coalition feels that nationwide disruption of work "will focus the national anger on Congressional refusal to act in any definitive way." 
It is the opinion of the May Day Group that young people were "tricked" into ending th~ir strike _last May by the promising but impratical Hatfield­McGovern ammendment. 
This year the group affirms that "nothing short of a congressional move to force immediate with­drawal from Viet Nam will stop us from our non­violent confrontation." They contend that their variety of tactics will insure that "there is no business as usual while the war continues." 
Peoples Lobbies for the next two weeks will channel their efforts at various governmental agencies attempting to "talk directly and forcibly with all 'employees of the federal government." Targets include the Congress, the Selective Serivce Building, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Justice Department. 
The Government and the peoples coalition for peace and justice have negotiated for all night use of the Washington Monument grounds on May 1 for a "Festival of Life", featuring such regulars as Arlo Guthrie, Phil Ochs and Tim Hardin. 
Training and educational sessions in non-violent Civil Disobedience are being planned for this week around the Washington monument. It is the belief of the Coalition that a trained group of demonstrators will be better prepared to meet the challenge of direct confrontation with the highly acclaimed Washington police force . 

... a program of congressional 


action and civil disobedience 
unequaled in the movement's history. 
Still to be ironed out are sleeping quarters, for the expected throng of demonstrators. Local churches and Universities have offered assistance, but problems could occur if more than expected arrive and the overflow descend on the monument ground. 
If Washington, this time ,means anything it means that once again the protest movement is above ground. All the tactics and purposes are clearly stated. The combination of demands including retification of the People's Peace Treaty and Establishment of a guaranteed annual income represent a firm platform from which to stage what will come after Washington. 
Perhaps, most significantly, it is already obvious that this action was only the beginning of a well­planned "spring offensive." It does not stand in the same limbo that the 1969 Moratoriam occupied--one mas_sive but isolated action--rather it represents the initial move in a program of congressional action and civil disobedince unequaled in the movement's history. 
With almost frightening predictability, the anti­war forces are back. 
April 28, 1971 


Page 8 THE OBSERVER 

Knights in ar~nor? 

A travel notebook 
Our mission, when we decided to accept it, (to say the least we were a bit skeptical after reading Glen Corso and Bruce Rieck's letter) was to cover "various activities relating to the peace demon­strations in Washington D.C. during the period April 22, 1971 through April 25, 1971." Being totally honest the task was somewhat formidable for six amateur reporters however, when we left South Bend this was the least of our worries, the first was arriving in 
b.c. This proved to be more of a problem than we had originally suspected. 
Midway across the Ohio Turnpike we pulled into 
the Vermillion Valley Plaza and bumped into this 
sociology freak. We'd seen him in Toledo too but 
this time he had a surprise for us. 

"Hey have you got room for three chicks"? 
"What"? 

"Yeah the cops have been hassling these chicks 
really bad and if they catch them on turnpike 
property again they'll arrest them and I'm only 
going halfway to the border." 
Well the first thing that comes to mind is Bruce 
Rieck's warning: "Only the individuals named 
herein are permitted use of the Observer vehicle on 
this assignment." We voted to ignore Rieck's stern 
command and the "chicks" were transferred from 
the freak's car into the Observer vehicle. 
While this exchange is going on Ellis calls his 
alleged girlfriend at Gettysburgh College and in­
vites her to join the caravan. She graciously 
declined but offered to put us up for the night. 
After leaving the young ladies at Breezewood, we finally arrived in Gettysburgh in the vicinity of one 
A.M. Ellis goes to announce our arrival. 
Fearless Fred and Higgins got a little impatient so they set out on a search and destroy mission. It was cut short by HigginS' announcement to the Kappa Alpha Gamma House and indeed to the entire Gettysburgh campus "Oh my God I fell in some shit." 
Gettysburgh College 

is the greatest/ 
However, Ellis was finally retrieved -but we lost our chance to sleep in the girl's dorm because some young lady insisted on occupying the lounge for the entire evening while she typed a paper. The Ob­server's news staff was forced to search elsewhere. We ended up crashing in the lounge of Apple Hall. As (ate would have it we were to share this lounge too. 
Upon investigation we found the lounge well lit and inhabited by a lovely couple who were physically expressing their emotional attraction. Respecting the young man's right to privacy we held a staff meeting and decided to allow him fifteen minutes to cease and desist. This time having passed Roger made his way to a couch in the lobby and fell asleep there. 


of sorts
I 
Our love-bird friends turned out the lights and for all we knew were planning to make a night of it. 
In an attempt to be helpful toward procuring couches for everyone Roger got the idea that perhaps we could distract their affectionate in­tentions with a sufficient amount of noise. Towards this end he bellowed, in a voice comparable to a public address system, "Gettysburgh College is the greatest." 
This, and all other attempts failing, Mr. Ballantine made a unilateral decision to grant the Observer staff eminent domain of the lounge. 
Two members of the staff joined him in his oc­cupation of the room, but Fred was unable to maintain his self control and was forced to leave. It seems the young lady's prolonged expressions of satisfaction were striking him as highly amusing. 
Morpheus finally overtook us. We awoke to find that our friends had made an early departure from our "bedroom". 
Also missing was Ed Ellis. Had they taken him for ransom or had he run off to sleep with his alleged girlfriend? 
II'If 

n party... 
•••no an om1ette.II 
Schaefer and Higgins again embarked on a 
. search and sieze mission but this time located no excrement. They did, however find Ellis who had decided to procure single accomodations . for himself in the lobby of another dormitory. Now we resumed our journey. 
One more stop was required before we reached 
D.C. Since Larry lived only forty miles from the capitol we decided to breakfast at his house. Conveniently enough his family had set out for Boston earlier in the day and house was ours. They neglected to leave us food however. 
Seeing this as only a minor problem we took up a collection and decided to .spend our six dollars wisely.. Trucking on down to the local grocery store we purchased two dozen eggs and a loaf of bread. 
Needing something to drink for breakfast and in line with the Notre Dame image we took the remaining three dollars and bought some breakfast beverage. 
"Twelve pack of Bud" said Higgins 
"Having a party"? he asked inquisitively. "No an omlette." was the answer. He became quite ill. Breakfast was yummy and after a delay of 90 
minutes we were on our way to Washington. 45 minutes later we arrived and pitched camp in Georgetown University's student parking lot. Their secuity, being nowhere near as efficient as du lac's failed to ticket us the entire weekend. 
We arrived. If the weekend accomplished nothing else, it did prove the immortal words of Ed Ellis. "This trip will be like getting drunk, half the fun is getting there." 
-~ 
April 28, 1971 
THE OBSERVER. Page 9 

I recently saw the movie "Little Big Man" which told the story of the sole non-Indian survivor of the Battle of the Little Big Horn. It was a depressing film. In the beginning a boy and a girl were left homeless after an Indian raid. In the end, thousands of Indians and soldiers lay dead after Custer's charge. The last scene of the movie showed the 121­year old narrator sadly put his head into his hands after reliving the experiences of his life for the audience. That symbolic gesture seemed to say: "Man continues to destroy man. Will it ever end?." 
We are in the midst of our version of "Little Big Man." It's called the Vietnam War and it is more an enigma than the destruction of Indians in Custer's. day. Today we use grenades, machine guns, tanks, bombers, and countless other brainchilds of defense <offense?) technology. They all destroy quicker and more thoroughly than the bow and arrow and rifle. As a matter of fact, they are so thorough that over 40,000 American troops have been killed since our involvement in Vietnam. And over 300,000 civilians 

steve novak 
john borkett 
war and peace and you 
have been killed in South Vietnam alone since 1965. Add to these figures the hundreds of thousands of casualties and the million plus refugees of Cam­bodia, Laos, and South Vietnam and the dead and injured in North Vietnam and you have a staggering view of man's inhumanity to man. But what are numbers? The more important questions -moral and otherwise-ask why? What have we gained by our losses? 
I say very little. It's been twenty (20) years since the U.S. agreed to help France finance the war against Ho Chi Minh's Viet Minh and the prospects for peace still look bleak. Furthermore, what can replace human lives? Nineteen hundred and seventy one must be the final year of our in­volvement in this war. It must be the year when people take precedence over politics. It must be the year when all of us stop and think about the war and how it affects us. And if after thinking, you feel that strongly about it, it must be the year you act. 
Lance and Pat and Terry and Ed and Scott and others acted by fasting for 48 hours last weekend. The steps of the Administration Building were never more tranquil, as many very sincere in­dividuals protested for peace with the cross formed by Grotto Candles at the base of the steps, their light in the darkness. 
All those people involved in the Refugee Aid Programacted by donating money most have saved by giving up "luxuries" during April. A thousand dollars may not go far with 1,000 times that many refugees, but it may save some of them from starving. 
Those who have signed the People's Peace Treaty acted. Although it is not an official document, and some may disagree with the wording, at least it indicates a willingness to confront the reality of the situation in Vietnam. 
Hundreds of thousands of people acted by mar­ching in Washington and San Francisco last Saturday. The march to the steps of the Capitol Building was particularly symbolic because it seems the conflict in Vietnam will be ended by the Senators and the Representatives we elect, and not by the President playing politics. 
Many will act in May day activities in Washington in a few days. Though I cannot accept some of the protest methods being suggested because they infringe on the rights of other, I think there are many opportunities to demonstrate one's..c?n­victions against the war; for example, v1s1tmg Congressmen and talking to governmental em­ployees had been suggested. 
Student Government will act in a small way by presenting a conference entitled "Vietnam: Per­spectives" this Sunday and Monday. The Con­ference is intended to educate and, hopefully, to stimulate thought and action about our involvement in the war. The Hall discussions on Sunday night will be a particularly good chance for introspection by each of us. 
You individually can act in a number of ways outside of the above activities. You can write your Representatives and Senators to let them know your feelings on the war. You can have your own "teach­in" with your family and friends. You can register to vote and aid in voter registration, keeping in mind 8 million college age youth will have the franchise privilege in all elections when the 18 year old vote amendment is ratified. I can name other means. The point is there are many ways you can get personally involved. 
Robert F. Kennedy talked of a ripple of hope as individuals across the globe showed the courage to stand up for what they believe is right. That ripple can become a wave if enough people take the initiative to act for peace. Man cannot continue to destroy man and still be called a human being. The question posed above: "Will it ever end?" goes beyond Vietnam, but it, nevertheless, applies to Vietnam. Only you can answer it. Only you can decide to act. 
Peace. Will it ever begin? 
of i· edgar, r. milhous, and other imminent dangers 
You have to wonder about Dick Nixon's staff. It's one thing to stretch the truth--politicians have been doing that for years--but its something else again to abandon it entirely. 
We have all heard the charges of Hale Boggs, that known radical from Louisiana who LBJ chose to insure that his Vietnam plank would pass the '68 convention (which it did). Congressman Boggs has said that the FBI is bugging Congressional telephones. Dick Kleindienst, the Deputy Attorney General and former top advisor to Barry Gold­water's Presidential campaign, denied the charges, and hinted that Boggs was something less than sober when he made his initial charges. Last Saturday the papers.revealed, courtesy of a federal judge in Washington, that four conversations bet­ween Congressman John Dowdy of Texas and an FBI informant were recorded by the Bureau. An Assistent Attorney General informed the world that the fact that the Bureau had done this was not "contrary in any way to the statements ... that the FBI has not tapped the telephone of any member of the House or Senate now or in the past."' This gentlemen didn't explain how tapping phones was not contrary to not tapping phones, but apparently the Justice Department operates on a system of logic unknown to philosophers here or elsewhere. 
Dowdy is under indictment on various charges of bribery, conspiracy, and perjury at the present time, but that really make a difference? If the FBI can tap his phone line because they suspect him of certain crimes, is it that farfetched to believe that they could tap George McGovern's or Paul McCloskey's because they feel that some of the statements of these gentlemen border on what Messrs, Nixon, Mitchell and Hoover feel is treason? 
Senator Montoya of New Mexico charged a month ago that "a good many Senators" had been bugged. In his biography of Rober Kennedy, Jack Newfield reported that Kennedy--who knew Hoover as well as any Senator would--felt that his line was tapped. Senator Muskie is angry about FBI surveilance of Earth Day rallies last year. 
Nixon's mouthpiece Ron Ziegler says Muskie, Boggs and the rest are engaging in "blatant political" attacks with "the objective of creating a feeling of fear and intimidation among the people of this country." Creating that kind of climate probably wouldn't take much, since Nixon used the same tactic, from the other direction, m getting himself elected three years ago, and tried to do it again last fall (he failed last year, but hopefully he hasn't learned his lesson yet.) 
There's more though. Some FBI files were stolen last month from a field office in Media, Pa., and the contents have been mailed to a number of people, including Senators McGovern, Ervin, and Mathias, and Congressman Henry Rouss. Reuss' daughter, a student at Swathmore, had been under FBI sur­veilance. After the files were stolen, a Bureau representative visited Reuss to tell him about the theft, and to warn him that documents concerning his daughter had been taken, and might be made public. However, they didn't explain to Reuss why the file had been collected in the first place. 
Reuss' daughter was not the only one under surveillance at Swathmore. For example, there was a Professor there who had a file consisting of 3­pages of single spaced typing concerning his ac­tivities. Why was he under surveillance? Well, he and his family live in a house "that numerous college students visit frequently." Apparently, patriotic college professors don't have any more contact with their students than is absolutely necessary. 

Tnis professor, who had a large amount of paper suitable for printing--they never looked to see if he had a press in his garage, also "con­ducted discusion groups on the topics of political and social philosphy which are supposedly open to 
the public and this action has not been approved by the school administration." That information came from a switchboard operator, who also said that she would advise the bureau of any long distance calls that the suspect might make through the school switchboard. Apparently this crafty scholar was too clever though, because there wasn't any record of any calls from him. 
Are there informers here at Notre Dame? Probably. Father Riehle informs us that he had information on the alledged participation in drug dealing of Messrs Brennan, Badger, et al in November. (On the off chance that Riehle was telling the truth and had something which might, in fact, be prejudicial to his case in civil court, Brennan refrained from appealing his suspension, since records of that proceeding could be sub­peonaed by the South Bend courts). Which prompts one to ask, of course, that if Riehle had information before Tim was busted, why didn't he take action against Tim then, since he certainly was a more "imminent danger" to the University when he was-­alledgedly--selling dope than after the police had put him out of business. Why is that, Fathers Jim? 
If Riehle has informers of his own, its reasonable to assume that .J. Edgar has c:;ome too. Just because 
F. Hesburgh is head of the Civil Rights Commission doesn't make us immune to the FBI .eyes; if anything, it makes it more likely. Not that Hesburge himself wants it. In all probability, J. Edgar con­siders Hesburgh to be some kind of radical. Not only does he advocate a greater push toward racial equality, but it is well known that Hesburgh has an office which "numerous coUege students visit frequently." 
So watch out Ted, and everybody else. Do you really know who your friends are? Do any of us? 
About this time, you're probably asking what the hell you can do about all of this, besides saying Hello to the agent on the line whenever you use your phone. Well, to start with you can begin organizing to defeat Trickie Dick in 1972. You might try going to Washington this weekend for the annual spring demonstrations (As one group put it--This spring we start our seventh year of demonstrations against the war. If you think you're tired, consider how the Vietnamese feell.) And when you come back, you might remember that it takes more than a parade down Pennsylvania Avenue twice a year to change things. You might try getting off your collective butts and working to change things; be it at Notre Dame, in South Bend, on a national or University level--before its too late. 
Trickie Dick says this isn't a police state. He's right, it isn't YET. Maybe if we all start working now, we might prevent it from becoming one. Maybe it's not too late yet. Maybe. At least let's not 
r-
April 28, 1971
Page 10 THE OBSERVER. 
' 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE MAJORS 
Let us help you: 
PLAN AHEAD ... To Become a CPA 
THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE 
Our Successful Students Represent 
1/5 OF USA 
ND·SMC Theatre 
presents 
The Musical 
Comedy Smash 

Book, Music and Lynes by LIONEL BART 




OUVER! 
:\lay 1, 6, 7, 8at 8:30pm. May 2 at 2:30 pm. O'Laughlin Auditorium. $2.00 Tickets. Information: 284-4176. 

I ------~,-A--S~IF1_E_D---------~~;:;:w:::::~i
I \.....L ~ 
I 


ADVERTISEMENTS 
I

I Mail in or come by Observer office For information call 7471
I 
I 
HOUSING
I 
I For rent -June 1-Sept 1. 3 bedroom I home -excellent condition & location, I air conditioned, dish washer, fur­l nished, carport $125 a month-call 8100 
or 8229 after 8 p.m. ., = 
ITown house for summer rental. lfurnished carpeted, washer and dryer. 2 Bdrms.,veryreasonable. Call 
• 
259-9535. 
~------------------­
For rental, Summer. June, July,1 August. Near UNO. 4 bedrooms,I utilities. Furnished: $150 per1 month plus refundable deposit.I Call 287-1777. 
Desperate for rent-June 1st to Aug. 1st. 5 bedroom, near ND. Call Marilyn 284-4983 
You can still get the best of campus house for next year. 4 or 5 guys. Must buy furnishings from us. Call 234-6163 
Summer Apart. for Rent. Near Campus, air conditioned. 1 bedroom. Call Terry 288-1120 
LOST AND FOUND 
-----------------=--­
LOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard. lost after break: tasty reward. Call Tom 8014. 
Found: set of Keys behind Admin. Building. Call Bob 3721. 
Lost: Parker Fountain Pen. Great 
Sentimental value. Reward. Call Colin1785o. 
Lost on campus: Shaggy brown -blonde female puppy ·white collar-Dog is sick and we have 
the  medicine.  Call  Mary  4508  319  
LeMans  
Lost  White  Change  Purse­ 

basement architecture building. Ca II 4965 
BUY AND SELL 
Sofa, Chair And Rug for sale, Low 
price. Call 1328, 330 Breen-Phillips; 
Gene Gemperline 
Large Coppertone refrigerator­excellent condition; $30; call Tony 
.~01 
Most Books for: Smelser­American Revolution, Menard­American Constitutional. Norling-Europe since 1920, Sz­cczesniak-Russia, Colliegiate Seminar; Also many others. Call 7647 
BAR FOR SALE; Interested in all reasonable offers. Call 1328, 330 
Breen-Phillips. 
For Sale Maxi White Sheepskin Coat -Small. Call 272-4709 

Senate votes to put Tracey on ballot 
Continued from pg. 1 
He yielded to Dave Burch, a senator from Alumni Hall, who reviewed past agreements, by the Barkett administration. 
"During the campaign, John <Barkett) asked Kathy Barlow if the students governments could be mergtd," he recalled. "She agreed. The students took John at his word. How can the student governments be merged, if there is no meaning of student bodies?" 
Frank Devine, another proponent of the bill, added, "This matter transcends legality." He urged the Senate to consider the morality of th,e measure." 
"To deny a government major at Notre Dame a seat on the SLC because she has the misfortune of living on the West campus instead of the east campus and because she made the mistake of being born a woman is immoral," he stated. 
Concluding the affirmative reasons for Miss Tracey's can­didacy, Don Mooney added, "Supposedly Notre Dame is 
Portable Tape Recorder for Sale Call 6849. 
SERVICES 
Crypt-New Hour·s 12:30 -4:00 Now on stock Hendrix . Cry of Love -$3.60 Cat Stevens-Tea for Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection­$3.10 Mounta in -Nantucket Sleighride 
Hot News Flash: New company born 
VANGUARD LEATHER GOODS, INC 823 Flanner Hall. 283.11 76. Specializing in: watchband, wrist­bands, belts, wallets, headbands, hair barrettes custom -made sandals jeans and anything else made of leather--Owned and operated by Milt 
Jones, Wayne Hall. 

ALL STUDENTS -especially Seniors. Get rid of those books that you will not use again. The Student Book Exchange is accepting any 
books. Bring them  to the Student  
Services  Office  -4th  floor  
La Fortune  or  call  7757 and we'll  

pick them up for you. 
Mail Contributions for the medical aid center of Quang Naito Box 626, 
Notre  Dame  Indiana.  The  
Refugees  need  help.  Please  con.  
tribute  to  the  Refugee  Aid  
Program.  

Sl NGLE? COLLEGE GRAD? Meet others. Join the CAC's for social, recreational, or cultural activities. Write: Catholic Alumni Club. P.O. Box 2171 South Bend, Ind. 46615 
PEANUTS PERSONAL 
Chris, 
You should watch tor tomorrow's paper. It could be very interesting. Remember your promise. you know who. 
Congratulations DARAMA A.B.D. on your hat trick. 
from SODS P.A. 

To Ron Whelan -We Proudly (?) Present To You The 1971 Corby Mug of The Year Award. Congrats From Your Fellow Swamp Alligators. 
AUTOMOTIVE 
1962 VW Bus, newly rebuilt engine, 
highway condition, seats remove if 
camper desired, dune buggy rear­
end later on; Call: Calhoun 283­
7274, days. 

1959 TR-3. Excellent condition, new battery, generator, regulator, tires, and more. Price to sell $650. Call 232­4896 or 272 2568. 
going coed now instead of ten years from now because of students pushing the ad­ministration and board of trustees to make the move." 
"Students were always willing to challenge the administration. Look at parietal hours, the coat and tie regulation." 
He also stated, "The test should be made by the SLC, not by three people who would rather see the students mad at them than the administration. If Ann Marie is not seated by the SLC, . then, it's their problem. See what the students on the North Quad think." 
Fred Giuffrida, another senator, also affirmed the move. "Everyone in this place, both sides, has been honest. It shows that there's nothing political involved. At the same time, it isn't worth all of the hasseling among ourselves. I don't think anyone here is opposed to the motion." 
"Let the people on the North Quad decide. If she wins, let the SLC decide," continued Giuf­frida. 
'64 engine. Features new breaks, I 
~~utf~~~: e~a~t:~~ ~3~e~~ $~u~~;r~ I 
$335. Call 234-3678 after 5:30 pm. I
-1 
'64 Chevell Malibu ss automatic I power, 6 cylinder. excellent condition. $600 282-1529 or 289-9557. I
I 
HELP WANTED 
---------------------I 
Jewly formed water bed company I wants campus representatives for 1 hottest selling item in states. I Good commissions for a few hours work per week that can be fitted easily I to your schedule. I Write: Lightrays Designs, Inc. Love sleep water beds division 3727 Walnut St. Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 Pr .:all: (215) 349-9330. 
College students with car needed to dem?nstra_te technicolor photo and movie equipment--guaranteed $100 a ,week--top men make $200 working eJ~nings 5-9. Call tec~nicolor sale~. 
office 289-3662 for appomtment. 
Mail contributions for the medical aid center at Quang Ngai to Box 626, Notre Dame, Indiana. The refugees need help. Please contribute to the Refugee Aid Program. 
TRAVEL 
Srudent Un1on Trip--Europe $209 D<?t.-Amsterdam-Det., NY-London-NY Contact 1st Bank Campus Travel Bureau 283 7080 9 12, 1-4:30. 
Spend the summer in Europe. Charter jets to London, Amsterdam and Paris. MOre than 40 dates available. IN TERNATIONAL STUDENTS ACADEM IQU E SOCIETY. Alsc eligible for rn any other benefits (railroad passes, hotel discounts, etc) For information call Frank 233-8142 
-· ----------------­
Want to take a trip to EUROPE thi~. summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the 'JATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS ~ND SAVE! Approx. 60 dates 1vailable for round trips betw. London md N.Y. this summer for $245. From London connect to any of 50 Europear ities at discount fares. For example: 
.ondon, Paris: $12.60, London Am­<;terdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich $15.00 Zurich-Rome $20.00 Many othe1 benefits (travel passes, hotel discounts, etc.) Also available 
•!lay flights, one-way flights i$125), Return on any date, ,eachers, students, and immediate family eligible, group rates. For info and application call Tom 282­2250, 5-10 P.M. Mon.-Fri. 

Speaking against the proposal, Orlando Rodriguez, chairman of the meeting who yielded to Don Patrick, second ranking stay senator, acknowledged that St. Mary's students are not yet of­ficially Notre Dame students anrl Notre Dame students are not yet St. Mary's students. 
"That the election committee allowed Eileen Fitzpatrick to run didn't mean she would be seated," he said. 
"The Senate can decide what it wishes." he added. "I look back at the totally meaningless things the Senate has done. It would be one more strike against the Senate." 
Rodriguez also said that because of a petition, signed by 100 SMC juniors against joint class elections and delivered to Suzie Way, SMC junior class president yesterday, the joint election is cancelled. Each class will separately elect officers for their senior class. 
SBP John Barkett requested 20 senators to volunteer to manage the ballot boxes Friday so that hall presidents would not have the added responsibility. He based his request on the Senate's constitutional responsibility for the election. 
Burtchaell may approve demolition of fieldhouse; rumor undenied 
The controversy over the possible demolition of the old Fieldhouse has been started once again. The latest member of the administration, who has reportedly expressed the in­tention to have the Fieldhouse torn down is University Proveost Fr. James T. Burtchaell. 
Rich Fitzgerald, chairman of the University Arts Council, claimed that there is a "rumor circulating that has not been provem true" concening Fr. Burtchaell's wish to raze the fieldhouse this summer. The UAC is presently the sole occupant of the fieldhouse. 
"People have told me that he has said this in private con­versations with them" Figzgerald said. 
He pointed out that University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh assured the UAC that there is an "indefinte suspen­sion'' of any plans to tear down the fieldhouse. 
When contacted yesterday afternoon, Fr. Burtchaell said that he had no comment to make at the present time. 

Candidates criticize SLC 
Continued from pg. 1 
also said that there should be more contact by SLC members with the student body. For each bill presented he suggests that a signed rationale be submitted to force members of the SLC to take a stand on various issues and to increase student knowledge of what is going on in SLC. Tushar feels that the SLC must work for co-education through the student manual and the judicial code, since these two things exert an enormous influence on student life. Another point he feels necessary to speed up co­education is the installment of SMC representatives who would vote on any issue which would 
1 affect both schools. Another of Tushar's points was a clarification of the Rector Assistant's role in the halls along with a clarification of the Rec-tor's role. Through this clarification he hopes to better establish the rights and duties of the students in the halls. 
Floyd Kezele, a sophomore living in Grace tower, is running for SLC election in the tower district. Kezele was appointed to fill a vacancy on the council this past year. He feels that his ex­perience on the council would be very valuable in the coming year. He was also elected as interim vice-chairman of the SLC. Kezele would like to see the SLC split up into four separate committees. These would be on co-education, hall life, minority groups and judicial code. He feels that all committee meetings should be open to all students to express their views and complaints. In this way, Kezele hopes that contact with the student body will be increased, something which he feels is of primary importance. 
Applications being received for 
1 
University · Judicial Board 
Names must be submitted by May 1st. 
Applications can be picked up in SG office or call Dave Tushar (283-8359) For further information. 
-----------~~~---, 

t t 
t 
1 : 
RIDES Need ride to N.Y. area on the 
: t
weekend of May 1. Call Jack 282­
2250 I f 
I t 
Need ride to Venezuela. Will ac­
I 
cept ride to Miami. I'll swim the rest. Call Gus-1598 I f 
Need ride for 2 g1rls from Miami of : 
t 
Ohio to ND on Friday April 30th. I f _c_a_l_l_B_o_b_8_92_1_---------.: 
t 

t 
Sophomores Elect Junior t
t 



Class Officers : 
t 
Nominations open April 28 
f 
Platf~rms due May 3 to Mary Jo Ferlin. l Electwn May 7 -Le Mans Lobby 9-4. I 
f 
' 
f 
Ann Conway 4105 
f 


··---------------------------------------..1 ~-------~ --------_, 
... 
April 28, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Page 11 

Valpo hands Irish 8-0 drubbing. 
by Greg Einboden Observer Sports Writer On an afternoon suited more for football than baseball, the Irish nine went down to its 13th defeat in 20 starts this season by dropping an 8-0 decision to visiting Valparaiso. In what had to be one of the teams's poorest performances of the season, Notre Dame could manage only six hits oif two Valpo hurlers and committed six errors. Valpo pitcher Tim Juran was in full command for the first seven innings of the game, until being relieved by Jeff Connor in the eighth. Juran fanned 13 batters in his seven inning stint, JIM MURRAY  while walking only two. After sneaking a called third strike past Bill Schoen leading off the ND first, he whiffed two more in the second, two in the third, three in the fourth, two more in each of the fifth and sixth innings, and fanned Schoen again for the last out in the home seventh. The Irish did manage to mount several scoring threats, however. After the first nine men went down in order, Schoen singled to open the fourth. Center fielder Pete Schmidt followed with a shot down the left field line that ap­peared to be a certain triple. However, Valpo got a big break when the ball rolled under the outfield fence. Schoen was forced  to hold at third and Schmidt several times in the early in­pulled up with a ground rule nings. Mark Boese hit the first double. After Joe LaRocca struck ·pitch of the game into the left out, captain Charlie Horan field corner for a double, and walked to load the bases. Phil Steve Huber followed with a Krill came up with a chance to single up the middle, but Noe got add to his team-leading total of 24 tough and both runners were left RBI's, but went down swinging. stranded. Don Rice then led off Juran then got Jim Panici on the visitor's second with a 330 foot strikes to end the inning. homer down the left field line. In the fifth, third sacker Rob Noe settled down, though, Reschan led off with a sharp allowing only one more run until single up the middle. Bob the seventh, when the roof fell in. Roemer and Jim Noe both struck A walk, a hit batsman, and out, but Schoen kept things alive another walk loaded the bases by hitting a two-strike pitch to with one out, and brought coach right for a single, Reschan Jake Kline to the mound. Jake stopping at second. Pete Schmidt decided to leave Noe in the game came up and singled off the to pitch to Valpo's cleanup hitter, shortstop's glove, and for the catcher Mark Rhode. After second inning in a row the Irish running the count to 3 and 2, had the sacks full. Juran was Rhode lashed a long double to left once again tough in the clutch, center to clear the bases. Mark however, and got Joe LaRocca on Pittman was brought in to pitch,  Rice, Frank Costanza singled to center. Schmidt fielded the ball and fired to shortstop Phil Krill, who threw wildly to the plate, allowing the sixth Valpo run to score. Pittman then got out of the inning by retiring Connor on a grounder. Valpo got single runs in both the eighth and ninth innings off the third ND hurler of the af­ternoon, Art Webb. The usually steady Phil Krill had a miserable day on the field, committing five of Notre Dame's six errors. Pete Schmidt led the attack with three hits, while Bill Schoen had two and Rob Reschan picked up the other. Noe took the loss for the Irish, his first against two victories. Today, the Irish hope to get back on the right track after three consecutive losses when  
a ground ball for the third out.  and  responded  by  fanning  they host the Butler Bulldogs for  
The Goodby Look  Valpo, meanwhile, starter Jim Noe on  had the  Irish ropes  shortstop Joel Theiss on a hard one. After walking  high Don  a mid-week twinbill. Game time is 1:30 P.M. at Cartier Field.  
© 1971, Los Angeles Times  
They did a terrible thing to me down at the Chuck Connors' tour­ 
nament in Palm Springs over the weekend. They gave me the "Good Guy Award."  
.Now, before you wonder why I don't go out and throw my hat in the  
mr, let me ask you to think about getting the "Good Guy" award in a  
~olf tournament for a minute. It's like getting the "Good Guy" award  
m a poker game. Or the "Humanitarian" award in a duel. What it is is a semi-posthumous award. '  
It wa~ ve~y depressing, really. I mean, Chuck and Mickey Manners  
and their friends had pretty well run down the list of prizes and, just  
before they got to the Japanese ballpoint pens that said, "For The Best  
Deal In Insurance, Call Richard F. Twombley Jr. And Associates Toll  
Free" when they found this record player.  
"Let's give it to Murray," whispered Connors.  
"For what?" said somebody.  
"He shot 105."  
"Well," said Chuck, scratching his head, "let's give him the 'Good Guy' Award." .  
. "Why don't we give him the 'Worst Swing' award?" Mickey per­ststed.  
"It's the same thing," hissed Connors.  
I struggled against this whole indignity. "Why can't you give me the  
'Bad Guy' award, you'll ruin my image!" I raged at them. They stuck the record-player in my hands.  
"Raffle it off!" I instructed them.  "Do you think I  want  this  
reminder of my total failure as a human being? Why, I can remember  
when people around a golf course wanted to tar and feather me! How  
about the time when I suggested Jack Nicklaus should be registered as  
a twosome? billiards?"  Or  that the Sunshine  Open  should  be  listed under  
 
"Haven't you ever won a 'Good Guy' award before?" asked Chuck.  
"Yeah, once," I told him. "At a prom. It really should have been the  

· 'Worst Da1_1cer' award. I couldn't get a dance all night long. They gave me a dancmg doll for my good guy prize. You wound it up and it said 'No, thanks, I have a headache."' 
Well, they made me take the record-player. I hid it under my shirt. At a g~l.f tournament, you see, you want to be known not as a good guy, but as That Cheat!" If he's an 11, Arnold Palmer is a 10! Why, he got 
FORT LAUDERDALE1 Fla.­held in the Phoenix area to select --Peach Bowl, Atlanta, Dec. 30,on that par-5, 540-yard 18th hole with a drive and a 5-iron!" THAT'S the College football's crowded post­a name of the budding event. 1971kind of rat fink you yearn to be in a golf tournament, not the duck who season family gained a 12th The WAC includes Arizona -Pasadena Bowl, Pasadena,loses all bets four ways and still comes out with a net 68 under full 
handicap. member Monday as Phoenix, State, the University of Texas at Calif., Dec. 18, 1971 Ariz., was awarded a major bowl El Paso, Arizona, New Mexico, --The Tangerine Bowl at
But it's even more subtle than that. I have examined my position 
game. Colorado State, Wyoming, Orlando, Fla., received tentative thoughtfully from all directions and you have to look at it this way: Do Still unnamed, the event at Brigham Young and Utah. approval from the NCAA body,lions ever get "Good Guys" awards? Does that good-looking South 
Arizona State University's 51,000-pending further investigation of
American diplomat your wife keeps sneaking looks at across the room UTEP will have an option 
ever get one? seat stadium will match the the event's plans for this year.
however, if the school is the WAC 
champion of the Western Athletic Bids from several other Cities
No, every red-blooded American male would much rather get the king and is also invited to play in 
Conference with another including Tampa, Fla. and
"Snake-In-The-Grass" award. "Good Guys" are the guys pitchers can El Paso's Sun Bowl. It appeared . ,
collegiate power. Birmingham, Ala., were passed
now get out with their good f~stball, halfbacks who have lost a step. to be a concession to the Sun 
It was the first time since 1968-over by the committee, Stinson
Bowl, which reportedly objected 
No, every red-blooded American male would much rather get the said.
when Atlanta's Peach Bowl was to establishment of the Phoenix

"Snake-In-The-Grass" award. "Good Guys" are the guys pitchers can The NCAA wound up its
certified-that the National game.

now get out with their good fastball, halfbacks who have lost a step. committee meetings Tuesday. 
Collegiate Athletic Assn. had 

"Good Guys" never have to jump the net any more. They shoot final­Arizona State defeated North
okayed another post-season

round 79s. And they get a lot of record-players in their prophy rooms game. Carolina in the Peach Bowl last marked, "To Mr. Swell From His Contemporaries." His con­"There has been concern about winter. Tennis match temporaries are guys who feel free to creep in a step when he's at bat 
the availability of enough good The old bowl games reapproved 
now, try not to laugh when he's putting, or spread the word, "Curve teams for all the bowls," said by the extra events committee postponedhim, he can't see too well any more." I have examined myself in the 
Wade Stinson, chairman of the indue:

mirror and I suggest the following are minimal qualifications for NCAA extra events committee. --Rose Bowl, Pasadena, Calif. 
"Good Guy" awards: 
"This area of the great south­Jan. 1, 1972. , Tuesday's tennis match bet­
1. 
Eight -to-10 pounds overweight, large-to-medium bags under the west has not been served by a --Orange Bowl, Miami, Jan. 1, ween the Fighting Irish netmen eyes. Dandruff optional. Myopia, astigmatism, or granulated eyelids bowl game, and we felt the ex­1972. and the Northwestern Wildcats (or all three) preferred .. pansion was in the best interest of --Cotton Bowl, Dallas, Jan. 1, was postponed because of in­

2. 
Hair must be gray-to-thin or both, no more than 30 of your own the full NCAA membership. 1971 clement weather. It was teeth, dress a little dowdy, haircut right out of a barber school. Your Stinson is athletic director at -Sugar Bowl, New Orleans, rescheduled for May 5. idea of real finger-snapping music is "Don't Bring Lulu." Kansas University. Jan. 2, 1971 Coach Tom Fallon's team 

3. 
Athletically, you have to have a loop in your back swing, hit the "It's a boon for our league," --Gator Bowl, Jacksonville, travels to East Lansing Mich., ball on the wood in tennis, find the ocean too cold to swim in, still think said Wiles Hallock, com­Fla., Dec. 31, 1971 today to take on the Spartans of it's more important to beat Stanford than one of those cow-and-corn missioner of the Western Athletic --Liberty Bowl, Memphis, Michigan State and the Notre schools "back East" (like Iowa). You cry a lot at homecoming games. Conference. "Our teams have Tenn., Dec 11, 1971 Dame netmen will return home You carry a 20-handicap but can-t even play to that. been left out of bowls with fine --Sun Bowl, El Paso, Tex., Dec. Thursday to play host to the 

4. 
In other words, you're not a threat to anybody at anything records-even the champion." 18, 1971 University of Akron. The Irish anytime. That's when they give you the "Good Guy" award. They NCAA spokesman Charles --Astro Bluebonnet Bowl, have a 16-5 record this season and should call it the "Goodby" award. Nienas said a contest would be Houston, Dec. 31, 1971 have won 11 straight matches. 





1971

Page 12 THE OBSERVER. April 28, 
J***•••••--****'~ 
l * t ~ Joint senior elections cancelled
GINGJss 

~ Formal Wear Inc. * The senior class governments class officers, who had believes that the class govern­classes. "Thirdly" said Smith, * * of Notre Dame and St. Mary's previously announced the ment ahould offer the seniors "We will attempt to judge the 
* 
: will not be merged next year due merger, decided that ND and· "the opportunity to have fun and interest shown by the members of :10 per cent off for ND & SMC* to the "lack of interest," t:lC-SMC would hold separate elec­a plan for the future." With these the class, and if we find only

* 
students lt cording to Election Board tions today for all class offices. two objectives in mind, Pifferetti apathy, we will proceed to


* *chairman Orlando Rodriguez. Four candidates have been will work for a closer association abolish the junior class govern­nominated for Notre Dame Class with a draft resistance center,
* : .Rodriguez said that the_s_enior ment." Smith, who will run with 
President. Greg Stepic, running the placement bureau, and the Tim Phelan, Jim Crogan, noted
* STUDY ~ SlWNDS on a platform with Dorn Kile, graduate student union, inorder that their most important project 
. .,. 
John McNulty, and Stephan to bring more information to the would be the junior partent's** IMPROVE GRADES ' Flood, is looking for continuation students. The candidates running weekend .
Improve Grades While Devotins
* 

The Same Amount Ol Tim" To Sto-1~ Of the Spirit ShOWn by the Senior for senior class vice president are Steve Pallucca, present soph­· •crease ~~~r ~r~~!r~~· .·,t ...~~ Fastt.r -~"rove classes of past years. Said stepic, John McElligott and Tim Taylor. 
* 

Your Comprehension. Study / R2'te. more class president feels that he 
* 

ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED ~Ol ~OS "Although the planned merger Of Junior president hopeful, has the experience to manage the 
*
* 

CAUSE,.'!..~!: J~ci~APPW the classes fell through, we still projects of the junior class,
Larry' Ballentine, with his
8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record h h f k" 'th St
* 

Send Check or P.>oney Order -$9.95 Each ave OpeS 0 WOr Ing WI • running mates Tom Kastelic and especially the junior parent's
Include 75e Handlinl and Postaae M ' • h • " 
Sound Concepts, Inc.. -Box 3852 ary S In t e COming year. 
Janet Cullen, plans to "officially weekend. Pallucca, who is 
L ___c;:.:.;h.:...•r;.:.;lot.:...te.;.;.svo;_;_lle:.:...,.....;V•;.;..·..;.;22;_;_90;_;_2_____,...~ A' second candt'date Mt"ke 
abolish something which, in seeking election with Kevin Kelly 

!: ••***************• ' 
~---------------------------, Martinelli feels that class essence, has been dead for some as V .P. and Jim Crogan asYourmotherloves you, no maHerwhat. government has no power in the time." Feeling that the labeling treasurer, will work for more co­university and "cannot do of last year's government a operation with St. Mary's on such 
Send her a BigHug anything productive." Upon this 
success because of the projects as "trips to the dunes 
bouquet, and send it premise Martinelli plans to 
"inevitable passage of the soph­and cook-outs." 
early. Make Mother's abolish the class government if 
car bill'' the
l~ he is elected. more and
Day last a little longer. 
Call or visit an FTD questionable success of thef'; florist today. He'll take Disliking the politiical tone of equally questionable sophmore Merry Pranksters I~ it from there. Delivered class government, Tom D' Aquila parent's weekend" is t~-almost anywhere in the of Breen-Philips feels that more "ludicrous," Ballentine hopes 
country. A special emphasis should be given to the that "all sophmores will vote to Students! Those who have been ~ gift. At a special projects of the senior class. He abolish this mess once and for campaigned to. Those who have price. For a special said, "Some of the projects such all." actually seen SLC meeting --and mother. Yours. as the senior trip, could be lived! ! ! All of you plus the other 
'.It 
The second candidate for junior 
Usually available at less than handled by the Student Union, four on campus -Mooney'su $1250* leaving the senior class to con­class president is Jim Smith. Merry Pranksters invite you all I~ I centrate on the graduation Smith's platform consists of to come for free conversation and I' three points. First he will work light political talk, anecdotes and 
I: • proceedings and the senior fellow 
1': for the merger of the junior assorted election frivolities at the
~~,-~:-l) program."
"' Tom Pifferetti who is running classess of ND and SMC, and tea house, library side of the 
I~: 
.. I in conjunction with Jim Bingle, secondly he will look for more co­fieldhouse, tonite, April 28th at 1$.I 1 Joe Santucci. and Bill Schmidt. operation between the four 10:00 pm. 'ill
~f 
It 

, 1 I Anti-war activities meeting set 
~ :::.. ­
There will be a meeting tonight Notre Dame support will also "express disgust" with its ac­
I

~ 
at 8:30 p.m. in the Student Center be organized for May 5, when a tivities while a "genocidal" war
I

~ f; ballroom for all students and national moratorium is planned is being waged by the United t-. I faculty who wish to participate in to end business as usual, in order States, a leaflet of the Notrel I the up-coming anti-war activities to stop local business as usual on Dame Peace Action Committee 
I here and in Washington. and after May 5th so that op­read.1-l I I Anyone interested in going to position to the war can be in-The leaflet added that there I will be an anti-war and anti-An
I he h I Washington for the civil ~creased and extended. r t e 1 disobedience actions beginning Plans for a demonstration Tostal demonstration at 1 p.m.
I 
during this week's An Tostal Friday on the Main Quad at the
I. I !.!!~~_l!!g_H_uj!2_'!.ct!!!.'.!!!r!f.:. _________~ ~a~~r~:.Y should attend this festival will be dr~wn up to site of the kissing marathon.
!j 
,~--~_.....,~----------------~-~-tt "Vietna111: Perspectives"
f~ I~ 
The ever-popular summer .
1 
t~ 
r~ I : program announced by SBP 
-~
I' 1 SU ITS/SPORTCOATS t by Ed Powers 
led by Professors Carl Estabrook 
!1 
~ ~-., I t Student Body President John of the History Department,
Barkett announced a program George Williams of the Govern­
-1
~'; t wools, blends, knits in the colors, styles, I last night entitled "Vietnam ment Department, Dennis Dugan I~ ' striplings and prices you're looking for. Our Selection is A Perspectives" which will explore 
of the Economics Department,
'·' at its peak: Stop in and browse, try them on... : U.S. involvement in Southeast 
and others.
t See what a great summer you're in for. f Asia. The Student Government The Student Government hassponsored program will be asked professors with classes
ll t I conducted on May 2 and 3. 
conflicting with the program on t•' t t In explaining the intentions of Monday afternoon to either direct 
t< 
the program, Barkett said, "In the class towards the war issue ort~ t t short, we are trying to focus cancel it entirely to allow the attention on a very divisive students to attend the
f Famous Make I 
fr. t I immoral issue, to educate, and discussions. hopefully to stimulate action to It was also said that people are,1 bring about an immediate end to needed to help work on the the Vietnam war." program. Anyone that is in­
! \. ! : ALL-WEATHER COATS... 1/2 OFF I 
The activities of the two days terested is asked to call Fred will begin with a Mass on the Schaefer at 1723 or 6413.
I t mainquadat 12:15 Sunday. Notre 'The Schedule is as follows: Dame President Fr. Theodore Sunday: Hesburgh will concelebrate the
I t 12:15, Mass on the Main Quad,
f Lined and unlined coats from famous makers (we're f Mass with Frs. Edgar Whelan, concelebrated by Frs. Hesburgh, not supposed to advertise the names, but they're Ernest Bartell, Maurice Amen, Whelan, Bartell, Amen, Clarke,t in the coats) Choose from different styles and colors. f Bernard Clark, David Burrell, Burrell, Chambers, Cormier. and Thomas Chambers.t I During that afternoon and 2:00, The History of our In-

evening, there will be panel volvement in Vietnam
t t 
discussions on the history of our Engineering Aud. ' t t involvement in Vietnam, the 4:00, The plight of the POW Eng
plight of the POW, and the Aud. ' · economics of the war. At 9:00 7:00, The Economics of the war 
Sunday night discussions will be Library Aud. · held in the halls with both faculty 9:9(>, Hall Discussions. and students participating. Monday:








IBu~:;:~;mJune... ~ilaiiTS :! 
On Monday afternoon the 2:00, The Vietnamization topics of the panel discussions Program, Library Auditorium. 
will be the Vietnamiza tion 4:00, The 18 Year Old vote. 
program and the impact of the 18­LaFortune Student Center.
i ~:~ ~j! ~ ~~~::t... ampU$~hop I
year-old vote. The program will 7:00 The future of U.S: in­
conclude at 7:00 with a discussion volvement in S.E. Asia, vis a vis of the future of U.S. involvement Communist Involvement: What
: No carrying charge ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME t 
in Southeast Asia. 
the Future Holds. 
The panel discussions will be 9:00, Hall discussioos.
~-------------------------' 




