~------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
speckled skies over the gold dome today, becoming grayer and mucho cooler for an irish win tomorrow. more of the same for spook night. 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 36 Friday, October 29, 1971 
Trustees accept SLC proposal but reject the parietal clause 
The Board of Trustees has accepted the SLC recommendation on minimum sanctions for larceny, assault and selling of drugs but has refused to allow individual halls to determine their own parietals. 
Father Hesburgh explains the Board's actions in a letter to William Egan, Chairman of the SLC. For a full text of his letter, see page 5. 
The board thought "at this moment for the good of the whole university we should maintain University-wide rules in these areas, as few as possible, the same as we have maintained University-wide rules in the academic area," according to Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
The Trustees continued University regulation of sic areas: assault, forgery, distribution of narcotics, public or disorderly drinking, cisitation outside parietal hours and larceny. 
All violations in these six areas will be handled by the University Board, which consists of twelve students, 5 of whom hear any given case. 
"The real test of whether a student disciplinary board can be serious about this is how they operate. We have a whole year to find out," Hesburgh said. 
The University president added: "I think serious violation of serious university rules are reasonably rare occasions. I think its important not to get hung-up on something that never bothers 90 per cent of the students." 
The Trustees "welcomed" hall responsibility, according to Hesburgh, "They said they were looking at this with great hope." 
Hesburgh attributed the willingness of the Trustees to accept the idea of hall responsibility "' to the "excellent report" given by SBP John Barkett, SBVP Orlando Rodriguez, and Executive Coordinator Bob Weaver. 
"Many of the Trustees individually told me how much they were impressed by this seriousness. The prevailing mood is that the Trustees felt that with this kind of leadership the campus was in good hands and was going to move ahead," he added. 
The Trustees accepted the student proposal to conduct a professionai study of student life ancl promised to mvesugate means of Improving student life by "enhancing physical facilities." 
The study of student life will be conducted by Notre Dame and St. Mary's faculty and students. Provost James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
·~ 
.,._.---_­

Fencers may get Angela Hall 
Fern ale fencers exchange parries in the ACC 
f
! / 
·.< 
,: ~; i
,_. 
Hesburgh: Real test is in the operation. 
and Vice-President of Student Mfairs, Thomas Blantz, C.S.C. will probably be charged with e:ltecuting the study, according to Hesburgh. "The Trustees thought that we ought to have enough resources here to conduct the study with our own people," he said, adding that "I'd like to 
see a student model and a faculty model of the right kinds of questions to ask which would be deeper than the superficial things people talk about. We should try to get the greatest range of 
ideas on how to improve life in the halls." 
The study could be completed in tim for the spring Trustees' meeting, according to Hesburgh. 
·• "These studies are not easy to put together and if they are put together badly then the result if a fuzzy questionaire with fuzzy results," he added. Renovation of the LaFortune Student Center requires a oriority decision, Hesburgh noted, between spending additonal money to improve individual halls with poor facilities and spending the money to rebuild the student center. "The Board committed itself to find means to enhance student life, insofar as physical facilities can help, despite the present financial difficulties," he said in his letter. 
by Art Quinn 
Notre Dame fencing coach Michael DeCicco found out last night that the women's fencing club he organized may use Angela Hall on St. Mary's Campus as their practice gym. DeCicco was informed by a member of his staff and the father of one of the girls, Mr. Richard Rosinski, who contacted SMC officials and arranged for the facilities. 
Although concerned about the disad­vantages of being located on SMC's campus, such 1JS shortage of equipment and separation from the men's team, his staff considered themselves fortunate to find a place at all. 
Building is for ND Students. 
The women were prohibited from using the Athletic and Convocation Center's facilities because, according to ACC manager John Plouff, the building is for ND students and faculty. 
When it was reported to Mr. Plouff that women had worked out with the men's team on certain nights for the last couple of years, he stated, "If they did, it was not to my knowledge." 
Women's Team has no Status 
Since many of the girls consider themselves as aND team, Mr. Plouff was asked if this would affect the situation. He 
-stated that the women's team did not have the status of a varsity or club sport. Mr. Edward Krause, Director of Athletics, backed this statement by ex­plaining how each sport must go through a trail period to see if there is enough sustained interest in order to achieve the status of varsity and club sport. In reference to the girls' team, Krause stated "they have to go through the procedure." The women who have already been contacted by several schools to schedule meets are concerned about the delay which might be caused since they expect Angela Hall will need a good clean-up before it will be suitable for use. 

Page "2 THE OBSERVER. Friday, October 29, 1971 
Decision this spring 
$6 million law school building planned 

The fate of the Law Building (upper photo) will be decided by next spring, says Dean Thomas Shaffers (lower photo. 
Only 1 in 25 to be accepted by ND law school 
Law School applicants for the Class of '75 will find it tougher to get into the Notre Dame Law School than their predecessors did. But once they get in, they will probably stay. 
According to Miss Marianne Hopkins, Admissions Director of the N.D. Law School, 3000 ap­plicants are expected to compete for 120 vacancies. 150 students form the present first-year class, chosen from only 2,000 ap­plicants. 
Miss Hopkins said that the attrition rate at the School is only one or two percent. 

No first-year students are dropped becuse of academic performances until the end of the year. Most of the students who do drop out do so for financial reasons, or because they decide the legal profession is not tor them. 
Taking into accout the June graduating class, 120 will bring the enrollment to 450. 
Miss Hopkins commented that transcripts are weighed more heavily by the Admissions Committee tpan Law School Admissions Test (LSAT) scores, 
625 is the average LSAT score 

· of the first-year class. Anything over 575 is acceptable, and only if the score is below 500 is it con­sidered a problem. 
Although there is no quota of 

N.D. students to be filled, students have an advantage here 
because the Committee is familiar with the reputation of the University and with the professors who write the letters of recommendation. There are presently 47 ND students in the first-year class. 
The Committee also views a student more highly who works his way through . college. Miss Hopkins feels that this is an in­dication of the students's motivation. 
The Law School has a national student body with 150 colleges represented. 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except ·vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. ,Mary's College. Subscriptions may. be purchased for S8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class f10lltage paid, Not.re Dame, Ind. 
·~s6. 

by Judy Ahern 
A decision concerning the fate of the Law Building will be made by this spring, according to Dean Thomas Shaffer of the Notre Dame Law School. Either a new building will be constructed or an extension will be added to the present structure. 
Money, or rathe~ lack A it , is the main factor in the d~cision. The plans for building a new Law School were drawn up in 1968; cost was estimated at $6 million. 
The Dean mentioned that they would like to wait until the $6 million is raised. Expanded library space, however, has been "desperately" needed since 1966, and they just can't wait any longer. 
The alternative is to remodel and add an extension to the Dean Shaffer added that he and the architects are going over the original plans at this time, and are making revision. The ex­tension would mainly include expanded librar){ ;;pace 
The new Law Building, if built, would be completed by 1974 or 1975. It would be at least twice the size of the current building and the tentative location is on the Library's north side. Mr. Shaffer mentioned, however, that the merger of the two campuses may cham!e thP. location. 
The Law Center Drive originated in 1969 in order to raise money for the construction of the new building, but donations have fallen short. Thus far only $3.7 million has been raised. The only hope for the Building rests on whether the balance of the sum can be raised by spring. · 
If the funds for the new building aren't raised by spring, con­struction of the addition will begin in May. The projected date for completion is fall 1973. 
Even if the addition takes ef­fect, it is still possible that a new Law Building would be built sometime in the future. The remodelled Law Building could easily serve some other purpose. 
Dean Shaffer summed it all up when he stated, "There are a lot of 'if~' involved". So, 'if' the money is raised, and 'if' a definite location is decided upon .we 'might' have a new Law Building by 1975. 
Thanx, Father Ted 


We make the equipment that makes air better-for man and his machines. We need sales engineers and apptication engineers to put our equipment to work around the world. 
AAF, listed on the New York Stock Exchange, is an international leader in air filtration, air pollution control and heating, air conditioning and ventilating. Each area of our business is a growing one both in personal challenges and personal rewards. 
If you're looking for a future in an industry as vital as life itself, the business of better air, write to 
H. C. Gans, our personnel supervisor. American Air Filter Company, Inc., 215 Central Avenue, Lo.uisville, Kentucky 40208. An equal opportunity employer. 
.. ·., .. -.... -... Friday, October 29, 1971 THE OBSERVER Pagel 
England joins common market 
(c) 1971 New York Times 

London, Oct. 28--By a vote of 356 to 244, the House of Commons tonight approved British membership in the European Common Market. 
The majority of 112 far ex­ceeded most predictions. It was a tremendous victory for Prime Minister Heath, for the con­servative government and for the Labor promarketeers who stood out against their party's op­position. 
The Labor· marketeers 
provided a big bloc of 69 votes for the motion. Heath lost only 39 Tories to the no LBBY. That difference produced the big majority. 
All the 630 members of the House of Commons were there tonight except one Conservative who was ill..Four did not vote because they acted as tellers, and three because they are officers of the House. 
Harold Wilson, the Labor leader who once favored British entry, deepened the split in his party when he opened the last day of the six-day Commons debate on Europe this afternoon. 
Wilson made an all-out attack on the terms negotiated by the Tories. Then, menacingly, he said a future Labor government would demand renegotiation of the terms--and take a Gaullist line of non-cooperation until the market agreed. 
Heath wound up the debate tonight, the 176th member of the Commons to speak over the six days. Just before 10 P.M., over angry shouts from left-wing Laborites, he said with force: 



OBSERVER 
Serving the• Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
SECOND FRONT PAGE 
• -~< ~. .....,..,. -...~ ..,,,w..,..,.;,..• ,.., 
:·. ~<"'-""' .':..• ........ -\'. 

"Many millions of people across the world will rejoice that Britain will be taking her rightful place in the true European unity that we are going to win." 
It took 15 minutes to tally up the members filing past the tellers. When the result was announced at 10: 15, a great shout of joy went up from the Conservative ben­ches--and then wild cheers for Heath as he walked out. 
On the Labor side the loudest reaction was bitter anger at the pro-marketeers who had defied the whip to vote with the government. 
As Roy Jenkins, the pro­European who is Labor's Deputy leader, left the chamber, some left-wing Backbenchers hissed "traitor" at him. Jenkins faces a difficult fight for re-election as deputy leader next week. 
For Heath, the result was a personal triumph, the fulfillment of a longstanding vision of Britain in Europe. As Lord Privy Seal under Prime Minister Harold MacMillan he negotiated the first, abortive attempt to enter the market that ended in 1963. 
The substantial majority will also help Heath answer the charge that his government is going against public opinion in pressing for entry. 
Polls continue to show more of the public against membership than for, although they also show an overwhelming majority ex­pecting entry to happen. In any case, Heath has always stood on the Constitutional position that Parliament decides the issues in Britain, not polls. 
There was the unmistakable air of a great occasion as members filed into the lobbies for the vote. In the gallery, a symbol of history, sat Jean Monnet, the man often called the Father of the New Europe. 
A lone St. Mary's bike rider enjoys her freedom before the winter months close in. 
Father Blantz discusses dorm exchange, security 
see page 12 
Monnet, now 82, has been behind the post-war measures of European integration since the first, the coal and steel com­munity. It was formed just 20 years ago, by France, West Germany, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. 
Britain stood aloof then. And she remained outside when the same six went on in 1957 to form the European Economic Com­munity, or Common Market. 
The British attitude through those years seemed to represent what Charles De Gaulle said Winston Churchill once told him: "Every time we must choose between Europe and the open sea, we will choose the open sea." 
Then, in 1961, Britain changed her mind and applied to join the 
E.E.C. but President De Gaulle said no to that application and another in 1967. Only after his death last year was the French veto lifted. 
Tonight's vote thus marked a turning point in post-war history. But it was not by any means the end of the long struggle to bring Britain into the community. 
The actual treaty of accession, still to be drafted, must be ratified by Britain and each of the six existing market members. That is true also of the other three countries applying to join-­Ireland, Norway and Denmark. 
But the big obstacle still ahead is in the British Parliament. It is the detailed legislation that the Heath government will present Parly in 1972 to bring British law into conformity with the Common Markets rules. 
Opponents will try to filibuster that legislation to death. And they are likely to have much more help from the Labor party, with many Labor pro-marketeers returning to the party line of opposition after declaring for Europe in principle. 
Observers expect a long fight over the legislation, probably continuing over months into next summer. The general belief is that Heath will push it through in the end, but along the way there could be some damned close-run things, as Wellington said of Waterloo. 
If the remaining obstacles are overcome, Britain and the other three applicants will become members of a community of 10 on Jan. 1, 1973. 
The big political question now, and perhaps remaining even after entry, is what a future Labor government would do about the Common Market if elected on the present Labor policy of angry opposition to the negotiated terms of entry. 


on campus 
LONDON--Britain's Parliament Thursday approved British membership in the European Common Market. The Margin in the House of Commons, 112 votes, was greater than had been expected and was swollen by the votes of pro­market members of the Labor opposition who voted with the 
Conservatives. The vote followed a warning by Harold Wilson, the Labor leader, that any future Labor government would renegotiate the entry terms. 

world 

briefs 

WASHINGTON--In what was considered a significant administration victory, the Senate rejected an amendment requiring the President to only use funds to withdraw all American forces from Indochina. The vote was 47 to 44. The amendment had been added to the foreign aid authorization 
(c) 1971 New York Times bill by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 

WASHINGTON--Official gave President Tito of Yugoslavia an unusually warm welcome on his first official state visit to the United States. President Nixon conferred for more than an hour with the 79-year-old communist leader. Nixon was warmly received by Tito during a European trip last fall. 
NEW YORK--Spokesmen for two of the hotels said that they had simply been following a long-standing tradition by providing the free rooms and meals. 
friday 
3:30, 7:00, 9:00--flick, yance, carroll hall, madaleva 
8:00, 9:45, 11: 30--flick, the diary of a mad housewife, engineering auditorium 
saturday 
1:30--footba II, notre dame vs navy 
7:00, 9:30--flick, genesis IV, o'laughlin auditorium 
7:30, 9:30, 11: 30--flick, burn witch burn, badin vin­tage cinema 
sunday 
2: --drama, le bourgeois gentilhomme, o'laughlin auditorium 
7:oo, 9:30--flick, genesis 1v, o'laughlin auditorium 
today 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER. Friday, October 29, 1971 
Reactions favor female fencers 


Students needed for collection 
by Art Quinn 

Reaction to the ACC's barring of the women's fencing club ranged from understanding to anger. 
SBP John Barkett said "I understand the situation. I sympathize with them for it. Payment of a small fee for use of the building is probably the answer until co-ed negotiations are completed." 
The reaction of Mike Mastranga, a member of the men's ·fencing team was more critical. 
A female swordsman practices for the last tim~ in the ACC. 

Hamilton: Help needed for collection of funds 
InPIRG holds first meeting 
The Notre Dame-St. Marv's committee to form an InPIRG announced its first school wide convention this Sunday. 
The meeting, which is open to all students interested in the Indiana Public Interest Research Group, will be held in the Student Center Fiesta Lounge at 1 pm. 
Attending the convention will be hall representatives from both campuses, members of InPIRG committees. and students ·from the InPIRG chapter of Indiana University of South Bend. Pete Homer said that Dave Hersch, one of InPIRG 's state leaders, would be coming from IU of Bloom_Jngton for the meeting. 
InPIRG leaders say that the ultimate goal of the group is to set up a statewide organization with funds to deal with the problems in consumer affairs, ecology, corporate responsibility, race and sex discrimination, and other related areas. 
Homer emphasized, that the main work of the group now is to convince the student body and administration that the InPIRG concept is a viable one. "This will take a well coordinated cam­puswide organization," he said. 
Organizer Bill Rahner pointed out that the purpose of Sunday's convention is to plan the ap­proach which the organization will take to meet its tasks for the immediate future. Rahner commented, "We need people from all of the academic departments to make this an effective effort." 
InPIRG leaders welcome the help of all concerned students at Sunday's meeting, whether or not th'ey are familiar with InPIRG 

by Jim Roe schools additional college students are needed.
Students, volunteers, college
and other, are needed Halloween Coin cans, printed specifically night to go door-to-door collecting for the occassion, can be picked money for the Pakistan Relief up Sunday night in the basement 
fund. of La Fortune Student Center at the Student World Concern office. 
Tom Hamilton, executive 
director of Students World Cans may be picked up and 
Concern said Thursday that the delivered anytime after 5:00p.m. original plan to have public Sunday. school children collect money Anyfurther questions will be was blocked when Donald Dake, answered by Tom Hamilton, Alan superintendent of the public Sondej, John Barkett, or Kathy 
school system, recinded per-,---B_ar_l_ow_.---------, 
mission for SWC to bring the plan before the public grade school children of South Bend. 
The Dome staff, Washington­Maryland-Virginia Club, the Student Government officers and all the Merry Pranksters have pledged their members for the Sunday night drive. 
Weeklong television and radio coverage has announced the onslaught of between two to four thousand volunteers on the South Bend Community. With the late aboutface of the pub_l!c~de 
' 
Mastranga said, "I think they should not be barred from the ACC. I can't see any reason for it. 
Girls have been working out with the fencing teams in the past couple of years on Wednesday night. Why should it change now. I can't see what the big stink is... To me, it makes no sense. They shouldn't draw fine lines on rules. 

McNamara: 
"Why 
pick 

on us?" 
They should help the merger along." 
Dominic Napolitano, director of non-varsity sports, stated: "I have nothing to do with the building itself. I only work with 
TUDENT DISCOUN
E·P 

10 % OFF 
On any mechanical work and winterizing (snow tires included) 

Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Across from Burger King I 
The Importance of the Guaranteed Insurability Clause in your College Insurance Program-­
The purchase of a college insurance program 
today is important, but studies show that you will make from FIVE to SEVEN additional pur­chases of life insurance during your lifetime! 
Make sure that you get the most for your money -TODAY and TOMORROW! You'll do this through the C. I. P. (College Insurance Program) and the wide range of competitive plans offered through American General! 
Give us a chance to prove it! 
\.(j_~~;~i~~~~c_f;~~~h 
American General Life Insurance Co. 
815 La Salle Street South Bend, Indiana, 46601 219-234-3480 
Notre Dame students. We can't do anything. I could not go above 

Barkett: Sympathy for the 
1 
girls 

any of the orders I get." 
Chris Rosinski, member of the women's team, had a critical reaction: "It's a raunchy deal. We are trying to round out the Notre Dame team. They are 
SOCK 
HOP 
Ricku aollthe Redstreaks 

FRIDAY 
talking merger. Why shouldn't we be able to use the facilities?" 
Another member of the team, Denise McNamara, had this to say: "I don't like it. Why do they all-of-a-sudden pick on us. I'd like to know where we stand as students. We're supposed to be Notre Dame students. It's got to administration deals." 



MAlNCHURCH 
SUNDAY MASSES 
8:30a.m.  Fr. Ned Reidy  
9:30a.m.  Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C.  
10:45 a.m.  Fr. Frank C. Quinn, O.P.  
12:15 p.m.  Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C.  

Vespers: Sun. Thru Thurs. at 7 p.m. 

RoGERS 
0ptical" 
HbtJM. 
M~ •.'NiS. THUR.. Fill 9 Ali&30 PM ~~· ~.,_&AT t AM 12 NOOM COMI'laf IU:TACLI 
SERVlCE 
·-~~.r,~. 



Friday, Ocotber 29, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 
s:»age 5 

Text of Hesburgh letter on Trustee reply 

A Halloween Horror Special featuring PARANOIAC Fri. ­7 : 30; 9: 30; II:30 BURN WITCH BURN Sat.-7:30; 9:30; 11: BADIN VINTAGE CINEMA Adm. 75c First Floor Badin Hall  
People & Songpresents "An Evening of' Folk Song" Friday 9-2 Campus Folk Alumni Lounge Artists Refreshments 25c Admission Everyone Welcome  


Mr. William F. Eagan 
Student Life Council 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Dear Bill: 
On August 27, 1971, Mr. 
Edmund A. Stephan wrote to 
you on behalf of the Board of 
Trustees, requesting that the 
Student Life Council 
recommend appropriate 
sanctions for violations of 
University Rules. At the 
Trustees' meeting last Friday, 
October 22, I presented your 
response. At the same 
meeting, the Student Body 
President, Vice President, 
and Executive Coordinator 
made a masterful presen­
tation of many matters per­
taining to student life, in­
cluding your report. 
Following five and a half 
hours of discussion on the part 
of the Board, with wide 
ranging expression of views, 
the Board came to several 
conclusions which I was asked 
to present to you, the Student 
Life Council, and presumably 
through you to the Notre 
Dame community. My 
remarks will be as brief as 
possible, because the very 
lengthy public discussion we 
have already had this year has 
in some ways obscured the 
salient points at issue. 
Student life at this school is reckoned to be a powerful and essential part of the educational experience. Our tradition at Notre Dame is that residential comradeship is not peripheral to academics. Life in the halls should infuse the life of study with a grace and a humanity and a maturity that make the scholarly life something unique here. Student life, therefore, is a respon­sibllltythat the Trustees can never surrender, even while subordinate responsibility falls to the administration and the Student Life Council which the Board created. It was In this spirit that the Board originally asked the Student Life Council for suggestions. 
Inevitably, the question will be asked: What did the Board think of the minimum sanc­tions proposed by the report? In general, they found the minimum for distribution and sale of drugs adequate, that for larceny and assault (semester probation) im­probable, unless we are visualizing something in­consequential. The report made an end run on drinking 
and parietal violations, but more of that later. Might we take a fresh new look at the question, not hung up on minima and maxima and in between? 
The University Rules are not intended to force an ethical view upon the students, much as we believe students do and should have such a view, nor to direct them how to live, since this is something they presumably will learn in some measure from all their education here. Briefly, the University-wide Rules state the minimum conditions under which one may study at Notre Dame. They are set of limits on who should remain within the selective community at the University. The Academic Council sets certain minimum limits upon academic per­formance, and failure to meet them means that a student is unable to pursue his studies here. The Rules set com­parable limits upon student life, insofar as it bears upon education and social maturity on this campus. It is the position of the Board that significant failure to follow these few Rules is likewise considered serious enough to disqualify a student from pursuing his studies here. 
ThP lJniversitv Board, composed entirely of students, addresses itself to violations 
of these Rules. The Trustees mean it to be understood that disregard for these Rules, involving such serious mat­ters as assault, forgery, distribution of narcotics, public or disorderly ,drinking, visitation outside parietal hours, larceny, etc., is In­compatible with the needs of common life and study and trust that they must foster at Notre Dame. They expect that the University Board will administer the Rules in this light, while taking into ac­count the personal and In­dividual clrcumstandes of each case. This Is. I believe, 
consonant with the spirit of your first recommendation (Disciplinary Guidelines), albeit somewhat more general and yet more serious. We are more concerned to reach a basic understanding about discipline than to enmesh it in details. The operation of the University Board, over the months ahead, will say better than anything else whether or not students are willing and able to maintain a standard worthy of the community. 
There is a wide range of concern for residential ife which is the re.;ponsibility of 
the  individual  hails.  
Responsibility,  of  course,  is  
not  the  same  thing  as  

autonomy. No residence hall can be completely 
autonomous at Notre Dame, 
any more than we could have 
an autonomous College of 
Engineering, or an 
autonomous library, or an 
autonomous program of 
athletics, )or an autonomous 
Glee Clul:). We all interlock 
here. We all have personal 
and communal respon­
sibilities that are real enough 
and reasonably independent, 
without being completely 
independent. To the extent, 
though, that students willingly 
and consistently assume the 
burden of self-discipline, 
consonant with the 
educational tradition and 
campus-wide policies of the 
University, the quality of 
education at Notre Dame will 
be enhanced. 
For the time being at least, neither the Board at large nor I are convinced that it would be either practical or wise to leave the determination of parietal hours to the in­dividual halls. The Board did accept the concept of limited parietals two and a half years apo ilnd. since then. has made 
three enlargements of the limitations--from weekends to week days and closing hours in both cases, from one to two 
a.m. on weekends, and from eleven to midnight from Sunday through Thursday. The Board generally presumed that even though limited hours were eventually expanded (we are at 88 hours per week at present), there would ultimately be a proposal for unlimited parietals. The Board views determination of pal'ietals by individual halls to mean here, as elsewhere, that there would likely be no limitations this year or next year, and does not accept the concept of completely open dormitories. We still think we can dare to be different. 
The Board asked me to convey to the members of the Student Life Council their gratitude for the time and effort involved in answering the original request. We all believe that much of what is being discussed and done in the halls these days points to a new and creative approach to hall life and community that we will be watching with the greatest interest and hope. What eventually will be the shape and structure of student life at this University no one can say at present, but we are confident that, despite oc­casional disagreement on details and timing, we are moving steadily in the right direction --towards a better Notre Dame, both 
·'l 
·~ 
,. 
'
r&f 
._ ~ 1 ..•· 
... 

academically and socially. that all points of view came 
To this end, the Board ac­under open and frank con­cepts the proposal of the sideration by the Board. All Student Life Council for a were impressed by the caliber professional survey of student of today's students, anxious to life, carried on in conjunction support the good leadership with faculty and students. that is apparent, and to keep This may very well help us to up the lively discussion with understand better than at them, even though there are present the various per­disagreements as to what ceptions of student life and would happen if this or that hopes, and may well line of action were followed. illuminate the special The greatest point of character of student life here. agreement was that Notre As I suggested in my last Dame is and can be different letter to students, we might from many universities today, also delve more deeply Into can be a community of con­the meaning of coeducation at cern and growth, can better Notre Dame --a new goal to the present quality of which the Trustees are firmly academic and social life If we committed. all try to find creative, 
The Board would also like to imaginative, and responsible include in this study the ways of doing so, without physical facilities that would throwing our tradition to the enhance social life in the winds. Change Is easy residence halls and In a enough, and we have changed reconditioned taFortune greatly In recent years. Student Center that could Special character takes years operate around the clock, to achieve. The Board's main possibly with all its present concern Is that whatever offices transferred elsewhere. special character we have One item on our agenda was achieved be not lightly thrown "Financial Crisis", but the away. I trust we all share this Board committed Itself to find concern, although we may means to enhance student life, view differently at times the insofar as physical facilities ways and means Involved. can help, despite the present Devotedly yours In Notre financial difficulties. Dame, 
This report would not be (Rev.) Theodore M.
... .. if I did not reiterate Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
Corb_y•s 
---.... --....... ---·-.. --. 
-~-----­
Friday, October 29, l971
·zHE OBSERVER
Page 6 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
The Third Letter: 
An Analysis 
' ~­
So now we've got another letter from Fr. Hesburgh. This is the third time since school began that we have been gifted with the man's prose. This is probably the best to date---style wise that is. 
The message he conveys is the same ---we are all fine, excellent young men brave and upstanding and all that---but we aren't fine or excellent or brave or upstanding enough to determine our own parietals. 
The letter contained one new twist; parietal violations and drinking, or rather "public and disorderly drinking" are serious violations. A guy standing out in the hall with a beer, or with a girl in his room at2: 30 am is, according to the letter, considered in the same light as someone com­mitting assault or grand larceny. 
The whole thing is really kind of sad. We have the President and Board of Trustees of a major university getting themselves all stoked up over visitation hours---hours that have been ignored for a least a year in most halls. 

At the same time, in another example of one of those beautiful little paradoxes this administration is famous for, Fr. Hesburgh is pushing the line that parietals are not that important an issue and we shouldn't get hung up between maxima and minima, whatever that means. 
Yet, and here's where the reasoning gets a bit sticky, Fr. Hesburgh neatly points out that the present weekly total of parietal hours is 88. Does that mean we're supposed to give the Trustees time and a half credit for each hour of parietals over 40? 
The student body as a whole, and the student representatives to the SLC in particular could take several courses of action. Students could ignore parietal hours and have girls up in their room anytime they want, provided they don't disturb anyone---but they're doing that anyway. 
Or the students could meekly acquiesce to the Trustees dictum, chase the girls out at 2 o'clock and report any and all infractions to their RA immediately ---anyway that's what the Trustees think should and can happen here. . 
The best bet is for students to continue what they're doing right now--­determining their own parietals regardless of any rules that they had no hand in making, ruies that have twice been sent to the showers by the one truly representative body on campus, the SLC. 
The students on the SLC could abandon that body as hopeless and walk out of it--what purpose that would serve is anyone's guess. The Trustees_ appear so intran~igent on the parietals issue it's doubtful that anything will shake them. 
The student SLC members could remain silent on the Trustees reply--­continue working on that body in the hopes that someday, somehow Stephan's Privy Council will see the folly of their own actions and allow, de jure, a situation that already exists de facto. 
The student SLC representatives should stick with that body. It's not much fun to put in a lot of sweat and effort and then to have it neg a ted by a bunch of bankers and lawyers. It's no fun at all when you realize that non of those bankers and lawyers have any idea of student life around here. 
The Trustees did accept some SLC and student ideas. LaFortune may get a face lifting yet, an intelligent and comprehensive survey of student attitudes will be done and the sanctions on drugs, assault and larceny were accepted. 
The trustees action on sanctions and the rest rate a small cheer, and what they did on parietals should be greeted by a yawn. Unless and until the Pinkerton guards start sprouting up in the halls there's nothing to get excited about. · 
No trickee no treatee 
Hobgoblins, witches and spooks---those are the images that leap into the imagination of grade school kids when you mention Halloween. All kinds offearsome and scary creatures like that roam the earth the night of October 31st, according to story books that kids read. 
Over in Pakistan, the Bengali part that is, four fearsome and scary creatures roam--all the time. They are called the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse--War,Pestilence, Famine and Death. They are on the ram­page in that part of the world because of greed and stupidity and power lust. 
There isn't a great deal we can do to rid Pakistan of those sordid emotions, but there is something you can do to rid that country of the four demons. 
Student World Concern is sponsoring a drive for students to go out Halloween night and collect money for the relief effort in Bengal. They were counting on grade school kids to help them out, but that effort fell through.Now they're counting on students. Go by LaFortune Student Center Sunday night and pick up a can for collections. Go out and ask for money. The more we collect the less the Four Horesemen will roam Bengal. 
Peripheral Division----------
Simplicty Itself 

-------------------------~.C.Treanor 
"Boy, is this ever a tough job! I listen to somebody and he sounds 
right, and then I listen to somebody else and, by golly, he sounds right. 
I don't know what to do!" 
--President Warren G. Harding 

What Notre Dame needs is a good five cent campus. Failing that, 
they need a good five cent Warren G. Harding to at least admit that 
he's confused. The glibest speculation on the current case of at­
tempted merger is done by those with no hard facts; and thOse who 
really know what's going on are being pretty parsimonious with in­
formation. 
So it goes. So it always goes. Sister Alma Peter says that Notre Dame and St. Mary's are "committed" to merger. Yes, and the United States is committed to an honorable troop withdraw! from Southeast Asia, but we may all have shaken hands with St. Peter before either move is consummated. Sr. Alma Peter also assures us that St. Mary's has no mortgaged buildings, and is rolling along happily in the black. Well, maybe so, but until St. Mary's finances are a matter of public record, we'll have nothing to do but speculate. 
I myself know nothing more than what I read in the papers. That of course, gives me speculating license. Certain sources, who for reasons for health and job security prefer to keep their names off the printed page, all assure us of the following information, to wit: 
That the Sisters of the Holy Cross are at present rudely chafing 
under the vow of poverty. That contrary to public statements, not only 
are buildings mortgaged but the whole order is in danger of going 
under, and 
That this situation does not sit particularly well with the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and That they'd like to have a guaranteed fat annual stipend a whole lot, and further · That the University of Notre Dame du Lac, Inc. is neither in the position nor of the disposition to provide such a stipend. 
You can almost see the Sisters' point. As an order, the Holy Cross Nuns have held property professionally for almost one fundred fifty years. Some of the older Sisters, if deprived of their trade, would hace some difficulty acquiring a new one. Back in the good old days, nuns used to beg for sustinance in the street, but in these days of Women's Lib and Welfare, there'd prohaly be no percentage in such an action. 
In turn, Notre Dame Inc., like most other universities, Inc., is in a sad situation of its own. The University is losing money like a sieve loses water and if this keeps up the University will be forced to take seriously the proposal some moron raised two years ago to raffle Sacred Heart Church off to the South Bend proletariat in order to raise some survival money. 
So you see the problem sports fans. St. Mary's doesn't have any money. Notre Dame doesn't have any money. And they're trying to merge the two campuses -without any money. 
Pretty complex, eh? 
I think so. 
Warren G. Harding would think so. 
Now, how do you solve a complex problem? Why, you haul in a 
complex philosopher. Georg F. Hegel's a good one-plenty profound, 
plenty complex. His theory, near as I can parcel it out; is that logical 
opposites can combin.e in a transcendental category and hence ap­
proximate (he would say "impersonate") the Absolute Idea (God). 
For example, he contended that the opposites of Being and non-Being 
could be combined in a higher category (synthesis )which he though to 
be Becoming. This was his dialectical process. 
So much for that. Now, let's draw a dialectic in the here or now. 
We'll put St. Mary's greed on one side, and Notre Dame parsimonyr on 
the other. We'll put' the Holy Cross Sisters' desire for guaranteed 
annaul income on one side, and Notre Dame's reluctance to pay 
something for nothing on the other. And we'll come up with a 
solution. 
You know the ladies who make our beds in the morning and dispense 
food in the Cafeteria lines? Replace them with nuns! paid by Notre 
Dame Inc. What could better guarantee useful employ for the sisters, 
and at the same time make sure that they have an annual income? 
And besides, ther is something wistful, even romantic, about the 
thought of Sister Alma washing my sink. 
But what about the poor South Bend people who currently perform 
those services? you may ask. Are we not depriving them of their own 
useful employ? I have a solution for that, too. Make them all nuns! 
That way, you double the size of the order, guarantee it an annual 
income, and make sure that Notre Dame is getting good old utility for 
their dollar. 
See how simple things are when you apply a little dialectical com­
mon sense? 
Night Editor: Joe Abell (with a little help from NoDoz) Ass't Nite Editors: Jack Frischkorn, Marlene Zloza Whoopers, Hellraisers, and Hallelujia Hunters: Ann-Therese Darin, Jim McDermott, John Abowd, Marty Miller, TH, TC Treanor, Dibbie Gras, Peggy Lawlor, and the Maid Nite Controller: Helen Smudski final score: texas: 30, ohio state: 27 onward to 16 pages! 
News Editor: Jerry Lutkus ­SMC News Editor: Ann Conway Features Editor: rick smith Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Don Ruane 


---~--­

Friday, October 29, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 
Page 7 

Powell 'fight' shaping up as no contest 
lc) 1971 New York Times News Service 
Washington <Oct. 25)-Lewis F. Powell Jr., the third southern conservative nominated to the Supreme Court by President Nixon, is attempting to avoid the collisions over ethics and racial attitudes that contributed to the Senate's rejection of his two predecessors. 
Powell, aware that his life, professional record and judicial philosophy are about to undergo rigorous examination, discussed his background with unusual candor in an interview at this Rich­mond law office this weekend. 
He pledged to do "whatever is necessary and proper" to separate himself from corporate directorships and financial holdings that might constitute potential conflicts of interest. 
He sought to place in what Powell regards as the proper context the comparatively minor chinks that have appeared in his image as a racial moderate-­membership in two segregated clubs in Richmond and authorship of a brief filed by the State of Virginia in the Supreme Court last year opposing the concept of racial balance in public schools as a constitutional requirement. 
Powell acknowledged, as well, that his strong views on civil disobedience are a proper matter for the Senate to consider in weighing the fate of his nomination. , 
"The Senate Judiciary Committee has a very high responsibility, presribed by the Constitution,'; Powell said. "I wouldn't consider any inquiry (by the committee) off limits." 
The lengthy committee investigations into the financial affairs of Judge Clement F. Haynsworth Jr. in 1969 and the racial views of G. Harold Car­swell in 1970 delayed by eight months the search for a nominee to fill the last Supreme Court vacancy. 
I<'our days after Nixon announced that he had selected the former President of the American Bar Association to fill one of two vacancies on the Supreme Court and six days after the President telephoned to ask Powell, "In the national interest,"' to permit his name to be placed in nomination, the widespread assumption here is that Powell's confirmation is a certainty. 
Sen. EdmundS. Muskie, 0-Me., and a contender for his party's 1972 presidential nomination, predicted the Senate would approve Powell. Sen. Birch Bayh, 0-lnd., and leader of a coaltion that defeated the Carswell nomination, spoke favorably of Powell. And the coalition of liberals and labor 
unions leaders getting set to examine the 
President's two nominees is planning to focus 
nearly all its attention on William H. Rehnquist, an 
Assistant Attorney General. 
Powell never has wanted to be a judge. Two years ago, following the rejection of Haynsworth's can­didacy, he asked the Justice Department to remove his name from a list of potential nominees. 
He recalled reasoning that his ae:e--he is now 64-­
would limit his opportunity to make a lasting con­
tribution to the Court, but based his reluctance 
primarily on his preference for "playing in the 
game rather than being an umpire" of the law. It 
took a telephone call from the President last 
Tuesday to convince him to become an umpire. 
The way Powell has played the game has made 
him a wealthy, senior partner in Hunton, Williams, 
Gay, Powell and Gibson, Virginia's largest law 
firm, and a director of 11 corporations ranging from 
Brooks Brothers to Philip Morris Inc. He is a trustee 
and general counsel of Colonial Williamsburg, Inc. 
While declining to discuss the specifics of his 
financial interests, Powell declared that he would 
resign from "all boards that have commercial 
implications." He said he would either plac~ his 
stock holdings in trust or remove himself from 
consideration of legal issues involving industries in 
which he has a financial interest. 
Powell is a Democrat but he has supported 
Republicans, including Nixon. Public records show 
that Powell made a $500 contribution to the 
Republican ticket in 1968. He said that he had never 
given a major sum, of several thousand dollars or 
more, to a national candidate. 
Powell himself called attention to his long­
standing membership in the Country Club of 
Virginia and the Commonwealth Club of Richmond 
and confirmed that he never had sought to alter 
their policies against the admission of Negroes. But 
he said that he used the Country Club membership 
largely to play tennis and has had only infrequent 
lunches at the Commonwealth Club. He noted as 
well that he belongs to the University Club and the 
Century Association of New York, both of which are 
integrated. 
Civil rights activists in Richmond credit Powell 
with playing a leading role, as President of the City 
School Board and later of the State Board of 
Education, in desegregating Richmond and 
Virginia public schools. 
Last year, at the request of Gov. Linwood Holton 
and the Virginia Attorney General, Andrew P. 
Miller, Powell wrote a 28-page "Friend of the Court" brief filed with the Supreme Court as it deliberated the constitutionality of busing to desegregate southern school systems. 
The brief contended that federal court orders requiring a numerical racial balance could hasten the flight of whites to the suburbs and thus "defeat 
the goal of racial balancing, adversely affect education and contribute to urban deterioration." 
But Oliver W. Hill, a black civil rights lawyer in Richmond, said he is prepared to testify in favor of confirmation of Powell. Hill said he would prefer "a much more liberal" nominee but that Powell is a moderate by Richmond standards. 
Powell, a graying, courtly man, seemed more concerned as he talked in his 18th floor office overlooking downtown Richmond that his outspoken criticism of civil disobedience as a means of at­taining worthy goals would be subject to scrutiny by members of the Senate. 
In a 1967 speech, Powell called civil disobedience legal "heresy" and said that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., "the prophet of civil disobedien­ce," had joined more militant black leaders in "slandering his own government and in inciting violation of draft laws." He said that individuals who "incite riots and rebellion should be treated as the most dangerous of criminals and relentlessly prosecuted." 
Powell warned in 1968 that campus disturbances would pose a threat to stability so long as university administrators lacked willingness to use "ap­propriate force" against lawlessness rather than "supine toleration of marching mobs of mindless demonstrators." 
Liberals who were associated with Powell when he was a member of President Johnson's Com­mission on Law Enforcement and the Ad­ministration of Justice privately praised his con­scientious attitude, saying that he had been willing to 11sten to all sides of each issue they faced. 
Others, distressed by Powell's conservatism on law enforcement, stressed his intellect and reputation for integrity. "I don't know of a damn thing against him," said a liberal member of the Virginia House of Delegates. Asked to assess his prospects for confirmation, 
. Powell was optimistic, but cautious. "The predominant feeling I have is that I would a whole lot rather be doing the examining than be the witness," he said. "I've always heard lawyers make poor witnesses. I hope not to embellish that reputation." 

New York Times------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Foreign Affairs: Back Across the Channelc~L.Suizberger 
be drafted to complete arrangements with Europe, i(is now evident that a 
Paris, Oct. 28---British entry into the Common Market, one of the most fundamental change in world relationships has started. For the first time important political events since World War II, became a certainty last year there will be a more equal partnership in the West between the United States when Prime Minister Heath's Conservative Government took power in the on the one hand and its Trans-Atlantic allies on the other. United Kingdom and General De Gaulle died in retirement. The General had This equality will mean that a more vigorous European grouping can insistently blackballed the membership application of this continent's most henceforth speak with more authority and independence on monetary,important offshore island. trade, political and defense matters. Undoubtedly there will be issues on 
Heath unwaveringly championed the need to join "Europe" and it was which American and a strengthened Europe will disagree. Moreover, it is certain he would put new energy into that scheme when he gained office. evident --as already strongly suggested by Heath -that Britain will hen­Already France's opposition had begun to falter once Pompidou was elected ceforth feel less need to rely upon U.S. sympathy, support and agreement. President in 1969. But so long as the General remained alive and capable of That is part of the price it will cost London for the right to join the issuing public declarations that could have immense effect, tangible brakes European Club. Ithas to yield both the shadow and the substance of a role as existed on major changes in French policy. Uncle Sam's "Trojan Horse" in Europe, the role in which De Gaulle 
De Gaulle held that Britain did not qualify as "European". He foresaw suspiciously cast the British. And naturally, the U.S. also pays to achieve that as the Market's six-nation bloc gained strength the British would be what has been one of Washington's avowed policy goals since the 
forced toconcentratetheir energies on Europe at the expense of global and Eisenhower Administration. trans-Atlantic commitments. But he also predicted this would take con­he United States will undoubtedly lose influence while facing increased siderable time. trade competition and financial rivalry from this area. But the profit in 
In early 1961 he told me: "Perhaps if the Common Market continues to terms of diniminshed responsibility and in terms of a more substantial grow Britain will be forced to change its policy." In 1962 he said: "The partner in the NATO ALLIANCE is worth the price. British would like to come in because they see the consequences to them­selves if they don't; but there are enormous practical problems. I do not see them entering except after very prolonged negotiations." 
In 1966, having personally vetoed Britain's chances he added: "Britain still thinks of itself as a world country and not a continenetal coun­try ...perhaps the British can change but the British are not great changers and I do not forsee that they will make any fundamental alterations." Even in 1968 he insisted:"There must be a internal effort,by the British to work more, to work harder and to cut public expenditures." 
The General's skepticism outlasted that of almost every other European 

i ; statesman and was also far more influential. Alone he was able to delay the step finally taken today by Britain's parliament. However, the moment he \ died, thus ending any possibility that he might oppose a new French policy ) on Britain, things began to move. \ ~/ 
Within a fortnight Pompidou was pricately predicting that Britain would 
(> \ definitely join the Market even though as many as two-thirds of the British people might oppose this drastic move. The new French President con­cluded that the English were by tradition far more governable than the 
\.>

French, and even if the majority of public opinion disliked a policy, they would accept it if their government so wished. This, of course, is precisely what happened. All recent polls have con­firmed that the ordinary English people oppose the decision taken by 
\ 

Parliament today, but this did not prevent the move, one of Ute most fateful '--\__. 
in British history since r '"''~on relinquished the governance of Calais in 1558. Looking beyond the technical debates on the enabling legislation that must 

Page 8 THE OBSERVER Friday, O<;tober 29, 1971 
rev. robert griffin 

late have I• loved thee, o one ient of days 
Before the headlines were written large upon the mufti suborned to deliver Sorin from Moreau's in­
c .... 
page with news of Rockne's victories ... before the terfe;ence. Edward Sorin, shaggy as a patriarch, had 
generation of builders that gilded the Dome and the soul of a rogue when roguery was demanded as the painted frescoes on walls whose bricks had been price of survival of his beloved Notre Dame. tempered in resurrection-fire.. .in the years before the ·There was Fr. Muckenthaller, with whom I prefected events in a grotto of Massabielle, when a figure as a young priest in Dillon. He died very suddenly one gowned in light murmured of her identity with im­morning after Mass, at the age of fifty-six, and for the maculate beginnings .. .in those times when the campus second time in my life, I felt that death had robbed me was little more than a lake where the sycamores were of a father. There was Fr. Steiner, the old Provincial, dreaming in shadows on the water, and birds of oveF who would roar out bearlike protests at the speed of the 
two hundred varieties nested in the elms...in those crossbearer leading processions in Sacred Heart days before there were computers and science labs and • l Church. Steiner would sit, of a spring evening, on the 
nearly a million books on the library shelves .. .in that • , porch of Corby Hall, surrounded by cronies; and every ago so distant in time, there existed a Notre Dame .J!.~ now and again he would bellow with the wrath of the community of priests, brothers and sisters of Holy ._. _ thunder god: "There's a boy walking on the God Cross, which still flourishes. ~' damned grass." His idiom was salty, like that of the Notre Dame, for me, is Alma Mater; it is also the engineer he was, but he was always gracious to me as a birthright of my religious family. There is something young priest, and his instincts were those of a builder. here, in this earth of Notre Dame, which is mine to Somewhere in the cemetery sleeps the brother whose bequeath to heirs: the breath of faith, the duty of own sins of disobedience. On one stormy occasion, he features were memorialized in the Stations of the Cross commitment, the gift of unearned lcve. was ordered by Fr. Moreau, the French motherhouse at Sacred Heart. Having aroused the ire of the artist 
There the breath of God had exhaled upon the to excort the schoolmaster back to LeMans. At first, who was then painting the Stations, the brother's face 
Indiana wilderness to give life to a tradition of service Sorin resisted the instructions of the Visitor to pack, appeared among the ranks of the Pharisees in the in a priesthood which I received from venerable and Sorin kept him virtually as a prisoner under house crowds surrounding Christ. When Sorin protested the fathers, to be passed on to sons and brothers who will, arrest. But after a few days, Sorin, in the company of outrage, the artist concealed his mischief by painting a 
hopefully, commemorate crucifixion and re-birth in the Visitor, started the slow trip on horseback to the Sorinesque beard on the pharisaic face, and those liturgies that will survive as long as the world shall embarkation point in New York. Only a few miles out whiskers became part of the art history of Notre live. of South Bend, Sorin was arrested by a couple of Dame. 
Mine is a community of saints and scholars, but most sheriffs. It was not until the Visitor had returned to Memories, trivial in themselves, but they are part of of its members participate fully in the fragile France and reported the sad news of Sorin's the thousands of legends through which a religious
humanity of the rest of the race. Take Sorin, for criminality that the Founder learned the truth: the family remembers its past. These men, their con­
example, that Frenchman who built Notre Dame on his putative sheriffs were really a couple of priests in temporaries, and their descendants have given, and are giving, grace and charm, direction and style, to the
I 
growth of this Christian institution; and the brightest young grad student and his most brilliant professor build upon foundations that could never have existed if 

jim brogan the Community of Holy Cross had not begun and carried forward a labor of love which bears the name Notre Dame dulac. 
But I would never think ot mentioning the matter if insensitive words were not being spoken about the

some of my 
Sisters and the alienation of their property at St. Mary's .The Holy Cross nuns too have their Com­munity of the living and the dead; their life was in­credibly harder than that of the priests and brothers; 

favorite iokes 
Notre Dame itself could not have survived without their sacrifice. Notre Dame and St. Mary's College are, today, something more than the patrimony of a family of superannuated religious. As these schools are If on any given Sunday you happen to absorbed more and more into the life of the secular
Did you hear about the SMC girl in the 
read Parade magazine, you can't help but city, a notice should be posted for all passers-by to see: 
Twenties who wanted to join forces with 
stumble across its weekly feature, "My please be gentle with memories of the Catholic past;
Eliot Ness, because she was an un­
Favorite Jokes." Exactly why these are please be sensitive in your judgments of the men and
touchable? 

favorite jokes, or why boneheads bother to women of Holy Cross who are totally committed to the read them is impossible to understand. well-being of Notre Dame ... yesterday, today, and
The Student Senate. 
The authors, usually such headliners as forever. "Gooey " Jack LaFrosia or Johnny "The We should call Father Burtchaell peter collinsJoker" Jentine, appear to have each been 
"Moses" because whenever he opens hisborn with out that necessary compliment mouth the bull rushes. 
to the skeletal frome, namely the funny 
hampton county
bone. Never are their so-called jokes I guess you heard about the parietalfunny, and the only humor that arises is violation over at SMC. They caught one of
the fact that every Sunday without fail I Peter Collins graduated from N.D. in
the girls with a record player in her room. 
am gullible enough to each and every one May and is now teaching high school in the
WSND's Kevin O'Niel really gets around.
of their jests. It is in this spirit that I offer sleepy town of Estill, South Carolina.--­my favorite jokes about the Harvard of the. Old Alumni to Freshman: Who found Rain. All day rain. And when it rains in Midwest, Notre Dame. Notre Dame? the South Carolina Low Country, all day, it 
Freshman: I didn't even know it was lost. seems like maybe it's always been raining. Maybe the land's just floating on the rain My roomate got so depressed one winter and the rain's just floating on the land. A What is the difference between Father that he stabbed himself with an icicle. He land sandwich. No plans made to run the Hesburg and God? God is everywhere, was then rushed to the infirmary where he rain off anywhere here. No drainage Father Hesburg is everwhere but Notre was treated for cold cuts. ditches, Ithink they're called. Rain on the Dame. grass everywhere in ocean-sized puddles The rooms over in St. Ed's are so small for the fallen pine needles and occasional Father Burtchaell appointed Provost. that even the cockroaches are round­deciduous leaves that are blown across shouldered. them by the growing wind. And rain on the Louie'~ now has three size pizzas -streets. Everywhere. On town lanes and Large, Small, and Shrimp. I understand that the barbers over in the Savannah Highway. Maybe the Badin have so little business that they Coosawhatchie and the Salkehatchie Sign in Sorin Restroom : Please flush formed a football team. Didn't win a game Rivers, snakefilled and snakelike twice, its a long way to the dining hall. all season. Seems everytime they got meanderers through the funky South, are rolling, somebody'd get a penalty for overflowing their banks. I'm afraid to go 
Sign in ND Dining Room: The food must clipping. look. response to the dilemma-becoming-joy of be good here, 10,000 flies can't be wrong. And anyway it's nice to be home in the being Black in America. Resilience bred The HPC has a new motto: Ed. hovel tonight. Had a scratchy version of of the pain and sorrow and will to live, and Sign in SMC Dining Hall: Attention ND the Bruins-Red Wings hockey game on my resilience breeding lifelust, barenaked 
men, Eat your hearts out. The only way to get ahead at ND is to go eracked radio.Till it faded out afterfading warmth, and heartsful of humor. to the Senior Bar. into listening range. Static and slapshots And here comes the Principal, at day's
The Dining hall decided that they and forechecking and the crowd's roar end, with laughing kids swarming all couldn't please everybody so they decided Did you hear about the termite who went have not yielded the kitchen stage to the around him, doing his best to get them on that they wouldn't please anybody. into the senior bar last night and asked, sounds of the rain. Steady quiet drumbeat their right buses homeward. Nobody
"Where's the bar tender?" all around and drops playing varied notes wants to be bus-waiting in the rain, so the 
Joe: Where do you live? on the whdowpanes and the fuel oil man's busy yelling the numbers of buses Fred: Grace. The original Polish joke: Maintainance barrels outside. But maybe one note is a ready to be boarded. Unfortunate man, a Joe: Actual or Sanctifying? Director Walter Haworski. dripping bathtub faucet. And crickets white Yankee like me, chomping on his 
creaking through it all somehow. cheroot and trying to forge some order 
That old ND quarterback was so bad he Frosh: Who's that on top of the Golden Rain-wrought bedlam at the schoolhouse from the schoolhouse chaos. Holleringcouldn't even complete a pass to a St. Dome? today. Somebody asking, "Hey man, numbers, making walkways through the Mary's girl. (no loss) Soph: Knute Rockne in a bathrobe. Iemme use that briefcase ther for a um­crowd, voicing idle threats of reprisal for 
brella." Water pipe trouble in the girls' disturbers of the good order. And all the . Tim: How your SMC date Did you hear about Father Sorin foun­room and water running all over the floor while those kids having so good a time
was last 
ding ND. In 1842 he was caught in a in the hall. Slipping, sliding, laughing maybe they don't care if they never take
night? 

terrible storm on his mission out west, and black kids everywhere. Soulfulness that ride through the country rain to theirJim: I wouldn't say she was a dog, but if a stopped in South Bend saying, "We'll walt abounding inside the rain, soulfulness that wooden shacks of the sadness and thequail went by, she'd point. 
here until the weather gets better." special resilience, that survival-necessary gladness. 




Friday, October 29, 1971 


Professors from the Economics department hold a panel discussion on Nixon's freeze plans. Left to right, they are: Prof. Dennis Dugan, Prof. Frank Bonollo, Prof. James Rakowski, and Finance Prof. Edward Trubac. 
The new style 'Nixonontics' is A big switch 
by Jim McDermott 
A News Analysis 
Given the current state of affairs, there is little chance that we will ever really know what has happened to the economy in the last decade. 
The early 60's can easily be accounted for. With a new ad­ministration, there was some groping for a policy to counter the economic stagnation of the Eisenhower years. Finally, the Ken­nedy administration decided that it would experiment with the "New Economics" that was popular among academic economists, but little known outside the profession. The 1964 tax cut was one of the first concious attempts to put into practice the heresies that Keynes had proposed in the 1930's. Chances are, since there was room for real growth, this tax cut may well have achieved its purpose of stimulating the economy without excessive inflation, but we will never be certain. 
The increased expenditure for Vietnam and the new domestic anti-poverty programs added more stimulus to the economy than it was then ready to receive. Additionally, the Federal Reserve System, which operates independently of the executive and legislative branches of the government, was out on its ex­pansionary policy. Thus, the Keynesian experiment of a tax cut never received any fair test after 1964. 
By 1966, the ecomony was definitely starting its inflationary push that we are still recovering from. The problem was that few recognized the dangers. In the attempt to experiment with the "New Economics", government econmists tried to "fine tune" the economy. The chances of fine tuning a car are slim, of fine tuning an economy with the present state of the art, nil. This is one of the lessons of the 60's. We learn the hard way. 
In 1968, Richard Nixon entered the White House as a pledged enemy of government intervention in economic affairs. He recalled the dismal days during World War II when he, as a lawyer in the price control bureaucracy, was charged with sending letters to violators of the war-imposed price freeze. His pious homilies about the need for government "fiscal responsibility" (a balanced budget, and restrained monotary policies, a Ia Milton Friedman) still rattle around somewhere. 
Eventually, everyone noticed that the new "game plan" was going nowhere. Inflation was continuing, unemployment was high, and Lawrence O'Brien (Democratic National Chairman) coined the phrase "Nixonomics", intended to convey a general impression of an economic horror show. The prosperity of tlie '60's was gone, everyone was crying about inflation, and 1972. The possibility of defeat in 1972 would not settle well with a man who had made his life in politics. 
So Nixon started to change. He let the Congress pass legislation allowing him to impose wage and price freeze, and said he'd never use it. He coyly confided to Howard Smith that he had converted to Keynesian economics. Arthur Burns, previously regarded as the economic advvisor closest to Nixon, fell in favor, especially when his testimony as Chairman of the Federal Reserve System's Board of Governors to the Joint Economic Committee was critical of Nixon's policy. 
Finally, in one of the dramatic reverses that Nixon is so skilled at, he addressed the nation on August 15. We were surprised. Stunned. In one move, he had changed much of the economic drift. At least for a time, he put a damper on inflation. The tax credits that he proposed to Congress have a definite bias towards business, but it is possible to hope that what Professor Dugan last night called a "trickle-down effect" will produce new jobs. 
Within a few months, we will have enough statistical information to start determining the success or failure of the new policies. But as Professor Rakewski pointed out in last night's discussion, we cannot measure the inefficiency that the plan has allowed. There is no way to measure the dissatisfaction at not being able to purchase some good, yet that inability would be a definite failing in an economic system. We may never really know exactly what hap­pened to the economy. Hopefully, economists will be able to learn from the mistakes. There have been enough. 
THE OBSERVER Page 9' 
Profs hold discussion 
Nixon plan may succeed 
by Jim McDermott 

President Nixon's new economic "game plan" has a fair chance for success, according to Associate Professor of Finance Edward Trubac. 
In a panel discussion sponsored by the academic commission last night in the Library Auditorium, Trubac contended that the new policies did not have particularly high goals -the hoped-for 2 or 3 percent annual rate of inflation may well have been attained without the drastic policy changes that Nixon announced on August 15, and without the . "Phase Two" that the President announced recently, he said. 
Frank Bonollo, Associate Professor ot Economics, described the history of the decision. In the early part of the 1960's, he said the economy functioned without an overly high rate of inflation or unem­ployment. After 1966, with the defense budget increasing with the Vietnamese war and domestic expenditures growing with the "War on Poverty", federal expenditures far out­stripped tax revenues. This situation is defined by either economists as stimulative fiscal policy, which can spark either real or inflationary growth in the economy. 
At the same time that the economy was being pushed by the expansionary fiscal policy, the independant Federal Reserve System was pumping money into the system to meet the needs of the government faster than the economy was able to accept this added stimulus, according to Bonollo. Thus, at a time when the C'conomy was least able to withstand it, it received a double jolt. 

Because of this jolt, a "snowballing" inflation started in the late '60's. Commencing an inflation fed by over-demand, it soon developed into a 'wage-price spiral', with labor unions and industries racing each other to get a larger share of the growing economic prosperity, !3onollo said. 
In 1968, the enactment of an income tax surcharge dampened the fiscal stimulus to the economy, but the Federal Reserve continued its policies of rapid growth in the money supply -continuing the inflationary pressures. 
Thus, by 1970, the economy was in a recession. After allowing for inflation, the national product (GNP) showed an absolute drop, making 1970 one of the worst post­war years. Additionally, unemployment and inflation rates were high, and the balance of trade with foreign nations was showing a deficit. There was some worry that 1971 would be worse in some respects, especially in the foreign trade sector. 
Speaking later in the discussion, Tamer Rakowski of the economics department ex­plained the "misgivings of a theoretical economist." The price freeze held what he called down prices, he said, but he predicted it will negate any market forces of pricing and 
supply. There would be a danger 
of an artificial scarcity, he 
assertC'd. Additionally, would be 
no way to measure this scarcity. 
This scarcity would be an 
('conom ic inefficiency, Rakewski 
contended. Because the fixed 
prices would be less than they 
would have been in a freer 
market, suppliers would be 
unwilling to offer the amount of 
goods for sale that would be 
demanded by consumers at that 
price. 
Rakowski also found popular 
opinion to be "not well advised in 
seeking a quick solution to the 
compund problems of the 
economy. Because of the 
problems in measuring the 
inefficiency engendered by the 
wage-price freeze, the final result 
of the new policies may never by 
fully known, he added. 
Summing up the discussion, Professor Trubac predicted the "game plan's " success for two reasons. First, he said, the goals of the plan are very modest and may well have been attained without the new government policy. Secondly, he explained that during the next year, few major labor contracts will be negotiated. These currently in effect will typically give only minor raises during the year, probably within the guidelines that the Wage Board is expected to establish. 
Trubac said that he anticipates a national 'ceiling on wages, probably accounting for a national productivity increase and a built-in "cost of living" increase. 

NOW AVAILABLE AT THE 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
PARSEGHIAN AND 
NOTRE DAME 
FOOTBAll 
by Ara Parseghian and Tom Pagna. The coaches handbook. An inside look at the "Parseghian system", from practice field to game action. The philosophy, drills, formations, plays, and strategy that make Notre Dame America's No. 1 college football team. Over 400 illustrations, photos, diagrams.. .for coaches, players and super fans of the Fighting Irish. ........$9.95 
also available 
NOTRE DAME FROM ROCKNE TO PAR­

SEGHIAN ... by Francis KING OF COACHES,
Wallace ... hardbound Brother Daniel 
$5.95 Bengert's story of Knute Rockne ... paperback...$1.25 
KNUTE ROCKNE, YOUNG ATHLETE BY Van Riper...$2.75 


;;.....Pa;;;;,og,..e_1"'-0-------------------~~'Jl=='E=-Q=I]j:....:~:....:'E.=:'R=-=-=.V...:::.'E.:....:'R.-=--------------_:_F~riday, October 29, 1971 
Frosh test Spartan yearlings 
by E. J. Kinkopf '72 
Freshman football coach Denny Murphy has two problems facing him when he takes the baby Irish up to East Lansing this Saturday. 
One problem is a traditionally tough Spartan opponent. The other is the touchy transition from a Mexican siesta to a knock­em-down, drag-out, dog fight. 
The Mexican Redskins may have been awed by the ND Goliaths, but it's a safe bet that Duffy's future Spartans will enter their indoctrination into the Irish­MSU rivalry with fists clenched and blood in their eyes. 
"I've been afraid of over­confidence all week," Murphy said. "I've been talking to the team during practice, trying to get their feet back on the ground. Trying to get their heads out of the clouds. All MSU teams come after Notre Dame. Especially with the exposure we got this past week, I'm afraid we may be a little overconfident." 

Coach Murphy viewed the ga.me.films of the Michigan State-Michigan game played last 
weekend, which MSU won 0-18, and had praise for the overall Spartan squad. 
But Coach Murphy couldn't really evaluate the Irish squad after last Saturday's debacle in 
Aztec Stadium. 
"I haven't received the game films yet, so I really can't evaluate individual per­formances. And it's really hard to evaluate our strengths and weaknesses anyway in such a lop­sided contest." 
So Coach Murphy plans no changes in his starting line-ups. That means the offensive back­field will again consist of quar­terback Tom Clements, half­backs Eric Pennick and Ron Goodman, and fullback Wayne Bullock. 
Pennick, the much heralded track and football star from Cleveland, Ohio, was the only Irish back in the starting back­field that failed to score. 
Eric really doesn't appreciate this ignominy, but it's only fair to point out that he did turn on the speed for one 85 yard breakaway that was called back. 
The Mexican altitude overtook Eric though, and he was pulledfrom the game after receiving oxygen on the sidelines. 
Ron Goodman more than took up the slack in Pennick's absence and tallied four times. Tom Clements added two scores, and Wayne Bullock "clinched" the victory with three more TD's. 
Clements, with an impressive fall, coupled with a standout game against the Redskins, has nailed down he starting quar­terback position. 
Also a top flight basketball prospect who has been under the watchful eye of Digger Phelps 

Navy's V oith is tough defender 
ANNAPOLIS, Md-Linebacker the Midshipmen's stunning 15-14 Chuck Voith stands astride the upset of 19th ranked Duke here Navy defense like the Colossus of last Saturday. The junior from Rhodes. San Antonio, Tex., recovered 
And, as might be expected of a three fumbles, forced two him­Colossus, Voith was a wonder in self, made 15 solo tackles, 

Chuck Voith, Navy's junior linebacker, was named the Lineman of the Week by the Associated Press for his outstanding performance against Duke last Saturday. 
Interhall playoffs clarified; basketball plans announced 
This year's Interhall Football championship regulations have been announced by the Interhall Athletics Office. If there are no ties in any league, the two league champions with the lowest won­lost percentage will meet in the semifinals. The third league winner will gain a bye into the finals. 
In the case of a tie for one league title, the two tied teams will play off to earn a spot in the finals, while the two untied league champs will battle for the other berth in the finals. 
Any questions regarding these playoffs should be directed to Interhall Athletics, Room C4 of the ACC, Ph. 6100. 
The Interhall basketball program is once again open to all halls. Procedure will remain the same., with one team being 

allotted for each 100 students in 
the hall. 
Selection of the respective team rosters may be decided by an method which the individuual halls desire. There are to be no more than 15 names on each roster, and their will be a deposit fee of $15 per team for payment of officials. All rosters must be submitted no later than next Thursday, November 4. Play is expected to begin sometime in the middle of November. 
Anyone wishing to officiate Interhall basketball this season, provided he has some type of past experience, is asked to report between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, to In­terhall Athletics, C4 of the ACC. 
assisted on nine other stops, and came up with two crucial short yardage plays. 
"About the only other thing we could have asked of Chuck," Coach Rick Forzano quipped, "was to hold the sideline chains. I don't think, overall, I've ever seen a better performance by a linebacker. Chuck was in perfect position all afternoon. He played with abandon and hit face up on every tackle." 
Voith attributed his ]per­formance, something Forzano has been forecasting since the day Chuck donned his uniform here, to a change in attitude. "I was thinking too much of my own effort," Voith admitted. "I was being too cautious." 
As a middle linebacker last fall, Voith enjoyed the freedom of roving with the action. He was, Chuck admits, slow to adapt to Navy's new 4-4 defense, which gives him different respon­sibilities. "A lot of my problem," Voith says, "was fighting the instinct to go to the football. Saturday, I waited for it (the football) to come to me." 
For a time, it seemed like Voith was a part of Duke's game plan. On the Blue Devils' first offensive play, Bill Thompson dropped his cargo and Voith recovered at the Duke 40. In the second period, Voith clocked quarterback Dennis Satyshur, who coughed up the ball, and Navy's AI Mayfield recovered. Voith was on the bottom of the pile again, this time at the Duke 25, when Ernie Jackson got separated from the football in the second stanza. 
A third fumble recovery, with 
3:59 remaining, set the stage for Navy's 33-yard fourth quarter scoring push and eventual upset victory. On a first and ten from the Duke 29, Thompson cracked the line and Voith cracked back. 
"It was an off tackle play," Voith recalled with a grin. "My arm rode up his chest and hit the ball. When I saw it bounce away and started after it, I felt like I was moving in slow motion." 
As a sophomore a year ago, Voith led Navy in virtually every defensive category except, of all things, fumble recoveries. Until Saturday, he had never collected three in one game. He had two in all of 1971. 
Voith's performance against Duke earned the Texas-born defender Eastern and National honors. He was selected as collegiate "Lineman of the Week" by the Associated Press, Voith also won a berth on the Eastern College Athletic Con­ference weekly all-star eleven. 

Tom was praised by Coach Murphy. "Tom has progressed real well. 
He has quick feet, and a quick release. He's a heady quar­terback who knows what to do on the field. I try to help him out a little though, telling him what to concentrate on, and pointing out little things to him." 
THE Irish plan to unveil a few different formations for the Spartans this weekend, but the main sets will come from the Irish Wishbone-full house back­field. 
The defense will again be led by a forward wall that averages around 245lbs. and doesn't have a single lineman under 6' 2". 
Coach Murphy declined to compare, at this point at least, this year's freshmen to previous classes. 
"I can do that better at the end 
of the year, after we've played the same teams that the others did. There is an abundance of 
_ speed and quickness on this year's squad though." .PID HE SAY SPEED? 
Yeah, Pennick heats up his burners to the tune of a 9.7 hundred. But even that timing may be a bit slow because Eric has layed off track for a while. He's'a good bet to better that time later in the season. and during next spring's drills. 
"You hear a lot of people constantly harping about the traditional Notre Dame backs. But speed isn't everything," Murphy cautioned. "There are lots of things that contribute to the complete back. And the complete back, the one who can catch, run and block is what we're after. We may have more speed than the varsity, but just because a kid can fly doesn't mean that he'll move right into a spot on the varsity next year. 
So after a little vacation south of the border, the infant Irish return to good ol' American french fries and hamburgers, good water and the realities of American football. 
To quote a Mexican Redskin player, "we got the spit kicked out of us. Their team outweighs half of Mexio City." 
And as Pete Demerle, a 185 lb split end said after the game, "As a team we get to practice once a week. The rest of the week we spend all our time getting zonked by the varsity." 
O.K. Pete. Now it's your turn to do some zonking ... against a real ball club. 
Rally site shifted 
The pep rally for the Navy game will be held tonight on the front steps of the Administration Building. Coordinators Jerry Fenzel and Bill Schmidt were unable to secure Stepan Center because it is to be used for the Parent's Weekend Banquet. 
The band will march from the band room behind Washington Hall, around campus, and to the Golden Dome, where the pep rally will begin at 7:00. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 



Friday, October 29, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
Middies must faceND'swrath 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 
An angry Notre Dame team, seeking to regain lost prestige, will clash with a Navy ball club gunning for its second straight upset victory, tomorrow in Notre Dame Stadium as the Irish and Middies meet for the 45th con­secutive year. 
The Irish saw their dreams of an undefeated season and national championship wiped out by their old nemesis, Southern California, 28-14 last weekend while the Middies stunned 19th­ranked Duke, 15-14 last Saturday with a thrilling, come-from­behind triumph. 
Pease" was Navy's offensive star against Duke, scoring 14 points on a pair of touchdowns and a two-point conversion and Voith was the defensive standout, making 15 solo tackles, assisting on nine others, recovering three fumbles, forcing two other Duke bobbles and making a pair of critical short yardage plays. Voith was named the lineman of the week by the Associated Press for his performance against the Blue Devils. 

Navy coach Rick Forzano said of Voith, after the Duke game, "Since I've been in coaching, I've never seen a linebacker in more perfect position, hit more people, or play with more abandon." 
That's the way all the Middies play the game, making up in spirit what they lack in size. It's this "never-give-up" type at­titude that makes Navy a threat any time they take the field. 

"They're a scrappy outfit," Irish coach Ara Parseghian remarked yesterday. "After that Duke upset, they'll be coming into our stadium sky high for a win." 
"They've been improving steadily this season," Parseghian continued. "They only trailed Michigan 7-0 at halftime and they had Pitt on the ropes a couple of weeks ago. They're class com­petition." 
The Middies have been having their problems this year, though. They have compiled a 2-5 record, beating Virginia and Duke and losing to Penn State, Boston College, Michigan, Pittsburgh and Miami. 
Navy has averaged 

12.1 points a game while yielding an average of 34 points to the opposition. 
Voith is the unquestioned leader of the Middie defense and his chief helpers are veteran tackle Glen Nardi and junior defensive back Tom Broderick, who leads the club in pass in­terceptions with three. 
Offensively, the picture is a bit brighter for Forzano. Sophomore quarterback Fred Stuvek, who threw 21 touchdown passes as a freshman, has directed the Middie attack in the last two games, taking over the helm after AI Glenny was forced out of the lineup by an injury. 
Stuvek has hit on 41 of 94 passes this fall, good for 404 yards and 

Jim Donaldson~:::::::::::i:i:.i:::~::::::::::::::::::-:;:;:;:;:;:i::::====================================: 
The Irish Eye 
:~===========:=:=:=:=:::::::::=:==========================================;================::.-Foot baII picks 
Battles for supremacy in the eastern and western sections of the country are in the spotlight this weekend on the collegiate football scene. 
Penn State's Nittany Lions, leading the parade of Lambert Trophy candidates in the East, will invade Morgantown, West Virginia, to take on the Mountaineers, considered by many as the East's number two club. 
On the other side of the continent, Arizona State hosts the Air Force Academy to decide who's best in the West. 
Other games of interest include Colorado at Nebraska, Michigan State at Purdue and the annual donnybrook between arch rivals Ole Miss and LSU. 
This is the way the Irish Eye see 'em this week: 
Notre Dame over Navy--Navy beat Duke, which beat Stanford, which beat Southern Cal, which beat Notre Dame, therefore, Navy should beat Notre Dame, right? No way. The Irish will take this one by at least three touchdowns. 
Syracuse over Pitt--The Orangeme~ h~ven't ha? as good a seas~n as they had hoped for but a win over Pitt IS a must If they are to attam even a high Eastern ranking. 
Oklahoma over Iowa State--The Cyclones have got a pretty fair ball club but they'll be lucky if they don't get blown off the field by the Sooners. 
Tulane over Vanderbilt-The Green Wave will drown the Com­modores. Nebraska over Colorado-Oklahoma polished off the Buffaloes without much trouble. The Cornhuskers should do likewise. 
Penn State over West Virginia--West Virginia is 6-1 and a victory over the Nittany Lions would make them the East's number one team. Paterno and his boys aren't about to vacate the top spot, however. 
Stanford over Oregon State--The Indians have never had much trouble trapping beavers. Washington over UCLA-Sonny Sixkiller's back in form and the Huskies ought to whip the Bruins. 
Michigan State over Purdue-Duffy Daugherty's Spartans, running their new Wishbone attack, can spring a minor upset in Ross-Ade Stadium tomorrow. / 
Northwestern over Illinois-A week ago, this would've been a simple pick but after the Illini's 21-7 win over Purdue last Saturday, coach Bob Blackman's team has to be reckoned with. Maurie Daigneau and company had best be sharp for this intra-state battle. 
LSU over Mississippi-This game used to be the big one in Bayou Country. But now the Tigers play Notre Dame and the Rebels have to take a back seat. They'll run second in the point parade, too. 
Miami over Army-The Hurricanes have been rejuvenated by Fran Curci. 
Southern Cal over California-The Trojans are capable of going throuJ;th the rest of their schedule without another loss. Thev certainly didn't look like a team that had lleen beaten four times last Saturday. 
Georgia over South Carolina-It looks like win number eight for the Bulldogs. 
Upset of the Week: 

Air Force Academy over Arizona State-The Falcons have a way of getting up for the big ones. 
Last week: 11 of 15 .733 Season's Pet. 79 of 105 .752 three touchdowns. He has been intercepted nine times. 
Stuvek's favorite receiver is another sophomore, Larry Van Loan, who leads the Middies with 23 catches this season. Van Loan has good speed and moves and has managed to haul in a couple of scoring aerials. 
Tight end Steve Ogden can also catch the ball, making 17 receptions. Flankerback Bert Calland, who has caught 13 passes, is another capable receiver. 
Calland has been a versatile performer for the Middies this season. He is third in rushing, with 167 yards, third in pass receiving, and has completed one of two option passes he's thrown. He also returns punts. 
Joining Stuvek in the Navy backfield tomorrow will be halfback Dan Howard, the Middies' top rusher with 268 yards gained, and fullback Larry Carello. Fullback Andy Pease, who turned in such a fine showing against Duke, probably won't see action Saturday because of an injury and that's a blow to the Navy offense. 
When the Navy attack has stalled this season, the Middies have relied on the booming foot of Tom Moore to punt them out of trouble. And he's generally able to do just that. 
A senior, Moore has averaged 
43.1 yards a punt. Against Duke, he booted coffin corner kicks at the Blue Devils two, three, four and nine yard lines, so his educated toe is a factor the Irish must reckon with. 
Notre Dame presents a few problems for the Midshipmen to handle, too. 
"Notre Dame uses so many running backs so well that you never get to know anyone's name," Forzano said. "Their split receiver, Tom Gatewood, has ca three touchdown Notre Dame and Navy will be fighting it out in Notre Dame 


Stadium this weekend 
passes against us in the last two mistakes that could be expected years. That's the kind of per­from an inexperienced player in formance that gets your at­a highly skilled position. His tention." passing statistics include just 21 completions in 59 attempts for 280
Forzano hoped to "score early" yards and a touchdown. He'son the Irish defense. "They been intercepted six times.
haven't given up a point in the Tom Gatewood, although farsecond half all season," he behind his record-setting 1970commented. 
pace, is the leading Irish passNotre Dame is primarily a ball receiver with 15 catches for 176control team this season, moving yards and two touchdowns. 

on the ground rather than Gatewood saw little actionthrough the air. Andy Huff and against Southern Cal lastBob Minnix have done most of the weekend, giving way to Willieball carrying for the Irish, Townsend, but Parseghian saidalthough as many as .e-ight backs that Gatewood was "runningoften see action. Huff is the top better" this week in practice and ground gainer on the team, with should be in the starting lineup221 yards, and Minnix is close tomorrow.
behind, with 202. 
There will be a new face in the Irish offensive line Saturday as Dave Casper moves into Jim Humbert's left tackle spot. Humbert was lost for the remainder of the season when he 
,~ 
underwent surgery this week for a knee injury sustained against Southern Cal. . 
"Casper has done a good job in practice, " Parseghian said. "He is capable but lacks ex­
perience." 
The possible return of Ed Gulyas, last year's top ground gainer who has sat out the last five contests with a broken leg, might be a boost to the Irish of· fense. 
The Notre Dame defense, which gave up ore touchdowns to Southern Cal than they had yielded in the first five games, may be hurting somewhat if All­American defensive back, Clarence Ellis, is forced out of the lineup by an injury. Ellis has been hampered by a charley horse this week. 
With the possible exception of Ellis, the Irish defense is ready to go this weekend and that could mean trouble for the Middies. Notre Dame's talented crew of defenders is seeking to atone for the three touchdowns they allowed Southern Cal at the expense of Navy. 


The Irish, who lead the series by a 34-9-1 margin, will be
-·
Darryl Dewan is slated to start at halfback tomorrow for the seeking their eighth straight win Irish, over the Middies . 
Weekend sports slate 
White scrimmage this SundayAside from the Fighting Irish Center. 

afternoon at 4: 30,on the ACC ice.

gridders entertaining the Middies 
Out for revenge against 
This weekend will see the Irish this weekend, the Notre Dame 

Michigan, which handed them a 
ruggers travel to Davenport,sports slate features a pumber of 

7-6 defeat, the Irish stickmen will 
Iowa, to face Midwestother events. Here is a roundup 

see action this Sunday beh,ind 
powerhouse, Palmer College.

of the action on tap: 
Stepan Center. The "B" squads 
Alex Wilson continues his tune­

The Notre Dame soccer club will clash at noon, followed by the ups for the big November meets 
goes after its second straight win "A" contest immediately af­today, hitting the trail for In­
against Oakland University, terward. dianapolis, where his runners 
from Rochester, Mich., at 10:00 Coach "Lefty" Smith will put his will compete in the Indiana State 
Saturay morning, behind Stepan troops through another Blue-Meet this afternoon. 
Page 12 THE OBSERVER 
No residence exchange? 
by M.A. Baum 
A preliminary report to the Inter-Institutional Team cited the cost of renovating old halls and Notre Dame's stay-hall system ~s b~rriers to any major change m either campus' residence program. 
The Inter-Institutional Team is an eleven-member board com­posed of representatives from both schools charged with in­vestigating and resolving problems arising from the merger of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College in the field of Student Affairs. 
The report, submitted Tuesday by an informal five-member committee, dealt with con­siderations affecting the union of ND-SMC residence 'halls. 
On the question of introduction women's dorms on the Notre Dame campus, Fr. Blantz noted that necessary renovation costs "may affect which halls are chosen," but stressed that money was not the only consideration. 
Problems arising from the fact that Notre Dame maintains a stay-hall system while St. Mary's does not were also noted. . 
According to student member Jane Sheehy, "Everyone is for co~ducation except for giving up their hall." Bill Wilka, a second student member, agreed that who will give up their halls is a "thorny problem". 
The Team is considering a general poll of students to gauge student feelings on the subject. 
The committee noted that the future use of St. Mary's campus, for example the determination which departments will be· located there, will affect the use of residence halls. It also cited considerations of the student's social life as another important factor. • 
Due to the complexities of the 9u~sti?n~ and overlapping JllriSdi_ctwns (Security, Tran­sportatiOn and Maintanence 
Michiana chooses "Joy in the Morning" over ' "Love Story" by 5 to 1 
Which Is the Best 'Love Story' 

all concerned), it is expected that f · 
several alternative plans will be .?;hcautwn. According to Wilka, proposed. Said Fr. Chambers Th er want t? be ~ery careful. "We will probably have say si~ .ef; redl adfr~fid this might be or seven plans and' re~en mis an e I_ ?one too fast." them." P t Actual deciSions, according to 
AI Fr. Blantz, will not be made 
t~oug~ al_l ·committee solely by the Inter-Institutional mem e~s. mterviewed felt that Team, but "will have to be some limited form of ~all in-de_ci_ded by groups (in the Ad­terchange could be possible by mmistration) getting to ether next year, all expressed the need and deciding jointly." g 
Security Advisory Board seen in near future at ND 
by Daniel P. Rock 

Father James P. Riehle, Dean of Students, told the Observer that the university Security Advisory Board is slated for formation in the "near future." Riehle said that the Security Advisory Board which already has the Vice-President's Council's approval has been delayed six months while guidelines were drawn up. Informed sources report that the members have already been chosen, but no names have been released as yet. 
"The Security Board was approved last Spring as a security and traffic board ad­visory in nature. It will consist of a tri-partite committee, probably from an equal number of students, faculty and ad­ministration," said Riehle. 
The aforementioned sources say that the Board will consider parking questions and traffic fines first. According to the 
Features: 
sources, the Board may soon present a program that would minimize the distances maids must trav~l to get to work. Also on the docket, according to the sources, is a project to protect late-n~ght librarians on the way to their cars and a review of the current University fining system. 
Vice-President of Student 
Affairs, Reverend Thomas 
Blantz, commented, "There 
wasn't much sense in making the 
board last April because there wasn't enough time. We didn't know anything about framework then and what would be the use of appointing students that would be graduaitng in a month?" 
"It just takes a while to establish guidelines juris­
dictions, and the nu'mber of 
members that you want on the 
board. It must be large enough to 
be truly representative (em­
ployees students and visitors) 
and small enough to be ef­
fective," he added. 
Fri. -Sun. 
FOR SALE 
CLASSIFIED 

Quality S-track tapes. Big selection. 
ADS 

All only $3.50. Call 6715. 
WANTED 

ON SALE: Brand new, guaranteed S-track 
URGENT: Need 1, 2 or 3 generaland cassette tapes. Fantastic admission tix to Navy game;selections. All tapes . only $2.99. 

Need not be adjacent. Call Leo atCall 1781 (Paul) quickly. 

1607. 

1953 purple School Bus (in Stepan 
Wanted: One Electric Typewriter

Ctr. lot). $!5 or best offer. 1508 . 
good or greaf shape. Call TomCrew Club. 

287-2731. 

'65 Buick Special, Stick, Clean, WANTED: 4 general admission
Good condition. '66 Plymouth Fury 1, Automatic, 
Tulane tickets. Call Bill at 283­6843.

Power steering, Good condition. Must sell. Will Sacrifice. Call 233-6487 after 5:30. 
Need ride to Arlington Heights Illinois or Northwest suburb are~ For Sale: Must Sell . cheap . '66 
any weekend. Call Patti . 4355. Ford Fairlane . Runs good. Call Mike 6729. 
Needed: 6 student tickets and 4 general admission to Navy Game Call Ann Marie 5446. ·

Amber plastic room divider, 90" X 26". Barber's chair, a swinger. Cheap. Call weekday evenings. 
Need ride to Ann Arbor Nov. 4.

287-3544. 
Call Chrris 4867. 

For Sale: 26 inch bicycle. 3 speed. Exc. condition. $25. 234­NOTICES6689. 
NEED MONEY?

For Sale: 4 Gen. Admission tickets to Navy; best offer. Call 
Morrissey Loan Fund Jim 1817 · All seats adjacent but 
Basement of La Fortun( will sell separately. 
II: 15-12:15. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's

For Sale: 4 general admission 
and Info concerning Viviane

Navy tickets. Call Tom 1850. 
Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, End~rsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only through indiv.

Two Navy general admission cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UPtickets available . $8 each. Bill . 
LESSONS.

8318. 
WANT TO MOVE ON CAMPUS?

For Sale: Two Navy Tickets, in 
Campus room available for

end zone. $8.. Call 1397 or 8661. 
second semester. Greg . 8086.

Ask for Glen. 
Ski trip to Aspen, Col. at

Three tickets available for 
Thanksgiving. Open to everyone.

Sophomore parents weekend Signups Wed., Thurs., Oct. 27, 28,buffet dinner. Reduced Rates. 
7-9 pm. Coke Bar in La Fortune.

Call Bill . 8318. 
PITT WEEKEND . NINE BUS

Durst RS-35 Enlarger . $25. Skies 
SEATS STILL AVAILABLE.

with bindings and case . $40. 288­4326. 
One Football ticket available with the purchase of a bus ticket. CALL 7757 BETWEEN 1-5 PM. 
PERSONALS 

Opportunity for sharp business­Have a cheer-ful Halloween. 
m 1nded student to earn top cash Basement Fisher. Fri. 8:00. 
and get unparalleled experience working for self on campus. Startsnoregalldork-type nonsense is Immediately. Send brief resumefun,too . Zapd. 

and phone number to: Mr. C. R. Dyntorth, Box 75, Swampscott MA 01907. ' 

Lollipop tree, We're madly in love with YOU! Passionately, 
Sunday N.Y. Times on Sunday.
Legs and Boob Pandora's Books 
N.D. & S.. B. Aves. 

Lucky Lady, Young and sweet, but not too 
lfl_formation on soft-voiced girlinnocent looking! Happy Bir­w1th baby crying. Call 1621.

thday! Your Southern Friend. 
LOST Kookie, D~ gebst m ir (reason for being). 
Lost: Man's high s<;_hool ring by

W1e 1mmer · ich Iiebe dich. 
HTH near Keenan . StanfordDein Sunshine 

Lobby. Great Sentimental value: Goys, checl with your HTH. To Stan · Love . Fifteen. 
Reward. Call 8602. 
Lost: Brown frame glasses near South Dining Hall. If found,Jumbo, 

Congratulations to NO's Best contack Frank 6925.
Lacrosse Defenseman! Coach and Horn 
Lost, strayed or stolen, search for your Head? 
Girls' 24" bike, Schwinn "Deb­bie", chrome fenders, pink andfind it in deep confusion? sStop ... . 

white frame, Last seen at Convo Sleep ... . 
Tuesday night. Reward, Call Bill at 8156.

awaken to cry the saving fantasy Iine 
W.... lda. 2da. Jda. 4da. 5da. Nonsense! walk, grin, content away 
1·11 .H .7S 1.M 1.15 US' 
Zapd 
11"11 
·• 1·• 1.15 'us z.is 
~ 11-zt .71 us 1.71 z.4i--z.ll\ 

Dearest Roo, 
Zl-25 .15 1.35 · z.M z... 3.~

Happy HaiiOI(IIeen!! Trick or Treat? 
1 10 
Ruffle Butt. 
Zl-3t · 1.11 us 3.41 ···~ 
31·35 ·-110 ..
..... • l' Z.8t 3.15 4.71 

Classified Ads paid for in cash 
3&-40 us z.tt 3.11. us u 1j

when ordered. 2. Office hours 12:15-5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day 
41-451_,55 ~.30 3.:M' 4.51 S.Stl 

before publication. 
~511.75 2.50 3.50 4.7S .... 

Man' With The X-Ray Eyes 7:30 7:30 The Night The World Exploded 9:00 The Woman Eater 10:10 Laurel & Hardy And The Mud Murder 
Case 11:30 9:·00 DRACULA MIDNIGHT 9:30 
FRIDAY 
SUNDAY OCT. 29 OCT. 31 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS COM.E ANY TIME
MEMBERS FREE 
SEE ONE· SEE

NONMEMBERS • $1.00 
THEM ALL
HOMOl~ M[inoCOlOR 







