What did you expect'? More sun? The Man says rain, some clearing. Tomorrow 
"fair, cooler." 


serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VI. No. 38 Tuesday, November 2,1971 
SLC interviewed 
Trustees' decision disappointing 
by W. Dennis Duggan 
Four members of the Student Life Council last night expressed mixed feelings about the Trustee's latest rulings <?n student life, but a fifth, South Quad representative Buz Imhoff, called the move "a slap iri the face." 
All five expressed confidence that the Trustees would not take further en­forcement action and that, in the words of one of the members, "the status quo would be maintained." Four out of the five members were members of the Hall Life Committee, which wrote a report which advocated that halls be allowed to determine their own parietals. 
Student Body President John Barkett, the only man interviewed who was not a 
by Daniel Rock 

If the question of parietals is still alive as an important issue, it appears that a sense of im­patience, disgust and just plain frustration are the dominating reactions to the issue of parietals. 
Opinion ranged from complete contempt of the parietal regulations to the rare belief that parietal 
violations  are  decreasing---or  at  least  less  
noticeable at Notre Dame.  
John  Knicien,  President  of  Morrissey  Hall,  

commented that there has been too much wasted time and print on this issue and it has accomplished almost nothing. Rev. Maurice Amen, Flanner Hall rector, said that he is just "sick and tired" of the whole discussion. He considers it a "lousy situation with p<>ople trying to struggle out." 
"Forget it," said Amen, "get something else .... go for the throat... Why isn't this place co-ed'! I'm sick of it. L<>t 's get into some real issues." 
Choosing not to discuss parietals enforcement, Amen's reaction was not unique. A sense of futility was the most common reaction to any discussion of parietals. 
"I don't believe it is a question of parietals en­forcement and any series of subsequent sanctions for violations," said Kwicien. "I think it is a matter of <>stablishing concern in the community---concern at all lt>vels. I believe we have to begin to question the whole area of the quality of student life-­Pducational, psychological, emotional." 
!<,ritz Hoefer, a Morrissey Hall resident assistant said that he disliked the word 'enforcement.' ' 
"It is ludicrous to think that I could make sure that every girl is out of the hall by 2 AM. If I see a violation, I'll tell the guy that the girl has to get out and I have done so twice this year. I don't go around snooping for violations but I feel I can walk around the hall like anyone else." 
~errr Nagle, a Morrissey Hall senator, ep1tom1zed the pr~valent opinion, sayi~g, "Many guys have been d1screet. There seems to exist an unofficial policy to be discreet about the presence of female visitors." 
According to Bob Long, Senator from Flanner have spent discussing and arguing the whole damn thing the last three years, because there are much more worthwbile endeavors to spend my time on." 
According to Barkett, however, the statement did not exclusively bode ill for the student body. 
"The letter (Father Hesburgh's to Professor Eagan, which commented on the Trustee's action) "pointed out that the Board reacted favorably on the facilities and survey questions." 
Barkett's Vice-president, Orlando Rodriguez, was also encouraged by statements about Hall improvement and the proposed renovation of LaFortune Student Center. 
"I was impressed by the amount of time and effort the trustees devoted to 
Hall, parietals enforcement seems to be in a state of cooperation. 
"We live under parietals but they aren't strictly enforced here, but we work within the system to beat the system. There aren't any problems but they're not being observed either." 
Flanner Hall president, Bob Welly, said, ''Bee a use this thing is kind of up in the air, you can't have a cut and dried answer. Good order has been maintained in Flanner and vandalism has been decreased tremendously." 
"It has become a healthier atmosphere---not just a party center every Saturday night. People are using more imagination and creativity in their weekend activities and we're not getting all the on and off-campus traffic. People don't come here unless they're invited," Welly added. 
Observer Insight 
Rev. Thomas Chambers, rector of Morrissey Hall, said that the spirit of responsibility has now been placed on the students. He believes that "We're still working out some mature leadership and further signs of growth and maturity can possibly change the minds of the Trustees, possibly next year." He emphasized the need for Judicial Boards on the hall level to become more active more efficient, then p ople will take the boar~ more seriously. 
"If Judicial Boards become effective then parietals will become effective also," Ch~mbers said. "Parietal policy is decided year from year. Our key is our Judicial Boards so that our evaluations and recommendations will be taken seriously. The decision is final for the year." 
"Parietals is only one aspect---one which has seemed immediate and controversial---but I wish the University---students and administration-­would begin to realize that images and cliches are not the concern of education," added Kwicien. "We are here to be educated in preparation for normal and healthy lives as social beings and we must remind our superiors that something is lacking." 

John Barkett, below; Buz Imhoff, above 


world briefs 
(c) 1971 New York Times· 

Jerusalem; Israel told t~e United States that she would not accept its proposal for indirect negotiations with Egypt toward an interim settlement in the Middle East unless the United States resumes sen­ding Phantom jets to Israel. 
New Delhi--Preliminary reports reaching New Delhi said that perhaps as many as 10,000 persons lost their lives when hurricarte­force winds and a tidal wave struck the coast of India Friday night. The disaster occurred only a few hundred miles from the region where 500,000 were killed last November in a similar storm, 
Pretoria--A South African Court sentenced the Anglican Dean of Johannesburg to five years in prison under the country's terrorism act. The Dean, the very Rev. Gonville French-Beytagh, has been an outspoken opponent of South Africa's policy of apartheid. He was freed on bail pending an appeal of his conviction. 
Washington--President Nixon was given discretionary powers to use the tax system to bring pressure on foreign governments to follow the economic policies that the United Sates wants. The Senate Finance Committee voted to allow the President to reimpose the 7 per cent excise tax on cars built in countries that discriminate against American-made automobiles. 
Washington--An administration bill to give special financial assistance to communities that are desegregating their schools was defeated in the House under a procedure that barred any amendments and required a two-thirds majority for passage. The bill will come up a.gain later. in. the week when it can be ammended and apssed by a s1mple maJonty. 
. ~ash.ington-~A Federal District Court judge refused to grant an mJunctlon haltmg the planned underground nuclear explosion on the Alaskan Island of Amchitka. An attorney for groups opposing the blast said he would appeal the ruling to a Federal Appeals Court as soon as possible. 
Interhall game results 
Story on page 3 


Page 2 

Adverse reaction to Barkett letter 
by Jodi Cambell 
Student Body President John Barkett has sent a letter to the hall presidents requesting that they make all further decisions regarding parietal issues. 
In the text of his letter Barkett asked, "Are you willing to live under the system de facto until the proposal is re-submitted? I say 'you' instead of 'we' because frankly I am", adding that, "I think next spring and summer will be the time to resolve the issue. If enforcement continues as discretely as it's been I plan to table the issue." 
Barkett suggested that "all 20 halls must unite in a show of solidarity to force the thing through," if this is the hall's decision. 
Reactions from hall presidents questioned indicated that this plan for letting the issue ride did not meet with approval from these involved. 
Ed Motto, president of Sorin Hall and chairman of the hall president's council said "I agree that we are all tired of the issue but we can't take it upon our­selves to drop the issue if the students don't want it dropped." 
Motto feels that the hall president is both a leader and representative of his hall and that action like dropping an issue without determining student feeling could cause the president to lose contact with his hall. 
The residents of Sorin are satisfied with the discreet en­forcement as it stands at present. 
"There is an overall wait and see what happens attitude," ac­cording to Motto. 
Phil Michaels, president of Dillon Hall, said that the parietal issue hasn't been discussed at any Dillon hall council meetings this year but the issue will be brought up at the next meeting. 
"Even as a senior I can't see letting the issue slide for another year," Michaels said. He also disagreed with Barkett on the point that all 20 halls must unite to get action, saying that he felt that a large group of halls, not necessarily a majority, could get results. 
"Some Hall Presidents have been toying with the idea of going back to the individual halls and passing 24 hour parietals as a gesture of defiance to the Trustees' actions," Michaels stated. The success of this plan would depend on the number of halls that passed the resolution, he stressed. as a small .number would have a negative effect. 
A contrasting view came from Keenan president Dave Lering. 
"I'd like to see the 20 halls 
united for action." Lering said, 
adding that "the SLC should run 


FUTURE CPA'S 

the University." 
Stating that he was against letting the issue ride, Lering ealled for "an end to the double standard business." 
Keenan is becoming like it was in the past. He stated, "people do what they can get away with." 
Breen Phillip's president Steve .Jeselnick declined to comment. 
Later in his letter Barkett said, "Regarding 'autonomy', please stop using the word. We are not talking about autonomy. We are talking a bout hall responsibility, specifically in two fields: 1) to name its own hours; 2) to handle parietal and drinking violations in the hall." 
Motto and Lering both agreed with this portion of the letter. 
Ll'ring added that the problems have arisen due to conflicting definitions of the word. "We don't define it as autonomy from the University; that's ridiculous. The halls want autonomv from each other. Each hall is dif­ferent: the list of differences is endless." 
Motto agreed wilh Lering's statement and reported that a meeting between hall presidents and rectors was held October 26 to discuss a new word for autonomt. 
ND directories due Wednesday 
The Notre-Dame-St. Mary's student directory will be available this Wednesday, Assistant Student Services Commissioner Walter Szwarc announced yesterday. 
Szwarc noted that the hall presidents will receive the directories for their respective halls at tomorrow night's HPC meeting, and will be in charge of distribution. 
Off-Campus students will be able to pick up their directories Wednesday at the Off-Campus Office in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Szwarc was rather displeased with the publishing company's handling of the directories. 
Szwarc noted that among the 
many mistakes made were the 
failure to print a number of the 
students' local phone numbers. 

Cultural Arts Commission's Fund. Raising Film Series presents 





A SPACE 

2001: 
ODYSSEY 

Directed by Stanley Kubrick Nov. 3 & 4 tWed. & Thurs.) 
7:00 & 9:30pm Engineering Auditorium 
Admission $1 Fund Raising Films Patron Cards Free! 

The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may OAK PARK: 6606 W. Roosevelt Rd., 848-9600. Exit Eisenhowerbe purchased tor $8 per semester Expressway at Harlem. HIGHLAND PARK: 1672 Old Skokiefrom The Observer, Box Q, Notre Rd., 831-4300. North on Edens? Deerfield "West" exit. Front­Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class age Rd., follow to Old Skokie. South on Edens? Deerfield postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
"West" exit, follow to Old Skokie. Open 9:30 to 5:30. Mondays & Thursdays 'til 9. 
46556. 

Tuesday, November 2. l9!.L7.L1______________1:_11._'E_Q_iJJS._'E._'R_V._~_R._.,;_____________________..;,_;Page;;;a.;;...-3 
Morrissey wins league title 
B~· Stan llranka•· '7:1 

Tlw next -to-last WPek of In­t t•rha II l•'ootball 1971 was probably thl' most hectic of the \'l'ar. Morrissey capped an lHHil'fcated season in clinching tlw League Two crown: Breen­l'hillips and Keenan tied, throwing thP Ll•ague Three race mto mon• turmoil; and Dillon PdgPd Sorin to move into a I .Pague One tie with Pangborn­fc'isher. 
!\lorrisst•y :!tl Lyons tl 

( lnn• again it was quarterback Kirk Mill1•r driving the Morrissey offl•ns(• to victory. Miller scored t wiel' on runs of one and two \·ards to raisl' his season point iota! to :10, while also passing for his third score of the year. a 21 ~·ardPr to Tony Oppegard. The hig Morrissey defense again played a strong game, allowing I.yons just two first downs and only one yard rushing. 
\\'alsh fi ,\lumni fi 

Tlw l'PIIar dwl'llers of League flrw fought to a 6-6 deadlock. Tom Wilbur ran in from seven yards for thP Walsh touchdown, Cavanaugh :.w Badin t1 Farl1•y :::! Stanfm·d li whiil' Alumni tiPd it up on A.J. 
Cavanaugh's defense held a Farley broke loose to score theSl'hwartz' thre1• yarrl jaunt. 

wt•ak Badin offense to only two most touchdowns in a single first downs and just eight yards gamP of any team this season. 
Billon 1; Sorin tl 

rushing. Steve DeCoursey ran 18 QB Hick Tuyn clicked on 12 of 16 yards for a touchdown, returned passes for two touchdowns, a 65'l'hP big play and the big Red an interception 21 yards for yarder to Juan Manigault and a"[)" stopped Sorin in their at­another, and hit tight end Jim 10 scoring play to captain GregtPmpt to tie P-F for the division Mahoney for a 24 yard pass White. Tuyn carried it acrossl1•ad. Dillon took the lead <'Ompletion and the final TD. himself once from 10 yards out·,
quickly, as Mike Harrington hroke loose on an off-tackle play to race 48 yards for the only Harriers 2nd in State Meet points of the game. Both clubs had touchdown passes nullified, The Notre Dame cross country eaptain Pat Holleran, who as a 26 yard screen pass to Sorin 's team finished second Friday in rounded out the Irish totals with a Dennis O'Brien was called back lhl' 18 team Indiana State Meet at 24th place. on a dipping violation, while a 12 Indianapolis. Finishing behind Ball State and yard scoring toss from Randy Ball State finished at the top of the Irish were Purdue 90, Indiana Stasik to Bill Hoy was negated as the heap, followed by the Irish. State 91, and Vincennes 100. !loy lined up offside. After the Notre Dame recorded a point The cross country team will 
lone touchdown, Dillon's defense total of 70. have its final meet of the season dug in, with tackle Mike The Notre Dame runners were this Friday when the '70 Big Ten "Animal" Cunningham and paced by Dave Bell, who finished Champ, Michigan State, visits linebacker Nick Peluse leading 7th, Dan Dunne, 9th, Marty Hill, the Notre Dame campus for a the way. 13th, Jeff Eichner, 17th, and :l:30 meet. 
Booters split weekend matches 
The Notre Dame soccer team split a pair of games this Wl'l'kPnd, bowing to Oakland lfnivl'rsity mochester, Mich.) 3-2 on Saturday but bouncing back to c!Pfl'at the University of Chicago, .J-:1 Sunday .. The Irish hooter s now have a 2-5-1 record this fall. 
Oakland scorl'd two first period goals Saturday behind Stepan <'pntl•r and never relinquished tlwir IPad. The Irish dosed the gap to 2-1 at 13:00 of the second quartl'r when Hick Coleman took a pas~ from G1•rman Osorio and st·orPd on a breakaway up the' m iddlc. 
Tlw score remained that way until 16:00 of the final quarter whPn Oakland scored what proved to be the deciding goal. ColPman managed to score again. this time getting an assist fmm I<:d Mascadri with two minut1•s remaining, but the Irish W<'rl' unable to come up with the t•qualizer. · 
Sunday afternoon, the Irish traveled to the U. of Chicago to play in that school's silver an­nivl'rsary classic. 
Aftl'r a scoreless first quarter, Notn• Dame exploded for three goals in the second stanza. Bob Rick Coleman booted four goals last weekend for the Irish soccer 
team.
Donovan got things rolling at thP five minute mark, scoring Chicago refused to quit, by Donovan. with an assist from Guy Higgins. howl'ver. and cut the Irish Chicago scored their third goal Coleman got an assist from margin to 3-2 with a pair of third with five minutes left to play but Donovan and scored three quarter tallies. Chicago con­fine defensive work by Graves,minutes later to make it 2-0 and tinued to pressure the Irish in the Halph, Bartazol and Burke keptColeman booted home another final quarter but Gary Troy th<• home dub at bay.
marker at 14:00. Osorio was kkked in the clincher for Notre nedited with an assist on nam<• at the 16:00 minute mark, The soccer team will travel to ColPman's second goal. hooting hom<' a rebound of a shot Western Ilfinois next weekend. 


qhilw dullback Mike Kemp that R-P finished without a loss 
~~·orPd twicl' on three yard runs. and allowPd their opposition only 
Stanford got hPir only TO on a 65 six points all year, yet will 
:vard pass from George Pakcer to probably be missing from post­.Jack Tyd. sPason activity. 
Bn•••n Phillips fi Keenan li 
Flannl'l' :!H (irace 0 
ThP defending North Quad scorPd first as a B-P fumble and Th1• campus' most explosive two pPnalties moved the ball to offensive team tuned up for their the to. Halfback Joe Reams showdown with Keenan next scorl'd from the three two plays \l'l'l'k with this rout of their fellow latl'r. B-P bounced back, though, lligh-Hisers. Fred Ruckert a~ Rob May's one yard dive in the haull'd in three touchdown passes s<•cond quarter knotted the game for the second straight week, at li-6. The contest turned into a putting him in first place in the punting battle after that, lnterhall scoring race. Ruckert a !though Breen-Phillips was at caught bombs of 75 and 40 yardsKt'l'nan's 14 yard line as the final from Carl Oberzut, and pulled gun sounded. The tie gives B-P a • down a 55 yarder from Satchmo one point lead over Keenan and Santanello. Halfback Paul ,·ictorious Flanner, but the two Sullivan scored the final touch­second place clubs face off next down. while Dave Simpson \\'t•ek with winner reaching the hootPd four extra points, giving playoffs. It's unfortunate, too, him seven in a row on the season. 
Stickmen edged 5-4 
The Notre Daml' lacrosse team Tlw Irish squad enjoyed the suffered a frustrating loss to the luxury only four times, 1971 Midwest lacrosse club Irish goals were scored by B.J. champion, University of Bingle, Eddie Hoban, still nur­Michigan squad, 5-4, on Sunday. sing a dislocated shoulder, Jim 
Michigan led at the half by a Brown, and Jim Cortney. score of 3-2, but the ND stickmen The Lacrosse "B" squad also battled back to take a 4-3 lead at lost this weekend, bowing to the the end of the third quarter. Michigan "B" team, 4-1. 
Michigan came back to tally Joe Mears scored the only Irish twice in the final period, though, goal, in the second meeting of the scoring their last goal with about two squads. Notre Dame had seven minutes left. won the first meeting. 
The defeat was frustrating for The loss to Michigan ended the the ·Irish because penalties fall schedule of the lacrosse allowed the Michigan squad to ll'ams. gain a "man-up" advantage ten The Michigan defeat dropped limPs. the lacrosse "A" record to 1-2. 

leers net 17 goals 
The Notre Dame hockey team "At times we're doing a lot of appears capable of scoring its things well out there of­~hare of goals in the upcoming fensively," coach Lefty Smith season but they might have their commented, "but at the same problems preventing the op­time we're doing a lot of thingsposition from doing likewise. had defensively. I was a little 
disappointed to see that manyThe Blues defeated the Whites, goals scored."
9-8, Sunday at the ACC rink as the The line of Tom Lindsey, Eddie Irish icers conducted their fourth Bumbacco and Ian Williamsintrasquad scrimmage this fall. 
turned in a fine offensive per­
Sloppy goaltending, in-formance, accounting for all consistent defensive coverage in Pight of the White team's goals. front of the net and the lack of Bumbacco, at left wing, tallied hackchecking by the forwards all four goals and frosh center contributed to the abundance of Lindsey and right wingerscoring. Williams added two apiece. 



OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Ruggers bow to Palmer 
Notre Dame's rugby fortunes Dacey and Braun are both suffered a pair of setbacks this doubtful as far as this coming past Wl'ekend at the hands of wPekend's action is concerned, Palmer College. The first set­rPported team spokesman Phil back came when Palmer handed Calandra. the Irish "A" team a 31-12 However the trip was not a thumping, but this was only a total loss for the Irish ruggers, as disappointment. the ND "B" team was able to 
notch a 10-0 win over their 
The serious setback came in Palmer rivals. Bill Marco and the form of a rash of injuries Frl'd Manley each scored on tries which struck the NO "A" team for the Irish, and Ed O'Connell during Saturday's action. Mike ·added a conversion. Phil Dacey suffered a knee injury, Calandra accounted for all of and Ned Braun dislocated his NO's scoring in the "A" contest shoulder, and both had to be by booting four field goals, all removed from the game. But from 40-yard range. since rugby doesn't allow sub­This Saturday, both the "A" stitution, the Irish had to com­and the "B" squads will travel plt•lt• the contest while short two out of town to meet the Cleveland nwn. Blues. 

Page_. 
Weekend crime report 
Security Director Arthur Pears reported a theft of fifteen dollars from Flanner Tower last weekend, by two boys about age thirteen. The boys had been going around saying they were collecting for Pakistani relief. "If students see kids in the hall who have no business there, they should notify their R.A. to get them out of there," Pears commented. 
Security patrolmen do check soliciters, if they catch them, to see if they have the proper papers, Pears said. However, their task is handicappedsince the men in the halls do not report to duty until ll P.M. 
The department also was plagued by three false fire alarms from the Old Fieldhouse, Badin Hall, and Le Mans Hall over the weekend. 
Pears noted that no new leads have been turned up in the armed robbery in Grace Hall. 
The installation of lights in the new section of the D-1 parking lot bas been completed. 
Night People: Night Editor: Jim McDermott 
Assistant Night Editor:  Dan  
Ryan  
Layout  and  Headlines:  Joe  
Abell,  Art  Esposito,  Don  
Biancmano  
Nite  Controller:  Joe  
Wilkowski  

disappointing 
Nov. 8 
Nov. 8-9 Nov. 9 
Nov. 9-10 
Nov. 10 
Nov. 10-11 
Nov. 11 
Nov. 12 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign u~ this week tor job intervi~ws tor the week of November 8 through 12. 
Interviews are open to NO and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open--at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional Information regarding interviews and procedure. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF NOVEMBER 8 ·12 

S.C. Johnson &Son, Inc. BS in Ch.E. and M.E. Kerber, Eck & Braeckel. BBA in Acct. Lilly Industrial ( ,atings. BS, MS in Ch:E. and Chern. Republic Steel Corp.BS in Met., M.E., E. E. and C. E. BBA in Acct. Pfizer Inc. BS, MS in Ch.E. Procter & Gamble Co. BS, MS degrees in all Engr., Mgmt., Science, Computer Sceince, Math, & 
Master's degree in Bus. or Industrial Admin. with a tech. undergrad degree. Scott Paper Co. BBA and AB for Sales. Texaco Inc. BS. MS in Ch.E. and M.E. BS in E.E., C.E. and Geology. Hurdman and Cranstoun, Penney & Co. BBA in Acct. Penn Controls, Inc. BS in M.E.• E.E. and M.E.I.O. Procter & Gamble Co. 95, MS in Ch.E., M.E., E.E. and C. E. for Plant Management. BBA, MA, BBA 
or MBA for Sales Management. University of Pittsburgh · Graduate School of Business. All degrees. One course in calculus is a must. 
N.A.S.A.. Lewis Research Center. All degree levels in Met. and M.E. BS, MSinE.E. and A. E. Union Carbide Cor~ .. Linde Div.ision. BS, MS in Ch.E., Engr. Sci., M.E. and San. Engr. 
Atlas Chemical Industries, Inc. Cancelled. 
' 

The Magnavox Company. BBA in Acct. MBA. Haskins & Sells. BBA in Ace!. MBA. Ingersoll-Rand Co. Cancelled. Leeds & Northrup Co. BS in E. E. and M.E. Mobii Oil Corp. BS in C. e., M.E. and M.E.I.O. Olin C0rp. BS, MS in Cll E., Met., M.E. and Chern. Scientific Design Company, Inc. All degree levels in Ch.E. StauffE-r Chem•cal Co. BS in Ch.E. Northwestern Mutual ~if e. All degrees and Depts. for Sales and S\lles Management. 
of Indian.:~. · CariA.Morse.!nc.oflllinois. BSinC.E. B.ofArch. Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co. All degrees and majors." Rheem Manufacturing Co..BBA in Mkt. and Mgt. Univer5ity of Chicago · Graduate School of Business. BA, BS, BBA, MA. MS, FIFO, Ph.D. All majors welcome. University of Michigan, Any bachelor's degree. 
"It was a good weekend for us," said Security Director Ar­thur Pears in summing up the weekend's few security 

SLC reaction 
(continued from page 1) 
South quad representative Buz Imhoff did not share Thornton's view of the decision's effect on the SLC. Terming the decision "a slap in the face," he suggested the SLC had been denigrated by the Trustees, which had, in his words, allowed the SLC to deal with only "twiddly matters." According to Imhoff, the SLC had become a "token group." 
ND Housing Director Rev. Thomas Chambers contended that Father Hesburgh was under "pressure from all sides." Chambers said that Hesburgh's approach indicated "great concern and fairness." 
According to Chambers, the 
future merger of SMC and ND 
might have inhibited the Trustees 
from giving an affirmitive an­
swer. Chambers said that "a 
possible question in Hesburgh's 
mind was, 'It is a big step for 
Notre Dame to take; are we 
ready at this time'?" 
Under the decision, the 
University Court will try all of­
fenders of the Trustee-created 
rules. 

THE OBSERVER Tuesday, November 2.1971 
Holiday Bound? 



Stop sitting around! 
Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays), gives you advance reservations and saves you up to 33%%. 
If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? Stop by an Allegheny Airlines ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Only $5.00 for the rest of 1971. 
And remember, Allegheny also accepts other airlines Young Adult Cards, too. 
ALLEGHENY AIR SYSTEM® We have a lot more going for you 
Northern Third FOR SALE 

Quality S-track tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715. 
ON SALE: Brand new, guaranteed S-track and cassette tapes. Fantastic selections. All tapes . only $2.99. Call 1SS1 (Paul) quickly. 
1953 purple School Bus (in Stepan Ctr. lot). $75 or best offer · 150S · Crew Club. 

Durst RS-35 Enlarger · $25. Skies with bindings and case · $40. 288· 4326. 
For Sale: New Trays and Folding Tables ; $6.00 apiec·e. 1942. 
STUDENT RECORD SALES Sale on now· PRICES SLASHED New stock in large selection List 5.9S-3.65 . 4.9S-3.15. 
PERSONALS 
search for your Head? find it in deep confusion? Stop ... . Sleep ... . awaken to cry the saving fantasy line Nonsense! walk, grin, content away 
Zapd 
Herod: You're getting a call from Jerusalem at 3:30 Roberto Clemente 
BOZO· 
Is the bus in gear or has it a flat? 
Dear Ruby, Happy Birthday Little Tike, Tyrone 
WANTED 
Wanted: One Electric Typewriter qood or qreat shape. Call Tom 
2S7·273l. 
HELP: HELP: Need ride to Nashville, Tenn. for Thanksgiving. Willi whelp with expenses. Please call Sue 4554. 
ELECTRONICS ENGINEER NEEDED to work with musician, 
writer, and photographer. medial production control computer.  Tri via  ·  
Typing Wanted  

Experienced, accurate. Call: Jane Smith, 233-4029. 
NOTICES 
NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 11:15-12:15. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP 
LESSONS. 
Ski trip to Aspen. Cot. at Thanksgiving. Open to everyone. Sign-ups Wed., Thurs., Oct. 27, 28, 7-9 pm. Coke Bar in La Fortune. 
-
Sunday N.Y. Times on Sunday. Pandora's Books 
N.D. & S.B. Aves. 
SMC GIRLS: Part lime job available. Call Denny · S670. 
Fix.your-OWN-CAR tonight. We have the space . toots · parts and help. You do the work and $AVE. Autotech · Rt. 31 South in Niles. 6S4 1960. Open evenings and weekends. 
Photographs for applications, passports. Portraits. Fast, inexpensive, high quality 6729. 
LOST 
Lost. strayed or stolen, Girls' 24" bike, Schwinn "Deb· bie", chrome fenders, pink and white frame, last seen at Convo Tuesday night. Reward, Call Bill at S156. 
Lost: Watch Vantage chronograph on North Quad. 
Please call 1384. Reward. 
Classified Ads paid for in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 12:15·5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day beforr publication. 

Wonla lda. 2da. J(la. 4da. Sda. 
1·10 .5I .75 1.00 1.15 11-11 .10 1.11 1..35 ·us 11-ze .7e us 1.10 z.4i ·­21-U .ss us ieo z-... ZI-30 l.OO 1.10 2.35 3.40. t. 31·35 1.ZO 1.10 2.80 3.85 t~71 31-40 1.35 Z.IO'f 3.10. 4.25 
41-451.55 ~.30 3.30 4.5e 46-sot.75 z.so :..50 4.75 






