Provost deems sanctions unenforceable 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell, university provost, yesterday branded the sanctions drawn up by the Ad Hoc Committee as "unenforceable.'' 
"Who has time in a hall to make sure that a student doesn't receive a lady guest for two weeks '?" Fr. Burtchaell said. 
Fr. Burtchaell said that part of the fault of the report was that it dealt with all degrees of offenses while the Trustees, he claimed, were only interested in serious offenses. 
cited cases of grand larceny,It was "unfortunate" that the 
some of which, he claimed, were trustees' call for sanctions was dealt with lightly by the appeals
linked to the three topics they board. touched upon in their letter, "The appeals board reversed 
Burtchaell said. 
almost all the decisions that the Dean of Students brought before
The Trustees, the Provost it last year," the administrator
commented, were talking about claimed.
all kinds of serious offenses, not When asked how he could fault just in those three areas. 
students with that since theThe Provost points out that appeals board is tripartite, thethe sanction report dld not set a Provost replied, "that makes itminimum penalty for assault and worse."
that there were cases of it at the "If students feel that theiruniversity last vear. He alsu Provost or the university, Rev. James T. Burtchaell 

Volume VI, No. 1s Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Thursday, September 30, 1971 
Supreme Court vacancy 
Nixon won't give court seat to a woman 
Bv Fred P. Graham 
l"l 1!171 NEW YORK TIMES 
Washington, Sept, 29-Nixon administrations olflciala are passing the word that President Nixon will probably not nominate a woman to the Supreme Court to fill eit~er of the two present vacanc1es. . 
T_he reason , they say, IS that thetr search has not turned up a woman who combines the desired judicial philosophy and a suf­fie iently distinguished legal background. 
White House apot•men have said from the first that the 
primary consideration would be to select nominees who share 
Nixon's _co~serv_ative, strict­
construct10mst philosophy. Thus, the failure to come up with a woman candidate indicates that those with strict constructionist records lacked the professional standing to be credible nominees. 
This is borne out by a report that the two women to have been seriously considered were Judge Sylvis Bacon of the Superior Court for the District of Columbia and Beatrice Rosenberg, Chief of the Appellate Section on the Justice Department's Criminal Division. 
Both women have strong Jaw­andorder backgrounds. Miss Bacon previously worked in the Justice Department, where she helped draft the District of Columbia Crime Billthat has become well known for its preventive detentionand "no knock" search provisions. Miiss Rosenberg has argued more than 30cases for the criminal divisions before the Supreme Court. 

But Miss Bacon, a 39-year-old product of Vassar and Harvard Law School, has been on the bench only seven months and has little trial experience. Miss Rosenberg, a 63-year~ld New Yorker, is not well known outside 
government circles, where she is highly respecred.
Neither woman was on a list of lOwomensuggestedasqualified
candidates bY_ _the National Women's Pohbcal Caucus. Several of the womenon the list were Democrats, and none had discernible strict constructionist leanings_ A Justice Department source confirmed today that so far the Department had asked the American Bar Association to check on the qualifications of only potential nomineee--Rep. Richard H. Poff, R-Va. The A.B.A.'S committee on the Federal Judiciary has already begun to ask law school deans to get their faculty members' opinions of Poff. 
E. Clinton Bamber, Dean of Catholic University Law School 
I,~,,~@~~~~~~~~~~«~Y.-~,1 
WASHINGTON-President Nixon and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko conterred for two hours at the White House Wednesday. Nixon said at the conclusion of the meeting that although there had been "some steady progress" at the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, hP honNl for more movemnt when the talks resumed in November. 
UNITED NATIONS---Canada and Iceland made it clear that they would vote to seat Peking as the sole representative of China at the United Nations. Canadian External Affairs Minister Mitchell Sharp 
told the General Assembly in strong terms that it should seat the people's Republic of China and made it clear his government would oppose the move to retain a seat for Nationalist China. 
WASHINGTON An intensified American effort to find a Middle East settlement began as Secretary of State Rogers put forward some compromise proposals during a two-hour working lunch with Egyp­toan Foreign Secretary Mahmoud Riad. The conversation is expected 
to resume at the United Nations after Rogers meets with Isr abba Eban. 
WASHINGTON·In contrast to the close divisions of the past two years, tne Senate voted 64-21 tto continue deployment of the Safeguard Antiballistic Missile The Senate also rejected an amendment to a military procurement bill that would have eliminated $1101 million for thr the purchase pf tje Navy's F-14 interceptor. 
SAIGON President Thieu of South Vietnam made one of his ingrequent campaign speeches to a convention of National Police and told policemen that they may shoot anyone who attempts to burn a vehicle in thP streets. Thieu told his audience that a minority that spreads conCussion and creates disturbances could not be tolerated. 
herr, said today that he began Nixon now hils virtually the yesterday to poll his faculty to; entire legal field from which to meet a weeken A.B.A. deadline. choose his second nominee. "Several ofthem said they didn't Justice Department officials know much about him, and the say that no attempt will be made two who had said they know his to send the Senat two record say they are opposed." nominations at once-a "ticket" Bamberberg said. .representing various qualities 
that would appeal to a braod 

With the Nixon Administration spectrum of the Senate. apparently determined to This led to speculation about nominate Poff for the "Southern several new nominees thathad Seat" vacated by the late Justice not been mentionned until HUgo L.Black, and the prospect recently .Among them are dJudge of a woman nome ee fading, Arlin M. DAdaAdams of ,the
E • f h
xper1menta1 res man ours

h• hi• h SMC A bl lk
19 19 t ssem y ta 
by Maureen Rogers 

At the Student Assembly meeting last night, discussion centered around the freshman proposal to eliminate hours on an experimental basis and a talk concerning sexism on both campuses. 
The frosh aproposal was presented by Jan Ryan and Valerie Jaskulski. Because of the imminent mereger, males and females should be subject to the same regulations and privileges, the plan read. This will be an experiment in education to begin on January 1, 1972, and extend through May. A reviewing system will be established to judge the effect of the expriment on the girls. Academic and health standards will be com­pared to those of the first semester to determine if the trial was a success. Parental per­mission cards similar to those of the upperclassmen already receiive will be utilized. In a polltaken of the class following Monday night's meeting in which 75 per cent voted, 99.5 per cent wanted no hours or at least felt that the restrictions were not necessary for second semester 
Hall autonomyplagues Alumni 
If passed by their hall council at a meeting ton ight, Alumni Hall residents will vote October 4 on a referendum affirming their right to hall autonomy which they .stated in their constitution last year. 
. The referendum grew out of a motion made to declare twenty­four hour parietals on the premise of hall autonomy at a Hall Council meeting Tuesday night. After a stormy debate, it was decided to put the issue before the 287 residents of Alumni in a referendum. The motion was proposed by hall resident Dennis Devlin and seconded by hall senator Sorge. 
Last night a committee com­posed of hall officers, rec assistants, and the hall judicial board met to word the referen­dum. After another controversial meeting they decided on this wording for the rederendum: "We, the men of Alumni Hall, reaffirm our existing constitution 
of one year, with spec1a1 
reference to Article One, stating 
our right to self government, hall 
autonomy." 
The referendum now goes back 
to the Hall Council to vote on the 
wording before it will be given to 
the residents. 
All those voting for the 
referendum at the committee 
meeting were students, while 
those opposed were the recotrs 
assistants. Hall President Ron 
Pogge abstained from voting on 
the issue. Pogge and Hall 
Secretary-Treasurer John 
Horeled issued tliis statement: 
"We do not feel at this time that 
we can uphold the policy of 
confrontation which will be 
brought a bout by this referen­
dum." 
Hall Senator Sorge accused 
Pogge with "shying away from ·the issues" and expressed regret that hall h:::tdership could not present a unified front on the 
issue. 

basic obligation is to the in­dividual rather than the com­munity as a whole then it is impossible to sustain' any kind of self discipline," he said. 
Burtchaell explained that he was more concerned with those who feel a responsibility for the com~on good without having the benef1t of a group backing them 
up. 
"I'm not terribly concerned with the fifty people who get together and paint the hall study (continued on Page 2) 
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and jAlexandfrm. Bickel, a Law· professor at Yale. Both asre Jewish, so that the nomination of either would ease pique in some Jewish circles over Nixon's decision not to replace former Justice Abe Fortas with another Jewish HJustice. 
Because of the Desire to;send up two names at once no nominations are expected un'til at least next week, and possibly the week lifter 
h 

freshmen. 
After passing this resolution, the Assembly meeting continued with Becky Minter and Peggy Thompson presenting their ides for campus wide discussion on sexism. Relating incidents of recent sexist behavior, Miss Thompson stated that " ...rape is not possible with consent and I cannot consent to rape of human personalities on this campus." 
Because the Assembly will soon be studying legislation concerning co-education, it was felt necessary to bring to its attention the fact that sexism will be prevalent. 
The stress for education will begin in the donns, starting on the west campus anhd expanding to the cast campus as the program gains momentum. Miss Minter insisted that this is not to belabeled as a Women's Lib movement. 
Other ttems on the agenda were a brief discussion of the com­prehensive policy at SMC and the results of the Academic Affairs Committee meeting held Tuesday. In pushing to eliminate comps at that time, the students were told by the Academic Dean that " ... a degree without comps is a watered-down degree degree." 
Five members to the Stduent Affairs Committee were elected at this meeting. They are Paul Dziedac, Jim Clark, Eileen Fitzpatrick, Nan Albers, and Midge Lusardi as off-campus representative. The first meeting will be held Thursday. 
The final motion was made by the chairman Kathy Barlow in appointing a committee to draw up a proposal to place deter­mination of parietal hours for west campus dorms in the hands of the hall councils. 
THE OBSERVER Thursday, September 30, 1971
Page 2 





Township Plan criticized by stay senator BobSauer 


The proposed township style of reorganization of student government presented Tuesday · night's Senate meeting came under fire Wednesday from Stay 
Senator Bob Sauer. 

The Senate constitutional revision committee chariman criticized the plan, which would establish a seven man board of commtssiOners with each member representing a district, on five points. 
Accoring to Sauer: -An elite group of policy makers rather than a representative group is fostered by the use of seven commissioners, six of which would control six policy making commissions (academic, hall life, coeducation, human affairs, community relations and judicial.) 
-The six commissioners may not be satisfied with their com­mission and as a result fail to do the best possible job. 

-The board chairman, elected from and by the seven com­missioners, would be equivalent to the student body president, but not representative of the student body. 
-The chariman's election would be unfair in that he could win by being known by more board 

members  than  another  can­ 
didate.  
-There is no  quarantee  the  

seven could work well together. 
Under the plan, presented by Stay Senator Fred Giuffrida, the chairman would be the board's official spokesman. He wil a~r Hay Senator Fred Giuffrida, the proposer of the township style reorganization of student government. 
point all cabinet members, with the advice and consent of the entire board, and vote to resolve a tie among the commissioners. 
In addition to heading their committees, the other members will set the budget, act as student representatvies to the Student Life Council, arrange elections and handle constitutional problems. 
Giuffrida, Senate academic commissioner and two year veteran of student government, described the township plan as an attempt to unite the Student Senate and the office of the Student Body President 
At present, according to the stay senator, the Senate only functions when it is opposed to 

Burtchaell on TV; talks of sanctions 
(continued from Page 1) 

lounge," he said, "but I am concerned with the fact that we also have the guy who feels responsibility for the way the life in the hall goes without having a gr·oup backing him up." 
Very few people feel respon­sible for the common good, the Provost said, but that students make very large claims that they do. 

Fr. Burtchaell cited examples of candidates running for judicial board in a certain hall, whose campaign posters implied that they would protect the students and make sure they didn't get punished if they were elected. 
"Part of the responsibility of a guy in a public position is that he will protect the people from illegal actions, not allow them,"Fr. Burtchaell com­mented. 

Fr. Burtchaell said he · "had no quarrel" with the thesi's that people should not be expected to enforce rules that they had no hand in making. 
"If people are unwilling to take on the responsibility for en­forcing any rules that they haven't made then the hall staff 
and hall personnel shall have to do it," the Provost stated. 
Fr. Burtchaell said he agreed withthe Trustees' stand on parietals, terming the concept of having each hall set it's own 
parietal hours "ridiculous." 
The administrator claimed that it would be a real mess if Dillon shut down at oneo'clock while Alumni didn't do so until two. 
Burtchaell appeared on the six and ten o'clock news on WNDU­TV and was interviewed after his 11 p.m. Mass in Dillon. 
On television he said that he believed that sanctions were necessary to maintain student behavior on campus. He termed the sanctions that were devised by the ad-hoc committee as "sometimes ludicrous." 
Administrators and hall per­sonel felt some of the penalities were too light, the Provost claimed. He later admitted that he was "presuming this was the case." 
Burtchaell said though, that any sanctions that are devised, "must bs serious if we consider the rules serious." 

For All Those Interested in Working at Sister Morita's School: 
First meeting of the year Thursday Room 114 O'Shag 7 p.m. 
the SBP. By uniting executvie and legislative offices, Giuffrida feels there will be an "elective representation" from the legislative body. 
After the executive and legislative branches are merged under proposal, the result should be united with the SLC to form a new power structure in which the checks and balances system is reorganized into a more cen­tralized system of represen­tation, Giuffrida added 
Students on SAC plan meeting 
Student memebers of the Trustees Student Mfairs Com­mittee will meet Monday, Oct. 4 to discuss drugs on campus and the parietal hours situation. 
The body will meet at 10 a.m. to consider off-campus problems, hear a report on minority students and a preliminary report of the drug problem. 
Reaction to the letter of Board of Trustees Chariman Edmund Stephan's letter to te Student Life Council will be discussed at an afternoon session beginning at 
1:30 p.m. 
The SAC will meet with the hall presidents at this time. Both sessions will be in the Center for Continuing Education. 
The student members are: SBP John Barkett, James O'Hara, Student Government Executive Coordinator Bob Weaver, SMC Student Mfairs Commissioner Jean Seymour, and former SMC Student Government Vice President Jean Gorman. 

MEETING 

Pitt weekend 
Nov.5-7 
-Bus 
-Hotel 
-Game Sign Ups 7:00-9;00 PM Thursday Sept.30 

The Observer is published daily during ttie college seme:.lcr pxcept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


JUNIOR LEAUGE THRIFT SHOP 
over 30,000 items, new and used furniture, Clothing, housewares, etc. Stepan.Center Thurs., Sept. 30, 9:00AM to 6:30PM Friday, Oct. 1, 9:00AM to 12 noon 
ABOOSE POSTERS 


' 
' 
'I 


aboose co. box 887 warren, pa. 


16365 
Please add 50c for handling and postage (check) Total $ ................ (money order)0 Insure yourself some mail, check for brochure of 14 more posters 
NAME .................................................................................... ADDRESS ............................................................. CITY.................. !=;TATF 

The Cultural Art's Commission's Performing Arts Series 
presents as its season premiere Samuel Beckett's WAITING FOR GODOT directed by Alan Schneider with Zero Mostel 
and also Samuel Beckett's FILM directed by Samuel Beckett on Oct. 4, 7:00 & 9:30 p.m. at the 
Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 Cultural Arts Commission Performing Arts Series Patrons Free Patron Cards will be on sale in the dining halls at the evening mealsThursday, Friday, &Monday; 
at the Student Union Ticket Office and at the door Monday. 
-----~ -----------­
Thursday, September 30, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 

Canada voices support of Peking 
<C> 1971 NEW YORK TIMES 
United Nations Sept. 23--The advocates of Peking's un­conditional admission to the United Nations picked up ad­ditional support today when Canada and Iceland made it clear that they would vote to seat the Peking government as China's sole representative. 
This involved a change in the position of both countries from last year. 
Canada's Minister of External Affair, Mitchell Sharp told the General Assembly that it should move decisively at this session to "seat the People's Republic of China in the China seat." He made it clear that his govern­ment opposes the Amencan proposal for two China seats. 

His statement confirmed what United States and other diplomats had been told privately, namely that Canada will vote against the American­sponsored resolution making the expulsion of Taiwan an important question requiring a two-thirds majority. Last year, Canada supported the the U.S. on the Important Question Resolution even though she voted for an 


Nixon is encouraged bymonetaryprogress 
By  Edwin,  L.  Dale  Jr.  
1971 New York Times  
Washington,  Sept.  29-­ 

President Nixon was reported today to be "encouraged" by progress being made at the an­nual meeting of the International Monetary Fund toward eventual realignment of currency ex­change rates and reform pf the world monetary syste!Jl 
This word came from 'Ronald 
L. Ziegler, the White House Press Secretary, after an unscheduled meeting of the President with Pierre-Paul Schweitzer, Managing Director of the Monetary Fund, Secretary of the Treasury John B. Connally, and Arthur F. Burns, Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. 
Karl Klasen, President of the West German Central Bank, told a news conference he had the "firm impression"that the U.S. would not obj~t to a small gold price increase, and hence a devaluation of the dollar, if it comes as part of a package of currency exchange rate changes. 

There was a rising chorus of anguish from the less developed countries who objected not only that they were being hurt by the current monetary turmoil, but also that they were not allowed any significant role in decision-making. 
A group of well-known Americans, including former Secretary of the Treasury Henry 
H. Fowler and William McChesney Martin,Jr., former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, issued a statement saying that the "first requirement" in resolving the present monetary difficulties is "to assure that any new set of exchange rates that may be established be realistic." 
The statement, issued by the United States Branch of the Atlantic Council, said "token measures will not do.' But the group said that as part of the process of negotiation the U.S. "should remove the 10 per cent import surcharge as soon as possible." 
FREE 

THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 30th 3 P. M. -5 P.M. and 7 P.M. -9 P. M. in the COKE BAR -BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE FREE GIFT PACKS FOR ALL STUDENTS (students must bring ID's limit 1 per student) 
Gift Packs include soap, shampoo, toothpaste and other assorted items Courtesy of Student Services Commission 
THE COLLEGE 
OF ARTS AND LETTERS COLLEGE COUNCIL 
is soliciting applications for membership from NO Sophs, Juniors, and Seniors. If interested submit name and phone 
number to Dean Frederick Crosson,s office (O,Shag Hall) or call Dan Moore 234-3638 Friday Oct. 1 is final date. 
L---------------------------------------------­
Albanian Resolution providing carefully for clues to the outcome for the admission of Peking and of the China vote. the expulsion of Taiwan. The contest is so close that 
most diplomats refrain from 
Last year's Important·QUestion making hard predictions. But it Resolution applied to the issue of is widely accepted that the U.S. is China's repr.esentation as a fighting a tough uphill battle in its whole. This year, at the request effort to save Taiwan's seat while of the United Nations, the Im­getting Peking admitted to the portant-Question clause, and Security Council. 
therefore the requirement of a At least eight countries which -,..-------------, 
two-thirds majority applies to the supported the American-expulsion of Taiwan only. sponsored Important-Question 
The foreign minister of Resolution last year have Iceland, Einar Agusisson, said declared during the last 10 days that his government would at this that they want to see Peking session vote for the membership admitted immediately with full of the People's Republic of China rights. They are: Britain, "with all the rights and com­Canada, Ecuador, Iceland, Iran, plications involved." Italy, Rwanda and Turkey. 
Last year, Iceland abstained on the Albanian resolution and voted If their statements mean, as is with the U.S. on the Important widely assumed, that they will Quest}on issue. But a new left-of­vote against the new American­center government was elected in sposored Important-Queation June, which presumably favors Resolution, this resolution seems the seating of the Peking doomed. Last year's Important­government as the sole Chinese Question Resolution was adopted representative. by 66 to 52. An eight-vote switch 
The China issue remained would mean its defeat, 60 to 56. uppermost in delegates' minds One of the factors that makes it today as the Assembly went impossible to predict the outcome through the third day of its three­is that the U.S. and the Taipei and week long general debate during Peking governments are waging which time the 130 member an Important part of their countries state their govern­campaigns in capitals around the ment's basic policies. world, it often takes time for the 
Members of both camps are results of those efforts to be monitoring each address reflected her~ 
Broestl outlinesprogram 

in Mexico City and Tokyo 
by Jodi Campbell 
The criteria for acceptance into the foreign studies programs in Mexico City and Tokyo are the same as those for the European programs, Fr. L. Broestl reported in a telephone interview today. 
These students must maintain an overall grade of B-, and a grade of B-or better in their specific language. Qualified candidates will be selected in January by a committee con­sisting of language teachers and freshman advisors. 
"While the number of students in these two programs is smaller, these students are no less en­thusiastic." he stated 

At the present time there are fourteen students in Tokyo and seven m Mexico as compared to approximateiy 45 in both the Angers France and Innsbruck, Austria programs. There are nine applicants for next year's Japanese program and twenty­five for the Mexican program. 
ClaF-ses are conducted in the students' dormitories, and in the native language except in Japan where only the language classes are in Japanese. 
Like the European study programs most of the par­ticipants are from the College of Arts and Letters. 
BRIDGE LESSONS 

10 weeks Oct. 3 -Dec. 5 Sunday evenings 7: 00 ­9: 00 Flanner Hall Card Room $5.00 per person 
Cliff's Notes are great any time you 
need help in literature! We 
recommend buying early so that 

you can use them as you study .•. 
the assigned play or novel and as .,• 
a helpful review prior to exams. •• -Get the Cliff's Notes you need 
today. You'll see why they're the 
preferred study aid of millions of 
students nationwide. (P.S.J II your 
dealer's out of a title, he can get 
another last with Cliff's "Hot Line" 


Nearly 200 titles-always milable wherever books are sold. 
Only Sl mb 

Cultural Arts Canmission Re. Sophomore Literary Festival 
There will be a meeting for all St. Mary's and 
Notre Dame students who are interested in working for 1he Sophomore Literary Festival on Sunday Oct. 3rd, 7:30p.m. in the C.A.C. office on the 4th floor of LaFcrtune (Room 4-c). 
Those wishing to attend are urged to contact Ray Funk (phone 7937) before the meeting on Sunday. 
THE OBSERVER. Thursday, September 30, 1971
Page 4 










THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editm·-in-Chief Busint>ss Manager Glen S. Corso .James Jendryk 
All successful newspapers are 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicnse. They 
never defend anyone or anything if they Ad i\lanagt·•·
Ext>cutivt' Editor 

can help it; if the job is forced upon them, Rill Rauerle
T.C. Treanor 

they tackle it by denouncing someone or 
something else. -H. L. Mencken,Founded NovPmber 3, 1966 Notre Dame, Indiana Rusiness 283-7471 NCWS 283-1715 
Back to Daddy 
"Education is not the process of teaching men what they do not know. Rather, it is the process of teaching men to behave in a way they would not ... What help is our education, if arithmetic is turned to rogurey, literature to lust. .. " 
Suppliment to the University of Notre Dame Academic Guide, for the School Year 1962-3. 

Pretty potent stuff, for only nine years ago. But similar fluids course through the veins of other handbooks, too. The 1963-64 student guide says "The true Notre Dame student observes the ordinary rules of good taste while visiting in The Morris Inn or any other hotel or restaurant in the city," with all the ensuing implications of what would happen to a Notre Dame Student who did not observe these "ordinary" rules. Likewise it said that "The Notre Dame Student clearly sees that it is not fitting to entertain young ladies in a men's residence hall. 
Neither the visitors nor the hall residents would be at perfect ease." Student
• 
government was considered "an excellent medium for educating students to govern themselves." The hall autonomy section said "Each rector will promulgate regulations proper to his hall and binding on the residents of that hall," and as for student publications, "All articles and editorials in student publications must reflect the Christian character of Notre Dame." 
We thought this University had moved away from all that. We thought that the last five years had finally and permanently buried all the mincing patronizing paternalism that the past hundred and sixty had built up. 
That's why we find it so disquieting that as high and respected a University Official as Provost James T. Burtchaell would go as far as he did to endorse the mold of paternalism the Trustees are currently sporting. 
In a cameo tube appearance last night, Father Burtchaell suggested that sanctions were needed to maintain student behavior. In truth, Burtchaell has made of number of comments on the subject, and the bredth of them are far more complex, comprehensive, and subtle than his brief TV comments in­dicated. 
First off, he decried the lack of "student responsibility." Not a very original complaint, nor a particularly relavent one, but one that seemed integrally tied up with the Trustees case for sanctions. 
In reality, the Trustees have never allowed the students to handle enough responsibility to accurately try them. The Board of Trustees is itself studentless, and the highest student-membered board is the SLC, which has only rec-. comendative powers. 
Nor have the Trustees allowed the student body to exercise what meager power it does possess for any extended period of time. The SLC has been with us but three full years, and it was only eight years ago that the aformentioned gibbrish was promulgated as Holy Writ. 
But the real problem seems to be an inability on the part of Fr. Burtchaell to comprehend the real meaning of the word "responsibility"? To be "responsible" does not mean to behave in a manner preordained by the Board of Trustees. It isn't the University's job to make people "behave in a way they would not behave" any more. To be "responsible" means to be free men, fully aware of the consequences of their every action and fully willing to take on those con­sequences. 
The rest of his ideas seem to be badly burdened by his first assumption, Father Burtchaell seemed particularly distressed by the fact that the Board of Appeals reversed so many of the Dean of Student's decisions. But our Provost is in hot water indeed if he contends that he, or the Dean of Students, or any single ad­ministration member is more qualified to pass judgement on students than a board drawn from all elements of the University. 
The Provost said some other stuff, worth note, too. For example, he said that he approved of theTrustee's stand on Parietals, and thought it was ridiculous to have varying times from dorm to dorm. Don't spend too much time trying to figure it out. Under the Trustee's position, the Parietals can end at different times in different dorms. 
The fact that Father Burtchaell has to fantasize an invalid rationale to support the Trustee's stand underscores the arbitrariness and irrationality of that stand. Whatever disadvantages exist under a no-parietal situation (time differential between halls, undermining of the Unviersity's moral standard, etc.) exist under the present situation. Why two o'clock? 
In his interview, though, Burtchaell did say something with which we could wholeheartedly agree. He said that the sanctions drawn up by the ad hoc com­mittee would be "unenforceable." They would be. So would any other sanctions. We hope other members of the Board of Trustees will be able to catch up to this 
•fact. 



Memorial Checkmark 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: John Abowd 
A Play in two acts 
The cast: 

L. Emmet Ballantine: <his name was O'Paul, he called himself Saul, but everyone knew him as Larry), young, righteous arts and letters student, civilian. The colonel: <Name:classified) military career man office in building 5 of a middle sized midwestern university. The chorus: concerned onlookers Scene: Mary, 1971,-exam week at the colonel's school 
Chorus: Well, Larry, how's the rotcy course you took to show them 
they couldn't stop you ? LEB: Really enjoying it, its tasty but the colonel's gonna screw me for cutting three times and he didn't even announce a cut policy. Chorus: Yeah, but didn't they lock you out a couple of times when you were late. 
LEB: The door was locked but the others could have opened it if they hadn't been at attention somehow whenever the colonel got close they all got hot pants and jumped out of their seats. I never could figure it out. Chorus: Let's ask the Colonel if he's gonna do anything about your grade because of those cuts. How'bout it colonel: what's happening ? Colonel: Funny you shmuld mention it. A couple of the boys caught me on that but I gave it to most of them. Chorus: Too bad, Larry. Its only castles burning. LEB: But, dammit, Chorus, castles are important. 
Act II 

scene: Sept. 1971 LEB is far away but the smoke of putrid mortar and drawbridges burning can be smelt faintly in the breeze from building 5. Chorus: We would have liked to help Larry. We even tried to sign up for As 211 to prove they couldn't do it to us but they are pretty clever. For the first time in history there was a little checkmark after the course title just like the one they (as opposed to they) always put after your favorite course. Its the only one on the whole page of rotcy courses; we names it after Larry. Wonder why thatis? Colonel: Oh... is that still in ther ? I thought they corrected that mistake before they printed the book. Chorus: You mean we could have taken a rotcy course aftrr all ? Colonel: Of course, we encourage civilians to enroll. Why, you want to join ? Chorus: No, but we wanted to take a course. Colonel: I'm sure that could be arranged. We had a couple of girls signed up for it but they pimped out-I mean copped out-on us. We had to settle for two freshmen civvies. Chorus: You mean all the others are in rotcy ? Colonel: Actually, all of them are civilians until they're junior year when they sign their contracts with us. You want to join? Chorus: Are you the one who knew Larry ' Co Colonel: Yes, but I thought he had dropped the course he was gone for so many weeks. Chorus: Ca vas, Larry, Larry, so moreitgoes, smell the smoke? Ghost of LEB: But dam mit, Chorus, castles are important. Chorus: <the last word) Only for the people inside. 

Thursday, September 30, 1971 THE, OBSERVER Pages 
sr. patricia mcneal 
what are we doing with our silence 
Somehow the "qu1'et" of Notre Dame's campus except for the "politics of 
the problem is much parietals" brought on a significant irony with the showings this past weekend of deeper -it is the "Strawberry Statement" and "Cool Hand Luke." Though "Cool Hand Luke" is the myth held by manyfar better film, there seemed to be a misplacement of affinity in the audience americans that 
during the one scene which makes the viewing of "Strawberry Statement" 
worthwhile. 
At Notre Dame some of the audiences' readion seemed to display a clear 11 disbelief in "Strawberry Statement's" ' 
portrayal of the established authorities l. resort to violence and brutality when they attempted to end the non-violent takeover of the students. However, the reality of that violence and brutality in "Strawberry Statement" did match the reality at Columbia University. The reality of violence and brutality resorted to by established authorities was also confirmoo by the Walker Report after the Chicago Derrnnstrations and was confirmed again by the students' deaths at Jackson State and Kent State. 
The use of violence can gain immediate results as Hannah Arendt in her book, On Violl'nce points out. The campuses have been "notoriously" silent since Kent State. The immediate gains won by the establish­ment through the instrument of violence, as a repressive agent, in their attempt to maintain their power seems assured·-the aura of quiet reigns at Notre Dame. 
The reaction of the audience to "Cool Hand Luke" on the otherhand was one of silence, an ambiguous silence. The am­biguity permits me a hopeful in­terpretation. Perhaps with the tragedy of Attica still vivid in the viewers minds, "Cool Hand Luke" took on a significance beyond Paul Newman. 
The freedom of the human spirit is embodied in Luke. Yet, he is also the 

russell baker 
. .. ~ 
~, problems can he ~~· t,~ solved only through the use of violence 
. . ~ . 1\ .;--··: ".f •• 
sacrificial victim or Camus hero on whom the prisoners feed. Only once is there any display of solidarity on the part of the priooners: this occurs when many help Luke clean his plate. When Luke's spirit is broken for a short period of time, the [riooners refuse to respond to Luke's cry: "Where are you now?" The entire film makes the unitoo dffort of over 1,000 priooners at Attica seem all the more impossible to achieve. How could 1,000 ''prisoners: rapists, murderers, robbers, Blacks, and Puerto Ricans" reveal the po~r of the human spirit in collective actioo? How were so many united and organized? How were so many able to achieve the necessary experience of human dignity and hope? 
The questions raised by these two films and Attica will not be resolved by indicting Rockefeller for murder as is now being attffil pted by a Iawyer in New York; nor by resorting to terms such as the "genocide of prisoners" or the "military operation of fascists pigs," nor by again locating the scapegoat in the Nixon, Mitchell, Hoover trinity. The problem is much deeper. It is the myth held by many Americans that problems can be solvoo only through the use of violence. In "Strawberry Statement," "Cool Hand 

rich pants 
<Cl NEW YORK TIMES SERVICE 

Washington -This nightmare began developing about two weeks ago with the onset of the fall advertising season when the newspaper ads began to fill up with men wearing $200 suits. 
It opened with a heart-warming an­nouncement by Biff, who is 18 now and fancies himself the soul of fashion when decked out, as he always is, in shattered overalls and rope sandals. 
"Well, Dad," Biff said, "now that I am a man the time has come to put aside this childish clothing and begin dressing in the regular gentleman's ready-to-wear." 
When Biff said this there was a wan woman--probably his mother, but things are often vague in dreams-who broke into tears of gratitude. Someone barbequed a calf on the small backyard grill. Relatives came from many states to celebrate Biff's return to tradition I garments. " 
"Yes," Biff was telling Uncle Harold, the next time you see me, I shall be wearing a haircut and one of the new $200 suits." 
"Two hundred dollars. Do you know how much that is before taxes ? " This was shouted by Biff's father, very loudly in the night, as he came awake with a spasm of terror and sat bolt upright in bed. 
"Go back to sleep," said Biff's mother. "You were just having another one of your nightmares about taxes." 
Two nights later the dream resumed. As it began, Biff's father was sa'ying "All right, anything to save you from becoming a Hippie. Even a $200 suit." 
And they were transported magically to the $200 suit store, where a man who looked exactly like Adolphe Menjou--white tie, tails, spats, carnation in lapel--was forbidding them entry. He was the salesman. 
"You can't just walk in here wearing worn-<~ut overalls and buy a $200 suit," he said. 'Look." He showed them a parking lot filled with Rolls-Royces and Dusen­bergs. "Our customers,' he said, "acquire monogrammed underwear, hand-sewn socks, shoes made of leather from the finest Spanish bulls, and neckties inlaid with mother-<~f-pearl before they come in for a $200 suit." 
Biff said he could see the logic of that. It 
would be silly, he said, to put a suit on over 
bare skin with nothing but rope sandals to 
keep the cuffs from rubbing against dirty 
feet. 

"For those items," the salesman said, 
"you go to the $10: underwear si10p, the $55 
footwear boutique, and the damn-the­
freeze haberdashery." 

With a great effort, Biff's father forced 
himself to wake up before he culd drain the 
last of his bank account for Biff's war­
drobe. 

Three nights later it started again. In an 
act of financial msanitywhich must have· 
occurred in an intervening installment 
which Biff's father had missed, he had 
bought Biff sufficient wardrobe: to gain 
him admission to the $200 suit store. The 
two of them were en route to a rendevous 
with Adolphe Menjou as the dream 
opened. 

"I've been thinking,'' Biff was saying, 
that a single $200 suit will hardly fill the 
bill if I am to look respectable seven days a 
week. I think that while you're at it you 
had better buy me a couple of those $150 
sports jackets and five or six pairs of the 
new $45 slacks.." 

Biff's father refused to dream any 
more that night, but next night the thing 
was waiting for him. 

"If I'm going to be respectable," Biff's opening lines went, "I can't go on living in a crummy pad, with nothing but my old Boy Scout sleeping bag and some movie posters on the wall. I shall be wanting you to buy me some decent furniture. Some Chippensale ... " 
"Wake up ... " Biff's mother cried to Biff's groaning father. 
"With pleasure," said Biff's father. 
But the very next night, around 3 a.m., Biff told his father that they couldn't really pull up at the $200 suit store in his father's drab 1968 sedan. "A 1927 Dusenberg can be had quite reasonably from ... " 
The dream has not resumed for the lst three nights. Whenever Biff's mother starts to tell Biff he should do something about his shabby appearance, Biff's father kicks her shins and snarls. · Luke," and Attica, campus and prisoo authorities showed their fear of waning po~r in their resort to violence. Where is the line drawn in authorities' desire to maintain power? Perhaps we can glance at the mortality rate: 2 black and 4 white students, 10 white hostages and 32 non­white prisoners, 50,000 men in Vietnam -­or is all this "necessary" and no one should worry until there are 6 millioo people dead? 
Hofstadter in his book, American Violence, . contends that "Any liberal democratic state is in danger of wearing away its legitimacy if it repeatedly uses violence at home or abroad when the necessity of that violence is wholly un­persuasive to a substantial number of its people." It appears tliat the questioo facing us at Notre Dame is what are we doing with our silence? And in instances wha-e there is verbal exchange on campus are we increasing the myth by persuading ourselves of the "necessity" of authorities' violence to maintain order? And in cases wha-e we express doubt, are we per­petuating the myth by granting the benefit of the doubt to the existing powers' use of violence -or are we reducing the myth by standing with the poor and op­!X'e~ed who attempt to achieve some dignity as human beings? 
Basically there were two Atticas: first, the prisoners non-violent take-<1ver of the 
ken wright 
prism with no destruction of the life of the hostages and a list of demands for human rights; and second, the violent destruction of forty human beings by the existing authorities to maintain their power over the prison. Twenty-eight of the thirty demands of the prisoners were granted by Commissioner Oswald. The only two demands not met at the time the state troq>ers entered the prison were the demand that Rockefeller visit the prisoo and the demand that amnesty be granted to the men who led the take-<1ver. Needless to say the deaths were unnecessary and the principle of order could have survived without the death of these men. 
The prison issue is of vital concern now on the college campus because many of our friends are now in prison. Our friends did not go to prison in order to reform them, but went to prison as an act of resistance against the war. If our friends refuse to have their wills broken in prison, the fate of Cool Hand Luke is a real possibility for them. If their wills can be broken, the existing authorities have once again succeeded in crushing the human spirit. May our friends find ways to sur­vive. The college campus is still the heart and core of the peace movement and its focus must include the prison issue. Many possibilities lie ahead that could arouse our present dormant peace movement. 
For immediate action, there are nation­wide demonstrations on October 2 for prioon reform. The target-prison closest to Notre Dame is Cook County Jail. Speakers will include Jane Kennedy and Eqbal Ah­mad Some Notre Dame students, for example Tim Kendall, are presently ''prisoners of conscience" and students like Chuck Darst and Moe Considine are facing prison terms. If anyone needs a ride or can provide transportation, please leave name and phone number in the Non­Violence Office, g-129 (Library). Dan Berrigan's letter from jail last week ends with: 
Resist the war, remember the prisoners. End the war, free the prisoners. 

better to play at home 
It seems that nothing can more exem­plify the Notre Dame spirit than all the Irishmen that watch away football games at the Convo. A truly perverted ex­perience was witnessed last Saturday by those who paid to partake of the game in this manner. 
Without greatly elaborating on the game itself because what can one say about a team who's greatest ground gainer is the punter, I would like to share what I wit­nessed and what happened last Saturday, the twenty-fifth of September. 
Shortly after one, I entered the Convo with a buddy from my hall. The day was dark and rainy,as was my friend's mood since being a ROTC jerk he was lamenting the loss of his curly locks. Then, being accustomed to watching TV at home, we decided to get our eats before we sat down. 
Needlf'ss to say. one of those gentlemen in the gold jackets who fags around with his flashlight reminded us that we could not take our drinks to our seats so we immediately had to consume the better part of six Cokes before the game ever started. Stashing the rest in the bottom of a trash container where we knew we could find them at half-time we went and sat down. 
The game proceeded and I found that we were sitting with either a group from a funny farm or a bunch of Alumni. At one point, a group of three priests and two well suited cigar smoking gentlemen stood up and cheered, 
"Hit 'em, Hit'em, Hit'em, 
Knock 'em on their butts, 
And if they run that play again 
Then kick'em in the nuts." 
A row or two in front of us were two couples that must've thought they were at a drive-in movie. It wasn't long before the flashlight man came and reminded them where they were. At that point his flashlight must've been running down because he looked like he was carrying new batteries in his pants pocket. 
You are all aware of how the game went so it was a while before anything else happened of importance. When it did I yelled my ass off. That immediately posed a number of problems; the first, of course being how would I keep my pants up. Secondly, if I was to hold onto my drawers how could I carry it to the infirmary to get it put back on. Being a good Christian youth, I asked a priest, that was sitting in back of me, what I should do about my problem. Poor fella, he must've had a really bad cough because he had this big brown paper sack of what looked like big brown cough medicine bottles, although it was too dark to get a good look at them. Boy was he sick. His cough must've 
turned into the flu because he couldnn't even hardly sit up and he looked pretty sick. However, since most of the bottles were empty I took the sack put my per­sonal Rump roast in it and proceeded to 
the infirmary. 
What a hassle. First I had to answer all these questions and fill out this form. There was a pretty nurse behind the counter where I was doing this. I think she was there on purpose so if I was dying or something I would be stimulated into living longer. 
I was directed into this treatment room 
and told to wait there. I was getting 
worried because I knew there had to be 
some connections and all down there and 
breakfast and lunch wre starting to tell me . 
they were done digesting. I also figured 
that I would give my rear end a thorough 
cleansing inside and out before the doctor 
put it back were it belonged. Just as I put 
my dieriaire on the examination table 
after I had dried it off, this old wrinkly 
nurse with wire rimmed bifocals came in 
and proceeded to take my temperature ... 
rectally. 
What could I do ? I was pronounced 
dead at the scene so I went back to my 
room only to find that word of my death 
had gotten there first and my room had 
been given to someone else. 
That was what happened the day the 
daywhen I went to the game at Convo. 
will never forget it for the rest of my life, 
but you can bet your ass that I am awful 
glad that this Saturday the Irish play at 
home. 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER Thursday, September 30, 1971 
Co-Ed Commission includes capable students 
I 
f f I I I 
I I 
~ 

Bill Wilka who is one of three 
members of the Student Affairs Institute team 
by Maria Gallagher and Mike O'Hare 

Since its creation last spring, the Coeducation Committee has been striving to insure that the merger of Notre Dame and St Mary'sbe responsive to the needs of the student body. 
Appointed by University President Theodore M. Hesburgh, Bill Wilka and Jane Sheehy constitute what is of­ficially termed the Student Af­fairs Institute team. Their purpose as seen by Wilka is "to help formulate and recommmed structures that will affect student life after the merger." 
NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S SHUTTLE BUS SCHEDULE <Revised) local service 
Academic hours: Monday through Friday (8:05 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.) Locals will depart simultaneously from each campus at the dollowing times (except where indicated). 
Mwf TT A.M. 8:05A.M. 8:05 8:258:25 8:459:05 9:309:15 9:409:25 9:50
9:35 10:00
10:10 10:1010:20 10:2010:30 11:1010:40 11:2011:15 11:3011:25 11:4011:35 11:5011:45 12:0011:55 P.M.l2:10 
P.M.12:05 
12:20 12:4012:15 1:2512:25 1:3512:35 1:45 1:551:15 ND 2:051:25 2:451:35 2:55 SMC2:20 3:052:30 3:102:40 
ND·
2:50 ND 3:203:25 3:30 SMC3:45 3:403:55 4:154:30 4:254:50 4:355:10 4:455:30 4:55 
5:05 SMC 5:10 5:30 
Shuttle Service During Non-Academic Hours 
Beginning at 5:50p.m. Monday through Friday and all day Saturday and Sunday a 10 cent fee will be charged. The operation of these ''fee" buses will be as follows: 

Monday through Friday -6:00p.m. to !2:30a.m. Friday · 6:00 p.m. to 3:30a.m. Saturday -12:00 noon to 3:30a.m. Sunday -12:00 noon to 12:30 a.m. 
EXACT FARES ONLY WILL BE ACCEPTED 
EXPRESS SERVICE 
Express service to insure student transportation to opposite campus in the 15 minutes between classes. 
These buses will depart from each campus three (3) minutes after the end of ach class. The following are the times for the !!On-stop buses 
MWF TT 
7:45 a.m. 7:45a.m. 8:53 9: 18 9:58 10:48 11:03 1:03 p.m. 1:03 p.m. 2:33 2:08 4:03 3:13 

Together Wilka and Miss Sheehy hope to proivde input into several areas of the merger, especially student affairs and hall life. 
Unlike all the other merger study committees, the Institute team is headed by students .They have no faculty advisor or coordinator working directly with them, but remain in contact with such people as Fr. James L. Riehle, Dean of Students; Fr. Thomas Chambers Director of Student Housing ; Fr. Thomas Blasntz, Vice-President of 
Student Affairs; and Dr. Mary Cannon, SMC Vice President 
Miss Sheehy emphasized the need for studying the various merger oriented problems with an open mind. She stated that no definite decisions will be made until all possibilities are fully investigated. 
This includes meeting with such diverse groups as Student Government, the Admisitration, and the Hall Presidents' Council. 
Six Goals 

At the outset of their work last spring, Wilka and Miss Sheehy announced six main goals that 




Longshoreman strike set for this Friday 
(C) NEW YORK TIMES New York--The International Longshoreman's Association and Stevedore interests here appear to be headed on a collision course that could result in an un­precedented shut down of every deep water port in the nation when the union's contract with the New York Shipping Association expires at midnight Thursday, Thomas W. Gleason, head of the I.L.A., emerged from a meeting with the union's executive committee today to declare that dockworkers would continue moving cargo through the end of the contract and the presidential wage freeze only if the terms of the agreement "remain unchanged." Every I.L.A. contract round since the end of World War II has resulted in a strike. Gleason carefully left the door open for further talks with management tomorrow, but James J. Dick­man, president of the New York Shipping Association--which represents direct employers of dockside labor here-did not hold out much hope. "You can pray for an eleventh hour miracle," he said, "but don't hold your breath." Past I.L.A. strikes have af­fected a sizable portion of America's foreign trade. Its jurisdiction covers ports from Maine to Texas. Administration economists are doubly concerned about the possibility of an ILA strike this time, however, because it would tie in with a labor dispute in­cluding the unrelated In­ternational Longshoremen's Warehousemen's Union that has 
kept west coast ports closed down for the last 90 days. 
President Nixon said last Sunday that he would "automatically" invoke the SO­day cooling. off injunctive period of the Taft-Hartley Act if the ILA goes out while the West Coast longshoremen are still on strike . "because then the damage is going to be very great." 
Though Gleason has not ex­plicitly said so, labor experts here believe the application of the Taft-Hartley Act is part of his strategy. 
'The prime issue in the current impasse--one that developed in the very first bargainig session between the union and employers last month--is whether the guaranteed annual income carries over in its present form through expiration of the current contract and the end of the wage freeze on Nov. 13. 
Under the guaranteed annual income, eligible longshoremen here are entitled to 2,080 hours 
L-----4_:_1_s___________________. pay a year (40 hours a week, 52 
weeks a year) whether there is 
work available for them or not. 
The guaranteed annual income is a major job security item for the union, particularly for its 
Manhattan locals, which have
lost a sizable amount of work to 1 containerized installations in Staten Island and New Jersey. 
The guaranteed annual income is supposed to protect dock­workers from the job attrition implicit in the spread of the new technology. But management contends that abuses--outright fraud in some cases; dock­workers turning down jobs for which they are qualified! in other cases--have made the cost prohibitive. 
Dickman said today that the employers were willing to con-' tinue the guaranteed annual in­come through the end of the contract on its present basis, but only if the union agreed to a series of enforcement changes that would require longshoremen to report for work whenever a job was offered to them. 
"There are shortages of longshoremen in some parts of the port," Dickman said. "We don't have enough people, yet we have to pay some of these people for 
not " 
COLLEGE REPUBLICAN MEETING Sept. 30 -8:00PM 265 Nieuwland 
they hoped to accomplish. These goals included: 
1. the merger of Student Government. 
2.the improvement of hall life. 

3. a joint acadP.mic standards committee which would delegate the requirements forstudentsand their majors, with a uniform system of accreditation for the two student bodies. 4.unified community structures which would entail such groups as the SLC, HPC, and academic councils. 
5. 
the unification of student services such as security, psychological services and the infirmary. 

6. 
a student manual containing the rules and regulations for both student bodies. 


In the next issue the Observer will explore the Coeducation
c · · 
ommisston's situation today,

especially in regards to their 
progress in achieving their intial 

goals and their plans for the 
future. 

1_i;;v;;;~·;~~;;~M; 

A JEROME HELLMAN-JOHN SCHLESINGER PRODUCTION 


Football Ticket Sale Sunday, Oct. 3 7-9 Monday, Oct. 4 7-9 Fiesta lounge of Lafortune Tickets: $8.00 each 
limit of 2 tickets per 10 lim it of one 10 per person payable only by check 
made out to Student Government Fund 
FIRST COME,FIRST SERVE
__________________________________j 
.... 
Thursday, September 30, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Harriers have improved this fall 

JIM MURRAY 



A 4-Year Rookie 
@ 1971, Los Anlllts Tim" 

Kevin Hardy is living proof of the adage that the football player takes funny bounces. 
Kevin, all 270 pounds of him,squirted around the National Football League like a goal-line fumble in the mud. The San Diego Chargers fell on him last. Foll"other teams had momentary possession of him. 
Kevin, who playsagainst the Rams in the Coliseum tonight, has spent three years in the league without, so to speak, getting his letter. He has injured himself in every conceivable way, including falling out of a hospital bed. The medics comtantly have to put him back together like a Christmas toy. 
Hardy was an All-American tackle at Notre Dame without ever playing high school football. He thought he was going to Notre Dame to play baseball and basketball, but when the football coaches got a look at his 6-5, 275-pound frame, it seemed a shame to them to waste it hitting or catching baseballs instead of people. They did everything but offer to move the practices to his room to get him into helmet and pads. 
He was so green that the first the staff saw Hardy on the football field, they wondered what he had done with Laurel. But by his sophomore year he was first string. At first, they thought he was going to· be used mainly to carry Ara Parseghian off on his shouh:Ers aftEr a game, but he improved enough to make the NEA third team All­American in his sophomore year. 
A disc operation short-circuited his junior year, but not before he had played against Purdue, and when the NCAA awarded him another year of eligibility on the basis of paucity of play in 1965 Kevin ultimately played against Purdue four straight years. "They thought I was m the faculty," he said 
In his senior year, a crack-back block tore his ankle, and he also suffered a shoulder separation, and Hardy insists, "They put me in there largely to scare people." The opposition was so largely scared by this Irish jack o' lantern that Kevin made first string All-American on AP, UPI, Time magazine and The Sporting News. 
He was drafted No. 1 by the NewOrleans Saints, leading to the campus gag that Kevin Hardy was the first Notre Dame footballl player to ever make a Saint. But this newest Saint went marching out when commissioner Pete Rozelle awarded him to the San Francisco 49ers after 49er Dave Parks, who had played out his option, signed with New Orleam. 
Hardy arrived with the 49ers too late to be absorbed into their system after two weeks of sorting out his own legal options in the unusual trade. Thus, he was a spot player for the 49ers his first year and when he reinjured a knee in 1969, he was traded to Green Bay. The 49ers, you see, had more good defensive players than some leagues, and an attempt to make Hardy an offensive lineman resulted in his getting knocked unconscious for three hours once. "I think it's a league record. For peoplethatlivedanyway,"Hardy says. 
At Green Bay, he played in part of 14 games. Then they lateralled him off to San Diego . "I began to feel like I was playing airport," he said. 
Whether he will continue to bobble end-over-end through the league, the human equivalent of the on-side kick, or whether San Diego will finally have downed him dq>ends, Kevin feels, on whether his ligaments and tendons have learned the game. 
He still feels as if he's kind of a complicated rookie. "I bet I haven't played a total of 14 full games in pro football yet." 
San Diego is holdingits breath listening for telltale sounds of interior ripping. Because, if they don't develop and a healthy Kevin Hardy, playing the way he has this exhibition swason, could turn San Diego into the Super Chargers come this January in New Orleans. Besides, Kevin doesn't want his pro career to go from Saint to sitter in four 
years--and all roll at that. 

weeks ahead will be dual meets ville, Tenn., November 22. Notre around. "Had we run this year's against highly-regarded Indiana Dame will probably bypass the times (against Indiana State) in 
and Michigan State, and a mixed Central Collegiate Meet at the Air last year's field, we would have bag of students and ex-students Force Academy, November 13, taken second place." A win is not from the Chicago Track Club. 
due to insufficient practice at the seen as out of the question. 
Wilson looks forward to the mile-high altitude. In summary, Coach Wilson challenge, explaining that tagged his men with this "competing against top teams is Aside from the championship description: "a young team, but the only way to become better meets, the most eagerly sought­nevertheless, both strong and ourselves." These dual meets after title will be the Notre Dame experienced." Experience? lead up to the season's big meets: Invitational which will be run Even the team as a whole can't 
the Indiana State Championship, here on October 8. In last year's quite stack up to their coach in 
October 29; the IC4A, featuring event, the Irish took seventh that department. He's been top Eastern powers, November place in a field of 29 teams, but around for forty years, 22 of them 15; and the NCAA National Coach Wilson anticipates a much here at Notre Dame, guiding the Championship meet at Knox-stronger showing this time fortunes of track teams. 
Frosh swim 
meet on tap 
The lnterhall athletic office has scheduled a freshman swimming meet for Wednesday, Oct. 6, in the Rockne Memorial pool. 
There will be competition in ­eight events, the 50 yard freestyle, 50 yard breastroke, 200 yard freestyle, diving, 50 yard backstroke, 50 yard butterfly, 100 yard freestyle and 100 yard in­dividual medley. 
Divers must turn in their list of dives to Dennis Stark, swimming coach, before the meet. 

Game time is 12:50 Sat. 
A contestant must swim only Notre Dame's fourth-ranked Fighting Irish will take the field Saturdayfor the hall in which he is a against the Spartans of Michigan State. Kickoff in N\.tre Dameresident. 
Stadium has been moved to 12:50 P.M. to accommodate a regional Entries must be in by Oct. 5 television audience 
Voices from the Crowd 
The prosecution... inless Ara makes changes, and I Pavlin were 6'4", 230 pounds ... 
I really wonder as to the depth presume he means that they use Pavlin's article made several of the logic and psychology, if the "Pavlin system". intelligent and objective points. there was any at all, in Mike After running Steenberge into First, the ND defense is great. 
Pavlin's "Analysis No. 2" in the the ground verbally, and con­<Even Creaney wouldn't disagree Tuesday, Sept. 28 edition of the ceding that Bill Etter isn't much with that> It plays a solid zone Observer, sport's section. better, Mr. Pavlin then goes on to defense comparable to the NFL 
First, I would like to know say that with either of them "at Champion Colts in that it shuts off where Mr. Pavlin gets his notion the helm the Irish can win the the big bomb and gives up the that he knows more about the National Championship". If Mr. short ones. Creaney emphasizes football situation than Ara Pavlin coached a football team the same fact. However, when it Parseghian and his staff? I think like he expounded his logic in that became obvious that our offense it's admirable that Mr. Pavlin partiular column, then he would was in trouble (like the first has such a solid knowledge of all have the most inconsistent quarter), changes should have the technical football terms, and performance in college football. been made. Not because the afairgraspofthegame.However If Mr. Pavlin would have been defense was ineffective, but he certainly knows nothing of the looking for the important things because of the game situation. application of all that knowledge in the Purdue-Washington game 
Few will disagree that the U he did, he certainly would not he mentioned, then Coach Par­strength of the ND defense is its be a running off at the mouth seghian's game logic would not 
line. With that powerful passabout a how a man, who is have been so far above his head. rush, the long pass is viruallystarting off his 21st year in the I don't believe Mr. Pavlin is in impossible. Add to this the coaching profession, should take a very good position to make the slippery conditions, the fine advice from him! Some of Mr criticisms that he makes. If secondary, and the fact that Pavlin's suggestions show his he wonderswhere I get my very Purdue was protecting its lead, own inadequacies. small grasp of football fun-and maybe then, one can see the To begin with, Mr. Pavlin damentals, I can only say I have advantages of a change in criticizes that our secondary played football for twelve years, defensive strategy. By taking plays too deep. Well, I would and three of them were under Ara away the short pass, you much rather give a team the Parseghian. Therefore, I think· challenge the Purdue offense to short pass, than get burned by the it's safe for me to say that I know throw long and risk the in­speed of an Otis Armstrong Ara and some of his philosophy a terception. In a ball control because I gave him the deep field little better than Mr. Pavlin. My struggle, as Saturday's game to maneuver better than he could point here is, unless Mr. Pavlin certainly was, the ND defense on the flat. Mr. Pavlin also were actually down there on the had to force turnovers and implied that the coaching staff sidelines every weekend and abandon its usual "contain" didn't warn the defense to be on fighting the problems as Ara has strategy. the lookout for the screen. How done very week for the last 20 
What more can be said aboutthe hell does Mr. Pavlin know years, l don't think he is qualified the offense? It was miserable,what goes on in the meetings? Is to rank the team and some of its and no excuses should be made.

he ever there at any of the members as he has done. Af­Mr Creaney's assertion that thescouting reports or .chalk talks? terall, it's pretty difficult to make blocked punt smoothes over theHe also suggests a backer keying any real, concrete criticism when other shortcomings is weak, to on Armstrong at all tiffies. With you're watching the game "from 
say the least. Steenberge's

a multi-faceted offense such as the plush and dry atmosphere of 
passing was terrible; and

Purdue's, you don't key on one the Convo Center:··"· whether Etter has a weaker armplayer, especially in mud where I'm sure that 1f Notre Dame or not, he couldn't do that much you can t recover in time from a has the misfortune of suffering worse.
fake. one of its rare defeats, we will 
Mr. Pavlin also criticizes Pat hear from Mr. Pavlin again. As for the sentimental call for Steenberge for paralleling the Mike Martin unity, Mr Creaney seems to be line of scrimmage too deep on his 2 4 7 B a d i n asking for the impossible. He 
options. I would like to inform complains that Mike Pavlin is not Mr. Pavlin that you never, ... and the defense knowledgeable about sports; yet, 
against a defense with the im­Creaney obviously prefers the mense size, strength, and speed If you think that playing on a sports fan who cares nothing that Purdue had, run an optioon football team is a qualification about the football fundamentals for anything other than playing, but is there only to scream and
exceptionally close to the 
scrimmage line, especially when please listen any Sunday to one of shout. "My Tam-good or bad"... • your offensive line needs a couple the retired NFLers butcher the Well, last week, it was "My of more games to gel. Mr. Pavlin commentary on a game. Yes, Mr. Team--Bad!" then goes on to predict that the Creaney, we know you play and Stephen Hare 
U.S.C. and L.S.U. will beat us Mike Pavlin doesn't, but maybe if 145 Alumni 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann 

Lurking outside the office window of Alex Wilson, track eoach for all seasons, is the stark brickwork of Notre Dame Stadium. 
This picture symbolizes the campus feeling about its sports. The coach muses, "We consider ourselves <the track teams) to be part of a family. There is no jealousy among brothers and sisters here." Even so, it is hard to gain recognition during the season Uncle Ara throws his family get-togethers on Satur­days. 
Recognition or not, the Notre Dame cross-country team is in the midst of preparation for the season's important meets, and most of this preparation takes place in dual meets and small multi-team contest which allow the coach to evaluate and develop his talent. In two weekend meets, the Irish have displayed a new array of talent! In a quadrangular meet, Notre Dame eame u second to Miami of defeating Illinois State and Northwestern, and last week, Wilson's charges defeated a visiting Indiana State squad, 26­31, in the season's first dual meet. 
On the basis of these two outings, Coach Wilson's verdict was laden with praise: "This is a much improved team over last year's. We weren't hurt too badly through graduation, and we have some fine freshmen with us." 
Newcomers to the team include Mike Housley and Mike Gahagan <currently slowed by a sore calf muscle). Other harrier standouts include team captain, senior Pat Holleran, soph Dave Bell, whose 
24:55 time paced the Irish charge against ISU, senior Gene Murcer, juniors Dan Dunne and Jeff Eichner, and sophomores Marty Hill and George Christopher. 
After Notre Dame had bagged three of the top four positions against Indiana State, Coach Wilson remarked, "That meet showed the depth of our team. We have five men who have run times of less than 25 minutes." 
Testing the Irish squad in the 



Page 8 THE OI)S.ERVER Thursday, September 30, 1971 
·,--=------------------------------7-~~~~~~~~--------~-~~~~~======~~~ 
...... '"' ,':':5t~~~~~:E~,,~~~'" '""'



LETTERS 

~c.. Sooth o;,;00 Holt ood e;"'" Hou. 
e.~mffit 
o< Lo Foctooo. 
of Parking Lot patrol Saturday. afternoon. 



0 ~"=t 
•~":,.:'~ ::.:,:.,::c:,;:w 
;;;,:,";,~;, ~;:~:~~::,~:

a challenge 
' ., 'Bill 288-3659or Wil 283-34 teach you how...with two free make up lessons. (Call 
If no attempt at enforcement is 
made, the students of NotreEditor: 

~~~:r~~u~~~o~~ DeeDee, Joanna at 287 2731 for appt.)
Dame can only assume that the 
same attitude of benign neglectWe the udnersigned issue a 

ATTENTION: All students in
will be applied to the Hall and

challenge to the Dean of 
For Sale: l965 Ford Falcon Mr. Sporleader's MWF design
Section Parties that will soonStudents, The University Board 


fiJ 
tD 
300dollars. Call :234-5889 after class owe 65 cents to pay for
resume on campus.

of trustees, and the campus security patrol. 
Yours in Notre Dame (du lac), 

Eric Andrus Observer published an article 
On Monday September 20, the Dave Burch 
claiming that the preceding weekend had seen no major Jack Candon violations of the Trustees newest 
Don Mooney

proclmaation on "Parties" and the consumption of Alcoholic Paul Dziedic beverages in public places on this campus. The Observer report Eileen Fitzpatrick 
SATURDAY, OCT.2 
8:30P.M. in the ACC
was grossly inacurate. 
Steve Flavin 

Tickets $4, $3, $2 t 
The Student Union Ticket Office and Dining Halls 
On Saturday of that weekend, Dan Hyde 
during daylight hours, thousand Becky Minter 
Starting Monday
of non-students drank in­toxicating beverages in public Jerry O'Connor with absolutely no response from the Notre Dame adminsitration, Dan Sherry security patrol, or the outside 
Presen ted by Student Union
Bill Wilka 

Social Commission and ACC
authorities the Trustees seem so Larry Burnsconcerned about. 


The reason? Notre Dame tradition. The non-students were Alumni and "friends of Notre Dame", and a few parents who were !icky enough to be granted football tickets. Despite Un­viersity regulations concerning public drinking, teh University makes no attempt to change this standard Notre Dame tradition. 
By the end of the day beer cans are strewn all over campus, and overly exuberant Fighting Irish men are strewn over various parking areas. This is the great Catholic University. Worse yet is the hypocrisy of a double stan­dard-one applied on 5 afternoons a year, and one standard of discipline for those who stick around for acadmeics. This policy has been formalized in instrucitons by the Dean of Students to the Resident Assistants. 
We challenge the University to attempt to enforce its own rules this Saturday, October 2. Possibly Father Chambers could give his R.A.'s Saturday night off in order to supplement some type 
.. 




