
. 
The DAILY RAG 
Volume o Number 0 seiVing absolutely no one. March 32, 1971 
•

Beef Slovak seizes SBP office 
In a move unprecedented in "The Beef Slovak Memorial developed when newly-elected 
Notre Dame Student Government Library." SBP John Barkett came to oc­History, National Student Slovak said he intends to bring cupy the executive office on the Association Coordinator Beef the deposed SBP and SBVP to third floor of LaFortune Student Slovak staged a bloody coup last trial "in a totally democratic Center. 
night and seized the office of way." He also said that bail was Slovak refused at first to Student Body President from being denied the two leaders. evacuate the office, expressing SBP Dave Krashna. As he was being removed from surprise. "It was Krashna's last his office for the last time, day'? I though he had another
The coup raised spectres of a ·total Civil War on Campus this Krashna was heard to declare, year to go!" 
''Et tu, Slovak'?" Barkett refused to removeweek. 
Slovak replied with what has Slovak forcibly, saying, "AfterThe action, totally unexpected become the laamg slogan of his careful investigation, we havesince yesterday was the last of one-day-old administration, "Off discovered that the state of In­Krashna 's term of office, was the people! Power to the Pigs! diana does not have a cranecarried out in total secrecy oink, oink!" strong enough to lift Beef."
before some two to three hundred Upon what seemed sober
spectators and drooling office-­Barkett withdrew to 
reflection, however, he added in Morrissey Hall to await theseekers. 
perfect Latin, "Ipso facto, Coup results of a recount of lastKrashna and his vice­ce grace, savoir faire, et cum month's SBP elections. Slovak plannmg counter-coups. Devils against Poilicepresident, Mark Winings, were 
last seen being carried to spititu tuo." suggested that a recount might Tom Thrasher, heading a Authority), and . AUNT (Allied Slovak's tower-prison-for­Latin scholars have refused to show himself to be the winner in a group known only as Students for United Network fighting political-enemies. The location is reveal the source of that oar­close race. Thra-sher-Murray, reportedly is Totalitarianism,) have joinedticular eulog:r to Krashna 's ad-In the small hours of the demanding a recount of last forces to oppose McAleer.
secret but several passers-by reported it was on the 14th floor of mmistration. morning, at least three secret year's SBP race as the price for Neither were available for the structure soon to be named At 12:01 this morning, trouble societies were rumored to be his support of the Slovak junta. comment on this possiblity. 
Frank McAleer, Flanner Hall As this paper went to press, the Senator and local power broker, Student Government offices were released a statement to the effect still held by Slovak and his "Beef 
Burpchaell named cosmic deity; 
that he would move against the Trust." Armed personnel 
Student Government Offices carriers were Ireported on the today. "If necessary," stated North Quad . and ROTC cadets

takes over post of Trinity 
McAleer, "I will call an aerial were arming themselves with attack on my own position in rocks and spears on the South order to capture LaFortune." Quad. For further reports fromby Animal Trainer Two other groups, GRANDPA the armed camps, see page 21. 
The Universe's Board of 
<Glorious Rascals and Nastv Trustees last night announced the elevation of University of Notre 
Dame provost Reverend James Vatican Announcement 
T. Burpchaell to the post of Cosmic Diety. Burtchaell suc­ceeds the Holy Trinity. 
"We needed three of them, but 

Ardvarkson bishop
only one of him," Universe Board of Trustees President J. Almond 
· By Ahi Priest
Stuffhole said in a statement to the general rabble. "He's sort of Vatican City-In a surprise Miss Ardvarkson, who was a trio all in himself." move today the Pope appointed contacted in McSorley's Bar in 
Burpt::haell's first public act Tea Grease Ardvarkson, noted New York City, expressed her upon elevation was to suspend St. women's liberationist, Bishop of delight with the Pope's action. Peter and the Holy Ghost from the South Bend-Fort Wayne The American woman, who is the cosmos. According to Burt­diocese. She is the first female looked down upon and despisedchaell. the two were "clear and Bishop to be appointed in the throughout the country qualifies 
present dangers to the Univer­Cosmic deity James Burpchaell in a down to earth moment. history of the Catholic Church. as a downtrodden minority. For se." The Pope's press secretary, this reason the appointment of 
"This will bP a community of Cardinal Theodore M. Her­Miss Ardvarskon will have a scholars.'' Burpchaell explained shenberger, read· the an­major impact on the Church's "and I heard that those two guys ~ouncement to a waiting crowd of relations with the sisters of Eve,"
weren't studying." eight reporters and seven the statement said. When asked to comment about drunken Italians who were
Priceisright resigns 
'I was expecting the !$?01/8 %the appointment itself, Burp­singing 'The Eyes ·of Texas are to do it but I didn't think an oldchaell said that "it'll be nice for a upon you.' 

!+-&'?% like him would move
as ND feed director
while, but I don't intend to The pope cited Miss Ard­as fast as he did. I just filed mystagnate here." Burpchaell also varkson's action in furthering application a week ago,' she said. 
complained that the appointment by Bill Yus Spell ecumenical understanding in Miss Ardvarkson said that themight. "interfere with my recent speeches around the reason for her application wasAcademic life." He did say, 'll b hl' d country and her staunch defense
Ughwad Priceisright, feed h that she hoped to move the
however. that he would ap­T e event WI e hig Ighte by a of traditional Catholic doctrine.
services director, presented a catered luncheon for ad-Church back to the traditionalistpreciate the opportunity "to tell letter of resignation to University ministration ofYfciafs. 'Miss Ardvarkson's work in stance that it had abandoned in
Martin Buber where to go if I bringing the message of Christ to
Provost Jamey Burpchaell the search for a largely nebulous 
want to." Fr. Duck is considered a "very the lost sheep in the United States 
yesterday saying he could no value known as 'relevancy.. ' 
Burpchaell announced that St. capable" replacement, ac-and her defense of the Catholic
longer serve in good conscience 'I think the Pope should send all 
l'eter would be replaced by cording to Fr. Burpchaell. 'He doctrine, as taught by every
as director. the liberal Bishops a
former Notre Dame Dean of Men visits the dining halls regularly cleric over seventy,' the
He cited a provision in his ! + '? &'? &'? &'? + letter telling them 
and is "well aware of
Fr. James Unreal. "Unreal's statement read, 'is important
contract requiring the director to to all 7fs '? &-% + off. If he would
tough," Burpchaell said in the bellyaching that goes on over enough to warrant her being
eat the same stuff served to the provide the right kind of
def€nse of the appointment, the feed services. Tile new appointed to this most delicate
students, with the students at leadership the Church could get
"wp've been admitting too many director dines three times a day and sensitive post.'
least once a month as an act of the : + ! % ( out of its $&0 and get 
specimen who are just not up to in the pay cafeteria with several Though Miss Ardvarkson is a
faith in the product. "I consider rid of all this relevant %?is-!-. As
snuff up ''here, and I look to employees. Fr. Duck is kept up to woman,' the statement con­
this a violation of federal truth in Bishop of Ft. Wayne and South
Unreal to clamp down on them." date on employee-employer tinued, 'we believe. that her
advertising laws and I can no Bend I will work towards this
relations by these people but the shining qualities in defending our
When asked to be specific, longer continue ~ do so in good end,' she claimed.
,Burpchaell complained that steadily increasing level of sick teaching more than cancel out
conscience," Priceisright said. Miss Ardvarkson plans to
leave has limited his soun.:e::; lv d her sin of being a descendant ofthere were too many "dummys, The former director admitted assume office 'just as soon as I
few slopslinge~s. . the temptress Eve.'
drug-freaks, and darkies," in the later that afternoon that his can get my -&+! ( on a jet
Fr. Duck Immediate!~ an-The Pope said he hoped thatElysian surroundings that will health, which has been failing for there.' Her first moves will be to
nounced ~everal changes m the this move would help the Church house the new diety. "All they do several years, played a major reinstitute the Latin Mass, expel 
feed services department. They to effectively communicate withis complain," complained role in his decision. all the priests who term them­
Burtchaell. are: women in the United States. 
At high noon today, Fr. Burp­selves progressive and liberate
1) Roast duck at least one "Th Ch h h b k'
When contacted, Unreal ex-. chaell (and he really is ·the Sunday !'1 month. These ducks e urc as een rna mg all nuns. She also has plans to
pressed unrestrained joy at the 
Provost and doesn't mind telling will be supplied by the new greater attempts recently to annex Notre Dame to the diocese appointment. "Some of those kids you so) will install Father Lame reach out to the masses of poor and install herself as President of 
are in for a surprise," he chortled <i•rector s 1~ vunte supplier' downtrodden minorities which
Duck as the new director. The the, in her words, '%&'? (! + male
.,·hom he declmed to Identity. .re :cuffering from the affects of
ceremony will take place in front chauvinist institution.' She also
continued on page 8 
continued on page 2 discrimination all over the world. 
of the North Dining Hall ovens. plans to .... (continued in page 83) 

Page 2 April 1, 1971
1718 OBSI'RUDt 
Second Conference of 
1971 Marriage Institute 
ND feed director change 
PERSONAL GROWTH 
continued from page 1 from that lake because the water dining halls.
IN MARRIAGE 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Meagher Growth as experienced! through the presence of children 
Sunday, Apri I 4, 8:00pm, Library Auditorium 

Clothes and things Men's .Boutique 
"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center -Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­n35 
CATHERINE DENEUVE is an April Fool 
Rumors, suspected to have been started by several well­known critics of the dining halls, say Fr. Duck is the supplier. The critics claim Fr. Duck grabs a duck or two a month when he goes down to fed them at St. Mary's Lake. They say he lures them to him with bread and gentle coaxing and then quickly reaches out, grabs a duck, rings its neck and conceals it under his cassock until he gets back to the kitchen. The critics are con­cerned with upsetting the ecological balance of the St. Mary's Lake duck population. 
Fr. Duck vPhl"mPntlv rif'nk·d the rumors as he adjusted a fealher in his bireta. lie called !hem a "pier!" of foul quackery" and said he wouldn't use a duck 
8:00 lecture-m. kamil dziewanowski, boston u.: the decembrist revolt in poland: fall of gomulka, library auditorium. 
8: 00 lecture-rita cassidy, smc: death in africa, architecture auditorium. 
Underclassmen ·· Anyone planning to stay in their room past 12 noon Thursday, May· 20, should contact the Ac­comodations Committee P.O. Box ~59 N.D. Indiana 
Bottles.cansandontar), thethreebestbeersinAmerica isBlatz. 

Goodoldblatzisbest. 
is "too ducking polluted." 

Fr. Duck is often seen with a 
large following of the waddling 
birds as he walks about the lake 
shore. He is also known for his 
efforts to rescue ducks from the 
thickets behind the ROTC 
building. 

2). Fr. Duck said a new gar­bage service agency has been hired because the former com­pany did not meet University <;fandards. "We're the only place in town where the garbage man delivers and we want our men to get the best," he said. 
3). Salads, deserts and vegetables will no longer be a mixture olf everything left over the past few days. 
4). The library will be converted into a grain elevator to store the requirements for home made bread. Also along this line, all pavement on the campus will be torn up so the soil can be used to grow fresh vegetables for the 
Fr. Duck also listed im­provements he would like to see in other areas. They are: 
1). The side doors of the South Dining Hall should be open at least ten minutes before every meal especially in the dead of winter. 
2). The paneling in the Huddle should be removed as soon as possible. 
3). Different color meal cards should be made available for each meal. The student will have a choice of buying a retching red card for all meals or any com­bination of a belching blue card for breakfast, a billious yellow for lunch or a gurgling green for dinner. 
4). Feedback cards must be eliminated because the money used to print the cards, maintain the boxes and process the complaints could be used to buy some real food. 
Kunstler here Friday 
by Mike O'Hare 

Civil liberties lawyer Willia1 Kunstler will speak Friday, April 2, at 8:30p.m. in Stepan Center as the 1971 Senior Class Fellow, according to selection committee member Jim D'Aurora. 
Kunstlcr ,·atapulted to fame during his defense of the Chicago St•ven and has defended many other national figures including Martin Luther King, 
Fr. Whelan to speak 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Young Americans for Freedom will present Rev. Edgar Whelan, C.S.C., currently Grace Tower rector, speaking on "The Drug Problem at Notre Dame" Thursday, Aprill at 7:30p.m. in the Grace Tower pit. Admission is free. 
Jr., Stokely Carmichael, H. Rap Brown and Adam Clayton Powell. 
The topic of Kunstler's address has not been released. Students must present their I.D. cards for admission. The non-University public will be admitted by in­vitation only. 
The Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Yale and Columbia Law School is expected to arrive late tonight. He will hold a press conference Friday morning at 10: 15 in the Donor's Room of the Morris Inn. After the conference, Kunstler is expected to spend the day visiting classrooms and attending in­formal gatherings. 
Kunstler has written ten books and numerous articles for periodicals. He is the tirrd recipient of the award 
·­

Nickie's New Opening Hour 11 :00 an1 
Special--$1.25 a pitcher (PBR) from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Also featuring turkey, ham and other special sandwiches. 

Open House 
Thursday, April 1 3-5 
4th Floor LaFortune 
Bring Your Ideas 
It's the Student Union 
rne Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacatinns by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary"; College. Subscriptions rna·: be purchased f'lr $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, In<'. 46556. Second class postage paid, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


Calley draws life at hard labor 
FT. BENNING, Ga. <UPI) -Standing at attention before the "I'll do my best sir," Calley throw it out altogether. The only Two military sedans, flanked 
L. William L. Calley Jr. was court president, Col. Clifford H. said, and snapped a salute. thing the reviewer cannot do is by MPs, were waiting outside as sentenced to life at hard labor Ford, the ashen-faced by un­The young officer, who stood increase the penalty. Calley emerged. Across the yesterday for the premeditated blinking 27 year old defendant trial for 102 murders at My Lai, Still later the case will be street, in front of a white framed murder of 22 Vietnamese listened as Ford told him: tearfully told the panel in his final checked for judicial error, and chapel, a crowd of some 150 civilians at My Lai, but the "First Lt. William L. Calley, it statement Tuesday that he had then referred to the Military persons cheered and began sentence likely will be taken to is my duty as president of this never wantonly killed anyone in Court of Appeals. It could end in shouting: "Free Calley, free the nation's highest courts and court to inform you that the court his life. the U.S. Supreme· Court, if Calley, free Calley." perhaps the President himself. in closed session and upon He claimed throughout the trial jurisdiction is transferred from 
The young officer never brokeThe six officer jury panel which secretwritten ballot, three that he was merely following the the military, and also could go to stride walking to the sedan butheard the longest court martial in fourths of the members present orders of his commanding officer President Nixon, since he serves smiled at the crowd and saluted. 

U.S. military history had only at the time the vote was taken at My Lai, Capt. Ernest L. as commander in chief. 
A young mother, cradling her two choices-life imprisonment concurring, sentence you: Medina, and he said his only Calley has been housed in the child in her arms, wept. Youngor death-and it chose the least "To be confined at hard labor crime was valuing the lives of his Ft. Benning stockade since his men raised their fingers in a "V"harsh of the two. for the length of your natural life, troopsover those of the enemy. conviction, and officials said while the automobiles pulledUnder the life sentence, Calley to be dismisse<l from the service, Calley's case now will go to a there were no immediate plans to away, returning Calley to theis eligible for parole after 10 to forfeit all pay and allowan­reviewing officer, who has the move him. 
stockade. 

years. ces." power to lessen the sentence, or His attorney, George W. 

E. 

OBSERVER,
Serl'illg the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
'VOLUME V, No. 102 April 1, 1971 
Latimer, said at the time of the Seven military policemen lined verdict that he planned appeals up in front of the crowd, down the on "90 grounds or so." middle of the street when a Calley was sentenced at 2:36 woman dressed in red, yelling in 
p.m. EST, and the marathbn a thick German accent court martial that began Nov. 12 screamed 'He's going to jail and finally ended when the judge, Col. I'd gladly go and sit with him." Reid W. Kennedy, announced a "They killed our Gls and that's minute later: okay, it is," the woman shouted. 
"This court is closed." "Give it to 'em," came a male 
Calley walked from the voice from the back of the crowd courtroom with Latimer and two which included about IS other atorneys. His only gesture uniformed soldiers. as he went through the swinging When Calley left the building, wooden courtroom gate was to one of the MPs carried his brown place his left hand briefly on the leather suitcase, and another left shoulder of a bailiff, Sgt. carried a brown and black Jefferson Huggins. striped blanket. 

Barkett announces cabinet: Wilka takes new position 
According to Barkett -theOther appointees include position would "involve all theStudent Body PresidentJohn Research and Development various commissions in studentBarkett highlighted his cabinet commissioner Ed Ellis who will government by providing adviseannouncements yesterday by resign as Observer News editor and coordination in specific co­appointing Bill Wilka to the newly after the Easter break. Ellis education problems."
Bill Wilka created position of coeducation plans to emphasize "practical
John Barkett "Liason work with the ad­
coordinator. student concerns." 
ministration, especially with theBadin hall Vice-president and Co-education planning com­Observer news writer Bob mittee, which may be named inHiggins was appointed to the
Refugee Aid Program seeks help 
the near future," was also notedposition of Hall Life com­as an "important" aspect ofmissioner along with fellow news 
A call for workers to spread the King Jr. and the Kent State concerts, religious services and writer Fred Schaefer who will Wilka's commission. work about the Refugee Aid disaster respectively. The money ·discussions designed to stimulate Wilka thought the job involved 
become the Public Relations 
Program (R.A.P.) was issued saved by abstaining from the community. director in the new ad­"two levels" of action: yesterday · by the project's luxuries such as records, alcohol, Lammers said R.A.P. will have ministration. -purely student decided such , organizer, the Non-Violence unnecessary travel, new clothes, a great personal affect on par­as student government merger
Former Assistant Judicial 

Programr The project is designed cigarettes and drugs, might be ticipants that will be "just as procedure and
Coordinator Dave Tushan was 
to help some 6 to 7 million donated to R.A.P. Donations will important" as the affect on those -"administratively decided"
appointed to succeed outgoing
refugees created by the war in also be accepted from those who in Vietnam. He also listed other such as residencies,dining halls
coordinator Rich Urda. 

Southeast Asia. continue to enjoy luxuries. advantages noting thwt it is not and university rules concerning
Lyons hall stay senator Fred 
Dave Lammers, a spokesman -All abstainers are asked to time consuming and non­student conduct.
Guiffrida will assume the post of 
for the project, said yesterday write one letter a day to alumni in partisan. "We think this is a way Academic Affairs Commissioner. "In the area of administrative that R.A.P. is not a mass political their home town or area. The for students, faculty, ad­SBVP Orlando Rodrigues, action students donot have the movement but "essentially backers hope that by appealing to ministrators, alumni and friends Human com­power to make the actual
fromer Affairs 

humanitarian and non-partisan." the alumni they will be able to . to actively respond to the intense decisions but the administrators
missioner, will be succeeded by
The project has three parts. gain additional financial support. suffering of millions of Southeast can be influenced and perhaps
Sorin sophomore Steve For­
They are: -In addition to aiding the Asian people," Lammers said. pe.rsuaded by student concern,"
tunate. 

-A request that all members refugees, the project should bring The project is strictly personal Wilka added.
An off-campus resident, John 
of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's a new sense of community to its and could reverse apathy SMC Student Body President
Drost, was named the new off­
community abstain from all participants, according to towards the war which, ac­Kathy Barlow clarified the dual 
campus Commissioner and 
luxuries between April 4 and May Lammers. "We're trying to get cording to Lammers, is caused nature of the special commission. 
Cavanaugh junior, Dave Lah will 
4. These dates are anniversaries people to talk to one another," he by an "impotent feeling" of one's She noted that both com­
become the new Community
of the death of Martin Luther added. There will be free movies, continued on page 8 missioners will have a common
Relations Commissioner. 
staff.

Wilka, former student Miss Barlow saw as a first areagovernment academic affairs
ltzternational Festival 
of concern the already approved 

on campus 
commissioner, will co-head a merger of the Notee Dame"free lance" commission with an Student Affairs Office and the
today.;.. 

as yet unnamed St. Mary's girl. 
SMC Dean of Students office.

to be staged Saturday 
a regular observer feature 
chairman Vinod Khera, a Ph.d.
An International Festival will
3:00 lecture-paul w. 
candidate from India stated.

be staged this Saturday, April3rd 
cherington, harvard, 

"Cheerleaders are exclusive to
in O'Laughlin Auditorium,
our transportation 

the United States," Khera said,
beginning at 7:30.
problem: how can we 

when asked why they were
The festival will include;
solve it, library 

participatipg," and most people
classical Indian dances (in­
auditorium. 

don't realize that. They represent 
cluding a candle dance), a world 
a certain aspect of American
famous Chinese Lions dance,
3:30 lecture-tony bill, 
culture which will be explained at
Mexican dances, Dominican
sophomore literary 
the program."

Republic Magic show, a
festival, the new 


"This is the first time that an
Polynesian Hula dance from the Fred Guiffrida Ed Ellis
screenwritirig, library 

event of this magnitude has been 
island of Tonga, instrumental
lounge. 

organized in this community.
music from a number of coun­There is no doubt in my mind that Researchand Development Edward Ellis Badintries, truly American Indian
8:00 lecture-charles 
anyone who takes the trouble of . o-ed Cootdinator Bill Wilka Off-Campusdance, singing from various
gordone, sophomore 

coming to Festival night will be Hall Life Robf'rt Higgins Badincountries, and American
literary festival, 

pleasantly surprised at the Human Affairs Steve Fortunato Sorincheerleading group, Brazilian
washington haiL 

quality of talent that we have Academic Affairs Fred Guiffrida Lyonsjazz and possibly a Japanese judo been able to put together. The Public Relations Fred Schaefer Graceshow. 
event is free and even if we had ( ommunit)' ttelatwns Dave Lah Cavan.
"The reason we have American 
charged $2 it would have been
participation is because it would still worth anyone's time," Khera ~[t y~~~~;i1pus ·~~~~~~~~an ~!~~=~pus ~\\!
nd-smc 

not be a truly international claimed.
program without it," program ~~~~;::::;::::::::::::~:::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 




_P_a_:::g~e_4_____________,_________''1jf!_~ 0~--------------------A_p_ri_l_1,_1_97_1_ 
Glen ~Corso 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
GlenS. Co~. Editor-in--Otief 
Bruce Riecl( lhliSiness Manaser
John Abowd, Exeeutfve Editor 
Why, this is very midsummer madness. -Wm. Shakespeare, Twelfth Night 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 111& NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 
A New and Partial llope 
The Refugee aid Program (R.AP.) established itself ra::ent]y, pledging to reestablish homes, resupply food and reengineer dignityi nt re war-torn nation <i VietNam. Leaders of the program have asked citizens-irrluding stu<Ents at Notre Dame-to abstain for a month from luxury and to use the cmsequent money to run those projects. 
Areliefprogram based on a month's donation willnotbegh toabr~ate twenty year's misery in VietNam. No one pretends that it will. What it will do is relp some c1 the ~q>le recover some of the necessary burna n things lost in this pestilential war, and that's a good thJng. 
The Refugee Aid Program is such a thing, and its advent is bng overdue. Abstinance is a tradition older than Christianity; it is predicated on the possibility that man can overcome the selfishness so basi! to his nature and dedicate hls soul to something larger, .and more far-reaching, than himself. It is tradition curiously wedded to this season, and the suggested date for the beginning of this abstenan ce-thede ath-day of Martin Lu therK ing----c annot help butremind us that there was at least one man who did indeedovercome. 
The Program is not the proouctof a oonch of ideologues. It purports to pass no 
judgement on the present conflagration. Rather, it is humanitarian h every 
seme of theword; it's design is to restore the dignity of refugees suffering in Viet 
Namand enhance the dignity of men donating here. 
But the process is not entirrely a grim one. Rather, it mere¥ substitutes 
inexpensive pleasures for expensive ones. There's goingtob eheeconc erts and a 
ca mpout overtIE month of abstinence, if all goes well; arrangements are being 
made forintelligent political discussi<n among men of tiE various persuasion 
Those are adequate substitutes for booze, resturaunts, movies, etc., and they are 
sul:E ti tutes that help feed and rehouse other men. 
Finally, the program is not so integrated Finally, the program is not so 
integrated that it wouldn't accept money from people not particjpathg in the 
fast-that wruld be rank foolishness. The program-the peope-needs the 
money. And it should get tiE money. 
So the Ohierver urges all the people here under the Golden Dome to JraC tice 
Christianity; to help restore the refugee's homes and their dignity. If s worth il 
Yesterday the Observer ran a column written by Sue Bury in which she criticized the St. 1tlary's Publication Board. This column represented her own opinion and in no way reflects the opinion of the Observer's representatives to the board. As far as we are concerned the Observer has always recieved more than equitable treatment from the board this year and in the past. Glen S. Corso, Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager Ann Conway, St. Mary's editor 
I 
I 
~ 


The 
Forgotten People 

After the bombs stop exploding, the bullets whining and the mortar shells crashing the residual horror of the Vietnamese war will make itself known. A Senate subcommittee has estimated that there are over seven millon refugees in Southeast Asia. That's a group of people as large as the population of New York City wandering around with no homes, little food and no hope. Many of them were caught in American bombing raids and others found themselves in the middle of battles between North and South Vietnamese. Their problems have a low priority in the South. There are other more pressing matters, such as the prosecution of the war. Besides when you have no money, no job and don't own any property your politcal influence iligible. 
Ever since the first World War, Ia guerre has meant total war, in­volving the entire civilian population in actual battle, rather than· mere home front effort. World War Two saw the inception of terror bombing civilian populations, in an effort to weaken their reolve. lhole cities were destroyed a fo civilians were killed, maimed or left homeless. 
The Vietnam war is the worst of them all. The fighting is going on right among the people and so is the bombing. Control of the civilian population, is a prime military objective. U.S. policy has mandated hte bombing of hundreds of villages and homes. It has been estimated that almost a millon civilians hve been killed in the effort. Others were displaced, and some of them were injured. 
The magnitude of the problem is staggering. These people are destitute and any person or agency assuming responsibility for them must provide them with virtually all the necessities of life. The typical response to this situation has been to establish huge camps and shunt all the refugees to them. The camps, often become dirty, disease ridden, overcrowded slums that sometimes create greater problems than thev solve as the Middle East proves. 
Whatever a person's opinion on the war, it must be admitted that Americans have a responsibility to help the refugees in Southeast Asia. These people are innocent victims of a conflagration that most have little interest in. When and if peace does come to the area the governments will be faced with a tremendous task. Most of these governments now require massive aid from the U.S. to stay ~float economically and there is little reason to suppose that they wtll not need when hostilities die down. 
However regardless of what the U.S. and Southeast Asian govern­ments do in the future the problem of the refugees is a real and im­mediate one. Americans can and should urge our government to step up aid in this most vital area. We can also do something ourselves. 
A group of students and faculty members here a.re oomg somewmg to alleviate these people's suffering. They are askmg members of the community to abstain from buying luxuries (clothes, ~ecords, cigarettes, booze, etc.) for one month and to donate the mome~ they would have otherwise spent to their fund. As of. now a smtab~e recipient has not been found. Apparently there lS 3: proble!ll ~n ascertaining exactly how wisely the money these agenctes re~etve lS spent. The problem is not insurmountable though and by the Ume the project gets underway an organization which is doing the most to help the refugees will be found. 
The people running the affair are stressmg the self-sacrifice aspect as method of elevating the donations above the usual way of con­tributing to charities. The success is doubtful, since people rarely wish to forsake creature comforts to aid a cause. 
Money, is the most important thing in a project like this. Petitions, phamphlets, leaflets, newspaper exhortations are. helpful, but unless the produce money and a goodly sum, then they wtll all be for nought. 
The .cause is a worthy one. The sums raised will be used alleviate ;uffering. Americans supposedly have a streak of charity running :hrough them. Let's hope tha tit comes through at Notre Dame. 
~********************************J
* *
Head Fool: Lunkus

* Headliner: Boozer !* Layout: Barrett, Marty Dingle * : Varityper: Bill Clemency !* Special Guests: Joe Abell & Jamesy * ~ Knight T!'iumverate: .Jitn Amy, & Ann !* Cameo Roles: Abowd, TrainP", Debby, * * Jan, Larry, Bill, Poobah * : News Editor: Johni Abowd !* Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson * ~ Managing Editor: Don Ruane !* Editorial Editor: T.C. Treanor * 
:*********************************~ 
Bill and Gordone appear today 
by Steve Lazar 
Observer Campus Editor 

First rate talent nurtured right here in Notre Dame and Michiana returns to its spawning grounds today as the Sophomore Literary Festival presents ND graduate, actor and film producer Tony Bill and Pulitzer Prize winning playwright Charles Gordone who was born and schooled in Elkhart, Ind. before he literally was 'run out of town.' 

Bill, who has acted in such films as 'Come Blow Your Horn,' 'Soldier in the Rain' and the BBC production of 'Death of a Salesman' will speak this af­ternoon at 3:30 in the Library Lounge on the topic 'The New Screenwriting.' Gordone will appear tonight in Washington Hall at 8:00 to speak and perform portions from his Pulitzer Prize winning play No Place to Be Somebody. 
Since graduating from Notre Dame in 1964 Bill has acted in at least nine films. Three years ago he co-founded the independent film company Biplane Cinematograph, whose first film is scheduled to be released this October under the Paramount label. The film is entitled 'Deadhead Miles' and stars Alan Arkin in his first major film since 'Cath 22.' 
With more films currently in the works, Bill's production­company has expressed its desire to foster original screenplays by new writers. 
Gordone, who after having fled Elkhart under pressure from what he described as 'boys from the wrong side of the tracks', attended college in California and distinguished himself as both an actor and a director before he 
Continental Hair Styling Inc. 
Has Moved To 
1321 E. McKinley Hwy. 
Mishawaka ( approx. 2 miles east of Town & Country Shopping Center) 
Serving the N D students in all hair care needs for 3 yrs. 
Call Now for appt. 
259-7679 
turned to playwriting seven years ago. 
He has starred in both Broadway and off Broadway productions, winning an award as Best Actor of the Year off Broadway for Luther James' 
all-blaek production of 'Of Mice and Men.' 
In 1962 Goraone co-tounaea tne Committee for the Employment of Negro Performers along with actor Godfrey Cambridge. In 1967 he was en the Newark, N.J. and New Haven, Conn. research team for the President's Commission on Civil Disorders. 
Gordone has completed three full-length plays and the screen play for "The W.A.S.P." from a novel by Julius Horwitz. 
oing home for Easter? STUDENT UNION'S BUSES TO 
O'HARE 
Leave ND circle <SMC Holy Cross Halll5 min. later) Wed. 1\pril 7 4:30 PM 
Leave O'Hare <From restaurant between American and United Terminals> Sun. April 11 9:oo PM 
Contact: 1st Bank Campus Travel Bureau (basement of Badin Hall, next to barbershop) 9:00-12:00, 1:00-4:00 daily 
$5.00 one way ALL SALES FINAL 
WOULD YOU BELIEVE... 
Classical dancing from India Lion's dance from China Classical piano-guitar duet from Latin America Hula dance from the South Seas Chicano· dances from U.S.A. Brazilian Jazz by a Panamanian Virtuoso Magic Show by Houdini Reincarnate 
FREE 
\ 

Come and see the world. Perfect idea for a date. 
International Arts Festival 
O'Laughlin Au~itorium Saturday April 3 8:30 pm 
llli ll!r II 11r1 
& -~c.:.:ad.«>::K1 
X-ightfc:»c.t 
Saturday, April 3 8:30p.m. in the ACC 
Tickets $4.50, $3.50, $2.50 on sale today at: 
Dining Halls Student Union Ticket Office 
'----------------------------------­
Page 6 . 
CLASSIFIED 
ADVERTISEMENTS 
Jlrbil in or come br Observer office. for inforrmtion cail 7471. 
~----~SE~R~V~IC~E~S~______ l College Students with car 
Crypt-New Hours 12:30--4:00 Now on Stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 Cat Stevens-Ten for Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-
Tumblevveed Connection $3.1 (;

I1 Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 
Home for summer rental -2 bdrm on large wooded lot near campus -furnished -air conditioned -garage ­car included in rental to responsible party -Call 234­8652 
WANTED 

Greeting card ideas wanted-$10 each for college .oriented situations­Important you enclose self­addressed stamped return envelope-Joy Card Co.-6th Floor-18 West 18th St.-NYC 10011 
HELP WANTED 

Newly formed Waterbea Company wants campus representatives for hottest selling item in states. 
Good commissions for a few hours work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. Write: 
Lightrays Designs, Inc. Lovesleep Waterbeds Division 3727 Walnut Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. or Call: (215) 349-9330  19104  
Interesting, fun Prefer business  job. or  

graduate student but en­
thusiasm main 
requirement. Able to work 
on your own for in­
ternational student travel 
organization. Represen­
tatives eligible for free 
trips to Europe, Caribbean, 
Mexico the year round-plus 
good commissions. 
Write: 
University Student Services Students Overseas Division 
3733 Walnut St. 

Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 or Call: (215) 349-9330 
Wanted -1 good typist for a senior essay. Call 233-3453 Dave. 
needed to demonstrate technicolor photo and movie equipment ­guaranteed :~100 a week ­top men make $200 working evenings 5-9. Call technicolor sales office 289­3662 for appointment 
• 
RIDES 

Fort Lauderdale-Ride needed for .John -1527 and 
Craig  - 8780  Can  leave  
Monday April 5.  
I  need  ride  to  Ft.  

Lauderdale April 5 or 6 _ Mike 8729 
FOR SALE 

'66 Chev. Impala-2 dr. hardtop-283 VB automatic power steering,air. cheap $750-call 2119-3748 after 5 p.m. 
$150 Harmony 12 string 
guitar with case-make 
offer-Bill 3263 

King size water mattress $39 ppd. Finest quality. Guaranteed .. Manufacturer seeks local distributor. Contact Steve Boone, In­dustrial Fabrics, Inc., 735 South Fidalgo Street, Seattle Washington, 98108 -206--763--8911 
Sale or trade-'68 Ford Torino-GT-4 sp-liucket seats, good condition, $1525 or offer, call 283-7637 about 6 or after 11 
Attention-anyone using cash at the South Pay Cafe-Save Money-$10 worth of food coupons only $~all 1893 
Watermattresses for sale -to obtain info or place orders call Tom at 282-2250 from 5-10 pm Monday­Friday 
Hot News flash -New Company born ­VANGUARD LEATHER GOODS, INC.-823 Flanner Hall 283-1176 -Specializing in: watchbands, wrist­bands, belts, wallets, headbands, har barrettes, and anything else made of leather -Owned, operated by Milt Jones and Wayne Hall 

iWANT $$$? 
A JOB FOR THIS SEMESTE'R 
AND NEXT 

IF YOU CAN TYPE 'l1r!l7 WANT y~()UR H.ANDS!!!
W L ~ 
CALL OR LEAVE MESSAGE SCOTT BRALEY 7471 8661 
~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~~~~~~~~~ education in cities, he asked 
_ 
Cruise to Bahama Islands for Easter Vacation-$100 for 4 days­Includes scuba diving, speatrfishing, nights in port at West End and Freeport, meals and sleeping ac­comodations-Ages 18-23­For more information write: Vic Horrell, P.O. Box 892, Cocoa Beach, Florida, 32931. 
Want to take a trip to EUROPE this summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the NATIONAL UNION OF STUDENTS and SAVE! Approx. 60 dates available for round trips betw. London & N.Y. this sum­mer for $245. From London connect to any of 50 European cities at discount fares. For example: London-Paris $12.60, ­Lond()n-Amsterdam $12.00, -Paris-Zurich $15.00, Zurich-Rome $20.00. Many other benefits (travel passes, hotel discounts, etc.) Also available. For info or application call Tom 282-2250 5-10 Mon.-Fri. 
Spend the summer in 
EUROPE. Charter jets to London, Amsterdam and Paris. More than 40 dates available. IN­TERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY. Also eligible for many other benefits (railroad passes, hotel discounts etc.) For information cali 
Frank 233-8142. 
Bridge Over Troubled Waters -Response: 2 hearts Tigress 
To Janet the "April Fooler" -Happy Birthday Love Spiro 
To Fanny -Oshkosh was declared in a state of national emergency today­cause: Lake Flies! -Guess 
who _ 
Three eligible girls looking for work -Very experienced -Rates cheap, call Ern 6684, Ace 8480, Moose 4514 
The Pilgrimage-Bavgo Bay, Osceola, Indiana, Sunday, April 4. -For reservations contact: B.W. B.B. G.O. C.S. B.S.  
i 1  The Classified Ad­vertising Staff wishes to apologize for thz fact that the classified ads weren't run in March 31 paper.  


1------------------------~-----------------------~ 
_CLASS-IFIED ADVERTISING RATES 
Words  1 day  2 days  3 days  4 days  1 week  
0-10  .50  .75  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11-15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  2.15  
16-:W  .70  1.15  1.70  :~.40  2.80  
21-25  .85  1.35  2.00  2.90  3.45  
26-30  1.00  1.60  2.35  3.40  4.10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
36-40  1.35  2.10  1.10  4.25  5.10  
41-45  1.55  2.30  3.30  4.50  5.50  
46-50  1.75  2.50  3.50  4.75  6.00  

Dr. Vairo cites. reading problem 
by Ann Therese Darin 

After working as both teacher and an administrator for many years, Dr. Philip Vairo said reading is the number one problem in education during a lecture in the SMC contemporary 
f~~r~~~~teducationlectureseries 
Speaking on "Problems and Prospects in Urban Education"
the University of Tenness~e education professor said that the problemofcitieshasbeen with us 
for a long time, since medieval times. Declaring that is is not necessarily the cause of poor 
"Why the big deal, as they say o~ 
the East Side of New York on 
cities when education is ' the 
problem?" 

To deal with a population which 
85 per cent will live in the cities in 
the next decade, Dr. Vairo 
suggested reducing class size in 
grades 1-4. "In primary grades, 
there should be ten students per 
class, but then I would increase 
the student-teacher ratio in 
junior and senior high schools," 
he commented. Another way to 
improve the reading skills of 
students, he feels, is reduction of 
number of subjects taught in 
elementary schools. "I look at the 
primary grades fooling around 
with pulleys. Before you can fool 

around with them concentrate on 
communication skills," he said: 
Dr. Vairo also advocated an 
escape from the vast testing 

system. Instead, he would use the 
system as a means of evaluating 
the mertis of teachers. To 
evaluate them and student 
teachers, he would send 
university professors and school 
administrators as critics. These 
critics would be required to teach 
school every few years to better 
understand educational 
problems. 

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:=:~:::::;~:~:::::::::::::~:=~=~=:::::::::::::. 
A ~rowd of abOut" ioo,·rriostiy members of the Merry Pranksters, treated Fr. Hesburgh to a serenade last night. They san9 "the most famous of fight· songs " ac­companied by assorted fireworks and cheers. Fr. Hesburgh responded with "I love you all" from hi!:l.nffke window. 
:::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·;·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·: 

Pounder 
"We want to serve you better" 
ALL Y()U CAN EAT Mon.-Thur. 5 pm-10 pm 
All the c:hicken or batter fried cod, served with ranch toast, french fries, and cole slaw. $1.4S chicken, $1.15 Fish 
Fri. -Sat. OPEN TIL 2:30 a 

Stick111en to battle Ashlarid 
Lacrosse? ball all over a field with weapons moved to Notre Dame as derson each tallied once.
by E.J. Kinkopf 

Yea, that's when those guys that look like a cross between Director of Club Sports and
Observer Sports Writer dress up in gym shorts, put on hockey sticks and tennis raquets. assistant to 'Nappy' Napolitano O'Leary exJ>ects a very
Spring is here.. .I think. And football cleats, jam those But all kidding aside, lacrosse in the Interhall Office. physical game from the Ashland with it comes warm days, trips to gladiator helmets on their heads is billed as the 'fastest game on Returning fromlast year's College squad here on Saturday.the dunes and lacrosse. and chase a little hard rubber two feet.' It's a rough and tumble, team are standouts Kenny Lund, at 2 PM. The Ashland team is 
knock down, drag 'em out sports Eddie Hoban and goalie Jerry coached by the football coach at: and requires great amounts of Kammer. Lund and Kammer, Ashland and the squad consists of skill, endurance and speed, not to both seniors, were nominated to numerous football players.
JIM MURRAY 

mention courage. the Midwestern Lacrosse Club As far as an outlook for theThe Notre Dame Lacrosse Club All-Star team by the Midwestern remainder of the season, O'Leary team has all of these traits in-Lacrosse Club Coaches expects the stiffest competition toterspersed throughout its 41 man Association last year. 
come from Ohio University

roster that includes plenty of new The team will play a total of @ 1t71, LOS Alllleles TitMI 
faces as well as standout seven games (one was already · 
He also expects the team to be 

returnees from last year's squad. played on March 22nd) and will vastly improved by the end of the And this year the team has a host a tournament here at Notre 
season.

bona fide coach. Dame on the 1st and 2nd of May. That man is Rich O'Leary, a In its first game this spring, the 'There are seventeen graduate of Nassau Community team trounced the University of sophomores on the club with little 
VERO BEACH-I have seen guys who were plumbers who wished College on Long Island, and Cinncinnatti Lacrosse Club 16-3. experience. But by the end of thethey were ballroom dancers. I have seen guys who go to the office Courtland State in upper New Lund led the attack with 6 goals season they ought to have enough every day but wish they could climb down into a submarine or up a York. O'Leary served as a coach while Hoban and Dave Jurusik experience to make this a dif­mountain instead. 
for Cornell University's fresh-added three apiece. Four others, ferent club.'
Coal miners who go down one mile into the silicosis damp every man l:lrrm::sP tPam this fall.but Laffey, Brown, Bingle and An-morning must yearn for a job in the sunlight. A char lady imagines herself as the belle of the ball. The farmer envies the riverboat gambler. 
Corr-Cavs reported close
The concert pianist would rather play ragtime and have dancehall • girls muss his hair or teenagers squeal at his rock solos. The opera CLEVELAND (UPI) -Notre Carr's attorney, Jerry Davis of Fitch said that "At times,singer gets to hate Verdi, the violinist wishes Stradivarius had stuck Dame's Austin Carr, the No. 1 New York, said he has spoken Sidney Wicks fell below Jimto cabinet-making. 
pick in the National Basketball with Cavaliers owner Nick Mileti McDaniels and Howard Porter inLots of people feel trapped by their occupations. But I have never Association player draft Monday, about a contract and "we're not the forward list and the centerseen a $110,000-a-year contract executive go more unwillingly to his far apart."
says he will sign with the position was always changing.
place of business every day than Curtis Charles Flood. 
Cleveland Cavaliers, the team We feel we got the best man who
Curt Flood's place of business is center field. Office hours are "I have a feeling we could . usually 8-11 at night. I have seen guys go down a manhole with more that selected him. come to agreement without any was available at his position."
"No, I don't see any doubt that Both McDaniels and Porter are
enthusiasm. Curt feels worse than trapped by his business. He feels tremendous hassling," said
I'll play for Cleveland," the 6'3" locked by American Basketball
enslaved. In the great tradition of Emile Zola and Lincoln Steffens, he Davis, who admits reports of
guard and UPI player of the year Association teams.
has written a book against it. He has made 20th Century baseball look Carr asking for a $1.4 contract
said. "I like the whole situation in
like 19th Century England. Charles Dickens could not paint a more deal are "within range."
Cleveland." Fitch said Carr is "someone ofbleak picture. 
Cavalier coach Bill Fitch, The Cavaliers, given first draft superstar status" who "fits intoHe is in baseball but not of it. Baseball's posture is that everybody in whose first year team finished choice for its record and a coin our plans of running andit loves it. "I would play for nothing," is what center fielders are with a 15-67 record, said Carr was toss, picked Carr over two other shooting."
supposed to say. "See how he loves the game!" broadcasters are chosen because he was "the best top candidates, Sidney Wicks of "We could have won a lot moresupposed to point out. The public attitude of the player is supposed to man who was available at his UCLA and Elmore Smith of ~ames this year with him atbe gratitude, humility, and "God bless you, Mr. Busch, for giving me position." Kentucky State. guard," Fitch said.
this opportunity to make money at something I love." The pressures in baseball are supposed to be self-imposed. Which doesn't make them any the less crushing. Curt Flood, quite clearly, 
Gustafson ranked 1n• top ten
would rather make $10,000 a year painting oils than $110,000 catching baseballs. This way, he can't be sure his art is good. The way it is, he can't know whether the collectors buy it because he's a great art.ist or Dick Arrington finished third in '71 campaign.
Notre Dame heavyweight Phil 
a great batter. It's the ultimate in dignity. A guy on the Left· Bank of '64, Gustafson set Notre Dame Gustafson's fine tournament
Gustafson wrapped up the most
the Seine with a beret and holes in his shoes is better off. records for the most victories in showing earned him a. ranking
successful season ever by an
But Flood might have gone along lifting that bat, toting that ball, one season, 28, and for most pins among the NCAA's top ten
Irish wrestler by posting a 2-2
except that he got bartered away to another plantation. The baseball in one season, 18, during the '70-heavyweights.
record in the NCAA wrestling
player is the last American to be outside the Constitution. The 
championships last week at
Emancipation Proclamation doesn't apply to centerfielders. 
Auburn University. 

Rowers start Saturday
If a fellow doesn't particularly want to play baseball in the first 
Gustafson, whose overall
place, he certainly doesn't want to do it in Philadelphia. Curt felt as if 
record this year was 28-4-1 got off 
he had been transported back a hundred years when he got traded to by Joe Passiatore groups have been under the
to fine start in the NCAA tour­
Philadelphia. As if he were made to stand on a block while a general Observer Sportswriter guidance of captain Bill Toppler, 
nament by winning his first two 
manager said, "Look, all his teeth, legs, and his back straight and and have been prepping for
matches. The 245-pound Irish
strong, never had a sick day in his life. What am I offered for this The 1971 Notre Dame crew club Saturday's race for almost three 
giant decisioned Mike Jacques
young buck? Guaranteed to get 200 hits, cause no trouble, and sing will open its season against St. weeks.
of NYC in the opening round and, 
spitituals and play the· banjo." Thomas of St. Paul, Minnesota
in his second match, pinned Mechenbier conceded that last 
Black players may be more sensitive than whites to the notion of and Grand Valley of Grand
Oregon's Jack Moran in 4:58. year's team was somewhat of a
what the sporting press calls "the auction block." Which is not sur­Rapids, Michigan, Saturday at·
Jacques is the NCAA Eastern disappointment, however, he ' 
nrisine:. Curt Flood wasn't Darline: Nellie Grav or Old Black Joe. two o'clock in Mishawaka. CClub 
Regional champion while Moran reasoned that the year of ex­
He took Baseball to court. The game reacted as if he was throwing at president Dan Mechenbier an­
is a two-time Pacific Eight perience gained by many of the
its neaa, or coming in wuh spikes tugit. L:ut l<'looa was cnallengmg tne nounced that arrangements had
champ. varsity rowers would result in
traditional concept of a ballplayer as chattel. Or, as cattle. been made to transport any
In the semifinal round Greg improvement over last year.
While the case languished in the courts, Curt got on a plane and potential spectators, by bus, to
Wojciechowski of Toledo, the Mechenbier added that this
decided to go where they didn't know what a centerfielder was and the site of the races. The bus will 
eventual winner of the Saturday's performance would
where you couldn't buy The Sporting News. The most famous litigant depart from the circle at one­
h~avyweight division, handed be a good indication of how Notrein American sports was just another guy with an easel and a bottle of thirty.
Gustafson his first setback of the Dame will fare in the MACRAvodka in the Tivoli Gardens in Copenhagen. 
tourney by pinning the Irish star. Tfie club has been divided into (Mid America Crew RacingThe Phil~! delphia Phillies, who are used to it, were the big losers Gustafson was also pinned in three flites; varsity junior' Association) tournament later onmeanwhile. But, Baseball held smelling salts to their noses and said the wrestlebacks, losing to Tom varsity, and freshmen. All three in the season.
confidently' :·Don't worry, he can't do that to us." As far as the Luttrel of Oklahoma.
Phillies were concerned, he already had. He had refused to report, and 
The first Irish grappler to
Baseball refused to rescind the trade. Curt Flood was out $106,000, the 
qualify for the National since
Phillies were out a centerfielder. But Baseball was still full of fight. 
But when Washington owner Bob Short decided to construct a kind of Devil's Island in the middle of a game, he sought permission to sign 
Inter hall 

Flood. The game granted it. The game was mightily afraid that the little singles hitter was about to unload a grand slam on them in the top 
HARLEM
This spring the Interhall office
of the ninth in the Supreme Court. 
will sponsor : 

Meanwhile, Flood had written his book, the best thing said about which in the locker rooms was that it was "bitter." It's bitter in the TRACK MEET sense a grand jury murder indictment is. "Enraged" would be a 
6LOBETROTTERS
Events include the 60 yd. low
better adjective. 
hurdles, mile run, 4 lap relay, 60
Curt is back at Wshington playing for the sheer money of it. He is as Sudany, April 11 3:30 p.m.
yd. dash, 440 yd. run, 880 yd. run,
apprehensive as a guy going down a dark cellar to investigate a growl. ACC 
8 lap relay, high jump and broad
He responded to questions the other day at Vero Beach with the tight ND and SMC Discounts
jump. Deadline for entries in
lipped suspicion of a guy who has just been subpoinaed while leaving Ticket prices
April 2. The meet will take place 
the country. $4--No discount 
April 6. Call 8975 or 6100 for in­
"Look!" he finally exploded. "I just don't wanna talk about it! A guy $3--Purchase for $2 (Limit 2)
formation.

can bury himself with his own words. This game is hard enough, and $2--No discount I've been gone for over a year. I'm having enough trouble. I'm very GOLF sensitive about it. It's tough enough to hit the curveball when you can General Admissions--$1.50 concentrate." An 18 hole individual handicap Purchased day of game, only: 
I get the felling it's a good thing Curt Flood is a two-strike hitter. tournament. Players must sign Because he's starting the season 0-and-2. I tmay not be a good thing up in pairs since rounds will be Must present ID Card he's a centerfielder. Every $100-a-week hat hat who hates his job sits played in twosomes. However, For Discount at ACC out there and he may not be ready to understand why a $5,000-a-week individual scores will be counted. outfielder hates this. Call8975 or 6100 for information. 
71/E 0~ April 1, 1971 
~~Se~rv~~e:t~~or~:~~!~~~~onP~rese~nts;;;;;;;;;;;;~~P-rovost succeeds Trinity; 
~ 

THE BOYS IN THE BAND 
Saturday April 3 1, 3: 15, 5:30 
Sunday April 4 I, 3:15, ~5: 30 
Washington Hall Admission $1.00 

Whatever you're hunting for, You'll find it in the APRIL FOOLS 
EUROPE $209 
PRESENTED BY STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL IN COOPERATION WITH NOTRE DAMPST· MARY'S STUDENT UNION 
FLIGHT NO.  ROUTING  
CA SI 040  NY-LON-NY  
TA SI 059  det-AMs-DET  
RETURN  WEEK~!~  
8-31  9  
Sl-'l.'f  9  

DEPART 
6-21 6-16 PRICE $209 $209 

Open only to Notre Dame-st. Mary.s students, Faculty, staff, & 
their immediate families. All non-stop jets SI offers these services: Complete Meals Eurail, Britrail Passes Complimentary Drinks Car Purchase, lease, rental 
$50 Deposit Only 
Cancellation Privileges PHONE OR STOP IN: FIRST BANK TRAVEL BUREAU ON CAMPUs-Next to Barber Shop 9 am-12 
6 PIONG DIA­
$495 

MOND SET.•.... 
Travellers Checks Variety of Mini-tours 
283-7080 
FOX'S DIAMOND IMPORT SAVINGS 

AT FOX'S YOU GET ABIGGER, BETTER ~ouAun DIAMOND LESS MONEY! 
*SOUTH fiEND 
*MISHAWAKA 
BUDGET TER.MS 

NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTS 
promises many· reforms 
continued from page 1 in response to a question, "they don't know it yet, but they only have fifteen minutes to get the hell out of there." No replacement was an­nounced for the Holy Ghost. It is 
believed  that.  Burpchaell  will  
assume  most  of  the  duties  
himself.  
In  his  inauguration  address,  

delivered thirty-eight seconds after his appointment was JTiade official, Burpchaell promised to end the blackout on Notre Dame's south quad. "I will say 'let there be light,' and there will be light," Burpchaell said lightly. 
Burpchaell also promised to end war. conquer poverty, and turn Notre Dame President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh into a pumpkin. "That old coot's been in my way too long," said Burp­ehaell. while praising the University President's work in Civil Rights. 
Burpchaell also promised to 
FABULOUS 'LtO's FILM FESTIVAL 
Tonite 
7:30 
"Duffy's Tavern" 
Bing Crosby Dorothy Lilmour Betty Hutton 
9:3o "Having a Wonderful Crime" 
Pat O'Brien G1~orge Murphy 

BADIN VINTAGE CINEMA 
........ ...-. ,,..... ._.
~ ·~ 
I 

t
t 

tYACHTING ' 
-' 
tsurv1MER ·~ :POSITIONS I 
'The American Yachting A-;~ociai rtion with listing> on the East, fCoast, West Coast, Gulf Area., ,and the Great Lakes is soliciting' rfor summer crew applicants. ' ~' Po<,itions arc available for' 'experienced as well as incxpcri-' 'enced m<~le and female collcgct 'students and graduates. Expcri-, fence in cooking and child care' ,may be p.nticularly helpful. & r Crewing afford., one the' 'opportunity to earn rea<,onable t 'sums while engaged in pleasant foutdoor activity. t 
To apply type a 1 page • frcsumc following as closely as t Apossible the form shown below.' 'In April your resume will be, 'edited, printed and sent tot 'approximately 1500-2500t(depending on area) large craft t 
owners. 

t 
t
t
t RESUME FORM-(1) name, address (home and school),' phone number, age; (2) relevant ' work or recreational experience; t &(3) dates available and ,ura(s); t r(4) 2 or more students wishing to work together, state n<tme of ttother parties; (5) other informa­ttion. t Send your resume with $6 ' 
t 
l
processing fee to: American Yachting Associatio1 Suite 503,8730 Sunset Blvd. & Los Angeles, California 90069 & IYour resume must be received r fno later than April 15, 1971. I 
1.....-·-· --··-·--' 
"clean up heaven." "I've noticed the job. too. much crud on the floor." the The 36-year-old diety was born new diety said, and he intimated in Bethlehem underneath a large that he might employ former star and a full moon. NSA coordinator and master cf 
Continued in the next millenium. 
political intrigue Beef Slovak for 

Pranksters raid 
Don Mooney's Merry Pranksters staged a precedent­breaking panty raid on Dillon Hall last night, climaxing their celebration of the rites of spring. 
The raid was momentarily stopped by a campus security guard walking out of Dillon. He did little more than eye the crowd, estimated at 100, before continuing his beat. 
Once inside the hall, however, the raid was permanently halted by a member of the Dillon hall staff. 
Preceeding the abortive raid, the Pranksters held a "gathering of friends" in the second floor ball room of the LaFortune StudRnt Center. 

.Refugee Aid Program 
continued from page 3 
abilitv to bring change. He said 
R.A.P. provides a means to reduce suffering that is not provided by leafletting and speaking. 
The Non-Violernce Program has three potential sources for donations. They are the Catholic Refugee Aid Program, the U.N. Refugee Assistance Program, and the American Friends Service Committee, which has established relief camps throughout South Vietnam. 
An AFSC camp director from Quang Nhai will be in touch with . the R.A.P. organizers this week 
to discuss the possibility of 
R.A.P. 
support. Lammers said reports of the area's situation, how it developed and how the money is used will be av"!ilable if the details are worked out. 

R.A.P. 
has received the sup­port of Univeristy President Theodore M. Hesburgh, the Non­Violence steering committee and noted campus conservative Chris Wolfe. Verbal committments have been received from nearly 


60  faculty  and  student  body  
members.  
A  similar  project  is  being  

conducted in Grand Rapids, Mich., and reportedly has the support of 200 persons.






