
SNOW!!! 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. 6, No. 52 Monday, November 22, 1971 

Last Observer until Nov. 30 Inside: ND grad shot in India-page 2 Wilbur Mills visits campus-page 3 lnterhall results-page 6 Report on Irish defeat-page 7 
The Notre Dame basketball team and Student Government need your help this coming Tuesday afternoon. 50 students wTth their cars are needed to cistribute Thanksgiving baskets to families in South Bend. It will only take about an hour of your time. Students without cars are also needed to drive trucks and assist drivers, without the cars, though , we can't deliver the baskets. If you have il car, please cor.c;ider helping. Call 7668 today to register, and then come to Gate 10 of the ACC between 1:30 nnd 2:30 on Tuesday afternoon. 

Boycott on turkey market called 
A consumer boycott of turkey's the Ladies of Notre Dame. Ribbon, Pakmart, Supreme, and sold by Pine Manor Co. has been Pine Manor Co., which Sunny Acres, has been charged called by The Farm Labor Aid processes turkeys under the with maintaining inadequate Committee, in conjunction with brand name of Pine Manor, Red living facilities for the 100 
migrant ·vorkers who man the 
Goshen plant. 
The company, the groups

MASH rescheduled 
claim, has been using shacks 
---------------. 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Monday, November 22, 1971 
Don's Drugs Just 5 minutes North ·Prescriptions -Complete Line of Name Brand Cosmetics -Everything for Baby Giftware -Cameras and Film 
en 9 am to 9 p 70 U.S. 31 N. South Bend 
ph 272-48.84 

Cultural Arts Commissioner Bob Brinkman last night an­nounced a mixup with the same film company that caused a cancellation of "2001, A Space Oddyssey" also caused the cancellation of "Mash" this weekend. Brinkman said that all of the remaining fund raising films have been rechecked and that they are all coming. He also said that "2001" will be shown in February and that they will at­tempt to reschedule "Mash" for the second semester. 
In place of "Mash", the CAC showed two Paul Newman movies, "Sweet Bird of Youth" and "Long Hot Summer". Brink­man said that this happened because of the mix-up by the distributing company. 
If the CAC cannot reschedule "Mash", they will schedule three films. Brinkman speculated that the films would probably not be of the same quality of "Mash" though. Brinkman said, "We don't feel we are screwing the students because we will show three films in its place and then the patron card will be good for free admission to thirteen movies instead of ten." 
CSC priest shot in India First missionary to be slain 
Rev. William P. Evans, C.S.C., a 1941 Notre Dame Graduate and a member of the Holy Cross Mission force in India and West Pakistan the last 30 years, was shot and killed Saturday <Nov. 13), the first missionary to die in the current conflict between Indian and West Pakistan forces. 
Reports of the shooting received in this country yesterday from the U.S. State Department are incomplete, and it was not immediately known if· Father Evans was killed by Army troops or Razacars (rebel faction). The report stated the priest was en route by boat from Golla to Banshanagar when he was stopped by military forces and told to report to the police station. __ 
Father Evans reportedly spent one hour being questioned at the police station and was shnt when he returned to the wharf to resume his trip. His body was thrown into the river and later recovered and returned to Golla for burial. The place where the shooting occurred is ap­proximately 30 miles west of Dacca. West Pakistan officials 
to quit outlying mission posts and 
that you will give the matter serious thought. These people who work are human beings should be treated as such." 
Rogers asked all those in­terested in leafletting super­markets selling turkeys processed by Pine Manor contact him at 3318.

formerly employed in raising turkeys as living quaters for the migrants. In addition, the groups charge, there are inadequate toilet facilities for the migrants and as many as ten persons are housed in one room. 
"The consumer boycott has been an effective means of restoring dignity in the past. We ask people to join in the christian spirit of the oncoming holidays" Michael Rogers, Notre Dame Student and spokesman for the group said. "We sincerely hope 



are investigation the incident. Mission officials at Notre 
Dame said members of the Holy 
Cross order had been instructed 


Placement Bureau 
Sign up the week of November 29 for job interviews tor the week 
December 6 through 8. 
Interviews are open to N D and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Select your own time and_SI your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day except Friday. 

Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding in terviews and procedures. 
NOTE: The fall interviews will terminate on December 8 
Interviews scheduled for December 6 through 8 
Dec. 6 
DePaul University-Graduate School of Business. All degrees. 
Dec. 7 
Greeley and Hansen. BS in C. E., Ch. E. and M.E. MS in Sanitary Engr. 
Dec. 7-8 
Standard Oil of New Jersey. ·Bs, MS in C. E., E. E. and M.E. All degree levels in Ch.E. MBA-technical undergraduate degree preferred. 
Dec. 8 
UARCO Incorporated. Bus. Ad. and Lib. Arts for Mgt. Trng. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

-Compliments of a friend 
THE STROH OREWEP:Y COMPM.ff, DE1ROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 


State Dept. warns against young dissenters 
by Hl'njamin Wt'lles lr) 1!171 Nt'w York Timt's 
Washington, Nov. 21---The State Ikpartment has cabled about :lllO chiefs of missions and other principal diplomatic of­fic<>rs overseas warning them that reports of dissent by younger officers must not be allowed to l<'ak to Congress or to the press. 
In a cablegram, Nov. 4, William Hall. Director General of lh<' Foreign Service, notified all 


Wilbur Mills speaks here; defends Pay Board decision 
by John Abowd 
Obst'rvt>r Assistant Editor 
Asserting that the federal government had no right to "abrogate any contract" House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Wilbur Mills, defended the Pay Board's aecision to allow the United Mine Workers a pay increase in excess of the five and a half percent limit set by President Nixon. 
Mills held a press conference at Notre Dame as a part of a tour of the Midwest he is conducting this W<'ek. Stops in Michigan City and Chicago are also planned. 
Arguing that the power of the federal government comes directly from the individual states, Mills contended that "if the states cannot abrogate a contract then it follows logically that they cannot give the federal government the power to do so." 
Mills defended the coal miners pay raise because of what he called the "long term strike possibility" and because the contract was negotiated and ratified before August 15. 
The coal miners won approval from the pay board for a 39 percent pay increase over three years. 
"This is no justification for t•xcepting only the coal miners," Mills added. 
The Congressman thought that Nixon's Phase II program "hasn 'l developed enougb yet to understand what is excepted of <•veryone. 
"I hope the program will not n•quire a specific answer to each problem that arises," he added. "It can work if people who are being asked to voluntarily comply have confidence that they are not being asked to do more than everyone else." 
"This means confidence in the circumstances, confidence that the two to three percent pay increases and the five to six p<'rcent wage increases will rl'duce inflation and confidence that we are moving towards inc1·easl'd employment and decreas<'d unemployment," Mills <'ontinu<'d. 
Mills favors the Senate prorosnl for fPrleral financing of 

vvorld 
briefs 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
United Slates Ambassadors, their deputies, Consuls General and Consuls abroad that hen­ceforth expressions of dissent--­although officially permitted--­should be kept within State D<'partment channels. 
lie warned that leads regar­ding dissent "give us problems" with Congress and the public and must therefore be marked "Lim dis." 
"Limdis" is a State Depart­ment classification symbol that 
the presidential campaign. 
"I think the idea has a great deal of merit," he said. "This time I hope the Seante will stay with it. Candidates shouldn't be stigmatized by contributions that imply that somebody has bought a share of influence. This plan provides a way for everyone to make some kind of contribution to the party or parties of their choice." 
Mills denied that he had any intentions of running for president before the primaries end. 
He cited an estimated cost of $500,000 per primary as the principle reason for his decision not to enter any. 




Game proceeds will go to SB poor 
by Sue Sarcone 

Proceeds for the 1971-1972 ·varsity-freshman game, scheduled for 8:00 tonight in the ACC, will go to the South Bend poor, according to publicity manager Rod Braye. The game will be open to fans who donate non-perishable food, articles of clothing, toys, or a monetary contribution of .25 for students, . 50 for adults. Braye, though, contended that the drive primarily needs food and clothing donations. "We don't want the money," he said. 
According to Braye, ND Basketball Coach Richard "Digger" Phelps initiated the idea of a benefit basketball game as an alternative to the traditional pre-season exhibition game. At Coach Phelps' suggestion a group of students, under the co-ehairmanship of John Diette and John Thornto, undertook the project. 
Holding the exhibition game at home is a change from past years when the two squads met in a series of games in nearby cities. 
Fans will enter the ACC Monday night at Gate 10. Students parked in a van next to 
the gate will accept the food and Checks for as much as $80 and 
Cairo -Lights were mostly off in Cairo's downtown section and Egypt's armed forces were reported to be in a state of standby alert with all leaves cancelled following president Ansar Sadat's declaration that "there is nothing left for us but the battle." But lights remained on in many sections of Cairo, underlying the general im­pression that fighting with Israel was not imminent. 
New York-Middle-Income taxpayers with children in college may lose a tax advantage in the tax-law reform now under consideration. 
Warminster, Pa. -Federal government has for the first time for­closed on a large housing mortgage -a $1 million slum of 6,000 in suburban Philadelphia -because the landlord failed to keep up his property. 
Washington -Lie detectors are quietly coming into wider use in investigating private citizens. About 200,000 in private employment have to take test each year as crime, especially thievery, soars to three billion dollar level in industry. 
clothing donations. 
Student volunteers are scheduled to deliver the con­tributions to needy area residents Tuesday afternoon. Families were recommended for 
I PI

relief by Action, Broadway • Christian Church, Catholic Social,.,. Services, El Centro, Hansel i'' ··~=:::;;;II;;·~
Center, Model Cities, Public··· .. : -­Welfare Department, Salvation ·~ Army, St. Vincent de Paul, 
Ill United Community Services and . . . lwonship welfare offices. ,. · 
Good attendance at the game .
1

by students and enough volun­teers in delivery of the donations are the most important factors in determining the success of the benefit, according to distribution manager Dave Lah. He added, "We very much need cars... and non-drivers to help with delivery on Tuesday afternoon." Students wishing to help in distribution to the South Bend families should call 7668 this afternoon then meet at Gate 10 of the ACC between 
1:30 and 2:30 pm Tuesday. 
The committee has already spent over $900 in purchasing turkeys for families, but Lah said, "If people don't come to the game and help in delivery, we'll lose money." 
allows limited distribution of the m<'ssage involved to a small group of about 20 of the highest officials immediately around S<•cretary of State William P. Hogers. 
Hall's own message was marked "personal" and was therefore seen only by the 300 officials. It was kept secret from their staffs. 
Thl' existence of Hall's cable was still known to only a handful of foreign service officers here today. A telephoned request for a discussion of the message was turned down by Hall, who as the senior personnel officer for the State Department has specialized in administration rather than )Olitical reporting. 
However, one senior forcing service officer, who asked not to be identified, confirmed the 


E OBSERVER 

SerJJing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi(v 
Vol. 6, No. 52 Pa 3 Monday, November 22, 1971 
$90 have come in each day from South Bend business patrons, according to Cass Regent, Student Body Treasurer. Rejent said the Student Government Office has received "in excess of $400,'' and he expects to reach the committee goal of $500 set from donations by game time. 
The names of the benefit sponsors will be printed in the game phamplet. $10 and $25 patrons are scheduled for special recognition. 
Personnel for the game have donated their services. Ushers, security police, ticket and parking lot attendants, and other <•xistence of the message. 
A middle-grade foreign service officer suggested that ist effect--­intentional or not---would be to intimidate younger officers who might now fear that they would become identified in the eyes of Rogers and his principal associates as "troublemakers." 
"They tell us they want dissenting views in the foreign service to encourage 'candid 
debate'  and  'fresh  ideas,"'  
commented  one  U.S.  diplomat.  
"But  then  they  try  to  limit  

distribution of dissent to the men immediately around Rogers. This obviously fingers the guys bold enough to speak out." 
Some department sources suggested that the order had been prompted by recent reports unfavorable to the. State Department, including a 
congressional study disclosing 
"low morale" in the U.S. em­
bassy in Athens. 
"Rogers hits the ceiling whenever there's bad publicity about the department," said one ranking official. "You can't really blame him---the White House is on his neck all the time." 
William B. Macomber, deputy Under-Secretary for Ad­ministration, confirmed the existence of Hall's cablegram. Macomber insisted that no at­t<'mpt was being made to stifle dissent within the ranks of the service. 
Macomber was the principal architect of the recent sweeping analysis of State Department deficiencies prepared by a series of foreign service task forces. It recommended 505 reforms---most of them in the personnel field . 

Cass Rt>gPnt 
workers have volunteered their success this year." 
4: 15 · lecture, ron weber, violence and the mass 
media, 127 nieuwland
I I
rn 

8:00 · basketball, varsity­::I fresh charity basketball game, ace, admission 
a 
c.. canned goods, toys, clothes, or adults 50 cents, students 25 cents 
t:S 

u 
8:00 concert, fiori 
musicale, stapleton lounge, lemans
s:: 

8:00 · lecture, dr. william
0 

I 
liu, patterns of friend­ship in an urban setting, 
flanner lounge. 

time so that "as much profit as possible will go to needy families," Lah said. 
According to Braye, the committee has directed their publicity efforts towards both South Bend residents and ND­SMC students. WSND-FM, which has an off-eampus audience, has advertised the game and the ND mailing office has sent out in­formation about the game to local newspapers and wireservices. 
This is the first year ND has played a benefit exhibition game. But John Diette, co-ehairman stated, "hopefully it will become an annual event, depending on its 

THE OBSERVER 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor 
,\ssistant Editor
T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers are 
John Abowd
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend
Business Manager 

anyone or anything if they can help Advertising Manager Jim Jendryk it; if the iob is forced upon them, 
Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7471 
News: 283-1715 

Thanksgiving 
This Thursday there will be a familiar and touching scene repeated in the dining rooms of millions of homes across the nation. 
The family-mother and father and children-will gather around the table, a table groaning under the weight of lucious delicacies dominated by the all american bird, the Turkey. 
The family will sit down at the table and enjoy a feast-not much of a feast by ancient Roman standards to be sure-but a goodly feast nonetheless. 
Others won't have it that well. There are many who haven't been included ir the "American Dream"-people like the migrants, the blacks, and the Indians. For them Thanksgiving will be a day like any other-no hot water in the apart­ment, if you can call it that, dull, unappetizing food that has been somehow preserved from the ravages of the rats andcockroaches and dirt and filth and falling plaster. 
For America's impoverished it will be one day in a liquid process of many, a twenty-four hour span of grinding poverty, the kind of poverty that holds out no hope and no goodness. 
Those that sit down at the groaning tables have many things to be thankful for -many things to be ashamed of also. They have a decent clean house, plenty of food and a good income. They don't have to worry about their children getting bitten by rats, or acquiring lead poisoning from eating paint chips. Their gar­bage gets picked up when it's supposed to and the schools their children go to offer an education or a reasonable facsimile thereof. Most of them can walk the streets of their towns at night, without a cold lump of terror wedged in their throats. 
The jobs they occupy are moderately interesting and rewarding, for the most part, and the chances of advancement are good. They don't have to endure jibes. and sneers and not so subtle remarks about their racial or ethnic backgrounds. 
The "American Dream"for them is a reality.There is nothing illusory about· having a four bedroom house with a half acre of land around it, or an annual income of $25,000. 
There is something horribly real about having a job with $2.12 an hour wage rate, with acres and acres of dirty urinals waiting to be washed. 
The garbage, lice and filth that is a Harlem street stands in ugly contrast to the pleasant, winding tree lined roads of Laurel Hollow, an elite Long Island suburb. Somewhere in between the darkness and the light there is the Flushings of the nation -row upon row of small frame houses, depressingly similar, neat but looking the worse for wear. 
The streets there aren't really safe anymore, there was a stabbing down the corner the other night. The schools aren't very good either. The teachers don't seem to give a damn and the kids know it and run circles around them. Dad's income has gone up every year-the union-negotiated contract took care of that but the dollar isn't worth very much and it's getting worse all the time. The bills come in every month-bigger and better than ever -mother hasn't seen the in-· side of a dress shop in five years and father's shoes are getting mighty un­comfortable with the newspaper stuffed in the holes. 
The "American Dream" has gone sour somewhere. It used to be that if you worked hard, put in a couple of hours of overtime, smacked your kids across the mouth when they got wise and saved every nickel you could that everything would turn out alright .. but it hasn't. 
You're supposed to give thanks this November 25th for being able to enjoy the good life in America, thanks for all the blessingthat have been bestowed uponyou and yours during the year, thanks for having escaped the horrors inflicted upon some of your neighbors. 
Someday, somewhere in this great nation of ours, men will be able to give thanks for having received the wisdom and courage to relieve the filth and despair sweeping over many of our countrymen-they won't be doing it this year and probably won't be doing next yeareither, or the year after that. 
When the day comes that some of us can do that and those that we've helped can givethanks for the things they have-on that day we can say we have seen the fulfillment of the American Dream. 
Campus Editor: Don Ruane 
News Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
features editor: rick smith 
Sports Editor : Jim Donaldson 
SMC Editor: Ann Conway 
Night Editor: Marty Miller 
Sports Night Editor: Stan the 
Man 
Headlines: Don Biancamano 
Picture Shooter: Bob Hughes 
Controller of the night: rick 
smith 
Happy Birthday, Beth! 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------·------­
Monday, November 22, 1971 

America's Children---------­
Approaching Lavender 
----------------------Jerry Lutkus 
"Notre Dame--the Christian Community" 
Itsounds great, doesn't it? It really makes you feel good. That's the kind of statement you turn to to make you feel a whole lot better about the way you're living. It's the kind of thought that leaves you with a warm glow. For that is exactly what it is meant to do. 
This rationalization was originally coined by Father Theodore Hesburgh and immediately swallowed by ex-8BP Phil McKenna. In normal form the phrase has found its way through two or three years of Notre Dame "christian communities" until this one. 
It seems that this whole idea was dreamed up by a person who just left a Saturday midnight mass after singing and smiling and peace-be­with-youing and more singing and some more Christ-be-with youing. et. etc. I can't deny it. That warm feeling, that, glow has infected me many a time as I've wandered out of one of these masses and I like it. But invariably Sunday morning dawns harshly and the peace and joy that same night before is lost in the glare of the sun or the chill of the brisk wind or the rotten smell that the drunk left in yourhallway from the same night before. And all that "christian community" that you felt last night is slipped into your locker not to be drawn out until next week. 
I know it all sounds over-used, hackneyed, you've heard this spiel before. Depending on how you stand, you may object strenuously to what I've said, or then you may agree with me completely. Why don't you ask Tom Hamilton? See what he says. Ask him about the Notre Dame "christian community". 
Tom Hamilton organized the Students World Concern Organization to coUect funds for the starving and dying people of Pakistan and India. Hamilton organized numerous collections, operated hot dog stands on football weekends, all imaginable methods of collecting money. He had hoped to raise $10,000 for the cause. In light of a of a poor , resonse, Hamilton called for a final push, a collection on the day of November 3 to make up the slack. This collection netted a GRAND total of around $2200. By no means a piddling sum, but when you figure it out, it averaged to less than a quarter a student. Really not bad at all for the Notre Dame student body. 
Hamilton was understandably upset. He commented that going to 
the Cat Stevens concert (which was the weekend of the collection) was 
"more entertaining than seeing a bloated stomach burst." 
"That's the point" many students cried. "How many of us have ever 
seen a bloated.stomach,let alone a bloated stomach burst. It's too far 
removed from us. We can't identify with their crisis," 
Locked in their own little intellectual, acadmeic, football -saturated 
environment, of course the Notre Dame students have never seen a 
stomach burst. What do you expect? They've been given a good 
proper upbringing by good proper American parents and they've 
come to Notre Dame because they deserve it. 
But despite their cries, the students'complaintsring hollow as more 
children and adults die each day in Pakistan. But for their sake, in 
light of their pleas for another chance, we're bringing the crisis home 
to you. We'll put it in your backyard. Sure, it's perhaps not as serious 
as thousands of people dying daily, but it's something you can -"relate 
to--identify with". It's something that's close to home. 
Tonight, the varsity basketball team of Notre Dame takes the court 
against their freshmen counterparts. <Are you telling me that all this 
rubble has led up to a crummy basketball game?) 
Yep, but to overuse an old cliche, it's more than just a basketball 
game. This game has come along under the planning uf co-chairmen 
John Thornto and John Diette. Adding their support and their efforts 
were Coach Digger Phelps and John Barkett and his Student Govern­
ment crew. The purpose behind the whole game is to collect clothes, 
canned food, toys for the adults and children of South Bend who aren't 
fortunate enough to go to Notre Dame.They really could care less if ND 
lost to LSU on Saturday night for what concerns them most is that it 
snowed Saturday night and it gets awful cold walking to work or 
school with holes in your shoes or no heavy jacket to shut out the 
chill. They're more concerned with the dull ache in their stomachs 
because there hasn't been any food to eat for a while. They're not 
depending on us to come through because they probably figure it's not 
worth the trouble to get their hopes up. 
Admission to the game which starts at 8:00at the ACC is any piece of 
usuable clothing, canned food, or toys. All of these items will be 
distributed to the poor of South Bend on Tuesday and Wednesday in an 
effort to make their cold and snowy Thanksgiving a little better. 
Maybe, for a change, while you're sitting comfortably in front of your 
TV set on Thursday watching the Oklahoma-Nebraska game, some 
little South Bend child will be discovering the wonders of a "Mr. 
Machine" and some little South Bend girl will be smiling because the 
coat she has just put on is making her warm or maybe even some 
South Bend father is bowing his head and praying in Thanksgiving 
because he's been able to put something on the table before his family 
for the first time in a few years. 
I'm sorry it all comes off very mushy and sentimental, but when you 
come to think of it, we can't feel these emotions because we're shut off 
in our "intellectual ghetto". These are not the feelings and emotions 
that are close to us at all. But at least in my mind, I'd feel a lot better if 
I knew that some man was praying and thanking God for the 
"christians" at Notre Dame. Remember that "christian com­
munity"? I guess it exists if you want it to. 
Monday, November 22, 1971 THE· OBSERVER 
f:Jage s 



Black slaying in N. Carolina triggers violence 
by Richard D. Lyons 
lc) 1!171 New York Times 

i\ydcn, N.C., Nov. 21--The killing of a Black farm laborPr by a white state trooper on a lonely road one midnight three months ago has triggered outbursts of racial violence in this East Carolina town that threatenens to develop into a national con­troversy. 
Since the death of William Earl Murphy, 800 protesters have been arrested, including 26 last night. Six dynamite blasts have shaken this town of 3,800 people, and the Rev. Ralph David Abernathy, a leader of the nation's civil rights movement, is due to return here in an effort to bring the troubles to the country's attention. 
Ayden, a prosperous agricultural town that is moving into the industrial age with the opening of two factories and hints of more to come, declared a state of emergency last Friday and 7 pm to 6 am curfews have been imposed.
The killing and subsequent Pvents have led to the in­volvement of Abernathy's non­violent Southern Christian Leadership Conference; a group of young militant Blacks whom the police have charged with the dynamiting of a local school· remnants of the Ku Klux Klan' and residents of both races wh~ wish it would all go away. 
Yet it is apparent that many, if not most, of the Black residents of this fertile flatland have seized upon the killing of Murphy as a rallying point to express their resentment of what they feel is gross mistreatment and discrimination by whites. 
Abernathy said in an in­terview: "The harassment of 
Egyptian troops alerted on Suez 
<<·) 1!171 Nl'w York Times Cairo. Nov. 21-The lights were off tonight along Cairo's most fashionable shopping street, Kasr 1!:1-Nil, and pedestrians walked in darkness, keeping with the mood following President Anwar El­Sadat's warning to the troops along the Suez Canal that "there is nothing left for us but the hattie.II l!~gypt's arm-'\.1 forces were said to be in a state of standby alert and leaves were reported canceled in the wake of Sadat's declaration that there was no altl.'rnative to fighting to recover thl' land occupied by Israel. Although the downtown sec­tion of Cairo was mostly dark, 
lights burned elsewhere  in  the  
city,  however,  underlining  the  
general  impression  that  an  
outbreak  of  fighting  was  not  
imminent.  

Sadat indicated as much when 
::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::~:~:~:~:=:~:~:~:::::::~:=:~:~:::::::::::::::::::~:;: 
Scholastic Editors Joe Hotz and Mary Ellen Stoltz announced yesterday that the Scholastic Course Evaluation will be published on November 30. The Student Senate had denied the magazine funds to print the evaluation, but the contributions of several people has allowed for the publication of the issue anyway. 
CHICAGO 

71!5 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Please add aalea tax where applicable 
he told the troops along the Suez tended today, Sadat appears Canal during a tour Friday and firmly committed to undertakin
1 
yesterday, "until the orders for a military action after his vo ~.w;;;;==::::::=:=:::=;;;=;:=:=:=;:!:=;;:==.. P....ia!till~~......~~--l.l.li:.IJ 
crossing are given I want you to directly to the officers and me keep training and training in-along the Suez canal. tensively. 11 The Cairo newspapers reporte 
The Egyptian leader's report to today that soldiers and officer 2 2 7 lin CO 1n the troops that he had decided to had told Sadat that they were fight clearly was intended to set Pagerly awaiting to order to.H::~W~~e~s~t===~2~32~-~~~~M 
the scene for a showdown debate attack. .:: 
nextmonthintheUnitedNations
General Assembly on the Middle East crisis. 
Cairo's authoritative daily, AI Ahram, stressed today that diplomatic contacts would continue in preparation for the 
U.N. debate. The main purpose of the debate, Sadat said at the front, would be to obtain a resolution calling upon Israel to pledge to withdraw from the occupied Arab lands. 
If such a pledge cannot be achieved, observers here con-Blacks in Eastern North Carolina is as bad or worse than Mississippi. It's the same old story: Police brutality, poor housing, lack of employment and the educational system.II 
Abernathy and aides from 

S.C.L.C. and other civil rights groups are drawing up plans for a march 70 miles to the state capitol at Raleigh this coming week with arrival time scheduled for Thanksgiving morning. They are seeking the personal in­tervention of Gov. Robert Scott to meet 14 demands, including the firing of state trooper Billy Day, who allegedly fired the shot that killed Murphy just before mid­night on August 6. 
Day told his superiors that he 

had apprehended Murphy for public drunkenness on county road 1900 in the unincor orated· 




F···-··-RANK'IE'S 
Dinner Special Chicken, Steak or Perch Dinner with Turren Soup, Sa lad & Coffee 
$1.50 

~--------------------------------------------~-----., 
The Festival 135 is an i'ntegrated mus1c sys­
'tem with performance found only in the most sophisticated individual components. It features a superb AM/FM stereo receiver which provides extraordinary power, sensitivity and ultra-wide­band response. The result is clear, crisp re­ception without noise or distortion. The special uitra-wideband design produces frequencies be­yond the usual limits of human hearing. The re­sult is extraordinary realism. transparency and definition in the range you actually hear. 
The Festival's AM radio presents sound so remarkably close to FM that it can be taken seri­ously by devoted music lovers. Consistent with the overall quality of the Festival, the precision automatic turntable is equipped with an ultra­
wideband magnetic pick-up to play your records 
with professional care and genuine fidelity. 
The two specially designed acoustic suspen­
sion speaker systems (HK35) are perfectly 
matched to the Festival's electronics. It can be 
categorically stated that you've never heard such 
richness, sparkle and transparency over the full 
frequency range from speakers that require such 
little space in ~our room. 

~Ud10 S~£CUL1StS 
sal.es and. s~r\Jtce 
3\o nm\cn\gan 


hamlet of Hanrahan, about three miles south of here, and was driving him to the county jail. 
Day said that after he had turned on to county road 119 and was heading into town that Murphy, who was sitting to the right of the trooper, had tried to stop the car and that the two men had wrestled in the front seat. 
During the fight, Day said, that he had shot Murphy in the ab­domen at point-blank range with 
a .357 magnum revolver con­taining armor-piercing bullets. The trooper said that Murphy had continued to resist, so he hand­cuffed him with his arms behind his back. 
Murphy fell from the car and several pools of blood were found on the roa~ next to a telephone pole. 
lot r gpirit goarf
• 
TAKE TIME TO VISIT THE 
NEW 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
GIFTS • BOOKS POSTERS LOVE NOTES GREETING CARDS RELIGIOUS EDUCATION MATERIAL 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD 
BROWSERS WELCOME FREE PARKING 
OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TIL 7:00 PM 


AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAD SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PH. 272-1704 


cover and Cassette Rerorder 0 tionaJ 
Page 6 

by Stan llrankar '7:1 The Interhall football cham­pionship will remain in Dillon Hall. The Big Red successfully defended their title yesterday afternoon when they outlasted Morrissey, 20-12, in overtime on a snow-covered Cartier Field. The sloppy conditions hurt the Marauders' famed triple option by slowing the cuts of Kirk Miller and Pat Casey, and making their patented pitchouts even more difficult. Dillon coach Mike Caulfield praised the work of the proud Dillon defense in holding Morrissey to only 63 yards rushing, better than 70 yards below normal. "It was a tremendous team effort by the defense," com­mented Caulfield. "Our plan against the option was to have the outside linebackers <Eddy
... 
Carney and Nick Pel use) watch the trailing backs, the ends <Mike Bireley and Joe LaRocca) would key on Miller, the tackles <Animal Cunningham and Billy Niezer) and Rich Sherman guarded the middle, while Tiger Ryan floated with the play." 
The Big Red broke Carney loose for a 55 yard run on the first series, only to have the play nullified on a penalty. Dillon was then forced to punt, and the Marauders took the ball at their own 44. 
From there, Miller led a 13 play drive, highlighted by a 20 yard aerial to Fran Finnegan on fourth down, that put the ball on the Dillon six. Miller snuck in for the score to give Morrissey a 6-0 lead. 
Miller fumbled off the option midway through the third quarter, and Niezer grabbed the loose ball at the Morrissey 33. Randy Stasik, playing an out­standing game, guided Dillon to the eight, where, on a fourth and one, Carney swept right end for the tying score. 
"The sweep really surprised us there," noted Marauder field boss Vince Meconi after the contest. "We were playing in tight, and would've bet they'd gone inside, but Stasik audibled and got the score." 
Dillon's junior signal-caller, indeed, controlled their game on offense. Not only did he con­
sistently turn audibles into sizable gains, but also completed 7 of 9 passes for 87 yards, with 
five aerials going to split end Bill Hoy. . Mornssey ran a total of 19 

THE OBSERVER Monday, November 22, 1971 
130 Dixieway South Roseland 


"-.uJJdi DINNERS
lJ'VT-from 52.65 
Luncheons from 51.4 
Reservations 
272-7373 
or 
272-7900 


thoug_h, and the game entered :;:;: overtime. :;:;: 
The fifth quar~er produced ::~~ 
nothing but a sertes of stalled ;:;: drives by each club. Thus. an;~;~ elaborate procedur~ went .mto :;:;
effect to produce a wmner. Dillon :;:: would get the ball first at the :;:; Morrissey 10, and have four plays!;!; to score. Morrissey, in turn, ;:;: would be allowed the same.:;::
Should the eight plays still result :::: ::::::·: .....•:':-:·=:·.·················,.,..·.:!!2:·;·•••.. • ..·...•·;·;·; :::: 
Cu tura Arts ommission s literary Program presents 
3 films on W. B. Yeats Yeats Country 
• B. Yeats : A Tribute Horseman, Pass By 
Monday, Nov. 22 7:00p.m. Engineering Auditorium 
Thanksgiving Vacation 
Choose either
Ed Carney (35) bulls his way through the Morrissey line for a short 
The House of 

gain in Sunday's Interhall championship game. 
$15.00 single, do~bl
Waterbeds

in a tie, the procedure would be repeated, until a victor would emerge. 
Dillon's first play resulted in a pass interference call on cor­nerback Jim Fister, for a first
and goal at the one. Two plays later, Carney dove in for a 12-6 advantage, though Fister bounced back to intercept the extra point pass attempt. 
The Marauders then called on Joe Holzmer for two carries and nine yards, with Miller getting his second score on the next play. Casey's try for a victory was stopped short, and the score stayed at 12-12. 
The next set of downs by each club was halted, and the Big Red then began their final series. Carney carried for two to the eight, and Mike Harrington took the next handoff, but fumbled. The ball bounded loose into the end zone, where tackle Homer Cunningham pounced on the pigskin for the winning tally. Stasik's pass to Hoy was good for two, and the defense came back on; determined to halt the Marauders. 
Holzmer carried twice for four yards, and Casey ran for four more on a sweep. With fourth and 

/nterha/1 hockey 

There will be a meeting tonight at 9:30 in the north stands of the ACC hockey rink for anyone interested in playing
intramural hockey this winter. 
plays on a 42 yard fourth quarter ·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::·: 
drive tha~ was marred b~ a group :ir·············K······A...ifA...TE.......... ~~;~ 
of questiOnable penalties. The ;:;:: :::; 
Big Red eventually stiffened, :;:;:DEMONSTRATION·;:;
.;:; :;:;
T0 nite 7 : 00 p .m • ~:\: 
, :;:;
St. Mary S ~:;;L "ttle Theatre ;:;;
I ::;:
A • ;:;:
CCepttng ;!;! 
new memberS :;:;
.fo.... cominu t~rm ;:;: 
•••and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Cc.lling by Student Billing Card eliminates tha 25-cent additional charge made on every ~tation-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your ca1 d now! 
@ 

Indiana Bell 

I• 
two. Miller rolled and look~ for 
queen, kmg

split end Tony Oppegard m the 441 E. Howard 
with Student
right corner. But cornerman 
"Just 3 blocks 

Marc Brammer dove to knock the 
ID. ND-SMC Open 12 .
So. of Notre 6
ball down, and keep the Big Red 
, on top for good. .~~~~~~:::;::::::::;:::::~~~~~~~~~~~~===~~~ 


Monday, November 22, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
LSU wins grudge match, 28-8 





ND suffers worst defeat in the "Era 
by Jim Donaldson fourth quarter, a feat last ac-Stadium and a national Sports Editor complished by Texas in the 1970 television audience. The Irish 
Down in Louisiana folks had Cotton Bowl. And, if Notre concluded their 1971 campaign been waiting for the LSU _Notre Dame's loss to the Tigers drops with an 8-2 record. Dame game for over a year. the Irish out of the top ten in the The fired-up Tigers wasted Saturday night, the Tigers national rankings, it'll be the first little time in getting on the rewarded their faithful followers time that a Parseghian-coached scoreboard Saturday night. by handing the Fighting Irish a Notre Dame team hasn't been in Notre Dame received the opening 28-8 setback. the top ten at the end of the kickoff and picked up a first down 
Louisiana State did more than season. on their first play before being merely defeat Notre Dame. They LSU scored in every quarter as forced to punt. . dealt the Irish their most decisive flanker Andy Hamilton, who Five plays later, the Tigers had loss since Ara Parseghian took caught three touchdown passes, put six points on the scoreboard. over the head coaching job eight quarterbacks Bert Jones and Starting on his own 23, Art years ago. They scored on the Paul Lyons and a stiff defense led Cantrelle got LSU rolling with a Irish in the second half, the first the Tigers to their seventh win in six yard gain. On second down, !t-am to do so this season. They 10 games this season before a Jones fired a 36 yard strike to scored on Notre Dame in the howling crowd of 66,936 in Tiger Hamilton, putting the ball at the 
Jim Donaldson ===:=:=:===================================================;:;:;:;:::::=:::=:=:::=:============ ~~·a~~· lo~a~~~=~leo~hs~cc~~~~~~ 
carries but Jones, with plenty of time, found Hamilton open again and fired a 36-yard scoring strike to the rangy wide receiver. Jay Michaelson booted the extra 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:Just Rambling point ot put the Tigers on top, 7-o, just 4: 13 into the quarter. 
Despite the fact that his club swept two games from WCHA-foe, After LSU's early offensive Colorado College, Notre Dame hockey coach, "Lefthy" Smith wasn't heroics, the Tiger defense took overly pleased with his team's performance. their turn in the limelight, 
"We won two games, but we have an awful lot of work to do," stopping three Notre Dame Smith commented after Saturday's game. Smith was a bit disap­scoring threats, before the Jones pointed with his club's forechecking on Friday night and the lack of a -Hamilton combination gave well-rounded scoring attack. LSU some breathing room later 
The line of John Campbell, Eddie Bumbacco, and Ian Williams has In the second quarter.accounted 15 of the 20 goals the Irish have scord this season. Defen­The Tigers first defensive 
The Irish Eye 
touchdown pass in a losing effort against LSU. 
seman have tallied three goals, meaning that Notre Dame's second stand came in the first quarter, Tiger score. Jones, who had drive, sparked by Brown's
and third lines have scored just two goals. after the Irish had gained enough time to got to the bench passing. The sophomore signalBumbacco is off to a tremendous start this season. The Sault St. possession at the LSU 36 when and check with coach Charlie caller completed six passes, theMarie, Ont., sophomore has banged in nine goals in his first four Fred Swendson recovered a McClendon about which last a perfect, seven-yard toss togames, scoring at least two goals in each game. He had the first Irish Jones fumble. Notre Dame receivers were open, whipped a Tom Gatewood for Notre Dame's 
·'hat trick" of the year Friday night against Colorado. moved all the way to the Tiger 32 yard strike to Hamitlon for the only touchdown.The Irish tried aEddie is quick to credit his great start to his linemates. "It really one yard line, where the Tigers touchdown and Michaelson two-point conversion and werehelps to be playing with guys like Ian and John," he says. "They can stacked up Andy Huff short of the converted with 1:14 remaining to successful, Brown whipping areally set you up." goal line on a fourth down play. 
give the Tigers a 14-o lead which pass to Bob Minnix all alone inThe fine play of soph goalie Mark Kronholm Saturday was a Notre Dame moved to the LSU they took to the dressing room at the end zone.
pleasant surprise for coach Smith. Kronholm stopped 30 Colorado 19 the next time they had the ball, 
halftime. . The Tigers added insult toshots while posting the second shutout of his collegiate career. He held in the second quarteer, but their A Brown fumble at the N.D. 33 injury by adding a fourth touch­air Force Academy scoreless in the final game of the 1970-71 season. drive stalled when quarterback paved the way for the third Tiger down just 20 seconds before the"We didn't know quite what to expect from Mark,"Smithsaid. "We Cliff Brown was ·dumped for a to~chdow~. Cant!elle carried game ended. After calling aknew that he was a good goalie but he had only been used in practice so three yard loss trying to get tw1ce to p1ck up a f1rst down and timeout to stop the clock and
far. He did a very fine job." outside right end on a fourth then Jones .tosssed a t~n-yard discuss strategy, Lyons lobbed aIt's too bad that more people didn't turn out to see the Irish hockey down play. 
pass to Hamilton to the Insh 17. 13 yard scoring strike toteam in their first series on home ice. An average of only slightly The Irish got the ball in good Another Jones-Hamilton aerial Hamilton and Michaelson added
better than 2600 fans saw th first two games. field position four plays later and put the ball on the nine and Jones the extra' point to complete theConspicuously absent at the weekend games was the Notre Dame againcame close to scoring, only ran for a firs down to the five on score.
band. Virtually every other school in the WCHA and the ECAC (the to be thwarted by the Tigers. 
the next pl~y. With only ten Parseghian praised the Tigerseastern collegiate hockey league) has at least a pep band playing at all Willie Townsend, getting fine seco!lds left m the quarter, Jon.es afterwards, commenting, "They
their home games-but not the Irish. blocks from John Dampeer and ran m for the ~cord on an opt•.on were ready for us, they executedAppeals have been made to Robert F. O'Brien , director of bands Mike Creaney, gained 34 yards, p~ay and M1cha~Ison agam well, and we couldn't seem to
here at the University, but he will not allow his band members to to the LSU 12, on a first down, k1cked the extra pomt. punch the ball for a short yardage play, as a university band, hre at the hockey games. flanker reverse play. Notre The Irish averted a shutout when we wanted to."
"We do a lot of work and we only have so much time and sm many Dame picked up eight yards in with a fourth quarter scoring "I thought of going for a fieldpeople," O'Brien says. "Our band members aren't on scholarship and three running plays and, after 

S •1 •
I feel that they're working at their maximum capacity." calling two timeouts, decided to goal a couple of times," he "There are other sports involved, too," O'Brien adds. "You got to be go to the air on fourth down. 81 ors mn continued, "but there was usually fair to all of them. Ifour band plays at hockey games, we ought to play Brown was unable to make The Notre Dame sailing team only about a foot to go. If you at baseball games, swimming meets, track meets and the like." connections with Larry Parker in captured first place in the Big can't make a foot on one down, 
you aren't in the game."
Sports fans who won't be heading home for Thanksgiving ought to the end zone, however, and the Ten championships held over the take in Notre Dame's series with defending WCHA champion, ball went over to LSU. weekend at Purdue. Wisconsin Saturday night, LSU put the 
Lale in the second quarter, Irish out of the game and brought 
Michigna Tech, next weekend. Tech is annually one of the top clubs in finished second, Indiana third the West and they figure to be at or near the top of the WCHA again Warren Capone's interception of .md Michigan fourth, in the ten­to an unhappy end a season that 
a Brown pass set up the second had begun with high hopes. 
this season. Game time is 7:45pm Friday and Saturday nights in the team regatta. 
Looking elsewhere on the sports scene, it's time to make the final football predictions of the season since the Observer is ceasing 


ACC Varsity plays Frosh cagers 
publication until November 30th. There are some BIG games coming up in the next few days and by E. J. Kinkopf Gemme! and Shumate are "On defense we'll go basically
here's the way th Irish Eye sees the results: sidelined for the year, while man-for-man, trying to keep the
Tonight at 8 o'clock in the
Georgia over Georgia Tech. fhe Yellowjackets will be shooting Eggart has been hobbled by a opponent's offense moving. We
Athletic and Convocation Center, 
for an upset but the Bulldogs have had a week and a half to think about knee injury. aren't a physical team, nor are
the Notre Dame varsity
their loss to Aubrurn and Tech will provide a handy opponent for we really quick, so we'll be doing 
Don Silinski was also lost to the
basketball team will climax its
Georgia to work out their frustrations. a lot of other little things."
pre-season drills with an team for a while, but is now back
Texas over Texas A & M -The Longhorns can wrap up the Southwest "The Digger" also had some
exhibition scrimmage against the working out with the team.
Conference title with a victor here. comments about spirit.
freshmen hoopsters.
Arizona State over Arizona -The Sun Devils are repeating as WAC So Coach Phelps has adopted "I want to develop the Convo as champions. The game, billed as "Digger's the philosophy of "getting as one of the hardest places to play. Florida State over Pitt -It's been a good year for the Seminoles. Debut", will mark the first much as we can out of what we The hom(' court should be a 15 Auburn over Alabama -Sullivan and Beasley can put points on the coaching appearance by new have." Which means that Notre point advantage for the home board against an body. head basketball mentor Richard Dam(' fans will be seeing a dif­team. And if the student body Boston College over Holy Cross -This used to be a classic battle in Phelps in front of the Notre Dame ferent type of basketball this year acts like adults, cheering for 40 the East but the Crusaders just haven't got the horses any more. student body. than they saw during the era of minutes, not abusing the other LSU over Tulane -The Green Wave might catch the Bengals Austin Carr and his free-wheeling team, you'll see that advantage. I 
Coach Phelps plans on starting
"down". But don't count on it. buddies. want the reputation that when a
Chris "the hawk" Stevens, Gary
Miama (Fia.) over Florida -Fran Curci will have his Hurricanes Novak, and Tom O'Mara in the "It's really hard to label the team comes to the Convo they ready for this on. forecourt, with ball-handling type of offense we'll be running," come to play." 
Army over Navy-Regardless of the teams' records, this is always a Admission to the public
wizard Bob Valibus and walk-on Coach Phelps said. "In football 
great ball game. Army has beaten more and better opponents and is Tom Hansen in the back court. it's easy to label an offense; scrimmage is the donation of a looking for revenge, so the Cadets are the choice for victory. single wing, wishbone-T. We'll be food item, clothing, or a toy for
The starting of five sophomores 
And in the Game of the Year: was partly necessitated by the running patterns, and always be the underpriveleged of South Nebraska over Oklahoma -Both clubs can score, but the Cor­series of crippling injuries to on the move. But to describe the Bend, or 25 cents for students, 
which will be used to buy turkeys 
huskers have a defense too. .John Eggart. Doug Gemme!, and offense we'll use in a few words is 
for the South Bend needy.
Last Week: 10of 14,1 tie .700 SeasonPct.123of 164,1 tie .748 John Shumate. impossible." 
r-­
Monday, November 22, 1971

Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
I
Bumbac·co, KJ,.onliulrrt ,~· tu1· a~..\· 

by Jim Donaldson 
Sports Editor 

Outstanding efforts by a pair of sophomores, winger Eddie Bumbacco and goalie Mark Kronholm, enabled Notre Dame to post a pair of victories against Colorado College last weekend at the ACC. 
Bumbacco scored three goals Friday night to lead the Irish to a 6-3 win over the Tigers and added two more goals Saturday af­ternoon while Kronholm was holding Colorado scoreless as Notre Dame chalked up a 4-Q triumph. 
The victories were worth four points to the Irish in the WCHA standings and boosted Notre Dame's record to 3-1. Colorado is 0-3 this year, 0-2 in the league play. 
Bumbacco's hat trick helped the Irish overcome a 2-o Colorado College lead in the first game of the series. The Tigers had grabbed an early advantage on goals by Mike Bertsch, in the first minute of play, and Doug Palazzari at 4:39. 
Bumbacco started the Irish comeback with a power play goal at 11: 13 of the opening period, about the only things Notre Dame fans had to cheer about in the first stanza. Nyrop set the scoring play in motion by sliding_ a pass from the right point to John Campbell in the right corner. The frosh center passed the puck in front of the crease, where Bumbacco was able to direct it into the net. 
Outshot 9-4 in the first period, 
the Irish came alive in a penalty 
filled second period to score 
three goals and take a 4-2 lead. 
Ian Williams made it a 2-2 
game with only 1:01 gone in the 
period, deflecting a pass from 
Bill Green past Colorado goalie, 
Doug Schum. 

The game livened up at the five minute mark, when Notre Dame's Steve Curry and Bill Nyrop became embroiled with Colorado's Jerry O'Connor and Bertsch. Nyrop displayed fine form in the battle, landing three solid rights to O'Connor's head. 
All four players involved were sent to the penalty box and, with both teams skating three-on­three, Ric Schafer put the Irish ahead to stay by gunning a 25-foot shot from the right past Schum. 
Nyrop provided the 2,826 fans in attendance with another show in the he scored 
on a picture-perfect, two-on-one came on a power play only nine break with teammate Jim Cordes. seconds after Colorado's Jim Cordes hit Nyrop with a perfect Stebe had been sent off the ice for pass to send the Irish defenseman interference. in alone on Schum and Nyrop_slid D'Arcy Keating started the the puck between the Tiger scoring play by drilling a slap netminder's legs to put the Irish shot that bounced off Schum and on top, 4-2.. out in front·of the cage. Williams 
_Pa_lazzari brought Color~do slid the puck across the crease w1t~m a goal at 2:54 of the fmal and Bumbacco popped it into the perwd but two goals by Bum-twine. bacco put the game out of reach . 
of the Tigers. His second goal of Both t~~ms had good scorm,g the night came at 12:54 on a fine opportumh~s after Bumbacco s individual effort. He skated goal but neither club was able to between two Colorado defenders c~nvet any· John Campbell to beat Schum on the near side. fmally took some of the p~essu~e 
Four minutes later, Bumbacco off Kronholm by notchmg h~s got his hat trick, taking a pass second ~oa~ of the season from ~n from Williams a few feet in front close with JUSt _14 seconds I~ft m of the cage and tipping it past the second perwd after takmg a Schum. pass from Bumbacco behind the 
Saturday afternoon's game net. was much closer than the final It looked like the final score score indicated. Bumbacco's might very well be 2-0 as both goal at 14:49 of the first period clubs were kept in check for most was the only scoring in the first 39 of the third period but freshman minutes of the game as Kronholm Tom Lindsey and Bumbacco both and Schum were nearly im-scored in the last five minutes of pregnable in their respective the game to give the Irish their 4­goals. 0 margin of victory. 
Bumbacco's first period goal Kronholm making his first 


SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening . PITCHER 
zs••• 

$1.00 
NIGHT 
Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 


POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. -1 2 p.m. 
i.AUREL &HARDY 
PIZZA P~LACE 

CL~1SSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES Unique personalized "'tationery, the pe~fect Christmas gift for that

LAST CALL: NY Munich­
special someone. Inquire by callChicago flight Dec. 31-Jan. 16 for 1167 or come see our vast selection$165. One-way to Europe $75. 
at 611 Grace or 315 South Regina,.
Phone 7856, 8460 or 6575. 

Blues Albums $3. Artists: Magic
FUTURE CPA'S ··Learn how to 
Sam, Buddy Guy, Junior Wellsprepare for the CPA Exam. 
and others. One week only. Com•eBecker CPA Review Course. Call to Biology Library.
Collect: (317) 547-9971. 

Christmas Loans up to $150. Pay 
Save Money on latest LP's back January 20. Morrissey Loan 
Student Record sales endures! Fund Closes Dec. 10. 
List $5.98 . 3.65, $4.98 -3. 15. 

313 Morrissey or ph. 3575. Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning Viviane 
For Sale: '67 Honda 305. 13,000 Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, 
miles. Newly rebuilt. Runs Available only through indiv. 
perfectly. Looks great. $450. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE 
George 8427. UP LESSONS. Philco, protable B-W TV. 18", NEED MONEY? 
1969. 255-8849. Morrissey Loan Fund Basement of La Fortune 
"LAW SCHOOL--WILL I LIKE 11:15 12:15. 
IT? CAN I MAKE IT?" A new book by a recent law graduate for LOST 
prospective law students. Sen $2.95. Kroos Press, Box 3709/l. I lost a man's gold I D braclet that 
Milwaukee, Wis. 53217. has a very special meaning to me. It says Dave on the outside and 
Outrageously original posters.. Renee on the inside. Please call 
Nurd comix. Up for grabs. 8149 or 7835. 
8126. 

Two keys with 425 on them near 
For Sale: 1970 VW Squareback. Moreau at SMC. If found, please 
Reliable. $1400. Call 234-4957. call Jim . 1817. For Sale: Fisher stereo amp, FM WANTED 
stereo tuner, Garrard turntable, Large Bass-Reflex speakers. Need ride to or towards Greely 
$200.00. Call Tim 272-5374. Colorado for Thanksgiving. Call Chip 8256. 
FOR RENT 

Need ride to Florida (Ft. 
Two room apt. kitchen, share• Lauderdale l for Thanksgiving. 
bath. December, second Call Mike 1650. 
Semester. 288-0247. 

Need ride to northwest suburb of 
PERSONALS Detroit on 24th and back on 28th. Downtown okay too. Will share. 
lonely senior needs girlfriend to Ed 8141. 
share good times with. this is not a game. it's for real. Wanted: Girl volunteer tutors for 
call phil 6872 Upward Bound students. Call 3195. Mr. Archie Bradford, Up­
T.G.I.W. ward Bound, Box 458, Notre 
Thanks Giving It's Wednesday Dame. 
(I didn't even know I had one) Fantasy Nonsense I need a SMC girl to spend 
Zapd Thanksgiving with me. 3250. Thanksgiving Greetings Need ride to Louisiana alter Nov. 
To Catherine and Shieling West 22. Call 1327. 
California Bean Salad. 

Riders wanted one way only.NYC 
Cinnamon Girl: area to N D. Sunday November 
Second track of second side of 4­28th' 259-9490. 
Way Street. 

Lechinvar WANTED: By The Whole University. One (ll "How to Be 
Ci1ink: Real Cool and Groovy" by that 
Look out for your new experience controversial author Jean 
tonight. McNulty. 
Solid Jackson 
WANTED: Nothing. 

Desparately need ride to NYC Tuesday or Wednesday. Call before Tuesday am. Steve 1464. 
NEW AD RATES 

Need ride to Allentown, PA. or Philadelphia, Wed. 11-24. Please 
Words 1d,1. 2rJa 3da 4da 5da Call Lucy 5158. 
'1·10 .65 .95 l.JS 1.35 1.55 11-H 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40
FOR SALE 
16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 
For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. 
26 30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 

'67, Air cond., Power steering and 
31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.35 6.15 

brakes. 'His-Hers' transmission, 
36-40 2.80 ... 20 5.25 6.75 7.75 

tinted glass, black interior. Call 
41 4 5 •. 1 5 4. 70 5' 90 7. 10 8'20
ond make bid. 289-7433. 
46-so J.~s s 20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

.. 






