

650 bolster RAP with donations 

more activities, such as hundred people a month, 85 its work on a budget of only a few end the refugee problem wouldMore than 650 persons have speakers, films, and a picnic. The percent of whom have war hundred thousand dollars. There not. He said that one-third of theregistered their suport for the social activites are open to related injuries inflicted by both is no expensive administration, population of South Vietnam, orRefugee Aid Program everyone, Gies said, "to get Americans and Viet Cong, a third and Gies said that money six million people, have been<R.A.P.) and the invitation to join people together and generate of the patients are children under collected would be sure to reach displaced and 500,000 killed since is still open according to Tom 
Geis, one the spirit and a sense of com­the age of 13. the hospital. The Friends receive 1964.
of programs 
munity." no assistance from the govern­
organizers. 
Many of the cases are, yictims ment so that they can remain The R.A.P. is non-partisan a-..
Six hundred+ dollars have Representatives are in the of mines or artillery and· have to entirely nonpartisan, and they distinct from the other peacebeen donated for the American dining halls and the Huddle every have legs or arms amputated. deny no one treatment, except movements, and while it doesFriend's Service Committee's 
day. Hopefully, an information The hospital makes artificial make a statement about war,
soldiers.
hospital in Quong Ngai, South 
table like that in the Library will limbs and tries to rehabilitate the Gies said that it's philosophy is
Vietnam, in the first week of Aerni said that troop level
be set up in Madeleva Hall. An victims. Growning children must primarily Christian andcollections, but "more im­office for all the organizations be fitted with a new, larger limb reductions have led the public to humanistic. Kowalczyk said that 
portantly," another founder 
sponsored by the Non-Violence about every six months. believe that casualties are many , besides leftists, have
Molly Kowalczyk said, "there are Program, which includes the decreasing and so donations have shown interest in the program.many interested people giving of 'R.A.P., will soon be set up in the The Friend's Service does all fallen, but even if the war would 
their time and of themselves." 
old Fieldhouse. 
"We· could have written to The R.A.P. was conceived only 
Ahmad explains violence, 
corporations asking for funds," a month ago by Dave Lammess, Gies said, "but we are trying to Don Aerni, and the others. "It transmit an ideal rather than was one of the most spontaneoussimply gather money." organizations I've seen at Notre 
revolution in lecture here
The R.A.P. is writing a letter to Dame," Gies said. The programthe faculties of Saint Mary's and officially began with a Mass on Eqbal Ahmad, one of the six Revolutionary War-A Theoretical industrialization is enough to Notre Dame and has obtained April 4th, the anniversary of defendants in the Harrisburg Perspective" at the 2:00 pm completely topple the balance in lists of Notre Dame alumni from Martin Luther King's death. Conspiracy trial told an audience session of the Seminar on the existing government. teh Alumni Office. They are of about 150 people yesterday that Violence and Social Change in the The one time Fulbright scholar 
The R .A.P. chose to support the 
being distributed so that those most of the violence known Continuing Education Center. used a blackboard to illustrate willing can write to alumni and American Friend's Service throughout history has been He sighted the example of the forces that he thought led to friends in their home town, ex­Committee over the Catholic perpetrated by the defenders of Hitler's extermination of the revolutionary action in many
Charities and the International
plaining the program and asking law and order and not by political Jews and drew analogies to the countries. He outlined five main 
Voluntteer Service, which is
for support. Saint Mary's will not reactionaries, city riots, or even Johnson administration's policies crisises including, a question of release such lists to anyone, but very procommunist. organized crime. in Vietnam. legitmacy, simple consolidation, Miss Helen Carroll, head of the The Friends Service is spon­Ahmad, who is an international In particular, Ahmad alluded development, distribution, and 
sored by the Quakers. At the
Alumnae Association, has relations and politics specialist at to a discussion with a Senator party participation as the main 
Quong Ngai hospital 12
arranged for form letters to be the Adlai Stevenson Institute in McClosky, with whom he had reasons for many of the regime
Americans and 47 Vietnamese
sent to all alumnae. Chicago, was speaking on lectured with at Princeton the downfalls. 
The group is also pl~noing treat . two hundred tQ__tnree "Political Development and previous evening. "Senator Ahmad added forces of colonial McClosky told us that he had encounters popularization, taken a trip to Laos to find out decentralization, economic 
just what was going on, and that imbalance, and disenchantment on a flight over the countryside, of authority as results mainly of he did not see a single village in a technological expansion. region where one million people "We are dealing with social 
Symposium on Calley Case; 
had once lived," Ahmad said. transformations in telescopic "Refugees told the senator time and simoltaneousJy" said 

U.S. Policies Discussed 
that Calley was carrying out a that "My Lai was not an
Six Notre Dame professors later that they had been bombed Ahmad. "If you add malaria pills 
policy which essentially operated American Highpoint." He
debated the issue of U.S. policy out by American anti-personel to a country and not tractors, you
on the principal that "guerrillas discredited the idea of Calley as aguilt at Farley Hall last night. 
·weapons and that there were few have 2000 people working on landthrive in the sea of people, and scapegoat, emphasizing thatCarl Estabrook, professor of 
people able to survive," Ahmad that once supported one hun­these seas should be dried up." "Calley pulled the trigger when
history, started off the panel dred."
said.
Estabrook then compared what he didn't have to."
discussion with an argument "This perpetl.iated violence,'' Ahmad outlined five
U.S. policymakers did after the According to Maio, the
based on what the Calley case Ahmad told the audience,"is the requirements for the survival of
exposure of My Lai to a "Crooked negative effect of the Calley
reveals about American Policy. main problem in underdeveloped any developing government, "If
Croupier Plan." Just as croo~ed situation is the creation of doubt
In his presentation, Estabrook countries. Revolutionary con­a government is to survive it has 
gambling houses fired a croup1er "not only in the legality, but in
contended that Calley was "a ditions occur when the system of to have a radical and
to appease dissatisfied the correctness of orders in
cutting edge of policy." He said power looses its congruity and revolutionary center, a con-
customers, so the policymakers young officers which could concurrence with the masses."
did to appease the American possibly cause a crisis in the Usually the impact of modern Continued on pg 4
public, Estabrook explained. confidence in the judgement of superiors." Maio also stated that 
A third point of Estabrook's 
the positive effects would be a 
Fredrick, Parker
talk was that possible danger 
requirement that superiors
would justify actions which one 
rebuild confidence in their
3:00 to 5:00 exhibition-smc 
would ordinarilly think
spanish dept. and pan­judgement, and that a closer look 

speak aRainst war
justifiable only by imminent
american club: latin be taken by superiors into their
danger. 
combat responsibility.
american culture, little Frederick believes that Viet­
Professor of Government and 
then with
theatre smc. Estabrook debated namization is doomed to failure
International Studies Edward By Mike O'Hare
Maio on the responsibility of
7:00 & 9:30 movie-benefit because "it is based on
Goerner spoke next and warned Cynthia Frederick and Keith
policy or mistakes in policy. Maio
for sr. marita's primary misconceptions concerning the
that the concept that one's own Parker told an audience in
said "atrocities happen, but I
day school: the taming LaFortune Student Center their nature of society in Indochina. It
life or country is worth more than
of the shrew, don't think they are a policy"
that of another has infiltrated beliefs on what was happening in fails to recognize the unity of 
engineering aud., $1.00 Estabrook, however, suggested
national policy as well as the Indochina based on their per­purpose that exists among the 
7:30 lecture-dr. harold an inherence of "such ab­people of South 
Vietnam."

thinking of many individuals. sonal experiences.
masak: the bankruptcy berations of policy."
Goerner then tied this in with Miss Frederick stated Keith Parker, student body
of educationa I il"!­
Estabrook's point of possible vs. Speaking as a professional that,"the Nixon Administration president of Indiana University
stitutions, carroll hall 
imminent danger. He pointed out soldier Maio further contended was fooling alot of people with its and a drafter of the People's 
smc. 
Calley's own admission that "my that responsibility should be Vietnamization policy." She feels Peace Treaty in Hanoi, spoke of 
8:00 lecture-robert t. crime was in my judgement of that the President's withdrawal his experiences in North Viet­
placed on the lowest level
francoeur: human 
values." In calling for "the honor possible, that is closest to the of troops is based more on nam. He said that the North 
sexuality and test tube than a
of other soldiers" Calley was trigger. political expediency on Vietnamese people do not look 
babies; utopian 
calling for a new ethic, Goerner concern to preserve human lives upon the American people as 
motherhood, 122 hayes­
stated. Professor Edward Menard, and end violence. Miss Frederick their enemy, but rather the 
healy. 
Major Joseph Maio from the accepting that the Army may also cited drug and morale American government, and the
'p: 30 concert-blue orange: have been lax or negligent in its
Department of Military Science problems among U.S. troops, military-industrial complex. over the hill, in front of argued on the point of future battlefield instructions, still along with a desertion rate twice Parker stated that his was not a Iafortune. policy. He suggested both based individual guilt on common as high as the Korean War, as "showcase tour;" he knew he 
negative and positive effects of sense and the ignoring of General contributing factors in the was in a war zone after seeing the 
Westmoreland's directives and
Calley's case on later judgements President's troops withdrawals. bomb craters of the B-52's and 
the universal code of military and Recently having returned from 
on upper and lower levels of the seeing the U.S. Seventh fleet in 
legal blame on those at the scene. Saigon this past November, Miss
military structure.. Maio· stated Continued ·on pg. 6 _ 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER April 21, 1971 
there'sacUnerenceWOULD YOU 
JORDAN LIKE TO OWN A NEW FORD ON GRADUATION? 
Come to Jordan Ford 
and ask for our special 
plan for graduating seniors 
Hours: Mon.-Tues.-Thur. 9-9 Wed.-Fri.-Sat. 9-6 Tel. 259-1981 609 E· Jefferson Mish. 

Medium Size 6fl, oz. 

99~ ss~ 
83~ 

AT THE ND BOOKSTORE 
How the Student Union works 
By Tom Degnan 
This is the first of a two part series dealing with the Student Union and its functions. The first part deals with the Union ad­ministration and the Cultural Arts Commission and the Academic Commission. The second part, to be published in tomorrow's paper will be con­cerned with the Social Com­mission and the Services Com­mission. 
When the Student Senate Constitution Subcommittee submitted a bill to the Senate in mid-February proposing the dissolution of the Student Government, the main complaint from the students was not that the resolution left the campus without a provisional voice but that it provided for the disban­ding of the Student Union. The newly merged ND-SMC Student Union is probably the most in­despensible part of the current student government. It's ap­proximately 250 members make up the constituency that decides what speakers to bring, what movies to show, or how the LaFortune book co-op is going to be run. 
Organizationally, the Union is split into two divisions, the ad­ministrative and the com­missions. The Union Director oversees the operation of the commissions and irons out any of 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 
the Union's problems. Two AssistantDirectorshaverecently replaced the offices of Executive and SMC Coordinators. Under the new programs set up by director Bill McGrath one Assistant Director acts as a liasion for minority affairs while the other' appointed from the St. Mary's student body' attends solely to programs instituted on the SMC campus. Offices of Comptroller and Assistant Comptroller were initiated last year to watch over t~e Union's expenditures and fmances. 
It is the commissions however that provide the bulk of the programs that the Union spon­sors. Through them the Student Government most closely affects the students. 
The Academic Commission is the largest budgeted commission of the Union with a total of $19,000 of this year's Union's $35,000 Student Government allotment going toward the procurment of speakers for the ND-SMC campuses. The commission occasionally relies on agencies to book it's speakers but most of the approximately 80 speakers brought to the combined cam­puses this year were obtained by the Academic Commission itself. The commission is comprised of between 25 and 30 members whose responsibility it is to write letters to the various speakers and speakers agencies. This year the speakers were brought to the campuses in conjunction with nine main programs which in­eluded; a distinguished lecturer series, a woman's speakers program, an Asian studies series, 


'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~""""--an urban studies series, a Latin 1111; , -~· a American Studies program, an 
~ Anybody running for a class office ~ 
~ 
1111; 
~ 

~ ~ may pick up a petition at the ~ 
~ ~~ 
-

~ StU dent Government Office ~ ~ ~ ~ _ 
~ on Wednesday April 21 
~ 
~ 
1111; 
~ 
~ 
1111; 
~ 
1111; 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~~ 

~~~_.,_.,_.,~~~~_.,_.,,.,,.,~~-""-',. 
environment series, a Drug Forum, a prison reform series, and a Symposium on violence and social change. These programs change each year at the discretion of the commissioner and his assistant. 
The consolidation of the two schools Academic programs was an experiment this year aimed at using the facilities at both schools to benefit both student bodies. The present cooperative system has resulted not only in a more extensive speakers program but 
also in a reduction of the strain on 
the ND facilities. Besides the Library Auditorium, Stepan 




Lovecomes in all shapes. 
·~ 

From onebeerloverto another. 
fMIItiOtt 11£WIIY COMPANY, DlJROit, MICHIGAN <U2U 

April 21, 1971 
THE OBSERVER 
Page 3 

The Judicial process at Notre Dame 
This is the first of a two part series explaining the structure and procedure of the University Judicial Code. This article deals with University wide judicial bodies, while tomorrow's will concern itself with the hall boards. 
By Art Ferranti 
The present judicial code is an outgrowth of an excessively legalistic document drawn up by the SLC and rejected by Father Theodore Hesburgh. Originally termed the "Burtchaell Code," in recognition of the then Theology Department head's contribution, differed markedly from the rejected code in its simplicity. 
The code set up a two tier judicial system. The individual hall judicial boards handle all offenses committed by residents within the hall, while the university board judges all other cases. 
All violations and of­fenses"committed against the good of the university com­munity" committed by univer­sity students residing both on campus and off are referred to either the Dean of Students or the University Board. The student can choose either to be tried by. No matter who or what method he chooses, though, the student also has the right to appeal the case to the Appeals Board. Ultimately, a case may be brought to the University President, if he chooses to accept it. 
The University Board is composed of twelve students appointed by the Student Body President and the Dean of Students. Three faculty mem­bers, who act as chairmen are appointed by the Faculty and Dean of Students. The board itself retains a lawyer and a psychologist as "permanent advisors." For each sitting, the Dean of Students picks five students and one chairman w' J may not vote. 
The two present advisors · re Dr. Charles Arens, assist.p of. and clinical psycholigist, and Prof. Michael Mcintire, law. Dave Tushar, the present Judicial Com­missioner(appointed by the Student Body Presiden­tlconsiders the employment of a lawyer and a psychologist a good addition by the originators of the code. He feels that the psychologist can lend personal advice to both the board and the accused while the lawyer gives professional, legal consul. 
Tushar's Judicial Commission hives aid and assistance to the student. The code states (Section on Student Rights, articles 5,7,8,and ll)that a student has a right to seek consul. Utilizing a staff of four, Tushar provides this consul to the student so the ac-
OBSERVER INSIGHT 
cused will be made aware of his situation and will have respon­sible "aid and assistance." Tushar said his group does not make determinatigns in the trial. 
Fr. James L. Reihle, CSC, Dead of Students, is responsible for the observances of all the judicial code procedures. 
He said it was to early to tell how the code has worked, since its ratification by the SLC and Fr. Hesburgh late last October. 
Fr. Riele's ability to judge a student recieved favorable comments from Fr. Maurice Amen CSC, Flanner rector and head of the Non-Violence Program. Fr. Amen said he would never hesitate to send a student to Fr. Riehle if he had allegedly committed a university offense. Fr. Riehle was, in Fr. Amen's estimation "fair and considerate." 
Prof. Edward Manier, a member of the university board, said he was satisfied with the sense of responsibility shown by student members. In the one case the board has heard thus far, Manier claimed the student members made "a real responsible and fair in­terpretation, did not make new rules(since the University Board is a judicial and not a legislative body), and made a good judgement. 
The Appeals Board is com­posed of one student, Greg Potts, one faculty member, Dr. John Kovel, sociology, and one ad­ministrator, Dean William Burke. They form the appellate board under which decisions of the University Board and the Dean of Students may be either overturned or upheld. 
Potts said that he,' in general, was "pleased with the preamble of the code(which was very idealistic in eoncept)while at the 



Kennedy Institute sets 71-72 goaf of local improvement; positions open 
Notre Dame student in­volvment in service activities is the purpose of the Kennedy In­stitute, presently organizing for next year. 
The Institute, named after Robert Kennedy, was founded in 1969 with a $30,000 Ford Foun­dation grant. In past years, the Institute has funded community projects in Appalacia and · sociological research in Mexican­American communities of Texas. 
Next year the Institute will concentrate on the Notre Dame­South Bend area, linking students who are willing to work with local organizations that need tem­porary workers. Much of this work will be correlated with the student government Community Relations Board. 
The Kennedy Institute plans to 
lhe Cbserver is publisr>Ld d. , . during the college semester except 
Vdcations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Colleg\3. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. sec.>:.d class postage p~in, Notre Dame, ...d. 46556. 
look into local pollution, as well as sponsor Activities Night next year. 
There are still several positions open within the Institute's finance, student activities, and new ideas committees. Those interested should call Brackey 
at 1145.. 
ND·SMC Theatre 
presents 
The Musical Comedy Smash 
Book, Music and Lynes by LIONEL BART' 






OLIVER! 
:\lay l,li, 7, 8at 8:30pm. May 2 .d 2::lfl pm. O'Laughlin \u!litorium. $2.00 Tickets. luformation: 284-4176. 

same time discouraged with the legalistic strictness of the University Rules and Regulations." Potts stated that the board is in a bind as to what basis their decisions shoud rest upon, the legalistic rules and regulations or the idealistic preamble which speaks of love over law. As a result, he said they are attempting to combine the best of the two in order to seek "a clarification of what should stand as policy of the University Community in relation to the external behavior of its mem­bers." 
Potts claimed in the three cases tried in the Aopeals board history, the good order of the University Community has been upheld. 
In general, Potts said, offenses concerning parietals, drugs and drinking are considered by the University Board. Each case though is considered on an in­dividual basis as to jurisdiction. 
.. The third university wide judicial body is the Board of Traffic Appeals. This board consists of two students and one faculty member and "considers student appeals of alleged violations of Traffic Rules." Its decisions are final. 
An offshoot of this body is the Joint Traffic Appeals Board made up of two ND and two SMC students. They decide on cases in which a ND student allegedly infringes on SMC traffic or­dinances and vice-versa. Its decisions are also final. 
Tomorrow, the hall judicial boards and their performance will be discussed in relation to the 
Judicial Code. 

MET CLUB BaR RaRe Truck Sales 
(to New York City) Wednesday Night 7:00 PM $5.00 Deposit Coke Bar LaFortune 
Forum on Coeducation Enlightmentand Entertainment April 25th 2 pmin front of libraryEast Campus 

THE CHICANOS HAVE ARRIVED 
Wednesday April 21-24 Thursday April 22 Friday April 23 
Saturday April 24 
CHICANO ART SHOW 

Chicano artists of the Midwest in: 
O'Shaughnessy show cases all day
Fieldhouse (on the court) 9-6 WTF, all day Saturday LECTURE AND SEMINAR 
Mark Rogavin on REVOLUTIONARY MEXICAN MURAL 
7::10 pm m the Law Auditorium (basement>
Seminar in the Fieldhouse after lecture CLASSICAL GUITAR+ NFW SPEAKER 
7:00pm Law Auditorium 
Spamsh, Mexican guitar music by Jesus Casarez 
United Farm Worl<ers Organizer of the Midwest­
Eiiseo Medina MEXICAN DANCE 

Angelo Munoz and the Nova Sextet of Chicago
MOdern Latin on the court of the Fieldhouse 
Fieldhouse, 1-4 pm 

Acollege graduate just doesn't getthe warm welcome he used to. 
There's a lot of competition in the job market' 
today. And a college degree alone just 
doesn't carry as much weight with some 
employers. 
That's why Honeywell developed their 
Postgraduate Studies Program. A program 
designed exclusively for college graduates. 
No matter what your college major is. If 
you can qualify you'll be ready to learn com· 
puters from one of the world's top computer 
manufacturers and leading educators, 
Honeywell. 
You'll be ready to start right off in the fastest growing industry around. An industry that doubles in size and opportunity every five years. 
There still won't be any brass bands around to greet you, but you will get a warm handshake. All you have to do is mail this coupon. Or call (312) 368-0688. 

r----------------,
Admissions Officer 1 Honeywell Institute of Information Sciences La Salle Wacker Building, 221 North La Salle St. 1 Chicago, Illinois 60601 I 
0 I would like additional information on your program. 
I am interested in 0 Day 0 Evening classes. 
Name:_____ 
Coll•t;•·-------------~ 
College Address:__________ 
_______Phone:______ 
Home Address:___ 
Phone:______ 
Approved for veterans. I

L----------------J 
TheOtherComputerCompany: Honeywell 
Approved by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction State of Illinois. 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER 


If you want to help people, If you want to help improve the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community, then the 


Human Affairs Commission 
Needs YOU to work on: 
'o-education Counselling Programs Freshman Year Minority Programs Programs International Students Crisis phones Orientation 
For further information call Steve Fottunato at 8515 or contact him through the Student Government Offices. 
Fourth Conference of 1971 Marriage Institute 
PERSONAL GROWTH 
IN MARRIAGE 
Rev. James T. BurtchaellC.S.C. 
The Celebration of the Growth of LOve in Marriage
Sunday, April 25, 8:00pm, Library Auditorium 

Bottles. cans and on tap, the three best beers in America is Blatz. 




Goodoldblatzisbest. 
Hunger strike planned for 
weeK-end war protest 
Three Notre Dame students have announced plans to conduct a sit-down hunger strike on the steps of the Administration building this weekend. 
Senior Lance Corey said that the action is intended "to show empathy with all affected by the war in Southeast Asia." He of­fered it as an alternative to the anti-war activities planned in Washington on April 24th. 
Corey said that informal 

Fieldhouse still to be used for storage; not razed 
Dr. Thomas S. Fern, art department chairman, denied rumors yesterday that the Fieldhouse would not be used for summer storage this year because of demolition plans. 

Unitl recently, it had been thought that storage would not be possible because of stipulations made by the insurance company that covers the building. The company requires that all access to the fieldhouse floor be shut off so as to avoid damage to, or theft of merchandise. Last summer, when the art department used only the boxing room, a fence sealed off the stairwell to the storage area. 
This year several of the rooms bordering the basketball floor will be converted to studios thus opening up the building to a constant flow of people. Luckily, for those who plan to store their belongings, an alternate plan was decided upon by the department and the Junior class, which sponsors the service. 

discussions on the moral, political and practical im­plications of the war are planned. He said that he also hoped to 
arrange poetry readings, a 
guerilla theater, and  a  Sunday  
morning Mass.  
"We would  like  to  invite  all  

members of the community to join in participation in whatever capacity they wish," Corey said. 
Tim Standring and Jim Werner 
l!f 
~'it 

Fieldhouse 
Under the compromise, the the floor to be used for storage. 
Junior class will erect a fence This will equal the area that has 
similar to the one built last year been used in previous years. 
at the outlet of the boxing room. · The only snag could be a 
This will afford the art depart-refusal by the insurance com­
ment all the room they require pany to honor such a fence as a 
and also allow more than half of suitable security device. 
Ahmad speaks on violence, revolt 
will join Corey in the strike which 
begins Friday night at midnight and will continue until midnight Sunday. 
The three will donate all money saved on food during the 48 hour 
period to the Refugee Aid Program. 
Corey said that the strike will be the collective action of a group of individuals and is not spon­
sorea by any organization. 

Continued from pg. 1 
sistent and functioning ideology, an ideology deeply committed to the principles of accountability, institutions and practices that would insure adherence to the government, and an inherent pragmatism both in ideology and in a sense of what and what cannot be done." 
The question and answer 
which followed Ahmad's lecture concentrated on revolutionary actions. The basic tenet treated by Ahmad was that a revolutionary action is most successful when it has the effect of freeing people from the felt constrains of authority. "The main goal of a revolution," Ah­mad said, "is to complete the 'delegitimization' of the 



~------------------------------------~-E--0~-S.-~-~-V.-~-R----------------------------~-a~--s----~~ 


fr. qriffin and rick smith 1 ~ 

on love, and beinQ in heaven and hell : 
most alive, I think, through being a Christian, sr. marita's-: through living a Christian life. The Scripture speaks in terms of heaven and hell. I think that these have a 
l
relationship to the qualitative being of a man. A 
40 'unteachable' i
man is in hell when he has become immune to either 
~ loving or being loved and he is in heaven when he i has expanded his capacity even to the fact that he 
l 

can enjoy the experience of God. It may be harder 
kids, 1 nun and
for a man to affirm his humanity, his individuality, his uniqueness, but it seems that this is the age in which the Christian is most needed, to affirm the ways in which a man is human. some volunteers-Chesterton said about Christianity that it had never failed, it never had been tried. I don't think that pacifism or non-violent resistance has been pushed as far as it can go. God knows what effects it ""' your support is might achieve. There can never be victories to people who lay down and say that they have gone as far as they will go.
"The non-violent person makes the effort to have needed: the other person recognize his humanity. Like I said before. there is always a danger of people like myself living in an ivory tower, having unrealistic 
7 & 9:30 toniqht
estimates. Yet in the end I cannot believe this. You have to put yourself on the line for what you believe 
On Tuesday, March 30 of this year I devoted an in. I don't know. One of the kids on the bus asked entire page to a conversation I had had the previous me about pacifism, which is something toward the taminq of afternoon with Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. As it which I am more and more evolving. He asked me if turned out, that page may have been one of my best he became a pacifist, what would happen if all the pages yet. Over the course of several hours of other people took the same stance. The thing I rambling talk, we covered such profound things as cannot believe is that if we are Christians, if we the shrew Ame rica . in all its glory and shame, the crucifixion believe our convictions and we preach the primacy and the Fathers Berrigan, Richard Nixon, Tim of love, Christ's love, then somehow along the line McCorry and apathy, on being a Christian in this we say we won't be carried away. So we put limits immoral world and one's commitment to Christ. here, because it is dangerous and it will lead to enq. aud. What saddened me about the issue was that what 1 unpleasant consequences. I suppose this is the considered to be the best part of the whole talk was example of Christ. Ifyou have love it goes on and on left out due to space limitations. So it was just for without limit. Theoretically it may be necessary for such a day as today, with one half of the page many people to die for peace. But look how many devoted to some wretched capitalistic enterprise have died for war. If we are to have a response to 
thanks

that I saved that last part of the conversation. I now God or Christ, it must be a response of love. It present it for your enjoyment and edification, if makes terrible demands of us. IfI am called upon to that's not too trite. Thank you. suffer for the sake of love, I hope I will be generous 
We concluded our talk by discussing the role of a to do it. I know that the price I am paying is not just Christian in a society which has been described as the price of myself. It becomes difficult to say to the being beyond human scale, i.e., a society in which world or to America or to your generation, you must human values are given a second .rate priority, suffer, you must follow these ideals even if it means second to the role played by what might be called unpleasant consequences. I have to identify myself 'material goods'--machines, money, etc. with you. 
"I suppose what Christianity does is to make a "I must get ready for Mass. You do ask the most man affirm his own_~l!_~~_nity._~ne can become intense questions. I hope some of it m_a_d_e_s_e.:.._~_se_._"______________________________, 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER April 21, 1971 
INTERESTED IN LEARNING CHINESE? 
Sign up for Chinese 
111-112 (5-0-5) 
Offering this fall No prerequisitesFor information Contact: 
THE MODERN LANGUAGE DEPT. 
304 0 'ShaR (7195) 


CLASSIFIED 
Continued .from pg. 1 
the Gulf of Tonkin. 

Parker related that the North Vietnamese had maintained their educational system throughout the war, by holding classes in caves and underground facilities. He emphasized the ability of the North Vietnamese people to relate on a person to person basis. According to Parker, at no time during his visit in N"rth 

ADVERTISEMENTS 


Mail in or come by Observer office For information call 7471 
HOUSING  LOST AND FOUND  
l=--~---­ 
House  full  of  furniture,  utensils,  etc. Help  me!  I  can  never  go  home  
Prefer lump sale 233-2654.  again ... Lost  watch.  Initials  HAP  

Between Nickie's and N D. Reward. 5411 Need 2 or 3 people to rent home during ------------­summer. Brooms: 5 bdrm., 2 bath, 3 car 
. MISSING: 14 K solid gold blue sapphir~ 
garage_ 10 monutes from campus. Mrs. Dietrich, _ or _ _ birthstone ring, unusual setting(Arl
282 2337 255 5095 
Carved, Co.) initials L.A.E. engravec 
Need Roomate(s) to share apartmen inside, personal value. REWARD. cal 
with grad student in Madison Wisconsir Lucy, -5158. Beginning Fall '71. Call Jim 233-5475. 
Apartment for rent during summer months. Frunished, carpeted, freshly-painted, air-conditioned; has bedroom, living room, bathroom with shower, small hall, and two closets. Call Tom 282-2250 
For rental, Summer-June, July, August. Near UN D-4 bedrooms­Utilities, Furnished: $150 per month­Call 284-1774 after 5:30pm. 
For rent June 1-Sept I 3 bedroomhome-excellent condition & location, air conditioned, dish washer, furnished, carport $125 a month -call 8100 or 8229 after 8 p.m. 
House· for rent-available now & next fall. 5 Bedrooms, 2 Full baths, completely carpeted & furnished. Grad students only-kitchen 2 living rooms. Call-289-2463 'AI 
Brasseur 
For Summer Students 1225 E Campeau St. 4 Bedroom house All bedrooms & living room carpeted. All utilities Furnished-Plus washer & dryer lawn care & trash removal. Close to Notre Dame Phone 232-7180 Charles Moore 1428 
E. Campeau St. 
For summer students 509 N. Eddy St. So. Bend 5 bedroom house-1 112 baths All bedrooms & living room 
carpeted All utilities furnished-plus washer & dryer. Lawn care & trash removal Close to Notre 
Dame Phone 232-7180 Charles More-1428 E. Campeau St. 
LOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard, lost after break: tasty reward. Call Tom 8014 
Found: Set of keys behind Admin. Building. Call Bob 3721 
LOST: Gold charm bracelet wnn charms on it; of great sentimental value. Reward $5. Call 232-6736. 
Missing: 14K solid gold blue sapphire birthstone ring. unusual 
setting (Art Carbed Co.) initials 
LAE engraved inside, personal 
value. Reward. Call Lucy 5158 
---------------~----­
SERVICES 
.-::rypt-New Hours 
12:30-4:00 
Now_ on stock Hendnx-Cry of Love-$3.60 
Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection ;3.10 Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 
FOR SALE 
/Vater mattresses for sale: to obtain info or place orders call Tom at 282­2250 from 5-10 pm Monday-Friday. 
;torage space available during summer· Call Tom: 282-2250· 
House full of furniture, utensils, etc.; prefer lump sale 233-2654 . Wilson Monterey Tennis Rackett. 
For rend -June 1st -Sept. 1st. 3 bedroorr Retail price -new $24. Make an offer 7647.
home; excellent condition, location & air___:__:_____________ 
conditioned, dish washer; furnished, car port-$125a month. Call8100or 8229 after 8 pm. 
PERSONAL 
Brettfinks -Thanx for being, sharing, aring, and for the ineffable lessons in angible beauty, Xelob. 
ongratulations Mr. O'Dea on Brian 
Hot News Flash: New company born-VANGUARD LEATHER 
GOODS, JNC-823 Flanner Hall. 283­
1176-Specializing in: watchbands, wristbands, belts, wallets, headbands, hair barrettes, custom-made dandals, jeans, and _anything else made of leather-­Owned and operated by Milt Jones, 
Wayne Hall. 
PARTY
AUTOMOTIVE 
, nassau happy hour at Warren Dune or Sale -66 Mustang, 6 cyl. auto-trans, . ood condition, great "dunes car", $500, Saturday, Apnl 24, 197l(llam -?) BYI 
all Roy 8438. Refreshment & Food. Call­
homas H. O'Dea lntermed. Spanish~-----------­

3652 Di'!fle  If you plan to attend,  
RATES  4725 Kathy 4561 Vicki - please call.  
Uorrts  1 dJy  £ d:JVS  :,  i<W~  4 d.  s  'I  .v·1e1  
0 10  .50  .75  1.01'  1.15  1.25  
11·11'  .'-~  o-·'•'  l.i5  1.75  2.15  
16·20  .70  1.15  l.70  2.4:  :~.JO  
f-1·25  .85  1.?-:i  2.JO  2.9'1  3.t!'..  
2G-30  1.00  i.~)  2.3":  3.40  4.H  
31-3..>  1.20  1.90  2/lO  ~.7(  
:36-40  1..35  2.1 ()  J.10  4.:?5  [.10  
i 1--'•5  '.FS  2.J·)  ?.:,o  ~~.50  
4f-;0  1,.,...r· ....  ) ...iO  3.r.o  4:.5  ;;.or  

Two speak a[!.ainst war 
HELP WANTED 

Newly formed waterbed company wants campus representatives tor hottest selling item in states. 
Good commissions for a few hours work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. Write: 
Lightrays Designs, Inc. Love sleep water beds division 3727 Walnut St. Philadelphis, Pa. 19104 
Pr Call: (215) 349-9330 

Earn an easy $10 in minutes _Call 259-9565 after 6 p.m. 
College Students with car needed to aemonstrate technicolor photo and movie equipment--guaranteed $100 a week --top men make $200 working -~venings 5-9. Call technicolor sales 
'lice 289-3662 for appointment 

Jobs available. full or part time. Transfers possible. Mr. Frank 287­8774 
Earn an easy $10 in minutes. Call 259­9565 after 6:00pm. 
Wanted men for yard work, $2.50 an hour_ Call 289-5446 after 6:00pm. 
Interested in programming classical music for WSND-FM? Meeting in 346 O'Shag Wednesday and Thursday April 
Cat Stevens-Tee for Tillerman-$3. H 21,21,7pm. Info call Ted 1212 
-1-----------­Saga Food Service of SMC is now ac­cepting applications for part time em­ployment during the 1971-72 school year, ND+SMC students wishing to apply may come to the Food Service Director's office in the Cafeteria between the hours of 8:00am and 4:30pm Mon-FRi. Bring your 71-72 academic schedule with you 
ORGANIZATION 

-A,..,I.,..I""'s_M_,C.._..F...r"'e"'sh.am""--1e"'n""i"'n.a.te.a.r...e"'st..r;e'"'dLi-n-b-e-in_g_ 
Julians(1971-1972)come to a meeting 
7:00 Tuesday, April 20 in Regina North 
basement lounge. 

TRAVEL Spend the summer in EUROPE. 
Charter jets to London, Amsterdam md Paris. More than 40 dates .vaiJabJe. INTERNATIONAL ;TUDENTS ACADEMJQUE ;oCJETY. Also eligible for many ·ther benefits (railroad passes, hotel Jiscounts, etc.) For information call 
=rank 233-8142. 

Want to take a trip to EUROPE t1,_ summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the NATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS and SAVE! Approx. 60 dates available for round trips betw. London and N.Y. this summer for $245. From London connect to any of 50 Europear. cities at discount fares. For example: London Par is: $12.60, London Amsterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich: $15.00, Zurich -Rome: $20.00. Many other benefits (travel passes. hotel discounts, etc. ( Also available. For info or application call Tom 282­2250 5-10 Mon.-Fri. 
Bus to Kentucky Derby leaves ND Friday April 30, 5:30 pm leaves Louisville Sunday May 2, 9:30 am. All invited for a great weekend round trip 
only  $15  (one  way  bus  trip normally  
$12.40).  Signups  Tuesday-Monday  
Lemans  Lobby SMC.  LaFortune  

Basement ND, 7-8 pm each night. For info call Tim 3721 John 1644 Jane 5240 
Student Union Trip -Europe -$209-Det .­Amsterdam-Del., N.Y. London-N.Y. Contact 1st Bank Cam pus Travel I Bureau 283-7080,9-12, 1-4:30 
Rides needed to Washington and back for rally-can leave anytime Friday April 
23. Call Chip 8274 or Rick 8272. 

Vietnam did he experience any hostility because he was an American. 
In reference to the Calley trial, Parker said that he believed that "Calley is a scapegoat, but he is still a murderer." He felt that "Generals Abroms and West­moreland should also be put on trial." In regards to American POW's, Parker stated that these people were not kidnapped, but that "they were shot down from the skies, dropping death on orders from the Pentagon." 
Parker concluded by stating that the North Vietnamese people were expecting an invasion. "However the people are not going to give up, there is a spirit of resistance and they are determined to preserve what is theirs," he stated. 


Amerena takes frosh orientation post 
Hall Life Commissioner Bob Higgins announced yesterday the appointment of John Amerena as FRESHMAN ORIENTATION COORDINATOR. 
Amerena, a Morrissey Hall senator, said that he has already begun compiling back in­formation on orientation. 
It will help "hall cha1rmen put together a workable program applicable to freshmen coming into their hall," Amerena said. 
He also plans to set up a workshop for group leaders and compile a general information booklet to be distributed to fresh­
men during orientation. 

Stressing the need for plans to be completed before the end of the semester. Ametena called on 
"Hiroshima mon amour" will not be shown Friday April 23 at 7:30pm in Carroll Hall on SMC campus. 
all the hall presidents to provide 
him with the name of their 
orientation chairmen by Monday. 
Amerena said that he plans to 
cooperate closely with St. Mary's 
coordinators Cathy Hicks and 
Ann Shoemaker. Miss Hicks 
spoke of her desire to cooperate 
closely with Amerena and noted 
several changes in the St. Mary's 
orientation. One change will be 
more activities involving the 
Notre Dame freshmen planned 
for the St. Mary's campus, she 
said. 

There will be no mass mixer, or "cattle show" as Miss Hicks calls it, held next fall. Instead, plans are being formulated for small mixers involving individual Notre Dame residence halls. "Ideally all the halls will be reached, Miss Hicks added. 
She said that orientation ac­tivities will extend beyond the normal orientation week and several "useless activities" will 
be removed from the schedule. 
ATTENTION ALL SENIORS, GRAD STUDENTS 
AND FACULTY 
Measurements for Caps and Gowns will be taken at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on 
I April 21 and April 22 
THE HOURS WILL BE 
10 am to 5 pm 
April 21. 1971 
THE OBSERVER Page 7 

Polselli possesses power aplenty 

by E.J. Kinkopf metropolis in that Canadian fiteen. And then he was only a challenge the tight stitching of not lifting wights or throwing the wilderness that produces hockey "scrawny" 175 pounder. ordinary tee shirts, and for all shot, it's opening those books.
Observer Sports Writer jocks like Orr and Beliveav. Since then he has filled out, or you, excuse me, all of us 150 "I'm an accounting major, and If the baseball scribes can call And Coach Lefty Smith of the should I say exploded, into a pound weaklings here's his secret I hope to go to law school orFrank Howard of the Washington Notre Dame pucksters is not the powerful 6' ~~" 238 pound conditioning formula. Three days graduate school in business. ButSenators the "gentle giant", the only coach who has raided the specimen of brute power. a week he lifts for three hours, it's a real hassle to work out with perhaps I can take the liberty of land of Trudeau. Three years ago Lettering in track, football and and the remaining days he the books and the team. We havecalling Elio Polselli the "mild­Alex Wilson made one of the best weightlifting, Polselli was concentrates on throwing the shot eighteen track meets, and itmannered mammoth". 
grabs ever for the track team. courted by many schools for his and the discus, while tossing in seems like we're gone everyElio is the likeable, muscular 
Elio began his track career at track and gridiron feats. some wind sprints for good weekend."
shot putter and discus thrower on 
Assumption High in Windsor. He Washinton State and North measure. He's enthusiatic about thisthe Notre Dame Track team. He Carolina had dreams of Elio as Me, I'd rather do my fifty sit­year's trackster c~mtingent, andbegan "throwing" at the age ofhails from Windsor, Ontario, a their linebacking corps, while ups every night and then go to feels that the team is better than Stanford, Oregon, Cal State, bed and try to dream the fat last season's. Washington and Notre Dame away. But for Polselli the hard "I guess the standouts would sought to bolster their track work has payed off. have to be Wohlhuter before his teams. He's already a member of the injury and Mike McMannon. 
He chose Notre Dame because Canadian National team, and Mike is aconsistent point getter. 
The Graduate View of the educational facilities, and hopes to compete in future We have a lot of freshmen and the good name it held in his Olympics. To do that he figures sophomore too. And they should community. He also felt it ad­he must be able to throw the help us next year as well." vantagious to hold a degree from discus 190 feet consistently. Polseli, who broke the
Revenge Notre Dame. "I think I can do it. Last year I Canadian Junior record for the Even though an all-city hit 184 feet. I have the size and the discus throw at the age ofWith the Interhall Championship decided and the Club League title linebacker in high school, Elio power, but the only thing holding nineteen participated in a 
no longer up for grabs, the last big game of the '70-'71 hoop season was ... 
chose to forsake the pigskin me back is the psychological weightlifting meet at home lastplayed last Monday night. 
brawls and concentrate on track. factor. That's one thing about weekend. He placed third in theThe Observer cagers parleyed a third-quarter scoring flurry, strong "I like the individual aspect of track, once you're in competition Canadian Power Lifting Com­defensive rebounding, and a sizzling free throw percentage into a track. I knew that if I played you have to really overcome your petition. His scores read, deadlift convincing 45-34 victory over WSND in the Convo. 
football I wouldn't be able to mind and psyche yourself." 650 pounds, squat 530 pounds and With this win, the newsboys avenged a loss suffered during the concentrate all my energies on Elio's greatest thrill came last bench press 415 pounds.
football season. In the fall, the Wizards of the Wireless returned an 
track. And track is my main summer when he was chosen to And for a guy like myself, whointerception for a late TD and a 6-0 victory. Monday night, however, sport. That is what I want to represent Canada in the Com­has trouble doing deep kneethe verdict was never in doubt after the first quarter as the Observer excel! in. The football coaches monwealth Games in Scotland. bends, or lifting a picnic bench,squad ran up a 16-point margin and coasted home. 
here still talk to me about football He's hoping to obtain a bid to the and finds his only strength lies inThe ink-men entered the contest decided favorites due to their ex­now and then, but track is still my Pan American Games this punching typewriter keys, I have cellent performance in the Club League. The Cape Cod-Toledo­
main concern." summer. to tip my hat to those kind ofKankekee-Bayonne-East St. Louis-and Points West group took the Elio's muscles seem to But the hardest thing for Elio is stats.
title, but only by one game. The Observer · tied for second with a 5-2 record. With strong-man Tom Davis missing, the Observer was at a height disadvantage at forward. The big battle shaped up at center between 



Netmen trounce Ball St. 
WSND's 6-5 Bob Scott and the Observer's 6-5 Jim Graif. One turning 
The Notre Dame Tennis team
point came when the press corps' sharp-shooting forward, Milt Jones, 
returned to campus late Monday
arrived just before the opening tip-off. 
night after smoking Ball State at
A jumper and a free throw by this reporter and a bucket by Terry the Muncie, Indiana campus.
Shields gave the Observer a quick 5-0 lead. Coach Jerry Kruczek had 
And the Irish proved that Juan
his radio squad in a 2-1-2 zone while the Observer went with a straight 
Marichai isn't the only athlete
man-for-man. The Observer ran up a 9-2 lead before the audio men 
who records shutouts. The net­
found the range and cut the deficit to 10-8 at the quarter. 
men whitewashed the Ball
Free throw shooting was the key factor the rest of the way. In the Staters as everyone f:~ttenedsecond quarter, there were only three field goals made, but the Ob­
their individual records c.1 the 9-0
server outscored WSND 12-4 to take a 22-12 halftime lead. Ten of the 12 win.
newsboy points came at the line as they were in the bonus situation the Reilly was only
Mike theentire quarter. During the same period, the WSND cagers had 
singles player who allowed his
numerous free throw attempts but were unable to cash in. 
match to go the maximum three
The Observer blew the contest open in the third quarter, sparked by 
sets. And Dick Murray, playing
Graif and team captain John Knorr. Working the famed Jacksonville 
in place of Rob Schefter broke
"fly pattern" to perfection, Graif hit Knorr for a succession of easy 
into the singles line-up with a 7-5,
baskets. When the Observer lead reached 16, one quick-thinking 6-0 victory.
radioman switched off the lights. The Convo lights take several 
The raqueteers upped their
minutes to warm up and the delay cooled off the Obbserver attack. 
season's record to 7-1, 11-5
During the final few minutes, WSND rallied to make the final margin 
overall, though Coach Fallon
11 points. 
considers the California trip an
Knorr led the balanced Observer attack with 12 points. Jones had 11 exhibition warm-up.
and this reporter chipped in with nine. Shields scored seven and did a 
Led by captain Bernie LeSage
terrific defensive job on WSND's tough Andy Scantlebury, holding him one player Buster
and number to four points. Fraif contributed seven points and a bushel of rebounds. 
Brown, the Irish will have three
Scott led the radio attack with 10 points, backed by John McElligott, 
days to recuperate and ready
who had seven. 
themselves for this weekend.
From the foul line, the Observer squad hit 21 of 30 for 70 percent, a 
The team will entertain five
figure WSND was unable to even approach. Jones, Knorr, Dave Bach, 
visiting teams on Friday,
and this reporter had a combined mark of 15 for 17. 
Saturday and Sunday. Included
After the game, reactions were predictable. The Observer squad 
in that contingent are Northern
claimed they had been short-changed a few points by official WSND 
Illinois, Bowling Green, Toledo,
score-keeper Rosie Carmichael and WSND immediately challenged 
Marquette and Big Ten power
. the Observer to a softball contest. 
Iowa. 
sophomores and the team as aby Joe Passiatore whole. This was only the secondObserver Sports Writer
Later on Monday night, I talked with WSND coach Jerry Kruczek. "B" stickmen win tournament for the sophomoresOne subject which came up was Club League basketball. Both of us Led by the fine play of Joe and I think they're doing a
"I could have arranged a
felt that something was going to have to be done or the Club League 
Anderson, Notre Dame's "B" respectable job and they are
schedule where Notre Dame
could turn into a farce next year. lacrosse team recorded an 8-2 learning a lot. We're still two or
would' have looked pretty good,
In general, the problem lies in the definition of the term "Club"; in victory over Knox College three weeks behind the other
but I wanted my golfers to profit
particular, it lies in the formation of the "super" Club, the Cape Cod­Sunday afternoon in Galesburg, schools and we're sort of han­
by playing the best opponentsetc. Club. Membership and eligibility have been problems for as long Illinois. 
dicapped in that, our course is not possible."
as I can remember--going back to Sid Catlett playing for the Detroit Anderson scored a pair of goals as difficult as the ones were Club. But the Cape Cod people pose a special problem. and scooped up a number of playing our matches on."
This was Fr. Durbin's ex­
First, if the Club by-laws can admit anyone on campus, does this ground balls to pace the Irish 
planation of why Notre Dameallow their basketball team to recruit from several hundred people'? attack. B.J. Bingle, Ed Roche, finished sixteenth out of seven­
Secondly, what is there to prevent any group of talented players from John Dowling, T.J. Carney, Mike Individual scores for Notre 
teen teams in the recent Heusten Dame were: Mike LaFrance,forming a "Club" along the same lines as the CC people'? Club names Loughery, and Jack Murphy also Woods tournament held in Ox­
could soon become incidental. Any group of players could organize a scored for Notre Dame. Murphy rounds of 79-76; Bob Bettaglia, 80­
ford, Ohio.
"North Quad Frisbee Club" or an "Arts and Letters Club" in order to was given the game ball for his 76; Denny Conroy, 79-80; Jim 
Dunn, 79-83 Chuck Voelker, 79-85;
get top quality material. fine midfield play. 
Chris Byrd, 81-84.
I'm not really sure what can be done about this, but there are going The Irish decided the issue Judging by the results the team to have to be strict rules for teams entering.Club League competition. early in the contest, jumping out profited immensely. The only Some organizations are "self-policing" by their nature. Clubs com­to a 3-0 lead in the first quarter. team the Irish were able to place The will what
Irish resume

prising one city (not county, state, or geographic area), such as a Fine team defensive play, in front of was Waterloo of must be considered a rebuilding
Detroit Club would pose no problem. Nor would groups like Army especially by goalies Jim Roller Canada, a school not exactly year, on Friday, April 30 whenROTC be any trouble. No "ringer" is going to join Army ROTC just to and Paul Simmons, kept the renowned for its golfing prowess. 
they journey to Madison,play basketball. Knox club from threatening the Purdue emerged from the Wisconsin for the Northern In­
But beyond this there are many problems. What exactly makes a 
rest of the way. tournament a nine stroke victor tercollegiate Invitational. The 
man a "member" of the Observer or the Rugby Club or Alpha Phi? If The N.D. stickmen will be in over the University of Indiana. 
tourney will include all Big Ten 
all this sounds ridiculous, you might recall that one of the better Club action this Sunday, taking on the schools and three other in­teams a few years ago was the SDS-8tudents for a Democratic Chicago lacrosse team in the dependents in addition to Notre
Fr. Durbin commented, "I'm
society. 
Windy City. very proud of the three Dame. 


-

Page 8 April 21, 1971
THE OBSERVER 

Nominations open for 
Saint Mary's Judicial Board Chairman 
Submit name to Box 623 bv Wed. April 21 
Apply now lor positions as 
Hall President & tudent Assembly Representativ Submit name to Box 623 bv Wed. April 21

-
-

THE TAMING OF THE SHREW 
Wed. April 21 Engineering 7 and 9:30 Auditorium Proceeds to go to Sr. Maritas Day School 
Sponsored by Notre Dame K of C 

Here's the place where you find all of your
hot weather apparel and accessory needs ... shirts, 
slacks, shorts, swimwear, suits blazers, sportcoats,
belts, ties, socks, shoes, boots, all-weather coats, 
etc., etc. We're ready for summer. How 'bout you? 
Buy now••. 
Pay 1/3 in June••• Pay 1/3 in July... Pay 1/3 in August•.• 
No carrying charge 
Union function explained 
Center, Washington Hall, and-the Engineering Auditorium, speakers are now able to use O'Laughlin, Carroll Hall and the Little Theatre. Program topics vary from year to year. The bask speaker's fee ranges from $500 to $1000 although some speakers request to speak for free. 
The Cultural Arts Commission has the responsibility of eight basic festivals. Its activities include Cinema '72, The 

. Sophomore Literary Festival, the Collegiate Jazz Festival, the Collegiate Folk Festival, the .. Contemporary Arts Festival films, and the showing of various films, some of which are brought in for University departments and some shown exclusively for 
Elizabeth Taylor 
Richard Burton 
. 
m 

HOT SPOT 


ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Commission profit. Financially, the Cultural Arts Commission runs on a no profit no-loss proposition. This year it had an initial budget of $13,000. The Sophomore Literary Festival is the largest of the Cultural Arts programs, costing an estimated $12,000 this year. The Com­mission also provides a number of poetry readings and outdoor concerts free of charge. Films are obtained either through a college film release agency or 
through a direct to the producer committment. · 
The Commission uses both the Engineering Auditorium, for 16 millimeter, and Washington Hall for 35 millimeter films. A Collegiate Folk Festival had been planned originally for the latter part of April but because plan­ning stages began too late the festival idea had to be aban­doned. Bookings for groups and films are made throughout the year on a flexible system. 

Class o_ffice merRer 
A referendum to determine whether joint class officers should be elected for next year's Notre Dame-St. Mary's senior classes will be held tonight, according to Susie Way, SMC junior class president. 
The referendum will take the form of a telephone vote by members of the present junior classes. Votes may be cast by calling 4695 between 7 p.m. and midnight. The results will be announced Friday . 
"The foundations last year and this year for the total merging of the class of '72 of St. Mary's and Notre Dame led to the logical conclusion that the officers by elected from the merged class," Miss Way said. 
The "foundations" include a joint class passed last September which includes a provision describing joint officers as a goal. The constitution also provides for a combined treasury. 

NDNight gatherings probe, "How Catholic" is du Lac? 
Monday, April 19, was Universal Notre Dame Night, the night on which alumni clubs around the country traditionally meet in honor of Notre Dame. 
According to Michael Jordan, Assistant Alumni Secretary, these gatherings have taken place since 1925 and they are usually highlighted by a visit from a member of the university. 
This year, officers of the University and other members of the administrative staff, faculty members, a few men from the athletic department and about a dozen students spoke to alumni clubs in 92 cities on days focusing about the 19th. Their theme was 
"Notre Dame: How Catholic is it?" This is a question that arises in 
the minds of a great maJority of our alumni," Jordan said. "Many of those who have been away from the campus for a long time try to explain the University in their own terms and often it doesn't fit. We tbJnk that someone from the university can present facts and explanations, and we have found that the alumni become at least more understanding when they receive this attention." 
"These talks can be very ef­fective means for carrying on the continuing education process for 
the alumni of Notre Dame," he said. "Generally we reach a greater number of people in a shorter time through the Universal Notre Dame nights than at any other tin'1e." 

Registration for An Tostal picnic in dining halls next three days 
Ticket registration for the An T~stal Picnic Saturday, May 1, will be conducted in the Notre 
STUDY S(}lJNDS
'" 
IMPROVE GRADES 
Improve Gn1des While Devotin• The Same Amount Of Time To St""'" USE STUDY SOUNDS 
Y~~~~c~::r:~.u;si~~~c;r~~~ti~~ ~l~.·~~~,ro~ate. 
ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED 50UNDS CAUSE THI5 TO HAPPEI4 Please Specify8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record 
Send Check or Money Order -$9.95 Each Include 75c Handline and Postage Sound Concepts, Inc., -Box 3852 ChartottesviHe, Va. 22902 

Dame and St. Mary's dining halls today, tomorrow and Friday during the evening meal. 
The An Tostal committee has made arrangements through both food directors to serve 1000 

Notre  Dame  students  and  as  
many girls from St. M ary's  as  
sign-up.  

No student who registers for the picnic will be allowed to eat in the dining hall unless it rains at the picnic. 

"CHAPPED LIPS" 
In concert 8-12 Wednesday (rain date Thursday) Steps of Biology Bldg. 
Sponsored by North Quad Halls 



