

only one word for it: wet 
Vol. VI, No. 53 
Merger hopes killed; speculation rampant 
by Ann Therese Darin 

Observer Associate Editor 
Informed sources revealed over the long weekend that plans for a Notre Dame-St. Mary's merger, in the offing for almost a year, have been scrapped by Trustees of the two schools. 
Edmund A. Stephan, chairman of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, and Mother Olivette Whelan, chairman of St. Mary's Board, are scheduled to issue "an im­portant announcemnt" through the university office of public information this afternoon. 
Notre Dame President Theodore Hesburgh said that two seperate statements are being prepared. One was released to the ND faculty this morning. The other statement will be released at 2 o'clock this afternoon. 
Hesburgh declined to comment on the contents of the two statements. He said that they were prepared by represen­tatives of both schools. 
Reportedly the statement will in­definitely suspend unification. In the same release, sources revealed that the University will announce its intent to accept women students for the 1972-73 academic year. 
'Although the statement allegedly will not stipulate the number of women to be admitted, some university administrators aooroximated the number at 400. 
The statement supposedly says that the University will not terminate coeducational programs with St. Mary's College. SMC, however, may have to start paying for present coexchange services which include cafeteria exchange, shuttle bus transportation between the two campuses, tuition per credit hour for coexchange classes, and fees for the use of university computers to program students schedules, payrolls, and report cards. 
While the two schools still desire unifications, the statement allegedly contends, the Trustees are still far apart on terms. 
Stephan could not be reached for, comment. In Chicago, his secretary revealed he will be in Russia until Dec. 7. Likewise Mother Olivette Whelan was unavailable for comment. 
ND Trustee's secratary, Paul F. Hellmuth, claimed he had not yet received notification of the plans yesterday af­ternoon in Boston. 
William Cahill, a 10-year member of the St. Mary's Board, however, denied that the two boards had terminated unification plans. C~hill attended the Ad-Hoc meeting on Unification Nov. 20-21, with St. Mary's representatives P. Jordan Hamel and Srs. Olivette, Alma, and Gerald. Notre Dame's representatives to the meeting included H.ev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president; executive vice-president Rev. Edmund Joyce; Provost Rev. James T. Burtchaell, Trustees Student Affairs Committee Chairman Thomas Carney, and Stephan. 
In Chicago, Cahill said that, "I felt the meeting was very satisfactory. In fact, there is another meeting planned before Chirstmas." 
"I can't speak for Notre Dame," he 
continued. "We certainly haven't with­
drawn at St. Mary's though." 
He felt, however, students are 
"overemphasizing" the finances of the 
merger. He indicated faculty contracts 
and merger of administrations are critical 
points. 

"The joint budget alone is a tough 
problem," he related. "as for SMC; faculty 
contracts for next year, Notre Dame 
originally agrees to issue them. They 
didn't realize at the time, the depth of the 
problem. There are personnel problems to 
be resolved-and you can't put a general 
solution to specific problems." 
P. Jordan Hamel the other lay SMC member of the Ad-Hoc Committee, will be out of town <Chicago) until Dec. 2. It could not be ascertained whether he attended the meeting. Some SMC faculty have in­dicated that all of the listed represen­tatives did not attend the meeting which may have thrown its results into jeopardy. While Cahill felt the merger would be 
continued, · apparently other SMC 
representatives to the Ad-Hoc Committee 
believed differently. 
In Boston, the consulting board of the college region for the Sisters of the Holy Cross, owners of the college property, sent a telegram last weekend to the Ad-Hoc Committee meeting. 
According to one sister present at the meeting, the wire said the board, "deplored the breaking off of the merger." SMC representatives present at the assembly included Srs. Alma, acting president; Elena, theology instructor; and Franzita, English instructor. 
Late last week Sr. Alma sent letters to all SMC professors describing the ten­sions. In the letter, she indicated she would meet today at 1:00 pm with SMLC department chairman to discuss the situation. 
She also scheduled meetings with the rank and tenure committee (2:00 p.m.) and with the faculty (4:30 pm). At the faculty meeting, Mother Olivette Whelan will speak. 
Notre Dame officials, however, denied they had planned any meetings to inform their faculty of the changes. 
Notre Dame students may receive letters from Fr. Burtchaell in their mailboxes confirming the actions of the administration today or tomorrow. 
Transfering? 
Although university admissions officials admitted they were as unclear an anyone on campus about the coeducation an­nouncement, they clarified admissions procedure for upper class transfer students. 
John Goldrick, an admissions officer, 
indicated an applicant must have 30 hours 
of credit from an accredited college or 
university. 
Students wishing to transfer or even thinking about a move should contact the admissions office to arrange an ap­pointment with a counselor. 


Edmund Chairman of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees, scheduled to issue "an im­Stephan portant announcement." 


Fr. 
Hesburgh 



Sister 
Acting President of St. Mary's, informed faculty of tensions, will meet with SMC


Alma 
faculty this afternoon. 

Page. 2 THE OBSERVER 
Nixon threatens tax bill veto 

by Eileen Shanahan 

(c) 1971 New York Times 
Washington, Nov. 29--­President Nixon warned Congress today that he would veto the tax bill if it contained either the controversial plan to finance presidential campaigns out of tax funds or what were termed "budget-busting" amendments added by the Senate. 
The veto statement, conveyed by Clark MacGregor, was the most unequivocal to date. 
But many members of Congress, including some Republicans, expressed some doubt that Nixon really meant exactly what MacGregor said. 
Wilbur D. Mills of Arkansas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said the veto talk was "a polite way of 

Halls.will-give out co-ex meal tickets 
In co-operation with the hall presidents, all co-ex meal tickets will be distributed through the individual halls, Gary Caruso, co-ex director announced. 
No more tickets will be available at the Notre Dame Student Government Office. The move was taken at the request of the Hall Presidents' Council. 
Distribution at St. Mary's will remain essentially the same as before, except that the tickets at LeMans, Regina, and Holy Cross will only be offered on a day-to­day basis, rather than on the weekly schedule previously 

HAVE YOU GIVEN MUCH THOUGHT TO WHAT YOU'LL BE DOING TOMORROW? 
Finding a job that gives you satisfaction isn't easy today. Not in a world as con­fusing and com­plex as ours. 
But the Paul­ist finds a fre­quent joy in his own way of life and values that are lasting. 
may counsel a run­away youth, listen to the problems of a senior citizen, or­ganize a Home Mass or a forum on nar­cotics. Because Paulists have al­ways been pioneers in communi­cations, he may communicate through the printed word or through mass media such as radio, films or television. 
\ .'hatever tool he chooses, the Paulist gets his "message" through. 
Can you ·think of any other life that will provide more inner satisfaction for you? 
For more information about the Paulist priesthood write to: Rev. Donald C. Campbell, C.S.P., Vocation Director, Room 


PQlJstfothers. 
415 West 59th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
putting pressure on Congress and it's not the first time." There had been similar veto threats-­though not quite so strongly worded---against the 1969 tax reform and reduction bill, which Nixon ultimately signed. 
John W. Byrnes of Wisconsin, the ranking Republican on the Ways and Means Committee, described the situation as a war of nerves between the Democrats and the White House. 
The disputed campaign finance provision was attached by the Senate to a tax bill that "is really needed," Byrnes said. He added, "We do need the tax stimulus" that would be provided by the tax reductions the bill provides for both businesses and individuals. 
The bill has passed both the House and the Senate. The joint House-Senate Conference Committee, drawn from the senior members of the tax committees of both houses, began working today on com­promising the differences and writing the final version. 
While no one would predict what the conference committee would decide in the face of Nixon's veto threat, Mills said he thought a bill stripped of most of the extra tax reductions voted by the Senate, but retaining all the campaign finance provisions, would be very hard for Nixon to veto. 

The bill as originally passed by the House of Representatives would reduce the taxes paid by businesses and individuals by $26.6 billion in the current year and the next two. That is about the amount originally requested by Nixon. As passed by the Senate, the bill would n·duce taxes by $38.2 billion over the same period. 
The Senate provision on campaign financing that the White House objects to is only one part of a two-part plan that the Senate adopted. 
That is the portion that would permit any taxpayer to check a box on his tax return instructing the government to divert $1 of his taxes---$2 in the case of a married couple--to finance the next presidential election campaign. 
Help the Children 
Unicef Xmas cards on sale at Notre Dame Post Office This Week 


TCHAIKOVSKY: SYMPHONY ,No. 6 Monteux, Boston Symphony VICS-1009 
. 
~ 
VcTROLA. 

BRAHMS 
PIANO CONCERTO No. 2 
GILELSjCBICAGO SYMPHONY/REINER 

BRAHMS: CONCERTO No. 2 
Tuesday, November 30, 1971 
during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre 


Immortal Performances now even more priceless at our 



low Victrola prices. 
CONTINENTAL HAIR STYLING 
1321 E. McKinley Hwy. Mishawaka, Ind. 
259• 7679 
lily Appointment Only 
SERVING ND MEN FOR PAST 4 YEARS IN ALL HAIR NEEDS. 


SHAGS, EUROPEAN LAGER CUTS 
Specializirtg in Long Hair Look 


STU DENT SPECIAL 
Monday & Tuesday 


Complete 

fnllnl1l bsSIUIIUIC 
Tc~1r\ankr 
MARCH£ SLAVE MARCH[ MINIATURE 
ltllntrtskf 
ANIGHT ON BARE MOUNTAIN 
hbalm\r 
COLAS BREUGNON 
0¥1RIUE IG!Gdlft 
POLOVTSIAN MARCH 
,,.. ~llltrlfll 
Gllakl 
RUSSUN AND LUDMILLA 
OUIIUII 
FRITZ REINER 
C~tCI(O Symphony 
FESTIVAL OF RUSSIAN MUSIC Reiner, Chicago Symphony VICS-1068 

GRIEG PIANO CONCERTO KJELL BAEKKELUND 
SOLOIST MUSIC FROM 
PEER GYNT 
Oslt PhilharRionic Orch. Odd G111ner-Heur.. coRduclin& 
GRIEG: CONCERTO IN A MINOR/ 
PEER GYNT (Excerpts) Baekkelund; Gruner-Hegge, Oslo Philharmonic Orch. 
VICS-1067 


TCHAIKOVSKY: ROMEO AND JULIET; FRANCESCA DA RIMINI Munch, Boston Symphony VICS-1197 
RCII VICTROLA 


EROICA 

Emil Gilels
VICS-1626 
VICS-1026 

Our price $1.79 Notre Dame Bookstore 

Tuesday, November 30, 1971 
THE OBSERVER Page 3 


World 
Briefs 
(c) 1971 New York Times 
New Delhi--Indian and Pakistani forces clashed for the third con­secutive day in the Hilli region of East Pakistan, according to Indian officials. At a briefing near the border, the officials said that Pakistani troops had launched a counterattack against Indian forces that had entered East Pakistan as a defensive measure. 
Washington--The State Department said that President Nixon sent personal messages to India, Pakistan and the Soviet Union urging an end to the fighting along the India-Pakistan border. The note to Moscow, a reliable source said, asked the Soviet Union to use its in­fluence with India to prevent the outbreak of full-scale war. 
Washington--President Nixon's chief White House lobbyist, Clark MacGregor, told Congress that Nixon would veto the tax-cut bill if it contained either the plan to finance presidential campaigns with tax funds or what were called "budget-busting" amendments added by the Senate. 
on campus today 
4: 15-lecture, julian samora, the texas rangers-heroes or oppressors?, 127 nieuwland. 
4:30-lecture, roger t. kelley, assistant secretary of defense for manpower, on the challenge of a military career, , library auditorium 
6:30-film, billy budd, engineering auditorium 

nd-smc 
\ ' 


Senate to curb Presidential war powers 
by John W. Finney In a recent letter. to Javits, the conservative support for the involved in the presidential Congress and the presidency, but 
(c) 1971 New York Times original sponsor of war powers legislation. Javits and Eagleton, politics of an election year, with the hope is that Stennis' spon­legislation, Stennis praised the meanwhile, can be expected to the suggestion that the bill in sorship will result in a more 
Washington, Nov. 29---Key principles of the compromise bill rally liberal and moderate some ways was aimed at Nixon. sympathetic approach on the conservative and liberal as "clear" and "sound" and support for the legislation. There would remain the problem part of the House leadership. Senators have reached expressed hope that some ver­The hope of the sponsors is that of obtaining approval of the With the war powers agreement on compromise sion of the bill would be enacted the legislation can be approved House, which has taken a less legislation, the committee would legislation to curb the war into law "in the near future." by the Senate early next year, assertive attitude on the issue of have an opportunity to reassert making powers of the Such an endorsement by the before the issue could become the relative war powers of the principle. 
presidency. chairman of the Senate Armed 
Basically, the proposed Services Committee is virtually legislation would provide that certain to result in widespread the president could engage in hostilities in certain emergency situations, but could not continue a military action for more than 30 days without obtaining congressional approval. 
Details of the legislation, designed to check the power of the president to commit the nation to undeclared wars, such as the Vietnam conflict, were worked out in recent days bet­ween liberal Sens. Jacob K. Javits, R-N.Y., and Thomas F. Eagleton, D.Mo., and Sen. John 
C. Stennis, D-Miss., a con­servative and chairman of the Senate Armed Services Com­mittee. 
With the unified support of such liberal and conservative Senators, it now appears likely that the legislation will be ap­proved in the near future by the 


Senate Foreign Relations committee, clearing the way for its passage by the Senate early next year. 
We want to talk to you about a career in law . .. without law school. 
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant, you'll be doing work traditionally done by lawyers -work we think you'll find challenging and responsible. And Lawyer's Assistants are now so critically needed that The Institute for Paralegal Training can offer you a position in the city of your choice and a higher salary than you'd expect as a recent college graduate. You'll work with lawyers on interesting legal problems -and the rewards will grow as you do. 
A representative of The Institute for 
Paralegal Training will conduct inter­
views on: 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8 
Inquire at Placement Office for exact location of interview 
NOTE: lf registration for this seminar is filled, 
come anyway-we'll try to talk to you. Or call us 
collect at the number shown below. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
13th floor. 401 Walnut St.. Phila, Pa 19106 (215) WA 5·0905 
...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every ~tation-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 



Indiana Bell 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
(<~ditor-in-C'hief, Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor Assistant Editor 
T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers are John Abowd ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend
Rosiness Manager anyone or anything if they can help Ad'l."ertising Manager 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7471 News: 283-1715 

Thanksgiving Turkey 
from the Trustees 
It was thoughtful of the Trustees to cook up such a nice Thanksgiving surprise for the student body. After platitudinizing most sonorously about the long-overdue merger, select groups of Trustees---meeting in secret, as per the usual---turned around and cancelled the merger "in­definitely"---which means forever. 
It was a particularly nice surprise for the St. Mary's fresh­men and sophomores who willingly contracted themselves to two years of inferior education at St. Mary's in expectation of an eventual Notre Dame education and a Notre Dame degree at the end of the process.. Itwas a particularly nice surprise for American Studies and General Program majors from St. Mary's and Drama and Education majors from Notre Dame, who will find themselves without a department as the co­exchange programs disintegrate. 
Apparently an inability to settle on one budget for the two schools---the Holy Cross nuns were hot after more than a few pounds of flesh in return for the use of their buildings---finally did the merger in. No matter what the coroner will eventually dredge up as the ultimate cause for the merger's tragic ter­mination, connoisseurs of the morbid will have a high old time these next couple of weeks trying to figure out the behavior of the Holy Cross nuns, the Powers behind the Thrones and Dominations currently running the college. They must have known that the alternative to merger was an independently coeducational Notre Dame---an alternative that would turn St. Mary's into a finishing school for morons. 
So it goes. So it always goes. The question remains: what good can Notre Dame make out of this bleak situation? Well, it can renew its commitment to go co-ed---on their own, this time. It would mean that the university would have to cut down on the number of males admitted---so be it. It would mean that the university would finally have to implement some of the discoveries about dormitory utility its numerous studies have found---so be it. It would also mean that St. Mary's would be forced to swallow what it created out of whole cloth. That's worth all the other discommodities combined. 
The University can also lure Education and Drama faculty from St. Mary's so that Notre Dame can legitimately award degrees to its Drama and Education majors. It would mean that Notre Dame would have to strain its budget and expand its facilities, but that is a more attractive alternative than stranding the thirty-some Notre Dame drama and education majors; rendering their three years of education useless. 
The University can also take steps to lure St. Mary's best students out of that college and into Notre Dame. Easy transference of St. Mary's credit for students with a suf­ficiently high grade point ought to do the trick. 
After that, officials of the University of Notre Dame can sit back, smoke cigars, and wait until they can acquire St. Mary's buildings in a bankruptcy auction. St. Mary's---Sister Alma and all---ought to last about ten years as a minor league convent. After that the campus can be divvied up between Notre Dame to its East and the dairy farm to its West. 
the mourning after gang 
Nite Editor: Jim McDermott Headlines: Art Esposito, Don Biancamano, T.C.Treanor Layout <Niles isn't even a nice place to visit.): Glen Corso, John Abowd, Jerry Lutkus, Joe Abell (thanks) Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Operators of the surviving machines: rick smith, Joe Wilkowski 
hey, camarry, -where's the story? 
Tuesday, November 30, 1971 
James Reston 


China is a Fragile Issue 

New York Times 
Washington, (Nov. 11)--With the arrival of the Peking diplomats in· 
New York, the Nixon administration is beginning to put aside its 
disappointment over the Taiwan issue and adjust to the new realities 
of dealing with Mainland China. 
Much remains to be done in preparation for President Nixon's trip to 
Peking. The agenda for his talks with Chou En Lai and otherChinese 
officials has not yet been completed. In fact the Communist Govern­
ment is apparently once more in turmoil, with the line of political 
succession still very much in doubt. This has introduced an element of 
confusion, if not of doubt, into the arrangements. 
Also, it may give some notion of China's isolation to remember that 
the section of the Peking Foreign office that deals with the United 
States is known as "the Australian, Western Europe and American 
division." Most of the Chinese in the Peking delegation have never 
been in the U.S. before, so the immediate concern of officials here is to 
provide for their security and do whatever they can to make the 
transition into the New York Community as comfortable as possible. 
Even so, this initial period of transition places some delicate 
problems before the U.S. and Chinese governments. There may not be 
"two Chinas" in the United Nations, but there are still "two Chinas" in 
the U.S., with an aggrieved and even bitter Taiwan mission here in 
Washington, supported by many loyal followers who resent the arrival 
of the men from Peking. 
Dealing with Moscow and Tokyo in this transitional period will be almost as difficult as dealing with Peking and Taiwan. Nixon has to go to Moscow after his trip to Peking, and probably to Tokyo next sum­mer, so while seeking the "normalization of relations" with the New China, he has to be careful not appear to do so at the expense of U.S. relations with Japan and the Soviet Union. 
After all, important as China is, the question of controlling the arms race, avoiding war in the Middle East, and keeping the lid on Berlin, are essentially Washington-Moscow problems, and the question of organizing a new monetary and trade policy in the world is more important in Japan and Europe, at this point of history, than in China. 
Accordingly, Washington is is now approaching these questions with less drama and speed than it did in the initial stages of its new China and new economic policies. It is more conscious now of the need for closer consultation with the Soviets and the Japanese, and it is beginning to protect itself on the home front by warning that the Nixon mission to Peking is just the beginning of a very long and complicated process and that it would be unwise to expect too much from a single visit. 
This is a much more realistic attitude than the sudden diplomacy out of Washington in recent months. Nixon's opening to Peking is still regarded by both parties and most observers here as a wise, bold, and historic stroke, but it has created some tension in both governments and starred a process of reappraisal in most of the capitals of Asia and Europe, so the tempo has been reduced here to give everybody time to adjust. 
Fortunately, Chou En Lai seems to agree that this is a time for modest expectations. He told the managing editor of Tyokyo's Asahi Shim bun the other day: "we must be very cautious. This does not mean that we lack self-confidence; it means that coution is required, and that we must not be indiscreet or haphazard." Earlier, he said in another interview: "We do not expect a settlement of all questions at one strike. That is not possible. That would not be practicable. But by contacting one another, we may be able to find out from where we should start in solving these problems." 
That is now precisely the new modest approach of the White House and the State Department. On the testimony of Peking officials, Henry Kissinger has approached them in this vein in his preparations for Nixon's trip, and now, with senior officials of the government of China in New York, a new line of communication has been opened for quiet and careful discussion of common problems. 
This is one illustration of the practical function of the United Nations in New York. There were many arguments against locating the world organization in the commercial capital of one of the major nations of the world, but there are some advantages. 
It is big enough to swallow even the U.N., and to permit private disucssion of even the most sensitive international questions. Which is perhaps another way of saying that only in mass and diversity, can diplomats elude reporters in a Democratic society, and maybe this is not always a bad idea. 
For~ the U.N., even though Peking and Washington are a very long way from establishing normal diplomatic relations, they now have an instrument for negotiations, if both sides choose to use it. It will be a long time before Peking and Washington move from hostility to understanding --maybe as long as their 21-year separation --and Peking's moralistic and ideological approach to world politics may very well make them more difficult than the soviets and the soviet vetoes at the U.N. over the past 25 years, but at least there is a change in attitude. There is a new private avenue for negotiation, and a new opportunity for the Chinese to observe the West in New York. And if they can adjust to "fun city" who knows, they might even be able to help bring some kind of common sense into this distracted world. 
Tuesday, November 30, 1971 THE, OBSERVER 
!=»ages 

joseph abe/1 
everything you wanted to know about thanksgiving at school* 
Dear Mom, 
Thought I was coming home for Thanksgiving? Fooled you didn't I? You should know by now that rides to Texas for four lousy days don't exist (leave early? Me, a Notre Dame student? Mother, please!). Besides, there are much more interesting things to do up here in the rain and sleet. 
The first inklings of what could be done with four bleak days (yes, I remember last year) came about two weeks ago. A din­ner! Why not? All I gotta do is get enough dum-dums that are hanging around to help pay for it, get a hold of an oven, and have a riot. 
Too bad it wasn't that easy .... 
First problem was finding people that were staying. Everybody was going home, no matter if they lived in Mishawaka or Honolulu. Three frustrating hours on the phone proved this. But was I to be daun­ted? Never! I persisted. 
Wednesday morning arrived, and a motley bunch of seven had finally been assembled: myself; Jim McDermott, illustrious night editor of the Observer; Jerry Lutkus, equally picturesque news editor of that same publication; Maria Gallagher, up and coming reporter and love-note accepter; plus three of Lutkus' Badin buddies. We probably would have had more, but we were too honest not to tell who was doing the ('Ooking. No matter! Seven was enough for the culinary devestation soon to be committed! 
Wednesday afternoon: the first of our many excursions to the friendly market. Jim, Maria, and I all piled into Maria's chauffered (by Maria> Datsun for the journey to the A&P. Thirty minutes later (and $17.06 less) we staggered out under the load of a full dinner-in-the-making-. We paused a brief moment to glare at Mc­Dermott again for his insistence on fresh vegetables, and real butter. ("Don't worry; I'll take care of all that.") 
Thursday morning: first thing, I oversleep (nothing unusual there). 
1 dressed warmly and, my eating utensils and TV (for the Big Game) slung over my shoulder, I managed to straggle over to Regina Hall, where Maria had already begun chopping celery and apples for the stuffing. That was about 9:30. I got there about 11, and she had just about got the stuffing finished. So, I thought, guess I gotta get started, too; first things first---l'll make the pumpkin pie. 
I<:asier said than done. With four dif­fering recipes (both the pumpkin and the pie-spice cans had their own ideas of how it should gol, I was a little undecided, so I used them all---just added up all the measurements and divided by four. Didn't come out so bad, either---a little, uh, "crisp" around the edges, but not bad for a novice. 
Meanwhile, Maria was having a few problems with the great 13-pound beast, the turkey. After a brief struggle with a piece of wire holding the legs together, she managed to open it enough to fill it up with her concoction of assorted ingredients. One problem, though: 

"Where are the rest of the giblets? All 
we've got is the neck." 
A careful search followed, but still no 
luck, so an emergency phone call went out 
to Delaware for making gravy without 
giblets, while another trip back to Notre 
Dame was made for my set of recipes. 
I was in luck this trip. I had a car, and 
managed to grab Jerry Lutkus in the 
bargain. Jer, always keeping the proper 
things at the top of his priority list, asked, 
"Where's the booze?" 

"I thought you were gonna get it", I told 
him. 

"Clifford was supposed to." 
"Didn't he call you?" 
"WhPn'?" 

"I guess not," I mused. "Well, so much 
for booze ... " 

But always-resourceful Jer was willing 
to try, even on a supposed holiday like 
Thanksgiving, so after deciding on Chablis 
and White Port, he went out in to the void 
of closed storefronts to see what he could 
do. 

Meanwhile, Jim arrived, and went 
straight to his work. A second trip to the 
A&P the night before even provided him 
with his precious beef boullion cubes, so 
we figured he was happy, and left him to 
his beans and Brussels sprouts. 
Maria and I went on to bigger and better 
things. She set the table most daintily, 
complete with a tablecloth courtesy of St. 
Mary's linen service and centerpiece 
courtesy of a last minute thoughtful 
gesture of her parents. At the same time, I 
tried to put more records on the stereo we 
had brought down for the day. 
She seemed to be doing better than I, for the turntable didn't feel like turning. "Maybe it's between speeds," she suggested. 
"No, no, no, couldn't be," I mumbled, checking out every control. Finally, I gave up and turned to the TV. Almost time for the Big Game anyway, I rationalized. Sh£: came over, flipped the turntable speed control into the groove, and we had Chicago and Cat Stevens all over the kitchen. I quietly stepped out of the room and screamed. 
Jpr came back soon after, with a grin on his face and a large package under his arm. We grinned as he slipped it into the refrigerator, and told him to go watch the Game; he had done his good deed for the day. 
Suddenly, great news came from the direction of the turkey: that large bulge at the neck was the missing giblets. And they were found none too soon, for we were about to place the turkey, stuffing, giblets­with-their-plastic-bag, and all into a 475­degree hell. So Maria tore out the bag, whipped up some more stuffing to fill the hole, and stuck it into the oven. 
Onwards to the other parts of the dinner! A glorious statement, but I wasn't feeling very glorious after being handed a dinner 


knife and five pounds of spuds to peel. 
I was soon called back to the kitchen. Jim 
and Maria had managed to get themselves 
in a hassle about the yams and were 
making a mess of them. I let them be and 
began on my most frustrating task of the 
day: the whipped cream. 
Now, we had bought, very economically, 
a double package of whipped cream mix 
("all you add is milk and vanilla, whip, 
and whipped cream in an instant"). What 
we had failed to buy is vanilla and enough 
milk. 

"Aw, what the hell," I said, pouring tn 
what little milk we had and adding some 
evaporated milk leftover from somewhere 
along with some water. I then began 
beating it with an eggbeater 
Ever try to match the speed of a high­
power mixer? With an eggbeater? It 
doesn't work. Forty-five minutes later, the 
cream was just as watery and bland as 
before. 

"Need some help?" Jim wandered up. 
"Got any ideas?" I said. 
"No vanilla?" 
"Right." 

"Here, try this," he said, pouring some 
CoffeeMate in the bowl. 
I twirled the beater some more and 
tasted it. 

"Not bad, but it needs a little more," I 
commented. 

"No problem," he said, generously 
adding more. 

"Great. Now what about the whipped 
part?" 

"That's your problem." 
"Thanks." 

I couldn't help feeling that there I was, a 
Notre Dame student, and a mere bowl of whipped cream was defeating me. Well, by God, I won't let it! I began to furiously spin the rusty beater, and soon I was rewarded with a semi-thick white substance. 
Maria, meanwhile, was having her own problems with the mashed potatoes. She and Jim had already sorted out the yams and had set them to cooking. Now, she was quaintly attempting to mash out the lumps of the spuds I had peeled earlier with nothing more than a wooden spoon. 
~·wen, it's not my fault; that's all we have!" 
I offered my rusty eggbeater, but the potatoes were too thick for the beaters to turn. We gave up and the wooden spoon went back to work. 
Tension began to build as Jerry's friends arrived. Last-minute preparation of the gravy, a quick throwing-together of a fruit cocktail salad, and an eleventh-hour debate as to the "doneness" of the turkey all followed one after another as we eagerly awaited the start of our first full­blown dinner. 
Jim's strange mixtures took on a rather 




"Randy Newman is a phenomenon, one of a kind, probably the most authentic popmusic talent to come along In the last 20 years." ·Philadelphia Daily NPWs 
" ... one of the most imaginative und original songwriters of today." Hit Parader 

"Randy Newman is a great songwrlter.perhaps the best songwriter now working." Los Angeles Herald Examiner 
"Newman is one of the tightest, most aware, sophisticated rock people around." Cincinnati Enquirer 
"The most unique and consistently impressive songwriter to have evolved from the new popular music." Cosmopolitan 
"Randy has the deepest, most consistent, most original comic version to be found in pop music today." Rolling Stone 
Friday, Dec. 10 8 pm O'Laughlin Auditorium Tickets $2 at the S.U. Ticket Office and Pandora's Books 

*but were afraid to ask 


appetizing ar7>ma now, we new that true green beans and Brussels sprouts had been born 
Finally, everything was finished and on the table. It took the combined strenghth of Jerry, Jim, and myself to coax the cork out of the Chablis as Maria ducked up­stairs to change into a flowing traditional skirt. At long last, we were ready. 
So with mucho gastric noises all around, we sat down and began. 
Strangely enough, the meal itself was uneventful. Since I was the one elected to hold the knife in the pictures, I was also elected to use the knife for everyone's portion. After a few good introductory cuts, I then proceeded to hack the bird to 
bits.  For  some  reason,  though,  no  one  
complained.  
The pumpkin pie soon  followed, along  

with my apprehensions (if anyone was to blame for this part, it was me alone). But surprise of surprises, it was accepted with a vague semblence of praise, and I was allowed my small ego trip for the day. 
Coffee and after-dinner conversation proceeded afterwards, and before anyone knew it, it was all over.Jerry's friends washed the dishes and cleaned up, but for the three cooks, it was ended. 
Somehow, we had done it--transformed a wild idea in the head of a hungry sophomore into a complete Thanksgiving dinner. So what if the pie was "crisp." So what if the potatoes still had a few lumps in them. So what if everyone had shreds of turkey meat, and wine served in tumblers. It was better than the South Dining Hall, and most of all, it was our own. We'll never forget it. I know I won't, thanks to Maria, Jim, and Jerry. 
But next year, we'll really know what we're doing! See you at Christmas, and no, I won't cook dinner. Love, Joe 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, November 30, 197t 




U·S· & India: developing strains 
By Max Frankel therefore suppressed even in 
(c) 1971 New York Times private conversations with of­ficials. 
New Delhi -Most everything It does not take long, however, they say in Washington about the for officials, editors, and other Indians they say in New Delhi thoughtful Indians to show their about Americans: Arrogant, hurt. They are puzzled and undependable, obsessed with chagrined to find the U.S. at­their own problems, short­taching neither emotional nor sighted, and not really very strategic value to the triumph of 
clever for such a big country. democracy in India. Moreover, 
This catalogue of resentments though they welcome the new is relieved in Washington only by approach to China, they plainly the pledge of continued economic resent the fact that the Nixon aid for India on "humanitarian Administration has invested so grounds," as President Nixon much more time, hope and 
has explained it. Among In­thought in the Peking venture dians, in turn, there remains a while the ties to India have been 
great fund of goodwill for many allowed to deteriorate. Americans and for the idea of For a time in 1962, after China America -democracy and had invaded their territory, the diversity -which India has Indians felt that Washington had 
successfully implanted in Asian finally -that is favorably ­
soil. recognized the stakes here. By But irritations now dominate then, India had ceased to "export the relationship. They have been morality" as they put it here, 
rubbed raw not only by and conquered her fear of American neutrality in India's alignment. She needed help and tense duel with Pakistan over the the White House responded. 
fate of East Bengal but by In-But less than a decade later, it dia's new intimacy with the is the Russians whm have Soviet Union. Here, as in dropped firm anchor here. Washington, the bitterness runs The Indians' version of their to deeper disappointment with embrace by the Soviets last the drift of a once promising summer reveals a good deal friendship. about their desperate desire for Commentary big power friendship and sup­
The Indians still want much port, and their chagrin that the from the United States and more U.S. has failed to court them in than anything at the moment likemanner. 
they want American pressure to The Soviet-Indian treaty of force Pakistan to grant at least friendship, support and con­autonomy to the East. sultation that was signed her in Many of the resentments are August was first drafted in 1967­
Mazey to speak on freeze; Will talk about labor's view 
Notre Dame, Ind. -Emil .Rouge plant; and the Kohler 
Mazey, secretary-treasurer of Plumbing Supplies plant in 
the United Automobile, Racine, Wis., where a record $4.5 
Aerospace and Agricultural · million settlement ended a 13­
Implement Workers of America year-old dispute in 1965. Mazey
<UAW), will present organized has served seven terms as an 
labor's assessment of the wage­executive board member of 
price freeze during a Cardinal CCIO and is chairman of the Fair 
O'Hara Memorial Lecture ap­Practices Committee of the 
pearance at 3:30 p.m. Wed­UAW's international executive 
nesday (Dec. 1) in the Memorial board. 
Library Auditorium of the 
University of Notre Dame. 
A participant in organization 
and wage negotiation activities 
of labor since 1933, Mazey was 
elected to the UAW international 
executive board in 1946 while 
serving out his Army career. 
Fired from his first three jobs 
HarryGralan
because of his successful efforts 

isgoing home
to organize workers, Mazey 
gained major labor attention for afterISyears 
his activities at Briggs in prison. 
Manufacturing Co., Detroit; llssonstl 
Ford's Dearborn (Mich.) wants tosee 

himhang.

ECNV drive 
The local coordinators for the 
Emergency Conference for New 
Voters will take their campaign 
to the dining halls tonight in an 
effort to interest politically 
minded students in the 
December 3,4 and 5 Chicago 
conference. 
Joe Myers and Pat Coyle, who 
handled the Voter Registration 
drive, and Ombudsman Paul 
Dziedzic are hoping to expand 
the South Bend delegation that 
now numbers about thirty. 
Young voters from across the 
country are expected to take part 
in the seminars designed to 
By the time Phil got through paying for tuition, late registration, student fees, books, and an outrageous deposit on his apartment, he didn't have a whole lot left for a stereo. 
~~w 

BSR McDonald makes the RTS-40A for people like Phil. It's a complete AM/ FM/ MPX McDONALD Phono component stereo system. The receiver delivers an honest 50 watts and boasts I excellent sensitivity and separation specs. I 
The turntable is our best-seller, and comes I Name 
New Delhi instead. He brought not only the vaguely phrased treaty of consultation but also some interesting private assurances, it is said. 
He offered an immediate supply of weapons, with the most sophisticated missile and radar components flown in im­mediately and toehr material arriving in eight shiploads to date. 
He promised firm diplomatic protection and propaganda support in the United Nations and elsewhere so that Indian policy could proceed without fear of crippling U.N. intervention. 
A new program of 27 athletic: and recreational activities from basketball to skiing to karate begins soon at SMC. Signups today and tomorrow in the SMC dining hall. 
~R(u'S'A~;;------, 
Route 303, Blauvelt, N.Y. 10913 
Please send full-color catalog of your stereo component systems and automatic turntables. 
I enclose no money whatsoever. 

68. Moscow was seeking an ally to help contain China. Mrs. Gandhi was seeking guarantees against both China and Pakistan and also leftist domestic support at a moment of peril for her divided 'Congress Party. 
The relationship blossomed, but the passions for a formal treaty cooled and the papers were laid aside. Mrs. Gandhi went on to fashion a staggering two-thirds majority in this year's election. An agricultural revolution dispelled the once ever-present dread of famine. The promise of rapid develop­ment at home replaced the mane_uvering abroad. ·-And then came the shattering developments in East Bengal and there were the Russians, treaty in hand. 
As the fear of war with Pakistan grippped India yet again, and millions of 'Bengali refugees arrived to drain the development kitty, the U.S. again appeared far away and preoccupied with other causes. At that crucial moment, the Indians say, President Nixon's National Security Adviser, Henry Kissinger, delivered a warning that China might not remain aloof from war and that if attacked, India should not expect the kind of emotional and indirect support she received from the U.S. in 1962. 
When Kissinger stopped over on his secret journey to Peking via Pakistan last July, he is said to have repeated this shattering counsel. He was treated cooly and he responded appropriately. And soon enough the Indians learned of his real errand in Asia. Bitterly, they concluded that they now understood the Ameican refusal to cut off the residual arms shipments to Pakistan and the American reluctance to be pitted even diplomatically against China on India's behalf. 
Sensing the shock here, the Russians invited Mrs. Gandhi to Moscow to sign the friendship pact. She thoughtthatwas going a bit far and invited Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko to 
illustrate the mechanics of complete with a matched base, tinted dust 
I 

partisans politics and explore the cover, and Shure magnetic cartridge. The Semi-permanent address 
I 

possibilities of using them to speakers are true two-way sealed acoustic 
I

suspension, with amazing bass response.
promote young people's ideas. City
We invite you to see the RTS-40A at your I
Transportation will be 
nearest BSR McDonald dealer.lf you think it I State Zip
arranged with car caravans, no 
PANAVISION' sounds good on paper, wait' II you hear it.
registra,tion fee is required and 


L-----------------J
METROCOLOR"

housing will be free 

-~------­
Tuesday, November 30, 1971 
THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Irish split with Michigan Tech 

Overtime victory keeps ND atop WCHA standings 
by Jim Donaldson has a 1-3 record in league play. lluskie netminder had stopped Sports Editor The Irish fought back from shots by Bill Green and Regan. 
Anyone who watched both one-goal deficits three times in Tech again took the lead on hockey games at the ACC last besting the Huskies Saturday Steve Coates' goal at 13:39 and weekend might well have night. the Huskies kept the advantage thought he was watching two John Campbell gave Notre until the period stop. different Notre Dame teams play Dame an early advantage with a D' Arcy Keating knotted the 
Michigan Tech. fine individual effort at 12:40 of count again on a power play at l<'riday night, the Irish icers the opening period. The frosh 1:33 of the third stanza, gunning were virtually run out of their center beat a Tech defenseman his powerful slap shot past 
and fired the puck into the net Quance from the right point.
own rink, receiving a 9-3 drub­bing at the hands of the Huskies, from 20 feet out. Regan put the Irish on top at but on Saturday, it was a dif-The Irish lead was shortlived, 3:06, taking a pass from Noble ferent story. Notre Dame however, as Lee Hartviksen tied and shooting his own rebound by bounced back in the second game the score just 34 seconds later, Quance. of the series to edge Tech, 6-5, in banging a rebound of a Graham But the Huskies refused to fold. an overtime thriller. Wise shot past Dick Tomasoni. Gary Crosby deflected Jim 
Nahrgang's slap shot from the
Paul Hegan, who had scored Tech moved in front 2-1 at 3:49 his first goal of the season early of the second period when 
point into the net at 11:50 to tie in the third period, found the nets Hartviksen again popped home a 
the game and Mike Usitalo made it 5-4 at 13:04.
again at 1:33 of the extra stanza rebound while the Irish were a This time, it was Notre Dame's
to give the Irish what coach man short. 
turn come back. With Tech
Lefty Smith considered, "our Notre Dame made it a 2-2 to 
shorthanded, Campbell found
biggest win ever." game with a power play goal of 
Ian Williams open in front of the
The victory, worth four points their own at 10:44. John Noble 
Tech goal and whipped a pass to
to Notre Dame, left the Irish with did the honors for the Irish, 
the big right winger, who netted
a 4-2 record and on top of the beating Tech goalie Rick Quance 
the goal that forced the game
WCIIA standings. Michigan Tech from short range after the into overtime. 
Jim Donaldson:::::=:=:=:=:=:===================================:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
Regan played the hero's role in the ten-minute, sudden-death period. Just 67 seconds into the 
l
overtime, Regan took a pass
The Irish Eye 
Paul Regan scored two goals, including the game winner, as the Irish 
from Noble and slid the puck 
edged highly-rated Michigan Tech 6-5 in overtime Saturday night at
under Tech defenseman Bob 
the ACC.
Lorimer and past Quance.
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::/ce Chips Huskies netted seven goals in a
The first game of the series 

16 minute span, covering the first 
Last Friday night in the ACC ice rink, it seemed like Thanksgiving was completely dominated by 



B-ball tix

and second periods, to wrap upall over again. Michigan Tech was having a turkey shoot at Notre the Huskies. Tech scored four the game.
Dame's goal and beat the stuffing out of the Irish to the tune of 9-3. But, goals in each of the first two 
pick-up

Crosby scored the second Tech although the Huskies feasted on Friday, Notre Dame gave them a periods and romped to their first goal and Lorne Stamler made itsevere case of heartburn with a cardiac-titallating victory on Satur­WCHA win this season. 
Students who purchased

3-0 at 16:23. Thirty-nine seconds
day night. The Huskies gave the 4,187 season basketball tickets maylater Coates found the net, and
Notre Dame's 6-5, overtime win over Tech has to be one of the most fans in attendance an inkling of pick them up at the ACC todaythe Huskies held a 4-0 lead after
exciting hockey games in Irish ice history. It was filled with things to come by jumping out to and tomorrow between the hours 
the first period.
everything a hockey fan could ask for--tough, hard-hitting defense, a 1-0 lead in the first minute of of 9 am and 4 pm.
Williams gave Irish fansgreat saves, aggressive, fast offensive rushes, and a thrilling finish. play. Hartviksen beat Irish something to cheer about just 13
It was a big victory for the Irish in several ways. It was worth four goalie Mark Kronholm from in seconds into the second periodpoints in the standings and enabled Notre Dame to retain first place in close only 59 seconds after the 


WCHA

when he tallied a power playthe WCHA. The Irish had to come from behind three times before opening faceoff. 
goal, tipping in Green's shotpulling out the win against a team the WCHA coaches had figured as Although Tech controlled play from the left point, but Techthe league's top club in a pre-season poll. Most importantly, they came throughout the period, they 
Standings

squelched any Notre Dameoff a 9-3 trouncing and proved that no team was going to embarrass weren't able to score again until victory hopes with another four
Notre Dame and escape unscathed. 14:37, but, once they got started, w L T Pts.
goal barrage.
"The kids did a hell of a job tonight," a smiling coach Lefty Smith there was no stopping them. The NOTRE DAME 4 2 0 12
Nahrgang, Darwin Mott, Bob
said after Saturday's game. "It took a lot of guts to come back after North Dakota 3 3 0 10
D'Alvise and Usitalo all. scored
getting whipped Friday. It made tonight's win all the sweeter." Wisconsin 3 1 0 8
early in the second period to give 
Hoop rally
"I had said in the locker room before the game that this was the Minn.-Duluth 3 1 0 6
Tech an 8-1 lead at the 10:11
breaking point of the season for us," Smith continued. "We could fold Denver 2 0 0 4
mark. 
up our tent and resign ourselves to being also rans or we could prove Michigan State 2 2 0 4
The Irish managed to gain

tonight

that we could skate with the best in the league." Colorado 2 2 0 4 
some measure of respectability
The Irish proved their talent and their determination Saturday Coach Dick "Digger" Phelps Michigan Tech 3 0 4
when Larry Israelson netted his
night. And they're building an impressive case to stake their own and captain Doug Gemmell will Michigan 3 0 2
first goal of the season at 11:56
claim to thr :_:je of "best in the league"---although Denver, which beat be the featured speakers at Minnesota 5 0 2
and, in the third period, Williams Tech twice in Houghton a week ago, would be quick to dispute that. tonight's basketball pep rally. 
scored his second goal of the When one club
The Irish are unquestionably one of the stronger clubs in the loop, The rally will start at 7:30pm plays another each
game. Tech had the last word, only twice,however, The emergence of John Noble's line as a scoring threat last in Stepan Center. The band will however, chalking up their ninth game is worth four points. When 
weekend added considerably to Notre Dame's overall balance and begin its march around the teams meet four times, each
goal, and the last one in the
power. The line of John Campbell, Ian Williams and Eddie Bumbacco campus at 7:15. game is worth just two points.
game. at 14:12.
had carried the brunt of the offensive load in the first four games this season, accounting for 15 of the team's first 20 goals. Noble, the club's leading scorer the past two seasons, netted his second goal of the year 



Stepaniak ends fine career 
over the weekend and his left winger, Paul Regan, picked up two found Stepaniak to be nearly asgoals, one of them the game winner, Saturday night. In addition, by Joe Passiatore '73 the finest classes ever to play for tough.
Larry Israelson and freshman D' Arcy Keating recorded their first Notre Dame, or possibly, as
L.S.U.'s sound defeat of Notre He's the type who never gives
goals of the campaign in the Tech series. coach Parseghian called them,
Dame a week ago was un­up on a play, as he illustrated in
Regan, a regular the last two years for the Irish, has had problems "the finest class of seniors in the
doubtedly a bitter pill for the last year's Cotton Bowl when
history of Notre Dame."
hitting the net in the early games but found the range in timely fashion 
Irish to swallow, particularly for Eddie Phillips appeared touch­
Saturday. Ralph Stepaniak has been a
those seniors who were playing down bound on Texas' first play,
Describing his overtime tally in the happy Irish locker room their last game for Notre Dame. member of this group and in only to have Stepaniak comeSaturday night, Regan said, "Nobber (Noble) tipped it to me out front In the aftermath of a convincing many ways he typifies the whole from all the way across the field 
and I just swung around and shot." win by L.S.U.'s vengeful Tigers it class. He has performed con­and knock him out of bounds at Regan's goal was certainly a morale booster for the Irish. would be a shame if their ac­
sistently for Notre Dame since 
the Notre Dame nine yard line.

the third game of the 1969 season.
"This win feels good for me and for the whole team," coach Smith complishments over the past The play turned a Texas touch­
Although often times over­
remarked Saturday. "The kids did a great job. Friday we made some three years be mitigated because down into a field goal and
shadowed bv the talents of
key mistakes in our defensive coverage. We were unable to negate of an unimpressive final per­changed the complexion of the
Clarence Ellis his play in the
Tech's speed with some quickness of our own and we weren't quite formance. game enormously.
defensive secondary has been
tough enough in our zone." This year's contingent of As for Ralph Stepaniak's
impressive.
''Tech was hungry Friday, after losing two to Denver, and they were graduating seniors on the Notre ambitions towards pro-football, Dame football team departs with He rates his ability to come up he responded, "If I'm drafted I'd 
out to prove that they could kick hell out of us," Smith continued. 
a record of 36-5-1, a record on running plays and lend sup­be nutty not to give it a chance.
"They proceeded to do just that but we turned around and came back beyond criticism. There have port to the linebackers and I'd like to try and see if I couldto beat 'em. I'd say it's our best win ever." 
been disappointments, but there defensive ends as the most make it. They would probablyThe Huskies' coach, John Macinnes, commented Saturday, have also been highpoints. Last proficient part of his game. But move me to strong safety where I"Tonight's game was the sort I expected from Notre Dame. Friday we year's Cotton Bowl victory over one can't overlook his skill at could help out against the run andhit on every scoring opportunity and played an excellent offensive powerful Texas was one of the pass coverage. His 4.6 speed in guard the tight end." Whatever game. Tonight was a very even game that could have gone either 
biggest wins in Notre Dame the forty yard dash is most his fortunes in the professionalway." football history. To be sure, a respectable and opposing wars are, his college career "It was a hell of a series," Macinnes said. total investigation of their efforts quarterbacks who shy away from would have to be deemed suc­
It sure was, coach, it sure was. would reveal them to be one of throwing to Ellis' territory have cessful. 
I 
I 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, November 30, 1971 
Nixon's visit to Red China set for late Feb. 
by Bernard Gwertzman 
(C) 1971 New York Times 
WASHINGTON, NOV.29-­President Nixon's visit to China, the first by a United States Chief of State, will begin on Feb. 21, the White House announced today. 
A one-sentence statement, issued simultaneously in Peking, ended weeks of speculation on when the visit would take place but provided no further details. Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House Press Secretary, said he would have more information on the trip tomorrow. It is expected that the visit will last about one week. 
The visit to China, with an announced goal of seeking a normalization of relations bet­ween the two countries, will occur more than a month after Nixon completes a round of talks with key Western leaders. 
Those talks are aimed at shoring up allied unity at a time of stress caused by Nixon's tough economy policy and his dramatic moves to improve relations with both Peking and Moscow. 
Rat-race starting 
The Registrar's Office 
disclosed yesterday that 
Graduate, Fifth Year and Senior 
students will begin second 
semester pre-registration on 
Thursday, December 2. 
University Registrar Richard 
Sullivan, also revealed that 
juniors could register on Friday, 
December 3, and Sophomores on 
December 6 through 9. 
"Pre-registration will run from Thursday to Thursday," said Sullivan. "Forms (form 50's) will be distributed through the mail. Each class will have their forms in time for registration and all check­marked courses must be ap­proved by the departments." 
The cold north winds are blowing. 

Nixon is scheduled to visit the Soviet Union in May --the first visit there by a President since the wartime crimean Conference in 1945. 
The joint statement on the China visit, as read by Ziegler to newsmen said: 
"The Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of the United States of America have agreed that President Nixon's visit to 
China  shall  begin  on  Feb.  21,  
1972."  
The  timing  of  the  visit  in­ 

dicates that N ixonwanted to wait for the State of the Union address and budget message to be out ot the way before he left the country. Those traditional reports to Congress usually take place in January. 
The trip will take place while campaigning for the nation's first primary election is taking place in New Hampshire. That primary,which traditionally kicks off the presidential cam­paigning, will be held on March 7. 
Nixon's journey has been in­tensely discussed here and abroad ever since the President startled the world on July 15 by announcing that he had accepted an invitation to visit China sometime before next May. 
He disclosed then that the groundwork for the meeting had been carried out by Henry A. Kissinger, his national security adviser, during a secret ·Visit. to Peking between July 9 and 11. 
Ziegler, in reply to questions today, said that the purpose of the trip was the same as that announced on July 15: "To seek the normalization of relations between the two countries and also to exchange views on questions of concern to the two sides." 
Kissinger returned to Peking last month on a publicized mission to discuss details of the visit with Premier Chou En-Lai and other Chinese officials. Ziegler said that the date of the visit was actually decided upon during that second Kissinger journey. 
Ziegler, apparently seeking to rebut some speculation that the 



A representative from 
De Paul University's Graduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss MBA Program MS in Taxation Program Contact Placement Office for details 
. . 
Chinese were presenting ob­stacles to the trip, said that "preparations continue to go well and the general framework has been established." 
What we have been doing (since the second Kissinger trip) is tying down the surrounding details so we would be in a position to make the an­nouncemfnt I have given you today." Further details, such as the length of the trip, stops that will be made, and the size of the party will be made public tomorrow, he indicated. 
Administration officials have major substantive developments to result from Nixon's visit to Peking. They have said that they doubted that China would agree to establishing diplomatic relations so long as Washington continued its support for the Nationalist Chinese regime on Taiwan. Nixon has stressed the continuing U .S.backing for Taiwan. 

The general impression given here is that the administration is hoping for some kind of accord on establishing cultural, scientific and educational ex­changes and for the start of some 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

Christmas Loans up to $150. Pay back January 20. Morrissey Loan 
Fund Closes Dec. 10. 
can Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line. Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS. 
NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 11:15-12:15. 
Sociology Majors! Pre­registration get together. Discover new courses etc. TONIGHT. 8:30 pm 114 O,Shag. 
FLYING CLUB. There will be a meeting -120 O'Shag. 7:30 Wed. 
Dec. 1. 
General Program Party tonight at 126 Napoleon -8:30 PM. 
The Dairy Queen of Skokie is still making MAGIC BOTTLES. stop in 416 Augusta-5106. 
LOST 

I lost a man's gold I D braclet that has a very special meaning to me. It says Dave on the outside and 
Renee on the inside. Please call 7835. 
Two keys with 425 on them near Moreau at SMC. If found, please call Jim -1817. 
FOUND 

Found: 1973 Class ring. See Dean. College of Science. 7738. 
Kitty-cat found in Zahm. 1703 
Use Observer classifieds 
WANTED 
Need ride to or towards Greely Colorado for Thanksgiving. call Chip 8256. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. '67, Air cond., Power steering and brakes. 'His-Hers' transmission, tinted glass, black interior. Call and make bid. 289-7433. 
Unique personalized stationery, the perfect Christmas gift for that special someone. Inquire by call 1167 or come see our vast selection at 611 Grace or 315 South Regina. 
Philco, portable B-W TV. 18", 1969. 255-8849. 
For Sale: Fisher stereo amp, FM stereo tuner, Garrard turntable, Large Bass-Reflex speakers, $200.00. Call Tim 272-5374. 
For Sale: 1970 VW squareback; reliable; AM-FM radio recent tune-up. 41,000 miles; new front tires. Call 234-4957. 
FOR RENT 
Two room apt. kitchen, share bath. December, second semester. 288­0247. 
PERSONALS 
Hondo and Friend, Your car Jack, Time and efforts were greatly appreciated. Danka. Flat Tire 

Classified ads get results 





