
Is An Tostal an imminent danger? 

Vol. V, No. 118 Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Thursday, April 29, 1971 
Caruso charges Observer with favoritism 
By Joe McKerns committee meeting held last ''denied the right to place a 

Gary Caruso, South Quad night in the student government purchased advertisement in the candidate for the SLC, has offices. paper on the day designated." charged the Observer with Caruso's complaint centered Observer Editor-in-Chief, 
favoritism during the current around a campaign ad­Glenn Corso, explained that the SLC campaign. The charges were vertisement he purchased for reason the ad did not appear was brought before the SLC Election Tuesday's issue which did not due to a secretarial mistake. Committee by Caruso during a appear. Caruso said he was Corso pointed out that the 
McCartin sROTCproposals tabled at Tuesday meeting ofALCC 
was "very hostile, very emotional," McCartin said later. He stated that faculty members opposed his idea on the grounds that it was an absurd harassment, clouded in idealism, which sought to demean the military, that military arts had been considered liberal arts by the Greeks and the Franks, and that ROTC has a value and is being given credit in other universities. The proposals were finally tabled until September at the earliest. 
Associate Dean Devere Plunkett of the College of Arts and Letters said later that the university's present policy toward ROTC was determined two years ago by the Academic Council after it had been con­sidered by the other College Councils. "It was given a very searching study." he said. 
He explained that Freshman and Sophomore ROTC courses in general are not now counted as credits toward any degree. The number of "advanced" ROTC credits allowable toward a degree is determined by the Dean of each College, he said. 
The greatest number of credits 

now allowable toward a degree is 
twelve, Dean Plunkett stated, but 
he added that there is a great 
deal of variation between 
Colleges and between the three 
branches of ROTC. The Army, 
for example, allows other 
university courses to be taken in 
lieu of six of the twelve credits. 
There are a number of skill, 

vocational, and professional 
courses which are not liberal arts 
(continued on page 6) 

secretary who made the mistake was recently hired and that she made a similar mistake last week with regards to a Campus Ministry advertisement. 
After hearing the charges presented by Caruso, SBP John B~rkett ruled that the Election Committee could not take any action on the issue because it 
was, as Barkett stated, "out of our jurisdicti01,1." 
"The Election Committee has decided to extend the campaign until two a.m. Friday. However, it strongly urges the candidates in each district to consult each other to decide whether or not they will campaign." 
Barkett contacts Hesburgh 
In a letter to UniVf,!'Sity 
President  Father  Theodore  
Hesburgh,  SBP  John  Barkett  
outlined  a  bill he  plans  to  in­ 

troduce in the SLC, which proposed that one faculty member, student and ad­ministrator be seated on the Council. 
He asked that Hesburgh present the motion to the Plan­ning Committee for Co­education, which was established by the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Executive Boards. 
He noted Ann Marie Tracey's candidacy, and said, "If Ann Marie does win, it would appear we would have to ask one faculty and one administrator to resign to obtain a tripartite represen­tation from St. Mary's in line with the balance on the Council." 
He suggested, that if she doesn't win, three members of the Student Affairs Committee of St. Mary's, who have speaking priveleges, also be extended voting privileges. 
He said, "I know the Student Life Council will be much better equipped to act if the Planning Committee can come to a ' decision on this matter. And with Co-education the ongoing process it will be, I think a favorable decision would show great wisdom." 

Gary Caruso, candidate for SLC, who leveled favoritism charges against the Observer. 
··on campus

:.QY••• 

1:00 symposium-walter berns, university of toronto: voeglin, strauss and the behavioralist, library auditorium. 
4:00 lecture-wayne c. booth: the warrants of assent in thought, .action and fiction, library auditorium. 
7:00 symposium-dante germino, university of virginia: voeglin and contemporary radical thought in america, library auditorium. 
7: 30 lecture-dr. charles sheldon, library of congress: the russian space program, 303 engineering building. 
8:00 movie-cultural arts commission: when worlds collide and island of lost souls, engineering auditorium. 
By Kevin McGill 
Two proposals by Ed McCartin, the first student to hold a seat on the Arts and Letters College Council, which would have removed certain ROTC courses from the realm of the liberal arts were tabled at Tuesday's meeting of the Council. 
McCartin's proposals aimed to discontinue the granting of credit toward a baccalaeureate degree in liberal arts for Junior and Senior level ROTC courses, and to remove the Departments of Military Science, Naval Science, ~nd Aerospace Studies from their departmentar status in the College of Arts and Letters. 
The debate on these proposals 

Ed McCartin Dean Devere Plunkett 
The Meadowbrook Neighborhood corporation is seeking volunteers to aid in the construction of the Indian cultural and day care center in Clay Township. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students interested in working for a few hours need only show up at the bus station<circle) on Saturday, May I at 9:30 a.m. Students will be provided with transportation and can be returned to the campus in time·for the major An Tostal events on Saturday afternoon. Students with any questions can call Bill 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, April 29, 1971 
ACCOUNTING AND 


FINANCE MAJORS 
Let us help you: 
PLAN AHEAD 
To Become a CPA THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE 




Class election results tabulated 
By Matt Cavanaugh 

In yesterday's Notre Dame class elections Tom Pifferetti, Steve Pallucca, and Mike and sophomore classes respectively. 

Elected to the remaining senior offices were Pifferetti's running mates, Jim Bingle vice president, Joe Santucci secretary, and Bill Schmidt treasurer. 
Those chosen for junior call positions were vice president Kevin Kelly and secretary­treasurer Janet Cullen. She gained 274 votes for secretary and 226 for treasurer. Working with Sherrod next year in the sophomore class government will be V.P. Leo Monahan, secretary Mike Becker, and treasurer John Sanguinetti. 
Immediately following the election. Miss Cullen made the following statement: "The ticket of Ballentine, Kastelic, and Cullen was, and is precisely that, a ticket. Since none of us will be here next year, the persons you have elected will serve you, not us. I am honored that I was elected, but state unequivocably.I have absolutely no intention of serving my position." 


Upon learning this Pallucca said that the election board would be consulted as to the proper procedure for filling this position. Pallucca claimed that although the main emphasis of the coming year would be on the Junior parents weekend, he would also work for "more social events and more co-operation with Saint Mary's"· 

Mike Sherrod who won the sophomore presidental election with 97 write-in votes will look for "more communication with the members of the class." The Grace Hall freshman proposed a "complaint center" where students can bring their opinions out into the open, and a closer association with the Student Government. Sherrod also plans for a better relationship with the SMC sophomore class that would lead to "a complete merger by next year." 
Senior president Pifferetti was unavailable for comment after the election. 
Candida-tes Schupp and Caruso discuss issues concerning SLC 
Notre Dame alumni could be convinced to finance these projects themselves. 
Through these projects and others like them, Caruso feels that co-education could become a reality and the "week-end" social atmosphere of Notre Dame could be dispelled. 
Caruso would also like to see more efficient and stronger committees formed in the SLC to cut some the red tape that is now involved in every proposal. 
In conclusion Caruso said, "I am not one of the LaFortune clique's candidates. I am the students candidate." 
Govt. credit given for 
• 

symposzum 
"New Departures in Western Political Thought", a symposium on the political theory of ERIC Voegelin, visiting professor of government at the University of Notre Dame, will be the basis for one hour of academic credit offered by the government department for all students. 
The conference, to be held in the Library Auditorium from 3 pm to 5-pm and 7:30 to 9:30p.m. on Thursday, April 29 and from 9 am to 5 pm and from 7:30 to 9:30 on Friday evening. 
To be eligible for the academic credit, a student must attend all the conference speeches and panel discussions and write a "reflective paper" on the proceedings. 
Any student planning to receive credit must see Mr. John Kromkowski of the Government department prior to the start of the symposium. 



Thursday, April 29, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 




Wilka and Sheehy an-nounce plans 

ministrations before the end of for (1) merged Student Govern­would entail the SLC, the
by Art Ferranti 

the semester. They outlined six ments, (2) better Hall Life which Academic Council, and the like,main goals which they wish to would deal with the problems of (5) a plan for the unification of Bill Wilka, Notre Dame have detailed so that the ad­room selection, etc., (3) a joint Student Services such as the coeducation coordinator, and ministration can act on the Academic Standards Committee infirmary, security,Jane Sheehy, the recently named recommendations before they which would delegate the psychological counseling, and (6)
Saint Mary's coed coordinator, discuss the problems and requirements for students and most importantly, according to announced yesterday the formal possible solutions to the recent their majors with a uniform 
Wilka, a student manual con­
joining of their positions in order merger of the two universities system of accreditation for the taining the various rules and to present their recom­this summer. two student bodies, (4) unified regulations for both studel}.t
mendations to the ND-SMC ad-Wilka and Sheehy are calling community structures which boOies. 
Peace ·action committee plans week 
The Notre Dame Peace Action Monument grounds. G street N.W. Room 206. The them. He said that in the past the Committee released last night Legal assistance can be ob­phone is 202-623-4317. There will maximum fine has been $25 the particulars concerning the tained at 833-9480. The name is also be a headquarters on the represented by posting bail and anti-war demonstrations 'Bust Central,' and it is located at Washington Monument grounds. then not returning for the trial, beginning this Saturday in 20th and G street N.W. in the Indiana headquarters and that in most cases the fine Washington. Harlon Brewer House. The phone recommends that the demon­has been $10. Civil disobedience 
The activities will consist number of the sponsoring strater coming to the Capital actions are a misdemeanor. primarily of various forms of People's Coalition for Peace and bring: a blanket or sleeping bag, The organizer emphasized non-violent civil disobedience Justice is 202-737-8600. The office a knapsack or some other carry John Froines message Tuesday blocking the paths leading to the is at 1029 Vermont Avenue N.W. bag, and food for five days which that anyone looking to "trash" Pentagon and the Justice room 900. won't spoil. Rice, canned Washington should stay home. He Department on successive days Each state has been assigned a vegetables, raisins, and honey said the demonstraters will starting next Monday. particular part in the marches are some of the recommended employ only non-violent civil 
A "festival of life" will be held and civil disobedience aimed at choices. disobedience tactics. this Saturday on the grounds of the Pentagon and Justice A Peace Action organizer said People interested in going to 
the Washington Monument Department. Indiana's that the demonstraters should Washington should go to the celebrating the "joyousness of headquarters are at the First ignore the rumors about heavy Peace Action table in the Library life ·the grimness of death," Congregational Church, lOth and fines and jail sentences awaiting Lobby. according to one organizer. 
A national moratorium is scheduled for next Wednesday 

St. Mary's board of trustees
which calls for a "stoppage of business as usual" all across the country. 

to protect SMC faculty jobs 
Solidarity actions with the activities in Washington from each institution. No~re Dame library, not counting Saturday through Wednesday are professors usually recieve three-depreciation, could be made being organized for the campus The St. Mary's Board of year initial contracts compared available for other enterprises and South Bend. Trustees is pledged to protect, if . to one-y~~r St. Mary's contracts. with the magazines and books 
Sunday in Washington will be need be, every faculty contract Unofficially, Fr. McCluskey being moved over to Notre devoted to a "soulful mass Rev. Niel McCluskey, an revealed that many people are Dame." meeting" from 4-7 p.m. at the executive committee member asking for the three-year This suggestion met with some Soviet Theatre on the Washington told a convocation of faculty coeducation timetable to ve opposition from faculty mem-Monument Grounds at which members yesterday afternoon. revised. "There is a feeling vers, especially those in the planning for the days ahead will As chairman of a newly-among the board," he said, "that English department. They ac­take place. created committee of St. Mary's what we can do immediately, let cused the rapid unification of 
An organizer said that before Trustees designed to deal with us do now." being based solely on financial anyone leaves for Washington, he unification, Fr. McCluskey "My own interpretation of this reasons. should call Quaker House at 202-guaranteed the teachers, more is that there can be a substantial There is also the possibility265-5838 for information on than half of whose contracts wll unification of academic and that "the pew l)niversity -a housing, medical care, legal terminate next year, that service enterprises by this marriage of the old Notre Dame assistance, etc. When he reaches everything will be done to help September," he added. 
(continued on page 8)

Washington he should call the them. The following year, there is a 
Due to · the short time remaining in the semester, only those things which have already been researched such as the merging of the security forces, will be stressed, said Sheehy. The major work will be done .next year. The reason for the delay is that Sheehy was chosen last week. In order to promote more of an atmosphere of a united student government, Sheehy will become part of ND student body president John Barkett's cabinet, while Wilka will join St. Mary's SBP Kathy Barlow's cabinet. 
Since this is such a "vast and comprehensive undertaking," said Wilka, they want and need a great many people. The com­mission thus far is made of up just Wilka and Sheehy. Their offices will be in Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's. Since their phones are not listed in the _ND­SMC Directory, they can be reached at either 4538 (SMC) or 7668 <ND). 
The reason for not having the headquarters for the Commission in LaFortine, said Wilka, is to get away from the idea that all ac­tivities must be centered on the Notre Dame campus now that the two institutions have officially merged. 
ND·SMC Theatre 
presents 

The Musical 
Comedy· Smash 

BooK, Music and Lynes by 
LIONEL BART 
OLIVER! 
May I, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30pm. May 2 at 2:30 pm. O'Laughlin Auditorium. $2.00 Tickets. lnformation:284-4176. • 
House at 265-5838 or 265-5842 and 

These faculty members would possibility that the budgets may··-------------~~~~~~---------... he will be told where he can sleep have to start job-hunting in be joint, and that degrees will and obtain help in other areas. October if their contracts are not also be jointly issued . 
The House is located at 2121 renewed. Fr. McCluskey could Although registration has been 
'

Decator Place N.W. and they will not say what degree of respon-finalized for September, Fr. also have an information center sibility the St. Mary's depart-McCluskey believed that some 
Craftsmen In Optics® 
by the Washington Monument. ments will exercise over the progress could be made go merge
The numbers to call for Notre Dame decisions under the registration processes for medical care are 546-0024 and 546-which contracts will be renewed. second semester next year.0025. Medical teams will also be Another discrepancy discussed "There are enormous places 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
• ' 

at target areas of the demon­at the meeting is the difference where consolidation can occur,"strations and on the Washington between the length of.contracts at he said. "The $130,000 for the 
.HouseofVisioJi f!~-
Thtl House of-Vision, Inc.
Students are . reminded of rules concerning drinking on campus 
Applications being received for 
Riehle said that the campus
By John Wolf designated for such a purpose. School policy prohibits any such security guards are instructed 
University Judicial Board
With the coming of Spring, a parties outside the halls, on the to stop all students seen carrying 
or usJng uncovered beer or liquor
young man's fancy turns to quads or in the corridors of the 

on campus. The guards have
love... and parties ... and drinking. hall. The University also strictly 

-orders to confiscate the the
Lest anyone has forgotten, here's prohibits any hall party where 

Names must be submitted by May 1st.
alcohol and the student's ID card,
a reminder of University policy liquor or beer is sold. 

and to file a report with the dean 
on booze. Fr. Riehle cautioned however, The Notre Dame Student that students must be aware of 

of students. All disciplinary actionManual states: "No student may their obligation to comply with Applications can be picked up in SG office or call Dave Tushar 
stemming from public violations
buy or sell alcoholic beverages on Indiana state law which prohibits (283-8359) For further information. 

of the University drinking rules
campus. Further, the use or alcoholic beverages from being presence of alcoholic beverages sold, bartered, exchanged, given, are then handled by Fr. Reihle. -=' ,". -···--······-· 
Drinking violations occuring
is forbidden in all public places or furnished to any person under 

MET CLUB 
within individual halls are to be
on the campus. 'Public' is defined the age of twenty-one yeats. as all areas on campus except Indiana also makes it unlawful handled by the hall judicial rooms in dormitories. for any minor to possess or have boards, though Fr. Reihle noted 
Baggage Truck to New York City
Fr. James Reihle, dean of on his person any alcoholic that some halls are lax in this students, esplained that the rule beverage for his own use, or to respect. was voted in by the Student Life transport on any public highway According to Arthur Pears 
Sales Thurs Nite April 29 7-8PM 
Council "to allow students to when not accompanied by at director of campus security: have a drink in their irooms." least one of said minor's parents there is seldom any problem with He added that section and hall or guardian any alcoholic students carrying uncovered 
Coke Bar LaFortune 
parties could supply beer and beverage of anh kind or packages of alcohol onto the other alcoholic beverages, description. campus. Students, he said, bring 
'5 Deposit Required
provided that the parties are held Concerning alcoholic­most of their alcohol onto campus in hall lounges or other rooms beverages in "public places," Fr. by car. 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER Thursday, April 29, 1971 



'HE OBSERVER. 
An Independent Student Newspaper 

ROTC 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 

T.C. Treanor, Executive Edit~r ~ OUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
An old ghost has been resurrected by
Dennis Duggan 

Senior Ed McCartin. At Tuesday af­ternoon's meeting of the Arts and Letters Presidential I mpotenCe College Council he introduced a pair of 
The President of the United States is the most powerful man in the world. Right? He is Com­mander-in-Chief of the world's best Army, Navy, and Air Force. His finger is the only one that can push the trigger of the world's greatest nuclear arsenal. He heads the world's largest bureaucracy funded to the tune of 229 billion dollars. He is the leader of the greatest industrial nation in the world which has a G .N.P. of over One trillion dollars. He is nearly omnipotent. Right? Wrong! 
Everyone has encountered the frustrating ex­perience of dealing with the red tape of a bureaucracy. For a President thids frustration is amplified immeasurably. It is ironic to hear that our system must be changed to take some of the power away from the President and make him more responsive to the people when, in fact, our system was specifically designed to check the powers of the President. The intransigence of our system of government has not been due to an unresponsive Presidency, but rather to a basically conservative Senate and an unrepresentative House. The progressive history of our country is written, in many instances, in the pages of bold and innovative Presidential programs. The field of civil rights is just one example. 
The Presidency is a veritable bed of thorns. A labrynthian set of stops, checks, and balances await every Presidentail maneuver. He must placate political factions and coo an often unfriendly press. His legislation is virgin prey to septuagenarian Committeemen. He must be both a lion and a fox, a prince and a philosopher-king. And when it is all over, history will not remember the failings of a do­nothing Congress or a hostile Court that existed during his administration. As the sign on President Truman's desk poignantly read, "the buck stops here." 
To complicate all the difficulties of the Presidency. Mr. Nixon brings a sense of haplessness to his office. For a position which requires adroitness, diplomacy, and skill, we witness him plodding along in a clodish fashion characteristic of a parvenu. This is not to say that Mr. Nixon does not get the job done or that he is unique. It is to say that he does not exactly instill an easy breathing confidence in his performance as our Chief Executive. 
The Nixon Presidency is, for the most part, a can of inherited worms. But even if he is not the direct cause of any of our problems, one gets the im­pression that he just doesn't know what to do to solve them. Traditionally a balance-the-budget conservative on economics, we later learn that he is now a Keynesian. His rise to the Presidency could be considered a modern day Horatio Alger story if it wasn't for the fact that in his last three elections he was leading in the polls at the start and managed to lose two of them. Also, his win in the third could probably be attributed to the total ineptness of the Democratic Party. As a student of our Courts and Laws, Mr. Nixon has been the only President, with the exception of Cleveland, to have two Supreme Court nominations rejected back to back. In ad­dition his own Chief Justice has just rapped him, on the nuckles for his school integration policies. His bumbling comments on the Manson Case and his reference to some college students as "bums" again illustrates his lack of savoirfaire. The Nixon Vanguard, America's Hard-hats, deserted him the first time he put the bite on their pay checks. To appease them he withdrew his suspension of the Davis-Bacon Act and in its place errected a Rube Goldberg system of voluntary wage controls that would boggle the most brilliant economists. 
On top of all this is Vietnam. Mr. Nixon has the unenviable chore of extricating us from a war that no one is sure how we got in in the first place. Taking into account all that our President says about his motives, you can be sure that he smells the election issues brewing. If he somehow reverses the economy and resolves the Vietnam conflict, much of the wind will be out of the Democratic sails. But this may not be enough. The 72 election will contain a new twist. 11,000,000 potential new voters in the 18-21 age group. While there is some speculation that they might not vote in a block manner, but you can be sure that the vast majority share the same basic values and will exhibit a cohesiveness at least a strong as any other block of American voters. But this vote is contingent upon the Democrats offering an appetizing candidate. Muskie or Humphrey may not be appealing enough. 

resolutions on ROTC. The first would disallow counting upper level ROTC courses for credit towards a Bachelor of Arts degree. The other would remove the Departments of Naval Science, Military Science and Aerospace Studies from the College of Arts and Letters. 
The first of these proposals is illegitimate. The concept of a liberal a:rts education is certainly broad enough to accomaodate a huge variety of courses. If an Arts and Letters candidate wishes to take scientifically oriented or business oriented electives then he should be allowed to do so, for credit towards his BA Liberal Arts cannot and should not be that strictly defined. Freedom to take courses outside of Arts and Letters and have them count for the BA is important. 
The argument against the quality of ROTC courses should not be glossed over however. In all cases these courses should be judged as any other course in the college. If they are deficient the one semester should be given for them to be brought up to par, under threat of cutting off credit. · This veto power, which the academic hierarchy of this university now has, has been exercised sparingly in the past. Critics maintain that ROTC courses are virtually exempt from this threat. They cannot and should not be. 
The question of which college ROTC departments should be in, or whether they should be departments at all is a difficult one. Most of the upper level Navy ROTC courses for example are bvasically science courses, while the upper level Air Force course are a mixture of science and business. 
If there is an insistence on academic purity, then clearly the best solution would be to reduce the ROTC depart­ments to programs in Arts and Letters. The courses which don't belong in Arts and Letters should be installed in the colleges they do belong in. Such a move would create a morass of red tape and probably satisfy no one. One advantage of course, is that the ROTC professor£ are all paid by the military and thus, other colleges would not have to assume a larger faculty salary load. 
If the Arts and Letters Council reacted 
as Ed McCartin said it did in today's 
article, then there is little hope for 
change. If they are lax in demanding the 
same standards for ROTC courses as 
others then, as in most academic and 
administrative foul-ups, the students will 
be the ultimate losers. 

Out of the Stupor 
The Student Senate arose trom Its year long stupor and did something con­structive for a change Tuesday night. In allowing Ann Marie Tracey to run for the SLC they proved that there is something the Senate can do, something con­structive and something that may just make Notre Dame a better place. 
A lot of people were screaming politics and manipulation beford and during the meeting. Curiously enough many of these people had done nothing but those very things since their firsf days at Du Lac. Thankfully though Miss Tracey is several cuts above some of her supporters and the Senate recognized it. 
The process that was used to convert the Senate and get it to overturn the election committee ruling was a classic example of pressure politics. The end attained, though, was a good one. If the objectives gained through the use of pressure politics at this great university were always so noble then Notre Dame would probably be a much better place. 

Thursday, April 29, 1971 THE, OBSERVER Page 5 
mike leoehan crosby, stills, nash & young 
rampant specu lotion: 4 way street 


.. Editor's note: This! article was sub­to nothing, the album features Johnny mitted several weeks ago but due to the Barbata on drums and Calvin Samuels on regular editorial incompetence, it is ap­bass. pearing here today. Also, the appearance Most of the 16 cuts on the album have of this article at this time should in no way been heard before, either from C,S,N&Y be construed as a violation of the spirit of themselves or from Buffalo Springfield or the Refugee Aid Program's boycott of the Airplane or from Stills' or Young's solo luxury goods. I hope. It is merely for your albums (although at the time of these entertainment and edification. concerts, After The Goldrush and Stephen 
Stills had not been released yet). But this 
There's a new Crosby, Stills, Nash and is not to say, that the songs are tired, 
Young album out. It's called 4 Way Street, 

because they probably comprise the best it's on Atlantic (SD2-902), and it'll of what the album has to offer. 
At the top of my list are the Neil Young
probably cost you a nice bit. The performance of this group in the 

songs (but then, rm a Neil Young fanatic). past has been such that there really isn't After a perfunctory few seconds of "Judy much more to be said. If you like Crosby, 
Blue Eyes", the ablum opens with a Stills, Nash and Young (you should), you'll beautiful acoustic version of "On the Way buy the record, and if you don't, you'll 
Home", with Young singing lead and some forget it. I mean, the album doesn't set of the other guys doing harmonies. We 
any new and exciting musical trends. And also get a slow-to-the-p<)int...of-almost­it doesn't reveal any heretofore un­being-funky version of "Southern Man", discovered super-talents. What it DOES 
and "Cowgirl in the Sand", formerly an do is give me a chance to articulate some 
electric rocker from the Everybody Knows ideas about "rock" that have been kicking 
This Is Nowhere album, now transformed 
around in my head for quite a while. into an enchantingly lamenting acoustic 
But first, u you will, the album. u·s a solo. two-record set, recorded live on tour June Among the new songs there are a couple and July of this past summer. Like the of nice ones by Graham Nash, "Right group's concerts, it's divided pretty evenly Between the Eyes" and "Chicago", both of between acoustic and electric music, and which should surprise those (me too) who it highlights the individual members of the had doubts about his ability to write a real group in more-or-less solo performances. song. Crosby's "Triad" appears, and Besides Stills and Young, who switch back nicely done, along with a song called "The and forth from guitar to keyboards, and Lee Shore", which doesn't mention hair Crosby and Nash, who switch from guitar once. The album finishes up with a short 
tushie czarneke 

le haute horsie 
There's this public speaking course ,. 
taught on tuesdays and thursdays by lenny 
sommers,i it's at 2:30 in the afternoon in 
the business building on the first floor. 
One of the students in the course is 
named Lance Corey and he is weird. He 
always wears this weird coat, makes him 
look like he is a military man. Which he 
isn't. But Professor sommers always likes 
to make fun of it anyway. The Prof always 
asked Lance where his horse was and 
always called him "the general." Well, 
after a little while, Lance got a little tired 
of all this and decided to do something 
about 1t. Like a good revolutionary. 
And there's this horse that belongs to sue 
voll, who is a smc freshman who lives on a 
farm. This horse, who doesn't have a name 
right now, has been trained to walk around 
the house like a human. Well, when lance 

found about this, he was quick to take hold get lost or-something. And you have to try
of the idea of bringing his reputation of to encircle the building, since it isn't very

being a military man, of a not very normal big anyway. And you have to do some 

sort, into a more real sphere. 

diversionary attacks. Like a good ordinary
Lance got hold of sue and she agreed to military man. And some flank attacks and 

let him use this Horse of hers. And so on some attacks from the golf course should 

some ordinary Thursday, just another complete the whole thing.
thursday, Lance rode this Horse into Then Lance rode this Horse out of the 

Professor lenny sommer's public speaking first floor of the business building after 

course on the first floor of the business giving his speech and while he was going

building at 2:30 in the afternoon. Which out of the building, this Horse, you see as 

surprised everybody. Lance, following the all living things, I guess, sometimes 'do 

general idea of the course, then gave a this Horse had problems with his bowels' 

speech. His speech was on how to carry out 

you see. Like, the next time Lance tries t~ a successful cavalry charge on the pull something like this again, he's gonna 
military Science building on this campus. 

have to clear it with the maintenance 
Since he isn't an ordinary military man, he people at the business building. But it was 

has to keep his hair out of the way, lest he fun anyway. 

Stills song, "Find the Cost of Freedom", in one to tell him that that soul-chorus just which the full force of the gr-Oup's vocal doesn't fit, or this song doesn't really talent comes through, acapella style. work, because it's HIS album, see? 
You should excuse the rather hasty And even when this sort of thing comes wrap-up of the album--I found myself out interesting, it rarely seems to Have It. going on at great length about a record Admit it--when's the last time you listened that I said much couldn't be said about. to "Wheels of Fire"? Now how how about <Purists also please excuse the preposition the last time you put "12x5" on? See? at the end of the last sentence). All in all Because rock ain't jazz--it's about that the album is a delight--those who expect to simple. A rock tune has to be written, hear recording-studio fidelity and per­worked and re-worked by a bunch of fection might be disappointed with some of people who understand the song and each the electric tunes, but if you've never seen other. If you saw the film "Sympathy for Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young in person, the Devil" maybe you know what I mean. and don't think you'll ever get to, you If you didn't, listen to a few relatively should have this record, because their uninspired Cream songs and then treat concerts are mighty nice. yourself to '_'Lavla". 
OK, boys and girls, now we get to the Now is the time to put down your heavy philosophical shit. What it's about cheeseburger and realize that here we are is the Phenomenon of this group, maybe faced with a problem of sorts. On the one how they do it or something equally hand, we have the fact that lots of groups sneculat.ive. honestly can't seem to stich together and 
It was about three years ago that Frank lots of musicians feel that they are Zappa began to talk about a "rock pool" or restricted by the group phenomenon as we 
some such thing, when it became more and know it. On the other hand, we have 'Super more common for groups to break up Session" and other such travesties. What because of personality clashes, to do? 
management problems, differing musical Well, the point is, Crosby, Stills, Nash aspirations, and the hassle of tours and and Young seem to have done it. When concerts. There seemed to be pl~nty of they want to go off by themselves and superstars around, so why not dump them record or go on tour or live with Joni into a big hat and pull out a few for a single Mitchell they do it. And, when Neil Young concert of recording? Seemed like a comes up with a song that the group just dandy idea, and for some musicians it was. has to do, or when they feel like recording But now everyone is a Hendrix-virtuoso. or touring together, they do that too. And So what we got was a bunch of they're managing to stay together, even in emotionally satisfied and musically un­the face of one of rock's most famous (if productive pop heroes. The group men­not most spectacular) personality clashes. tality was gone, and I think that is a bad And every eight or nine months or so we thing for rock. We get three or four get a nice new album, and so then, if Stills superstars together, and nobody's much does a bummer album, it's OK and we say interested in anything but being better "nice try", and if Crosby happens to come than the rest of the guys, like in "look-at­up with a real winner (which is not to say 
me,-I'm -really -the-keystone-of -the-group­that he has) that's fine too, like a bonus or 
Blind-Faith." Or else, one superstar, who something, and everybody's happy, or , at 
collects an entourage of capable sidemen Jeast, I am. 
to make HIS solo album, so now there's no 
kimberley erb preview-oliver! 
Having a spring musical is a fairly well-Oliver! is being choreographed by 
kept tradition at the Notre Dame-st. Charles Ballinger, a direcor of the 
Mary's theatre. In years past we have department, and Missy Smith. Thomas 
been entertained with favorites such as Doyle is the muscial director of the twenty­
"Camelot" and "Guys and Dolls," just to piece orchestra. Rita Gall has the 
name a couple. This year's offering is responsibility of handling the cast of 
"Oliver!". It was adapted from Charles nearly 100 as stage manager. 
Dickens' Oliver Twist-the story of a young Richard Bergman designed and con­
orphaned boy who falls prey to a band of structed the set 'in O'Laughlin. After 
petty thieves. researching the period, Bergman 
In the casting of Oliver! Reginald Bain described his set as " ... resembling the 
has used thirty young boys from South wharf district near the Thames ... mostly 
Bend to play the parts of Fagin's Boys-wood with lots of stairs ... alleys of the 
aspirants to the fine art of pickpocketing. 1750's...". He stated that his biggest 
As the director, Mr. Bain chose to do problem was with the lighting. Mr. Bain is 
Oliver! because of its "strong story line, employing every area in the entire 
rather large female chorus ... and its auditorium--even in the audience itself. 
popular appeal to a college audience." He Bergman is using every available light to 
also thought that Oliver! was the best illuminate the cast onstage as well as off. 
translation of Dickens into a modern Anne Paterrson designed the costumes 
media. What he hopes to accomplish is the for the show and, with her staff of four, 
"Filling in of the gaps left by the original made all of them. Although they look like 
play and the movie." "period rags," the costuming of such a 
Jack Fiala, last seen as Horace Giddens large cast took a great deal of time and 
in "The Little Foxes," plays the role of effort on her part. 
Fagin--the conniving "teacher" of the Michael Rehak, assistant to Mr. Bain, 
thieving lads. Grace Hartigan appears as commented that "because of our fresh 
Nancy, the hard-nosed girlfriend of Bill approach to the play in this production, I 
Sikes, portrayed by James Hawthorne. think we can give the audience several 
Other major roles are played by James new dimensions which have not been seen 
Boland, Tom Broderick, Marc Genero, and in other productions or in the movie." 
Carol Riordan. Hopefully, this will be proven true. 
The title role is being played by Irvin _ Oliver! will be performed at 8 pm in 
Sikorski, a twelve-year-old who must O'Laughlin Auditorium on May 1, 5, 6, 7, 8 
perform not only with his peers but, with and at 2:30 pm on May 2. 
the college leads. 
From left to right, Irvin Sikorski. Jack Fiala and Carol Riordan in a dress rehearsal scene from Oliver!, which will be presented on May 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 in O'Laughlin auditorium. 
bob shiel loves 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER Thursday, April 29, 1971
IJOINT STUDENT GOVERNMENT ·~ 
I C:::d~o::~::ion 
To help with merging of 
* Student governments 
* Academic Standards * Hall Life *Rules and Regulations 
* All other areas of ND-SM C Cooperation 
,IIIli Leave name and phone number with 
~~1 Bill Wilk or Jane Sheehy ~~Box 522 N.D. SMC Student Gov't :::~ 283-7668 or 284-4538 or ~:~~ 282-1726 284-4105 ~~~~~: 
~~:::::::::;:;:;:~$!::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::r:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::i. 
I For information call 7471
1-------------­
HOUSING ALL STUDENTS · espicially
1
1For -----~---------rerlt Seniors. Get rid of those books that 
. June 1-Sept l. 3 bedroom you will not use again. The Student
Ihome -excellent condition & location, Book Exchange is accepting anydish fur-
Iair conditioned, washer, books. Bring them to the Student 
nished, carport $125 a month· call 8100 
Services Office · 4th floorl or 8229 after 8 p.m. LaFortune or call 7757 and t we-ll pick them up for you.
For rental, Summer.June, July,I August. Near N.D. 4 Bedrooms, Hot News Flash: New company born . 
utilities. Furnished: $150 per
I VANGUARD LEATHER GOODS, 
I 
month plus refundable deposit. 
I NC823 Flanner Hall. 283-1176. 
Call 287-1777. After 5:30. 
Specializing in: watchband, wrist­
bands, belts, wallets, headbands, hair Desperate for rent-June 1st to barrettes, custom -made sandals, Aug. 1st. 5bedroom,near NO. Call 
jeans and anything else made of leather..owned and operated by MiltMarilyn 284-4983 Jones, Wayne Hall. 
You can still get the best of Mail Contributions for the medical
campus house for next year. 4 or 5 aid.centerof Quang Naito Box 626,
guys. Must buy furnishings from Notre Dame Indiana. The
us. Call 234-6163 Refugees need help. Please con­Summer Apart. for Rent. Near tribute to the Refugee Aid Campus, air conditioned. 1 Program. bedroom. Call Terry 288-1120 SINGLE? COLLEGE GRAD? LOST AND FOUND 
Meet others. Join the CAC's for 
social, recreational, or cultural LOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard. activities. Write: Catholic Alumni lost after break: tasty reward. Call Club. P.O. Box 2171 South Bend, Tom 8014. Ind. 46615 
~~~~--------------­
Found: set of Keys behind Admin. 
All organizations must be chartedBuilding. Call Bob 3721. 
through the University for the coming academic year. RegisterLost: Parker Fountain Pen. Great in the Services Commission:Sentimental value. Reward. Call Colin 
4th Floor La Fortune, Afternoons.
7850. 
Call 7757 
Lost on campus: Shaggy brown-blonde female puppy PEANUTS PERSONALI ·white collar· Dog is sick and we have -----------­the medicine. Call Mary 4508 319 Huddle Lovebirds, who each eMans day at lunch stare moonie-eyed BUY AND SELL at one another, like a couple 
of high school sophomores (she Sofa, Chair And Rug for sale, Low rubbing his leg, he holding her hand): price. Call 1328, 330 Breen-Phillips; Thanx for an amusing year. Gene Gemperline The Farley Voyeurs 
Most Books for: Smelser­American Revolution, Menard­For our heroes, the LeMans 
American Constitutional, 
Coaches · Ernie, Gary, Rich, Paul. 
Norling-Europe since 1920, sz. 
You're the greatest. We love you.
cczesniak-Russia, Colliegiate 
The LeMans Football Team 
Seminar; Also many others. Call P.S. How about a consolation game?
7647 
Portable Tape Recorder for Sale Call 6849. 
SERVICES 
Crypt-New Hours 12:30 -4:00 Now on stock Hendrix -Cry of Love.-$3.60 Cat .Stevens-Tea for Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection­$3.10 

I Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride I 
l ~ 
I 
Tracey comments on SLC 
By Mike Murphy 
North Quad candidate Ann Marie Tracey stated yesterday that she wished she· were getting as much publicity about issue~ involving the SLC as she gets about those involving the election committee ruling on her can­didacy. 
"I was glad that they changed the ruling about my candidacy but feel it is unfortunate that the election committee has not followed the intent of the Senate to extend the campaign until Friday," she said. Miss Tracey explained that she was not notified of the decision to allow her to be on the ballot until midnight Tuesday, leaving her with only two hours to campaign. 

Most of the candidates, she said, have agreed to ignore the campaign deadline and are at­tempting to reach more students in the extra time before the elction. 
Miss Tracey said that she was running because of the merger of the two schools. "The students 
I --------------~-----------------~-----~. 
I 

I CLASSIFIED I 
I I I ADVERTISEMENTS I 
I I I Mail in or come by Observer office I 
Jewly formed waterbed company wants campus representatives for hottest selling item in states. Good commissions for a ·few hours work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. Write: Lightrays Designs, Inc. Love sleep water beds division 3727 Walnut St. Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 Pr Call: _(215) 349-9330. 
Mail contributions for the medical aid center at Quang Ngai to Box 626, Notre Dame, Indiana. The refugees need help. Please contribute to the Refugee Aid Program. 
TRAVEL 
5iudent Union Trip..Eurcpe S209 D~t.-Amsterdam-Det., NY-London-NY Contact 1st 
I
Bank Campus Travel Bureau 283-7080 9-12, 1-4:30. 

Spend the summer in Europe. Charter jets to London, Amsterdam and Paris. MOre than 40 dates available. IN­TERNATIONAL STUDENTS ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY. Also eligible for many other benefits (railroad passes, hotel discounts, etc) For intormation call Frank 233-8142 
Want to take a trip to EUROPE thi!. summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the IIATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS A.ND SAVE! Approx. 60 dates !Vailable for round trips betw. London md N.Y. this summer for $245. From London connect to any of 50 Europear :ities at discount fares. For example: .ondon, Paris: $12.60, London Am­sterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich $15.00 Zurich-Rome $20.00 Many othe1 benefits (travel passes, hotel discounts, etc. l Also available 
•!lay flights, one-way flights i$125), Return on any date, ,eachers, students, and immediate family eligible, group rates. For info and application call Tom 282· 2250, 5-10 P.M. Mon.-Fri. 
BAR FOR SALE; Interested in all 
Happy Birthday Dad ! ! ! reasonable offers. Call 1328, 330 

1 love you. God bless. RIDES Breen-Phillips. Love, 
Need ride to N.Y. area on the 

··---------------------------------------.1 
Jean 

weekend of May 1. Call Jack 282­2250 AUTOMOTIVE Need ride for 2girls from Miami of
1962 VW Bus, newly rebuilt engine, 

highway condition, seats remove if camper desired, dune buggy rear­ Ohio to NO on Call Bob 8921  Friday April 3oth.  
end later on;  Call:  Calhoun  283­ 
7274, days.  I  
1959  TR-3.  Excellent  condition,  new  I  
battery, generator,  regulator,  tires,  I  
and more. Price to sell $650. Call 232· 4896 or 272-2568.  I I  
I  
I  

must take the stance that we are 
one student body. We must be 
responsible for the proper im­
plementation of the merger ... the 
plan that will most benefit the 
students and the University." 
She feels that her experiences as president of St. Mary's student body would be uniquely helpful in working on the SLC. She has also held positions on. the ND-SMC Coordinating Committee and the Joint Academic Council, and has worked on the Co~d report as a member of the Steering Com­mittee. 
"Anything that the SLC decides will concern not only Notre Dame, but the entire Notre Came community, which does include Saint Mary's." she stated. Most of the things the SLC deals w;th are not strictly male, she said. 
"Since the Student Life Council is to deal with student life, there are many social things handled," she said. "Naturally, women should not be excluded from these discussions." 
She said that the SLC must take 

the lead in the issue of co­
education. "The SLC was 
designed as the highest gover­
ning body of the University 
dealing with student lfe. It not 
only has the responsibility to 
handle the implementation of co­
education, but it is the only body 
that has a good chance of han­
dling it well." 
She feels that the SLC must begin to worry about and act on the basic philosophy of the University and its policies. She sees no reason why it could not start· investigating and challenging the University on controversial issues such as minority recruitment. 
Miss Tracey also mentioned that she felt the SLC could look into the residence facilities to help improve the atmosphere. She looked forward to exchange residences. She pointed to the start of the merger in such places as the food facilities and the Student Union,__ and expressed hope for effecting such changes more r:apidly. 

ROTC proposals 
I ROTC usually falls in this large
1 category, Dean Plunkett said. 
1 In answer to this criticism at 
HELP WANTED 

1 the Council meeting, McCartin 
(continued .from pa~e I) in the strictest sense but which may be taken for credit, and 
proposed that a standing Curriculum Committee be established to review complaints about all "non-liberal" courses. This motion passed, and the committee will be established and its particular charge and particular commissions will be outlined next fall, according to Dean Plunkett. 
About the council 'meeting it­self, McCartin said, "I was disillusioned by the highly emotional response and rhetoric of certain members of the College Council. I felt that in introducing the proposal I could expect some sort of rational and intellectual response to my proposal. 
"It is a disheartening thing to discover that professors meet logical argument with diffusive and focus-destroying polemics. This, perhaps, was more discouraging than the failure of my proposals to meet with success. 
"I am sanguine however that the establishment of a permanent Curriculum Committee by the College Council will be of some value in improving the quality of the study of liberal arts in this university. 
"I hope that the fact that these two proposals have been tabled does not mean that they have been consigned to a definitive silence, for that would signal a failure on the part of rational men to deliberate wisely and openly on matters concerning all the students and faculty of the College of Arts and Letters." 
IRISH WAKE 
Friday April 30 
9PM-1AM 
at South Bend Armory 
Free Busses From the Circle at 8:30, 8:50, 9:10, 9:30 <SMC 10 min later) Admission $1 per couple buys them 12 oz. glasses of favorite refreshment Directions: U.S. 31 (Michigan) South to Ewing, turn right, down 10 blocks and turn right on Douglas. 

I
Thursday, April 29, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
I 
•

Irish nine loses fourth straight 

Freshman Pete Schmidt drove in a run in Wednesday's 7-3 loss to Butler at Cartier Field. 
Blue-Gold game on tap Saturday 
by Jim Donaldson The loss left Notre Dame with a Observer Sports Editor 7-14 record this season. Yesterday's seven-inning
The unseasonably cold 
contest was scheduled as the first 
weather, coupled with an over­
game of a doubleheader but rain 
cast, rainy sky made the Notre 
forced the cancellation of the
Dame campus a rather dismal 
second half of the twin bill.
place yesterday. And no place 
Both teams bunched their 
was more dismal than Cartier 
scoring, Butler collecting four
Field where coach Jake Kline's 
runs in the second inning and
Fighting Irish baseball team 
three in the fifth, while the Irish
suffered its fourth straight 
scored all three of their runs in
defeat, 7-3, at the hands of Butler 
the second stanza.
University. 
JIM MURRAY 
Staying 
Power 
© 1911, Los Anaetes Times· 
There are two kinds of ballplayers in the big leagues, those who play for the record books and those who play for the team. Or, put another way, some are trying for the pennant, and others are trying for the Hall of Fame. 
Look in any locker room and check the guy whistling in the shower even though his team got lumped 10-4. Chances are HE hit for the cycle. Too bad about the team but what the hell, you win a few, you lose a few, right? 
Which brings me to the reluctant record-setter, Billy Leo Williams, of the Whistler, Ala., Williamses. 
Billy Leo Williams comes from a long line of people who show up for work every day. Like all such, Billy was quiet steady, dependable as a railroad watch. Every employer should have one. They give him a watch at the end of 50 years and the boss' son, who inherited the business, notes at the banquet, "He never missed a day at the lathe in his life." 
Billy's occupation was left fielder, the hours were good, and the pay beat anything any Williams ever got chopping cotton or rolling steel in Alabama. 
Billy Leo Williams was born to hit a baseball, anyway. He had that short, sweet stroke, the beautiful uncoiling of the body that only a couple dozen hitters had in the history of baseball--all of them, it sometimes seems, named "Williams." It was like a Dempsey left hook. It only traveled a few inches through the hitting area but the velocity was such and the ball was struck so hard that Billy Williams sometimes needed his speed to reach first base before the ball bounced off the outfield wall back to the shortstop. 
One day, Billy Williams, minding his own business and showing up for work as usual, found himself in the midst of something called "Billy Williams Day" at Wrigley Field with 41,000 fans in attendance. They informed Billy that he had just set a National League record for consecutive games played--896, breaking Stan Musial's mark of 895. 
Billy Williams likes to concentrate on curve balls, not records. He began to notice then that he was playing on days he was less than at his best--with a f~ver, a headache, a head cold, a blister on his heel. He also found out something a lot of non-athletes had long known: Mental strain can be worse than physical. "I showed up one day and I could hardly stand straight." he said. "I found myself so exhausted working on the reocrd. I could hardly go from first to third on a long single." 
Williams was so conscientious, he went to manager Leo Durocher after a particularly fatiguing afternoon and announced, "It's bugging me. Sit me down for a game." Hotter heads prevailed, and Billy was coaxed into logging at least 1,000 games. Billy gritted his teeth, but, when he had totaled 1,050 games he was adamant. 
One day in Philadelphia, he settled himself in the dugout, deter­mined to get rid of the incubus of fame once and for all. The game, of course, went into a tie. In the late innings, with the bases loaded, Billy Williams had to keep his record going. He went to the plate, not for the record, but for the win. He wrapped a double off Chris Short. 
Sixty-odd games later, it was Sept. 3, 1970. Billy Williams had played in every Cub game since Sept. 22, 1963--1,117 consecutive appearances in all. That day, Billy sat in the dugout. Wild horses couldn't drag him out. Nor wild pitchers. 
The next day, he started his string all over again. He played in 161 games last year. And he has not missed one this year. 
It took lateral sclerosis to take Lou Gehrig (2130 games) out of the lineup. Anemia (of the batting average) removed Everett Scott (1,307 games). Ennui took Billy Williams out. 
"Do you think you will regret it?" I asked Billy as he peeled off his shirt in the locker room before the Dodger game the other night. "I mean, after all, it would be a shame to play in, like 1,999 out of a possible 2,000 games some day." 
Billy shook his head. "When a record gets in the way of per­formance, the choice is pretty clear," he said. 
·····················~······· 
****************************** 
Did the tragedy of Gehrig influence his decision, implying perhaps 
that the record was a jinx rather than a triumph? Billy shook his head 
again. 
"No, it's just that endurance is not an accomplishment people look 
up to. It's not a helluva big thing." 
He paused. 
"Besides," he smiled. "I had 1,000 games to go to catch Lou. That's 
an awful lot of hot afternoons." 
Williams, in short, would rather catch a few World Srries checks 
than the ghost of Gehrig. 

base and got into a rundown between first and second. While the Irish tried to nail Johnson, Buis broke for the plate. He was safe at home when first sacker Joe LaRocca's throw to home went astray. Johnson advanced to second on the miscue. 
An infield error by the Irish put Charley Carmichale on first base for Butler while Johnson moved to third. A single by Dieroff brought in the second Butler run of the inning and put runners on first and third. 
Butler again attempted a double steal and were successful once again. This time, Irish shortstop Phil Krill's throw to the late was tardy. 
Things could get worse before they get better for the Fighting Irish. Notre Dame's next op­ponent is powerful Miami of Ohio, one of the Midwest's top clubs. 
.1 The Irish will travel to Oxford, Ohio, to oppose Miami in single games this Friday and Saturday. 
Irish starter and loser Mike Riddell, whose record slipped to 1-6, yielded ten hits to Butler in five and two-thirds innings and was charged will all seven Butler runs. Ed Hrabcsak finished the game on the mound for Notre Dame, pitching one-hit, shutout ball over the final inning and a third. · 
AI Scanlan went the distance for Butler, holding the Irish to just five hits. 
Butler began their initial scoring outburst with one out in the second frame. Dan Dierolf rapped a single. Bill Curry followed Dierolf with an RBI double. Riddell managed to get the second out of the inning but then Scanlan hit a single, sending cCurry to third. Carl Buis tthen gunned one of Riddell's tosses on a line just over the fence in left center field, a 350' clout, plating Curry and Scanlan before him and giving Butler all the runs they would need in the game. 
The Irish bounced back in their half of the second and put three markers on the scoreboard, closing the gap to 4-3, but that was as close as they were to come. 

Jim Panici opened the Notre Dame second with a single. Mter Rob Reschan reached on an in­field error Dan Phelps plated Panici with a single. Riddell fanned for the first out of the inning but Schoen kept things rolling by doubling home Reschan. Pete Schmidt's sacrifice fly, scoring Phelps, completed all the scoring the Irish were to do yesterday. 
Butler picked up their final three runs thanks to some poor play in the Irish infield. Buis led off the Butler fifth inning with a base knock. He was sacrificed to second base and moved to third on a single by Henry Johnson. 
In this situation, with men on first and third and one out, Butler attempted a double steal. Johnson broke for second base and the catcher Phelps' throw went to the keystone sack. Johnson stopped short of second 

The Irish also have two veterans at linebacker, Eric Patton and Rick Thomann, plus a regular two years ago, John Raterman. 
Curt Flood 
serious problems mounting every day. Thank you for your con­fidence and understanding." 
Short, Manager Ted Williams and other executives of the Washington club were at­tempting to contact Flood at Kennedy Airport when they received the telegram. It was signed simply, "Flood." 
Notre Dame, Ind. -Notre Dame's 1971 football team will conclude its spring practice Saturday with the annual Blue­Gold game in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Irish coach Ara Parseghian will split his squad into two teams 

The other probable starters on the first offensive unit include captain Tom Gatewood and Mike Creaney at end, John Dampeer and John Kondrk at tackle, fresh­man Frank Pomarico and Jim Humbert at guard and Dan Novakov at center. 
for the 1:30 P.M. kickoff. 
Irish fans will have an op­portunity to get a first hand look at the veteran team that still is . looking for a field general. Pat · Steenberge, the No. 2 quar­terbacj behind Joe Theismann last fall, and Jim Bulger have battled for the assignment through the first three weeks of spring drills. 
Except for graduating seniors, almost the entire 10-1 Cotton Bowl squad will be on display Saturday along with some out­standing freshmen that figure to battle for starting positions in the fall. Several veterans, including defensive tackle Mike Kadish, will miss the game because of spring injuries. 
Working with Bulger and Steenberge in the number one offensive unit Saturday will be running b~cks Ed Gulyas and John Cieszkowski, both Cotton 
quits again 

WASHINGTON (UPI)-Curt Flood, the Washington Senators' $105,000 centerfielder, quit baseball Tuesday with the ex­planation to clubowner Bob Short that he has "very serious per­
. sonal problems mounting every day." Flood's decision to jump the Senators and quit baseball was made known to Short in a telegram from the former St. Louis Cardinals' star. It was recieved 20 minutes after a press conference at RFK Stadium in which Short revealed that Flood had apparently left the club. The telegram came from John 
F. Kennedy Airport in New York City where Flood was believed to have boarded a Pan American Airways plane bound for Bar­celona. 
"I tried." Flood said in the telegram to Short. "A year and a half is too much. I have very 
Bowl sta1ters, fleet freshman 
Greg Hill, Bill Gallagher and Andy Huff, a starter two years ago, but out last fall with an in­jury. 
Freshman Cliff Brown will direct the second offensive unit that features halfback Larry Parker. 
Pat Steenberge 

Defensively, veterans Clarence Ellis, Ralph Stepaniak and Mike Crotty anchor the backfield while 
captain Walt Patulski, Fred Swendsen, Greg Marx and Mike Zikas will form the front four. 

--------------------------------------------------------·~ 
Thursday, April 29, 1971
Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
~-----------------1 :.~H~ p}a~~.•w:.~.~~.~~~"~~ ~~~~ 
t f 

The Notre Dame Peace ActionfCommittee met in LaFortune
• student center last night tof discuss anti war activites thatt 
awould take place on campus this ' weekend to express solidarity with the activities in Washington. Plans call for group teach outs on the South Quad beginning at 1 a' p.m. Friday afternoon and ' continuing through the rest of the 
day. These teach-outs will
' 

discuss the Indochina war, theWITH MAX SHULMAN f May Day activities in 
(By the a~tthor ofRally Round the Flag, Boys ..• Dobie Gillia ... ftr.) 
' 
"Dean" Means Never Having to Say You're Sorru ': 

-Today let us pay tribute to the most overworked and under-f appreciated figure on campus. 1 refer of course to the Dean. a, . , c d Whit 0 11
f .. The ~~~:• ...r:~u~~ Ol T!me 8i'-~ ~f•·-1'1
The Dean (from the Latin deanere-to disembowel) is not, as' • • usE STUDY ~m 'JS most of you seem to think, a kind of academic policeman. True, f v.~;'c~~~~..;h'.!':.,~~~c~~~~~ ~.~ T'F~;~.","'':.",... he does administer discipline sometimes, but more often he admin-' ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED SOL ~os
CAUSE THIS TO HAPPEii

isters kindness, understanding and simple human goodness. The P•c.se specify
8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record

Dean (from the Greek deanos-to rend) is much more than a rule send,;c~~~~ %c'"'~~~~~~~d•;";;-.:;::/•ch
t

enforcer; he is also guide and oracle, shepherd. and seer, pro-A soun'l:h~~~.~~~!~i"~~cv.:-22~~ 3as2 a consul and pal. The Dean (from the German deangemacht-to poop ,., ' a party) is available day and night to students with problems. His aIf hours are long, his free time practically nonexistent. Therefore, ' I 
on those rare occasions when he does manage to get a few minutes 'I
f to relax, he does it in the best possible way, which means of course 1 he sits down and stretches his legs and pours himself a glass of f1'~s; Miller High Life Beer. tI t 
f 
t 
f 

' 't f 

Why Miller High Life? Because Miller High Life, as every f thinking American knows, is the perfect beer to refresh and a restore. It is a haven to the harried, a shelter to the spent, a buoy ' to the beat, a boon to the bent, a bolster to the bedraggled, a pillow f to the pooped. Try it yourself the next time you get weary and sick ' of trying and tired of living and scared of dying. You'll find it gratifyingly true what the kindly, decent folks who make Miller Beer keep telling us:," If you've got the time, we've got the beer." 
But I digress. We were paying tribute to that selfless, shining personage, the Dean. We do not begin to appreciate how hard he works, how hideously complex the problems he solve~ each day. Take, for example, these typical cases from the files of Dear.
., S at the University of Y . (If you promise not to tell, I'll give you the real names. The Dean is called Sigafoos and the University is Yutah.) Recently, the Dean was visited by a freshman named WalteJ t Acupuncture who came to ask permission to marry one Emma 'Blenheim, his dormitory laundress. To the Dean the marriaget seemed ill-advised, for Walter was 18 years of age and Emma was 94, and rarely do these May-September romances work out.t After a frank, man-to-man talk, the Dean persuaded Walter 
t 
of the folly of his course. Still, Walter felt guilty about jilting 
Emma who had had her garnets polished and bought three new suits of underwear in anticipation of the honeymoon. The Dean sug­gested that Walter send her a handsome gift to soothe her feel­ings, and Walter did. He sent Emma a nice kidney machine, and 
' 
they are good friends to this day. 
Freed from his misalliance with Emma, Walter soon found 'a girl much nearer his own age-Agnes Yucca, 74. Today they aret happily married and Walter is the proud father-step-father 
' 
actually-of three fine bouncing boys from Agnes's first marriage~ Everett, 38; Will em, 43; and Rex, 55. Believe me, when Walter puts the boys in their little velvet suits and takes them out in the 
' 
perambulator on Sunday afternoons, there is not a dry eye in 
all Yutah. 
'f . But kindness and und~rstanding don't always work. Some-t 'times the Dean has no chmce but to be firm. Take, for instance,f the case of Baxter Mackadangdang. 

a . !3axter, an exchange student from Polynesia, grew up in the ' Idyllic South Sea Isle of Goona-Goona where the leading social ' a event of the year was the feast of Max, the Sun God. A quaint ~ ' ali-day cerem?ny was held, with tribal dancing, war chants, fat f 
' 
t 
lady races, pie-eating contests, and, for the grand finale the sacrifice of eleven dozen virgins. ' a
f Thus, according to Baxter's folkways, sacrificing virgins was ' perfectly acceptable, bu~ when he beca~e a? exchange student he f soon learned that Amencans take a d1m view of this custom, in aYut~h, at an! ~ate. The first twelve or thirteen times Baxter ~ ' sacnficed a VIrgm, the Dean let him off with a warning. When,
' 
t 
however, Baxter persisted, the Dean was forced to impose a heavy f penalty: he cancelled Baxter's parking permit. f
f A broken man, Baxter quit school and returned to Goona-Goona where today he scratches out a meager living selling forged f autographs of Joseph Conrad. 
ThlS column lS brought to you weekly by the brewers of Miller afHigh Life Beer who are otherwise rational men. ' 
' ' . . * * * ' 
.-----------------.. 


Tuesday, May II 
8:30 PM in the ACC Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 2.50 On Sale at Student Union Ticket Office, dining halls, & ACC that will take place at Notre Dame in support of the National Moratorium to stop business as usual on May 5. 



In regard to interfering with the events of An Tostal, a spokesman for the Notre Dame Peace Action Committee said, "It's not that we are opposed to people having fun. It's just the fact that the timing of An Tostal is bad because it diverts attention and energies away from the anti­war movement, which is perhaps more important than chasing 
pigs." The spokesman went on to 
say that the group was going to plan alternate events that focus on the war. 
On Saturday, May 1, the Peace Action Committee plans to distribute leaflets at the Blue-
Gold football game. These leaflets will contain information on the war, the May Day ac­tivities in Washington D.C., and the campus activities planned for May 5. Leaflets will also be and in the dining halls. 
On the morning of May 5, the National Moratorium Day to stop business as usual, a demon­stration is planned to be held at the ROTC building. The demonstrators will pass out leaflets and talk to ROTC members about the war. In the afternoon large scale teach-outs will be held on the Main Quad. Vietnam veterans and some professors will hopefully be present to speak on the war and to recommend actions to bring it 
to an end.
People who desire further information or are interested in distributing leaflets can contact Dave D. Bacco 7801 or Rich Dennis 8829. Those interested in speaking at teach-outs can call Peggy Thompson 4555 or Bill Fleming 7140. Information may also be obtained at the desk in the Library lobby. Leaflets may be picked up in the lobby of the South Dining Hall on Thursday night at dinner. 
SMC trustees to protect faculty jobs 
(continued page 3) 
and St. Mary's --not incestuous 
because they have known each 
other for more than 125 years" 
will recieve a grant from the 
Educational Testing Service in 
New Jersey. Ths grant will be 
used to develop a rapid transit 
system between the libtary and 
Le Mans Hall taking 90 seconds. 
"The problen of tenure, in­

dependent of both institutions, is 
•under serious consideration," Fr. 
McCluskey warne<!_. "If the big 
state universities ot New York 
and California abandon tenurei 
the move is going to influence al 
private and public institutions 
across the country." 
Fr. McCluskey also stressed that in talking with Fr. James T. Burt_chaell, Note Dame provost; 
Dean Frederick Crosson, of the college of Arts and Letters; and Dr. Bernard Waldman, dean of the College of Science, he was reassured that "the orientation of St. Mary's faculty to the classroom instead of lheresearch is the most valual:t:.input that St. Mary's faculty can give." "All over the nation there is a swing back from the obsession for research," Fr. McCluskey said. 
There was also some discussion agout the possibility of an ex­perimental college and the time lag in informing faculty mem­bers of coeducation decisions. 
Fr. McCluskey also passed out copies of the tentative St. Mary's unification statement drafted by the Executive Committee last weekend. 
FOX'S 
DIRECT DIAMOND 
IMPORTERS 

At Fox's you get a bigger 
better quality diamond for 
less money! 
A OUTSTANDING VALUI ••• 
14k White $I QO
or Yellow Gold. • 

• MISHAWAKA
$19. 

Notre Dame Accounts IVelcome 



