
Never a co-education agreement 
on the·promise that Notre Dame
by Cliff "Buzz" Wintrode 
will not go co-ed. Father Charles Sheedy, Chair­Sheedy also said that a close 
man of the Co-Education Co­relationship will be sought with ordinating Committee, said yes­St. Mary's before Notre Dame terday that there is no under­acts on its own to improve the standing between Notre Dame educational opportunities for 
and St. Mary's such that St. women. Mary's will increase enrollment to a 1:3 ratio with Notre Dame 
"Without first exploring every possibility towards a mutually satisfactory relationship with St. Mary's," he said, "Notre Dame will not do anything unilaterally about the education .of women." 
He declined to forecast the reaction to the Park-Mayhew re­port by the executive boards of St. Mary's and N:ltre Dame, but he said he hopes that they will act favorable on the report. He cautioned, however, that the "future is open to all kinds of developments bey(')nd the con· tent of the report." 
Supremes to come for Mardi Gras 

by Kevin McGill Most of the money made at the carnival will go to meet the
The Mardi Gras committee is expenses of the carnival itself,finalizing the plans begun last but all the raffle money, less the year, and construction in Stepan overhead for the grand prizesCenter and publicity will begin and incentive awards, goes to next week. Greg Stepic, chair­charities such as Cila, Vista. and man of the committee, said, the Neighborhood Study Help
"Things are going very fine." He Program which apply to the Mar­
also announced that the Su­di Gras for aid. If every student
premes will come to the Mardi sold .one book, Stepic said,
Gras to give a concert on Friday, $40,000 would be raised. Last
February 5. 
year, however, only $7000 was
The raffle tickets that were grossed. He mentioned that past
distributed before Christmas will be collected next week. Stepic 
chairmen have hinted that the said thatthe Hall presidents and 
Mardi Gras's very existence the section leaders have been 
could be jeopardized if both of 
very cooperative managing the its original purposes were not tickets. He hoped the students met. would be as cooperative in sell­Expo '7 I, this year's winter 
ing them, stating that when Mar­carnival, will begin with a kick­di Gras was originally set up, its off party at the South Bend purposes were to supply a social Armory on February 3, and will 
weekend deep in the bleak run from February 4, a Thurs­snows of February, but also to day, until Tuesday, February 9. fund the N:ltre Dame charities. 
Referendum fails 
He reported that the greatest  that  job,  he  said  that  "we've  Dame  student  who  majors  in  
obstacle Park-Mayhew found in  made  a lot of progress" and he  education  (a  St.  Mary's major)  
establishing closer ties between  was confident for the future.  will still receive a degree reading  
the  two  institutions  was  the  Notre Dame," he offered.  
"grandioseness" of Notre Dame's general attitude and the "defensiveness" of St. Mary's side. "This was a constant source of difficulty," he said. He added that "Notre Dame people were not as interested in the subject as the St. Mary's people." He attributed this to the increased difficulty of run­ning Notre Dame which he said would complicate any plans for  A "clear decision" is needed he said from the trustees of both schools at their joint meeting in March to propel the institutions forward along the path of in­creased cooperation. Once this decision was made he said a timetable should be set for the impltmentation of the decision and a method of management and operation should be or­ganized.  He considered the merging of the academic departments of the two schools as one of the "har­der things" to effect for a closer Notre Dame-St. Mary's relation­ship and a long term goal that will be accomplished only gradually. The financial feasibility study of the Park-Mayhew report which will be finished in three  
a  warmer  Notre  Dame and  St.  Otherwise  he  said  any  pro­ weeks should  not be the deter­ 
Mary's relationship.  posed action without end.  will  "drag  on"  minent of action said Sheedy. "I have never seen anything  
Sheedy cited the "difficulty of moving into new forms" as the "greatest hindrance" block­ing the establishment of a new Notre Dame-St. Mary's rela­tionship.  Within two to four years the whole of the Park-Mayhew re­port could be accomplished if the trustees activate the report at the March meeting said Sheedy. He added that he "did  turn out in education cheaper than befQre. It is always more expensive. If we are going to do it, then we have to do it," said Sheedy. He did not believe that the Notre Dame Board of Trustees  
not  think  the  trustees  have  a  has set  a financial ceiling which  
"Old  forms  becoine  cus­ longer range view" of the situa­ if  unviolable  might  hinder  at­ 
tomary,"  he  said.  "New  forms  tion.  tempts  to effect  a closer union  
require new effort and new imagination. The customariness of old forms is always an impedi­ment." Despite the "great job" that remains to be done and the difficulties he foresees in doing  A recommendation by Park­Mayhew that a Notre Dame stu­dent who takes his major courses at St. Mary's would receive a St. Mary's degree in the University of Notre Dame will not be ac­cepted opined Sheedy. "A Notre  between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Sheedy said the character of the two schools is "well-known and widely respected" and he felt a publicized agreement "would appeal to a whole new public."  


Bollan to campaign tile liard way 
by Bob Higgins Emphasizing that "National the city cannot economically government cannot fulfill its re­support the youth. Unemploy­
Dr. Richard T. Bohan, Politi­sponsibility if local government ment is at such heights thatcal Science teacher at St. Mary's fails to fulfill its responsibility," there are not enough jobs toCollege, officially announced his Bohan outlined what he said attract young people. The candi­candidacy for the position of were some of South Bend's big­date plans to attack the problemmayor of South Bend last night gest problems. Included in these by going directly to the youthin front of a small audience in were the declining population, and finding out exactly whatthe basement of the Morris Inn. 
rising crime rate, the rising un­they want from the city.
In doing so, Bohan stated "If employment rate and the fact
there be any doubt, I am run­Comparing the speculated
that South Bend loses most ofning seriously for victory in the 
"annexation" of Notre Dame to Democratic primary in May, vic­its young people to other parts 
"armed robbery" Bohan feels tory in the election in Novem­of the country. 
that those in favor of this pro­ber, and victory for the people 
The reason for the last of posal have little concern for the of South Bend for the next four 
these problems is two-fold accor­property to be annexed. He does years. 
ding to Bohan. "Primarily, the not see the idea as beneficial to Bohan's decision to announce 
youth feel the city is socially either South Bend or Notre his candidacy early (more than a inadequate -that is, there is Dame. 
month before the filing date), 
nothing for them to do." Bohan Asked how St. Mary's College was reached because of the pointed out that this tends to reacted to his candidacy, Bohan method he plans to use in cam­
make the youth feel apart from replied that they had made no paigning. He stated that his cam­the community, and thus they response at all. He further stated paign will be run "the hard way leave it as soon as they become that the school would probably -by going to the people, find­old enough to do so. consider it his private business ing out what type of community Secondly, Bohan stated that and not interfere in any way. 
they want in South Bend, and more importantly what they are willing to do about its prob­lems." He intends to implement this approach by going door-to­door meeting the voters. II! also hopes to set up neighborhood meetings and neighborhood cam­paign committees. 
Bohan views South Bend as the "epitome of a melting pot." He emphasized the fact that there are a great number of nationalities, cultures and ethnic backgrounds within South Bend. This, coupled with the educa­tional environment surrounding the city has provided a great potential for leadership, which Bohan feels has never been real­ized. He feels it is the failure of city leadership which has pre­vented the city from progress, as much as it could have. 

by Fred Schaefer 
The Student Government con· stitution proposed by the Krash­na administration failed to be ratified in the pre-Christmas re­ferendum. Two-thirds of the stu­dent body had to vote for the election to be valid. Only about one-tl1ird of the students voted. 
Of those who did vote, 1507 voted for the charter, 527 cast ballots against the proposal. Twenty-four votes were declared invalid. 

The rreasure carried every hall, except Fisher and Sorin. The majority of off-campus stu­dents voting approved the con­stitution. 
Krashna said "It lost because 
of apathy. Most of the students 
were pretty much apathetic a­
bout everything at the time." 
Stay Senator Tom Thrasher, who opposed the proposal, al­though he did not actively cam­paign against it claims, "It wasn't defeated because of apa­thy. " He explained, "Just be­cause the students don't get ex­cited about some of the things people interested in politics a­round here do doesn't mean they're apathetic. Their interests just lie elsewhere." 
He says that that is the reason 
(Continued on Page 3) 



Thursday, January 21, 1971 
Constitutional changes likely 

laws and even make women sub­The 92nd Congress will be The House voted 339 to 70 throwing the choice to the ject to the draft. 

asked to recommend a number for the proposal last year but it House of Representatives. 
An amendment that almost

of changes in the Constitution was killed in the &nate by a Even if the amendment no one believes has a chance ofwhich was last amended in 1967. filibuster led by southerners and passes, however, Bayh concedes adoption is one that would grant Prospects appear best for small state Republicans. there is little likelihood that the the District of Columbia voting
amendments to extend the vote states will ratify it in time for it 
The third party candidacy of representation in Congress. 
to 18-year-olds in state and local to affect the 1972 elections. 
Alabama's George C. Wallaceelections and to provide for supplied the impetus for Ciec­
direct popular election of the Killed By Filibuster Another amendment with 
toral reform in the 91 st Con­
President in place of the present little chance is one whose lan­
gress. With Wallace back in the guage is simple: "Every personelectoral college system. 
governor's chair, Bayh thinks the 
An amendment to end dis­has the inalienable right to a Less likely to pass are amend­need for reform more urgent crimination based on sex -decent environment. The United 
than ever.

ments to eliminate all forms of popularly called the Women's States and every state shall guar­
discrimination based on sex; Rights Amendment-passed the antee this right." 
grant residents of the District of He noted that Wallace has House last year but died under a Some constitutional experts Columbia voting representation indicated he will concentrate his Senate filibuster. believe this right is already guar­in Congress and guarantee every 1972 presidential efforts in the anteed and that there is remedy American the right to a decent South enhancing his chances of 0 p ponents argue that it 1:lt law for its denial. Others environment. picking up enough electoral would nullify laws intended to think the wording is too vague votes to deny either major party protect women workers strike to be translated into consit­
The voting age amendment candidate the election thus down alimony and child custody utionallaw. 
will be offered because the Su­
preme Court recently ruled that 
a 1970 law lowering the voting 

New Peace Corps chances 
age from 21 to 18 applies only 
to federal elections. The court In a special message to The adult life in volunteer social ser­second language, especiallyheld that only by a constitu­Observer, Peace Corps Director vice, applications for two-year French or Spanish, continues totional amendment or state law Joseph H. Blatchford announced tours are currently being be most helpful.

could the voting age be changed "Our applications this year

new opportunities for graduating accepted to staff new programs
in state and local elections. 

University of Notre Dame stu­in virtually every one of the 61 are dramatically up," Blatchford dents to serve overseas with the countries in Africa, Asia and explained, "but so are ourLast Amendment Peace Corps. Latin America where the Peace requests from overseas! Right "University of Notre Dame Corps operates. now, we are filling positions that If the amendment wins the alumni have made a tremendous The Peace Corps requirements cover more than 360 separate necessary two-thirds approval in contribution over the past of today, Blatchford pointed job categories. Regardless of 
Congress it will then have to be decade to Peace Corps programs out, are somewhat different what your background or inter­ratified by three-fourths of the throughout the world," declared from those of the 60's when the est may be, the chances are that states. The Constitution was last the 37-year-old Director, noting Peace Corps consisted primarily you could put it to good use amended in 1967 to change the that a total of 171 University of of generalists involved in com­with the Peace Corps." 
law on presidential succession. Notre Dame graduates have munity planning or teaching 
Sen. Birch Bayh, (D.-Ind.), already served abroad as Peace English. Now, the development Blatchford stressed that chairman of the Senate constitu­Corps Volunteers since 196 I. needs of the host countries are potential applications need not tional amendments sub­"We look forward to continued becoming more specific, and the possess or be expert in their skill committee has vowed to make support." Peace Corps is responding with or fluent in a second language. reform of presidential election According to Blatchford, who more diverse and specialized pro­But they must be willing to his No. 1 priority this year. himself has spent much of his grams than in its early days. learn. After acceptance and ten­
Page 2 
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT 
WITH OUR DOCTORS 

Cliff's Notes are written by scholars who know how to help you study. Authors (predomi­nantly Ph.D.'si are carefully selected for their knowledge of a particular play or novel-plus ability to interpret its plot and characters so they will be relevant to your literature course. This careful attention to quality has made Cliff's Notes the most­used study aid on college campuses nationwide. (Pick the title you need today-you'll find it holds the key to efficient use of your study time.) 
$1 at your bookseller or write: 

-CO .. POII•1'•D 
Lincoln. Nebraska 68501 

.:·wtibtrreat>to: ~··~-~'~::..ml~tfltt•:~t]['trrt'~~.:;:j
·•once.there,·.~·w·.-­.Not':~lt.m~it. 1112~1£·.•'11 .""',.."-._.......~.~,,. _..-· c)t love"'··.~,~llo_:amim~~tt:ufltl ·. -Not'3lJ~ ..·.. 
:... '.
,­
To staff these programs, the tative assignment to country and Peace Corps is seeking people job, Peace <;:mps Volunteers with a wide variety of back­receive intensive professional, grounds. The call today con­language and orientation training tinues to be for the liberal arts at centers in Hawaii, Puerto Rico generalists-especially for those or in the country of assignment. with summer job experience in ·Students interested in addi­such skills as farming, construc­tional details about Peace Corps tion, business or nursing -but opportunities abroad are invited a!so for students who are to contact their local Peace majoring in the sciences Corps office or write to: Peace engineering, education, agricul~ Corps, Department P, Washing­ture or business. Knowledge of a ton, D.C. 20525. 
Self-image affects growth 
velop his unique self and thereby

(Continued from Page 6) 
realize his potential. In sum­the source of the child's self­mary, Dr. Fleege said, "The resi­image and in the present system due that is in the inner core of those people, exemplified by our being is the most important 
parents and teachers, often de­part of the educational pro­
flate a child's self-image. And if gram." 
a child believes he is deficient, Trends in Contemporary Edu­
he will never achieve. Dr. Fleege cation consists of a series of 
lectures, and

said, "The self-image is sort of a discussions, con­
certs. Students are required toblue print which our behavior attend at least ten events, keep­follows and translates into act­ing a list of events attended, andion." 

submit a course evaluation at theTo influence behavior effect­

ively, one change end of the year. It is taken on a
must the pass/fail basis, and counts forchild's self-image. This is accom­one credit hour. The series listsplished through the atttiude of 
the significant people; if the its objectives as I) to hear dis­tinguished speakers approach
people important to him are a contemporary problems from in­loving and accepting, then terdisciplinary points of view; 2) 
child will be able to accept, like to have an oppor~unity to inter­
and believe in himself. 
act with lecturers, faculty 

The key to helping a child to mem­
bers and students through dis­realize his potential is a positive cussion; 3) to !ln4erstand oneself self-image,and the way a parent better espeeially in the area ofor teacher should judge his effec­motivation in learning; and 4) totiveness is the extent to which experimentally non­

he has helped the child to accept evaluate a 
structured learning experience.

himself. This can b e accomplish­The series was made possibleed by accepting the child for through a gift of Frank andwhat he is, although not neces­Marion Callahnan, and is spon­
sarily approving of everything he • 
sored by the Department ofdoes. Only to the extent which Education and the Student De­an individual feels secure and velopment Commission.

accepted will he be able to de­
Thursday, January 21, 1971 TN£ OIJSERrJER. 
Riehle denies foreknowledge of narcotics investigation 
by John Abowd 
In an Observer interview yes­terday Fr. James L. Riehle, Dean of Students, denied that his of­fice had any foreknowledge of the undercover investigation that led to the arrest of four Notre Dame students. 
Riehle addressed himself to rumors that narcotics agents are enrolled as students. "To my knowledge, there are none," he said, "They have never asked me to do this and I wouldn't give them permission to do it." 
"This does not mean that I'm not interested in the problem, because I certainly am,"Riehle added. "Anything that comes to my own personal knowledge is an entirely different thing but its probably well that I say at this time that, to my knowledge, there are no undercover agents here on the campus at all." 
The students arrested eight days before Christmas were charged with selling LSD to an undercover agent working for the South Bend Police. 
Riehle noted that the two arrests made on campus were the first action by South Bend po­lice for drug offe:'!ses. He said the decision to call 'the students to the security office was made because of the attitude some students have toward the police. 
"Anytime a police officer has a warrant for somebody's arrest you can't stop him; it's got to be served. We had to cooperate in a thing like that and we figured that it would be better, rather than have the South Bend police go into the dorm-,' because of some ofthe false'-attitudes about the police ;that some students have, that it would be better for I!S to go in and ask the boy to come dtown,"· Riehle noted. 
He continued, ~·It was a deal only to the extent that we thou~ht it would be; the most prudent thing to·do.'l 
According to Riehle the po­lice had no search warrants for the on-campus room but were able to ~-.-:arc!J the off-campus apartments. "The students' room on campus was not search­ed. In fact, our own security people were the only ones who went ot the room and they had no warrant at all, so they had no right to search the room. The South Bend police did not go into the students' room." 
"I understand the apartments donwtown were searched but they had search warrants," he continued. 1 
Riehle mentioned that his of­fice was in the process of deter­mining what type of disciplinary action would be taken by the 
Apathy 
(Continued from Page 1) 
it lost, "Not that mttny people around here are that interested i1~ a new constitution." for-all Thrasher feels that the need 
Universiyt. He said that a deci­
sion would probably be made today and that he was "seriously considering" suspension until the trial date. He noted that he was relying on a Judicial Code passage that allowed that allow­ed the Dean of Students in cases of emergencies to suspend or expel any student that is poten­tially dangerous to the commu­nity.
"Somebody who is under civil arrest could be suspended sum­marily by me until the case has gone to court," Riehle said. "This might be invoked in this particular instance. I consider somebody that sells drugs to other students a potential danger 
still exists for a new constitu­tion. He suggested that "The senate form: a· committee, with members tepresenting all shades 0f opinion, to write a compro­mise constitution." 
~~~~~~~, 
t 
~ 
TIMI UDierWI' .li.'JiftilltJiiill ....., dur1119 the cOIIefll MmMiier except vacations bV tne students of the t 
Unh•erslty of NotN DIIIM and St. 
M•rv'l Cot..... Sub1CI'IPtlons IN)I t
t 
be ('ar.;hii>MJ for Sl from TIIG 0~ ~~~1 i1m: .11, Notr..,; D.1mt~, Ind. t 4l>Z~. Sa&:-''>00 c!JI'" 61~~ !.18!1.tN~tl"ll O:m\0, !r,'-41:'.55(. ~~~~~~~~.. 
Wanted: Part-time VISTA HELP WANTED: TicketCampus Representative, pre­manager and assistants forfer Ex-VV. $45 per month. 
~.ocial comm1ss10n. CALLSend Resume: VISTA Re­MIKE 7489 or 1367.

cruitment 220 S. State St., Illinois 60604. 
====== 
Share theJovoryour 
with aCOMMUNITY of CONCERNED and PRAYERFUL men involved with youth. 
For information about the BROTHERS OF HOLY CROSS write to: 
Bro. Robert Fillmore Basil Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
to these students because he is a source that's available to them," he noted. 
Riehle was careful to note that he was not presuming guilt by comparing the situation to a stabbing which resulted in arrest. "This person might be potential­ly dangerous." He also noted that he did not intent to make his final decision public because it might endanger the reputa­tions of the students involved. 
Riehle was not sure of the 
specific charges because he had 
not seen the police records but 
he pointed out that "to my 
knowledge, marijuana has not 
been involved, most it has been 
LSD and other kinds of pills." 
Page 4 THB OBSERfiER. 
THE OBSERVER 
All .....,I~dent ltuciMt N• ...... 

Park-Mayhew Post-Mortem 
Two distinguished American educators, Dr. Rosemary Park and Dr. Lewis B. Mayhew, have succeeded in writing a clever balance of recommendations designed to balm the egos presently threatened by St. Mary's proposed merger with Notre Dame. What they have failed to do is to produce the promised solution to our present crisis in coeducation. They have failed to either recommend a complete merger with St. Mary's or invent an ingenious excuse for 
maintaining St. Mary's separate identity. One cannot fault them for attempting the latter. At one point the report says, "St. Mary's College has made a distinctive and recognized contribution to the education of Catholic women and it guards its heritage tenaciously and with reason," but chauvinism, mystical vanguards, school spirit and tenacious guards are better suited for basketball than education. The fact that St. Mary's has made contributions to education in the past doesn't alter the fact that it would be better able to make more contributions if it merges with Notre Dame. According to the report, the difference in the intent and direction of the two institutions and their departments Notre Dame emphasizes professional and graduate preparation, the report says, while SMC falls under the ambiguous category of a "humanizing" institution is sufficient to seriously hamper merger processes. " ... there are forces and factors ... suggesting caution in establishing closer relationships between the two institutions ," the report says. "First among these is the possibility that the differing emphasis of an undergraduate college· and a U1iversity stressing professional work might be incompatible -incompatible with respect to staffing, course offerings, and· financing, and even overall intellectual style." But the report contradicts itself three pages later when it says that the two institutions would be "in competition" with each other if they decided to become coeducational. Surely two institutions with approaches to education so radically different from each other that departmental merger would be impossible would not be in competition for the same kind of student. Indeed, the report leaves the impression that the only two things the two institutions have in common is South Bend and Catholicism, neither particularly potent selling points for the prospective students for which they would be "in competition."As time goes by, it becomes increasingly apparent that only SMC's complete absorption by Notre Dame or independent coeducation on du lac's part will solve the single-sex stigma which discourages interested prospects, stulifies social life, and generally makes things sad on both campuses. The report discusses both possibilities. The former, which would involve buying or leasing the buildings and land upon which SMC is presently situated from the Sisters of the Holy Cross and using the physical plant as a center for preprofessional studies or business and engineering, was condemned as "repugnant to the faculty and administration of St. Mary's College and would very likely be rejected by the Board of Trustees and by the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross." Further up in the page, lwwever, the report delineated what would happen if Notre Dame became coeducational: drop in the quantity of applicants to SMC and a subsequent drop in either enrollment or average quality of student. Faced with such an alternative, faculty, administrators, trustees and Sisters of the Holy Cross might find absorption considerably more palatable. The Park-Mayhew report then suggested that St. Mary's be made a college within the University of Notre Dame; and continue to offer "a viable and reasonably comprehensive undergraduate program designed primarily for women." In other words, the two institutions, except for some administrative functions, food services, and -my God! security -would remain effectively separate. The "solution" of course misses entirely the problem which first motivated the report --the fact that single-sex institutions are no longer acceptable to the vast majority of graduating high school seniors, even as glorious a single-sex instit~tion as Notre D~me. Instead, the report is a political balancing act contnved to keep a maximum number of Administrators at their ease. 
The next move is the Notre Dame administration's. If it rejects the Park-Mayhew report and moves boldly toward coeducation it would have aff_irmed a b~md of good. faith and cooperation with the stude~t body. But if it 
qmetly acquiesces-and tt has been quiet so far-well... 
...the report says that "the fuJI significance of these changes (coeducation in se~eral. ?th~r colleges) has been made stridently apparent to colleges and umversttJes m the decade of the sixties through the influence of student opinion and the emergence of student power." If it appears in the upcoming weeks as though du lac w~ll follow the .recommendations of the Park Mayhew report, The Observer suggests the influence of student opinion be made stridently apparent to the administration. 
Thursday, January 21, 1971 



Student Govt. Expose! 
Dramatic evidence has finally been discovered for what has long been rumored among knowledgable University figures. Elements of Student government have been proven to be subservient instruments of the American Military-Industrial Complex and the International Male Chauvinist Conspiracy. 
The evidence was discovered on the back cover of the I 970-7 I Notre Dame-St. Mary's Student Directory. The lower half of the page consists of an advertisement whose message is FLY NAVY! and the slogan of which is "It take a Man to meet the Challenge!" 
This blatant right-wing, male chauvinist propaganda might have been passed off as an inadvertant participation of student government in the Corrupt Economic System of America (i.e., they pay, so they get the ad space), if it weren't for the message in the upper right hand corner of the page. It says, "SUPPORT THE ADVERTISERS WHO SUPPORT YOUR DIRECTORY"! 
Student government has asked the student body to support the Navy! This implies tacit consent of the student government to all Navy activities, which includes bombing missions in Vietnam originating from offshore Navy ships --missions responsible for the murder of countless men, women, and children (especially women ­the Navy hates women, as the ad makes clear). 
A newly-formed Women's Lib organization --Women to End Navy Chauvinism (WENCH) -· announced that it would take immediate action against student government by voting en masse (all four of them) against it. When informed that SMC students do not yet . vote" in NO elections, the spokesman, or, er, spokeswoman, replied Aha, More Male Chauvinism! We'll burn our bras or something. That'll show 'em". As indeed, one supposes, it will. . L~ck~ys ffor s_tudent government attempted to deny the Jmphcahons that 1t supports the Navy or male chauvinism but a quick-witted Scholastic writer pointed out "Student gove;nment people have opposed ROTC on the grounds that it implicates the University in the Military-Industrial Complex, as indeed it does ­doesn't their own reasoning equally implicate them in THIS situation?!" (Impeccable reasoning.) 
The word in ·government circles now is that Student Services Commissioner Rob Browning is going to be made the scapegoat for t~e whole messy affair, since his commission is responsible for the directory. But those in the know are deeply worried and concerned that the real subversive elements are located higher up in student government echelons. 
Who knows how high? 
Observer Editorials are a reflec­Managing Editor: Bill Carter tion of the majority opinion of Editorial Page Editor: T.C. the editorial board_ The editorials Treanor are not necessarily written exclu­Features E~itor: Dave Lam­sively by the Editorial Page Edi­mers tor. Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
Observer Editorial Board: SMC News Editor: Jeanne Glenn Corso, Ed Ellis, T.C. Sweeney Treanor, Dave Bach, Dave Lam­Associate Editors: Dave Stauf· mers, Bill Carter, Jim Graif, and fer, Sue Bury John Knorr. 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:=:~:~:=:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:!:!:~:~:!:~:::!:~=~=~~=~=~:;~==~:!:::~:!:::~: 

Thursday, January 21, 1971 THE OBSERI!M______ _ Page 5 

"If you fly in a plane over f.'urope, toward Africa or Asia, . .. you will see no national boundaries, no vast gulfs or high walls dividing people from people . . . Only earthbound man still clings to the dark and poisoning superstition that his world is bounded by the nearest hill, his universe ended at river shore, his common humanity enclosed in the tight circle of those who share his town and views and the color or his skin." Senator Robert F. Kennedy 
BERLIN -West Berlin stands alone in the world. Hundreds of miles within the confines of the German Democratic Republic, West Berlin is acutely attuned to the social and political developments of the West. In an age when all American military determinations are questioned; in an age when serious proposals to with­draw all American troops from Europe, including Berlin, have been formulated; in such an age, the citizens of West Berlin feel like the inhabitants of an island in the Mississippi River at flood-time: they ask how high the waters will go. 
I entered Berlin by train in the early hours of the morning. At the border of East Germany and West Berlin men walk about with submachine guns, while others man guard-towers with searchlights, and still others patrol the border's fences with dogs. All of these men, according to the official Communist line, are keeping a strict watch for · aggression from the forces of imperialistic powers that are represented in West Berlin. Crossing the border, I saw trenches from another war, a war other than the Cold War. Zig­zagging like a serpent over the surface of the forest that surrounds the city at this 
point, these trenches reminded me of the histories I had read concerning this city's fate in the last days of Hitler's Germany, how every conceivable project had been put forward in an effort to organize a defense against the invading soldiers from the east. These, then, were, literally, the ''last ditches." 
In West Berlin itself stands another reminder of the Second World War, a memorial left by intention, the Kaiser Wilhelm church. This token of the past stands at the hub of West Berlin's com­mercial district, at the point where the city's three main avenues converge, one upon another. No man can view this church without contrasting its condition with the modern, bustling city that sur­rounds it. No man, having seen this contrast, can help but understand a por­tion of the tragic and inhuman conse­quences of war. It is a scene such as this, which provokes sharp awakenings of human consciousnesness and conscience, that caused George Santayana to write: "To find joy in another's trouble is, as man is constituted, not unnatural, though it is wicked ... These are the chaotic depths of that dreaming nature out of which humanity has to grow." 
The Kurfurstandamm is West Berlin's main street, and it reminded me a great 

deal of the bustling thoroughfares which roll across the island of Manhattan. As appealing, as exciting as the Kudamm is, one cannot visit West Berlin without travelling along another street, a street called "The Seventeenth of June" in memory of East Berlin's I 95 3 uprising. The street of the Seventeenth of June leads from the throbbing focus of West Berlin along to the Victory Monument, a memorial or"'the victories that belonged to the seemingly invincible German Army during the last half of the Nineteenth Century. But the Street of the Seven­teenth of June does not stop for the Victory Monument; it sweeps around, on up to the Brandenburg Gate. It stops short of its goal, however; the dam that is the Wall of Berlin was charged ten years ago with that vital responsibility by the men who built it. Almost a hundred yards from the wall, on its western side, stands a monument to the Soviet Army, sur­rounded by barbed wire. Two soldiers from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, armed with submachine guns, stand guard upon the highest steps of the memorial. Another fifty yards from here, British soldiers play cards in a mobile command post. 
Assured by these men in Her Majesty's Not-So-Secret Service of the right direc­tion to Checkpoint Charlie, I set off to cross the Wall. I soon found out, how­ever, that this "island" that is West Berlin is small only in relation to the vast expanses of land that surround it; I had 
to take the subway part of the way. At the border, one must change a portion of his money into East German marks, the western currency being closer to real value than that of the German Democra­tic Republic. (This process is, by the way, illegal under all the tenets of law existing among nations.) The first thing striking a visitor to East Berlin is the comparative lack of traffic, and the style of those cars that do travel the streets: they appear almost as though they were bought at one of MGM's auctions, when they sold off the props used in some 1940 movie. The second thing that is striking in East Berlin is the profusion of patriotic banners and flags. Every public building has a banner, and virtually every building sports a flag. (The banner on the City Hall read: "A Look to the Year 2,000: Our Efforts Will Be Rewarded!") Finally, and most important of all, the people themselves come as a slight surprise. Anyone, anyone other than a Joseph McCarthy perhaps, will almost certainly find the East Germans to be friendly and helpful and cooperative: I have met no friendlier people in the last five months of 
travelling. 
It has been said that travel informs, and I would guess that this is so. Govern­ments may fall from power,whole nations may wither and sink into oblivion, but people remain essentially the same. "A man's a man for a' that", said Robert Burns, and what was true in the 18th Century is just as true for the 20th. In times like these. that is good to know. 
Has the world already ended? 
Howard A. Eliar, uf Anderson, a school teacher at Dalesville, a former principal at Boone Grove and of the junior high in Arcadia, is author of a new book "Jesus, Father of Jehovah," setting forth some startling theories including the claim that the world has already ended and that the persons of God are residing within a 66 mile radius of New Castle. 
Although the book refrains from listing names of the Persons of God, the author says they have been well-circulated on a world wide basis, are irrefutably well-founded and that they and their titles will be publicly proclaimed in due time. 
Area within diameter of the 66 mile include all or parts of Jay, Blackford, Grant, Madison, Delaware, Randolph, Hamilton, Marion, Hancock, Wayne, Shel­by, Rush, Fayette, and Union counties in Indiana, and parts of Darke and Preble counties in Ohio. 
He refers to the area as "Mount Zion"the state of Indiana as "Greater Mount Zion;'. The book avers that the world has already ended and that the "former Earth" is the heaven of the Entire Universe. It maintains that establi­shment of the Kindgdom of God in Heaven (on Earth) will come in due time and that most of the Deities have lived 
most of their materialized lives within the east central Indiana area, overlapping into a small enclave within southwest Ohio. 
Eliar says in his new book that Chica­go is the biblical New Jerusalem and will be the capital city of Heaven, making Chicago one cpncept of the modern holy city of the Lord, along with New Castle, and that the permament throne of God will be located in Chicago. According to Eilar there is now a temporary throne and the keys to heaven and hell are located near it in displayable form. 


The author maintains in the book that the full Godhead established in the Bible has materialized and that the "coming" isn't limited to Christ, but also those persons known as the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit and Comforters are also "alive and breathing today, walking and talking with the people." 
The author, a native of Hagerstown 
and graduate of New Castle High School, 
has A.B.. and M.A. degrees from Ball State 
University, was a chemist and project engineer a number of years ago at Alu­minum Company. of America in Rich­mond and at the former Perfect Circle Corp. in Hagerstown, and has held teach­ing posts in several central and southern I.ndiana counties. 
He was founder of Eilar Theocratic Enterprises, Anderson. In the book he states that he maintains complete neu­trality with established sects, denomina­tions and religions, and supports none. 
Aborted babies live momentarily 
(National Catholic Register Special) 
The baby struggled for breath, his heart beating wildly in the battle for life, the arms flailing, the fists cle~ched. There was a tiny cry. 
And then he died. 
For that was the whole idea, he was supposed to die. He was another victim of the abortionists, to be tossed away in a can and incinerated with the rest of the accumulation of trash for the day. 
This is the horrible fact revealed in an article by Chicago Tribune science editor Ronald Kotulak. 
But if many infants that are aborted breathe wildly for a few breaths, strug­gling to live, Mr. Kotulak reveals an even more horrible fact -at least 26 babies have been aborted fully alive in New York City since the abortion law was liberalized only a few months ago. 
One of these 26 had such determin­ation and will that the child resisted death, still lives and now more than four 
who view it close up are saddened by it. Dr. Jean Pakter, director of the mater­ninty and new born services for the New York City Department of Health-which campaigned for the liberalized abortion law-said, "I am deeply saddened by this. In many of these cases where the fetus 
comes out alive, it takes a gasp or two and that's it. This is not right. As a physician I don't like to see life ended or hurt in any way." 
In New York, Cardinal Terrence Cooke .denounced the situation, "Once this law 
was passed the abortionists lost no time 
plying their death-dealing trade. Each day 
they grow wealthier from the killing of 
unborn children -some of whom have 
been heard to cry as they were dropped 
into surgical trash cans. 
"The day may come when lawmakers 
could set standards which people must 
meet if they are to remain alive. Already 
one standard has been set. Who can say 
what others will come next?" 
The National Catholic Register was the 
months since the Aug. 28 date of the 1 first newspaper in the nation to report child's intended death, the baby is up for that two hospitals in New York City were adoption. advertising their abortion services all over 
Others among the 26 born fully alive the nation -a method which was imme­have not been so fortunate. Some died a diately denounced by the AMA. few minutes later, some struggled for two An abortion counselling service, which days before finally giving the abortionists arranges abortions, has advertised exten­their way. sively over the nation in newspapers and 
And what is happening may not yet magazines, including student newspapers have reached the general public but doc-at the University of Notre Dame and at 
L-~---------------------~-----------~~~ n~~~d ~rn~~~ ~~~D~~~R~~c~~~ 
Page 6 
THE OMERJJER 
Thursday, January 21, 1911 

SST poses difficult problems for legislators 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -If 
you were a member of Congress 
how would you feel about a 
sleek new superjet to let global 
commuters cut their travel time 
in half? 
Would you spend a lot of government money to build it and keep America in competi­tion with other nations building a similar plane? ­
Or would you scrap the idea 
as silly in the face of unmet 
~--N-_U_C_L_•_..-.----, 
~ 
E_N_ER,.Y
U 

The course is not as awe­some as its title. It is an attempt to provide the non­technical student with an un­derstanding of the sources and uses of Nuclear Energy. Designed for St. Mary's, Arts and Letters, and Business Ad­ministration students. 
ME 213 1 MWF 

Friday, January 22 Ypm-1 am 

il,t Nicolas Restaurant 
just north of downtown 
South Bend (809 N. Michigan) 
the band 
SYMBOL 

supersonic trans.port SST a 
proposed I ,800 mile an hour 
jetliner. · 
Some time before March 30, the 92nd Congress will make mother decision on the SST. For the past six years, the decision has been go and work is due to start on two prototype models this year. 
But there is evidence that the next vote might doom the SST to death on the drawing boards as a billion dollar mistake despite frantic efforts by the Nixon administration to salvage 
it. 
The 300 passenger plane is 
env1sioned as America's answer 
the British-French Concorde and the Russian TU144 now being tested. 
An SST could zip travelers from New York to London in three hours instead of the usual six at 2.7 times the speed of sound. It also could cruise at subsonic speeds. 
When President John F. Kennedy launched the project in 1963 he indicated ·the government's share of domestic needs such as poverty, hunger and disease? 
Would you give the go ahead to huild the plane so as not to lose nearly $1 hillion already invested in it and risk a multibillion dollar loss in jobs and balance of payments? 
Or would you reject the superjet as a dirty, noisy monster likely to benefit the jet set few at the expense of the health and hearing of earth bound millions? 
The questions may give an 
of why the Congress is 
trouble making up its 
mind on the fate of 

I WeWant l Serious
! YoungMen 
1 
Seektn 
by Alison Kittrell 
The first speaker in the series Trends in Contemporary Ed uca­tion spoke last night at 7:30 in St. Mary's Carroll Hall. Urban Fleegc spoke on "The Key to Improving a Child's Self-Image." Dr. Fleege is a professor of Child Development at DePaul Universi­ty and Administrator of the Mid­west Montessori School. He has served as head of UNESCO in Southeast Asia, and has written eight books and numerous art­icles. 
Dr. Fleege began his lecture with the statement, "There is a wholesome discontent with ed u. cational programs." He went on to explain why this discontent is justified, and what can be done to do away with its causes. 
Each individual is truly u­nique, and group education vio­lates everything known about early learning. A group of educa­tors recently made some recom­mendations to the White House which they felt would help to 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
t 
Now, you can meet the crisis of' faith. Motivatet and lead others. And be a dynamic, t dedicated man of Christ. 
t
t Ask the Stigmatines to tell you about it. t Just mail this coupon TODAY. 
t Vocation Director i Stigmatine Fathers I Brothers ' 554 Lexington Street t Waltham, Massachusetts 02154 
i YES, I'm interested in serving Christ. And in accepting the NEW challlmge ahead. ' Kindly send me more information. 
f
f 
Name 

t Address 
t City State Zip 
t Age Grade Phone 
developing a.t SST would never 
exceed $750 million. 
But thus far, more than $800 
million in federal funds has been 
pledged and the government's 
own estim<ttes now are that it 
will cost about $1 .5 billion jp&t_ 
to get a prototype in the air. 
The Boeing Co., the prime 
SST contractor has chipped in about $50 million so far and is in line for a cancellation premium equalling every penny it contributed if the government 
hacks out. 
Though environmentalists have long protested that the superjet would needlessly pollute the world with ear splitting noise and suffocating fumes, it was not until last year the their muscle started to be felt. 
In the House, anti-SST forces fell only I 4 vtotes shy of rejecting President Nixon's request for $290 million to continue SST development. The Senate later voted to scrap the project on a 52 41 vote. It was the first time a majority had bee;1 mustered in either Hot.se against the plane. 
But a House-Senate conference committee "compromised" on a $210 million figure for the current fiscal year ending June 30th. This triggered a two week Senate filibuster that wasn't cracked until opponents won a promise of funding only through March and another up or down vote then on spending for the balance of the year. 

Fleege discusses child psychology 
I 
remedy this. They suggested a reorientation of values to a pla­cing of prior.ities on children iustead of defense or produc­tio:;_ appropriation of $10 bil­lion for pre-school education, colllpulsive training of parents so that they can help their children devdop, t~nd day-care centers for all children I 6. These educa­1 ors, and also Dr. Flcege, em­phasized the need to start at a pre-school level because by the ilge of six, the major parts of a child's personality are shaped. 
Pressure from the outside, such as exerted by parents and teachers today, produces an out-
i 
er-directed ;Jer~t>n. Instead, there is a need to develop an inner­directed person. This person is one who can go out and educate himself, and experience the joy of discovery. In these fast-chang­ing times, one must keep learn­ing in order to stay abreast of thillgS. 
Dr. P!eege then went on to explain how this inner-directed person could be developed. The main source of a child's behavior is his self-image; everyone re­sponds as he sees himself. The significant people in his life are 
(Continued on Page 2) 

Report irks students 
By Milt Jones 

Student Body President Dave Krashna expressed vehement opposition yesterday to the Park-Mayhew report concerning coeducation at Notre Dame. Krashna stated that he "hopes students will vehemently protest and student government hopes to stimulate that protest." The SBP also stated that he was surprised D-s. Park and Mayhew "would have the nerve to do 
Stay senator Fred Giuffrida felt that "the report offers no substantial changes. Many im­portant problems have been re­
! Tough hallenge Iduced to 'future possibilities.'" 
! 
absolutely nothing in their report." Krashna further stated he felt 
! 
"the Park-Mayhew report was superficial. It was a half-assed approach to a very important problem. Coeducation is something the student 
government thought must be. 
passed, and now it seems like we 
1 
won't have it." 
Giuffrida stated "all elements
t of Notre Dame student govern­t 
ment should combine their ef­, forts, dropping all previous em­nities in order to present a Jmi­
' 
ted front tow-ard the coed is-
t 
sue." "This is the most crucial time for such an effort," he added. Hall President Council chair­
man John Barkett said, "We should move as quickly as pos­sible toward coeducaion." He 

Fred Guiffrida 
explained, "If for no other reas­
on, we should act quickly be­
cause the costs of going coed rise 
higher the longer we delay." 
In contrast to the excited reactions of other students on campus, Stay Senator Tom Thrasher did not seem to stress the need for protest. Thrasher stated, "Coeducation will come at its own rate whether students get excited about it or not.." 

t 
t 
f
t 
i 
' 
t 
t
t t f 
t 
The Cultural Arts Com-mission's 
Con tempor~ry Arts Festiv~l 
presents 
Genesis 3 
a collection of award-winning experimental films 
Jan. 23 & 24 8:00 & 10:00 
Engineering Auditorium 
Admission: students $1.00 
adults $2.00 CAF patrons free 

L-----------------------J 
Thursday, January 21, 1971 7HR OBSERVER. Page 7 
1cers are half way to goal
Irish • 
by Jim Donaldson Observer Sportswriter 
At the beginning of the 1970-71 hockey season Irish coach Lefty Smith felt that the year would be considered a suc­cess if his young club could win half of the games on their diffi­cult schedule. At present, the Irish icers are halfway to Smith'& goal of a .500 season, boasting a 7-7-1 record at the midway point in the year. 
Notre Dame, playing only its third year of varsity hockey with a club composed predominately of sophomores and freshmen, was expected to have problems winning its share · of ·games against more experienced clubs but Coach Smith's charges have held their own. The Irish had a 
I-3 record when most of the 
student body left forA victory 
and a tie in a pair of games 
against the Wisconsin Badgers at 
the ACC on December 19 and 
20 sent the Irish skaters home 
for Christmas with a 2-3-1 slate. 
The club returned to South 
Bend immediately after the holi­
day and commenced a lengthy 
road trip that saw them win two 
of three games against Eastern 
hockey teams and split six deci­sions against Western clubs. 
Against Wisconsin, the Irish scored three goals in 74 seconds in the first period to overcome a 2-l deficit and grab a 4-2 lead. Eddie Bumbacco netted two goals and Paul Regan one in the scoring flurry. Bumbacco's' second goal came just 14 seconds after his first tally. 
Joe Bonk had put the Irish ahead 1-0 in the first minute of play but the· Badgers stormed back to grab a 2-1 lead before Notre Dame's three goal blitz put them on top for good. 
Regan and Ian Williams notched third period tallies as the Irish bested the Badgers 6-5. 
Although Notre Dame out­shot Wisconsin 53-36 the follow­ing night the Irish had to settle for a 3-3 deadlock. The Badgers scored a first period goal and nursed their 1-0 advantage into 
the third period before Kevin Hoene knotted the score with 
4:37 gone in the last stanza. Paul Regan gave the Irish their only lead of the night when he beat Badger goaltender John Anderson in the seventh minute of play. 
Wisconsin went back out front 3-2 but Bill Green tied the 
Jim Donaldson =============================================================================:::::::::=:=:=:========== 
Sports Sltorts 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::: 
Eddie Bumbacco sped down the left wing, a step ahead of the Boston College defenseman, took a perfect pass from John Roselli and fired the puck past the Eagle netminder. The clock in the McHugh Forum showed just 1:21 gone in the first period. 
After the ensuing faceoff, the Eagles roared down the ice and gunned a hard shot at Mark Kronholm, a freshman making his first start in the nets for the Irish while first string goalie Dick Tomasoni was rested. Kronholm turned it aside, the first of 37 saves he was to make as the Irish downed B.C., 5-3. 
Notre Dame combined the talents of newcomers and veterans ,as they have been doing all season, for the victory. Co-captain Phil Witliff, a veteran of the days when the Irish were playing club hockey, broke a 2-2 tie with a shorthanded goal and a freshman, Steve Curry, scored what proved to be the game-winning goal on a wicked slap shot from the right point. 
Just two years ago teams such as Gustavus Adolphus, St. Mary's of Minnesota, St. Thomas and Lake Forest appeared on the Irish schedule. Notre Dame did play Wisconsin of the WCHA but they were beaten by scores of 10-2 (on two occasions) and 12-0. 
In this, their third year of varsity hockey, the Irish play a 29-game slate, listing 20 games against members of the WCHA conference, the top college hockey league in America. And this season the Irish have beaten Wisconsin 6-5 and tied the Badgers 3-3. 
In just three years the Irish have come a long way. Their first two seasons they built up a 37-16-4 record but the competition wasn't top rate. Notre Dame is playing the best now. The w.on-lost mark is 7-7--1 but when one considers the speed with which the hockey 
program has progressed and the fact that I 4 of the top 21  players  
are  freshmen  and  sophomores,  that  .500  figure  is  an  
accomplishment.  

The man who has done the most to bring the Irish from obscurity into the national hockey picture is coach Charles "Lefty"Smith. He has brought some outstanding hockey players to the campus of d-u Lac and has worked hard to produce a team that will be as feared in hockey circles as the Irish grid and hoop squads are in their respective sports. The icers haven't reached this level yet but they're on their way. 
Paul Regan, a sophomore, Ian Williams, a freshman, and John Noble, a sophomore, are leading the team in goals scored, with 8. Witliff, a senior, Bill Green, a sophomore, and Eddie Bumbacco, a freshman, all have 6 goals. Green and Bumbacco's figures look more impressive when you consider that Green is a defenseman and Bumbacco has missed the last six Irish games while recovering from mononucleoiss. 
Goal tender Dick Tomasoni, who Denver coach Murray Armstrong says is "the equal of any goalie I've seen this season" is just a junior. Four of the top five Irish defenseman are freshman. 
The entire team is young. They're inexperienced and they make mistakes. They lack real speed and don't have exceptional finesse. But they don't lack hustle. 
After his Denver club won two tough games from the Irish in Colorado last weekend, Armstrong said, "We had to play as well as we could this weekend. Notre Dame comes to play hockey. They're a good team now and they're going to be great in the near future." Murray Armstrong knows what he's talking about. 
score with a goal at the 16:29 mark. Both clubs went all out for the win in the remaining regulation time but were thwarted in their offensive ef­forts by some fine goaltending by Anderson and Notre Dame's Dick Tomasoni. Anderson and Tomasoni both starred in the ten minute overtime period too, each making some great saves under heavy pressure. 
The Irish traveled East after Christmas to participate in the Boston Arena Christmas Tourna­ment. In the opening round of the tourney, Notre Dame re ecorded a fairly easy 4-1 win over Northeastern. John Noble scored two goals and Bill Green and Paul Regan added tallies to lead the Irish attack while sophomore goalie Chris Cath­cart, making his first start of the season, turned in a solid job in the nets, stopping 33 Huskie shots. 
The Boston University Ter­riers, the nation's ~-l team, provided the opposition for the Irish in the tourney final. 
The Terriers were just too good for the Irish, although the 
N.D. sextet battled the Boston club on even terms after the first period. The Terriers jumped out 
to a 4-o lead in the initial twenty minutes of play and upped their advantage to 5-Q in the second period before Phil Witliff put Notre Dame on the scoreboard. Ric Schafer and John Noble also scored goals in the game but the Terriers matched those tallies and notched a 7-3 win. Noble was named to the All-
Tournament team for his fine play in the two games. The Irish pla~ed their third game in as many ·nights on Dec. 
30, taking on the Boston College Eagles in McHugh Forum. Five players scored goals for the Irish and freshman Mark Kronholm, making his first appearance in the Irish nets, stopped 37 Eagle shots as the Irish downed B.C. 5-3. Bumbacco, Kevin Hoene, Witliff, Steve Curry, and Regan scored for Notre Dame. 
The Irish had a few days off before heading West to play six games in nine days. 
Notre Dame got off to a good start on their western jaunt, handing the Air Force Academy a pair of defeats on Jan. 8 and 9. The Irish had to overcome a four goal deficit to notch their first win over the Falcons. After Hoene put Notre Dame ahead 1-0, the Irish played sluggishly and fell behind 4-1 as the Fal­con's star center, Bob Ross, ter­rorized the Irish defense and scored all four Academy goals. Witliff and Ian Williams put the Irish back in the game with second period goals and when Noble and Gary Little put the puck in the net at 5:19 and 5:53 of the third stanza, the Irish had win number five. 
Notre Dame was in control all 
the way the next night, besting 
the Falcons 4-2. 
Green, Little, Regan and Joe 
Bonk scored for the Irish while 
Kronholm was again sensational, 
holding the Falcons scoreless un-, 
til the last five minutes of the 
game. Ross spoiled the fresh­
man's shutout at IS :52 and the 
Falcons managed to add another 
tally in the final minute of play. 
Coach Smith returned his top 
goalie, Dick Tomasoni, to the 
nets against a tough Colorado 
College sextet but Tomasoni 
didn't get much support as the 
Irish played poorly and were thrashed, 6-l. Green recorded the only Notre Dame goal. 
The Irish looked like a dif­ferent club the following night, however. Scoring four goals in each of the first two periods, the Irish built up an 8-3 lead and held off a late Colorado surge to win 8-6. 
Jim Cordes, John Noble and Ian Williams each netted a pair of goals while Gary Little and Steve Curry chipped in single markers as the Irish turned in their top offensive effort of the season. 
Denver University brought the Irish's journey to an unhappy end by handing the N.D. club a pair of defeats, 6-3 and 4-2, last weekend. 
Poor coverage in front of the 
goal and too many penalties hurt 
the Irish in the first game of the 
set. After a scoreless first period, 
Denver moved out to a 4-1 lead 
in the second stanza and pretty 
much decided the issue. Cordes 
Green and Williams scored fo; 
the Irish. 
Notre Dame played good 
hockey the next night against 
the Pioneers but not quite good 
enough to win. Denver grabbed a 
2-1 first period lead but the Irish 
tied the score at 2-2 on John 
Noble's second period goal. Den­
ver regained the lead later in the 
second stanza and added an in­
surance goal in the final twenty 
minutes. The Irish outshot the 
Pioneers 15-7 in the last period 
but just couldn't slip the puck 
into the net. 
The Irish return to the Convo 
this weekend, hosting the Uni­
versity of North Dakota Friday 
and Saturday nights. 

Gustafson sparks Irish 
The Notre Dame wrestling team evened its seasonal team record at 2-2 with a convincing 31-11 victory over down state rival DePauw University at Greencastle, Indiana. The match took place on Tuesday. 
Phil Gustafson took his third pin in as many matches this season in leading his Irish mates to the big win. Gustafson pinned his opponent, Doug Wood, at 
1:03 in the heavyweight divi­sion. Gustafson is undefeated in 20 matches over his three year career and he is threatening to break all existing records at ND for career wins and winning per­centage. He is the only junior so he has quite a chance to cope the the all time career victory mark. 
Besides Gustafson's pin the Irish were aided by two DePauw forfeits. Notre Dame's 118 pounder Chris Paige and captain Tom Ciaccio, 126 lb., were cre­dited with victories. 
Other victors for Notre Dame were Steve Moylan, who pinned his opponent Dave Isler in the 134 class at 2:37, and Ken Ryan, another winner by a pin in the l SO class over Dan Bru­nette. 
Rick Esposto won by means of a 12-0 decision over Bruce Hamilton of DU. Esposto com­peted in the 142ib. class. Bob Bennett beat Brian Burnie 5-Q to mark the only other NO win. Bennett wrestled !58. 
In other results of the match DePauw's Neil Oslos dominated ND's Mike Kemp by a 17-3 count in 104 lb. class, Tim John­
son shutout Rick Aselage of the The next match for the Irish 
Irish by a 14 point'margin. Dave will be tomorrow in a four team 
Wynkoop took the only DePauw meet as NO hosts Eastern Ken­
pin by putting John ·Dueker's tucky, Kings cbllege (Pa.) and 
shoulders to the mat at 4:40. Taylor University at noon. The 
Dueker wrestled at 178 for the match will be held in the auxil­
"Irish. iary gym of the ACC. 
lust for the record 
by Mike Pavlin In case you may have forgotten, Notre Dame won the Cotton Bowl and in the process added seventeen individual career marks to the Record Book. Eleven of those belong to Joe Theismann who now has thrown more passes, made more completions, for more yardage, for more touchdowns and at a higher percentage of completions than anyone else. Also on the career lists, Denny Allan is seventh in kickoff returns; Scott Hempel ranks fourth in scoring; Tom Gatewood stands right behind Jim Seymour in the receiving department; Clarence Ellis (tied for fourth) and Ralph Stepaniak (tied for seventh) rank in the interception files; and Jim Yoder is now third all-time punter. Yoder's 74 yard kick in the Cotton Bowl was the third longest in ND history, tying one of similar distance by Ed DeGree in 1922. 
All of the following are new records: 
1) PAT's Attempted -Scott Hempel 137 
2) PAT's Made -Hempel 127 
3) Field Goals Made -Hempel 16 
4) PAT% -Hempel .927 
5) Touchdown Pass Receptions -Tom Gatewood 17* 
6) Passes Broken Up -Clarence Ellis 24* 
7) Pass Attempts -Joe Theismann 552 
8) Pass Completions -Theismann 316 
9) Passes Had Intercepted -Theismann 38 I 0) Yards Passing -Theism ann 4818 
11) Completion % -Theismann .572 
12) Yards/Pass Attempt-Theismann 8.73 
13) Touchdown Passes -Theismann 34 
14) Total Offensive Plays -Theismann 879 IS) Total Offensive Yardage-Theismann 5909 
16) Total Performance Plays-Theismann 901 
-17) Total Performance Yardage -Theismann 6028 *Have one year of eligibility remaining. 

Page 8 OBS£RfJER Thursday, Janu;,ry 21, 1971 
The Cultural Arts Commission 
Consider ·report ambiguous 
CCOPYRlGHT 1970 GENESIS FILMS LTO. A CINEMUS MAXIMUS-NEW SHORT FILM EXCURSIONS 
nine shorts by a new generation ofyoung filmmakers 
sponsored by Contemporary Arts Festival 
Engineering Aud. JAN 23 & 24 Students 1.00 7:00 & 9:30 Adults 2.00 
2001 

presents 
, A SPACE ODYSSEY 
Jan. 2Q 21, 22 7:30 & 10:20 Washington Hall 
General Admission $1.00 
DIRECT DIAMOND

Fox'S 
IMPORTERS 
At Fox's you get a bigger better quality diamond for less money! 

A OUTSTANDING VALUE ••• 
SISO $ IQO
14k White 
or Yellow 
Gold. • 

Notre Dame Accounts TVelcome 
by Lucia Zaucha 
After reading the Park­Mayhew study on the relation­ship between St. Mary's and Notre Dame, many St. Mary's facult'y members are of the opinion that the report contains too many ambiguities and flaws to constitute a significant contri­bution to the subject of co­education. 
The report did suggest a num­ber of possible changes. Among those cited as "significant" by Dr. Poinsatte of the St. Mary's History Department were the proposals for the establishment of a joint board of trustees, the merger of the admissions' offices and the union of the registrars' offices. "But," he warns, "there are many ambiguities that have to be cleaned up." 
Some faculty members feel the text becomes so ambiguous at times that it lapses into self­contradictory arguments. One of these is Dr. Bambenek of the Chemistry Department who feels that the section urging the de­velopment of "a combined Biol­ogy Department which would offer some things in common but which would also offer dis­tinctly different biological science programs on the two campuses..." is an example of such a self-contradictory pas­sage. In commenting on this statement, Dr. Bambenek points out: "If there is a combined Biology Department I don't think you're going to find two separate programs." 
Another passage in the text which has been given consider­able attention by faculty mem­bers is the section dealing with what would be the teachers' own 
nghts if the suggested merger would take place. Asked if the merger would pose a threat to members of the St. Mary's facul­ty, Dr. Richard Bohan refers to the report itself, which states: " .. .faculty members who con­centrate their efforts as under­graduate teachers should not be expected to compare for tenure of salary purpose with professors who conduct research and direct graduate students as well as teaching undergraduates." And Dr. Bohan concludes, "Of course that's a threat." 
This "threat" is seen by facul­ty members· as endangering not only their jobs, but the quality of education available to the St. Mary's student. Frequently men­tioned is the fact that Notre Dame uses much of the money it receives from ·its undergraduate program to finance its graduate school. On the other hand, St. Mary's has always been con­cerned with the undergrads. Dr. Barmenek states: "We have peo­ple here who specialize in teaching undergraduates. I think the merger would give rise to an institution in which something 
Fellowships available 
The Notre Dame Institute for Urban Studies announced today that a number of fellowships are available for the year 1971-72 in the field of urban research and planning. These fellowships are sponsored by both federal and local governmental agencies and in general require that a detailed application for the fellowship be submitted by January 31, 1971. 
The Department of Housing and Urban Development spon­sors an Urban Studies Fellow­ship Program whose purpose is to respond to the critical need for trained urban practitioners. Students are eligible who have applied for, have been accepted to, or are enrolled in a program 
NEWS MEETING 
Reorganization for second semester 
6:30p.m. Room lD Lafortune 
New Writers Needed • No Experience Necessary 
would be lost. I think it would be the students who lose." 
The only way such a loss might be averted, some faculty members suggest, would be if additional changes were to take place both at St. Mary's and Notre Dame. Comrrenting on the report, Father James Runde says: "I think the sad thing in the concept of merger is that I 
don't  see  any  suggested  re­ 
structuring  of  Notre  Dame."  
Among  the  reforms  he  sees  as  

desirable are broad curriculum changes and the inauguration of an all-college major. Mr. Bohan agrees with Father Runde that restructuring is necessary and concludes: "In view of all the problems Notre Dame has, I don't think it would do St. Mary's much good to merge." 
Many other criticisms have been leveled at the report. One of these concerns the "postpone­ment of consideration of social issues" that is mentioned by Mr. Harold Isbell of the Writing De­partment. Another is related to the commonly-held belief that adoption of the Park-Mayhew proposal will mean that "one of the Vice-Presidents of Notre Dame would be the President of St. Mary's." 
of full-time study as candidates for a Master.s degree in a pro­gram oriented to public service careers in Urban Affairs. 
Additional graduate research fellowships are available with the National Institute of Law En­forcement and Criminal Justice. Any student is eli!!ible who is 
working toward a graduate de­gree in any discipline related to problems of criminal justice. Each graduate research fellow­ship will cover the student's tui­tion and fees, plus a $2,600 stipend. Arplications and de­tails concerning these fellowships may be obtained from the Institute for Urban Studies, 214 Rockne Memoriai Building, 283 -1112. 




