
Story in Columns 3-5 
Docking difficulties 
hinder Apollo 1.4 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (UPI) -Apollo 14 's astronauts succeeded in docking their com­mand ship with the lunar lander Sunday night, overcoming a problem that would have forced cancellation of their landing on 
the moon. A cheer went up in the con­
trol room at Houston when spaceship Commander Alan B. Shepard reported that there had been a "good hard dock." 
Trouble struck shortly after the astronauts, Alan B. Shepard, Stuart A. Roosa and Edgar D. Mitchell, blasted their spaceship free of earth orbit and were heading for the moon. 
They had turned on their co­lor television cameras to allow viewers on earth to watch the linkup of the command ship and the lander. 
As the Kitty Hawk, the com­mand ship, nosed in toward the upper stage of the Saturn rocket, to which the lander "Antares" 
CAPE KENNEDY: Apollo 14 roars away from earth on its moon 
still was attached, Roosa first mission. (UPI) said, "We're docked," he said. 

Shepard flies again 
CAPE KENNEDY (UP!) ­
U.S. space pioneer Alan B. She­pard and two rookie companions picked up the pieces of a mission that nearly killed the last crew and rocketed from earth yester­day to explore a moon crater, rimmed with rock as old as creation. 
Shepard, a 47 year old Navy captain who became the first American to fly in space a de­cade ago, rode in the comman­der's couch aboard Apollo 14. 
His r.:o-pilots are Air Force Maj. Stuart A. Roose, 37, and Navy Cmlr. Edgar D. Mitchell, 40. 
Roosa, appearing cumbersome 
in his huge white spacesuit, 
reached out and tenderly patted 
the hands of his two nieces as he 
walked to the van that carried 
the spacemen to the launch pad. 
The shot, America's fourth moon landing attempt, fulfilled a decade old dream for Shepard. The old pro whipped an inner ear ailment that for years im­paired his hearing and balance and set aside a lucrative career to make the flight. 
With weather posing the only possible complication to blast off, Apollo 14 's astronauts waved farewell to their families yesterday and climbed aboard their moonship to take up the challenge of the aborted Apollo 13 mission. 
Shortly after tht• astronauts, hoarded their spaceship, the overcast skies began breaking up and patches of blue appeared. 
Their $95 million spacecraft has been equipped with fire proof oxygen tanks, a safer wir­ing system, an extra battery and more water--all refinements born of an explosion last April that reduced Apollo 13 from a moon landing m1ss10n to a scramble for survival. 
An extimated 600 million people gather around television sets throughout the world, and another half million jammed the beaches and jetties at Cape Ken­nedy to watch three men ride a flaming, 36 story Saturn rocket into space. 
The nine day mission will cover one million miles and cost $400 million, or $25 million more than Apollo 13. Much of the additional cost results from the dwindling frequency of launches in the nation's scaled down moon program. 
The lunar landing will come at 
4: 17 a.m. EST Friday, 4~ days into the flight. The first 3~ days will be taken up with the out­ward journey, and another day will be spent circling the moon preparing for the landing. 
This time the command ship "Kitty Hawk," piloted by Roosa, will swoop to within about 11 miles of the moon so Shepard and Mitchell will not have so far to travel when they detach their spidery lunar lander. "Antares," and begin the tricky descent to the surface. 
Shepard and Mitchell will spend 33'l'2 hours on the lunar surface, implant an American flag, set up a $25 million nuclear powered science station and take two moon walks lasting up to five hours each. 
Cone Crater, prime objective of the mission, should be about 4,000 feet east of the Fra Mauro area touchdown site, and She­pard and Mitchell hope to climb to its 400 foot high ridge and examine chunks of rock the size of automobiles perched on the edge. 
Barring a camera failure simi­lar to the one that plagued Apol­lo 12, the last successful moon landing in November, 1969, the hike toward Cone Crater and other aspects of the moon walks will be televised to earth for the first time in color. Apollo 11, 
"We've hit it nice," he said. "It sure looks ok, we're closing fast enough. I'm going to back her out and try it again. They did and then Roosa reported: "That last time I hit it pretty good. We're just not getting the capture latches for some rea­son." 
On the sixth try -with ten­sion mounting, the astronauts nosed the command ship against the landing then gave an extra hard shove with the command ship's steering rocket. 
The lander still will come In for close inspection before a moon landing is attempted, but the immediate problem of the ships not latching together was corrected, averting -at least for the time -the spectre of another Apollo 13. 
"It was a ripple bang. I'm sure we got quite a few latches ... it was a good hard dock," said Shepard when the two crafts finally docked together. 
Before the linkup, the astro­nauts said they were considering opening their spaceship to the void of space in an attempt to normal pJ.:ocedures, however, and eventually they succeeded in locking onto the lander. 
reach  out  and  deal  with  the  
trouble.  
Ground  control  urged  the  
spacemen  to keep trying  more  

If they had not, the second American moon landing in a row would have had to be scrubbed. Apollo 13-had to give up its moon landing attempt last April when the spaceship was rocked by an explosion while 205,00­miles deep in space. 
Apollo 14 was 7,112 miles out when it developed trouble. An hour and 44 minutes· later ­when the spacecraft was 26,000 miles from earth -the astro­na·tts finally repr.rted success. 
When at last, the operation was completed, ground control­lers announced that "following the successful hard docking, Ap­ollo 14 is proceeding on with our basic mission,." 
The astronauts will get a clos­er look at what caused the trouble when they routinely re­move the docking tunnel about 5 p.m. Wednesd~y and crawl through d tunnel to inspect the landing craft cabin. 
As for the lunar !andi11g, NASA spokesman Jack Riley said: "They haven't committed either way. They'll watch things very closely on the way." 
(Continued on page 8) 

New St. Mary's VP envisions her duties 
(Continued from Page l) housing, health services, and
-------------1 h·ll "
I C d . a s.
I oe ucatiOn report I She does not, however, planI workers needed I to limit her duties to work with I Anyone who is interesteo ml the student personnel services. 1compiling the coeducationl "If there's anything wrong with 1report which the _two studentl the food in the dining hall, for lgovernments ~re domg should go_I exampl~, I wo·uld try to do 
to room 45 m the basement ofl somethmg about it, since if af­IHoly Cross Hall at St. Mary's,l fects the well-being of the stu­lbetween I: 30 and 5:00 on Tues-1 dent," she explained. I day afternoon, or call 4017. Alii Asked to explain the different lhelp will be appreciated, accord-1 services she will coordinate, in ling to student government cabin-1 particular, the difference bet­let officer Bill Wilka, 1ween her duties and those of the 
.------------­
by Ann Therese Darin 
"I believe that with the power as a vice-president I will be able to generate action to solve pro­blems," claimed Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, recently appointed vice­president of SMC student af­fairs. 
At an interview Friday with student and administrative lead­ers, Miss Cannon, presently in the education department at Marquette University, envisioned her newly-created position as acting as "an administrative co­ordinator for the dean of stu­dents, directors of counseling, dean of students, Dr. Cannon declined to comment until she has had more time to acquaint herself with the administrative structure. 
"People expect me to come in here this weekend," the former Marquette dean of women claim­ed, "and say ,'Well, I'm going to change this and eliminate that and cut these ' But, it would be 
futile  for  me  to say something  
like,  'Let's  make  McCandless  
co-ed  next  year,' when I don't  

know much about the hall or the people in it orif they'd even like 
it." 
Questioned on the content of a speech which she gave in Texas on "Student Government: Its Role in the Modern University," Dr. Cannon commented, "Be­fore Berkeley, student govern­ments seemed concerned only with social regulations, but now they have a strong voice in poli­cy decisions." Because of this, she feels, "Student government should take a good look at itself and make sure that it is assuming responsibility commensurate with its authority." 
(continued on page 3) 
Page 2 

Managing Editor: Bill Carter News Editor: Ed Ellis Features Editor: Dave Lammers Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor Sports Editor': Terry Shields 
Campus Editor: Steve Lazar Advertising Editor: Bruce Barker Night Editor: Don Ruane Headlines: Kevin Hoyt, Mary Darin Layout: Joe Abell, T.C. Treanaor, 
Glenn Corso 


February 1, 1971 
Criminal Rehabilitation Center ·planned 
by Bob Higgins Plans tor a "Work Rehabilita­tion Center" to be completed by March I st were announced yes­terday by Mrs. Paul Conway, in conjunction with the Social Ac­tion Committee of the Ladies of Notre Dame. 
The project, only the third such in Indiana, will employ prisoners in the ND community, the wife of Professor Paul Conway said. 
The purpose of this center is to reorient criminals of all types in preparation for their return into society upon the comple­tion of parole. The l 5 prisoners who were "specially selected by 

TO POSTER SIZE 
Send any black and while orcolor photo, polarord prrnl, 2FT X 3FT $3 50 

cartoon or magazrne photo. • 
~i~r~~~Gil~~~r~.;.-ni ~:~~~~: 1 '12 FT. x 2 FT. $2.so ~~~~;,; m:~~m :f~,S:\~::: 3 FT. x4 FT. $7.50 
Your original returned undamaged. Add SOc for postage handling for EACH item ordered. Send check, cash or M.D. (No C.O.D.) To, 
PO BOX 589 NY 10010 NY 





VOUCANl 
WALK 
AWA~ 
Society's problems are your 
problems too. Poverty • 
Mental Health • Pollution 
• Retardation. It all may seem so hope­less, and your voice so small. But then you see a .hand reach out in help, a tear of com­
passion. You know there is hope. 
Look around. The forces of good are alive. You 

find them in the quiet re­solve of those who believe in themselves ... and in the innate goodness of man. 
There's healing power in caring. There's strength in knowing your help is needed. There's dynamic force in brotherhood, like in the Knights of Columbus. 
Join the battle. Come fight with us. 
Knights of Columbus 
Notre Dame 1477 Box 73 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Yes, please let me know how I can help in a K of C action 
program for my church and community. 
Name----------------------------------------------­
Address -------------------------------------------­
City ________________________State _____--.J.ip_____ 
Telephone____________________ 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
Dedicated to meeting today's problems through 
UNITY CHARITY FRATERNITY PATRIOTISM 
the prison staff because it is evident that these IS will receive the most benefit from this pro­gram" will be ern ployed in posi­tions within the Notre Dame community. A large percentage of their wages will be held in an account to be given each man at the end of his sentence. 
Prison reforms such as this one were made possible by a resolution passed by the State Legislature three years ago. However, only two others have been created to this date, in Pendleton, Ind., and one in Indi­anapolis. Mrs. Conway empha­sized that both of these projects have been quite successful. 
As a location for this "Half­way House" Mrs. Conway plans to use an old firehouse on Olive Street in South Bend. Funds for "structural renovation" have been provided by the Board of Criminal Justice, but this will only cover basic expenses. Mrs. Conway intends to engineer a number of fund-raising drives in her attempt to meet the March I deadline. 
Assistance is also being sought 
from Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's. 

Rennovation of the firehouse will begin on February 8. The intention is to convert the build­ing into a type of dormitory with a reception room, living room, office, kitchen and dining room. Student and Faculty vol­unteers will be needed for this aspect of the project. A program of basic education for the pri­soners is also planned. Mathema­tics and reading skills will be taught if a sufficient number of 
qualified teachers can be 

found. 
Students and faculty interest­ed in assisting Mrs. Conway in any aspect of this program should contact her at 232-5755 or Mrs. John Beverly at 
272-3177. 
Moon wal• Fri. 

(Continued from Page 1} 
the first moon landing and the only televised moonwalk, was able to beam back only black a.1d white pictures on its July, 1969 mission. 
Apollo 14's experiments are designed to show whether vol­canic processes exist on the moon, what the crust is like to a depth of 500 feet, how the moon wobbles as it circles the earth, and how the sun interacts with it. 
The experiments will be de­ployed on the first moon walk, beginning at 8:53 a.m. EST Fri­
day, and during this same tra­verse, Shepard and Mitchell will use explosive devices to "hump" the moon and study its subsur­face makeup. 
The second moon walk, an 8,900 foot trek to the top of the Cone Crater and back, will get underway at 5:38a.m. EST Sat­urday and will last until I0:36 
a.m. if doctors allow the astro­nauts to work that long. It is scheduled to ..:nd 45 minutes earlier if the moonwalkers are tiring. 
Shepard and Mitchell will blast off from the moon Satur­day at I :47 p.m. EST, link up with the command ship two hours later and fire the big Kitty Hawk engine that will head them back home. 
Splashdown will come one week from tomorrow in the South Pacific 900 miles south of American Samoa at 4:01 p.m. 
Three more Apollo missions are scheduled, one next July, another in March of 1972, and the final one-Apollo 17, in De­cember of 1972. On 17, the astronauts may try landing in­side the huge crater Copernicus. 

Pizza Hut Pete Presents 
ND & SMC 
"Student Special" 
Y2 price on any pizza or soft drink 
With School J.D. 
Monday thru Thursday 
Good only at ti1e Edison Rd. HUT 2 
EA1, IN OR CARRY OUT 
TRY Ol.TR NEW SUBMARINESANDWICH 
• 
2 LOCATIONS-CALL AHEAD 288-6060 SO. BEND #1 ACROSS FROM I.U. 233-3827 SO. BEI'l'D #2 MILE EAS'f OF N.D. 
We Are the Nations Largest! 


m•
February 1, 1971 ~ Page• 3 



GSU urges Village transportation 
by T. J. Burke 
The possibility of bus service to the University Village and the employment of graduate stu­dents by the University Security Force are two issues which are currently being examined by the Graduate Student Union. 
Concerning the University Vil­lage, which houses I 08 Notre Dame graduate students and their families, Bill Lorimer, 
G.S.U. President, said that "the movement to obtain bus service was initiated by members of the Village itself; it was not original­ly a G.S.U. project." 
A petition was circulated last year among members of the Vil­lage community and was signed nearly unanimously. The peti­tion requested shuttle bus ser­vice to bring grad students to and from classes at Notre Dame. 
The Village sponsors brought their proposal to the Administra­tion, where it failed to get the necessary approval. The subject was then brought to the atten­tion of the Graduate Student 
Envisions her duties 
(Continued from Page 1) 
Miss Cannon also served as a member of the Jesuit Education­al Association Committee which implemented the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibili­ties adopted by the American Association of Univeristy Profes­sors (AA UP) in 1966 for its schools. According to Dr. Can­
non, the statement, which  was  
e·1dorsed  heartily  by  the  Me­ 
Grath  administration  at  St.  

Mary's "is a fine document. I have some reservations, however, on its implementation as far as the legal due process is concern­ed. If you follow it to the letter of the word, the university is going to become a court." 
Dr. Cannon said she does not feel qualified to make a com­ment concerning the "no-hours" policy which SMC sophomores, juniors, and seniors may obtain with parental permission, al­though some parents are trying to revoke it. Although she has only worked with the rule for a few years at Marquette, she saw no critical problems. (Marquette, however, only gives upperclass­men a specific number of "no­hours" sign-outs per semester.) She does not foresee, however, that the privilege would be taken away from SMC students. 
Dr. Cannon does not view the role of the dean of students as one of a disciplinanan even though at Marquette she worked as a complement to the student judicial system. At Marquette a student may either go before the board of meet privately with the 
Duplicate Brldae 

Every Monday 7:30 
Trophy Game 2/1/71 
Flanner Card Room 
fhe Observer is published daily juring the college semester except 
•acations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's COllege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Union in an effort to obtain support for the project. 
Lorimer expressed concern because there are no city buses easily accessible to University Village and no oth~r forms of cheap and efficient transporta­tion between the Village and the rest of the campus. He cited "a failure on the part of the Univer­sity to provide some kind of service to the \Ulage." 
The Graduate Student Union made efforts to establish chan­nels to •make recommendations to University officials for service to the graduate complex. How­ever, following the defeat of the proposal by the administration, the village members have shown little support in their own be­half, according to Lorimer. 
Lorimer also stated that so far "most of the graduate students have remained un-concerned." "If the transportation problem is to be solved, those students af­fected must take the initiative." 
TheG.S.U. has made plans for a committee to be formed from 
dean. Most of the students, she said, preferred to meet with the dean. 
Asked how she first became interested in St. Mary's, Dr. Can­non replied that some of her former students nominated her for the position of the presiden­cy. In reading her credentials, the search committee asked her if she would consider taking a job at the college in student personnel. 
She plans to return several times this semester to acquaint herself with the school before she begins her new job Septem­both Village residents and other 
.graduate students. The commit­tee members will draw up a report of the situation. If the committee receives enough stu­dent support, Lorimer plans to "take the proposal to the Trus­tees, if necessary." 
Lorimer emphasized the im­portance of Village participation with the G.S.U. in this effort, and added that "we'll be glad to co-ordinate." 
The Graduate Student Union­also conveyed a notice from Arthur Pears, Chief of Campus Security, about employment of grad students on the Security force. These students are hired on a part-time basis to patrol the dorms. 
According to Bill Lorimer, this olicy has been beneficial 
Notre Dame I St. Mary's 

NASSAU 

SPRING VACATION 8 DAYS 7 NIGHTS 
Round ~rip Jet 
sI94

From Wmdsor Via Air Canada WITH ACCOMODATIONS AT THE FLAGLER INN-OUAD 
MARCH 12-19 
liMITED SPACE AVAILABLE 
Contact: 
FIRST BANK TRAVEL BUREAlJSenior Class & 
on 9 28 campus/next a.m. -12 n3-7080  to oon  Barbershop Student Admin. Students Iilt Union; Serv; by: ernatlonar  
open  only  to  students,  faculty  &  staff  

of Notre Dame/St. Mary's and their immediate families. 

in two ways. It has provided badly needed jobs for graduate students, and it also helps to improve the image of the Securi­ty Police by the presence of younger men on the force. 
He added that "most grads have had quite a bit more experi­ence in dormitories." 
Lorimer stated that he person­ally "knows of at least three graduate students who are work­ing in the Flanner and Grace dormitories on weekends. Mr. Pears has co-operated well with grads" he said, "and it seems to be a pleasant relationship." 
Mr. Pears stated that Security Department has been hiring graduate students for two or thr~e years ~~w." 
OPTIONS breakfast & 7 course dinner 
daily $45. 
AND 
scuba 
sailing 
fishing 
water skiing 

car & cycle rent 
Sponsored by: 
Those graduate students seek­ing further information are asked to contact Mr. Pears for det3Hs.. 
5/w Jleeo 
f!T,"{fony 
!htliH?*> 

ever Now, in addition, we introduce the 
~New Tiffany Setting designed by Donald Claflin. .. Rings start at $295:* 

DFFANY&.CO.: 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Design Copyrighted 1971, T.& Co. 
(Would you believe two whole months of can sleep in a Couchette for only $4.50 a night, and eat in inexpensive cafeteria-type Dining Cars. 
unlimited rail travel throughout thirteen 
If you haven't got two months, or you prefer the 
European countries* for a modest $125?) 
luxury of First Class, there's our regular Eurailpass. The 
Our brand-new Student-Railpass gives you all three week Eurailpass costs $110, one month $140, two that Second Class rail travel on the over 100,000 mile months $200, three months $230. But remember-you railroad systems of Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, can't get Student-Railpass or Eurailpass in Europe. You Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, must buy one before you leave, so see your Travel Agent. Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. You'll discover that Meanwhile, send in the coupon below for your free there's very little second class about Second Class. You Student-Railpass or Eurailpass folder.· 
..---·--·--·---------------------------------------------------,
STUDENT•RAILPASS The way to see Europe without feeling like a tourist. 
*Eurailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. 
192 A 

Eurailpass, Box90, Lindenhurst, New York 11757. 
Please send me your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. D Or your free Student-Railpass folder order form. D 

Page 4 
February 1, 1971 




Bill Corter and John Knorr:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:= 
Touchdowns and Rebounds




THE OBSERVER 
On the face of it, it's been a pretty impressive month for Notre Dame. Two of the greatest victories in her long and storied athletic 
An ln....,.dent Student Ne .....,.. 

GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Chief 
history have been recorded, and coming at the start of a second semester m a year which has seen an extraordinary amount of
JOHN E. KNORR, Executive Editor BRUCE RIECK, Business Manager 

publicit· directed toward the school(features from NBC and Sports Illustrated, i.e.) the added excitement of the football and basketball wins should certainly convince the media's analylzers that the
The Only End to the Race 
exposure was well-timed indeed. It's improbable after all the talk of athletic de-emphasis that
At approximately 4:03 p.m. yesterday, EST, the rocket blasted off, 
inevitably springs up again and again in studies of Notre Dame's loud and slow, leaving a remembrance of incomprehensible heat and noisy 
acarlemic upsurge, that anyone (not even the staunchest ND haters destruction; millions of dollars and the lives of three men riding on the hand 
and deriders) would feel moved to expressions of "jock school" or fate would play, amongst the stars. 
"football factory" in explanation for the recent rathe·r st.tinmng successes of the Irish and their continued dominance -of America's
(I). 

sports pages. But on the campus itself there have been the usual .It would not, of course, be the first time for Alan Shepard. 
put-downs of the sports-nuts who care more about touchdowns and The first time for Shepard was the first time for all Americans; the huge 
rebounds than issues and answers. The criticism was at one time both valid and necessary, but now
Mercury,_gelayed four hours for an infuriatingly trivial correction; a hundred 
seems more like academic snobbery than anything else. Over the
million Americans on the edge of their seats. 
vacation, a New York Post political clomnist named James Welscher 
The Soviets had sent two men into space already; and the echo of Yuri 
wrote of the confusion of modern football and the unexpected Gargarin 's words had hardened facelines and policies in the defense 
satisfaction gained by viewing a forward-thinking and academically excellent university like Notre Dame crushing the boastful and
department. The implications of the Russian shot went beyond questions of 
bigoted likes of the Longhorns of Texas. The sharing of a Notre
prestige and abstract scientific knowledge. It meant that they had already 
Dame football win no longer seemed to extend merely to the
developed a rocket powerful enough to blast man into orbit; an 
Irish-American and Catholic populations, it reached as well to the 
accomplishment that could well become a weapon. What kind of missile base 
ranks of the open-minded respecters of higher education. But more was the moon? And in Washington, John Kennedy pledged grimly: we 
than anything, of course, beating Texas meant a beam of justifiable would be on the moon by 1970. 
pride fnr ~nv member of the ND community unpretentiOus ~:nough to admit he was pleased to have ever some small association wnn the
To a generation that has seen men on the moon, a rinky-ctinkshot of little 
effort. 

over fifteen minutes and about a hundred and fifty miles doesn't sound like 
And in the immediate aftermath of the UCLA Up$et, the campusmuch, but it did',to them. 
seemed alive with a compulsive, unanimous joy that in a way spread across the sky like a storm in the early-evening dusk. There was a
(il). 

way in which the euphoria of victory had somehow brought people Three astronauts were dead. 
together, all faces pasted with smiles, all celebration, all laughter, all together. Antagonisms were erased, all the fans returning from the
The super-rich oxygen content of the Apollo capsule had caught fire, 
game seemed to take the win for their own, sharing it with everyone
roasting three men to a dry crisp. Dry and dead. They had no time to 
and everything that make up Notre Dame. More and more it is
parachute. No time to cry for help. Just an observation -"the panel's on 
coming to be realized that a healthy interest in sports in no wayfire ..." 
detracts from the Notre Dame Community and its role in ·education. It had been the culmination of a S€ties of frustrations. We had pushed 
And so it was a very big month. Or was it? Somehow, in the crush of controversy over co-education reports, firing of professors,
ahead of the Soviet Union quiescent in space; that nation, people speculated, 
backbiting in administration-faculty and administration-student rela­
had ·lost as many as a dozen men iL space; a doze11 men, constantly orbiting 
tions, the unifying aspects of the two big wins seem to have been
the planet on which they were born and to which they never would return. 
largely wiped out. A student has lost his scholarship and made noise But the cost had been most high. Millions and millions and millions of 
about it, the Park-Mayhew report seems to be an eloquent dollars. And three men. 
whitewash and nothing more, and ~uddenly the cleavage between administrative and student interests seems once again out in the
There was bitterness, and frustration. Not for the first time, people 
open and festering, creating suspicions and hostilities and in general, 
wanted us to get out -out of space exploration, out of the space race. 
and atmosphere of wondering-wondering where the real story of the
Others suggested that men bP-taken out of the program and replaced by the 
future of Notre Dame lies, or with whom. supersophisticateq machinesN A.SA has developed. Not even those machines 
Four students have been arrested in connection with a drug bust, though, could do what men could do ~-fix up a problem, correct an error; 
and another is dead as a result of a ludicrous car accident that took place late, late in the night following the tumultuous upset.
react to the million and one contingencies out there in space ~hat scientists 
The magic of the big wins didn't last, either because it was false
had never considered. NASA remembered Kennedy's grim promise, and 
magic or because it was smothered by issues and answers. It may just
continued. 

be possible that ND, unlike her antagonists suggest, is ·not the basic 
(Ill). 

"jock school." It may even be possible to suggest that ND student can put issues in perspective; maintaining a happy meduim on the
Walter Cronkite had hardly been objective. His spontaneous polemics as 
sports-academic pursuits spectrum. Or maybe it was just the sn'ow
the Eagle touched down were hardly in keeping with his dignity as a 
that seemed to fall all week and cover everything and everyone with distinguished commentator. But they were there. 
coldness. It was July of 1969, and we were on the Moon. The Russians had sent up an unmanned flight, which they had hoped 
Jeanne Sweeney::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=: 
would land on the Moon, scoop up soil samples, and come back intact, at 
almost the same time. The Russian tlight fluttered, once, twice, then 

Community Government 
crash-landed behind sorrie hills. 
Our late departed president, Father McGrath, might well as the
We had beaten them. We were on the Moon. 
expression goes, "turn over in his grave," if he saw how his
In Houston, Vice-President Spiro Agnew pledged Americans on Mars by 
enlightened concepts of community government are working in
1980. But he was more ebullient than grim, and his pledge met more derision 
reality. Operating within community government requires that all than approval. Others were suggesting that once the exhaustive pledge had 
sections respect one another, and demonstrate a certain willingness been fulfilled, the space program be abandoned. 
to work with each other. The latest fracture in community government is the most
Shortly afterward, the_ Soviet Union began receiving photographs from 
ridiculous because with a little kernal of diplomacy on both sides, it Venus. They had beaten us again -at . . . something. 
could have easily been avoided. The creation of two new offices, a Would it be like this all over again? Would we compete with the Soviet 
Vice-President of Student Affairs and the freshman office were Union for Venus? Mars? The outer planets? The next galaxy, until our 
much needed innovations and their establishment can hardly he criticized. Ironically enough, both offices were conceived originally
resources be bled dry, and the spacescape is littered with dead men, lost due 
after student' complaints to the Board of Trustees. Unfortunately
to desperate carelessness? 
after the idea was conceived, no further opinions were sought with 
Or would we be locked on Earth, after this. Was it true, as a great Russian 
the exception of a few ·elites· from the administration and Board of suggested fifty years ago, that the earth is the cradle of the mind, but man 
Trustees. Most members of the community were not consulted about cannot live in a cradle forever? Or were we set for another century in the 
the implimentation of the office or the nomination of possible candidates.
cradle; introspectively battling self-made ills as the riddle of the stars goes 
Obviously in the governance manual of SMC, the president is
unanswered. 

given the power to direct such actions; but just as obviously in a
There are those who would like to answer the riddle. Dr. Edward Teller 
community government one should attempt to tred on few toes in told us last year of the superiority international cooperation had to the 
order to maintain some balance of trusting communication. There self-important hoop-de-doo of the Americans and the equally self-important 
are faults on all sides. Members of the administration can claim that the student reports elucidatL1g !tte bad conditions at SMC should
secrecy of the Soviets. And, he was right. Time, agony, and money is forcing 
not have jumped from the students directly to the Board of Trustees 
a commitment that the great nations of the planet have been eluding for 
before going through proper channels. The recent appointments by 
years. A commitment which may force those nations-in spiteof themselves 
the president demonstrate the other sides lack of respect for using --to greater understanding and cooperation in other matters. 
the proper channels. Community government might sound terrific but in reality it is quite a joke.
The day after Apollo 14 splashes down from what everyone hopes is a The amount of intriquc and politics which seems to go on under
successful mission, the United States representative to the United Nations 
the table at SMC is destroying any last shades of respect students
should rise before that body and propose that further explorations of the 
might have for the government of the college. The word christian has
Moon and the planets and the stars be taken up by all nations, under the' 
been tossed about but it has yet to characterize SMC. One almost banner of the United Nations. 
can't wait to see what is going to happen next. 
February 1, 1971 
Page 5 
S.mey Gall.,her

Why have a general assembly? 
When the second General Assembly of the flfSt General Assembly of Students this effort to be of any real val 1·t · 
Students is convened on February 16th the issue which will be paramount in the minds of most everyone will naturally be that of co-education. It is probably correct to assume that it ought to be that way, but it is important that the Assembly turn its attention to other issues as well. The first General Assembly 
is illustrative of how broad a purpose can be served by such a gathering. In 1967 and 68 many of the same questions which are so often heard today regarding the relevancy of student 
and the time has come for student government to seek new life and verypossibly new direction from those whom it purports to serve, for that reason and in order to forcefully express the student view on co-education there will be a second General Assembly of Students from February 16th until the 18th. For 
Peter Collins 

. ue IS
Imperative that the student body assume proposals to the General Assembly of 
th · · · · · 

Students in care of Student Government. 
e Initiative and submit their proposals 
As any move towards co-education will 
to the Assembly. Only if this is done will 
necessarily include the fate of St. Mary's
t~~ Ass~mbly attain the desired goal of 
their student body will be invited to tak~
~IV!ng direction to student government.
1 an active part in the proceedings of the
roposals can be submitted on any topic 
Assembly and their proposals will be
re_levant to the University and all opinions 
welcomed.
Will be heard. Students can submit 

A measure of understanding 
government were being asked. In those years student government labored without leadership as S.B.P. Chris Murphy toured the nation on behalf of the Summa campaign. It was apparent then that if government was to have any validity it would have to seek that validity in the students. It was with that idea in mind and with the need to gain 
wide-spread student support to prod the Administration into action in the area of student life that the first General Assembly of Students was called. 
The most important issue in the 1968 Assembly was hall life and particularly parietal hours, but in the course of the meeting student opinion and direction was made manifest on a large number of issues which have served as the basis of student government activity ever since. For example, the· question of co-education was first raised at that assembly. The proposal on co-education was first raised at that assembly. The proposal on co-education that was discussed and passed at that meeting was of a very limited scope calling for the affiliation of several women's colleges with Notre Dame in the same way that St. Mary's is presently rea!ated to Notre Dame. Since then that plan and several others have fallen by the wayside as the student body has changed its attitude towards limited plans such as co-exchange. 
As the co-ed example illustrates, the attitudes of students have outgrown the mandat~:s and proposals which came from 
"Naturally, the tragedy is that we do not kill objects, numbers, abstract or inter­changeable instruments, but, precisely, on both sides, irreplaceable individuals, es­sentially innocent, unique for those who have loved, bred, esteemed them. This is the tragedy of history, ofany history, of any revolution. It is not individuals that are placed face to face in these battles, but class interests and ideas; but those who fall in them, those who dir, are persons, are men. We cannot avoid this contradiction, escape from this pain. " 
Regis Debray Camiri, Bolivia November, 1967 

A November, 1970, editio:1 of News­week reports that the Nixon Administra­tion is trying to implement a more "sanitary" war plan for Vietnam. The idea is to withdraw all U.S. ground troops and to let the bombers assume the entire burden of guaranteeing the "just and lasting peace." What is more distressing than this particular instance of callous­ness toward the human suffering and death that will continue to ensue beneath the bombers is the fact that the Adminis­tration's attitude is not at all unusual. If the President and the others responsible for the strategy and continued waging of the war stood alone in history's annals for their use of power and platitudes in the face·-o(pain, human reason and passion might single t11~,n out for condemnation. But perhaps more appropriate than con­demnation is compassion and deep regret, 
the realization that for these men, as for so many others, war is an accepted reality and becomes an acceptable alternative as men seek to procure or extend personal or national power, prestige, and wealth. And the citizens of a nation, motivated by and re-inforcing the ethos of their nation's leaders much as those leaders are 

in cyclical relationship with history as they perceive it, will take up the war cry with the Caesars, Fuehrers, and Presi­dents. 
Listen to our President speak cou­rageously of American honor in one sentence and sadly of loss of life in the next. The nations' acceptance of war has hinged on the predominant position that 
. patriotism has acquired in the value sys­tems of the nations' peoples. Read what Leo Tolstoi had to say about patriotism (to be found in his collection of Essays 
on Civil Disobedience and Non-Violence). 
His attack concerns not only overt chau­vinism but is aimed as well at the under­lying feeling behind even the most seem­ingly innocuous "love of country." He _say. th0-.dtrngeT-ef-€elebr-atiRg· t-he--id-ett--of" the fatherland to lie in the distortion that could result. The prominent position of the individual human life's integrity could be threatened or minimized in the face of 
the grand idea of patriotism. 
And listen again to the words of 
Debray, spoken at the time of his trial for revolutionary activity in Bolivia. He must have thought that the success of the Revolution would be of even more value than were the individual lives broken and lost in the process. He shows, however, at least the recognition of what is involved in all war. It is, usually far away from the centers of long-term strategy and grand ideologies upon which its waging de­pends, a decidedly sudden, ugly confron­tation between individuals who might 
have lived peacefully, had their leaders, their nations, been more aware either of the pain involved for people far from them, or of the alternative of reconcilia­tion and a healthy personal or national humility. What we who have a measure of this understanding might best do is to implement the simple realization, regard our brothers everywhere with more con­cern than that which we have granted to the notions of idiology and patriotism. Perhaps those we are seeking to educate will take notice of our quiet deeds. 




UESDAY 
. If You re 18 or OYer ll's Tie 
:t• 


111t!/1ta¥~
208M M~IN -~ 
MISHAWAJ(A t;/ THEATRE 
Proofofage required 
See both as late as 8:45 

NATIONALLY ADVERTISED L.P.ALBUMS 
"Virgin Mary" 

Dear Editor: 
In all the argumentation con­cerning certain issues, as to what pope said this, and what council posited that, and whether or not they were voicing current opin­ion, personal opinion, teaching 
to the best of their ability or decreeing articles of faith to be accepted by the Church, often­times the major and central point of the whole issue is cloud­ed: what is the purpose of the dogmatic statements of pope and/or council? 
The purpose for any authori­tarian statement from either pope or council, ideally, is to preserve Apostolic teaching and authority. Purely and simply, Apostolic teaching and authority must be maintained. 
With this in mind, we can look more closely at the issue of abortion. The Didache,or catech­esis of the early Church, written no later than 150 A.D. and present in oral form certainly much earlier, specifically con­demns abortion as a great sin, comparable with murder, adul­tery, sodomy, fornication, theft, magic, sorcery and infanticide. Such patristic teaching is worthy of recognition. 
It is worthy, also, of note, that during the late rise of papal power, a doctrine was formu­lated and pronounced ex officio by Pope Pius IX, in 1854, on the Immaculate Conception, in his 
encycJicallneffabilis Deus: 
" ... the most blessed Virgin Mary was ... preserved free from all stain of original sin from the first instant of her conception-
The key phrase here is "from the first instant of her concept­ion." As this teaching has been 
VISIT OUR 
RECORD DISPLAY FOR YOUR FAVORITE RECORD ALBUMS. 
WE HAVE 
A LARGE SELECTION OF POPULAR VOCAL GROUPS MALE VOCAL INSTRUMENTAL COUNTRY WESTERN 

JAZZ 

RELIGIOUS & MANY OTHER CATAGORIES. 

THE HAMMES. NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
February 1, 1971 

promulgated on an orthodox ar­ticle of faith, then incorporated as an article of faith is the Traducian theory of Augustine, that from the moment of con­ception, the fetus possesses a soul. Therefore, abortion is, by extention, condemned, and by 
this decree, Apostolic tradition · 
has been upheld. 

In parenthesis, it is comfort­ing to know that Pope Innocent III was so concerned about the possible murder of an innocent fetus, after calling the Fourth (Albigensian) Crusade, and revel­ling in it. This Crusade resulted in the liquidation of the pacifist/dualist Cllthars, a Chris­tian-Manichean sect in southern France, declared heretical by the Church. The Crusaders, buoyed by their pope; managed in a few hours to massacre the entire population of Beziers, about 20,000, to the cry of the bishop: "Kill them all; God will recog­nize His own." Very humanitari­an. 
David Tokarz 122 Holy Cross 
SBP Guilty 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is written in re­
sponse to an article in last Wed­
nesday's Observer which report­
ed that SBP Dave Krashna will 
no longer chair the Student Sen­
ate. It reports that the SBP finds 
the Senate process "bullshit." 
While I might agree in large 
part with this comment, I find I 
must disagree when it comes to 
fixing the totality of blame upon 
the Senators. It appears that Mr. 
Krashna is ignorant of his own 
role. He is the presiding officer 
of the Senate, his position is 
central to organizing and con­
ducting meetings, his is the focal 
point of authority and leader­
ship.· If the Senate process is 
"bullshit," does not a large por­
tion of the blame then rest with 
the SBP? His open contempt for 
the Senate and its members, his 
gross ineptness at conducting the 
meetings, have gone a long way 
toward making the Senate what 
it is. 

I find this nothing more than 
a refusal on the part of the SBP 
to tolerate a competing source 
of leadership. He would lead by 
himself, but he forgets the need 
for leadership exists at many 
levels and that Senators, Hall 
Presidents, section leaders, must 
all be respected for their role. To 
destroy or discredit these posi­
tions of leadership can only be 
an invitation to apathy and dis­
organization, and that is exactly 
what we will have. 

Sincerely, Robert A. Bradtke 
Senator, Dillon Hall 
Annexation Account Contended 

Dear Editor: 
On Tuesday of last week the Observer carried two accounts of Monday night's Common Coun­cil meeting which rejected Mayor Allen's bid to annex No­tre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross Junior College. As a spec­tator at that meeting I wish to take exception to the accounts your paper ran. 
Both your accounts give the impression that the debate over annexation was a model of ra­tional discussion in a democratic forum. In fact the Council was subjected to a combination po­wer play-pep rally presided over by Fr. Joyce and egged on by a house packed with Notre Dame alumni. 
It is naive, I know, to expect a political meeting to proceed at that same high level of rationali­ty which characterizes our intra­mural deliberations here at du lac. But it is sad when what could have been an occasion for a sincere exchange of reasonable differences becomes instead an occasion for a super-slick sales pitch. It is sadder still when your reporters are so bamboozled by the pitch that they mistake it for a "refutation" of the Mayor's case. 
Clearly, despite all the obfus­(,;ation that Paul Gilbert and Co. could generate, the real conflict was between the city's absolute ,Jeed to expand its population base and the University's fear of eventual taxation. Less abstract­ly, the city is faced with the unpopular but necessary task of making the legal city limits catch up with its real limits; i.e., of catching up with white, middle­-class escapists from the prob­lems of urban life. Against this imperative stands the Universi­ty's fear of taxation, although the University never has explain­ed how being annexed would legally increase its susceptibility to taxation. 
Why couldn't your reporters see that the debate should have centered on the resolution of this conflict? Why couldn't they see that the real losers in this struggle were the urban poor, and that the real winners were the affluent unrealists who have buried their heads in suburban sands? Perhaps if they had seen this they would have been less 
blase about the snow were treated to on night.  job they Monday  
Peace John Robinson  




student union social commission & ace present 



Page 7

February 1, 1971 





7BB CJ!l­
Howat-zer guns down stalled Irish 
by Terry S~tields Observer Sports Editor 
The Chicago Tribune may have told the story of the Notre Dame-lllinois game best simply by the headline used in the Saturday morning "Trib". It said that 'the cold lllini were stopped by a tough USC team. .Any team that will lead the Big Ten conference near the mid-point of the season will very rarely have two poor shooting nights in a row on the same court. On Saturday evening, the Illini came out with a hot hand, exemplified best by guard Rick Howat ( 14-23-from the field), and toppled the Irish in overtime 69-66, on the Chicago Stadium floor. 
It wasn't just a hot hand by Illinois that won the game, it was a very pesky zone that the Irish never could figure out that 
TOTAL  2~-79  10-17  42  66  TOTAL  30-66  9-19  48  69  
ND had 11 turnovers.  UI had 10 turnovers.  
ND sh~t 35.4%.  UI shot 45.5%.  

Spartans deal double loss 
lead to the downfall of the nation's seventh-ranked team. Illinois shot a respectable 45.5% for the game, which is good but not great. Notre Dame, on the contrary, hit a cool 35 ;4%, which is lousy but not terribk 
This was the third of the five NO defeats that came at the hands of a hustling zone defense. (South Carolina and Duquesne also used zones oriented to stop­ping Austin Carr. SC's worked for a half, while the Dukes' lasted a whole game.) This Satur­day the' Illini shackled an ill Carr (he was playing with a horribk cold) and the Irish captain shot only 1 1 of 34 from the floor. 
The Illini also out-hustled the Irish on the boards by grabbing 48 rebounds to 42 for ND. Two quick and agile jumpers, Nick Weatherspoon and Nick Conner, combined for 25 rebounds to 


NOTRE DAME  
FG  FT  REB  PTS  
Jones  9-18  6-8  11  24  Howat  
Catlett  5-11  2-2  12  12  Weatherspoon  
Pleick  2-13  1-6  9  5  Miller  
Meehan  1-3  0-0  3  2  Jackson  
Carr  11-34  1-1  7  23  Conner  
Sinnott TEAM  0-0  0-0  0 8  0  Foster TEAM  

by Jim Donaldson Observer Sportswriter 
Michigan State's hockey team won a pair of rough-and­tumbie games against Notre Dame over the weekend at East Lansing be~ting the Irish 6-3 Friday 1ig:lt and 6-4 on Satur­day. 
The games were spiced by numerous penalties and fights. There were 22 penalty calls in Friday's Game, I 0 of til em against Notre Dame, and 27 ..in Saturday's contest, I 5 of them on the Irish. 
The Spartans were in control 
almost all the way Friday night, 
building up a 6-1 lead before 
two Irish goals late in the third 
period made the final score 6-3. 
Notre Dame scored first in the 
game as John Noble shot home a 
rebound of an Eddie Bumbacco. 
shot at 9:04 of the first period 
but the Spartans, on a pair of 
power play goals by Mark Cald­
er, took a 2-l lead after the Erst 
20 minutes of play. 

The Spartans upped their lead to 3-1 in the second period on a goal by Don Thompson and moved out front 6-1 in the final stanza on tallies by Mike DeMar­co, Larry Lackinovich and Gilles Gagnon. 
The Irish scored their last two goals in the final. minute and a half of play when Larry Israel­son notched his first goal of the season and Phil Witliff picked ur his ninth. 
Freshman Mark Kronholm, making his first start against a WCHA club, did a creditable job in the nets for the Irish, stopping 44 shots. Jim Watt made 41 saves in the Spartan goal. · 
The Irish held one-goal leads three times in Saturday's game but were unable to stop the Spartan attack. State tallied four goals in the third period to decide the issue. 
Once again, the Irish scoted the game's first goJI as Kevin Hoene, leading a 2-on-1 break, fired the puck past Watt with 
7: 14 gone in the first period. The Irish held that slim advan­tage until the period stop. 
The Spartans grabbed the lead 
in the second stanze on power play goals by Calder and Gag­non. The period ended with the score tied 2-2 as Jim Cordes fired in the equalizer for the 

Irish. Notre Dame went ahead at the 3:24 mark in the third pe­riod as Bumbacco drilled a 40-foot slap shot into the Spar­tan net. Calder tied the score, 3-3, two minutes later but Ian Williams put the Irish on top again with 
6:26 gone in the period, stipping a rebound of a shot by Noble past Watt. 
The Spartans came back again however, tying the s;,;ore at 13·36 when Calder scored his thi~d 'goal of the game. Michel Chaurest n·~tted the game-winner at 14:5 I on a breakaway and Randy Sokoll added an insur­ance goal on a power play at 16:12. 
Dick Tomasoni made 36 saves in the Irish net and Watt turned aside 24 Notre Dame shots. 
The sweep enabled the Spar­tans to captun! the season's se­ries from the Irish, three games to one. The clubs split a week­end set at the ACC in December. 
The losses left Notre Dame with an 8-10-l overall record. The Irish are 4-9-1 against WCHA foes. 
slow the lrish under the hoop. Howat and Fred Miller, along with Weatherspoon, structured the outside of the impregnable 3-2 zone devised by coach Harv Schmidt. 
Even though the U of I de­fense was tough to penetrate the Irish had to go inside for their ,;hots since no one could hit from outside. Collis Jones kept NO in the game for the initial part of the game. The 6'7" senior canned a variety of hooks and tap-ins to keep the Illini from opening any more than a six-point lead. 
Rick Howat's 9 for 14 first half was the major factor that led to a 35-32 Illinois lead at the half. Jack Meehan was running into picks on all sides in his attempt to guard the hot shot from Downer' Grove, Ill. 
Besides Howat's bor. br., Illi­n~is was getting points from Conner underneath. His amazing leaping ability allowed him to score on quite a few tips and second shots. 
Notre Dame was taking a great deal of time to get off its shots and the usual fast break could never get untracked. After every Illini shot there was some one right on top of Meehan, the Irish outlet man who engineers the break, to stop the move­ment. 
Notre Dame gradually broke· the Illinois lead after intermis­sion and with five minutes re­maining Austin got free for a few quick hoops and it looked like NO just might break the game open. Then, with Illinois having only three team fouls, Notre D1me went into a semi­stall. The Irish took their time 
!LIINOIS Collis Jones once again turned in a w~rkman-like performance. 
FG  FT  REB  PTS  
14-23  2-4  4  30  
6-13  0-3  9  12  
3-10  0-0  11  6  
3-8  5-7  7  11  
4-12  2-5  16  10  
0-0  0-0  1  0  
6  

grabbed 11 rebounds and scored 25 points in a losing effort. 
going for the hoop and with this situations arose. Illinois let the seemed to go the slight momen-ball roll on the floor after Carr's tum they had built up. hoop and the officials didn't 
Illinois managed to tie the stop the clock. With 13 seconds Irish, thanks to a few missed free remaining the lllini picked the throw opportunities by ND. The ball up and with about I 0 se-Illini then went into a stall of conds left got the ball in bounds their own with just under two -' to Howat. Notre Dame knocked minutes remaining. Howat con-art attempted. pass out of bounds trolled the ball singlc-handedly and immediately called time-out. fqr, the majority of this time and '' With th{officials ~:cady to put with' 18 seconds left in regula-the ball iil play,.the Irish were tion time Illinois called a time-unsatisfied with their plan of out. defense and Tom Sinnott, who 
The break that the Irish were had replaced the disqualified 
looking for occurred right after Meehan, tried to call for another 
the in-bounds pass as Howat "time" but referee Ed Maracich 
took the pass as he was strattling had already given the Illini pos­
the mid-court line and when he session and the entire Irish team 
pivoted back to avoid the charg-wa; out of position to stop 
ing Meehan he committed a Conner, who took the inbounds 
backcourt violation and Notre pass and drove unmolested for a 
Dame had the ball with 16 se-layup at the buzzer. 
conds showir,g on the overhang-There were many murmurs of 
ing Stadium clock. dissent among the ND student 
If the Irish were to win this body over the game strategy 
one this was indeed the time. employed by coach Dee. Why 
\1.eehan tried to work the ball to did the Irish stall when Illinois 
the NO All-American but Carr still had three fouls to commit 
was unable to get off a comfort-before a bonus _situation could 
able shot from the right corner arise? With John Pleick unable 
so the ball went back out to to score from the pivot, why 
Meehan and across to the left wasn't Jones moved there and 
side to Sid Catlett. Sid hesitated Doug Gemmell put in to shoot 
for a few seconds and then from the corner? With Meehan 
decided to shoot. His attempt in foul trouble, why wasn't 
skidded off the hoop and Carr Tom Sinnott brought in? Also, 
made a futile attempt by throw-Simmott would have provided a 
ing up a shot after grabbing the larger obstacle for Howat to 
loose ball in the opposite corner. shoot over not to mention 
Momentum went back to the Sinnott's ·own threat as an out-
Illini. side shot. And why didn't NO 
Illinois took command in the foul when there was still some 
overtime period and they rna-time to do something after 
naged a one point lead with two Carr's last basket? 
minutes to play in the five mi-Dee probably has his answers 
nute period. The Illini got the for each of these questions. 
ball on a steal from John Pleick, After all, he has taken his teams 
who was having trouble working to post-season tourneys for the 
in the ,pivot:all night. Nick Con-last three seasons against the 
ner then broke loose for a layup tougnest opposition he can find. 
with 40 seconds showing but Nor his loss doesn't necessarily 
Collis Jones, who was his usual eliminate NO from the NCAA 
consistant self all evening, bid this year. However, word 
banked home a follow-up shot was confirmed over the weekend 
to put NO back within one at that the first round of the Mid­
65-64. east regional would be held in 
Unable to get the ball away NO's Convocation Center. It 
from Illinois, the Irish fouled would behoove the Irish to ob­
Greg Jackson but the behemoth tain the Mideast' bid, then, but 
center ruined the strategy of NO its doubtful if anything less than 
coach Johnny Dee by converting a 20 win season will put the Irish 
both ends of a one and one in position to get in the Mideast. 
situation. Undaunted, Notre Notre Dame has a week off to 
Dame got the ball to Carr who think about the situation. Maybe 
flipped in a seventeen footer. they can come back or may be 
Now the Irish were down by one they'll keep playing their hot 
once again, 67-66 with 18 se­and cold basketball that has put 
conds to go. them at their present I0-5 pace. 
At this point a string of freak Only time will define. 

THE OBSERfiM February 1 197J 
Page 8 

Escape to Acapulco for a full week of super sun and top notch night life. 
Visit the tequila factory and other famous Acapulco nightclubs. *Escape 
International will take you to Acapulco any Saturday from February 27 to 
April10. Notre Dame students and faculty will run a book col­Your package inc;ludes: lection next Monday, Tuesday e Round trip air transportation to Acapulco, Mexico. and Wednesday for the Navajo e Transfers between Acapulco International Airport and the Del Community College Library. Monte Hotel. The school, begun with the e Seven days and nights accommodations at the Del Monte Hotel enthusiastic support of Univer­overlooking Acapulco. sity President Theodore M. e A fiesta from arrival to departure -a welcome party, water skiing, Hesburgh and former Law 3-hour cruise of the bay with native music and an open authentic School Dean Thomas Lawless, is 
opening its library next year andMexican bar. 
according to student representa­e Tips and taxes on services are also provided. 
tions, books of all kinds are needed, whether usable or not. 
Membership in Escape International Air Travel Club required ... six 
The books in poor condition will months dues just $12.50. be sold for scrap and the money used for new ones. 
Cliff's Notes have been "fife­savers" for millions of students 
Because the University was

by helping them understand dif­ficult literature assignments. ~e instrumental in the founding of prepared. Get the ones you need 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION the school, the administrators 
now and use them as you study. 
have asked students here for 
Nearly 200 titles ... donations. 
always available at your dealer's. There will be three collection
CALL TOLl. FREE points for donated books: 615 Woodcliff Drive in South Bend, the home of Bill Kurtz, student
COLLECT (314) 731 1933 
chairman, Memorial Library, the office of Professor Soens,ESCAPE INTERNATIONAL I THE TRIP CLUB faculty chairman of the drive, and 339 Morrissey Hall. 
Student Union CRYPT SPECIAL 
while they last 
$2.99 Jefferson Airplane Worst 
Also on stock 

. 1 0 Moody Blues in the 
Deginning Jesus Christ Super­star George Harrison Elton John 
3.60 Ja;Iis Joplin-Pearl 
Tapes ($5.30-5.80) on order 
Lafortune 2-5 

All Juniors 
JUNIOR PARENTS-SON WEEKEND WILL HOLD ITS' FINAL TICKET SALES AND TABLE RESERVATIONS FOR THE PRESIDENT'S DINNER AT: 
LaFortune Student Center February I, 2, 3, 1971 7-9 PM 




Shear pin possible cause of capsule trouble 
for the astronauts to approach. Ground controllers and the 
astronauts worked on the prob­
lem for an hour, and at 8: 17 
p.m. EST the crew was asked to Edgartry the docking again "with nor­thought as fellow astronauts Stuart Roosa (L) andmal procedures before going to review flight plans before Sunday's launch. (UPI)
more drastic procedures." Officials had discussed with lots were on ~heir way to the All had been going smoothly 
the astronauts the possibility of moon to explore the moon val-before that. The astronauts roc­
retracing the steps and trying to ley which Apollo 13 never reach-keted aloft at 4:03 p.m. EST 
despite an ominous doud cover
Jock onto the lander with dock­ed when they encountered ing latches, rather than usong trouble. that threatened to keep them grounded.
the capture latches. America's last moon mission. Apollo 13, was 205,000 miles 

Kunstler on Sr. list 
from home in April when an explosion raked its oxygen tanks and the Berrigan brothers; Josefand turned the mission into a Pieper, a widely recognized au­scramble for survival. 
thority on Greek and RomanShepard and his rookie copi­philosophy; novelist I. F. Stone; George McGregor Burns, a poli­tical historian and an advisor to President Kennedy; James Ahern; George Charles Hurst, President of Malcom X College in Chicago; novelist Saul Bellow and B. E Skinner, the author of "Walden Two" whose writings on the scientific control of hu­
man behavior have made him the most controversial modern psychological theorist today. 
All of these men have con­firmed that they will be available for differing periods of time, but at differing dates. Thus the re­sults of the voting will determine when and for how long the S~nior Fellow will be at Notre Dame. 
(Continued from Page 1) 
Before the docking trouble struck, Apollo 14 had been sail­ing along perfectly . 
Ground controllers said the trouble possibly could have re­sulted from a shear pin being torn away when the escape tow­er was jettisoned from the Sat­urn rocket 21/z minutes after a flawless, but weather delayed launching from Cape Kennecy. 
The lunar lander rides in the nose of the third stage of the Saturn during liftoff. The astro­nauts have to separate their com­mand ship from the Saturn, turn the command ship around and then pick up the lander before 

Officials at Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala., where the latches are manufac­tured, advised Houston control­lers that they had about 6 to 9 hours to solve the problem. This would be as long as the Saturn had enough steering fuel to keep it stable so the docking could be accomplished. 
After that the Saturn would 

start gyrating and become unsafe 







