
Day Care _project plans ready for presentation 

All requirements for the Happy Day Care Center set by St. Mary's Administrative Com­mittee have been met, but in­surance problems have posed another delay. The Day Care Project will be presented to the St. Mary's Board of Trustees on Oct. 22 and 23 for final approval. 
Acting President Sr. Alma Peter will meet today with center organizer Lynne Mastriana to iron out the three technicalities. 
Corporation and licensing papers have been completed and sent' to Indianapolis for approval. The state license and corporate seal should be received by Oct. 20. 
Miss Mastriani heads a com­mittee which claims Student 

Floyd Kezele: Hope that the SLC becomes a "body of action" 
regulations it will impose on it­self." 
The petition was circulated as an "alternate resolution" to the sanctions. 
In other business the Steering Committee discussed changes within the by-laws of the SLC. 
Changes are necessary since we have added three members from St. Mary's and some mechanical points have to be cleared up," Kezele explained. 
"Previously," Kezele com­mented, "there has been one problem with the SLC. Itdoesn't have a driving force behind it, and simply has been sitting around. Now we have reorganized it to put force behind the SLC decisions hoping it will become a body of action, not reaction.'' 
The Steering Committee which is chaired by Kezele, is an ad­ministrative arm of the SLC which schedules meetings, determines the agenda and sets time limits for debate of each topic, and decides which com­mittee for referal of certain matters. 
New nukes seen in Russia 
Satelli~e pix show buildup 
( C >1971 NEW YORK TIMES 
Washington, Oct. 10--Satellite 
Photos of the Soviet Union have 
uncovered evidence of a sub­
stantial build-up of more and 
better strategic nuclear weapons. 
The information showed that the Soviet Union is still building two new classes of large missile silos, constructing a third type of new silo, and is doubling the production facilities for missile submarines. 
Some officials in the State and Defense Departments and White House said this buildup provides Krealer urgency to the need to secure at least a first-step arms control agreement as soon as possible. 1 
Others throughout the government privately stressed that unless this buildup is stopped soon, the United States might feel impelled to expand its own nuclear arsenal to maintain the balance of strategic power between the two nations. 
A senior Pentagon official, 
pressed for details on the extent and character of the Soiet Nuclear program, insisted that the arms-control talks were at such a delicate stage that the Defense Department did not intend to provide details of the build-up until its next annual report to Congress in February. 
Other officials in various departments were sufficiently 
concerned,  however,  to  sketch  
out  some  details  of  the Soviet  
build-up.  

The reconnaissance satellites have found that the number of silos of two different sizes generally believed designed for improved or entirely new long­range missiles now exceeds 90-­up from the 10 silos spotted early this year and the 60 seen in mid­summer. The inner dimensions of the smaller of these silos is significantly larger that the 10­foot diameter of the Soviet Union's largest operational missile, the SS-9. 
A third type of silo, larger than any of the others, has been sighted, with one each at several 


~~~~::~~~@.W'l 
Habat, Morocco--Despite the "good will" of Egypt, the tension in the Middle East • 'can degenerate into conflict," Soviet Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin warned. Kosygin, ending a three-day visit to Morocco, called for a "rapid" and "peaceful" solution to the Middle East tensions. Then he flew back to Moscow to discuss Soviet military aid with President Anwar Al-Sadat of Egypt. 
Taipt>i, 'l'<tiwan--Nationalist China observed the 60th anniversary-­the rough equivalent on the Chinese calendar of a centennial in the West--{)f the uprising in Wuchang that led to the downfall of the Manchu Empire. But the fireworks, parades, dragon dancing teams, flags and banners in Tapei were only slightly more numerous than in past observations of National Day-An indication of the threat to the Nationalists' continued recognition by other nations as the rightful government of China. 
Vit•nna--Early results of the general elections in Austria showed that the Socialist Party of Chancellor Bruno Kreisky had achieved its goal, an absoulute majority in the Parliament. But the victory was narrow; 
it is considered likely that the Socialists will have only a one-seat majority after absentee ballots are counted. 
Washington--If you get married before the age of 22, your marriage is twice as likely to end in divorce as it would be if you married when you are somewhat older, figures released by the Census Bureau showPd. But, the Bureau's statistics contained a warning for young white women: Don't wait too long. Their probability of getting married peaks between the ages of 22 and 24, then drops off sharply. 
Government Executive Coor­dinator .. Bob Weaver and for­mer SLC candidate Tom Foy as members. This committee had been working on the plan since last May. 
The committee then must draft a contract between St. Mary's College and the Board of Directors of the Happy Day Care Center. 
Monday, Oct. 11, the volunteer staff will begin building equip­ment and educational supplies for the center. 
The day-care project has 
·-.J-u_s_ta-re-m-in_d_e_r_t_h_a_t-th_e_r_e_v.-·i_II_b_e_, Trustees regarding parietal and alcoholic rules and sanctions. 
a student Senate meeting to night The date was set Friday at a at 8 pm in the La Fortune Am-meeting of the Steering Com­phitheatre. Any and all questions mittee, according to SLC Vice 
will be answered. 
L______________J 
Chairman Floyd Kezele. 
different missile complexes. Analysts believe the new holes are designed either for a special 
purpose  new  missile  or  a  new  
type  of  command  and  control  
facility.  

The Soviet Union now has about 41 Y-class missile submarines operational or under con­struction, thus drawing abreast of the American Polaris Sub­marine Force. The new in­telligence findings indicate a doubling of the size of the Soviet's principal nuclear submarine construction yard at Severod­vinsk, on the White Sea. 
(Continued on page 2) 

Parietals, ']' boards discussed 
SMC cabinet meets 
by Marlene Zloza 

Clarifications concerning ND degrees for SMC students, hall parietals rights and judicial board positions constituted important areas of concern at Sunday night's SMC executive cabinet meeting. 
In regard to senior petitions for degrees, it was made clear that the possibility of qualified SMC students receiving ND degrees is definitely open. So far, only a small number of pettitions have been received. 
Cabinet members expressed a hope that ND will establish a definite criteria for ND degrees that can be referred to in making selections. 
Darlene Gallina, one of those involved in parietal hours changes, reported that technically there is a sound basis in the rules manual for leaving parietal decisions up to the in­dividual residence halls. 
But, said Miss Gallina, as the issue is discussed more thoroughly the questions of morality and security will be reviewed. 
The proposal is to be con­"' sidered this week by the Student Affairs Council. 
Judicial Board Chairman Sue ~elte announced that the board is opening three positions this week because of resignations. The most important criteria is being able to attend all Wed-already asked for $570.00 from Applications are now being the Notre Dame Student Center. accepted from parents who wish The Budget Committee, which to enroll their children in the makes non-binding recom­center. A meeting will be held mendations to the Senate, has sometime next week with the suggested an allocation of $300.00 parents to discuss the program. 

SLC to give formal report on sanctions 
The Student Life Council will meet Thursday, Oct. 14 to for­maiize its report to the Board of 
The time and location of the meeting has not been set, but Kezele said he hopes the Center for Continuing Education auditorium will be available in anticipation of a large student attendence. 
The SLC must reply to a letter from Trustees Chairman Ed­mund A. Stephan requesting a list of sanctions for violators of parietal and alcoholic regulations before the Oct. 22 meeting of the Trustees' Executive Committee. 
The Hall Life Council will present its report based on a public hearing held Tuesday, at which approximately 100 students criticized the proposed sanctions. 
The Steering Committee acknowledged receipt of a petition signed by 65 persons recommending that "each residence hall" be given the power "to decide what rules and 
nesday night meetings. 
Jack Candon , community Re;ations commissioner, reported on a possible blood drive and ND sanctions petition. Candon is also working towards several community goals including the student ticket exchange for South Bend children 
(Continued on page 6) 
Homecoming weekend begins with SU party 
Homecoming weekend ac­to be held at the South Bend tivities will begin on Friday armory is $5.00 per couple. A evening, October 15 with the local band, "Friends, Brothers, Student Union's homecoming and Strangers," will be featured party. and beer will be served. 
The cost of the informal party, Student Union Social Com­

missioner Don Mooney em­phasized the fact that the party would be informal. He said the change this year from the traditionai formal dance was due to the seeming lack of interest in formal affairs. 
On Saturday, the Student Union will present Poco and Livingston Taylor in concert at 8:30 p.m. following the game with North Carolina. 
Tickets for the party, scheduled to begin at 9 p.m., can he purchased at the door. Special busses will leave the Notre 
Dame circle at 8::!0 p.m., !1:00

Don Mooney: SU party to be 
p.m .. and !l::lO p.m.

informal 
------~---------------­
Soviet power previously underestimated 
(Continued from page 1) 
The total number of Soviet Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles, operational or under construction, now exceeds 1,600, compared to 1,054 for the U.S. 
The intelligence reports in­dicated that the Soviet Union is working at what one senior of­ficial called an "incredibly in­tense" pace in completing a ring of antiballistic missile sites around the periphery of Moscow. A new radar and advanced A.B.M.'S are said to be being installed. 
Publicly, the Nixon ad­ministration has emphasized the hope of early success in the strategic arms limitatiiun talks, which have been under way for two years. 
President Nixon recently concluded in a speech: "Neither power at this time could, if it wanted to, gain that superiority which would enable it to, frankly, blackmail the other one." 
But, privately, some senior officials spoke less op­timistically. Declared one of­ficial: "We have consistently underestimated the Numerical goals of the Soviet missile programs for 10 years. We have also consistently assumed, in­correctly I'm afraid, that they bought our strategic concept of deterrence. 
"They obviously don't want a nuclear war any more than we. But they're building a sufficient · edge in nuclear strength, and in conventional forces as well, so they may have reason to expect us to back down in future con­frontations, as we made them do in the Cuban missile crisis of 1962. Beyond that, they're building the kinds and numbers of weapon_s, so that if deterrence ·rails, they may feel they can effectively wage nuclear war." 
The American strategic philosophy is based on having a nuclear force that can ride out a surprise attack and retaliate primarily against the attacker's cities rather than his remaining nuclear weapons. By main­taining such an "assured destruction" capability, the strategy seeks to deter nuclear war. 
U.S. officials have consistently avoided building large warheads of sufficient accuracy to threaten to destroy Soviet nuclear forces, either in a first strike or in retaliation. 
Earlier this week the Senate overwhelmingly defeated an attempt led by Sen. James L. Buckley (Con.-N.Y.) to add $42 million to the defense budget to substantially improve the ac­curacy of Minuteman and Poseidon missiles. The amend­ments were opposed on the ground they might suggest the 
U.S. was striving for a first-strike. 
There remains a difference of opinion within the administration of what kind of missiles will be deployed in the now more than 90 new missile silos being con­structed at several different locations east and west of the Ural Mountains. 
The majority of analysis believe the Soviet Union would not go to the trouble and expense of building the very large new silos without intending to install much improved versions of their SS-9 and SS-11 I.C.B.'S or even new generations of missiles with improved accuracy, reliability and warheads. 
A minority view holds that the new silos are designed to provide greater hardness against attack for current missiles. 
A third type of new silo, about four feet wider than the largest e~er seen, has now been spotted, w1th one each at several different missile complexes. 
Analysts believe the holes are more likely designed for a special purpose missile-thatis being dispersed to achieve greater protection against concentrated attack. 

Bethlehem Steel Campur

IntervieW/
Oct. 25 & 26,1971 

Steel is the backbone of American · business and industry, and Bethlehem 
is our country's second-largest steel 
producer. And, when it comes to 
progressiveness, we're second 
to none. 
If you're thinking career, think 
seriously about the Bethlehem Steel 
Loop Course. Ask your placement 
officer about it; see our specification 
sheet; pick up a copy of our booklet, 
"Bethlehem Steel's Loop Course," at 
the placement office. Most important 
of all, sign up for a campus interview. 
Here's how you might fit in at 
Bethlehem Steel: 
Engineering Degrees 
Steel Plant Operations 
Fabricated Steel Construction 
Mining 
Sales 
Research 
Shipbuilding 
Business and Arts Degrees 
Sales 
Accounting 
The Bethlehem Steel Loop Course­since 1922, our program for recruiting, orienting, and training college graduates for careers in management. Talk over your career prospects with our campus representative. 
1"'"' An equal opportunity 
sr EL 
employer 

:::;. 
Monday, October 11, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Easy Senate confirmation expected 
Sen. Byrd may join Supreme Court 
1cl 1971 New York Times 
Washington, Oct. 10-Evidence mounted today that President Nixon's first choice for nomination to the Supreme Court is Sen. Robert Byrd of West Virginia, and that if his name is submitted to the Senate for eonfirmation it will pass easily. 
The good confirmation prospects of the conservative West Virginia Democrat were indicated by the implied en­dorsement of Byrd by George McGovern of South Dakota, a with no record of legal or judicial practice, would be unlikely to win a high rating from the American Bar Association, which screens and grades judicial nominees. 
The President's reported ex­pression of disdain for the Bar Association's rating of Byrd was said to have come Friday mor­ning at a staff conference on a list of potential Supreme Court nominees. 
The list was reported to include the names of Senators Howard Baker, Jr. of Tennessee and 
leading Senate Liberal, and by • Robert Griffin of Michigan, both 
predictions by other Senators. 
Sources in West Virginia familiar with some of the details of the President's conversation with Byrd last Friday described the prospect that Nixon will pick Byrd as "excellent." 
Rep. Harley 0. Staggers, a W. Va., De., at whose invitation the President flew on Friday to the Mountain State Forest Festival at Elkins, W.Va.-with Byrd as a passenger in the White House plane -was quoted today as having said Byrd's nomination "looks very good." Byrd's senior colleague in the Senate, Sen. Jennings Randolph, a Democrat, was also said to be "optimistic" about a Byrd nomination. 
Byrd himself was making no comment on the increased pace of speculation on his nomination, and White House officials added nothing to Saturday's con­firmation that Byrd's name was one of several before the President. 
One element said to be included in Republican political calculations about a Byrd nomination was that Byrd should resign his Senate seat, it would be filled until the 1972 election by an appointee of Gov. Arch A. Moore, Jr., a Republican. A republican appointee would reduce the 55-45 Democratic majority in the Senate to 54-46. 
Furthermore, Moore is known to be extremely eager to run for a Senate seat next year, a course that West Virginia Republicans roncede would be effectively barred to him unless Byrd or Handolph, both well-i!ntrenched, were to resign or retire. 
Nixon was reported to have rejected brusquely a suggestion by at least one of his advisers that the choice of Byrd, a former member of the Ku Klux Klan with a long record of opposition to civil rights measures, would stir a major Senate fight against his confirmation. Byrd, like the late Justice Hugo 
L. Black, has repudiated his youthful membership in the Klan. 
According to reports cir­rulating here today, which could not be confirmed, Nixon also brushed aside, with a display of anger, another White House staff warning. This warning was that Byrd, a lawyer only since 1963 Republicans. There are two vacancies on the Court. 
The A.B.A. has received no communication from the White House on a presidential choice, but administration spokesmen have lent encouragement to reports that Nixon is considering Byrd's nomination above others. 
If one purpose of the official news leaks that Byrd's name is at the top of Nixon's list of court candidates was to elicit public reaction, it had this striking effect today. 
The most and significant unexpected result was McGovern's praise of Byrd, who has been the Democratic whip, or assistant majority leader, for the last nine months. 
Sen. Fred Harris of Oklahoma, like McGovern and announced candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination next year, said that he would vote against Byrd's nomination because he lacked both "the depth of judgment and legal experience that you would associate with a justice of the nation's highest court," and "the exemplary record in civil rights and civil liberties that I would like to see." 
But McGovern's assessment of 
-
The most 
-.-­
1

Meaning ul Semester 
, d 

you II ever spen ... could be the one on World CamP.US Afloat 
Sailing Feb. 1972 to Africa and the Orient 

Through a transfer format, more than 5,000 students from 450 campuses have participated for a semester in this unique program in inter· national education. 
WCA will broaden your horizons, literally and figuratively ... and give you a better chance to make it-meaningfully-in this changing world. You'll study at sea with an experienced cos­mopolitan faculty, and then during port stops you'll study the world itself. You'll discover that no matter how foreign and far-away, you have a lot in common with people of other lands. 
WCA isn't as expensive as you might think: we've done our best to bring it within reach of most college students. Write today for free details. 
TEACHERS: Summer travel with credit for teach­ers and administrators. 
~ ~ Write Today to:

·~-~ 
Chapman College,

• 
Box CC26 Oran e California 92666 
STAPLETON MASS THIS WEEK 
PEACE AT THE END OF YOUR DAY 
!\Ion.-Rev. Roger Cormier 
Tut>.-Ht>v. Bill Toohey 
Wf'd.-Rt>v. Ned Reidy 
10::10 P.M. 

• l"TAPI.ETON LOUNGE LE MANS HALL 
YOU ARE INVITED! 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Byrd as "a man of enormous 
biness" of the Senate and the illllfl...t!IJ 
industry and personal pride" 
power wielded by the Senate
who would "bend every effort to 
whip. Harris has said that he is
become a great justice" over­
retiring from the Senate next 
shadowed Harris' criticism. 
year' and he is thus unlikely to be 
It may also have demonstrated 
concerned about reprisals for his 
one of Byrd's great advantages if 
opposition.
he is nominated -the "club-
Friday Oct 15 9pm-1am South Bend Armory $5°0 pe£·w couple tickets at door music by FRIENDS,BROTHERS,AND STRANGERS 
REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED 
special busses will leave the ND circle at 8:30, 9:00 and 9:30. Five minutes later from St. Mary's. 

•••and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 

Indiana Bell 
A nthony L e w is :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;~=~=~=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 



THE OB.SERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager GlenS. Corso James Jendryk 
All successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend anyone or anything if they i\d Manager
Ext>cutive Editor 
can help it; if the job is forced upon them,
T.C. Treanor Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by uenouncing someone or 
something else.'-H. L. Mencken,
Founded November 3, 1966 Notre Dame, Indiana Business 283-7471 News 283-1715 
Is this the scltool that Made J(nute Rockne Famous? 
The populace that journeys regularly to the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem would have been put to shame today with the Notre Dame student body's garish display of emotion accompanying the announcement that another grand old Notre Dame tradition had bitten the dust. 
The formal Homecoming dance is no more, according to Social Com­.. missioner Don Mooney. A declining interest, coupled with a large loss on last year's dance affixed the seal of doom to the event. 
Instead the student body will have the chance to go to a beer bash at the armory -hardly a fitting substitute for one of Notre Dame's most illustrious events. 
.Can this be the same University that once prayed, en masse, at the Grotto for victory? Can this be the same University that held it sacred~ that no immature undergraduate foot could trod the holysteps of the dome? Can this be the same University that saw timeless, ageless, even graceless couples waltz and schmaltz their way across homecoming tiles of the past? 
The answer to this question is a sad yes. The name's the same, but the game's different. Beer cans have replaced rosary beads, and the drunken belches have replaced the old war cries, "Hail Mary, full of grace," to "to hell with Michigan State," and "Glory, Hallelujah!" No wonder the Trustees want sanctions! 
Where shall we go from here? What other hallowed traditions will fall prey to the agnostic spirit sweeping the campus? Will the BVM be replaced by a gilded statue of one of our most illustrious female cheerleaders? Will Sorin hall be converted into a warehouse for the food service? Will the stadium be used as the exhibition pen ofr the next In­diana State livestock convention? Will the Rock, heaven forbid, be made into a co-ed dormitory for nuns and priests! 
The passing of homecoming has crystalized the issue-the gauntlet has been thrown down. All those intent upon preserving what sacred traditions remain must take to the ramparts and repel the barbarian hordes pressing upon the holy gates of duLac. 
We suggest, with all solemnity, that this whole liscentious scheme of the current disciples of Bolshevism who currently occupy the Social Commission be overthrown with righteous bombast, and be replaced by the following three-point plan: 
--A formal dance -music provided by the Glenn Miller band-done in surplices and cassocks. --That dance to be preceded by a Legion of Decency pledge and a pledge of abstinence from the general student body. 
--That confessionals be put all around the ACC for general use throughout the dance. 
In that way, and only in that way, can we preserve the Notre Dame that was born in the mind of Father Sorin and lives in the dreams of a thousand old grads. 
THE STAFF 

Nite Editor: (Subbing for good ol' Marty} Joe Abell (with a little help from his friend, Jerry Lutkus Ass't Nite Editor: Don Biancamano Long Talkers: Corso, Treanor, and Ellis typists: Debbie Gras, Lenny Jochem Copyreader (and occasional Managing Editor}: Don Ruane controller of the night: rick smith 
where were you, Susan? ·, 
The Power of Politics 

=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: New York Times 
by Anthony Lewis 
<c> 1971 New York Times News Service 

<London, Oct. 10. )--A British expert on Vietnam, a confirmed Hawk, was talking about Northern Ireland. The trouble there, he said, was the weakness of the British Army's Intelligence: If they had a list of 2,000 terrorists and got them behind bars, all would be well. 
But what about the politics of the situation, he was asked--the almost total disaffection of the Roman Catholic minority'? His answer was that politics did not matter; If you could get the security situation under control, the political problem would sort itself out. 
The conversation would have been wonderful in its irony if it did not promise so much sorrow. After all that has happened in Vietnam . some people stiil think that solutions can be imposed 
on a bitterly divided community by security measures alone. 
The absurdity of that notion is ever clearer in Ireland than in Vietnam. For 300 years, since Pope Hadrian the fourth proclaimed Henry the Second ruler of Ireland, England has tried to subdue her sister island by force. The British genius for politics seems to disappear when it comes to Ireland. 
The latest misconceived effort to impose peace by security means began last Aug. 9--the internment of suspected terrorists. About 240 men have been interned so far, all of them Catholics. The political result has been predictable: the further alienation of Ulster's 500,000 Catholics, 35 or 40 per cent of the population, from the whole political system . 
Internment has been a disaster even when viewed only as a security matter. Since the early hours of Aug. 9, 57 men, women and children have been killed in northern Ireland by terrorists or by the British army in counter-action. The number of bombings has sharply increased, and armed robberies by terrorists gangs hardly rate headlines any longer. 
The rest of the worldprobably does not fully understand what is happening to a part of the United Kingdom, that most peaceful of countries. Itwould still be an exaggeration to speak of civil war in Northern Ireland, but the strain on economic life and on individual psychology is approacxhing the unbearable. 
In recent years the best-known sowntown hotel in Belfast has closed because the troubles had ruined its business. The Kuily Mirror decided to shut down permanently its Ulster printing plant, the most modern in the U.K., after it was bombed. Whole areas of Belfgast are closed off by roadblocks every night. Thousands of its citizens have left mixed Catholic-Protestants areas and gone into their own ghettos in a migration pf fear. 
Belatedly, Prime Minister Heath and his government have recognized the political dimensions of the problems. They have talked about providing Catholics with an assured place in Nor­thern Ireland's political structure, dominated by the Protestant Unionist party since partition 50 years ago. Heath has brought the Ulster provincial prime minister, Brian Faulkner, together with the prime minister of the Irish Republic, John Lynch. 
The object of these afterthoughts is to make the Ulster Catholics feel that they have some stake in the system. A few years or even a few months ago such initiatives might have made a difference. It ia almost impossble to believe that they can now. 
The opposites in Northern Ireland are becoming more irreconcilable all the time. It was revealing when Faulkner, talking about bringing Catholics into the government, said they could not include such opposition leaders as Gerry Fitt and John Hume because they wanted a united republicn nation at the north as part of the U.K. But Faulkner is in danger of losing moderates in the Catholic community with out them no approach to the minority would be worth anything. 
Faulkner worries more about being stabbed in the back than about mollifying the Catholics. The Protestant right would like to undo the political reforms already undertaken, and it considers Faulkner a compromiser. 
The truth is that the system of separte provincial government in Northern Ireland is mortally wounded Only a miracle can save it now, and there are no miracles in sight. 
What then'? The few remaining moderates in Belfast say ther~ will have to be direct rule--government of Northern Ireland from London. The Catholics would feel safer than under a Protestant Ulster government, it is argued. But would the terrorists of the Irish Republican Army stop their bombing and sniping'? No. They would see direct rule as one more victory on the way to a united Ireland. 
The I.R.A. men are as cruel and indiscriminate as terrorists always are. Little children die along with British soldiers who thought they were there to protect people regardless of religion. But terrorists can win in a colonial territory if the authorities; ; and cheir people back home--grown weary of the the fight. 
That is the real question now: will the British people tire of this battle as they did in Cyprus and Palestine, even though this one is next door'? The Protestants of Ulster consider themselves as Bitish as Yorkshiremen and sometimes complain that Britain would never let this happen in Yorkshire. 
But it is doubtful that the mass of Britons really think of Nor­thern Ireland as part of themselves. 
Monday, Ocfober 11, 1971 THE,OBSERV.=~~R~-----------------------------~~ag~e~s 


The demise of moderates 
By Robert Bendiner (cl 1!171 New York Times News Sevice 
Robert Bendiner is a member of the New York Times 
Editorial Board. The following is a commentary. 
New York-Not many words with the power to shock are left in the American vocabulary, 'moderate' being the dirtiest. Only seven years ago Barry Goldwater was humbled in the dust for extolling estremism and downgrading moderation. Now Senator Muskie of Maine, his eye on the White House, finds himself urged to dilute his reputation as a temperate politican, as a man who comes only cautiously to great decisions and is addicted to learning all he can about an issue before trumpeting his views on it. In large and influential segments of the electorate, some youthful and some merely in pursuit of youthful approval, such attributes are mainlyht the hallmarkno longer of the philosopher­statesman but of the Establish Mediocrity. 
When did 'compromise' and 'consensus' become terms of general opprobrium? The first has always been the rule in well-regulated kindergartens and parliaments, as opposed to group mayhem and private tantrums. Only dictatorships,it has long been un­derstood, can afford to be uncompromising. 
The second term, consensus, is the very essence of democracy -nonetheless so because President .Johnson's use of the word gave rise to certain suspicions. What was wrong with the Johnsonian consensus was not the idea but the fact that he didn't appear to mean it. When he said, "Come, let us reason together," he was merely giving everyone a chance to agree with him. 
Extremism, it is true, is likewise a venerable 
tradition in the United States. but onlv recently has it come into its own as an upper-middie-dass attitude, highly popular at suburban dinner parties, oc­casionally lauded at church breakfasts, as "prophetic witness," and found thoroughly "understandable" in the columns of respectable journals. Indeed, the feeling has come to be that moderation is vaguely synonymous with lack of passion, conviction or social concerns. Where a Goldwater was once faulted for shooting from the hip, a Muskie is now scorned in the same circles as the slowest gun in the East. 
But the psychological insight involved in this shift seems almost as feeble as the political analysis. A man can be passionate about the Middle Way if he happens to believe that the truth is most often to be found somehwere near the center; that extreme tactics are rarely the way to "get things done," as the popular rationale has it; andd that a democratic society that falls into the habit of getting things done that way soon falls out of the habit of democracy altogether. 
It would take a good-sized book -and an interesting one it would be -to examine this proposition that social justice has been advanced in direct ratio to the illegality employed,but even a quick glance at some recent history shows glaring flaws in the theory. Watts and the ghetto areas of Washington look rather worse today than they did before the riots that tore them up a few years ago, whreas orderly court procuedures have profoundly altered the school system of Arkansas, and, even more, the politics of Mississippi. 
The first of last spring's antiwar demonstrations in Washington was a peaceable assembly, in the best tradition of lawful protest -and it was enormously impressive. The second, on May Day, was a grotesquely conceived effort to close down the capital 
of the United States; it achieved nothing but a few minor martyrdoms and the renewed conviction among borderline observers that the peace movement was riddled with kooks after all. 
Intellectuals can generally be counted on to produce out of their ranks a small minority for whom force and extremism exercise a perverse fascination. European facist parties in the thirties had a good quota of leaders who had once been at the other end of the political rainbow. Indeed the campuses of Germany and Austria were fertile sources of Nazi manpower, both faculty members and students, and of communist manpower as well. 
What all these had in common was a scorn for the office-holding bumblers in themiddle, who couldn't enjoy the luxury of shrilly preaching the one and only truth because they always had to have an ear cocked on the uncertain voice of the people. Neiteher could the same bumblers force that voice to unanimity, because their very centrist principles, took ocgnizance of human differences and the right to disagree. 
The affinity extremists have for each other bobbed up last February in an interesting but almost ignored Gallup poll. It showed that while college students as a whole held extremist organizations in allmost. as low esteem as the general population does, a significant proportion of radicals at opposite ends of the spectrum had considerable regard for each other. Those describing their own philsophy as "far left" gave a highly favorable rating to the John 'Birch Society and the Ku Klux Klan; those who classified themselves as "far rivht" did the same for the S.D.S., the Weather­men and the Black Panthers 
If that is playing it cool, there is much to be said for the passionately moderate over the moderately passionate. 

Letters to the Editor 
my tornado research project.

I could see the serving ladies to Play at Home", the truly Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­
The first point is that my wife and 

objection to serving food if they perverted experience he speaks munity", a function which the 
two daughters do not have the

of pales in comparison to the Observer daily promises to
nining Hall Gripes had to walk that unimagineable 
obscenity of said article which fulfill. Ifit finds that it cannot fill impression that I will be "blown 
distance of thirty feet back into 
to bits." The reason all of us

was surpassed only by its lack of its pages with articles worthy of
the kitchen but the stuff was right 
connected with the project , in­

t-;ditor: content, humorous or otherwise. community attention, it would
there. 
cluding my family, have little

seem far better to fill the pages
This letter is to bitch a little bit Eve1·y piece of information I We had a sense of experiencing 
with empty space rather than concern for safety is that the
about the University's "Crack" have received about the cafeteria the Camusian abyss of literary 
mobile instrumentation station,

food service. My complaint is not hours state, that the continental meaninglessness. The Observer with empty words. 
Sincerely, the modified armored personnel

with the food, for that is beyond breakfast ends at 10:30, but the staff, or at least one of its staff 
carrier, weighs twenty-one and

help; 1 mean that every recipe people at the south dining hall members, unnecessarily exposes 
Dorothy Hickey one-half tons not two and one half

that the chef's employ has its seemingly set their own time. the unappealing depths of his 
Dathi Soplop tons as reported in the article.

basic ingredients, a combination Why can't the dining hall move psyche, while so often failing in 
Melinda Milone The vehicle has five-eighths inch

of flour, water and ready-mix their closing time of the Con­the fundamental objective of 
Hobbit King thick steel armor plate on the

concrete, which has the effect of tinental Breakfast to 10:30 so the feature journalism in printing 
Ellen Doehner front, rear and sides. I doo not

forming an impenetrable plug in kids who have classes through this article, but failed in the basic 
mean to imply that driving into

one's upper intestine. Thank God \J:55 will have a chance to eat. objective of journalistic concern 
the core of a tornado will not be

for acidic nature of oufstomachs, What is the food service (the only in neglecting to note in any way 
an "interesting" ride indeed; my

which after 3 hours of very hard organization in the world that the recent death of Dr. Zygmunt 
point is--it should be quite safe.

Editor:
work, finally destroys the plug, could "screw up a free lunch") Karpinski, faculty member of St. 
I would like to make two
hut pray that when this occurs afraid of, the fact that they might Mary's for sixteen years. Sincerely,
clarifications concerning the
you happen to be standing next to feed someone. We question whether this 
Bruce J. Morgan

information that appeared in the
your Hall's outhouse. This Just One of Many Griping pointlessly crude article in any 
Assistant Professor

Octobr 4 Observer article about
however is to be expected of the Students, wa a "service to the 
food from the cafeteria. Martin Gibbons 
My gripe is that when you want 145 Alumni the stuff you can't get it. Last rught 1 was up until 2:00 studying 
Nixon vs Bookstorefor a departmental that I had today. At seven o'clock this Editor:morning I didn't particularly feel It came to our attention that 

like getting up. for the early since the opening of the school morning matinee of "Look what year, the price of the composition came out of the kitchen". 
notebook has been raised from(playing at the South Dining Hall $.50 to$.55. Superifically, thisat7:00,8:30, 11:15&5:15Monday increase in price may not meritthrough Saturday) I thought that 
attention, however, we are 
I would go to my eight and nine concerned enough to make ito'clock then cat some food later. 
known to the Notre Dame( I stretch the definition of the eommunity. As consumers, weword food a lot l After my classes have grown accustomed to theI arrived at the dining hall at inflationary prices of the past few10:03, when I was informed that years. However, it is dishear­the Jines closed at 10:00. Isaid tening to see thatthe bookstorethat "I am only 3 minutes late would continue increasing prices and there should be some 
while i ignoring President 
doughnuts somewhere." The Nixon's Wage and Price Freezelady restated that the line was initiated on August 15, 1971. Itdosed. My stomach already in may be that the bookstore iseontortions from being hungry, capable of absorbing a $5,000said "Kid feed me something". 
fine, but whether they are finedSo to appease it I drank a cup of or not, their recent action hascoffee, which sent it into instant eost them our respect.
heart-burn. This caused me to skip the usual plug phase and 
Rick Dadaianproceed directly to the Caf. out­Vince Wagnerhouse. 
Rich Ullinger
So much for the rip-off. This morning when I went to the 
'8t•Uer Not To Write'

serving counter, the boxes of cereals were directly behind the Editor: counter on a table. Te doughnuts To comment on Ken Wright's were in a cart next to the counter. article of September 30, "Better 





11tl ~-­
**** 
ll\'illftSfttll t;t,•lttl• 
Saturday1 October 16 
The Student Umon Ttcket Office and Dining Halls 
presented by Student Union Social Commission and ACC 

Page 6 



RUSH SERVICE orders shopped in 1 da, b' '"'' 
class m11L Add $2 per poster ordered. 

~~~~,f~~··r:r' ~~~~"~:.~"~~:,~d. ~} ~iJ:~.r!~!'S:,:~ 
Notre Dame Bookstore
•••-Send check. cnh or M.O. (No c.o.D.) to: 
BLO-UP Dept. 000, 

I 210 E. 23 St. N.Y. 10010 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·----­
Monday, October 11, 1971 T_HE OBSERVE&_ . Page 7 
Hurricanes fall to Irish defense 

Etter hurt; soph Brown directs Irish past Miami 

next play but Bob Minnix picked 
up the first down by inches at the 
38. Brown and Cieszkowski ran for another first down to the 'Cane 26 but the march stalled there. After three running plays had gained only five yards, Bob Thomas came in to attempt a field goal. The sophomore walk­on put the ball through the uprights from just over 38 yards away to give the Irish a 3-o lead with 5:22 left in the half. It was Thomas' second three-pointer of the year. 
Neither club threatened in the final minutes of the half and the Irish took their 3-o advantage to the dressing room. 
Notre Dame wasted no time in adding to that lead once the second half got underway. ,Mter Bill Gallagher returned the kickoff to the Irish 34, Brown took the club down the field to score in 11 plays. Notre Dame stayed on 
Sophomore Cliff Brown, shown handing off to Andy Huff, took over at
the ground throughout the 66­
quarterback for the Irish after Bill Etter was injured in the second
yard drive, which was capped by 
quarter and directed both of Notre Dame's scoring drives. 
a great, 16-yard run by Andy Huff. Huff rumbled through a Notre Dame moved the ball back final minutes, driving to the Irish gaping hole and bounced off to the 17, Brown ran for five 21 before giving up the ball on three would-be tacklers enroute yards and, on the play, the downs, but that was as close as to the end zone. Thomas kicked Hurricanes' Daryl Reeh was they came to scoring and the the Irish extra point to make it Ht-penalized for a personal foul and Irish defense recorded their first 0, Notre Dame, and that pretty ejected from the game. goose-egg of the season. It has well decided the issue because This put the ball on the Miami been ten quarters since an op­Miami wasn't able to move the six and, after the angry crowd ponent crossed the Notre Dame football against the Irish. had twice forced the Irish to back goal line. 
Notre Dame's final touchdown off the line of scrimmage because Pa tulski, 0 'Malley, Greg came in the fourth quarter. they couldn't hear the signals, Marx, Mike Kadish, and Jim Taking over on his own 32, Brown Darryl Dewan carried around Musurca were defenSive stan­broke loose for 33 yards on the left end on a power sweep and douts for the Irish. Offensively,first play of the series. Brown romped into the end zone un­the top NotreDame ground gainer and Minnix carried for a first touched. Thomas converted to was Minnix , who picked up 65 down at the 23 and Cieszkowski make it 17-o with 5:09 remaining. yards on 14 carries. Huff was added another two plays later. Miami threatened to spoil next with 54 yards. In the passing Mter an offside penalty against Notre Dame's shutout bid in the department, Etter completed 
four of five for 18 yards, Brown 
hit on two of four, with one in­
Series game two today 
terception, for 17 yards, and Pat 
Steenberge, who saw action late 
BALTIMORE, Oct. 10--The ground of transportation to in the game, missed on his only second game of the world series Tuesday's game in Pittsbu11gh aerial attempt. was rained out Sunday and was and on players' rest. I thought it Gatewood was the only Irish resheduled for one o'clock this was a proper objection." receiver to catch two passes but afternoon with Jim Palmer gained just five yards. Willie
However, before he vetoed the 
pitching for the Baltimore was Townsend's 12 yard reception
Oriole's suggestion--which
Orioles against Bob Johnson of was the top yardage figure. 
made by Jerry Hofberger, the 
the Pittsburgh Pirates The Irish will put their
owner of the team-Kuhn polled un­
It was the first time that a blemished record on the line next 
the management of both clubs,
series game had been postponed Saturday against the once-beaten 
the presidents of the National and 
since 1962, when the New York Tarheels of North Carolina in
the American Leagues and the 
Yankees and San Francisco Notre Dame Stadium while the
National Broadcasting Company. 
Giants sat through a total of four Hurricanes, now 2-2, will en-
The Pirate's feelings, though,
wet days on both coasts before proved decisive. tertain Navy.
the Yan~ees won in seven games But it was the 16th time this season that a game had been 
SMORGASBORD
called in Baltimore: 14 during 
the Oriole's regular-season 
Every Monday 5-9 pm
march to their third straight 
pennant, one last weekend during 
$1.25 All you can eat 
their playoff against the Oakland Athletics and today. The postponement this time 
Every Wednesday evening
time was decreed by Com­missioner Bowie Kuhn at 12:29 
. PITCHER
p.m. about an hour and a half 
zs••• 

$1.00
before the start, and it was ac­

NIGHT

companied by some flapping that ranged all the way from network television time to the Columbus 
Every Friday night
Day Holiday to the players' need for rest. None of the flapping concerns 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
the decision itself, which Kuhn 
made after sloshing scross the 
outfield with the umpires, 
Every Saturday night
following an all-night rain that 
was still wetting Memorial 
Stadium. All sides agreed that 

POLKA BAND·DANCING 
the game could · not be played 
without slapstick, but some 
tugging developed over a 
suggestion by the Orioles that it 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. ­
might be rescheduled for 7 o'clock tomorrow night. "Baltimore thought it might be 
LAUREL &HARDY \~~ 
better for the fans," Kuhn said. 
PIZZA PALACE
"More of them could use their rain checks Monday night than 
4610 Western Ave. Belleville Shoppiu Cinter
Monday a(ternoon. But the 
Phone 289-7q83
Pittsburgh Club objected on the 
by .Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's stalwart defense. led. by co-captain Walt Patulski and linebacker Jim O'MalJey. turned in another great performance Saturday night as the Fighting Irish ran past the Miami Hurricanes, 17-0, before 64,357 fans in the Orange Bowl. 
The victory, Notre Dame's fourth without a loss this fall was a costly one, however. Senior quarterback Bill Etter, who had emerged as the number one signal caller for the Irish last wt>ekend in the Michigan State game, suffered torn ligaments in his left knee in the second quarter of the contest and will likely be out for the remainder of the season. 
Sophomore Cliff Brown filled in most capably for Etter, directing touchdown drives of 66 and 68 yards. He also accounted for the longest play of the game, running 33 yards in the fourth quarter. 
The game was played in just over two hours because both clubs concentrated on their running attacks. Nine Irish backs carried 59 times and gained 257 yards while the Hurricanes totaled only 60 net yards. Notre Dame threw ten JJasses in the game, completir1g six for 35 yards, while the Hurricanes' John Hornibrook connected on four of 16 aerials, gaining 51 yards. 
I<'irst year coach Fran Curci's Hurricanes had averaged over 400 yards in total offense prior to their meeting with the Irish but they were held to just 111 yards Saturday night. Mter the Notre Dame defense had yielded four first downs to the 'Canes early in the game, the Irish stiffened and allowed just three more more in the last three quarters. 
Outside of defensive heroics, there was little for the Notre Dame rooters, sweltering in the 84-degree heat and 77 per cent humidity, to cheer about in the first half. The Irish offense couldn't seem to get untracked. 
Notre Dame went nowhere the first time they had the football but managed to put together four first downs on their second sortie before Etter was dropped for a loss on a third down play and the Irish were forced to punt. 
The Notre Dame defense had the Hurricanes pretty well bottled up in the early going however and, despite the fact that Miami picked up four first downs rushing in the first quarter, they were unable to move inside the Irish 45. 
Etter was injured on Notre Dame's second offensive play of the second quarter, after throwing a screen pass to Tom Gatewood that lost two yards. He 
'had to be helped from the field 
and Brown came off the bench 
to replace him. 

The sophomore, who had seen little action before Saturday night, wasn't ready to go into the lineup because he still had his kicking shoe on his right foot. This hurt his footing and, on his first play, he slipped and fell while fading back to pass on a third down situation and the Irish were forced to punt. 
The 'Canes were unable to gain against the stiff Notre Dame defense and punted back to the Irish: Mike Crotty returned the boot 16 yards to the Miami 48 and the Irish commenced their only scoring drive of the first half. 
John Cieszkowski got things rolling by hulling his way up the middle for eight yards. Brown, although he had changed into normal footwear. lost two on the 


:-~ ...····!'"


' .. 

Andy Hun scored the first Irish touchdown on an exciting, 16 yard jaunt. The senior fullback powered his way past three tacklers to get into tht' t>nd zone. 




'Lake Havasu City Bridge Is Falling Down, Falling Down'? 
<c> 1971 New York Times News Service 
"It's a supergimmick," commented a British newspaperman. "It's all quite mad-it could only happen in America. Only an Americ~n would think of investing that much in something as crazy as this." 
"It's very strange," another Britisher said, "one associates the London Bridge with trying to catch a train, carrying your rolled umbrella and running like hell." 
Thus were some of the comments voiced yesterday when Sir Peter M. Studd, the Lord Mayor of London, and Gov. Jack Willia·ms of Arizona, pulled on a red silk ribbon, set off thousands of multicolored balloons, hundreds of white pigeons, skydivers, rockets, a hot-air balloon dragging a huge, papier-mache dove behind it, and opened the London Bridge at Larz Havasu City in the heart of the Arizona desert. 
The ceremony capped a weekend of festivities that included a lavish banquet last night seating 800 guests and costing more than an estimated $500,000. The menu featured lobster and roast beef, the same fare served to King William IV when he inaugurated the bridge in London in 1831. 
Buying the bridge, and moving it to arizona, was the brainstorm of Robert P. McCulloch, the board chairman of McCulloch Oil and the man who conceived the novel idea of building a new town in a barren, sandy spot that averages more than 110 degrees in the summer. 
McCulloch candidly admits that the bridge was bought for one reason -to bring tourists, and their money, to a town that badly needs both. His total investment is $10 million and he scoffs at those who call the project "McCulloch's folly." He figures that tourists will spend $80 million a year to see the bridge made famous by the children's nursey rhyme. 
The whole event, as one observer noted, "looked like a Fellini movie," a strange clashing of customs and cultures, with the jagged peaks of the Chemeheuvi mountains providing a stark and unreal backdrop. 
There was the Lord Mayor, in his black ceremonial robes and gold ornaments, and his sword­bearer, a red-faced, bewhiskered gentleman who wore an enormous Russian sable headpiece in the 97-degree heat. The sable, he said, was a custom dating back to 1349. Another attendant added dismally, "You know, the Arabs add clothing when it gets hot. I hope that works for us." 
And there was Gov. Williams, in a large white stetson hat, and the University of Arizona band, with their plumed headdresses, sweet silver instruments, and the tanned, well-exposed legs of their whirling baton-throwers. The contradictions did not stop there. They actually had to build a waterway to go under the bridge, which was sold by London after it could no longer carry the traffic load over the Thames. Three days ago the approach area here was a sandy waste, like everythingelse. But a horticultural blitz produced an instant grove of trees and a carpet of grass for the weekend. 
Most of the mvited guests who flew in this weekend from Los Angeles, Phoenix, and Las Vegas were friends, clients and employees of McCulloch, whose business interests range from oil to land development to chain saws. 
McCulloch, the only person who refused to dress formally for the dinner, showed up in a button-down white shirt, narrow tie and white sports jacket. Asked how he felt on the big day, he hoisted a glass and admitted, "I'll feel a lot better after drinking this." 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up this week for job interviews for the week of October 18 through 22. 
Interviews are open to ND and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding interviews and 
prodedure. 
Oct. 18 · 
Oct. 19­

Oct. 20 ­
Oct. 21 ­
Oct. 21-22 Oct. 22 ­
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF OCTOBER L-18 · 22 
George Washington . School of Law (Sign-up at the Pre-law Society Bulletin Board O'Shaughnessy Hall) 
Lever Bros. Co. -BA, BBA, MBA. 
Naval Air Development Center-BS,MS In E.E. 
A.E., ME., Met., Ch.E. 
State Life Insurance Co. BA, BBA, MBA. 
Columbia University -All degrees and departments. (Graduate School of Business) ' 
. University of Virginia-All degrees and departments (Graduate School of Business} 
Ayr-Way Stores-BBA in Mgt and MKT. BS in M. E.I.O. Valparaiso University -School of Law (Sign up at the Pre-law Society Bulletin Board O'Shaughnessy Hall} 
John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co.-BA, BBA. Candidates with a strong background in Mathematics, at least .through advanced Calculus. 
Johnson Service Co.-BS in C. E., Engr. Phys., 
M.E.I.O. BS, MS in M.E. and E.E. 
R.J. Reynolds Industries-BBA in MKKTG. & Mgt. 
U.S. Army Materiel Command-BS in M.E., M.E.I.O., and E.E. 
Corning Glass Works-BS, MS in M.E., E.E., Ch. E. 
Connecticut Mutual Life INNS. Co.. All degree programs. Parkview-Gem, Inc. (Chain Discount Dept. Stores} BA, BBA, and MBA. 
Lewis and Clark College -School of Law (Sign-up at Pre-Law Society! Bulletin Boards in O'Shaughnessy Hall.) 
Monday, October 11, 1971 
Sophomore Parents Weekend Buffet Dinner 
Saturday Oct. 30 after the Navy game 
featured speaker 'DIGGER' PHELPS tickets will be on sale Oct. 11 thru Oct. 15 in the lobby of the Dining Halls I PRICE: $650 
1

lthose who have already purchased their . t!~ke~s may pick them up at this time 
CLASSIFIED AIJS 
WANTED 
NEEDED. ONE GENERAL ADMISSiON TICKET TO NORTH CAROLINA GAME. Call Kevin 289 7433 
CAMPUS REP. Opportunity tor sharp business minded student to Parn lop cash and gel unparalleled Pxperience working for self on campus. Start immediately_ Send brief resume and phone number to: Mr. C. R. Danforth, Box 75, Swamp­scotL Ma. 01907. 
Single girl would like to find a room near campus, Call Angela -7076, after 5:10. 
WANTED: Five General Admission Navy Tickets. Call Annabel! 5114. 
----·---------­
Looking for the following editions of the DOME: 1908, 1914, 1919 1923, 1940, 1943, 1944, 1946, 1959, 1963. Will negotiate price. Call 255·7103 after 6:00 PM M-F. 
-----·-------­
Need 2 adjacent general admission tickets to USC. Call TOM 287-2731. 
Any student willing to sell 2 tix to So. CaL Game. Call 609-931-0394 Collect and person to person to Frank Hoban. 
Member of SUBWAY Alumni needs 2 (two) side by side tickets for NO USC and ND·NAVY. Call Mr. Kranz collect and person-to person in Sunnyside, Washington, 'i09.837.-6646. 
DESPERATE: Need ride for HTH 
from Penn State U. to NO for N.C 
WPekend 

Will share $ Bob 6795 
Need r tde to Cincinnati -Oct. 15th. 
Kri~ 4236. Will share expenses. 
PERSONALS 
Thank You Very M·uch Annabel!, To Whom It Concerned 
All that is gold does not glitter---6719. 
---. -----------­
Steve (6730) where's my dollar? Ann 
· .vords I ;lay 2 days I-10 .50 .75 11-15 .60 1.00 
16-ZO 

.70 1.15 
. 
21-25 .85 

1.35 
26-30 

1.00 1.60 31-35 
1.20 1.90 
36-49 1.35 2.10 
41-45 

1.55 2.30
-
46-50 

1.75 2.50 
DID THE SHEEP EAT THE ROSE? Call Maureen 4784. 
·------------­
FOR SALE 

1966 Valiant, 6 cyld., stick, con­vertible, $560 or best offer. 233-9787 
.----------­
f'OR SALE: 6 Band, 17 transistor, new, Sharp radio. $60. Call Brian 234· 3798. 
vw 65. Exc. cond. New Tires $575 ott­234 5889 Farouk. 
NOTICES 

1!! Here's an event to look for! The END OF THE WORLD Saturday morning at 2:01 a.m.! Come and celebrate with us at a (what else?) END OF THE WORLD PARTY tonight at 8:30! Make a "last judgement" whether it's the party of il lifetime!!! 
"FREE , BEER" and food at St. Matthews Smoker, Saturday, Oct. 16 at 8:00. Donation $1.00 single, $1.50 couple Where: 1700 Miami Street 
Tickets available at the door. 
Are you as beautiful as you can be? Let Viviane woodard teach you how...with two free make-up lessons. (Call Johanna at 287-2731 for appt.) 
LOST: Microphone in black for Sears tape recorder_ REWARD call Kevin 3443 -21 Morrissey. 
Fix your own car. Tonight. We have the SPACE + TOOLS + PARTS AND HELP. You do the work and SAVE. Autotech . Rt. 31 South in Niles. 684-1960. Open <'Venings and weekends. 
-· -------------
Morrissey Loan Funed Basement of La Fortune 11:15 12:15. 

--· --------­Marshmallow-covered­marshmallow, Mnrshmallow.covered-armor armor -covered ·armor armor covered·marshmallow armor covered armor 
Isis Fieldhouse 7-10 PM 

Classified Ads paid for in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 12:15-5:00. Acts in by 3:30 on day before publicatien. 
3 days  4 days  I Wet:k  
1.00  l.IS  1.25  
1.35  1.75  2.15  
1.70  2.40  2.80  
2.00  2.90  3.45  
2.35  3.'aD  4.10  
2.80  3.85  4.70  
3.10  4.25  5.10  
3.30  4.50  !1.50  
3.50  4.75  6.00  






