
Volume V No. 108 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt Mary's College ('ommrmity Thursday, April 15, 1971 
Foran highlights police conference 
by Tom Degnan legal obllgation to come onto a the "en loco parentis" enforcer turned the students over to the 
The concept of a university as a campus in the event of trouble. and the use of a double standard university authorities who sanctuary from law enforcement "Ordinarily however" the by law enforcement authorities in usually meted out the punish­is a total myth, Thomas Foran former U.S. attorney said, "the dealing with the community and ment. Toriay, the students must said yesterday during the af-officer is often inclined to back the university. often face instances of double ternoon session of the midwest off his duty because of the The sparse audience of about 75 jeopardy' such as the subject of police conference held in the hostility shown toward him on heard four young lawyers: Mike the topic in this morning's Ob­Library auditorium. college campuses." Millaine, William Malledon, server," Beamer added. 
Foran, one of the eight lawyers Moderated by University Vice Dennis Hauptly, and Timothy Professor Houck commented composinng the panel, told the President and General Counsel Hartzer describe their ex­that the selective enforcement of audience that the police have a Philip J. Faccenda, the panel .>eriences with, and feelings some laws only against certain geographical jurisdiction and concerned itself primarily with toward police intervntion on minorities, such as students was 
Foran <R> and Faccenda that they are committed under the University's declinin_g role as campus. Following the four the biggest problem. He said that there is no consensus about what some of the laws ought to be, and 
Nixon announces relaxation~:r~~~~:~;~~:y:~!!Fr~~! that the police should shy away opinions. from enforcement in political Beamer, a South Bend at-areas of legalistic disoute such torney, added to Foran's as demonstrations and
of.Red China trade embargo statement saying that, although marijuana. sanctuary is a myth, it is no myth "If situations change and at­WASHINGTON (UPI) historically except in very titudes change," said professor President Nixon announced ween non Comunist ports and serious cases. Houck, "there is no reason for
U.S. exports of non-strategic

yesterday a broad relaxation of against U.S. owned flag vessels "However, we are now in a some of the laws to be enforced." 
goods such as pharmaceutical

the embargo that has barred calling at Chinese ports. hangover period," Beamer said. In concluding the discussion.
and agricultural supplies and

direct U.S. trade with Communist The White HOuse said none of "Student unhappiness has Foran said that the law has to do
consumer goods, Ziegler said.

China for 21 years. the moves required brought an end to the precedent the best it can in au cases ana
Imports into the United States

The announcement came just congressional approval. Nixon of university authoriatarianism. that it is probably the lawyers
of "Designated items" from Chin

hours after premier Chou En Lai discussed his plan Monday with In the past if any misdemeanors who are most to blame, for the
will be permitted.

proclaimed in Peking "a new Ambassador Chow Shu Kai of were committed by Notre Dame lack of progress.
This should allow . the first 

page in relations" between the Nationalist China, and Ziegler stude~ts in South Bend, the police 
direct trade between the two

United States and Mainland said, '"We feel they have a
countries since it was cut off by

China. The White House said ~eneral understanding on this
the Export Control Act of 1950,

Chou's remarks made it-"an ,natter."
which Congress passed to halt

appropriate time" to announce Chou said in Peking that 
fSlC;I~;:;·;iT""291
U.S. commerce with Communist

Nixon's program. because of the American
nations.

Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler delegations visit, "a new page
In addition, the plan would ease J Campaigns for student seats on the 1971-72 Student Life @
and other administration officials has been opened in relations
U.S. currency controls to permit ;:;: Council will be available in the student government office ·;:;:
said the President had decided to between our two peoples."
use of dollars by the Chinese, ;:~ beginning Wednesday, April 21, and will be due by 5 p.m. April ;:~
relax trade restrictions before State Department officials said 
eliminating the Treasury :;:; 23 with at least 50 signatures. :;:;
China's admission of an Nixon's announcement was not
Department currency license ~;~; The elections will follow the same procedure as last year. The :;:;
American table tennis team and prompted by the Chinese 
now required to send American :;:; campaign begins at noon, April25 and continues until 2 a.m. of ~;;
Chou's reception for its members premier's friendly remarks, but 
money into China. :;:; the 29th. There is a $75 limit to campaign expenses including :;:;
earlier Wednesday. Ziegler conceded it made the
Nixon said the State Depart­:;:; postage for literature mailed to off-campus students. ~:
The five point program, which timing of the announcement
ment had been instructed to ;:;: The election is scheduled for April 29 and will be held in six ;:;:
Nationalist China was informed "appropriate." Officials here 
about on Monday, will permit expedite visas for individuals or were unable to identify items that iiii campus districts. The districts are: Off-campus including :1:1 groups of visitors from the might be suitable for future :::: Moreau and St. Joseph's Hall, the towers, two North and two ;:;: 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Chinese mainland seeking entry 
:;:; South quad divisions. :;:;
Chinese trade, indicating to some 
~;~; Yesterday's Observer ~;f; into the United States. observers that the announcement :;:; The new council members are scheduled to begin their terms' :;~
The President also ordered an ;:;: of office May 1. :;:;
;~;~ story which revealed the ;~;; was made before the Commerce
end to restrictions against

;:;: possibility of the Crypt :;:; Department and other agencies 
:::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:;:~:;:~:~:;:;:;:;:~:~:;:~:~:;:
:;:; record co-op being charged :::: American Oil Companies were able to work out details of 
:;;:rent was inaccurate. :;:; providing fuel for ships or air­the plan.
·.·: h Bl t .... craft proceeding to and from
:;:: Rev. T omas E. an z, :;:: Ziegler said an interagency 
South Viet offensivein 
:;:; vice-president for student :;:; China, except for those carriers committee is working on a list of 
;:;:affairs, did not make the ;:;: non strategic items that thebound for North Vietnam, North 
Korea or Cuba.

;~;comments attributed to ;:;: administration might approve for 

the central highlands 
:::~him :;::: Also ended was a prohibition 
export to China and that Nixon 
:~;~ F~. Blantz said that no )1:~ against U.S. ships and planes was expected to make a decision artillery and air support opened:;;~ official policy concerning :::;: carrying Chinese cargoes bet-soon. SAIGON (UPI)-South Viet­up a new offensive Wednesday to.
~;~;the Crypt has been ::i:~ namese infantry backed by U.S. 
break the growing Communist
:::~established. :;:;: 
threat in the central highlands,;:;~ The Observer wishes to :;:;; military sources said Thursday.
;:;~apologize for the inac-::;:; 
U.S. Air Force B52 bombers
Lifton explore theme of death
:;:3 curacy. ::;~ supporting the relief columns for 
~~:::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::~=~=~===~=~=~=~=~=~======:::::::::::::::::::~:~: 
Fire Base 6, where a 15 day siege by Matt Cavanaugh was that of a relation to nature. 
was lifted Wednesday, struck
Through this relation a man 
four times during the night nearLast night Dr. Robert Jay attempts to justify his own end Communist troop concentrations
Lifton, psychiatrist and professor with the knowledge that he has a dozen miles further north.
at the Yale University School of been associated with something This is where the borders ofMedicine, explored the ways that that will not come to an end. 
Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos
modern man copes with the Lastly there are those who at­come together. Seventy milestheme of death in a talk entitled tempt to cope with death through 
7:00 & 10:00 movie-non­
south of Fire Base 6, a task force 
"Psychological Man and psychic experiences. They
violence program: the "larger than regimental size"
Revolution." believe that an intense ex­
selling of the pentagon, belonging to the South Viet­
Using data collected from perience will make the pain and
cbs documentary, 122 namese 22nd Infantry Division
interviews with survivors of suffering of death disappear.
hayes-healy launched a drive against the
Hiroshima, Lifton was able to Lifton then said that with the
8:00 movie george North Vietnamese "95 Bravo"
find the modes of dealing with advent of nuclear weapons and
brinkley and thee 'ore regiment in the Phu Nhon area of
death common to these people, the great historical changes
ivanus, nd depi of Pleiku Province.
and then relate these modes to taking place, the "Protean man" 
government, katyn The Communists had begun a
society as a whole. has come to life. "This type of 
forest massacre: the series of attacks on Phu Nhon, 200
He stated that there are five person has the ability to move 
massacre of polish Dr. Robert Lifton miles northeast of Saigon, and its 
basic ways that man tries to gain easily from one idea or life style nearby "Fire Support Basep.o.w.'s in world war ii, immortality. The first of these is to another. He sees mockery and Near the end of his ruscussion Lonely" at the same time theylibrary auditorium. the biological mode, in which a absurdity in society and finds Lifton related his experiences attacked Fire Base on March 31.
8:00 lecture -h. curtis man attempts to preserve great difficulty in accepting a set with several Vietnam veterans. 
operation involves
wood: sex wit'lout himself through his offspring. idea." The protean man has He said that these men who had The new infantry, artillery and armoredbabies, engine. ring The second is a spiritual conquest transformed many of the modes been brutalized by the situation cavalry. After it got rolling, its
auditorium of death known as the theological of immortality. He has ex­in which they had lived were first contact with the enemy
mode. Another way man survives perimented with the society's life trying to adapt to new life styles, 
came at 1 a.m. Thursday, when
death is through his works and style through communal living, away from the experience of war. 
an infantry battalion engaged a
actions, or the influence he has on and has tried to expand the roles Based on these ii terviews Dr. 
Communist unit of unknown size
other men. of the sexes. Other areas of Lifton concluded that mankind 
three miles northwest of Fire
The fourth means of im­transformation are the com­has the potential to transform mortality pointed out by Lifton munity and religion. itself in the same way. (Continued on page 2) 





Page 2 Thursday, April 15, 1971
THE OBSERIIM 





New South Vietnamese offensive 
This cleared tne way for nesday afternoon in which 24 to take the high ground and move support, regamed the base 36<Continued from page 1) American and South Vietnamese ., North Vietnamese dead were on to larger South Vietnamese hours later and held out for mor ... helicopters, which flew in tons of claimed, and one after nightfall, installations on the Central than two weeks until the reliefBase Lonely. There were no 
food and water to the 1,000 bone in which 10 more Communist Highlands. But the South Viet­force arrived.
immediate reports of casualties. 

tired defenders and airlifted the soldiers were reported killed. namese, with stroP~ U. S. air
Though Saigon government wounded out. Pressures on Fire Base 6troops aided by massive U.S. 

Two American ground advisors eased, but U. S. and Southaerial firepower lifted the siege were killed in the final assault. Vietnamese field commandersagainst Fire Base 6 on Wed­But so intensive was the airborne said elements of a large Northnesday, the Communists laun­American fire that at one stage, Vietnamese force were ap­
POW exchange
ched two more ground attacks elite South Vietnamese parently regrouping to continueearlv Thursdav. 

paratroops claimed to have killed what has been described as a The siege was raised by South 34 Communists blocking their local offensive on the Central Vietnamese ground forces path while suffering just two men Highlands. 

program hopeful
Wednesday with the help of U.S. wounded. Military sources at the front Jet fighter bombers and This action consisted of two said about 2,700 North Viet­LOS ANGELES (UPI)-Four Vientiane to work out the deal. helicopter gunships. separate skirmishes, on Wed-namese and Viet Cong were slain civilians recruited by an in­Funds were limited--some of the 
surance salesman left yesterday group got plane tickets on a "fly
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥~¥¥~~¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥· in 15 days of combat in the Fire 
Base 6 area. South Vietnamese for Laos to offer themselves as now, pay later" basis--and
~ NuTILt: : 
losses were placed at 172 men replacements for American Cimino estimated they would be killed at 292 wounded. prisoners of war in North Viet­able to stay in Laos a month at ~ ew ~ Tne· ·uame of Fire Base· fi, 
* N * nam. the longest. 
Dominic "Bud" Cimino, 48, Cimino spent four months
began on March 31 when North 

organizer of the project, said they setting up his campaign and says,
Vietnamese units overran it in


a Advertising Deadline a 
hoped to negotiate a "body for "I want to get enough men so we
what appeared to be an attempt 

body exchange--one human being can replace every prisoner."* * for another human being." Trouche, pastor of the tJnited* * A Marine veteran of World War Methodist Church in the Toluca
* * SU announces
~ All ad copy must he in by 2:00 on~ II and father of three children, Lake district of Hollywood, has 
Cimino said at the airport he was three children at home and was optimistic that the unusual an aeronautical engineer before
* *
* * CHICAGO operation would succeed. "We've he was ordained. 
got a good partner--God," he!* the day prior to the publication of *~ "It was not a question of 

said. deciding whether to go," he says,Chicago, the rock group, that The men offering themselves "I didn't have the right to say no.
* * is, is coming to town. 
as hostages are the Rev. Jean I'm hopeful that at least this will
* * 
: the advertisement ~ Student Union Social Com­Trouche, 59, a French speaking give us information about the mission announced yesterday Methodist minister here; Stan prisoners and I hope also that at 
that the group will appear in the Bagwell, 50, a retired Navy petty least I can remain as a chaplain
* *
* * Athletic and Convocation Center officer; Patrick MacDonald, 21, a to the men in the camps."* * on May 11 at 8:30. conscientious objector, and Ed "At the last moment, Virginia** Ads received after 2:00 will ** Chicago is "signed and Newmyer, 70, a retired fireman. Nasmyth, 22, si~~el( of Air Force 
definitely will appear" according Cimino, who plans to return to Capt. John Nasmyth who is a war ~ not appear in the next Day's ~ to Matt Kubick, student union Los Angeles if the other four are prisoner, ran on the plane to give executive coordinator. accepted as replacements, says the group a list of names and
* ~~ * 
Tom Oliveri, former SU he has 50 more volunteers some photographs. She said she
* 
: The advertising staff *~ associate director and Jim Porst, waiting to take the places of war hoped they could check on the 
outgoing social commissioner prisoners. conditions of the men if they had handled the concert Cimino hopes to meet with an opportunity.
*················~················ 
ATTENTION ALL SENIORS, GRAD STUDENTS 

AND FACULTY 
Measurements for Caps and Gowns will be taken at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on 
April 21 and April 22. 
THE HOURS WILL BE 
10 am to 5 pm 
arrangements. North Vietnamese officials in Oliveri dis~;overed that Chicago might be available while working 
Cleveland hotel fire claims
on the closed circuit broadcast of the Ali-Frazier figlt. The popular jazz-rock group was originally booked in 


the lives of seven guests
Evansville, Ind. SU represen­tatives reported were dissatisfied with this booking because there is CLEVELAND (UPI) _ Thick, 
Firemen said the fire appeared
no college near that city. 

to have started in or near a
Ticket sales will begin on April acrid smoke from flaming fur-
banquet room at the basement
27. Prices are $5.50, $4.50, and nishings was blamed yesterday
for the suffocation deaths of level and spread quickly upward
25

$,.._·_0_.-~~~------seven persons in a fire at the Pick to the lobby and ·the mezzanine 
".,i'~Y.' .': 

~QUnder\f 
"We want to serve you better" 
ALL YOU 
CAN EAT 
Mon.-Thur. 5 pm-10 pm 
All the chicken or batter fried cod, served with ranch toast, french fries, and cole slaw. $1.45 chicken. $1.15 Fish 

Coh.<!r "f Edi$Qn and lrQnwoo 

Carter Hotel. The victims in­floor where it was contained. 
cluded the wives and children of Using aerial ladders, firemen 
two members of the road com­plucked many guests from 
pany of the rock musical "Hair." windows as high up as the sixth 
Smoke form the fire billowed floor. 
up stairwells and elevator shafts A fire department spokesman 
and penetrated into nearly all of said all the victims were found on 
the 11 story hotel's 600 rooms. upper floors, including a woman 
About 200 persons, including 110 and child whose bodies were on 
registered guests, were in the the 11th floor. Four bodies were 
hotel when the fire broke out found in hallways and one in an 
Tuesday night about 10 p.m. elevator. 
James Neelon, assistant city "It was entirely possible the 
fire chief, said the choking smoke · other five would have survived if 
came from burning overstuffed they had stayed in their rooms," 
furniture, drapes, carpeting, and the spokkesman said. 
wood trim. The fire department estimated 
The victims were identified as initial damage at $200,000 which a 
Robin Johnson, 18, and her spokesman said was expected to 
daughter, Melissa, 1, of Renton, go higher. The hotel, which un­
Wash.; Carroll Carlson, 23, and derwent a $1.5 million renovation 
her daughter, Corina, 1, of St. two years ago, was built in 1917 
Louis; Gaston LeBlanc, 54, and named the Winton in honor of 
Pittsburgh; Robert Loftus, 66, Alexander Winton, head of the 
Youngstown, Ohio, and Arthur Winton Motor Car Co. 
Thomas, believed to be a soldier. Acquired in 1931 by the Russell B. Carlson is stage Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., manager of the "Hair" road it was renamed the Carter. In the company and Johathon Johnson late 1930s the hotel was acquired ·is a member of the cast. by the Albert Pick Hotel System. 

I. 
Craftsmen in Optics® 
,.. 

SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLANO BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STRHT 
JlouseofVisioli IJ)
The House of Vision, Inc. 
Thursday, April 15, 1971 
Page 3
THBOBJDIIDl 

Priest's secret marriage discovered 
and  laymen  throughout  the  
country," he said.  
Father  Duryea,  who  is  vice  


PACIFICA, California (UPI) ­The parish council of St. Peter's Catholic Church said unanimously yesterday that it wants to keep as its pastor a priest who was excommunicated because of a seven year secret marriage which produced a son named paul, now five years old. 
The Rev. Robert Duryea, 49 was abruptly removed from his duties by Archbishop Joseph T. McGucken after the prelate learned of the popuolar, hand­somP oriest's private life. 
UPITELEPHOTO 

Muskie uvset with FBI move
... 

WASHINGTON (BPI) 
Sen. Edmund S. Muskie, D. Maine, accused the FBI yesterday of spying on Earth Day rallies held a year ago to glorify the environment. He said Congress should set up a board to monitor all government agencies who gather intelligence on civilians. 
In a Senate speech, Muskie said the FBI had no business eavesdropping on citizens protesting pollution where "no crime or threat of crime was involved nor ... any violence threatened." 
He inserted into the congressional record and released to reporters, copies of a document on FBI stationers describing the Earth Day rally held April 22, 1970 near the Washington Monument. The report listed the speakers at the demonstration, including Muskie himself. 
He said the FBI compiled between 40 to 60 reports on other Earth Day rallies held around the nation. 
WSND names dept. heads 
·I 
I .•! Hf I 

The appointment of new department heads for the 1971-72 school year were announced yesterday by WSND station manager, John Walsh. 
Named as Am Program Director was :SophOmore Lee Threrling. Mike Murphy was appointed as the chiet AM An­nouncer. John Sabo will continue at the FM director and Frand Devine remains as the FM Chief Announcer, Walsh added. 
Johy Bryan is the Assistant FM Program· Director and Ben Marroquin will assume the duties of FM Programs Supervisor. 
The new Director of Engineering will be Gary Stuerenberg, while Dave Barrett takes over the duties of News Director. ::ll: 
John Markey will remain as Business Manager while Marc Carmichael becomes Sales Manager. AnothE!' holdover is John McElligott as AM Music Director. 
Walsh named Nick Kiernan as Director of Traffic and Con­tinuity, and Joe Garagiola as Sports Director. 
WSND anticipates another year of aiming their program­ming to a "mature, college audience," according to Walsh. They will continue with various promotions and contests as well as increasing the amount of live sports and activity coverage. 
The ·Cl:lserver is publisn...d d, ,. during the college semester except Vdcations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and st. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. Sec<1 .. d class postag~ paic1, Notre Dame, rr.d. 46556. 
The marriage was kept a secret except from Father Duryea's close friends and parish staff until two months ago. 
Last week 200 parish families were informed and with few exceptions they supported their pastor, but Father Duryea was suspended by the archbishop Monday. 
In a special statement, the parish council said their pastor "has given us more than we can ever repay." The council said the churcl-t's celibacy rule should be 
"If antipollution rallies are a from the FBI office at MP-dia, Pa. 
subject of intelligence concern, is To counteract what he called 
anything immune?" Muskie the "excessive zeal" of the FBI 
asked the senate. "Is there any and other civilizan intelligence 
citizen involved in politics who is agencies, Muskie proposed 
not a potential subject for an FBI creating an indepndent review 
dossier?" board composed of ~ongressmen, 
Muskie refused to disclose how judges, lawyers and intelligence 
he obtained the report but said it officers. Itwould keep tabs on the 
was not among the more than amount of spying done and issue 
1,000 documents stolen recently an annual report to the public. 
SMC meeting changed 
Sister Olivette Whelan, chairman of the St. Mary's board of trustees, cancelled its April 24th meeting, at which the decision for unification with Notre Dame was scheduled for confirmation. 
In cancelling the meeting, the mother-general of Midwest province of the Sisters of the Holy Cross said, "We are postponing the meeting so that it will better coincide with the meeting of the Notre Dame Trustees. The meeting will be held on May 14." 
She did not anticipate that the Board would have any problems approving the unification statement. 
As a result of the cancellation of the meeting, the Student Policy Committee. which usually meets the day before the Trustees to discuss the agenda, will not meet April 23. Their agenda was to include, not only unification policies, but also an evaluation of off-campus housing with the possibility of extending it to juniors and other students over 
21. 
Neither Student Body President Kathy Barlow nor Sr. Immaculata Driscoll, dean of students, could predict the future of off-campus housing for students planning to move off next year. 
Although the Board will not meet, Sister Olivette said that the executive committee, a group of eight Board members, will meet as planned on April 24 to discuss the college's plans for unification. 
changed "as soon as possible." 
"We support him personally, and feel that, if it were in any way possible, we would keep him here as pastor." 
Father Duryea said he has proven the traditional notion that marriage would distract a man 
Soph. prom reorganized 
The off-again, on-again, here­again, gone-again St. Mary's sophomore class prom at last report (8:05 EST p.m.) is still scheduled for Saturday evening. 
Susan Welte, sophomore class president, cancelled the prom at 7 p.m. because only 66 couples had purchased tickets for the dance to "e held in La Fortune Student Center. Eighty couples are needed to cover the cost of the prom. 
from the full service of his ministry as "nonsense." 
"I am supported in my con­viction that the law willchange by the strong voice of both priests 
president of the priests senate of the archdiocese, said at least 30 priests in the archdiocese have left their calling in the last four years, including two monsignors, so they could marry. 
Changes in the celibacy rule was urged last month by the National Federation of Priests Councils, and public opinion polls show Catholics are ready, he said . 
Father Duryea was married in 1964, two years before taking over at St. Peter's in this San Fran­cisco suburb. Under his leadership folk songs and jazz was heard in his 4,000 member church in the round, and he was best known a!" "Father Bob." 
A group of students, headed by ,-------,=-------,---­
sophomore  Mary  Kay  Davy,  THIS WEEIC.EIIP  
called Miss Welte last night and offered to organize the dance for  FRI,  
the  66  couples.  They  plan  to  SI'IT,  
eliminate the buffet and possibly  
substitute  a  cheaper  refresh­ 
ment.  
Tickets are $8.00 and may be  
purchased this afternoon in the  
Regina Hall lobby.  
POLLUTION  
Lake Erie Dies !  
Is Lake Michigan Next?  
New  York  City  Suffocates  in  own  
Waste!  

4000 Die in London Smog! NUCLEAR ENERGY Pesticides Found in Artie! 
Thermal Pollution? 
Oil smothers in Santa Barbara 
More Brownouts? Peaceful Nuclear Explosives? Controlled Fusion Fallout? 
CE 213 MAN AND HIS ENVIRONMENT 
2 MWF THIS FALL ME 213 NUCLEAR ENERGY 3 MWF THIS FALL 
OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS Notre Dame and St Mary'sSophomores and above 
Come Spring ..... . 

Thursday, April 15, 1971
THE OBJZRII£It. 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in Mankind; 
And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for 
thee. 

John Donne 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The Last Chance 
It is sad to watch the death of a publication. The demise in some cases 
comes quickly, here today, gone tomorrow. For others though it is a slow , process. The quality of the magazine goes down, the number of issues are cut, expenses are watched carefully and anything that smacks of being 
extra or added is slashed. 
For a publication competing in the open market, the possibility of 
failure is one that stalks it constantly. Itis, essentially, selling itself to the 
public. If the public loses interest then the publication will die. 
Some publications though depend on a benefactor of sorts to finance 
their operation. Their situation is perhaps more a perilous one; for they 
depend on the whim and mood of the benefactor in addition to or instead 
of popular appeal. 

The latter case is true of many college publications. Newspapers and 
magazimes are often funded directly out of the school's budget. As such, 
they are subject to the whims and vagaries of ruling powers as well as the 
financial condition of the school. If the institution is running in the red, 
pubL.-:ations, usually the student ones, are prime candidates for the 
paring knives. 

In such a situation the students running the publication have little or no 
say over the fate of their vehicle. They are dependent upon the ad­
ministration for their money, their financial affairs are controlled by 
employees of the school and if the editors are paid, they, in a sense, are 
employees of the school. There is no sense of autonomy, and hence no 
sense of real freedom for them. 
The announcement that the Scholastic's budget has been sharply cut-­
cut enough to warrant a reduction of the number of issues by a third -­
demonstrates just how much that publication is open to those 
vicissitudes. 

But this cut, which appears so painful to the present Scholastic 
management, is in reality that magazine's last best chance to assert its 
independence. The rpocess by which the publication will be removed 
from the public's eye has begun, if it is accelerated by financial pressures 
next year the death knell will have sounded. 
At the beginning of the year the Observer offered to have the Scholastic 
published weekly through our facilities, for a savings of $15,000 per year. 
That offer still stands. For $25,000 the Scholastic could publish a 24 page 
magazine on paper better than the kind you're reading now. For $25,000 -­
part of which could be supplied by advertising revenue and part of which 
could be supplied by a student publications fee --the Scholastic would be 
able to publish a course evaluation book in addition to their weekly 
magazine. 

Editorial boards would, of course, be entirely distinct and none of the 
elements of "merger" that the Scholastic found so odious when this 
proposal was first raised can be construed. This is a business offer, pure 
and simplle. The Observer offers to act as publishing agent for the 
Scholastic. The savings should be enough to make the Scholastic 
autonomous. If that is what they're after, we suggest they accept the 
offer. 

~********************************************~ 
*:* * 
Nite Editor: Jerry Lutkus SMC Editor: Ann Conway : 
Headlines: John Kloos Managing Editor: Don Ruane ** Layout: Bob Marzek, Dan News Editor: John Abowd ** Barrett, Ken Kampman Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson ** Compugrapher: Bill Clemency Features Editor: rick smith ** Nite Controllers: Steve Roper, * 
* *
rick smith 

* * 
itfc******************* ***********************"it 

Don Ruane ::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::=:==~=:=:=:::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:::=====================:: 
Progress and Efficiency 

The Student Life Council has been called many things since its in­ception in the spring semester of 1968 including the most potent legislative body in the history of Notre Dame. It came with the winds of spring and has been imitating those winds every since, blowing up a breeze strong enough to launch the sailing club on a cruise from here to eternity. 
Little progress has been made by the present body because it has 
wasted time in long debates over the minutes of a pervious meeting 
and in general over details that could be ironed out in committee 
meetings. This was illustrated during the seven months devoted to the 
sophomore car issue. 
A proposal first appeared at the September 24, 1970 meeting of the 
SLC,. It was finally approved on March 30, 1971. During this period, 
the council members argued over facts that no one bothered to check 
for accuracy. As John Barkett said during his campaign, no one did 
their homework. 
Finally a committee was appointed to research all areas of the 
proposal and to draft a proposal either for or against the idea. In the 
course of two months, the proposal was drafted, debated, revised and 
approved. 
At the last meeting of the SLC, Sophomore Floyd Kezele suggested 
that the body meet less frequently, perhaps once a month. This sounds 
absurd since the body can't accomplish anything during the four hours 
it now meets per month. However, Kezele wants to establish four 
standing committees to research, draft and present proposals to the 
steering committee for scheduling. Petty haggling would be long over 
with before any proposal reached the floor. 
When a proposal comes to the floor under Kezele's plan, debate will 
be limited to forty minutes and then a vote will be required unless two­
thirds of the body votes to prolong discussion. This format wokld allow 
at least two proposals, possibly three, to be fully debated at any given 
meeting if the time limit is strictly enforced. 
The steering committee will meet April 20 to discuss other methods 
to improve the SLC's efficiency. It is highly probable that Kezele's 
itiP!l u1ill ho rnnrlillo.M 
This meeting of the committee is very important because the future success of the SLC rides on its product. If the new council which is due to take office May 1, is left to solve the problems of efficiency by itself, more time will be senselessly wasted in debate over what the problems really are. The present body is in the best position to recommend a solution because they know the problems. 
Given the verbose history of the SLC, the steering committee probably will not be able to come up with a solution before the new council arrives. If things do go well, a proposal can be expected from the steering committee by up to May 1, thus eliminating any chance for ~he current body to unleash another gale that would produce nothmg but tired lungs. 
The new SLC must be progressive and imaginative, qualities that are sadly lacking in the current membership. It must also be non­partisan. If it is free from partisan windbags, who are more concerned with the vested interests of those they represent than the general good of the University, the SLC could have a new procedure within three meetings. This would allow for a period of adjustment for the new members. 
Already there are signs of a progressive council in ex officio member John Barkett. He has two proposals to his name, both in the interests of everyone. The first proposal, to reduce the current membership by one-half, had good intentions but was in the wrong direction. We don't need a smaller council, but we do need a council that knows what it is doing andsaying. Time is too valuable to waste on arguments such as whether a motion was voted on at the previous meeting. 
Barkett's second proposal passed and in quite surprisingly good time. The move to seat three representatives from St. Mary's is the most progressive action sicce graduate students were given speaking priviledges late last year. 
Campaigns for student seats begin April21. Faculty representatives have already been elected but the final results were not yet available. There has been no word on the administration, which will probably send the same spokesmen back to sit on still another council. 
. The faculty has elected, hopefully with wisdom. There is not much that can be added about the administration. It is now up to the students to prudently elect its representatives. 
It is time for change. The new SLC can take long strides towards progress if it follows this saying about turtles, "Behold the turtle! He never makes any progress unless he sticks his neck out." 
Elect a turtle for Notre Dame. 
----~-~~­

Thursday, April 15, 1971 Pages
711E O&r!'RfiEit 
mike mchale 

the conspiracy is ours 

that beautiful, courageous, exceptionally --------------------------------­
We live in strange times, all of us have stopped in the last couple of years to ask ourselves, "Just what are we doing?" "How did everything get so turned around?" The time for this wondering has now passed. Our hesitation in using the word "revolution" must also pass. We must admit to ourselves that each of us is called in some way to move from ordinary to extraordinary action in order to reclaim our society. It is no longer enough that we profess oneness with other men, we must act it out. 
This fall and winter, all over the country young people questioned their ef­fectiveness in ending the war---and "if we demonstrate, won't there be violence?" Commitment is worthy, only as the People felt unsure as to where to go and object of that commitment is worthy. I many became confused and defeated. have been fortuna.te in being reminded of Many went back to classrooms, dorm life, this at least once a year since coming to communities and hibernated. As we were Notre Dame. My freshman year it was going through the changes, the established 
open, totally humane and wholly un­pretentious man of our time, Dick Gregory. My sophomore year sharing the 1st Moratorium Day with Dave Darst and Mike Cullen enabled one to understand what their resistance was all about as best exemplified by Michael's words at Milwaukee, "I believe we can dance. By God we're going to dance." 
This year it was a little bit different. It was cold and dark, the wind bellowed above all that had transpired this night at Stepan Center. We stood out behind the Center now, the snow blasting in from all sides and as I try to explain what took place I can only think of a poem I once wrote to a friend: 
We two are breathless 
Standing close together 
Looking at the world flutter by 

You gently, firmly take my hand in 
yours 

My eyes gaze into yours, deeply they 
lock 
You touch my cheek 
And not speaking 
We say 
everything 
To each other 

I saw a small tear trickle down the cheek 
of William Moses Kuntsler as he told me to 
send his love to a friend of ours who he 
could not see. I knew then that he spoke 
from deep within his heart and that he was 
a man who grasped the meaning of that 
often used and abused word. 
tom mcgowan 
bob and mary, charley and ann 
It is that time of year again when the Notre Dame cheerleaders abandon the grass of Notre Dame stadium and the front row seats in the ACC for the friendly confines of St. Angela Hall, and their third season, that of cheerleading tryouts. St. Angela, that antiquated edifice that reminds one of the "One-room school house that Grandpa went to" is the scene where every year the cheerleaders struggle to replace the retiring members of the squad with freshmen talented in gymnastics, porn porn routines, cheers etc. This year's group of seventy people was the most talented ever and the fC'ur people selected to the squad should help next year-s cheerleaders show ND fans some new innovations. 
The four selected were: 

Ann Cisle, a 19 year old business major from Hamilton, Ohio; Bob Benkendorf, also 19, and a pre-med major from Bushnell, Illinois; Mary Kraft, 18, a history major from Flint Michigan, and Charley Morrison, 19, a Business major from Columbus, Ohio. When asked a few of the usual pertinent questions about family, Notre Dame, and the world the following interesting facts were revealed. 
Charley Morrison was a Bengal Bouter and lost in the semifinals to eventual champion Tom Kress. 
Mary Kraft was selected last year as the USCA <United States Cheerleading Association) Grand National Champion Cheerleader. 
Ann Cisle says the most exciting time she ever had was attending the Cotton Bowl with her "Spirited" Dad (Dad graduated from du lac in 1946) 
Bob Benkendorf is a drag racer. 

Bob also thinks that "Cheerleading ought to be fun." 
Mary came to ND..SMC to get away from the cold Michigan weather. 
Ann Cisle is at Notre Dame because of its Academic advantages, expecially in the college of business. (Take heart business jocks) 
We have all coped with this mood for a year, to go beyond it requires a strange measure of those qualities which can only flourish when a people have become conscious of their own human losses and begun to create the tools of human gain. But one guesses we have not lost enough, or suffered enough or grown conscious enough of what is happending to our brothers. Because of this we lack com­munity, imagination, courage, com­passion and the hope and ingenuity that we so badly need. Is it true as Dan Berrigan has said, "in order to be healed; our illness must get worse?" 
After talking with members of the faculty and students about their feelings on the current situation I feel we may be moving above this. I believe that we do feel enough and now we have a choice and a chance to prove it. 
There is an inner requirement of the 

media sketched a picture of a dying movement, too frustrated and frightened to move. The media tried to tell us that American young people are "tired of rebelling." They have said that our committment is a shallow one and that we are slipping back into the tranquil 1950's of careers and classrooms. They have tried to convince us that we would rather shed our tears over "Love Story" than over the reality of our Vietnamese brothers and sisters and our high school classmates now dead in the fields of Vietnam, Cambodia 
and Laos. 

when we look out at the 
ruin we have made of half 
the world, we can't feel 
peace within and as we 
look at the future before 
us we are chilled by the 
thought that there may be 
no peace ahead 
<UPI photo) 

human species that mankind has been conscious of through all the ages. When you look into the eyes of Thomas Merton, Dan Berrigan, Mike Cullen or William Kuntsler you can see that consciousness. It demands of life in at least some of its aspects and some of its moments that it be true, that it be good, and that it be beautiful.When we look out at the ruin we have made of half of the world, we can't feel peace within and as we look at the future before us we are chilled by the thought that there may be no peace ahead. During April, . the Notre Dame com­
munity will be offered a number of ac­tivities to participate in. Hopefully this will lead to some fruitful thought and action which will carry through the summer and into next fall. Mr. Kuntsler related in his speech the various complications, ab­surdities and stark realities which the Harrisburg Conspiracy Trial will have to contend with. A committee is being formed at Notre Dame for students and faculty who are interested in helping to provide information, raise funds, and working on other actions associated with the trial. A number of activities are being planned to coincide with the Refugee Aid Program. 
I started out by talking about William Kuntsler, who most of us heard speak Friday evening. The response we will give this event is an individual and a personal one which we must reflect on within ourselves. We would do well to remember the final sentence in Professor O'Malley's moving tribute to this man, "You are a man of law and of love." The noted psychologist, Eric Fromm has stated that the opposite of love is not hate but apathy. Now the choice is ours. 
Will we gain strength from each other and unite in helping with the task before us or will we allow the opportunity to slip by under the guise of "that's the mood." Perhaps we would do well to reflect on a line from Zorba the Greek: "To act as if death did not exist or to act thinking every minute of death is perhaps the same thing." Think of it not, the death still goes on and surrounds us in our actions or in­actions. The possibilities of life coming out of all this are ours and ours alone. 
The challenge which is ours was so amply put at a recent rally for the Harrisburg Six. Father Paul Mayer, a Jewish refugee from Nazi Germany, one of the co-conspirators currently teaching at New York's Theological Seminary, who also was a Benedictine monk for eighteen years and who worked in Latin America and the civil rights and peace movements in this country and who will be coming soon to address the Notre Dame com­munity issued the challenge we must all think about answering. Mayer told the students at a rally: "Don't say, 'Let Dan do it' or 'Let Phil do it,' or 'Let Kuntsler do it,'--or 'Let Che do it' or 'Let Jesus do it' If you don't do it, nobody will." The question is with the consciousness inn all of us. Let our actions now, and not our reactions later provide the answers. Indeed, how much longer can we afford to wait. 

On the left, Mary Kraft displays her form. Below, Bob and Ann, on the left, and Charley and Mary, on the right, take a brief moment's rest during practice. 
photos bY jim hunt 

Charley's older brother Mike is captain of the Ruggers. Mary is 4'11" and Ann is 5'6". Both are cute and so are -· Mary's two older brothers (or so she tells us) Ann was a high school swimmer at Badin High School. 
(There really is another Badin) All are very talented (That was an editorial comment) The four new cheerleaders began spring workouts 
with the squad last night in preparation for opening day against Northwestern in September and all hope to cheer Ara's boys on to the Orange bowl and a National Championship. 


ND-SM C University Chorus Presents 
Recruiting ROTC members 
A Pops Concert 
Jazz style Bach -folk songs -Broadway music 
Tonight 8: 15 Washington Hall Informal -free 
"Come Swing With Us" 
Clothes and things 
Men's Boutique 


"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center -Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­
;:=====73:;;3~5;:;;;:::::=;:::::;;;;:;:;;;:;;;:;:;:;:;;:;;:;======--~~R:_OTC units here at Notre Dame. 


A ADVERTISEMENTS 

Mail in or come by Observer office For information call 7471 
HOUSING 
Apartment for rent during summer months. Frunished, carpeted, freshly-painted, air-conditioned; has bedroom, living room, bathroom with shower, small hall, and two closets. Call Tom 282-2250 
For rental, Summer-June, July, ugust. Near UND· 4 bedrooms-Utilities, Furnished: $150 per month· 
all 284-1774 after 5:30pm. 
Efficiency apartment close to ND, hospitals, a d downtown. Call 287-5371 after 5 pm 
HELP WANTED 
Newly formed waterbed company wants campus representatives for hottest selling item in states. 
Good commissions for a few hours work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. Write: 
Lightrays Designs, Inc. 
Love sleep water beds division 3727 Walnut St. Philadelphis, Pa. 19104 
Pr Call: (215) 349-9330 
Bass player and Lead singer needed immediately. Call Jim 1859 
College Students with car needed to demonstrate technicolor photo and movie equipment--guaranteed $100 a week .. top men make· $200 working evenings 5-9. Call technicolor sales c 'fice 289-3662 for appointment 
Jobs available. full or part time. Transfers possible. Mr. Frank 287­8774 
Summer Camp Job-Watetront 
Supervisor: Boy Scouting 
Experince 21 years old, Red 
Cross Senior Lifesaving. 
$800.00. Call 1253 after 11:30 
p.m. 
Unwanted But would like to 
be: Available tor one-night 
stands-i.e. (Sophomore Prom) 
Want to take me? Call Tim 
287-4069 
ND-SMC Students interested in 
working for McGovern tor President will meet in Walsh Hall Basement 
Monday at 7:00 p.m. 
TRAVEL 

·­
Spend the summer in EUROPE. Charter jets to London, Amsterdam md Paris. More than 40 dates ,vailable. INTERNATIONAL ;TUDENTS ACADEMIQUE ;ocl ETY. Also eligible tor many .•ther benefits (railroad passes, hotel Jiscounts, etc.) For information call crank 233-8142. 

Want to take a trip to EUROPE this summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the NATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS and SAVE! Approx. 60 dates available tor round trips betw. London and N.Y. this summer tor $245. From London connect to any of 50 European cities at discount tares. For example: London Paris: $12.60, London ­Amsterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich :$15.00, Zurich -Rome: $20.00. Many other benefits (travel passes, hotel discounts, etc.( Also available. For info or application call Tom 282­2250 5-10 Mon.-Fri. 
SOFTBALL 
Chicago Club Softball Tournament cash prizes -Call Dan 1657 
FOR SALE 

!Vater mattresses for sale: to obtain info or place orders call Tom at 282­2250 from 5-10 pm Monday-Friday. 
;torage space available during summer. Call Tom: 282-2250. 
For Sale 12 string folk guitar, ex­cellent condition. Best offer. Pat 8895 
AUTOMOTIVE 
For sale 1969 Fiat '24 Spider $2195 Dave 232-1611, 232-2322 
For Sale -1966 Ford Econoline ­Paneled, carpeted, ·Nith bar and bed, 10 Speaker Stereotppe System and more. $850 or best otter. Ca II John 233­9508 

For Sale-1967 Sunbeam Alpine -very good condition -Call 7938 -312 Lyons 
Hall 

RATES  
ifJorr:5>  .,  dJY  2 days  3 -:lnys  4 d;  s  'I w·Jel1  
010  .50  .75  1.0()  1.15  1.25  
: 1-1,.  .r.n  ~.Ot~  I.J5  1.75  2.15  
16-24)  .70  1.15  1.70  2.40  :'.30  
!!1-25  .85  125  2.00  2.9:J  3.4rj  
26-30  1.00  i.60  2.3C  3.40  4.10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  VJO  3.85  4.70  
36-40  1.35  2.10  -1.10  4.25  !3.10  
t'"J-45  '.F5  2.30  3.:>0  4.50  5.50  
4f-:i0  1 ··r.·'~  .?.50  3.50  4.75  ~.0(1  

Just as other large organizations, the armed ser­vices are constantly seeking top­quality leadership. The methods used to find good leaders are initiated at the high school level and applied again to college 
•students, college graduates and also to students of graduate 'schools. 
One of the primary sources of competent leaders is the ROTC program. Every year, high schools throughout the country are visited by speakers from the various armed services hoping to inspire interest in senior and junior males through their recruiting lectures. These lec­tures are designed to acquaint students with the opportunities that are open to them if they should join one or another of the programs. 
Observer Insight 
The campaign in the South Bend area is taken up by representatives from the three 
SERVICES 
.:rypt-New Hours 
12:30-4:00 
Now on stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 
Cat Stevens-T~ for Tillerman-$3.H 
Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection 
;3.10 
Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 
RIDES 
Kentucky Club Derby Bus l!iavcs Friday 4-30-71, 3 pm returns Sunday 5 2-71. 12 noon. $15 round trip. Sign-ups 7-9:30 pm LaFortune Basement. Thursday 4-15-71 
Need ride to Indianapolis or Muncie this weekend. Call Ohle at 6805 
2 girls need ride to Chicago Friday or Saturday. Call 4862 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard lost after break: tasty reward. Cal Tom 8014 
Lost -Eternamatic Watch (without band) in vicinity of Keenan-Stanford or St. Joe Lake. Initials on back (J.H.W.) Rewa~rd call John 3348 
Found: Set of keys behind Admin 
Building. Call Bob 3721 
Lost · Wallet at Frankie's. Reward. Call 1156 
PEANUTS PERSONAl 
Riebs -Don't push me too tar! 
King Humble -Get your head off the pillow! 
Every fall, the three men visit the local schools, usually as a team, and present their lecture. They also leave various pamphlets that further explain opportunities and enrollment procedures. 
Major Edward C. Redican, commanding officer of the Air Force unit here, says, "We simply wish to inform the seniors about ROTC. The average senior in high school has not made up his mind about college by the time vVe make our visit. We find that many are interested in what we hll-ve to offer." 
All three branches offer scholarships to deserving 

students,  their  merits  being  
judged  on  a  nation-wide  basis..  
The  scholarships  cover  

everything but room and board and includes a $50 per month allowance. Another benefit is time and money for graduate school if college grades are kept at a "B" average and if the in­dividual student agrees to serve for a period longer than his contemporaries who do·not go on to do graduate work. 
Approximately 650 students are presently involved in ROTC. Of 

Ohlemz1ler announces co-ex dinner change 
The present hall ticket 
distribution policy for coex 
dinners will be changed as of April 
21 for all Notre Dame students, 
Bob Ohlemiller, chairman of the 
coex dinner program, announced 
yesterday. 
The new distribution process will be in effect until May 12, the first day of exams. Instead of each hall having one special night 
•set aside for their coex dinner with tickets being distributed to halls, tickets will now be available to all students for the day on which they wish to eat at St. Mary's. 
Ohlemiller said that the new program will allow a "greater flexibility" for students. 
Students may pick up their coex dinner tickets starting Monday_,. AI>_ril 19, in the second floor LaFortune ballroom from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. Tickets will be available during this period 
every Monday. The tickets, however, are only good for that day of the week designated on the ticket. Seventy-five tickets for each weekday will be distributed. 
After all the tickets are given out for a particular day of the week, ten remaining tickets will be available at the Student 
Transcendendal Meditation as taught by 
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi 
Transcendental meditation is a natural spontaneous technique which allows each indiviC: .a! to expand his mind and improve his life. 
Introductory Meeting 
April 19 
4:30 at 205 O'Shaughnessy 
8:00 at 104 O'Shaughnessy 
STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL MEDITATION SOCIETY 
these, 325 are on scholarship. When University President Theodore M. Hesburgh was asked recently if he were con­sidering banning ROTC from the campus, he replied, "Not at alL I might remind you," he said, "that students here receive upwards of $600,000 in aid from the ROTC units. Many of our young men would not be able to attend the university if not for this aid." More than half of those involved in ROTC are not on scholarship. 
8:15 concert ­choral pops concert, washington hall 
9:00 movie-contemporary arts festival: Ia dolce vita, carroll hall, smc, $1.00 patrons free, posted information in­correct. 
Union secretary's office in the fourth floor of LaFortune. 
Tickets will be good only for evening meals Ohlemiller said, but Sunday tickets can be used 

for  either lunch  or  dinner.  No  
tickets  will  be  available  for  
Monday, May 3.  

"This year's coex program has clearly been a success." He stated that next fall the program will be evaluated and appraisedby the commission, but will definitely be continued. 
St. Mary's students may pick up tickets between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. daily in the lobby of LeMans Hall and at any time at the cashier's office in the South Dining Hall pay cafeteria. 
Tickets distributed to SMC students are good in both the North and the South Dining Halls. 
Help needed 
in Oay Twp. 
Fifteen volunteers are needed to help begin digging the foun­datim of an Indian day care center in Clay Township this Saturday morning, Dave Lab, stmEnt government community relations commissioner, an­nounced yesterday. 
The volunteers are to meet at 
9:30 Saturday morning at the Grde and will be transported to the site. "We really need some peoplewm would like to help. It's going to involve only about four hours of work, and it's for a very good cause," Lab said. The center is being built by residents of Oay Township as a cultural, community and day care center. Peq>le wishing to volunteer their service; are a sked to call Bill Brophy at 1504 either today or t<JTiorrow. 

STUDY SIJ.IJNDS 
'" 
IMPROVE GRADEl ' 
lmprov• Grades While Devoting The Same AmCiunt Of Time To St"-1.'1 USE STUDY SOUNDS Increase Your Concentration AoJd · .ro..,rove Your Comprehension. Study At A Fash.r Rate. ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED f>OUNDS CAUSE THI'J TO HAPPW 
Please Specify 
8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record Send Check or t.;oney Order -$9.95 Each lnclude 75c Handlin& and Po!.tage 
Sound Concepls, Inc., -Box 3852 
Char'lottnville, Va. 22902 


-------------------------, 
Thursday, April 15, 1971 Page 7
711E OBS!'Rfll1t 

ND's Buster Brown a shoo-in for success 
by E .J. Kinkopf Observer Sports Writer 

Tennis Coach "Tiger" Tom Fallon can thank fate, his lucky stars, or even his horoscope for his number one player on the 1971 Irish Tennis team. 
For unlike Mickey Mantle, who was probably born catching a baseball, or Bobby Orr, who learned to skate before he could walk, Buster Brown began his tennis career purely by accident. 
Buster broke his right arm at the age of ten playing Little League baseball. And while the right arm was rested in a sling, he put the left to use swinging a tennis racquet. 
After the arm had fully men­ded, he switched from southpaw to righty and promptly began making himself known in tennis 
Ranked eighth nationally in the boys twelve and under division, and sixteenth nationally in the sixteen and under, the blond­haired junior from Sarasote, Florida left the sunshine state and journeyed to the land of the Hoosier. 
Carrying the above creden­tials, along with varsity honors in football, baseball, and tennis, Buster was sought by Arizona State, Georgia Tech, Columbia, Florida University, and Notre Dame. 

And looking at the tanned Brown, you feel like asking him, "What's a fella like you doing at a place like this, when you could be soaking' up them rays in places like Florida, Arizona or GEORGIA?" 
" ..well I guess the educational facilities had a part in but I 
Buster Brown practicing his forehand 

The Graduate View 
:::::::::::::::::::;:;:=:=:=:=:::::::::::;:::::::::===============================Ireland Revisited 
What I thought was going to be a rather humorous narrative of the Rugby Club's Spring Trip to Ireland hasn't quite turned out that way. It seems my sources of information invented several episodes, distorted others, and generally mis-represented most of the trip. 
So let's set the record straight. The Rugby Club did not march through Ireland like General Sherman went through Georgia. They did not spend all their time drinking and carousing. They did not bust up any dances. Any trouble that arose was due to a few individuals who were punished accordingly. Any damage that was done was paid for and anything stolen was returned. 
The Ruggers spent their vacation just like any other touring group would have. They were well-treated by local people, they did lots of sight-seeing, the went to parties and dances given in their honor, and they played lots of damn good rugby. 
The Club got some lessons in the sport of rugby the way the experts play it. In Ireland, teams are ranked in three divisions. The club played two middle division(junior) teams and two upper division(senior) teams. 
The Ruggers defeated Abbey Feale 22-8 and tied Bandon 3-3 in the junior games. Had the latter game not been called at the half due to the weather it is likely that the Club would have won since they had the wind and field advantage for the second half. 
Against the senior teams, the Club was 0-3. These teams contain the best caliber players in Ireland. University College Dublin has a player on the All-Britain touring team this year. Against UCD, the Club was tied 3-3 before UCD broke the game open in the final minutes. University College Gallway beat the Club "A" team 19-Q, and the "B" squad 34-18. 
The Ruggers played well in these games despite the rigorous travel schedule and key injuries to Mike Morrison and John Zukaitis. Morrison told me yesterdaythat he felt the Club could play UC Dublin about even if the game was held in Sol,lth Bend. 
The Ruggers weren't chased out of Ireland. In fact, they've been invited to return next year and they have letters to prove it. 
really wanted to go to school in a 
different part of the country. I'd 
been living in Sarasota all my 

life ... and well ... the Notre Dame 
thing ... you know when you were a 
kid and all of that." 
Well, sun or no sun, Buster 

seems to keep that tan year 
round, and as a starter for the 
squad for three years now, he's 
become far more dependable 
than the Indiana sunshine. 
Dependable may be an un­derstatement. Buster who was elevated to the number one spot this year, returned from the team's trip to California with a very respectable split in eight matches. 
Since then he has compiled a three and one slate, the only loss coming at the hands of Indiana's Mark Bishop, who Buster describes as an "unspectacular player who does every thing well, and just keeps coming and dogging you." 
He is also very high on his teamates, the rest of the Irish "racqueteers" who also made a good showing in the land of bikinied babes and Disneyland attractions. 
Phil Krill-Irish infield bulwark 
rby Vic Dorr 
'Observer Sportswriter : 

When people talk about Phil Krill, they don't remember him as the guy who's been Notre Dame's regular shortstop--or close to it--for the past three seasons. They don't remember him as a member of the 1970 Cape Cod League All-Star team either, or even as the player who holds the Irish record for the most assists 007) in a single season. 
Krill is remembered, instead, as the cocky freshman who made a practice of handing out engraved calling cards to anyone who seemed interested. And, as most calling cards do, these bore a legend: 
"Have glove, will travel--Phil Krill of Erie." 
A senior now, Krill is the first to laugh at his undergraduate stunts, and insists that he still has plenty of cards left. 
"They were just a gimmick," he says. "I had them made up in high school, and brought them up here as kind of a joke. And I really didn't use them too much.. .I've still got loads left." 
But Krill has lived up to the 

publicity. As the ND shortstop 
he's been impressing people 
since his first year and is, ac­
cording to his coach, "an ex­
cellent pro prospect and the 
bulwark of the infield." 
At least one major league 

team, the Los Angeles Dodgers, 
considered Krill an "excellent 
pro prospect" when he graduated 
from high school. 
"The Dodgers wanted to sign 

me right after I'd graduated, but 
I'd already signed a letter of 
intent to Notre Dame, and had to 
turn them down. And, since the 
scouts can't approach a player 
until he graduates from college, I 
won't really know where I stand 
until the major league draft. 
"As far as playing pro ball 

goes, I think my major drawback 
will be my speed. I'm a little 
slower than a shortstop should 
be, but I think that my hitting and 
fielding should be able to make 
up for this. At least I hope it will. I 
think I can play in the majors, but 
I just won't know a thing until 
after the draft. I might go fairly 
high, or I might not be drafted at 
all." 
The draft will be held in early 

June, and until then Krill's at­
tention will be given to the for­
tunes of the Irish ball club. 
"This is the best team that I've 
played for--both in spirit and in 

"Our team is a lot stronger than last year's team. We have lots of depth, besides youth. Five out of our six starters are returning next year. There's lots of experience, four of our five singles players also played last year. And Brandon Walsh, who's only a freshman, should help greatly." 
As far as evaluating his own capabilities and potential, Btown will be the first to point out his strengths and weaknesses. 
Unlike teamate Mike Rielly who possesses a blistering serve, Buster feels that that part of his game is his weak point. 
"Yeah, Iguess my serve is my weakest point. It's off and on, but mainly I concentrate on my volley and net game. Mainly because the volley is probably the biggest part of the match." 
Buster is also looking forward to the NCAA's which will be hosted by Notre Dame this June. He doesn't forsee any of the court, but he thinks they will leave with a good impression of th Irish team. 
As for himself, Brown felt his chances depended mainly on the 
material--during my four years here. I know that our 5-8 record must make something like that sound pretty funny, but we're a much better team than we've 
shown. 
We've been losing because of mistakes--mental mistakes--that college-educated guys shouldn't make. But it'll only be a matter 
i;uur llLur lltll } ruuel 
J~tl 1\rtll 

nf frtr 
Phil Krlll's famous "calling card" 
of time until we get straightened "I think we can beat them three out, and after that I'm sure that straight," said Krill. "They're in we'll finish well over .500." the Mid-America Conference, Krill is one of the few senior which is one of the toughest regulars on thps year's squad, college baseball divisions in the and as such is in a position to country, but I really think we can appreciate the largely youthful sweep them." A sweep will even complexion of the team. the Irish record at 8-8, and will make a .500 season just that much more of a possibility, but a 
"This year's freshmen are sweep won't be all thwt easy to really talented," he said., "and accomplish. they've produced a much more "We want to be 8-8 when we relaxed atmosphere on our team. come back," insisted Krill. "And They are learning that this isn't remember. This team is not all high school ball, and some of enthusiasm. We've got a lot of them are coming along really talent here, too." That, coming well. Pete Schmidt, for instance. from Phil Krill, is a very He's just got a beautiful swing, believable statement. 
NBA-NHL playoff wrapup 
NHL 
Quarterfinal Round 

Boston Bruins lead Montreal Canadians, 3 games to 2. New York Rangers lead Toronto Maple Leafs, 3 games to 2. 
Chicago Black Hawks defeated Philadelphia Flyers, 4 games to none Minnesota North Stars lead St. Louis Blues, 3 games to 2 
Tonight's Games Boston at Montreal New York at Toronto St. Louis at Minnesota and is going to be a big help in the future." 
But right now, with a 5-8 record, the only future that Phil Krill and his teammates can be concerned with is this weekend's three-game road series with the Toledo Rockets. The Irish meet the Rockets in a single game on Friday and in a double-header the following day. 
NBA 
Semifinal Round 

New York Knicks and Baltimore Bullets are tied, two games apiece. 
Milwaukee Bucks lead Los Angeles Lakers, 2 games to none. (Last night's game not included). 
Sunday's Games New York at Baltimore Los Angeles at Milwaukee luck of the draw, that is if he is not seeded. 
He also felt though that he would have a psychological "home court" advantage and besides, by now he's used to the wierd winds and the unpredicable table South Bend climate. 
The future? Brown hasn't looked that far ahead yet. 
"I really don't know. The idea of coaching or teaching tennis keeps floating around in my head, but I don't really have any desire to do that. I'll probably end up in business. 
Oh yeah, there is one more question I just had to ask. Con­cerning those shoes ... y.ou know, Huster Brown shoes? 
"Yeah'" Buster said flashing a bouish smile, "my great grand­fathr started that...honest." 
He answered a split second before a friend of his walked past the door, warning me not to believe a word he said. 
• 
Isreal's Suez proposal snagged 
By United Press International­Israel's counter-proposal on reopening the Suez Canal was reported to have run into a snag  crossing the waterway if Israeli troops are pulled back. The reports published in every major Israeli newspaper came  unless Israel came up with a plan acceptable to Egypt.The latest warning was voiced by Lt. Gen. Haim Bar Lev, Israeli  
Wednesday because of U.S. delay  amid  warnings  from  both  chief of staff,  who  said  Israel  
in outlining safeguards to prevent  Jerusalem and Cairo that a new  must  not  underestimate  the  
Egyptian and Soviet troops from  Middle East war might break out  strangth  c  the  Egyptian  and  

End to Ill. death penalty? 
Limited number of summer iobs available through Urban Corps in: 
Atlanta, Boston, Cleveland, Indianapolis, Minneapolis, New York and Syracuse 
To participate a student must be eligible for College work/study fundings 
For information contact: Institute for Urban Studies 214 Rockne Memorial 283-1112 
Syrian armies which have been holstered by massive weapons shipments from the Soviet Union. Bar Lev, however, said his men were confident of victory with the help of new American arms shipments if hostilities are renewed. 
Diplomatic sources in Israel said Prime Minister Golda Meir's reply to Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's proposals for reop(;ning the Suez Canal called for an Israeli troop withdrawal of about six miles, with no Egyptian or Sovietv troons t.o rross thP waterway and American guarantees against such a crossing. 
The Israeli newspapers said Wednesday the content of the government proposals for reopening the canal, blocked .;mce the 1967 war, under an agreement with Egypt hinged on Washington's reply to Israel's safeguare questions. Thzy said the United States had not yet replied to the request for such assurance submitted by Israel two weeks ago. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILL. (UPI)­The Illinois House Judiciary Committee yesterday recom­mended House passage of a bill, termed an experiment by sup­porters, which would abolish the death penalty in lllinois for six years. 
The Raven 
with Vincent Price, Peter Lorre and Boris Karloff Wed. April 14 
Thurs. April 15 7:30 & 9:30p.m. 127 Nieuwland Science Hall Admission $.75 
The bill, sponsored by Rep. Robert Mann, D. Chicago, was approved in a 9-5 vote. 
The approval took courage, Mann said, because Illinois residents last Dec. 15 voted by an almost 2-1 margin to keep the death penalty in the referendum on the state's new constitution. 
"I'm amused by this elite group who feel they know better than the people," House Majority Leader Henry Hyde, R. Chicago, said in reaction to the committee vote. 
Rep. Leland Rayson, D. Tinley Park, said the committee was not "really ignoring the public's wishes." 


DmVNITOWN TOI!'IN & COUNTRY SOUTH BEND SHOPPir~G CENTER
• 
The bill would ban the death 
penalty until July 1, 1977 but 
would not apply to persons 
sentenced before its enactment. 
Mann said he was attempting a 
six year moratorium because 
"I'm sure there is no chance of 
passing an outright ban." 
The measure might run into a 
rough time in the House, which 
has defeated bills to ban capital 
punishment in four out of the five 
last legislative sessions. 
In 1965 when such a bill did pass 
the House i~ was defeated in the 
Senate. 
Alumni contn.bute 
Alumni rl the University of 
Notre Dame contributed 
$2,120,249 to the 1970 Annual 
Fund, a figure only $45,000 short 
of the record $2,165,700 reported 
in 1966. More than 46 per cent of 
the alumni pirticipited in the 
rrogram. 

Ten honorary alumni con­tributed an additional $522,647 during 1970 to bring the Annual Fund total to $2,642,896. 
James D. Cooney, executive director of the Alumni Association, credited the ex­cellend response during 1970 to the increased faith and con­fidence of alumni in the goals of the University. "Our graduates realize that this is a time when Notre Dame needs their en­couragement, their moral and material support, and their allegiance as never before," he said. 
The Class of 1954, with more than 58 per cent forwarding cash gifts, led all classes in par­ticipation in the 1970 campaign. The Class of 1965, with 565 par­ticipants, had the greatest number of contributors, and the Class of 1955 contributed $344,909 to lead all classes in dollar amounts. 
SCLC to organize poor against Nixon 
DETROIT <UPil-The Soutnern Christian Leadership Conference SCLC will conduct a "massive voter registration drive in black and poor communities" to bring about the defeat of President Nixon in 1972, the Rev. Ralph D. Abernathy said Wednesday. 
Abernathy told a news con­ference that the SCLC board of directors "feels very firmly that an administration that ap­propriates billions of dollars for the moon and pennies for the poor is an administration that should be replaced in 1972." 
The SCLC held its spring board meeting in Detroit to "plan our future program and our future thrust," said Abernathy, the SCLC president. 
The SCLC will give top priority, he said, to battling "racism, war, and poverty in addition to that 
deremployment, the lack of 
administration of justice in the 
country, the lack of quality 
education in our public c;chools 
and an unjust welfare system." 
"The conference has also rededicated itself to its program of politics 1971-72 in which we will engage in a massive voter registration program and voter education programs in which we hope to bring about a whole change in the political arena," Abernathy said. 
Asked if there was internal dissension within the SCLC over tactics and leadership Abernathy said: "If there is any tension within the SCLC it was created by the media." 

He said he doesn't "want to agree with Vice President Agnew ~n anything, but he was right when he spoke out against the 
unemployment and un-'news media." 
Brooke calls for deadline on Viet troop withdrawal 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Sen. Edward W. Brooks, R. Mass., Wednesday challenged President Nixon to set and publicly an­nounce a final date for with­drawal of all U.S. troops from Indochina, preferably by the end of this year. 

In his strongest statement on the Vietnam War, Brooks said "the time has come . .in fact the time has long past" for Nixon to set a pullout date as the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong have demanded to begin negotiations on the return of war prisoners. 
At the same time, Chairman J. William Fulbright, D. Ark., of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee announced that his panel would begin hearings Tuesday on six proposals relating to the war in Southeast Asia-­including the Vietnam disengagement act. 
Fulbright said Secretary of State William P. Rogers had been invited to testify April 27 but had made no reply. Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird declined a committee invitation to testify May 4. 
Nixo11 has. refused-in the face of mounting congressional pressure--to announce a troop withdrawal target, contending that to do so would remove whatever incentive the Com­munists had to reach a peace settlement. 
In a senate speech, Brooke urged that Nixon accept a Dec. 31 pullout date favored by a number of lawmakers--or any other date the President prefers--and an­nounce it immediately. 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Requests for CHARITY CHEST money (Mardi Gras funds) must be turned in by Friday, April 16, at the Student Government Offices in LaFortune. 
Interviews will be held next week 






