'Changing for tbe better' 
Reuss: Outlook good
by Mary Sue Horvat _ 
The ecological outlook is bright for the decade of the 70's according to Congressman Henry Reuss, speaking in the Library Auditorium last night on Ecology and Politics. 
Congressman Reuss, of the fifth Congressional District of Wisconsin, is the Chairman of the House Conservation and Natural Resources Committee. He is also a member of the Sub­Committee on Conservation. 
Congressman Reuss opened his lecture with the encouraging prediction that the decade of the 70's is "changing for the better." It is his belief that our environment is improving because "young people who care about the environment and demand that pollution be stopped. They do this by chiding politicians into passing laws and evolving new ways of living. They find out how to live in harmony with nature instead of fighting it." 
The House Sub-Committee works on enforcing pollution laws and "digging out laws previously passed" on pollution. One such law was uncovered last year by the committee; the Refuse Act of 1899. The law stated that "Whosoever discharges refuse into lakes or rivers shall be guilty of the crime and fined $2500 a day; and whoever informs the law of this person will receive a sum of half the fine." Congressman Reuss' Committee has been working on kits instructing how to use the Refuse Act. 12,000 of these have been distributed. These kits also inform about Industrial Pollution and procedures in court against offenders. 
(Continued on page B) 


Vol. VI, No.6 
W. Dennis Duggan 
An attempt to clear the air 
between the Board of Trustees 
and the Student Life Council was 
m de Thursday when 
representatives of the SLC met 
with J.:dmund Stephan in the 
Center for Continuing Education. 
The discussion centered around 
St£>phan's letter to the SLC 
Chairman. Professor William 
J.:gan. 
"Parietals seem to be the big issue," Eagan said. He added that the SLC must come up with some sort of guidelines and sanctions concerning parietal and drinking rules. 
SBP John Barkett felt that the Trustees were in a difficult 

Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Friday, September 17, 1971 

HPC raps Trustee Board 
Claims progress 'impeded' 
position because they had to consider both the moral and public relations implications of the problem. 
Barkett said, "The Trustees are responsible for the Univer­sity. How they view their responsibilitites and how we view ours when visitation hours are the question results in two dif­ferent interpretations." 
Barkett also voiced his opinion that most of the Notre Dame students were responsible enough to handle themselves with regard to parietals. 
Both Stephan and Barkett agreed that the crux of the problem was a generation gap. f''urther talks are planned to discuss the problem. 
by Don Ruane and Bill Sohn 
The Hall Presideuts Council Thursday claimed the Trustee call for stricter enforcement of parietal and alcohol rules has slowed progress towards a campus spirit of hall community. 
"We feel that the recent action of the Board of Trustees has greatly impeded our progress towards a campus-wide spirit of hall community," the council wrote in a letter given Stephan yesterday. 
The letter given to Board Chairman Edmund Stephan, expressed the council's belief in student responsibility which could be enhanced by close cooperation between the SLC and the HPC. 
"We feel the implementation of our suggestions and closer· communication and cooperation between the Hall Presidents and the SLC would foster an attitude within the halls that would be more workable from both the Trustees' and the students' points of view," the HPC letter con­tinued. 

"For true community spirit to exist. .. students must have a significant role in the formulation of policy which most fun­damentally governs their lives," they added. 
First Meeting 

Stephan met with the HPC, the first such meeting between the two, in an afternoon session at the Center for Continuing Education. 
Earlier, the trustee met with several members of the Student Life Council. 
Nixon announces pro-Red China vote 
I(') 1!171 New York Times 

WASHINGTON, SEPT. 16-­President Nixon announced today that the United States will vote to seat Peking in the Security Council as well as the General Assembly of the United Nations because this policy "reflects the realities of the situation." 
But Nixon also told an un­scheduled news conference at his White House office this afternoon that "we will vote against the expulsion of the Republic of China and we will work as ef­fectively as we can to accomplish that goal." 
In discussing his intention to visit the People's Republic of China, Nixon said he thought his talks with Premier Chou En-Lai "may be productive," despite "the very great differences" between the two countries. 
He expected the Peking discussions to be productive, he said, because "Premier Chou En-Lai both publicly and and privately, doesn't take the usual naive sentimental idea, and neither do I. If we just get to know each other all of our dif­ferences are going to evaporate." 
"He recognizes and I recognize that there are very great dif­ferences between the People's 

President Nixon 

·Republic and the U.S. of America," Nixon said. "He recognizes and I recognize that at this point it might serve our mutual interest to discuss those differences." 
Nixon, who announced last July 15 that the visit would occur before next May, refused to say when his trip would take place. But he volunteered that the arrangements for it are being worked out in a "very satisfac­tory way." 
Responding to other questions of foreign policy, the president said the U.S. would not cut off 
(Continued on page B) 
The sessions were mainly question and discussion by each group to clarify their own positions and to understand the other's. 
Although no progress was made by either group, both were encouraged by the other's willingness to discuss the issue. 
According to Dave Fromm, 
Walsh Hall President, the 
meeting was good for everyone, 
"We got them thinking." 
He added that the meeting has 
"started to open lines of com­
munication." 
Buz Imhoff, HPC President, 
said they discussed each others 
letters and that "what happens 
now depends on the SLC." 
Stephan was particularly 
pleased, saying after _the 
meeting, "This is the first lime 
that group has impressed me as a 
body." 
Judicial Board Changes 
He also noted the Trustees' goal of stricter enforcement. "We want to shake this thing <parietal violations) up. What they (students) want is autonomous enforcement and their per­formance up to now doesn't justify this." 
The HPC, in its letter, said it is 
willing to change the hall judicial 
board structure "contingent upon 
the Board's acceptance of the 
SLC's future decisions regarding 
parietals." 
The change would place a faculty member on each board and impower the SLC to oversee and periodically evaluate and report the work of each judicial body. 

"We see no reason why violations within a hall could not be handled by these boards ... as opposed to being taken directly to the dean of Students. 
"In fact, we believe that true community spirit and a strong sense of student responsibility will develop from such a system." the presidents stated.. 
See the complete text of 
Hall Presidents Council 
Chairman Buz Imhoff's 
letter to Board of Trustees 
Chairman Edmund 
Stephan on page 8 in 
today's OBSERVER. 

~~1 
WASHINGTON-President Nixon announced Thursday that because of "the realities of the situation" the United States will vote to seat Peking in the United Nations Security Council. He also said that the United States would vote against the expulsion of Nationalist China and will work to prevent it. 
NEW YORK--A Soviet biologist who was arrested and confined in a mental institution last year has defied official warnings and written a journal of his expreiences. Zhores A. Medvedev was released from the institution 19 days after top Soviet WRITERS AND SCIENTISTS HA~ PROTESTED. The journal will be published in the United States m December. 
BUFFALO, N. Y.--Correction department officials gave lawyers permission to interview inmates at Attica about the incidents on Monday after a National Guardsman testified at a federal court hearing of seeing guards and state troopers beat and abuse prisoners after the riot had been quelled. 
~ NEW YORK--Look Magazine will cease publication after its issue dated Oct. 19. The 37-year old journal, one ot the last great picutre and text magazines, succumbed to a slack economy, increased postal rates and a $5-million loss in revenues in 1970. 
~----­

Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Friday, September 17, 1971 

MONEY 


isn't everything hut lack of it is! 
PART-TIME WORK 

287-8774 

CAR NECESSARY 

crossfire." a reiteration of why he did what 
,.............­
he did during the Attica crisis whjch begar. last Thursday. Again, he defended his Com­missioner of Correction, Russell 
G. Oswald, calling him "a gutsy guy" who had tried by every peaceable means to meet prisoner demands and avoid 
(c) New York Times ALBANY, N.Y.-Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller said today that he believed the nine hostages slain in the Attica Prison uprising were killed in "a crossfire" of troopers' bullets when the decision to wrench the facility from the control of pnsoners.was made on Monday. 
At a news conference in the Capitol, Rockefeller said he did not think "there was any in­discriminate shooting" by the state's assault force but that "I think the hostages who died of gun wounds were caught in a bloodshed to the hostages. 
Again, he defended his decision not to respond to a citizens committee's plea when , negotiations crumbled to come personally to Attica to "buy ·time," saying it would not have 
served a useful purpose. 

And again, he asserted that he 
acted correctly in sanctioning the 
use of force to regain the prison. 
Discussing the deaths of nine' of 
the hostages, the Governor said 
the situation was so perilous at 
the prison that it was "ex­
traordinary 28 men were saved 
under these circumstances." 

To get to the area where the 
hostages were confined, he said, 
they had "to storm the top of the 
passageways where the 
barricades had been built leading 
to the area known as Times 
Square in the middle of the 
courtyard." 



Grad parking asked 
The Governor came here today to meet late this afternoon with legislative leaders of both parties about the selection of a broad­based "totally representative" committee to study every aspect of the Attica uprising, including his own. moves such as his sanc­tioning the deployment of troopers to retake the prison. 
The Governor said his aim was the formation of committee "not appointed by me or the legislature." 
A good portion of the Gover­nor's comments were devoted to 
by Neal Loughrey Grad students living in Carroll Hall have not received a response from the University in regard to an on-campus parking proposal they submitted in July. A copy of the proposal was given to Fr. James Riehle, Dean of Students. The proposal was presented verbally to Fr. Thomas Chambers, the Director of Student Residence, and to Arthur Pears, Director of Security. Fr. Riehle's office gave an immediate negative response. "I 
doubt if he even read the proposal," stated George Henry, a member of the group who drew 
up the proposal. On Tuesday Mr. Pears stated that Fr. Riehle had taken over the problem . Fr. Chambers and Fr. Riehle could not be contacted on Tuesday for a response to the proposal. 
ATTENTION ENGINEERING 
STUDENTS 

The N.D. Technical Review magazine invites you to publish an artide, report or any essay of general interest to engineers. Something already written for another purpose may be useful. Questions or inquiries contact Ed 
IYoung, 603 Flanner (1382) now 


I~EDITATION 
AS TAUGHT IY 
MAHARISHI MAHESH YOGI 


TRANSCENOEN'rAl MWITATION IS A NATURAL SPONTANEOUS 
fECHNIQUf WHICK ALlOW<, fACI-l IN!)IVIllUAL TO EXPAND ti!S M!NO AND IMPROVE HI>. LIFE 
Introductory Lecture 
NOTRE DAME SEPT. 20 8:00 p.m. 
"!' • .,

O'SHAUGNESSY HALL 
•.· ,-J ~:,_ ', I 
ROOM204 

Fr. Charles Weiher, the rector of Carroll Hall, stated that the administration might be trying to avoid a decision because parking has become a problem for colleges across the country. He speculated that the ad­ministration may be trying to return to the policy of seniors­only parking. 
The proposal outlined and diagrammed the available parking space along with a possible parking area on a nearby abandoned tennis court. This provides parking for thirty cars. The students offered to paint the lots and maintain them during the winter. In the proposal room was provided for emergency vehicles to pass, and the students offered to pay $30 for parking privileges; undergrads pay only $25. 
The students need parking spaces for fifty cars. These ad­ditional autos could be ac­comodated on two vacant fields adjacent to the hall. If this could not be arranged the students proposed that they sst up a shuttle service among them­selves to the parking lots D-1 and C-3 near the stadium and Stepan Center. 
There are two gates located near the hall used only be university vehicles and delivery trucks which the students would be able to use.. 

Friday, September 17, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
Page 3 
' 

Strong and effective 



MXon plans post -freeze restraints 
New York Times 

Washington -President Nixon declared today that he would substitute a program of "strong, effective" restraints on major industries after the 90-day freeze on wages and prices expires in November. 
The American people "don't want to have a freeze followed by a thaw where you can get stuck in the mud," the President told reporters at an impromptu news conference in the oval office this afternoon. 
Nixon declined to discuss specifics of the proposal being drawn up in consultation with business, labor, and agricultural leaders and government officals. But his comments left little doubt that he was in favor of a program of voluntary restraints backed up by legal authority to force rollbacks of price and wage in­creases the government would consider inflationary. 
"Phase two will be strong," the President said. "It will be ef­fective." And although he said it would require the cooperation of both labor and management, he called it "vitally important" that the follow-up program have teeth in it. "You cannot have jawboning that is effective without teeth," Nixon addded. 
There was no mention during the 40-minute news conference, Nixon's first since he announced the freeze of forthcoming restraints on corporate profits and stockholder dividends. 
Nor did the President affirm reports tha the administration leaned toward a government hoard, rather than a tripartite board representing business, labor and the public, to monitor the second phase of his anti­inflation program. 
Leaders of organized labor told the President at the White House last Friday that they would favor a tripartite hoard and reaffirmed their interest in controls on 

Viet election boycott urged for Buddhists 
((') 1!171 New York Times 
:SAIGON, 1, SEPT. 16--The powerful anti-government An Quang Buddhists call today on South Vietnam's Buddhist majority and "All other freedom and democracy loving people" to boycott the unopposed 
presidential  referendum  on  
October 3.  
They  have  thus  joined  the  

slowly coalescing opposition to President Thieu's government, along with a still largely unorganized group of an­tigovernment intellectuals, students, and army veterans. 
In another development, sporadic street violence broke out near the An Quang Pagoda in Saigon's Chinese section as police broke up a demonstration at which another opposition group burned their voter registration cards as a protest against the one-man elections. 
Police blanketed the area with tear gas while a handful of Buddhist students threw rocks and two molotov cocktails. About 10 voting cards were burned. 
The organizer of the voting card burning, Tran Ngoc Lieng, is a well-known French-trained lawyer and leader of anti­government intellectual groups. 
lM UDiervtii II PUbllthecl Clalllf durlnt tiM c;ol..ge Mmester except v~tlons blf the students of the University of Not,. Dame anel St. Mal'lf'1 Coltege. Sulllulptlons mav 
lie PUrcN•CI for aa from TM Ob­•nrer, 8ox 11, Notre Dame0 Incl. 46556. S.Concl c... Pa.Qee Nicl. NotN Dame, Incl. 465M. 
With his eyes streammg from the tear gas, he distributed a statement accusing the American government of having imposed an "unpopular, dic­tatorial regime" on South Vietnam, and calling for a boycott of the elections. 
The An Quang Buddhist monks were not directly involved in the voting card burning demon­stration, but the issuance of their communique today signaled to many the militant faction's open return to th~ political sceE~-­
2ND AND FINAL WEEK 
, I~CK ROI.ilrl~; CHt\l~l E~: HJOfll 
wOOdy


allen's 

corporate profits and dividends. Labor officials, backed by some Democratic members of Congress, have been sharply critical of the President for freezing wages and prices without similar restraints on profits. 
Nixon also indicated, in response to a question, that he could live with a congressional cut in his proposal for a 10 per cent investment tax credit this 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell 
Headlines: Jim McDermott, 
Maria Gallagher, Micky Cain 
Layout: Maria Gallagher, Glen 
Corso, Jack Frischkorn 
features: rick smith 
Managing Editor: Don 
. Ruane 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
Extra Help: Jim Roe, Peggy 
Whatshername 
Controllers of the night: rick 
smith, John Brady 
Visitors: Patty, Ed, AT, Leslie, 
Gene, John, Anthony, Fred, 
Mike, Redman, and Ann 
Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee, has called for a flat 7 per cent in­vestment tax credit and the committee chairman, Representative Wilbur Mills, Democrat of Arkansas, has advocated a single figure without specifying what it should be. 
"We believe that the 10 per cent -5 per cent approach is much the better one," Nixon said. "Because it will give the charge to the economy in the year we need it, which is now. On the other hand, 7 per cent would be 
better than nothing." 
Tfhe President said that his entire economic package was balanced and "we are going to fight for it." If Congress should alter portions of it but move toward the same goals of holding inflation and providing jobs, "I would tend to consider it af­firmativwly unless it completely blew the top off our budget," Nixon added. 
NOW AVAILABLE AT THE 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
PARSEGHIAN AND 
NOTRE DAME 

FOOTBALL 

by Ara Parseghian and Tom Pagna. The coaches handbook. An inside look at the "Parseghian system", from practice field to game action. The philosophy, drills, formations, plays, and strategy that make Notre Dame America's No. 1 college football team. Over 400 illustrations, photos, diagrams... for coaches, players and super fans of the Fighting Irish. ........$9.95 
also available 

NOTRE DAME FROM ROCKNE TO PAR· SEGHIAN ... by Francis 
KING OF COACHES,
Wallace ... hardbound 
Brother Daniel 
$5.95 
Bengert's story of Knute 
KNUTE ROCKNE,
Rockne ... paperback...$1.25 
YOUNG ATHLETE BY Van Riper...$2.75 

Miss USA looks over _the ND campus as the campus does likewise. · · 
Group Health lnsura,nce 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Graduate Student Union For 


Graduate Students 
For Information Mail to-· ASSOCIATION PLANS 1101 EastBelmont South Bend, Indiana 46615 


~ 

------l 
THE OBSERVER Fr , September 17, 1971 


Nader's Raider stresses involvement in lnPRIG 
Stressing the importance of unity in success, Nader Raider Joe Highland urged his Grace Hall audience yesterday to join in a concerted effort to make the Indiana Public Interest Research Group On PRIG) a reality on this campus. 
The group, which acts basically as a consumer watch dog group, is solely funded and run by students. The money collected is used to finance research projects and to pay salaries of a number of professionals (lawyers, environmental scientists, etc.) which the group hires on a full time basis to in­vestigate and prosecute its fin­dings. 
Calling Public Interest Research Groups a "new aspect of education and simultaneously, a way to get necessary things done," Highland stated that many studnets are now receiving academic credit in Minnesota, Oregon and other states for consumer-related research projects. 
The former Student Coor­dinator of the Minesota Public Interest Research Group <MPRIG) cited as a reason for the necessity of PRIG, the failure of certain governmental agan­cies, such as the Food and Drug 
Administration. 
Highland believes that "People have too much faith in the government. They feel that when they buy hamburger, it is good 

ALSAC to collect 
The framework of a campus­wide organization to raise money for lukemia stricken children has been completed and will begin collecting funds tomorrrow morning. 
Aid to Lukemia Stricken American Children (ALSAC), wii1 receive all the funds collected in the ten week cam­
paign that will be directed by Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic and 
Jack Greeley. 
Lukemia afflicted children, 

who recommended by a physician, are eligible for free hospital care and medical at­tention under ALSAC. Since volunteers do most of the organizational work, fully ninty­five cents out of every dollar 
contributed goes directly to the hospital. 
The youths indicated that lukemia was seledd by the group because it is the number one killer of children and that ALSAC performs a vital role in caring for their needs. 
Funds will be collected on campus before each home football game. A special effort will be made out side the stadium prior to the Navy game on Oc­tober 30. 
Plans are also being for­mulated to collect donations during Mass that weekend. 
Volunteers are welcome to assist in the campaign. More information is available in room 507 of Grace Hall or 7638. 

First pep rally in Stepan 
by Jeffery Jackson The new N.D. leprechaun, 
The arrival of the new football Danny O'Hara and the Meat season marks the arrival of the Squad will escourt the band on Notre Dame band, cheerleaders, the traditional march around the Meat Squad and pep rallies. campus. Meeting the band at 
The male "yell-kings" will be Stepan Center will be the SMC headed by Kevin Chismire and cheerleaders, Missy McCarry, include Paul Palinski, Joe Cowin, Terri Buck, Anne Stringer, Bob Benkendorf, Dwayne Ar-Rooney Frailey, Carol Cullen, begust, and Charlie Morrison. Mary Kraft and Anne Ciscle They will lead the band from Head Coach Ara Parseghian Washington Hall on an en-will address the rally followed by campusing route which will co-captains Tom Gatewood and climax with the rally at Stepan Walt Patulski who will introduce 
C:~e~nt~e~r~·--------------------~the 1971 t.e~a~m~·-------------l 
FRESHMAN YEAR OF 
STUDIES 
PEOPLE OF NOTRE DAME 
lnaugaral Lecture 
by 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,C.S.C. 
Monday, September 20,1971 
7:30 p.m. Washington Hall 
hamburger, otherwise the store wouldn't sell it." This type of reasoning, Highland feels, 
necessitates the Public Interest Research Group. 
Highland cited as examples of student effort the research done by Connecticut students in ~he property taxes in the city of Wallingford. Students found that "records were being kept in pencil, so they could be changed." The Nader's raider went on to point out that there was a vast difference in rates in the city between Industry and homeowners . 
Highland pointed out that 
Ralph Nader considers students 
"the backbone of his 
organization." He noted the 
pending sex discrimination case 
in Oregon which was totally 
student initaited. Women em­
ployees at Oregon State 
University, Highland revelaled, 
are earning up to $4000 less than 
men in the same positions. 
Highland ended hiS talk by 
citing InPRIG as a challenge to 
the studnets of Indiana. He 
assured his audience that the 
organizational road was a long 
one, but noted the perseverance 
of the students in Minnesota and 
Oregon as examples to follow. 
Science Quarterly takes on Prof Mead 
Notre Dame's Science Quar­
terly has a new moderator, Prof. 
Darwin Mead. This change in 
staff was announced by the 
magazine's new editor, Gene 
Molinelli earlier this week. 
Science Quarterly is a magazine 
published for the science majors 
of the university. 
Mead is replacing Dr. Emil T. 
Hoffman as moderator of the 
Science Quarterly, since Hoff­
man recently became dean of the 
Freshman Year of Studies. 
Darwin Mead is presently a 
physics instructor and the 
Assistant Dean of the College of 
Science. 
Molinelli also revealed several 
changes in the magazine's 
organization. Pat Wyant is the 
Associate Editor. For the first 
time, Science Quarterly has an 
office in Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Molinelli stated that under his 
leadership the magazine would 
try to place less emphasis on very 
technical papers. Along these 
lines he is starting a comments 
section. Molinelli described his 
philosophy towards the magazine 
as, "It's (Science Quarterly) not 
just going to be a research 
magazine, but sort of a place 
where science students can ex­
press their opinions about 
anything ... There will be less 
technical articles and more 
articles of general interest." 
Molinelli issued a plea for 
volunteers to assist the staff in 
printing out the magazine. He 
said, "Last year we had a 
problem --most of the students 
were kind of indifferent to the 
magazine." 
TERMPAPERS UNLIMITED 
""We give results" 
295 Hungtington Ave Boston, Mass. 02115 (617) 267-3000 
Page 5

Friday, September 17, 1971 THE· OBSERVER 

The stage is hare except for a fairly unusual-lookmg hack-up hand: four horns, a. pair of ~uitars, dru'!ls, and a piano. After a brief mtroduct10n, three girls come out, dressed sexily, but looking almost prim and proper when compared to the she-demon who lea~s them. From the moment they appear, the stage IS 
iack condon 
goodbye pat 
It's difficult for me to start this column for a number of reasons. I don't know whether to try to be very clever. overly dramatic, ~r even te,rrifica_lly opinionated. I wonder, too, If you aren t rea?mg this simplybecause you didn't enjoy dinner, your fnend did and you're stuck waiting for him. Whatever the reason, I sincerely wish you'd make allowances for my poor writing style and try to understand the thought behind this little insight. 
Very often I could care less about an article written for a person I didn't know, by someone I cared less about and it always puzzles me as to why they were even written. It's apparent to me now, though, why it is. Every now and then, something, or in this case, someone comes along that you really care about; that sends you thinking, caring and doing. Too often, in your mind, this person maintains an anonymity that should be broken. Enough rambling. 
Pat Molinaro is a name that unless you frequented 
the student government offices, probably means 
nothing to you. I'll address myself then to those who 
have and to those who are simply interested. She's 
very much a woman in love with her word and the 
people she associates with. This feeling is returned by 
all who know her. She's far above the job of secretary 
she holds, and does in fact keep student government 
going. She imparts a spirit that is contagious and 
filling. She expects work from "her boys" ,and mak~s 
sure what needs to be done, gets done. It s very dif­
ficult to write about a feeling. 
The walls of the office have for years been covered 
with pictures of the guys associated with it. This week 
those pictures come down, as Pat leaves her desk for 
good. It isn't going to be a really happy day. If I can 
address this personally, Pat, that, to say it won't be_ the 
same, goes unsaid;that this is the end of somethmg, 
something to be gravely missed by those who~e 
privilege it is to know you. Itseems so weak to say thiS, 
but you'll know what it means by a sincere "thanks." 

soul incarnate by lenny kaye 
ike &tina -artist &audience 
never devOid ot movement; it is filled with any number of tee11-age dance variations, something always grinding, shaking, hurtling through the air with blindin:~ spet.·d. 
If you managed to catch the Rolling Stones on any of their cross-co•Jntry stops last Novenber, you probably know who I'm talking about. On that same show with them was the Ike and Tina Turner Revue, and their success was so cverpowering that in many cases, the Stones had to wait. patiently backstage in order to let the crowd cool down enough for them to make their entrance. In San Francisco, Ike and Tina left things in such an uproar that the show was delayed a full forty­five mmutes. In New York, the response was nearly as great. 
The reason behind all this excitement is not too hard to understand. Ike has taken a common formula--firls, music, almo~>t blatant sexuality--and organized all the piece!:-into a show that never lets up its assault on the audie11ce. When you're not being confronted with the aston· ghing depth, range, and power of Tina's ever-so­husky voice, you're being overwhelmed with the spectacle of four incredibly beautiful chicks slamming around the stage like pieces of quicksilver, almost in precision, but not quite enough to take away from the spontaneity of their performance. 
On record, as you might expect, a lot of this power has been lost. The Turners' best album to date is the partially Phil Spector-produced River Deep, Mountain High (A & M>, though it must be said that each of their other albums contains at least two or three cuts that amply demonstrate how Ike and Tina go about making music. In the title song of their latest release, The Hunter (Blue Thumb), they manage to get it on in fine shape: when Tina sings the line about getting "you in the sights of my lu-huve gun," stretching out that single word to unbelievable lengths, almost caressing it before she is finished, the effect is likely to send shivers down even the least likely of backbones. 
But if you care at all about seeing them in top form, 
the best place to catch Ike and Tina is live, where the 
visual dynamics of their stage show really have room 
to come across. Tina is one of those classic performers 
who is able to transform the meaning of words simply 
by saying them, bringing them all within her perssonal 
approach to music. For example, when John Lennor 
does the song "Come Together," he sings it in a way 
particualrly suited to John Lennon: walrus-like, 
relying on absurd syllable combinations, endowing it 
with his own vision and personality. But Tina takes the 
same song and gives it a whole double meaning--"Got 
to be good-lookin' 'cause he's so hard to see"--that 
never was remotely hinted at in the Lennon version. 
The effect is pure dynamite. · 
The Turners round out their show with a pair of songs 
featuring long recitations by Tina, and invariably, they 
never fail to provoke large-scale response from an 
audience. The first, Otis Redding's"! Been Loving You 
<A Little Too Long)," is soft, husned, Tina standing 
quietly in a dim spotlight talking about the man she 
loves. '"Cause you got what I want .... " Another 

prompt from Ike: "And you got what I need." "Yes, 
you got what I need .... " And after that, Tina is on her 
own: "Oooohh, baby, I want you so much ... please give 
it to me ... ahhhhh .... " The lights grow even dimmer; 
the band in back is just a whisper. "Mmmmmmm­
m .... "Tina groans, once, twice, again. Whistles from 
the crowd. "Oh, baby," she sighs, caressing the 
microphone, its stand, drawing it in closer to her, 
pushing against it with her hips. "Unnnnhhhhh .... " 
Finally, a last low shudder: woman in the final stages 
of ecstasy. Needless to say, the place goes wild. 
Ike, Tina, and Ikettes use tl'.at excitement to move 
into the next and final song, a hard-nosed, nail-'em-to­
the walls version of "Respect." "I want to know, 
fellahs," she yells somewhere in the middle, "J just 
want to know 

Who's makin' love to vour old lady 
When you're outside makin' love 
and she chuckles a bit up on stage. She walks back, stands by Ike, the microphone in her hand. "Do you know what he has the nerve to tell me? He says 'baby ... how'm I supposed to know how to fully ap­preciate you if I can't test what's out there in the streets?"' Laughter, much applause. Ike flexes his arms for the crowd, a knowing smile on his face. Tina walks back to the front of the stage. "Well, girls, l think we're getting a little tired of the men always having their way. Now we're gonna start going out on • the streets, 'cause we figure that anything out there that's good enough for them...is good enough for us too!" A huge roar. The kid next to me falls out of his seat, flopping in the aisle screaming "too much! too much!" A 
A little spontaneous ovation has developed over to the right. I look around. Not a soul has his attention directed anywhere but the stage. Everybody is sitting up, slightly bouncing in time to the music, getting picked off and carried along by the sheer power con­fronting them on the stage. There's a strobe light going now, and Tina is dancing with the Ikettes, caught in single frames of motion: arms outstretched, head bent with hair falling; leaning back, punching at the air, left foot upraised; hand on hip, body all curves and angles, face profiled like some Indian Princess. 
"Too Much!" That kid rolling around in the aisle was still screaming, and of everybody there, he was the one who put his finger directly on the key. 
also this weekend 
The RAP Center is sponsoring a free rock concert this Sunday 19 September. The concert will be at Howard Park, f~om two o'clock to seven. There will be fr.ee food. And the music is free too. Bands featured m­clude Atlantis, The Brain Police, and Crazed Pork. 
The Last Gasp Film Festival of St. Mary's will screen the Fontaine-Nureyev version of Romeo and Juliet today. It will be shown at three thirty, seven and nine o'clock in the Little Theatre. Admission is seventy five cents and season tickets will be sold at the door. 

-~~ ~-~ ~--~ 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Friday, September 17,1971 
CLASSIFIED ADS 




Group of Ten deadlocked 
Need ride from N.Y. area to Diana, the mountains aren't the 
Notre Dame on any home same. HAPPY BIRTHDAy _ I 
football weekend. Call Jack miss you. t-"'28",9"--7_,_4..,3""3.,___________ Love Same. For Sale: 19ffi Ford Falcon :m F 
dollars. Call :Z*-5889 after 11:00 or Rent -3 apartments. Ideal for Pm 2 students. Each $90 monthly r-·-·----------Call Mrs. Silcott 233-3257. · 
New Posters of all varieties in Will work on Volkwagen's -11stock at great prices. Come to 815 years experience -reasonable.
Flanner or 611 Grace or call 1694 
Call 272-3980 or 272-2765 after 4:00 or 1167. 
p.m. 
Child Care Service Ages 3 and up .I ND-SMC FROSH DIREC­
Fu~l or part time. 2419 Riversid~ TORY-Student Union Offices 
Dnve South Bend 287-1777 ' -4th Floor La Fortune -1:00­
5:00 URGENT! Need Ride as far East 
Basement Sale -Gas stove, 3 as possible Sept. 17th. Will share 
in one-stove (stove, sink and 
expenses--Lois 4820. 
refrigerator), Hoover washer, 
lots of household and 
'69 VW -excellent condition 
miscellaneous. Mon. to Wed., 287-7106. 
noon till dark. 518 S. Dundee, 
between Western and FordPART TIME WORK StreetSelling an investment 
program. Must work 10 hr. 
HOUSE FOR RENT minimum at your con­
REASONABLE venience. Earn $1 50 a week. 
NEAR CAMPUS Commission. Call Jim Earl 
259-7316 
,
233-1571. 
Know how to mate? Learn the Wanted: 10 speed bicycle in basic positions. For detais 
good condition. Call Michael call 1468 or 6984. 
1418 
Mary, Ulcer less students interested ir. 
Hope your weekend is SUNNY joining a growing group of. 
Have a happy September 19. student market investors, call 
Love, Kevin 233-3893. 
Men's and ladies' watches, Reader wanted for partially­diamond rings, jewelry of all sighted student for one hour types. Bra:1d name, complete daily. $2.00 per hour. Marty, 109 line, not hot. Call Tom 3575. Fisher, 1896. 
L~~~ -J.D. and football ticket.ID~sperate -Need Navy and VIcimty of N.D. Bookstore 11\'hchigan State Tickets _ Call Reward offered. Call Dave, 1930 ~evin 1285 
Want~~: Cheap used Bike. Good NEW S-track TAPES. Only $2.50. Condition. Louise 4006 Call 6715 

((.') l!lil New York Times success." A British official said 
simply: "Thumbs down." 
LONDON, SEPT. 16--Efforts by However, a spokesman for U.S. the world's most powerful Secretary of the Treasury John finance ministers to resolve the Connally said the American dollar crisis ended in deadlock delegation felt the meeting had today as the United States and its been "a promising beginning." trade partners clung to hard But he said the United States was opposing positions. not satisfied with the position of 
The atmosphere at Lancaster many countries in wanting "to House became testy after lunch get back to fixed exchange as ministers concluded the two­rates with as little change as day meeting of the leading in­possible as soon as possible." dustrial nations known as the Connally himself left the Group of Ten. meeting looking somber and 
Agreement was reached only tense, in contrast to his good on the need for a realignment of mood yesterday. His only currency values to correct the remark was: "I don't have present imbalances in world anything to say today." trade and payments, a com­The principal source of munique said. Aspects of the disagreement was Connally's problem are to be studied by refusal to agree to negotiate on various international bodies. an outright devaluation of the 
A high French participant dollar against gold or on specific reflecting the European sense of conditions for removal of the frustration told newsmen the american import surcharge. meeting had ended "without any Connally was quoted by a high narrowing of views and with no French source as declaring: "I 
THEMBI PRESENTS 

THE RON BRIDGEWATER QUARTET 
(University of Illinois} 
NOTRE DAME LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
SUNDAY, SEPT. 19th, 1971 
3:00p.m. 
Donation $2.00 

MAIN. CHURCH 
SUNDAY MASSES 
8:30 AM Fr. Ned Reidy 9:30AM Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. 
10:45 AM Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
(This Mass will formally open the school year; Fr. Burt­chaell will preach) 
12:15 PM Fr. William Toohey,C.S.C. 
Typing . Wan ted: Theses, Anyone interested in joining a manuscnpts. Experienced, student flying club contact Walt :~;~rate typist. Jane Smith 233-at 234-5566 or Bill at 1840. 
I 
Jim Snyder -Son of God, Boy of For Sale: Stereo Cassette player I ­
Vision, Coal Miner's Odysseus Speakers $150 -1401 -153 
and all around etc. For section 2 Cavanaugh
leader. Paid for by citizens for Snyder. Roundman-Nicki-Tom 
• J' .... ............. ­
THE NATIONAL LAMPOON: Share in the wisdom and insanity of America's College Humor Magazine. Subscribe now and save $1.00 over regular sub­scription rate, $4.00 over newsstand. Call· for information. Paul 6868 or George 6843. 
Hello -As I said I do make some mistakes and Wednesday I made them all. Many of you probably spent a great deal of time looking for your ad. Keep looking cause it finally made it today (I hope). I have made all the adjustments necessary to insure fairness to everyone. (Again, I hope) Our policy stands : 
1) Ads paid for when ordered 2) Office hrs. 12:15 to 5:00. Ads ordered on day before publication. 3) Please let us know when I foul up your ad, because we strive for perfection. Right? 4) Stay with it. Kirk Robbins am authorized to say only I will 

.vords  1 day  2 days  3 days  4 days  1 week  
1-10  .50  .75  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11-15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  2.15  
16-20  .70  1.15  1.70  2.40  2.80  
21-25  .85  1.35  2.00  2.90  3.45  
26-30  1.00  1.60  2.35  3.40  4.10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
36-4!)  1.35  2.10  3.10  4.25  5.10  
41-45  1.55  2.30  3.30  4.50  !i.50  
46-50 ~  1.75  2.50  3.50  4.75  6.00  


not change our position one iota." 
Other conference participants 

had supported an initiative by 
Pierre-Paul Schweitzer, 
managing director of the in­
ternational monetary fund, and 
modified slightly by Anthony 
Barber, British Cgancellor of the 
Exchequer. 
This plan proposed to tackle as 

a group the issues of changing 
currency values, widening the 
margin in which fixed rates can fluctuate, increasing the price of gold (thereby directly devaluing · the dollar l and removing the· 
surcharge. 
Connally rejected this, and his 
spokesman later said: "We're 
interested in the whole package." 
This was a reference to 
Washington's insistence that 
currency changes, trade 
liberalization and sharing of 
American international aid and 
defense obligations should all be 
discussed in connection with 
lifting the surcharge. 
The Schweitzer-Barber plan 
would have singled out for a 
second round of negotiations 
these broader methods of 
correcting the balance of 
payments deficit, along with a 
discussion of restoring the link 
between the dollar and gold. 
The American argument is that other countries must help the United States achieve a $13­billion swing--from a projected payments deficit of $5-billion, in a full-employment economy, to a surplus of $8-billion wihch Washington says is required to sllst.tin American external defense, aid and investment obligations. The figures apply to the cnrrent account, that is trade in goods and financial services. 

) 
Friday, September 17, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
QB position still a ? for opener 
by Jim Donaldson positions will be manned by Eric
Mike Adamle terrorized op­
Sports Editor Michigan and soph quarterback 
Patton, Jim Musuraca, Jim

Kevin Casey without a first down ponents but halfback AI Robinson 
O'Malley and Rick Thomann.

After weeks of debate and for the first 22 minutes of their 
is a capable performer, as proven 
With All-American Tom

speculation among Notre Dame game last weekend, won by the 0 by his 556 yards gained and 15 
pass receptions last year . Gatewood at split end and the 
.,_~
football fans and many hours of Wolverines, 21-6. 
talented Mike Creaney at tight

evaluation by Irish coaches, the "Northwestern has a Agase has eight starters 
end, the Irish quarterback,

decision of who will be the dangerous club," Parseghian returning from the Big Ten's 
whoever he is, has a pair of fine 

'Astarting quarterback in commented. "We respect them a number one defenseve unit 
receivers to throw to.

tomorrow's season opener with great deal. They have a good in1970. Newcomer Frank Bliss 
The Irish interior line looks

Northwestern has yet to be defense and great offensive <243) joins veterans Wil Hemby 
solid, also. From left to right,Jim

resolved. skills." (219), Jim Anderson (250) and 
Humbert. Frank Pomarico.

The decision hinges, un-"They outgained and out-first-Pat Kershaw (230) in the 'Cats 
Dan Novakov, John Kondrk and

fortunately, not on which of the downed Michigan last Saturday," defensive line. Soph Mike Varty 
John Dam peer hope to poke some

three principal candidates -Bill he continued. "With a quar­will be at one of the linebacker 
holes in the Northwestern

Etter, Pat Steenberge or Cliff terback like (Maurie) Daigneau positions, along with returnees 
defense.

Brown -is the most qualified, but and receivers like <Barry) John Voorhees and Jack Derning. 
Waiting to run through those

which is the healthiest. Pearson and (Jim) Lash, they Three starters return from the 
holes will be Eddie Gulyas, Notre 

Etter has been bothered by a have an explosive passing secondary that held opponents to 
Dame's leading ground gainer

hip pointer the last two weeks, game." a mere .319 completions per­
in '70, Bill Gallagher and Andy

Stcenberge has been slowed by a Asked if he thought the Wild­centage last season. Co-captain 
Huff, who has come back from an

hamstring pull since fall cats would have an advantage and free safety Eric Hutchinson 
injury to win the starting fullback 

workouts began and tendonitis over the Irish because they've heads the all-senior combination. 
job.

in the elbow has plagued Brown. already played a game, Par-Mike Coughlin will be at strong 
Parseghian commented that,

"Hight now I'd say that either seghian remarked, "Yes, there's safety while Jack Dustin and 
"The opener· is always a jittery

Etter or Steenberge will start no question that that's an ad­Jerry Brown man the cornerback 
game. You never know what'll

against Northwestern," Coach vantage for them but I think that Rany rson spots. 
happen."

Ara Parseghian said Thursday. advantage is offset by the fact completions in a single game, 22, The Wildcats do have a 
This is true to an extent, but,

He indicated that whoever is in that they don't know what we'll set against Ohio State in 1969. weakness, however. A'gase has 
when you check the past per­

The Wildcat receiving corps is had to rebuild his entire offensive 
the best physical shape Saturday do Saturday." 
formances and find that Notre

would get the nod. Northwestern's strength lies in considered by many to be the best line, from tackle to tackle. He's 
Dame has never lost an opener in

Northwestern has ever had. The come up with a good-sized crew,
"The decision has been com-their passing attack and a 
Parseghian's seven years here,

veteran defense. top'Cat pass catcher is Flanker comprised of Paul Gary (235) and 
plicated greatly by their various Daigneau, co-captain of the Barry Pearson who led the Big Dave Glantz <267) at tackles, you have to think that the Irish. ailments," Parseghian said. Wildcats, has tossed 17 touch-Ten in pass receiving last season, Donnie Haynes (229) and Tom will come out on top in the '71 
inaugural too.

Who ever handles the field down passes in the one-and-a -half hauling in 33 aerials good for 552 McCreight (227) at the guard general chores for the Irish faces seasons that he's been Alex yards and four touchdowns. positions, and Dave Dybas (229) 
Ruggers, harriers 

a difficult task in trying to score Agase's starting quarterback. Pearson is also a threat at center. 
on a t9ugh Northwestern defense. The 6-2, 191-pound senior also dangerous punt return specialist, Northwestern poses a difficult play this weekend 
The Wildcats "D" held powerful holds the school record for as evidenced by a 71-yard touch­opening assignment for the Irish 
The Notre Dame rugby team

down return he made last year but Ara's boys are ready to go.
Jim Donaldson :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. will open its fall season
against the Irish. The return of Fred Swendson to 
tomorrow, taking on Western

Notre Dame's secondary won't the front four has strengthened 
Michigan <the Kalamazoo Rugby 

be able to concentrate solely on an already awesome ND defense. 
Club) behind Stepan Center.

Pearson, though. Split end Jim Co-Captain Walt Patulski,
'The Irish Eye 
The "B" game will start at 9:45

Lash and tight end Steve Craig Swendson, Mike Kadish and Greg 
and the "A" contest will begin at

arc both good receivers. Lash, a Marx won't give Daigneau much ::::::::::::::=====================================================::================================£oo thai/ Picks junior, was second to Pearson in time to look for his pass 
11:15. Senior, Rich Campagna is

rec\ ving last season, grabbing receivers. And with the Irish
Last Saturday night it would have been difficult to tell who was more captain of the Irish ruggers this
16 passes for 289 yards and two secondary returning intact, the
redfaced -Jack Dustin or me. Dustin is the Northwestern defensive 
touchdowns. Craig started at vaunted 'Cat passing game may year.
back who deflected, then failed to cover in the end zone, a third 
tight end in the '70 opener against never get off the ground. Mike The Irish cross country team
quarter field goal attempt by Michigan last weekend that allowed the 
Notre Dame and suffered a Crotty and Ralph Stepaniak join opens its season this afternoon a1
Wolverines to score a key touchdown in their important Big Ten win 
broken ankle that put him out for All-American Clarence Ellis in a 4 o'clock, hosting a quadrangulat
over the 'Cats. 
the season but he's back again, secondary that accounted for 14 meet.
While Dustin appeared the fool for his faux pas against Michigan, I 

ready to go, this year. interceptions in '70 and permitted Teams from Northwestern.
didn't exactly come out looking like a sage after seven of the 15 teams I 
The Wildcat running game isn't just four TD passes. Miami of Ohio and Illinois State
picked to win their opening games last weekend went down in defeat. 
as strong as it was in '70 when The critical line backer will compete against the Irish.
Since Alex Agase, the Wildcat coach, stated that Dustin's error was a "freak", I might argue in my defense that four of the teams I called winners, So. Cal., LSU, Georgia Tech and Texas Tech, were ranked in 
Gallagher's ready to start
the top 20 nationally and their losses were a bit freakish, too. And who would have bet on Pitt to beat UCLA? 
by Vic Dorr '74 having a quarterback who can do
But that was a week ago and, since Dustin will be back in action 
the job," he said, "but it's a

tomorrow against the h·ish, I'm ready to try again to select the win­When the Notre Dame offense 
. matter of us having thre('
ners in this weekend's big college games: takes the field for the first time 
quarterbacks with just about

Notre Dame over Northwestern --The Wildcats will be a formidable tomorrow afternoon, there will be 
equal talent. I'm sure whoever

foe for the Irish but Ara is unbeaten in seven openers at Notre Dame several new faces in the starting 
backfield. gets it will do a good job for us."
and his old buddy, Alex Agase, hasn't quite got the team to stop 

"The offense of late has been a-·
One of them, of course, will
Parseghian's string. 

e r little shaky in consistency," he
Texas over UCLA-The Bruins were upset last Saturday and will be belong to the quarterback-­
continued, "but things have

"on the hook" again again this weekend. Chalk up victory number one whoever he is. And while the left 
started to work themselves out

in a new Longhorn winning streak. halfback, Ed Gulyas, and the 
fullback, Andy Huff, are fairly this past week. We know that this 
Nebraska over Minnesota --The Gophers ought to dig a deep hole 
is it; we know that we've got to be 

and hide in it until Sunday. This one's a Iaugher for the 'Huskers. well known to Irish fans, the right 

ready for Northwestern, and our
Georgia over Tulane -The Bulldogs won big last week while Tulane halfback, Bill Galla~her is not. 
consistency and execution have

won a tough one. This game will be close but watch for Georgia to Bill Gallagher is a 5-11, 183 lb. 
improved as a result ...! really

eome out on top. senior, and for the past two 
don't think we'll have too much

Penn State over Navy--An easy opener for the Nittany Lions. seasons his efforts as a third­
trouble scoring."

Washington over Purdue--The Boilermaker secondary isn't good string running back have been 
Much of the reason for

enough to stop Sonny Sixkiller and the Huskies. hidden in almost complete ob­
Bill Gallaght>r 
Gallagher's confidence hinges

North Carolina over Illinois -Bob Blackman has already lost more scuritv. 
around the Irish offensive line.

games this season at Illinois than he lost all last year at Dartmouth. Las't season. for example, practice. knew I'd have to stay 
The Tarheels will hang another setback on the Illini this weekend. Gallagher logged only eight that way to beat out the com­"The blocking from the line has Stanford over Army --Custer's Last Stand all over again as the minutes of game time and all of it petition, and I think I'm in better been tremendous, "said Indians rout the soldiers. came against such foes as Navy shape now than I've ever been Gallagher, "both last spring and South Carolina over Duke -Fresh from an upset of Georgia Tech, (56-7) and Purdue (48-0). before." this fall. Most of out offensive the Gamecocks seem capable of bringing the Blue Devils under their "l played for much of the Gallagher is not overly fast, line men have playing time­wing. fourth quarter last year against and he is not a great break-away Frank Pomarico is the only one Georgia Tech over Michigan State --The Engineers should be Navy," said Gallagher. "but that threat. But he is a steady runner, without game experience--so we roaring mad over last Saturday's setback and will be out to make was m Plliladelphia, my home and he is what Coach Parseghian don't have anything to worry amends in their home opener. State looked very sloppy beating town. saw some time against likes to call a "complete about there. And at the same Illinois last Saturda~ liO look for Tech to take apart the Spartans. Purdue. too. I remember that ballplayer.'' time we've been getting a lot of Southern Cal over Rice --The Trojans aren't about to drop two game because I scored and the "Well, probably one of my good blocking form out backs." straight. touchdown got called back. That biggest advantages as a ball After having spent twa I.SU over Texas A & M-TheTigers won't lose two in a row either, was my only touchdown all carrier is that I have been pretty uneventful years on the NO rspecially not in Baton Rouge. season long." consistent. And that's what they roster, Bill Gallagher has been 
Florida State over Miami (Fla.)-Fran Curci is supposed to usher in But for Gallagher, who com­look for around here. You through season openers before. 
a new era in Miami football but it doesn't look like he can start this pleted the rise from the mop-up can'tbe just a runner. You have But never before has he gone 
season. squad to the first team early in to be able to block, you have to through one as a member of the 
Missouri over the Air Force Academy --The Falcons lost a number fall practice, this season should know the offensive techniques, first-string Irish backfield. of fine players through graduation and the returnees won't be able to be different. and you have to be able to catch "I've got jitters, sure," he said, cope with the Tigers. "I realized this spring that I passes. They're not interested in "but I guess they'll go away with Upset of the Week: had a chance to make it as a a guy who can just run the ball." the first hit. It's iust hard to 
Houston over Arizona State--The Cougars will halt the Sun Devils' starter," he said, "so I made up Gallagher has as much interest believe that Saturday I'll ac­
17-game winning streak. "Spaghetti Joe" Spagnola is gone and his my mind to work for the first as anyone in the one offensive tually be out on the field starting 
replacement is untested. Houston already has a win (over Rice)under team. But what's really helped is position which has not been for Notre Dame. I know it's ar. 
their belts. When the computer finishes tabulating the points, Houston the fact that I've been able to nailed down--quarterback. honor, but it scares me a little--if 
matter really does."
will have a few more than the Sun Devils. keep healthy throughout fall "It's not a of us not 
THE OBSERVER Friday, September 17, 1971 
~PageB_C_o_m_p---=-le_t_e_t__
ex~t~o~fii.-~l~m~hoff letter 
Dear Mr. 5rephan: 
For the past three yec:rs, Notre Dame has placed a great deal of emphasis on the implementation of hall life. A sense of autonomy and community has been fostered by both students and administration. We feel that the recent action of the Board of Trustees has greatly impeded our progress toward a campus-wide spirit of hall community. Specifically, we feel that the letter sent by you to Dr. Eagan had an inherent disregard for the differences of the twenty unique communities on campus. These dif ferences are manifest not only in the physical structures, but also in the hall staffs and the communitY at­mospheres. 
We the hall presidents, as the elected heads of the twenty individual halls, bring to this letter the force of our personal experiences in the halls, especially those of the past two wc~ks. 
We present this letter from the 
students to you. 
Although we cannot overlook the repercussions the Board of Trustees' stand on drinking will have on com­munity life in the halls, we do un­derstand the legal motivation of this decisioli. However, we believe this to be a simplistic solution to a complex problem. A solution that increases the probability of those "terrible con­sequences" when the drinking student is linked to an automobile. 
However, the problem we would like to address ourselves to at this time is that of student responsibility in the halls. We feel the implementation of our suggestions and closer com­munication and cooperation between the Hall Presidents and the SLC would foster an attitude within the halls that would be more workable from both the Trustees' and the students' points of view. 
If the students have a voice in the 


HOURS: MON • TUES • THUR • FRI 9 AM 5:30PM WED • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPECI'ACLE 
SERVICE ALL EYE OR.'S PRESCRIPTIONS HONOREt 
Call 
289-7809 
RoGERS Optical 
ROGER ATWELL • OWNER 

rules unuer which they are to live, we feel that subsequent student responsibility will be greatly enhanced. It was in this spirit that the Board of Trustees initiated the SLC three years ago. Siner that time thz Board has hindered this spirit by refusing to accept various recom­mendations on hal! autonomy and parietals as submitted by the SLC. 
Contingent on the Board's ac­ceptance of the SLC's future decisions regarding parietals, the twenty hall governments are prepared to restructure their hall Judicial Judicial Boards to include a faculty seat on each board. Secondly, we propose that the SLC standing com'mittee on Hall Life be duly impowered to oversee, and periodically evaluate to the Board of Trustees, all workings of the hall Judicial Boards. We see no reason why violations within a hall could not be handled by these boards in light of these r• visions as opposed to being 
(Continued from page 1) 
economic and military aid to South Vietnam, as suggested in Congress, despite President Nguyen Van Thieu's decision to run for re-election in an un­contested race on Oct. 3. 
Nixon also urged the approval of the draft bill so that American peace initiatives would not be jeopardized. The President'f comments, made in reply w 
Nixon wants Peking in UN 
Reuss: Environn1ent 
'------~-.....~----------=~-.-::;o~-----' questions, established as formal 

Gilbert~ s Campus Shop Presents •• 
LEVI CORD BEI4IS 
There's nothing newer. Come. See. 
PROKEDS 
Choose the 2-stripe shoe in White-Black or Gold-Black 

GREAT LEVI 
JEANS 
In your size and color. Stop in.. 
SlllRTS 1h0FF 
Your favorite name in popular 
short sleeve styles. A choice of 
colors, stripings. 
PAY NEXT YEAR 
No interest or carrying charge 
This is the exclusive Campus Shop Way to to buy ... buy now, pay next January, February, 
NOW 
we have a bright 
NEW 
apparel corner for the 
GALS! 
Sportswear, blouses, pantyhose and other pretty and pertinent things... stop in and browse ... soon 


taken direct\ y to the Dean of Students. In fact, we believe that true com­munity spirit and a stong sense of student responsibility will develop from such a system. We envision no major problems in either enforcement of, or com pi iance to, parietal pol icy as established by the SLC, the highest legislative body on campus. 

It is undeniable that the mutual cooperation of the Hall Presidents' Council and the SLC will greatly strengthen the structure of the SLC in responding to the feelings of the students to life on campus, and return the SLC to the purpose for which it was originally created. For true community spirit to exist at Notre Dame, students must have a significant role in the formulation of policy which most fundamentally governs their Iives. Of course, we 
realize that there are technicalities and mechanics to be discussed but we 
also realize and recognize that that is 
the function of the SLC, as you 
established it. 
In conclusion, we must impress upon you that this letter is not merely an outgrowth of the Hall Presidents' Council. More clearly, it is as in­dividual heads of each residence hall that we have been directed to ap­proach you. We hope that in this collective letter, therefore, that we have not disguiseq the personal responsibility each of us has, the responsibility to create a viable community spirit at Notre Dame. 
Yours in Christ, 
Buz Imhoff 
Chairman 
Hall Pn•sidents' Council and the Members of the Hall PresidPnts' Council 
U.S. policy the administration's recent conclusion that Chma·s permanent big-power seat in the 15-nation Security Council should be switched from Taiwan to the government in Peking. 
The administration had yielded to pressures from friendly 
)Continued from page 1) 

The Committee has reviewed the Corps of Engineers. As of July I, every industry and person charged with polluting has to go before the Corps. The industry is allowed to continue to pollute only after it has been charged and has a definite plan and time table set up for eventually stopping the crime. 
Reuss noted that industries charged with Interstate Polluting have to conform to the federal laws of pollution, and people with Intrastate Pollution charges obey only the state water control rules. 
Not all pollution is caused by governments in agreeing to in­clude in its resolutions, to be presented to the U.N. General Assembly opening in New York on Tuesday, a specific com­mitment that the veto-wielding Security Council seat would be given to Pekin~. 
industries. According to Congressman Reuss only forty to fifty percent is industrial. The other source si from individuals, who must learn to conserve the waters and natural resources that they presently use so carelessly. 
Congressman Reuss added that pollution is a world-wide problem which far exceeds the mere realms of the United States. He stated that "the earth's population is rising and the conservation is rapidly declining, a situation that must be remedied before man makes a desert of the earth . 








